CIUP. XIV.] FUNCTIONS OF THE SKIN. 427 The skin combines the opposite functions of absorption and secre- tion. Its lymphatic network, and the capillaries, are both concerned in the former, which, under certain conditions, is very actively performed. Secretion may be said to be carried on at every point of the sur- face of the cutis, since the cuticle is a deciduous product, constantly in course of separation from it. But the principal seat of this func- tion are those glandular offsets from the skin that lie scattered in numberless multitudes beneath it. It may be safely said, that the secreting membrane they comprize far exceeds, in extent, the surface of the whole body. By the involutions of the sweat-glands, the surface is multiplied, for the sole purpose of secretion, and the quan- tity of material capable of being thus eliminated is enormous. There is one peculiarity connected with this great glandular surface, which results from its not being made up into a solid organ, but disseminated in detached {mints under the integument, viz. that it is more than all others subject to the influence of external temperature, acting upon the cutaneous blood-vessels; but an apparatus for adjusting the irre- gularities hence resulting is provided in the kidneys, as will be hereafter explained. The sebaceous glands are another great system, chiefly subser- vient to the protection and health of the skin itself, but resembling the sweat-glands in their disseminated arrangement. They are extremely numerous, and yield an oily material for the lubrication of the surface of the cuticle. On most parts of the body they are as abundant as the hairs themselves. They are an important accessory organ for the elimination of hydro-earbonous matters from the sys- tem. Thus the skin is a superficial emunctory of great extent and importance, and will demand subsequent consideration in that character. We may now consider the function of the skin as the organ of touch. One of the distinguishing characteristics of this sense is its universal diffusion over the exterior of the body, by which its sphere of action as a recipient of impressions, and as a criterion of locality, is rendered more extensive than that of any other. The contact of foreign bodies is perceived as occurring at the point at which they actually strike the organ of touch, whether* that point be within the sphere of operation of any other sense or not. The precision with which this is effected depends very much on the degree of develope- inent of the papillary tissue in the several regions of the body. We have already seen that the papilla; present great varieties in different parts. These varieties will be found to correspond very r k 2