CHAP. VII.] 195 ASSOCIATION OF MOVEMENTS. one effect. Even the consent of the fibres; of a single muscle in contraction is an instance of this fact. Among innumerable other proofs of harmonious design in the construction of the animal body, this might be singled out as a most convincing one, that not only are the hard levers, and their joints and motive engines, so built up . as to be entirely proportioned and adapted to one another in shape, - strength, and position, and a system of nervous communications established, by which the motor power can Ik* at once excited, pro- longed, or controuled in auy particular muscle; but that the mere will, an emotion, an excitement of sense, or even one unconsciously - received, is able, by the correspondence existing between the dif- ferent parts of the nervous system, to produce associated actions in precisely those parts mechanically adapted to move in concert, and this with exquisite exactitude as well as variety. Such is the nature of the nervous communications between cer- tain muscles, that, in numerous instances, one cannot be stimulated to contraction without others contracting of necessity at the same time. 'This depends very generally on the mechanical dispositions of mus- cles, obliging certain of them to fix a point from which others may act. Thus the scapula is continually being fixed by the muscles connecting it with the trunk, in order that the arm may be wielded upon it. Thus, also, the brow cannot l>e elevated by the frontalis without the occipitalis fixing the intermediate tendon. Hut, in other instances, this necessary consent is dependent on the symme- trical arrangement of similar parts on the two sides of the body. 'Some persons cannot close one eye, keeping the other open; or dilate one nostril without the other: we cannot look up with one eve, and down with the other; nor compress the abdominal cavity by the muscles of one side without those of the other. There is, iudeed, a general tendency to symmetrical movement, which it is the part of education and habit to overcome within certain limits. The movements of the hands—those wonderfully versatile instru- ments of man's intellect—are, in his state of infancy, generally symmetrical. The unsymmetrical actions of walking are a slow' acquisition. Most motions that are symmetrical are also harmo- nious ; but there is one example in which symmetry gives wav to harmony of movement, viz. in the lateral motions of the eyes, where symmetry would produce a squint, and derange the consent of the images on the two retime. Here, therefore, by the distribu- tion of the nerves, non-symmetrical muscles are made to produce a harmonious movement. The various attitudes of man may here be briefly explained.