CHAP. X.] CONVOLUTION'S OF TIIE BRAIN. 281 Taking the brain of the fox as the standard of comparison, M. Leuret* describes in it six obvious convolutions, prominently marked on the surface of its hemispheres. Four of these are ex- ’ ternal, the uppermost of which occupies also the principal portion • of the superior surface; one is internal, and situate immediately iabove and parallel to the corpus callosum ; while the sixth is on the inferior surface of the anterior lobe, and rests upon the orbit, whence it is named supraorbitar. Of the four external, the iu- : ferior one bounds the fissure of Sylvius above, in front, and behind; and its relation to that fissure enables the observer to distinguish it very readily. The three remaining ones, curved similarly and jparallel to the first, and to each other, occupy the remainder of the external, and, in part, the superior surface of the hemisphere. M. Leuret distinctly traces these convolutions in other groups of animals in which the general organization of the brain has mani- festly acquired a considerable increase. Some of them, however, •are fissured, or exhibit a tortuous appearance ; or one or more 8small folds unite neighbouring convolutions at one or more points; •or a fissure may be of such depth as to divide a convolution at one extremity into two, either or both of which may form a junc- ture with others. Thus, from a few primary or fundamental con- volutions, a highly complicated surface of the brain may lie formed, by their subdivision, by their tortuosity, and by their junction at various points, through the intervention of straight or tortuous -secondary folds. In some animals, however, the primary convolutions may even be less numerous than those above mentioned ; and yet the surface of the brain may appear more complex, owing to the tortuosity of those which do exist, and their subdivision into, or junction w ith, numerous secondary folds. This is the ease in that group of which the sheep forms the type. There are but two primary convolutions on the external surface, one of which corresponds to that of the fissure of Sylvius in the fox, the other to the one imme- diately above it; and there are the internal convolution and the supra-orbitar one, making in all only four primary convolutions. ^ et the surface of the sheep’s brain exhibits a much greater num- ber of folds than that of the fox. On the other hand, when the brain has acquired an enormous increase of size, as in the elephant and in man, new convolutions # Prolc.-s.sor Owen has pursued the same subject extensively, and has given his results in his lectures at the Royal College of Surgeons ; but we believe these have not yet been published. u