CHAP. XU.] SYMPATHETIC SENSATIONS. 393 to sympathise with another. In the instance of pain in the shoul- der in sympathy with irritation of the liver, the hepatic irritation excites a change in some sensitive nerves, which is propagated to the centre, and there affects some of the sentient fibres distributed in the region of the shoulder. The phrenic and the external thoracic nerves are both or either of them, but more especially the former, favourably situated to constitute the excitant of such a sympathetic Sensation. The phrenic nerve of the right side is largely distributed upon the peritoneal surface of the diaphragm, and upon the inferior vena cava, and forms many connexions with the hepatic plexus in the substance of the liver. It may therefore readily participate in any irritation of that organ. Now the phrenic nerve is im- planted in the spinal cord on a level with the third or fourth cervical nerves; and the nerves of the shoulder form their connexion with this central organ about the same level. The origins of these nerves are sufficiently contiguous to each other to warrant the belief that an irritated state of one may be propagated to the other through the vesicular matter of the centre. Hut it may l>e inquired why the irritation is limited to sensitive nerves of the shoulder; and why movements are not excited by the stimulation of the motor fibres of the phrenic itself, or of other nerves? The limitation of the irritation to one or two nerves depends on the degree of the stimulus, and the absence of movements is due to the disposition of the phrenic on the surface being unfavourable for the excitation of motions by irritation of its peripheral branches (see page 335). And the experiment cited from Muller, in the last paragraph, shews that simple irritation of the trunk of a com- pound nerve in connexion with the centre is not sufficient to pro- • duce motion ; which requires probably either a more prolonged and violent irritation of the nerve, or a polar state of the centre in which it is implanted. Some of the instances of sympathetic sensations, referred to above, do not admit of an explanation so obvious. The pain over the brow from ice or cold water in the stomach may be referred to irri- tation of the gastric branches of the vagus, communicated in the medulla oblongata to the fifth; but why the irritation should be S limited to the ophthalmic division of the fifth cannot be accounted (for in the present state of our knowledge. In those sympathetic movements which are of ordinary and nor- mial occurrence, two provisions seem to be secured, namely, a certain peripheral organization of the excitor nerve, and a certain central irelation between it and the motor nerve. Hut in those which are of o u