chap, xi.] DISPOSITION OF NERVES FOR REFLEX ACTIONS. 335 from which the nerves of the upper extremities arise, as nearer the seat of lesiou, than upon the lumbar segment. But another explana- tion appears to us equally satisfactory, and more accordant with other phenomena. A certain deposition of the nerves upon the tegur mentanj surface is as necessary for the development of ref ex actions as of sensations ; and these movements will be more or less easily manifested, according as this organization of the nerves on the sur- face is more or less perfect. That disposition of the cutaneous nerves which renders the sur- face easily excitable by titillation seems most favourable to the developemeut of these actions. Hence, there is no place where they are more readily excited than in the lower extremities by stimulat- ing the soles of the feet or the intervals between the toes, both of which situations are highly susceptible of titillation. At the isthmus faucium the slightest touch on the surface excites a movement of deglutition ; and this touch, at the same time, produces a very pe- culiar sensation of tickling, quite distinct from that which nmy be excited at other parts of the pharynx, or mouth. When this part of the mucous membrane is in a state of irritation as an effect of coryza, this tickling sensation is present, and repeated acts of swal- lowing are provoked. Two facts may be stated here, which illustrate the position wc have laid down respecting the necessity of a certain disposition of the nerves on the tegumental surface, for the developement of reflex actions. The first is one which has been noticed by Yolkmann, and which we had ourselves repeatedly observed, namely, that in frogs, and other animals, reflex actions are readily excited by stimu- lating the feet; but irritating the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, which supply those parts, is not sufficient for this purpose. In experiments repeatedly made upon the ]>osterior roots of the nerves we have very rarely seen movements excited whilst they have been subjected to irritation, and the recorded statements of ail modern experimenters agree in the main with this statement. The second fact is this : in the male frog the developement of a papillary structure on the skin of the thumb seems to have reference to the excitation of the physical power of the cord, to enable the animal to grasp the female without the necessity of a prolonged exercise of volition. Stimulating the fingers will scarcely produce reflex actions, but the slightest touch to the enlarged thumb will cause the animal to assume the attitude of grasping. If the papilla be shaved off the thumb, its power of exciting these actions is instantly lost.