INNERVATION. 328 CHAP. XI. of the existence of two orders of fibres; nor do they add anything to our knowledge beyond the important fact, that actions take place in invertebrata after decapitation which are of the same nature with those which occur in vertebrata after a similar mutila- tion. The mechanism of these actions has not been at all elucidated by these experiments. Inspecting the second hypothesis, we must remark, that it is just as competent to explain the phenomena of decapitated animals, and paralysed limbs, as that of Dr. Hall, and that it receives some support from the almost universal concurrence of sensation with those normal actions which Dr. Hall would attribute to excito- motory fibres. If it be supposed that these fibres have a certain relation to the gray matter of the spinal cord, there can be no good reason against the further supposition, that they may continue to be affected by it after the brain has been separated from the cord. This hypothesis, however, is liable to the same objections as that of excito-motory fibres: it is inadequate to explain the influence of emotion on paralysed limbs, and the paralysis of the sphincters; and, moreover, it cannot be considered to be proved that fibres are con- tinued up directly from the spinal nerves to the brain. The fibres of the anterior pyramids, no doubt, are true cerebro-spinal fibres; but they may be merely commissural. We have no evidence that fibres of the lumbar region of the cord pass into the brain. The longitudinal course of fibres in the spinal cord affords no proof that those fibres pass into the brain, for it is well known that most of the nerves take a very oblique course from their point of separation from the cord to their emergence from the spinal canal; and it is pro- bable that the fibres continue their obliquity in the cord itself, so that their real origin would be higher up than their apparent one. This great length of oblique course gives to the fibre the appear- ance of being strictly longitudinal, whereas it may be implanted in the gray matter of the cord. The third hypothesis appears to us to admit of fewer objections than either of the others, and to be more consonant with what seems to be the correct anatomy of the cord. It supposes that the mechanism of a mental and that of a physical nervous action are es- sentially the same, differing only in the nature and the mode of ap- plication of the stimulus. The same afferent and efferent fibres are exerted in the one case as in the other ; the former acting as sen- sitive or excitor, or both ; the latter as channels for voluntary, emotional, or strictly physical impulses to motion. This hypothesis is content to assume that fibres of sensation and