chap, xn.] SYMPATHETIC MOTIONS. 389 that organ in connexion with the early stage of pregnancy, causes similar pains in the nerves of the thighs. Headache and defective vision are frequently produced by disor- dered stomach. A draught of very cold water, or ice, taken quickly into the stomach, may occasion acute pain in the course of either frontal nerve. This same nerve on one side is frequently the seat of pain after the imprudent use of acid wines or other fermented liquors. Movements, excited by the operation of a stimulus applied at a distance, form a large proportion of the instances of sympathetic phenomena. All the ordinary physical nervous actions in which motions are excited by stimulating a sentient surface, may be re- garded as examples of sympathetic actions.* The contraction of the iris upon the application of the stimulus of light to the retina, or of the pharyngeal muscles by stimulating the mucous membrane of the fauces, are instances in |>oint, where the stimulus acts indi- rectly upon the contracting fibre. Nothing is more sure than that in these instances the change wrought by the stimulus in certain sen- tient nerves travels by a circuitous route through a nervous centre to the muscles which are called into action. Akin to these actions are the forcible respiratory movements which may bo excited by irrita- tion of the tracheal membrane, as coughing; or sneezing, by stimu- lating the nasal membrane ; or vomiting, by irritating the fauces. Spasmodic affections are often instances of morbid actions in sym- pathy with intestinal irritation, or the irritation of teething in children. Partial or general convulsions are very frequently due to either or both these causes. We have known the most violent opisthotonos coexisting for a considerable time with the presence of lumbrici in the intestine; but ceasing immediately on the removal of the worms. Vomiting is commonly sympathetic of diseased kidney, or of the passage of a calculus along the ureter; or it may be induced by the introduction of a catheter into the urethra. Irri- tation of the intestines, as in cholera, causes cramps of the most violent kind in the lower extremities and abdominal muscles. The contractions of the abdominal muscles in parturition, although mate- rially aided by the will, are in consent with the expulsive efforts of the uterus. * It has been remarked, that the term “ sympathetic acliont" involves a contra- diction. Hut it may be observed, that the contraction of the muscles, on which the action depends, is only the natural mode in which that class of vital organs cun manifest their consent with certain states of nervous centres, or of sensitive nerves. The action is the result of the state which the muscle assumes in sympathy with the stimulated nerve. Tlx- contradiction is therefore ap|>arent, not real.