[CHA1\ VIII. INNERVATION. Iii every ordinary voluntary action, the first step is a mental change, in which consists the act of volition. The mind is per- fectly able to induce this change in itself, without any reference to the body; but if it direct its influence upon certain muscles, the contraction of those muscles immediately ensues, in a combined and regular manner, so as to produce the predetermined voluntary action. But the influence of the mind cannot be brought to bear upon the muscles, save through the intervention of the nerves, as is amply proved by the destruction of certain voluntary movements, which is consequent upon the destruction of certain nerves. Again, in all cases of common or of special sensation, that state of the mind, in which the sensation consists, is induced by an im- pression made upon certain bodily organs, and conveyed to the mind through the instrumentality of the nerves. For there is abundant evidence to prove, that, while the mind is of itself capable of entering that state, it cannot do so in obedience to bodily change, if certain nerves be destroyed or impaired ; that, in short, the nerves are the only corporeal channel through which sensations can be excited. If the skin be forcibly irritated or compressed, in- stantly pain is felt; but, were the nerves of the skin destroyed, no degree of irritation or pressure would make the mind cognizant of the injury. Light is admitted to the eye, and forthwith a corre- sponding affection of the mind ensues; but, for the production of this, the integrity of the optic nerve is a necessary condition. In these examples of nervous action, it will be observed that, in the former instance, mental change produces bodily action ; and, in the latter, an impression upon some part of the body precedes and gives rise to an affection of the mind. In both cases nervous power is called forth: in the one, it acts in the direction from mind to body ; in the other, from body to mind. In both cases, destruc- tion of the nervous matter would prevent the developement of the force. The muscles may be sound, and the will may be vigorous; but without perfect nerves the latter cannot impart its mandates to the former. Or the eye may be perfect in all its optical adjust- ments, and the mental sensibilities keen and quick ; and yet, it the optic nerve be diseased, the light which falls upon the retina produces no impression upon the mind. “ Of the nature of the connexion of this great sensorial organ, (the nervous system,) says Dr. Brown, “ with the sentient mind, we never shall be able to understand more than is involved in the simple fact, that a certain affection of the nervous system precedes immediately a certain affection of the mind. But though we arc