10 ORGANIZED BODIES. i.vrnob. This appears, from the interesting researches of Schleiden and Schwann, to be the primary form which organic matter takes when it passes from the condition of a proximate principle, to that of an organized structure. The bodies of some animals and of some plants, are composed almost entirely of cells of this kind; and in the early developement of the embryo, all the tissues, however dissimilar from each other, consist at first of nucleated cells, which are afterwards metamor- phosed into the proper elements of the adult texture. An organized body possesses a definite form and disposition, not only as regards its component parts, but likewise when viewed as a whole. Each organized body has its appropriate and specific shape; and to each a certain size is assigned. To observe and classify the wonderful diversity of form exhibited by plants and animals, has given employment to Naturalists in all ages; and the sciences of Zoology and systematic Botany have been founded upon the results of their labours. Every organized body is limited in its duration; it has “ its time to be born and it3 time to die,” and at death it passes by decom- position into simpler and more stable combinations of the inorganic elements. In their origin, organized bodies are generally, if not always, derived from similar ones. Some have supposed that out of de- caying vegetable or animal matter minute animals or plants of other kinds may be formed: but it seems most probable that in those cases in which they had been supposed to be formed, the seeds or eggs, or even the parents themselves, had been concealed in the decaying matter, or floated in the surrounding atmosphere. Recent experiments throw considerable doubt upon this doctrine of the spontaneous generation of organized bodies, by shewing that neither vegetation nor the developement of animalculse will go on in fluids which have been subjected to such processes as must in- evitably kill whatever germs may have been diffused around or throughout them. In the present state of our knowledge it may be said, that the Harveian maxim, “ Omne vivum ex ovo,” is the rule; and that if there be any other mode in which the develope- ment of living beings takes place, it is the exception. The progress of Anatomical knowledge is every day revealing to us the organs, and the mode of generation in the minutest and the least conspi- cuous forms of vegetable and animal life ; and thus the doctrine, which supposes that living objects may arise by a sort of conjunction of the elements of decomposing organic matter, becomes more and more improbable.