THE SOUL. INSTINCT. HNTROU.] 2/ | of it; and, on the other hand, a large proportion of the bodily acts are independent of the mind. The immortal Soul of man, divitue < jMirticula aura, is the seat of those thoughts and reasonings, hopes and fears, joys and sorrows, which, whether as springs of action, or motions excited by passing events, must ever accompany him ithrough the chequered scene in which he is destined to play his j part during his earthly career. Although the animals, inferior to man, exhibit many mental acts i in common with him, they are devoid of all power of abstract rear ■ soning. “ Why is it,” says Dr. Alison, “ that the monkeys, who have Ibcen observed to assemble about the tires which savages have made in the. forests, and been gratified by the warmth, have never been Is seen to gather sticks and rekindle them when expiring? Not, cer- tainly, because they are incapable of understanding that the tire which warmed them formerly w ill do so again, but because they are incapable of abstracting aud reflecting on that quality of wood, and that relation of wood to fires already existing, which must be comprehended, in order that the action of renewing the fire may be suggested by what is properly called an effort of reason.” Vet animals are guided by Instinct to the performance of cer- tain acts which have reference to a determinate end : they con- struct various mechanical contrivances, ami adopt measures of pru- dent foresight to provide for a season of want and difficulty. None of these acts could be effected by man without antecedent reasoning, experience, or instruction. Hut animals do them without previous assistance ; and the young and inexperienced are as expert as those w hich have frequently repeated them. “ An animal separated im- mediately after its birth from all communication with its kind, will yet perform every act peculiar to its species, in the same manner, and with the same precision, as if it had regularly copied their example, and been instructed by their society. The animal is guided aud governed by this principle alone, by this all its powers are limited, and to this all its actions are to be ultimately referred. An animal can discover nothing new ; it can lose nothing old. The heaver constructs its habitation, the sparrow its nest, the l>ec its comb, neither better nor worse than they did five thousand years ago. In plants there is no nervous system ; there are no mental phe- nomena. The motions of plants correspond in some degree with thi^e movements of animals in which neither consciousness nor ner- vous influence participate. Such movements are strictly organic, and result from physical changes produced directly in the part