196 LOCOMOTION. [chai*. vu. Muscular actions associated to produce an attitude are styled co- ordinate. They conspire in obedience to the particular organization of the nervous and muscular systems ; and the resulting postures are natural, and perfectly accordant with the wants and habits of the species. Most attitudes, if perfectly natural, are graceful, just as external figure is graceful; unnatural attitudes are more or less constrained, or awkward. The co-ordinate, like other movements of the voluntary muscles, are liable to be influenced by passions and affections of the mind. Hence the internal commotions of the soul betray themselves in the attitudes of the body as surely as in the lineaments of the countenance. In considering the different attitudes, it is to be remembered that the human body is not withdrawn, either by its organization or vital endowments, from the operation of the general laws of matter; and, accordingly, that the muscular actions occurring within it are all adapted to act upon its several parts, as upon masses of certain shapes, sizes, and weights. In all attitudes the centre of gravity must be maintained within the base of support. In standing, the base of support is the space included between the extreme points of the feet. The feet are separated, and the toes turned outwards to increase it. If the body be pushed aside, the foot is instantly carried under it, or it falls; and if motion be unexpectedly given to the feet, while the body remains at rest by its inertia, (as when a boat in which we are standing is suddenly shoved off from the shore,) the body falls. In standing upright, both legs are kept extended, and the spine and head erect: if the muscles that effect this be suddenly paralysed, as when a man is shot dead, the head droops on the chest, the curves of the spine are increased by the pressure of the superincumbent weight, and the whole trunk approaches the ground by bending the joints that were before extended. The muscular action required to maintain the erect posture of the body is very great. This is shewn by the fatigue that ensues on an attempt to remain perfectly still in the erect posture, even tor a very short time. In fact, though we can stand long at a time, it is only by frequently relieving one set of muscles, and bringing another into play, as every one may convince himself by attention to his own case. AVe throw the weight of the body first on one leg, then on the other; we change the position of the feet, and of the ankle, knee, and hip joints, as well as of the rest of the body. Under all these movements, the centre of gravity has to be kept within the basis of support; and, to effect this object, the different