CILIARY MOTION. [cii/ G2 AP. II. Fig. 2. posed in rows, and are adapted in their arrangement to the shape and extent of the surface to which they belong; they adhere to the edges, or to a portion of the surface, of the particles of the epithe- lium, preferring the columnar variety of them. During life, and for a certain period after death, these filaments exhibit a remarkable move- ment, of a fanning or a lash- ing kind, so that each cilium bends rapidly in one direc- tion, and returns again to the quiescent state. The motion, when viewed under a high magnifying power, is singularly beautiful, pre- senting an appearance some- what resembling that of a field of corn agitated by a steady breeze. Any mi- nute objects coming in con- tact with the free extre- mities of the cilia are hur- ried rapidly along in the di- rection of the predominant movement; one or more blood-discs, accidentally present, will sometimes pass rapidly across the field, propelled in this way, and very minute particles of powdered char- coal may be conveniently used to exhibit this phenomenon, and to indicate the direction of the movement. The action of the cilia produces a current in the surrounding fluid, the direction of which is shewn by the course which the propelled particles take. An easy way to observe this phenomenon is to detach by scrap- ing with a knife a few scales of epithelium from the back of the throat of a living frog. These, moistened with water or serum, will continue to exhibit the movement of their adherent cilia for a very considerable time, provided the piece be kept duly moistened. On one occasion we observed a piece prepared in this way exhibit motion for seventeen hours; and it would probably have continued doing so for a longer time, had not the moisture around it evapo- rated. However, Purkinje and Valentin have observed it to last for a much longer time than this in connexion with the body of the animal. In the turtle, after death by decapitation, they found it lasted, in the mouth, nine days; in the trachea and the lungs, thir- teen days; and, in the oesophagus, nineteen days. In frogs, from Examples of Cilia :—a. Portion of a bar of the pill of the Sea-mussel, Mytilus edulis, shewing cilia at rest and in motion, d. Ciliated epithelium particles from the frog’s mouth, e. Ciliated epithelium particle from inner surface of human membrane tvmpani. /. Ditto, ditto: from the human bronchial mucous membrana. g. Leucophn/s pa- tula, a polvgastric infusorv animalcule: to shew its surface covered with cilia, and the mouth surrounded by them.