242 INNERVATION. [chap. ix. Prevost and Dumas, who are advocates of the electrical theory, as well as in those of Person, of Muller, and of Matteucci; and on several trials we have been unable to observe the slightest move- ment of the needle. Person connected the wires of a galvanometer with the surfaces of the spinal cord in kittens and rabbits, in which spasmodic action of the muscles had been excited by the influence of nux vomica, and could not discover any evidence of electrical action. It has also been affirmed that needles introduced into the nerves of a living animal become magnetic, so as to attract iron filings. No such result, however, could be obtained by Muller, or by Matteucci, from their repetition of these experiments. The latter philosopher took the precaution of employing astatic needles for the purpose, but could discover no trace of magnetization. He also introduced the prepared limbs of a frog into the interior of a spiral covered on its inside with varnish: the extremities of this spiral were united to those of another smaller spiral, into which he intro- duced a wire of soft iron. The nerves of the frog were irritated to excite muscular action, and at the same time Matteucci sought to ascertain if an induced current would traverse the spirals, and mag- netize the wire. But, he adds, all his endeavours were useless. No one has tried to obtain a spark from a nerve during its action, as a test of the electrical nature of the nervous power. Nor have any experiments been devised with a view to ascertain whether decompositions similar to those which occur in electrolysis may be effected by it. The separation of certain elements from the blood, in the various secretions, has, indeed, been attributed to a kind of electrolytic influence of the nerves upon the secerning organs. But it has been proved that the secretions may go on to a considerable extent independently of nervous influence, and it seems highly pro- bable that the nervous system can affect the act of secretion only through its influence upon the blood-vessels of the secreting organ. But even were it certain that an electrical current passes along the nerve-fibres during nervous action, it does not seem likely that ? the required evidence of such a current could be obtained from any of the experiments above detailed. For if the nerve-tubes are to be regarded as insulated conductors, of which the central axis is the active portion, and the white substance of Schwann merely the insu- lator, sinking a needle between these fibres will not obtain that con- tact with the true conducting material which is necessary to affect the galvanometer. Let it be remembered that these nerve-fibres are of microscopic size ; and that, when a needle is sunk into a bundle of them, it does not pierce the nerve-tubes, but passes in between