[chap. hi. 78 LOCOMOTION. from the intricacy of the interlacement of the capillaries with the other essential elements of the particular organ, or the greater strength of these elements themselves, the firm contexture of the whole is provided for, while little or no motion is required between its parts, this interstitial filamentary tissue will be found to be confined to the larger blood-vessels, and to the surface of the natural subdivisions of the organ. For the present, it may be sufficient to illustrate this remark by contrasting two important glands, in reference to this point. The liver is well screened from injury by its position ; it is liable to no change of bulk; it consists throughout of a continuous and close network of capillaries, the interstices of which are filled by the nucleated secretion-particles. The lobules resulting from the dis- tribution of the vessels and ducts blend together at numerous points, and have no motion on one another. Here the areolar tissue is in very small quantity, and is limited to the ramifications of the vessels and ducts. The mamma, on the other hand, is, by its situation, peculiarly obnoxious to external injury. It is broken up into numerous subdivisions, which move with the utmost freedom on one another, and it is moreover liable to temporary augmenta- tions of bulk. In this important gland not only is there a common investment of peculiar density, but an extraordinary abundance of areolar tisspe disseminated throughout its interior. Thus, thistissue, so widely spread throughout the body, whether it serve the purpose of an investment to large segments or masses, under the form of a membrane, strengthening and protecting them, and escorting their vessels and other components into and from their substance (atmospheric), or as a web of union between the simplest elements of their organization (parenchymal), is to be regarded as rather taking a subordinate or ministering share in the constitution of the frame, than as being of primary importance in itself. It is a cement that allows of separation between what it binds together; and it accomplishes this double purpose in a manner suited to the necessities of diverse parts, by a variety so simple in the number, intricacy, and closeness of its threads, as to be worthy of the highest admiration, while it is wholly inimitable by art. Where great elasticity is required, the yellow clement prepon- derates; while the white fibrous element abounds in parts demand- ing tenacity and power of resistance. In all cases the openness of the network is proportioned to the extent of mobility required. Where the meshes are small, the threads composing them branch