[chap. VII. LOCOMOTION. 170 parts to which the nervous twigs irritated were supplied, and would therefore frequently occur in parts at some distance. Having premised these words respecting the stimuli of muscle, we proceed to consider what is known of the phenomena which attend the act of contraction. It is evident that the subject we are now approaching is one of primary importance, because on the positive information regarding it must chiefly depend our means of judging of th6 conflicting hypotheses of the nature and laws of action of the contractile force. A muscle, when contracted, is firmer than before; but this rigidity is proportioned rather to the intensity of the contractile force exerted, than to the amount of shortening occasioned by it. The circumstance, however, has led to the belief, that the act is accompanied with a compression of the substance of the muscle into a smaller compass; but it is, on the contrary, well ascertained that it gains in thickness what it has lost in length. The experiments by which this fact is attested have been often repeated, and their general results accord well together. If a muscular mass be made to contract by means of galvanism in a vessel of water furnished with a very delicate tube, the slightest diminution of bulk would be at once indicated by the fall of the water within the tube ; but the water, under these circumstances, is found to retain its level. Mr. Mayo varied this experiment by selecting the heart of a dog,* which, continuing to beat during some time, was in this way dis- tinctly seen to undergo no change of size. The familiar practice of accelerating the flow from the vein at the elbow by desiring the patient to contract the muscles of the fore-arm, does not, as is sometimes imagined, shew any diminution of their bulk, but only a forcible increase of their lateral dimensions, by which the deep veins are compressed within the inelastic sheath of fascia, and the blood diverted into the superficial channels. In those muscles which have a bulging centre or belly, as the biceps of the arm, the fibres are arranged in a curved form, and during con- traction must tend towards a straight line in the direction of the axis of the muscle. In such instances the blood-vessels that tra- verse their interstices must be in some degree compressed. If we examine under the microscope the contracted state of a morsel of the sarcous tissue, we find it to present essentially the same characters as that of the entire organ, a shortening in length, with a corresponding increase in thickness; and this is true, hovv- * Anat. and Pliys. Comment, vol. i. p. 12.