INNERVATION. CHAP. X. 270 angle. These planes are in number about ten, counting those on the upper as well as the under surface. Those situated in front are de- - tached at a right angle, the posterior ones at an acute angle. Each plane forms the centre of a lobule, and as it proceeds outwards secondary planes are detached from it, and from these again others separate. These secondary and tertiary planes are clothed by a layer of vesicular matter, which also invests the primary planes at the angles of separation from the principal central column. We have described each primary plane as forming the central portion, or stem of a lobule. Each lobule is circumscribed and separated from those in immediate relation to it, by a fissure which extends to the principal column. The lobules are composed of laminae which derive their fibrous matter from the central stem. Thus the substance of each hemisphere of the cerebellum is penetrated by a number of fissures, easily traced by following the I pia mater, which lines them. These fissures are divisible into two classes, primary and secondary. The primary penetrate to the principal central column, and isolate the lobules; the secondary separate the lamella) of which each lobule is composed. The deep- est and most remarkable of the former corresponds to the posterior margin of each hemisphere, passing in the horizontal plane for- wards, and separating the posterior laminae into a superior and ] inferior set. The structure of the median lobe is essentially the same as that of the hemispheres. A stem of fibrous matter, continuous with the processus cerebetti ad testes, constitutes the central column, and planes radiate from it in the same manner as in the hemispheres. Lobules are formed around these planes, and the aggregate of those on the superior surface of the median lobe constitutes what is called the superior vermiform process; and that of the inferior ones, the inferior vermiform process. The lobules of the median lobe have a distinct continuity of substance with those of the he- < mispheres on each side, and thus the entire lobe becomes a me- dium of connexion, or a commissure between the hemispheres; nevertheless, the similarity of its structure to that of the hemi- spheres, and its existence in the animal series without the lateral a portions, denote that it exercises an independent function. Within the central stem of each hemisphere of the cerebellum, the fibrous matter is partially interrupted by a peculiar arrangement of the vesicular substance, called by Vicq d'Azyr corpus dentatum (fig. 71, d). This is only found in the inner half of the stem, at about a quarter of an inch from the origin of the crus. It may be J