; ’HAI’. III.] ADIPOSE TISSUE AND FAT. 83 lie more solid, sebum or sevum, suet, tallow. Hunter distinguishes our varieties as to fluidity; oil, lard, tallow, and spermaceti. The •laine of human fat retains its fluidity at 40 F. Lard melts at >S6° F.; tallow at 104° F. Spermaceti is fluid in a heat above Ills'* F., and solid at 112°. Oil is elaine with little or no stearine, ns the neat’s foot oil, obtained from the bones of the ox. In lard lie stearine is in abundance, but the elaine slightly predominates. :n tallow and spermaceti there is a predominance of stearine. Ultimate analysis of Fat.—Human fat, according to Chevreul, •onsists of Hydrogen 11 4 Hi Carbon 79"(J00 Oxygen 9-584 100-000 Distribution.—The adipose tissue is found very extensively in he animal kingdom. It is found in larvae as well as in the perfect insect: also in the mollusca. It prevails in all the tribes sf the vertebrata. In fish it occurs throughout the l>ody ; but mi some, as the cod, whiting, haddock, and all of the ray kind, according to Hunter, it is only met with in the liver. In rep- lies it exists chiefly in the abdomen. In the frog, toad, &c. it found in the form of long appendages, like the appendices epi- •loica?, situated on each side of the spine. In birds it exists chiefly ►etween the peritoneum and abdominal muscles; but there is also *. considerable deposit in the bones of the legs, feet, last bones of he wings, and of the tail, especially of the swimming tribes, the •ily principle being more abundant than in mammals. In niam- nalia it is very generally di ft used. This class, as a whole, has the rreatest quantity under the skin, and about certain of the abdo- ninal viscera; but the hare forms a remarkable exception, it being •ometimes difficult to find a particle in its whole body. It usually iboundg most in the beginning of winter; and this is especially he case with the hog, and with hybernating animals, which, dur- ng their dormant state, absorb it into the system. It is ordinarily accumulated in large masses about the kidnevs, nore particularly in ruminants, where it furnishes the best example >( that variety of it termed suet. Among mankind many remarkable varieties exist in regard to his tissue. Thus, in general, women are fatter than men. The lealthy human foetus, after the middle of the period of gestation, accumulates fat in considerable quantities : towards middle age. there is a similar disposition, which has not escaped ordinary ob-