[chap. V. LOCOMOTION. 114 remarkable circumstance, and will be illustrated when w^e come to speak of the developement of bone. The lamellated character of bone can he frequently distinguished in the periosteal, medullary, and Haversian layers; and, in general, wherever several successive series of lacuna exist. The Haversian rods, however, are remarkably prone to exhibit this appearance, Fig. 27. especially under the condi- tions previously mentioned (p. 111). Their lamella:,how- ever, arc not concentric, as commonly described. The fissures which disclose them are indeed concentric, but they are always incomplete, never extending completely round the canal; so that the Transverse section of the compact tissue of a tibia from Ion-1 nil™ vnri infn nnn nnntlmr an aged subject, treated with acid; shewing the appearance ,tUnelltB 11111 IIU<) OUL UUOUlfcl of lamellae surrounding the Haversian canals. Portions of ,,{ v„pl'„no m several systems of lamella; are seen. The appearance of the at various pUlIlLS. J U1S it i appear. laeunte, when their pores are filled with Hum. is also seen, cite, |* ],.. font tlmt tl™ as well as the radiation from the canals which then remains. hU1Lb lrolu ule U1‘lL LUt —From Mr. Tomes. lacumc are not arranged in sets equidistant from the centre, but are scattered, as it were, inde- pendently of one another, at every possible variety of distance from the canal (figs. 23 and 27). The larger concentric cracks, which generally run through the lacuna:, seem to occur where two or three of these happen to lie nearly in the same curve. Bone is very apt to crack in the interval between the rods; and each of these rods is really so distinct from those near it, that it may he designated conveniently, for the purposes of description, as an Haversian system of lamella. In a longitudinal section of the compact tissue of a long hone (fig. 19, p. 107) the appearance of lamellation is generally less evi- dent, except where a longitudinal canal happens to lie exactly in the plane of section. When the Haversian canal is a little below the cut surface, it is of course covered by some of its lamella:, the lacunae of which directly over it are seen in face, while the lamella: dipping in on either side, in their course round the canal, present the thin edges of their lacunae to the observer. In the former part those pores alone are seen that proceed from the edge of the lacunae; while in the latter those from both surfaces are seen, and of course appear much more numerous. The description now given of the intimate texture of the com- pact tissue of long and short bones will apply, in all essential