CHAP, xi.] MECHANISM OF THE ACTIONS OF THE CORI). 323 that each afferent nerve has its proper efferent one, the former being excitor, the latter motor. The aggregate of these fibres together with the gray matter constitutes the true spinal cord of L)r. Marshall Hall, which is not limited to the spinal canal, but passes up into the cranium as far as the crura cerebri. These fibres are quite independent of those of sensation and volition, and of the sensorium commune. Although bound up with sensitive and motor fibres, they are not affected by them, and they maintain their separate course in the nerves as well as in the centres. Such is the hypo- thesis of an excito-motory system of nerves, ami of a true spinal cord, the centre of all physical nervous actions, which has been proposed and most ably advocated by Dr. Marshall Hall. 2. The fibres of sensation and volition proceed to and from some part or parts of the intra-cranial ma-s. Those which are distributed to the trunk pass along the spinal cord, separating from it with the various roots of the nerves, and in their course within the spine they mingle more or less with the gray matter. There are uo other fibres but these (save the commissural), and they are sufficient to manifest the physical as well as the mental acts. Nerves of sen- sation are capable of exciting nerves of motion which are in their vicinity; and they may produce this effect even when the spinal cord has been severed from the brain, for their relation to the gray mat ter of the cord is such that their state of excitement is readily conveyed to it. This explanation tallies with the views of Whytt, Prochaska, and the other physiologists who had recognized the existence of a class of actions produced by the influence of sensi- tive upon motor nerves. 3. According to a third hypothesis, it is assumed that all the spinal aud encephalic nerves, of whatever function, are implanted in the gray matter of the segments of the cerebrospinal centre with which they are severally connected, and do not pass beyond them. The segments are connected with each other through the continuity of the gray matter from one to another, and through the medium of commissural fibres which pass between them. Through these means, motor or sensitive impulses are propagated from segment to segment; and a stimulus conveyed to any segment from the peri- phery may either simultaneously affect the brain and cause a sen- sation, or be reflected uj>on the motor nerves of that segment and stimulate their muscles to contract. The first hypothesis, which assumes the existence of a distinct series of incident and reflex nerves for the physical nervous actions, offers a very beautiful explanation of those cases in which, while