162 LOCOMOTION. CHAP. VII. the skin may be dependent on a diffusion of this tissue, in small quantities, throughout its areolar structure. The excretory ducts of all the larger glands seem to possess a covering of fibres pertain- ing to this variety: such is the case with the ductus choledochus in birds, and probably in mammalia, and with the ureters and vasa deferentia. The bronchial tubes may be here alluded to in their capacity of an excretory apparatus, as furnishing the best marked example of this arrangement. The tracheal is muscle consists evi- dently of the unstriped fibres, and the same may be traced down the bronchial ramifications as far as the air-cells themselves, though not into them. The distinctive characters of this form of muscle may here be unequivocally discerned; and, if anatomists had been better acquainted with them, there would not have been room for those disputes regarding the muscularity of the bronchial tubes which have so long attracted the interest of practical physi- cians. Recently, indeed, there has been added to the satisfactory evidence of anatomy the fact, that these fibres may be excited to contraction by the galvanic stimulus.* In the case of other glands, it is still unknown how far the muscular coat invests the ramifications of the duct: it is most likely that it gradually ceases a short way within the organ, and at least it seems clear that no portion of the secreting membrane itself is ever invested by it. Distribution of the two kinds of fibre in the animal scale. The striped fibres have been found in all vertebrated animals, and in insects, Crustacea, cirropods, and arachnidn ; and future researches will probably shew them to be even more extensively diffused. But in the lower animals we find that the distinctive characters of the two varieties begin to merge together and be lost; espe- cially where the fibres are of diminutive size. The transverse stripes grow irregular, not parallel, interrupted ; a fibre will, perhaps, possess them only near its centre, where its developement is most advanced, and its contractile energy greatest. Even the peculiarities of the unstriped fibre arc sometimes no longer to be met with w parts which are undoubtedly muscular, ns the alimentary canal of small insects. R is evident that fibres of the usual bulk would be greatly too large for the require- ments of the case ; and they consequently seem to be reduced within limits, which deprive them of those anatomical characters by which alone we can elsewhere posi- tively aver their existence. It is possible that a tissue identical in nature and pro- perties with that of striped muscle, may be the effective agent to which are due those wonderfully vivacious movements witnessed in the bodies of many of the mi- nutest infusoria, where the best microscope can hardly discern even the organs put in motion. f * Dr. C. J. Williams, on Diseases of the Chest. Last edit. Appendix.