CHAP. XIV. INNERVATION. 430 of the chief segments, the arm, fore-arm, thigh, anti leg. The con- vexities of the joints are more sensible than the concavities. The hand and foot greatly excel the arm and leg, and the hand the foot. The palms and soles respectively excel the opposite surface, which are even surpassed by the lower parts of the fore- arm and leg. On the palmar aspect of the hand the acuteness of the sense corresponds very accurately with the developement of the rows of papillae; and where these papillae are almost wanting, as opposite the flexions of the joints, it is feeble. The scalp has a blunter sensibility than any other part of the head, and the neck does not even equal the scalp. The skin of the face is more and more sensible as we approach the middle line; and the tip of the nose and red part of the lips are acutely so, and only inferior to the tip of the tongue. This last, in a space of a few square lines, exceeds the most sensitive parts of the fingers; and points of contact with it may be generally perceived distinctly from one another, when only one-third of a line intervenes between them. As we recede from the tip along the back or sides of the tongue, we find the sense of touch much duller. The sensibility of the surface of the trunk is inferior to that of the extremities or head. The flanks and nipples, which are so sensitive to tickling, are comparatively blunt in regard to the ap- preciation of the distance between points of contact. Points placed on opposite sides of the middle line, either before or behind, are better distinguished than when both are on the same side. The above are the results obtained by making the several parts mere passive and motionless recipients of impressions. They evince the precision of the sense in so far only as it depends on the organi- zation of the tactile surface. The augmented power derived from change of position of the object with regard to the surface, is well illustrated by keeping the hand passive, while the object is made to move rapidly over it. In this case the contact of the two points is separately perceived, when so close that they would, if stationary, seem as one. If, still further, the fingers be made to freely traverse the surface of an object, under the guidance of the mind, the appre- ciation of contact will be far more exquisite, in proportion to the variety of the movements, and the attention given to them. We are then said to feel, or to examine by the sense of touch. How great is the aid thus capable of being afforded, is manifest in the following experiment. With shut eyes, and the hand still, let another apply to the finger various articles, such as books, paper, glass, metals, wood, cork, See.; they will be very imperfectly dis-