[chap. viii. 206 INNERVATION. The remainder of the nervous system is made up entirely of ganglions, with their connecting cords and nerves, which ramify in a plexiform manner among various internal viscera, and upon the coats of blood-vessels. In the higher vertebrate animals, it is dis- posed as a chain of ganglia on each side of the vertebral column, and at the base of the skull near the foramina through which the spinal and encephalic nerves pass out; and at all these situations it forms a very intimate connexion with the brain and spinal cord. This portion of the nervous system possesses many peculiarities, both in its composition, in its arrangement, and in its connexion with the organs among which its nerves ramify, which, at least, entitle it to be considered apart from the cerebro-spinal system. How far it can be regarded as independent of that system, is a question which must be reserved for future examination. This is the sympathetic or ganglionic system, formerly known and described as the great intercostal nerve, and by Bichat as the nervous system of organic life: it has also been called the visceral nerve. All these titles are liable to objection, inasmuch as each involves to a greater or less extent some theory of the uses or actions of these nerves; but the two first mentioned are preferable, as those which are best known, and most confirmed by use. The nervous system, then, in man and the vertebrate series, con- sists of the brain, spinal cord, and the nerves associated therewith, the cerebro-spinal system; and that double chain of ganglia, with their nerves, situate along the spinal column, the sympathetic or ganglionic system. Among the invertebrata, although the arrange- ment of the nervous system differs very materially from that in the vertebrata, an analogous subdivision of it may be made in a large proportion of those classes, the anatomy of which has been satisfac- torily made out. Physical ancl Chemical properties of the Nervous Matter.—The nervous matter of both kinds is a soft, unctuous substance, easily disturbed by slight mechanical force. Were it not associated with other tissues, and supported, to a certain extent, by the blood- vessels which ramify among its elements, its physical tenacity would be very feeble. Its great softness is due, in part, to the admixture of a large quantity of water with it, which constitutes three-fourths, or four- fifths, and, in many instances, seven-eighths, of its weight. Ac- cording to Vauquelin, whose analysis was made in 1812, the brain is an emulsive mixture of albumen, fatty matter, and water; the last holding in solution certain saline and other ingredients com-