137 THE HINGE-JOINT. ' CHAP. VI.] generally whose extremities are developed. In birds and reptiles the bodies of the vertebra are articulated by enarthrosis. This species of joint is capable of motion of all kinds, opposition and circumduction being the most perfect, but rotation limited. Indeed, what is called rotation at the hip-joint, is effected by a glid- ing of the head of the femur from before backwards, and rice versa, in the acetabulum ; it is not a rotation of the head and neck, but of : the shaft, of the femur. c. Ginglymus (ytyyXvfMg, cardo).—The articular surfaces in the hinge-joint are marked with elevations and depressions which ex- actly tit into each other, so as to restrict motion in all but one i direction. They are always provided with strong lateral ligaments, which are the chief bonds of union of the articular surfaces. The elbow and ankle joints in man are perfect ginglvmi; the knee also belongs to this class, but is by no means a perfect speci- men, for, in a certain position of the bones of this joint, the liga- ments are so relaxed as to allow a slight rotation to take place. The phalangeal articulations, both of the fingers and toes, are .ginglvmi. This form of joint is most extensively employed among the lower animals. In tpiadrupeds, most of the joints of the extre- mities come under this head. In amphibia and reptiles, too, there are many examples of the hinge-joint. The bivalve shells ofconchi- ferous mollusca are united by a very perfect hinge, and a great number of the joints of Crustacea and insects are of this form. The true ginglymus is only susceptible of limited opposition : hence the knee-joint cannot be regarded as a perfect example; in \ fact, iu the perfect ginglymus there is every possible provision against lateral motion. d. Dxarthrosis rotaiorius.—A pivot and a ring constitute the me- chanism of this form of joint. The ring is generally formed partly I of bone and partly of ligament, and sometimes moves on the pivot, sometimes the pivot moves in it. The motion is evidently confined ; to rotation, the axis of which is the axis of the pivot. In the human subject the best example of this articulation is that between the atlas and odontoid process of the axis or vertebra dentata. The ring is formed by a portion of the anterior arch of the atlas, completed behind by a transverse ligament. Here the atlas rotates round the odontoid process, which is the axis of | ‘notion. Another example is the superior radio-ulnar articulation : ; here one-fourth of the ring is formed by bone, namely, the lesser f Hgmoid cavity of the ulna, and the remaining three-fourths by the | round ligament called the coronary ligament of the radius. In this