384 INNERVATION. CHAP. XI. muscular current. Matteucci’s experiments have shewn that the former has some marked connexion with muscles, and with those of the leg more especially ; and he has found that the same circumstances which increase or diminish the mus- cular current, exert a similar influence upon the proper current. But they differ remarkably in point of duration ; as the latter continues long after all traces of a muscular current have ceased to be discoverable. It is highly probable, as before stated, that the true source of this current will be found in some anatomical pecu- liarity of the frog. As in the ordinary phenomena of the nutrition of muscles, by which their state of passive contraction or tone is maintained, electricity is developed, it is most reasonable to expect that during active contraction there should be a develope- ment of electricity, as there is of heat likewise, according to Becquerel and Bres- chet’s observations. This is shewn by Matteucci in a very beautiful experiment which we have frequently repeated with the same results. Place a prepared frog upon an insulating plane ; then prepare the leg of another frog with the crural nerve dissected out . and left attached to the leg, the thigh being removed. Place the nerve of this leg upon one or both thighs of the other frog, and every time that those legs are excited to contract by a galvanic or a mechanical stimulus, contractions will be produced in the second leg, which is connected with the first only by the contact of its nerve with the surface of their muscles. The same ef- fect will be produced if the nerve of the frog’s leg be placed on the muscles of a warm-blooded animal,—a rabbit, for instance,—care being taken to remove any thick aponeurosis which may cover the latter. If an insulating substance be placed between the muscles of the thigh and the nerve of the leg, no action will take place. The same effect is observed when gold-leaf is interposed ; but if the gold-leaf be tom, to however slight a degree, the leg will be thrown into contraction. The electricity developed during the contraction of the muscles, stimulates the nerve which is laid upon them ; the interposition of a non-conducting substance prevents the electric discharge from reaching the nerve ; and gold-leaf, being a better conductor than nerve, carries the electricity along it, passing by the nerve. 4. The study of the effects of electricity applied in various ways upon nerves, has led to some highly interesting and curious results. Nobili ascertained that, in passing an electric current through the lumbar nerves of a frog, contractions occurred under different circumstances, according to the state of vitality of the nerves. He divided the vitality of the nerve into five periods, during each of which different phenomena were produced by the passage of the current. In the first period, the direct current, or that directed from the brain to the nerves, caused contractions in the muscles on closing the circuit; the inverse current, or that from the nerves to the brain, on opening it. In the second period, the direct current causes contractions on closing the circuit, and slight ones on opening it; the inverse current causes contractions only on opening the circuit. In the third period, contractions occur only on closing the direct current and opening the inverse. In the fourtli period, contractions occur only on closing the direct current; and in tire fifth, the nerve ceases to be influenced by the electrical stimulus. Marianini, who subsequently studied this subject, affirms that contrac- tions take place only under two circumstances, namely, from the closure of the