chap, xi. ] MATTEUCCl’S ELECTRO-PHYSIOLOGICAL RESEARCHES. 385 direct current, or from opening the inverse ; and that a sensation is caused by the direct current on opening, but by the inverse on closing. Matteucci repeated these observations on the sciatic nerves of the rabbit, de- voting one nerve to the direct, the other to the inverse, current. On closing the direct current, contractions were produced in the muscles of the limbs and back, with marked signs of pain ; the same phenomena result from closing the inverse current, and from opening both. The signs of pain were greatest at the closure of the inverse current, and the contractions were most at the closure of the direct current. The commencement and the interruption of an electric current of a certain intensity, acting upon a certain portion of the nervous system, are fol- lowed by the same phenomena, whatever be the direction of this current in the nerve. After some time, which is shorter as the current is more intense, the phenomena take place in a different manner. Upon interrupting the direct cur- rent, the contractions of the muscles of the limbs are feeble, but there are signs of pain, and the muscles of the back arc contracted ; but, when the direct current is closed, the effects are limited to contractions of the posterior limbs. When the inverse current is used, contractions of the muscles of the back and signs of pain occur on closing it, while the contractions of the limbs are slight; but, on the in- terruption of it, contractions of the limbs alone take place. The following tabular view will exhibit these latter results more clearly. / closing . . t contractions in muscles of posterior i limbs. Direct current . . . / marked signs of pain, and contraction V opening . . < of muscles of the back. , closing . . \ feeble contractions of posterior limbs. | signs of pain, contractions of muscles Inverse current . . \ of back, and feeble ones of the pos- ( terior limbs. V ojx'ning . . contractions of the posterior limbs. So that, after the lapse of a little time, the phenomena produced by closing the inverse current, become precisely the same as those on opening the direct, and vice versa. The contractions of the muscles of the back, which are supplied from nerves which come off above the point of excitation, are due to the irritation of the ner- vous centre, affected through sensitive nerves ; for these contractions cannot be produced if the portion of the cord from which the nerves arise have been re- moved. After the nerve has been exhausted, so as to yield the phenomena of the second period, as shewn in the table, it may be excited to act as at first, cither by increas- ing the intensity of the current, or by exciting points of the nerve nearer its peri- pheral extremities. A simple experiment illustrates the different effects of the direct and inverse current in a very striking manner. The limbs of a frog arc prepared according to the ordinary method of Galvoni. If a current be passed from one side to the other through the lumbar nerves, it is plain that it will be direct in the nerves of one side, and inverse in those of the other side. During the first period, there are con- tractions both on completing and interrupting the circuit; but in the second