INNERVATION. 428 [citap. xiv. much with differences in the mobility of such parts. In general, touch is most acute in regions best suited, by their structure, for easy and diversified contact with external substances; for the power of nicely determining the position, direction, and amount of pressure upon the organ of touch, is essential to the perfection of the sense. The will can not only excite and check the contrac- tions of the muscles, but is able to regulate their force and duration with wonderful precision; for, by the muscular sense, as stated in a previous chapter, the mind is able to appreciate the state of con- traction of a muscle by impressions originating in the nerves sup- plied to its fibres. This power, both of recognizing and governing the muscular movements, is from our earliest infancy brought into association with the impressions derived from the tactile organ, and made accessory to its function; and the perfection to which habit, in numerous instances, brings the sense of touch, is chiefly due to an improved capacity it confers, of appreciating the impres- sions made on the organ, in connexion with niceties of muscular movement. In animals, as in man, we may notice the local concentration of the sense in general obedience to this relation of mobility. In monkeys the fingers are highly endowed with it, and the papillae there developed closely resemble those on the human hand. The prehensile tails of certain tribes possess great mobility, can readily be applied all round an object, and are largely supplied with nerves and papillae. In addition to this, there is an absence of hair from that surface adapted for contact with bodies. In some ant-eaters the tail is highly tactile, and likewise in the chameleon. In the canine and feline races the sense of touch resides in the paws, which present a large papillary structure ; in the lips, where the whiskers are developed ; and in the tongue. In ruminants and solipeds it has its special seat in the lips, which are long, very moveable, and largely supplied with sensitive and motor nerves. The upper lip of the rhinoceros is an excellent example of these conditions ; and, still more so, the snout of the tapir and the trunk of the elephant, where the inte- guments about the orifice of the nostrils are endowed with exquisite powers both of sense and motion. But nowhere, perhaps, is the sense of touch more acute than in the membranous expansions of the wings of bats, whereby they are enabled to traverse dark and tortuous passages, in rapid flight, without injury. Spallanzani blinded them with a view of determining whether sight conferred any part of this singular power, but found that this mutilation interfered in no respect with the faculty. They were still able to fly in the space between suspended threads without touching them. He could not conceive it possible that so wonderful an endowment could depend on any exaltation of mere touch, and he resorted to the supposition of the existence of a sixth sense, possessed of some unknown mode of action. But Cuvier, with more sagacity, has referred it to an eminent sensibility of the nerves, which are profusely expanded over the web of the wings. This membrane seems admirably calculated