INNERVATION. CHAP. XI. 3G6 fibres connected with it, are altogether of the mental kind. The physical changes in these parts give rise to a corresponding mani- festation of ideas; nor is it likely that any thought, however simple, is unaccompanied by change in this centre. The shock of concussion so far checks the organic changes of the vesicular sur- face, and perhaps also of the fibrous matter, as to interrupt for a time those conjoint actions of the mind and the brain which are necessary for perfect consciousness. The condensation of the substance of the hemispheres which is produced by an apoplectic clot, or by the effusion of some other foreign matter, prevents a simi- lar consent of action, and thus gives rise to the phenomena of coma, in which all mental nervous actions are destroyed or suspended. Those parts of the cerebro-spinal centre on which the physical actions depend, being more completely protected from compression, do not suffer in their functions, and consequently actions of this kind re- main unimpaired. This view of the function of the convolutions of the brain has been held by nearly all the great anatomists who have directed their investigations to this wonderful organ. Our countryman, Willis, distinctly advanced this opinion in the seventeenth century, and conjectured that the various gyrations were intended for retain- ing the animal spirits “ for the various acts of imagination and memory"’ within certain limits. The distinguished Gall, however, proposed to assign certain convolutions as the seat of certain facul- ties of the mind—moral feelings, or instinctive propensities—and upon this basis raised the celebrated theory of Phrenology, which has been pursued since his time with all the zeal and interest naturally attaching to a science which professes from external signs to detect the natural tendencies of the spirit within. We do not propose to discuss the validity of this theory, which seems to have been taken up with more apparent zeal for victory, than love of truth. But we shall remark, that, in considering the truth or falsehood of Phrenology, it is absolutely necessary to sepa- rate the metaphysical question—as to the existence of certain fa- culties of the mind—from what has been admitted as a physiolo- gical fact before the foundation of the phrenological school, that the vesicular surface of the brain is the prime physical agent in the working of the intellect. A physiologist may hold the vali- dity of this latter doctrine, and yet think as we do, that many ot the so-called faculties of the phrenologists are but phases of other and larger powers of the mind; and that the psychologist must determine what are, and what are not, fundamental faculties ot