180 LOCOMOTION. [chap. vii. ; neighbourhood. Tlie accidental circumstances under which the fragments are placed, explain these varieties. In the former case, Fig 49 the ends of the fragments hap- pen to be freely moveable, and are drawn towards each other, according to the amount of con- traction occurring in particular spots; and, as the contractile force leaves these spots and en- Fragment of an elementary fibre (from the Eel) par- gages OtlierS, the ends Continue tiallv contracted in water. Magnified 300 diameters.— 0 ° a. Uncontracted nart. b. Contracted part, along the to approximate, tllG parts OllCe border of which the sarcolemma is raised from the sur- 11 , . 1 face by the water that has been absorbed, that has Contracted remaining SO, 1)6- thereby caused the contraction, and by it has been expelled from the contractile mass. CaUSe there is no force to 6X- tend them. Hence the contraction appears permanent. In the latter case, certain parts of the fibre (as its broken extre- mities) are fixed more or less firmly, so as to offer a resistance to the contraction that takes place; this resistance enabling the contractile force advancing to new parts to obliterate the traces of contraction in the parts in which it is subsiding, by stretching them. The ends usually become fixed in consequence of their being the first to thicken from contraction, and from their thus receiving the pressure of the lamina of mica or glass with which it is requisite to cover the object; and they are the first to contract, because irritated by being broken, and by the water, which is absorbed soonest where the sheath is deficient. This fixing of the ends brings the fibres in question nearly into the condition under which they exist in the living body, where it has already been explained that there is always a resistance to.be overcome in active contraction. This particular variety of the phenomenon, therefore, deserves special study. Those animals whose muscles are most tenacious of their contractility are the best suited for examination; and, among these, the young crab or lobster may be most easily obtained. In an elementary fibre from the claw, laid out on glass, and then covered with a wet lamina of mica, the following phenomena are always to be observed. The ends become first contracted and fixed. Then contractions commence at isolated spots along the margin of the fibre, which they cause to bulge. At first they only engage a very limited amount of the mass, spreading into its interior equally in all directions, and being marked by a close approxima- tion of the transverse stripes. These contractions pull upon the remainder of the fibre only in the direction of its length, so that along its edge the transverse stripes in the intervals are very much i ■ ♦ Y 4 i x I