INNERVATION. 340 CIIAP. XI. Certain conditions of the generative organs are dependent on the spinal cord ; but they are developed only in a polar state of that organ, usually present under sexual excitement. Erection of the penis is evidently dependent on the cord in this way. In a state of irritation of the cord, such as may be caused by traumatic injury, erection or semi-erection is frequently present. In paraplegia there is frequently an absence of the power. The excited state of the Fallopian tubes in the female is attributable to the same cause. The action of the uterus in parturition, of the bladder and rectum when distended, is partly due to the stimulus of distension on the muscular coats, and partly to the physical power of the cord excited by the sensitive nerves of those organs. The nervous actions which accompany the nutritive functions are of the physical kind, although not altogether removed from the influence of volition and emotion, and have their centre in the spinal cord. Thus, the heart is very liable to be influenced by the spinal cord, and, no doubt, the blood-vessels are similarly re- lated to it; and, through their influence upon the distribution of blood to the various textures, it is plain that the state of the spinal cord, or of parts of it, may readily affect the molecular changes in which nutrition and secretion intrinsically consist. This subject will be further discussed when we come to consider the functions in question. It has been supposed, that the tone of the muscular system is maintained by the spinal cord. If by tone be meant what we have described as passive contraction, we can only remark, that the phe- nomena which characterize that state are just as obvious in muscles taken from animals recently deprived of the spinal cord as in others ; and that the analogous state, rigor mortis, comes on as distinctly Avhen the spinal cord and brain have been removed, as if they were untouched. Healthy nutrition, in our opinion, supplies all the con- ditions necessary for the maintenance of the tone or the passive contraction ; nor is the spinal cord (although itself healthy) able to preserve the tense condition of the muscles, if they are not well nourished. The removal of the spinal cord, indeed, immediately produces a flaccid state of the muscles of the limbs ; but this is owing to the immediate cessation of the slight degree of active contraction necessary to maintain a certain posture. A decapitated frog will continue in the sitting posture through the influence of the spinal cord; but, immediately this organ is removed, the limbs fall apart, from the loss of the controlling and co-ordinating influence of the nervous centres. But careful examination will shew, that in