318 CHAP. XI. INNERVATION. impediments to accurate experiments, and sufficiently explain the discrepancies which are apparent in the results of the various ex- periments which have been published. Moreover, the resultant I phenomena, after experiments of this kind, are extremely difficult of interpretation, especially with reference to sensation. “ The gradations of sensibility,” remarks Dr. Nasse, “ are almost imper- ceptible ; the shades are so delicately and so intimately blended, that every attempt to determine the line of transition proves inad- equate. There is a great deal of truth in an expression of Cal- med, that it is much easier to appreciate a liemiparalysis of motion than a liemiparalysis of sensation. If the anterior fasciculi of the cord possess sensibility, but only in a slight degree, the mere open- ing of the vertebral canal and laying bare the cord must cause such a degree of pain as would weaken or destroy the manifestations of sensibility in the anterior fasciculi. This has not been suffici- > ently attended to by experimenters. Again, the practice of first irritating the posterior fasciculi, and afterwards the anterior, must have had considerable effect in producing the same alteration. It is plain that, in this way, the relations which the anterior fasciculi bear to sensation must be greatly obscured; yet, with the exception i of some few experiments, this has been the order of proceeding generally adopted.”* All those who have made experiments with the view of ascer- taining the functions of the columns of the cord, agree in stating that irritation of the anterior columns was attended with more or less movement. The results of stimulation of the posterior columns, however, have been differently stated by various observers: many found that it was attended with the excitation of motion; and i others, that the least irritation of the posterior columns excited pain. M. Longet, who is among the latest experimenters on this subject, observes, that motions result from irritation of the posterior columns only when the experiment has been made immediately after the transverse division of the cord, and he refers such motions to the excitability of the cord itself. After a little time, however, this subsides; and then M. Longet has been able to pass the gal- vanic current through each or both of the posterior columns, without i exciting any motions when the lower segment of the cord was acted | upon, but causing pain, as evinced by loud cries and writhing of the body, when the upper segment was tried. Dr. Daly’s experiments j on tortoises shewed that movements might be excited whether the j * Loe. cit.; quoted from an abstract in the Brit, and For. Med. Review, vol. iv. j