[chap, v. LOCOMOTION'. 112 nourishment from the periosteum, and which may be called the periosteal layer. The lacuna; of this layer all face that surface, and the pores of the superficial ones open upon it. There is another layer, forming the immediate wall of the medullary cavity, and termed the medullary layer. Its lacuna;, in like manner, face this cavity ; and the pores of the inner ones open upon it. This layer becomes variously folded to form the plates and fibres of the can- celli; and all the lacunae of these face these irregular cavities, and their pores open into them. The Haversian surface, too, being an involution of the outer and inner surfaces, and serving to connect them, is, in fact, formed by an involution of the periosteal and medullary layers, and unites these with one another. Where a vessel enters the compact tissue from the exterior, it carries with it a sheath of bone from the periosteal layer. The lacunae of this osseous sheath, instead of being turned outwards, like those of the periosteal layer, preserve their relation to the vascular surface to which they pertain, and face inwards towards the vessel. Wher- ever the vessel penetrates, whatever direction it takes, and however it branches, it is everywhere accompanied by this sheath from the periosteal layer, or by offsets from it ; and, when it enters the medullary canal, its sheath expands into the medullary layer. The vessels of the compact tissue are so close together that the osseous sheaths respectively surrounding them come into contact and unite ; and thus all the space between the outer and the inner surface of the compact tissue is filled up : thus, in a word, the com- pact tissue is constructed. As the vessels of the compact tissue take a longitudinal direction, a transverse section of the bone (fig. 25) will appear pierced by numerous holes, which are the Haversian canals cut across. Each hole appears as the centre of a roundish area, which is the sec- tion of an involuted periosteal layer now become a vertical rod, containing a vessel in its axis. The Haversian canals vary consi- derably in size, and do not maintain a very close relation to the thickness of their respec- tive osseous walls. They are frequently pact tissue of a long bone; shew- eccentric, owing to their wall bulging more ^emeI!iianTayeV?nndSe^ >n one direction than another, to fit in be- termediate Haversian systems of ± „, 1 • ... ,, ,, , lamella1, each perforated by an tWeeil Otliei'S ill 111G vicilllty 1 tor tllOUgll Fig. 25. dianiuters.’ Mngnified ftbout ’ ’ the rods of bone, containing the vessels, affect