chap, viii.] CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF NERVOUS MATTER. 207 mon to the brain with other parts of the body. By solution in boil- ing alcohol, Vauquelin was enabled to resolve the fatty matter into elaine and stearine (margarine ?) The following table gives the result of his analysis: Albumen . • • 700 Cerebral fat . ( Stearine ( Elaine . 4-5-3 . 0-70 | 5-23 Phosphorus • • 1-50 Osinazome • • . MS Acids, Salts, Sulphur . . 515 Water * * . so-oo 100-00 Vauquelin remarked that the medulla oblongata, and medulla spinalis, have the same composition as the brain, but contain a much larger proportion of cerebral tat, with less albumen, osma- zome, and water. These results are confirmed, in the main, by the analysis of Fremy, which was published in the Annales de Chimie for 1841. M, Fremy states, that the three principal constituents previously detected bv Vauquelin, exist in the following pro]K>rtions in one hundred parts : seven parts of albumen, five parts of tatty matter, and eighty parts of water. From the fatty matter of the brain M. Fremy extracts various secondary organic compounds; namely, 1. Cerebric acid ; a white substance in the form of crystalline grains, abounding in carbon, and containing a minute proportion of phosphorus. 2. Cholesterine, the same as that which is obtained from bile. In preparations of the brain preserved in spirits, a substance of crystalline cha- racter resembling cholesterine is apt to form round the piece. S. Oleophosphoric acid; a peculiar fatty acid, containing from 1’9 to 2 per cent, of phosphorus in the condition of phosphoric acid. Fremy regards it as analogous to the compound of sul- phuric acid and elaine, or sulph-oleic acid. 4. Traces of elaine, margarine, and fatty acids. These principles do not always exist in an isolated state; for the cerebric acid is often combined with soda, or phosphate of lime, and the oleophosphoric acid is commonly found in union with soda. The quantity of phosphorus which may be found in the nervous matter varies considerably at different periods of life, and is very small in idiotcy. According to L’Herities analyses, the minimum this element is found in infancy, in old age, and in idiotcy; and the nisixiMum of water exists in the infant. The following is a table of his comparative analyses :