INNERVATION. [chap. XI. roots of the nerves exhibit no difference of structure; no anatomist could distinguish in a compound nerve the sensitive from the motor filaments. The vesicular matter, however, in the anterior horn, contains large caudate vesicles of a remarkable and peculiar kind (fig. 56, p. 214) ; whilst that in the posterior horn resembles very much the vesicular matter of the cerebral convolutions, and of other parts of the cerebrum, and does not contain caudate vesicles, except near the base. Here, then, we find associated with the well-attest- ed difference in the functions of the anterior and posterior roots, a striking difference in the structure of the anterior and posterior horns of gray matter. This hypothesis is adequate to the explanation of the influence of emotion on limbs paralysed as to voluntary movement, without the necessity of assuming the existence of a totally distinct series of fibres for this class of actions. The change in the brain, excited by emotion, is propagated to the spinal gray matter, in a manner analo- gous to that in which the influence of the will is brought to bear on it. It thus affects the ordinary motor fibres; and, therefore, the movements which are produced by emotion resemble very closely those excited by the will. This hypothesis suggests a very obvious explanation of the kind of antagonism which appears to exist between voluntary and reflex actions. It is well known that in health the will can in a great de- gree control and prevent the developement of reflex actions in the lower extremities. If one be paralysed, as in hemiplegia, from disease of the brain, whilst the other remains sound, a very striking contrast is sometimes to be observed between the two limbs. On stimulating the sole of the foot in the diseased limb, reflex actions are readily pro- duced ; but, on applying the same stimulus to the same part of the sound limb, no such movements occur, the patient being conscious of the application of the stimulus, but resisting the tendency to action which it produces. The will has lost its control over the diseased limb; but, as the motor nerves and the spinal gray matter arc sound, actions may still be excited through a stimulus from the periphery; and, the more complete has been the separation of the brain’s influence from the cord, the more perfect will be the reflex actions. Hence we frequently find these movements more perfect in cases where sensation as well as voluntary power is destroyed in a limb, than where the latter only has ceased. It may be here remarked, that movements which at one time are voluntary, may at another time be physical. If the influence ol the will be suspended for a brief period, stimulation of the surface