REPRODUCTION.—ASSIM1 CATION. 11 1XTKQD.] How beautiful id the provision which this power, possessed by v organized bodies, of generating others, affords, for preserving a per- petnal succession of living beings over the globe ! The command, Increase and multiply,” lias never ceased to be fulfilled from the moment it was uttered. Every hour, nay, every minute, brings j into being countless myriads of plants and animals, to supply in 1 lavish profusion the havoc which death is continually making; sand it is impossible to suppose that the earth can cease to be in •this way replenished, until the same Almighty Power, that gave the-command, shall see fit to oppose some obstacle to its fulfilment. In addition to this power of propagation, organized bodies enjoy oue of conservation and reproduction. Solutions of continuity, the i loss of particular textures, whether resulting from injury or from i disease, can be repaired. Parts, that have been removed, may be restored by a process of growth in the plant or animal, and in some ' animals the reproductive power is so energetic, that if an individual j be divided, each segment will become a perfect being. This power of reproduction is greater, the more simple the structure of the organized body; the more similar to each other are the constituent iparts, the more easy will reproduction be. Numerous examples of i this power may be adduced,—the healing of wounds, the adhesion i of divided parts are familiar to every oue. New individuals are developed from the cutting of plants: the division of the hydra into two, gives rise to the production of two new individuals. If a IPlanaria be cut into eight or ten parts, according to Duges, each part will assume an independent existence. The power of reproducing single parts only, is possessed by • animals higher in the scale. In snails, part of the head, with the ; antenmo, may be reproduced, provided the section have been made I so as not to injure the cerebral ganglion. Crabs and lobsters can : regenerate their claws, when the separation has taken place at an ; articulation ; and spiders enjoy the same power. In lizards, the ! tail, or a limb, can he restored, and in salamanders the same phe- nomenon has been frequently witnessed. Organized bodies can appropriate and assimilate to their own j textures other substances, whether inorganic or organic. This process is that which is most characteristic of living creatures: in ? virtue of it, animals and plants are continually adding to their ; textures new matter, by which they are nourished. Plants ap- ! propriftte their nutriment from the inorganic kingdom, as well as from decaying organic matter; animals, chiefly from organic mat- : ters, whether animal or vegetable. Both possess the wonderful