CARTILAGE. 89 . CHAP. IV.] without the expenditure of any vital force. Thus we find this variety of cartilage in the external ear, in the Eustachian tube, in the nostrils and eyelids, and in the larynx, trachea, and bronchial r ramifications. Physical characters.—Cartilage, in colour, varies from an azure, or pearly white, to a whitish yellow. The temporary and articular varieties present the former colour ; the membraniform, for the most [part, the latter. Elasticity, flexibility, and considerable cohesive power are the chief physical properties of this texture ; and in these qualities, and (•Specially in the first, consists its great value, both in contributing to r the perfection of the locomotive apparatus, and in its adaptation to other purposes. Cartilage is not brittle: a thin piece may be ! broken across by being suddenly bent at a very acute angle ; but, in .general, cartilage will bend easily without the occurrence of frac- itture, and will speedily resume its former direction on the bending ! force being removed. Structure.— The simplest kind of cartilage consists merely of 'nucleated cells, and exceedingly resembles the cellular tissue of : plants. The cells are very large, roundish or ovoidal, and more or sless flattened by their mutual contact. Each has a diminutive : transparent nucleus attached to the inner surface of the cell-mem- Ibrane, and containing within it a minute granule, or nucleolus. NVe have also met with other transparent globules, of variable size and extreme delicacy, within the cells. Some white fibrous tissue usually encloses the mass of cells, and penetrates to a certain dis- tance among the more superficial of them, which are smaller and more densely packed than the rest. This kind of cartilage is found in the >»• chorda dorsalis, or rudimentary spinal co- jjUumn of the early embryo : it also exists in the permanent chorda dorsalis of the cartilaginous M fishes, and may be well seen in a thin piece of that structure from the lamprey (fig. 13). But, in other kinds of cartilage, the cells are imbedded in an intercellular substance, j< or matrix, more or less abundant in the dif- ferent kinds, and presenting certain varieties of appearance. In all, it is possible to see FournMlMt«d <*n. from the that the cells have a proper membrane of their own, and are not mere excavations in the •<*» rroflle- intercellular substance; this may often be determined at a broken ( \