211 (HAP. VIII.] GELATINOUS FIBRE. apt to form upon some nerve-tubes than upon others; and this is apparently owing to a feebleness of the tubular membrane, and per- haps, also, to a less degree of consistence of the contained nervous pulp. In the nerves of special sensation the tubes are very deli- cate in structure, and very apt to exhibit this change; and in the fibres of the brain and spinal cord the same tendency is observable. It was formerly supposed by Ehrenberg, that these varicosities were natural, and existed during life; and that they afforded a valuable morphological character of the nerves of pure sense, and of the cerebro-spinal centre. Many circumstances, however, oppose this view : thus, the irregularities in the ahajm, size, and number of the varicosities appear very unlike a natural disposition : in a piece of the brain or spinal cord, which has not been much pressed or torn, the nerve-tubes often exhibit a cylindrical figure, and even in the manipulated specimen the varicose tubes form only a portion. In some nerves, such as those of muscles, the tubes, although not prone to become varicose, may Ik- made so by firm pressure and violence in manipulation; and in the nerve-tubes of young animals, the tissues of which are more tender, and contain more abundant water, this change is particularly apt to take place. The nerve-tulies, for the most part, lie parallel to each other, always without branching, and, if we except their terminal looping in other textures, without any inosculation. This very interesting and important feature in the anatomy of the nerve-tubes was re- cognised long ago by Fontana, and has been confirmed by nearly every subsequent observer. It may be seen in the nervous centres, as well as in the nerves themselves. In the latter it may be well demonstrated by examining a piece of nerve on a dark ground as an opaque object. The primitive fibres, viewed in this way, appear as so many transparent tubes, containing an exquisitely delicate, soft, pearly-white material. The tubular fibres vary in diameter of an inch; but their average width is from ---- -- to even t 600 from ™ to Tooo 1 UllUII of an inch. 2. Of the Gelatinous Nerve-fibr*.—This term is applied by Ilenle to certain fibres found principally in the sympathetic nerve. They are flattened, soft, and homogeneous in appearance; contain- ing numerous cell-nuclei, some of which are round, others oval • some situated in the centre of the fibre, others adhering to either edge ; their longest diameter being generally parallel to the longitu- dinal axis of the nerve. These nuclei are arranged at nearly equal distances, and frequently exhibit distinct nucleoli (fig. r>2, <_). Some- times these fibres shew a disposition to split into very delicate i