THE CRANIUM. CHAP. VI.] 139 the violence applied directly to the vertex is spent upon the base of the skull, and causes a fracture there. The compound structure of the cranial bones is an important element in the architecture of the skull as a protecting case to the brain. Most of these bones are formed of two tables : the outer one is tough, strong, and fibrous; the internal table is dense and brittle, and hence called tabula vitrea ; and there is interposed between them a spongy texture, the diplo«\ in which blood-vessels are freely distributed (fig. 20, p. 107). The varying density of these three layers evidently diminishes their power of conducting vibra- tions to the parts within, whilst it does not oppose the propagation of those vibrations in the direction of the layers themselves. The manner in which the bones of the skull are united together has an evident reference to the physical properties of their inner and outer tables. The sutures are formed by the dovetailing of the outer table ; the inner being cut straight, and simply placed in appo- sition (a layer of cartilage intervening), forming a sort of harmonia. The inner table, which is the brittle one, is not dovetailed, because its teeth would break readily ; but the toughness and elasticity of the outer table tit it well for such a mechanism. On the same principle, Sir (_’. Hell remarks, a carpenter joins wood, which is tough and elastic, by tenon and mortise or by dovetailing; but, if pieces of glass or marble are to be joined, cement is employed for that purpose. The principal part of the vault of the cranium is formed by the parietal bones, which rest upon the wings of the sphenoid, and upon the temporal bones: these overlap the lower borders of the parietal bones in such a way as to prevent them from starting outwards. They act on the principle of the tiebenm in the roofs of houses. At certain exposed situations the bones experience a thickening of their structure, causing tuberosities, which are familiar to de- scriptive anatomists. These contribute to the strength of the roof of the skull : in front, in the frontal bone on each side of the middle hue ; laterally, in the parietal bones ; and, behind, in the centre of the occipital bone. At this last situation two ribs, analogous to qroininqs in architecture, intersect each other: one extends from the centre of the frontal bone to the most projecting part of the occipital fora- men ; the other passes horizontally across the occipital bone, and terminates immediately behind the wedge-like processes which are V formed by the petrous portions of the temporal bones. The occipi- tal protuberance, which is the point of intersection of these groin- mgs, is the “ thickest and strongest part of the skull ; and it is the