CHAP. XI. 344 INNERVATION. reason to believe that the will exerts a primary influence upon either or both of these gangliform bodies, more vigorous when aided and guided by the power of the cerebral hemispheres. The fre- quent paralysis of motion apart from sensation, when the upward continuations of the pyramidal fibres in the corpora striata are diseased, renders it extremely probable that these fibres are the media of connexion between the brain and cord in voluntary actions. The medulla oblongata is not less the medium for the transmis- sion of sensitive impressions from all the regions of the head, trunk, and extremities ; and from its olivary columns at their upper and posterior part being, as it were, the concourse of all the nerves of pure sense, it seems fair to assign these parts as the prime seat of those central impressions which are necessary for sensation. The reception of these impressions by the cerebral hemispheres is the stage immediately associated with mental perception. True sen- sation, therefore, cannot take place without cerebral hemispheres. In a sensation excited in parts supplied by spinal nerves, the first central change is probably in the posterior horn of the vesicular matter of the cord; and the olivary column of the medulla oblongata is simultaneously affected, from its connexion with the cord. The change in this latter part is then propagated to the cerebral hemispheres. Thus much is suggested by anatomy, as regards the mechanism of sensitive impressions. Experiment affords us no aid in this intricate and difficult subject; neither does pathological ana- tomy : for the parts are so closely associated with each other, that any morbid state of one readily involves the others, so that it is almost impossible to find a morbid state of the parts devoted to sensation, apart from an affection of those more immediately concerned in motion. The function of the rcstiform bodies is probably associated with that of the hemispheres of the cerebellum, and of the posterior columns of the spinal cord. The experiments of Le Gallois and Flourens render it certain that the medulla oblongata is the centre of respiratory movements. The latter physiologist assigns as the “ primum movens” of these acts all that portion of the medulla which extends from the fila- ments of origin of the vagus nerve to the tubercula quadrigemina, the former only inclusive. Destruction of this portion, in whole or in part, invariably impairs or destroys the respiratory actions, and a morbid state of it gives rise to irregular or excited movements of respiration. Sighing, yawning, coughing, are probably connected