[c'HAI*. V. 116 LOCOMOTION. same general shape before as after tlieir ossification; and as this process is slow, and not finally completed until adult age, they share during a considerable period in the functions of the bony skeleton. Until the completion of the process of ossification, the temporary cartilages increase in bulk by an interstitial developement of new cells. A few vessels, also, shoot into them at an early period, occupying small tortuous canals, which subsequently become obli- terated. Ossification commences in the interior of the cartilage at deter- minate points, hence called points or centres of ossification. From these the process advances into the surrounding substance. The period at which these points appear varies much in the different bones, and in different parts of them. The first is the clavicle, in which the primitive point appears during the fourth week; next is the lower jaw ; the ribs, too, appear very early, and are completed early; next the femur, humerus, tibia, and upper jaw. The vertebra? and pelvic bones are late, as well as those of the tarsus and metatarsus. Some bones do not begin to ossify till after birth, as the patella. In most bones ossification boffins Fig. 28. Vertical section of the knee-joint of an infant; at more than one point. Thus, in the long bones (fig. 28) there is a middle point, to form the future shaft; and one at each extremity, to form the articular surface and eminences. That in the shaft is the first to appear, and the others succeed it at a variable interval. The central part is termed the diaphysis, and for a long period after birth there remains a layer of unossified cartilage between this and the epiphyses, as the ex- tremities are then styled. Pro- cesses of bone have usually their own centres of ossification, and are termed epiphyses until they shewing the points of ossification in the shaft and j^g finally lOined to the main epiphysis of the femur and tibia, aud in the pa- J *1 , . ,, tella. A few vascular canals arc also seen in the pgj.f after wllicll they rCCClVe t llC cartilage. Natural size. —From the Museum of 1 ’ J King’s college. name of apophyses. Ossification generally extends in the direction that the future lamina? and Haversian rods are to assume, and which corresponds in