11 F.C'OM l’OSI TION.—LIFE. NTROn.] 13 it need not excite surprise that a great variety of products results ?rom the decomposition of animal and vegetable matter. This de- composition is of two kinds, which are distinguished by the names, r <-mentation, and putrefaction. Liebig proposes to limit the former erm to the decomposition of substances devoid of nitrogen, and the «tter to that of azotised matters. The products of vegetable mat- ter in fermentation, by the action of yeast, are carbonic acid and dcohol; those of azotised matters, whether animal or vegetable, jre carbonic acid, hydrogen, phosphuretted and enrburetted hydro- fen, hydrosulphuric acid, cyanogen, hydrocyanic acid, ammonia, iind lactic acid. Let us compare the characters of organized bodies, as described .a the preceding paragraphs, with those of inorganic substances. In form, in size, in duration, the contrast is most striking. The inorganic matters are aeriform, liquid, or solid : they are prone o assume the crystalline form, ami to exhibit surfaces bounded •y right lines, and uniting to form angles. No distinction of •arts, or organs, is to he found in the mineral substance; its minutest fragment is in every respect of the same nature with the largest mass. A portion of chalk, not weighing a drachm, con- tains particles of the same form and size as those of the largest cliff •on the sea-coast. Inorganic substances, as compared with organic, ^ire unlimited in size and duration : they will continue for ages with- >ut augmentation or waste, provided no mechanical violence nor chemical agent he brought to act uj>oii them. None of those internal actions or processes, which we described n the organized body, occur in the unorganized one; there is no power of reproducing lost or injured parts, no growth, no excretion, no generation. From age to age the mineral remains unchanged, without motion, obedient to the common laws of matter, and unable to resist them by any inherent power. Within the living organisms of the organic kingdom, on the con- trary, are ceaseless motion and change. The absorption of the new material, and the ejection of the old, comprise a continual succes- sion of actions, in which the organized being is ever organizing and 'lUorganixiug. This constant round of actions, which is the more diversified as the organism is more complex, we call Life. There is an apparent spontaneousness in these actions, which distinguishes the mechanism ot an auimal or plant from the machines of human construction. Yet the living organism is not the less dependent for the continuance, nay, for the very existence of those actions, ujsm the ordinary agencies of nature. Light, heat, the atmosphere.