POLAR STATE OF THE CORD. 315 CHAP. XI.] warm-blooded classes. Hence there is an objection to the use of opium in large doses in cases of tetanus; and experience has shewn its utter inefficacy when administered to a large amount. This polar state of the cord, at least of a part of it, is sometimes developed naturally. The most remarkable example of this with which we are acquainted is in the case of the male frog, in the • spring of the year, the season of copulation ; the thumb on each I hand becoming at this season considerably enlarged, as is well known to naturalists. This enlargement is caused principally by a considerable developement of the papillary structure of the skin which covers it, so that large papilhe are formed all over it. A lmale frog at this season has an irresistible propensity to cling to any object by seizing it between his anterior extremities. It is in this way he seizes upon and clings to the female, fixing his : thumbs to each side of her abdomen, and remaining there for weeks, until the ova have been completely expelled. An effort of the will alone could not keep up such a grasp uninterruptedly for so long a time ; yet so firm is the hold that it can with difficulty be relaxed. Whatever is brought in the way of the thumbs will be caught by the forcible contraction of the anterior limbs; and hence we often find frogs clinging blindly to a piece of wood, or a dead fish, or some other substance which they may chance to meet with. If the finger be placed between the anterior extremities, they will grasp it firmly; nor will they relax their grasp until they an> separated by force. If the animal be decapitated whilst the finger is within the grasp of its anterior extremities, they still con- tinue to hold on firmly. The posterior half of the body may bo cut away, and yet the anterior extremities will still cling to the * finger; but immediately that segment of the cord from which the anterior extremities derive their nerves has been removed all their motion ceases. This curious instinct, then, of the male frog, which naturalists have long noticed, is evidently connected with an exalted polarity of the cord, which is most manifest in the anterior extremities by reason of the enlargement of the thumb. It ouly exists during the period of sexual excitement, tor at other periods the excitability of the anterior extremities is considerably j less than that of the posterior. Nothing seems to control this polar state of the cord so effectually \ cold. Ice applied along the spine, or the cold douche, may j be frequently employed with great advantage in cases of muscular t disturbance dependent on this polar state of the cord. We jj know of no substance which, when introduced into the blood,