101 BONK. CHAP. V.] Bichat found that clavicles, which had been exposed for ten years to the wind and rain at the cemetery of Ciamart. presented, under the action of acid, an abundant cartilaginous parenchyma. In an old Roman frontal bone, dug up from Pompeii, Dr. Davy found *35*5 animal parts, and 64"5 earthy ; and in a tooth of the mammoth, 130-5 animal, and 69*5 earthy. The animal part of bone consists of cartilage, with vessels, medul- Uary membrane, and fat. The cartilage is readily convertible into .gelatine, according to Berzelius, after three hours’ boiling; and, when this has been removed, there remain only four grains out of 100, which may be considered to have been composed of blood-vessels. The earthy part of bone consists of phosphate and carbonate of I lime, with a small quantity of phosphate and carbonate of magnesia. T1 ie phosphate of lime forms the principal portion of the earthy [part; in 100 parts of bone Berzelius found 51*04 of this salt. It was discovered by Gahn, and the discovery announced by Scheele, 'that bone-earth consisted of “ phosphoric acid and lime.” Accord- ing to Berzelius, the phosphate consists of eight atoms of lime and three atoms of phosphoric acid ; but Mitscherlich regards it as 'composed of three atoms of lime with one of phosphoric acid i(a tribasic salt). It may be formed artificially by dropping chloride of calcium into a solution of phosphate of soda. It appears as a .gelatinous precipitate, which does not crystallize, and is readily 'Soluble in acids. The existence of tluoride of calcium in bone was announced many years ago by Berzelius; but the observations of our friend, Dr. G. O. Rees, throw considerable doubt upon this assertion. Dr. Rees attributes the action of the supposed fluoric acid upon glass to phosphoric acid in combination with water, which, if heated on glass of inferior quality until it volatilizes, will act upon it with considerable energy. The proportion of carbonate of lime to the phosphate is small. According to Berzelius, there are 11-30 parts in 100 of bone. We subjoin the following process, by which the qualitative analysis of bone may be readily effected : In order to insulate the annual mat fur, digest the bone for some days in muriatic acid diluted with about thrice its bulk of water; the earthy constituents will thus be gradually removed, leaving a semi-transparent cartilaginous tissue behind. The earthy matters are best examined by treating a portion of burnt bone with nitric acid, diluted with from four to six times its bulk of water; brisk effervescence ensues, proving the presence