130 [chap. VI. LOCOMOTION. neum of the rabbit, is represented in fig. 34. This was discovered by Henle. We have found this epithelium to rest immediately on a continuous transparent basement membrane of excessive te- nuity, apparently identical with that which supports the epithe- lium of mucous membranes. Beneath this is a lamina of areolar » tissue, which constitutes the chief thickness of the membrane, and confers on it its strength and elasticity. This areolar tissue ; is traversed by a network of capillary vessels, the meshes of which are large and of rather unequal size, and by lymphatics and ner- vous filaments in varying number. It is of close texture, and continuous with that laxer variety by which the membrane is attached to the parts it lines. The most favourable position for examining the areolar tissue of serous membrane, is .the transparent part of the mesentery, or of any of the duplicatures of the peritoneum, in small animals. Here we observe the yellow fibrous element assuming a very beautiful arrangement (fig. 35). Its filaments interlace and in- osculate chiefly in a plane be- neath the basement membrane, in such a manner as to confer equal elasticity in every di- rection. The intermediate space is occupied by the white fibrous element, disposed in wavy hands, variously in- tersecting, and which become straight only when the elastic threads are stretched. Physical and vital proper- of areolar tissue: the elas- is very considerable, owing to the admixture of the yellow fibrous element in the layer which forms the chief substance of the membrane. These tissues are entirely devoid of vital contractility; and their sensibility is low, except in a state of acute inflammation.- These membranes exhibit, in their inflamed state, a remarkable tendency to throw out lymph on their interior, so as to cause adhesion of their opposed surfaces. Hence a frequent result of in- flammation of a serous membrane is the obliteration, to a greater or less extent, of its cavity. Synovial membranes are not so prone to^ Fig. 35. Yellow fibrous element of the areolar tissue of serous membrane. From the mesentery of the Rabbit, treated with acetic acid.—Magnified 300 diameters. ties. — These are precisely those ticity of the serous membranes