7 ittJTKOO.] ORGANIZED BODIES. i .he living body) will produce the organic compound, fibrine; from which, again, the organized structure, muscle, is formed. And so i n other cases. In the organized body the constituent particles arc, as it were, (urtfullv arranged, so as to form peculiar textures, destined to nerve special purposes in the living mechanism of the animal Mr plant to which they belong. The organic compounds which nay be obtained from these are devoid of this mechanical arrange- ment of particles, and it is a beautiful feature of the organized body, (that every part has its special office, that there is nothing super- fluous, nothing wanting. As each organized body has a certain end to serve in the (economy of the living world, so each organ has its proper use in the animal or plant. In this adaptation of parts to the performance of certain functions, we see the strongest evidence of Design ; and, amidst much apparent difference of form and obv ious diversity of purpose, the anatomist recognizes a remark- able unity of plan — affording incontestable proof that the whole was devised by One Mind, infinite in wisdom, unlimited in resource. The true proximate principles are those substances which are the first obtained by the analysis of the organized textures; such are gluten, starch. Hotline, from the vegetable textures, or albumen, fibrine, caseins, from the animal ones. From these again a great variety of compounds has been obtained by various processes, owing to the tendency which their elements have to form new combinations. By boiling starch in dilute acids, it becomes con- verted into a kind of gum, and starch-sugar. By placing yeast in contact with sugar, the latter is converted into alcohol and car- i bonic acid, without the yeast affording it any of its chemical con- stituents; and, in the germination of barley, or of the potatoe, a peculiar substance is formed, the contact of which with the starch of the barley or potatoe converts it into sugar. Innumerable ex- amples might be quoted from various vegetable compounds, shewing that the affinity, which holds together the elements of organic sub- stances, is so feeble, that it affords hut slight resistance to their entrance into new combinations. In this wav a large class of organic matters is formed, which it seems proper to distinguish from the true proximate principles, under the name of secondary Organic compounds. In analysing the true proximate principles of organic substances, it is found that they consist for the most part of three or four of the essential simple elements, and that, as many of them contain a large number ot atoms, their combining proportion is represented