326 INNERVATION. [chap. XI. Fig. 73. excito-motory. The former author describes the nerves of articulata as consisting of fibres derived from two sources—namely, the ante- rior or cerebral ganglion, and the ganglion of that segment of the body to which they belong. Those fibres which are connected with the brain, he states, pass down along the dorsal surface of the gan- glionic chain, and are fibres of sensation and voluntary motion ; those which are immediately implanted in the ganglia are excito- motory. Mr. Newport, in his recent able and elaborate description of the nervous system of Myriapoda, thinks that he shews a some- what similar arrangement in those animals. The ganglionic chain has on its dorsal surface a pair of columns, superior longitudinal fibres, which pass over the ganglia, sending a few fibres to mingle with them, or with an inferior pair of longitudinal columns. These latter, the inferior longi- tudinal fibres, are placed along the abdominal surface of the ganglionic chain, and are inti- mately connected with the gan- glia. In the intervals between the ganglia these two columns lie in close juxtaposition, sepa- rated only by some transverse fibres. The inferior columns appear, as Mr. Newport states, to receive fibres from the supe- rior columns, and probably to send some to them, “ thus de- cussating each other in the middle substance of the cord, where these two longitudinal series are in close apposition; since it is almost impossible, even in the large nervous cord of Scolopendra, to separate these two tracts from each other, although their distinct- Upper and under surfaces of a portion of the cord in Spirostreptus.—After Newport. a. Undersurface, b. U pper surface. a. I nferior longitudinal fibres, e Superior longitu- dinal fibres. /. Fibres of reinforcement, also seen at b and c. g. Commissural fibres, also seen at d, a. ness is evinced in their relative size and longitudinal lines of separa- tion.’’* The ganglia, then, are placed between these two columns, the inferior pair being intimately connected with them. Almost the * Phil. Trans. 1844.