| THAI’. VI!.] 165 AREOLAR TISSUE OF MUSCLES. ,111411 II |. straight between two points, as in the voluntary muscles, but twine j round one another, and around the organ, in a very intricate and more or less spiral figure. Most of them come from the tendinous cord encircling the orifices of the ventricles, and, after winding s t through their walls, return either to some part of the same circle : of tendou, or end as one sort of columme carneie in the ventricles by union with the chorda? tendinea;. In the muscular coat of the alimentary canal, of the bladder and ^ • uterus, the unstriped fibres are disposed, as in the heart, so as to enclose a cavity, but without having, as in that organ, any point at which they can be said to commence or terminate. In the ali- lamentary tube they are arranged in two lamina*, the respective fibres ^ >of which take a course at right angles to each other. In the § bladder the arrangement is reticulate. The elementary fibres form i-sets of variable thickness, which at numerous points send off de- I tachments to join neighbouring bundles, whence has sprung the $ notion that the fibres are branched. It is manifestly, however, the insets of them only that are branched ; the unstriped, like the striped g'ifibres, being invariably simple from end to end. In the uterus the f disposition of the fibres is essent ially similar, calculated to allow of ■great variety in the capacity of the cavity they encircle. Of the Areolar Tissue of Muscles.— This tissue is much more ^ abundant in the voluntary than in the involuntary muscles. To the former it gives an external investment, which sends septa into the intervals between the larger and smaller packets of fibres, and thus enables them to move in some degree independently of one another. The density of these general and partial sheaths is pro- portioned to the amount of pressure to which the organ may be subject, as is exemplified in the superficial muscles of the back, tnd in those superficial muscles generally where a fibrous aponeu- rosis does not exist. The areolar tissue does not usually clothe ft every individual fibre from end to end, giving it a cellular sheath, I except in eases where the elementary fibres are of large dimensions. I 'The areolar tissue, besides affording protection to the muscular I fibres, admits of motions between them; and, by forming a eon- I fleeting bond between neighbouring bundles, it must also serve the I important office of limiting undue motions of one part of a muscle on I another part. J3ut a principal use of it appears to be that of fur- bishing a resisting nidus in which the delicate vessels and nerves Bran traverse the interstices of the fibres, arid by which they can be B protected from hurtful dragging during the unequal and oscillat- mg movements of the fibres of a voluntary muscle in its state of