12 E XC R ETI ON.—DEOOMPOSITION. IN'J'KOD. power of rearranging the constituents of these substances into forms identical with those of the elements of their various tissues—and of thus making them part and parcel of themselves. Together with a process of supply, there is one of waste con- tinually in operation. Animals and plants are ever throwing off effete particles from their organisms. These, under the name of ex- cretions, appear in various forms — either as inorganic compounds, or as secondary organic products. Thus, carbonic acid is given off in large quantities from animals; water, likewise, forms a con- siderable portion of their excreted matter, and serves to hold in solution salts, and secondary organic compounds, which result from the waste of the tissues. In this way, also, urea, lithic acid, and biliary matters are excreted. In plants, water is excreted from the leaves, a phenomenon which has been compared to the perspira- tion of animals; and various other excretions, which are sometimes made to serve an additional purpose in the (economy of the vege- table, besides that of getting rid of superfluous matter, are doubtless formed by the secondary combinations of the effete particles of their textures. These two processes, excretion, or the expulsion of effete particles, and assimilation of substances from without, are necessarily mu- tually dependent. As long as new matter is being appropriated, old particles must be thrown off, otherwise growth would be un- limited— and were excretion alone to go on, the destruction of the organism must speedily ensue, by the gradual waste of the tissues, to which no new supply was afforded. In both processes new combinations are taking place, as it were, in opposite directions; in the one from the simple to the complex to form organized parts, in the other, from the complex constituents of the textures to the simple organic, or inorganic compounds. As each texture of the organism has this tendency to change during life, so, the whole organism tends to decomposition, when death puts a stop to all further absorption of nutritive matters. Dead organized matter is speedily dissipated under certain con- ditions. These are the presence of air, moisture, and a certain temperature, or contact with an organic substance which is itself undergoing decomposition. The affinity which held together the elements of the organic substances is destroyed by the cause which occasioned their death, and they are set free to obey new affinities and form new compounds. When we consider the large number of equivalents which enter into the formation of each molecule of organic compounds,