chap, xi.] MATTEUCCl’S ELECTRO-PIIVSIOLOGICAL RESEARCHES. 381 parts are placed on an insulating plane. If the muscles of one leg are made to touch the other thigh, contractions ensue ; but not so if the leg of one side touch the leg of the other. Or the same effect may be produced by bringing the different parts of the limbs into connexion by moist paper or cotton ; or, if the galvano- meter be employed, signs of a current are afforded, by touching a thigh with one pole^and the opposite leg with the other. In these experiments, when the frog is lively, contractions are produced, in touching the muscles of the thigh with those of the leg, as well on opening as on closing the circuit. But when it has become weak, contractions take place in one limb on closing the circuit, and in the other on opening it. Mntteucei explains the failure in producing contractions by touching correspond- ing parts, on the supposition that, under such circumstances, the currents of the two limbs circulate with equal intensity, and in a contrary direction. This he proves by the following expetiment: If the frogs' legs, prepared as above described, are severed from each other, and the nerve of one leg and the foot of the other are placed in one capsule tilled with water, while another capsule receives the other nerve and foot; the moment the circuit is completed, strong contractions in both limbs are produced. But to the galvanometer no sign of an electric current is afforded when its poles are plunged into the capsules. “In this case,” says Matteucci, “ the currents of the two limbs circulate together, passing equally through the limbs ; and if even the parts of the current were to take the course of the galvanometer, it is easy to see that they would circulate in it in opposite directions, and therefore would produce no deviation. If, on the contrary, the disposition of the two limbs be such that the nerves are placed in one vessel, and the feet in the other, it is easy to see that the two portions of the current which do not circulate through the animal arc, enter the extremities of the galvanometer, and circulate in it iu the same direction. It is the sum of these two portions which constitutes the proper current of the frog, which sum is measured by the galvanometer. If several frogs’ legs he arranged with opposed nerves and feet in the two cap- sules, the effect upon the galvanometer is not increased. Comparative experiments as to the difference of the currents in piles formed of both the lower extremities of frogs, as already described, and in piles formed of an equal number of single extremities, shewed no greater effect upon the galvano- meter in the one case than the other. From these and numerous other experiments, varied with great ingenuity and skill, Matteucci draws these conclusions:—1, that the complete electromotor ele- ment in the current of the frog is formed by one of its limbs—that is, of one leg, the thigh, its spinal nerve, and a piece of its spine ;—2, that the current of one limb circulates by the other every time that, leaving the frog intact, a communica- tion is established, in any way, between the two legs of the same frog ; —3, that in the experiment bv which we detect the current of the frog by the galvanometer, there is never in the wire of the instrument any other current save that which re- sults from the sum of the two portions of the currents of the two limbs which arc not discharged from limb to limb. It is important to notice, that there is no necessary connexion between nerves and muscles in the production of the proper current of the frog. Matteucci shews by several ingenious experiments, that, although in Galvani’s and Nobili’s observa-