1 45 CHAP. VI.] LOWER EXTREMITY. junction of the nock with the shaft throws the thigh-lrone outwards to a certain distance, and leaves abundant room for the play of the adductor muscles : this could only be attained otherwise by greatly enlarging the pelvis in the transverse direction. And again, in the movements of the femur, much is gained ; for rotation can be per- formed with little muscular effort bv reason of the favourable leverage afforded by the neck of the bone and the trochanter major. The increased power thus given to the rotator muscles has considerable effect in walking, which is on that account performed more lightly, and without any circumduction of the limb. It is owing to this disposition of the neck of the thigh-bone, that, when its lower extremity advances in the vertical plane, its head and neck turn on a horizontal axis ; in other words, that the angular motion of its shaft is converted into a rotatory movement at the hip- joint. And from such an arrangement this great advantage results, that in the various motions or states of the joints, as extreme or partial flexion, extension, &c., the same, or very nearly the same, extent of the articulating surfaces is exposed to pressure : for, as Mr. Ward expresses it, the rotation of a hemispherical head within a socket of the same form involves no diminution of the extent of the contiguous articulating surfaces ; but the angular motion of a joint of this kind throws part of the ball out of the socket, and leaves part of the socket without bearings to rest uj>on, so that the weight, instead of being distributed equally over the whole surface of the head, is con- centrated upon that portion which remains within the cavity.* Moreover, the joint gains as regards the extent of flexion by this conversion of angular into rotatory motion, for an angular motion in the acetabulum would be readily checked by the edge of the cavity coming in contact with the neck of the bone ; “ whereas rotation meets no such cheek in the conformation of the joint itself, but may be continued indefinitely, until opposed by the tension of liga- ments, or some other adventitious obstacle.” Iu the structure of the extremities of the femur, we find evidence of much beautiful mechanical contrivance, in the disposition of the compact tissue, and of the rods or fibres of the cancellous texture, having an obvious reference to the direction of the weight to be sustained as well as to the dispersion of concussions. The neck of the thigh-bone, having to bear considerable superincumbent weight, is strengthened on its inferior surface by an arch of compact tissue, gradually increasing in thickness as it proceeds from above down- • Ward, loc. cit. L