CHAP. VI.] DIARTHRODIAL JOINTS. 135 articulation between the bodies of the vertebrae, that between the two ossa pubis at what is called the symphysis, and that between the ilium and sacrum. Like the sutures, the amphiarthroses are liable to become obliterated in old age, by the ossification of the interosseous lamina. This is not uncommon in the interpubic, and occurs now and then in the intervertebral and sacro-iliae joints. Diarthrosis.—Mobility is the distinguishing characteristic of this class of joints; the articular surfaces art; contiguous, each covered by a lamina of cartilage (diarthrodial cartilage), having a synovial sac interposed, and in some cases two, separated by a meniscus. The integrity of the articulation is maintained by ligaments which pass from one bone to the other. Their mechanism is much more complicated than that of svnarthrodial joints, being intended not only for security, but also to give a certain direction to the motions of which they art' the centre. Before proceeding to the enumeration of the varieties of joints that come under this head, it will not be amiss to describe briefly the various motions which may take place between any two seg- ments of a limb, and which it is the object of these joints to admit of. It is obvious that the most simple kind of motion which can exist between two plane or contiguous surfaces, is that of gliding: one surface glides over the other, limited by the ligaments which extend between the bones. This motion, however, is not confined to plane surfaces; it may exist evidently between contiguous sur- faces, whatever their form. When two segments of a limb, placed m a direct line, or nearly so, can be brought to form an angle with each other, the motion is that of flexion, the restoration to the direct line is extension. These two motions belong to what Bichat calls limited opposition ; the flexion and extension of the fore-arm on the arm illustrate it. Sometimes a motion of this kind takes place in four directions, indicated by two lines which cut at right angles. 1 his is best understood by a reference to the motions which take place at the hip-joint : there it will be seen that the thigh-bone may be brought forward so as to form an angle with the trunk, flexion— <»r it may be restored, extension ; it may be separated from the middle line of the body so as to form an angle with the lateral sur- lur<; ot the trunk, abduction—or it may be restored and made to approximate the middle line, adduction. It is evident that a joint, which is susceptible of these four motions, may also move in the in- termediate directions. M hen these motions are performed rapidly, one after the other, one continuous motion appears in which the di-tal extremity of the bone describes a circle indicating the base of