[chap. VIII. INNERVATION. 218 exceptions to this rule, however, are occasionally met with, in which the branch forms a right or an obtuse angle with the trunk. Before a branch separates, the parent nerve seems wider for some distance above the point of visible separation. This is owing to a divergence of the fibres within the trunk before they actually leave it, and not to any increase in the number of the nervous elements. A good example may be seen in the auricular nerve of the neck, as it winds upwards over the sterno-mastoid muscle. Anastomosis.—In their branchings nerves subdivide, not only to pass immediately to their distribution in muscles or other parts, but also to form a connexion, by some of their filaments, with other nerves, and to follow the course of the latter, whether to the periphery, or back again to the centre, instead of passing to the destination of the primary trunk. By these means nervous filaments connected with very different parts of the brain and spinal cord become bound together in the same neurilemma, and a nerve is formed com- pounded of nerve-tubes possessing different functions. The ana- stomosis of nerves thus formed differs from the more correctly named anastomosis of blood-vessels; for in the latter case the canals of the anastomosing vessels communicate, and their contents are mingled ; but in the former the nerve-tubes simply lie in juxtaposition, with- out any coalescence of their walls, or any admixture of the material contained within them. The simplest kind of anastomosis is that which occurs in almost every spinal nerve. The anterior and the posterior roots of these nerves, emerging from different parts of the spinal cord, and possessing, as is now proved, very dif- ferent endowments, are united after passing through the dura mater, and arc bound together as one nerve; the respective tubules being so completely intermixed that the ramifications, which pass off in the subsequent course of the nerve, for the most part contain tubules from both roots, and therefore possess the functions of both. And even in a nervous trunk, thus formed, there is an interchange of place between the component filaments, so that those which were at first on the surface of the nerve pass into its centre, and are replaced by others which had been deep-seated ; a decussation of the fibres occurring as they change deJSSirfth«'fibres places (fig. 59). Hence it is often difficult to fob nervl"—After Valentin* low a bundle for any distance in a nervous trunk.