447 chap, xv.] AFTER-TASTES.—SUBJECTIVE PHENOMENA. there intermixed with a number of fungiform papillae sufficient to account for the little that exists. Their structure and position, as already remarked, lead to the same conclusion. It may be added, that, in the lion, where these papilla? are capped with spines, so thick and rigid as totally to incapacitate them for taste, they are furnished at the base with an additional tuft of soft secondary papillae, that seem specially adapted for the latter function. It is possible that certain soft papillae, which we have frequently seen springing up about the base of the less develojn?d filiform ones in the human tongue, xnav contribute, in a similar manner, to the sense of taste. Are the varieties of taste referable to the varieties of the papilla ? —It has been imagined that the differences of form met w ith in the papillae might be in some special relation to the leading varieties of tastes, as the bitter, sweet, sour, &c.; but the careful experiments of Horn on this interesting point can scarcely be considered as tend- ing to establish such a correspondence. The difficulties, however, of experimenting are so great, that neither can they be said to disprove it: for a considerable extent of impression is necessary to ensure a }>er- ception sufficiently definite to be relied on ; and the different papilla1 are for the most part too much intermingled to admit of several of a similar kind being tested apart from others. The most that can be deduced from Horn's observations is, that more than three-fourths of the substances he applied to the circumvallate papilla?, including, we suppose, the simple papilla? we have described on the neighbouring surface, excited a bitter taste, or one in which a bitter was asso- ciated with some other, especially an alkaline or saline flavour ; and that on the region where the filiform papillae abound the majority of substances tasted acid, or acid with a mixture of bitter or sweet. In regard to the fungiform variety no decided results were obtained. These facts w ill perhaps help to explain the effect of the act of swal- lowiug in modifying and heightening flavours, since the food is much more completely brought into contact with the papilla? on the base of the tongue during that act. After-tastes.—Impressions of taste remain longer than those of the other senses, because the fluids exciting them must of neceasity con - tinue for some time in contact with the nerves after having saturated the intervening papillary investment. For the same reason it is diffi- cult to say how much of the taste that lingers after the substance has apparently left the mouth is due to the excitation of the nerves by particles still remaining in the papillae, and howr much to that state of the nerves, which, in all the senses, prolongs the perception, after the mere excitation has ceased. The taste left in the mouth by