256 INNERVATION. [chap. x. ^ and not extending beyond the space corresponding to two vertebra. These enlargements correspond to the situations at which the large nerves to the extremities emerge, in conformity with a law that the ■ physical developement of any portion of the cord is in the direct * ratio of the sensitive and motor power of the parts which it supplies | with nerves. The spinal cord is divided along the median plane by an anterior and posterior fissure into two equal and symmetrical portions, of which one may be called the right, the other the left spinal cord. . A transverse bilaminate partition, extending throughout the entire length of the cord, separates these fissures, and serves to unite its lateral portions. This partition is composed of a vesicular or gray and a white or fibrous lamina or commissure, the gray being situate posteriorly. When examined in a transverse section, the anterior fissure appears evidently wider but of less depth than the posterior; it is penetrated by a distinct fold of pia mater; its floor is formed by the white commissure, which has a cribriform appearance, from being perforated by numerous blood-vessels. The posterior fissure } is much more delicate than the anterior, and about the middle of the cord its existence may be doubted; its depth, in the upper ; part of its course, is equal to fully one half of the thickness of the 1 cord. A single, very delicate layer of pia mater enters it and pene- * trates to its floor, which is formed by the gray commissure. On further examination of a transverse section of the cord, we ' observe that the interior of each half of it is occupied by vesicular matter, disposed somewhat in a crescentic form. The concavity of this crescent is directed outwards: its anterior extremity, or horn, is thick, but its margin has a dentated or stellate appearance, which is very distinct in some situations. The gray matter is prolonged backwards in the form of a narrow horn, which reaches quite the surface of the cord, near which it experiences a slight enlarge- ^ ment. This enlargement appears to consist of a gray matter, paler and softer than that of the remainder of the crescent, which has been distinguished by Rolando as substantia cinerea gelatinosa, sur- rounded by a layer of reddish-brown substance (see fig. 66, d, where the central part of the posterior horn is pale). An exact symmetry exists between the gray crescents of opposite sides, so that the description of one is applicable to the other. The prolongation of the posterior horn of each gray crescent to the surface divides each half of the cord into two portions. All that is anterior to the posterior horn is called the antero- ] lateral column: and this comprehends the white matter forming