THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA. chap, x.] 205 join the pyramids at their emergence from the pons, to form the in- ferior layer of the crus cerebri. Traced downwards, the fibres of each anterior pyramid pass in rgreater part backwards as well as downwards, sinking into the aintero-lateral column of the cord of the opposite side (fig. 68, d), whilst a small portion of them, those, namely, which constitute the ■outer margin of each pyramid, pass to the column of the same side. Other fibres of these bodies do not pass down into the spinal cord at all, but taking a curved course around the inferior extremity of each olivary body they ascend towards the cerebellum, forming the nroiform fibres. Or, if the description be pursued in an opposite direction, each pyramid may l>e stated to be composed of some ibres from the antero-lateral spinal column of its own side, and of others which greatly exceed the latter in number, from the antero- lateral column of the opposite side, and it is connected with the •eetiform loody of the same side by the arciform fibres. The decussation takes place by from three to live bundles of ibres from each pyramidal body. In separating the margins of the interior fissure, these fibres are found to interrupt its continuity vith the anterior fissure of the medulla oblongata, and, therefore, nay 1 w? conveniently referred to as a boundary between the medulla •blongata and the spinal cord. This decussation has great interest in reference to the explanation >f the phenomena of diseased brain. It is well known that lesion »f one hemisphere of the brain when sufficiently extensive to cause •analysis, will induce that paralysis on the opposite side of the body. And, although a very few exceptions have been recorded, this is so oustant that it must be regarded as a law, that the influence of each lemisphere is rather upon the opposite half of the body than on hat of its own side. It is not, however, meant that the herai- phore has no influence on the same side of the body. On the con- ttary, it is most probable that it does exert some influence from the •artial connexion of each anterior pyramid with the antero-lateral olumn of the spinal cord on the same side. Now the decussation, hove described, obviously suggests an explanation of this phenome- ion, which is among the most interesting that anatomy can ofl'er. u confirmation of this statement it may be remarked, that lesion T ouc side of the cord. Mow the decussation, affects the same ide of the body, and that alone; whilst disease of a paralysing ufltjcnee, wherever it occurs above the decussation, affects the oppo- se half of the body. The exceptions to this rule are too ano- malous and few to invalidate the explanation so long adopted. T