358 INNERVATION. ciiap. xi. The intimate connexion of the olivary columns with the gray matter of the cord, and through that with all the roots of the spinal nerves, illustrates the power of emotional changes upon the organic processes. How often does the state of the feelings influence the quantity and quality of the secretions, no doubt through the power of the nerves over the capillary circulation ! Blushing is produced through an affection of the mind, acting primarily oil the centre of emotion, and through it on the nerves, which are distributed to the capillary vessels of the skin of the face. The sexual passion must be ranked among the mental emotions. Like them, it may be excited and ministered to by a certain line of thought, or by particular physical states of the sexual organs. It seems, therefore, more correct to refer this emotion to the common centre of all, than to a special organ—according to Gall’s theory; and it may be remarked, that great developement of this part of the brain is just as likely to produce great width of cranium in the occi- pital region as a large cerebellum. Of the functions of the Cerebellum.—All anatomists are agreed in admitting, in the whole vertebrate series, (the amphioxus excepted,) the existence of a portion of the encephalon which is analogous to the cerebellum. This extensive existence of such an organ indicates its great physiological importance, as a special element of the ence- phalon. The cerebellum exhibits much difference both as regards size and complexity of structure in the different classes; and al- though, upon the whole, it increases in its developement in the same ratio as the hemispheric lobes, it exhibits no constant relation of size to those parts. The large size and complicated structure of this organ in the higher vertebrate animals, and its distinctness from the other parts of the brain,—for its commissural connexions are not extensive,— have excited the interest and curiosity of speculative physiologists; and, accordingly, we find no part respecting which a greater variety of hypotheses have been suggested, most of them being entirely devoid of foundation. The experiments of Flourens have, how- ever, thrown more light on this subject than any previous observa- tions ; and his hypothesis appears to us nearer the truth than any which has been proposed. We shall content ourselves with ex- amining this theory, as well as that of Gall, which assigns the cerebellum as the organ of the sexual instinct. The facility with which the cerebellum may be removed or in- jured, especially in birds, without involving the other segments of the brain, renders it a much more favourable object for direct expe-