20 THEORIES OF LIFE. [introd. j ence of circumstances affecting the parents, as is proved both in the 1 animal and vegetable kingdoms in the production of hybrids. “Two j distinct species of the same genus of plants,” says Dr. Lindley, “ will often together produce an offspring intermediate in character be- J tween themselves, and capable of performing all its vital functions J as perfectly as either parent, with the exception of its being unequal \ to perpetuating itself permanently by seed ; should it not be abso- | lutely sterile, it will become so after a few generations. It may, 1 however, be rendered fertile by the application of the pollen of I either of its parents; in which case its offspring assumes the cha- j ractcr of the parent by which the pollen was supplied.” The same I thing precisely occurs among animals, and the mixed offspring, or ] mule, produced by the union of different species is incapable of 1 breeding with another mule ; but not so with an animal of the same I species as either of its parents. IIow entirely inadequate is the 1 theory of organic agents to explain these occurrences; it cannot, 1 surely, he maintained that a mixed organic agent is produced from j the conjunction of the organic agents of the dissimilar species to I direct the formation of this mixed organism ! The remarkable fact, that the various tribes of the human race, j dissimilar as they are, were derived from the first created pair, may 1 be adduced as a striking illustration of the influence of physical j agency in modifying organic developement. The most potent cause i of these changes has been climate; but particular customs and j usages, connected with the uncivilized state, have not been without ] their influence. Climate also produces considerable modifications in ! the size and other characters of the lower animals. Sturm affirms J that cattle transported from the temperate zones of Europe (Hoi- | land or England), to the East Indies, become considerably smaller j in their succeeding generations. The theory of organic agents affords no more satisfactory expla- j nation of disease, or of death. In both cases the organic agent j must be at fault; for as it is the sole guide and controller of the i organizing process, so it is not to be supposed that anything can go j astray, except under its guidance. And yet it seems impossible to j imagine that the ordinary causes of disease could affect such an j entity. On the other hand, any physical or mental cause, general jj or local, affecting the substance of which the body is composed, / may so alter and modify the affinities of its particles as to occasion a material disturbance in their actions; and it is not difficult to - conceive that this disturbance may be of such a kind as to put a stop to vital action immediately or remotely.