221 CHAP. V TERMINATION OF NERVES. nr- fin Termination of Nerves.—The connexion which the terminal fila- ments of nerves form with the proximate constituents of the striped ®uscle has been already described (p. 1 68). From that descrip- tion it will appear that the nervous fibres do not come into imme- diate communication with the sarcous substance, unless we have recourse to the supposition that some minute elements proceed from those fibres, and penetrate the sarcolemma. Such a supposition has no foundation in anatomy, so far as our present knowledge extends. It is a curious subject of investigation to determine what becomes of the nerve-tubes, which, after the formation of the loops which cross the muscular fibres, take a retrograde course towards the nervous centre. Do they, for instance, return to the spinal cord? and can it be their office to form a second connexion with the vesicular matter of the cerebro-spinal centre, the descending fibre coining from the brain, and the returning one | being implanted in the gray matter of the cord ? In the skin the arrangement is plexiform ; but this is reducible t to loopings, as will be explained in the chapter on Touch. The arrangement of the primitive fibres in loops has been also seen by i Henle on some parts of mucous mem- brane; in the membrann nictitans of lithe frog, for example, and in the |> mucous membrane of the throat in the same animal. A similar disposition has been described and delineated by Va- lentin in the pulps of the teeth (fig. (10), and we have seen it in the papilla? of I the tongue. The so-called nerves of pure sense, lithe olfactory, optic, and auditory !: nerves, may more properly be regard- bed as portions of the brain itself than fas mere nerves, for they possess most [ of the anatomical characters of nervous [(Centres. The intra-cranial portion of It tin? first is as distinctly compounded of | vesicular and fibrous matter as a eon- i I 1 • I ,1 -i I Tirtninal rwnr* on tin- *w of the ,<■- f volution ot the brain. In the peripheral rood m»ur t..mii m u>. i0„,r .,»* in u.e • . I . • .1 , • *lif*j*, the surajiKcmcut in l(K>i>a. ? expansion ot the optic nerve, the retina, - Ait.rvai.-mm.) it will be hereafter shewn that the vesicular elements of a nervous j centra are as uneijuivccally present as in the olfactory Imib. As fpma Jm X 'A fill I