158 LOCOMOTION. [CHAP. VII. contractile material gradually takes place within them, commencing on the inner surface, and advancing towards the centre, till the whole is solidified. The deposition occurs in granules, which, as they come into view, are seen to be disposed in the utmost order, according to the two directions already specified. These granules, or sarcous elements, being of the same size as in the perfect muscle, the transverse stripes resulting from their apposition are of the same width as in the adult; but, as they are very few in number, the fibres which they compose are of corresponding tenuity. From the very first moment of their formation, these granules are parts of a mass, and not independent of one another; for, as soon as solid matter is deposited in the cells, faint indications of a regular ar- rangement in granules are usually to be met with. It is common for the longitudinal lines to become well-defined before the trans- verse ones. When both are become strongly marked, as is always the case at birth, the nuclei of the cells, which were before visible, disappear from view, being shrouded by the dark shadows caused by the multitudinous refractions of the light transmitted through the mass of granules : but they can still be shewn to exist in the perfect fibre, in all animals, and at all periods of life, by immersion in a weak acid ; which, while it swells the fibrous material of the granules, and obliterates their intervening lines, has no action on the nuclei. These nuclei in insects are arranged, in the early con- dition of the fibre, as a single or double series along the axis (fig. 45) ; and, in the adult state, they retain the same position (fig. 42). In vertebrate animals they are scattered more irregularly, but at pretty equal distances throughout the mass in both foetal and adult conditions. In the fully formed fibre, if it be large, they lie at various depths within it; but, if small, they are at or near the sur- face. They are oval and flat, and of so little substance, that though many times larger than the sarcous elements, F| min( and lying amongst them, they do not interfere with their mutual apposition and union. These corpuscles are fre- 'iT.Uuia6 (luontly ^le cause of irregular longitudinal dark streaks, in an early geen jn the fibre by transmitted light. They usually con- vdopmcnt; tain some central granules or nucleoli. It is doubtful shewing ° .... . the central whether the identical corpuscles, originally present, remain puscies.— throuGh life, or whether successive crops advance and decay Magnified ° A . . . . 300diam. during the progress of growth and nutrition: but it is certain, that, as developement proceeds, fresh corpuscles are de-