321 chap, xi.] MECHANISM OF THE ACTIONS OF THE CORD. Experiment, while it fails to elucidate the function of the pos- terior columns, exhibits nothing in opposition to the views we have expressed. It is not to be expected that commissural and co-or- dinating fibres should react with stimuli similarly to fibres of vo- luntary motion. We think that the phenomena of disease may be referred to in support of our view. In many eases where the principal symptom has been a gradually increasing difficulty of walking, the posterior columns have been the seat of disease. We may notice two kinds of paralysis of motion, distinguished respectively by impairment or loss of voluntary motion, and of the |»ower of co-ordinating move- ments. In the latter form, while the voluntary powers are consi- derable, the patient walks with great difficulty, and a gait so tottering that his centre of gravity is easily displaced. These cases are generally of the most chronic kind, and many of them go on from day to day without any increase of the disease or improve- ment in their condition. In two examples of this variety we ven- tured to predict disease of the posterior columns of the cord : and this was found to exist on a post-mortem inspection. All cases on record, which we have had the opportunity of examining, in which the posterior columns were the seat of disease, began by evincing more or less disturbance of the locomotive powers; and it seems to us that the degree to which sensibility may become affected w ill greatly depend upon the extent to which the posterior roots of the nerves are involved in the disease. The hypothesis, then, which we are most disposed to adopt, is the following:—That the antero-lateral columns of the spinal cord with the gray matter are, in connexion with the brain, the recipients of sensitive impressions and volitional impulses, and that they are the centres of the independent or physical nervous actions of the cord ; and that the posterior columns propagate the influence of that part of the encephalon which combines with the nerves of volition to regulate the locomotive powers, and serve as commissures in harmonizing the actions of the several segments of the cord. What is the mechanism of these actions of the spinal cord— mental, physical, locomotive ? This is a problem of the highest interest, bearing upon the mechanism by which nervous power developed in any nervous centre, as well as in the cord, is capable affecting peripheral parts; and it is on that account well de- serving the most patient investigation. W e assume, aS necessary postulates, prclimiuarv to the discus-