216 INNERVATION. foHAP. vm. I the nerve-fibres is called the neurilemma. It is analogous to the sheath of the same membrane which surrounds the elementary fibre of striped muscle. From its deep surface thin layers of areolar tissue pass, forming so many partitions between the smaller bundles, or the individual fibres, of which the nervous trunk is composed. The office of this structure is evidently to give protection to the delicate nerve-tubes, and to support the plexus of minute capillary vessels from which they derive their nutriment. The neurilemma is composed of fibres of white fibrous tissue, and presents to the naked eye the silvery aspect of that texture. Some persistent cell-nuclei are scattered throughout it. That por- tion of it which forms the partition between the fibres contains a little yellow fibrous tissue of the finest description. The blood-vessels are distributed upon the external investing sheath, and upon the septa. They are disposed similarly to those of muscles, and run parallel to the fibres of the nerve. The capil- laries are among the smallest in the body: they form oblong meshes of considerable length, completed at long intervals by vessels which cross the fibres of the nerve more or less transversely. These blood-vessels are generally derived from neighbouring arterial branches ; sometimes a special vessel accompanies a nervous trunk, and even perforates it, passing along its axis, as in the great sciatic and the optic nerves. The composition of a cerebro-spinal nerve may be shewn by removing the neurilemma, and separating the fibres by needles. These fibres are chiefly of the tubular kind. In diameter they vary considerably, but do not exceed the yyyy of an inch in man and the ' mammalia. They lie within the sheath in simple juxtaposition, and parallel to each other; excepting where a branch is about to separate, when a bundle of nerve-tubes gradually deviates from its previous course, and forms a very acute angle with the trunk, still, however, preserving the parallelism of its constituent fibres. Nerves are said to arise or have their origin in the nervous centre to which they are on the one hand attached, and to terminate or be distributed among the elements of the various textures on the other hand. It is best to continue the use of so definite and simple a meaning to these terms. Attempts to alter their signification in accordance with opinions of the functions of the constituent fibres can at present do little but confuse descriptions. We call a nerve cerebral or encephalic, if it be connected at its origin with some part of the nervous mass within the cranium ; and spinal, if its apparent origin be from the spinal cord.