ENCEPHALIC NERVES. 303 CHAP. Xt.J in hii? arrangement; three pair* being allotted to his eighth pair of nerve*, and two to his seventh. Willis’ arrangement, therefore, comprises the following nine pairs of nerves, which he enumerates in passing from the anterior to the posterior part of the base ; the first pair, or olfactory nerves ; the second pair, or optic; the third pair, motores ocular um; the fourth pair, pathetici; the fifth pair; the sixth pair, abducentes oculum ; the seventh pair, including the portio mollis or auditory nerve, and the portio dura or facial nerve ; the eighth pair, including the glouo-pkaryngeal, the pneu mo-gastric, and the spinal accessory; the ninth pair, or hypoglossal. Willis in- cluded among his encephalic nerves the first cervical nerve or sub-occipital, which he therefore numbered as the tenth pair. As the cranium may be shewn to be composed of the elements of three vertebra:, it has been attempted to prove that among these Serves some may be classed with the vertebral or spinal nerves. The fifth is obviously of this kind, from its anatomical characters, namely, two roots; one small, ganglionless, the other large, gan- glionic ; and with the former, the analogue of the anterior spinal root, the third, fourth, and sixth nerves may be conjoined from their similarity in structure and distribution. Thus one cranio- vertebral nerve is formed, the anterior or motor root of which con- sists of the smaller portion of the fifth, the third, fourth, and sixth nerves, and the posterior or sensitive root of the larger portion of the fifth. A second cranio-vertebral nerve consists of the eighth pair, to which might be added the facial, contributing to its motor portion. A third is formed by the hypoglossal,* but the analogy, in the latter casts is certainly far from obvious. I loir to determine the function of a nerve ?—It has been stilted in a former chapter that nerves evince special properties, depending on the connexions which they form at the periphery, or at the centre ; that they may be divided into motor, sensitive, and, accord- ing to one view, excito-motor, according to the manner in which they respond to particular stimuli; and that fibres possessing each of these endowments may be bound together in a common sheath as one nerve. To determine with precision the office which each nerve performs is a problem of great importance, not only from its bearing upon the physiology of the nervous centres, but from its great practi- cal value in the diagnosis and treatment of disease.—(Introd. p. 28.) The following are the means on which we should rely, in order to determine the function of a nerve. ‘ Miilkr's Physiology by Buly, vol. i. j». Ml.