150 CHAPTER VII. ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. OF MUSCLE. MUSCLE WITH STRIPED FIHRES. MUSCLE WITH UNSTRIPED FIBRES. MUSCULAR ACTION. AT- TITUDES AND MOVEMENTS OF THE FRAME. The principal movements of the body, and all those by which locomotion is effected, are performed by means of a tissue termed muscle, endowed with the power of contracting, and consisting chemically of fibrine. This substance is arranged in the form of unbranched fibres of definite size and structure, and which, when examined under a high magnifying power, are found to be of two kinds, distinguishable from one another by the presence or absence of very close and minute transverse bars or stripes. The fibres of the voluntary muscles, (or those whose movements can be either excited or controuled by volition,) as well as the fibres of the heart, and some of those of the oesophagus, are striped; while all other muscles, including those of the alimentary canal, the uterusjj and bladder, all of which are involuntary, are unstriped. The elementary fibres of the voluntary muscles are connected to one another by areolar tissue, and arranged in sets parallel to one another. They are supplied with vessels and nerves, which lie in the intervals between them; and are attached, by their extre- mities, through the medium of tendon, aponeurosis, or some form of the fibrous tissue, to the parts which they are destined to move. They form organs, for the most part solid and elongated, but which are sometimes expanded into a membranous shape. The sets of fibres of the involuntary muscles, on the other hand, usually cross each other at various angles, and interlace, and they are always arranged as membranous organs enclosing a cavity, which their contraction serves to constrict. The heart, besides being independent of the will, agrees in both these anatomical characters with the involuntary muscles, and is only allied to the voluntary by the presence in its fibres of the transverse stripes. We shall commence with a description of the two forms of fibre. Of the striped fibres.—The length of these is usually about that of the muscle to which they belong, but occasionally they interrupted by tendinous intersections, as in the rectus abdominis