[chap. r. ALBUMEN. 36 Albumen may be readily made to pass from the fluid to the solid ] state, or to coagulate, by the influence of certain reagents; but it i has no spontaneous tendency to assume the solid form, except by j the loss of the water which is combined with it. By evaporating white of eggs, at a temperature not exceeding 120°, its water is driven off, and solid albumen, in the form of a yellowish transparent brittle mass, is obtained with all its properties unimpaired. If a solution of albumen, as serum of the blood, be exposed to a heat between 140° and 150°, it coagulates, and then it becomes in- soluble in water. The mineral acids have the property of coagulating albumen. Of these, that which is most used in medical practice is the nitric, a drop or two of which will readily detect a small quantity of albu- men dissolved in a clear fluid, by rendering it more or less opaque. Alcohol also has this property; and hence any albuminous textures submitted to its influence become hardened and condensed. Bi- chloride of mercury exercises a similar influence, and is a delicate test for albumen. It was Orfila who first employed this proximate principle as an antidote to the poisonous effects of the bichloride, which combines with the albumen and is by it partially converted into calomel. According to Peschier, the white of one egg is suf- ficient to render four grains of the poison innocuous. Another delicate test for albumen is the ferro-cyanide of potas- sium, which will precipitate it from solution, provided a little acetic acid have been previously added, in order to neutralise the soda in combination with it. Albumen is also precipitated from solution by tannin. Albumen coagulates at the negative pole of the galvanic battery, or at both poles, when a strong battery is employed. Many other reagents will coagulate this principle, but enough have been mentioned for all practical purposes. It often happens that albumen is carried off from the system in i large quantities by the urine. By any of the means above-mentioned, its presence in that fluid may be detected. YV hen heat is used, it will always be advisable to ascertain previously whether the urine be acid or alkaline; for the presence of alkali prevents the coagula- tion of albumen by heat. Hence it is a good rule, in testing for» this substance, to employ both heat and nitric acid. Albumen is soluble in caustic alkalies. The existence of sulphur as a constituent of albumen, is shewn ^ by the blackening of silver that has remained long in contact a with it.