79 AREOLAR TI8SUE. chap, ni.] and anastomose with one another with much greater frequency. The texture of the cutis affords the most characteristic example of , this condition. Physical properties.—These have only been studied hitherto in those situations where the tissue exists in great abundance, as in the subcutaneous fascia, the sheaths of muscles, &c. It has here a : whitish hue, especially when steeped in water. It is extensible in . all directions, and is very elastic, returning to its original disposition t after stretching. It possesses no contractility beyond that attri- butable to the vessels which are everywhere found in connexion with it, and in such situations in great profusion. Its sensibility is usually stated to be low; but it may be doubted whether the ♦nerves can in any case be said to be distributed to this tissue, which has been already shewn to be an appendage and protector do these and other organs. Its asserted powers of absorption and •secretion appertain to the capillary blood-vessels, rather than to the 'threads of the areolar tissue. This tissue, like all other soft solids, contains a large quant it v of water. This keeps the filaments moist, without being so abundant ♦.ns to be free in their interstices. A morbid increase of this fluid in (the subcutaneous areolar tissue occasions the condition called ann- ssarca, and which may be known by the skin pitting under the pres- sure of the finger. When dried, out of the body, areolar tissue becomes hard and Itransparent, but resumes its former state if moistened. It under- :?oc8 the putrefactive process slowly. It. is one of that class of tis- •*ues w hich yields gelatine by boiling, the gelatine being derived from .he white fibrous element only. * The great value of areolar tissue, in facilitating the motion of parts between which it is situate, is shewn by the effects of inflam- nation, or other diseases which injure its physical properties. It is well known, that, when the subcutaneous tissue is the seat of phleg- nonous inflammation, the movements of the part affected are stiff md painful, or altogether impeded, because the subjacent muscles 'annot move freely, by reason of the loss of elasticity in the areolar -issue. When this tissue becomes indurated by an effusion of “oegulable material, the movements of the diseased limb are similarly impaired.