276 INNERVATION. [chap. x. of such a section three planes of nervous matter may be distinctly observed. The inferior one is composed of fibrous matter, con- tinuous below with that of the mesocephale and the anterior pyra- mids, and which passes upwards to the corpus striatum. Imme- ] diately above it is a remarkable mass of a peculiarly dark, almost black, matter, which constitutes the well-known locus niger of the crus cerebri. It contains large caudate vesicles, abounding in pig- ment, with nerve fibres passing among them, or originating from them. This black layer does not extend beyond the crus. It forms a partition between the inferior or fibrous layer, and a supe- rior one, which composes the principal portion of the crus. This consists of a grayish matter, continuous with the central portion of the medulla oblongata, or the olivary columns, and passes into the optic thalami. The optic thalamus and corpus striatum are large ganglia formed upon the anterior and upper extremity of each crus, and with which the nervous matter of its upper and lower planes appears to be in- timately connected. The optic thalamus is manifestly continuous with the superior plane, or olivary columns: its colour and texture are quite of the same nature with those of that plane; and when a longitudinal section of it is carried down through the mesocephale and medulla oblongata, no distinction is apparent between the ganglion and the olivary column, so complete is the continuity of texture. The colour of these bodies has been not inaccurately compared to that of coffee largely diluted with milk (cafe au lait). This arises from the intermixture of vesicular matter with a very close interlacement of fibres. The corpus striatum has a much darker colour than the optic thalamus. When a section of it is made in an oblique direction, upwards and outwards, it exhibits the striated appearance whence its name is derived. This arises from the passage of the fibres of the inferior layer of the crus into the vesicular matter of the ganglion. The fibres do not at first blend with the vesicular matter, as in the thalamus, but are collected into bundles, which are large at their entrance from the crus, but subdivide into much smaller ones, diverging from each other, and radiating through the ganglion in various directions, upwards, forwards, outwards, and backwards. When thin sections of the corpus striatum are examined by transmitted light, the smallest bundles of fibres observable in them appear to consist of tubules reduced to their minutest dimensions, and closely united to each other. So compactly applied are they,