37 chap. i.J FIBRINE. According to Mulder, this principle yields the following elements in one hundred parts : Nitrogen . 15-83 Carbon . 54-84 Hydrogen . 7-oti Oxygen 21-23 Phosphorus . . 0-33 Sulphur . 0-68 100-00 2. Fibrin0. — This proximate principle forms the basis of the muscles; anti is, therefore, the chief constituent of the flesh of animals, in which it is found in the solid form. It exists in a state of solution, in the serum of the blood, forming, with that fluid, the liquor sanguinis of Dr. IJabington, in the lymph, and in the chyle. It is a constituent of the exudation (coagulable lymph) which forms on certain surfaces, as the result of the inflammatory process, and it sometimes occurs in dropsical fluids. Fibrine is distinguished from the other proximate principles, by its remarkable property of spontaneous coagulation. When blood is drawn from a vein, and allowed to rest, it speedily separates into a solid portion, the crassamentum or clot, and a fluid portion, the »>rum. The former consists of fibrine, with the red particles en- tangled in it during its coagulation. It sometimes happens, that, owing to an unusual aggregation of the red particles together, and to their more speedy precipitation, a portion of fibrine on the sur- face coagulates without enclosing the colouring matter. A yellowish white layer forms the up|>er stratum of the crassamentum, and this is called the huffy coat or injtannnritoiy crust. It is an example of nearly colourless fibrine, but contains also peculiar globules. 'We may obtain fibrine in a state of considerable purity, by cut- ting the crassamentum into sliced, and washing them in clean water "o as to dissolve out the colouring matter; or by briskly stirring, with a bundle of twigs, blood as it flows from a vein: the fibrine coagulates upon the twigs in small portions, which, being washed, afford good specimens of colourless fibrine ; by digesting afterwards ui alcohol and ether, the adhering impurities arc got rid of. Another mode of obtaining this substance is that suggested by Muller, namely, to filter frogs’ blood, the red particles of which being too large to permeate the pores of the filter, the liquor san- guinis passe* through in a colourless state, and its fibrine coagulates free from colouring matter. Sometimes we obtain masse** of fibrine,