chap, x.] PITUITARY BODY—VENTRICLES OF TIIE BRAIN. 289 mingle or interlace with them in some intricate way, so that they may come into intimate or frequent contact \ Or, do they, like other fibres, blend with the gray matter, and thus connect the really dynamic portion of the segments ? This latter view seems to be the most probable. The pituitary body or kyjwphysis is a glandiform mass lodged in the sella Turcica, and surrounded by the coronary sinus. It is con- nected with the brain by the infundibular process, the small extre- mity of which is attached to its superior concave surface. This body consists of two lobes, of which the anterior is much the larger; and which also differ in point of colour, the anterior being of a yellowish gray, the posterior more similar to the gray matter of the brain. The former is considerably denser and firmer than the latter, which does not differ in consistence from the cere- bral gray matter. The infundibulum is chiefly connected with the posterior lobe. In point of structure this body resembles somewhat the vesicular matter of the brain. We find in it large vesicles with distinct nuclei and nucleoli lodged in a granular matrix, and between them numerous bundles of white fibrous tissue. These are most nume- rous in the anterior lobe. Its use is quite unknown. Of the Ventricles of the Jtrain. — By the apposition of the two hemispheres of the brain along the mediau plane, a fissure-like space is enclosed beneath the corpus callosum and fornix, limited in front by the anterior pillars of the latter, and behind by the posterior commissure ; this is the middle or third ventricle. This fissure is closed inferiorly by the pons Tarini, mamillary tubercles, and tuber cinereum ; its roof is formed by the velum interpo- situm, a process of pia mater, which separates it from the body of the fornix. It communicates posteriorly with the fourth ventricle through the aqueduct of Sylvius (iter a tertio ad quartum ventricu- lum), and immediately behind the anterior pillars of the fornix it freely opens into each lateral ventricle. At the same situation the velum interpositum and the choroid plexuses communicate with each other. The optic tlialami form the lateral boundaries of the third ventricle, and its cavity is crossed by the soft commissure. The lateral ventricles result from the folding of the convoluted surface inwards and downwards. By their extension inwards, and their junction along the median line by the corpus callosum, the horizontal portion of each ventricle is enclosed; and by the folding inwards of the inferior convolutions, posterior to the fissure of 8ylvius, the inferior horn is formed. The horizontal portion ex-