226 INNERVATION. [chap. viu. doubtless also in function; but its hemispheres are larger masses, of which the interior substance is composed exclusively of fibrous matter, surrounded by a layer of vesicular, which forms a rind or cortex to it. The fibres of the former, however, are prolonged into this cortical layer, and the intermixture of the two forms of nervous substance is thereby effected (fig. 57). The spinal cord is composed of certain columns of fibrous sut stance, in which a large number of the fibres take a longitudinal direction. These, in a great degree, enclose a distinct arrange- ment of vesicular matter, into which, however, as in the cortical layer of the cerebral hemispheres, some, at least, of the fibres of the external white matter are continued, intermingling with its ele- ments. It may, therefore, be stated generally that in the brain the vesicular matter is external and cortical, and in the spinal cord it is internal and almost completely surrounded by the white fibrous matter. This difference of arrangement is probably to be ascribed to the fact, that throughout the whole course of the spinal cord nerves are being given off, whilst from the encephalon they come only from certain regions. In these regions the white matter is superficial; but in the hemispheres, from which no nerves proceed, it is deep-seated. We shall describe more minutely the disposi- tion of the two kinds of nervous matter in the cerebro-spina centre at a future page. Of the Nerves and Nervous Centres in Invertebrate Animals. Fig. 6i. The description above given applies to the human subject, and to the vertebrate classes generally. In all essential points, so far as the present state of our know- ledge enables us to judge, the structural ar- rangement of the nerves and nervous cen- tres of the invertebrate classes accords with tins. Some differences, however, exist which require to be noticed here. In the lobster, ; the nerve-tubes are large ; the tubular mem- brane has the same transparent, homogeneous appearance, which we have noticed in the vertebrata. But it incloses many delicate nuclei at various intervals. Within the tu- bular membrane there is a very thin layer of the white substance of Schwann. H|e nerve-tubes are very transparent, and are Nervous fibres of insectsa. Transparent much larger than the average size in verte- sheath. A. Nerve-fibres, with oval nuclei, c. . .... .tore Shews the bifurcation of the sheath. brata. Respecting the existence or strueem