THEORIES OF LIFE. ilNTHOD.] 21 So much for the dependence of Life and Organization on a con- (ttrolling and directing Entity. The sagacity of John Hunter led ;hini to reject this doctrine entirely; hut, as he completely passed *over the influence of the natural agencies of inorganic nature upon •organized beings, he was forced to assume the presence of a peculiar material substance, pervading and giving vital properties to solids and Ifluids: yet such a constituent of the body ought to be demonstrable i bv chemical or other means. It is clear that this materia viler can- I v mot be, as Mr. Abernethy suggested, electricity, or anything akin to it. Electricity requires for its developement the reciprocal action of 'iidirterent kinds of matter, and it is abundantly evolved in various [animal processes, as a necessary result of chemical laws. If, there- • ■fore, organization and vital actions depended upon electricity, this r agent would, at once, be formed by, and direct the formation of, each • organism. Mere composition of matter does not give life, says Hunter; if he . had added, that organized bodies acted on by, and co-operating I with, certain vital stimuli developed vital actions, there would have ■been no need for the assumption of a materia niter. The resistance which living animals introduced into the stomach are capable of ^affording to its solvent powers, .and the digestion of the walls of the •stomach by its own fluid after sudden and violent death, seemed to denote that the dead animal, or dead stomach, had lost a something which previously protected them against the influence of the gastric fluid. Hut this is no more than a case familiar to chemists, viz. the •j influence of a stronger affinity controlling a weaker. When iodide ot potassium is mixed with a solution of starch, no change ensues; | but, it a minute quantity of chlorine be added, a blue iodide of starch is instantly formed : the superior affinity of the iodine for the potas- sium hindered the union of the former with the starch; but, as soon • as the iodine was set free by the stronger attraction between the potassium and the chlorine, it speedily united with the starch. So, in the living animal, the affinity of its comjKment particles for each other is greater than their affinity for the gastric fluid ; but in the dead animal the former affinity is destroyed, the latter comes into play. W bother is it more philosophical to assume the removal of a particular agent, for which removal no cause can be assigned; or, to state the simple fact of the physical difference between dead and living organic matter ? II. It is very difficult to define a precise boundary between the vegetable and animal kingdoms. The lowest animals exhibit so much ot the plant-nature, that naturalists are as yet undecided as