[chap. VII. 168 LOCOMOTION. quiry to those extremely simple and minute muscles which have been already alluded to as existing in the smallest of living crea- tures, though we can no longer trace nerves, yet our inability to do so more probably depends on a corresponding simplicity of the ner- vous substance itself, so that it ceases to be anatomically recogniz- able, than on its entire absence. So general is the connexion of the two tissues, and so apparently indispensable for the subjection of the muscles to the purposes of the organism of which they con- stitute a part, that we may regard it as constant and necessary. The distribution of the nerves through muscular structures has always been a subject of great interest with those who looked to this line of inquiry for some clue to the explanation, either of that won- derful active connexion subsisting between them, or of the nature of the contractile act itself. But though the anatomical results accruing from this inquiry are of a highly satisfactory kind, considered in themselves alone, yet they cannot be said to have hitherto con- tributed in any great degree to the elucidation of these mysterious questions. The best mode of inspecting the arrangement of the ultimate nervous twigs is, to select a very thin muscle, as one of the abdominal muscles of any small animal, or one of the muscles of the eye of a small bird, to steep it in weak acetic acid, and then to thin it out under the compressorium. The primi- tive tubules of the nerve may then be readily distinguished with a moderately high power. They separate from one another at first in sets, afterwards in twos, threes, or fours; and, if these be followed, they will be found ulti- mately separating from one another, forming arches, and returning either to the same bundle from which they set out, or to some neighbouring one (fig. 48). In this loop-like course they accom- pany to some extent the minute blood- vessels, but do not accurately follow them in their last windings, since their distribution is in a different figure. They pass among the fibres of the muscle, and touch the sarcolemma as they pass; but, as far as present researches have informed us, they are entirely precluded by this structure from all contact with the contractile Fig 48. Loop-like termination of the nerves in voluntary muscle.—After Burdach.