](!7 chap, vii.] CAPILLARIES AND NERVES OF MUSCLE. The diameter of the capillaries of muscle varies, like that of . others, with the size of the blood-particles of the animal. It is, however, only just sufficient to allow of the particles to pass. If a fragment of a frog's muscle, perfectly fresh, be examined, series of blood-particles will be seen in the longitudinal capillaries. These particles arc compressed and elongated, sometimes to a great extent, evidently by the narrowness of the canal which contains them. It may seem at first sight not doubt- ful that in the living creature these elastic blood-discs are similarly elongated in their passage through the vessels of muscle, but the admirable researches of Poiseuille will perhaps serve to explain this appearance without our being driven to suppose the pre- < flence of so formidable an obstacle to the t capillary circulation through these organs. It is more probable that the contraction of I the vessels, and the compression of the blood-discs, occur on the escape of some of • their contents being permitted by the cutting off of the fragment for microscopic examina- I lion. The coats of the capillaries of muscle < consist of a simple diaphanous membrane, in which a few irregular-shaped cyto-blasts , , . of rmuKuilitr fibre* from the oerk occur at infrequent intervals. of thr i>«g -.—a. Terminal on* of It results from this description of the ^7jr>.in^^f^uune^ , . . . . r. Elementary fibre, to *n»*w the capillaries ot muscle, that their number must itdatf*rM*eimddi^ioiic»f ti*»e . . , 1*1 l i to which the capillaries, here rc- eorrespond nearly to that ot the elementary presented, arc distributed, fibres; consequently, that the same amount of muscular tissue, arranged as a large number of small fibres, would be supplied with a larger absolute number of capillaries than if arranged as a small number of large fibres. This difference of vascular supply is ex- ceedingly remarkable, and will be reverted to in considering the 1 contractility of muscle. Of tha Nerves of Muscle.—Nerves being the appropriate channel through which muscles are excited to contraction, we have now to inquire into the manner in which the two tissues communicate together. As far as is at present known, all muscles in the larger animals have nerves distributed to them; and, if we extend the in-