CHAP. XI. 308 INNERVATION. The higher the seat of injury, the more extensive will he the para- lysis. A man who has received extensive injury of the spinal cord in the neck, is like a living head and a dead trunk,—dead to its own sensations, and to all voluntary control over its movements. Similar remarks may be made respecting those cases in which disease, or compression of the cord by some intra-spinal growth, has interrupted its continuity in some region. The extent of the para- lysed parts always affords a correct indication of the seat of the solution of continuity. If the spinal cord be divided partially in the transverse direction there will be paralysis of parts on the same side with the injury in- flicted. A longitudinal section of the cord along the median line does not cause any paralysis; a temporary disturbance of its func- tions, however, ensues, which soon subsides. So long, then, as the spinal cord and encephalon are continuous, and in their normal state, the former organ must be regarded as specially adapted to receive and propagate sensitive impressions from the trunk and extremities, or to convey the stimulus of volition to their muscular nerves. There is nothing, however, in these facts to denote that the spinal cord does not share, in some degree, in the function of sensation and voluntary motion. All that we are justified in infer- ring from them is, that the union of the encephalon with the spinal cord is necessary for voluntary motion and for sensation. Indeed, the recent discovery of the amphioxus lanceolatus, a small fish found in the Archipelago, makes it probable that voluntary mo- tion and sensation may exist where there is a well-developed spinal cord, the anterior extremity of which tapers to a fine point, and is far from exhibiting the ordinary characteristics even of a brain so inferior in organization as that of fishes.* In most instances where the spinal cord has been divided, whe- ther by design or accident, it has been found that, although the will cannot move the paralysed parts, movements do occur in them of which the individual is unconscious, and which he is wholly un- able to prevent. These take place sometimes as if spontaneously, at other times as the effect of the application of a stimulus to some surface supplied by spinal nerves. The apparently spontaneous movements frequently resemble voluntary actions so closely, that it is almost impossible to distinguish them. These phenomena occur in all classes of animals, warm-blooded * Goodsir, in Ed. Philos. Transactions, and Cyclop, of Anat. vol. iii. p. 615.