210 [chap. VIII. INNERVATION. Nerve-tubes of the common eel:— a. I n water. The delicate line on its exterior indicates the tubular mem- brane. The dark, double-edged in- ner one is the white substance of Schwann, slightly wrinkled, b. The same in either. Several oil-globules have coalesced in the interior, and others have accumulated around the exterior of the tube. The white sub- stance has in part disappeared.—SIag- nified 300 diameters. Fis-S3- form of oil-globules. The interior of the tube is also rendered decidedly granular. In water the white substance of Schwann remains undissolved, while the interior of the fibre is frequently, though not always, rendered granular. The tubular membrane presents the same general characters wherever it is met with. But the white substance of Schwann iOi -IHSIIf exhibits much variety as regards its thick- ness in different parts of the nervous sys- tem. In the nerves it is more developed than in the centres; but even in the for- mer it differs a good deal as to thick- ness. We find it most developed in the ordinary spinal nerves; in those of pure sense it exists in small quantity. Both these elements of the tubular fibre evi- dently afford mechanical protection to the substance which forms its axis; but doubt- less one or both of them may have a further physiological office, in insulating the axis, and keeping it distinct from any interference with constituents of neighbouring fibres. The chemical composition of the white substance, being obviously different from that of the axis, sufficiently denotes a difference of function in these two portions of the nerve-tube. The axis cylinder of the nerve-tube, though in general soft and pulpy, is in some instances of firm texture, and when broken projects beyond the white substance (fig. 56, c). It then occasionally exhibits a well marked fibrous character, and may even split into filaments. When the tubes are quite fresh, and have been but little dis- turbed by manipulation, their form is that of a perfect cylinder. Pressure, or separation, is apt to alter their shape by disturbing the position of the contained pulp, pushing more than is natural into some parts of the tube, and consequently diminishing the bulk of the contents in the adjacent parts; so that the latter collapse, whilst the former become distended, enlarged, and even varicose (fig. 52, n). Nerve-tubes, that have been thus affected, sometimes present merely a slight waviness of one or both margins, but more frequently a series of distinct swellings or varicosities separated by constricted portions. These swellings are found at very irregular distances from each other, and vary extremely in shape and size. They are much more