CHAP. XI. INNERVATION. 372 disposes to the latter is favourable to the former. Remarkable statements have been made, and confirmed by the testimony of a large number of observers, tending to imply that in these cases the faculties become exalted in an extraordinary manner; and that the individual acquires powers of a novel description, and even of a superhuman kind. It behoves all sober-minded persons to be slow to accept such statements as true, and, without impugning the vera- city of the reporters, to inquire whether they do not rest more upon a misinterpretation than upon a misrepresentation of facts. The polar force of the mental nervous centres may, in this peculiar state, be so affected as to favour the developement of subjective pheno- mena, which it is evident may assume particular forms under the influence of impressions made from time to time upon the senses. The ravings of a delirious or of a lunatic patient often take a parti- cular direction under the influence of a question or remark let fall by some bystander; it is not unlikely that persons, with a mental bias for the marvellous, might discover in such patients quite as much evidence of superhuman power, as has been adduced by the Mesmerists. We cannot avoid remarking how much it is to be lamented that inquiries of so delicate a nature, affecting the very confines between mind and matter, should have usually fallen into the hands of per- sons ill qualified for such pursuits, either by mental constitution or by previous experience in the study of subjects involving both phy- sical and metaphysical knowledge. Little is to be expected in such difficult researches from dilettanti of either sex; much less from those whose excessive zeal for novelty and notoriety must necessarily cast suspicion on their statements. Nor can we hope that truth can be elicited from experiments and observations which are made be- fore the public gaze, with more of the characters of a theatrical ex- hibition than of a sober philosophical investigation. Functions of tlie Commissures.—The commissures of the brain have long been regarded as provisions to ensure the harmonious co-operation of certain parts of the nervous centres, whether on the same or on opposite sides. This opinion rests mainly upon their anatomical connexions; for but little that is satisfactory can be concluded from either the comparative anatomy or pathological conditions of them. It is evident that the principal commissures bear a direct ratio in point of developement to that of certain parts ; and that, when those parts are imperfect or absent, the commissures are deficient or wholly wanting. Thus the corpus callosum and the hemispheres are developed together; the fornix