213 CAUDATE NERVE-VESICLES. CHAP. VIII.] A 9 cs» u •■S' "Wr... 'JL W together in situ. Hence yi*-45 some are spherical, others ovoidal, or ellipsoidal. To some vesicles we find, external to the nucleus, particles ot'a coarser kind, which are accumulated in a mass, frequently of a se- milunar form. These are pigment granules; their presence gives a dark co- lour to a portion of the vesicle. Sometimes we find two groups of pig- ment granules in one ve- sicle. They are usually of a reddish or yellowish brown colour. Another form of nerve- vesicle is characterized by one or more tail-like pro- cesses extended from it, and to such nerve-ve- sicles we may apply the term caudate. They possess the nucleus and nucleolus, as in the more simple form ; and contain one or more masses of pigment, which are often of very considerable size. Both the vesicles and their caudate processes vary greatly in size and shape. The largest nerve-vesicles are found among those of this kind. Some- times there is but a single process from a vesicle; or there may be two, proceeding from opposite sides ; or there may be several, extending in various directions. There is great difference in the shape of these caudate vesicles, as may be observed in figs. and SO’, where different varieties of them have been repre- sented. In point of structure, the caudate processes are exceeding- ly delicate, and finely granular, like the interior of the vesicle, with which they distinctly seem to be continuous. Such is the delicacy of these processes, that they readily break oft'; in general, very close to the vesicle. Sometimes, however, one or more of them may be traced to a considerable distance, and will be found to divide into two or into three branches, which undergo a further subdivision, and give off some extremely fine transparent fibres (fig. 56, />), the con- * Ganglion ftlobulra. with their procc**ea. nuclei, and nucleoli: —a. a. From the deeper part of the *ny matter of the convolu- tion-, of the eerrlielluin. The lanrer proeeaae* are directed to- ward* the »urface of the or|p>n 4. Another from the cerebellum. e. d. Other* from thcpo*t. horn of jtrajr matter of the dor**) region of the cord Tne*|. contain pigment, which «urrouud» the nucleus in c. In all thev specimen* the proce**ea are more or leas broken.—Magnified 200 diameter*.