ELASTICITY.—EXTENSIBILITY. 52 [ohap. r. The physical properties of the tissues are those which are de-J pendent simply on the peculiar arrangement or mode of cohesion of their constituent particles, as well as upon their chemical con- stitution, and will manifest themselves in the dead, as distinctly as in the living, texture. The elasticity of yellow ligament, for in- stance, is as evident in a specimen which has been preserved in spirits for years, as in one taken fresh from the body. The vital properties are those which exist only during life, and which cease® immediately molecular life has ceased. A muscle will contract only so long as it is alive: when dead, it refuses to respond to those! stimuli, which so easily excited it while living. The most striking physical property which certain tissues mania fest, is that of elasticity, in virtue of which the tissue reacts, after a stretching or a compressing force lias been withdrawn. The yellow ligament, which constitutes the ligamenta subflava of the vertebral laminae, is as elastic as India-rubber; the middle coat of arteries manifests quite as much elasticity. Cartilage is flexible and elastic; and is extensively employed, in consequence of this property, to encrust the articular extremities of the bones, for their protection in the movements of the joints. The existence of elasticity implies that of extensibility. All elastic tissues must admit of being stretched before they can mani- fest their elastic reaction. But some textures are extensible with- out being elastic. Such tissues yield only to a long-continued extending force; and, in the healthy state, they are capable of re- sisting such a force of tension for a considerable period. The resistance which a fibrous membrane oilers to the enlargement of an organ or tumour, which it covers, illustrates this statement: the pain felt in hernia humoralis or inflammatory enlargement of the testicle, is doubtless due to the resistance of its fibrous coat to the swelling of the soft substance of the gland. The various animal tissues exhibit a property of porosity, or evince a power of attraction for aqueous fluids. If a piece of areolar tissue from the axilla be soaked in water, it will imbibe it as freely as a sponge. Serous membranes, being chiefly com- posed of areolar tissue, have the same property, but to a leas decree; and the coats of blood vessels, and hollow membranous © 7 • i 1 viscera, are also porous. The occurrence of transudations, through living and dead tissues, is explained by this property. When the blood is loaded with water, or its passage through the blood-vessels is impeded, or when the vital changes in the blood-vessels go on feebly and imperfectly, their walls exert a morbid attraction upon