278 chap. x. INNERVATION. exists between them, there can he hut little doubt that fibres pass from the one to the other. Projecting from the external and posterior part of each optic thalamus, there are two small gangliform masses, similar in colour and in structure to that body. These are the corpora geniculata, externum and internum (fig. 71, <7). Some fibres of the optic tracts appear to form a connexion with them. By a transverse section through either geniculate body into the substance of the thalamus, the distinctness of the former may he demonstrated. A fissure which exists between the optic thalami is called the third ventricle. Its roof is formed by the velum interpositum, one of the principal internal processes of the pia mater. It contains a bridge of soft grayish matter, extending from one optic thala- mus to the other. This is called the middle or soft commis- sure. The free and continuous surface of the optic thalamus and corpus striatum, which projects into the anterior and middle part of each lateral ventricle, is covered by a delicate epithelium, which is con- tinuous with, and of the same nature as, that which lines the whole interior of the ventricles. This epithelium is, probably, ciliated. Beneath it we find a layer of nucleus-like particles, which also extend over the whole internal surface of the ventricles. The pineal body, or gland as it has been miscalled, is placed immediately behind the posterior extremity of the third ventricle. It is a cone-shaped body, of a dark gray colour, intimately con- nected with the deep surface of the velum interpositum, a process of which encloses it and adheres closely to it.. It rests in a groove between the nates : its base is turned forwards towards the third ventricle, and its apex is directed downwards and backwards. No part of its base is contained in the third ventricle ; but it is connected to the inner surfaces of the thalami by some fibres which pass forwards from each angle of its base. These are called the peduncles, or liabenee, of the pineal gland. A cord of transverse fibres, some of which appear to be continuous with the peduncles, is situated beneath the base of the body: most of these fibres are connected with the posterior extremity of each thalamus, and constitute what is called the posterior commissure. The pineal body consists principally of large nucleated vesicles, and contains some tubular fibres. In a cavity which is formed towards its base, is contained a mass of sabulous matter, which is composed of phosphate and carbonate of lime. To this Scem- raering gave the name acermlus. It is found only in subjects