chap, xi.] FUNCTIONS OF THE ENCEPHALON. 345 with excitation of this centre, either direct, or propagated to it from some sentient surface. This portion of the encephalon is also the centre of action in the movements of deglutition, through fibres of the glosso-pharyngeal and vagi nerves. A morbid state of it occasions difficulty, or even paralysis, of deglutition. Animals deprived of the cerebral hemi- spheres and cerebellum will preserve the power of swallowing food introduced within the grasp of the fauces, so long as the medulla | oblongata continues uninjured. In fret uses born without cerebral hemispheres, those actions are present which depend on the spinal cord and medulla oblongata ; all the movements of respiration and deglutition are performed as well as in the perfect foetus. Mr. Grainger'’s experiments shew that puppies deprived of the hemi- spheres of the brain can perform the movements of suction with con- siderable vigour, when the finger is introduced into the mouth ;* and the remarkable fact of the adhesion of the fietus of the kangaroo to the nipple within the pouch, no less than its respiratory move- ments, must, as this author remarks, be regarded as a most in- teresting display of the physical power of the medulla oblongata, w hile the rest of the brain is as yet undeveloped. The actions of respiration and deglutition are, to a great extent* • of the physical kind, being excited by impressions propagated from the periphery. In those of respiration, the ordinary exciting cause is probably, as I)r. Hall supposes, due to the chemical changes in the respired air which are effected in the lungs. These movements may be, to a certain extent, controlled by the will ; but every one is conscious, from his own sensations, that after a time the physical stimulus is capable of conquering the restraining influence of the mind ; a striking example of a mental stimulus giving way to a physical one; and illustrative, as w’e think, of the doctrine that the same fibres are affected by both stimuli. The excitation of the medulla oblongata in respiration does not, however, depend solely ujkju the pulmonary nerves. Those of the skin are capable of exciting it, either directly as the fifth pair, or through the spinal cord, as is proved by the inspirations which are instantly excited : by suddenly dashing cold water on the face or trunk. In deglutition, the exciting cause is the stimulus of contact applied to the mucous membrane of the fauces. So highly sen- sitive is the mucous membrane in this situation, that the slightest touch of it with a feather is sufficient to produce contraction of the Lot*, cit. j»p. 80, 1. A A