LOCOMOTION. [chap. vi. 140 most exposed, since it is the part of the head which would strike upon the ground when a man falls backwards.”* Of the Spine.—The spinal column, in man, is a vertical, elastic pillar, expanded interiorly where it rests upon the sacrum. It is composed of a series of light and spongy bones, bet ween each pair of which (except the first) a compressible and elastic disc of fibro- cartilage is placed. It has a three-fold office in the human subject: first, it is the great bond of connexion between all the parts of the skeleton ; secondly, it forms a canal for the lodgement and protec- tion of the spinal cord ; and, thirdly, it i3 a column of support for the head. For these purposes the spinal column requires consi- derable strength, as the central pillar of the trunk : it needs mobi- lity, to adapt itself to the various attitudes and movements of the body ; and elasticity, to guard the tender organ contained within it, as well as the brain, from concussion. The strength of the spinal column is abundantly provided for in the powerful ligament which binds the bodies of the vertebrae toge- ther in front (anterior common ligament), and in the strong and elastic intervertebral discs, which at once connect and separate them. The degree of motion which may take place between any two vertebrae is regulated partly by the thickness of the intervertebral disc, and partly by the disposition of the joints of the articular processes. When the latter are vertical in their direc- tion, the vertebrae are so locked in, that their movements are very much impeded ; but when they approach the horizontal direction, as in the neck, the range of motion is greater. The mobility of the spine may be compared to that of a chain ; between any two links of which there is but little motion, while the whole chain is abund- antly pliant. This restriction of motion between each pair of ver- tebrae enhances the strength of the column, and affords complete protection to the spinal cord, which would speedily suffer, did any vertebra pass beyond its prescribed limits. In the flexuous form of the spinal column, and in the connexion of the vertebral laminae by broad bands of yellow elastic ligament, we see further provision for its elasticity, in addition to that afforded by the discs of fibro-cartilage which lie between the bodies of the vertebrae. The concavity in the region of the back is doubt- less intended to give full scope to the play of the important organs within the thorax ; and the cervical and lumbar curves necessarily result from this, in order that the relation of the whole column to the line of gravitation of the body may be duly preserved. The * Sir C. Bell.