124 CHAP. V. LOCOMOTION. around which the cancelli are very open, large, and irregular. This augmentation of the vascular cavities of hone is attended with a developement of adipose vesicles and their capillaries in the new space, while the proper vessels of the osseous tissue remain pretty much as before. The fat contained in the medullary canal gradu- ally accumulates so much, that a special artery becomes enlarged to supply it, assuming the very inappropriate title of “ the nutrient artery of the bone." Duhamel placed a ring of silver round a bone of a young pigeon, without injuring the periosteum. After some time, during which the hone had increased in diameter, he found the ring in the medullary canal, which had acquired a capacity equal to the previous diameter of the whole shaft. This enlargement of the diameter of a long bone by the dilata- tion of its interior, is attended by twro consequences, equally impor- tant. The shell of compact tissue is thus adapted to offer greater resistance to injurious mechanical forces, while the disadvantage of a corresponding increase of weight is obviated. Reparation of Rone.—The great importance of this subject to the surgeon has led to many very interesting researches from the time of Duhamel to the present day, and by these the several steps of the process by which new bone is deposited have been ably eluci- dated in all that relates to their more obvious characters. When a fracture occurs, blood is, of course, effused into the vround, both from the ruptured vessels of the bone itself, and from those of the surrounding structures participating in the injury. At a short period subsequently, a semi-transparent lymph is found mingled with the coagulum, and -covering the surfaces of the hard and soft parts exposed. This lymph in all probability is the same as that by which the adhesive process in other wounds is effected. In the second and third weeks a gradual condensation of this takes place, accompanied with an interstitial change, converting it into a substance resembling temporary cartilage. Ossification takes place throughout this in a nearly uniform man- ner, until, towards the fourth or sixth week, the whole is transformed into a spongy, but firm osseous mass, investing the exterior of the broken extremities, and extending between them in the form of a case, by which they are firmly held together. If the medullary canal has been broken across, and the broken ends evenly adjusted, there will be likewise an interior stem of new bone connecting the medullary canal of the fragments in the axis of the bone ; the opposed surfaces of the compact tissue being as yet ununited. The callus, or new bone, thus formed, was termed by Dupuytren prom-