CHAP, i.] tiie tissues. 47 The first texture enumerated in this table is an example of the simplest form of membrane. Its principal character is extension ; i but as to the arrangement of its ultimate particles nothing is ! known, for under the highest powers in the microscope it appears i homogeneous, that is, without visible limits to its particles, or, at most, irregularly and very indistinctly granular. The capsule of the lens, the posterior layer of the cornea, and the walls of the i primary organic cells, are composed of it; and it is employed in forming muscle, nerve, and the adipose and tegumentary tissues. The filamentous tissues are extensively used for connecting i different parts, or for associating the elements of other tissues. ’ The ligaments of joints, for instance, are composed of the white or yellow fibrous tissues; and areolar tissue surrounds and connects » J tthe elementary parts of nerves and muscles, accompanies and supports the blood-vessels, and unites the tegumeutary tissues to j their subjacent parts or organs. Under the title compound membrane* we include those expan- ■ sions, which form the external integument of the body, and are |< continued into the various internal passages, which, by their invo- ij lutions, contribute to form the various secreting organs or glands. 1 These arc composed of the simple homogeneous membrane, covered by epidermis or epithelium, and resting upon a layer of vessels, nerves, and areolar tissue in great variety; and they constitute the skin, and mucous membranes, with the various glandular organs which open upon their surface. Hairs and nails, being hardened cuticle, are justly regarded as appendages to the former. To these we may add those remarkable membranes, composed of areolar tissue and a thin indusium of epithelium, which are em- ployed as mechanical aids to motion. These are the serous mem- branes which line the great cavities of the body, mid the sy- novial membranes, which are interposed between the articular extremities of the bones in certain joints, or are connected with and facilitate the motions of tendons. The tissues which compose the fourth class have no common character, except their adherence, in the adult state, to the primitive cellular structure, and their analogy in that particular with the vegetable tissue. Although a certain agreement, in morphological characters, allows these textures to be grouped together, none can Ik* more dissimilar as regards their vital endowments. They differ materially ns to the degree of cohesion between their cells: in cartilage there is generally a firm and resisting intercellular sub- 1 stance; in adipose tissue, the interval between the cells is occupied