THE .SYMPATHETIC NERVES. 223 |jCHAP. TUI.] $ cerebro-spinal nerves ; so that those fibres which at one part of the i nerve were superficial, would at another be deep-seated, and vice | area. The mode of branching of these nerves is essentially the same I as that of the cerebro-spinal. But the frequent formation of ganglia I in the course of the trunks, and of their ramifications, constitutes * a remarkable feature. The branches attach themselves to the exte- jrrior of arteries, forming very intricate plexuses, which entwine i around them, “ hederse ad modum” (Scarpa). Along these vessels Ithe nerves are conveyed to the tissues; but of the mode in which their filaments connect themselves immediately with those textures two are at present entirely ignorant. The ramifications of the sym- pathetic seem to be limited to the trunk and head ; it has probably ■*no connexion, or at most a very limited one, with the extremities. The connexion of the sympathetic system with the brain and S'spinal coni appears to take place through the cerebro-spinal nerves. I' Certain filaments connect each spinal nerve to some portion of the |,<ganglionic chain which lies on each side of the spinal column. And similar connexion takes place between ganglia of the cephalic If; port ion of the sympathetic and the encephalic nerves, of which the 1 following may be cited as well-known instances:—The third nerve is §•• connected with the ophthalmic ganglion; the sixth with the superior I cervical ganglion; the fifth nerve with the spheno-palatine and otic ganglia. These connecting filaments have been called the roots of i the sympathetic ; and thus this nerve has been represented as taking an extended origin from numerous {mints of the cerebro-spinal centre. [ This is true : but, in dissecting the connexion between the sympa- I thetic and the spinal nerves, we find that, for the most part, two dis- ' tinet fascicles connect them, one of which is white, being composed of : tubular fibres ; the other is gray, and consists of gelatinous fibres. { The former seem evidently cerebro-spinal fibres, which pass to or f from the periphery conjoined with the other elements of the sympa- f thetic: but, in the present state of our knowledge, it is difficult to * form a correct idea as to the precise object of the latter bundles, or as to the central connexion which they form, whether with the gan- [ gliou on the posterior root of each spinal nerve, or with the spinal cord. That the sympathetic has intimate and extensive connexions with the brain and spinal cord, is abundantly proved, not only by the ana- f tornical statements above detailed, but by the circumstance of which every one is conscious, that pain may be excited in parts supplied \ from this system of nerves alone, as in the intestines; as well as by I ’tin* fact that irritation of the spinal cord may produce contraction of