416 INNERVATION. [chap. xiv. pregnancy, or of accidental moles, or freckles.* The bronzing of parts exposed to the sun is effected by a similar deposit of colouring matter in the deeper lamime of the cuticle. The subject here referred to has been invested with additional interest by its supposed bearing on the warmly debated question of the specific difference of the negro from the white man. We need not enquire how far the existence of a distinct cuticular lamina might avail the advocates of such a difference, for we may freely state our conviction that no such peculiar layer exists. The sole ' variety is in the presence of pigment—which may occur, partially, under many circumstances in the white races, and may be wanting in the true negro.-f* The reader of the preceding paragraphs will understand how little such processes as maceration, and even the most delicate dissection by the naked eye, and with ordinary in- struments, are to be depended on for the determination simply of the anatomical fact. The nails and hairs are peculiar modifications of the epidermis, and consist essentially of nucleated particles. The nails are flattened, elastic, horny, protective coverings, placed on the dorsal surface of the terminal phalanges of the hands and feet, and projecting beyond the flesh. Iloofs, claws, &c., are varieties of them. The nail has a root, or part concealed within a fold of the cutis; a body, or exposed part, attached to the surface of the cutis; and a free or projecting edge. The cutis underneath the root and body is termed the matrix, from its being the producing organ of the nail. This is thick and highly vascular, and its colour is seen through the transparent tissue. Near the root it is white, and occasions the appearance termed lunula. The nail has a firm adhesion to the matrix, and is moulded upon it, like the epidermis in other situations. The true epidermis (as distinguished from the nail) is continuous with the nail at the whole circumference of its body ; the root dips into the fold of cutis, within the epidermis, and the free edge pro- jects beyond it. In the advanced foetus we find the edge of the nail to be directly continuous with the epidermis of the end * Dr. Simon of Berlin has ahly investigated this part of the subject.—Muller’s Archiv. 1840. t Sec Dr. Prichard, Natural History of Man. Fig. 86 7t tl Section of the skin on the end of the finger :—The cuticle and nail, », detached from the cutis and matrix, m.