chap, xi.] FUNCTIONS OF TIIE CORPORA STRIATA. 347 Corpora Striata.—The anatomy of the corpora striata and optic thalami, while it denotes a very intimate union between them, also shows so manifest a difference in their structural characters, that it i cannot be doubted that they perforin essentially different functions. In the corpora striata the fibrous matter is arranged in distinct fascicles of very different size, many, if not all of which, form a special connexion with its vesicular matter. In the optic thalami, < on the other hand, the fibrous matter forms a very intricate inter- Slacement, which is equally complicated at every part. Innumerable t fibres pass from one to the other, and both are connected to the i hemispheres by extensive radiations of fibrous matter. The corpora s striata, however, are connected chiefly, if not solely, with the in- ferior fibrous layer of each crus cerebri; whilst the optic thalami are continuous with the superior part of each crus, which is situate : above the locus niger. It will be observed, then, that while these bodies possess, as a principal character in common, their extensive connexion with the icerebral hemispheres, or, in other words, with the convoluted surface of the brain, they are, in the most marked wav, connected inferiorly with separate and distinct portions of the medulla oblongata ; the corpora striata with the inferior fibrous planes of the crura cerebri and their continuations, the anterior pyramids; and the optic thalami with the olivary columns, the central and probably fun- damental portions of the medulla oblongata. And this anatomical fact must be taken as an additional proof of their possessing sepa- trate functions. Now, it may be inferred, from their connexions with nerves chiefly of a sensitive kind, that the olivary columns, and the optic thalami, which are continuous with them, are chiefly concerned in the reception of sensitive impressions, which may principally have reference merely to informing the mind (so to speak), or partly to the excitation of motion, as in deglutition, respiration, &c. The posterior horns of the gray matter of the cord, either by their direct continuity with the olivary columns, or their union with them 1 through commissural fibres, become part and parcel of a great centre of sensation, whether for mental or physical actions. The pyramidal bodies evidently connect the gray matter of the cord (its anterior horns ?) with the corpora striata; and not only these, but also the intervening masses of vesicular matter, such as ’ the locus niger, and the vesicular matter of the pons, and of the | olivary columns; and, supposing the corpora striata to be centres I' of volition in intimate connexion with the convoluted surface of the A A 2