COMMISSURES'OF THE BRAIN. 287 < CHAP. X.] i minutes in a small spherical body at the base of the brain. These i bodies, called corpora mamiUaria, are white outside, but, when < cut into, exhibit a reddish-gray colour, like that of the ftp tic tha- lami. They contain nerve-tubes and vesicular matter iu cousider- : able quantity, and therefore resemble ganglia in structure. A > considerable fasciculus of fibres connects each mamillary body with the optic thalamus. From each angle of the base of the fornix a broad band of fibrous matter passes outwards, and spreads partly into the j>oste- rior horn of the lateral ventricle, and partly into its descending horn. These bands constitute the posterior pillars of the fornix. They connect themselves with certain convolutions which project into the posterior and inferior cornua of the lateral ventricles; in the latter with the hippocampus minor, anti in the former with the hippocampus major. The fornix consists of longitudinal fibres, unmixed with vesi- cular matter, save in the optic thahuni and corpora mamillarin. The superior surface of the body of the fornix is connected to the inferior surface of the corpus callosum, at its base apparently by the direct adhesion of the fibres of the two planes, but towards its apex by the septum lucid um, which extends vertically from the middle line of the inferior surface of the corpus callosum to that of the superior surface of the fornix. From the great extent of the fornix, and the numerous con- nexions which its pillars form, it is plain that it must serve as a commissure to many and distant parts. Each half of it is a longitudinal or antero-posterior commissure for the hemisphere of its own side. It is not improbable that some of the convolutions contain antero-posterior commissures for the superficial part of the hemisphere; such is certainly the case with the longitudinal con- volution above the corpus callosum. The fornix, however, con- nects deep-seated parts, for it passes between the optic thalamus and the deep convolutions of the i>osterior and middle lobes. The septum lucidum consists of two layers of fibrous matter, which enclose a space or cavity called the fifth ventricle. The fibres of this layer radiate upwards and forwards, and connect the anterior pillars of the fornix with the corpus callosum. Each fibrous layer is covered on its outside by a layer of nuclear parti- cles, which again is covered by the membrane of the lateral ventricle. A band of fibrous matter, which belongs to the same system of commissural fibres as the fornix, is found, on each side, in the