250 [chap. x. INNERVATION. the sacral canal, and is tied down in that situation by certain fili- form processes, of which the central one is attached to the coccyx. > The spinal dura mater is evidently much more capacious than is necessary merely to contain the spinal cord, and therefore it gene- j rally has a loose and flaccid appearance. During life it is kept tense by the fluid which surrounds the cord. The dimensions of i the canal of the dura mater vary with those of the spinal canal, j It is wider, therefore, in the neck and loins, and narrow in the j back. In the lumbar and sacral regions it forms a wide sac around the leash of nerves called canda equina. The dura mater, in both cranium and spine, exhibits numerous J perforations for the transit of nerves from the contained centre to j the peripheral parts. In the spinal region each of these per- ) forations is subdivided, by a vertical slip of the membrane, into -I two foramina, which correspond to the anterior and posterior roots A of the spinal nerves, and extend on each side down to the lower j part of the sacral region. The blood-vessels of the dura mater are very numerous. Those of the cranial membrane communicate freely with those of the bones, j Hence, when separated from the cranium, the external surface of ■ the dura mater has a rough appearance from the number of blood- vessels which have been torn. This membrane derives its supply of arterial blood from the ophthalmic and ethmoidal arteries in front; in the middle, from the internal maxillary artery by the middle : meningeal, which enters the cranium by the foramen spinosuin, and by small branches from the internal carotid, called the inferior meningeal arteries. Posteriorly the vertebral, the occipital, and the I ascending pharyngeal supply branches which go by the name of posterior meningeal arteries. The arteries of the spinal dura mater come from the deep cervical, the occipital, and the vertebral, in the 1 cervical region, from the intercostals in the back, and from the lumbar arteries in the loins. These vessels pass in at the vertebral foramina, and send branches to the bones as well as to the spinal membranes. The veins of the dura mater in the cranium constitute a remark- able portion of the vascular system of that cavity. The venous radicles collect the blood from the dura mater, and from the bones: of the skull; large veins are formed on the former membrane, and distinct canals in the osseous diploe, figured at page 107. These all I tend to certain venous channels, rigid canals, formed by the separa- i tion of two layers of the dura mater, which are lined by processes* of the inner membrane of the venous system, and are so placed as to I