61 CILIARY MOTION. CHAP. It.] . organic and inorganic elements are incessant during the ceaseless round of organizing and disorganizing actions of which every tissue is the seat, as long as it continues living. The currents alluded to in the preceding paragraph are visible indications of the presence of these organic movements. 3. The molecular movements of nerve and muscle under stimula- tion have been already mentioned in the preceding chapter. The capacity of exhibiting these movements exists only while the nutri- tive process continues to be carried on in the respective tissues— it ceases with life. It would appear that the precise chemical con- stitution, which is essential to it' existence, is of so unstable a nature as to be constantly prone to change, and to require incessant renewal; or, it may be, that this capacity is one which is only developed during the active operation of certain chemical forces, as if it depended necessarily on certain peculiarities of the organic elements when in a nascent or changing state. In muscular movement there is a visible approximation of the ultimate particles of the tissue in a determinate direction, as will Ins further explained in the proper place; and in this consists the whole value of muscular tissue as a part of the mechanism of the body. All those motions in the living body which are visible to the naked eye, and many of those which cannot he seen without the aid of lenses, are effected by muscular action. By it canals or tubes adapt themselves to their contents; the heart propels the vital fluid ; the digestive canal transmits the ingesta from one part to another; the excretory reservoirs, or ducts, expel their contents ; and lastly, by it the attitudes are maintained, and the locomotive function is performed. Ciliary motion.—In the same category with the molecular mo- tions of the living body we would place that singular phenomenon, now well ascertained by multiplied observations, which is called Ciliary motion. Certain surfaces, which are, in their natural and healthy state, lubricated by fluid, are covered with a multitude of hair-like pro- cesses, of extreme delicacy of structure and minuteness of size. * hese are called cilia, from cilium, an eye-lash. They are generally conical in shape, being attached by their bases to the epithelium that covers the surface on which they play, and tapering gradually to a point; or, as Purkinje and Valentin state, they are more or li>s flattened processes, ot which the free extremities are rounded ; and this latter form prevails in the human subject. They vary in length from the ro'oo to the f vr,0 of an inch. They are dis-