THE SPINAL CORD. CHAP. X.] 255 which invests the pineal gland. This sabulous matter is composed of phosphate of lime, with a small proportion of phosphate of mag- nesia, a trace of carbonate of lime, and a little animal matter. * Of the Ligament am dent at am.—This remarkable structure, found in the sub-arachnoid space, requires a brief notice. It seems to be a process of the pia mater, which exhibits more of the glistening appearance of white fibrous tissue than the rest of that mem- brane. It extends from the occipital foramen to the filiform termi- nation of the pia mater, adhering by its inner strait border to that membrane, and attached on the other hand to the dura mater by a series ofdentated processes which penetrate the visceral and parietal layers of arachnoid, pinning them, as it were, down to the fibrous membrane. They form a vertical septum between the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves. The dentated processes vary in number from eighteen to twenty-two. The first is attached to the dura mater which covers the occipital foramen just behind the vertebral artery ; the rest are inserted between the orifices for the exit of the spinal nerves, and the last is on a level with the first or Second lumbar vertebra. A considerable quantity of yellow fibrous tissue exists in this structure, especially in it~ dentated processes. The Pacchionian glands or bodies are whitish granules, com- posed of an albuminous material, which are found among the vessels of the pia mater, on the edges of the cerebral hemispheres, which push the arachnoid before them, and even project into the longitu- dinal sinus. They do not occur in the earliest periods of life, and are frequently absent even at the more advanced ages, but they are so often met with in the brains of adult and old persons that many anatomists regard them as normal structures. Of the Spinal Cord.—The spinal cord is somewhat cylindrical in shape, slightly flattened on the anterior and posterior surfaces. Its anatomical limits are, the occipital plane above, and a point rang- ing in different subjects between the last dorsal and second lum- bar vertebra below. It tapers to its inferior extremity, which lies concealed among the leash of nerves which comes off from its lumbar region, the cauda equina. Superiorly the spinal cord is separated from the medulla oblongata by the decussating fibres of the anterior pyramids. In the cervical and lumbar regions the cord exhibits distinct swellings, of which the cervical is the larger. The cervical swelling extends from the third cervical to the third dorsal vertebra, the lumbar one commencing about the ninth or tenth dorsal vertebra, * Van Ghert «le jilexubu* choroideis.