I’fNTROD.] THEORIES OF LIFE. 19 Lwiiccess in forming some organic products by artificial means.—(Sec Ip. 9.) , And let it not be forgotten that the living laboratory ot the ani- 1 nal ami plant is one well stored with means for analysis and syu- [jbhesis : the continual introduction of new material gives full scope |co the play of chemical affinity, and at every point the constant [attendants of chemical action, heat and electricity, are developed. I'May it not reasonably be inferred that these agencies, which the y bhemist can so readily turn to account in his artificial processes, are Bioot idle in the work of combination and decomposition in the living Hhotly i A groat difference as to sensible qualities, in the various p organic products, by no means implies great difference of chemical rconstitution, for it is well known that the addition or removal of a single atom of one of the ingredients of any compound is sufficient !to produce a substance with totally new properties; and such is the complex nature of organic molecules, that the attraction be- ftween their component elements yields readily to disturbing causes. lhit how shall we explain the strange process of organization, in the production of that infinite diversity of forms, that “insatiable 'variety of Nature,” which is so conspicuous in the vegetable and tanimal kingdoms? Must we imagine the creation, in corresponding * number and variety, of a duplicate order of beings, whose duty it 'Shall he to preside over tin* developement of each species, and to impress each with its peculiar characters? Or does it not seem more consistent with that grand simplicity, which the phenomena of I nature everywhere present, to suppose that the organization of : animals and plants, in such great variety, is the result of the pri- ll mary endowment of organic matter, at the creation of the first ; parents of each species, by the Almighty ? The animal or vegetable ; matter of each species was created to propagate after a certain fashion, and after that only ; the organic cells, of which these i organisms consist in the early stages of developement, have the [ power of evolving the adult tissues of animals and plants of their own species only: the simple volvox developes, from its interior, organic cells which become volvoces; and the cell, which forms the ovum of the elephant or the mouse, is able, by an inherent power of multiplication, to evolve the skeletons and organs of each of those animals respectively. The peculiar endowments of the organic matter, composing the various tribes ot animals and plants, are transmitted from parent to offspring. Hut they admit of certain modifications under the influ-