j chap, vii.] CONTRACTILITY OF MUSCLE. 189 | jess arterial character of the blood co-exist with a more enduring contractility, but also that there is less of it supplied to the muscles, for the above scale corresponds also with that in which animals are ranged in regard to the size of the elementary fibres; and we have already seen that the vascularity of a muscle is inversely as the thickness of its fibres. Thus we have animals ranged in the same series, whether we 'estimate it by the duration of contractility, the degree of the oxygenation of the blood and tissues, or the quantity of blood sent to the muscles, viz. birds, insects, mammalia, reptiles, fish, and Crustacea. The meaning of this correspondence may be further Illustrated by the phenomena of hybernation, in which all the func- tions are held enchained, and we are certain that nutrition proceeds ■ .nth extreme languor. Iu the hybemating animal, contractility is •/ery enduring, as compared with that property in the very same •organs when in a state of greater vital activity. Nor must the evident relation subsisting l>etween fibrine and the ■narcous tissue, in respect of their vital properties, be passed over in ■Silence. In chemical constitution they may be said to be identical; Band there seems no doubt that muscle is formed by the direct depo- sition in a solid form of the fluid fibrine of the blood, under the | Jective attraction of the previously existing tissue. Now. in birds, he blood, i. <». its fibrine, coagulates, or assumes the solid form, very !! uieklv when it is withdrawn from the vessels, in mammalia less so, nd in reptiles and fishes very tardily, if iu these several cases it be Maced in similar circumstances. A fatal stroke of lightning, which istantanoously destroys contractility in the muscles, prevents also le coagulation of the blood. In the same person, under health ud disease, the blood may vary much in the speed with which it oagulates, according to its chemical constitution, the amount of xvgen accumulated in it, and the activity of the vital processes: ad, after death, the coagulability of the blood, and the contracti- 'ty of the muscles, have a general correspondence, which has been I fen made the basis of an hypothesis, ascribing the rigor mortis, or I ie dying act of contraction, to coagulation of the blood.* It will 1j subsequently explainod-f* that the fibrine of the blood, on becom- * .g solid, acquires for a brief period the property of contractility ; I id this in very different degrees, according to varieties in the same »’* Orfila. Bfclard, and Trcviranus hold tins view, which Muller seems to regard I not untenable, 1 t See chapter on the Blood.