331 TIIEORY OF NERVOUS ACTIONS. CHAP. XI.J is simultaneously affected. To this likewise it will l>e objected, that the limitation of sensations is not sufficiently explained. But the reply is obvious: the intensify and kind of sensation depend upon the nature of the primary stimulus at the surface; the extent upon the number of fibres there stimulated. Wherever these fibres form their proper organic connexion with the vesicular matter, that matter will participate in their change to an extent proportionate to the number of fibres stimulated, and with an intensity commensurate with the force of the primary stimulns. It is not necessary to the developemeut of sensation that the fibre stimulated should be im- planted directly in the brain ; if it be connected with this centre through the medium of vesicular matter of the same character as that which is found in it or through commissural fibres, all condi- tions necessary for the developemeut and propagation of nervous force would appear to be fulfilled. It must not be supposed, how- ever, that in making this statement we mean to assign the spinal cord to be the seat of sensation; all we assert is, that the posterior horns of its gray matter, as being the part in which the sensitive roots are implanted, participate largely in the mechanism of sensa- tion ; and that by their union with the brain they become, protanto, a part of the centre of sensation, so long as that union is unimpaired. This hypothesis offers an explanation of the hitherto unexplained phenomenon of impaired sensation on that side of the body which is opposite to the seat of cerebral lesion. If we regard the anterior pyramids as commissures between the sensitive, as well as l>etween the motor portions of the cerebro-spinal centre, it will be obvious that the posterior horns of the spinal gray matter on the right side will lie associated with the left centre of sensation in the brain, and vice rersd. And we gain, moreover, an explanation of the almost universal association of sensation with reflex or physical actions. The excitor nerves of these actions being the same as the sensitive nerves, the impression conveyed by them is calculated at once to excite motion and sensation. Were it not for the controlling influence of the will, all sensitive impressions made through the spinal cord would likewise be accompanied by corresponding movements. When the spinal cord has been excited by strychnine, the physical power pre- vails over the mental, and the will ceases to be able to control the movements excited by impressions through sensitive nerves. A highly important argument in favour of this view is derived from the marked difference of structure of the anterior and posterior horns of the spinal vesicular matter. The anterior and posterior