CONTRACTILITY OF MUSCLE. 187 CHAP. VII.] vessels across them should determine the flexures to take place at this or that particular point. When some fibres are straight and others zigzag, and yet the ends of all equidistant, it is clear that the straight ones are the short or contracted; the zigzag, the long or ■relaxed. So, also, when a living muscle is laid bare in sifu, the air excites tremors and a zigzag appearance on its surface, by the different fibres taking on non-simultaneous contractions. Schwann* contrived an apparatus by which he could estimat i the varying force of contraction which a muscle could evince under : the same stimulus, (an electric shock of a given power applied to the i nerve,) when its length was varied, by its [Missive contractility being balanced by different weights. He sought to discover wins [ ther the contractile force was increased as the contracting parts approached each other more nearly. If he had found it so aug- mented, there would have been some reason for connecting contrac- tility with the other forces of attraction with which we are ac- quainted, the power of which increases with the nearness of the I points attracted, in the ratio of the square of the distance. But the result of several ingenious experiments were quite opposed to this notion; proving that, within certain limits, the power of a muscle to (contract under a stimulus is greater in proportion as it is less eon- '.traeted, and that it diminishes as the amount of contraction in- ■ creases. Considering, as we are perhaps entitled to do, that an equal mass of each fibre, say one-third, was in contraction at any one instant by each application of the stimulus, we may reduce the result of these experiments to an estimate of the passive contractile power under different amounts of stretching ; for then the varying amount of aggregate shortening under the same stimulus would in- dicate the varying amount of resistance to elongation afforded by | the intermediate two-thirds to the same amount of active contractile jf force in the one-third. It is clear, from that which precedes, that contractility is a pro- j? perty residing in the sarcous tissue by virtue of its chemical constitu- tion, and that it is capable of being called into action by other stimuli I l>esides the nervous. That it departs with life, is a proof that those $ actions of waste and nutrition, concomitant with the flux of life, are H ess< ntial for its integrity. We know that contractility is exhausted | both by disuse of a muscle, and by over-use consequent on over-sti- mulatiou; and in no other way can these opposite causes act than * Muller's Physiology, by Halv, j>. 905.