388 INNERVATION. [chap. xii. kind. These motions or sensations are produced in, as it were, an indirect or circuitous manner, or one different from that in which they are ordinarily excited. Thus a stimulus to the olfactory membrane causes a peculiar affection of the sense of smell, and thus occasions that depression of the heart’s action from which results a state of syncope. Or, another affection of the same sense causes a suddenly increased action of the salivary glands. If we analyse any one of these examples of sympathetic actions, it will appear that three circumstances are to be noticed in the produc- tion of the phenomena: 1st, the primary exciting cause, which may be an object presented to the mind through one of the organs of sense, or causing an impression upon any sensitive nerve, and there- fore upon some part of the centre of sensation; 2ndly, the part affected directly by this primary stimulus; and, 3rdly, the action or sensation resulting from the affection of this part. Many other sensations or motions may be enumerated besides those above referred to, whether occurring in health or in disease; and we shall give examples of these before we discuss this subject further. The examples of sympathetic sensations which may be adduced are chiefly of the morbid kind. Pain is felt at a certain part, in consequence of an irritation in another part distant from it, and ap- parently altogether unconnected with it. One of the most familiar of these is pain in the knee from disease of the hip-joint. So marked in some instances is the pain in the knee, and so much has it absorbed the patient’s attention, that the real seat of the disease has been overlooked, and the remedies been applied exclusively to the knee. Pain in the right shoulder from disease of the liver is a sympathetic sensation of similar kind ; and sometimes the hepatic irritation causes pain over a more extensive surface. Whytt mentions, that, in two cases of suppuration of the liver, he had seen the patients “ aflected with a numbness and debility of the right arm, thigh, and leg.” The peculiar sensations felt in the teeth from a noise which grates upon the ears, is sympathetic of the irritation of the auditory nerve. Practitioners are well aware how many morbid sensations in parts remote from the intestinal canal may be cured by the removal of scybala or other accumulations from it. Painful affections of the nerves of the face, and of other parts, are often due to a cause of this kind. The irritation of a stone in the bladder gives rise to pains in the thighs, or to itching at the end of the penis; and uterine irritation, whether from disease or from the enlargement ot