CHAP. V.] 121 GROWTH OF BONE. accounted for, as well as the facility with which the rods them- selves may be made to separate from one another. As for the la- cunae, their originally granular interior seems to be gradually remov- ed, so that they become vacuities adapted for the conveyance of the nutritious fluids through the compact material of the perfect bone. Growth of Bone.—But it must not be imagined, that, when bone is once deposited in a certain form, it thenceforward permanently maintains its size and shape. Though a lamella be completely ossified, its particles are in constant course of change, during which the most imjw>rtant and extensive alterations of size and figure take place in a slow and gradual manner. Thus the layers first deposited on the inner surface of the early cancelli are pushed out by the succeeding ones, ami also acquire a concomitant augmentation of mass; and as, in general terms, the number of lacume in bone is proportioned to its amount, the early layers most likely increase by a growth and ossification of cells in their own substance, even for long after they have been pushed away from the vascular surface, and supplanted by the more recent ones. Thus, though bone grows chiefly by layers formed in succession on its vascular surface, yet it also grows in an interstitial manner after being originally deposited. It is in this way only that we can explain the great expansion which the primary intercellular osseous network must undergo, to form that which intervenes between the Haversian systems. Bone when first formed, then, is disposed as an expanded surface, variously and complexly involuted, and which soon becomes covered with vessels. This is the foundation for its subsequent vascularity, and is the source also of that active power of internal growth, which has been long a theme of admiration with physiologists. But the expansion of bone once deposited is limited. \Ve before observed that no part of the osseous tissue was at more than a certain minute distance from the vascular surface; and that, if it were so, its nutrition could not be suitably carried on. Now, if more than a certain number of laminae of new bone were laid down, the earlier ones would be pushed too far from the supply of blood ; and hence the limitation we have spoken of. But it is necessary for bone to grow much more between the commencement of ossifica- tion and the adult age than this limitation appears to allow of; and here we come upon an admirable provision to meet this apparent difficulty. In the fir*t place, a most important process of growth is conti- nually going on in the curtilage, especially near the ossifying surface, by the multiplication of the cells; and, in the latter situation, by