chap, xi.] FUNCTIONS OF THE CORPORA Ql ADRIGEMINA. 353 nerves remained uninjured, the iris continued to respond to the stimulus of light, but the total removal of the tubercles paralysed the irides. If the lobes of the brain and cerebellum were removed, leaving the tubercles untouched, the irides would continue to con- tract. These experiments leave no room to doubt that the optic tubercles are the encephalic recipients of the impressions necessary to vision, which doubtless are simultaneously felt by means of the optic thalami; and that they are the centres of those movements of the iris which contribute largely not only to protect the retina, but like- wise to increase the perfection of vision. The optic nerve is at once the nerve of vision, and the excitor of motor impulses which are conveyed to the iris by the third nerve, which takes its origin very near to the optic tubercles. It is interesting to add, that irritation of an optic tubercle on one side causes contraction of both irides:— this is quite in accordance with the well-established fact, that, if light be admitted to one eye so as to cause contraction of its pupil, the other pupil will coutract at the same time. So simultaneous is the action of the two centres; so rapid must be the transmission of the stimulus from one side to the other. When the injuries inflicted on these tubercles were deep, more or less general convulsive movements were produced ; if one tubercle were injured, the opposite side only was so affected. These con- vulsions were due to the lesion of the central parts of the medulla oblongata, with which the optic tubercles are intimately con- nected. A remarkable vertiginous movement was likewise caused, the animal turning to the side from which the tubercle had been removed. It does not appear that this rotation could be attri- buted to any special influence of the medulla oblongata, but ra- ther to a state of vertigo induced by the partial destruction of vision ; for Flourens found that the same effects could be produced in pigeons by blindfolding one eye. The movements, however, were not so rapid, nor did they continue so long. And Longet saw the same movements in pigeons in which he had evacuated the humours of one eye.* It may be remarked, that deep injuries to the quadrigeminal tubercles are very likely to affect the only commissural connexion between the cerebrum and cerebellum {processus cerebelli ad testes), the integrity of which must doubtless be essentially necessary to ensure harmony of action between these two great nervous centres. * Flourens’ experiment* have been amply confirmed by those- of Hertwig and Longet.