75 AREOLAR TISSUE. ( HAP. HI.] the latter. The wavy bands of the white fibrous part, on being touched by the acid, may be seen to expand en masse, and not as though they consisted of a mere bundle of smaller filaments; yet there often remains in them an appearance of more or less wavy : transverse lines at pretty equal distances, remotely resembling those on the fibre of striped muscle. These we are unable to explain. The acid also brings into view corpuscles of an oval shape, often ! broken into fragments, and stretching for some distance along the interior of the band. These seem to be the nuclei of the cells from which the bands have been originally produced. In the earliest period at which the areolar tissue can be examined, Schwann has described it as consisting of nucleated particles, send- ing offsets on the opposite sides, and connecting themselves with • others in the vicinity. The threads thus formed are at first homo- geneous ; the longitudinal streaks and the wavy character appear subsequently (fig. 7). His description is drawn from the white fi- brous element; but it may be extended to the yellow also. We have observed frequently among the threads of areolar tissue taken from adult subjects a number of corpuscles (fig. 6, d), either isolated, or having very delicate prolongations among the neighbour- ing threads. These seem with great probability to be either ad- vancing or receding stages of the tissue. It is not known whether the ultimate elements of the areolar tissue have any immediate attachment or union with the other tissues, among which they lie, or whether they merely enclose them by the complexity of their web. liy the endless crossing and twining of these microscopic fila- ments, and of fasciculi of them, among one another, a web of •mazing intricacy results, of which the interstices are most irre- gular in size and shape, and all necessarily communicate with one another. This is well seen by forcibly filling the tissue with air or water in any region. In the living body this is very obvious in anasarca, and in traumatic emphysema, as in the remarkable case related by Hr. Wr. Hunter in his celebrated paper (Med. Obs. and Inquir. vol. ii. p. 17), where the whole body was blown up so tensely as to re- semble a drum. The interstices are not cavities possessed of definite limits, be- cause they are open on all sides, and ultimately constituted out of a mass of tangled t hreads. The application of the term, cell, to them, is therefore inappropriate; and it cannot be wondered at, that it should have led to much confusion. In certain situations, how-