DR. HALL’S HYPOTHESIS. 325 CHAP. »•] stopped, ff we are to adopt l)r. Hall’s theory, it will be necessary to suppose, with Dr. Carpenter, the existence of certain emotional fibres to explain the phenomena of this particular case. Hut it is difficult to admit the existence of three orders of fibres in each muscle, which, to be effective, must have the same relation to the component elements of the muscle. It is impossible to imagine how each order of fibre should comport itself with reference to the other two, so that their actions may not interfere. Nor can any one fail to perceive that the emotional fibres must be infinitely less frequently employed than the others, and in some individuals, so little called into action, as to expose the iibres greatly to the risk of atrophy for want of use. Paralysis of the sphincter ani is most frequently produced by dis- ease of the spinal cord ; but it is by no means a rare accompaniment of diseased brain, and generally indicates a lesion of grave import. Now, such a lesion is always accompanied with paralysis, chiefly of the hemiplegic kind, but not necessarily complete; on the con- trary, in several such cast's we have seen distinct reflex movements, indicating, that although the brain’s influence was withheld from the limbs, that of the cord was not. If then the cord be sufficiently free from morbid depression to allow of reflex movements taking place in the inferior limbs, why is the sphincter so completely paralysed that it offers not the slightest resistance to the introduc- tion of the finger into the anus? It is admitted that the sphincter is under the influence of the will; according to Dr. Hall’s theory, this must be through special fibres of volition distributed to it: but it is also under the influence of the spinal cord, as the limbs arc ; yet, if the cerebral fibres be diseased, there seems no reason why the influence of the cord upon it should be at the same time destroyed. A cerebral lesion ought not to affect the sphincter further than to destroy the control of the will upon it, unless its de- pressing influence extend to the whole cord, and in such a case there ought to be complete paralysis of the limbs likewise. Those are not unimportant pathological objections to this theory: to them we must add the fact, that this view wants the support of anatomy. However disposed we may be to admit the existence of fibres implanted solely in the gray matter of the cord, it must be confessed that it is as yet far from being proved that either such fibres, or those which are continued up into the brain, exist in the cord of vertebrata, or in its analogue of the invertebrata. Dr. Car- penter and Mr. Newport, it is true, affirm that they have demon- strated the two sets of fibres in insects—the season -volitional, and the