THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA. CHAP. X.] 263 harmonious music if they have been previously duly attuned. But if the instrument be out of order, although the player strike tin* same notes, and evince equal skill in the movements of his fingers, nothing but the harshest discord will ensue. As, then, sweet melody results from skilful playing on a well-tuned instrument of good construction, so a sound mind, and a brain of good developc- ment and quality, are the necessary conditions of healthy and vigorous mental action. Medulla Oblongata.—Of the segments of the encephalon above enumerated, the medulla oblongata is that which is more immedi- ately connected with the spinal cord, and through which the brain is brought into communication with the other vital organs and with most of the peripheral parts. It is, therefore, truly “the link which binds us to life.” In form and general anatomical charac- ters, it very much resembles the spinal cord, with which it is con- tinuous, standing in the same relation to it, as the capital to the shaft of a column. In the sense in which we here speak of it, the medulla oblongata is limited above by the mesocephale ; but its constituent fibres ex- tend beyond that segment, and form important connexions with the rest of the brain. It is completely contained within the cranial cavity, its lowest part being just above the level of the plane of the occipital foramen. The size of the medulla oblongata is in the direct ratio of that of the nerves which proceed from it. Hence it is very much larger, both absolutely and relatively, in some of the lower animals than in man : in many of them it forms the largest of all the segments of the encephalon, while in man it is much the smallest. In the medulla oblongata there is the same symmetry of arrange- ment which we have noticed in the cord. An anterior and poste- rior fissure divide it into two equal and symmetrical portions. The posterior fissure is deep and narrow, and is continuous with that of the cord, 'fhe anterior fissure is wider and less deep, and is sepa- rated from the same fissure of the cord by certain fibres which cross obliquely from each side in its lower third, decussating each other. These fibres are called the decussating fibres of the anterior pyra- mids., and form, very fitly, an anatomical demarcation between the medulla oblongata and the spinal cord. The floor of the anterior fissure is formed by a layer of fibrous matter which is rendered cribriform by the orifices of the numerous blood-vessels which penetrate it. Tills constitutes a commissure of transverse fibres, similar to that described in the spinal cord. The