CHAP, xi.] FUNCTIONS OF TIIE CEREBRAL CONVOLUTIONS. 363 matter which connects them with the optic thalami and corpora striata, form by far the largest portion of the encephalon ; and this fact alone ought to stamp them with great physiological import- ance. The complexity of the convolutions in the animal scale is in the direct ratio of the advance of intelligence. It must be remark- ed, however, that the weight of the brain, whether absolute, or in relation to the body, affords no criterion, or at best an imperfect one, of the extent of the convoluted surface. Highly complicated con- volutions may exist along with a brain both absolutely and rela- tively small. Thus Leuret asserts, that the ferret, which has several well-marked convolutions on each hemisphere, has a brain no larger than that of the squirrel, which has no convolutions at all, and which wants even the few fissures which mark their first developemeut in the rabbit, the beaver, the agouti, &c. And the last-named ani- mals have the brain both absolutely and relatively larger than that of the cat, the pole-cat, the roussette, the unau, the sloth, and the pangolin, all of which possess convolutions. We hence learn the physiological distinctness of these organs from the more deeply- seated gangliform bodies of the brain, to which we have already seen that separate functions may be assigned. At the early periods of human life, in infancy and childhood, the convolutions of the brain are very imperfectly developed, and their increase of size goes on simultaneously with the advance of mental power. If the former be arrested, or if some congenital fault prevent the further growth of the convolutions, the mental powers are of the lowest and feeblest kind, but little above those of the brute with imperfect convolutions. In all idiots the brain is not only small, but its convoluted surface is extremely limited. We remark here that the convoluted form must l>e regarded no otherwise than as a convenient mode of packing, which affords an indication of a greater or less superficial extent of vesicular matter, for in cases where a slow and gradual accumulation of water takes place within the ventricles of the brain, when accompanied with cor- responding enlargement of the cranium, the convolutions become unfolded; and yet the intellect may remain unimpaired, at least so far as the obvious damage to the quality of the nervous matter in such cases will allow. In examining the brains in the animal series, we observe a pro- gressive increase in the complication of the convolutions, and there- fore in the extent of the convoluted surface, as we pass from the inferior to the higher classes,—from those endowed with but feeble intelligence to those which enjoy sagacity, docility, and memory. n r 2