r : CHAP, x.] THE DURA MATER. 249 ■ and of the king-crab (limnhit), is evidently explained by reference to the com- pressed form of the body, and the articulation of the legs around it. Some additional ganglia are met with in a few animals of the hmnognnglinte . group, which seem to represent rudimentary conditions of the sympathetic system, j 'These have been best observed in insects, and they are described under the name of stomatogastric ganglia. They are two or more in number, connected by deli- cate filaments with the cephalic ganglia ; and they give otf long nerves, which sup- i ply the digestive organs and the dorsal vessel, or heart, and which, in some in- stances, unite with small ganglia in the abdomen to be distributed on the viscera of that cavity. Of the Spinal Cord and Brain.—The cerehro-spiual centre is en- i closed in certain membranes or meninges, which are three in number; ?’ the dura mater, the arachnoid, and the pin mater. The dura mater consists of white fibrous tissue. It is thick, very strong, and flexible, without being elastic. Its fibres are dis- jposod on different planes, but freely intermingle. At certain situ- ations it separates into two layers to form the venous canals, which are called sinuses. The inner surface of the cranial cavity is covered by dura mater, which adheres closely to the bones, | and serves as an internal periosteum to them; and certain pro- cesses of the dura mater pass into the interior of the cranial cavity, dividing it into compartments, which contain certain segments of the encephalon. These processes are, 1. The falx cerebri, which ex- tends from the crista galli to the occiput along the line of the sagittal suture, and forms a vertical septum between the hemispheres of the brain. 2. The tentorium eerebelli, which is attached to the 'Occipital bone along the groove for the lateral sinus, and to the. posterior superior edge of the petrous bone. This process forms a vaulted roof to the compartment which contains the cerebellum, and extends between the upper surface of that organ and the 'inferior surface of the posterior cerebral lobes. In some animals, the cat, for instance, it is partially replaced by bone. 3. The falx eerebelli, a small nearly vertical process which descends from the internal occipital protuberance, and occupies the notch between the hemispheres of the cerebellum. In the spinal canal, the dura mater does not adhere to the inner 'Surface of the spinal bones as a periosteum. On the contrary, it is separated from it by a soft unctuous fat mixed with very numerous veins. It adheres pretty closely to the anterior common ligament which intervenes between it and the bodies of the vertebrae, and **cnis to bo continued from the cranial dura mater at the foramen magnum as a funnel-shaped process of that membrane adapted to th“ shape of the spinal canal. It ends in a blunted extremity in