[chap. VI. 146 LOCOMOTION. wards, and well suited by its rigidity to oppose bending; but on its upper surface the compact tissue is thin, and the reticular texture consists of somewhat arched fibres freely interwoven, running parallel to that surface, and disposed so as to present a surface to resist the direct influence of pressure (fig. 18, p. 102). The direction of the fibres of the reticular texture of the inferior part of the neck is chiefly downwards to the trochanter minor, and it seems to establish a communication between the osseous tissue of the head of the bone, and the dense structure which forms the lower part of the neck. The lower extremity of the femur is almost entirely composed of cancellated texture, and affords a broad surface, for articulation with the head of the tibia to form the knee-joint. As the tibia is placed vertically under it, it not only transfers the weight from above to that bone, but it is particularly exposed to suffer from concussions conveyed upwards by the tibia. Its structure seems disposed so as to facilitate the dispersion of such concussions, the sides of the condyles projecting considerably beyond the surface of the shaft of the bone, and there being but little continuity of tissue between it and the lower end of the bone. Of the bones of the leg, the tibia, from its strength and size, is evi- dently that which is destined to support the thigh : the fibula must be regarded as entirely accessory in its office, affording attachment to the interosseous ligament, and forming a greater extent of surface for the origin of muscles. By its lower extremity it supports the ankle-joint on the outside. The tibia rests upon the astragalus, and through that bone trans- mits the weight to the foot. The length of this organ, its breadth, and its arched form, adapt it as a basis of support for the body in the erect posture, and as an instrument of locomotion. It obtains elasticity, and a certain amount of mobility, from its being composed of several small and light bones articulated together. These bones, although almost entirely composed of reticular texture, possess con- siderable power of resistance to direct pressure in those directions in which the strain would chiefly bear in the movements of the organ, and this is to be attributed to the direction of the fibres of their cancellous tissue. The principal elasticity of the foot is lon- gitudinal, by reason of its arch being in that direction, resting upon the heel behind, and on the toes in front; but it also yields some- what in the transverse direction, or that of the arch formed by the cuneiform bones. The extension of the os calcis backwards not only adds to the length of the longitudinal arch, but it also affords a con- siderable leverage to the muscles of the calf of the leg.