[chap. VI. 138 LOCOMOTION. case there is rotation as perfect as in that just mentioned; but the head of the radius rolls in the ring, and the axis of motion is the axis of the head and neck of the bone. Some anatomists consider this joint a species of ginglymus, which they designate lateral. The terms Symphysis, Synchondrosis, Synneurosis, Syssarcosis, Meningosis, have been employed by anatomists to designate certain kinds of articulation, chiefly in reference to the nature of the con- necting media. Symphysis, although originally employed with great extent of meaning, seems to have been in later days applied exclusively to denote the articulations of the pelvis, which we have classed under Amphiarthrosis. AVe pass over the other terms, because they ought to be discarded from use, as only tending to encumber a vocabulary already too much crowded with difficult and unnecessary terms. Mechanism of the Skeleton.—We shall conclude this chapter with some remarks upon the mechanical disposition of the various parts of the skeleton, and their adaptation to the purposes they were destined to fulfil. The skeleton consists of the head, trunk, and extremities. The head is composed of a cavity, surrounded by osseous walls (cranium), destined to contain and protect the brain ; and of an ex- panded portion (the face), with which some of the organs of the senses are connected, and upon which the features are formed. The size of the cranium affords a good clue to determine the abso- lute size of the brain ; and the proportion of the face to it, offers a not inexact index of the relation which the intellectual faculties and the animal propensities bear to each other.* The spheroidal form of the cranium admirably adapts it for pro- tecting the organ which it contains against external violence. The arched form is that which possesses most strength, and offers the greatest resistance. When, says Dr. Arnott, we reflect on the strength displayed by the arched film of an egg-shell, we need not wonder at the severity of the blows which the cranium can with- stand. And he adds, in reference to the former, “ what hard blows of the spoon or knife are often required to penetrate this wonderful defence of a dormant life !” And this form, which gives so much strength to the skull, favours the transmission of vibrations along its walls, and thus saves the delicate viscus enclosed by them. Thus blows inflicted upon the cranium become diffused ; and sometimes See a good account of the comparative mensuration of the skull in Mr. Ward’s Outlines of Human Osteology.