1 ORGANIZED AND INTROD. I. Every living Being is organized,—that is, composed of different parts or organs, each of which lias its definite structure, by which it differs from other parts, and is capable of fulfilling a certain end. The complex matter, which enters into the composition of an or- ganized being, or organism, is termed organic matter, and is obtained by its proximate analysis. The ultimate analysis of this matter resolves it into elementary principles, such as constitute other objects of the universe. The various bodies that compose the mineral kingdom, do not exhibit the same distinctness, and variety of structure in their com- ponent parts, nor is there any adaptation of their parts to separate functions ; they are therefore called unorganized or inorganic, and chemical analysis resolves them into those simple elements which admit of no further subdivision. Organized bodies are found in two states or conditions. The one, that of life, is a state of action, or of capacity for action. The other, that of death, is one in which all vital action has ceased, and to which the disintegration of the organized body succeeds as a natural consequence. An organized body in a state of active life exhibits certain pro- cesses, by which its growth and nutrition are provided for, and which enable it to resist the destructive influence of surrounding agents —processes, the object of which is to promote the developc- raent, and to preserve the integrity of the body itself. The sim- plest animal, or vegetable, is an illustration of this remark. But there are organized bodies in which life may be said to be dormant. In these, no actions or processes can be observed, nor any change taking place: yet, if placed under certain favourable conditions, vital activity will soon become manifest. Of this, we have familiar examples in a seed, and in an egg. It is well known, that seeds will retain their form, size, and other properties for a very considerable period; and afterwards, if suitably circumstanced, will exhibit the process of germination as completely as if they had been only recently separated from the parent plant. Eggs, also, may be preserved for a long time without injury to the power of developement, or to the nutrition, of the embryo contained within them. It is worthy of observation, that those processes, which denote vital activity, may be sometimes temporarily suspended, even in fully formed animals and vegetables; and, in such instances, life may be said to become dormant. The privation of moisture is the ordinary cause of this interruption to the phenomena of life. In dry