FUNCTIONS OF THE CEREBELLUM. 361 chap, xi.] connected slightly indeed with the hemispheres of the brain, but most extensively with the mesocephale, the medulla oblongata, and the spinal cord. Now it is not unworthy of notice that its connexion with the brain proper is more immediately with that part which we regard as the centre of sensation; namely, with the optic thalami, through the processus cerebeili ad testes. And it cannot be doubted that the muscular sense materially assists in the co-ordination of movements. The cerebellum is connected with the medulla oblongata and spinal cord by the restiform bodies, and the posterior columns of the cord, and with the mesocephale by the fibres of the pons. Thus this organ is brought into union with each segment of the great nervous centre, upon which all the movements and sensations of the body depend. It would be difficult to con- ceive any other function for which so elaborate a provision would be necessary, excepting that of regulating and co-ordinating the infinitely complex movements which the muscular system is capable of effecting; more especially when it is plain that the antero-lateral columns of the cord and the anterior pyramids and olivary columns supply all the anatomical conditions which may be necessary for the developement of acts of sensation and volition. So far, then, we derive from experiment and from anatomy argu- ments highly favourable to Flourens" theory of the use of the cere- bellum. The results of pathological inquiry afford no satisfactory information on this point ; for so closely connected are the trans- verse fibres of the pons with the anterior pyramids in the meso- cephale, that the morbid influence of any deep-seated lesion of either hemisphere of the cerebellum is very readily transferred to that segment, and produces symptoms precisely resembling those of lesion of either cerebral hemisphere. The signs referable to cerebellar lesion are therefore obscured by those which result from the affection of the pyramidal bodies. A few cases, however, have been put on record in which a tottering gait, like that of a drunken man, and a defective power of co-ordination existed in connexion with a dis- eased state of cerebellum.* It remains for us to notice the celebrated theory of Gall, that the instinct of propagation has its seat in the cerebellum ; which, indeed, ; according to the author of the theory, and the majority of his followers «i the phrenological school, is exclusively devoted to that function. * Ami ml, Clin. Med. t. v. p. 428. u II