[chap. VII. 192 LOCOMOTION. of the spine, the voluntary power of the sphincters is lost, and the fbeces and urine pass involuntarily. Jiut this is no proof, as is com- monly imagined, that the ordinary contraction of the sphincter is an active one, performed in obedience to a continuous nervous stimulus. The difference is, that it can now induce no active con- traction through the nerves, to counteract temporarily, and in obedience to the will, the active contractions of the parts above, which are not under the influence of volition, and are not paralysed. Hence, ■whenever the feces are driven against it, it gives way, against the patient’s will, and (if the sensitive nerves are also para- lysed) without his knowledge. Contractions are called peristaltic or vermicular, which advance through a muscle in a slow and progressive manner. When ana- lysed closely, we shall find that they are only a variety of the active contraction already described. If a number of striped fibres are arranged in a long series, and are contracted in succession (as in caterpillars), the resulting movement is vermicular : but in the higher animals it is only in the hollow unstriped muscles that this variety of contraction occurs; and the best example of it is in the alimen- tary canal. On laying bare the intestines of an animal just killed, we observe successive waves of contraction advancing down the tube, and urgingits contents along. They appear to be rendered more active by the contact of the cold air; but may be re-excited, when they have almost subsided, by irritation of the sympathetic ganglia, from which the muscles are supplied with nerves. If a single point of the intestine be touched, a contraction presently occurs there, which moves onwards to a considerable distance, and is often suc- ceeded by others spontaneously arising. It is impossible not to remark the close similitude between these contractions and those visible by the microscope in the striped element- ary fibre. We have here on a large scale the wave-like character there exhibited. A contracting voluntary muscle exposed to view exhibits a tremulous motion, and it may be a question how far this may depend on numerous contractions strictly vermicular, affecting successive sets of fibres, but prevented, by their irregularity and want of coincidence through the whole muscle, from appearing so to the eye. When the pectoral muscle is struck, a knot-like con- traction often moves off in a slow manner in the direction of the fibres. Peristaltic contraction is coincident in a large number of contiguous fibres ; and its progressive character is more easily per- ceived in consequence of the arrangement of the fibres around a compressible cavity. The contraction appears more sluggish than