51 I’ROPERTIES OF TISSUES. 'll A P. I.] vail or nucleus into the ultimate elements of the tissues. The •ell-walls may be changed into a part, accessory to the complete exture, as the sarcolemma or sheath of the muscular fibre; but he further organizing process takes place on its outer or inner urface. And the nuclei, likewise, may be changed into parts, vhieh contribute to the nutrition of the tissue ; but not into its -ssential elements. These, it must be remarked, are always the oroduct of an ulterior organizing process, connected chiefly with the ell-wall. There seems reason to believe, that during the organizing pro- cess, which occurs simultaneously with the changes of the cell, a hemical alteration takes place; for the cells of cartilage some- times contain fat, and the cartilage of boue prior to ossification :uutains chondrine, but, after the ossific process, gelatine is found : . ml it is also stated, that the element which may be obtained from he young cells of areolar tissue is pyine ; whereas gelatine is yielded ivy the fully formed tissue. The formation of cells docs not cease with the infancy of the organism. These minute organic elements are most imjKirtant agents in various functions of the body at every period of its exist- ence. By them the secretions are separated; and it is not im- probable that they contribute largely7 to those changes in which utrition immediately consists. They are found floating in i in- tense numbers in the blood, as well as in the chyle and lymph ; ad, even in diseased secretions, as pus, they7 exist in great quan- tity. In the inflammatory process, they are formed in great abun- dance ; and in the malignant growths, which infest the body, so as i) manifest themselves at different parts of it, such as the various ; inns of cancer, the same organic forms are to be found. In short, Schleiden and Schwann have proved that the nucleated ell is the agent of most of the organic processes, whether in the lant or animal, from the separation of the embryo from its pa- ‘iit, to the dcvelopement, growth, and nutrition of the adult •dividual. Properties of the Timm.—The fully grow n tissues manifest dif- •rences among themselves, not merely by their anatomical cha- pters, but by their properties. These may be conveniently sub- ivided into physical and vital Strictly speaking, this is a dis- ruption without a difference, for doubtless all the properties of nimal tissues may be ascribed to the peculiar arrangement of their articles, and are, therefore, physical. Our reasons for adopting the ivision will appear in explaining the nature of these properties.