INNERVATION. [chap. XI. 380 of frogs’ legs prepared in the same way. The legs were placed on an insulating plane, so that the nerves of one touched the feet of the next, and so on. It is necessary that the extremities of this pile should be plunged into capsules filled with water. Or a pile may be made with a series of capsules containing water con- nected together by frogs’ legs; the nerves being placed in one, and the feet in the next. With such piles a deviation of the needle to the extent of 60° may be ob- tained ; or to a much greater extent, if, instead of distilled water, a weak solution of salt be employed to fill the capsules ; or still more, if the fluid of the capsules be slightly acid. In all these experiments the direction of the electric current was found to be constant, from the feet to the head. At the same time that the needle was made to deviate, the frogs’ legs, whatever be the number constituting the pile, are thrown into contraction. It is not necessary for the production of the phenomena that the several legs should touch one another; it will suffice if they he connected by a conducting material, such as a skein of cotton moistened, wire, wet paper, or even water. Nobili found that these signs of an electric current continued for many hours after the preparation of the animal. He distinguished the current by the title of le courant de la grenouille, ou courant propre; and he attributed it to a thermo- electric current caused by the unequal cooling of the nerve and muscle produced by evaporation. It is evident that the experiment of Nobili is essentially the same as the original one of Galvani.- In the latter, the electric current was brought to act upon the nerves of the limb ; in the former, upon the galvanometer. The galvanoscopic frog may be used as a test of the electric current when No- bili’s arrangement is preserved. If the extremes of the pile be connected by the nerve of the galvanoscopic limb, the instant the circuit is completed, its muscles will contract ; and, as in other experiments witfi the galvanoscopic frog, we may determine the direction of the current when the frog becomes a little weakened. Matteucci gives the name “ contraction propre,> to the contraction of the muscles which takes place in the frogs’ legs, whether used singly or as a pile, at the same time that the deviation of the needle occurs. In order to obtain this phenomenon, the lumbar nerves must not be plunged completely in the water ; otherwise the proper current circulates without passing through the nerves, and consequently the contractions do not take place, or are extremely feeble. These contractions continue, generally, only for ten or fifteen minutes, but rarely for half an hour after preparation. Nobili has stated, that in arranging the frogs, so that the nerves of one touched those of the other, or the muscles came in contact with muscles, no contractions ensued, because, as he explained, the electromotor elements were opposed. In Matteucci's hands, however, such a result was not obtained. If care be taken not to oppose to each other the nerves or muscles of symmetrical parts, contraction will always ensue. The following is Matteucci’s mode of shewing this remarkuble experiment. The limbs of a frog are prepared in the ordinary way ; but, in addition, the heads of the thigh-bones and the ilium are completely removed, so as to leave the legs connected to each other only by the nerves, through the portion of the cord which is contained in the segment of the spine which remains. The