44 IMPORTANCE OF A MIXED DIET. CHAP. I. from time to time, together with a due proportion of water; and as the human body is composed of a variety of textures, differ- ing in their chemical composition, so a variety of food is required for its perfect nourishment. This statement, which appears most reasonable prior to experience, is fully borne out by the results of the various experiments on the nutritive power of different sub- stances, from the time of Papin to the present day. No one proximate principle is of itself adequate to support life : if any such substance be administered alone to animals, they will perish sooner or later, with signs of waste and destruction in various textures. This had been long ago ascertained respecting gelatine ; but a commission appointed by the French Academy have lately reported that it applies equally to albumen, caseine, or fibrine, if employed alone; and that neither animals nor man should be restricted to any course of diet, which does not contain all the proximate elements of their frame. These facts should be made known to, and impressed upon all, whose position in society leads them to superintend the adminis- tration of food to a number of human beings congregated in prisons, workhouses, or other public institutions. A complex machine, made tip of many different kinds of substances, requires for its repair a corresponding variety of materials. The fabric of man’s body is a piece of mechanism compounded of divers parts, de- rived from albumen, fibrine, gelatine, &c.; and the material, which is to supply the wear and tear that continually go on in it, ought to contain these substances. It is even more important for suffi- cient nourishment that attention should be paid to the quality than to the quantity of the food administered. By the function of digestion, a fluid {the chyle) is prepared, which contains those constituents of the food that are adapted to nourish the body, and the first step of the nutrient process consists in the addition of this new supply of nutritious material to the blood. A further stage of this process is that whereby the several proximate principles are separated in order to be applied to the support of their appropriate textures; as albumen, to the albuminous tissues ; fibrine, to the fibrinous. These two principles have already appeared in the chyle, and pass with it into the blood-vessels, in which all the changes necessary to nutrition take place. It is pro- bable that gelatine is formed in the blood, but is attracted from it by its proper tissues immediately upon its formation, so that it does not accumulate in it; and this accounts for our not being able