< n.u\ is.] NERVOUS AND ELECTRICAL FORCES COMPARED. 241 forces. We must not, however, omit to notice the following points, . in which the analogy does not hold good. In the developement of i nervous power, there is nothing, so tar as our present anatomical j knowledge enables us to decide, resembling that completion of the , circuit, which is the necessary prelude to galvanic action, or the i interruption of it, which is followed by the cessation of that action. The mental or physical stimulus, which must he regarded as a ' neccssarv element in every nervous action, stands in lieu of the m ► , former; but how it could accomplish the completion of a nervous ■ circuit is a question at present involved in the greatest obscurity. It is, indeed, a favourite notion with some, that the looped arrange- ment of the peripheral nerve-fibres, in muscles and on some sentient surfaces, forms part of a nervous arc, which is completed at the centre ; nor is it impossible to conceive a mechanism by which the ■ completion or interruption necessary for the developement or the ■ stoppage of the nervous power might be accomplished. I tut it would be hazardous to speculate on such a subject until anatomical research has revealed to us more information respecting the exact disposition of the elements of the vesicular matter. The gelatinous fibres appear to want the provision which we have noticed in those of the tubular kind for insulating the nervous power. They supply the unstriped muscular tibres, which probably require a stimulus less definite, as well as of less intensity, than that necessary to excite ami regulate the action of the striped fibres. This difference of character in the conducting fibres is worthy of note in making comparison between the respective modes of action of the nervous and electric forces. We come now to inquire whether, by means of the ordinary tests I for electricity mentioned in a former page, we can obtain any evi- [ deuce of the identity of the nervous and electrical forces. The results of experiment certainly afford no support to the advocates of \ the electrical theory ; and indeed it will be seen that there are diffi- culties in the way of obtaining the necessary conditions for a satis- factory result, which of themselves invalidate the experiments which have been reported to prove favourable to that theory. Attempts have been made to affect the galvanometer by bringing r the nerves of living animals into connexion with it. This is done by inserting wires into the exposed nerve, and attaching their op|»o- ! site extremities to the galvanometer. When the nervous power is [ excited so as to cause muscular contraction, the needle, it is said, is deflected.* The experiment, however, has failed in the hands of * Duviil, quotes! by Mfiller, j». 0s.r>.