UPPER EXTREMITY. 147 CflAP. VI.] Upper extremity.—The disposition and structure of the bones of the upper extremity afford a marked contrast to those of thb lower. The latter are organs of support, and therefore are solid, firm, - strong, and, withal, elastic. The former are destined to perform extended motions, .os well as minute and nicely adjusted ones ; and, therefore, while they possess all the requisite strength, they are light, present little expanse of surface, and are articulated by uumerons very moveable articulations. The scapula and clavicle are the media through which the bones of the arm are united to the trunk. The former bone is remark- ably thin and light, and seems little more than a surface of attach- ment for various muscles, on whose actions the extensive movements of the arm depend. By the clavicle it is connected to the ster- num, through the sterno-clavicular articulation, the movements of which, although occurring only in two planes, intersecting each other at right angles, are such as to favour a wide range of motion in the shoulder. So necessary is this joint to the general movements of the shoulder, that any injury or disease of it, or of the bone itself, ‘shews itself speedily in the impediment offered to those move- ments. And the law of the developcment of this Ixmc in the lower animals is clearly connected with a necessity for a wide range of motion in the anterior extremity. In those animals that employ the anterior extremity only as an instrument of progressive motion, there is no clavicle; hence this lM>ne is absent from the skeletons of Pachydormata, Ruminantia, Solipeda, and the motions of the shoulder are only such as may be required for the flexion and extension of the limb. In the Carnivora, where there is a slight increase in the range of motion of the anterior extremities, a rudi- mentary clavicle exists; and in this class we observe that the size of the bone bears a direct relation to the extent of motion enjoyed by the limb. Thus it is smallest in the dogs, and largest in the cats : in these animals it has no attachment to either the sternum or the -copula, but is enclosed in the flesh, and does not occupv much Ifinore than half the space between the two bones last named. “But however imperfect,'" says Sir C. Bell, “it marks a correspondence m the bones of the shoulder to those of the arm and paw, and the extent of the motion enjoyed. When the bear stands up, we per- | ceivt*, by his ungainly attitude, and the motion of his paws, that \ there must be a wide difference in the bones of his upper extremity I from those of the ruminant or soliped ; he can take the keeper’s I ^'af from his head, and hold it; he can hug an animal to ■ death. 1 he ant-bear, especially, as he is deficient in teeth, pos- L 2