230 CHAPTER IX. VITAL PROPERTIES OF NERVES AND NERVOUS CENTRES. CLASSIFICATION OF NERVES ACCORDING TO THE VITAL ENDOWMENTS OF THEIR FIBRES. STIMULI OF NERVOUS ACTION, MENTAL AND PHYSICAL. VIS NER- VOSA ITS NATURE ; IS IT ELECTRICAL ? Of the Vital Properties of Nerves and Nervous Centres.—There are no textures which exhibit sucli proneness to molecular change, under the influence of their proper stimuli, as nerve and muscle. It lias already been stated in the first chapter (p. 5G), that each of these tissues manifests its vital action in a different, although a very analogous way. Muscles, while they are capable of responding to other stimuli, almost invariably act in obedience to that of nerve; and the changes which muscular contraction produces are obvious to our unaided senses in the shortening of the muscle, and in its greater thickness and hardness. Even the alterations in the con- dition of its sarcous elements may be discerned by the micro- scope, and have been described at page 179. The changes, however, which take place in nerve, when in ac- tion, are known to us only by the effects which they produce on the sentient mind or on muscular parts. There is no alteration in the physical appearance of the nerve or its fibres, which can be detected by our aided or unaided vision. Yet, from the rapi- dity with which stimuli applied to nerves produce their effects on distant muscular parts, from the instantaneous cessation of these effects on the removal of the stimulus, and the speedy renewal of them on its reapplication, we can refer the phenomena to nothing so well as to a molecular change, rapidly propagated along the course of the nerve from the point of application of the stimulus. And in the instantaneousness of its production, and the velo- city of its propagation, we may compare it to that remarkable change in the particles of a piece of soft iron, in virtue of which it acquires the properties of a magnet so long as it is maintained in a certain relation to a galvanic current; these properties being instantaneously communicated when the circuit is completed, and as instantaneously removed when it is broken. A state of polarity