175 tcHAP. vii.] STIMULI TO MUSCULAR CONTRACTION. :is a hair or a piece of dust, may be included by design or accident in the field of the microscope, so as to touch the side of a fibre at a >• single point. When this happens, the fibre will often exhibit a, contraction, so plainly limited to the point touched, as to give un- equivocal proof of its being the result of the irritation of pressure. L Chemical substances may be seen to act similarly, if they be not so powerful as to destroy the texture of the part: and it is probable •that electricity has a like agency. These interesting phenomena omjiv be observed more or less satisfactorily in all animals whose :fibres retain their contractility for a sufficient length of time after removal from the body; and the crab and lobster will be found very favourably adapted for the purpose. In many reptiles, and fish also, the steps occur slowly enough to be adequately scru- t tinized. The facts in question can admit only of one explanation, if it be conceded that the muscular tissue has been here separated from the nervous : and certainly that separation has been effected, unless the nervous tubules send off from their terminal loops a set of fibrils which penetrate the sarcolemma. and diffuse themselves through the contractile material w ithin ; a supposition for which there exists, at present, no foundation in the observations of the most diligent investigators of this subject. They will, therefore, probably, be regarded as conclusive proof that contractility is a property inherent in the very structure of muscle, and capable of being excited to action independently of the instrumentality of nerves. An interesting phenomenon has been pointed out by Dr. Stokes, which, when illustrated by the foregoing observations, we may safely consider as an example of contraction iu the living body in answer to a physical stimulus. In various cases of phthisis, and, indeed, iu all cases attended with emaciation, a sharp tap with tin* fingers on any muscular part is instantly followed by a contraction, and by the rise of a defined firm swelling, at the point struck, enduring several seconds before it gradually subsides. This is often so prominent as to throw a shadow along the skin, and for the moment it might almost be mistaken for a solid tumour. That it is limited to the point struck is full proof of its being a direct effect of the irritation, and not produced through the medium of nerves; for a contraction excited in the hitter mode would he diffused over the dividing the muscular fibre before it baa become rigid, and immersing it in spring water. A small jmrt treated in this manner contracts and hardens within five minutes, —Mayo, Physiol, p. 38. It exhausts contractility by inducing violent contraction, by which the fibre is often disorganized.