408 .. INNERVATION. [chap. xiv. their bodies, from the medium in which they live, are provided with a cutis of extraordinary toughness and density, as well as with a growth of subcutaneous fat, called blubber, of prodigious thickness. Fat occurs very generally in the subcutaneous areolar tissue, serving as a soft bed on which the skin may rest, and giving round- ness and symmetry to the outline of the body. It is on the exterior surface of the cutis that the tactile papilla: arc developed; and it is here to be remarked that there is no neces- sary relation between the degree of their developement, and of that either of the dermoid framework which supports, or the cuticle which covers them. It is true that in the palm and sole all these attain a large size, hut, in the back, the tactile organ is well-nigh absent, though the cutis is dense; and in the tongue, on the con- trary, this organ is highly developed, while the areolar framework is nothing more than a very thin expansion; and the investment of cuticle is so thin that the papillae form separate projections from the surface. On the buccal surface of the lips and cheeks, too, the cuticle is comparatively thin. In all parts of the cutaneous surface, as well as in some portions of the internal mucous tracts, common sensation exists, attended with a feeble discriminating power, which must he regarded as the lowest condition of the sense of touch ; but the organ peculiarly fitted for receiving tactile impressions is concentrated in a very remarkable manner in certain portions of the integument, which in other respects, whether from the precise and varied movements they can perform, or from their peculiar position, are the best adapted to be inlets of this kind of sensation. The palmar surface of the hand and fingers, or the sole of the foot, may he selected for description, as presenting the most highly developed form of the organ of touch. The integument in these regions is finely and regularly furrowed by grooves, separated from one another by corresponding ridges. The direction of these grooves and ridges is various; they run in sweeping curves, frequently branch to adapt themselves to the inequalities of the general surface, and differ somewhat in width and distinctness. These lines indicate the arrangement and develope- ment of the tactile organ below. Each ridge is produced by a single or double row of elongated conical processes, termed papilla), projecting from the surface of the cutis into the epidermis. The grooves are occasioned by the epidermis sinking in to occupy the intervals between the rows of papillae. The papilla) in each row are usually arranged in pairs, the intervals between which are