> CHAP, hi.] AREOLAR TISSUE. 73 {the proper coat of the arteries, and it will be described with the Wood- vessels. In chemical constitution, this tissue differs remarkably from the white fibrous tissue. It is unaffected by the weaker acids, or by boiling, and will resist putrefaction, and preserve its elasticity during a very long period. Very long boiling appears to extract from it a minute quantity of a substance allied to gelatine ; but this is perhaps derived from the areolar tissue and vessels, which always penetrate sparingly among its fibres, and cannot be sepa- rated by dissection. There appear to be no vestiges of the nuclei of cells in this : tissue ; at least, we have failed to detect them. We have hitherto spoken of the two forms of fibrous tissue as they occur in isolated masses ; but their distribution through the • body is far more extensive than this description would imply. In a diffused form, blended with one another in very varying propor- tions, and each one of them presenting a variety of modifications, they compose the areolar tissue, which may now be conveniently considered under a separate head. OF THE AREOLAR TISSUE. ( Cellular or Filamentous Tissue.) This is very widely dispersed among the other tissues of the body, and of itself constitutes a principal portion of some organs. It serves the most important purposes in the construction of the body, by binding together, and yet allowing movement between, its elementary parts; and it contributes largely to the formation of membranes conferring protection by their toughness, resistance, and elasticity. Microscopic characters.—When a fragment of the areolar tissue from a favourable situation is examined, it presents an inextricable interlacement of tortuous and wavy threads intersecting one another in every possible direction. They are of two kinds. The first are chiefly in the form of bands of very unequal thickness, and inelastic. Numerous streaks are visible in them, pot usually parallel with the border, though taking a general longitudinal direction. These streaks, like the bands themselves, have a wavy character, but they are rendered straight by being stretched. The streaks seem