296 CHAI>. X. INNERVATION. arteries anti veins can also be admirably studied in the pia mater of the brain. The venous blood is collected into small veins, which are formed in the pia mater at various parts of the surface, and in the interior of the brain. The superficial veins open by short trunks into veins of the dura mater, or into the neighbouring sinuses ; the superior longitudinal, the lateral, and the strait sinuses receiving the greatest number. Those from the interior form two trunks, vena magna Galeni, which pass out from the ventricles between the layers of the velum interpositum. The cerebral veins are devoid of valves. We remark here, that the venous blood of the brain is returned to the centre of the circulation through the same channels as that of the dura mater, of the cranial bones, and of the eyeball: the deep jugular veins are the outlets by which the venous blood of the cranium is discharged. An obstacle, therefore, in both or either of these trunks must affect the entire venous system of the brain, or at least that of the corresponding hemisphere. A ligature tied tightly round the neck impedes the circulation, and may cause congestion of the brain. The bodies of criminals who have died by hanging exhibit great venous congestion, both of the walls and the contents of the cranium, in consequence of the strong compression to which the veins have been submitted. We have seen, that, when the blood of one carotid artery is cut off, the parts usually supplied by it are apt to become exsangueous and softened ; and this is more especially the case if the vertebral be also impacted, or the circulation in it impeded. And it has been remarked, that these effects will follow the application of a ligature to either common carotid artery. Notwithstanding these facts, a doctrine has received very general assent, and the support of men of high reputation, which affirms that the absolute quantity of blood in the brain cannot vary, be- cause that organ is incompressible, and is enclosed in a spheroidal case of bone, by which it is completely exempted from the pressure of the atmosphere. The cranium, however, although spheroidal, is not a perfectly solid case, but is perforated by very numerous foramina, both ex- ternal and internal, by which large venous canals in the diploe of the bones communicate with the circulation of the integuments of the head as well as with that of the brain; so that the one cannot be materially affected without the other suffering likewise. And as the circulation in the integuments is not removed from atmospheric pressure, neither can that which is so closely connected