CHAP. X •J 257 THE SPINAL CORD. Fig. 66. k. a P B 1 the sides and front of that half of the cord, limited in front by the anterior fissure, and posteriorly by the posterior horn. The pos- terior column is situated behind the posterior horn of gray matter, and is separated from its fellow of the opposite side by the posterior fissure. The antero-lateral columns are united across the middle line by the anterior or white commissure; the gray crescents, by the posterior or gray commissure ; while the pos- terior columns are not connected, except where the posterior fissure is imperfect or deficient. In the different regions of the cord great va- riety exists as regards the quantity of gray and white matter, and the disposition of the lateral portions of the former. There seems to be a much greater proportion of gray matter to white in the lumbar, than in the cervical or dorsal region of the cord. In the cervical region the crescentic portions are small, and the white mat- ter is abundant. That portion of the white sub- stance which is placed between the posterior gray horns, is augmented by the existence of two small columns (posterior pyramids), which ex- tend from the medulla oblongata into this re- gion. In the dorsal region the gray matter is at its minimum of developement, and the white matter is likewise small in quantity. The dimi- nution in the quantity of the latter appears more striking as affects the antero-lateral, than the posterior columns. In the lumbar region both the horns of the gray matter are manifestly thicker, and the stellate character of the anterior horn is well marked. Towards the inferior ex- tremity of the cord the white matter appears gradually to cease, leaving the gray to form the principal constituent, until in the commence- ment of the filiform process it is found alone (fig. 66). The roots of the spinal nerves emerge from the cord on each side along two lines which are separated by the ligamentum dentatum. The posterior line corresponds to the margin of the posterior horn of gray matter, the anterior one is placed about midway between it and the anterior fissure. When the roots of D F Tnmrene sections of the spinal cord:—a. Immediate- ly below the decussation of the pyramids, b At middle of cervical bulb. c. Midway between cervical and lumbar bulbs, d. Lumbar bulb. b. An inch lower, r. Very near the lower end. a. Anterior surface p. Posterior surface. The point* of emergence of the anterior and posterior root* of the nerves are also seen.