TI1E NERVOUS FORCE. CHAP. IX.] 235 stimulus applied to parts which derive their nerves from it below the separation. And the reason is obvious; the solution of conti- nuity of the nerve interrupts the propagation of the change which the mental or physical stimulus excites in it. In the case of the voluntary nerve, the mental stimulus is propagated no further peripheral! than the point of section ; and in that of the sensitive nerve, the change travels no further centrad than the game point. That the interruption is caused solely by the solution of continuity, and not by any alteration in the properties of the nerve, is proved by the fact that the lower segment of the motor nerve will still continue to respond to a physical stimulus. Mechanical or chemical irrita- tion, or the passage of an electric current across it, will cause its muscles to contract. Such a degree of injury to a nerve as will destroy the continuity of the nervous matter within the tubular fibres is likewise sufficient to destroy its power as a propagator of uervou8 change. This effect will he produced by tying a liga- ture very tightly round a nerve, or by pressing it very forcibly between the blades of a forceps. The paralysis which results from the compression of a nerve by a tumor, or in any other wav, is no doubt due to a similar solution of continuity in the nervous matter. From these facts we draw the important inference that, in propa- gating the influence of a stimulus, either from periphery to centre, or rice versa, nerves are not mere passive conductors. The whole extent of the fibre between the point stimulated and its peripheral or central connexion is the seat of change. How necessary, then, to the normal action of nerves must it be to preserve their physical condition in a healthy state ! A morbid fluid impregnating a nerve at any point may irritate it, or may suspend or destroy its inherent property by modifying its nutrition. It is thus, likewise, that nerves may be paralysed by soaking them in a solution of opium, or of belladonna, aconite, tobacco, or other powerfully seda- tive or narcotic substances, or that they may be unduly excited by applying a solution of strychnia. The contact of a solid body with a nerve may irritate and keep up a continual state of excitement, if it do not destroy its properties. A spicula of hone in contact with nervous fibres is often the cause of the severest forms of neuralgia. That alteration of nutrition which we call inflammation may pro- duce like effects. Various physical agents are followed bv similar consequences. The benumbing influence of cold is explained in this wav. Exposure to a continuous draught of cold air is a frequent cause of facial paralysis. How instantaneously will the giving