14 LIFE.—VITAL STIMULI. [ INTKOD. chemical affinity, each has its share in promoting the functions in the play of which Life consists ; all are more or less necessary to the integrity of these actions; and it is contrary to experience to suppose that Life can be manifested without their co-operation. Yet we cannot say that Life is produced by, or is the result of, these agencies. It is equally contrary to experience to find the manifestation of Life in other than organized bodies. Nevertheless, it cannot be affirmed that organization is the cause of Life, for without the other agents no vital action occurs, and it has already been shewn that the organization of new matter is effected only by living bodies. The mutual co-operation of organized matter with the forces at work in the inorganic world, is necessary to the de- velopement of vital phenomena. The term Life, then, may be regarded as denoting an ultimate fact in science, which may be thus expressed; that certain com- pounds of matter—which, as being artfully arranged in a particular form for a special end, and associated together by a certain me- chanism, arc called organized—do, by their co-operation with phy- sical and chemical forces, manifest a train of phenomena, which are of the same, or of an analogous kind, for all organized beings; that is to say, they manifest the phenomena of Life. All organized substances, capable of thus co-operating with the other natural agencies, are called living ; and, although they may not be posi- tively in action, they are yet alive, as being ready to act when the complementary conditions to vital action shall be supplied to them. Thus the seed is alive, although not in action ; but, immediately it is brought into contact with moisture and heat, life is manifested. Hence these agents, moisture, heat, light, &c. are said to act as vital stimuli. The organic matter, in becoming part of a living machine, acquires certain properties, very different from what it possessed before ; these are called vital properties: they continue as long as the organization remains unchanged. For example, a certain proximate element is organized to form muscle; it then acquires the property of contractility, which it retains during life. According to our experience, organic matter derives vital pro- perties in by far the majority of instances, and probably in all, from a previously existing organism. The egg, while within the body of the mother, acquires vital properties ; and it manifests an inde- pendent life when it is laid, it the requisite conditions (vital stimuli) are then supplied. Thus is life transmitted from one living being to another; and the life of a present generation of animals and plants has its source in that of a previous generation. If we trace