THE CUTIS. •] 407 CHAP. XIV it is probably this element also which is principally concerned in the changes the skin undergoes during the process of tanning. The varieties in the qualities of different skins for this purpose might be explained by a reference to these two varying elements of their fibrous framework. In the museum of King’s College is a specimen of excellent leather tanned from the skin of Bishop, one of the murderers of the Italian boy, who fell a victim to the infamous sys- tem of “ Burking” many years since. Some anatomists have thought that the contractility of the skin, manifested under the influence of cold, and even under certain emo- tions, is due to the existence of peculiar fibres; and Gerber has very recently figured what he considers to be such fibres. He de- scribes them as begirting the hair-bulbs. There is good reason for believing that these fibres, if they exist, do not essentially differ from those of unstriped muscle; for in the dartos we have found the latter intermingled with an abundant and lax areolar tissue; and the close resemblance between the contrac- tion of the scrotal membrane and that of the skin has been gene- rally recognized. In fact, the dartos seems to be nothing more than a modification of the dermoid and subdermoid tissue, of which the principal peculiarities are the excess of this form of muscle, the laxity of the meshes, and the absence of fat. It is probable, also, that the phenomenon of “erection” of the nipple is due to the con- traction of similar fibres.* The thickness and strength of the cutis, or areolar frameirork of the skin, differ greatly in different parts, according to the amount of resistance required against internal or external pressure. On the hinder surface of the body it is denser than in front, and on the outer than on the inner surfaces of the limbs. It is usually thin over the flexures of the joints. It is particularly delicate on the eyelids, and proj>ortionally so in some other situations, where great mobility is demanded. In regions which are most subject to ex- ternal pressure, as the soles of the feet, it is firmly united by very dense lam in® to the subcutaneous fascia ; and the intervals between these are provided with pellets of fat, forming a cushion, as an ad- ditional means of protection to the delicate organs it encloses and covers. Among the lower animals we may notice numberless examples of an analogous kind. One of the most striking is that of the great whales, which, being liable to enormous pressure on the surface of * Cyclop, of Annt. and 1‘hys. vol. iii. j« 618.