262 INNERVATION. [chap. x. however, who preserve their intellectual vigour to a very advanced period of life, and in such persons, doubtless, the brain does not ex- hibit any evidence of shrinking. It is during the period of greatest 5 mental activity and power that the brain acquires and maintains its highest point of developement, that is, between the ages of twenty and sixty. Whilst there is an evident connexion between a large quantity of cerebral matter, and a highly developed intellect, the quality of the mind and that of the brain substance may also be supposed to have a close relation to each other. For great power of action a large muscle is needed, but for vigorous and well-adjusted muscular movement a certain quality of fibre is also necessary to give full scope to the nervous power (see pp. 185—8—90). It is impossible to determine what this peculiarity in quality is, but some idea of the great influence which it may possess in the exercise of the two great vital forces, the muscular and nervous, may be gained from comparing the energy and action of a well-bred horse with those of one which, in the language of the turf, shews little or no breed- ing. The actual amount of muscular or nervous fibre may be the same in both, or it may he less in the horse of good breeding than in the other, yet the former does his work and endures fatigue better. The nature of the connexion between the mind and nervous mat- ter has ever been, and must continue to be, the deepest mystery in physiology ; and they who study the laws of Nature, as ordi- nances of God, will regard it as one of those secrets of his coun- sels “ which Angels desire to look into.”* The individual ex- perience of every thoughtful person, in addition to the inferences deducible from revealed Truth, affords convincing evidence that the mind can work apart from matter, and we have many proofs to shew that the neglect of mental cultivation may lead to an im- paired state of cerebral nutrition; or on the other hand, that diseased action of the brain may injure or destroy the powers of the mind. These are fundamental truths of vast importance to the student of mental pathology as well as of physiology. It may be readily understood that mental and physical developement should go hand in hand together, and mutually assist each other; but wre are not, therefore, authorized to conclude that mental action results from the physical working of the brain. The strings of the harp, set in motion by a skilful performer, will produce * The admirable chapter in Bp. Butler’s Analogy, “ Of a Future Life,” cannot be too attentively studied in reference to this subject. — ... _ .