chap, xi.] FUNCTIONS OF THE OPTIC TIIALAMI. 349 Mageudie. Removal of the corpus striatum of one side caused w eakness of the opposite side. In order to form a due estimate of these experiments, it must be borne in mind, that the effects of simple excision of either corpus striatum would be very different from those of disease of it. The depressing effects of the latter w'ould be absent, at least, until some alteration in the process of nutrition had been set up in the mutilated parts. Simple excision of the centre of volition, and inflammatory disease ot its substance, or an apoplectic clot, must produce essen- tially different effects;—the one simply cuts oft' the influence of the will, the other affects the vital action, and, consequently, the vital power of the centre, and of the commissural fibres connected with it. Judging from structure only, it might be conjectured that the locus niger, that remarkable mass of vesicular matter which sepa- rates the anterior and posterior planes of each crus cerebri, exerts a motor influence. It resembles in structure the anterior horns of the gray matter of the coni, and contains numerous large caudate vesicles with very abundant pigment. Optic Thalami.—The same line of argument which leads us to view the corpora striata as the more essential parts of the nervous apparatus which control direct voluntary movements, suggests that the optic thalami may be viewed as the principal foci of sensibility, without which the mind could not perceive the physical change resulting from a sensitive impression. The principal anatomical fact which favours this conclusion, is the connexion of all the nerves of pure sense, more or less directly, with the optic thalami or with the olivary columns. The olfactory processes, which apparently have no connexion with them, form, no doubt, through the fornix, such an union with them, as readily to bring them within the influence of the olfactory nerves. According to this sense of its office, we most regard the optic thalami as the upper and chief portions of an extended centre, of w hich the lower part is formed by the olivary columns, which we have already referred to as taking part in the mechanism of sensation. The continuity of the olivary columns w ith the optic thalami jus- tifies this view : nor is it invalidated by the fact, that some of the nerves which arise from the medulla oblongata are motor in function; for Stilling’s researches render it probable that these fibres have their origin in special accumulations of vesicular matter, w hich contain caudate vesicles of the same kind as those found in the anterior horns of the gray matter of the cord. (See fig. 70.)