153 HAP. VII.] STRIPED MUSCLE. dde of the dark points seen on the separated fibrilla'; hut some ‘believe these stripes to he present only on the surface of the fibre, and to be formed by the spiral windings of a filament. Consider- - able diversity of opinion also exists as to the nature of the alternate light and dark points seen on the individual fibrilhe ; some con- ceiving them to indicate a single spiral, others a double spiral arrangement; some imagining them to be minute zigzag bendings, : others indentations, and others still that they depend on the alter- nation of two kinds of substance. On this account we shall explain ; in a few words our reasons for adopting the view above sum- marily given. A soft mass made up of an immense congeries of highly refracting particles cannot but exhibit many deceptive appearances when viewed by transmitted light, and through glasses of bad defining power. The slightest disturbance of its interior ^structure will affect the refractions, which will thus be readily t made to disguise and modify the true form and arrangement of its integrant parts; on which account great care and circumspection, jaud a total freedom from bias, are requisite for an observer who would not be misled to mistake appearances for realities. That the stripes are not caused by a structure distinct from the fibrilhe. and present only on the surface of the fibre, is evident rom the following facts: 1. That a transverse section of a fibre diews it to be solid, and not hollow ; nul that the ends of fibrilhe, as soon on the section, exist throughout its inte- rior just as on its surface (fig. 38). 2. That fibrilla1 taken from any part bf a fibre are marked with light and lark points, corresponding in distauce and force with the transverse stripes of the fibre. 3. That with a high magnifying "Power, applied to a thick fibre, we may , , ,. . 1 1 » . . . J °f nwre i* al*o wen, m» well a* the wring all parts of its interior into focus C*pill«y vessels, «, in the intervals. m succession, and perceive throughout the same kind of stripes. The occasional appearance, therefore, of these stripes being con- fined to the surface is deceptive. They are sometimes more strongly marked there, partly because there is a greater condensation of the hssue there, and partly from the circumstance of the fibre being usually immersed, when examined, in a fluid of less density than itself, This appearance is always greatly diminished by placing Fig. 39. Transverse section of three elementary fibres of the dried pectoral muscle of the Teal i Qiu-rqurduUt crerra), treated with weak citric acid; shewing the round re- fracting particle* separated from one an- other. The cut edge of the tubular sbeatb