LOCOMOTION. [chap. III. Fig. 5. t Reparation and Reproduction.—When a solution of continuity takes place in white fibrous tissue, it readily heals by the interposi- tion of a new substance, every way similar to the original tissue, excepting that it wants its peculiar glistening aspect, and is more bulky and transparent.* 2. Yellow Fibrous Tissue.—In colour, and in the possession of elasticity to a remarkable extent, this tissue differs manifestly from that last described. It is yellow : disposed in bundles of fibres, and covered by a thin sheath of areolar tissue, which likewise sinks in among its fibres. In man it exists in the fascicular, funicular, and membranous forms. Under the microscope we observe it to consist of fibres, round in some, flattened in other spe- cimens. These fibres are very variable in diame- ter, usually from sdrsv to of an inch in diameter. They bifurcate, or even divide into three; and the sum of the diameters of the branches considerably exceeds the diameter of the trunk. They anastomose freely with each other. They are prone to break under manipulation, and the broken extremities are abrupt and disposed to curl up: when many of these broken ends exist branchedtogether in the same piece, they give it a very outline!'Ln^abrapunode peculiar and characteristic appearance. Yellow fibrous tissue. structureTs nofdisturb- In the human subject we find this tissue em- spedmen!1— Magnified ployed in the spine, as the ligamenta subjlava, extended between the lamina? of the vertebrae; in the larynx, forming the thyro-hyoid and crieo-thyroid membranes, and the chordae vocales ; and in the trachea, forming the longitudi- nal or elastic hands of that tube, and of its branches. The internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw, the stylo-hyoid ligament, and the transversalis fascia of the abdomen, are also, in a great measure, composed of it. Among the lower animals it is very extensively used for mechanical purposes, of which there is a familiar instance in the ligamentum nucha of quadrupeds. Its great elasticity fits it for restoring parts after they have been moved by muscular action. Hence it is generally employed to supply an antagonist force to the muscular. A peculiar modification of the yellow fibrous tissue composes \\ e have ascertained this in the ease of a divided tendo Achillis.