chap, xi.] MANY ACTIONS NEED A DOUBLE STIMULUS. 333 will produce the same movements which previously were excited by voluntary impulse. Thus, tickling the soles of the feet, in a person asleep excites movements which doubtless are of the reflex kind ; but the same stimulation, in a person awake, will give rise to precisely the same movements, which he is conscious are, at least in a great degree, voluntary. Some reflex actions arc imperfectly controllable by the will; of which the contraction of the pupil, and the movement of deglutition at the isthmus faucium, are examples. It is remarkable, however, that the will may give rise to these actions by associating others with them : the pupil may be contracted at will, by directing the eye inwards; and the fauces may be contracted by bringing some saliva in contact with them. In the latter case, the stimulus of vo- lition alone is not sufficient to excite the movement ; the addition of a physical stimulus is likewise necessary : and, in the former, the excitability of the fibres of the third nerve by a mental stimulus may be materially modified by their re-association with vesicular matter in the ophthalmic ganglion. There is nothing in this hypothesis repugnant to the idea, that certain nerves may be connected in the centres with masses of vesicular matter over which the will usually exercises little or no control, and which, perhaps, have but a slight connexion with the brain through commissural fibres. Facts like those instanced in the preceding paragraphs may be accounted for on such a supposi- tion as this. This supposition may be required to explain some of the actions of nerves connected with the medulla oblongata, the vagus for instance, but certainly not of spinal nerves. It is probable that in many actions the double stimulus, mental and physical, is necessary to their perfect developcment. The for- mer is excited by the mind acting on the vesicular matter ; the latter is propagated at the same time, by sensitive nerves, to the same re- gion of vesicular matter ; and both simultaneously influence the same motor fibres. In locomotion, it seems probable that this is the case: the degree of contraction of the muscles necessary to main- tain the superincumbent weight is obtained by the physical stimulus of pressure against the soles of the feet; hut the movements of the limbs, and the harmonizing association of the muscular actions, is effected by mental influence. The pressure against the soles is felt, however; and the same nerve-fibres which excite the sensation, stimulate the vesicular matter in which the motor nerves arc im- planted. In many actions of familiar occurrence, the voluntary efl'urt is greatly enhanced by the simultaneous application of a