chap.X.] NERVOUS SYSTEM IN YERTEBRATA AND INVERTEBRATA. 247 also in the light of a ganglion compounded of smaller ones, which have been, as it were, fused together. And certain anatomical indi- cations in the lower animals, as well as in man, favour this view ; thus, in the common gurnard {trigla h/ra), there is a series of gan- ffliform swellings situate on the posterior surface of the cervical portion of the cord at its upper part, from which large nerves pass off to the feelers; and in all animals the cord exhibits a distinct en- largement, at each segment with which large nerves are connected, or a contraction, if the nerves be of small size and of comparatively little physiological importance. The eerebro-spinal axis, with the nerves pertaining to it, consti- tutes the greatest portion of the nervous system of the human sul>- jeet and of the vertebrate animals. The sympathetic system, how- ! ever, is connected with a large number of those parts on which the principal organic functions depend. This portion of the nervous system always bears a direct relation in |>oint of development to that of the eerebro-spinal portion, with every part of which it is very intimately associated. If we except the olfactory, optic, and auditory nerves, there is no nerve with the origin of which it docs not form a connexion. Its segments remain separate, as distinct i ganglia, connected, however, by intercommunicating cords passing | from one to the other, by which the continuity of the chain on | either side of the vertebral column is maintained. In mammals and birds the sympathetic is fully developed ; but in some reptiles and I fishes it is partly deficient, and its anterior part, which is wanting, is supplied by the vagus nerve. In the cyclostomatous fishes, as the lamprey, it is wanting altogether, and the vagus seems to supply ! its place. In no animal is it so fully developed as in man. Arrangement of the Nervous System in Invertebrata. It is foreign to the purpose of this work to enter into details of comparative anatomy. The following paragraphs are merely intended to call the reader’s atten- tion to the general plan of the nervous system in the Invertebrata. Thcarrangc- ! went adopted is that suggested by Professor Owen. The Invertebrate animals may be classed in three groups, according to the pre- i railing type of arrangement of the nervous system. 1. The first, or Ncmutonntrosc, exhibits no other trace of nervous system than is to he found in simple threads or 0laments. In the ustirias, one thread surrounds the mouth, and others pass from »t to the rays; and in the strongylus gigas, a slender nervous ring surrounds the | UpjHT part of the gullet, and from it a single thread is continued along the ventral surface to the opjxwite extremity, where another nervous loop is found surround- ing the anus. No distinct evidence of the existence of ganglia in animals included j in this group has been obtained. It would be premature, however, to suppose that tlm absence of ganglifortn swellings implies that of vesicular nervous matter.