CHAP. VI.] 133 SY N ARTHRODIAL JOIN IS. compatible with the maintenance of the segments in their proper rrelation with each other; ami also in extent of motion, from that which is so slight as to admit of almost no appreciable change in • the position of the parts, to that which allows of the most ample variety of movement between the segments, consistent with the in- tegrity of the articulation. It will appear, then, that the most simple kind of articulation is that by which two parts are so united as that only the slightest ap- preciable degree of motion shall exist between them. This eonsti- ; tutes the first great division of joints—the Synarthrosis, where the : parts are continuous, i. c. not separated from each other by an in- f terveuing synovial cavity. Some anatomists consider all synar- tthrodial joints to be immoveable; which, although not far from ! the truth, cannot be said to be strictly accurate. Had immobility i been the object to be attained, that might have been more effec- i tually accomplished by the fusion of the extremities of the segments i together, as in anchylosis. In the second class of joints, motion is enjoyed freely and fully: i this class is designated by the term Diarthrosis: the segments are ■ interrupted completely in their continuity ; the extremities of the 1 bones can only Ire said to be contiguous. Synarthrosis.—The general characters of the articulations belong- ing to this class are, 1, that they are very limited in their motion, insomuch as to be considered by some as immoveable ; 2, that their -surfaces are continuous, i. e. without the intervention of a synovial cavity, but with that of some structure different from bone. The following varieties may be noticed among synarthrodial artieula- ' tions. a. Suture.—When the margins of two bones exhibit a series of processes and indentations (dovetailing) which are received and receive reciprocally, with a very thin cartilaginous lamina inter- posed, this is the ordinary kind of suture, sutura vera, of which three kinds are distinguished: sutura dentata, where the processes art- long and dentiform, as in the interparietal suture of the human skull; sutura serrata, when the indentations and processes are small and fine like the teeth of a saw. as in the suture between the two portions of the frontal bone; sutura limbosa, when there is along w ith the dentated margins a degree of bevelling of one, so that one bone rests on the other, as in the oceipito-parietal suture. " hen the two bones are. in juxta-position by plane but rough surfaces, the articulation is likewise said to be by suture, and this is the false suture, sutura nut ha, of which there are two kinds; sutura