INNERVATION. 224 [oHAl*. Vlll. muscles which derive their nerves from this source, and that destruc- tive disease of that organ may occasion paralysis of those muscles. Of the Nervous Centres.—The nervous centres exhibit to us the union of the vesicular and the fibrous nervous matter. Indeed the association of these two forms of nervous substance in a mass of variable shape or size is the main anatomical condition for the formation of a nervous centre. The former is never met with in nerves properly so called, and when a true nerve has a grayish ap- pearance, we find that it is owing to a paucity of the tubular, and an excess of the gelatinous fibres. All nervous centres are provided with a proper covering which serves to isolate them from adjacent textures and to protect them* as well as to support their nutrient blood-vessels. In the ganglia this covering is continuous apd identical with the neurilemma of the nerves which are connected with them, and it is in every respect of the same structure as the latter membrane. In the larger centres, the brain and spinal cord, the coverings are of a more complicated kind. They are called meninges, membranes. Three of them are enumerated: The dura mater, which is external; the pia mater, which is in immediate connexion with the nervous matter of the centre; and the arachnoid membrane, a serous sac intermediate to the two tunics just mentioned, which is evidently destined to facilitate the movements of these organs within their pro- per cavities. These will be more particularly described further on. In examining the ganglia, we obtain a good idea of the minute structure of nervous centres in general. A thin slice of one of the larger ganglia, torn up by needles, or a small ganglion from some small animal, serves to shew the dis- position of the vesicular and fibrous matter in these bodies. A ganglion may be compared to a plexus, with nerve-vesicles deposited in its meshes (fig3, 62, 63). In tracing a nerve into a ganglion, its component fibres appear to separate, and:! to pass through the ganglion in different direc- 8 tions; some maintaining their original course, others diverging from it for a short way and afterwards returning to it, and others taking > altogether a new direction and passing out of - the ganglion in combination with other fibres, to form an emerging nerve. A certain degree * Fig. 62. Second abdominal ganglion of the greenfinch, slightly compressed. The course of the nerve-tubes only is repre- sented. a. Entering fibres. b. Emerging fibres, i. Out- line of investing tunic, be- neath which vesicles exist. —(After Valentin.)