CARTILAGE. 91 HAP. IV.] -rented in fig. 14, a, often exists, and seems to shew that this covering ceases when the part becomes subject to friction and pres- sure. Cells, too, are often seen dose to this surface, and even partly projecting from it; appearances indicative of attrition. In the cartilages of the ribs, which occupy an intermediate place ^between the articular and membraniform varieties, the cells are larger than in any other cartilage in the body, being from si® to of an inch in diameter. Many of them contain two or more nuclei, which are clear and transparent; and some seem to contain a few oil- .globules, a condition occasionally met with in other varieties. The vcells often affect a linear arrange- Fi. 15 incut. The rows of them arc 2\ tturned in all directions, ami have tthe appearance of having been ^formed by the division of one cell, jand the separation of its parts from Bteoch other. It is probable that It the splitting of the nucleus may I 'be the first step in this process, as, i t for example, in fig. 15, a. The intercellular substance is ['very abundant in these cartilages; [ and though it usually presents, on a section, a very finely mottled I i aspect, such as is very correctly vy Cartilnep of thf Rib. Section »hrwin« the their nuclei and nucleoli. The trammrrnt spares Fitr. Irt. reault from the remoral c»f the cells by the knife. .pourt rayed in the figure, yet we <*"»*» (tnuuning.—Magnified3*6 diameter*, i may often discern in it a most distinctly fibrous structure, in which the fibres are parallel, and which is most evident in the aged. Perhaps it would be most correct to say that these fibres are only formed by an artificial disintegration, for they are aggregated into n solid mass in the unmutilated structure. They have very little resemblance to the white fibrous tissue. It is not known whether they take any constant direction. In the true membraniform cartilages, the cells are very numerous in proportion to the surrounding substance, which is conse- quently in small quantity. This intercel- lular matrix is very distinctly fibrous to- wards the exterior of these cartilages, and often in their interior, but with considerable variety. The thyroid ami cricoid cartilages, and the lings of the trachea, seem chiefly Thyroid rartilnit* 'Thin Mellon.