INNERVATION. 310 (HAP. XI. ones which are capable of calling nervous power into play, such as mechanical irritation, heat, cold, galvanism, chemical irritants. There can be no grounds for supposing that the will has any- thing to do with these movements. An animal pithed, which is to all intents and purposes in the same condition as one decapitated, shews no sign of voluntary action, excepting perhaps for a short time after the operation, whilst the irritation caused by the division of the cord remains. He maintains one and the same position, without evincing any sign of sense or motion, unless a stimulus be applied to some part of the surface ; and, after the movement which such a stimulus excited has ceased, he resumes the same state of inactivity. Comparing this state of a pithed or decapitated animal with the phenomena which we know to take place in the human subject in effect of particular forms of accident or disease, it is impossible to regard these actions in any other light than as involuntary ones. To refer once more to such a case as that cited in a former paragraph, when, from the destruction of the cervical part of the cord, the trunk appears as if dead, while the head lives, we find in many instances, if the stunning effect have not been too great, that similar motions to those described in the frog may be produced by the application of mechanical or other stimuli to the surface. Tickling the soles of the feet causes movements of the lower extremities : the intro- duction of a catheter into the urethra, which is not felt by the patient, excites the penis to erection. Over these acts not only have the patients no control, but they are absolutely unconscious of their occurrence, as well as of the application of the stimuli by which they were provoked. It is plain, then, that these move- ments take place without the concurrence or even the cognizance of the mind, whether as the recipient of stimuli, or as the source of voluntary impulses. In hemiplegia, the result of diseased brain, when the paralysis is complete, the influence of the will over the paralysed side is alto- gether cut off. In such cases, movements may be excited in the palsied leg—very rarely in the arm—by stimuli applied to the sole of the foot, or elsewhere; and we often astonish the patient him- self, who expresses his utter inability, by any effort of his will, to move his leg, by exciting active movement of it on touching the sole of the foot very lightly with a feather. It is proper to add, that there is much variety as regards the extent to which these actions take place in hemiplegic cases, owing to causes which are not vet fully understood. Still, they do occur in a large propor-