[ciiap. vii. 190 LOCOMOTION. causes which affect the speed of its coagulation. No one will pre- tend that this is not as much a property of living fibrine when solid, as that of coagulating is of the same substance when fluid ; and the correspondence between the coagulated living fibrine of the blood and the living sarcous tissues in chemical constitution, in the posses- sion of contractility, and in the modes in which that vital property in both is affected by similar causes, adds strong confirmation to the opinion we have expressed, that contractility is a property of the living muscular substance as such. But contractility does not vary in its durability alone ; it also presents great differences in regard to its aptness to excitation by stimuli: and it would appear that these characters are always, cateris paribus, in an inverse relation to one another. In birds and insects, which have for the most part to sustain themselves by very energetic and rapid muscular movements in the air, the excitability is extreme ; and certainly the motions performed by these creatures far exceed in precision, regularity, and frequency those of any other animals. The rigor mortis, or stiffening of the body after death, is due to a contraction of the muscles. If the contractility of a muscle be endur- ing, the rigor comes on late and lasts long; but if it be evanescent and its character excitable, the rigor begins very soon and quickly terminates. This is true in different individuals and classes of ani- mals, and corresponds entirely with what we have already said of the varieties of this property. Its cause is obscure, and may be com- plex ; but its resemblance to the contraction of fibrine after recent- coagulation is too obvious to be overlooked. Its nature is shewn by the preceding observations (p. 180). We have the power, at will, under certain limitations, of pro- ducing, checking, and regulating the amount of contraction in the voluntary muscles; and, as a necessary part of this power, we are able to appreciate, by certain sensations originating in the muscles, what precise degree of contraction is present in each. This latter is only that modification of common sensibility which belongs to muscle. It has been termed the muscular sense. In it we possess a most important aid to the sense of touch, being able accurately to vary the position and amount of pressure on external objects in voluntary accordance with the impressions these communicate to the sensorium through the tactile nerves; and by it we are able to estimate with nicety the. amount of muscular power required to balance various resistances, as weight, &c. In general, these resist-