309 FUNCTIONS OF THE CORO. CHAP. XI.] as well as cold-blooded. In the latter, however, they are much more marked ; the nervous force endures much longer in these ani- mals than in the higher classes of mammalia and birds, just as we have already seen that the muscular power docs, although we have no reason to suppose that either force is more energetic, because it is more enduring. On this account cold-blooded animals must be selected for exhibiting the phenomena; and accordingly hosts of frogs, salamanders, snakes, turtles, ami fishes have fallen a prey to the experimental researches of the numerous physiologists who have devoted themselves to these investigations. The following experiments serve to illustrate these actions: If a frog be pithed by dividing the spinal cord between the occi- pital hole and the first vertebra, an universal convulsion takes place while the knife is passing through the nervous centre. This, how- ever, quickly subsides; and, if the animal be placed on a table, he will assume his ordinary position of rest. In some exceptional cases, however, frequent combined movements of the lower extre- mities will take place for a longer or shorter time after tin* opera- tion. When all such disturbance has ceased, the animal remains perfectly quiet, and as if in repose, nor does there appear to be the slightest expression of pain or suffering. lie is quite unable to move by any voluntary effort. However one may try to frighten him, he remains in the same place and posture. If now a toe be pinched, instantly the limb is drawn up, or he seems to push away the irritating agent, and then draws up the leg again into its old position. Sometimes a stimulus of this kind causes both limbs to be violently moved backwards. A similar movement follows sti- mulation of the anus. If the skin be pinched at any part, some neighbouring muscle or muscles will be thrown into action. Irrita- tion of the anterior extremities will occasion movements in them ; but it is worthy of note, that these movements are seldom so ener- getic as those of the lower extremities. It is not out of place to state here, that phenomena of this kind are not confined to the trunk and extremities which are supplied by spinal nerves only. The head and face with which the encephalon remains in connexion exhibit similar actions. The slightest touch to the margin of either eyelid, or to the surface of the conjunctiva, causes instantaneous winking; the attempt to depress the lower jaw, for the purpose of opening the mouth, is resisted ; ami the act of deglutition is provoked by applying a mechanical stimulus to the back of the throat. 1 he stimuli which excite these movements are those ordinary