LOCOMOTION. 144 [chap. VI. again rolls upon the sternum, and the scapula rolls upon the con- vexity of the ribs. On the other hand, the pelvis, as regards the viscera, is intended merely for their support ; and if, during labour, a temporary enlargement of its lower aperture is requisite, the flexibility of the joints of the os coccygis in the female skeleton, with the temporary yielding of the ligaments, affords a sufficient provision for this object: the inferior extremities again require to be articulated to a solid, unyielding platform, upon which they may poise the incumbent weight of the trunk and head. The bones of the pelvis are for these reasons few, weighty, massive, and knit together immoveably. Thus accurately do the points, in which a resemblance is wanting between the chest and pelvis, preserve the analogy between these parts.” Of the Extremities.—In no part of the skeleton is the adaptation of anatomical disposition and structure to function more strikingly obvious than in the bones of the extremities. The lower extremities form powerful pillars of support for the trunk in the erect posture. The great strength of the femur and tibia, which form the principal portion of each pillar, fit them admi- rably for this office ; and it is interesting to notice that dense osseous tissue in each of these bones is most abundant in those situations where the greatest strain of the pressure from above is felt. This may be seen in a transverse section of either, when a dense spine of bone is found corresponding to the concave surface of each ; this is most distinct in the femur, where the dense bone alluded to con- stitutes the linea aspera. The femur is curved forward, and this incurvation gives elasticity to the bone, and aids in distributing the force of concussions. Its shaft is inclined downwards and inwards, so that the opposite femora approach each other inferiorly at the knee-joints, while they are separated by a considerable interval above. And this interval is in- creased by the head and neck of each femur being united to the shaft at an obtuse angle : this angle is one of about 135 degrees in the male; it is somewhat smaller in the female. It is evident that the femur must suffer in point of strength from this mode of junction of its neck and shaft, for a bone without any bend in its axis must necessarily be more capable of resisting down- ward compression, than one consisting of two pieces united at an angle. Hut we observe here, as in other parts of the mechanism of the human body, that the disadvantage in one respect is more than counterbalanced by certain advantages which this peculiar arrange- ment offers, and which could be attained in no other way; for the