CHAP. XI.] MR. NEWPORT’S RESEARCHES. 327 whole of the fibres of the inferior longitudinal series are traceable, gays Mr. Newport, in the Iulida', directly through each enlargement of the cord which they mainly assist to form. Two other sets of fibres are distinguished by this anatomist in these animals, which do not take a longitudinal course. These are, first, the commissural fibres, which pass transversely between corresponding nerves of opposite sidevS of the body; and secondly, the fibres of reinforcement of the cord, which communicate between nerves of the same side of the body, passing from a nerve which arises from a superior ganglion to oue that comes from an inferior one. These nerves do not appear to penetrate the cord: judging from Mr. Newport’s description, they merely pass from nerve to nerve, forming loops which are convex to- wards the cord, and constitute the lateral portion of the cord in the intervals between the points of emergence of the nerves with which they are connected. These two sets of transverse and lateral fibres agree in the fact that they do not pass upwards to the brain; but of their connexion with the cord nothing is known. Indeed it is by no means apparent that the lateral fibres form any junction with the vesicular matter of the cord, or with any other than peripheral por- tions of the nervous system; Mr. Newport's researches shew only that they are in juxtaposition with the margins of the cord, but we cannot infer from them that they mingle with its elements. More- over it is far from being proved that the longitudinal fibres pass up to the brain. The brain, indeed, is not necessarily the largest of the ganglia, and it must be admitted to bear a most inadequate pro- portion to the number of longitudinal fibres. Let any one compare the size of the cerebral ganglia of the scorpion (as figured by Mr. Newport) with the size of the animal and that of its cord, and it will be evident to him how disproportionately small such a centre is to the number of sensori-volitional fibres which must be distributed over so large a surface, and to so many muscles. When too it is stated that the observations of these physiologists were made with low powers of the microscope, it must be confessed that there is as much obscurity as to the origin of the nerves in invertebrata as in vertebrata; and that we are not yet entitled to conclude that the existence of two orders of fibres has been actually demonstrated in the former class. Anatomy offers no objection to the hypothesis that the roots of the nerves are implanted in the ganglia, and that the longitudinal fibres act as commissures between different segments (both adjacent and remote) of the cord. And we may add here, that Mr. Newport’s experiments on the myriapods and other articulata throw no light on the question