259 CHAP. X. THE SPINAL COKIL of the brain. When very thin transverse sections are examined with low powers, a good general view of the relative disposition of the gray and white columns is obtained, but we gain no sa- tisfactory information as regards the relation of the elements ot these columns (fig. 67). Stilling and Wallach’s plates accord gene- rally with the results of our own examinations, but we cannot admit the accuracy of their interpretation of some of the appear- ances which they have witnessed and delineated. In such a section as that just described, the distinction of gray and white matter is very obvious. From the surface of each horn of the former several lines, of the same colour and general appear- ance as the central mass, pass, in a radiating manner, towards the surface of the cord and to the surface of the fissures (fig. 67). These lines, according to Stilling and Wallaeh, are continuous with the roots of the nerves, and are nerve-tubes proceeding from the gray matter to form these roots. Their existence, however, in sec- tions made in situations intermediate to the points of emergence of the nerves, shews that this explanation cannot l>e the true one. Moreover, they radiate over a surface much more extensive than that from which the roots take their rise, and several pass to that part of the surface of the cord which bounds the fissures, and from which it is impossible that they could reach the point of emergence of either root to contribute to its formation. It is not improbable, however, that they may be processes of the gray matter prolonged toward the surface, to which blood-vessels may pass from the pia mater.* We obsi erve in the gray matter numerous nerve-tubes of various size passing among its elements in different directions. Besides these, the branching processes from the caudate vesicles are found here : these processes differ from the nerve-tubes in the absence of the white substance of Schwann, in their grayish colour, in their branching, and in a certain minutely granular texture. Numerous extremely minute fibres, perfectly transparent in texture, may be traced to be continuous with the finer subdivisions of these processes (fig. 56, p. 214). Fibres of the same appearance are occasionally found among the tubes of the white substance of the spinal cord; their connexion with those of the gray matter is unknown. Capillary blood-vessels are met with in great numbers ramifying in the gray matter. They are much more numerous in this than * Mr. finite linn lately exhibited to us some well-injected preparation*, in which there lines are shewn to contain vessels.