LOCOMOTION. 174 CHAP. VII. consists of the resistance of their contents, it sometimes happen® that these, when removed, are not at once replaced; and hence an enduring contraction, though the active contractile force is no longer exerted. Thus an empty intestine is reduced to the size of a tobacco- pipe, and the sphincters of the anus and bladder are kept contracted, without any tetanic spasm, or permanent expenditure of contractile force, as has been sometimes supposed. Now, the stimulus of distension is, in the first instance, nothing more than the elongating force which calls into play the contrac- tility of a muscle under its passive form ; and there is this peculiar to it, that it affects equally every point of the substance of each fibre, which no other stimulus can do : and hence would result the uniformity which will presently be shewn to characterize pas- sive contraction, for contraction is an answer to a stimulus. This consideration tends strongly to confirm the view which we have taken of the identity of the forces displayed in passive and active contraction, of tonicity and contractility. Other stimuli may be mentioned as capable of causing muscular contraction by their direct agency on the tissue ; but it is important to observe that these take no share in the production of natural contraction in the healthy body. It was long supposed impossible to observe the effect of stimuli on the muscular tissue when isolated from the nervous ; and the fact, that the artificial stimuli which induced contraction when applied to a muscle itself, were the same with those which induced it when applied to the motor nerves, was considered sufficient proof that in the former case the effect was produced through the medium of nervous tissue still mingled with the muscular. But this question has been brought to an issue by the positive observation that fragments of the fibre of voluntary muscle, entirely isolated from every extraneous tissue, whether nerve or vessel, may be made to contract in obedience to a stimulus topically applied to them. When such fragments are examined, they are found to con- tract first of all where they have sustained mechanical injury, viz. at their broken extremities ; and, if water be brought into contact with them, it is absorbed, and thereby excites them to contractions, which commence at their surface.* The same thing is frequently to be observed under a different form. A particle of foreign matter, * Water has long been known as a rapid exhauster of the contractility of mus- cles. “ Rigidity is produced almost instantaneously if warm water be injected into the arteries of a muscle. The flesh, under these circumstances, becomes pale, in- crease^ in bulk, and suddenly hardens. The operation of crimping fish consists in