G8 [chap. hi. LOCOMOTION. mg the muscles to the bones; 2. Areolar tissue, which is so ex- tensively diffused throughout the body, at once separating and uniting neighbouring parts ; 3. Cartilage, fibro-cartilage, and bone, which enter immediately into the construction of the skeleton ; and, lastly, synovial and serous membranes, being peculiar arrangements of tissue admirably suited to facilitate motion. FITiROUS TISSUE. Under this head anatomists range two kinds of texture, resemS bling each other only in the fact that they present to the naked eye a fibrous aspect, as if they were compounded of a series of bundles of threads or fibres. They differ, however, very materially \ in colour, in physical properties, in ultimate structure : the general purposes which they serve in the animal (Economy are pretty much the same; for both are used in connexion with the skeleton, and are concerned in the mechanism of animal motion and locomo- tion. They are distinguished as, 1. White Fibrous Tissue ; 2. Yellow Fibrous Tissue. 1. White Fibrous Tissue.—When a texture of great strength and : flexibility, and of an unyielding nature, is required, either to bind parts of the skeleton together, to cover and protect organs of delicate j texture, to unite muscles to bone, or other parts, to compress the muscles of a limb, or strengthen the walls of a cavity, we find white fibrous tissue called into requisition for these purposefl|l Hence we observe it to assume a great variety of forms, according to the various uses to which it is applied. It occurs, 1, as liga- ments, connected with joints; 2, as tendons, connecting muscles to bones ; 3, in a membranous form, covering and protecting cer*. tain organs, as the dura mater of the head and spine, the tunica ' albuginea of the testicle, the sclerotic coat of the eye, the fibrous j pericardium, the covering of the corpora cavernosa penis, the fibrous j sheaths of tendons, the periosteum of bone, the perichondrium of cartilage, the aponeuroses of the limbs as the fascia lata, &c. When we examine a portion of fibrous tissue taken from any of these sources, we find connected with it a greater or less qua™ •' tity of areolar tissue, which adheres to its outer surface like a sheath. This is the case in all fibrous structures, except those which have a serous membrane connected with them, or those ad- herent to bone or cartilage. The areolar tissue sinks into the ‘ fibrous material, and mingles with its fibres ; and, doubtless, it not