CHAP. VII.J KHVTIIMICAL CONTRACTIONS. 193 other forms ; but, as we are ignorant of the length of each unstriped fibre, we cannot say whether this slowness is in advance along each one, or merely from one to another. The contraction exhibited by the muscles in question is always of the peristaltic character, by whatever stimulus excited; and its i type is therefore probably derived from some peculiarity in the fibres themselves, as in their arrangement. But it is remarkable i that the stimuli which usually excite it, are applied in succession to different parts, and are thus entirely suited to the production of the : peristaltic contraction. We have a striking example of this in the e oesophagus, which is simply a tube of transmission, and not intended i to delay the food. The pellet, when thrust into it by the muscles of the pharynx, distends its fibres; which, then contracting upon it, . propel it into a fresh portion ready to receive it. This in its turn t*contracts, and urges it along; and so on, until it is conducted to the -stomach. In this instance, it is evident that the propelled substance is itself ; the stimulus to the successive contractions. This it may be, either ' by distending the fibres, and so acting locally upon them; or else by Impressing the nerves of the membrane touched, in such a way as to excite a nervous stimulus to the muscular coat at each particular rpart. at the proper moment. As the food is not propelled if the nerves are divided, there can be little doubt that the latter is the i true explanation. The contraction of the bladder occurs after a gradual distension, and. though verv temporary, is probably of the true peristaltic kind. :The more protracted action of the uterus is undeniably so. In pregnant animals this may be as distinctly perceived as in the intes- tines, and it probably occurs during the gradual developement of the muscular structure as pregnancy advances; but at length a very powerful impulse occasions the expulsion of the young, and the uterus subsequently remains contracted, because no force dis- tends its fibres. The after-pains mark the final efforts of active contraction. Atrophy of the tissue then occurs, as its develope- incnt had done, in accordance with other laws. Rhythmical contractions are those which succeed one another after regular intervals of repose. The muscles of respiration and the heart exhibit them through life, which would cease if they were intermitted even for a brief period ; for the oxygenation of the blood, and the dispersion of that fluid through the substance of the various organs, must incessantly proceed. Hence neither is an act ԥt the will required for their production, nor could it under any cir- o