374 INNERVATION. [ciiap. xi. We conclude this chapter with the following inferences, which, we think, the present state of knowledge justifies : 1. The spinal cord contains within itself all the physical condi- tions necessary for the mental and physical actions of the trunk and extremities, so long as its connexion with the encephalon is perfect through the anterior pyramids. 2. There is no sufficient evidence to prove the existence of a class of sensori-volitional fibres distinct from those which are the instru- ments of physical actions. 3. Each segment of the cerebro-spinal centre, whether in the cranium or in the spinal canal, gives origin to its own proper nerves, and has no connexion with the neighbouring segments, other- wise than by commissural fibres or vesicular matter. 4. The antero-lateral columns of the cord, with the anterior and posterior horns of the gray matter, are the effective centres of mo- tion and sensation of the trunk and extremities. The posterior columns are longitudinal commissures by which the influence of the cerebellum is brought to bear on the various segments of the cord. 5. When the pyramids are in a state of integrity, the corpus striatum, certain accumulations of gray matter connected with the nerves of the medulla oblongata, the locus niger, and the anterior horns of the spinal gray matter are the centres of voluntary motion to the whole body; while the optic thalami, olivary columns, and posterior horns of gray matter are the centres of sensation. fi. The medulla oblongata, when connected to the corpora striata by the pyramidal fibres, is a centre of voluntary actions to those parts whose nerves are derived from it; and, in addition, it is the principal centre of the actions of respiration and deglutition. 7. The corpora quadrigemina are primary centres of visual im- pressions, and, with a large portion of the gray matter in the meso- cephale, are centres of emotional actions. 8. The cerebellum is the co-ordinator of voluntary and locomo- tive actions. .9. The convolutions of the brain are the centres of intellectual actions, and are intimately associated with the mental phenomena of attention, association, and memory. On the subjects discussed in this chapter we refer to the more recent treatises on Physiology by Muller, Wagner, and Carpenter ;—to Dr. Marshall Hall’s writings on the Nervous System ; the most important of which will he found in an octavo volume “ On the Diseases and Derangements of the Nervous System,” 1841; and in a quarto volume “ On the Nervous System,” 1843 ;—to Henlc’s General Ana- tomy ; Whytt on vital motions ;—Proclmska, Annot. Academic® ;—Le Gallois,