I~HAP. VII.] STIMULI TO MUSCULAR CONTRACTION. 173 Tract by the immediate influence of the nervous tubules distri- buted among them ; and this influence, however called into play, should be styled the nervous stimulus, or the vis nervosa. This nervous stimulus, then, is simply the effect of such a condition of the motor nerves as enables them to induce contraction in mus- cular fibres which are in the due relation to their terminal loops. ' Of the nature of this condition, and of the mode of its production, we are as completely ignorant, as we are of the nature of all those other conditions of the nervous system on which the manifestation of its various phenomena depends; but we know some little of the agents by which the nerves are thrown into this state. The chief of them are volition, emotion, and impressions carried by the affer- * cut nerves to the nervous centres, and there affecting the efferent, or motor nerves, independently of volition or consciousness; but to these are to be added various impressions from diseases and injuries of the motor nerves, either at their origin or in their course, together with pressure, heat, chemical substances, electricity, &e. applied to their texture. The former are the natural excitants of the nervous stimulus in the living body ; the latter may be proved to possess ; this property by observation, and by experiments on nerves distri- buted to muscles, either in the body, or soon after their removal ir from it. The power of inducing contraction in the muscles is an h endowment of those nerves only which have a certain organic con- nexion with the muscles; and these nerves are, therefore, distin- guished as motor. There are other stimuli of muscle besides the vis nervosa, which occasion contraction in the living body; but, in general, these affect only the hollow muscles. Experiment has, indeed, shewn these muscles to be under the influence of motor nerves derived from the spinal marrow ; but it seems probable that some of them, at least, are normally excited to contract bv the stimulus of stretching or distension, to which they are peculiarly liable from their arrange- ment as investments to hollow viscera. Muscles have not the capacity of elongating themselves that has sometimes been ascribed to them : when once contracted, they remain shortened, notwith- standing the contractile force have subsided, unless their ends be drawn apart by some extraneous force. This foree is that which I has been already specified as being always exerted in opposition to ‘ active contraction in the living body. In the case of the voluntary muscles, this force always continues to act after the active contrac- tion has ceased ; but in the case of the hollow muscles, where it