Ill HAP. V.] LACUNA OF BONE. •ith in the human subject; and some remarkable ones from the >vfer animals are appended from the same source (fig. 24). In the ■ue dental substance, which is a kind of bone, the lacuna; are iilmost entirely deficient, and the pores attain a very singular deve- vtpement, which will be described in a subsequent chapter. But though varieties are occasionally met with, yet, in the true one of man and the mammalia, the lacunae possess a very constant •jnn; being somewhat oval, and more or less flattened on their pposite surfaces. The two surfaces look respectively to and from bie nearest surface of the tissue, and meet in a thin edge. As pores . ass off equally from all parts of the lacuna;, it follows that by far ie greater number pass to or from the surface of the bone ; an ar- tangement admirably adapted for the transmission of the nutritious mids. The pores passing from the edge principally serve to coll- ect together those lacuna; that lie at nearly the same distance from tie surface. In fig. 22, the lacunae are seen on their surface ; a fig. 23, on their upper edge. The lacumc have an average length of tbW of an inch, and they an; •sually about half as wide, and one third as thick. The diameter ff the pores is from joists to of an inch. The osseous tissue, thus studded by thousands of flattened icume, which lie for the most part in planes parallel to the surface, as a decided disposition to split up into laminar, following the same rirection. This is more evident in the bones of old persons, and lay be generally promoted by maceration in dilute acid. It is lost apparent where the mass of material between two vascular arfaces is great, and the series of lacumc numerous. It is probable aat this lainellated structure depends in part on the mode of evelopement and growth of this tissue, and it perhaps contributes 3 the perfection of the nutritive process within it. It will now be easy to comprehend the apparently complex rrangement of the osseous tissue in the interior of bones. Let us ike, for example, one of the long bones. The entire vascular sur- ice consists of, 1, the outer surface, covered by the periosteum; , the inner surface, lined by the membrane of the medullarv avity, and of the eancelli; 3, the Haversian surface, or that inning the canals of the compact tissue, ami having in contact 'ith it the vascular network that occupies them, and which has een already described. These involutions of the surface are so rranged that no part of the osseous tissue is in general at a greater \ istance than rls of an inch from the vessels that ramify upon them. There is a layer of tissue on the exterior of the bone deriving its