102 [chap. V. LOCOMOTION. of carbonic acid. Filter the acid liquid after diluting it with water, and add solution of caustic ammonia as long as the precipitate at first formed continues to be redissolved by agitation; then add solution of acetate of lead till it no longer occasions any precipitate. The dense white precipitate thus produced consists of phosphate of lead, which melts before the blow-pipe, and on cooling assumes its cha- racteristic crystalline structure. Through the solution, filtered from the phosphate of lead, pass a stream of sulphuretted hydrogen to remove the excess of lead; warm the liquid, to drive off the superfluous gas, and filter: then neutralize by ammonia, and add oxalate of ammonia as long as any precipitate occurs ; abundance of oxalate of lime will fall as a white powder. Evaporate the filtered liquid to dryness; ignite the residue, and wash with hot water; the magnesia will be left behind in a pure form. In examining a section of almost any bone, we observe two varieties of osseous substance : the one dense, firm, compact, always situated on the exterior of the bone, either as a thin layer, or as a dense thick structure pos- sessed of great strength ; the other loose, reticular, spongy, enclosing spaces or cells, which communicate freely with each other, and which, being called cancelli, give to this kind of osseous tissue the name cancellated. These cells are formed by an interlace- ment of numerous bony fibres and lamina;, which, although to a superficial observation exhibiting an indefinite ar- rangement, have neverthe- less, in those bones which have to support weight, a more or less perpendicular Vertical section of the upper end of the Femur „hewimr direction. The Cancellated hp ranrpllnfpH nnd the cancellated and compact tissues. structure of bone is always situated in its interior, enclosed and protected by the compact tissue. The relative situation of these varieties may be well seen in a vertical section of one of the long bones (fig. 18)'. At the extremities, the cancellated texture is accumulated, invested by a thin lamella of