329 chap, xc.] MECHANISM OF A VOLUNTARY ACTION. voluntary motion do not pass beyond that particular segment of the cord with which they are connected; and that each segment ot the cord communicates readily with the brain through the horns of gray matter, or through commissural fibres which pass between the seg- ments of the cord, and from the upper segment of the latter to the brain. The anatomy of the cord, so far as our present knowledge extends, is favourable to this hypothesis, for it is much more pro- bable that all the roots of the spinal nerves are implanted in their proper segments of the cord, than that some pass up to the brain, and others remain in the cord. The varying dimensions of the cord, at different regions, disincline us to admit the existence of fibres which are continued up into the brain from the spinal nerves. It is impossible to understand the great superiority of size of the lumbar portion over the dorsal segment of the cord, if we admit that this latter segment contains, in addition to its own fibres, (sensori-volitional and excito-motory,) the sensori-volitional fibres of the lumbar swelling also. The fibres of sensation and volition, which pass to the great lumbar and sacral nerves, could, in that case, be only extremely few in proportion to the excito-motory ones ; nor would they seem adequate to the motor and sensitive endow- ments of the lower extremities ; where it must be admitted volition and sensation enjoy an extensive sway. Moreover, it may be stated that the great size of the lumbar swelling depends mainly on the large quantity of vesicular matter which exists in it; and the total amount of fibrous matter is hardly so much as might be expected to exist if the lower extremities and the pelvis were supplied with both sensori-volitional and excito-motory fibres. It is very generally admitted that the only channel by which the will can influence the spinal cord is through the fibres of the ante- rior pyramids, the greater number of which decussate each other along the median line, as already explained in page 265. The most frequent pathological phenomena favour this view. Now it is in the highest degree improbable that these fibres, occupying so small a space as they do, should form the aggregate of the voli- tional fibres (still less of the sensori-volitional fibres) of the trunk and extremities. It seems to us much more reasonable to regard the fibres of the pyramids in the light of commissures, connecting the gray matter of the cord with that of the brain, and serving to associate these two great divisions of the eerebro-spinal centre in the voluntary, if not in all the mental nervous actions. The mechanism of a voluntary action, in parts supplied with spinal nerves, would be, according to this hypothesis, as follows: