352 INNERVATION. [chap. xt. to nerves of sensation, are, in our judgment, sufficient anatomical facts to warrant the opinion that the thalami must perform a func- tion which, although it may he subservient to, or associated with, that of the striated bodies, is yet entirely dissimilar in kind. It has been supposed that the corpora striata are special centres <j or ganglia to the olfactory nerves, and to the sense of smell. But such a supposition is altogether superfluous, inasmuch as a very distinct and obvious centre to these nerves exists in the olfactory process or lobe, miscalled nerve by descriptive anatomists. The small olfactory nerves are implanted in the anterior extremity or bulb of this process, which is provided with all the structural characters of a nervous centre, and contains a ventricle. This lobe, moreover, is always developed in the direct ratio of the size and number of the olfactory nerves, and of the developement of the sense of smell; and in the Cetacea, a class in which the olfactory nerves and process either do not exist at all, or are so imperfectly developed as to have escaped the notice of some of the ablest anatomists, the corpora striata are of good size proportionally to that of the entire brain. Corpora Quadrigetnina.—The marked connexion of these gangli- form bodies with the optic nerves plainly indicates that they bear some special relation to those nerves, and to the sense of vision ; and this indication becomes more certain when we learn, from comparative anatomy, that in all vertebrate tribes in which the encephalon is developed, special lobes exist, bearing a similar relation to the optic nerves (pp. 274—5). When the optic nerves are large, these lobes are large ; and in the Pleuronecta, in which the eyes are of unequal size, Gottsehe states that the optic lobes are unequal. Still, as Serres has remarked, the quadrigeminal tubercles probably perform some other office besides that which refers to vision ; inasmuch as the absence, or extremely diminutive size, of the optic nerves in some animals (the mole for instance) does not materially affect that of these bodies.* Flourens found that destruction of either of these tubercles on one side was followed by loss of sight of the opposite side, and con- sequently that the removal of both deprived the animal altogether of the power of vision, but did not affect its locomotive or intellectual powers, nor its sensibility, except to light. In these experiments the action of the iris was not impaired if the tubercles were only par- tially removed ; as long as any portion of the roots of the optic * Cyclop. Anat., art. Optic nerves.