INNERVATION. [chap. x. 254 space exist. The ventricles of the brain contain a secretion of very similar, if not identical, characters, which Majendie describes as communicating with that of the sub-arachnoid space through an orifice at the inferior extremity of the fourth ventricle. This, however, is extremely doubtful, as the fluid of the ventricles is enclosed by a proper membrane which lines their cavity. The cerebro-spinal fluid obviously affords mechanical protection to the nervous centres which it surrounds. The interposition of a fluid medium between them and the walls of the cavities is well adapted to guard the former against shocks communicated from without. Its accumulation at the base of the brain is highly favour- able for the protection of the large vessels and nerves situate there. The pia mater is the immediate investing membrane of the brain and spinal cord. It is composed of white fibrous tissue and blood- vessels. The former is most abundant in the pia mater of the cord, the latter are most numerous in that of the brain. The principal distinction, therefore, between the spinal and cerebral pia mater is as regards strength and thickness ; the spinal being dense and strong, the cerebral being very delicate, almost wdiolly composed of minute blood-vessels, which are accompanied by white fibrous sheath to the cord, and sends in processes which dip into its anterior and posterior median fissures. It is continuous with the neurilemma of the roots of the nerves on each side. At the inferior extremity of the cord it tapers and terminates in a thread-like process (filum\ terminate) which is inserted into the inferior extremity of the dura mater. Superiorly it gradually diminishes in density as it passes over the medulla oblongata to the cerebral and cerebellar hemispheres. To the surface of these it adheres closely, and innumerable minute blood-vessels pass from it into the nervous substance. It sinks into all the sulci and fissures, and passes into the lateral, the third and fourth ventricles. In the lateral and fourth ventricles it forms pro- jecting processes or folds, somewhat fringed, highly vascular, and invested by epithelium derived from the membrane which lines the ventricles. These processes are called the choroid plexuses. Into the third ventricle it sends a lamellar fold of triangular shape (velum interpositum), which forms a roof to that cavity and supports the fornix. Attention has lately been directed to some minute sandy particles, globular in shape, which are frequently connected with the minute vascular ramifications of the internal pia mater. They are found chiefly in the choroid plexuses, and in that portion of the velum