INNERVATION. [chap. XIII. 398 ment of the areolar tissue. The internal capsules do not shew the double wall, hut they contain nuclei. The capsules seem to he over-distended by their fluid, so as to he naturally kept tense. If allowed to dry, they do not till again on being moistened. The fluid of the intercapsular spaces is so abundant as to constitute far the largest portion of the bulk of the entire corpuscle, and by its clearness imparts the peculiar pellucid lustre so characteristic of these bodies. It is supposed to resemble the serum of the blood. There are generally a few capillary blood-vessels ranging over the surface of the corpuscles ; but the capsules are chiefly supplied by a minute artery that enters in the fibrous tissue of the stalk, sends off a few capillaries which perforate the tubular canal, and form each a short loop in the intercapsular spaces (fig. 75) : one capillary vessel usually reaches the central capsule (fig. 76, a), and sometimes, though rarely, mayr be traced some way along its wall. In the larger cor- puscles of the palm and sole, the capillaries penetrate to the distal part of some of the intercapsular spaces, and may there form a kind of bunch before returning. If a quite recent specimen be examined, under a high magnifying power, the blood-globules are often visible in the capillaries, and, by their swelling on the addition of water, may be sometimes hurried into a sort of circulation. When this happens, the course of the blood in the corpuscle is displayed with singular beauty. We have said that the stalk of every corpuscle contains a single nerve-tube. When two corpuscles are seated on a common stalk, two nerve-tubes are included, one of which belongs to each (fig. 74, e). The nerve-tube is proportioned in size to that of the corpuscle, that is, to the number of capsules composing it. Even when smallest, it is conspicuous enough, if the specimen be recent; for it is invariably furnished with the white substance of Schwann, and displays the double contour. When largest, it equals any* found in the body. It is very liable to present varicosities, and its course in the stalk is more or less undulating. On entering the innermost capsule, the nerve-tube suddenly loses its envelope of white substance and becomes pale; the axis-cylinder alone remaining, perhaps still invested by the tubular membrane (see p. 208). Thus reduced in size and rendered pale, the nerve stretches like an arrow along the very centre of the capsular cavity to the opposite end, where it swells into a knob, or button, which fixes itself to the inner surface of the capsule. In this swelling nothing can be detected beyond the pale, faintly fibrous cha-