286 INNERVATION. * vesicular matter with nerve-tubes, which stretches frem oue optic j thalamus to the other, having no other connexion, and being free on j its upper as well as its under surface. This layer, thus extended i horizontally between the thalami, divides the third ventricle into 1 a superior and an inferior portion. As it comprises vesicular mat- ter, it is not a commissure in the same sense as the others, which I contain none. The superior longitudinal commissure is enclosed in the internal convolution overhanging the corpus callosum. Posteriorly it passes over the posterior border of the corpus callosum, to the under part of the middle lobe, where it is chiefly connected with the hippoeam- pus major. Anteriorly it winds over the front border of the corpus i callosum to join the lower convolutions of the anterior lobe in front i of the fissure of Sylvius. Thus it takes a course similaf to that of the fornix, though more extensive and superficial. The fornix or vault is the most extensive, and in every way the most remarkable of the cerebral commissures. It is placed imme- j diately beneath the corpus callosum, with the posterior half of which it is intimately connected, and from which it is with difficulty sepa- rated. A principal portion of the fornix consists of a horizontal lamella of fibrous matter, parallel to the corpus callosum, of a trian- j gular shape, with the apex forwards (corpus fornicis). The base is ‘ enclosed by the posterior reflection of the corpus callosum, the termi- nal transverse fibres of which are seen on its inferior surface, forming the appearance which has been designated lyra. The fornix may be divided along the middle line into two equal i and symmetrical portions, one belonging to each hemisphere. Suf- j ficient indication of its double form is evinced by the prolongation from its apex of two cylindrical cords, which curve forwards and j downwards, then backwards, with their convexities touching the posterior border of the anterior commissure. These are the ante- rior pillars of the fornix. In their descent they diverge slightly j from each other, leaving an interval between them, through which 1 the anterior commissure appears. These pillars form the anterior j boundary of the foramen commune anterius, through which the j lateral ventricles communicate with the third, and with each other. Each anterior pillar of the fornix in its descent penetrates the i anterior and inner part of the optic thalamus. Here it is sur- 8 rounded by vesicular matter, which may be readily scraped away I from it. Numerous striae of fibrous matter join the pillar as it 9 passes through the vesicular matter ; their constituent fibres, doubt- 9 less, being derived from the thalamus. Finally, each pillar ter-1 [chav. X. .A