110 [chap. v. LOCOMOTION. imagined to be solid corpuscles (a name still commonly applied to them), and the lines radiating from them to be branching threads of the earthy constituent of bone. They may be proved in many ways, however, to be real excavations in the tissue. With a suffi- ciently high power their opposite walls can be distinctly seen, as w'ell as their hollow interior; but the most conclusive evidence lies in our being able to fill them with fluid. If a dry section of bone, in which they are very apparent, be moistened with oil of turpentine while in the field of the microscope, the course of this penetrating material can be witnessed, as it advances into the tissue. It is seen to run quickly along the pores from the Haversian canals, and from the surface of the specimen, where they have been cut across. Having entered a lacuna, it suddenly extends along the pores radiating from it, and, through these, reaches other lacunae ; rendering the tissue transparent by filling up its vacuities. In parts where air has previously occupied the vacant spaces, and the tur- pentine cannot displace it, the characteristic appearance of minute bubbles is often present. The lacunae of osseous tissue, if examined extensively in the ver- tebrate class, are found of very various shapes : sometimes scarcely to be distinguished from the pores, of which they are simple fusi- form dilatations ; at other times large and bulky, and forming the point of junction of a great multitude of pores. Mr. Tomes has allowed us to represent the principal varieties which he has met va™us Lncume, and their pores:—a. Simple irrceular cavities, without pores; from an 088111cation ot the pleura : b, from healthy bone of the human subject, b'. One of the outer lacu- nae ot an Haversian system, with the pores all bending down towards the H. canid, c. Other | fonils from human bone, shewing the lateral connecting pores. i \>,u 11C ?oa' External lacuna* of an H. system, with unusually large pores dipping to- wards the vascular surface. d‘. Cavity intermediate between a lacuna and a pore. e. Another vanety from the same reptile.—From Mr. Tomes. Fig. 24. C