INNERVATION. [chap. x. 258 the nerves have been carefully removed, their points of emergence are indicated by two series of foramina in linear sequence on each side, hut there is no appearance of fissures in those situations. The roots of the nerves penetrate the substance of the cord, and arc chiefly, if not entirely, connected with the antero-lateral columns. The fibrous matter of the cord consists of some fibres which pass in a longitudinal direction, which are chiefly superficial or contained in the posterior columns, and of others which are oblique or trans- verse, and are found in the antero-lateral columns, or in the white commissure, which is wholly composed of such fibres. Among the elements of the gray matter fibres are found in great numbers, the direction of which is probably for the most part oblique or trans- verse, as considerable portions of them may be seen so running, when a piece of gray matter, cut transversely, is examined under the microscope. The gray matter of the cord is disposed in two longitudinal columns, the shape of which in the several regions of the cord is represented in the above transverse sections (fig. 66). These columns extend from the lower part of the medulla oblon- gata, with the gray matter of which they arc continuous. The aspect of their surfaces is outwards and inwards. That which looks inwards is convex, and is united to the corresponding sur- face of the opposite side by the gray commissure, which is a ver- tical plane, with surfaces looking directly forwards and backwards. At the inferior extremity of the cord these columns gradually ta- per to a point, and coalesce as the white matter dimi- nishes. Caudate and spherical vesi- cles, imbedded in their usual granular matrix, exist in the gray matter of the cord at all situations, in the horns as well as in the commissure. The caudate vesicles are most numerous and distinct in the anterior horn, and at the root of the posterior one. Transverse section of human spinal cord, close to the 'J'he pest of tile posterior third and fourth cervical nerves; magnified ten diameters, 1 . (from Stilling)Posterior columns, ii. Gelatinous sub- horn Ulld tllC gclatlHOUS stance of the posterior horn. k. Posterior root. /. Sup- 0 posed anterior roots, a. Anterior fissure, c. Posterior substailCC resemble Very fissure. Gray commissure, in which a canal is contained, which, according to these writers, extends through the closely ill structure tlie gray length of the cord. g. Anterior horn of gray matter con- ^ , . taining caudate vesicles, e. Antero-lateral column (from matter ot the COllVolutlOH,S k to «).