ACTION OF THE SPHINCTERS. CHAP. VH.] 191 anees must be brought into relation with the muscular sense through the organ of touch, which is adapted to this purpose by its super- ficial position on the body. But the powers of the muscular sense, isolated from tact, are exhibited, in its enabling one to estimate the weight of a tumour developed in the interior of the limb, and in general the resistance afforded by the weight of one part of the body, or the action of one muscle or set of muscles, to that of another. Hence a principal source of the marvellous power which all animals j possess of associating the various parts of their bodies in number- less combinations of harmonious movement. Of some varieties of Muscular movement.—Having described the differences between the movements of active and passive eontrac- : tion, we shall now be more able to refer to their proper causes • those varieties of movement by which certain muscles or classes ■ of muscles are distinguished. In briefly adverting to these, we •shall have to glance at some collateral considerations regarding • the mode of their connexion with the nervous system, which can- not be fully understood without reference to what will be af’ter- i wards said under that head. The action of the sphincters of the anus and bladder seems, at first, peculiar. They are constantly contracted, except during the fpassage of the contents; and yet no fatigue attends this persistent action. The explanation is very simple. They remain contracted unless the contained matters are forced within them by a superior power. Now, their mass, and therefore their contractility, is supe- rior to that of the wall of the cavity above; consequently their passive contraction endures while that of the parts above is being .gradually mastered by the accumulation of the faces or urine. But, when these excretions at length excite active contraction in the walls of the cavity containing them, this overcomes the passive con- traction of the sphincters, and the evacuation occurs. The sphincters have striped fibres and voluntary nerves, by means of which we can for a time add active to passive contraction, and thus retard the expulsion ; but, as the accumulation proceeds, this <power is diminished or lost, and the sphincters yield. The levator and sphincter ani frequently aid the accumulation of the faces bv temporary active contractions, by which the feeces tending to dilate the sphincter are pushed backwards for a while. The rectum is thus preserved empty until the period immediately preceding de- fecation. In paralysis of the lower part of the body from disease or injury