INNERVATION. CHAP. X. 248 2. The second group of animals is designated Heterognngliate, from the unsynrme- trical disposition of the nervous system. The principal portion of it consists in a ring surrounding the gullet, on which one or more ganglia are placed. In the ascidia mamilluta there is hut a solitary ganglion, which regulates the orifices of ingestion and egestion by nerves which it sends to their respective sphincter mus- cles. And in all the other classes of mollusks the nervous system is the more complex, as the kind and number of the vital actions demand a higher degree of organization. In conchifera, for instance, ingestion of the food, respiration, and locomotion have distinct organs assigned to them, and accordingly the nervous system is so disposed that there is a nervous centre or ganglion in immediate rela- tion to the principal organs connected with each of these functions. Thus, in the more perfect animals of this class we find, 1. two oesophageal ganglia situate near the mouth, connected to each other by nervous filaments, which form a ring round the gullet. These ganglia are connected with all the rest, and probably exercise an influence upon them, as the principal centre of the nervous system or the brain. 2. There is a branchial ganglion, which presides over the function of respiration. When there is hut one respiratory organ, this ganglion is single ; hut it is double when there are two branchuc. From this source are supplied not only the organs of respiration themselves, hut also the muscles upon which the respiratory movements depend. The posterior adductor muscle, the mantle, and intestine, derive nerves from it. 3. We find a pedal ganglion, which is immediately connected with the locomotive function. This ganglion exists only in those genera in which a muscular organ called the foot is developed, and its size is always in direct proportion to the muscular power of that organ : it is situated at its base, and imbedded in it. We find it, therefore, in the mussel (mytilus), but not in the oyster. The developement of organs of sense in the higher animals of this group demands an increased deve- lopemcnt of the cerebral ganglion, as is the case in the gasteropod and ccphalopod mollusks. And the great powers of locomotion enjoyed by the latter animals require a high developement of the pedal ganglion, and a multiplication of smaller ganglia in connexion with the muscular apparatus of their arms or tentacles. These organs arc supplied with nerves from the subcesophagenl ganglion ; and, where suckers exist upon the arms, an additional scries of ganglia is provided, which seem to exert an especial influence in the exercise and the maintenance of their suction power. 3. The third, or Homogangliate group, is distinguished by the symmetrical arrangement of the nervous system. The articulate classes furnish examples of this type. A bilohed ganglion is situated above the oesophagus, and is connected with the organs of sense when they are present. From this there proceeds on each side of the oesophagus a nervous cord to a pair of ganglia beneath that canal, and therefore on the ventral surface. To these succeed, in most of the articulata, and likewise on the ventral surface, a pair of ganglia for each segment, from which are supplied the nerves to that segment. The ganglia are connected throughout, how- ever, by cords of communication from the cephalic to the caudal segment. 1 he number of pairs of ganglia is always in accordance with the number of segments of the animal ; and, if some of these segments he fused together, a similar coales- cence of the ganglia takes place. This is observed in insects in the change from the larva to the perfect state ; and, in some genera of Crustacea, the permanent form of the nervous system has obvious relation to peculiarity in the shape of the body. The annular arrangement of the ganglia in the body of the common crab {cancer),