424 INNERVATION. [chap. xiv. ferent arrangement from those of the cuticle itself; being flattened in the vertical instead of the horizontal direction, and especially distinct in the deeper and softer stratum of the cuticle. This special cuticular tunic of the duct is best exhibited by treatment of recent specimens with solution of potass. The duct, on leaving the gland, follows a meandering, and often rather spiral direction, through the areolae of the cutis, to the interval between the papilla;, where it becomes straight; and it again assumes a spiral course in perforating the cuticle (fig. 83). In the cutis its curves are unequal, elongated, and wide ; but, in the cuticle, they are commonly as close and regular as those of a common screw, the form of which may be taken as a fair model of the duct in this part. It is not easy to explain the mode in which the spiral form is given to the cuticular part of the duct. It has been imagined to result from the condensation and flattening of the lamina; of epidermis as they approach the surface ; but the fact, that the spirals are not closer near the orifice, is opposed to this notion. Their use, also, is obscure ; for we cannot admit the validity of the ingenious idea that the orifice of a spiral tube must be valvular, and, therefore, that they mechanically resist the entrance of foreign substances. If they do offer this opposition, it is only by the tortuosity resulting from the spiral arrangement. The proper tunic of the duct in the substance of the cuticle seems designed to keep it pervious, and may be that which gives it its peculiar spiral form. The aver- age diameter of the cavity of the duct is ttso inch; but, as it enters the cuticle, it usually becomes wider. The two last figures, as well as some of the pre- ceding ones, illus- trate the anatomy of the sweat- glands. The sebaceous tflands are found Fig. 92. Sebaceous glands, shewing theirsize and relation to the hair-follicles:—a. and B. from the nose; c. from the beard. In the latter the cutis sends down an investment to the hair-follicle.—Magn. 18 diam.