127 CHAP. VI.] B17RS.E.— SYNOVIAL SHEATHS. the extremities of the bones. From the ligaments it may he readily detached, and traced to the edge of the cartilage ; to this it is very intimately adherent for some little distance, beyond which it cannot be followed where the cartilage has been exposed to pres- sure during the motions of the joint. In the feetos it is continued over the whole cartilage (p. 90). In some of the more complex joints the synovial membrane forms folds, which project more or less into the articular cavities, and contain fat, which Clopton Havers and other anatomists erroneously imagined to perform a glandular office, and to secrete the synovia. The knee affords some remarkable examples of these folds, in what are known as the alar ligaments. A great number of blood-vessels are distributed in the areolar tissue upon the attached surface of the synovial membrane. In in- flammation, the membrane acquires a red hue by the repletion of these vessels, and in a minute injection also it becomes coloured. Excepting in very rare cases, the vessels cannot be traced beyond the edge of the cartilage, where they form a scries of loops. (See page 93.) Burs*.—A very simple form of synovial membrane is employed to facilitate the gliding of a tendon, or of the integument, over an osseous projection. It consists of a bag, generally closed at every point, connected by areolar tissue with the neighbouring parts, and secreting into its interior a fluid, which lubricates its free surface. Sometimes, when one of these burs® exists in the neighbourhood of a large joint, it communicates freely with the cavity of its synovial membrane, as in the bursa behind the rectus femoris above the knee-joint, and that near the hip-joint behind the tendon of the psoas and iliacus muscles. These synovial sacs are found in great numbers throughout the body : some are superficial, or subcutaneous. such as that between the skin and the patella, or that over the great trochanter of the femur, or that over the olecranon: the dccp~g*ated bursts, however, constitute the largest proportion of them; these are almost always connected with tendons, and inter- posed between them and the bones over which they play. On opening a bursa, we often find its cavity traversed by bands, which are either congenital and approaching to the cellular or areolar dis- position, or, as seems not unlikely, of the nature of adhesions, and con- sequently a morbid production tending to the obliteration of its cavity. Synovial sheaths.—rl hese are synovial bags prolonged into the form of sheaths, and surrounding long tendons, such as those of tin- flexor or extensor muscles of the fingers ami toes, as they lie in