334 INNERVATION. [chap. xi. ; physical stimulus to a part of the surface which is supplied with nerves from the same region of the cord. The horseman feels more secure when his legs are in close contact with the horse’s flank. We gain a much firmer hold of an object which adapts itself well to the palmar surface of the hand, than of one which, although of no greater bulk, is yet so irregular in surface as not to allow of such intimate contact with the palm. Closure of the eyelids in winking is an action of similar kind, resulting from a physical stimulus, which in the perfect state of the cerebro-spinal centre produces sensation, and excites motion which is at once the result of the physical im- pression, and of the exercise of volition provoked by the sensation. Every one must be conscious that he exercises considerable control over the movements of his eyelids, and that it requires a great effort to prevent winking for a certain period. At length, however, the physical impression, arising from the contact of air with the con- junctiva, and the diminution of temperature from evaporation on the surface of that membrane, which at first caused but a slight sen- sation, produces pain; the physical stimulus overcomes the mental resistance, and causes contraction of the orbicular muscle. And it may be remarked further, that the closure of the lids by voluntary effort is much more powerful if a stimulus be applied at the same time to the conjunctival surface, than if left solely to the exercise of the will. In the action just referred to, as well as in all other instances of reflex actions which the will can prevent, no satisfactory explana- tion of this controlling power of the mind cau be given by Dr. Hall’s hypothesis—Do the volitional fibres exceed in number the excito- motory ? If this were admitted, then we could understand that an excito-motory act might be prevented by substituting a voluntary act for it ; but, in the cases in question, the mind prevents action altogether, notwithstanding the exciting influence of the impression. The true explanation seems to be, that the mind can exert upon the vesicular matter a power which can prevent the exercise of that change, or neutralise the change, without which the motor fibres will not be affected by a physical stimulus. Reflex actions are more manifest in some situations than others : thus, in cases of hemiplegia from diseased brain, they are generally very obvious in the lower extremity, but totally absent in the upper. This, the advocates of the excito-motory theory ascribe to a paucity of excito-motory fibres in the latter limb, and to a larger amount of them in the former. Or, it has been attributed to the greater and more enduring influence of shock upon that segment of the cord