404 INNERVATION. [chap. xiv. cated in its impressions and mechanism. On these accounts it will be the first treated of. The nerves of touch are the same, or at least are derived from the same part of the cerebro-spinal centre as those of common sen- sation. They are the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, and some fibres of the eighth and fifth encephalic nerves. The peripheral organ of touch to which they are distributed is a tissue everywhere diffused over the sentient surface, but which in most situations is elevated into papillae more or less distinct from one another, and closely set, according to the tactile power. The nerves of touch are remark- able for the ganglia which are formed upon them on their emer- gence from the vertebral canal, and for the subsequent admixture with most of them of nerves of motion. In these respects they differ from those of the other special senses, except taste, which ranks next to touch in the ascending scale. In accordance with our general plan, we shall commence with an anatomical description of the skin, which is the principal seat of touch; and it will be convenient to include with it an account of the various glands and appendages found in connexion with this organ, whether they have any relation to the sense in question or not. We must premise, however, that this external integument is a part only of a great physiological system, which comprehends also the mucous membranes, and the true or secreting glands; all of which, taken together, and reduced to their most simple expression, are a continuous membrane, more or less involuted, more or less modified in the elementary tissues which compose it or are in con- nexion with it, and within which all the rest of the animal is contained. This expanse consists of two elements; a basement tissue composed of simple membrane, uninterrupted, homogeneous, and transparent, covered by an epithelium, or pavement, of nu- cleated particles. Underneath the basement membrane vessels, nerves, and areolar tissue are placed (p. 47). The sense of touch exists only in those regions of this great sys- tem which are exposed to the contact of foreign bodies, and where it is essential to the comfort or preservation of the animal that the presence and qualities of external objects should be perceived. These regions, however, demand a greater protection, for the same reason ; and hence it happens that the developement of this sense is found to be generally accompanied with the most remarkable increase and transformation of the epithelial element, and of the areolar tissue lying under the basement membrane. In the skin the thick and hard epithelium is termed cuticle or epidermis, and