chap.xi.] MATTEUCCl’S ELECTRO-PHYSIOLOGICAL RESEARCHES. 375 (Euvres ;—Flourens sur le systeme ncrveux ; — Desmoulins et Mage ml ic sur Ic systeme nerveux Longet, Anat.ct Physiol, tlu systeme nerveux ;—Volkmann, in Muller's Arehiv.;—Vnn I)ecn,sur la Physiol.de la Moellc Epinierc, and the works referred to at the conclusion of the last chapter. Appendix to the Eleventh Chapter.—Whilst the preceding pages were passing through the press, wo were favoured, through the gTcat kindness of Prof. Matteueei of Pisa, with several opportunities of witnessing his highly important electro- physiological experiments. As these experiments tend very much to confirm and substantiate the views expressed in Chap. IX., we subjoin here a succinct account of them. The facts which M. Matteueei’s researches have developed are the following :— 1. That muscle is a better conductor of electricity than nerve, and that nerve con- ducts better than brain. 2. That in the muscles of living animals, as well as of those recently killed, an electric current exists, which is directed from the interior of each muscle to its surface. 3. That in frogs a current exists peculiar to the Batrachian reptiles, which proceeds from the feet to the head, and is distinct from the muscular current. 4. In continuation of Marianini’s and Nobili’s researches, Matteueei illustrates the cffectB of the inverse and direct currents in nerves of different function, and shews very strikingly the difference in the influence of the electrical stimulus upon nerves, from that of other stimuli upon these organs. For these researches Matteueei employed the galvanometer of Humkorff (Paris), which is the same as that of Nobili, with the addition of a small np(>aratus by means of which the needles may l>e rendered more or less astatic, and thus the sensibility of the galvanometer may be more or less increased. But he also takes the precaution, to guard against the developement of currents by unequal chemical action upon the poles of the galvanometer, to have them made of plates of platina, which is not acted upon by water or saline solutions. He takes two plates of platina, about a quarter of an inch in breadth, and fixes each in a handle of wood. The plates arc then soldered to the wires of the galvanometer, and both the handles and the plates are covered with a layer of sealing-wax varnish, leaving only a space of about a quarter of an inch uncovered at the extremity of each platinum plate. The frog’s leg, prepared in a certain way, is most susceptible of electric in- fluence, and therefore may be used as a galvanometer of extreme delicacy. The skin is stripped off one lower extremity of a lively frog, and the wholo length of the sciatic nerve is dissected out from among the muscles of the posterior part of the thigh ; after which the thigh is cut across just above the knee, the nerve re- maining attached to the knee and leg. The leg is now placed in a glass tube, in such a position that the nerve hangs loosely from the end of the tube. To use this galvanoscope, the operator holds the glass tube at the opposite extremity to that in which the leg is placed, and causes the nerve which liangs loosely from the tube, to touch at two points the electromotor element under examination. If the nerve be traversed by a current, the leg instantly contracts. This apparatus, called by Matteueei grcnouille galranotcopique, is the most delicate we possess, if it be renewed from time to time. And it is capable, not only of indicating the existence of an electric current, but also of shewing, with a great degree of pro- bability, the direction of that current. When the frog has become a little weak- ened, it almost constantly happens that the contraction takes place on doting the