[chap. xv. 444 INNERVATION. Evidence from Experiments.—From observations on the effects of section of the glosso-pharyngeal nerves in dogs, Panizza, and, sub- sequently, Valentin and Wagner, concluded that taste was completely lost after their division, and, consequently, that these are the sole nerves of the sense. But in such an inquiry negative results have far less value than positive ones; and we therefore consider the experi- ments of Muller, Gurlt, and Kornfeld, and those of Alcock and Reid, who all agree that decided indications of taste remained after these nerves had been cut, as proving that the lingual branches of the fifth share in the sense. Muller, Gurlt, and Kornfeld, however, failing to find signs of taste after the lingual branches of the fifth were divided, concluded too hastily that these are the sole, or by far the principal nerves of the sense, in opposition to the experiments of Panizza and his followers, the positive evidence of which in this regard carries greater weight. The experiments of Dr. Alcock directly tend to reconcile these inconsistencies. He found that though taste re- mained after dividing the lingual branches of the fifth, yet it seemed completely lost in the anterior part of the tongue. Besides, it is not impossible that the rude injury inflicted in these contradic- tory experiments on either the glosso-pharyngeal or the lingual branch of the fifth might temporarily deaden the sense of taste in the other, in a way somewhat similar to that, whatever it be, in which loss of smell impairs taste. Valentin admits that one of the dogs in which he had cut the glosso-pharyngeal nerves was able to taste a fortnight afterwards ; a period quite too short to have allowed reunion and restoration of function to the nerves, and making it likely that the sense had been only apparently, and not really lost. Evidence from Disease.—In some cases loss of common sensat ion consequent on disease of the fifth nerve has been reported as being attended with, loss of taste;* in others, taste appears to have been preserved :•(* on the other hand, taste has been sometimes lost while common sensation in the tongue remained.J We would interpret the apparently contradictory evidence of these cases by one which we have ourselves lately witnessed, and which will be found to accord remarkably with the foregoing view's. A middle-aged man suffered for eight years from complete loss of sensation in all parts supplied by the fifth nerve on the left side, with the exception of the forehead. The left eye was lost by destructive inflammation: the tongue was quite without feeling on the left side. On experimenting on his sense * Bishop, Med. Gaz. 1833 ; Romberg, Muller’s Archiv. 1838, Heft iii. f Noble, Med. Gaz. vol. xv. p. 120 ; Vogt, Muller’s Archiv. 1840, p. 72. + Noble, Med. Gaz. vol. xvi.