CHAP. X.] THE CEREBRAL HEMISPHERES. 279 after seven years of age, and is in a great degree peculiar to the human subject. The structure of the pineal body is very imperfectly known ; ami although its office has been a theme for some of the wildest speculators in physiological theories, we are still utterly in the dark respecting it. Of the Cerebral Hemispheres.—The hemispheres of the brain are ovoid masses, which in man constitute by far the largest portion of the encephalon. All that mass of nervous matter which is ex- ternal and superficial to the optic thalami and corpora striata con- stitutes the hemispheres properly so called. A vertical fissure separates the right and left hemispheres, which, although not per* fectly symmetrical, very closely resemble each other. This fissure contains the great falciform process of the dura mater, which thus forms a septum between the cerebral hemispheres. When a horizontal section is made through either hemisphere, an oval surface is exposed {centrum orate of Vienssens), which con- sists of an area of white or fibrous matter, bounded by a waving margin of gray. The latter is about an eighth of an inch in thick- ness : it is covered on its exterior by pia mater, from which innu- merable minute vessels penetrate it; and within it adheres inti- mately to the white matter, the fibres of which extend into it, and mingle with its elements. In examining the surface of a hemisphere from which the pia mater has been stripped, the peculiar folded arrangement of it is manifest. These folds, commonly known as the convolutions of the brain, resemble the ruga1 which are produced in the mucous membrane of the stomach when its muscular coat is very much contracted. They are evidently destined to pack into a small compass a large surface of vesicular matter. A sulcus separates each convolution from the neighbouring one. The gray matter is found at the bottom of the sulci, as well as upon the promi- nences of the folds, and its union with the fibrous matter takes place equally in the one as in the other situation. A sulcus, therefore, contains the gray (vesicular) and white (fibrous) ele- ments as distinctly as a fold or convolution. It is evident, that if the surface of gray did not exceed that of the white matter, folds or convolutions would not be necessary, but a simple expanse of the former would suffice to cover the surface of the latter. The convoluted arrangement increases the vesicular surface to an im- mense extent, without* occupying much additional space ; and, by the prolongation of the fibres, which correspond to the concavities