EXPERIMENTS WITH MADDER. 123 CHAP. V.] encircled by :i crimson ring. This beautiful illustration is due, as far as we know, to Mr. Tomes, who lias lung possessed some very elegant specimens prepared in this way. In full-grown animals the bones are very slowly tinged, because the great mass of the lione is not in contact with blood-vessels ; each Haversian system, for example, has only its small innermost lamella in contact with them ; and, besides, the osseous matter is altogether more consolidated and less permeable by fluids than at a very early period of life. In the bones of half-grown animals a part of the bone is nearly in the perfect condition, while a part is new and easily coloured. Hence, it is easy in them to distinguish the new' from the old by means of madder. Now, madder given to half-grown animals colours the long bones most deeply in the interval between the shaft and extremities, and on the surface of the shaft. When madder is given at intervals, the tints in the bone are interrupted; the layers in course of forma- tion during its administration are coloured, while those formed during the intervening periods are colourless. The long period during which bones retain the madder tinge, shews that the colour- ing matter is not readily resumed by the blood, from its combination with the phosphate of lime ; and it seems also to indicate a slug- gishness of the nutrient process in bone. Perhaps few questions have more divided the minds of physiolo- gists than that regarding the share taken by the periosteum in the growth and regeneration of bone ; for these last are essentially the same process. We now see that bone does not grow on its exte- rior because the periosteum is there ; and that the only part this membrane takes in the deposit of new bone is by the vascular net- work mingled with its fibrous tissue, and which does not differ from that on other portions of the osseous surface. The limited expansibility of the bone already formed is the remote cause to which the growth by new deposit on the exterior is to be referred ; and, in this respect, the superficial grow th is strictly analogous to the exogenous mode of growth in vegetable struc- tures. A third mode in which increase of size is provided for, appears to be by the dilatation of the primary oancclli and Haversian canals in the central parts of the bone. In early life the cancelli are small, and there is no medullary cavity. Gradually the cancelli enlarge, and those within the shaft blend more and more with one another, by the removal to a greater or less extent of the interven- mg osseous walls, until at length a medullary canal is formed,