351 . chap, xi.] FUNCTIONS OF THE ENCEPHALON. j olivary columns, however, are in great part continuations of the It thalami on the one hand, and of the gray matter of the cord on lithe other; and contain abundance of vesicular matter, in which 1 i nerves are implanted. And it must he admitted that the intimate connexion of sensation : and motion, whereby sensation becomes a frequent excitorof motion, and voluntary motion is always, in a state of health, attended with sensation,—would dpriori lead us to look for the respective Centres of these two great faculties, not only in juxtaposition, but in union at least as intimate as that which exists between the corpus ' striatum and optic, thalamus, or between the anterior and the posterior horns of the spinal gray matter. Saucerotte, Foville, 1*11101 Urandehamps, and others, advanced the opinion that the corpora striata and the fibrous substance of the anterior lobes of the brain had a special influence ujxm the motions of the lower extremities, and that the optic thalami and the fibrous substance of the middle and posterior part of the brain presided over the movements of the upper extremities. We find, however, but little to favour this theory either in the results of experiments, in pathological observation, or the anatomy of the parts. Longet states, that, in his experiments upon the optic thalami, the paralysis affected equally the anterior ami the posterior extremities. Andral analysed seventy-five cases of cerebral lesion limited to the corpus striatum or optic thalamus. In twenty-three of these cases, the paralysis was confined to the upper extremity: of these, eleven were affected with lesion of the corpus striatum or of the anterior lobe; ten with lesion of the posterior lobe, or of the optic thalamus; and two with lesion of the middle lobe.* Hence it is plain that a diseased state of the corpus striatum is as apt to induce paralysis of the upper extremity, as lesion of the thalamus; and we are forced to conclude, that pathological anatomy is not Competent to decide the question. Lastly, the anatomy of these two bodies renders it highly improbable that they perform a function so similar, as that of directing the movements of particular limbs. The great size of the optic thalamus, its multitude of fibrous radiations, its extensive connexions both in the medulla oblongata and in the hemispheres by means of commissural fibres, the marked difference of its structure from that of the corpus striatum, its connexion more with the posterior horns of the spinal gray matter than with the anterior ones, and its intimate relation « Clin. Med, t. v.