THE THORAX. < CHAP. VI.] 14;{ pieces of cartilage, which are of the same shape and breadth as the ribs themselves. The ribs are articulated by their heads and tuber- cles with the bodies, as well as with the transverse processes of the vertebra', and enjoy at these points a limited gliding motion in the upward or downward direction. The direction of the true ribs is forwards, sloping downwards; the obliquity being greatest in the lowest ribs, least in the first rib. The mobility which each rib enjoys at its vertebral articulation, permits this direction to be altered by muscular action ; and the ribs, under the influence of their elevator muscles, pass from the sloping to the horizontal posi- tion. By this change the dimensions of the chest are enlarged in the transverse as well as in the antero-posterior direction, for the middle curved portions of the ribs are carried outwards, and there- fore brought further apart from each other ; and their sternal extre- mities are moved forwards, accompanied bv the sternum, the dis- tance of which from the dorsal vertebrae is thereby increased. The forces, which depress the ribs, restore their planes of position to their previous oblique direction, and the two diameters of the chest to their former dimensions. It i> scarcely needful to add that the elevation of the ribs accompanies inspiration, and their depres- sion expiration. The following happy comparison between the thorax and the pelvis is from the pen of Mr. Mayo. “ When we compare together the several regions of the trunk, we observe that it is laid out in corresponding organs, or pairs of • organs, on either side of a centre, which is formed by the five lum- bar vertebrae. Above the lumbar vertebra are the dorsal; above these, the cervical: below the lumbar vertebrae are the sacral S' bones ; below these, the coccygeal. To the dorsal vertebrae and to » the sacrum, bones are articulated, which have the double office of l forming a visceral cavity, and of throwing to a convenient distance f from the mesial plane the bones of the extremities. The ribs and sternum, the clavicles and scapulae, form, with the dorsal vertebrae, an organ strictly analogous to that formed by the ossa innominata and the sacrum. But the chest for the function of respiration requires to be continually altering its dimensions, and the upper extremity is characterized by the extent and velocity of its move- ments, rather than by strength : to suit both these objects, the < chest and shoulder are formed of many bones, that are moveable in various senses; the ribs are capable both of rotating upon their sternal and vertebral joints, and of being raised or depressed upon : their vertebral joints, carrying with them the sternum ; the clavicle