387 CHAPTER XII. ON SYMPATHY AND SYMPATHETIC SENSATIONS AND MOTIONS. It is popularly known that the act of yawning, performed by one individual in a company, is apt to induce in many of the others an irresistible tendency to the same act. In a similar manner, the ex- citement of certain emotions (mirth or sadness, laughter or tears) is apt to spread through an assemblage of persons with extraordinary rapidity. The power of eloquence, of music, or of spectacle, to pro- duce such effects, is witnessed every day in places of public resort, whether for devotion, business, or amusement. Many instances are known in which convulsions have been excited in persons not previously subject to them, by the sight of a patient in an epileptic fit. And peculiar nervous disorders, of a convulsive kind, have been found to affect nearly all the members of a community without the slightest evidence of their being contagious or infectious. An impression upon an organ of sense may produce effects very different in their nature to anything which could be anticipated ; and these may be purely of a physical kind, or they may act primarily upon the mind. Thus certain odours will induce syncope in some people; and the smell of a savoury dish to a hungry person, or even the mention or the thought of a meal, will excite a flow of saliva. The emotion of pity excited by the sight of some object of compassion, or by a narrative of a mournful kind, will produce a copious flow of tears. All such phenomena are said to result from Sympathy. When one yawns, immediately in consequence of another’s yawning, the former evidently and truly sympathises with the latter; and the convulsions which are induced by the sight of another in a fit, are not less sympathetic. The individual in whom the convulsions are induced sympathises with the other. Such obvious instances of sympathy between different individuals led to the supposition of some such similar consent between different or even distant parts in the same person. Motions or sensations caused in certain parts in consequence of a primary irritation of other and distant parts are of the sympathetic