INNERVATION. [chap. XI. 342 r | one part are so readily affected by any change in those of the other. Thus, the olivary columns, which form the central and most essen- tial part of the medulla oblongata, extend upwards through the mesocephale to the optic thalami; and the anterior pyramids form an intimate connexion not only with the vesicular matter of the mesocephale, but, to a great extent, with that of the corpora striata. All these parts taken together, with the quadrigeminal tubercles, will be found to be the centre of the principal mental nervous actions, and of certain physical actions which are very essential to the integrity of the (economy. The office of the nerves which arise from this segment of the encephalon throws light upon its function. These nerves are partly destined for respiration, partly for deglutition, and partly also for acts of volition and sensation. Destruction of the medulla oblongata is followed by the imme- diate cessation of the phenomena of respiration ; and this takes place whether it be simply divided, or completely removed. When an animal is pithed, he falls down apparently senseless, and ex- hibiting only such convulsive movements as may be due to the irritation of the medulla by the section, or such reflex actions as may be excited by the application of a stimulus to some part of the trunk. If, in an animal which breathes without a diaphragm, as in a bird or reptile, the spinal cord be gradually removed in successive portions, proceeding from below, up to within a short distance of the medulla oblongata, loss of motor and sensitive power takes place successively in the segments of the body with which the removed portions of the cord were connected. But the animal still retains its power of perceiving impressions made on those parts of the body which preserve their nervous connexion with the medulla oblongata, and continues to exercise voluntary control over the movements of those parts. The movements of respiration go on, and de- glutition is performed. The higher senses are unimpaired.* These phenomena are sometimes observed in man—in such cases as that alluded to in a former page ; where, from injury to the spinal cord in the neck, below the origin of the phrenic nerve, the patient appears as a living head with a dead trunk. The sensibility and motor power of the head are perfect; respiration goes on par- tially, and deglutition can be readily performed. The senses and the intellectual faculties remain for a time unimpaired. Irritation of any part of the medulla oblongata excites con- * Flourens, p. 179.