31 PHYSIOLOGICAL INQUIRIES. ■1XTI10D.] ■ cephalic extremity of the animal, and with it are immediately con- nected the organs of the senses, the inlets to perception. We soon find that the brain exhibits a subdivision into distinct parts; and of :the relative importance of these parts, and their connexion with the organs of sense, and with the intellectual functions, we derive the most important information from the study of comparative anatomy. Haller further assigns the examination of the living animal as a \valuable aid in physiological research. Doubtless, many obscure ; points have been elucidated by experiments on living animals, and discoveries have been made which have greatly contributed to the progress of physiology; but the best physiologists are ever reluc- tant to interrogate nature in this way, knowing that replies elicited by torture are rarely to be depended upon. Very useful know- ■ ledge may be derived from observing the play of certain functions in living animals, or in Man himself,—contrasting them in various individuals, and noting the effects of age, sex, and temperament, and ascertaining the influence which other conditions, natural or artificial, may exert upon them. The investigation of disease, both during life and after death, is < of great value to enable us to appreciate the action of an organ in health. If, for example, as Haller remarks, a particular function ibe ascribed to a certain part, how can there be a more favourable opportunity of testing the accuracy of such a doctrine than bv the examination of a body in which that part was affected with a disease, of which the previous history was known i If the function in question had been vitiated, or destroyed, it may be fairly pre- * Burned to have had its seat in the diseased organ. Nothing has contributed more largely to determine the functions of particular nerves, than exact histories of the symptoms during life, in cases in which they had been found, after death, in a diseased condi- tion. For exploring the minute structure of various textures, the ana- tomical elements of the l»ody, Haller advises the use of the Micro- *cope. The great improvements which modern opticians have ac- complished, not only in the dioptric but also in the mechanical adjustments of this instrument, render it an invaluable adjuvant in physiological research. We shall have frequent occasion in the following pages to refer to anatomical analyses, effected by the microscope, ot the utmost value to the knowledge of’ function, lit may, however, be remarked, that, as the sources of fallacy are numerous even with the best instruments, more depends upon