LOCOMOTION. [chap. III. 82 This is one of those situations where the capillary vessels can be most unequivocally proved to possess distinct membranous parietes. ■ Fat.—Fat is a white or yellow unctuous substance, unorganized, and secreted into the interior of the adipose vesicles. Chemists have distinguished in it two solid proximate principles, stearine and margarine, combined with a fluid one, or oil, elaine ; on the relative proportions of which the principal of the numerous modifications of its external qualities would seem to depend. These principles may be obtained by different means. Boiling alcohol dissolves both, but on cooling deposits the stearine in snow-white flakes; and the elaine may be set free by the addition of water, for which the alcohol has a superior affinity. Or, the elaine may be separated by pressure. Stearine preserves its solidity at a temperature of 167° Falir., and elaine remains fluid at C3° or 65° F. Margarine exists along with stearine in most fats, and may be separated from it by ether, which dissolves margarine, but not stearine ; it is said to exist alone in human fat, which is therefore destitute of stearine. These proxi- mate elements of fat are regarded by modern chemists as natural compounds of certain organic acids with an organic base, to which the name of glycerine has been given, from its sweet taste. The acids are, the stearic, margaric, and elaic; and the proximate prin- ciples are, respectively, a stearate, a margarate, and an elaate of glycerine. By boiling oil or fat with a solution of caustic alkali, the acids unite with the potash, forming soap, and the glycerine remains dissolved in the liquid. By evaporating this liquid (in which any excess of alkali had been previously neutralized by tar- taric acid) to a thick syrup, the glycerine may be obtained from it in solution by strong alcohol. We may often detect a spontaneous separation of these two proxi- mate principles within the fat vesicle of the human subject. The solid portion collects in a spot on the inner surface of the cell-mem- brane, and looks like a small star (fig. 11, b. b. b). The elaine Fix. 11. Fut vesicles from an emaciated subject:—u. a. The cell-mem- brane. b. b. b. The solid portion collected as a star-like mass, with the elaine in connexion with it, but not filling the cell. occupies the remainder of the vesicle, except when the quantity of fat in the cell is smaller than usual; in which case we may often discern a little aqueous fluid between the elaine and the cell-membrane on the side farthest from the star (fig. 11, a. a) : a con- dition, by the way, which is very favourable for the observation of this membrane itself. The softer kinds of fat were denominated by the older anatomists pinguedo, lard; and