CHAP XIV. 432 INNERVATION. sponds very nearly with their relative capacities of touch. Weber discovered that the lips are better estimators of weight than any other part, as we might have anticipated from their delicate sense of touch and their extreme mobility. The fingers and toes are also very delicate instruments of this description. The palms and soles possess this power in a very considerable degree, especially over the heads of the metacarpal and metatarsal bones ; while the back, oc- ciput, thorax, abdomen, shoulders, arms, and legs, have very little capacity of estimating weight. Heat and cold are peculiar sensations excited by alterations of temperature on the surface of the body. They are, beyond all other sensations, of a relative rather than of an absolute kind, and are always most marked in contrast. Thus, in the familiar experi- ment of dipping one hand into hot, and the other into cold water, and then plunging them both into water of an intermediate tem- perature, the new medium will seem cold to the former and hot to the latter ; and natives of the polar and tropical regions of the globe will respectively complain of the warmth or chilliness of our tem- perate climate when they visit our shores. But it is observable that the sensations of heat and cold, when exalted in degree, resemble each other very nearly. The susceptibility to both is greatest within moderate limits; and impressions of either, when acute and powerful, amount to pain, and soon cease to be distin- guishable from one another. Temperature appears higher in degree when it is applied to a larger surface : thus, water feels hotter when we put our whole hand into it, than when we only dip a finger; the extent of the sensation augmenting the intensity with which it is appreciated, perhaps by more forcibly attracting the attention. Sensations of temperature have been usually, and we believe pro- perly, attributed to the nerves of common sensation. These sensa- tions are certainly quite different from touch, both in their peculiar characters and in the source of excitement; but no less may be said of various other modifications of common sensation, to which it is impossible to assign nerves of special endowment. The existence of fibres fitted to be acted on by heat and cold, but by no other sti- mulus, may be fairly doubted so long as they are undistinguishable from those of touch, both at their origin from the nervous centre and in their peripheral distribution. Still, however, it may be noted that in certain states of paralysis, the sensibility to heat and cold may be destroyed, while common sensation and touch remain." * See an instructive case by Dr. W. Budd, in the Med. Cliir. Trans, vol. xxii.