i 92 LOCOMOTION. [chap. iv. composed of clearly defined and roundish nucleated cells, huddled together, as it were, in a promiscuous manner, fig. 16. In spe- cimens from persons of adult age, the cells have frequently a fine granular opaque matter sprinkled on their exterior; and these, in older subjects, are seen to have become minute centres of a spurious ossification. In the cartilage of the ear the cells are small, and very close to each other; in shape they are very uniform, and vary in size from ttW to iris of an inch. A piece of this cartilage, when examined by a high power, has very much the appearance of a sieve; the holes of which are occupied by nuclei and their nucleoli. The in- tercellular substance is not exactly white fibrous tissue; but so nearly resembles it, especially towards the surface, as to make this form of cartilage approach fibro-cartilage more nearly than does any other. The membraniform cartilages are invested by a layer of white fibrous tissue, containing blood-vessels, and called the perichondrium. Its fibres are densely interwoven in all directions, and adhere inti- mately to the intercellular substance of the cartilage. This invest- ment corresponds with the periosteum of bone, and in the temporary cartilages is indeed the very same structure. It is a nidus for the nutrient vessels of cartilage, and often serves to give attachment to muscles. It is best examined on the cartilages of the ribs. Its great toughness is sometimes well displayed in fractures of these cartilages, where the perichondrium remains untorn between the fragments. The articular cartilages, which have no perichondrium, are sup- ported and supplied with blood by the bone to which they are adapted, and by the synovial membrane, which always passes for at least some little distance over their free surface. Vessels of Cartilage.—Speaking in general terms, cartilage may be styled a non-vascular substance, for considerable masses of all its varieties exist, impenetrated by a single vessel. The term non- vascular, however, it is important to observe, is to be understood in a relative sense. All tissues deriving their nutriment from blood- vessels, are, in fact, if traced up to their microscopic elements, on the outside of the channels through which the blood flows. If the quantity of vessels be large in proportion to the tissue, or if the two are mingled in an intimate manner, we term the part very vascular. If, on the other hand, there be a considerable mass of tissue, among the elementary parts of which no vessels penetrate, it is styled noil- vascular. 1 his word is not used in an absolute sense; for, if so