INNERVATION. [chap. ix. 234 one or more of its staminal principles, or vitiated by some morbid element. The nervous trunks as they exist in different regions are usually compound; that is, they contain fibres of different endowments. In some situations, it is true, the fibres of one kind predominate so much as to give the trunk the physiological character which belongs to them ; but it likewise enjoys in a proportionate degree the functions of those fibres, which are few in number. For exam- ple, the facial nerve, or portio dura of the seventh pair, is called motor because it is almost wholly composed of motor fibres; but it contains, besides, in very much smaller number, some sensitive fila- ments, which it probably derives from anastomoses with neighbour- ing nerves. The third, fourth, and sixth pairs of nerves may be quoted as of similar constitution to the facial. In the ramifications of the fifth nerve, on the other hand, the filaments of sensation are predominant; those of motion being much fewer, and confined to the branches of its inferior maxillary division. It is at the points of emergence of the roots of the nerves from the nervous centres that we find the most complete isolation of function. This is well exemplified in the spinal nerves and in the fifth pair. These nerves emerge from their respective centres by two bundles of fibres, of which one is sensitive, the other motor; the former having almost always the distinctive features of greater size than the latter, and of having a ganglion formed upon it. But, even in these instances, it has lately beeii made a matter of question whether the smaller root, which experiment has satisfactorily shewn to be motor in its function, does not also contain a very slight pro- portion of sensitive filaments. The stimuli by which the action of nerves is ordinarily pro- voked are of two kinds, mental and physical. In all voluntary actions, an act of the mind is the excitant of the nerve. Seusa- ; tions are caused by the influence of physical agents upon nerves, which communicate with the sensorium commune. The change in the nerve, by reason of this communication, gives rise to a corre- sponding affection of the mind. It is wonderful how quickly such changes are propagated, and with what precision they arc perceived by the mind, although the physical excitant may itself be a fine point invisible to the naked eye, applied with the slightest force, and coming in contact with a spot equally difficult of apprecia- tion. If the communication between the nerve and the centre he cut off, the will can exert no influence upon the muscles supplied bv the nerve below the section ; nor will the mind perceive any