285 l CHAP. X.J COMMISSURES OF THE BRAIN. The corpus callosum is a thick stratum of transverse fibres, bent at its anterior and posterior extremities, situate between the hemi- spheres, and forming a floor to a |>ortion of the great median fissure which separates them. Its fibrous structure is very appa- rent to the naked eye, the fibres being collected in coarse bundles, i On each side it penetrates into the hemisphere, under cover of the internal convolution already mentioned, which overhangs it in its * entire length. It thus connects the anterior, middle, and part of the ['posterior lobes of each hemisphere ; at least, its fibres penetrate the hemispheres at these parts. Foville describes the fibres of this com- missure as being derived partly from the posterior columns of the i medulla oblongata, from the optic thalami, from the corpora striata, ! and, lastly, from the fibrous matter of the hemispheres ; and although i the demonstration of these numerous sources of origin of these fibres is attended with much difficulty, it nevertheless seems highly probable that the numerous fibres, of which so extensive a stratum is formed, would derive their origin from several sources. The corpus callosum is crossed from before backwards along the median line by two stripes of longitudinal fibres, which, although easily separable, generally lie in close apposition with each other, and form a kind of raphe, dividing the upper surface of the corpus callosum into two equal ami symmetrical portions. These fibres • seem to l>e commissural in their office. The anterior commissure is a remarkable bundle of transverse ' fibres, which passes from one hemisphere to the other. It is in its centre a cylinder of fibrous matter, a little thicker than a crow- quill, but becoming very much flattened and expanded at its extre- mities. Its central part is seen at the anterior extremity of the third ventricle, in front of the anterior pillars of the fornix, crossing from side to side, quite free, and unconnected with nervous matter. It plunges on either side into the anterior extremity of the corpus striatum, and, passing through it, its fibres diverge and spread out mto the white matter at the floor of the Sylvian fissure, and near the anterior perforated space. The posterior commissure crosses the posterior extremity of the third ventricle, and passes transversely between the optic thalami. It is a slender cylinder of fibrous matter, which lies immediately above the anterior orifice of the aqueduct of Sylvius. On each side 't seems to sink into the posterior part of the optic thalamus. The tase of the pineal body rests upon it, and is connected with it by fibrous matter, which is continuous with the peduncles. 1 he soft commissure is a soft pale-gray layer consisting of