INNERVATION. 448 chap. xv. many substances is, however, very different from that which they produce in the first instance. Horn has remarked that this after- taste is usually bitter ; while, with one of the most bitter substances known, viz. tannin, it is sweet. This circumstance appears to shew something in taste corresponding to the complementary colours in vision, and seems dependent on a state of the nerves which, for want of a better word, may be termed one of exhaustion, consequent on their previous stimulation. It will illustrate the cause of many filmi- liar phenomena of taste ; such as the effect some flavours have in ex- alting, modifying, or destroying our appreciation of others. Repeated over-stimulation of the nerves by the same substance exhausts their excitability by that or similar substances for some time afterwards. There also appear to be relations between certain varieties of taste, which, though not classified or described by philosophers, are instinctively perceived, and constitute the foundation of the art of cookery. Attention and study given to the perceptions of this sense greatly enhance their delicacy. Little is known of the subjective phenomena of taste, or those dependent on excitation of the nervous apparatus of the sense by internal causes. The various tastes which are experienced in'disease are probably occasioned by depraved secretions in the mouth acting as foreign substances on the papillae. The epithelium of the tongue, it is well known, is very prone to accumulate in the form of sordes, loaded with unnatural materials ; on the removal of which, the natu- ral taste is, in a great measure, restored. Magendie observed that dogs, after the injection of milk into their veins, licked their lips, and gave other signs of tasting. Such phenomena, if uniformly present, might be occasioned by the transudation of the fluid from the vessels to the nerves of the papillae.* * On the subject of taste we refer to the general treatises already cited ; to Magcndie’s Physiology ; Rudolphi’s Physiology ; Horn, fiber den Geschmackssinn des Mensehen, Heidelberg, 1825; Panizza, Richerche Sperimentali sopra i Nervi, 1834, given by Dr. G. Burrowes in Med. Gaz. vol. xvi.; Dr. Alcock, Med. Gaz. Nov. 1836 ; Dr. Jno. Reid, Brit, and For. Med. Rev. vol. v. p. 309 ; Valentin, de fnnct. nerv. p. 116. END OE THE FIRST VOLUME. London: Printed by S. & J. Bentley, Wilson, and Flky, Bangor House, Shoe Lane.