32 TIIE MICROSCOPE. [introd. the observer himself, in this kind of investigation, than in almost any other. The great impediment to deriving correct inferences from micro- scopical observations has arisen from the discordance, too apparent, in the narrations of different observers. This discordance has been the result of a twofold cause; namely, imperfection of the instru- ments, and the very unequal qualifications of different observers. The former cause is now almost completely removed ; the latter must remain, while men imperfectly appreciate their own abilities for particular pursuits. To make microscopical observation really beneficial to physio- logical science, it should be done by those who possess two re- quisites : an eye, which practice has rendered familiar with genuine appearances as contrasted with those produced by the various aberrations to which the rays of light are liable in their passage through highly refracting media, and which can quickly distinguish the fallacious from the real form ; and a mind, capable of detect- ing sources of fallacy, and of understanding the changes which manipulation, chemical reagents, and other disturbing causes may produce in the arrangement of the elementary parts of various textures. To these we will add another requisite, not more important for microscopical than for other inquiries; namely, a freedom from pre- conceived views or notions of particular forms of structure, and an absence of bias in favour of certain theories, or strained ana- logies. The history of science affords but too many instances of the baneful influence of the idola specus upon the ablest minds ; and it seems reasonable to expect that such creatures of the fancy would be especially prone to pervert both the bodily and the mental vision, in a kind of observation which is subject to so many causes of error, as that conducted by the aid of the microscope. Finally, the sagacious Haller perceived, how necessary to the furtherance of physiology is a knowledge of Organic Chemistry; and we could adduce many instances to prove, that the attention, which has of late years been paid to this subject, has not been without its fruit, in giving us an insight into the nature of many functions, which, without it, we could noV have obtained. In the living body the most delicate''chemical processes are un- ceasingly going on, for the formation of new compounds and the destruction or alteration of old ones, ft is evident that no progress can be made in the investigation of these invisible processes, unless