(CHAP. X.] CONVOLUTIONS OF THE BRAIN. 283 [difference is also observable in these respects in the human : brain. The convolutions of the female brain are not so deep nor so thick as those of the male. Age, too, causes a marked difference. The convolutions of the child just born, besides being much more simple, and having fewer undulations, are less deep and less thick than those of the adult; and in old age, when lithe brain has shrunk, the mental faculties being less vigorous i and active, the convolutions have become much smaller in every [dimension, and water is apt to accumulate in the intergyral hspaces. In man, the convolutions of the right and left hemispheres do mot present a perfect symmetry. It is imj>ortant. however, to (.notice, that careful examination will invariably display the same (essential convolutions on each side, although they present such '■striking differences in detail that it is at times difficult to recog- junize the likeness; and it is not a little remarkable, that, in .general, the lower the developement of a brain, the more exact will be the symmetry of its convolutions. Thus the brains of all the inferior mammalia, even of those which make the (nearest approach to man, are exactly symmetrical. The imper- fectly developed brain of the child exhibits a similar symmetry ; and that of the inferior races of mankind, in whom the neglect of mental culture, and habits approaching those of the brute, are opposed to the growth of the brain, also presents a symmetrical disposition of the convolutions. A convolution consists of a fold of the gray, or vesicular matter, enclosing a process of the fibrous. The gray matter of neighbouring -convolutions is obviously continuous throughout at the bottoms of the sulci, so that it forms one unbroken although undulating sheet ■over the whole convoluted surface of the brain. That portion of the gray layer which is in contact with the pia mater is purely vesicular, i.e. unmixed with nerve-tubes, with the exception of a few stray ones on the surface ; but blood-vessels penetrate it in very great numbers. The more deeply seated portion, however, contains very numerous tubular fibres, which become larger as they approach the white matter. It is very plain, that a large proportion of the constituent fibres of the white matter of the convolutions penetrate the gray matter: these appear to enter it more or less at right angles to that portion of the gray surface with which they are more immediately in relation ; and, on the other hand, they converge inwards towards the central parts of the brain, the corpora striata and optic thalami. A large pro- u 2