intkod.J VOLITION.—SLNSATION". — <) and animals. In the former it is eryptogamic, or phanerogamic; ; in the latter, non-sexual, or sexual. In the phanerogamic and •sexual, the junction of two kinds of matter furnished by the parents is necessary to the developement of fertile ova. In the ervptogamie and non-sexual generation, the new individual is de- veloped by a separation of particles from the body ot the parent, bv which the newr formation is nourished until it has been so far i matured jis to l>e capable of an independent existence. The functions, hitherto enumerated, may be called organic, as I being common to all organized beings ; but there are others which, as being peculiar to, and characteristic of, animals, may be ap- propriately designated animal functions. The prominent characteristic of animals is the enjoyment of Volition or Will, which implies necessarily the possession of Con- sciousness. Our knowledge of the share which consciousness and the will have in the production of certain phenomena of animal life, is derived from the experience winch each person has of his own i movements, and a comparison of them w ith the actions of inferior animals. We are conscious that, by a certain effort of the mind, we can excite our muscles to action; and w hen we see precisely similar acts performed by the lower creatures, with all the marks of a purpose, it is fair to infer that the same process takes place in them as in ourselves. Moreover, we learn by experience, that injury or disease of the nerves, which are distributed to our muscles, destroys the power of accomplishing a certain act, but does not I affect the desire or the wish to perform it: and experiments tell | us that the division of the nerves of a limb in a lower animal destroys its power over that member; while its ineffectual struggles j to move the limb obviously indicate that the will itself is not affected by the bodily injury, though its powers are limited by it. Again, certain external agents are capable of affecting the mind, through certain organs, thus giving rise to Sensations. Light, sound, odour, the sapid qualities of bodies, their various mechanical pro- bities, hardness, softness, &c. are respectively capable of producing corresjmnding affections of the mind, which experience leads us to associate with their exciting causes, and which may be agreeable, and produce pleasure, or the reverse, and give rise to pain. In a similar way to that by which we learn that the will stimu- lates our muscles through the nerves, we can ascertain that the nerves are the channels through which our sensations also are ex- cited. “ Certain states of our bodily organs are directly followed by certain states or affections of our mind ; certain states or aft’oc-