LOCOMOTION. [chap. hi. 70 through which the force has acted, have escaped. Thus, the malleoli are often dragged off by twists of the foot acting on those processes v of bone through the lateral ligaments of the joint. It is entirely devoid of contractility or irritability; and its sensibility is very low, so much so that tendons hanging out of a wound have been® cut without the patient being aware of it. Vessels and Nerves.—White fibrous tissue contains few vessels;® they are small, and follow for the most part the course of the bun- - dies of the tissue; they appear more numerous in the dura mater, and in periosteum, than in other parts. The presence of nerves® and their mode of subdivision, have not as yet been satisfactorily® demonstrated anatomically; we infer their existence from the tissue* manifesting sensibility in some forms of disease. Chemical composition.—The flexibility of fibrous tissue is owing to its containing a small proportion of water. A tendon, ligament,® or fibrous membrane, will dry readily; it then becomes hard and rigid; it resists the putrefactive process when not kept moist, and even then putrefies less readily than the softer textures. Acetic acid causes it to swell up, instantly removes its peculiar appear- ance of wavy fibres, and displays some broken elongated corpus- cles, which are probably the remains of the nuclei of the deve-*| lopement-cells. Gelatine may be extracted in considerable quantity from white fibrous tissue by boiling, and it would appear to cousti-S tute its chief proximate principle. Of the different forms of white firons tissue.—A. Ligaments.— Ligaments are connected with joints. They pass in determinate-: directions from one bone to another, and serve to limit certain move- ments of the joint, while they permit others. They, therefore, con- stitute an extremely important part of the articular mechanism in preserving the integrity of the joint in its various movements. - There are three principal kinds of articular ligaments:—1. Funi- cular, rounded cords of white fibrous tissue, of which we may give as examples the external lateral ligament of the knee-joint, the perpendicular ligament of the ankle-joint, &c. : 2. Fascicular, flattened bands, more or less expanded; ex. internal lateral liga- ment of the knee-joint, lateral ligaments of the elbow-joint, an- terior and posterior ligaments of the wrist-joint, and, indeed, the great majority of ligaments in the body: 3. Capsular; these are barrel-shaped expansions, attached by their extremities around the margin of the articular surfaces composing the joint, and forming a complete but a loose investment to it, so that its movements are not particularly restricted in one direction more than another.