[chap. 100 LOCOMOTION. consists in a deficient deposit of earthy matter; the animal matter being probably of an unhealthy quality. In this disease the hones are so flexible, that they bend under the weight that they may he called on to support, or under the action of the muscles. The lower extremities exhibit deformity first, and to the greatest degree, and the direction in which they become bent is evidently influenced by the superimposed weight; the bend almost always appears as an aggravation of the natural curves of the bones. The rickety femur has always its convexity directed forwards: the tibia is convex forwards and outwards, and the fibula follows the same direction. When the nutritive powers of the system are fully re- stored, the deposition of earth goes on in its healthy proportion, the animal matter becomes healthy, and the bones acquire their due degree of strength and hardness. In the tibia of a rickety child, Dr. Davy found, in 100 parts, 7-I parts animal matter, and 26 earthy; and Dr. Bostock found in the vertebra of a similar subject 7.9-7o animal, and 20’25 earthy. The brittleness of the bones in old age is due to an opposite cause, namely, the defective deposit of animal matter, so as to give to the earthy matter the undue preponderance, already specified. But this state cannot be looked upon as morbid ; it is the natural result of the feeble condition of the powers of nutrition, which ensues in the advance of years; and it will vary, in different individuals, according to the original strength of constitution of each, and according to the freedom from exposure to debilitating influences. That state of bone which accompanies malignant disease (cancer, or fungoid disease) in adults or old persons, and which some pathologists have designated mollifies ossium, results from the dis- semination of cancerous matter through the system. In this disease the whole nutritive process of bones seems tainted; the animal part is not so much deficient in quantity, as had in quality; the physical, as well as the vital properties of the bone are completely deranged ; the osseous texture has lost its cohesive power. Hence these bones often break on the application of the slightest force, or on the feeblest exercise of the muscles. They are soft, too, in the recent state ; the knife will sometimes penetrate them ; and they are often pervaded by a considerable quantity of oil. Bones possess a remarkable power of resisting decomposition. Even the animal part seems to acquire this power through its com- bination writh the earthy. This is manifest from analysing bones which have been long kept, or fossil bones. Cuvier states that the latter bones exhibit a considerable cartilaginous portion; and