45 SECONDARY ORGANIC COMPOUNDS. CHAP. i. to fmd it in the blood. The fatty elements also separate in the blood, and are destined to nourish the adipose tissue, and the nerves. It may be fairly conjectured that the developement and separation of these principles take place in the capillary blood- vessels, because those vessels penetrate and play freely among the elementary parts of the tissues ; and also because the blood does not manifest a decided change in its characters until it has passed through that part of the sanguiferous system. The blood is likewise the seat of other changes, not less import- ant to the well-being of the animal (economy. As certain particles of the various tissues become effete and useless, they are removed either by a direct absorbing power of the blood-vessels, or by that of certain vessels, called lymphatics, and thus they again find their way into the current of the circulation. Here the elements of the tissues, by some unknown chemical agency, undergo certain trans- formations, and the secondary compounds are formed, to be ex- creted from the system by means of particular organs. Urea and uric acid, thus formed in the blood, are excreted by the kidnevs ; lactic acid, by the kidneys and the skin ; the elements of the bile, by the liver, &e. &c. Hut whilst it is highly probable that the effete particles furnish materials for these compounds, there seems good reason to believe, that, at least with respect to some of them, the food likewise contributes immediately to their forma- tion. That, this is the case with respect to the bile, is rendered very likely by several circumstances which cannot be dwelt upon at present. In the present, state of our knowledge it is impossible to assign the particular tissues whose metamorphoses give rise to the for- mation of certain secondary compounds. I)r. Front has expressed the opinion that urea is derived from the gelatinous, and uric acid from the albuminous tissues. And it may be conjectured that the fatty tissues afford material for the formation of some of the con- stituents of the bile. As each of these secondary organic compounds forms a compo- nent part of some special secretion, it would be premature to do more at present than allude to them ; we, therefore, postpone the further investigation of them to those parts of the work where the respective secretions will be treated of. Classification and properties of the tissues. — From the proximate principles, the various textures are produced by tin* developement of particular organic forms. It has already been stated, that the