422 [chap. xtv. INNERVATION. The sweat-glands exist under almost every part of the cutaneous surface. They lie in small pits (fig. 83, d) on the deep aspect of the cutis ; or, if large, entirely in the subcutaneous fascia. As before mentioned, their orifices are discernible in the middle of the cross grooves that intersect the ridges of papilla) on the hands and feet. Here their arrangement is necessarily regular, and their size is about that of a pin’s head. But in other parts they are irregularly scat- tered, though in general in pretty equal numbers over areas of the same dimensions. In certain situations, however, they are very large ; and, as might be expected, we find their size and number in different districts of the skin to correspond with the amount of perspiration afforded by each. Thus, they are nowhere so remarkable, or so easily examined, as in the axilla, over a space precisely defined by the growth of the hair in the adult. They here form a layer, which, towards the middle, is often an „ . . eighth of an inch thick, but thinner to- Vcrtical section of the skin and ~ sweat-glands of^theaxilla.-—a. Layer wards the edge. It is of a reddish colour, of glands with their ducts traversing 0 b the cutis and cuticle, c. Small ancl mammellated by the individual glands hair, rf, a. Portions ot larger hairs. J ° —Magn. one and a half diam. which compose it. Some of these are as large as the labial glands, but most of them are somewhat smaller. They are soft, and more or less flattened by lateral apposition with one another. They lie in an atmosphere of delicate areolar tissue, and are covered and per- meated with a network of capil- lary blood-vessels. The sweat-glands can be shewn, wherever they exist, by dissecting a piece of fresh in- tegument on its deep surface. They are distinguishable from the pellets of fat, with which they have doubtless been repeat- , , , edly confounded, by their pink Sweat-gland and the commencement of its duct:— J J a. Venous radicles on the wall of the cell in which the colour and Semi-trailSparent teX- glaud rests. This vein anastomoses with others in sxr, , . .. the vicinity, b. Capillaries of the gland separately tlllT). Where the areolar frame- represented, arising from their arteries, which also ... anastomose. The blood-vessels are all situated on WOlTv of the CUtlS IS densely inter- file outside or deep surface of the tube, in contact . ... ,. with the basement membrane.—Magn. 35 diam. WOVCn, they are leSS readily dlS- cerned, but injection of the blood-vessels makes their detection easy. Fig. 90.