CHAP. IX.] 233 ENDOWMENTS OF NERVE-FIBRES. patient complains of pains or tingling, which he refers to the ampu- tated fingers or toes. It may be stated, in confirmation of the view alrove taken, that in many cases of complete paralysis of a limb from cerebral disease, the patient is not conscious of its presence, and really feels ns if it did not exist. We have known instances in which this unconscious- i ness has been so great, that when the paralyzed part came in contact • with some sensitive portion of his body, the patient for a time be- lieved it to belong to another person, or imagined it some entirely i foreign substance. In such cases the affection of brain necessary to create the feeling cannot be produced in consequence of the morbid • state of that organ. The distinction which has been made between nerves of common and of special sensation, is indicated by the fact, that while a gti- f mulus to the former causes pain, that to the latter gives rise to a I peculiar or special sensation, as of light, sound, or taste. These nerves are so organized at their periphery as to be peculiarly adapted to re- ; ceive impressions from the agents to which they specially respond : ! and in this, as well as in their connexion with some special part of ' the great centre of sensibility, consist their main anatomical pecu- liarities (see p. 56). The same law of nervous action applies to these nerves as to those of common sensation. Thus, their ordinarv mode of action is to propagate to the centre impressions made at the periphery; but irritation at any part of them may give rise to their peculiar sen- sation ; and if the brain be stimulated at the part whence these nerves arise, similar sensations are produced. Such phenomena of vision and hearing, to which the term subjective has been applied, are familiarly known to practitioners, as not unfrequent forerunners of more serious symptoms of cerebral disease. Muscse volitantes, ocular spectra, tinnitus aurium, are instances of these phenomena, which, although of every-day occurrence, ought always to excite the attention of the medical man, as indicating some departure from the normal state of the optic or auditory nervous apparatus. Pressure on the eyeball, a galvanic current passed through it,* rotation of the body, are capable of giving rise to similar phenomena, by exciting the retina, or the central connexions of the optic nerve. A sense of giddiness, similar to that produced by the means last named, is also a very common symptom of cerebral affection arising from a disturbed circulation, or from the blood being defective in * A strong sensation of n flash of light stay he produced by passing a galvanic current in the close vicinity of the eyeball. n