INNERVATION. [chap. XI. 348 brain by their numerous radiations, all these several parts are linked together for the common purposes of volition, and constitute a great centre of voluntary actions, amenable to the influence of the will at every point. It has been pretty generally admitted by anatomists, that both the corpora striata and the anterior pyramids are concerned in voluntary movements. The motor tracts of Bell were regarded by that physiologist as passing upwards from the anterior columns of the cord to the corpora striata, and, after traversing those bodies, as diverging into the fibrous matter of the hemispheres; and the fact of the origin of certain motor nerves, in connexion with those fibres, was considered to be very favourable to this view. The de- cussation of the pyramids, likewise, so illustrative of the cross influence of the brain in lesions sufficient to produce paralysis, has been looked upon as an additional indication of the motor influence of these parts. The invariable occurrence of paralysis as the result of lesion, even of slight amount, in the corpora striata, must be regarded as a | fact of strong import in reference to the motor functions of these bodies. Nor is this fact at all incompatible with the statements made by all experimenters, that simple section of the corpus striatum does not occasion either marked paralysis or convulsion ; and that in cutting away the different segments of the brain, beginning with the hemispheres, convulsions are not excited until the region of the mesoeephale is involved. The influence of the corpora striata is not upon the nerves directly, but upon the segments of the medulla oblongata or of the spinal cord, and, through them, upon the nerves which arise from them. Were the nerve-fibres continued up into the corpora striata, according to an opinion which has been long prevalent, there would be no good reason for supposing that they should lose in the brain that excitability to physical stimuli which they are known to possess in the spinal cord, and at their peripheral distribution. The latest experiments, which are those of Longet and Lafargue, agree in the following result, which is not at variance with that obtained by Flourens. The animals remain immoveable after the removal of the corpora striata, whether those bodies have been removed alone or in conjunction with the hemispheres; nor do they shew any disposition to move, unless strongly excited by some external stimulus. None of these observers had noticed the irre- I sistible tendency to rapid propulsion, which was described by