126 CHAPTER VI. SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. SEROUS MEMBRANES. VARIETIES OP JOINTS. MECHANISM OF TIIE SKELETON. Tiie different forms of bones, when united according to various mechanical contrivances, constitute the skeleton. The framework of the body, being thus formed of several pieces jointed together, is admirably arranged for extended, or for minute and nicely adjusted motions, and for distributing concussions over a large surface. The interposition of discs, or lamina;, of elastic cartilage, or fibro-carti- lage, between some bones, contributes to the latter object, by inter- rupting the medium through which the shock would be conducted, as well as by the elasticity of the intervening substances ; and, at the same time, these discs, by their intimate adhesion to the opposed osseous surfaces, serve as powerful bonds of union between them. Joints of this kind (synarthrodia!) enjoy a very limited degree of motion, which is entirely due to the yielding and elastic nature of the interposed material. When a greater range of motion is re- quired than can be obtained in this way, the surfaces of the osseous segments are constructed so as to glide the one upon the other in certain directions, which are determined by the form of the articular surfaces, and by the positions at which the connecting ligaments are placed. Here the bond of union consists of the ligaments and the surrounding muscles ; the osseous segments are not, as in the former instance, continuous with each other through the inter- posed texture, but are separated by a space which is called the cavity of the joint. Each osseous surface is encrusted by a layer of articular cartilage adapted to its form, and the cavity of the joint is lined by a delicate membrane, which secretes a peculiar viscid matter, synovia, admirably suited to lubricate the surface. This membrane is termed synovial, and is constantly present in the diar- throdial joints. The articular synovial membrane forms a closed bag, placed between the articular surfaces of the bones. Its free surface is smooth and moist; its attached surface adheres by very fine areolar tissue to the ligaments of the joint, and to the cartilages encrusting