LOCOMOTION. 70 III. [chap. F'fr-8- ever, where this tissue is in great abundance, and where it first at- tracted attention at the time when elementary tissues began to he se- parately studied, the meshes thus formed are disposed so as to con- stitute secondary cavities, having a somewhat determinate shape and size, and which are visible to the naked eye. These generally contain fat, and may be admirably studied in most parts of the sub- cutaneous tissue. They are better deserving the name of cells than the interstices formed by the lirst interlacement of the elementary filaments. But they communicate freely, as the smaller interstices do, their walls being everywhere cribriform, and capable of giving passage to air or fluids. The areolar tissue is one of the most extensively diffused of all the elements of organization, and its chief purpose seems to be that of connecting together other tissues in such a way as to permit a greater or less freedom of motion between them. To do this, it is placed in their interstices, and is more or less lax, more or less abundant, according to the particular exigency of the part. It is by means of this tissue, as well as by the complexity of its own web, that almost every part of the vascular system is fixed in its position, and allowed to undergo the movements impressed upon it by the cireulative powers. Even the capillaries supplying this system itself are for the most part brought to it, and enveloped, by this tissue. Portion of Areolar tissue, inflated and dried, shewing the general character of its larger meshes. Kach lamina and filament here represented con- tains numerous smaller ones matted together by the mode of preparation.*— Magnified twenty dia- meters. So true and comprehensive is this description of the association of the areolar tissue with the vascular, that it would be difficult to point out a single instance in which one office of the former is not to envelope and protect the latter. But the statements that have been made of its universal presence have no good evidence in their favour. In the compacter parts of bone, in teeth, and in cartilage, it is certainly not present; and, indeed, it could serve no purpose in those structures. In the substance of the brain, also, it does not exist, excepting around the vessels two or three removes from the capillaries. In the muscles it connects the elementary fibres to one another,