CHAP. VIII.] DEVELOPEMENT OF NERVOUS MATTER. 227 of the gelatinous fibres, we cm offer no remark. In insects and myriapoda, the nerve-tubes vary considerably in size ; they are collected into bundles, and are surrounded by a transparent sheath of homogeneous membrane, which accompanies the larger ramifications of the nerve-trunks. The white substance of Schwann is not so obvious nor so constant in these nerves in those of the lobster, ami the t existence of nuclei (fig. 64) makes them resemble closely the gelatinous fibres of the vertebrata. The anatomical characters of the vesicular nervous matter of in- tertebrata do not essentially differ from those of the same substance in the verte- brate classes, so far as our observation euables us to judge. The nerve-vesicles with nuclei and nucleoli are equally apparent in both, though in the former they are more transparent, and contain less pigment. Of the De relope merit of Neree-fbres.—We can add nothing to the account given by Schwann of the developement of nerve. The following is quoted from Dr. Willis’s translation of Wagner's Phy- siology :— “ The nerves appear to he formed after the same manner as the muscles, vi/. by the fusion of a number of primary cells arranged in rows into a secondary coll. The primary nervous cell, however, has not yet licen seen with i perfect precision, by reason f of the difficulty of distin- ; guishing nervous cells whilst ’ yet in their primary state, f from the indifferent cells out I of which entire organs are I - evolved. When first a nerve ■ •can be distinguished as such, I >it presents itself as a pale iiCord with a longitudinal 1? fibrillation, and in this cord |> a multitude of nuclei are If apparent (fig. 65, a). It is I easy to detach individual filaments from a cord of this kind, as the I ‘ figure just referred to shews, in the interior of which many nuclei I are included, similar to those of the primitive muscular fasciculus, * hut at a greater distance from one another. The filaments are pale, I granulated, and (as appears by their farther developement) hollow. | At this period, as in muscle, a secondary deposit takes place upon | the inner aspect of the cell-membrane of the secondary nervous cell. I This secondary deposit is a fatty white-coloured substance, and it is | through this that the nerve acquires its opacity. This is seen { in fig. 65; superiorly, at <r, the fibril is still pale; inferiorly, at d, | the deposition of the white substance has occurred, and its effect For 04 Various stage* of I be developement of nerve •—«. Karhest b. Detachc*I fibre, r Nucleate. 1 fibre in the lower part of which, rf, the white aubrtanee of Schwann ha* lie cun to be deposited. «. Nucleu* in a more fully-formed him; between the white substance anil tubular membrane. /. Display, the tubular membrane, the contained muter hating given way.—.'After Schwann )