244 INNERVATION. CHAP. IX. force is developed in muscle under similar influence. Both tissues are characterized by their tendency to assume a polar state, dif- ferent in each, although analogous, in obedience to certain exci- tants. That this polarity bears a remarkable analogy to that which may be produced in inorganic matter is evident. Further observation and research conducted with a full knowledge of the details of anatomy, as well as of the laws of the polar forces as displayed in inorganic substances, will doubtless throw great light on this intricate subject; for, as Faraday remarks, if there be reasons for supposing that magnetism is a higher relation of force than electricity, so it may well be imagined that the nervous power may be of a still more exalted character, and yet within the reach of experiment.* Of the Electrical Fishes.—The fact that some fishes possess a peculiar electrical apparatus, which they are enabled to discharge : under voluntary influence, is supposed by the adherents of the electrical theory to favour their views. The torpedo, the gymnotwA electricus, or electrical eel, and the silurus electricus, are the best j known of the electrical fishes. From the two former, the most unequivocal evidence has been obtained by Walshe, Davy, Linari, > Matteucci, and recently by Faraday, that electricity is discharged. Conductors or non-conductors are affected by the electrical apparatus of these fishes just as by ordinary electricity : a chain of several per- sons, of whom those at the extremities touch the fish, feel the shock ! as they would that of a Leyden jar. The sensation produced by the shock from the fish is exactly that which is caused by accumulated electricity as developed by the ordinary machine. A spark has been | obtained during the discharge : chemical decomposition or electro- lysis has been effected by it. The galvanometer is also readily dis- "i turbed, and indicates that the current passes from the anterior to the posterior part of the animal. And a needle has been made a magnet when placed in a helix through which the current passes. These effects have been obtained from the torpedo and the gymnotus. It is further shewn that the electricity cannot be developed in these animals if the organ be removed, or if its communication with the brain be cut off. If the nerves of the organ of one side be cut, it will cease to develope electricity; but the opposite organ will continue to act perfectly. When the organ is partially cut away, the remaining portion continues to discharge; or, if some of its nerves be cut, that portion of which the nerves are entire will J continue to develope electricity. The nerves excite some change in * Phil. Trans. 1830.