[chap. v. 118 LOCOMOTION. pally by their transparency around each nucleus (fig. 30, a. a). In the vicinity of the point of ossification, (for example, in one of the long hones,) a singular change is observed. The cells are seen to he gradually arranging themselves in linear series, which run down, as it were, towards the ossifying surface. The appearance they present on a vertical section is represented in fig. 30. At first their aggregation is irregular, and the series small (b. b'.) ; hut, nearer to the surface of ossification, they form rows of twenty or thirty. These rows are slightly undulated, ] and are separated from one another by the intercellular substance. j The cells composing them are closely applied to one another, t and compressed, so that even their nuclei seem in many in- stances to touch : the nuclei themselves are also flattened, and ex- ; panded laterally. Fig. 81. The lowest rows dip into, and rest in deep narrow cups of bone, formed by the osseous transformation of the intercellular substance between the rows. These cups are seen by a vertical section in fig. 30, c. </., and by a transverse section on the level of the ossifying surface in fig. 31. As ossifi- cation advances between the rows, these cups are of course converted into closed are- olae of hone, the walls of which are lamelli- form, and at first extremely thin. Immediately upon the ossifying surface, Horizontal section at the ossi- the nuclei, which were before closely com- iKing'^he0c?p»aof'imn'c’cut pressed, separate considerably from one of"the indu(ie<T another by the increase of material within rabbit. TakcnCfrom7drawing of the cells. The nuclei likewise often enlarge and become more transparent; a condition first pointed out to us by Mr. Tomes, hut not present in fig. 31, which was taken from a preparation that had been immersed in spirit. The changes now enumerated may he conveniently con- sidered to constitute the first stage of the process, which extends only to the ossification of the intercellular substance. In this stage there are no blood-vessels directly concerned. The areolae or minute cancelli, when first formed, contain only the rows of cells which they have enclosed. It is remarkable, that, when the cartilage is torn from the hone, it usually carries with it one or two layers of these cancelli, or a little more than is represented i»