LOCOMOTION. 152 [cilAlL VII. happens that no disposition whatever is shewn to this longitudinal cleavage; but that, on the contrary, violence causes a separation along the transverse dark lines, which always intersect the fibre in a plane perpendicular to its axis. 13y such a cleavage, discs, and not fibrilla), are obtained; and this cleavage is just as natural, though Fig, 3". Fragments of striped elementary fibres, shewing a eleavage in opposite directions; magnified 300 dia- meters :—a. Longitudinal cleavage. The longitudinal and transverse lines are both seen. Some longitudinal lines are darker and wider than the rest, and nrc not continuous from end to end : this results from partial separation of the fibrillce. c. Fibrillae, separated from one another by violence at the broken end of the fibre, nnd marked by transverse lines equal in width to those on the fibre. &. c", represent two appear- ances commonly presented by the separated single fibrillae. (More highly magnified.) At &. the borders and transverse iines are all perfectly rectilinear, and the included spaces perfectly rectangular. At c''. the borders arc scalloped, the spaces bead-like. When most distinct and definite, the fibrilla presents the former of these appearances.—b. Transverse cleavage. The longitudinal lines arc scarcely visible.: a. Incomplete fracture following the opposite surfaces of a disc, which stretches across the interval and retains the tw o fragments in connexion. The edge and surface of this disc are seen to be minutely gra- nular, the granules corresponding in size to the thickness of the disc, and to the distance between the taint longitudinal lines, b. Another disc nearly detached, b'. Detached disc more highly magnified, shewing the sarcous elements. less frequent than the former. Hence it is as proper to say that the fibre is a pile of discs, as that it is a bundle of fibrilla) : but, in fact, it is neither the one nor the other, but a mass in whose structure there is an intimation of the existence of both, and a ten- dency to cleave in the two directions. If there were a general dis- integration along all the lines in both directions, there would result a series of particles, which may be termed primitive particles or sarcous elements, the union of which constitutes the mass of the fibre. These elementary particles are arranged and united together in the two directions. All the resulting discs as well as fibrillae are equal to one another in size, and contain an equal number of parti- cles. The same particles compose both. To detach an entire fibrilla is to abstract a particle of every disc, and vice versa. 1 l'e width of the fibre is therefore uniform, and is equal to the diameter of any one of the discs. Its length is the length of any one of its fibrilla), and is liable to the greatest variety. Muller, Schwann, Lauth, and others, consider, with us, that the cross stripes of the fibre are formed by the apposition side by