r chap, x.] CIRCULATION IN TIIE BRAIN. 207 anil continuous with it, be said to be free from the same influence. ‘Still it must be admitted, that the deep position of the central vessels, and the complicated series of channels through which they i communicate w ith the superficial ones, protect them in some degree ■ from the pressure of the air, and render them less amenable to its influence than the vascular svstem of the surface. * If it were essential to the integrity of the brain that the fluid in its blood-vessels should be protected from atmospheric pressure (as the advocates of this doctrine would have us to believe), a breach in the cranial wall would necessarily lead to the most injurious eon- i^sequences; yet, how frequently has the surgeon removed a large piece of the cranium by the trephine w ithout any untoward result ! tWe have watched for several weeks a case in which nearly the whole of the upper part of the cranium had been removed by a process of necrosis, exposing a very large surface to the imme- diate pressure of the atmosphere; yet in this case no disturbance of the cerebral circulation existed. In the large and open fonta- nclles of infants we have a state analogous to that which art or disease produces in the adult : yet the vast majority of infants are free from cerebral disease for the w hole period during which their ■crania remain incomplete; and in infinitely the greatest number of XBases in which children suffer under cerebral disease, the primary source of irritation is in some distant organ, and not in the brain itself. Neither can it be said that the brain is incompressible. That >uly is incompressible, the particles of which will not admit of being more closely packed together under the influence of pressure. That the brain is not a substance of this kind, is proved by the fact that, while it is always undergoing a certain degree of pressure, is essential to the integrity of its functions, a slight increase of 'pressure is sufficient to produce such an amount of physical change ‘U it as at once to interfere with its healthy action. Too much blood distributed among its elements, and too much serum effused upon its surface, are equally capable of producing such an effect. Magendie's experiments, alluded to at p. 253, shew that the brain and spinal cord are surrounded by fluid, the pressure of • which, probably, antagonises that which must be exerted through > die blood-vessels. The removal of this fluid disturbs the func- tioiiH of these centres apparently by allowing the vessels to be- come too full. The pressure exerted by the former we shall call the fluid-pressure from without the brain ; that by the blood, the pressure from within. As long us these two are balanced, the x