chap, x.] THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 267 Hence the olivary eminences are peculiar to the human subject, and some of the monkeys. On tracing1 the olivary bodies downwards, they are found to approximate towards each other, the anterior pyramids which sepa- i rate them gradually diminishing in breadth, and they apparently terminate by becoming continuous with the antero-lateral columns of the spinal cord. The olivary bodies, though separated from the margin of the f pons Varolii by a distinct depression, may be traced upwards It through the mesocephale along with the central substance of the medulla oblongata (fasciculi innominati of Cruveilhier), forming a h considerable portion of the superior layer of each crus cerebri, and I apparently becoming continuous with the optic thalamus and quad- ji rigeminal bodies. The olivary bodies and the central substance of the medulla ob- longata may be described as connecting the spinal cord with the quadrigeminal bodies and the optic thalami. It seems highly probable that the olivary bodies constitute the 'essential portion or nucleus of the medulla oblongata; that on which its power as an independent centre depends. Strong support to this view is derived from the important fact, that these bodies and tin- central portion of the medulla oblongata, with which they are directly continuous, contain that intermixture of vesicular and ! fibrous matter which constitutes the main character of a nervous centre. If this be correct, the anterior and posterior pyramids, and the restiform bodies, must be regarded as consisting chiefly of fibres which pass from the spinal cord to the cerebrum, or cerebellum, and not essentially concerned in the formation of the medulla oblongata. The fibres of these bodies are in fact mainly commis- ■mral ; the anterior pyramids serving to connect the cerebral hemi- spheres to the spinal cord, the restiform bodies connecting the cerebellum to it, and the posterior pyramids being the means of connexion posteriorly between the medulla oblongata and the cer- vical and dorsal regions of the spinal cord. But the olivarv bodies and the central matter of the medulla are directly continuous with certain principal gangliform masses of the brain, the optic thalami and quadrigeminal bodies, and by their prolongation upwards form a large portion of the crura of the brain. From the description of the minute structure of the medulla ob- longata by Stilling, founded upon investigations conducted in the ■yuiii' way as those on the spinal cord, it would appear that t 2