302 [chap. X!. INNERVATION. fibres which take an upward course pass into the gray matter, or simply merge into the longitudinal fibres of the cord and pass upwards to the brain. Mr. Grainger’s researches lead him to sup- pose that each root consists of a double set of fibres,—one which penetrates, and has its origin from, the gray matter, and the other which is continuous with the longitudinal fibres. This view is con- sidered to derive probability from the hypothesis which ascribes the voluntary and involuntary actions of the cord to two distinct series of fibres, of which one is under cerebral influence, and the other merely excito-motory, and it might be acknowledged to do so, if the necessity of distinct fibres for the two kinds of action were first proved. It is possible, however, that all the fibres penetrate and arise from the gray matter. But we have seen nothing to justify Stilling and Wallach’s assertion, that the anterior and posterior roots coalesce in the gray matter, forming loops, the convexities of which are directed to the centre of the cord ; and we have already stated our reasons (p. 259) for doubting the fibrous nature of the lines which these writers represent as radiating between the gray matter and the surface of the cord. The posterior roots adhere to the posterior part of the antero- lateral column, and are doubtless closely connected with the poste- rior horns of gray matter. In separating the columns of the cord along the line of sequence of the fascicles of the posterior roots, we have always found these roots to remain with the antero-lateral columns, and to have little or no connexion with the posterior ones. We would therefore refer the origin of these nerves to the posterior horns of gray matter, and to the posterior part of the antero-lateral columns. Of the Encephalic Nerves.—The arrangement of these nerves, ori- ginally proposed by Willis, although open to many objections, has nevertheless been so long adopted in this country and on the Con- tinent, and is so constantly used by scientific as well as practical writers, that to abandon it would be productive of great inconve- nience, and would be of no advantage, unless some other arrange- ment of unexceptionable kind could be substituted for it. In the absence of any such new mode of arrangement, we propose to ad- here to that of Willis; at the same time remarking, that much of the imperfection of it is obviated by naming each pair of nerves from some prominent feature either of its function or its anatomical connexions. Twelve pairs of nerves are found connected with the base of the en- cephalon. Five pairs have been so classed by Willis as to form two