CHAP. III.] AREOLAR TISSUE. 77 ami preserves them from undue separation during contraction ; hut even here it is bound within the same limits as the capillaries, not penetrating the sarcolemma to touch the contractile element within. It enters the muscles abundantly along with their vessels and nerves. It is remarkable, however, that the central organ of the circulation, like the central organ of the nervous system, contains this tissue in very small proportion; one reason of which seems to be, that its fibres differ from the parallel fibres of other muscles, by twining among one another, and thus are enabled to dispense with an extra- neous bond of connexion. Besides penetrating between the fibres of the muscles, whose minute parts are in continual movement upon one another during contraction, it generally invests their exterior, in a profusion pro- portioned to the extent to which these organs move as a whole upon neighbouring parts, of which the best examples may be seen, between the great muscles of the extremities; between these and their enveloping fascia? (not their fascia; of origin) ; under the occipito-frontalis muscle and its tendon ; and in the upper eye- lids. The areolar tissue is also present in immense quantities under the skin of most parts of the body, and especially where great mobility I of the integument is required, either as a protection to deeper organs against external violence, or to facilitate the various move- ! merits of the frame. Such are the regions of the abdomen, and of several of the articulations, and the eyelids. Around internal organs which change their form, size, or posi- tion in the routine of their functions, and which are wholly or par- tially without a free surface, as the pharynx, oesophagus, lumbar colon, bladder, &c., this tissue is abundant, and its filaments so long, tortuous, and laxly interwoven, as to admit of a ready and extensive motion on the neighbouring viscera. This tissue likewise forms a layer lying under the mucous and the serous membranes in almost every situation, though present- ing great variations of quantity and denseness : it renders the move- ments of such parts easy. It also closely invests the exterior of every gland and parenchymatous organ, and enters more or less abundantly into its inner recesses, along with its vessels, nerves and absorbents : but there is no doubt that it has been supposed to have a much greater share in the formation of this numerous class of organs than an ultimate anatomical analysis of them, conducted with careful precision, will at ail warrant. In all these cases it is a more or less copious attendant on the vessels; but wherever, either