140 TIIE HAND. CHAP. VI. J » h4u 1 in a form more suitable to its great merit. pass through a considerable space during the rotation of the fore- arm. The contrast between the solidity and elastic firmness of the foot, and the lightness, flexibility, and mobility of the hand, is most - striking. The analogy between the anatomical elements of both - organs is complete: but they are modified to suit the office for which each is destined ; the foot as a basis of support, the hand as ,a prehensile organ. The hand is modified remarkably from the form of the foot by the divergence of the outer metacarpal bone, to form the thumb: this bone at its articulation with the carpus enjoys a considerable degree of mobility, in virtue of which exists the I opposable faculty of the thumb ; a power which, in a state of ; perfection, is peculiar to the human hand. ' While the hand is so remarkably mobile, it is well protected against the effects of compression, or concussion, by the number of its joints, and the interposed cartilages and fibro-cartilages, and the soft covering of fat which lies beneath the skin of the palm; and its strength is abundantly provided for in the strong |-ligaments which connect the bones to each other, ami the fibrous i< expansions which cover them. One of the most wonderful circumstances in the construction of the hand, is its adaptability to an infinite number of offices. A powerful organ of prehension, it is yet capable of adjusting the finest pieces of mechanism, or of exposing to view the minutest wonders of nature: an admirable and most delicate instrument of touch, it may nevertheless be employed as a fearful and deadly weapon of offence: at one time it may be used to lift great weights, to pull at the cable, or to turn the windlass ; and, again, F it will execute the most varied anil rapid movements, in the 1 performance of works or artifices which human talent has in- i rented. The hand is the obedient minister of man’s volition and of bis Igenius, and, too often, the blind slave of bis emotions and his pas- * sions.* The following references are subjoined :—The various treatises on General Ana- | tinny ; the article Articulation, in the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology ; P Mayo’s Physiology, chap. xi. ; Hell’s Animal Mechanics; Amott’s Elements of I Physics, vol. i. p. 218; Anatomic Descriptive, par Bichat, t. i.; Outlines of I Human Osteology, by F. O. Ward, a work to he strongly recommended, as well for » tt» exact and clear descriptions, as for the excellent and original views on the nie- I ‘'ham.Miu of the skeleton, with which it abounds. We shall be glad to see it pub-