414 INNERVATION. [chap. xiv. through a series of changes, till they are cast oft' from the surface.* These changes are not confined to their figure: the lamina? they first form are moist, and comparatively soft, and rest like a cushion on the highly sensitive surface to which they are adapted, and whose vessels supply the materials for their developement. The more external ones are hard, horny, and much drier. Schwann has also pointed out that their chemical properties become modi- fied ; that at first they are soluble, but afterwards inso- luble, in acetic acid ; and this circumstance of a chemical change occurring in the stages of their developement seems to us so important that we shall illustrate it by two views, former the action of weak so- lution of potass is shewn : the layer of cells immediately rest- ing on the basement membrane together with the more super- ficial scales is but slightly or not at all dissolved; while several intermediate layers are swollen and rendered very transparent, having lost their nuclei. The abruptness of the change is remarkable, and con- tinues after the whole specimen is saturated. In the latter figure a stronger solution has been employed ; the deep layer is dissolved, but the superficial scales are still unaffected, while the intermediate part is reduced to a semi-fluid mass, in which scarcely any vestige of structure remains. It is very possible that other agents might disclose further varieties of chemical constitution in smaller subdivisions of the cuticular lamellae. * The cuticle of reptiles and amphibia is periodically cast off in a more or less entire state, a new one being previously formed beneath it. In amphibia the epi- dermis is tesselated ; the scales adhering to one another by their edges, and being usually pentagonal. A similar ecclysis, or shedding, occurs in the larva state of insects, and in the arachnidans. fig. 84, a and b. In the Fig. 84 A B a. Section of the skin of the heel, treated with weak solution of potass :—a. Easement membrane of pa- pilla. b. Layer of nucleated cells resting on the base- ment membrane, c. Several succeeding layers, par- tially dissolved and their nuclei gone. d. Higher layers, not atfected by the menstruum, e. Elastic fibrous tissue of the papilla, r. Its capillary vessel. b. A similar specimen, treated with strong solution of potass:—o, e, and », as in A. The layer b is wanting, having been dissolved, c. Converted into a gelatinous mass with striae, d. Unaffected. The more external layers of the epidermic scales are not represented in these figures.—Magn. ISO diam.