159 ( HAP. VII.] U\STRIPED MUSCLE. msmsmm posited, since their absolute number is for greater in the adult'than in the foetus, while their number relatively to the bulk of the fibre, at these two epochs, remains nearly the same. Muscles grow' by an increase, not of the number, but of the bulk f I of their elementary fibres: there is reason to believe that the num- S her of fibres remains through life as it was in the foetus, and that | the spare.or muscular build of the individual is determined by the mould in which his body was originally cast. Of the unstriped f ires.—This variety ^possesses less interest than the other, in cconscquence of the apparent simplicity of tilts structure. The fibres consist of tlat- t tened bands, generally of a pale colour, hbulged at frequent intervals by elongated rcorpusdes, similar to those of striped mus- fde and capable of being displayed by the ssanie process.* The texture of these fibres *8eems to be homogeneous. By transmitted lilight, they have usually a soft, very ifinely mottled aspect, and without a dark- lly-shaded border. Sometimes the mot- E tling is so decided as to appear granular, vantI occasionally these granules are ar- ranged in a linear series for some distance. IThis condition is probably an approach '•towards the structure of the striped fibre, ; for these granules are about the size of the sarcous elements alreadv described. It is » with generally to be seen more or less distinctly ‘,,r nuriri- , • f • wicwintf tneir v&nou# appcarancfn. in the gizzards of birds ; ami may be now and then met with in the fresh muscle of the stomach, intestinal canal, iurinary bladder, and uterus of mammalia. The ordinary diameter of the unstriped fibre is from tAm to of an inch. It might be expected, from this account of the appearance of ' these fibres, that their discrimination from other tissues would be often difficult. The peculiar texture, however, the size, the soft margin, and, above all, the presence of numerous elongated oval cor- puscles with two or three granules near their centre, are characters which, when united, will seldom be mistaken. As a number of fibres * In some specimens, however, of both varieties of fibre, they may be discerned without the addition of an acid.