[chap. VII. LOCOMOTION. 164 for all these muscular fibres to be attached to the tendinous ones on the same level, on account of the great difference in bulk between the two structures. Hence, in such cases, we find the muscular fibres to end in tendon in regular progression one after the other, and the tendon at its muscular extremity to be expanded, some of its fibres being long, others short. And yet the inconvenience which would ensue from the muscular fibres being of unequal length in the same organ, is counteracted by the tendon at their other ex- tremity having its fibres precisely reversed ; as in the rectus of the thigh, and numerous other instances. Where muscular fibres are really of different lengths in a muscle, it is because, from the direction in which they act, they have to shorten to different degrees. Thus, in the square pronator of the fore-arm, the deeper and shorter fibres are attached to a part of the radius, which in pronation passes through a much smaller space than that to which the superficial and longer fibres are fixed : and under the innumerable modifications of muscu- lar form in man and animals, however force is sacrificed to mecha- nical exigencies, or other causes, it is invariably accomplished with the utmost (Economy of power consistently with the end in view; there is never any waste, never any force provided which is not wanted. Where a great mass of fibrous tissue runs into a muscle, the num- ber and obliquity of the muscular fibres are very much increased, while the length of each is diminished; and, as a general result, the power of such a muscle is great, the extent of its contractions com- paratively limited. A given mass of contractile material may be arranged as a few long fibres (as in the sartorius), or as many short ones (as in the masseter) : its contractions would, in the former case, be charac- : terized by their extent; in the latter, by their power: for, caterit paribus, the extent is as the length, the power as the thickness. The terms origin and insertion are employed with great conve- nience in ordinary language to denote the more fixed and the more moveable attachments of muscles. In human anatomy general con- sent has sanctioned their use, and even with few exceptions their particular application to each muscle in the body; although this assignment is in many cases arbitrary, in consequence of its being impossible to determine which attachment is the more frequently the fixed one. The arrangement of the fibres in the heart is very peculiar. Without attempting a particular account of their course, we may state that they do not preserve the same parallelism, nor extend j