84 LOCOMOTION. [chap. III. servation, “ Fat, fair, and forty”: in old age and decrepitude, the adipose deposit greatly diminishes. Differences are also constantly seen in individuals, which can be referred only to an original constitutional bent. Thus young children are occasionally so overloaded with this tissue as to be unable to follow their sports; and it is not uncommon for a similar tendency to manifest itself towards the adult period, particularly in girls. In elderly persons, fat is especially prone to be accumu- lated over the abdomen, and between the layers of the epiploon and mesentery. Instances where it attains the thickness of three or four inches under the skin of the belly are not unfrequent in cor- pulent persons. A similar abundance occasions the “ double chin.” It is perhaps possible for the body to grow so egregiously fat as to become lighter than water; but whether implicit faith is to be placed in the story of the 1 talian priest Paolo Moccia, who weighed thirty pounds less than his bulk of water, and therefore could not sink in that fluid, we do not pretend to decide. The excessive deposit of this substance constitutes a disease, which has been not very correctly called polysarcia. John Bull is celebrated for his proneness to accumulate fat: M. Blainville remarks, with naivety “ We have seen many individuals of the English nation whom embonpoint had rendered almost monstrous; and I remember, among others, a man exhibited at the Palais Royal who weighed five hundred pounds. He was literally as broad as he was long.” Among the Hottentot women, the fat is apt to gather in the buttocks, and is considered a prominent mark of beauty ; but this does not usually occur till after the first pregnancy. A somewhat analogous formation exists in a variety of sheep,* reared by the pastoral tribes of Asia, in which a large mass of fat covers the buttocks and takes the place of the tail, appearing when viewed from behind as a double hemisphere, in the notch of which the coccyx is buried, but is just perceptible to the touch. These pro- tuberances, when very large, fluctuate from side to side, and some- times attain the weight of thirty or forty pounds. The quantity of fat in a moderately fat man is estimated by B6clard at about the twentieth of the weight of the body. Fat is found in the following situations in the human body: in the orbits, in the cheeks, the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, at the flexures of the joints, and between the folds of the synovial membranes of joints, around the kidneys, in the mesentery * Ovis steutopyga, fat-buttocked sheep. Pallas.