I HAP. i.J PROXIMATEPRINCIPI.es.—ALBUMEN. 35 By chemical moans we obtain from them a class of substances, railed proximate principle*, substances but one step removed from the organized tissue, some of which are held in solution in the blood. These, in combination with sulphur, phosphorus, and other ■simple substances (incidental elements), and salts, form the mate- rial out of which the organized tissues are framed. The general chemical constitution of these proximate principles lias already been discussed in the Introduction ; and they have bbeen distinguished from another class of organic substances, the se- condary organic compounds, among which we must particularise those ■which arc formed by chemical action in the living organism, from materials furnished by it. These are found in various secreted ifluids, and are easily obtained from them, either by spontaneous ‘‘Separation, or by simple chemical means; and they must not be 'Confounded with a vast variety of compounds, which the chemist can create at will, both from them and from the proximate prin- ciples, through the affinities of various chemical substances for them. The following table contains a list of substances which, in the ^present state of our knowledge, may Ik* properly assigned to the ■ two classes of organic compounds, to which allusion has been made: proximate principles. Albumen.' Fibrine. Compounds of Protcine. Coscinc. , Gelatine. Chondrine. Elaine. Steariue. Margarine. Hjcmatosine. Globuline. SECONDARY ORO.AN1C COMPOUNDS. U rea; Uric or Litliic acid; Cholesterine ; in the Bile. Biliary matters. lYpsine ; in tbe Gastric Juice. Sugar of milk. Lactic acid. | in the Urine. Of the Proximate Principles.—1. Albumen.—This substance is 'So called from the white colour it possesses in the solid state. It is very readily obtained from the white of egg, ovalbumen. In the human body it exists in tw*o states : fluid, being dissolved in the serum of the blood, and in some of the secretions ; and solid, forming certain ot the tissues, which are thence called albuminous tissues. These are, the brain, spinal cord and nerves, and the mucous membranes; it also enters into the composition of the muscles, and of the aqueous and vitreous humours of the eye. It is also contained in the effusions ot serum or pus, which are the products of disease.