XTROI). 5 UNORGANIZED BODIES. oveathcr, mosses often become completely desiccated and appear quite dead, but will speedily revive on the application of moisture. And the common wheel animalcule, although apparently killed by die drying up of the fluid in which it had been immersed, will ippeedily resume its active movements on being supplied anew with water. Inorganic bodies may bo resolved by ultimate analysis into Oxygen, Hydrogen, Nitrogen, Carbon, and about fifty other sub- dances, which Chemists regard as simple, because they appear to consist of one kind of matter only ; that is to say, they have hitherto resisted further decomposition. These elements unite in certain de- finite proportions to form the compound inorganic substances. And diis union may consist either of two simple elements — as oxygen and hydrogen, to form water; oxygen and the metal sodium, to form soda; chlorine and sodium, to form common salt; or, of me binary compound with another similar one, as of sulphuric acid (sulphur + oxygen) with soda (sodium + oxygen), to form sulphate :>f soda; or, again, of two such salts as the last with one another, as alum, which consists of sulphate of alumina united with sul- phate of potassa. As regards the mode of combination in the first of the exam- ples enumerated in the preceding paragraph, where single equivalents of the elementary bodies unite, there can be but one opinion. In the formation of water, one equivalent of hydrogen combines directly with one equivalent of oxygen. Hut when one equivalent of one element is united with two or more of the other, to form the com- pound substance, the mode of combination is not so evident. Peroxide of hydrogen, for example, may either result from the direct combination of one equivalent of hydrogen with two of oxygen, or it may be a compound of one equivalent of water with one of oxygen. In the second example, in which two binary compounds unite to form a salt, two modes of constitution have been suggested. The first supposes a direct union of a basic oxide with an acid oxide, as of soda (sodium -f oxygen) with sulphuric acid (sulphur -f- oxygen) in sulphate of soda; and that each constituent preserves its proper nature in the compound. According to the second view, one ot the constituents of the salt is supposed to undergo decom- position, yielding up to the other an element, which, joined to it, forms a compound radicle, to which the remaining element is united ; as hydrogen would be to a simple, or compmnd radicle (chlorine or cyanogen), to form a hydro-acid. Thus, in the salt commonly call-