1)7 CHAPTER V. PASSIVE OHO A N 8 OK LOCOMOTION, CONTINUED. OK HONK. The distinction of animal textures into hard and soft prevails every extensively throughout the animal series. The former are characterized by containing' a proportion of inorganic material, in combination with animal matter, sufficient to give them that degree of hardness which is their principal physical property. Among the invertebrated classes there are hard parts, although very differently constituted from those of the higher animals. iThey serve an analogous purpose,—being a basis of support for the saoft parts, and in many instances a protection to them, and afford- ing a surface of attachment for the muscles of the animal; thus playing an important part in its locomotion, or in its ordinary move- ments. To this category we may refer the earthy support to the soft fleshy mass, whether as an internal stem or axis, or as an external covering, which is to he found among the polvpifera, per- forming a function similar to the skeleton of the higher animals, and composed of carbonate of lime, with a little phosphate, in combina- iion with a small quantity'of animal matter. The calcareous plates of the star-fish and sea-urchin, (anievicts md echinus.) the hard coriaceous covering of insects, the hard ex- ternal integuments of Crustacea, and the infinitely various shells of the gasteropoda and eonchifera, must all he regarded in the light of hard parts performing the offices above referred to. The skeleton of the higher animals is infernal; it is clothed by the muscles and other soft parts. The first example of this arrange- ment is met with in the cephalopodous mollusks, in which certain cartilaginous plates are enclosed in the body of the animal, protect- ing certain parts of the nervous system. The skeleton of the low est organized fishes, although much more extensive, and of a more com- plicated arrangement, is yet placed but little above that of those animals. It is composed of a kind of cartilage, which in its greater density, and in its having a certain quantity of calcareous deposit around it, approaches the nature of the skeleton of the higher classes. Rone is the substance employed to form the internal skeleton of the osseous fishes, of reptiles, birds, and mammalia. It forms I!