253 THE CEREBRO-SPINAL FLUID. CHAP. X.J j. of fibrous tissue, which interlace slightly, ami are most abundant in the cervical region. Along the posterior surface of the spinal |. cord, in the middle line, the sub-arachnoid space is divided by means • of a septum, which is probably only a modified portion of the tissue • of the pia mater. This septum is most perfect in the dorsal region, but in the lumbar and cervical regions it is cribriform, and in some parts is very difficult of demonstration. Dr. Sharpey regards it as the reflection along the median line of a serous membrane, which he supposes to line the sub-arachnoid cavity. Did such a mem- brane exist, we should find an epithelium, which, however, we have sought for in vain. The connexion of the arachnoid to the subjacent pia mater is not so loose in the head as in the spine. On the superior and lateral surfaces of the brain, where the convolutions are most pro- minent, the adhesion is very close, but opposite the sulci between the convolutions the pia mater recedes from the arachnoid and sinks to the bottom of each fissure, leaving large areolae in which fluid may accumulate. Along the fissure of Sylvius, at the base of the brain, between the cerebellum and the posterior surface of the me- dulla oblongata, and between the posterior edge of the corpus callosum and the superior surface of the cerebellum, the arachnoid and pia mater are very loosely connected, so that at these situa- tions spaces are found which are favourable for the accumulation of fluid. The Cerebrospinal Fluid.—This fluid, which fills the sub-arach- noid space during life, keeps the opposed surfaces of the arachnoid membrane in intimate contact. Its quantity, which varies between two and ten ounces, is in the inverse ratio of the bulk of the brain and spinal cord. Thus it is most abundant in old persons in whom these* organs have shrunk, and it accumulates in cases of de- ficiency of any portion of them from malformation or disease. Its presence seems necessary to the healthy action of the nervous cen- tres, for tin* removal of it in dogs by Majendie caused considerable disturbance of their functions, probably by favouring distension of the Id ood-vessels. It is, however, capable of being regenerated as quickly as the aqueous humour of the eye, and its reproduction re- stores the nervous centres to their natural state. When removed from the body a few moments after death, this fluid is, according to Majendie, remarkably limpid; it has a sickly odour and a saltish ta ste, and is alkaline, restoring the colour of reddened litmus. The ecrobro-Hpinal fluid is most probably secreted by the pia muter, since it is found wherever that membrane and sufficient