LOCOMOTION. [chap. V 98 organs of support, or levers for motion, or it encloses cavities, f affording protection to soft and vital organs. To a superficial examination bone presents the following pro- perties: hardness, density, a whitish colour, opacity. An exarni-| nation of its physical constitution will explain these characters. Bone contains less water than any other organ in the body ; and exposure to air, even for a short time, removes the fluid by evapo- ration : to this, in part, may be attributed its hardness. Bone consists of an inorganic and an organic material, which may be obtained separately by very simple processes. Steep a bone in dilute mineral acid, muriatic or nitric; the earthy matter is dis- solved out by the acid, and .the organic substance remains, re- taining the original shape and size of the bone. In fact, we obtain, by this process, the cartilaginous nidus of the bone, upon which its form depends. The vessels of the bone ramify throughout this mass ; for if they have been injected, previously to the action of the acid, they will be distinctly seen ramifying through the semi- transparent animal substance. A preparation of this kind dried, and afterwards preserved in spirits of turpentine, serves beautifully to exhibit the disposition of the vessels in bone. By subjecting a bone to a strong heat in a crucible, the animal part will be burnt out, and the earthy part will remain. Still the bone retains its form, but the cohesion between the earthy particles is extremely slight, so that the least touch will destroy its con- tinuity ; a fact which obviously points to the animal matter as affording to bone its strength of cohesion. Bone may be deprived of its animal matter by long-continued boiling, under strong pressure, in a Papin’s digester. The animal matter is extracted, in combination with water, in the form of gelctr tine; and the weight of the quantity which may thus be obtained will, owing to this union with water, exceed by three or four times that of the bone itself. A certain proportion between these two constituents of bone is necessary to the due maintenance of its physical properties. To the earthy part it owes its hardness, its density, its little flexibility* but it is equally necessary for these properties that the animal por- tion shall be healthy, and in proper quantity; for the cohesion ot the particles ot the former is secured entirely by it. A due pro- portion ot the animal part gives bone a certain degree of elasticity; and, were it not tor the earthy matter, bones would be exceedingly flexible, as may be shewn in a bone deprived of its calcareous mat- ter by acid. Hence old bones, in which the animal matter is less