LOCOMOTION. [chap. hi. 80 OF THE ADIPOSE TISSUE, AND OF FAT. This tissue has no alliance either of structure or function with % the areolar tissue ; it is, however, usually deposited in connexion '4 with that tissue, and therefore we find it convenient to notice it ■ here. Malpighi, W. Hunter, Monro, and, more recently, other* distinguished anatomists, pointed out the distinctness of these two J tissues; but such has been the influence of the term cellular, applied 8 to both, that they are still usually classed together. Now, how-1 ever, that microscopes, on which reliance can be placed, declare 1 their totally distinct nature, it is full time that they be treated of as altogether distinct and independent tissues. A common use of the adipose tissue being to occupy spaces of various dimensions left in the interstices between organs, and thus 1 to facilitate motion and contribute to symmetry, it is very com- I monly closely associated with the areolar tissue; but the connexion 1 is not an essential one. In the caneelli of bones tliei’e is a large 1 deposit of fat, but none of this filamentary tissue; and in numerous situations, as the eyelids, beneath the epicranial aponeurosis, be- 1 tween the rectum and bladder, under the mucous membranes, and | in the whole of the cutis, the areolar tissue exists without being I ever accompanied by fat. Nevertheless, their apparent admixture ^ in many situations has given rise to the term “ adipose cellularm tissue,” applied to the two combined, as distinguished from that y areolar tissue which contains no fat. This term should be dis-* carded as leading to much misconception. A distinction is to be drawn between fat and the adipose tissue. | The tissue is a membrane of extreme tenuity, in the form of closed cells or vesicles; the fat is the material contained within them. The membrane of the adipose vesicle does not exceed the -ovaoe ’ an inch in thickness, and is quite transparent. It is moistened by ‘ watery fluid, for which, as Mr. Paget has suggested, it has a greater attraction than for the fat it contains. It is perfectly homogeneous,' having no appearance of compound structure, and consequently be- longs to the class of simple or elementary membranes. Each vesicle is a perfect organ in itself; is from the -jJ-o to the jila an inch in diameter, when fully developed; and is supplied on its exte- rior with capillary blood-vessels, having a special disposition. The fat vesicles are usually deposited in great numbers together, and they then become flattened on their contiguous aspects, and)!