197 THE ATTITUDES OF MAN. CHAP. VII.] muscular actions on which the erect posture depends must he ex- quisitely balanced against one another, and, when one is altered, the rest must he re-adjusted in harmony with it. In the practised tumbler, balancing himself on a {joint, or the opera-dancer, poised on a single toe, we have the most beautiful examples of the precision of this adjusting power. Where the basis of support is ampler, it is less apparent, but not less real. The various parts of the body are ireights, and, in the muscular adjustments, are treated as such. By their symmetrical develope- mcnt on the two sides, they are naturally balanced, and thereby carried with less muscular effort. When two equal artificial weights are fixed on opposite sides of the l>ody, equidistant from the cen- tre of gravity, (as when buckets are suspended from a bar pass- ing across the shoulders,) the mere weight is all that the muscles have to support: but, if one be removed, a corresponding inclination of the body must instantly be made towards that side to counter- poise the other; and for tliis a sustained muscular effort must be made in addition to that required for the support of the remaining weight. Now, a part of the body on one side (say, an arm), by being carried from the centre of gravity, may disturb the equili- brium of weight, just as moving the weight on a scale-beam dis- turbs it; that side of the body becomes relatively heavier, and an inclination towards the opposite is rendered necessary. In all the changes of attitudes, similar adjustments are being constantly made; und, in general, the more accurately they are effected, and the more (economically in regard to the outlay of muscular power, the more graceful and pleasing are the movements and postures themselves. In the associated movements of progression, or locomotion, the same circumstances are observed : walking, running, and leaping are but different modes in which the body is repeatedly inclined by muscular effort beyond the basis of support; and this basis brought again and again, by muscular effort, under the centre of gravity. The movements of ordinary milling may be readily analysed. Suppose we commence by advancing the left leg. We first slightly raise the left heel, and bend the left knee, to disengage the limb from the ground ; throwing the weight of the body on the right limb, and, therefore, inclining the body towards the right side. The body is now raised by an extension of the right ankle-joint, effected chiefly by the calf; the ball of the foot resting on the ground, which serves as a fulcrum. At the same time the body is thrown in advance of this fulcrum, and would fall, were it not that