chap, vr.] TIIE PELVIS. 141 triple curvature of the spine enables it to yield with less jerk than if it were a straight spring, or one that could bend only in a single direction. “ It yields in the direction of its curves, and recoils, and so forms the most perfect spring, admirably calculated to carry the head without jar or injury of any kind.” The pliancy of the spinal column favours its flexion in various directions, in obedience to the action of the numerous muscles which are inserted into the vertebral processes. Nothing is more common than to see a misshapen and crooked spine produced by the predominance of action given to certain sets of muscles, through the habitual assumption of awkward attitudes : most of the curved spines which occur in weakly females may be traced to uncorrected bad habits as their origin.* The spine, gradually ex [winding at its lower part, rests upon the base of the sacrum ; and the last lumbar vertebra is separated from that bone by a fibro-cartilaginous disc. The sacrum forms a wedge separating the pelvic bones, and is admirably adapted to transmit the weight of the spine to them. Of the Pelvis.—“ The spinal column,” to use the words of Mr. Mayo, “ rests on an elastic hoop, in tin* extreme circumference of which on either side the deep cups are wrought which receive the heads of either thigh-bone. But this elastic hoop is not disposed vertically, but slants in such a manner, that, when we alight upon our feet, the force of the arrested motion tells in great measure on the extensor muscles of the hip.” In the articulation of the sacrum with the ossa iunominata we see remarkable provision against its displacement backwards, by a force acting from above downward, the direction in which the superin- cumbent weight bears, or even by one acting from before back- wards. This security is obtained not only by the strong ilio-sacral ligaments, which tie the bones together behind, and the cartilage, which intervenes between the ilium and sacrum, and adheres firmly to both, but also by the double wedge-like shape of the sacrum itself: for this bone is wider above than below, so that it can thereby resist the downward pressure; and it has a greater width before than behind, which enables it to oppose the pressure in front. And Mr. Ward has shewn that the sacrum is also well secured against displacement forwards, not only by the general compact- ness which the sacro-iliac joints derive from their ligaments and cartilages, but also by the cuneiform character which the bone * Dr. Arnott’s remarks bearing upon this subject deserve a careful perusal.—See bis Elements <>f Physics, vol. i. p. 22-i, et serjij.