INNERVATION. 314 CHAP. XI. pain and distress. Thus, parts which in their quiescent state are insensible, become painful in the state of excitement. The cause of this is no doubt to be found in a periodical exacerbation of the primary disease of the cord, and the extension of the state of excitement from the seat of the lesion to the whole cord ; to that portion which is in connexion with the brain, as well as to that which is below the lesion. The rigid and contracted state of the muscles of paralysed limbs, which frequently accompanies red softening of the brain, arises from the propagation of the excited state of the diseased part of the brain to that portion of the spinal cord which is connected with it, and from which the nerves of the paralysed parts arise. These nerves likewise participate in the irritation of the cord, and thus keep the muscles in a continual state of active contraction. There is no organic lesion of the cord in these cases; its state of excite- ment is dependent on the cerebral irritation. The convulsions of epilepsy arise from a similar cause, namely, irritation of the brain, involving the whole or a part of the spinal j cord, and the nerves arising from it. In many instances the con- j vulsions are limited to one half of the body : in such cases there is generally lesion of the brain on one side, and the cerebral excite- I ment is propagated only to one half (the opposite) of the cord. Some substances exert a peculiar influence upon the spinal cord, and throw it into a state of considerable polar excitement. Strychnine is the most energetic substance of this class. If a certain j quantity of this drug be injected into the blood, or taken into the | stomach of an animal, a state of general tetanus will quickly ensue, sensibility remaining unimpaired. The slightest touch upon any i part of the surface, even a breath of wind blown upon it, will : cause a general or partial convulsive movement. The whole extent of the cord is thrown into this polar state, and even the medulla 1 oblongata is involved in it; whence the closed jaws, the spasmodic i state of the facial muscles, the difficult deglutition. In this re- i markable state of excitement it is curious to observe that the i spinal cord is perfectly natural in point of structure, as far as our 1 means of observation enable us to judge. We have examined some :| spinal cords of animals which have died exhausted by the effects fl of the strychnine, but have always found the nerve-tubes and other I elements of the cord exhibiting their natural appearance. Opium is capable of creating a similar state of polarity in the I cord. This is most conspicuous in cold-blooded animals; but no ■ doubt it produces, in a much less degree, a similar effect in the I