28 MOTIONS OF PLANTS.—IMPORTANCE OF [introd. moved. Amongst the most interesting examples of these move- ments are those of the Mimosa pudica, the Dionaa muscipula, and the Berberis. III. It is the province of Physiology to investigate the ways in which the functions of living beings are effected ; and this investiga- tion naturally involves the examination of their mechanism, of the che- mical constitution, and of the properties of their component textures. The study of Anatomy must always accompany that of Physiology, on the principle that we must understand the construction of a machine before we can comprehend the way in which it works. The history of physiology shews that it made no advance until the progress of anatomical knowledge had unfolded the structure of the body. There is so much of obvious mechanical design in the inti- mate structure of the various textures and organs, that the disco- very of that structure opens the most direct road to the deter- mination of their uses. That kind of anatomy which investigates structure with a special view to function may be properly designated Physiological Anatomy. A correct physiology must ever be the foundation of rational medicine. He, who is ignorant of the proper construction of a watch, and of the nature of the materials of which it is made, could not find out in what part its actions were faulty, and would there- fore be very unfit to be entrusted with repairing it. In medicine, the first step towards the cure of disease is to find out what the disease is and where it is situate (diagnosis). Without a know- ledge of the offices which various parts fulfil in the animal cecouomy, our search to determine what organ or function is deranged must be most vague and indefinite. Pathology is the physiology of disease ; and it is obvious, that no pathological doctrines can command con- fidence, which are not founded upon accurate views of the natural functions. It is also certain that improvements in pathology must follow in the wake of an advancing physiology. The practice of medicine and surgery abounds with examples, illustrating the immense benefits which physiology has conferred upon the healing art. The great advance which has been made of late years in the pathology of nervous diseases, is mainly owing to the discoveries of Hell, and many others, in the functions of vari- ous nerves, and the general doctrines of nervous actions. We may instance the case of the facial nerve—the portio dura of the seventh pair. It was supposed formerly that this nerve was the seat of that painful disease, called tic douloureux, and section of it has been performed for the relief of the patient. It is now known that this