337 ACTION OF THE SPHINCTER. CHAP. XI.] will nevertheless be paralysed. In the former instances, the centre of volition in the cranium is diseased; in the latter, the defect con- sists in the destruction of the communication of the brain with that portion of the cord in which the nerves of the sphincter muscle are implanted. An examination of the action of the sphincter will shew that the anus is kept closed ordinarily by the passive contraction of the muscle itself (see p. 191); but that its active contractions are mainly ex- cited by voluntary influence, allowance being made for some slight action which may be produced by the stimulus of sudden distension, as in other circular muscles. Now, as a stimulus to sentient nerves constitutes no necessary part of any of these actions, it is probable that the motor nerves of the sphincter have little or no connexion with the sentient ones; and, consequently, that muscle is not ex- citable to contraction by a stimulus applied to a sentient surface. Hence, whenever the influence of the will upon the lumbar jrortion of the cord is suspended, this muscle, ceases to act, whether a mental or a physical stimulus be exerted. Dr. Hall indeed cites two experiments which imply that the actiou of the sphincter is dependent on the cord. In both, how- ever, (one on a horse, the other on a turtle,) the observations were made immediately after division of the cord. By the division, the whole organ was thrown into an excited state, both a1>ove and below the section, and therefore manifested phenomena similar to those excited by volition. Indeed, we have seen the sphincter repeatedly contracting after division of the cord without the appli- cation of any new stimulus to it; and the dog continuing to raise and depress his tail as long as the irritation of the cord produced by the section has continued. On the same principle, animals will exhibit movements of volun- tary character for some time after decapitation. A bird thus treated will fly for some distance, and with considerable energy, and will flap its wings if the cut surface of the cord be irritated. A fly decapitated flies for some way immediately after the removal of the head ; and Walckenaer observed a singular fact respecting the Cerceris ornata, a wasp which attacks a bee that inhabits holes : “ at the moment that the insect was forcing its w ay into the hole of the bee, Walckenaer decapitated it; notwithstanding which, it continued its motions, and, when turned round, eudoavoured to resume its position, and enter the hole.'" * The change in the ve- • Quoted in Muller’* Physiology, by Italy, vol. i. p. 787*, 2nd ed.