43 IMPORTANCE OF A MIXED DIET. CHAP. >] being precipitated by tannin, and in yielding precipitates to acetic acid, alum, acetate of lead, and the protosulphate of iron, which do not disturb a solution of gelatine. It resembles the proteine compounds in containing a minute quantity of sulphur. Mulder’s analysis of one hundred parts is, Nitrogen Carbon . Hydrogen Oxygen . Sulphur 14-44 49-96 6-63 28-59 0-38 100-00 Respecting the remaining substances included in the list of true proximate principles, very few words are necessary, as they will be more fully treated of in subsequent chapters. Elaine, Stearin*, and Margarine are proximate principles of fat, and jure found also in the brain and nerves. Stearine exists but sparingly, or not at all, in human fat. Ifamatogin* and Globulin* are the constituents of the particles, or corpuscles, to which the blood owes its colour. They are both nearly allied to jdbumeu, and the latter is regarded as a compound of proteine. The proximate principles which have been described in the pre- ceding paragraphs are constituents of the animal food, ujkhi which the human race, and the inferior creatures, to a great extent sul>- sist ; and the discovery that similar principles exist in the vege- table kingdom, also adapted for food, is of the highest interest, as proving that both kingdoms of organized nature are capable of affording the materials which are suited to supply the waste in the animal tissues which is the necessary result of their vital actions. The blood is the immediate jmbulum of the tissues; its composition is nearly or entirely identical with them ; it is, indeed, as llordeu long ago expressed it, liquid flesh ; it contains the ele- ments of the solids in a state of solution—le sang est de la chair coulante. The proteine compounds more immediately contribute to the formation of the blood, and, jis we have seen, may be obtained directly from that fluid ; and the process of nutrition consists in the attraction of certain of these principles from the blood, and the appropriation of them by the textures and organs, in a form assimilated to that of their elementary parts. It is necessary to the support of nutrition, that these proxi- mate principles should be supplied in proper quantity to the blood,