FUNCTIONS OF THE CORO. CHAP. XI.] 311 tion of instances, and in the most marked way. In most of the cases of hemiplegia the surface retains its sensibility ; but in most of those of paraplegia sensibility is much diminished or completely destroyed. Tn the anencephalic foetus, in which all the encephalon but part of the medulla oblongata is wanting by congenital defect, actions take place in obedience to stimuli propagated to the cord from some sur- face, or applietl directly to it; but no movements are seen which can be supposed to originate in an effort of the will, nor is there any proof of the existence of sensibility. Other facts may be adduced in evidence of the involuntary na- ture of these movements. It is remarkable that actions of this kind will continue to be ma- nifested after decapitation, not only iu the trunk, but also in seg- ments of it with which a portion of the spinal cord remains in con- nexion. If the body of a snake or an eel be divided into several segments, each one will exhibit movements for some time, upon the application of a stimulus. The same thing may be observed in frogs, salamanders, turtles, and other cold-blooded creatures. In birds and mammalia, however, they are less conspicuous, because in them the nervous power is so soon extinct. These facts suggest an obvious comparison between the spinal cord of vertebrate animals and the abdominal ganglionic chain of articulate invertebrata. In the latter, each segment of the body has its proper ganglionic centres, and is, therefore, to a certain extent independent of the rest. Every schoolboy has witnessed the writh- ings of an earthworm, which his mischievous propensity has prompted him to divide into several pieces. Movements will conti- nue in each piece so long as the irritation produced by the subdi- vision remains ; and, after that has ceased, movements may be ex- cited in any segment by stimulating its surface. These movements seem precisely analogous to those which may be excited in the sub- divisions of the trunk of a vertebrate animal. The spinal cord, then, may be viewed as one continuous centre, made up of a num- ber of segments fused together at their extremities. In the articu- late ganglionic chain the centres of the segments remain distinct, although connected by fibres which pass from one to the other. When the spinal cord is divided about its middle, a remarkable difference may be noticed in the effects of irritation on the anterior and the posterior segment, as shewn in some of Flourens’ experi- ments. When the anterior segment (that which still retains its connexion with the brain) is irritated, not only are movements of