136 [chap. VI. LOCOMOTION. u cone whose apex is the articular extremity moving in the joint; this motion is called circumduction. Rotation is simply the revolving of a bone around its axis. It is important to hear this definition in mind : through losing sight of it many anatomists have attributed rotation to a joint which really does not possess it. The varieties of the diarthrodial joint are as follows : a. Arthrodia.—In this species the surfaces are plane, or one is slightly concave, and the other slightly convex : the motion is that of gliding, limited in extent and direction only by the ligaments of the joint, or by some process or processes connected with the bones. The examples in man are, the articular processes of the vertebra?, the radio-carpal, carpal, carpo-metacarpal, inferior radio-ulnar, supe- rior tibio-fibular, tarsal and tarso-metatarsal, ternporo-maxillary, acromio-clavicular, and sterno-clavicular joints. This last articula- tion and the wrist-joint possess a greater latitude of motion than the others; the former, in consequence of the shape of its articular surfaces; each surface is convex in one diameter and concave in the other, so that the gliding that takes place in this joint is in the direction of the long and short diameters, which intersect each other at right angles. It is capable, therefore, of vague opposition in those lines, but certainly not in the intermediate directions, the nature of the surfaces being calculated to prevent this. The wrist ow'es its mobility to the laxity of its ligaments, which permit it to move as well in its transverse as in its antero-posterior diameters, as also in the intermediate directions; it consequently admits of vague opposition and circumduction. The articulation of the meta- carpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium is also an arthrodia very similar to the sterno-clavicular, but with a greater degree of motion. Arthrodial joints are generally provided with ligaments, placed at the extremities of the lines in the direction of which the gliding motion takes place. I). Enarthrosis. — This is a highly developed arthrodia. The convex surface assumes a globular shape, and the concavity is so much deepened as to be cup-like; hence the appellation hall and socket. The ball is kept in apposition with the socket by means of a capsular ligament, which is sometimes strengthened by accessory fibres at certain parts that are likely to be much pressed upon. The best example of enarthrosis is the hip-joint, and next to it the shoulder: in the latter the cavity is but imperfectly developed. All the quadrupeds have their shoulder and hip joints on this con- struction, and the same common plan is observed in the vertebrata