STUIPED MUSCLE. I1AP. VII. ] 151 Fig. 36. rv< i uid semitendinosus; and it is very common fur them to fall short of he length of the whole organ, in consequence of an oblique dispo- sition, as seen in penniform muscles. In the sartorius they often tsxceed two feet in length, while in the sta- siedius they are not two lines. They vary in Miameter from to rsVff of an inch, being ourgest in Crustacea, fish, and reptiles, where ^ their irritability is enduring; and smallest in «fds, where it is most evanescent. The in- ^ lividual fibres, however, vary considerably n thickness in the members of the several sribes, and even in the same animal and inusele. Their average width in man is hbout *a o of an inch. They are not eylin- , ", i Tmnsvi r»e «ction, of »triu< ;1 meal, but flattened more or less, by being mu.de that haa imn inject,j I , , II. .1 mi • 1 * aUtl raainiilird 70 liiainc- pdosely packed together. 1 Ins may be ascer- nr*.— *. p™, ,i,< Prop. *. . 1 • .1 ' , , , . -11*^ 1 1 Kroiu the 1 lop. b. 6. Sccti.ni of amoil m the recent state, or still better by ri.-m.nto/y m,rm. u»ir , . , . , i o it form and variotu td«. i transverse section ot a dried muscle. Small ». «. s«,n ,i th. mj-rtrd ™. . i ... i o .i tOtartaa, ■bewfaau Sm dmIIvm uterspaces are left, however, tor the passage tbryoccupythefitor,. „ ... ill ii .1 l Tnumrw Ifli.ii between two it the capillary blood-vessels along the angles i..upiti..tm»i < apuiwir*. n, e . , , fiinir-• .hew the prrwtcr tmcuIh- »t junction, and sometimes between the eon- rm»fti»- »>thu»r w. • i , r,. .... . MMrdNMManilHk iguous sides, (rig. lib.) Internal structure.—The beautiful cross-markings on the volun- oiry fibre have been known from the early days of microscopical ■escareh, and have given occasion to a variety of hypothetical nid generally mechanical solutions of the problem of contraction; •vhicli, by warping the minds of observers, have had the effect of rreatly complicating an already difficult subject, that of the internal nrntomy of the fibre, which can only be determined by pure obser- vation. Fontana alone among the older anatomists abstained from vague speculation ; and he arrived nearest to the truth. He found bat the fibre was apt to split up into fine fibrilhe, each of which wa- a series of particles; and he imagined that the transverse lines tt’ere caused by the regular apposition side by side of the parti- cles of tin- contiguous fibrill.e. It was customary both before and ’Uiec his time, as at the present day. to regard the fibre as a bundle -of smaller ones, whence the term primitive fasciculus, first given to d by him and adopted by Muller: but this view of the subject •# imperfect. The fibre always presents, upon and within it, long- itudinal dark lines, along which it will generally split up into fibrill.e; but it is by a fracture alone that such fibrilhe are obtained. They do not exist as such in the fibre. And, further, it occasionally