2G0 INNERVATION. [chap. x. \ in the white matter, and the observer should he careful not to con- found the most minute of them with some of the fibrous elements above described. So far as our present knowledge of the minute anatomy of the spinal cord extends, it is favourable to the supposition that the spinal nerves derive their origin, at least partly, from the gray matter. The longitudinal fibres of the cord may consist in part of fibres continuous with those of the brain or cerebellum, and in part of commissural fibres, serving to unite various segments of the cord with each other, or to connect some part or parts of the encephalon with them. Those fibres which may be regarded as strictly spinal are probably oblique in their course, forming their connexion with gray matter at a point higher up in the cord than that at which they emerge from its surface, and may be readily confounded with the longitudinal fibres when their course is long. Other oblique or transverse fibres probably do not emerge from the cord, but connect the segments of opposite sides, forming a transverse com- missure. So that four classes of fibres, each different in function, maybe considered to exist in the cord. 1. Spinal fibres, oblique or transverse, which propagate nervous power to or from the seg- ments of the cord itself. 2. Encephalic fibres, longitudinal, the paths of volition and sensation, which connect the spinal cord with the various segments of the encephalon. 3. Longitudinal commis- sural fibres. 4. Transverse commissural fibres. Of the Encephalon.—The brain or encephalon is that mass which is contained within the cranial cavity. The plane of the occipital foramen separates it from the spinal cord, inasmuch as that plane would about pass through the inferior extremity of the medulla oblongata. Four segments are obviously distinguished in the encephalon. 1. The medulla oblongata. 2. The cerebrum. 3. The cerebellum. Some fibres of the medulla oblongata extend to the cerebrum, and some to the cerebellum. The fourth segment, which is called the mesocephale, contains fibres passing between all the rest, as well as some * connecting opposite sides. This constitutes a sort of conflux to the segments above named, and may be compared to a railway terminus, at which several lines meet and pass each other. The brain of the adult man weighs about 50 oz. or a little more than 3 lbs. avoirdupois.* This great weight depends mainly * Sec Reid’s Tables. Loud, and Edinb. Monthly Journal of Med. Science. Ap. 1843.