350 INNERVATION. [chap, xr. The results which experiments have yielded, add little that is positive to our knowledge of the functions of these bodies. Flourens found that neither pricking nor cutting away the optic thalami by successive slices, occasioned any muscular agitation, nor did it even induce contraction of the pupils. Longet found that removal of one optic thalamus in the rabbit was followed by paralysis on the opposite side of the body. It appears, however, that this was done after the removal of the hemisphere and corpus striatum, wffiereby the experiment was so complicated as to invalidate any conclusion that might be drawn from it respecting the function of the thalamus. Indeed, vivisections upon so complex an organ as the brain are ill-calculated to lead to useful or satisfactory results; but wre do not hesitate to quote such as have been made, from the imperfect negative information which they afford. Nothing definitive respecting the proper office of the thalami can be obtained from pathological anatomy. Extensive disease of these bodies is attended with the same phenomena during life, as lesion of similar kind in the corpora striata. Hemiplegic paralysis accompanies both ; nor does it appear that sensation is impaired when the thalamus is diseased, more than when the corpus striatum is affected. We see nothing in the phenomena which attend morbid states of the thalami, to oppose the conclusion which their anatomical re- lations indicate, namely, that they form a principal part of the centre of sensation. The intimate connexion between the striated bodies and the thalami, sufficiently explains the paralysis of motion which follows disease of the latter; whilst, as the thalami do not constitute the whole centre of sensation, but only a part, it cannot be expected that lesion of this part would destroy sensation, so long as the remainder of the centre on the same side, as well as that ot the opposite side, retain their integrity. Complete paralysis ot sen- sation on one side is very rare in diseased brain: a slight impair- ment of it frequently exists in the early periods of cerebral lesion, apparently as an effect of shock ; for it quickly subsides, although the motor power may never return. According to the views above expressed, the corpora striata and optic thalami bear to each other a relation analogous to that of the anterior to the posterior horn of the spinal gray matter. The corpora striata and anterior horns are centres of motion ; the optic thalami and posterior horns, centres of sensation. The an- terior pyramids connect the former; the olivary columns, and perhaps some fibres of the anterior pyramids, the latter. 1 be