THEORIES OF LIFE. 18 [iNTnon. putcd “ to control and direct” its organization, developement, and growth ? adoption, from the difficulty (or, as they conceive, the impossibility) of explaining the phenomena of organization and life on principles analogous to those on which the changes of inorganic matter may constituents of organic and inorganic compounds, seconded by the fact, of the synthesis of organic compounds having hitherto baffled the chemist’s art. It has puzzled them to think that out of the same elementary and proximate principles, so infinite a variety of animals and plants could he formed ; and Dr. Prout has been espe- cially staggered by the fact, that carbon and water, which contri- bute so largely to the formation of various organisms, have never, although aided by heat, light, and electricity, when out of an organized body, and left entirely to themselves, been able to unite, either in virtue of their own properties or from accident, so as to form any plant or animal, however insignificant. In the first place, let it be observed, that many of the phenomena of life may be accounted for on physical or chemical principles. The changes effected in the air and in the blood by respiration, the phenomena of absorption, and, in some degree, those of secretion, are the results of purely physical processes. It is in the highest degree probable that many of the actions of the nervous system are due to physical changes in the two kinds of nervous matter, sub- stances of complex constitution and high equivalent number, and therefore prone to change. Stomach-digestion is now known to be a chemical solution ; the generation of heat is due to the same che- mical phenomenon as will give rise to it in the inorganic world; and electricity is also similarly developed within the body. How en- tirely dependent on physical changes are the senses of vision and hearing, and how completely are their organs adapted to the laws of light and sound ! And, doubtless, a further insight into the nature of the various organic processes will reveal to us a closer analogy between the laws by which the two great kingdoms of nature are governed. Nor is there so great a chasm between matters organic and in- organic, as to chemical composition, as some would have us believe. It has already been shewn that modern chemical research tends to prove a similarity as regards the mode of combination of the ele- ments in both; and the labours of chemists have been crowned with The modern advocates of this doctrine have been driven to its be accounted for : this difficulty consisting in the supposed existence of certain differences in the mode of combination of the elementary