185 (’HAP. VII.] VARIETIES OF CONTRACTION. the other form. The differences between the contractions of the two varieties are almost certainly confined to the manner of exer- cise. and do not extend to the essential nature of the act. Though the unstriped fibre has not been studied by the microscope, during its active state, with the same success as the other, yet the simila- rity of the gross changes observed in it by the naked eye, to those (seen in voluntary muscle, forbid us to doubt the identity of the phenomenon in all that is essential to it as an act of contraction. From the knowledge we possess, we are perhaps entitled to hazard some further conjectures respecting the differences in the mode of exercise of the contractile power in different cases. In . whatever that mysterious power may consist, it would appear that the structural modifications of the two kinds of fibres are intimately connected with the manner in which it is capable of being exerted. Wherever the striated structure occurs, we witness an aptitude for iquiek, energetic, and rapidly repeated movements; w hile, w here it is deficient, they are sluggish, progressive, and more sustained. The varieties in the character of contractions performed by striated muscles are very striking, especially that of the heart, as compared with the prolonged action of the voluntary muscles. In both, there is an alternate momentary action and repose of every contractile particle : but in the heart the contraction is universal at one instant, and the repose equally universal at the next; while, in ' the prolonged action of the voluntary muscles, contractions of cer- tain parts of each fibre always co-exist with repose of other parts.* The contractions of voluntary muscles differ greatly from one another in duration, energy, and extent. Dr. Wollaston"f* was of opinion, that the phenomenon of the muscular sound affords a proof that the duration of a muscle's contraction depends on the applica- tion to it of a succession of distinct impulses; and this idea, accord- ing very nearly, as it does, with the later evidence of observation, appears, on the whole, the most satisfactory that has been advanced "n this abstruse subject. He also thought that the intensity of a contraction corresponds with the rapidity with which these impulses are transmitted to it; and this likew ise may be, in part, true. But i there is, in addition to this, in all probability, a difference in the • intensity of the stimulus itself in different cases, producing a differ- * By the expression “ universal nt one instant,” we do not mean absolutely so ; , Tor observation, and the presence of the muscular sound, both declare that the con- I* tr*ction, even of the heart, though so apparently momentary, is progressive, t Philos. Trans. 1811.