194 CHAP. VII. LOCOMOTION. cumstances prevent them. The heart beats independently of our consciousness or controul; but the respiratory actions may be has- tened, or retarded, at will, though not stopped. This voluntary power is given because these muscles are required in various move- ments of the body, either alone, or in aid of others; they minister to other functions besides that of respiration. The voluntary, or irregular action, however, is entirely subordinate to the involuntary, and rhythmical. The rhythmical character of the respiratory act is to be ex- plained by reference to the stimulus by which it is ordinarily excited. This is an impression made on the internal surface of the lungs by the deteriorated air, and recurs periodically from the change induced in the inspired air by its contact with the blood in the air-cells. Though the heart is in no respect under voluntary influence, yet emotional and instinctive impulses easily affect it: its action is throbbing, tumultuous, or feeble. These impulses act through the cardiac nerves, which, if stimulated mechanically, will excite con- tractions in a heart removed from the body, and which has almost ceased to beat: but, under all circumstances, the action of the heart is rhythmical. The cause of the rhythm it is exceedingly difficult to resolve. This variety of contraction is coincident with periodic distension of the cavities, and impressions on their lining membrane. But it continues long after the heart is empty, and its nerves cut. Hence, whatever share these circumstances may have in giving the rhythmical character in the natural condition of the parts, they are certainly not essential to each individual pulse. It is singular that a mechanical stimulus applied once to the heart will often excite a series of contractions after they had ceased, or modify the rhythm of those previously existing; its effects being thus prolonged through many beats. In reviewing the actions of the voluntary muscles, we may remark the following interesting circumstances : 1. As to association of Movements.—By the mechanical arrange- ments of the muscles on the bony framework, and by the pecu- liarity of their several nervous connexions, they are rendered capa- ble of conspiring in those combined actions which produce the various attitudes and general movements of the body. There are few muscular actions indeed of an entirely solitary kind. In the animation of the features under the passions, in articulation, m deglutition, in respiration, and in numberless other cases, we have examples of this association of many actions to the production <>t 1