* chap, xv.] FUNCTIONS OF THE PAPILLA OF THE TONGUE. 441 and elasticity ; the latter quality depending on the abundant yellow fibrous tissue they contain, and which, with a wavv, almost spiral character, has a general longitudinal direction (fig. 101, c, c, c). They are commonly found to contain tubular nerve-fibres, which we have on several occasions, but not always, seen to terminate in loops (fig. 101, a, », c). We have usually found it easiest to distinguish the tubular fibres in the papillae at the front of the tongue. The reader will at once recognize the broad and obvious distinc- tion between the papillae last described and all the other varieties, and will probably surmise, on structural grounds, that they can scarcely share in the reception of impressions which depend on the contact of the sapid material with the papillary tissue. The com- parative thickness of their protective covering, the stiffness and brush- like arrangement of their filamentary productions, their greater developemeut in that portion of the dorsum of the tongue which is chiefly employed in the movements of mastication, all evince the subservience of these papilla1 to the latter function rather than to that of taste; and it is evident that their isolation and partial mobility on one another must render the delicate touch with which they are endowed more available in directing the muscular actions of the organ. The almost manual dexterity of the organ in dealing with minute particles of food is prolaibly provided for, as far as sensibility conduces to it, in the structure and arrangement of these papillae. The simple papillae on the base of the tongue, and those clothing the circumvallate and fungiform papilla?, do not appear to differ from one another in any important structural condition, notwithstanding their variety of outward form and arrangement in the compound organs: their epithelium, though of the scaly kind, is very thin, and would easily permit the transudation of sapid substances dissolved in the mucus of the mouth. The softer and perhaps cellulated interior of these papilla? may have a further influence on the act of sensation. With regard to the use of the singular configuration of the eircum- vallato and fungiform papilla?, it maybe conjectured that the fissures and recesses about their base are designed to arrest on their passage small portions of the fluids in which the sapid materials are dissolved, and thus to detain them in contact with the most sensitive parts o£ the gustatory membrane. 4Ve may here allude to a certain gradation that is apparent from the papillae of touch, through those of taste, to the absorbing villi of the small intestines. Touch shades into taste, and at a lower point sensibility is lost. In the tactile papilla*, the excitant of the nerves merely comes into contact w ith the exterior of a thick epidermic cover- o o