305 chap, xi.] FUNCTIONS OF NERVES, 1IOW DETERMINED. stances. It lmd already been ascertained by Lehot, Belliugeri, Nubili, and Marianiui, that compound nerves, the sciatic for in- stance, are at first excited equally on closing and on opening the electric circuit, whether the current be direct (i. e. from the brain or cord to the nerves), or inverse (from the nerves to the brain or cord); but after a time they are excitable, as shewn by the contrac- tion of the muscles below the point of the nerve stimulated, only on closing the direct current or opening the inverse. With a purely motor nerve, however, such as the anterior root of a spinal nerve, a different result is obtained ; inasmuch as the contractions of the muscles can only be excited on opening the direct current or closing the inverse* Sometimes we find that, if the trunk of a nerve be divided at some distance from its origin, irritation of the central segment will excite contractions, whilst that of the peripheral one will fail to do so. Such a nerve has been called an exciter; for it causes muscular movement, not by its direct influence upon muscles, but by excit- ing the centre, which in its turn stimulates motor nerves arising from it. Wc judge a nerve to be sensitive, if, when irritated in man or the lower animals during life, a peculiar sensation or pain be excited; or if section of it destroys the sensibility of the parts to which it is distributed. Fourthly. Clinical observation furnishes most valuable opportuni- ties of testing the true function of nerves. We observe a particular form of paralysis, and we inquire what nerve is diseased; we find pain felt in particular regions, and we ascertain that this is in consequence of a morbid state of particular nerves; certain func- tions are impaired or suspended, if certain nerves be affected with disease. A woman, lately in King's College Hospital, had a sin- gular train of symptoms, which were at first referred to hysteria. However, in a little time they became so confirmed, that no doubt could be entertained of organic lesion. There were ptosis of the upper lids,—paralysis of the muscles of the eyeball sup- plied by the third nerve,—paralysis of the pharynx, so that the power of deglutition was destroyed,—paralysis of the trapezii muscles, and of those on the back of the neck,—great feeble- ness of voice. She died like one asphyxiated. After death, the following nerves were found involved in a thickened neurilemma, with altered nerve-tubes,—the third pair, the fourth pair on the left side, the glossopharyngeal, the vagus, the spinal accessory ; each of * Mattcucci et liouget, s«r la relation «jui existe cut re le sens <lu courant 61ce- triqwe et lea contractions tmuculaircs dues a ce couraat. Paris, lb44.