LOCOMOTION. [chap. vu. 198 the left leg is now brought under it, and receives its weight, by which the body is in turn inclined to the left. The right leg, which had been extended, is then bent, raised from the ground, and swung forwards, ready again to sustain and project the body, when the left leg has gone through a similar movement. In running, the muscular actions are performed in a similar succession, but more rapidly and more vigorously. The body is more bent forwards, and its weight made more effectually to aid progression. In leaping, the body is projected by a sudden extension of both the lower limbs, and raised, for a brief time, entirely from the ground, the feet being advanced again in time to receive its weight as it descends. 2. As to the manner in which movements of the voluntary muscles are excited.—These muscles are subject, through the motor nerves, to the influence of several remote stimuli, already enumerated, and the chief of which, volition, gives its name to the class. These stimuli, in the healthy body, impress the motor nerve in the nervous centre, and the effect is a contraction of the muscle. By an exertion of the will we can contract more or fewer muscles at once, and to any degree, within certain limits : we can contract antagonist muscles together, or alternately, and through a longer or shorter period. But every voluntary muscle is subject to other influences more certain and more powerful in their operation than the will, and to which the will has often to yield. The wonderful and characteris- tic movements of the body, and especially of the features under the impulses of passions and emotions, are all involuntary, of which the best proof is to be found in the very partial power the will has of restraining them. To imitate the movements of passion is a task of extreme difficulty; and those actors succeed the best who lose them- selves the most in their characters, that is, who the most completely assume for the time the passion they design to pourtray. Without this quality the most elaborate imitation is cold, and fails to touch our sympathies. The genius of the histrionic artist consists chiefly in this power. Many movements ensue involuntarily when certain impressions are made on the surface of the body, or in any part of its interior, either by external or internal causes. Such impressions are usually attended with consciousness, but sometimes not; so that there is no reason to believe that perception of the impression is in any way essential to the production of the movement. All such movements are termed reflex. The contraction of the oesophagus in swallowing is an example of them without consciousness. The sudden inspira-