324 CHAP. X!. INNERVATION. sensation is entirely destroyed, movements may yet be excited without the consciousness of the individual. In such cases it is supposed that the fibres of sensation and volition are alone para- lysed, but that those of the true spinal cord remain free from injury or disease, and therefore competent to perform their functions. Sometimes, however, these fibres participate in the general shock which the spinal cord or brain experiences at the onset of disease or accident, and therefore reflex movements are not to be excited in all cases in which the influence of the brain has been cut off by disease of that organ, or of the cord itself. This hypothesis has very much to commend it; and not the least argument in its favour is that drawn from the compound nature of spinal nerves, as proved by Bell, in which filaments of very different endowments are bound together in the same sheath. If it be proved that filaments of sensation and of motion may be thus tied together, it is not going too far to conjecture the existence of another series of fibres of distinct function. The movements of decapitated animals, of parts in connexion with small segments of the spinal cord, of limbs paralysed to sensa- tion and voluntary motion from diseased brain or spinal cord, are satisfactorily explained by this hypothesis. But there are two phe- nomena familiar to those who observe disease with a knowledge of the many interesting discussions now going on upon the nervous system, which are not explained by it : these are, the movements which may be excited by mental emotion in limbs paralysed to the influence of the will, and the total paralysis of the sphincter ani, which frequently accompanies diseased brain, whilst, at the same time, the limbs are only affected to a partial degree. Cases occur sometimes in which hemiplegia arises from an apo- plectic clot or other destructive lesion in one hemisphere of the brain. The arm and leg, or either of them, are completely removed from the influence of the will ; yet, occasionally, under the influence of some sudden emotion, fear, joy, surprise, the palsied limb is raised involuntarily with considerable force.* Mental emotions probably affect some part of the brain : if the only communication between the brain and the limbs be by the fibres of sensation and volition, it is impossible to understand how, in such a case, the emotional influence could be conveyed through a channel which has long been * Even so slight a cause as yawning, which is an action of emotional character, will excite a palsied limb. In the case of a patient now in King’s College Hos- pital with very complete hemiplegia, the arm is raised involuntarily every time he yawns.