INNERVATION. CHAP. XI. 378 of the needle takes place immediately, which varies in amount according to the number of segments which constitute the pile. Matteucci has obtained a devia- tion of 15°, 20°, 30°, 40°, 60°, etc., according to the number of half-thighs, sup- posing the frogs employed to be equally lively; he obtained 3° or 4° with two elements, 6° or 8° with four elements, 10° or 12° with six, and so on. These numbers are obtained, using distilled water in the cavities ; but the deviation may be increased considerably if a few drops of sulphuric acid be added to it, so that a pile of eight lmlf-thighs, which gave a deviation of 15° with distilled water, will cause 50° with the acid liquid. When the fluid was slightly saline or alkaline, the same number of elements caused a deviation of 35°. In all the trials the cur- rent had the same direction—that is, from the internal part of the muscle to its surface. The muscular current may be demonstrated with the muscles of other cold- blooded and of warm-blooded animals. In all cases it is necessary so to arrange the elements of the pile, that the inner surface of one segment shall be in contact with the outer surface of the next, and that the inner surface of a piece of muscle shall form one pole, and the outer surface of another piece the opposite pole. The duration of the muscular current corresponds with that of contractility. In cold-blooded animals, therefore, it is greatest. In mammalia and birds it is very brief. Temperature has a considerable influence upon the intensity of the cur- rent. If frogs are placed for some time in a very cold medium, piles made from their muscles yield no evidence of electricity ; but, if the frogs are placed in a warm medium for a short time after they have been taken from a cold one, the current of electricity obtained from their muscles will be stronger than that from a similar pile which had not been subjected to any change of tempera- ture. Any circumstances which enfeeble frogs, and derange their general nutrition, will diminish the power of the muscles to generate electricity, as they also impair the contractile force. Thus, Matteucci found the great heat of summer to impair ma- terially the developement of electricity. We have found the same result in frogs which, having been kept crowded together in a small compass during the month of December, became ill-nourished, with soft, flabby muscles, full of moisture. The redder and more consistent the muscles are, as Matteucci remarks, the more distinct will be the signs of electricity. The muscular current appears to be quite independent of the nervous system. The segments of which the piles are formed are obviously beyond the influence of the nervous centres ; and Matteucci has taken great pains to remove from such segments all the larger nervous trunks and filaments distributed among the mus- cles without affecting the electrical current. And in frogs in which the lower part of the spinal cord had been destroyed by burning, there wras no evidence of im- pairment of the electric current in the muscles of the lower extremities. Matteucci found that narcotic poisons, in moderate doses, had little or no in- fluence upon the muscular current. On one occasion he found it slightly increased in a frog to which a very small dose of opium had been given. In very strong doses, such as to kill the animal, the muscular current is destroyed. The influence of the narcotic gases upon the current is of no importance, with the exception of sulphuretted hydrogen, which has the effect of materially weakening its intensity. On one occasion we endeavoured to obtain a current from a pile composed of