•] EXPERIMENTS OF WEBER. CHAP. XIV 429 to receive exact impressions from the vibrations of the air, and so to be a means whereby the animal may be informed of the distance and figure of the neighbouring objects, which reflect or otherwise modify the undulations of the surrounding medium. It is very probable that hearing also may be concerned in this power. In man, as compared with animals, the sense of touch is ex- tensively diffused ; but very interesting differences in its intensity are observable in different parts of the surface, which have been especially illustrated by the experiments of Weber. These consisted in placing the two points of a pair of compasses, blunted with sealing-wax, at different distances asunder, and in various directions, upon different parts of the skin of an individual, who was not permitted to see the bodies in contact with him. It was then found, that the smallest distance at which the contact can he distinguished to he double, varies in different parts between the thirty-sixth of an inch and three inches; and this seems a happy criterion of the acuteness of the sense. We recognize a double impression on very sensible parts of the skin, though the points are very near each other; while, in parts of obtuse sensi- bility, the impression is of a single |H>int, although they may be, in reality, far asunder. In many parts we perceive the distance and situation of two points more distinctly when placed transversely than when placed longitudinally, and vice rend. For example, in the middle of the arm or fore arm, points are separately felt at a distance of two inches, if placed crosswise ; but scarcely so at a distance of three, if directed lengthwise to the limb. Two points at a fixed distance apart feel as if more widely sepa- rated when placed on a very sensitive part, than when touching a surface of blunter sensibility. This may be easily shewn by draw- ing them over regions differently endowed; they will seem to open as they approach parts acutely sensible, and vice versa. If contact be more forcibly made by one of the points than hy the other, the feebler ceases to be distinguished; the stronger im- pression having a tendency to obscure the weaker, in proportion to its excess of intensity. Two points at a fixed distance are distinguished more clearly when brought into contact with surfaces varying in structure and use, than when applied to the game surface, as, for example, on the internal and external surface of the lips, or the front and back of the finger. the extremities, the least sensitive parts are the middle regions