306 [chap. XI. INNERVATION. which contributed more or less to supply with nerves the parts paralysed. Functions of the Roots of Spinal Nerves.—The application of anatomical investigation, and of experiment, to determine the func- tions of the anterior and posterior roots of spinal nerves respec- tively, was the first important step towards a right understanding in the physiology of the nervous system. This was undoubtedly taken by Sir C. Bell ; and, although there were other labourers in the same field not unworthy claimants of some share in the merit of this important investigation, it cannot be denied that the endowments of the roots were discovered by Bell. The original experiments of Bell, in which he was assisted by the late Mr. John Shaw, consisted in laying open the spinal canal in rabbits, and irritating or dividing the roots of the spinal nerves. Bell distinctly affirmed that irritation of the anterior roots caused muscular movement, and that the posterior roots might be irritated without giving rise to any muscular action. Destruction of the posterior roots did not impair the voluntary power over the muscles. Hence it was inferred that the anterior roots were mo- tor, and the posterior roots not motor; but, from the violence of the operation, and the pain produced in performing it, the experi- ments having been tried on rabbits, it was impossible to deter- mine what degree of sensibility remained in parts supplied from the divided roots. Numerous subsequent experimenters arrived at similar results to those of Bell; but no one obtained such satisfactory conclusions as Muller, who adopted the expedient of experimenting on frogs in- stead of mammalia, with which latter the experiments involved the necessity of a tedious and painful operation, and much bloodshed. In frogs, on the contrary, from the great width of the lower part of the spinal canal, the roots of the nerves can be exposed with facility, and their excitability lasts sufficiently long to yield every result. These experiments we have repeated frequently, with results pre- cisely similar to those which Muller obtained. In the experiments on frogs, irritation, mechanical or galvanic, ot the anterior root always provokes muscular contraction. No such ef- fect follows irritation of the posterior root. Section of the anterior root causes paralysis of motion; that of the posterior, paralysis of sensation. This latter effect is evinced by the utter insensibility to pain shewn on pinchingatoe, whilst in the limb in which the posterior root is entire such an irritation is evidently acutely felt. If the anterior roots of the nerves to the lower extremity be cut on one