129 CIIAP. VI.] SEROUS MEMBRANES. scrotum. These are all closed at every point; so that their secretion, it' morbidly increased, is retained within the cavity, and can only be removed bv absorption, or by an opening through the membrane. In the healthy state, the surfaces are only moistened; and, w hen more fluid exists, it is the product of disease, or of post-mortem change. If the surfaces be dry, or a viscid adherent matter be effused upon them, the movements of the contained organ become impeded, and are accompanied by a peculiar sound of friction, and a vibration sensible to the hand ; both of which are well known to physicians in the pericardium, pleura, and peritoneum, and may frequently be noticed by the patients themselves. The peritoneum of the female affords a remarkable exception to the closed character of serous sacs. At two points this membrane is open, where it communicates with the canal of each Fallopian tube at its dilated extremity. The blood-vessels of serous membranes are distributed in consi- derable numbers in the areolar tissue which is connected with their attached surface. Wo infer that nerves exist freely in the same tissue, from the intense pain which accompanies inflammation of these membranes. There is good reason to believe that lymphatics also are freely distributed in their areolar tissue. The serous membranes connect the viscera contained in the cavities to which they respectively belong, bv the folds tliev form as they pass from each viscus to the wall of the cavity. As the viscera in the abdomen are so many, and the folds proportionately numerous, the peritoneum is more com- plicated in its disposition than any other ■sous membrane ; and it is part of the study of the descriptive anatomist to shew, that the remarkable complication of folds which this membrane exhibits is not in- consistent with its adherence to the chief i morphological character of serous mem- branes. Microscopic characters of Synovial and » Serous membranes.—These membranes ap- | pear to be essentially alike in their mi- nute structure. On their free surface is a single layer of epithelium, the par- Epithohum»cr..u. membrane 1 , 1 At a, an accidental fold i« represented. tides ot which are polygonal in shape, the two dark edjrc* <>r which «hu>tt jjo r the thicknc** of the particle., and of ail'l ot transparent texture. A small Irag- their nuclei. A. One ut t be oral nut In. „ . / . ° r. Line of junction between two parti- nieiit ot this pavement, from the pento- de». Majcmned soa diameter. r?jr a*.