chap, xv.] MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF THE TONGUE. 435 surface, like the villi of the intestinal tube, occasioning the familiar roughness of the tongue. This, however, is to be taken with the limitations hereafter to be detailed. The epithelium of the tongue is of the scaly variety, and in this respect resembles the cuticle. Like the cuticle also, it undergoes certain modifications in its mode of aggregation in different localities. In general it is much thinner than in the skin, so that the intervals between the large papillae are not filled up by it, but each has a sepa- rate investment, from root to summit. The continuity of the epider- mis over the whole organ admits of easy demonstration by maceration, or boiling; by which it is detached entire, bearing the print of the surface below, on which it has been moulded. The deeper epithelial particles may sometimes be detached as a separate sheet, correspond- ing to the so-called rete mucosum ; but these particles never contain colouring matter. In animals which have the epithelium of the tongue much thicker than in man, it admits of being separated with care into a great many layers, at the will of the anatomist. The density of the epithelium is evidently a provision to defend the invested structures from the bad effects of the pressure and friction to which they are exposed during mastication, and hence it is great- est about the middle of the upper surface of the organ. It is here that the “fur" usually accumulates most in disease, being, in fact, no other than a depraved and overabundant formation of the epithelium. Three principal varieties of papilla are visible with the naked eve on the dorsal aspect of the tongue. These are, 1, the rirrumral- lote or ealyciform, eight or ten in number, situated in a V-shaped line at the base of the organ (fig. Iff, a) ; the fungiform, scattered over the surface, especially in front of the circumvallate, and about the sides and apex, b; and the conical or filiform, much the most numerous, studding most of the surface, though most largely deve- loped in the central part, d. These three varieties will require a separate description ; they are very distinct from one another if well- marked specimens are selected ; but, as might be expected, there are many intermediate forms by which they seem to run imperceptibly into one another. We may premise, however, with regard to them all, that although they appear to have been hitherto regarded as simple papillae, analogous to, though larger than, those of the skin, yet we have found them to be compound organs, clothed with secondary, simple, and much more minute papillae, concealed under the epithelial investment, and scarcely or not at all visible until this covering is removed.