TIIE CIRCULATION IN THE BRAIN. CHAP. X.] 295 ng ;j. protection, however, is afforded to the brain ; first, by the blood ascending against gravity, during at least a great portion of life ; secondly, by a tortuous arrangement of both carotids and verte- brals before they enter the cranial cavity, the carotid being curved like the letter S in and above the carotid canal, and the vertebral being slightly bent between the atlas and axis, then taking a hori- zontal sweep above the atlas, and after it has pierced the oecipito- atlantal ligament, inclining obliquely upwards and inwards; thirdly, by the breaking up of the carotids into three branches, by the inclined position of the vertebrals, and by their junction into a single vessel, which takes a course obliquely upwards, and after- wards subdivides into smaller branches. Such arrangements most effectually break the force of the two columns, and, as it were, scat- ter it in different directions. A further conservative provision is found in the manner in which the blood-vessels penetrate the brain. The larger arterial branches run in sulci l>etween convolutions, or at the base of the organ ; smaller branches come off' from them, and ramify on the pia mater, breaking up into extremely fine terminal arteries, which penetrate the brain; or these latter vessels spring di- rectly from the larger branches, and enter the cerebral substance. As a general rule, no vessel penetrates the cortical layer of the brain, which, in point of size, is more than two removes from the capillaries; and, whenever any vessel of greater size does pierce the cere- bral substance, it is at a situation where the fibrous matter is external, and the part perforated by foramina for the transmission of the vessels. Such places are the locus perforatus, the interpeduncular space, &c. The accompanying figure shews the manner in which the terminal arterial twigs dip ver- tically into the cerebral substance, and break up into a solid plexus of capillaries in the stratum of vesicular matter. The capillary plexus of the fibrous or white matter has similar characters, only its meshes are much wider (fig. 72). The capillaries of the cerebral substance are easily seen to possess an independent diaphanous wall, with cell- nuclei disponed at intervals. The smaller