chap, xi.] MATTEUCCl’S ELECTRO-PHYSIOLOGICAL RESEARCHES. 383 throughout muscle, in the constant supply and waste of which it is the seat, cau be unattended with the developcment of electricity. In short, the organic actions of muscle, by which the electrical current is de- veloped, may be compared to the inorganic phenomena attending its production from the decomposition of metals. W hen a plate of metal,* immersed in an acid- ulated fluid, is oxidised by the oxygen of the water, and then dissolved in the acid, we admit that an enormous quantity of electricity is developed during this action ; we add likewise, that, just as the two electrical states are disengaged, a synthesis takes place, and the effects of the previous decomposition are neutra- lised. It is only by means of certain arrangements that we can obtain the free electricity which is developed during chemical action. We unite to the metallic plate another which is not attacked by the water, and plunge this second plate also in the water. The circuit is thus established, and the electric current circulates in the liquid from the metal acted on to the other, and from this latter back again to the first through the metallic arc of union. The metal acted upon in the artificial arrangement is represented, in the phenome- non of the muscular current, by the muscular fibre ; the acidulated fluid is the arterial blood. The surface of the muscle, or any other conducting body not muscular fibre, but which is in contact with the muscle, represents the second plate of metal, which does not suffer chemical action, and which senes only to form the circuit. The direction of the muscular current is precisely such as it should be, supposing the current to be, as we have represented it, due to a chemical action taking place in the interior of the muscle. The nervous system may act in two ways in connexion with this phenomenon ; 1, as an imperfect conductor, which makes j>art of a circuit, but is not the source of electricity ; it represents the electrical state of the muscular mass, interior or surface, with which it is in connexion ; and 2, it acts in the conservation of the cause which disengages electricity, namely, nutrition. It is fully proved that the integrity of the nervous system, and the nutrition of the muscles, are closely leagued together ; but as it cannot be admitted that the chemical action which takes place in nutrition is immediately arrested or suspended by the cutting off ner- vous influence, so we must allow that the muscular current may continue after the nerve has ceased to exert any control over the muscle. The proper current of the frog docs not admit of being explained upon these principles. It has been supposed, as already stated, that this current is a thermo- electric one, due to the unequal cooling of nerve and muscle, depending on the difference of evaporation in these two parts of the animal. But it has been shewn that this current persists even after the removal of the nerve; and moreover, as Alatteucci remarks, a current w hich is sensible to a galvanometer with a long coil, which traverses thick layers of liquid, which may be obtained by bringing muscle in contact with muscle, and which may be produced by holding animal parts in water, cannot certainly be of thermo-electric origin. It has also been supposed that this current is due to an electro-chemical act on ; that the leg of the frog is charged with alcali or salts, whilst the thigh or the lumbar nerve contains acid. But chemical analysis of these parts affords no countenance whatever to this hy- pothesis. There are remarkable points of analogy between this current and the Matteucci, loc. eit. p. 124.