ft'HAP. XT. INNERVATION. 3G0 dividing either crus cerebelli. the animal was seen to roll over on its long axis towards the side on which the injury was inflicted. The effects of injuries to the cerebellum, according to the reports of the experimenters above referred to, contrast in a very striking manner with those of the much more severe operation of removing the cerebral hemispheres. “ Take two pigeons,” says M. Longet, “ from one remove completely the cerebral lobes, and from the other only half the cerebellum ; the next day, the first will be firm upon his feet, the second will exhibit the unsteady and uncertain gait of drunkenness.” Experiment, then, appears strikingly to favour the conclusion which Flourens has drawn, namely, that the cerebellum possesses the power of coordinating the voluntary movements which originate in other parts of the cerebro-spinal centre, whether these movements have reference to locomotion or to other objects. That this power is mental, i. e. dependent on a mental operation for its excitation and exercise, is rendered probable from the expe- rience of our own sensations, and from the fact that the perfection of it requires practice. The voluntary movements of a new-born infant, although perfectly controllable by the will, are far from being coordinate: they are, on the contrary, remarkable for their vagueness and want of definition. Yet all the parts of the cerebro- spinal centre are well developed, except the cerebellum and the con- volutions of the cerebrum. Now, the power of coordination im- proves earlier and more rapidly than the intellectual faculties; and we find, in accordance with Flourens-1 theory, that the cerebellum reaches its perfect developement of form and structure at a much earlier period than the hemispheres of the cerebrum. It may be stated as favourable to this view of the mental nature of the power by which voluntary movements are coordinated, that, in the first moments of life, provision is made for the perfect per- formance of all those acts which are of the physical kind. Thus, respiration and deglutition are as perfect in the new-born infant as in the full-grown man ; and the excitability of the nervous centres to physical impressions is much greater at the early age, partly per- haps in consequence of the little interference which is received at that period from the will. That the cerebellum is an organ favourably disposed for regulating and coordinating all the voluntary movements of the frame, is very apparent from anatomical facts. No other part of the encephalon has such extensive connexions with the cerebro-spinal axis. It is