CHap. v.] BONE. 105 os innominatum, all of which will he found to possess the same . essential characters. The cranial hones present one or two peculiarities which demand a special notice. The layers of compact tissue in them are fami- liarly known as the table* of the skull : the outer one is stouter and tougher; the inner one denser and much thinner, and therefore more brittle. The intervening structure is called the diploe; in • some places it is absent, leaving a vacant space produced by the •separation of the tables, and which communicates with the external air, as in the frontal sinuses : the diploe is generally a very fine can- cellated texture; hut, in the mastoid process of the temporal bone, it is of a much looser kind, its cancelli are larger, and instead of being occupied by medulla, as elsewhere, they communicate with the icavity of the tympanum, and are therefore always filled with air. The diploe of the cranial bones in birds is everywhere devoid of medulla, and occupied by air, which gains access to it from the t tympanum. A fourth group of bones consists of those, which seem to combine imuuiy of the offices and forms of the three preceding ones with certain characters proper to themselves. They exhibit much irre- .gularity of shape and size ; and, on this account, are called irregular bones. The vertebne, the tarsal and carpal bones, certain bones of the head and face, belong to this group. Lightness, with extent of surface, are their principal characters. They are comj>osed mainly of cancellated texture, covered by a layer of compact, and here and there a portion of compact tissue, for the purpose of affording a firm bond of connexion of some process to the main part of the bone ; as the pedicles, uniting the lamina' to the bodies of the vertebne. In examining the surfaces of these different groups of bones, we are struck with the variety of projections or eminences, and of depressions, which are found upon them. Those are of two kinds ; articular, and noil-articular. The former are destined for the for- mation of joints: as the head of the thigh-bone, an articular emi- nence; and the acetabulum, an articular depression. The non-articular eminences chiefly serve as points of insertion for ligaments and tendons, and exhibit a great diversity of shapes, so that anatomists designate them as tuberosities, tubercles, spines, crista*, &e. The non-articular depressions serve a similar purpose, and are equally various in form, being described as fossa?, cells, furrows, grooves, fissures, pulleys, &c. W ith reference to these eminences and depressions, it may be observed that they are well marked in proportion to the muscu-