chap. XI.] MATTErCCl’S ELECTRO-PHYSIOLOGICAL RESEARCHES. 379 pieces of human muscle from a leg that had just been amputated; but the muscles were in so atrophied a condition, that the experiment failed with the galvauoscopic frog, as well as with the galvanometer. We have since learned from Professor Matteucci, that he has obtained evidence of the current in human muscle under similar circumstances. It is plain, from the statements above given, that the essential condition for the full developement of the muscular current is a healthy and vigorous state of the muscles themselves, and that the nervous system contributes to the electrical phe- nomena only so far as it contributes to the healthy nutrition of the muscles by promoting their natural actions. The muscular current is one of the phenomena which attend the passive contraction of muscles ; it disappears from dead muscle, and from living muscles which have so suffered in their nutrition as to lose their characteristic property. All external influences which materially affect the nutri- tion, and therefore the passive contraction of muscles, exert a corresponding effect upon the muscular current. The duration of the current after systemie death continues in the different animals just so long as the phenomena of contractility are present. 3. In the latter part of the last century, Galvani announced his celebrated ex- periment of causing contraction of the frog's leg by bringing its muscles in contact w ith the lumbar nerves. The follow ing are the steps of this experiment: The in- teguments are stripjwd off the lower extremities, which are separated from the trunk at the middle of the back ; a small portion of the lumbar region of the spine, from which the lumbar nerves emerge, is left with these nerves in connexion with the lower limbs, the pelvis having been cut away. If now the limbs he suspended by the segment of the spine, and one leg be carefully bent tip, so as to bring the foot into contnct w ith the lumbar nerve, the whole limb is convulsed at the mo- ment of contact. The foot may be made to touch the muscles at various parts of the limb without any such effect. The contraction is general, and evidently of the same nature as that which the passage of an electric current through the lumbar nerves would produce. When the experiment is carefully tried, it is impossible that the nerve can experience any mechanical dragging, such as would produce an effect like that described. Galvani pointed out, that, in order to succeed perfectly in the experiment, it is necessary to wait until the frog has recovered from the te- tanic state which is likely to ensue upon the necessary mode of preparation. He also stated, that the experiment is more likely to he successful if the frog have been previously moistened by a solution of salt; and that the contraction of the muscles may be produced if the nerve and foot are connected by a piece of muscle, and not directly. The accuracy of Galvani’s observations has been fully establish- ed by Humboldt, Valli, and many modern experimenters. We have frequently repeated the experiment with the same result. Fifty years after Galvani, Nobili* took up the same line of inquiry. Having prepared the legs of a frog according to Galvani’s method as above described, he plunged the lumbar nerves into one capsule and the feet into another, the capsules being filled with water. When the poles of a galvanometer were introduced into the fluid of the capsules, a deviation of the needle followed, to the extent of 6®, HP, or 15° or more. The deviation could be increased by making a chain Bihliotheque Univcrselle, 1827. c c 2