CHAP, ix.] NERVOUS AND ELECTRICAL FORCES COMPARED. 239 Further tests of the presence of galvanic action are found in the magnetization of a steel needle placed within a coil of wire through which the current is made to pass; and in the evolution of heat and light, which takes place when the circuit is completed or broken. This latter effect, however, does not occur from currents of very feeble intensity. Lot us inquire how far the phenomena of the nervous force cor- respond with those of this current electricity, and whether it will respond to any of the tests just described. It has already been remarked tliat the instant an couhiicss with which nervous power is developed, when a mental or physical stimulus is applied to a nerve, resembles remarkably the rapid evolution of the galvanic force throughout the whole circuit, the instant the necessary contacts are completed. And l»oth cease with equal rapidity when the conditions for their production are destroyed. Some analogy is apparent in the conditions which are requisite for the development of both forces. The dissimilar metals and the interposed fluid, which we have seen to lx* necessary for the pro- duction of the galvanic force, may have ns analogues for the develop- ment of the polarity of nerves, the two kinds of nervous matter (the vesicular and fibrous), and the Wood. Nervous power is never developed from a centre without the conjoint action of these two kinds of nervous matter. The analogy fails, however, when we compare the relation of the metals in the battery with that of the gray and white matter in the nervous centre. The former need not have any connexion but such as a conducting wire of ever so minute dimensions passing from one to the other is capable of effecting; that is to say, union of a few points of one metal with as many of the other, is sufficient for the generation and transmis- sion of the polar state. In the nervous centres, however, the points of contact are probably most numerous. The vesicles of the gray matter certainly arc brought most extensively into connexion with the nerve-fibres; and there is much to justify and confirm the opinion that each fibre is connected with a vesicle, and that each vesicle, at least of the caudate kind, may be regarded as the point of departure of one or more fibres. If such an arrangement exist, we may regard each nerve-vesicle, and the fibres emerging from it, with the blood-vessels which play around it, as a distinct appa- ratus for the deveiopement of nervous polarity. There appears to be a provision for the insulation of the central axis of each nerve-fibre in the white substance of Schwann ; but there is no such arrangement for insulating the vesicles. In like