INNERVATION. 228 CHAP. VIII. ill rendering the fibril dark is obvious. With the advance of the secondary deposit, the fibrils become so thick, that the double outline of their parietes comes into view and they acquire a tubu- lar appearance. On the occurrence of this secondary deposit the nuclei of the cells are generally absorbed ; yet a few may still be found to remain for some time longer, when they are observed lying outwardly between the deposited substance and the cell-membrane, as in the muscles (e). The remaining cavity appears to be filled by a pretty consistent substance, the band of Remak, and dis- covered by him. In the adult a nerve, consequently, consists, 1st, of an outer pale thin cell-membrane, — the membrane of the original constituent cells, which becomes visible, when the white substance is destroyed by degrees ; 2nd, of a white fatty substance deposited on the inner aspect of the cell-membrane, and of greater or less thickness ; 3rd, of a substance, which is frequently firm or consistent, included within the cells, the hand of Remak.11 The fully-formed vesicular matter exhibits the persistent state of the cells of primitive developement. According to Schwann, the only change which the full-grown cell exhibits consists in an increase of size, and in the developement of the pigmentary granules within. According to Valentin’s description, the following is the process of developement of the nerve-vesicles. In the very young embryos of mammalia, as the sheep or calf, the cerebral mass in the course of formation contains, in the midst of a liquid and transparent blas- tema, transparent cells of great delicacy with a reddish-yellow nucleus. Around these primitive cells, which we find likewise formed after the same type in the spinal cord, a finely granular mass becomes deposited, which probably is not at first surrounded by an enveloping cell-membrane. At this early period of formation the primitive cell still preserves its first delicacy to such a degree, that the action of water causes it to burst immediately. In propor- tion as the granular mass contracts itself within certain limits, a cell- membrane probably is developed around it, so that the vesicle gra- dually acquires the exact form and size, and its contents the proper characters, which belong to the fully-formed nervous corpuscle. Of the Regeneration of Nervous Matter.—Our chief knowledge on this subject is with respect to the regeneration of the tubular fibres. Many years ago our countryman, Dr. Haighton, in making experiments to determine the functions of the vagus nerve, shewed that when a nerve is simply divided, without removing any portion of it, union would take place, and the nerve resume its proper office. If a considerable piece were excised, so as to leave much