INNERVATION. 298 [chap. X. brain enjoys a healthy state of function, supposing its texture to be normal. If either prevail, more or less of disturbance will ensue. Their relative quantities, if not in just proportion, will bear an inverse ratio to each other. If there be much blood, the surrounding fluid will he totally, or in a great measure, deficient; if the brain be ansemic, the quantity of surrounding fluid will be large. The existence of these two antagonising forces may be taken as a proof that either of them may prevail; and therefore, from the existence of the cerebro-spinal fluid we may infer that the actual quantity of blood circulating in the brain is liable to variation. This fluid is a valuable regulator of vascular fulness within the cranium, and a protector of the brain against too much pressure from within. So long as it exists in normal quantity, it resists the : entrance of more than a certain proportion of blood into the ; vessels. Under the influence of an unusual force of the heart, an undue quantity of blood may be forced into the brain; the effects of which will be, first, the displacement of a part, or of the whole surrounding fluid, and, secondly, the compression of the brain. On the other hand, the brain may receive too little blood. In such a case, if the surrounding fluid do not increase too rapidly, the requisite degree of pressure will be maintained, and the healthy! action of the brain preserved. But, if the brain be deprived of its due proportion of blood by some sudden depression of thej heart’s power, there is no time nor source for the pouring out of new fluid, and a state of syncope, or of delirium, will ensue. Suclu seems to be the explanation of those cases of delirium which ensuf upon hemorrhages, large bleedings, or the sudden supervention of inflammation of the pericardium or endocardium. In many of thes< cases, however, it is important to notice, that the blood is more 01 less damaged in quality, deficient in some of its staminal prin ciples, or charged with some morbid matter ; and this vitiatec state of the vital fluid has, no doubt, a considerable share in the production of the morbid phenomena. The following inferences, which are of practical application, wil form a suitable conclusion to these remarks on the circulatioi within the cranium. 1. That the brain, although not so amenable to the influence a atmospheric pressure as more superficial parts, is sufficiently so ti admit of variations in the quantity of its circulating fluid.