[chap. XIII. INNERVATION. 400 stance occupying it sufficiently solid to keep tlie nerve in its place. It does not seem to be mere fluid, like that distending the inter- capsular spaces. Henle and Kolliker have remarked, that, where two corpuscles are seated in succession on a single stalk (fig. 74, k), the pale axis- cylinder regains its envelope of white substance from its point of leaving the central cavity of the first, to its entering that of the second; and that in some cases, where the central cavity is bent suddenly upon itself, so that it cannot be fairly surrounded by cap- sules at the bend, it is there provided for a little way with white substance. A very delicate layer of the same substance, just thick enough to give a dark edge, occurs occasionally along the course of the pale fibre. We have gone thus minutely into the structure of the Pacinian corpuscles, because of the novel aspect in which they present the constituent parts of the nerve-tube, placed in the heart of a system of concentric membranous capsules with intervening fluid, and di- vested of that layer which we regard as an isolator and pro- tector of the more potential central axis within. The object of this arrangement is quite unknown, and, in the present uncertain state of our knowledge respecting the nature of the nervous force, it seems almost idle to hazard guesses on the subject. The apparatus of lamellaj may either effect some change in the enclosed nerve, by which the nervous centres in connexion with it may be influenced as to their polarity; or, on the other hand, this apparatus may be the special instrument of some peculiar vital agency, which the nervous filament is designed simply to bring into communication with the nervous system. The latter view, to which we incline, would bring these organs under the same category with muscles, and the organs which develope light or electricity in certain of the lower animals. Pacini has already drawn a com- parison, in point of structure, between them and the electrical organs of the torpedo ; and Henle and Kolliker favour this idea. The well-known prisms of the electrical organs, according to Savi,,f consist of a congeries of very delicate transverse lamellae, on which the nerve-tubes are distributed in a plexiform manner; and, if we may judge from bis figure, this plexus is not resolvable into loops, but consists of true inosculations of the ultimate tubes, which also retain the white substance of Schwann : but further researches are greatly needed on this point. Wagner, with more probability, describes the * Paul Suvi, in Aluttcucci, luc. fit.