282 INNERVATION. CHAP. X. seem to be added to the primary ones met with in inferior groups, and the secondary folds are greatly increased in number. The additional convolutions are found chiefly at the superior and an- terior part of the hemisphere. In the human brain the following convolutions are constantly present, and resemble the primitive ones, which have been ; already referred to in the brains of the inferior animals. The internal one is always well marked; it lies parallel to the corpus i callosum, overlapping it slightly on either side. In front it winds 1 round the anterior margin of the corpus callosum, and is con- | nected with the convolutions of the anterior lobe ; posteriorly it I divides, appears to be continuous with some posterior convolu- I tions, and passes into the middle lobe, forming the hippocampus major. Numerous small folds pass from its upper edge to the superior convolutions. The mpra-orbitar convolution is well de- veloped, and bears a constant relation to the fissure for the olfactory process. The fissure of Sylvius is bounded by a tortuous external * convolution, which forms numerous connexions with others on the external surface of the brain. In this fissure is found constantly a group of shallow convolutions, which form what has been called by Red the island, insula, from their isolated position, having only deep-seated connexions in the vicinity of the corpus striatum. Some longitudinal convolutions are found on the superior and on the inner surfaces of the hemispheres, uniting with neighbouring ones by means of numerous transverse folds. According to Leuret, that only can be properly called a convo- I lution which is primary; and these, for the most part, take a direction in the length of the brain. Those which form angles with the primary convolutions are, in his estimation, mere folds derived from them, and connecting them to others. When the j convolutions are very highly developed, as in man and the ele- | pliant, their numerous undulations obscure in a great degree their j real direction. Hence many of the primary convolutions in the 1 human brain seem to take a vertical direction. There are, however, other differences in the convolutions, whe- I ther of the brains of the same or of different groups, besides those I dependent on form and degree of undulation. These are referrible I to their depth and their thickness. Animals, even of the same * group, or of the same species, exhibit much variety with respect I to these points. The wolf has precisely the same convolutions j as the fox; but those of the former are deeper, and thicker, as well as more undulating than those of the latter. Much |