chap, xi.] FUNCTIONS OF THE CEREBRAL CONVOLUTIONS. 3G5 1 he actions ot the convoluted surface of the brain, and of the pable of a single mental nervous action, whether voluntary or sensitive. When the membranes of the brain are in a state of inflammation, disturbance of the mental faculties is an invariable accompaniment to an extent proportional to the degree of cerebral irritation, and more especially so when the inflammation is seated in the pia mater of the convolutions. This disturbance of mind is frequently in- dicated by the manifestation of delirium of a more or less violent kind. It is plain that in such a case the delirium arises from the altered state of the circulation in the gray matter of the convolu- tions, the blood-vessels of which are immediately derived from those of the pia mater, so that the one cannot be affected without the other likewise suffering. And it may be stated, as a fact no less interesting in a physiological than important in a practical point of view, that in many, if not in most, instances of violent delirium, such, for example, as delirium tremens, the vesicular matter of the convolutions is found after death to be bloodless, as if its wonted supply of blood had been completely cut off from it. Thus it happens in the delirium after great operation®—in that of rheu- matic fever—and perhaps also of gout—and in that which occurs in the more advanced stages of continued fever. We learn from the most trustworthy reports of the dissections of the brains of lunatics, that there is invariably found more or less disease of the vesicular surface, and of the pia mater and arachnoid in connexion with it, denoted by opacity or thickening of the latter, with altered colour or consistence of the former. From these premises it may be laid down as a just conclusion, that the convolutions of the brain are the centre of intellectual action, or, more strictly, that this centre consists in that vast sheet of vesi- cular matter which crowns the convoluted surface of the hemi- spheres. This surface is connected with the centres of volition and sensation (corpora striata and optic thalami), and is capable at once of being excited by, or of exciting them. Every idea of the mind is associated with a corresponding change in some part or parts of this vesicular surface; and, as local changes of nutrition in the ex- pansions of the nerves of pure sense may give rise to subjective sen- sations of vision or hearing, so derangements of nutrition in the vesicular matter of this surface may occasion analogous phenomena o) thought, the rapid developement of ideas, which, being ill-regu- lated or not at all directed by the will, assume the form of delirious raving.