115 PEVELOPEMENT OF BONE. CHAP. V.] respects, to every other example of the compact tissue; the chief difference consisting in the direction taken by the Haversian canals, which is irregular where the tissue follows an irregular course. In general, however, the canals, with the Haversian rods forming their sheaths, run in the direction in which the tissue needs the greatest strength. Thus, in the long bones it is vertical; and in those flat bones, which have to support weight, it is also more or less vertical; while in those designed to sustain the action of forces of other kinds it is liable to corresponding variety. So beautifully mechanical is this disposition of the Haversian systems in the compact tissue, that we need not smile at the de- scriptions of Gagliardi, who, with imperfect means of observation, appears to have been at least faithful in his attempts to delineate nature. The periosteal and medullary layers are true plates of lione, and the Haversian systems are true fibres or pins, all con- nected with one another by direct continuity of tissue, and most artfully arranged for the mechanical ends in view; and we cannot sufficiently admire the skill which has caused the means, employed for these ends, to conspire with those which were indispensable for the due nutrition of the ti>sue. In the ordinary cancellated texture, each cancellus must Ik* re- garded as a little medullary cavity, containing, as it dot's, me- dulla and highly vascular medullary uu mbraue. The plates of hone which form its walls consist of lamelbe, among which lacuna*, with their pores, arc scattered ; and they sometimes, when thick, contain Haversian canals. Usually, however, the pores of these lamina; communicate directly with the cavity of the cancellus to which they belong. Nerves of Bone.—The skill of anatomists has hitherto failed to demonstrate the presence of nerves in the interior of hones. Some nerves pass through bones, hut no supply strictly to the osseous matter has yet been proved. Yet there is little doubt that the vascular surface of bones is furnished w ith nerves : the painful- m*ss of many affections of the periosteum, and of the medullary membrane, seems to place this beyond dispute. Bevelopement.—In the earliest period at which the skeleton can he detected among the other tissues of the embryo, it is found to consist only of a congeries of cells, constituting the simplest form >d cartilage. These increase in number and in density, and become mrrounded and held together by an intercellular substance in small quantity; thus forming the temporary cartilage, which subsequently becomes converted into bone. The temporary cartilages have the i 2