420 INNERVATION. CHAP. XIV. in the quills of the porcupine. An approach to this papillary pro-1 jection may be frequently seen in the hairs of man; but its real size appears to have been much overrated, from the basement membrane having been overlooked. Where a papilla exists, the basement mem- brane is of course continued over it, and separates it from the true hair, which is never penetrated by either vessels or nerves. The sebaceous glands of the skin very generally open into the hair follicles at a short distance from the surface. The hair follicle is fixed more or less firmly in its place, according to the size and stiffness of the hair, by the dermoid and subdermoid tissues uniting intimately with it on its deep or convex surface, where also are spread out the capillary vessels which furnish the materials of growth. These latter are adapted in number to the dimensions of the follicle. Thus the hairs, like the cuticle, are beautifully organized, and maintain a vital, though not a vascular, connexion with the body. Some evidence of their retaining a degree of vitality is found in the fact, first pointed out by Mandl, and verified in some instances by ourselves, that hairs have a tendency to become pointed after having been cut short off. The process is very slow, and seems to consist in a further condensation and elongation of the elementary cells at the new extremity. Well-authenticated instances have occurred, in which the hair has grown white in a single night, from the sudden influence of some depressing passion; and some have held this circumstance a proof that fluids circulate through them. It seems most probable that this phenomenon results from the secretion, at the bulb, of some fluid— perhaps an acid, as Vauquelin supposes—which percolates the tissue of the hair, and chemically destroys the colouring matter. The ordinary gray hairs of age resemble other hairs in every respect but colour, and the process of change from dark to gray seems to take place rapidly in each individual hair. According to Vauquelin, the colour of hair depends on the pre- sence of a peculiar oil, which is of a sepia tint in dark hair, blood- red in red hair, and yellowish in fair hair. When extracted, as it may be by alcohol or aether, the hair is left of a grayish yellow. The colour is destroyed by chlorine, and probably otherwise resem- bles closely that of the cuticle in the dark races. The substance of hairs is similar in chemical composition to that of horn. After being softened by maceration in cold nitric acid, it is soluble in boiling water, and the solution after evaporation becomes a gela- tinous mass on cooling. The horny matter is said to be distinguish-