104 [chap. v. LOCOMOTION. The shaft is never perfectly cylindrical: although in some hones it approaches that form, in others it is prismatic. It is hollow, as already mentioned, and contains medulla. This arrangement has the advantage of making the bone very much lighter than it would have been if solid ; while it is attended with no sacrifice of strength, since the central osseous substance is that which contributes least ] to its power of resistance. The strength of the shaft is amply provided for by its being com-j posed of compact tissue, of thickness proportionate to the length of the bone, and the bore of the medullary canal. In the curved J bones, additional strength is obtained in the position where the bone j would be most likely to yield, by increased thickness and density ] along its concavity. Of this provision a good example will be found | in the spine of the femur,—a ridge of extremely dense bone, placed | along its posterior concave surface. In the bent bones of rickety ] subjects which have become fully ossified, the compact tissue on the j concavity of the bend acquires an enormous dcvelopement. At the extremities of the long bones the medullary canal ceases {Jj the osseous tissue expands; and the cancellated texture takes the j place of the compact substance of the shaft, and forms the whole j thickness of these portions of the bone, the medulla penetrating into j its cells. Here great strength is not required, but surface is needed j for the articulation of the bones together, and for affording attach- ment to ligaments and tendons. The cancellated tissue is admira- | bly adapted to attain this object; for, while by the looseness of its j texture it readily affords an extent of surface, its lightness is such, that even a considerable bulk of it does not materially affect the weight of the bone. The surface of this texture is covered with a thin cortex of compact tissue, which is perforated by innumerable orifices for the transmission of vessels. The long bones are the great levers of the extremities; as the bones of the thigh and leg, arm and fore-arm. Among the bones of the hand and foot are certain ones which have all the anatomical characters of the long bones, except that of length ; they may, therefore, be grouped together in a class under the name of short bones, these are, the metacarpal and metatarsal bones, and the phalanges of the fingers and toes. Hiqflat bones are remarkable for their slight thickness; they are composed of two thin layers of compact tissue, enclosing a layer of cancellated texture of variable thickness. Examples of this class of bones may be found in most of those enclosing the great cavities of the body; as the bones of the cranium, the ribs, the scapula, the