chap, xiv.] COLOURING MATTER OF THE SKIN. 415 These facts will go far to explain why it happens that the union between the particles composing the same layer is in general more intimate than that between different layers, so that it is not difficult to divide the cuticle into two, three, or more lamina?; and, in parti- cular, why it is easy, at a certain stage of maceration, to separate the harder from the softer layers, and thus to isolate the structure termed “ rete Malpighii.” This is nothing more than the deepest, or most recently formed, part of the cuticle. When isolated, it presents depressions, or sometimes complete apertures, which have been occupied by the projecting papilla? ; and hence the term rete. When apertures exist, the cuticle on the top of the papillae has been detached with the outer hard layer, and that in contact with and encircling their bases remains by itself. In the coloured races of mankind, there is, at first sight, some ground for supposing the rete Malpighii to be a structure distinct from the other layers of the cuticle, the colouring matter being found to reside chiefly in this part. However various in quantity and hue, the colouring matter always consists of oblong or oval grains of extreme minuteness, au inch in their long diameter.) and occupying the interior of some of the epidermic particles. In the negro it is accumulat- rif „ ed in enormous quantity, and com- pletely envelopes the nuclei immedi- ately resting on the cutis. On exa- mining a vertical section of the whole cuticle, we find the colouring matter gradually diminishing as we approach the surface; and it is most clear that Verticalwtionoftb**utide,fromth* wrotum of a negro. n. I)ocn celU, there is no true line of demarcation !‘*drd w,lb !«•■»«“• * oil. *t * . . higher level, paler and more flattened. between the two portions. We may ^ c*n. at tv «e»i> *nd coiour- . 1 * lew a* in the white race*. —Magnified observe the colour of the rete mucosum diameter*, deeper at points; ami a greater projairtionate depth of colour is traceable over such points, through all the layers, as far as the surface : we may even discern a sort of stream of coloured grains advancing towards the surface. Hence there can be little doubt that the decrease of colour in the superficial lamina? is due to that chemical change which has just been described as gra- dually taking place in the interior of the epidermic particles. As it is not always easy in this country to obtain specimens of the negro’s skin, the above facts may be verified m the skin of coloured domes- tic animals, or, less satisfactorily, in that of some portions of the skin ot the white race, as that ot the scrotum, of the nipple during