INNERVATION. [chap. xrv. 426 The ceruminous glands of the ear resemble in their structure those just described. They exist in great abundance in the skin of the cartilaginous part of the external meatus, and provide an adhesive secretion calculated to entangle particles of dust and small insects, and to prevent their access to the delicate membrane of the tym- panum.* Of the functions of the Skin Having now considered the several constituents of that very complicated organ, the skin, it remains for us to take a brief general view of its functions before proceed- ing to a particular account of that one which brought us to this structure, viz. the sense of touch. All these functions have refer- ence to its external anatomical position with respect to the other structures of the body. Regarded as a protective covering, the skin possesses the united advantages of toughness, resistance, flexi- bility, and elasticity. The areolar framework of the cutis is the part chiefly conferring these properties, which are due also in some measure to the epidermis. Both these structures are developed in a degree proportioned to the force and frequency of external contact to which different regions of the body are liable. They are thickest on the palms and soles, on the back of the trunk, and the outer surface of the limbs : thinner on the front of the body, and on the inside of the limbs. These two elements also afford protection and support to the other more delicate ones with which they are associated. The areolae of the cutis sustain the intricate networks of blood-vessels, lympha- tics, and nerves, which traverse it. The sweat-glands are imbedded in cavities accurately fitted to receive them ; and their ducts, with the sebaceous follicles, and hairs, are all lodged in channels or spaces adapted to their respective sizes. The epidermis is a defensive invest- ment to the tactile organ, and, while it shields it from the injurious effects of pressure, is the medium through which impressions of con- tact are conveyed to it with admirable nicety and truth. The epi- dermis furnishes also special organs, such as nails and hairs ; which are developed in particular situations, for the purposes of defeuce, the preservation of warmth, or as aids to the sense of touch. The infinite variety of modifications which the epidermis presents among the lower animals, joined with others of nearly equal diversity in the neighbouring textures, adapt it to very numerous and even opposite uses in the animal kingdom. * In the sharks and rays there is a remarkable system of mucous tubes opening on the skin. These tubes are nearly as large as crow-quills, and of great length. They end by a blind extremity, to which a small nerve of the fifth pair is attached.