PACINIAN RODIES. CHAP. XIII.] 309 racter of the axis- cylinder. No nu- cleus, like that of the caudate nerve- vesicles, can be seen. Sometimes the axis- cy 1 in d er d i v i des near its termination into two or even into three branches, each of which terminates bv an adherent swollen extremity. Sometimes this di- vision occurs near the proximal end of the central capsule, and one of the branches passes in a retrograde course into a subordinate offset from the cen- tral cavity,and there terminates (fig. 74, d). In the midst of these varieties one thing is con- stant, viz. the re- markable accuracy with w hich the pale nerve pursues its Fig- <*6- a. Termination of the italic, and commencement of the central cavity, m. Nerve-tube adtanoug to the central capsule, and there pmldenh lott- ing it* white «ul*tance and becoming pale, a Artery ending in capil- laries ; one of which enter* an interrapiuUr *pacet the other advance* with the nerve into the inner rarwule. b. Conical ltd** which receive* the stalk . the fibrous ti*#uc of the stalk i* not represented, r. Wall of thift tube, continuous with the *nece**ivc capsules, here neen in tee- lion. d. Corputrle of the c&paular wall. e. More spherical granular corpuscle, of which a few only rxiat. a. Ibstai end of the central cavity, w. Pale nerve advancing along the axis, to be fixed by a swollen part at the further end. r. Wall erf the central cavity, receiving the insertion of tome of the neighbouring capsules, here a little neparated from each other by w ater, o. Intcrcapau- lar ligament of Pacini, continued a little, way toward* the surface. c. Two varieties of bifid extremity of nerve, attached to the distal extremity of the central cavity.—All magnified 350 diam. path in the axis of the cavity, everywhere equidistant from the walls. This is most apparent when the cavity is bent upon itself, and when it might be imagined that the nerve would incline from the centre towards the concavity of the bend; hut it keeps a central course there jis well as elsewhere. This, perhaps, may depend on the nature of the contents of the central cavity, immediately enveloping the pale nerve. Near the wall of the cavity an appearance of soft, delicate, longitudinal fibres, with elongated nuclei, is often visible (fig. 7b, a); and, although the space immediately surrounding the nerve is quite transparent, we are disposed to consider the sub-