LOCOMOTION. [chap. vu. 156 <S3&> limit of the cross stripes ; or it may &«■ . bo seen stretching between the se- parated fragments of a fibre which lias been broken within it, for its toughness will often resist a force before which its brittle contents give way. If the fibre be im- mersed in acid, it swells, often so „ , , . „ suddenly as to burst the sheath Part of an elementary fibre from the Skate, J treated with Uq. potasaas; shewing a protrusion at numerous places, and protrude through the sarcolemma: — Corpuscles are seen 1 7 * scattered throughout the mass, and some detached jn tllC form of Small hftmiavf ones are represented ; their average diameter is one thousandth of an English inch. These hernise are very peculiar and illustrate the account already given of the internal composition of the fibre ; for tl# particles of the protruded mass are necessarily deranged, and their lateral parallelism destroyed. Now, the result of this is the production of the most beautiful and varied curves, intersecting one another, very similar to those already spoken of on the injured fibre, and wearing a very plausible aspect of spirals (fig. 41). Again, the sarcolemma may be seen raised in the form of vesicles from the surface of the fibre, in certain states of con- traction in water, which will be reverted to. lly one or more of these modes of demonstration, we know that this isolator of the sarcous tissue invests the striped elementary fibre of voluntary muscle in all animals. Its existence is as yet doubtful in the heart. Every fibre is attached by its extremities to fibrous tissue, or to some tissue analogous to it; but an accurate examination of this difficult subject lends no countenance to the ordinarily received opinion, that this tissue is prolonged over the whole fibre from end Fig. 42. Elementary fil>rc from the leg of the large Meat-fly (Shorn romitoria):—a. a. Line of termination of the fibre, along which the tendon, t, is attached to it. m. Central series of corpuscles.—Along the margin, the sarcolemma is elevated by water, (which has been absorbed,) and is thereby shewn to he adherent to the margin of the discs. to end, as its cellular sheath ; nor is this view reconcileable with the physical requirements of the case. It is extremely difficult to