FIBROUS TISSUE. 69 it HAP. III. 1 FIBROUS TISSUE. fig. *■ ji, (V I ! ! | nlv serves the purpose of a nidus for conducting vessels to its jurfoee, but it accompanies them sparingly into its substance. When the areolar tissue has been dissected off, the surface of [the fibrous tissue exhibits a beautiful silvery-white aspect, and [teems composed of bundles of fibres, which in some are arranged parallel to each other; in others are disposed on different planes, nd interlace, or cross in different directions. On placing a very ; bin piece of the fibrous tissue under a high power of the micro- cope, we observe what may be considered the characteristic feature i f this texture. The piece under examination seems to be composed of a leash i f exceedingly delicate fibrillar, running parallel to one another, and, i' not stretched, disposed to take a wavy course, like a skeiu of silk. Hut, on more accurate inspection, it is found impossible to distinguish ihreads of a determinate size ; they seem, indeed, i j be of various sizes, according to the degree |ff splitting to which the whole has been sub- mitted, and many are to be seen so very minute, -s at first almost to elude the eye. In other warts the mass splits up into membranous rather Ilian filiform fragments; so that it would ap- pear incorrect to describe this tissue as a bundle [ f threads. It is rather a mass, with longitu- dinal parallel streaks, (many of which are creas- *ngs,) and which has a tendency to slit up al- most ad infinitum in the longitudinal direction. I c 'he correctness of this view is further shewn wmte ai.nu. u*«ur:—«. • . * .. . . - Straight of the »v the action ot acid, which obliterates, for the tu»ur •■h« atwtriied. a. r. ... _ d. Various tuvv lost part, all appearance of tibruise, and swells which th« h«»ue exhibit* . . when not stretched. — Mair- s t up as an entire mass. niiied 320 dnuoetem. Physical and vital properties.—White fibrous tissue is inelastic, | ud, under ordinary circumstances, iextensible ; though it does j dmit of being somewhat stretched by the influence of a long-con- | mued and slowly acting force, as is seen occasionally when an ! ttusion of fluid has taken place into an articular cavity, or when a ! umor has slowly grown under a fascia. Its force of cohesion is | he most valuable and characteristic quality of the white fibrous issue, and to this its various important uses are chiefly due. Mas- •agm calculates the force requisite to rupture the tendo Achillis as *qual to 1,000 pounds’ weight. Instances are constantly seen where nusi les are torn, or bones fractured, while the tendons or ligaments, r I Li w \ 1 in / m