445 CONDITIONS OF TASTE. CHAP. XV.] of taste, it was found to be dearly absent iu the anterior and middle part of the affected side ; but to be present behind, in the region sup- plied by the glosso-pharyngeal. He tasted acutely enough on the other side in front. Blumenbach and others relate cases of congenital deficiency of the tongue, in which taste existed. These would shew that taste resides in other parts of the mouth besides the tongue, if it were not very probable that a portion of the base of the organ with its gustatory papilla4, supplied by the glosso-pharvngeal nerves, existed in these individuals. Without accurate dissections of the parts, such instances throw little light on the question. The tongue, as an organ of mast ication, is provided with the sense of touch ; the anterior portion, and especially the sides and tip, possessing this sense in an eminent degree. Division of the lingual branches of the fifth nerves in animals is attended with evidence of severe pain, and is immediately followed by loss of sensation in the front part of the organ ; while eases of disease of the fifth nerve in the human subject are marked by loss of sensation in the tongue, in common with the other parts which the nerve supplies. The expe- riments of Alcock and Reid further shew, that mechanical irritation of the glos-o-pharyngeal nerve in animals is accompanied with mani- fest pain. Hence there can be no doubt that the lingual branches of the fifth pair are the chief nerves of touch to the tongue, while the glosso-pharvngeal nerves furnish the feeble common sensation exist- ing in its hinder part. Conditions of Taste Taste may be produced by a mechanical or chemical excitation of its nerves. I)r. Maly has observed that a smart tap with the fingers on the tip of the tongue causes a taste sometimes acid, sometimes saline, which lasts several seconds; and galvanism acts in a similar way. Any tasteless substance pressed upon the base of the tongue occasions a bitter sensation, and, if pro- longed, a feeling of nausea. These phenomena shew that the sensa- tion of taste follows excitation of its nerves, however produced : and analogous ones have been observed in connexion with the other sen- sitive nerves. But sapid substances cause taste only when dissolved and made to permeate the tissue of the papillae, so as to come into contact with their nerves. This is proved by the fact that no insoluble substance admits of being tasted, and constitutes a broad distinction between taste and touch; which in some respects approach each other very nearly, particularly iu regard to the effects of strong chemical agents on their respective nerves, producing a harsh, pun- gent, burning taste or feel. Taste, like touch, is much influenced by