391 chap, xii.] SYMPATHETIC SENSATIONS AND MOTIONS. kind would produce, and therefore gives rise to effects of the same nature as those resulting from that mental change. Thus the smell of savoury food excites in the mind the idea of food, which in a hungry man would, if it occurred spontaneously, occasion a flow’ of saliva. And the odour which occasions syncope, creates in the mind an emotion of disgust, which, if it arose independently of the physi- cal impression, would affect the heart through the centre of emotion. It is plain, however, that that portion of the nervous centre which is affected in such cases, must have a direct influence upon the parts in which the sympathetic phenomena appear; and this through com- missural fibres, or the continuity of its gray matter with that of the centre from which its nerves immediately spring; thus, in the in- stances referred to, the centre of sensation, which is first affected, is, through the medulla oblongata, connected with the salivary glands by the fifth nerve, and with the heart by the vagus. We derive an explanation of the third class of sympathetic phe- nomena from the known laws of sensitive and motor nerves. It is known that stimulation of a sensitive nerve at its origin, or in any part of its course, w ill give rise to a sensation which w ill be referred to the peripheral extremity of the stimulated fibres; and that a stimulus applied to a motor nerve causes a change in it which spreads peripherad from the point stimulated, and therefore affects the muscular parts with which it is connected. It is known also, that a sentient nerve may excite a motor or sensitive nerve w hich is implanted near to it in the nervous centre—doubtless through the change which it produces in that centre; nor can it be doubted that a sensitive nerve may receive such a powerful stimulus as to exalt the polar force of a large portion of the nervous centre in the neighbourhood of its insertion, and thus to excite a similar change in all the nerves, whether motor or sensitive, which are connected with it. Thus, according to the intensity of the original stimulus, there will be a radiation of nervous force from the centre, either in one or two motor or sensitive nerves, or in several such ; and the number and variety of the sympathetic phenomena will thus depend on the intensity and extent of the change in the nervous centre excited by the primary stimulus. To explain, then, the phenomena of Bensation and motion under consideration, we must determine the individual nerves affected in each instance, and ascertain what connexions they have with each other. We learn from anatomical investigation, that, although nerves anastomose with each other in their distribution, this anastomosis is by no means of that kind which would justify the supposition that