240 CHAP. IX. INNERVATION. manner, we can insulate the galvanic current by covering the conducting wire with silk, or some other non-conductor, and thus cause it to pass through an indefinite length of wire disposed in coils, or through any number of separate wires disposed parallel to each other, which may be brought into connexion with the metals. These remarks are clearly most applicable to those nervous ac- tions which emanate from a centre. But in those in which the nervous force is propagated to a centre, as when pain is excited by touching a nerve, or in the excitation of the motor nerve of an amputated limb by artificial stimuli, the analogy of the mode of its developement with that of the galvanic force is not so obvious. Still, when we remember how easily thermo-electric currents may be excited by the disturbance of the equilibrium of heat in a wire of even a single metal, it seems not unreasonable to refer this excita- bility of nerve to some similar proneness to change in it. Nothing is more certain than that a very slight mechanical or chemical stimulus to a nerve, whatever be its proper vital endow- ment, is capable of producing in it that state of polarity on which we suppose the manifestation of nervous force to depend: and it seems not incorrect to imagine that, in the battery, the point of departure of the galvanic action may either be at the poles or at the battery itself, according to the place at which the completion of the circuit takes place ; thus affording a more marked analogy to the two kinds of nervous actions above referred to. Thus the con- ducting wires may be in contact with each other, and with their respective metals; but, if there be no fluid interposed, there is no action. The instant the fluid is added, the current begins; and in this case its point of departure may be regarded to be from the battery—in analogy with those nervous actions which proceed from the centre. On the other hand, the arrangements of the battery itself may be perfect, but action will not begin until the circuit is completed by bringing the conducting wires into contact. In this case, the polar change may be said to commence at this point of contact, and to travel to the battery, in a manner analo- gous to that in which nervous action is propagated from the peri- phery to the centre. In both cases, moreover, so long as galvanic action continues, the whole apparatus is in the polar state: and so long as nervous action continues, the particular nervous apparatus involved (vesicular matter and nerve-fibre) must be considered to be in a state of polarity through its ichole extent. Thus far we remark unquestionable analogy in the mode of developement and of propagation of the electrical and nervous