280 INNERVATION. [chap. x. of the convolutions, some distance beyond those which penetrate the gray matter of the sulci, the fibrous matter is adapted to it. The existence of convolutions on the surface of the hemispheres affords evidence of a large relative amount of the dynamic or vesicular nervous matter in those segments of the brain, and their number and complexity are a measure of the extent to which the vesicular surface is increased. Of two brains, equal as regards bulk, and occupying the same space, that which has the more numerous convolutions on its surface has the greater quantity of vesicular matter, and must be regarded as physiologically the more potential. A remarkable gradation is observable as regards the number of the cerebral convolutions from the lowest mammalia up to man. Some of the Rodentia, Cheiroptera, and Insectivora, occupy the lowest place ; and monkeys, the elephant, and the whale, rank next to Man, in whom the convolutions reach their highest point of developement. In the rat, mole, &c., the surface of the brain is perfectly smooth ; and the only tendency to complication which it exhibits is to be found in the convolution of the gray matter at the fissure of Sylvius. The brains of these animals resemble, in this respect, to a striking degree, those of birds, which are equally de- stitute of all semblance of a convolution. But in the rabbit, guinea- pig, beaver, &c., the occurrence of certain fissures on the surface of the hemispheres, and the greater depth of the fissure of Sylvius, denote the first steps in the developement of convolutions. A further stage of developement is indicated by the existence of certain rounded folds which generally take a direct course pa- rallel to the long axis of the hemispheres. These folds are but few in number, and quite simple, but may be readily distinguished from the rest of the cerebral surface, by the fissures which bound them. However complicated and numerous the convolutions of the most highly developed brains may be, it cannot be supposed that their arrangement is accidental, or has reference merely to the space within which the brain is enclosed. On the contrary, there seems no doubt that the position, size, and connexion of certain primary folds influence mainly the number and variety of those which occupy the intervening spaces. This interesting point has been strongly insisted upon by M. Leuret, who shews, by comparison of the most completely convoluted brain with those in which the folds are few and simple, that the convolutions of the latter, which are, as it were, the original landmarks in this intricate arrange- ment of the cerebral surface, may be demonstrated in each succes- sive group of brains which form a stage in the ascending series.