[chap. vii. LOCOMOTION. 170 of which the fulcrum is for the most part in a joint, i. e. at one extremity, the resistance at the further end, and the power (or the muscle) in the intermediate portion. In most cases the muscles are attached very near the fulcrum, as in the familiar instance of the biceps, inserted into the tubercle of the radius, lly this dis- position, a contraction of a single inch in the muscle moves the hand in the same time through the extent of a foot, but then the hand moves through every inch with only the twelfth part of the power exerted in the muscle; i. e. a resistance at the hand equal to one-twelfth of the force of the muscle would stop its motion. Thus, force is converted into extent and velocity of movement, at the same time that the great inconvenience is avoided of having the muscles extended like bow-strings between the distant ends of jointed continuous levers. By the junction of two or more levers in one direction, as in the different segments of the extremities, the extent and velocity of their united actions are given to the extreme one. A blow of the fist may be made to include the force of all the muscles engaged in extending the shoulder, elbow, and wrist. In the conspicuous example of the tendo A chillis, inserted into the os calcis, the resistance (or the weight of the body) rests on the astragalus, intermediate between the power and the fulcrum, which is here the ground, pressed by the ball of the foot. The extent and velocity of motion are here converted into power. If the tendo Achillis draws on the heel when the foot is oft’ the ground, the front part of the foot is extended on the lower end of the tibia as a fulcrum, and exhibits an instance of the other of the three varieties of lever. Of the function of Muscles.—The great property of muscular tissue is that of shortening in a particular direction, and this pro- perty is called contractility. It is not that mechanical power which elastic substances possess of shortening themselves on the removal of some force which has stretched them, but it is an endowment, responsive to appropriate stimuli, and diminishing or disappearing with the healthy state of the tissue (p. 57). The distinction between the contractility, the elasticity, and the physical tenacity of a muscle may be illustrated by the following imaginary experiment: Suppose the leg of an animal so severed from the trunk as to hang by a single muscle, which, after re- taining its contractility for some time, were gradually to lose it. The limb would at first bo borne up by the contractile power;