[chap. vii. LOCOMOTION. 182 those from which it was receding is removed, and the appearances of contraction remain. A distinction is required between the con- tractile force and the contraction resulting from its exercise. The latter will be permanent, if no force from without he exerted to obliterate it by stretching; for a contracted muscle has no power of extending itself, there is no repellent force between its molecules. From these phenomena, therefore, it is possible to eliminate the appearances resulting from a subsided force, and to judge of the mode and duration of action of the force itself. Thus sifted, they prove that, even when directly stimulated by water after removal from the body, a muscle contracts in successive portions, never in its totality at once ; and that no particle of it is capable of exhibit- ing an active contraction for more than an instant of time. The appearances presented by muscle that has been ruptured by its own inordinate contraction in fatal tetanus, in the human sub- ject, will supply the link wanting to connect the foregoing pheno- mena with those occurring in healthy contraction during life: for tetanic spasm differs from sustained voluntary contraction, only in its amount and protracted duration, and in its being independent of the will; none of which circumstances are of essential importance in regard to the nature of the act of contraction itself. The muscles are so arranged in the body, that no amount of con- traction which the mechanism of the bony and ligamentous frame- work will permit one of them to undergo, can by possibility occasion the rupture of an antagonist, provided it remain relaxed: to be ruptured, the antagonist must be itself contracted. But a muscle, it contracted beyond its natural amount, may be so resisted by me- chanical powers, in or out of the body, as to rupture itself. Hence, the contraction of a muscle is a necessary condition, and generally the essential cause of its own rupture : the other condition being a force greater than the tenacity of the ruptured part, holding its ends asunder ; which latter mayr be either the active or passive contraction of antagonists, or mere mechanical resistance: but it is evident, that, for a muscle to be ruptured by its own contraction, that contraction must be partial, as is shewn in the case of the frog’s muscle, already mentioned. An examination of muscle ruptured in tetanus is found to bear out these observations in the fullest manner.* The elementary fibres present numerous bulges of a fusiform shape, in which the trans- verse stripes are very close together. These swellings, or contracted * Phil. Trans. 1841, p. GO.