r .'iiai*. vii.] 183 MUSCULAR SOUND. parts, are separated from one another by intervals of various lengths, in which the fibre lias either entirely given way, or is more or less - stretched and disorganized. These appearances are met with after < ill contractility has departed; they are the vestiges of the spasm during life. Yet in other muscles, which have been likewise con- M'flaed, but not ruptured, they are not found. Their presence is, therefore, the result of the rupture. They admit only of the following explanation: the contractile force has operated at the points found contracted, and, by its excess, the intermediate portions have been stretched to laceration. Having once given way, the contracted parts have become isolated, andean no longer have been extended after the subsidence of contractile force; they consequently retain the form and appearances they possessed, when surprised, as it were, by the rupture, they have themselves produced, of the inter- evening parts. Supposing, for a moment, that active contraction were an univer- sal aud equable act, and that, by the superior power of an antago- nist, a weak muscle had been ruptured, the appearances resulting would manifestly be entirely different from those now detailed. BThe fibres beyond the ruptured point would have their transverse •stripes uniformly approximated. It may be concluded from the preceding facts, — 1st. That active contraction never occurs in the entire mass of a muscle at f once, nor in the whole of any one elementary fibre, but is always partial at any one instant of time: — 2nd. That no active con- traction of a muscle, however apparently prolonged, is more than instantaneous in any one of its parts or particles:—and therefore, 3rd. That the sustained active contraction of a muscle is an act compounded of an infinite number of partial and momentary con- tractions, incessantly changing their place, and engaging new parts m succession ; for every jK»rtiou of the tissue must take its due slum* in the act. Two phenomena yet remain to be mentioned, which, by admit- ting of a satisfactory explanation on this view of the subject, give r strong testimony to its correctness. The first is the muscular sound, heard on applying the ear to a niusclr in action. It resembles, according to the apt simile of J)r. ! Wollaston,* the distant rumbling of carriage-wheels; or rather, perhaps, an exceedingly rapid and faint tremulous vibration, which, when well marked, lias a metallic tone. It is the sound of friction, * Phil. Trans. IKl l.