CHAP. II.] 59 MOLECULAR MOTION. in the particles of various organic anil inorganic substances in a state of extremely minute subdivision. When these particles were suspended in water, they exhibited, under the microscope, motions, which consisted in more or less rapid oscillations and rotations of the particles themselves. He found them in the pollen of plants, in many mineral and metallic substances, in various animal matters, reduced to a subtle powder, consisting of particles that ranged in diameter between the xshjsjs and to.^oo ot an inch. 1 he move- ments are clearly not peculiar to living or organic parts, for they occur in inanimate ones: they never occur excepting when the par- ticles are suspended in water, or some liquid; and they are attri- butable to currents produced in the fluid by evaporation at its surface or edges, for they may be arrested by covering the fluid with oil, or using other means to prevent such evaporation. They are not, therefore, inherent in the particles themselves, which only obey the impulse communicated to them by the currents created in the fluid which holds them in suspension. Certain particles, naturally very minute, which are met with in the body, exhibit motions when examined under the microscope, floating iu fluid. These motions are entirely due to the same cause as would excite them iu inorganic particles, namely, to currents in the fluid created by its evaporation. The minute granules, or parti- cles of the chyle, have been found to exhibit molecular motion; and it has been ingeniously supposed, that “ these motions indicate the first obvious impress of vitality which the newr material has received from its association with living matter.11 But, before this supposition can be admitted, we require evidence to shew that these motions are inherent, and do not result from currents. The minute rod-like bodies, which form the outer coat of the retina, or Jacob's membrane, also sometimes exhibit a molecular motion, when sepa- rated and examined in water, and there seems no reason to doubt that this is due to the evaporation of the fluid in which they float. 2. Organic molecular motion.—Some of the motions, which take place within the living body, may be compared to those described by Mr. Brown, inasmuch as they are generally, if not always, due to an extraneous force acting upon the particles moved; but they differ in this respect, viz. that the producing force is developed by the processes inseparable from life. Such motions are not in gene- ral visible, yet some have been seen, which clearly indicate that forces are developed, during life, capable of producing them. The movements of particles within cells affords an example: such mo- tions are either of a uniform rhythmical kind, or they are ap-