I NT hoi >. 16 TIFE01iI.ES OF LIFE. and the vital actions exhibited by them, to a series of animating principles {ffvyju), differing according to the nature of the organized bodies constructed by them, and acting under the direction of the Supreme animating principle (cpvaig). He supposes that each par- ticular kind of organized body had its proper animating principle, or ffuy?i, and that the variety of the former really depended upon certain original differences in the nature of the latter, so that every distinct species of animating principle would necessarily have its appropriate species of body. Harvey, likewise, assumes the existence of an animating prin- ciple, by which every organism is moulded into shape, out of mate- rials furnished by the parent, and which, pervading the substance, regulates the various functions of its corporeal residence, Hut, at a subsequent stage of his inquiries, in assigning the blood as the special seat of this principle, he advances another supposition totally at variance with his previous hypothesis ; namely, that as, during the developement of the chick in ovo, the blood is formed and is moved, before any vessel, or any organ of motion exists, so in it and from it originate, not only motion and pulsation but animal temperature, the vital spirit, and even the principle of life itself So completely biased were the view's of this illustrious man, by his exaggerated notions respecting the nature and properties of the blood ! The celebrated John Hunter, wrho does not appear to have been acquainted with the view's expressed by Harvey, revived a some- what similar hypothesis : and it is curious that the same fact should have so attracted the attention of both as to have given the first impulse to their speculations. This fact was, that a prolific egg will remain sweet in a warm atmosphere, while an unfccundated one will putrefy. The views of Hunter have been received with very general favour by English physiologists. Hunter ascribes the phenomena of life to a materia vita, diffused throughout the solids and the fluids of the body. This materia vita he considers to be “ similar to the materials of the brainhe distinguishes it from the brain by the title “ materia vita diffusa f while he calls that organ “ materia vita coacervataf and sup- poses that it communicates with the former through the nerves, the chorda internuncia. And Mr. Abernethy, in commenting upon these views, explains Mr. Hunter’s materia vita to be a sub- tile substance, of a quickly and powerfully mobile nature, which is superadded to organization and pervades organized bodies ; and this he regards as, at least, of a nature similar to electricity.