[chap. vhi. INNERVATION. 212 fibrillee. Acetic acid dissolves the fibre, leaving the nuclei un- changed. These fibres, containing nothing analogous to the white substance of Schwann, are devoid of that whiteness which charac- terises the tubular fibre ; and it would seem that the gray colour of certain nerves depends chiefly upon the presence of a large propor- tion of the gelatinous fibres. Hence they are sometimes called gray fibres. The mode of connexion of the gelatinous fibres with the elements of the nervous centres is, as yet, quite unknown. They are found, in considerable numbers, in what are called the roots of the sym- pathetic, or the communications of that nerve with the spinal nerves: it has been supposed by Valentin that they are continuous with certain elements of the vesicular nervous matter. These fibres are smaller, in genera], than the tubular fibres; their diameter ranges between the and the —Q1---- of an inch. They resemble very much the fibres of unstriped muscle. Of the Vesicular Nervous Matter.—This is distinguished by its dark reddish gray colour, and soft consistence : it is found in the nervous centres, but never in nerves, properly so called, and it is always supplied by a considerable plexus of blood-vessels. The essential elements of the gray nervous matter are vesicles or cells, containing nuclei and nucleoli. They have been also called nerve or ganglion globules. The wall of each vesicle consists of an exceedingly delicate mem- brane, containing a soft but te- nacious finely granular mass. The nucleus of the cell is generally XT .. . eccentric, much smaller than the Nerve-vesicles from the Gasserian ganglion of * the human subjecta globular one with dc- contaiiiinnr vesicle, and adherent fined border; A. its nucleus; c. its nucleolus. «. o’ Caudate vesicle, e. Elongated vesicle, with two gome part of its interior. I tS groups of pigment particles, f. Vesicle surround- 1 ed by its sheath, or capsule, of nucleated particles. gtrUCturC is apparently tllC Same fr. The same, the sheath only being m focus.— x I J * Magnified 300 diameters. as that of the outer vesicle. The nucleolus is a minute, remarkably clear, and brilliant body, also vesicular, inclosed within the nucleus. It forms a most character- istic and often conspicuous part of the nerve-vesicle. The ordinary or prevailing form of these elements is that of a globular vesicle. So soft and compressible are they, how- ever, that a good deal of diversity of shape is manifest in them, by reason of the compression they suffer as they lie packed