chap, vill.] CONNEXION OF NERVOUS ACTIONS WITH THE MIND. 203 accustomed to regard this species of succession of bodily and mental changes as peculiarly inexplicable, from the very different nature of the substances which are reciprocally affected, it is truly not more so than any other case of succession of events, where the phenomena occur in substances that are not different in their properties, but analogous, or even absolutely similar; since, in no one instance of this kind, can we perceive more than the uniform order of the suc- cession itself; and of changes, the successions of which are all absolutely inexplicable, none can be said to be more or less so than another. That a peculiar state of the mere particles of the brain should be followed by a change of state of the sentient mind, is truly wonderful; but, if we consider it strictly, we shall find it to be by no means more wonderful than that the arrival of the moon at a certain point of the heavens should render the state of a body on the surface of our earth different from what it otherwise would naturally be ; or that the state of every particle of our globe, in its relative tendencies of gravitation, should be instantly changed, as it unquestionably would be, by the destruction of the most distant satellite of the most distant planet of our system, or, probably too, by the destruction even of one of those remotest of stars which are illuminating their own system of planets, so far in the depth of infinity that their light—to borrow a well-known illustration of sidereal distance—may never yet have reached our earth since the moment at which they darted forth their first beams on the crea- tion of the universe. We believe, indeed, with as much confidence, that one event will uniformly have for its consequent another event, which we have observed to follow it, as we believe the simple fact, that it has preceded it in the particular case observed. But the knowledge of the present sequence, as a mere fact to be remem- bered, and the expectation of future similar sequences, as the result of an original law of our belief, are precisely of the same kind, whether the sequence of changes be in mind or in matter, singly, or reciprocally in both.”* It is not merely through voluntary effort that the mind can excite the action of nerves. The involuntary, and often uncontrol- lable, influence of emotion is likewise able to give rise to certain movements, and even to produce certain sensations, through the nerves. How quickly the expression of the countenance changes under the varying phases of mental emotion ; and how faithfully does it naturally pourtray the working of the mind within ! And * llrown, Philosophy of the Human Mind. Lect. xix. r 2