95 F1BR0-CARTILAGE. 'HAP. IV.] rig. 17. . uirfaces, placed in the cavity of diarthrodial joints between the particular surfaces of the bones. These are the menisci of authors; jbhey exist in the temporo-maxillary, the sterno-clavicular, and the tinee joints, and between the scaphoid and lunar, and lunar and cunei- form bones, c. As triangular edges to the glenoid and cotyloid cavities : of the shoulder and hip joints. These are styled circumferential. In examining these different forms of fibro-cartilage, some varie- l ies are met with deserving of a brief notice. The intervertebral discs consist of concentric layers of white f ibrous tissue, placed vertically between the surfaces of the vertebra;: dthough the layers are vertical, ibhe fibres of which each layer is (composed, are directed obliquely ffrom above downwards, and the plirection of the fibres of one layer bs such as to decussate with those tof the layer immediately behind lit. Each pair of layers of fibrous jkissiie is separated by a lamina k»f cartilage. This arrangement (belongs to rather more than (the outer third of the disc : the rcentml portion is occupied by M soft, yielding, pulpy matter. Which, when a disc is cut horizon- tal) y, rises up considerably above kthe surrounding level. This soft tunas* consists of a few bundles of white fibrous tissue (wavy fibres), [with numerous nucleated cells, i very variable in shape and size, loosely interspersed. 11 is girt by the surrounding vertical fibrous appe‘r' layers and their interposed cartilaginous lamella;, and also eom- pressed by the vertebra; between which it is placed; the pulpy matter being separated from immediate contact with the surfaces of the vertebra: by the interposition of thin layers of cartilage. In the menisci the white fibrous tissue predominates considerably at their circumferences, while the cartilage chiefly abounds in the centre. Those of the knee-joint and temporo-maxillnry joint are the densest: that of the sterno-clavicular is softer and more carti- laginous. Elementary structure* from an intervertebral dine:—n. Two cartilafce-ccTl* lying: amongit the *hite fibrous ti*»uc. The remaining obiecta are from the central nulpv sulwfance, and exhibit various forma of cell. In aeverai of thru* there is an appearance of multiplication by *u))diri»ion of