433 chap, xiv.] DURATION OF IMPRESSIONS OF TOUCH. The sensations of tickling, tingling, itching, and many others al- lied to them, are also referrible to the nerves of touch. Respecting tickling, it has been well observed by Weber, that it is most apt to be excited in parts of feeble tactile power. Impressions made on the organ of touch, as on the other organs of sense, continue perceptible for a period more or less prolonged after the stimulus has ceased to be applied. The sting of a smart blow does not soon subside; and even the simple contact of any object, as a ring or an article of clothing, with a part of the skin, if long continued enough, leaves, after its removal, an impression of its presence, which is apt to deceive the individual for a consider- able time. Tht* influence of habit on sensation in general, may be well illustrated in the case of the nerves of common sensation and of touch. Impressions sufficiently strong in the first instance to arouse the attention, soon become feeble, and in time wholly disre- garded, if continued uniformly or frequently repeated ; although the mind can still, at any moment, take cognizance of them by a volun- tary effort. The sensations of heat and cold may, by long habit, in like manner come to be unnoticed, or lightly heeded, within cer- tain bounds. This is a matter of common experience, and may be exemplified in the case of the lower classes of society, among whom the privation of the comforts of warm clothing and lodging, and the absence of the mistaken luxury of over-heated rooms, are compen- sated for by the possession of that diminished susceptibility to cold, under slight exposures, which is so remarkable in those subject, in a moderate degree, to the inclemencies of the seasons. Little needs lie said of the subjective sensations pertaining to the nerves now under consideration. They are among the best known, and most familiar in the body. The peculiar tingling of a limb “ asleep," which commonly depends on pressure on its trunk, may result from morbid changes in the centre; as may likewise sensa- tions of formication, or the creeping of insects, and those of itching, of heat, of chilliness, Ike., and lastly of pain of various kinds.* • Besides the references in the foot-notes and the various treatises on Physiology and general Anatomy already cited, wc may refer on the subject of the preceding chapter to Rudolphi, Orundriss der Physiologic, band ii.;—Weber, dc pulsu, resorp- tione, auditu, et tactu ; Lips. 1834;—Bresellet et Roussel de Vauzeme, Ann. d. Sciences Nat. 18:44, tom. i.;—Schwann, Mikroskop. Untersuchungen ;—Eble, die Lehre von den Haaren ;—Gurlt, Muller’s Archiv. 1836;—Van Laer, de structure capillorum hurnanorum ; Traj. ad Rhen 1841.