CHA1>. XI. 330 INNERVATION. The impulse of volition, primarily excited in the brain, acts at the same time upon the gray matter of the cord (its anterior horn), which in virtue of its association with the former, by means of the fibres of the anterior pyramids, becomes part and parcel of the organ of the will, and therefore as distinctly amenable to acts of the mind as that portion which is contained within the cranium. If we destroy the commissural connexion through the pyramidal fibres, the spinal cord ceases to take part in mental actions; or, if that connexion be only partially destroyed, that portion of the cord which the injured fibres had associated with the brain is no longer influenced by the mind. Again, if the seat of volition in the brain be diseased, the cord, or part of it, participates in the effects of the disease, as far as regards voluntary actions. That it is not too much to ascribe such power to the pyramidal fibres, appears reasonable, if we consider how the fibres of the corpus callosum, and perhaps other transverse commissures, so connect the hemispheres and other parts of the brain that the separate divisions of a double organ act harmoniously in connexion with the operations of a single mind; or that, con- versely, two impressions from one and the same source on a double sentient organ are perceived as single by the mind. An objection to this explanation will readily be raised, that the excitation of the anterior horn of the gray matter, in the way stated, does not explain the remarkable power which the will has of limiting its action to one or two, or a particular class of muscles. We reply to this, however, that there can be no reason for denying to the mind the faculty of concentrating its action upon a parti- cular series of the elementary parts of the vesicular matter, or even upon one or more vesicles, if we admit that it can direct its influence to one or more individual fibres, as the advocates of the first and second hypotheses do. If, indeed, we admit the one, we must ad- mit the other; for whether the primary excitation of a fibre take place in the encephalon or in the spinal cord, the part first affected must probably be (according to our second postulate) one or more vesicles of the gray substance. The series of changes which would develope a sensation, admits of the following explanation: A stimulus applied to some part of the trunk or extremities is propagated by the sensitive nerves to the posterior horn of the gray matter of the spinal cord, and from the junction of this part with the brain either through the direct continuity of the vesicular matter of the cord with that of the centre of sensations, or through longitudinal commissural fibres, analogous to, or even perhaps forming part of, the anterior pyramids, this organ