INNERVATION. 396 CHAP. XIII. tic, though never on the nerves of motion. In the mesentery of most cats they are very readily seen by the naked eye, (usually in considerable numbers,) as pellucid, oval grains, rather smaller than hemp-seeds, and they are here very favourably situated for exami- nation. Fig. 74, a, n, will give a correct idea of their relation to the nerves in the palm and sole. They are especially numerous on the smaller twigs, to which they are generally placed parallel, though frequently at an acute, and sometimes at an obtuse angle. They arc more or less oval, often elongated and bent; suffi- ciently tough to resist moderate pressure, and nearly transparent, with a whitish line traversing their axis. They lie imbedded in the areolar tissue, and adhere to it by their outer surface. They always present a proximal end, attached to the nerve by a stalk of fibrous tissue, prolonged from the neurilemma, and occasionally jv of an inch long ; and a distal end, lying free in the areolar tissue. The corpuscles in the human subject have an average length of from djj to of an inch. A minute examination of these singular bodies discloses an inter- nal structure of a highly interesting kind. They consist, first, of a series of membranous capsules, from thirty to sixty or more in num- ber, enclosed one within the other ; and, secondly, of a single nerv- ous fibre, of the tubular kind, enclosed in the stalk, and advancing to the central capsule, which it traverses from end to end. I3y reference to the accompanying figure (75), which exhibits the general structure, the ten or fifteen innermost capsules may be observed to be in contact with one another, while the rest are separated by a clear space containing fluid. This is almost con- stantly observed, unless the specimen has been allowed to imbibe water sufficient to detach the inner capsules from each other; and hence these have been distinguished from the rest as the system of internal capsules. The intercapsular spaces between the others vary in width, especially under pressure, and sometimes we have seen some of the outer capsules in close contact. The capsules are here and there united by connecting bands of similar structure, passing transversely or obliquely across the spaces; the spaces do not com- an account of them (Nuovi organi scopcrti ncl corpo umano dal Dott. Filippo Pacini. Pistoja, 1840), which has been rendered much more accurate and complete in its de- tails by Henle and Kblliker. Coining to the investigation of these corpuscles with the knowledge of what these eminent anatomists had accomplished, we have con-, firmed their results by numerous observations, from which the account about to be given lias been principally taken. A. G. Andral, Camus, and Lacroix had announced their existence at a coticours in Paris in 1833, but do not appear to have appre- hended their real nature.