LOCOMOTION. 186 [chap. vii. once in the size of each wave, a difference in the amount of contrac- tile energy exerted in each, and a difference in the rapidity with which the waves oscillate along the fibre. The extent of the con- traction (the duration and intensity being the same) will manifestly ) depend on the amount of the length of the fibre which is contracted at once ; but we are ignorant whether this variation in amount is effected by a variety in the number of waves, or in the extent of the fibre engaged by each of them. In describing the white fibrous tissue, we remarked the facility with which its fibres are thrown into a wavy or zigzag course when their ends are brought near together. The same thing occurs in the nerves, and may be observed in almost any flexible non-elastic cord. The muscular fibre easily assumes this zigzag course, when its ends are approximated by any other force than its own contrac- tility. It may thus be at any time thrown into zigzags, long after it is quite dead, and has lost all its contractility: and, in general, such zigzags occur at pretty regular intervals, determined by the force employed and the flexibility of the tissue ; and, when several fibres are lying in contact, their zigzags usually correspond. Now, such zigzags have been frequently observed in the living fibre, of course accompanied with an approximation of its extremi- ties ; and some physiologists, mistaking the effect for the cause, have concluded the zigzags to have occasioned the shortening. Dr. Hales, and, long after him, Prevost and Dumas, examined this appearance iu the flat abdominal muscle of a frog, laid on glass, and made to contract by a galvanic shock; and, noticing that the angles of the zigzags corresponded in many places with the transit of nerves across the fibres, they concluded that an electrical current, passing from one to the other, occasioned the flexion of the fibres at the points of contact. This hypothesis, when first proposed, attracted great regard, from its appearance of simplicity, and from its falling in with the then favourite notion of the identity of the nervous influence with some form of electricity ; and without sufficient caution it was very gene- rally adopted. The facts previously stated, however, completely overthrow it, and render an explanation of the causes of the error scarcely more than historically interesting. It would appear that the galvanic shock, when passed through a mass of fibres, affects them unequally, some only being contracted by it: but these, by their cellular and vascular union with others, draw towards each other the ends of the uncontracted ones, and, of course, throw them into zigzag; and it is most natural that the passage of nerves or