301 chip. XI.] ROOTS OF THE SPINAL NERVES. lumbar, and sacral,) from which nerves are furnished to the extre- mities and the anterior part of the trunk. The first spinal nerve, called by Winslow the mboccipital, offers ail exception to this arrangement. Generally it arises by two roots, of which, however, the anterior is the larger. Sometimes it has only one root, corresponding to the anterior. The spinal nerves are arranged naturally in classes, according to the regions of the spine in which they take their rise. We number eight in the cervical region, the suboccipital included ; twelve in the dorsal region; five in the lumbar, and six in the sacral regions. All the nerves after the second pass obliquely outwards and down- wards, from their emergence from the spinal cord to their exit from the vertebral canal; and this obliquity gradually increases from the higher to the lower nerves, so that the inferior ones are nearly perpendicular, and, as their iutraspinal course is of some length, they arc collected into a leash, which constitutes the 'oauila equina. All the spinal nerves arise from the cord by separate fasciculi of filaments, which, as they approach the dura mater, converge to each other, and are united together to constitute the anterior or the jms- • terior roots. The posterior roots arise at a pretty uniform dis- ' tance from the posterior median fissure in all regions of the cord, vindicating but a very trifling change in the thickness of the pos- I terior columns throughout their entire course. Not so the anterior ones: they are farthest from the anterior median fissure in the neck, but very near it in the dorsal region; this difference being due * to the variation in the thickness of the antero-lnteral columns in the - different regions. The ganglia on the posterior roots are always 5 proportionate in size to the roots themselves. In tracing the mode of connexion of the roots of the spinal nerves : with the cord, great care is required, from the sudden change of consistence which their fascicles experience on penetrating the sub- t stance of the cord. They lose the sheath of pia mater which gave f firmness to that part which is external to the cord, and soon break up into their component fibrillae. For this reason, the speci- men employed for the dissection should be quite recent, and slightly hardened by previous immersion in spirit. The anterior roots penetrate the lateral part of the antero-lateral columns. Their fibres soon radiate, some pmssing upwards and in- wards, others horizontally inwards towards the centre of the cord, mingling, no doubt, with the elements of the vesicular matter corn- icing the anterior horn. It is a matter of uncertainty whether the