[chap. VII. LOCOMOTION. 172 caused by an active contraction excited by the stimulus of the injury. It lias been also styled tonicity. It is well exemplified in all those contracted states of muscles which follow paralysis of their antagonists, as when the features are drawn towards the healthy side in hemiplegia. The passive contraction of muscles is continu- ally opposed to their elongation by the active or passive contrac- tion of antagonists, and restores them when that subsides. By it they are accommodated to an attitude artificially given, when no muscular effort is required to maintain it. When no active con- > traction is present in a limb, the passive contraction remains ; and being brought to a state of equilibrium in all the muscles, by their mutual antagonism, the limb is said to be at rest. This is the general condition during sleep, in which the posture assumed by the limbs is determined by the relative power of antagonist muscles: the flexors overcome the extensors, and hence the limbs are bent. Active contraction is attended with those striking manifestations of power that specially characterize muscle. It is always excited by a local or partial stimulus, and is always exerted in opposition to another force within the body, which it is able more or less com- pletely to master. The opposing force is generally the passive con- traction of antagonist muscles, as well as the weight or resistance of some part upon which the muscle acts directly ; but it may be the elasticity of parts, or, in the case of hollow muscles, the resistance of their own contents. Active contractions are also frequently opposed to one another in the maintenance of a fixed posture. Active contraction is partial and interrupted, both in extent and duration. It requires intervals of rest, being attended with exhaus- tion of the power which produces it; which exhaustion, in the voluntary muscles, is attended with the sensation called muscular fatigue. The contractility of muscles, therefore, is being ever exerted, in obedience to the equable stimulus of tension, without fatigue, in the production of what we have termed passive contraction ; when it is affected by a powerful, partially-applied stimulus, active contraction results, inducing the necessity for subsequent rest. But there seems no good ground for supposing the contractile force to differ in its nature, when exhibited under these different modes of action. Stimuli to muscular contraction.—Whatever is capable of in- ducing contraction in the muscles, when either naturally or un- naturally applied to them, is termed a stimulus. In the living body, the muscular fibres are in most instances made to con-