MOTIONS or SPERMATOZOA. [ch; ap. II. 66 frog, the closed cavities of the pericardium and peritoneum. Here there arc no excretory orifices, toward which the current might set. What is the cause of ciliary motion ? We have shewn it to he independent of the blood and of the nerves, and to resist those depressing causes which usually put a stop to the action of con- | tractile tissue. It requires for its continuance three conditions: ] a perfect epithelium cell ; moisture, not of too great density ; j and a temperature within certain limits. From Schwann’s ob- 1 servations it appears that cells exhibit a power of endosmose ; j that a chemical change occurs in the fluids in contact with them; j and that a movement of their internal granules may be seen under certain circumstances. If ciliated epithelium cells exert an attrac- tion of endosmose upon the surrounding fluid, may not this physical phenomenon afford a clue to determine the cause of the movement? A very remarkable movement is manifested by certain particles found in the secretion of the testicle, which prevails most exten- sively throughout the animal series, and is even found among plants. From the regularity of these movements and their resemblance to those of minute animals, a place had been assigned by naturalists to the particles in question, in their zoological classifications, under the name “ Cercaria seminis,” Spermatozoa, or Spermatic ani- malcules, and Ehrenberg refers them to the Haustellate Entozoa. These particles consist chiefly of a long filament or tail, which is sometimes swollen at one extremity, to form the body of the sup- posed animalcule. The motions consist in a sculling action of the tail, or a slight lateral vibration of it. In many of its conditions it closely resembles ciliary motion; and its duration after death, or after the separation of the fluid, is pretty much the same as that of the ciliary movements. The particles are extremely minute, even measured in their length ; but especially so in thickness. They are, therefore, well adapted to obey those impulses which we have shewn to be capable of giving rise to molecular motions. We shall return to this curious subject again in discussing the function of generation.* * On the subjects treated of in this chapter reference is made to the following sources of information : — Rob. Brown, A Brief Account of Microscopical Ob- servations on the particles contained in the pollen of plants, and on the general existence of active molecules in organic and inorganic substances; Purkmje and Valentin, Commentatio Physiologies de phenomeno motus vibratorii continui; article Cilia, by Dr. Sharpey, in the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology; Valentin’s article Flimmer-bewegung in Wagner’s Handworterbuch der Physiologic.