chap. X.] COURSE OF THE NERVOUS POWER IN THE BRAIN. 291 which its colouring matter and its fibrine are found in small quantity, is very favourable to the effusion of fluid into the ven- tricles. It may serve, in some degree, to convey a clearer general idea of the anatomy of the brain, if, in conclusion, we explain the course which the nervous force might, and probably does follow, when developed in any particular segment of this complex organ. If we suppose the source of power to be the convolutions on either side, the nervous furee would be propagated by the fibres of the hemisphere to the vesicular matter of the corpus striatum ; from which it would pass along the fibres of the inferior layer of the crus cerebri, through the mesocephale, to the anterior pyramids of the medulla oblongata; along which it would be conveyed to the opposite half of the spinal cord, exciting the nerves which spring from that segmeut. Supposing this to be the route in which the impulse of volition is propagated to the muscles, it becomes very easy to understand why a state of paralysis must ensue, when an apoplectic clot, or other morbid deposit in any part of the course above described, compresses or ruptures the fibres, or when a state of softening destroys their vital powers, or causes a solu- tion of their continuity. If the sent of disease be in the white matter, the channels along which the nervous power travels will be interrupted ; if it be in the gray matter, the sources of nervous power are impaired. In all eases the extent of the paralysis will be proportioned to that of the lesion, and for the most obvious reasons. If the cerebellum be the source of power, the nervous force will travel from either hemisphere along the fibres of the crus, and by those of the restiform body to the .spinal cord, and from the conti- nuity of the former with the posterior column of the latter it is probable that this column would be more immediately excited. So little is known of the precise channels through which im- pressions created at the periphery are propagated in the central organ, that we can hardly do more than speculate on the subject. W e may, however, fairly conclude, that those segments with which nerves admitted to be sensitive are in close connexion, must 1k> instrumental in the propagation of the nervous power, when excited by sensitive impressions ; and hence we are led to nssign to the olivary columns of the medulla oblongata, and their continuations in the mesocephale, with the optic tubercles and the thalami, a con- siderable share in this office, inasmuch as the auditory, the fifth, and the optic nerves, arc intimately connected with them. And admit-