359 chap, xi.] FUNCTIONS OF T1IE CEREBELLUM. riment than them. A skilful operator may remove the greater part or the whole of the cerebellum without inflicting auy injury on the hemispheres or other parts. Floureus removed the cerebellum from pigeons by successive slices. During the removal of the superficial layers there appeared only a slight feebleness and want of harmony in the movements, without any expression of pain. On reaching the middle layers an almost universal agitation was manifested, without any sign of convulsion: the animal performed rapid and ill-regulated movements; it could hear and see. After the removal of the deepest layers, the animal lost completely the power of standing, walking, leaping, or flying. The power had been injured by the previous mutilations, but now it was completely gone. When placed upon his back, he was unable to rise. He did not, however, remain quiet and motionless, as pigeons deprived of the cerebral hemispheres do; but evinced an incessant restlessness, and an inability to accomplish any regular or definite movement. He could see the instrument raised to threaten him with a blow, and would make a thousand contortions to avoid it, but did not escape. Volition and sensation remained; the power of executing movements remained ; but that of coordinating these movements into regular aud combined actions was lost. Animals deprived of the cerebellum are in a condition very similar to that of a drunken man, so far as relates to their power of loco- motion. They are unable to produce that combination of action in different sets of muscles which is necessary to enable them to assume or maintain any attitudes. They cannot stand still for a moment; and, in attempting to walk, their gait is unsteady, they totter from side to side, and their progress is interrupted by frequent falls. The fruitless attempts which they make to stand or walk is suffi- cient proof that a certain degree of intelligence remains, aud that voluntary power continues to be enjoyed. Rolando had, previously to Flourens, observed effects of a similar nature consequent upon mutilation of the cerebellum. In none of his experiments was sensibility affected. The animal could see, but was unable to execute any of the movements necessary for locomotion. Flourens’ experiments have been confirmed by those of Hertwig in every particular, and they have been lately repeated with similar results by Budge and by Louget. The removal of part of the cere- bellum appears capable of producing the same vertiginous affection which has been already noticed in the case of deep injuries to the ixiesoccphale. After the well-know n experiments of Mageudie, of