442 . V INNERVATION. [chap. XV. '?< * ing : in those of taste, the epithelium is permeated by the special excitant of the nerves ; while the intestinal villi are still more elabo- rately and exclusively organized for absorption. Another class of papillae might be here spoken of in conjunction with those of taste, as will be seen at a future page. On the precise scat of Taste Authors differ considerably on this subject: some limit it to the hinder part of the tongue, about the root and sides ; some extend it more or less over the whole dorsal aspect and to the tip; others describe it as existing also on the soft palate; while Magendie is of opinion that the pharynx, gums, and teeth are likewise possessed of it. This contrariety, while it shews the difficulty of the subject, may be in some measure explained by the indefiniteness of tastes when faintly perceived by small portions of the surface, by the influence on taste of the commonly associated senses of touch and smell, by some diversities really existing in dif- ferent individuals, and by the ambiguity necessarily attending expe- riments on special sensation among the lower animals. As the subject is interesting in its bearing on the question of the nerves of taste, we shall here briefly consider it. Touch, as it exists in the tongue and other highly endowed parts, discovers to us not merely the presence and physical properties of bodies, but their actual position: we recognize the situation of the impression in reference to the whole organ, by virtue of a power common in a greater or less degree to all sensitive nerves (p. 403). Every one who has attended to the effect of sapid substances applied to small separate parts of the tongue must feel that a similar capacity of assigning the position of flavours accompanies the sensation of taste; and on this power in the nerves of taste, aided, as is usually the case, by the nerves of touch, we greatly rely for the determina- tion of the question before us. In the first place, all allow that acute taste resides at the base of the tongue, over a region, of which the circumvallate papillae may be taken as the centre, and also on the sides near the base. These parts are supplied solely by the glossal twigs of the glosso-pharyngeal nerves. Secondly, some writers, among whom are Valentin and Wagner, believe the middle and anterior parts of the dorsum of the tongue to be usually incapable of appreciating flavours ; while numerous others hold the contrary opinion, with which our own careful and repeated experiments, on other persons as well as ourselves, quite accord. Sour, sweet, and bitter substances applied to the sides, and espe- cially to the tip, of the protruded tongue, we find to be at once