UP. I.] DEVELOPEMENT OF THE TISSUES FROM CELLS. 49 uade out. The germinal vesicle and spot become the seat of series of changes, which give rise to the developement of new ells, for the formation of the embryo. At this period the embryo consists of an aggregate of cells, and -s further growth takes place by the developement of new ones, his may be accomplished in two ways: first, by the developement ’ new cells within the old, through the subdivision of the nucleus kto two or more segments, and the formation of a cell around i tch, which then becomes the nucleus of a new cell, aud may in its ini be the parent of other nuclei; and, secondly, by the formation i' a granular deposit between the cells, in which the developement [’ the new cells takes place. The granules cohere to each other in f pa rate groups here and there, to form nuclei, and around each of yese a delicate membrane is formed, which is the cell-membrane, he nuclei have been named cylohlatts, because.they appear to form ye cells (xvrog, cell; (iXuaTe^, to produce) ; and the granular de- wit iu which these changes take place is called the cytoblastumn. In every part of the embryo the formation of nuclei and of cells !>es on in one or both of the ways above-mentioned; and, by and iv, ulterior changes take place, for the production of the ele- mentary parts of the tissues. The precise share which the cells | ke in this process cannot be made intelligible in the present stage our inquiry, even if observers were agreed in their accounts of >«e phenomena. It must suffice for us now to explain, as far as •e are able, the general changes that occur, aud the probable Sice which each part of the cell performs in them. ’The changes which the cells undergo in the formation of the ■ssues, may be described under two heads: first, those affecting I e cell-membrane ; and, secondly, those in which the nucleus is trneerned. In those tissues, whose ultimate elements are fibrous, at is, consisting of real or apparent fibres, as areolar and fibrous Issues, the cell-membranes become elongated, and so folded or j> vided as to give the appearance of a subdivision into minute is reads or fibres. In the tissues, which are composed of tubes of innogeneous membrane containing a peculiar substance within cm, as muscle and nerve, the cells are joined end to end, and, the .rtitions at each extremity being removed, their cavities com- ! unicate, so that they together form a tube, or sheath, in which | e deposit of the proper muscular or nervous substance takes 1 be smallest or capillary blood-vessels also are formed by l e coalescence ol the walls of the cells, not at one or two, but several points, owing to their elongation, here and there, into