CHAP. VIII.] 219 ANASTOMOSES OF NERVES. 'According to Krononberg, this kind of interchange is more frequent in some nerves than in others; and it is stated by this author that in the external cutaneous nerve of the arm he found some bundles, which passed through a distance of six inches without uniting with ;neighbouring ones. By another form of anastomosis nervous loops or arches are formed, the convexities of which are directed towards the periphery, and give off filaments to the neighbouring parts. The well-known anastomosis between the ninth or hypoglossal nerve, and the cervical plexus, in front of the carotid artery, may be quoted as a good example. Certain fibres, which come from the medulla oblongata as part of the ninth nerve, leave that nerve as it crosses over the carotid artery, pass down in front of the artery, and apply themselves to a 'descending branch of the cervical plexus, forming in front of the carotid artery and jugular vein an arch with the concavity directed upwards, several nerves passing from the convexity to neighbouring muscles. Some of the filaments which are given off from this arch, tare derived from the ninth nerve, and others from the cervical -plexus; whilst others seem to form a complete arch, and to be equally connected with both nerves; and, if we trace these latter fibres from the ninth nerve, we find them passing upwards and back wart Is into the descending branch of the cervical plexus, and so returning to the spinal cord. The nervous loop, thus formed, must evidently establish a communication between the cervical •region of the spinal cord and that portion of the medulla oblongata rwh ence the ninth nerve appears to derive its origin. Similar nervous loops, leaving the nervous centre as a constituent of one nerve, and returning to it at some distance in company with a different nerve, are found in various parts of the nervous system. The commissural fibres of the optic tracts may be quoted as an example. These fibres leave the centre by one tract, and return to it by the other. It is probably owing to an anastomosis of this kind, between the posterior and anterior roots of the spinal nerves, that the latter enjoy a slight degree of sensibility. Other instances ot a similar kind have been described by Volkmann. In the calf he found an anastomosis between the fourth pair of nerves and 'the first branch of the fifth pair, forming an arch, from the convexity °» which several branches passed off in the peripheral direction. By far the greater part of these, on microscopic examination, ap- peared to receive their fibres from the fourth ; while those fibres of the fifth, which contributed to the formation of the arch, passed centripetally to the brain, bound up in the sheath of the fourth