INTROD. ORGANIZED BODIES. [ G ed sulphate of soda, this view supposes that the soda yields its oxygen to the sulphuric acid, and that a compound is formed of sulphuric acid, plus an additional equivalent of oxygen, which may he represented by S04, and has been called by Professor Daniell oxysulphion. The compound radicle thus formed unites with the metal sodium, and the resultant salt should be called oxysulphion of sodium. This view, then, it is evident, would lead us to regard Glauber’s salts as a binary compound, instead of a ternary one under the first theory; just as chloride of sodium is a binary compound, the compound radicle, oxysulphion, and the simple one, chlorine, standing in the same relation to the metal sodium. This latter theory, of the binary constitution of salts hitherto regarded as oxygen salts, is of great interest in reference to the composition of organic substances, as w ill appear in a future para- graph. It has been supported by Professor Graham, and subse- quently by Professor Daniell, whose opinion has been grounded on the phenomena of electrical decompositions. Organized bodies are capable of being resolved, by chemical analysis, into the inorganic simple elements; but the list of simple substances which may be obtained from this source comprises only about seventeen. Of the four widely spread elements, oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, and carbon, two, at least, will be found in every organic compound ; hence, as Dr. Prout has suggested, these four may be conveniently distinguished as the essential elements of organic matter. The other simple substances are found in smaller quantities, and are less extensively diffused; these may be termed its incidental ele- ments. They are sulphur, phosphorus, chlorine, sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, silicon, aluminum, iron, manganese, iodine, and bromine; the last two are obtained almost exclusively from marine plants and animals. Between these elementary substances, and the organized animal or vegetable texture, there intervenes a class of compounds, called proximate principles, or organic compounds, or organizable substances. These may be obtained in the first stage of the chemical analysis of various animal or vegetable tissues. From the organized struc- ture, called muscle, for example, we obtain by analysis, first, f brine, a proximate principle, which is its chief constituent; and, subse- quently, by the analysis of fibrine, we get the simple elements, oxygen, hydrogen, carbon, nitrogen, and sulphur, in certain pro- portions. On the other hand, by synthesis, the combination of cer- tain inorganic elements (which hitherto has been effected only in