181 (HA I*. V MUSCULAR ACTION. Fig. 50. widened and distorted. These contractions are never stationary, but oscillate from end to end, relinquishing on the one hand what they gain on the other. When they are numerous along the same margin, they interfere most irregularly with one another, dragging one another as though striving for the mastery, the larger ones con- • tinuallyovercoming the smaller; ' then subsiding as though spent, a stretched again by new spots of contraction ; and again, after a short period of repose, engaged I in their turn by some advancing vwave: this is the first stage of the phenomenon (fig. 50). At a subsequent stage, the — _ am Boeder of an ritaentiry fibre of a young Crmb, whew- : l*nuX ot the hbre commouly fug* apt* of contraction, and the aarcoleiuma elevated _ n t • * in the form of hullo* by the expressed water. — cease to be fixed, in conse- Magnified mo diameter*, iquence of the intermediate portions, by their contraction, receiving some of the pressure of the glass. The contractions, therefore, in- v creasing in number and extent, gradually engage the whole sub- stance of the fibre, which then is reduced to at least one-third of its original length. The muscular tissue in these animals is comparatively tough ; * hut, where it is more fragile, as in the pog, it may give way in the intervals ibetween spots of contraction, and be- come ruptured and disorganized in va- rious degrees.* In fishes we have seen a succession of phenomena similar to what has been described in the crab ; waves of contraction advancing and re- ceding, but gradually augmenting in hulk, till the whole fibre was finally contracted (fig. 51). In all these examples, as long as the ends of the fragment are fixed, and will not yield to the convellent force, that force is seen to he exerted in a sueemi™-»»»«’• ofcoLtnu-- momentary manner in successive por- tionsof the mass. In proportion as they yield to it, the resistance which enabled ' IT*' s.nniar «tui men* the contraction of new parts to stretch m,re' but cng^ng lU wh"‘c * Phil. Trans. 1840, j>. 400, pi. xix. fiff. 75. Stagea of contraction »ecn on one oc- ruiou in an elementary (litre of the Skate. The uppermewt atate i» that pre- vioua to the commencement of active con- traction.