FIBRINE.—CASEINE. 38 CHAP. I. great part of which is colourless, from the cavities of the heart, and from the large arteries, after death. It is also accumulated, and disposed in a peculiar lamellar form, in the sacs of old aneurisms. Pure fibrine is white, tasteless, and inodorous; it tears into thin laminae, which are transparent, and it is remarkably elastic; by drying, it becomes yellow, hard, and brittle, and loses three fourths of its weight, but imbibes water again when moistened: ' it is insoluble in both hot and cold water, in alcohol, and in ether. By long-continued boiling in water, its composition is changed, and it becomes soluble. Strong acetic acid converts it into a jelly-like mass, which is sparingly soluble in water. All the alkalies dis- solve fibrine. Any of these solvents of fibrine will prevent the coagulation of blood, which has been allowed to drop into it as it flows from the blood-vessels. Fibrine is dissolved by cold concentrated muriatic acid, and, if kept at a cool temperature for twenty-four hours, the solution ac- j quires an indigo-blue colour. Albumen, similarly treated, assumes i a violet colour. Caustic potash, common salt, carbonate of potash, and many neutral salts, when mixed in certain quantities with the blood, have the property of preventing the coagulation of its fibrine.* AVe subjoin the ultimate analysis of fibrine, as given by Mulder, i In one hundred parts, he found Nitrogen Carbon . Hydrogen Oxygen . Phosphorus . Sulphur . 15-72 54-5G 6-90 22-13 033 036 100-00 3. Caseine.—This principle has many properties in common with albumen and fibrine. Tt is found abundantly in milk; its occur- rence in other fluids has not been positively determined. The curd, which is formed by heating milk in which a free acid existed, ; consists of a combination of caseine with the acid. Heat alone I will not effect the precipitation of the curd; but the addition of I a little acid of any kind will occasion it. When dilute sulphuric acid is added to skimmed milk, a precipi- | * Sec further observations on the results of the examination of fibrine by the i microscope, in the chapter on the Blood.