179 MUSCULAR ACTION. j CUAP. VII.] | Of the differences between the minute movements of Muscle in passive and active contraction. In passive contraction.—It is perhaps impossible in the higher ianimals to observe the nature of the microscopic movements occur- ring in muscle in its ordinary state or during its passive shortening; -hut, in the lower and smaller forms of life, this may sometimes be ac- complished. It may always appear doubtful, however, whether any contraction that may be here witnessed Ik* entirely ol the passive kind, and consequently the movements here noticed are not worthy [ of implicit reliance. But it is more easy, and quite as satisfactory, ,to bring a muscle under inspection, which is still in situ and in I equilibrium with its antagonists : in such, contractile force is being still exerted, though its full effects are prevented from taking place. This may he done in various small animals : perhaps the tail of small fish, or of the tadpole of the common frog, is the best adapted i for the purpose. In the latter, deprived of its integument, we have obtained such a view, and have found the contraction to be quite i uniform throughout, the transverse stripes being stationary and I equidistant. This is nothing more than might have been expected [on d priori grounds. The contraction, being the effect of the pas- sive exercise of the property shared equally by all parts of the i tissue, would be equal in equal masses; and, as the elementary fibres are of precisely equal width and substance from end to end, no part of them could predominate in action as long as only the equable stimulus coincident with their natural state of tension were applied, ft may be concluded, therefore, that passive contraction is attended by a movement absolutely uniform throughout the whole mass ot an elementary fibre, or of a muscle. In active contraction, the case is far otherwise, as may now be considered proved by a considerable body of evidence. It might be argued, prior to direct proof, that active contraction must be partial, at least at its commencement; because the stimuli which occasion it cannot, in their very nature, be applied to every particle of the fibre at one and the same instant of time. Certain features of the phenomena witnessed under the micro- scope in fragments removed from the body, and contracting in water, have a close bearing on the present question. It has been already said, that such contractions are uniformly partial; but they present two further varieties, either remaining in the part where they first occur, or leaving it as they advance to others in the