99 'MAP. V.] BONE. f .abundant, as well as perhaps defective in quality, are more brittle :han young ones, and old persons are more liable to fractures. But in the young, in whom the organic processes are active, and i .t hose animal matter is fully adequate in quantity and quality to the (wants of the system, the bones possess their due degree of flexibi- ity, and hence in them fractures are less frequent; the cohesive bree of the bones being sometimes so considerable, that they will f oend to a great degree l>efore yielding. The following table from Schreger illustrates the relative pro- poortions of the two constituents, at three periods of life, in 100 parts of bone : Child. Adult. Old. Animal matter • 47-20 . 20-18 . 12-2 Earthv matter , 48-48 . 74-84 • 841 or it may be stated in general terms, that in the child the earthy t matter forms nearly one half the weight of the bone, in the adult 1st is equal to four fifths, and in the old subject to seven eighths ; conclusion agreeing in the main with that drawn from the ana- lyses of Davy, Bostock. Hatchett, and others. It had long been known that certain bones of the body contained tthese constituents in other proportions than those named ; for (example, the petrous portion of the temporal bone had been shewn by Davy to owe its stony hardness to a large proportion of earthy matter. But Dr. (I. 0. Bees has lately pointed out some inter- 'esting particulars as to the relative proportions of these elements in the composition of different bones. The long bones of the extremities have, according to Dr. Bees’ analysis, more earthy matter than the bones of the trunk. The bones of the upper extremity have a larger proportion of the same material than those of the corresponding bones in the lower; the humerus has more than the radius and ulna ; the femur more than the tibia and fibula ; while the bones of the fore-arm, as well as those of the leg, are respectively alike in constitution. The ver- tebra*, ribs, and clavicles are similarly constituted. The ilium has more earthy matter than the scapula or sternum ; the bones of the head have more of this material than those of the trunk. In the foetus the same law prevails as regards the relative quan- tity of the earthy matter, excepting that the long bones, and the cranial bones, do not contain the excess of earthy matter which characterizes them in the adult. 1 he diseased state, called Rickets, so common in the children of scrofulous parents, and in the ill-nourished ones of the lower orders,