[chap. III. 86 LOCOMOTION. beer, &c. Liebig states, that, by the separation of a small propor- tion of oxygen, any of these substances will present a composition similar to that of fat, and that an equivalent of starch may be changed into one of fat, by giving up one equivalent of carbonic acid, and seven equivalents of oxygen. If, then, the system be imperfectly supplied with oxygen, while organic compounds containing carbon are furnished to it in con- siderable quantity, the most favourable conditions will exist for the developement of fat. The oxygen required will be abs- tracted from the carbonised food, which, by that diminution of oxygen, will be changed into a fat. On the other hand, ex- ercise and labour, which increase the supply of oxygen, dimi- nish or prevent the formation of fat. “ The production of fat,” says Liebig, “ is always a consequence of a deficient supply of oxygen, for oxygen is absolutely indispensable for the dissipa- tion of the excess of carbon in the food. This excess of carbon, deposited in the form of fat, is never seen in the Bedouin or in the Arab of the Desert, who exhibits with pride to the traveller his lean, muscular, sinewy limbs altogether free from fat: but in prisons and jails it appears as a puffiness in the inmates, fed, as they are, on a poor and scanty diet; it appears in the sedentary females of oriental countries ; and, finally, it is produced under the well-known conditions of the fattening of domestic animals.”* A good illustration of these views is afforded by the carnivorous animals. In the wild state, living entirely on azotised food, and enjoying abundance of air and exercise, they are lean ; but, when domesticated, living on a mixed diet, devouring a highly carbo-. naceous food, taking little exercise, and being imperfectly supplied with oxygen, they grow fat. In animals that hybernate, fat is deposited in enormous quantity just prior to the hybernating period, and during that time it gradually disappears, supplying nutriment to the system, and car-1 bon for the respiratory process. These facts were clearly ascer-» tained, in hedgehogs, by the celebrated Dr. Jenner. Liebig supposes that the formation of fat is attended with the • developement of heat, for the oxygen disengaged in this process® unites with carbon derived from the same or a different source, and an amount of heat is generated proportionate to the quantity of carbonic acid thus formed. But it may be fairly questioned, whe- ther the temperature of the body is thereby elevated, since the Liebig’s Organic Chemistry of Physiology.