[chap. V. LOCOMOTION. 122 the increase in their dimensions, occasioning that separation of their nuclei, already described (p. 118, and fig. 30, 6*)- In the long bones this takes place chiefly in the longitudinal direction, which is that in which growth is most active; and it continues till adult age. This fact has been long ascertained, though its real purpose appears to have been overlooked. Hales and Hunter both inserted metallic sub- stances along the shaft of a growing bone, in a young animal, at a certain distance apart; and found, after an interval of time, that the distance between them remained the same, or nearly so, while the extremities of the bone were much further apart: thus proving that the principal growth had taken place near the extremities. Secondly, bones increase in dimension by an accession of new osseous substance on their exterior ; this new substance consisting not merely of new laminae, but of new systems of laminae, and of new involutions of the vascular surface to form new Haversian canals, so that the earlier systems of laminae are covered over by ^ I the more recent ones. This has been best proved by the experi- ments with madder. It was ascertained accidentally by Belchier that the rubia tinc- torum, or madder, mixed with the food of pigs, imparted its red colour to their bones; and this circumstance has been ingeniously taken advantage of by several physiologists in the prosecution of researches on the growth of bone.* Duhamel, Hunter, and many others, have performed multiplied experiments of this kind. In the Museum of King’s College are some good preparations of bones so acted upon. It is found that, in very young animals, a single day suffices to colour the entire skeleton, apparently in an uniform manner: in these there is no osseous material far from the vascular surface. But, if we make a transverse section of one of the long bones so treated, we observe the deepest, or even the only colour, to be really on the vascular surface; the Haversian canals are each ’ The colouring of bone by madder results from an affinity of the colouring prin- eiple for tbe phosphate of lime. This opinion was distinctly broached by Haller ; (El. Phys. t. viii. p. 329), and it was subsequently proved by Rutherford, who shewed ; it experimentally. To an infusion of madder in distilled water add muriate of lime : } no change takes place. Then add phosphate of soda in solution. By double elec- J tive affinity, phosphate of lime and muriate of soda are formed. The phosphate is insoluble, and subsides in union with the colouring matter as a crimson lake. ^ When madder is given as food, its colouring principle is absorbed, and circulates ; with the blood ; and it colours first that part of the bone which is in course of forma- tion from that fluid, or which has been last formed, i. e. which is nearest the vascu- . lar surface.