chap, ix.] ENDOWMENTS OF NERYE-FIBRES. 231 is induced in the particles of the nerve by the action of the stimulus, which is capable of exciting an analogous cliauge in other particles, whether muscular or nervous; whence results the pecu- liar effect of the nerve’s influence. Thus, if a nerve be distributed among muscular fibres in the manner described at a former page, it will be capable of exciting muscular contraction, and is properly a muscular or motor nerve ; ami it is so connected, at its origin, with the nervous centre, that a change there, whether induced by mental or by physical influence, may be readily communicated to it. When a nerve is distributed upon an expanded surface, as upon the skin or mucous membrane, or is otherwise favourably disposed for the reception of any physical stimulus from without, it will propagate the change induced by such stimulus to the nervous centre ; and this change in the centre may produce an impression upon the mind, giving rise to a sensation ; or it may affect a motor nerve connected with the excited one or arising from the nervous centre adjacent to it, and thus may in- directly excite muscular movement. When a nerve is capable of acting in the former way, it is called a nerve of sensation, or sensi- tive ; when in the latter, it is an excitor of a motor nerve. It is not necessary to suppose any intrinsic difference of structure in the nerves which are thus capable of producing effects so mani- festly different. The action of a nerve depends upon the nature of its central and peripheral connexions. It cannot be motor, unless it be intimately connected with muscles; nor sentient, if its relation to the nervous centre be not such as will enable it to affect the sen- sorium commune. The terms efferent and afferent arc only so far applicable to certain nerves, as they refer to the direction in which such nerves appear to propagate the change produced in them, or to the position at which the effects of the stimulation become manifest, that direction having reference to the point at which the stimulus is destined to act. In a motor nerve, the ordinary stimu- lus acts from the nervous centre; but a mechanical or electrical stimulus affecting such a nerve at any part of its course will cause contraction of the muscles supplied by it below the point of irritation. In the sensitive or excitor nerves, the usual situation from which the stimulus acts is at their peripheral distribution; but at whatever point a sentient nerve be stimulated, a sensation will be produced, which will be referred to those parts, and to those only, to which the fibres irritated are distributed ; and, wher- ever the stimulus be applied to an excitor nerve, it will, with equal effect, rouse its corresponding motor nerve to action. There