245 en.u\ ix.] ANIMAL ELECTRICITY ANI) LUMINOUS NESS. the organ which causes the developement or discharge of electricity, jl but no traces of an electrical current can be detected in the nerves |t themselves. If the nerves of an electrical organ be cut, irritation of i those segments of them which adhere to the organ will excite dis- i charges, .just as the irritation of muscular nerves under similar ■ circumstances will cause contractions; or direct irritation of por- tious of the organ itself will produce discharges (Matteucci). Any [ general excitation of the nervous system will cause discharges; thus strychnine, while it throws the muscular system into spasms, | provokes frequent and violent discharges of the electrical organs. From these observations it seems impossible to adopt any other ; conclusion than that tin* electrical organ is the generator of the elec- tricitv ; or, at least, that it may collect and accumulate the eleetri- | city generated all over the body in the ordinary nutritive processes, i This latter opinion, however, is rendered unlikely from the imper- \ feet conducting power of animal substances, unless further research should develops some channels bv which electricity generated at a distance might be conveyed to the electrical organ. Whatever view ; of the case be adopted, it is difficult to discover in the facts above stated respecting the electrical fishes any support to the electrical theory of nervous power. On the contrary, the very existence of a peculiar organ for the specific purpose of generating electricity would appear adverse to such a doctrine. Were the nervous cen- f tres the source of electricity, surely an arrangement, of a less corn- s plex character, and deviating to a less extent from the natural [ structure of other fishes of the same genus, would have sufficed for the manifestation of the peculiar power of the electrical fishes. Some insects (the glow-worm for instance), and other creatures, possess the faculty of generating light. The power resides in a particular organ, and is regulated by the nervous system. It is [ strikingly analogous to that by which electricity is developed. Vet no one would assign the nervous system as the source of the luminous emission. Nor are we justified in affirming from the one = instance that the nervous power is electricity, any more than we ■ should, from the other, be authorized in asserting that the nervous power is light.* * On the subject* discussed in this chapter, reference is made to Mailer’s Phv- * wnlogy by Holy ; Donicll’s Chemistry ; the articles “ Animal Electricity ” mid “ Animal Lutninousness,” in the Cyclop. Anat. et Physiol. ; Matteucci, Traite * dog Phtfnumenes Electruphyskdogiques des Animaux.