60 MOLECULAR MOTION. [chap. ii. parently irregular and oscillating. Those of the former kind are familiarly known in the vegetable kingdom by the Cyclosis which takes place in the oblong cells of’ Chara; the granules, which may be seen in motion, are quite passive and are carried along by currents within the cell. Motions of the latter kind have been seen by Schwann among the granules contained in the cells of the germinal membrane of the hen’s egg, as if occasioned by an en- dosmotic current through the wall of the cell. This membrane is the seat of active change, the developement and growth of new cells, destined for the evolution of the textures of the embryo ; and they derive their nutriment from the yolk, on the surface of which they lie. Here the contained particles are passive, and the motion in them is only the index of the currents which give rise to it. A molecular motion of the same kind may be seen in the very minute granules, which occupy the cells of the membrane of black pigment on the choroid coat of the eye. Whether this go on during life, it is of course impossible to say, but the conditions for its production are undoubtedly present. In the blood may be seen another ex- ample of the kind of motion under consideration. The circulation of this fluid may be readily followed in transparent parts; and certain particles, the blood-discs, which float in it in great numbers, exhibit movements which can scarcely be attributed solely to the current of the circulating fluid. It is probable that secondary currents may be established in the blood, or that attractions and repulsions may exist between the particles themselves, or between them and the walls of the blood-vessels giving rise to these motions. According to some observers, the blood-discs undergo actual changes of shape, becoming now swollen, and now flattened ; and this might be attributed to the alternate predominance of endosmose or exosmose. Hut the statement, that they possess an inherent power of contraction of their own, stands greatly in need of con- firmation. Organic molecular motion occurs in nearly all the internal pro- cesses. The introduction of new matter from without into the blood ; the removal of effete particles by a process of absorption ; the transfer of nutrient matter from the blood to supply the place of the particles thus removed ; the separation of organic compounds in glands, cannot take place without a movement of molecules in the textures concerned in these processes. We are as much at liberty to infer, that these motions are produced by certain affinities of the particles of’ the tissues, as that chemical action is the result of affinities between certain forms of matter. These motions of the