370 INNERVATION. chap. xi. In many instances, where pain has been excited by a physical cause, there can be no doubt it has been continued long after the cessation of its exciting cause, by the attention of the patient having been di- rected to it. It is probable, that in such cases the perceiving parts of the brain (so to speak) become habituated to a certain condition of the centre of sensation, jwoduced by the original ex- citing cause of the pain. Nerves are implanted only in those parts of the encephalon which are capable of physical nervous actions : the convolutions of the brain, the corpus striatum, the optic thalamus, and the cerebellum, are capable only of mental nervous actions. In every change of these latter, the mind is either the excitor or excited; the con- ditions of the nerves involve them only through the influence of the centres in which the nerves are implanted; and they affect the nerves only through the same medium. Matteucci’s experi- ments as to the effects of electricity on the different parts of the brain, shewed that, as long as the current was confined to those parts which are capable only of mental actions, no apparent effect was produced. But when the poles of the battery had penetrated to the base of the brain so that the current might pass through the deeper seated parts, then the animal cried out with pain, and strong convulsions were produced. Those parts in which physical nervous actions take place, (al- though capable of partaking in the mental actions,) require the ex- citation of physical stimuli in order to develope their peculiar phe- nomena, and thus have frequent remissions in the active performance of their functions in the frequent absence of the ordinary stimuli. But the ever-active mind keeps up a constant and proportionally rapid train of changes in those parts which are more especially connected with mental actions: hence these parts, requiring repose, fall at certain periods into that peculiar and inscrutable state called sleep); in which, whatever be the condition of the mind itself, the brain either refuses, or is slow to respond to its stimulation, or to convey im- pressions to it. In deep sleep we are completely unconscious, and may remain for a considerable time motionless. But, as the ac- customed period of repose approaches to its termination, the sleep becomes lighter, a degree of consciousness returns, and mental changes take place, which, whether incoherent or connected, con- stitute what are familiarly known as dreams. In lighter sleep, it cannot be said that there is complete want of consciousness ; nor is the mind, although comparatively quiescent, in complete repose. The readiness with which, at times, some persons, during sleep,