154 [chap. Yll. LOCOMOTION. the fibre in syrup. Hut the point of greatest interest is as to the nature of the markings on the individual fibrill* or discs. It is unsafe to come to a conclusion on this question from any appearances seen on the entire fibre; for it is clear that the relative position of the particles may he very easily deranged, and their regularity broken, by the slightest injury to the mass. Two appearances commonly present themselves in examining the striped fibres : in some parts the cross stripes are perfectly rectilinear, or, if curvilinear, parallel in their course ; in other parts, these stripes do not extend across the fibre, but are more or less interrupted, forming zigzags and enclosing spaces of a great variety of shape and size, in concert with the longitudinal stripes. In such specimens we see the semblance of spirals in almost infinite number and variety. The former of these appearances is most seen in large fibres, and where great care has been used not to drag the tissue ; the latter under the reverse circumstances. The former seems on a primd facie view an unmutilated, the latter a deranged condition ; and they may be proved to be so by a further examination. For this purpose we should make choice of a fresh fibre which is prone to separate into its individual fibrilke, and which exhibits' their outline in the greatest distinctness and beauty.* If fibrilke entirely isolated be now inspected, they will be found to present alternate light and dark points, when the part is a little out of focus. The light points are the centres of highly refracting par- ticles, acting as lenses ; the dark points, the intervals between them (fig. 37, c"). If now the focus be carefully adjusted, and the achromatic condenser be employed for the purpose of defining the outline with the utmost precision, each dark interspace between the refracting points will be found to be reduced to two very slender straight lines, crossing the fibrilla in a perfectly transverse direction, and giving the light spaces, as now seen, a rectangular figure (fig. 37, c). Now, it is absolutely certain that no spiral arrangement could produce, or even co-exist with, these unequivocal appearances; but it is not difficult to comprehend how a derangement of the lateral parallelism of these refracting particles should produce an appear- ance of spirals in the fibre, or how two fibrilke running together, but with their particles slightly deranged, should wear the same very deceptive aspect. * The fibres of fishes will generally prove better tlmn those of mammalia, be- cause they usually cleave into fibrilke having very sharp and clear outlines ; and those of the salmon, for example, will seldom fail to do so.