G7 CHAPTER III. -OCOMOTION. PASSIVE AM) ACTIVE Oil' i V VS OF LOCOMOTION. FIBROUS TISSUE, WHITE AND YELLOW. AREOLAR TISSUE. ADIPOSE TISSUE AND FAT. Locomotion is that function by which an animal is able to trans- port itself from place to place. It is enjoyed exclusively bv nimals; there being nothing analogous to it in the vegetable ingdom. Ibit even, among animals, there are exceptions to the existence if this function. Many of them are fixed in their places through- nt their lives; others enjoy the power of locomotion for a short ceriod, but subsequently become fixed; others, again, begin life vxfed to one place, and are at length set free. The power of maintaining the body in certain positions, must be deluded in the faculty of locomotion, for the organs that are used »r one, are also employed for the other ; and, the more difficult it be > accomplish the former, the more complicated will be the mecha- Hsm of the locomotive acts. In a large quadruped,—the horse, for ■sample,—standing is effected with a trifling expenditure of muscular *>ree, because the animal’s body is maintained on four pillars of jpport, which resist the attraction of gravity acting upon it. Han has to maintain the erect attitude, and to counteract by mus- dar action the tendency of his body to gravitate forwards. The eehanieal adjustments of his frame are less favourable to preserve • ic standing posture than in the four-footed animal. Hence, in man, ve mechanism of locomotion is more complicated, both as regards •e power of preserving certain attitudes, and that of moving from ie place to another. The organs employed in locomotion are of two kinds, the passive, id the active. The former consist of all those textures which form ie skeleton, and by which its segments are united. The latter are ie muscles, to which the nerves convey the mandates of the will. will he necessary to examine in detail the following textures nong the passive organs of locomotion :—1. Fibrous tissue, as nding together the various segments of the skeleton, and connect- r 2