TACTILE PAPILLA. 411 . XIV.] CH A I* p»|ull» ofthf palm, theruticlr bOn* there is good reason to suppose it formed of an unbroken expansion of the homoge- neous basement membrane already spoken of. Within this it is difficult to distin- guish any special tissue, except by artificial modes of preparation. A fibrous struc- ture, however, is apparent, having a more or less vertical arrangement: and with the Jct“br<1-—31 help of solution of potass, filaments of extreme delicacy, which seem to be of the elastic kiud, are generally discoverable in it. Injec- tion of the blood-vessels demonstrates the existence of a small arterial twig derived from the arterial plexus of the cutis, entering at the base, advancing up the interior of the papilla, and sub- dividing into two or more capillary vessels, according to the size of the particular organ. These, after forming small loops, reunite either at the base of the papilla, or in the subjacent texture, into small veins, which empty their blood into the venous plexus of the cutis. The capillaries of the smaller pa- ng.n. pillte frequently join with those of the fat- vesicles that lie beneath. The vascularity of the papillas is such, that their presence and relative size may be determined simply by the depth of the colour imparted to a portion of skin by a good injection of its vessels. The vascularity of the integument is, therefore, in general terms, proportioned to its perfection as an organ of touch. VrwU of |)m^, fromlhe heel, Since the discovery of the papilla; as £ the sentient organs, the existence of di",u:trr,• nerves within them has been usually taken for granted, or they have been loosely styled expansions of the nerves ; and to the general truth of such statements we may readily assent. But we have reason to doubt the accuracy of some recent writers, who have professed to give minute details of the mode of termination of the nervous tubules in the papilla;. The subject is difficult of investigation. According to Ernst Burdacb * and others, the nerves are arranged in a plexiform manner under the skin of the frog, and loops are formed by the union of tubules from neighbour- ing branches. On examination we find this description correct as far as it goes, but that it does not carry us to the papillary struc- ture. 1 he plexus in question is situated underneath an expansion of fibres croKsing each other at right angles, which is itself placed * Reitrag zur Mikroekop. Anat. der Nerven ; Konigab. 18.17. K E 2