[chap. vii. 200 LOCOMOTION. In the early periods of life the will is exercised in tutoring its corporeal instruments to give prompt and ready obedience to its commands ; every day new lessons are acquired, and old ones con- firmed ; and, having at length a practised body at its beck, it is able to execute numerous and complicated movements with as much precision as those of the most delicate and subtile kind, and all, or any of them, without being itself distracted with the business of their immediate supervision. Like the general of a disciplined army, the will issues mandates of action or controul; but is not cognizant, without a special effort of attention, of anything beyond the general result of the various movements that its orders produce. And the body, that executes them, is constantly performing other movements, of a routine nature, connected with its safety, comforts, or ordinary functions ; which, though at first they had demanded the general’s attention, and might again attract it, yet, having been learnt by drilling, are now executed without his anxiety or even co-operation. They are the working of a practised organization. Thus many particular movements are included in general ones, without the will having the smallest immediate share in their pro- duction. The countenance takes its expression from the prevailing action of its muscles, often in spite of our efforts to the contrary; and, in general, the attitude and bearing wear a corresponding cha- racter. And thus several general movements, which naturally (or by an act of the untutored will) are impossible because incom- patible, are rendered capable of being simultaneously performed.* * The following works may be consulted in reference to Muscle and Muscular Action :—Prochaska, de came musculari; 1778: Fontana, surle venin de la vipere; 1781: John Hunter’s Croonian Lectures, works by Palmer, vol. iv. ; Plane, on Muscular Motion, in his select dissertations ; the various works on General Anatomy quoted in former chapters; Barclay on Muscular Motion; Mayo’s Physiology; Muller’s Physiology, by Baly ; the Articles Muscle and Muscular Action, in the Cyclop. Anat. and Pliys. For greater details on the Motions and Attitudes of the body than would be consistent with the plan of this work, we refer to the Article Motion in the Cyclop. Anat. and Phys.; and to Weber’s Mechanik der Menscli- liehen Gehewerkzeuge.