INNERVATION. [chap. XI. 346 muscles of deglutition, which the will is scarcely able to control. Without this stimulus, it is doubtful whether these muscles would obey the will alone; and it seems probable that this part of the act of deglutition must be regarded as one of those actions referred to at a former page, which require a double stimulus, both mental and physical, for their full performance. (See p. 333.) The medulla oblongata and its continuations in the mesocephale appear to be the centre of those actions which are iufiuenced by emotion. The common excitement of movements of deglutition or respiration, or of sensations referred to the throat, under the influence of emotion, evidently points to this part of the cerebro- spiual centre as being very prone to obey such impulses ; and as the nerves of pure sense, especially the optic and auditory, are very com- monly the channels of sensitive impressions well calculated to arouse the feelings, it seems highly probable that the centre of such actions should be contiguous to the origin of these nerves. We would assign this office to that region of the mesocephale which is in the vicinity of the quadrigeminal tubercles. It is not a little remark- able that the nerves which arise from this and the neighbouring parts are very readily influenced by emotions. Thus, the third and fourth pairs of nerves regulate the principal movements of the eyeballs, those especially which most quickly betray emotional ex- citement ; and the portio dura of the seventh pair, the motor nerve of the face, is the medium through which changes of the countenance are effected. It may be added, that the centre of emotional actions ought to be so situated that it could readily communicate with the centres of all the voluntary actions of the body, and with the im- mediate seat of the intellectual operations, as well as with the nerves of pure sense; and no part possesses these relations so com- pletely as that to which we refer. In those diseases which mental emotion is apt to give rise to, many of the symptoms are referrible to affection of the medulla oblongata. In hysteria, the globus, or peculiar sense of suffocation or constriction about the fauces; in chorea, the difficulty of deglu- tition, the peculiar movement of the tongue, the excited state of the countenance, the difficulty of articulation, may be attributed to the exalted polarity of the centre of emotional actions. In hydrophobia this part is probably always affected, and frequently so in tetanus. Certain gangliform bodies are connected with the upward con- tinuations of the medulla oblongata, both in the brain and in the mesocephale, which doubtless have proper functions. These are the corpora striata, optic thalami, and quadrigeminal bodies.