THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA. CHAP. X.] 269 information sufficiently specific to enable us to make a positive statement respecting the points in question. There is nothing in the results of Stilling's researches which does not confirm that which previous dissections, by coarser means of observation, had pointed out—namely, that the restiform and pyramidal bodies are composed in great part of fibres, taking a longitudinal course, while the central portion contains both the vesicular and fibrous nervous elements. The fibres of the latter, according to Stilling, taking chiefly, if not exclusively, a transverse direction. There is no evidence of any interchange of fibres between the restiform bodies, nor between the posterior pyramids of the right and left sides, such as has been noticed between the anterior pyra- mids in the description of their decussating fibres. The central or olivary7 columns of the medulla oblongata, however, have a very in- timate connexion with each other, along the mesial plane, apparently by fibres passing from one to the other. When the medulla oblongata is divided vertically along the me- dian plane, a series of fibres is seen to form a septum between its right and left half. These fibres take a direction from beforo backwards, and appear to connect themselves with the posterior olivary columns. They are limited interiorly by the decussating fibres. Cruveilhier proposes for them the name antero-jmterior fibres; they appear to belong to the same system as the arciform fibres. Of the Cerebellum.—This segment of the encephalon is situated above and behind the medulla oblongata in a distinct compartment of the cranium, which has for its roof the tentorium cerebelli. It I boars to the cerebrum in point of weight about the proportion 1 : 8, and to the entire encephalon, 1 : 10. The cerebellum consists of a central and of two lateral portions. The former, also called the median lobe, is the primary part; it is the only part of the organ which exists in fishes and reptiles ; the lateral portions or hemispheres are additions to this, and denote an advance in developement. It is in birds that these are first found ; they are most highly developed in mammals, and attain their max- i imum in man. Upon removing the pia mater from the surface of the cere- ; helium, we observe its arrangement in numerous thin lamella:, which are attached to a central column of fibrous matter. A verti- cal section of either hemisphere serves well to display their structure. A series of planes of fibrous matter become detached from the central white column, each plane separating from it at a different