chap, xv.] COMPOUND PAPILLAE OF THE TONGUE. 437 a f> A r:.v..-.jU vvi.Lvwv- Simple papilla- urn the lia*c of (he tongue:—a. a. concealed under the epithelium; A. uncovered by it.—Magnified 10 diameter*, a. a. Arterial twig, eupplviag their capillary loops, r. Vein. The vessels are all contained within the line A, A, of haacment memlirane. e, r. Fif gfi. The circumvallate rif'9S- papilla (Fig.34, a, and fig. 96) consist of a central flattened pro- jection of the mucous membrane, of a cir- cular figure, and from ^ to iV of an inch wide, surrounded by a tumid ring of about the same elevation, but less diameter, from which it is sepa- rated by a narrow cir- cular fissure, with, it is said, a few mucous 4„„tu nnoninir nt tlin I,frlMr rrwtmg on the basement nieiiitiraiie. ,1 flUCt8 opening Ut IIIC Scaly ejntlif lium on the mu fare Th* granular mtmor of tb** pa|>ilhr Krvtfnni Tutl.n ornnllnr “ represented at e. c l>»»ill* in which the tiaaement membrane la OOttOm. lnttie 8maill r not visible; and the deep layer of epithelium teems to rent on the examples this fissure *»*»«. exists only on one side. The sur- face of both centre and border is smooth, and invested by scaly epi- thelium, concealing a multitude of simple papillae, in all respects similar to those just descrilted. About the point where the two lines of circumvallate papillae meet, there is usually one with the fis- sure so large and deep as to have received the name offoranu’n canon. The central part is frequently small, or elongated and thrown on one side of the foramen. In the specimen next represented (fig. 97), this is shewn covered with se- condary papillae, having all the characters of those above mentioned. In its interior we failed to detect any nerves provided with white substance. In this region of the tongue fissures and papillae of irre- gular size and shape are often met with, and mucous glands are dis- seminated beneath the surface. The fungiform papilhe (fig. 94, b, and fig. 98) are scattered singly among the filiform papilhe, chiefly on the sides and tip of the tongue, and very sparingly in the middle of the dorsal region. They are usually narrower at their base than summit, where they are from 7*5 to 3*j- of an inch in diameter. Like those last described, they Vertical section of on? of the circumvallate papillae: —a. Central part. A, A. Bonitr. f,c. Fissure lictween eentre and iKinlrr. The secondary papilla- are vm covered by the epithelium. Similar papilla- are •een, d, d, on the membrane beyond.—Magn. 8 diarn.