4G THE TISSUES. CHAP. I. simplest form which animal matter assumes in its organization is that of a nucleated cell. Such cells exist in vast numbers, free and isolated, floating in the blood, but having occasionally a re- markable tendency to cohere. These are the red particles of the blood, which perform some very important office in reference to that fluid and the different tissues, as appears from the serious results consequent upon a great deficiency of them. They may be considered to be among the simplest products of organization. In the embryonic state all the tissues are composed of cells, analogous in structure to the corpuscles of the blood. These are united together by a more or less abundant intercellular sub- stance, which is either homogeneous {hyaline), minutely granular, or indistinctly fibrous. Some tissues retain, as their permanent character, this cellular structure; whilst in others the cells un- dergo certain metamorphoses by which they are converted into other forms, which constitute the anatomical elements of the adult textures. It seems impossible to devise a satisfactory arrangement of the tissues, which shall be based on one principle of classification. The following table has been constructed chiefly with the object of presenting to the reader a general view of the various tissues, the anatomical characters of which will be discussed in subsequent pages. TABULAR VIEW OF THE TISSUES OF THE HUMAN BODY. 1. Simple membrane, homogeneous, or near- ly so, employed alone, or in the forma- tion of compound membranes. 2. Filamentous tissues, the elements of which are real or apparent filaments. 3. Compound membranes, composed of sim- ple membrane, and a layer of cells, of various forms (epithelium or epidermis), or of areolar tissue and epithelium. 4. Tissues which retain the primitive cellu- lar structure as their permanent cha- racter. 5. Sclerous or hard tissue. 6. Compound tissues. a. Composed of tubes of homogeneous membrane, containing a peculiar sub- stance. b. Composed of white fibrous tissues and cartilage. Examples.—Posterior layer of the cornea.—Capsule of the lens.— Sarcolennna of muscle, &c. White and yellow fibrous tissues.— Areolar tissue. Mucous membrane.— Skin.—True or secreting glands.—Serous and synovial membranes. Adipose tissue.— Cartilage.— Grey nervous matter. Bone.—Teeth. Muscle.—Nerve. Fibro-cartilage.