446 IN NERVATION. [chap. XV. the extent of surface acted on; and it is also heightened by the motion and moderate pressure of the substance upon the gustatory membrane. By the latter movements, the mucus and outer layers of the epithelium are removed, and the sapid material is brought into closer contact with the papillae. The act of swallowing seems further necessary to the perfect appreciation of flavours. This is partly explained by considering how much the concurrent exercise of smell exalts the sense of taste. Most sapid substances, though in different degrees, affect the nose through the throat on being swal- lowed ; and we are thus led to attribute to taste much of what is in reality due to smell. The nurse’s device of holding the nose of the child in giving it disagreeable medicine, though commonly said to deaden taste, seems rather serviceable by excluding smell. Thus tested, taste is a less acute and definite sensation than most per- sons imagine. Nevertheless the difficulty of discriminating between the two senses indicates a real, though obscure, alliance between them, rendered closer by habit and association. The impression of cold air deadens the sense of taste, and has, we believe, been the source of some of the discordance in the recorded results of experiments. Cold acts similarly on touch. Do taste and touch co-exist in any of the papilla: ?—A papillary structure is, essentially, an arrangement for increasing the surface by which a membrane may have contact with external substances; and, while the analogy with the skin leaves no doubt that this structure in the tongue is concerned in the exquisite touch enjoyed by the organ, it is almost as certain that it is also concerned in taste. The question then arises whether touch and taste reside in the same papillae or in distinct ones. Now it is possible, as far as we know, that nerve-fibres of different endowments may be associated in the same papilla;, and therefore that one and the same papilla may possess both capacities. Taste, however, it is evident, demands a more delicate external apparatus in connexion with its nerves than touch ; so that touch might be exer- cised with an apparatus adapted to taste, though not in all cases the reverse. As far, therefore, as regards the simple papillae at the base of the tongue, and those covering the circumvallate and fungiform varieties, it seems impossible, in our ignorance of any anatomical distinction between the nerve-fibres of the two endowments, to decide whether the two senses are or are not resident together in the same papillae. But there are good grounds for supposing that the conical or filiform papillae are not designed for taste. They are most largely developed in a part of the tongue where taste is feeblest, and are