WEIGHT OF TIIE BRAIN’. CHAP. X.] 2G1 upon the cerebrum and cerebellum, the medulla oblongata and tnesocephale forming not more than one-tenth of the whole weight. These parts exist in their highest state of development in man. Their size does not appear to be regulated by the physical de- velopement of the body, either in man or in the lower animals. Thus the horse, although greatly exceeding the human subject in the size of his body, has a brain considerably inferior. The largest brain of a horse weighs, according to Soemmering, 1 lb. 7 oz., but the smallest adult human brain may be estimated at 2 lbs 5 A oz. Many other instances might be cited, of animals of great bulk, with brains weighing considerably le-s than that of man. The brains of the elephant and the whale, however, although inferior to it in general organization, are absolutely heavier than that of man. That of an elephant, dissected by Sir Astley Cooper, had a weight of 8 lbs. 1 oz.; and Rudolphi found the brain of a whale, 75 feet long, (/inland mysticetus,) to weigh 5 lbs. 10 j oz. Vet how inferior must be the development of the brain in these stu- pendous animals relatively to the whole body, if, with their enor- mous superiority of bulk, their brains exhibit so little excess of weight over that of man ! Even among men there docs not appear to be any fixed relation between the bulk of the Iwdy and that of the brain. A large man has by no means necessarily a large brain, and it often happens that prsons of small stature have the brain above the average size. In women the brain is generally lighter than in men. Dr. John Reid assigns an average difference of 5 oz. 11 dr. in favour of the male brain. Yet this difference is scarcely proportionate to the general inferiority of organization and of size of the female to the male. It is impossible to explain the great superiority of the human brain, both in organization and in the absolute quantity of nervous matter which it contains, without admitting its connexion with the mind, and the influence exerted upon its nutrition and growth by that immaterial principle. The men of greatest intellectual power are those who possess the largest brains. Cuviers brain, as stated by Tiedemann, weighed 4lbs. lloz. 4dr. 30grs. troy; and that of Dupuytren loz. 4dr. dOgrs. less. On the other hand, the brain of an idiot weighs scarcely more than that of the horse mentioned above. Tiedemann found the brain of an idiot, fifty years old, to weigh lib. 8oz. 4drs.; and that of another, forty years old, lib. lloz. 4<lrs. In advanced age, when the mental faculties have declined, the brain generally experiences a decrease of size; there are many.