THE MES0C1PHALE. 275 CHAP. X.] only do they exist as four. In birds, reptiles, ami fishes, they are only two in number, ami are called optic lobes, from their con- nexion with the optic nerves. They are hollow in these classes, but in mammalia they are solid. Between each testis and the corresponding hemisphere of the cerebellum, a band of fibrous matter extends —processus cerebelli a<l testem. Each band may be traced into the crus ccrebelli of the same side, of which it forms the superior layer, so that its fibres are doubtless continuous with some of those which form the white plates of the median and lateral lobes. The connexion of these processes with the testes is more apparent than real. They seem rather to pass beneath them to the optic thalami ; and, therefore, it has been justly remarked, they might be more appropriately named processus ccrebelli ad cerebrum. The valve of Vieussens occupies the interval between these processes. This layer evidently results from the spreading out of some of the anterior lamella) of the superior vermiform process. From the preceding description it will appear, as before stated, that the stem of fibrous matter which forms the crus ccrebelli derives its fibres from, or is continuous with, three planes of fibrous matter : the highest, or most superficial, l>eing the processus cerebelli ad testem ; the second, or middle, the restit'orm body ; and the infe- rior the fibres of the pons. By the first, the cerebellum and cere- brum are connected ; by the second the cerel*‘llum is connected with the medulla oblongata; and by the third, each hemisphere is brought into union with its fellow, and with the mesoeephale. Foville assigns other fibres as constituents of the crura ccrebelli, which he describes as expansions connected with the fifth and auditory nerves. The crura cerebelli seem to emerge from the posterior angles of the mesoeephale. From its anterior part there proceed up- wards, with a slight divergence, two similar processes, of consider- able thickness, which enter each hemisphere of the brain, and upon which each of those masses rests, as a mushroom upon its stalk. A septum of a similar kind to that described in the medulla oblongata is found in the mesoeephale. The fibres derived from the superficial layer of the pons pass backwards from the median groove to the posterior and suj>erior part of the mesoeephale. Of the Cerebrum.—The constitution of each crus cerebri may be best understood by examining a transverse section made a little beyond its emergence from the mesoeephale. Upon the surface