132 CHAP. VI. LOCOMOTION. A muscular capsule is thus provided for the joint, by which the bones are maintained much more firmly and powerfully in appo- sition than they would be if kept together by an uneontractile ligamentous capsule alone ; hence the elongation of the arm that occurs as a consequence of paralysis, and hence also the greater liability to luxation which exists in a debilitated state of the system, .i Articular or capsular muscles, thus placed, have also the effect, as it is said, of preventing the pinching of the capsule or synovial mem- brane between the articular extremities of the bones in the different motions of the joint. Atmospheric pressure, exerting as it does a force of nearly fifteen pounds on the square inch, is a powerful agent in maintaining the contact of articular surfaces. This is well illustrated by the diffi- culty of separating the surfaces composing the hip and shoulder joints, when the surrounding ligaments are air-tight; while, on the other hand, these surfaces may be separated by the mere weight of either bone, if one of these joints be suspended in the exhausted receiver of an air-pump. In exhibiting this experiment, we find the shoulder joint shews the effects of atmospheric pressure more strikingly than the hip, for its capsule being loose, and the osseous cavity for the reception of the head of the humerus small, the pres- > sure of the atmosphere pushes in the capsule, so that it fits closely to the head of the bone. When this pressure lias been removed by exhausting the receiver, the head of the humerus falls rapidly from the socket, and the ligament becomes stretched by the weight of the bone. The joints are supplied copiously with blood, and are remark- able for the arterial anastomoses which take place about them. The best examples of these inosculations are met with around the large joints of the extremities. The parts supplied with blood are the synovial membranes, the ligaments, the fat, and the extremities of the bones; but the cartilages certainly do not contain blood- vessels. Of the forms and classification of the Joints.—It is not difficult, by passing in review the various motions which take place between any two segments of a limb, to form an idea, a priori, as to the kinds and shapes of the articulations by which these segments will be united ; it is only necessary not to lose sight of the fact, that in the construction of a joint regard is had not to its mobility alone, but to its security, its durability, and the safety of the neigh- bouring parts. We may expect to find joints varying in the de- qree of motion, from the slightest perceptible, to the freest that in