INNERVATION. CHAP. XI. 364 Instances have been already referred to of animals of the same group, although of different species, having brains very differently developed as regards the convoluted surface. In the animal with greater mental power, the convolutions are always deeper or more complex (vid. p. 283). If a similar comparison were instituted between the brains of different men, whose intellectual powers had been known, there can be no doubt that a similar result would be obtained. A series of outline views of the convolutions of the brain in various known in- dividuals would be of great interest and advantage in reference to the question of their function. Thus anatomy leads to the conclusion that the operations of the mind are associated with the convolutions. Perception, memory, the power of abstraction, imagination, all possess, as instruments of corporeal action, these folds of vesicular and fibrous matter. These parts, in the language of Cuvier, are the sole receptacle in which the various sensations may be as it were consummated, and become perceptible to the animal. It is in these that all sensations take a distinct form, and leave lasting traces of their impression ; they serve as a seat to memory, a property by means of which the ani- mal is furnished with materials for his judgments.* It is quite established as the result of all the experiments upon the cerebral convolutions and the white matter of the centrum ovale, that mechanical injury to them occasions no pain, nor disturbance of motion. The endowments of the nerve-fibres which form the fibrous substance of the cerebral convolutions appear to be quite distinct from those of sensitive or motor nerves. They are internuncial between parts which are beyond the immediate influence of the ordinary physical agents, and which have no direct connexions with muscular organs. And if, under the influence of morbid irritation, they do excite pain or convulsion, which is frequently the case in disease of the cerebral meninges, this is effected through a change produced in the corpora striata or optic thalami propagated to the origins of motor and sensitive nerves. The recorded experiments upon the removal of the hemispheres of the brain do not lead to any satisfactory conclusion, as in all of them the corpora striata and thalami have been removed at the same time. Hut it may be here stated, that the effect of the removal of the hemi- spheres in Flourens1 experiments was to throw the animal into a state of deep sleep, retaining its full muscular power, yet apparently inca- * Cuvier, Rapport sur le mthnoire <le Flourens sur le systemc nerveux.