UTIAP. IV.J 93 CARTILAGE. aused, it would apply equally to all tissues, except the lining mem- } brane of the vascular system itself, which is probably nourished by ithe blood immediately in contact with it. Returning from this digression, we remark, that temporary car- i ■ ilage, when in small mass, is not permeated by vessels ; but that, when more than about an eighth of an inch thick, it contains canals in rats interior, for the transmission of vessels. These canals are some- what tortuous, and contain a delicate extension of the perichon- drium. They may be regarded as so many involutions of the outer Surface of the cartilage. The same description will apply to the various membraniform reartilages, with this difference, that their blood-vessels are less nu- merous. In those which are thin, no vascular canals are to be found ; but where there is much substance, as in the costal cartilages, they ure easily detected. Nothing is more certain than that articular cartilage, in man, is aot penetrated by blood vessels. Coloured fluids injected into the vessels cannot be made to enter it, but are seen to turn back, on [teaching it, into the tissue which conveyed them to it. llut we possess a more certain test than this, in the examination of thin ■slices of the tissue under a high power. This brings no vessels into iview: on the contrary, it proves their non-existence, beyond dis- pute. In some diseased states, however, the presence of a few vessels seems to have been established. Mr. Toynbee* has pointed out, that the vessels of bone, at the part on which cartilage rests, are separated from the cartilage by a bony lamella, in which no apertures exist. The minute vessels, on approaching this lamella, seem to dilate, and then, forming arches, they run back into the cancelli of the bone. Such an arrange- ment must, of course, be attended with a retardation of the blood near the “ articular lamella." The vessels of the synovial membrane id vance with it a little way upon the articular surface of the car- tilage, but only over those parts which are not subject to pressure during the natural movements of the joint. These likewise ter- minate in loops. In diseased states they often advance far upon the cartilage, as they do naturally, according to Mr. Toynbee’s observations, during the middle period of foetal life. Phil. Trans. 1841.