134 [chap. VI. LOCOMOTION. squamosa, where the bevelled edge of one bone overlaps and rests upon the other, as in the temporo-parietal suture, and harmonia (mpm, adapto), where there is simple apposition : this last kind of articulation is met with, as Bichat observes, wherever the mecha- nism of the parts is alone sufficient to maintain them in their proper situation, as may be seen in the union of most of the bones of the face. The sutures have a considerable tendency to become obliterated by age, the intervening cartilage becoming ossified ; it rarely happens that the sutures are all manifest in a human skull past fifty years of age, and sometimes the obliteration takes place at a much earlier period. The frontal suture is by no means permanent; it is not often found at puberty. In birds and fishes this tendency to the obliteration of the sutures is particularly manifest. b. Schindylesis (ayjiihv},r,atc, Jissio ; try/Cw, diffindo).—This form of articulation is where a thin plate of bone is received into a space or cleft formed by the separation of two lamina; of another, as is seen in the insertion of the azygos process of the sphenoid bone into the fissure on the superior margin of the vomer ; and in the articu- lation of the lachrymal bone with the ascending process of the supe- rior maxillary. c. Gomphosis (yo[/jfiog, clams. Clavatio, conclavatio). When a bone is inserted into a cavity in another, as a nail is driven into a board, or as a tree is inserted into the earth by its roots, the articula- tion is by gomphosis. The only example we have of it in the human subject or in quadrupeds is in the insertion of the teeth into the alveoli. d. Amphiarthrosis.—This is a form of articulation where two plane, or mutually adapted surfaces are held together by a cartilaginous or fibro-cartilaginous lamina of considerable thickness, as well as by external ligaments. In virtue of the elasticity of the interposed car- tilaginous or fibro-cartilaginous lamina, the amphiarthrosis possesses a manifest, although certainly a very limited degree of motion, and hence most systematic writers class it with the diarthrodial articu- lations. But it appears much more consistent to place it among the synarthrodial joints, for, 1, its anatomical characters agree precisely with those of synarthrosis; 2, the surfaces in amphiarthrosis being continuous, it would make an exception in diarthrosis were we to place it there ; and, 3, its degree of motion is greater than that of suture, only because of the greater developement of the interosseous substance. The examples of this form of joint in the human body are, the