chap. XI.] FUNCTIONS OF TIIE ENCEPHALON. 355 The upper and posterior part of the mesocephale has already been referred to, as being most probably that part of the brain which is most directly influenced by emotional excitement. Dr. Carpenter appears to localize the seat of emotional influence more specially in the corpora qoadrigemina, and refers to certain fibres, which he con- siders terminate in those bodies, as channels of emotional impulses. Although we cannot agree with this able writer in this limitation of the centre of emotion (so to speak), nor in the existence of a distinct series of fibres for emotional acts, we think the arguments he ad- vances are most applicable to that view which refers the influence of emotion to the gray matter of this entire region, which is brought into connexion with the spinal cord by the fibres of the anterior pyramids, as well ns probably through the continuity of the olivary columns and the posterior horns of the spinal gray matter. Every one has experienced in his own person how the emotions of the mind, whether excited by a passing thought, or through the external senses, may occasion not onlv involuntary movements, but subjective sensations. The thrill which is felt throughout the entire frame when a feeling of horror or of joy is excited, or the involun- tary shudder which the idea of imminent danger or of some serious hazard gives rise to, are phenomena of sensation ami motion excited by emotion. The nerves which take their origin from the medulla oblongata, mesocephale, or crura cerebri, are especially apt to be affected by emotions. The choking sensation which accompanies grief is entirely referrible to the pharyngeal branches of the glosso- pharyngeal and vagi nerves, which come from the olivary columns. The flow of tears which the sudden occurrence of joy or sorrow is apt to induce may be attributed to tbe influence of the fifth nerve, which is also implanted in the olivary columns, upon the lacrymal gland; or of the fourth nerve, which anastomoses with the lacrymal branch of the fifth. The more violent expressions of grief, sobbing, crying, denote an excited state of the whole centre of emotion, in- volving all the nerves which have connexion with it, the portio dura, the fifth, the vagus, and glosso-pharyngeal; and even the respiratory nerves, which take their origin from the spinal cord, as the phrenic, spinal accessory, &c. And laughter, “ holding both his sides,” causes an analogous excitation of the same parts of the central organ and of the same nerves. The very difl'erent effect produced by the but, in truth, we know so little of the positive relation of the nerves in question to the Kunglin. that no argument, either for or against the above view, can rest upon *ueh imperfect information.