INNERVATION. [chap. x. 284 portion, therefore, of the white substance of the hemispheres, the centrum ovale, consists of fibres which establish a communication be- tween the gray undulating surface and these central gangliform bodies. We arc unable, however, to state that all the fibres of the convolutions take this inward direction. Some of them, it has been asserted, pass from convolution to convolution, uniting those immediately adjacent, as well as the more remote. Such fibres, did they exist, would pass at right angles to those above described, and parallel to the gray surface. They would constitute inter qyral commissures. But the existence of such a series of fibres rests on a foundation too uncertain to warrant us in speaking confidently respecting it. When a brain which has been hardened by long immersion in alcohol is torn along the surface of the convolutions, the torn surfaces take on a fibrous appearance. But nothing of the kind can he shewn in the fresh brain, in which the direction of the fibres which converge to the corpora striata may be as easily demonstrated as upon the hardened one. The gray matter of the convolutions does not exhibit an uniform colour throughout its entire thickness. Much depends, as regards the depth of colour of the whole layer, upon the quantity of blood in its vessels. Compare the gray matter of an anaemic brain with that of a healthy one, or, still more, of a congested one, and the difference cannot fail to strike the most superficial observer. The extenial portion has the darkest colour, and the internal in general the lightest. In some convolutions, however, the intermediate layer is white, and appears on the section like a white line sepa- rating the inner from the outer layers. This is very obvious in the convolutions forming the exterior of the descending horn of the lateral ventricles. This white layer contains fine nucleus-like par- ticles, similar to those which form the intermediate layer of the gray matter of the cerebellum ; a coincidence of structure between certain convolutions of the brain, and the gray matter of the cere- bellum, which, doubtless, is not without some physiological signifi- cance. Certain systems of fibres exist in the cerebrum, which seem very evidently to unite portions of the same, or of opposite hemi- spheres. The most obvious of these commissures are, the cor- pus callosum, the anterior commissure, the posterior commissure, the soft commissure, the superior longitudinal commissure, and the fornix. All, except the two last, are transverse, and unite parts of the hemispheres of opposite sides.