63 CTJAP. II.] CILIARY MOTION. which the brain had been removed, it lasted from four to five days. The longest time they observed it to continue in man and mam- malia was two days; but in general it did not last nearly so long. AN'hat appears to be immediately necessary to the continuation of the movement, is the integrity of the epithelial cells to which the cilia adhere; for as soon as these shrink up for want of moisture, or become physically altered bv chemical reagents or by the pro- gress of putrefaction, the cilia immediately cease to play. From these facts we learn two important points in connexion with this phenomenon. The first is, the truly molecular character of the movement. Whatever be the immediate cause of the action of the cilia, it is evidently intimately connected with the minute epithelial particles to which they arc attached ; for cilia never exist in man and the higher animals without epithelial particles, and these particles have no organic connexion with the subjacent textures, ex- cepting such as may arise from simple adhesion. And, second! v. we perceive, that this movement is independent of both the vascular and the nervous systems, for it will continue to manifest itself for many hours in a single particle isolated from the rest of the system. After death it remains longer than the contractility of muscle ; a cir- cumstance which, together with the facts just mentioned, indicates that the cilia cannot be moved by little muscles inserted into their bases, as some have supposed. And experiment also shews this in- dependence. If the abdominal aorta be tied, the muscles of the lower extremities will be paralyzed in consequence of their being de- prived of their blood; and on removing the ligature, and allowing the blood to flow, the muscles will recover themselves. Hut a cili- ated surface is not affected at all in its movements, though the sup- ply of blood to the subjacent tissues be completely cut off Again, hydrocyanic acid, opium, strychnine, belladonna, substances which exert a powerful effect on the nervous system, produce no influence upon ciliary motion : in the bodies of animals killed by these poisons, the phenomenon is still conspicuous; and even the local application of them does not hinder it, provided the solutions do not injure the epithelial texture. Shocks of electricity passed through the ciliated parts, do not affect the movement. Lastly, the removal of the brain and spinal cord in frogs, by which all muscular movements are de- stroyed, does not stop the action of the cilia. This striking fact mav likewise be adduced to disprove the supposition, that these move- ments result from the action of minute muscles ; for, although muscles may be excited to contract w ithout nerves, we have no instances in the higher animals in which they habitually act without the inter-