MUSCULAR ACTION. 177 U.] CHAP. V ever minute the fragment may happen to be. This is all that can be said in general of the visible features of this remarkable phe- nomenon. Late investigations, instead of explaining the manner in which contraction is effected, by shewing its dependence on forces previously understood, have only served to display the in- adequacy of the coarse and mechanical hypotheses, that physiologists have been so prone to confide in, and to make it more than pro- bable that they must ever be content to repose upon the fact above stated, as the simplest which the most refined microscopical analysis will ever disclose. All muscle retains its contractility for a longer or shorter period after its separation from the body, or after death. During this period contractions may be excited by the nervous, and all other sti- muli, which we can apply to it ; and it is certain that these contrac- tions are the same in their nature with those occurring in the living body under natural influences. Being also easy of inspection, they are admirably suited to the display of the minute changes occurring in muscle during its active state. The muscle with striped fibres is peculiarly adapted for the dis- play of these changes; for, its texture not being homogeneous, but marked throughout with perfect regularity into spaces or particles -so minute as to require to be very highly magnified before they can be even seen at all, the anatomist is provided with the means of detecting movements, which, without this circumstance, must have remained concealed. W hen a piece, retaining its contractility, is torn up into its elementary fibres, the fragments of these, when placed iu water, are *een to undergo a slow movement at certain points, especially where they have suffered violence, as at their broken extremities. This movement consists of a shortening and thickening of the material composing the fibre, as is shewn by the general outline of the part, hut especially by the appearances visible in its interior. The trans- verse stripes, both light and dark, become longer and thinner: in other words, the discs expand in circumference, flatten, and ap- proximate to one another; or, to use another form of expression, the fibrilhe become shorter and thicker, both in the particles com- posing them and the material connecting those particles (fig. 49). These changes are always local, or partial; and it is most evident, from the characters they constantly present, that they are not limited to any determinate regions, points, or segments, but occur Hidifterently wherever the exciting cause may chance to be exerted. Neither discs nor fibrilla' appear to have the smallest share, as