272 INNERVATION. CHAP. X. on a different plane. These are called its peduncles. Through them the cerebellum forms a connexion with other parts of the encephalon. The superior layer or peduncle is a bundle of fibres which extends to the corpora quadrigemina, processus cerehelli ad testes ; the middle layer passes to the medulla oblongata, the resti- form bodies ; and the inferior peduncle consists of transverse fibres, (Pons Varolii,') which pass to the opposite side, and also form a considerable portion of the mesocepliale. Lesions of the cerebellum, when so deep seated as to affect the primary planes of fibrous matter or the central stem, have the same crossed effect as those of the cerebrum. This is not so obviously explicable as the similar instance of the cerebrum, for the cerebellar fibres of the medulla oblongata (restiform bodies) do not appear to decussate. Yet it seems scarcely necessary, in order to explain the phenomenon, to have recourse to the supposition that they do decussate. The close connexion between the restiform bodies and the pyramids, by means of the arciform fibres, renders the latter ex- ceedingly liable to sympathise with the condition of the former, and, therefore, prone to propagate the morbid influence to the opposite half of the spinal cord, and through that to the opposite half of the body. It must be borne in mind that some of the fibres of the an- terior pyramids very probably derive their origin from the central gray matter of the medulla oblongata, as well as of the mesoce- phale, and that some, at least, of those which affect the right half of the cord, probably derive their origin from the left side of either or both of those segments of the encephalon. That lesion of one hemisphere of the cerebellum may influence the corresponding half of the medulla oblongata, is likely, from the connexion which the restiform fibres establish between them. The connexion of the cerebellum with the mesocepliale is most clearly established by means of the transverse fibres which constitute the pons Varolii. Respecting the intimate structure of the cerebellum, little is known of a very exact nature. The white stems and plates are fibrous, and consist of multitudes of nerve-tubes of all sizes, which follow the general direction of each stem or plate. These fibres doubtless tend principally to propagate the peculiar influence of the cerebel- lum to the spinal cord and the mesocepliale. Some probably are commissural, as the processus cerehelli ad testes (or cerebro-cere- bellar commissures), the fibres of the pons, and some of those of the median lobe. Mr. Mayo supposes that others pass between the laminae, but their existence is extremely doubtful. The vesicular matter which covers the plates contains the ordi-