TUBULAR FIBRE. 209 CHAP. VIII.] Fie. S3. B — ^— r I Within the edge of the tubular membrane, on each side, are seen two thicker and darker lines (a, r, c, A), which appear to mark the outer and inner limits of an inner layer of different composition and refracting power, and which is generally known as the white sub- stance of Schwann. This forms a tube within the tubular mem- brane. Within the white sub- stance of Schwann is a transpa- rent material, occupying the axis of the nerve-tube (a, a). This has been called by Retnak the flattened hand; but a better name for it is that of axis cylinder, em- ployed by Rosenthal and Pur- kinje. It is evident, that the whole of the matter contained in the tubu- lar membrane is extremely soft, for it is found to yield under very slight pressure, and may be rea- dily made to pass from one part of the tube to another. When pressed out (b. h to /), it is apt to assume more or less the appear- ance and form of globules, which retain the same characters of out- line which they possessed in the tierve-tube ; that is, they have a transparent interior, bounded by of Schwann, marked by its double contour. It would appear that the latter structure is particularly apt to form a coating or film over the central material, and thus to isolate it from sur- roundiug tissues. This tendency may be understood by a reference to fig. 52, h to l. When the nerve-tube is placed in a*thcr, the white substance is in part immediately dissolved, and a number of oil-like globules appear both within and without the tubular membrane (fig. 53, h). Probably its margarine is dissolved, and the elaine set free in the a. Diagram of tubular fihw of a spinal nerve :— a. Axia cylinder b. Inner border of white aub- •tancr. e. r. Outer border of white aulwtanre. d, rf. Tubular membrane, a. Tubular fihmt; e, in a natural state. shewing the part* as in a. /. The white imbalance and axia cylinder inter- rupted by pressure, while the tubular membrane remains, g. The same, with varicosities. b. Va- rious appearance* of the white substance and axis cylinder forced out of the tubular membrane by pressure i. Broken end of a tubular fibre, with the white subatanee cloned over it. k. Lateral bulging of white substance and axia cylinder from pressure. /. The same more complete. g'. Vari- cose fibre* of various me*, from the cerebellum, c. Gelatinous fibre* from the solar plexus, treated with acetic arid to exhibit their cell-nuclei, b and c magnified 320 diameter*. a layer of the white substance