CHAP, vni.] REGENERATION OF NERVOUS MATTER. 220 interval between the cut ends, there would be union after the lapse of some time, but not by true nervous fibres, nor in such a way as to restore the action of the nerve. It appears, however, from recent observations, of which those of Schwann, Steinruch, and Nasse are the most interesting, that true nerve-fibres may be deve- loped in this uniting substance, but apparently in smaller numbers than in the nerve itself. The proof of the regeneration of the true nerve-fibres depends upon the restorat ion of the nerve’s function, and the demonstration of the presence of proper nerve-tubes by micro- scopical examination. Perfect restoration of the action of the nerve does not generally take place, owing, most probably, to the fact that the central and peripheral portions of the same fibres do not always meet again. The central portion of a motor fibre might unite with the peripheral segment of a sensitive one, and thus the action of etudi would be neutralized. Nothing satisfactory is known respecting the regeneration of the nervous matter of the brain or spinal cord after a loss of substance from injury or disease. When a portion of the brain is removed in animals, its place is supplied by new matter; but, whether this becomes true cerebral substance, future research with good micro- scopes must determine.* * We refer on the subjects of this chapter to the various works on General Anatomy quoted in former chapters, especially to that of Henle ; to Muller's, and Wagner’s, Physiology ; to the articles Nerve, and Nervous Centres, in the Cyclop. Anat. and Phys.; to the fourth vol. of Soemmering’s Anat. by Valentin (German and French); to Valentin, uber den Verlnuf und die letzten Enden der Nervcn; and to Bidder and Volktnann, Die Selbstnndigkeit des sympathetiseben Nervensystem. Leipzig, 1842. The researches of Bidder and Volktnann on the sympathetic system are of great interest, if further observation shall confirm them. These authors describe the peculiar fibres of the sympathetic as originating independently of the spinal cord or brain. Their description of these fibres does not exactly accord with what we have seen of the gelatinous fibres, nor are we at present prepared to express any decided opinion respecting the accuracy of their observations, which are very favourable to the theory of the independence of the sympathetic system.