[chap. v. LOCOMOTION. 108 great medullary canal itself, are likewise involutions of the osseous surface, though for a partly different end. These larger and more irregular cavities in bone may he considered as a dilated form of Haversian canals. They contain vessels not only for the nutrition of the thin osseous material forming their walls, but also for the supply of the fat enclosed within them. Thus the true osseous substance may be described as lying in the interstices of a vascular membrane, or of a network of blood- vessels. The most interesting points in the minute anatomy of bone relate to the mode in which nutrition is provided for in those parts not in immediate contact with the blood-vessels. We have already seen that considerable masses of cartilage derive their nu- triment from vessels placed on their exterior only, apparently by a kind of imbibition, perhaps aided by the presence of the nucleated cells, and by a more or less fibrous texture : but bone, which is of a far harder and denser nature, is unable to imbibe its nourishment so easily. Hence its surface is greatly augmented by the arrange- ments already detailed; and, in addition to this, the osseous tissue itself is provided with a special system of microscopic cavities and canaliculi, or pores, by which its recesses may be irrigated, to a degree of minuteness greatly exceeding what conhl have been ef- fected by blood-vessels alone, consistently with the compactness and density required in the tissue. The study of this delicate appa- ratus will now demand attention; but a few words must be pre- mised on the ultimate structure of the osseous tissue. It appears from the researches of Mr. Tomes, about to be publish- ed in the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy, that the ultimate structure of the osseous tissue is granular. The granules of bone are often very distinctly visible, without any artificial preparation, in the substance of the delicate spicuhe of the cancelli, viewed with a high power, and in various sections of all forms of bone. They may be gene- yig, 21. rally obtained in calcined bone, either by bruising a fragment of it, or by steeping it in dilute muri- atic acid ; they may also be made very evident by prolonged boiling in a Papin’s digester. Those represented in fig. 21 were obtained in the latter mode. The granules vary in size from to rr&oij ultimate granule* of of an inch. In shape they are oval or oblong, >ne, isolated and in L J 1 I mil masses, from the ami often angular. They cohere firmly together, Femur.—v F rom a prepa- ° J J ° ration of Mr. Tomes.) possibly by the medium of some second substance. Magnified :)20 diameters. * n . 1 1 In some few instances Mr. Tomes has met with a very minute network, which seems adapted to receive them in bone, small i