INNERVATION. 394 [chap. Xlt. a morbid kind, it is necessary to suppose the existence of a more or less exalted polarity of the centre in order to explain the pheno- mena fully. This polar state will continue in many instances even after the primary peripheral irritation has been removed, as in tetanus, or in the convulsions from intestinal irritation; and we learn from this fact the importance in practice of attending to the state of the nervous centre as well as to the removal of the irritating cause. There are other sympathetic phenomena, of the physical kind, in which, however, the nervous system does not appear to take a pro- minent part. Such are the changes which occur in different and distant organs in connexion with a particular period of life, or the developement of a particular function. Among these are the phe- nomena of puberty in both sexes; the enlargement of the mamma) in pregnancy. 'Whatever part the nervous system may take in such changes, it is impossible to account for them by reference to that system only; they must rather be regarded as phenomena of nutri- tion occurring in harmony with the laws of growth, and therefore affecting the vital fluid more particularly than any part of the sys- tem of solid parts. Continuity of texture disposes, as is wrell known, to the exten- sion of a diseased state originating at some one point. So also does contiguity. Phlegmonous inflammation of the areolar tissue, and erysipelas in the skin, spread with great rapidity. Inflamma- tion arising in one of the opposed surfaces of a serous membrane readily attacks the other. These effects have been vaguely assigned to sympathy (the continuous and contiguous sympathy of Hunter). But it cannot be supposed that the nervous system takes part in the production of such phenomena, which ought rather to be ascribed, in the one case, to the continuity of blood-vessels,—and, in the other, to contamination either by effused fluids or by morbid blood. On the subjects referred to in this chapter, consult Whytt on the Sympathy of the Nerves, an admirable exposition of the phenomena, obscured, however, by his erroneous views respecting the all-pervading influence of the mind upon vital phenomena;—Hunter on the Blood, &c.;—Alison on the Physiological Principle of Sympathy, Edinb. Med. Chir. Trans., vol. ii. ;—Muller’s Physiology.