»■] 307 FUNCTION'S OF TIIE SPINAL CORD. CHAP. aide, ami the posterior roots on the other, voluntary power without sensation will remain in the latter, and sensation without voluntary power in the former. Valentin, Seubert, Panizza, and Longet have performed similar experiments upon manuniferous animals with precisely the same effects. The conclusion to he derived from these experiments is as fol- lows : that the anterior root of each spinal nerce is motor, and the posterior sensitive. Comparative anatomy confirms this conclusion, by shewing that a similar arrangement of the spinal roots prevails among all classes of vertebrate animals, and that, if in any particular chiss of animals either the motor or sensitive power predominate, there is in corre- spondence with it a marked dcvelopement of the anterior or poste- rior roots; and the frequent occurrence of paralysis of sensation and motion, as a consequence of disease within the spinal canal, also tends to the same inference. Magendie affirms that the anterior root is slightly sensitive, owing, as Kronenberg has shewn, to an anastomotic filament which it derives from the posterior root. Functions of the Spinal cord.—Since nerves of sensation and mo- tion have their origin from the cord, it cannot be doubted that this organ is the medium for the reception and propagation, first, of sensitive impressions made upon those surfaces on which its nerves are distributed, and secondly, of those impulses which are the or- dinary excitants of muscular movements. Experiment and clinical observation, however, shew that sensa- tion and voluntary motion are not connected with, or dependent on. the spinal cord alone. If the connexion of this organ with the en- cephalon be perfect, and uninterrupted by any solution of conti- nuity, morbid deposit in it, or morbid growth causing compression, then the essential condition for the full play of the nervous force, whether for sensation or voluntary motion, is fulfilled. But if the cord be severed just below the plane of the occipital foramen, as when an animal is pithed, all voluntary power over the parts supplied by spinal nerves ceases, and all sensation in those parts disappears at the same time. Here the cord itself is uninjured ; but its continuity with the encephalon is destroyed. In oases of injury to the vertebral column, causing fracture and displacement of the vertebra', and destruction of the coni, the parts supplied from that portion of the cord which is below the seat of injury are paralysed jis regards voluntary motion and sensation.