THE FOURTH VENTRICLE. CHAP. X.] 27b nary elements, of which, however, the caudate vesicles constitute a principal portion (p. 216). These are so disposed that their processes pass off' chiefly towards the circumference, their obtuse extremities being directed towards the lamina'. Besides these, there is in each layer of vesicular matter a thin lamina composed of round clear nucleus-like particles, which cohere to each other without the in- tervention of any matrix or other connecting substance. Fine nerve-tul)C8 and blood-vessels pass through it. This lamina is in- termediate to two which contain nerve-vesicles, one of which is in immediate connexion with the fibrous matter of the cerebellum, the other with the pia mater. Of the fourth Ventricle.—The divergence of the restiform l>odies in their ascent to the hemispheres of the cerebellum leaves a con- siderable space, which is of a lozenge shape, having its superior angle towards the brain, its lateral angles towards the cerebellar hemispheres, and its inferior angle at the point of separation of the restiform bodies. Along its floor are seen the central or olivary columns of the medulla oblongata, extending upwards to the optic thalami. A fissure, continuous with the posterior median fissure, separates these columns. Some bundles of white fibres, which may be traced to the soft portion of the seventh pair of nerves, cross these bundles nearly at right angles to them and to the fissure (p. 266), and form with the latter the calamus scriptorius, the white fibres constituting the barbs of the pen. The roof of this ventricle is formed in front by the anterior laminae of the superior vermiform process, which constitute the mice of Vie listens; and behind by the inferior vermiform process. A process of pia mater enters it at its inferior angle, just as the choroid plexus penetrates the inferior cornu of the lateral ventricles of the brain. The reflexion of the lining membrane on the process of pia mater seems to close up the ventricle below, and cut oil' its direct communication with the subarachnoid space. A canal, which passes through the meso- cephale, establishes the communication of this with the third ventricle, iter a tertio ad quart um ventriculum. The fourth ventricle properly belongs to the medulla oblongata. It is, therefore, present in all the vertebrate classes, and is, in point of size, directly proportionate to the medulla itself. Of the Mrsocepkale.—This term, suggested by Chaussier, denotes that thin portion of encephalon is the bond of union to the rest, the cerebrum above, the medulla oblongata below, and the cere- bellum behind. The inferior surface of the mesocephale, the pons Varolii, con-