220 INNERVATION. [chap. vin. t nerve. There is a similar nervous arch formed between the second or third cervical nerve and the accessory nerve. Certain -fibres, when traced from the former, appear to pass back to the centre in the sheath of the latter. This anastomosis Volkmann found in the human subject, and in several of the lower animals.* According to Gerber, similar loops are found in the sheaths of spinal nerves. Certain fibres emerge from and return to the nervous centre, forming a loop with the convexity directed towards the peri- phery, without connecting themselves with any peripheral organ or texture, or going beyond the nerve-sheath. To these loops this i anatomist has given the fanciful title, nervi nervorum. Plexuses.—When several neighbouring nerves freely interchange their fibres, a complicated form of anastomosis is produced, which is called a plexus. Four or five nerves, for example, proceed from ; the spinal cord, for a certain distance without any communication with each other. A division of each then takes place, and from the conjunction of their neighbouring branches new nerves result, which again subdivide and interchange fibres; and by the free communication which is thus established, a network is sometimes I formed, (as in the cervical plexus,) in the meshes of which areolar j tissue, and sometimes fat, are deposited. Finally, certain nerves i emerge from the plexus thus formed, which are composed of fibres ! derived from several of the original trunks. Examples of this kind of anastomosis are found in connexion with the anterior branches of the spinal nerves in the neck, the axilla, the loins, and the sacral region; and there are also plexuses formed in the course of the fifth nerve, the portio dura of the seventh, the glosso-pharyngeal, and the par vagum. The fibres, which pass through a plexus, notwithstanding the ap- parent intricacy of their communication, preserve their individuality. This may be proved by irritating a single nerve before it has broken up in the plexus. Such irritation will produce contraction of cer- tain muscles only; of those, namely, to which the fibres of that nerve are distributed. It is probable that, owing to the frequent change of place which the fibres undergo within the plexus, they are brought into communication with a greater number of muscles than if no such subdivision had taken place. Kronenberg’s expe- riments shewed that the irritation of certain nerves of the plexus before their subdivision caused the contraction of those muscles only which received filaments from them.-f* * Muller’s Archiv. 1840. t Plexuum nervorum structura et virtutes. Berol. 1836.