INNERVATION. CHAP. IX. 232 are no good grounds for supposing that the molecular change conse- quent upon the stimulation of a nerve is limited to that part of the nerve which is included between the point stimulated and the centre, or the muscles, where the effect of the stimulation appears: on the contrary, it is not improbable, that, at whatever point the stimulus be applied, the whole length of the nerve-fibre participates in the change. This is not unlikely in the case of motor nerves. For a continued or violent irritation of a motor nerve in some part of its course, causing spasm or convulsive movement of the muscles it supplies, may be propagated along its whole length to the centre, and may there give rise to irritation of neighbouring fibres, whether motor or sensitive, exciting more convulsion and pain. The pheno- mena of many cases of epilepsy, in which the fit begins with irrita- tion of a few muscles, may be referred to in illustration of this posi- tion. And it is equally probable as regards sensitive nerves. If the ulnar nerve be irritated where it passes behind the internal condyle, a sensation of tingling is excited, which is referred to the sentient surface of the ring and little fingers; and if the irritation be kept up, the skin of those fingers becomes tender to the touch, its sensi- bility being very much exalted. This fact cannot be explained un- less upon the supposition that the molecular change in the nerve fibres, produced by the irritation, extends peripherad as well as centrad, exalting the excitability of their distal extremities. At whatever part of their course sensitive fibres be irritated, the same sensation will be produced, whether the seat of irritation he the centre, the periphery, or the middle of their course, provided only the same fibres are irritated in the same degree. Nothing is more cer- tain than that an affection of the central extremity of the nerve-fibres is sufficient to excite sensations precisely similar to those which the excitation of the peripheral portion of the same fibres would produce- Hence it is that a morbid irritation at the centre is frequently referred to the periphery; and that the sensation of tingling or formication, in the hand or foot, leg or arm, becomes an indication of cerebral or spinal disease. The remarkable fact, that persons who have suffered amputation will continue to feel a consciousness of the presence of the amputated limb long after its removal, derives some explanation from this doctrine. Two cases have lately come before us, in one of which the arm, in the other the leg, was amputated, so long before as forty years ; yet each person had the sensation of his fingers or toes as distinctly as immediately after the operation. And not only is there, in such cases, the consciousness above referred to, hut likewise, when the principal nerve of the limb is irritated, the