290 INNERVATION. CHA1>. X. tends into the anterior lobe (anterior or frontal horn), and into the posterior lobe (posterior or occipital horn). The central part of the horizontal portion is separated from the third ventricle by the body of the fornix. In this portion of the ventricle are seen the upper surfaces of the corpus striatum and optic thalamus, with the taenia semicircularis between them, covered by the lamina cornea. The thalamus is partly concealed by the choroid plexus. The de- scending or inferior horn (sphenoidal horn) communicates with the body of the ventricle just behind the corpus striatum, and from that point passes downwards and outwards, and then forwards and inwards. It contains a remarkable convolution, the hippo- campus major, which projects into it, and is a continuation of that enclosing the superior longitudinal commissure; this is covered by an expansion of fibrous matter continuous with the posterior pillars of the fornix. The posterior horn contains a similar but smaller convolution, called hippocampus minor. The inferior horn of the lateral ventricle contains a considerable portion of the choroid plexus. This enters at its inferior extremity between the hippocampus major and the crus cerebri, and passes upwards into the horizontal portion of the ventricle. Tlx a fourth and the fifth ventricles have been already described. All the ventricles are lined by a very delicate membrane, similar in structure to serous membrane. It is covered by a fine epithe- lium consisting of polygonal scales, and provided with cilia, which were first observed by Purkinje and Valentin. This epithelium is found covering the surface not only of the wall of the ventricle but also of the pia mater within it, the choroid plexuses, and the deep surface of the velum interpositum. It is by means of the reflection of this membrane upon the intraventricular processes of pia mater that the ventricles are closed at those points where nervous matter does not exist, such as the inferior cornua of the lateral ventricles, and the inferior extremity of the fourth ventricle. There is, therefore, no direct communication of these cavities at these points with the subarachnoid space ; and, if fluid pass from one to the other, it must be by filtration through the delicate ven- tricular membrane. In a state of health there is little or no fluid in the lateral ox- other veixtricles of the brain. Their inner surfaces are doubtless in contact, but lubricated with a moisture, as all serous surfaces are. When fluid is found in them, it results either from changes which take place after death, or from some morbid process during life. A state of anaemia, or an impoverished condition of the blood, in