338 INNERVATION. [chap. xi. sicular matter of the ganglia necessary for the movements of the wasp in pursuit of its prey, had already been excited by a power- ful stimulus of volition, which continued even after the removal of the centre from which it had emanated. So similar is the change which a physical stimulus can excite in the gray matter to that produced by the influence of the will, that, as has been often remarked, the actions excited in decapitated animals present a striking resemblance to the ordinary voluntary movements. When a certain portion of the skin is irritated, the animal pushes against the offending substance, as if trying to remove or displace it. If the anus be irritated, both legs are ex- cited to action. It may also be observed, that the same motions follow the same irritations of the skin. If, in a frog, the seat of irritation be on the right side, the corresponding hind-foot will bo raised, as if to remove the irritating cause. The exact resemblance of these to voluntary movements seems to admit of being explained only on the supposition that the same fibres are employed in the execution of both. It must be borne in mind, that, while this hypothesis rejects the class of sensori-volitional fibres which pass with the spinal nerves along the cord into the brain, it admits the existence of only three orders of fibres implanted in the various segments of the cord, viz. those at once sensitive and excitor ; those at once for voluntary and invo- luntary motion ; and commissural fibres. Moreover, it is not in- tended by this hypothesis to assume that the intervention of sen- sation (i. e. the perception of an impression by the mind) is necessary for the production of those muscular actions which are excited by stimulation of the surface. No more is affirmed than that the same stimulus to the sensitive nerve which can and does excite a sensation, may simultaneously, but independently, cause a change in the vesicular matter which shall stimulate the motor nerves; and that this change is of the same kind as that which the will may excite, and affects the same motor nerves. Lastly, this hypothesis involves the enunciation of a highly im- portant proposition with reference to nervous centres. It is this: that all the centre^ which are connected to the brain by commissural fibres, are thereby submitted to, and brought into connexion with, the mind, to an extent proportionate to the number of connecting fibres, so that voluntary impulses act upon them as part and parcel of the centre of volition; and sensitive impressions, in affecting them, affect the sensorium commune simultaneously. In voluntary actions, then, it may be stated, that, while the