41 GELATINE. CHAP. I.] is vegetable albumen. And in peas, beans, lentils, and similar legu- minous seeds, we find a substance similar to easeine. It is vegetable caseine, which, like the animal principle of the same name, does not coagulate by heat alone, but yields a coagulum on the addition of an acid, as in milk. “The chemical analysis of these three sub- stances,” says Liebig, “ has led to the very interesting result, that they contain the same organic elements, united in the same pro- portions by weight; and, what is still more remarkable, that they are identical in composition with the chief constituents of blood, animal fihrine, and albumen. They all three dissolve in concen- trated muriatic acid with the same deep purple colour ; and, even in their physical characters, animal fibrine and albumen are in no respect different from vegetable fibrine and albumen. It is especi- ally to be noticed, that by the phrase, identity of composition, we do not here imply mere similarity; but that, even in regard to the presence and relative amount of sulphur, phosphorus, ami phosphate of lime, no difference can be observed.” 4. Gelatine.—This substance exists in a peculiar combination with the tissues of which it forms a constituent, and can only be obtained by artificial means. If the cutis or true skin, tendon, or bone, be subjected to continued boiling, this substance is obtained in solution in the hot water, and upon cooling assumes the form of a solid jelly, which is the more solid as the quantity of water con- tained in it is less. The textures which yield gelatine are, the white fibrous tissue, areolar tissue, skin, serous membranes, bone, (due prepared from hides, See.; size, from parchment, skin, &c.; and isinglass from the swimming-bladder of the sturgeon, are various forms of gelatine used in commerce. Gelatine, obtained by boiling, is in combination with a consider- able quantity of water: by a slow and gentle heat this may be driven off, and the gelatine obtained in a dry state. I )rv gela- tine is hard, transparent, colourless, without smell or taste, of neutral reaction ; in cold water it softens and swells up, and dis- solves in warm water. It is insoluble in alcohol and ether, but very soluble in the dilute acids and alkalies. When tannin, or the tincture or infusion of galls, is added to its solution in water, a brownish precipitate is thrown down—the tanno-gelatine, which may be precipitated from a solution of gelatine in 5000 times its Weight of water. 1 he processol tanning leather results from the affinity of gelatine for tannin. I he skin* of the animals having been first freed from