MODE OF CONDUCTING 30 IN THOU. The first and most important step towards the attainment of physiological knowledge, is the study of the fabric of the human body. “ Et primitm," says Haller, “ cognoscenda est fabrica cor- poris lnimani, cujus penb infinitae partes sunt. Qui physiologiam ab anatome avellere studuerunt, ii certb mihi videntur, cum ma- thematicis posse comparari cpii machinie alicujus vires et func- tiones calculo exprimere suscipiunt, cujus neque rotas cognitas habent, neque tympana, neque mensuras, neque materiam.” A knowledge of human anatomy alone is, however, not sufficient to enable us to form accurate views of the functions of the various organs. Before an exact judgment can be formed of the functions of most parts of living bodies, Haller says, that the construction of the same part must be examined and compared in man, in various qua- drupeds, in birds, in fishes, and even in insects. And, in proof of the value which attaches to this knowledge of comparative anatomy, he shews how, from that science, it may be determined that the liver is the organ which secretes bile; and that the bile found in the gall-bladder is not secreted by, but conveyed to, that organ : for no animal has a gall-bladder without a liver, although many have a liver without a gall-bladder; and, in every case where a gall-blad- der is present, it has such a communication with the liver, that the bile secreted by the latter may be easily transferred to the former. “Vides adeb,” lie adds, “ bilem hepatc egere, in quo paretur, vesicula non egere, non ergo in vesicula nasci, ex hepate verb in vesiculam transire.” And Cuvier has happily compared the examination of the com- parative anatomy of an organ, in its gradation from its most complex to its simplest state, to an experiment which consists in removing successive portions of the organ, with a view to determine its most essential and important part. In the animal series we see this experiment performed by the hand of nature, without those dis- turbances which mechanical violence must inevitably produce. We thus learn, from comparative anatomy, that the vestibule is the fundamental part of the organ of hearing; and that the other portions, the semicircular canals, the cochlea, the tympanum and its contents, are so many additions made successively to it, according as the increasing perceptive powers of the animals rendered a more delicate acoustic organ necessary. In a similar manner we learn, that one portion of the nervous system, in those animals in which it has a definite arrangement, is pre-eminently associated with the mental principle, and is connected with, and presides over, the other parts. This organ, the brain, is always situate at the anterior or