INNERVATION. [chap. xi. 382 tions, the nerve and muscle were brought in contact, or were made to form con- spicuous parts of the arrangement employed in the developement of the phenomena, the signs of the electric current are just as distinct when the circuit is completed by the contact of other parts ; or if the continuity be maintained by muscles, the main nervous trunks having been removed. Thus, if a frog be flayed, and the bones and muscles of the pelvis be cut away, so as to leave the lower extremities attached to the thorax by the lumbar nerves, contractions will be produced by bending up the leg so as to bring it in contact with the eyes, the muscles of the head, or the back. And if this frog be placed with its.head in one capsule and its legs in another, the current may be detected by the galvanometer in the ordinary way. Or, if the spinal nerves and the piece of the spinal cord be removed from the lower limbs prepared in the ordinary way, the signs of the current may be obtained in the usual methods. Piles made of legs prepared in this way develope a current equally intense with that produced from piles with an equal number of elements com- posed of limbs with the nerves remaining. It thus appears that the electromotor element of the current is reduced to the muscles of the leg and thigh in organic union. So far, indeed, is the nerve from contributing to the production of the electrical phenomena, that Matteucci found that a more feeble current was developed in piles formed of the legs of frogs in which a very long portion of the nerve formed an clement. He prepared the legs, leaving attached to them the lumbar and cru- ral parts of the nerve, and formed the pile by placing the nerve on the adjacent leg, so that the communication between the segments was maintained only by the nerves. And it may be shewn further, that the nerve in these experiments acts only as a bad conductor of the electricity developed by the muscles; for, if the nerves be cut away, and the segments of the limbs connected by pieces of moist cotton instead, the phenomena of the pile continue unchanged. Nothing analogous to the proper current has been found in any other reptiles but the Batrachian—nor in any other class of animals. It is not improbable, therefore, that the proper current of the frog may be due to some undiscovered pe- culiarity of structure in that animal. How can we explain these remarkable electrical phenomena in the muscular current directed from the interior to the exterior of all muscles in all animals; and the proper current of the frog, directed from the feet to the head, and peculiar to the Batrachian reptiles ? It is not difficult to discover an explanation of the muscular current. The es- sential conditions necessary to develope the signs of this current are simply, that, by means of a conducting material, the interior of the muscular mass should be brought into communication with the exterior of the muscle, which is more or less tendinous, and covered with areolar tissue, and therefore different from the inte- rior in structure and function. And as the signs of this current are apparent only whilst the muscle is living—tlint is, while it continues to display its contractile power, we may infer that the same organic conditions which are necessary to the developement of contraction, arc requisite for the developement of electricity. Now all that is necessary for the developement of the contractility of muscle is (as has been shewn in Chap, vii.) a healthy nutrition, a due supply of arterial blood, and sufficient exercise of the organ. And it would be impossible, as Mat- teucci remarks, not to admit that the chemical action which must be going on