171 UCHAP. V '"■] MUSCULAR ACTION. Lut, ns that ceased, the muscle would elongate under the weight, and the limb would remain suspended simply by the tenacity of the import. If, now, the muscle, were stretched bet ween the hands, we i should find it to possess some slight elasticity. The elasticity and much of the tenacity of muscles are attributable to the sarcolemma, and to the capillary and areolar tissnes. It does not appear that - elasticity is in any degree a property of the sarcous elements, and i their tenacity must be comparatively slight: but it is the sarcous * tissue alone that possesses contractility. Although it is universally allowed that the muscular tissue is the contractile substance, yet the strange question has been raised, and is still warmly debated, whether it possesses this power in itself, and independently of all other tissues: some contending that inerve is necessary to confer contractility on muscle,—to charge it, as it were, with this property; others, that nerve is only necessary to call it into action; and others, that the property is the essential iattribute of the tissue, and totally independent of all nerves. The time is past when the intricacies of this keen contest can Ik* threaded with any benefit to the student, and we therefore refrain ’ from attempting to follow them. We shall prefer offering him a view of the facts of the subject, as at present known, drawing our conclusions as they arise. The contractility of muscle is exhibited in two varieties of con- traction, passive and active. Pamce contraction is that which every muscle is continually prone to undergo, by the mere quality of its tissue, as long as it remains in its natural situation in the bodv. The muscles are ever kept on the stretch by the nature of their position and attachments, and cannot have their ends so approximated, by attitude or other- wise, as that their tendericy to shorten themselves shall cease. If, for example, the rectus muscle of the thigh have its extremities brought as near together as can be effected artificially by |>osture, they would yet be found to approach still nearer on being freed from their attachment to the bones. The stimulus to this contrac- tion may be therefore considered to be that of extension. In frac- tures and dislocations attended with shortening of the limb, the muscles adapt themselves permanently to their shortened state by virtue of this property. This tendency to contract has been dis- tinguished by the term retractility, from its being manifested by the 1 *®traction that occurs when the belly of a muscle is cut across. Mot, in this instance, the retraction would appear to be in part