CHAPTER X. ARRANGEMENT OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM IN VERTEHRATA. IN 1NVER- xTEBRATA. NERVOUS CENTRES IN MAN. THEIR COVERINGS OR ME- NINGES. THEIR VENOUS SINUSES. THE SPINAL CORD. THE ENCEPHA- LON. THE CIRCULATION WITHIN THE CRANIUM. The leading subdivision of the animal kingdom into Vertebrate and Invertebrate animals is so obviously sanctioned 'by the dis- position of the nervous system peculiar to each, that no natu- ralist hesitates to adopt it. In the vertebrate animals, an osse- ous or cartilaginous column, composed of separate pieces united by amphiarthrosis, forms the principal support and bond of con- nexion for the other parts of the trunk. This column encloses a canal, within which is placed that portion of the nervous centres called the spinal cord, or marrow, with some of its nerves. At its anterior or upper extremity, the component pieces of the column are so modified as to form a dilated cavity, the cranium, in which an- other portion of the central nervous system, the brain, or ence- phalon, with part of the nerves connected with it, is contained. In the invertebrate animals generally there is no internal skele- ton, if we except the slight traces which exist in the cephalo- podous mollusks; but in many of them a modification of the external integument affords the requisite amount of protection and support to the soft tissues and organs. The nervous system, the central part of which is disposed either in detached masses, or in a series along the abdominal surface of the animal, receives no special protection from this external skeleton. The brain and spinal cord, in the vertebrate classes, form a cen- tral axis with which all other parts of the nervous system are con- nected. The former is evidently an aggregate of gangliform swell- ings, each possessing the characters of a nervous centre, but so con- nected with the others, that their functions are in no small degree mutually dependent. The latter has throughout its entire length all the characters of one uniform nervous centre, of cylindrical shape; but experiment has shewn that, if divided into segments, in animals tenacious of vitality, each portion may exert an inde- pendent influence on that segment of the body whose nerves are connected with it. From this fact we may properly regard the cord ,