INNERVATION. 204 CHAP. VIII. fear, joy, disgust, horror, are each accompanied with sensations so peculiar, as to leave an indelible impression on the minds of those who have once experienced them. There are many actions of the living frame, however, in which the play of the nervous system is unconnected with mental change, which arc therefore wholly physical, in origin, as well as in nature. The movement of the oesophagus in propelling food onwards to the stomach is dependent mainly, if not solely, upon the physical stimulus of the food acting upon the nerves of the organ, which in their turn provoke its muscular fibres to contract. The slightest touch, even of a feather, to the mucous membrane of the fauces causes the muscles of deglutition to contract forcibly, as in the act of swallowing; nor can the will control or prevent their action. When the edge of the eyelid is touched, the orbicular muscle con- tracts forcibly, and in immediate response to the stimulus applied. When light is suddenly admitted to the eye, the pupil may be observed to contract, to a degree proportionate to the intensity of the stimulus. Of this action of the iris the individual is quite un- conscious, although perfectly sensible of the admission of light to the eye ; nor can he, by any direct influence of volition, modify or oppose it. We remark, in reference to these actions, that the mind has no share in their production. In some of them, indeed, it is conscious of the application of the stimulus, as well as of the muscular act which follows. But no effort of the will, however great, could interrupt the uniform and natural sequence of the phenomena. And it is well known to medical men that actions of this kind may take place in coma, when all mental manifestations are completely in abeyance. These facts afford abundant evidence of a class of nervous actions, which in respect of their exciting cause, as well as in their intrinsic nature, are independent of mental influence, and which ought on this account to be distinguished from those of volition, sensation, and emotion. Their mechanism is more complex than that of the mental nervous actions; for, while in the latter the change in the nerves is propagated in only one direction, in the former it passes first to some central part of the nervous system, and thence it travels in an opposite course to the motor organs. Hence two nerves are necessary for such actions; the one as an excitor, the other as a motor nerve ; and, on this account, Dr. Marshall Hall has distinguished these actions by the name of excito-motory. That a physical change may excite nervous action quite indepen-