120 POULTRY (V0LA1LLE) Chapon en Supreme.—Blanched and boiled in rich stock, skin removed when jointed; finished in supreme sauce and garnished with slices of truffles, mushrooms, and cocks’ combs. — Timbales de, k la Prineesse. — Timbales of capon forcemeat mixed with chopped truffles; poached, and served with supreme sauce. Poularde braisee k la Chieor^e.—Braised, with stewed endive or chicory. — en petit Deuil.—Braised capon or poularde, with whole truffles inserted in bird whilst braising; cut upand finished in veloute sauce. — a la Dora.—Stuffed with cooked rice mixed with dice shapes of foie-gras and truffles, and braised whole (white), dressed on rice socle; garnished with artichoke bottoms, and sauced over with supreme. — Grand Due.—Fat pullet or poularde, fried in casserole and braised thin with a rich brown sauce flavoured with port wine and old brandy ; garnished with asparagus points, slice of foie-gras, and truffles. — aux Lasagnes.—Braised, with stewed nouilles. — a la Milton.—Galantine of capon or poularde, braised in white stock, served with supreme sauce and garnished with truffles, mushrooms, and cocks’ combs. ( — fareie a la Perigueux.—Stuffed with force- meat and truffles, and braised ; served with truffle sauce. — bouillie a la Turque.—Boiled, cut up, dressed in a rice border with tomato sauce. — sautee a la St. Valentin.—Stewed, with finely chopped truffles and mushrooms, garnished with mushroom heads, hard boiled yolks of eggs, fleurons (small half-moon shapes of puff paste, baked) and chopped parsley, served with orange sauce, reduced with sherry. DINDE—TURKEY. Dinde en Brioche.—Fricasseed, dressed in a border of mashed potatoes browned in the oven. — Ailerons de, brais6e aux navets.—Braised wings, with mashed turnips. — Ballotines.—Boned and stuffed legs, braised; served with spinach, tomatoes, or other suitable garnish. — en Blanquette.—Stewed in white sauce with sliced preserved mushrooms. — bouillie au C6leri.—Boiled, with a white sauce flavoured with celery, and garnished with braised celery. — bouillie aux Huitres.—Boiled,with oyster sauce.