38 POTAGES Consomme Pot au Feu (the National French Soup). —A clear beef and veal soup, with onions, carrots, turnips and celery, and small rounds of toasted bread. -- k la Printaniere (Spring Soup).—A clear gravy soup, garnished with finely-cut spring vegetables. — Printaniere aux Quenelles.—Clear soup with poached chicken forcemeat quenelles and macedoine of spring vegetables. — Prineesse.—Clarified chicken broth, garnished with small cube-shaped chicken quenelles (stamped out) and asparagus points. — aux Profiterolas.—Clear soup with a kind of very small cheese paste fritter. — aux Quenelles frites.—Clear soup, garnished with very small choux paste quenelles, fried. — aux Queues de Bceuf.—Clear ox-tail soup. — a la Rachel.—A richly flavoured clear soup, with small chicken quenelles, dice of tongue and truffles. — a la Ramboule.—Clear chicken soup, garnished with stamped-out rounds of poached chicken que- nelle meat and young green peas. — aux Ravioli.—A clear soup made with chicken and veal stock, with little round nouille paste shapes stuffed with forcemeat (poached). — au riz.—Clear soup garnished with plain boiled rice. — a la Renaissance.—Clear soup with sliced white mushrooms, green peas, rice, and small cheese croutons (separate). — a la Royale.—Clear soup with poached egg custard, called royal, cut into cube, dice, round, diamond, or other fancy shapes. — des Rois.—A rich chicken stock, clarified, gar- nished with julienne strips of quail fillets, truffles, and asparagus points. Parmesan croutons handed separately. — a la Russe (Russian Gravy Soup).—A clear soup with finely-cut slices of carrots, beetroot, celery and leeks, flavoured with beetroot juice. — St. Saens.—Delicately flavoured chicken con- somme, garnished with fine pearl barley and small dice of black-skinned potatoes known as pommes de tcrve negvesse. — au Sagem (Sago Soup).—A clear soup with sago. — Solferino.—A clear soup with carrots, turnips and potatoes, cut out with a small round vegetable sepop, termed in French d la culiere. — au Semoule.—Clear soup with evenly-grained semolina cooked in it.