FLOUNDER 63 Mousse de Homard, frappee.—iced lobster souffle, top decorated with lobster coral and paprika. Petites Dormes de Homard a la Creme.—Lobster and tomato aspic set in square fluted moulds, dressed on squares of pastry. Souffle de Homard, sauce aurora.—Steamed souffle, consisting of lobster, eggs, and bechamel sauce, served with aurora sauce. Beignets d’Huitres.—Oyster fritters. Huftres grilles.—Grilled oysters. — en coquilles.—Scalloped oysters. — a la Duxelles.—Oyster stew baked in shells. — a la Du Barry.—Small baked potatoes stuffed with oysters ; supreme sauce. — frites.—Fried oysters. — a la Poulette.—Fricasseed oysters. — a la Salamandre. — Oysters on shells with supreme sauce and cayenne ; sprinkled with bread- crumbs, grated parmesan and butter; browned under salamander. Chaudfroid d’huitres a la Montpelier.— Oysters set in aspic on border of rice, masked with white or red chaudfroid sauce, centre filled with seasoned green salad. Cromeskies aux huitres. — Small cork shapes composed of minced oysters, oyster liquor, cream, lemon juice, egg-yolks, etc., wrapped in bacon, dipped in batter, and fried in deep fat; garnished with fried parsley. Fricassee d’huitres.—Oystersistewed in white sauce. Quenelles aux huitres.—Small chicken or veal quenelles, with one or two oysters in centre of each, poached in fish stock, served coated with white sauce. — frites aux huitres.—Fried oyster quenelles, served with piquant or white wine sauce. Petits Pates aux huitres.—Puff pastry patties filled with a delicately prepared oyster stew. Lamproie sautee a la Francaise.—Stewed lam- prey, French style. — en fricassee.—Fricasseed lamprey. Escalopes de Langouste a la Cardinal.—Oval croquet shapes of crawfish or lobster, dished up in row, with a small poached egg coated with cardinal sauce in centre of each, decorated with a prawn at each end of croquet, and stars of truffle. Limande aux Eperlans.—Boiled flounder garnished with fried smelts. — k la Janin.—Braised fillets of flounders stuffed with fish quenelle forcemeat, garnished with truffles, oysters cut in halves, and crayfish or prawn tails in centre of dish, sauced over with espagnole, enriched with fish liquor and white wine.