181 SWEETS Framboises (Raspberries). — The same style as strawberries can be applied to raspberries. Petits pains de fraises (Cold).—Little timbale moulds coated with maraschino jelly, filled with fresh strawberry puree, stiffened with gelatine. Tivoli aux fraises (Cold). —Maraschino jelly and strawberry cream set in alternate layers in fancy mould ; garnished with fresh strawberries. CPOUtes aux fruits.—These are compotes of fruit dressed on fried cake or bread croutons, and are garnished with glac6 fruit, angelica, cherries, raisins, and almonds, sauced over with fruit syrup. Croutes aux abricots. Croutes aux ponimes. Croutes a l'orange. Croutes aux cerises. Croutes aux peches. Croutes aux framboises. Croutes aux fraises. Apricot croutes. Apple croutes. Orange croutes. Cherry croutes. Peach croutes. Raspberry croutes. Strawberry croutes. Croutes k la Normande (Hot).—Pared, cored, and quartered apples, stewed in syrup, flavoured with butter, lemon juice and sherry, dressed on fried bread croutons, coated with dissolved peach jam ; served with hot syrup. — au Madere.—Any kind of compote of fruit, dressed on fried bread or cake crusts, and served with hot fruit syrup flavoured with sherry. Cotelettes en surprise.—Puff paste shaped like cutlets, centre filled with apricot or apple marma- lade, egged, crumbed, and fried, or baked in oven. Denises a la jalousie.—Little puff paste sandwiches filled with custard, and made to appear like lattice work on surface. Gelees—Jellies. Gelee aux amandes. Gelee de pommes. Gelee aux abricots. Gelee d'epines-vinettes. Gelee de groseilles noires. Gelee de fraises. Gelee de menthe. Gelee de pied de veau. Gelee au marasquin. Gelee au cafe. Gelee au the vert. Gelee au curaqao. Gelee aux airelles. Gelee de groseilles vertes. Gelee d'ananas. Gelee de citron. Gelee de raisins. Almond jelly. Apple jelly. Apricot jelly. Barberry jelly. Black currant jelly. Strawberry jelly. Mint jelly. Calf’s foot jelly. Maraschino jelly. Coffee jelly. Green tea jelly. Curasao jelly. Cranberry jelly. Gooseberry jelly. Pineapple jelly. Lemon jelly. Grape jelly.