n8 POULTRY (VOLAILLE) Canard saute au Pecheur.—Par-fried, and stewed in demi-glace sauce ; garnished with crayfish-tails. — k la Chasseur.—Par-roasted, and stewed in brown sauce, with chopped mushrooms and fillets of game. — k la Reforme.—Par-roasted, and stewed in brown sauce, reduced with black currant jelly and port wine. Croustade de Canard a la Chartraine.—French raised pie crust lined with forcemeat and filled alternately with sausage meat and stewed fillets of duck, baked in the oven. Salmi de Canard.—Par-roasted, cut up, stewed in rich brown sauce made with duck giblets. — a la Bourgeoise.—Par-roasted and stewed, with button onions slightly fried,and reduced in espagnole sauce with red wine. — a la Castillane.—Roasted, and stewed in brown sauce, with orange juice, and rind finely shredded. — a l’lrlandaise.—Par-roasted and stewed, with slices of fried onions, dice of fried ham, and port wine sauce. — aux Olives farcies. — Par-roasted, cut up, and stewed in brown sauce with stuffed olives. — a la Verjus.—Par-fried, and stewed in demi-glace sauce containing blanched green grapes and red currant jelly. Zephires de Canard a la Metropole.—Zephyr moulds filled with duck quenelle meat and salpicon; poached, decorated with thin borders of puff paste, spinach and cherries ; sauce reforme. — a la Presse.—Roast fillets and wing portions removed, carcase chopped and pressed, and the juice thus obtained is blended with chopped liver and port wine sauce ; this is strained over the dish. CHAPON, POULARDE. Capon or Capon Pullet. Note.—Most of these dishes may, if left whole, be served as remove (relev£) ; but when cut up, sauced over and garnished, they become entrees. Turkeys can be treated in the same way. Chapon k l’Argenteuil.—Braised white, sauced over with supreme and garnished with asparagus points. — blanquette de, aux Champignons. — Boiled and stewed in white sauce (bechamel), with sliced mushrooms. — a la Clery.—Broiled in butter and stewed in parsley and onion sauce. — bouilli k la Genoise.—Boiled, garnished with finely cut nouilles, finished in veloute or allemande sauce flavoured with parmesan cheese and curry.