LAMB AND MUTTON 107 Cotelettes de Mouton an naturel.—Plain broiled or grilled mutton cutlets. — cl la Nelson.—Par-broiled and pressed, covered with chicken forcemeat, onion pur£e, and grated cheese, baked in the oven ; demi-glace sauce. — cl la NivePnaise.—Plain broiled ; served with glazed turnips in centre; gravy or demi-glace sauce. — cl la PompadoUP.—Stuffed with onion puree, fried, and garnished with stuffed tomatoes. — a la Ppoven^ale.—Par-broiled, one side coated with onion puree, egged and breaded (crumbs mixed with grated cheese), fried, and served with olive-shaped fried potatoes. — a la Pupee de Pommes de Teppe.—Breaded and fried, dressed round mashed potatoes. — a la RefOPme.—Breaded with white breadcrumbs, mixed with finely chopped ham, and fried in butter ; garnished with mushrooms, truffles, gherkins, ham and hard-boiled white of eggs, all cut into fine julienne strips, and served with poivrade sauce, mixed with red currant jelly. — a la Salvanty.—Braised neck of mutton, divided into cutlets, dished up with puree of green peas in centre ; sauce, demi-glace. — a la St. Cloud.—Larded with truffles and broiled ; served with gravy or demi-glace sauce. — a la St. Gepmain.—Grilled or broiled, with green pea puree. — a la Soubise.—Broiled or braised, with white onion soubise sauce. — a la SoyeP.—Par-broiled and pressed, seasoned, sprinkled with finely chopped parsley, shallots and savoury herbs, crumbed, and fried in butter, served with demi-glace sauce, and flavoured with garlic and red currant jelly. — aux Tomates.—Crumbed and fried, with stewed tomatoes or tomato puree. — a la Vatel.—Stuffed from the sides with chicken farce, mixed with chopped truffles, egged, crumbed, and fried ; garnished with financiere ragout. — a la Vicomtesse.—Grilled and pressed, coated with reduced madere sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried ; garnished with macedoine of spring vege- tables ; demi-glace sauce. Cous op Capbonades de Mouton en Ragout.— Stewed mutton, neck or loin chops, with carrots, turnips, onions and mushrooms, and brown sauce. — a la JaPdiniePe.—A brown stew of mutton, gar- nished with a mixture of carrots, turnips, peas and French beans.