124 POULTRY (VOLAILLE) Pigeon A la Crapaudine.—Split open, put on skewers, egged, crumbed and broiled ; served with brown sauce, stoned olives and sliced truffles. — Patd de, k l’Anglaise (English PigeonPie) .-Par- broiled stuffed pigeons into halves filled into a pie- dish,with slices of rumpsteak, parsley,seasoning,and hard-boiled slices of eggs and stock, covered with piecrust and baked ; served hot or cold. — Pouding de, k l’Anglaise (English Pigeon Pudding).—Pigeons cut into neat pieces, seasoned, filled into a pudding basin (lined with suet crust), with thin slices of rumpsteak, hard-boiled eggs, chopped parsley, and stock, covered with suet crust and boiled or steamed. — k l’Espagnole.—Braised, with dice shapes of fried ham, served with espagnole sauce, flavoured with white wine and chilli vinegar. — a la Marigny.— Cut in halves, seasoned and braised, dressed on heart-shaped slices of smoked ox-tongue, covered with oiled paper, and baked in the oven ; served with madere sauce. — en Matelote.—Cut into pieces, seasoned, broiled in butter and slices of bacon,stewed in brown sauce, flavoured with white wine, chopped chives, parsle}'-, thyme and mushrooms ; garnished with fried button onions. — A la Nivernaise.—Stewed, with braised turnips. — en papillotes (Pigeons in Cases).—Cut in halves, seasoned, covered with a mixture of liver farce, chopped shallots, parsley, and sliced mushrooms ; dressed in buttered paper cases, baked slowly in the oven, and glazed before serving. — A la Paysanne.—Braised Bordeaux pigeons, cut in joints, dressed with green peas ; sauce demi- glace. — a la Sainte-Menehould.—Boiled, in rich white sauce, flavoured with parsley and savoury herbs; when cold cut up; egged, crumbed and fried ; served with the above sauce drained and poured round the dish. — A la Talleyrand.—Braised, garnished with arti- choke bottoms, mushroom heads, braised chicken liver and ox-tongue, heated in velout£ sauce. Kari de Pigeons (Curried Pigeons). — Cut into quarters, fried in butter and curried ; served in a rice border. Patd Chaud de Pigeons (French Pigeon Pie).— Piecrust filled with stewed pigeons and sliced bacon and mushrooms baked ; served hot or cold (poivrade sauce)