7i SOLE Filets de Soles k la Joinville (Fillets of Sole, Joinville Style). — Rolled fillets of soles, dressed with truffles, prawns, crawfish, smelts, and small fish quenelles. — Louisa-Anna. — Fillets of soles, folded, and poached in white wine, dressed on bread croutons, sauced over with rich tomato puree, with slice of truffle in centre. — a la Mareelle.—Fillets of soles spread over with champignon purde, folded and poached ; dressed on dish in border form, sauced over with perigueux sauce, pommes Anna in centre. -a la Mapie-Louise.—Fillets of soles, folded, poached in white wine and mushroom liquor; dressed in centre of oblong dish, with a fancy border of potato puree; baked in oven; sauced over with supreme sauce, with border of green mousseline sauce, julienne strips of truffles sprinkled over the fillets; served hot. — a la Mareehale.—Stewed fillets of soles in reduced white sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter; bechamel sauce served separate. — a la Mayonnaise.—Fillets of soles set in border mould with mayonnaise aspic, centre filled with dressed salad. — a la Messaline.—Fillets of soles poached in champagne, dressed and sauced over with tomato sauce flavoured with Italian pimentos; garnished with artichoke bottoms. — a la MontPeuil.—Fillets of soles cooked in white wine, dressed in a circle, with fried potato balls in centre; fillets sauced over with veloute sauce, enriched with fish essence. — a la Mornay.—Baked fillets of soles, dressed on dish with rich white sauce and grated cheese; browned under salamander. — a la Nantua.—Fillets of soles poached in white wine, dressed on rice or semolina border, and sauced over with allemande sauce flavoured with crayfish butter, centre filled with prawn or crayfish tails, heated up in allemande sauce. — a l’OPly (Fillets of Sole, Orly Style).—Fried fillets of soles with tomato sauce and fried parsley. — Pagani.— A dish similar to sole au vin blanc, finished with a rich veloute ; garnished with mussels, champignons, and grated cheese, browned. — a la Piemontaise.—Fillets of soles with tomato sauce; garnished with polenta croutons and slices of truffles. — en Ramequin.—Rings of pastry filled with layer of white sauce, fillets of soles, soubise pur£e and grated cheese, etc, baked in sharp oven.