62 POISSONS (FISH) Halibute grille, sauce cpevettes. — Grilled halibut, shrimp sauce. Hareng frais grille.—Grilled fresh herring. —■ au beUPPe.—Broiled herring in butter. — k la Maitre d’Hotel.— Grilled herring with parsley butter. — a la Moutarde.—Grilled herring with mustard sauce. Homard saute k la Dumas.—Lobster meat tossed in butter and finished in brown sauce, flavoured with white wine, paprika and lemon juice. Buissons de Homard (Bush of Lobsters).—Lobster dressed in a pyramidal form. Cotelettes de Homard (Lobster Cutlets).—Mixture of lobster, shallots, bechamel sauce, mushrooms and egg made into cutlet shapes, egged, crumbed, fried, and served with tomato or other sauce. Homapd a l’Americaine (Lobster, American style). —Lobster stewed in the shell with tomato sauce, red wine and savoury herb seasoning. — en Aspic.—Lobster and hard-boiled egg set in aspic jelly. — a la Bechamel (Baked Lobster, Bechamel Style). —Shells of lobster filled with minced lobster meat, bechamel sauce and seasoning, and baked. — faPCi.—Stuffed lobster baked. — k la Gloucester (Lobster, Gloucester Style).— Stewed lobster,with a sauce composed of pulverised lobster shell, butter, egg yolks, and meat extract. — au gratin.—Baked lobster, gratin style. — A l’lndienne.—Curried lobster. — a la Suedoise (Lobster, Swedish Fashion).— Border of lobster meat and forcemeat, poached in a fancy border mould, and sauced over with anchovy sauce. Bordure de Homard k l’lndienne.—Border of savoury lobster mixture, centre filled with rice, decorated with hard-boiled egg and truffle. Coquilles de Homard a la Gauloise.—Poached coquille shapes of lobster forcemeat, with lobster scallop in centre of each, served with cardinal sauce. — de Homards (Scalloped Lobster).—Stewed lobster served in shells. Cotelettes de Homard a 1’Aspie.—Slices of lobster meat set in aspic, cutlet shapes. — a la Tomate. — Lobster cutlets with tomato sauce. Mayonnaise de Homard.—Pieces of lobster and salad masked with mayonnaise sauce, decorated with pieces of claws, hard-boiled egg, strips of fillet of anchovy, capers, beetroot, coral, stoned olives and gherkins.