125 ENTREES OF CHICKEN Timbales de Pigeons k l’Espagnole.—A kind of raised pie (hot water crust) filled with braised pigeons, mushrooms, chicken liver, olives, small chicken quenelles, and dice of bacon and brown sauce ; baked in usual way, served hot. POULET—VOLAILLE. Chicken or Fowl. Bouchees de Volaille k la Vatel.—Small bouche shaped chicken creams, with foie-gras in centre, poached, and set in paste crusts ; sauce, supreme. COGOtte de Volaille.—Jointed and sauteed, placed in earthenware casserole, with truffles, cepes, arti- choke bottoms, and lamb’s bread and its sauce; covered with a light chicken farce, and steamed in the oven. Cotelettes de Volaille a la Montpensiep.— Boned, cut up, or shaped into cutlets, fried, pressed, coated with farce, egged, crumbed, and fried; tomato sauce. Cuisses de Volaille a la Florentine.—Legs, fried in butter, immersed in supreme sauce, egged, crumbed in breadcrumbs and grated parmesan cheese, fried in deep fat ; tomato sauce. — a la Wellington.—Legs, fried in oil, drained, and stewed in brown sauce, flavoured with chutney. Filets de Volaille aux pointes d’Asperges.— Braised fillets with asparagus points. — aux Coneombres. — Braised fillets with small cucumbers stuffed. — A la Supreme.—Broiled fillets larded ; garnished wilh truffles, and served with supreme sauce. Medaillons de Volaille k la Reine. — Fillets in medallion shapes, pre-fried and covered with chicken farce, mixed with lobster spawn, poached, dressed on socle, and sauced over with supreme; decorated with strips of truffles forming the initials A. R. Poulet.—Chicken. — k l’Arlequin.—Breast and wings skinned, larded with truffles and bacon, broiled in butter, and served with financiere ragout. — Blanquette en Demi-Deuil.—Fricasseed, gar- nished with sliced truffles and mushrooms. — bouilli k 1’EstragOn.—Boiled, served with white sauce, flavoured with tarragon leaves. — braise a 1’EstragOn.— Larded, stuffed, and braised ; served with a rich brown sauce flavoured with tarragon. — braises aux Fines Herbes.—Braised, served with brown sauce flavoured with chopped chives, tarragon, chervil, parsley, cress, and white wine. f 3