BEEF 89 Tournedos de Bceuf k l’Elysee.—Slice of braised sweetbread and mushroom head on each tournedo, with a border of b£arnaise sauce. — a 1’EmppesS.—Broiled in butter, dressed on fried bread croutons, with half a grilled tomato and a small piece of grilled marrow on each; garnished with asparagus points and noisette potatoes; sauce, p£rigueux. — a la FavOPite.—Grilled, dressed on croutons, with slice of foie-gras ; garnished with truffles and asparagus points ; sauce, madere. — a la Gabrielle. — Sauteed, dressed on rounds of puff pastry of similar size, covered with light chicken puree; garnished with truffles, green peas, and straw potatoes ; sauce, b£arnaise and demi- glace. — a la Grand Hotel.—Grilled, dressed on croutons of rice of same size, slices of foie-gras and asparagus points; sauce, madere. — a la Helder.—Broiled in butter, dressed on crou- tons, with bearnaise sauce as border of each tournedo, and tomato puree in centre ; surrounded with noisette potatoes. — MacMahon.— Grilled, garnished with slices of truffles, flageolets, and chateau potatoes; sauce, madere. — Menagere.—Tournedos dressed on a border of duchess potato (puree), centre filled with braised carrots and turnips (olive shape), button onions, and noisette potatoes ; sauce, demi-glace. — a la Mercedes.—Coated with artichoke puree and mushroom heads ; sauce, demi-glace or madere. — Meridionale.—Grilled, garnished with sorrel, stuffed tomatoes, green peas, and cepes; plain gravy. — k la Mireille .—Tournedos dressed on croutons of brioche paste ; garnished with asparagus points ; sauce tomate. — Mikado.—Grilled and garnished with half a stuffed and baked tomato on each tournedo ; sauce, madere. — k la Monaco. — Tournedos dressed on bread croutons spread with foie-gras farce ; garnished with mushroom heads and slices of tongue ; demi- glace sauce. — Montmorency.—Tournedos placed on rice crou- tons ; garnished with artichoke bottoms filled with asparagus points ; plain gravy. — Monte Carlo.—Garnished with slice of foie-gras and truffle on top of each, and dish surrounded with fried slices of sweetbread and fried brain ; sauce, madere.