47 SAUCES. The importance of sauce in cookery is so well known that I need not offer any excuse for including the definitions of all the standard sauces and the most popular of other liquid seasonings in this book. In almost every instance some kind of sauce is named along with or as an ingredient in the pre- paration of dishes. Again, the blending of two or more sauces is frequently recommended, so that we have given the names of these, together with a con- densed description of the kinds most frequently required. It is needless to add that the blending of a sauce, its flavour and colour, has much to do with the success of any dish with which it is served, whilst the harmonising effect, or the want of it, may make or spoil a dish listed on a menu. Albert.—Allemande sauce, finely chopped shallots reduced in tarragon vinegar, grated horseradish, cream, yolks of eggs, and chopped parsley. Albufera.—Rich white sauce (supreme) flavoured with meat extract or glaze. Allemande (German).—A white sauce, made from veal stock, thickened with white roux, cream, and yolks of eggs, flavoured with nutmeg and lemon j uice. Amepieaine (American).—Tomato sauce blended with lobster butter (whisked in). Amiral (Admiral).—A white sauce, with chopped capers, parsley, lemon rind and juice, and anchovy paste to flavour. AnehoiS (Anchovy).—A fish sauce made with flour, butter, fish stock, milk, and anchovy essence. Aurore (Aurora).—Bechamel sauce, cream, red pepper, tarragon and shallot, flavoured with lobster butter to give it a reddish tint. Avignonnaise.—Bechamel sauce, yolks of eggs, grated parmesan cheese and chopped parsley, flavoured with shallots and garlic. Ayola.—A mayonnaise flavoured with crushed garlic and lemon juice. Bearnaise.—Consists of fresh butter, yolks of eggs, chopped shallots or onion, tarragon, parsley, a pinch of cayenne, and lemon juice. Bearnaise Brune.—Same as above, with the addi- tion of meat glaze to give it a brown colour. Bearnaise Tomate.—Same as above, adding tomato pur£e in place of meat glaze.