197 CHEESE SAVOURIES Riz k la Florentine. — Stewed rice with picked shrimps, crayfish tails, or prawns, curry paste, grated parmesan cheese, and finely chopped fried onions. — a l’Indienne.—Curried rice. — Milanaise.—Rice cooked with grated parmesan cheese, mixed with chopped fowl, game, tongue, or ham, seasoned with salt, nutmeg, and pepper. — Piemontaise.—Stewed rice with mashed pota- toes, finely chopped fried shallots, grated parme- san cheese, butter, and cayenne pepper. — Polonaise.—Stewed rice with thinly sliced fried onions, chopped ham, cayenne pepper, and grated cheese. — a la Reine.—Stewed rice with chopped hard- boiled white of egg, cooked smoked haddock, and grated cheese ; dished up and browned in a quick oven. — Turque. — Stewed rice with saffron powder, cayenne pepper, Smyrna raisins, and fresh butter. Rizzoletti.—Savoury rice croquettes, composed of stewed rice, seasoned with a rich savoury sauce; some prepared minced meat (salpicon) is enclosed in the centre of each croquette ; they are then egged, crumbed, and fried. Bouehees la Caroline.—Small bouche shapes of savoury rice, fried in deep fat, scooped out in centre and filled with scrambled eggs. Croutes de fromage a l’Ang-laise. — Welsh rarebit. — aux OBUfs poches. — Buck rarebit. Toasted cheese with poached egg on top. Feuillentines an parmesan. — Puff paste sticks with parmesan cheese. Fondu au parmesan.—Parmesan cheese souffles. Fondue Brillat Savarin.—A kind of stirred or scrambled egg mixed with grated cheese, butter, a little white wine, and seasoning ; served in little china casseroles. — Italienne. — Cream thickened with flour and cooked, mixed with parmesan cheese, eggs, and butter ; baked in gratin dish. Fondus a la Yarmouth.—Cheese souffles mixed with bloater-paste. Gnokis Suisses. — Cheese-flavoured choux paste quenelles poached in stock, drained, and fried in butter. Noisettes au parmesan.—These are small ball shapes of choux paste, mixed with grated parmesan cheese, and fried in deep fat. Pailles au parmesan.—Cheese straws. I 3