SOUFFLES AND OMELETTES 187 Pouding a la Reine (Queen Pudding).—Lemon souffle, with minced fruit and crushed macaroons in centre, flavoured with liqueur. — Royale. — Vanilla souffle, mixed with crushed finger biscuits before steaming. — k la Renaissance. — Almond souffle mixture filled in mould, buttered, and thickly sprinkled with pistachios, steamed, and served with pistachio cream sauce. — St. Cloud. —Brown bread pudding, mixed with almonds and glac6 cherries, steamed, and coated with apricot marmalade. — k la Sicilienne (Sicilian Pudding).—Made from rice cooked in milk, fruits, eggs, cream, and sugar. — a la Saxonne (Saxon Pudding).—Brown bread pudding,mixed with ground almondsand crystallised fruit; baked or steamed. — a la Victoria (Victoria Pudding).—Prepared with chopped marrow, apples, flour, eggs, milk, sugar, apricot jam, breadcrumbs, and glace fruit; steamed or baked in moulds. — Viennoise.—Bread and custard, flavoured with caramel, steamed, and served with Sabayon or custard sauce. — Vincent.—Souffle of chestnut puree with crushed biscuits, minced glace fruit, flavoured with kirsch syrup in centre. Pain de riz aux fraises (Hot).—Timbale of rice with compote of strawberries in centre, sauced over with strawberry syrup. Timbales de riz au fraises.—Light rice cream in the form of a timbale, masked with strawberry jelly, and decorated with fresh fruit. Savarin Medici.—Baked savarin border dipped in maraschino syrup, centre filled with firm rich almond cream ; decorated with whipped cream. — aux fruits.—Savarin soaked in syrup, studded with strips of almonds and garnished with fruit. — au kiPSCh.—Savarin with kirsch syrup. — au rhum.—Savarin with rum syrup. SOUFFLES AND OMELETTES. Note.—The name souffle in cooking is given to any light preparation, hot or cold ; as a rule, sweet souffles are either steamed or baked. Sweet omelettes are made soufflee by beating the egg whites to a stiff froth, and mixing it with the other ingredients; these are baked in the oven, whilst ordinary sweet omelettes are fried in the omelette pan over a quick fire. See also notes on Omelettes.