73 SOLE Coquilles de Filets de Soles k la Favorite.— Cockle-shell moulds filled with cooked fillets of sole and lobster meat, coated with mayonnaise, decorated with truffle and hard-boiled white of egg- Escalopes de Soles a la Vernon (Scallops of Soles, Vernon Style).—Braised fillets of soles dressed on rice; garnished with stewed oysters and mussels; rich white sauce. Hatelets de Sole k la Villeroi.—Rolled sole fillets stuffed with forcemeat, placed on silver skewers, seasoned, crumbed, and baked in the saute pan ; served with a richly buttered tomato sauce. Paupiettes de Soles, Alexandra.—Fillets of soles spread with lobster farce and rolled into paupiettes; poached in sauterne and fish stock ; garnished with truffles, anchovy butter and new potatoes tossed in butter; sauce, cardinal. — a la Bismark. — Fillets of soles soaked in marinade, spread with fish farce and chopped truffles, and rolled up ; poached in white wine ; dressed on a border of potato puree, sauced over with sauce marguary, sprinkled with grated par- mesan, and browned in sharp oven. — a l’Empereur.—Braised fillets of soles, rolled and stuffed with turbot farce, dressed in cassolettes, sauced over with bechamel cream sauce, flavoured with paprika, anchovy essence; tops sprinkled with finely chopped truffle and horseradish. — a la Michel.—Rolled fillets of soles stuffed with foie-gras farce and poached, dressed on a border of green peas, with ragout of prawns in centre; sauce, supreme. — a la Ni§oise.—Baked rolled fillets of soles, stuffed with fish farce, herbs and anchovy paste; sauced over with a rich tomato puree containing parmesan cheese ; garnished with small gherkins, sprinkled with grated cheese, and browned in oven. — de Filets de Soles a la Richelieu.—Baked rolled fillets of soles stuffed with whiting forcemeat, dressed on croutes spread with fish farce, with mushroom head on each ; sauced over with cardinal sauce, enriched with egg-yolk; a star of truffle placed on centre of each fillet. Soles en souehet (Souchet of Soles).—Boiled soles with finely-cut strips of carrot and turnips and chopped parsley. — a la Vatel.—Baked soles, boned and stuffed, with whiting forcemeat, cooked in white wine and mushroom liquor; masked over with white wine sauce; garnished with truffles, gherkins, cocks’ combs and mushrooms. D