LAMB AND MUTTON i*3 Poitrine d’Agneau k la Turque.—Boned, stuffed with sausage meat, braised, dressed in a border of stewed rice, flavoured with saffron, sauced over with demi-glace. Poitrine de Mouton.—Breast of mutton. — aux Haricots Verts.—Braised; served with French beans. — aux Macaroni.—Cut into pieces, stewed, and served with macaroni stewed in tomato sauce. — a la Nivernaise.—Stuffed and braised; garnished with braised turnips and button onions. — aux Petits Pois.—Stewed the same way as ragout or haricot; served with green peas. ■— a la Robert.—Braised ; served with brown onion sauce. Queue d’Agneau.—Lamb’s tail. — sautees.—Sheep’s or lamb’s tails fried in butter and stewed in brown sauce. — a la puree de pois.—Stewed in brown sauce, dressed in a border of puree of green peas. — au Riz.—Stewed in brown sauce with rice. Queue de Mouton.—Sheep’s tail. — aux epinards.—Braised, served with spinach. — braisees a la Fran^aise. — Braised, with carrots, turnips, and small onions; garnished with these vegetables and with fried potato balls. — a la Jardiniere.— Braised, served with neatly cut mixed spring vegetables. Ris d’Agneau aux Petits Pois.—Braised lamb’s breads larded ; served with green peas. — en eaisses.—Braised lamb’s breads, served in paper cases. — frit.—Fried lamb’s breads. — a la Jardiniere.—Braised lamb’s breads larded ; served with finely cut spring vegetables. — au riz.—Stewed lamb’s breads with sliced mush- rooms and white sauce ; served in a rice border. Coquilles de Ris d’Agneau.—Lamb’s breads stew baked in shells or cases. Rognons de Mouton.—Sheep’s kidney. — au beurre d’AnchoiS.—Broiled or grilled, with anchovy butter in centre ; demi-glace sauce. — a la broche.—Grilled or broiled on skewers. — au Champagne.— Sliced, par-fried, and stewed with champagne and brown sauce. — a la Chinoise.—Split, grilled, centres filled with stewed asparagus points, and garnished with whole fried eggs ; tomato sauce. — a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Skinned, split open, and broiled ; served with maitre d’hotel butter.