96 ENTRIES Cervelle de Veau k la Ravigote.— Fried calf’s brain with savoury herb sauce. — k la Tartape. — Fried calf’s brain served with tar tare sauce. Souffle de Cepvelle de Veau.—Calf’s brain souffle baked in paper cases or shells. Escalopes de Veau are fillets of veal cut into cutlet, round, oval, or heart shapes, flattened and trimmed, seasoned, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter. — aux aspepges.—With stewed asparagus points. — aux epmapds.—With spinach as garnish. — a la Holstein.—Garnished with slices of hard- boiled egg, anchovy fillets, gherkins, and capers. — au jambon.—With fried or broiled slices of ham. — k la P^pigopd.—Larded with truffles and bacon, and fried ; served with madere sauce. — aux petitS pois.—With green peas. — a la Savoisienne.—Dressed in the centre of a border of small savoury rice timbales; sauce, demi-glace and tomato. — a la Tomate.—Served with tomato puree. — a la Viennoise.—Served with brown sauce ; garnished with gherkins, olives, capers, fillets of anchovies, and hard-boiled egg. Foie de Veau.—Calf’s Liver. — saut6 k l’Allemande.—Sliced calf’s liver tossed in butter, with brown savoury sauce. — A l’Anglaise.—Fried calf’s liver with slices of bacon and brown sauce. — a la Boupgeoise.—Slices of calf’s liver larded and braised ; garnished with braised carrots and button onions ; sauce, demi-glace. — bpaise a l’ltalienne.—Braised calf’s liver with brown sauce containing tomato puree, chopped shallots, and mushrooms. — pane.—Breaded calf’s liver fried. — pique.—Larded calf’s liver, braised. — poti. —Roast calf’s liver. — saute, sauce piquante. — Stewed or tossed calf’s liver with piquante sauce. — fpit a la Tomate. — Fried calf’s liver with tomato sauce. Quenelles de Foie de Veau.—Calf’s liver quenelles poached and served with brown sauce. Fpicandeau de Veau aux Champignons. — Served with stewed mushrooms. — k la Macedoine.—Larded and braised cushion piece of veal; garnished with fancifully cut vege- tables called macedoine de legumes.