5i SA UCES Genevoise (Geneva).—Madere sauce reduced with fish essence, flavoured with garlic and anchovy essence. Genoise (Genoese).—Espagnole reduced with fish stock and red wine, flavoured with anchovy essence, parsley and mushrooms. Gibier (Game).—A brown sauce flavoured with essence of game. Gloucester.—Mayonnaise cream mixed with chopped tarragon, flavoured with mustard and chilli vinegar ; served with fish or meat salads. Gourmet.—A brown fish sauce mixed with lobster butter, chopped prawns and truffles. Grand Veneur.—Espagnole reduced with blood of game, hare, etc., highly spiced with pepper. Granville.—White wine sauce mixed with chopped mushrooms, shrimps and truffles. Gribiehe.— Mayonnaise mixed with mustard and finely chopped herbs. Hachis.— Brown sauce with chopped mushrooms, capers and gherkins. Hessoise.—Cold horseradish sauce made with sour cream, grated horseradish and fresh breadcrumbs, seasoned with sugar and salt; served with roast beef or steaks. Hollandaise (Dutch).—A rich fish sauce prepared with butter, yolks of eggs, tarragon vinegar, lemon juice, and mignonette pepper. Hollandaise Verte.—Hollandaise sauce mixed with parsley leaves, blanched and pounded. Holstein.—Bechamel sauce reduced with fish stock and white wine, thickened with egg-yolks, and flavoured with nutmeg. Homard (Lobster).—Bechamel with chopped lobster meat, finished with lobster butter. Horly.—A supreme (rich white sauce) blended with tomato puree, meat extract or glaze, and butter. Hure de Sanglier (Boar’s Head).—A cold sauce prepared with bitter orange juice and finely chopped rind, sugar, red currant jelly, port wine and prepared mustard, seasoned with black pepper. A useful stock sauce. aux HuitPes (Oyster).— Bdchamel with oysters, bearded and cut in four, egg yolks and lemon juice. Indienne (Indian).—A brown sauce flavoured with curry powder or paste. Italienne (Italian).—Espagnole sauce blended with tomato puree, chopped mushrooms,white wine, and chopped shallots fried in oil; seasoned with pepper, lemon juice and nutmeg. Jambon (Ham).—A brown sauce with finely shredded ham, chopped chives, shallots and parsley, flavoured with lemon juice and paprika or krone pepper.