174 ENTREMETS Salade de pauvre homme-Potato salad mixed with cooked haricot beans and buds of cooked cauliflower; seasoned with oil and vinegar, salt, etc., and chopped parsley. — Polonaise.—Lettuce, endive, celery, sliced cold potatoes, apples, smoked salmon, and fillets of anchovies, seasoned with salad dressing, and gar- nished with minced ham and hard-boiled eggs. — a la Rachel.—White celery root cut into fine strips, hard-boiled eggs, truffles, beetroot, and gherkins shredded finely, mixed with mayonnaise, and suitably decorated. •— & la Reine.—White celery stalks, hard-boiled whites of eggs, cut into fine strips; seasoned with tartare sauce, finely chopped truffles and parsley, and garnished with slices of salami or Brunswick sausage and hard-boiled yolks of eggs. — a la Russe.—Consists of a mixture of cooked carrots, beetroots, and gherkins, cut in small squares or cubes, capers, grated horse-radish, lobster meat, ham and tongue cut in small squares, dressed with mayonnaise aspic in cylindrical shaped mould; garnished with border of aspic jelly and caviare. — a la Sotteville. — Cos lettuce salad, seasoned with pepper, salt, vinegar, cream, and chopped parsley. — Suedoise.—Filleted smoked herrings, cold beef, boiled potatoes, sour apples (all cut into dice), chopped capers and gherkins, tarragon and chervil, seasoned with plain salad dressing ; garnished with olives, fillets of anchovies, and oysters. — Sahara.—Consists of dice-shaped cold potatoes, cold cooked celery root or celeriac, truffles, and bananas; seasoned with oil and vinegar, chopped parsley and chervil. ENTREMETS. Note.—Olives, Salted Almonds, Grisini (salted bread sticks), etc., are usually served just before the Sweet Entremets, their special object being to cleanse the palate. Entremets.—Under this heading no less than three distinct varieties of culinary preparations are served. 1. The Dressed Vegetable, if such be desired ; these are known in French as “ Entremets de Legumes ’ ’ (given in the previous chapter). 2. The Sweets, hot and cold dishes, known as Entremets Sucres. Hot Sweets generally consist of Puddings, Souffles, Croutes of Fruit, Fritters (Beignets), Savarins, Omelettes, Pancakes, etc., etc. ; whilst