52 SA UCES Joinville.—A white fish sauce, enriched with yolks of eggs, fresh butter and lobster coral; flavoured with lemon juice and cayenne pepper. Kari.—Indian curry sauce. Livournaise.—A cold sauce prepared with anchovy fillets, yolks of eggs, sweet oil, vinegar, chopped parsley, pepper and nutmeg. Lyonnaise (Lyons Sauce).—A kind of tomato sauce with minced Spanish onions (previously fried in butter), flavoured with meat glaze and lemon juice ; also made with bechamel foundation. MadePe (Madeira).—A brown sauce composed of demi-glace sauce, tomato sauce, reduced with Madeira wine. Maitre d’Hotel (Hotel-keepers’).—A white sauce with butter, cream and chopped parsley. Maintenon.—White onion puree thickened with egg- yolks and veloute sauce. Malaga (Port Wine).—A brown sauce prepared with meat glaze, port wine and lemon juice, flavoured with shallots and cayenne. Maltaise. — Veloute sauce with chopped parsley, shallots and mushrooms, diluted with sherry wine, flavoured with lemon juice and finely shredded orange peel. Marchand de Vin.—Demi-glace, reduced with fried shallots, claret, and meat glaze. Marguery.—White fish sauce, blended with oyster puree and finished with cream. MaPiniePe.—White wine sauce with finely chopped herbs, shallots and fish essence. Matelote Blanche.—A white fish sauce with mush- room juice, white wine and button mushrooms, flavoured with savoury herbs. Matelote Bpune.—A red wine sauce, reduced with fish essence, mushroom liquor and anchovy essence. Maximilian.—Tartare sauce with tomato pulp and finely chopped tarragon leaves to flavour. Mayonnaise.—A cold sauce composed of yolks of eggs, salt, pepper, salad oil and vinegar; a little cold bechamel sauce or cream is sometimes added as foundation. Medieis.—B£arnaise flavoured with tomato puree and very little red wine. Melba.—Chopped shallots cooked in chablis, reduced in tomato sauce, and thickened with egg-yolks, finished like hollandaise. Menthe (Mint). —Consists of vinegar, chopped green mint leaves and moist sugar to flavour. MiPabeau.—Veloute sauce with pounded garlic, chopped parsley, lemon juice, and a liaison of butter and meat extract.