COLD ENTREES 14 3 Galantine de Poulet or de Volaille. — Chicken galantine, garnished with aspic. — de Veau en Aspic.—Veal galantine, garnished with savoury jelly. Langue de Bceuf roulee k 1’Aspic.—Rolled ox- tongue, masked and garnished with savoury jelly. Mauviettes a la Lucullus. — Boned and stuffed larks braised, cooled, and masked with brown chaudfroid sauce, set in souffle cases, and decorated with truffles, border of green peas, etc. Mayonnaise de Poissons.—Fish mayonnaise. — de Volaille. —Chicken mayonnaise. M6daillons de Volaille k l’Imperiale.—Round slices of cooked chicken (fillets), masked with white chaudfroid sauce, decorated with truffle slices, and dressed on rounds of tongue; garnished with asparagus salad in centre of dish. Mousse de Foie-gras a la Reine.—Mousse or charlotte moulds lined with aspic, decorated and masked with white chaudfroid sauce, filled with cold mixture of minced foie-gras, ham, truffle, meat glaze, and aspic, centre of same filled with green peas or asparagus points, dressed with mayonnaise. Pain de Volaille aux Truffes.—Chicken farce mixed with truffles, shaped, and poached; garnished with truffles and aspic. — de Foie-gras k la Perigord.—Small goose-liver shapes, decorated with truffles poached. Pains de Gibier k la Gelee.—Small game farce shapes. — de Volaille a ^’Argenteuil. — Small timbale shapes of cooked chicken cream, mixed with supreme, centre filled with asparagus puree; gar- nished with asparagus points and truffles. Parfait de Foie-gras.—Delicately flavoured potted foie-gras (souffle) dressed in tureen; when cold garnished with aspic, etc. Pate de Becassine aux Truffes.—Snipe pie with truffles. — de Cailles Froid.—Quail raised pie. — de Pintade.—Guinea-fowl pie. — de Pigeons Froid.—Pigeon pie. — froid de Veau k l’Anglaise.—Veal and ham pie. — froid de Saumon.—Salmon pie. Petites Bombes a la Victoria.—Small bombs or bouches, flavoured with tomato aspic, and filled with pounded cooked chicken breasts, mixed with supreme sauce, and chopped truffles, aspic, etc. ; surmount each shape with a large Spanish olive stuffed with foie-gras.