75 D 2 TURBOT Truite marinee.—Soused or pickled trout masked with half-set savoury jelly. — a la Montgolfier.—River trout, boned and stuffed with whiting farce mixed with chopped truffles, poached in oven (fumet de poisson), dressed with garnish of lobster cut in dice, and mushroom heads; sauce au vin blanc (white wine sauce). — k la Nansen.—Cold trout masked with finely- cut vegetable, brunoise and aspic, dressed on a shape of aspic; garnished with small tomato flavoured timbales and cucumber; served with frozen horse-radish sauce and semi-set aspic mixed with brunoise. — aUX petitS pois.—Broiled trout with green peas. — Saumonee bouillie.—Boiled salmon trout. — saumonee k la Norwegienne.—Boiled salmon trout dressed on rice socle, masked with mayonnaise and aspic; garnished with tarragon and chervil leaves, cucumber rind and slices, and chilli; served with cold horseradish sauce. — saumonee a la Rothschild.—Baked stuffed salmon trout masked cold with madere sauce (chaud- froid), decorated with truffles, blocks of set aspic, cucumber, lemon and parsley. — a la Vinaigrette.—Cold boiled trout served with vinegar and oil dressing, chopped gherkins, capers and parsley. Filets de Truite au Vin blane.—Broiled fillets of trout with white wine sauce. — a la Mayonnaise.—Cold fillets of trout in border of aspic and mayonnaise, centre filled with dressed salad. — frites a la Milanaise.—Fillets of trout marinated in oil, etc., then rolled in breadcrumbs and grated cheese, then in egg and chopped parsley, and fried in oil; served with Italian sauce. — a la Mirabeau.—Braised fillets of trout with mirabeau sauce. — a la Tomate.—Fried fillets of trout with tomato sauce. Turbot bouilli.—Boiled turbot. — sauce aux Huitres.—Boiled turbot with oyster sauce. — sauce aux Crevettes. — Boiled turbot with shrimp sauce. — sauce Homard. — Boiled turbot with lobster sauce. — a la Proven§ale. — Small whole turbot (or thick slices) cooked in veloui£ sauce, white wine, white stock, chopped shallots and bouquet garni; dished up with a rich white herb sauce, flavoured with anchovy essence, chopped parsley and capers.