SWEETS 179 Croquettes k la vanille.—Vanilla rice croquettes. — de vermieelle.—Vermicelli croquettes. Pain frits au vin rouge.—Fried milk roll slices with claret syrup. Charlottes. Note.—There are two kinds of charlottes, i.e., those served hot and those served cold ; they are made quite differently. For the former, the hot, the interior of plain charlotte moulds are lined with slices of bread dipped or slightly browned in butter; they are then filled with the respective fruit pur£e, and baked. For cold charlottes the moulds are lined with slices of genoise cake, finger, or Savoy biscuits, and then filled with certain creams or ice mixtures. In the latter case the word glacee (frozen) should be placed after the name on the menu. Charlotte aux cerises (Hot or Cold).—Cherry charlotte. — Jt la Chantilly (Cold).—Vanilla cream charlotte. — Colville (Cold).—Like charlotte Russe, but cream is mixed with pear or apple puree. — Florentine (Iced charlotte).—Mould lined with biscuits, filled with orange water-ice mixed with whipped cream, and set to freeze. — aux fraises (Cold).—Like Russian charlotte, but filled with strawberry cream made from fresh fruit. — de groseilles vertes (Cold).—Gooseberry char- lotte. — Imperiale (Hot). — Charlotte shape made of genoise cake, filled with apricot pulp flavoured with rum, the whole coated with meringue, and baked. — aux marrons (Hot).—Chestnut charlotte. — aux maearons (Cold).—Macaroon charlotte. — de melons (Cold).—Melon charlotte. — Medicis (Iced charlotte).—Mould lined with finger biscuits, filled with white chocolate ice-cream, and set to freeze; garnished with glace chestnuts and fruits. — Parisienne (Cold).—Light genoise cake hollowed out and filled with chocolate and vanilla cream, masked with chocolate icing, and decorated with whipped cream. — Plombiere (Cold).—Charlotte shape lined with finger biscuits, centre filled with vanilla ice, mixed with almonds, whipped cream, crystallised fruits, and kirsch flavour, and set to freeze ; served. — de poires (Hot).—Pear charlotte. — Polonaise (Hot).—An apple charlotte flavoured with apricot marmalade. — de pommes (Hot).—Apple charlotte. (See Note.)