72 POISSONS {FISH) Filets de Soles k la Regence. — Stuffed rolled fillets of sole, masked in aspic, dished up in form of border, each fillet being decorated with truffles and cream, salad in centre. — k la Roy ale.—Rolled fillets of soles, stuffed with minced truffles and champignons and bechamel sauce ; steamed in oven ; served with hot mousseline or hollandaise sauce. — k la Salisbury.—Lobster shells filled with sole and lobster forcemeat and veloute sauce, with folded fillets of soles on top of each; steamed in oven; dressed on rice border; garnished with button mushrooms. — a la Sezet.—Fillets of soles stewed in bechamel and tomato sauce, flavoured with anchovy butter; garnished with small lobster croquettes, truffles, anchovy fillets and mushroom heads. — SOUffle.—Fillets of soles set in dish, covered with mornay sauce and beaten egg whites, and baked. — k la Suetone. — Fillets of soles, folded, and poached in the oven with butter and white wine; sauced over with normande sauce, flavoured with pounded pistachio kernels ; garnished with small shells of prawns or shrimps and pistachios. — a la Sully .—Fillets of soles egged and crumbed, slightly fried in butter, dressed with mushroom head on each fillet, sauced over with bearnaise, and around with anchovy sauce. — a la Trouville.—Folded fillets, seasoned, broiled in saute pan with white wine and mushroom liquor, dressed with mushrooms, oysters, fresh bread- crumbs and white sauce; surface browned in oven. — a la V6nitienne.—Folded fillets of soles poached in white wine, butter and parsley; dressed in circle, centre garnished with mushroom heads, sauced with hollandaise sauce. — a la Victoria.—Folded fillets of soles cooked with a little white wine, dressed on border of mashed potatoes, previously browned in oven; sauced over with white wine sauce ; garnished with chopped truffle and tongue and small fleurons of puff paste. — k la Xavier.—Baked fillets of soles tied in knots, dressed on a border of whiting forcemeat, covered with hot Xavier sauce ; liquid meat glaze sprinkled over surface. — en Zephires.—Cold fillets of sole set in aspic cream in small zephyr moulds. Chaudfroid de Filets de Soles k la Capucine.— Stuffed and rolled fillets of sole dressed on pink rice border, decorated with prawns, truffles, etc. ; seasoned salad in centre (cold).