ENTREMETS 176 Ananas a la Cussy (Cold).—Border shape of wine jelly set with pineapple slices, centre filled with whipped cream flavoured wth apricot puree, and suitably decorated. eft? — k la Reine (Cold).—Border of light g£noise poached or steamed, with slices of pineapple ranged on top, centre of dish filled with pineapple, glace cherries, and apricots cut in dice and moistened with hot syrup ; liqueur flavour. — en tUPban.—Savarin border, flavoured with rum syrup, centre of dish filled with compote of pine- apple. Papfait d’ananas, Tostini. — Whole pineapple, scooped out in centre, stewed in maraschino liqueur, filled with confectioner’s custard, placed in genoise border, masked with meringue, and baked ; served hot or cold with fruit syrup. Baba au Phum.—Light yeast cakes containing currants, soaked in rum syrup ; served hot or cold. — k la StOPeP (a Polish Cold Sweet). — Baba (yeast paste) mixed with raisins and glace fruit, baked in suitable mould ; when cold coated with apricot marmalade flavoured with rum and orange juice; centre of baba filled with orange ice; gar- nished with angelica and glace cherries. Bananes fpite sup canapes (Hot). — Slices of bananas, egged, and fried in butter, dressed on small rice shapes of canapes; served hot as side dish. — fapeies aux fpaises (Cold).— Bananas filled with mashed scarlet strawberries and puree of bananas, sweetened with curac^ao and sugar; tied up with ribbon. Dattes fapeies, fpites (Hot or Cold). — Stoned dates filled with confectioner’s custard, egged and crumbed in crushed macaroons, and fried in butter ; served with vanilla cream. Bordure—Border. Bopdupe de Agues (Cold).—Stewed figs mixed with cream and set with wine jelly in border mould. — de mappons a la Chantilly (Cold).—Border of chestnut puree, etc., centre filled with whipped cream flavoured with vanilla. — PiePPe le Gpand (Cold).—Rich savarin border, centre filled with whipped cream, then masked with apricot marmalade, and studded with strips of almonds and pistachios. — de ppunes (Cold).—Border of rice and stoned stewed prunes, masked with apricot marmalade, and sprinkled with chopped pistachios ; centre filled with whipped cream ; garnished with glace cherries and angelica.