9* BEEF Tournedos de Bceuf k la Troia.—Grilled toumedos with anchovy fillet and slice of truffle on top of each; when cold enclosed in brioche paste and baked in a quick oven; served with madere sauce, containing finely cut strips of truffle. — La Valliere.—Sauteed and dressed on croutons, coated with demi-glace sauce, containing julienne strips of truffle, mushrooms and tongue. Beignets de Bceuf a la Minute.—Cold roast beef cut in strips, seasoned, dipped in frying batter, and fried in deep fat. Boeuf saute a la Bourgeoise.—Coarsely minced broiled beef with braised button onions; brown sauce. — a la Flamande. — Braised pieces of rump of beef; garnished with stuffed spring cabbages; brown sauce. Carbonade k la Flamande.—Thin slices of lean beef stewed in casserole, in rich brown sauce, with minced onions, neatly shaped plain boiled potatoes placed on top of stew ; served in casserole. Croquettes de Bceuf a l’Anglaise(Beef Croquettes). —Finely minced cooked beef, made into square, cork,cutlet,or ball shapes,egged,crumbed, and fried. — a l’ltalienne. — Fried beef croquettes with Italian sauce. Culottes de Boeuf, Maintenon.—Braised beef cut in slices and dressed in pyramids ; garnished with small timbales of nouilles; seasoned with soubise and duchess potatoes ; sauce, demi-glace. Frieot de Bceuf k la Charles X.—Braised rump steak, when cold cut into strips ; egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with a brown eschalot sauce. — a l’lndienne.—Curried beef stew, served with boiled rice. — a l’lrelandaise.—Stewed beef with potatoes cut in cubes, and onions; brown sauce. Goulaseh de Bceuf.—Lean beef cut in dice shapes and tossed in butter; mixed with dice-shaped potatoes ; seasoned with paprika and finished in brown sauce. — a la HerzegOVine.—Saute of beef, sliced finely, and fried onions; tomato sauce and claret flavour ; seasoned with salt and paprika; garnished with small rounds of fried potatoes. — a la Polonaise.—Sliced beef, stewed, with fried bacon and potato cut in dice; seasoned with Hungarian red pepper Hachis de Bceuf a la Frangaise.—Sliced cold beef braised in butter and finely chopped onions, finished in brown sauce and chopped parsley. ■— a l’Anglaise.— Minced or hashed beef with poached eggs ; garnished with fried bread sippets.