POTAGES 32 Tartines Lueullus. — Finger-shaped puff pastry, seasoned with cheese, and layer of anchovy paste in centre; garnished with olives and anchovy butter. Thon marine sur Canapes.—Pickled tunny fish on toast. Darioles de Tomate a la Creme. — Tomato darioles with cream. Zakousky.—This is the name given for hors-d’oeuvre dishes in Russia. They consist of various kinds of daintily dressed caviare, pickled or smoked fish, etc. Certain Russian liqueurs are usually served with zakousky, which form a great feature in the Russian cuisine. Note.—A large number of these dishes are well adapted for after-dinner savouries as well as hors- d’oeuvre, especially those made from shell fish, smoked fish, eggs, meat and certain savoury vege- table mixtures. For after-dinner savouries please see end of book. POTAGES (soups). Next to hors-d'oeuvre, soup forms the best introduction to a meal; it is, as far as the dinner is concerned, an indispensable course, and therefore important. Soups are divided into four groups: consommes, clear soups with garnish ; purees of meat, poultry or game; bisques and fish soups; and creams, or filtered soups made from vegetables and farinaceous products. Sometimes the choice of two or three varieties of soups are given at one meal, in which case the clear soup, or consomme, must be placed on the menu before the thick soups. The present fashion is in favour of one soup only, either clear or thick. For a full-course dinner, or one of many courses, a clear or light thick soup, cream or bisque, gives more satisfaction than a heavy soup, because it conduces better to the appreciation of the succeeding dishes. Heavy or thick soups are generally considered more seasonable in winter than in summer. There are certain more or less flexible rules observed in serving consomme : cheese straws, or grisini, fingers, toasted bread and grated parmesan cheese are generally handed round with it. Sherry is served with turtle soup; fried bread croutons with purges; and celery salt with vegetable and cream soups. With mulligatawny, both thick and clear, a small dish of plain boiled rice is handed round, unless included in the soup as garnish.