42 POT AGES Potage a la Chantilly (Chantilly Soup, cream).— Lentil soup thickened with cream and egg-yolks. — a la Chartreuse (Chartreuse Soup).—A white cauliflower pur6e with tapioca. — Puree k la Chasseur (Hunter’s Soup, brown).— A game puree with minced mushrooms and small dice of cooked game. — de Choux de Bruxelles (pale green).—Brussels sprouts soup. — de Choux-Fleurs. — Puree of cauliflowers with croutons. — de Choux-Fleurs k la Creme.—Cauliflower soup enriched with cream. — a la Puree de Coneombre.—Cucumber soup. — a la Conde (Conde Soup, yellow).—A thick soup made with haricot beans and cream. — A la Creey (Cressy Soup, pink).—Puree of young carrots with rice or barley. — a la Creme d’Avoine.—Oatmeal soup with cream (white). — a la Creme d’Orge.—Pearl barley soup with cream (white). — a la Creme de Riz.—Filtered rice cream soup (white). — Demidoff.—A light brown chicken puree, gar- nished with julienne strips of mushrooms, truffles and carrots, also small braised button onions. — a la Duehesse (Duchess Soup, white).—A light puree of fowls, with minced chicken or game fillets. — Dumonteuil.—A bisque of crawfish blended with tomato puree (egg-yolk liaison and cream), gar- nished with small fish quenelles. — a 1’EeoSSaise (Hodge Podge Soup).—National Scotch soup, consisting of mutton broth, finely-cut carrots, turnips, leeks, parsley, cauliflowers and peas. — aux Epinards.—Spinach soup (green). — a 1’Espagnole (Spanish Soup).—A brown beef or mutton blended soup with onion puree. — a l’Esturgeon.—Sturgeon soup (white). — de Faisail.—Pheasant soup (light brown). — de Faisan k la Diana.—A light puree of pheasant flavoured with claret and cream, garnished with small game quenelles. — Faubonne.—Puree of French lentils and haricot beans, enriched with cream and garnished with green peas and fried bread croutons. — Fausse Tortue (Mock Turtle Soup, thick).—A brown thick soup made from calf’s head, flavoured with sherry or Marsala wine, garnished with small pieces of calf’s head.