SOUPS 37 Consomme a la Napoleon.—Clarified chicken stock, garnished with small foie-gras Talmouse (triangular- shaped cocked hats of paste stuffed with foie-gras puree) and poached in stock. — k la Napolitaine.—A game-flavoured clear soup, with macaroni, shreds of celery and ham as garnish. — a la NemoUl’S.—Clear soup, garnished with diamond shapes of custard made with carrot puree, bechamel sauce and egg yolks. — Nesselrode.—Clear soup with small chestnut quenelles. — Nouveau Regne.—Rich chicken consomme, with a special kind of chicken quenelle, made by having cubes of richly flavoured aspic and gold leaf intro- duced prior to being cooked, these quenelles being put into the soup just at the moment of serving. — aux Nouilles.—A clear soup with nouilles (a kind of macaroni paste, only flat instead of round). — aux (Ellfs files.—Clear soup with beaten egg run through a colander whilst the soup is boiling. — Olga .—Clarified chicken broth with julienne strips of chicken breast, ox-tongue and truffles, also green peas. — d’OrleanS (Maigre Soup).—A rich clarified fish stock, garnished with small fish quenelles and green peas. — au Pain de Foie.—Clear soup with small liver quenelles. — aux Pates d’ltalie.—Clear soup with Italian paste. — a la Paysanne (Peasant Soup).—A clear gravy soup, with carrots, cabbages, leeks, turnips and lettuces cut into dice. — aux Petits Choux fareis.—Clear soup, gar- nished with small choux paste fritters, stuffed with forcemeat. — aUX Petits Navets.—Clear soup, with olive- shaped young turnips, braised. — Petites Marmites a la Parisienne.—A rich clear beef broth, garnished with boiled beef and soup vegetables, served in separate earthenware soup pots (marmites); crusts of bread are handed round. — Pierre le Grand.—A clear soup, with lettuce, turnips, celery and champignons (preserved mush- rooms) cut into julienne-shaped strips. — aux Pointes d’Asperges.—A clear soup, gar- nished with asparagus points. — a la PortUgaise.—A rich clear soup, garnished with stoned French plums, strips of leeks and ripe tomatoes.