56 SA UCES Sieilienne (Sicilian). — Espagnole sauce, reduced with Marsala wine; sliced onions fried in butter are mixed with the sauce just before serving; served with beefsteaks, roast fillets of beef, etc. Salmis.—A brown game sauce, reduced with white wine, meat glaze, and tomato pulp, flavoured with savoury herbs. Soubise.—A white, flavoured onion sauce, seasoned with nutmeg, pepper, sugar, and salt; passed through tammy, and finished with cream and butter. Soyer.—A white fish sauce, flavoured with savoury herbs, shallots, and lemon juice, thickened with egg-yolks and cream ; strained. Stragotte.—A rich game sauce, reduced with tomato pulp and Madeira wine, flavoured with vegetable mirepoix, shallots, cloves and mace, and strained ; generally served with Italian dishes. Suedoise (Swedish).—A white sauce,highly flavoured, with grated horseradish and chilli vinegar ; served hot. Supreme.—A rich white sauce, made with chicken stock and white roux, enriched with egg-yolks, cream and fresh butter; a garniture of sliced truffles and mushrooms is sometimes added. TaPtare.—Mayonnaise mixed with French mustard, finely chopped chives, spring onions, tarragon and chervil leaves, gherkins, capers and parsley; served cold. Texienne (Texas).—A mild curry sauce, with a little saffron, chopped parsley, lemon juice, finished with fresh butter. Tomate (Tomato).—Fresh tomatoes cooked with mirepoix, white wine, and veal stock, thickened with white roux, seasoned and strained ; or puree of tomatoes, mixed with a little brown sauce and meat glaze, flavoured with aromatic herbs and shallots, seasoned with salt and sugar. TOPtue (Turtle).—A brown sauce, made from turtle stock, with finely chopped shallots, flavoured with anchovy essence, lemon juice, sherry, and finely chopped lemon rind; seasoned with salt and cayenne pepper ; strained. Univepselle (Universal). — A highly spiced cold sauce, for cold meats, etc., prepared with mush- room ketchup, port wine, shallot vinegar, ground spice, mace, cayenne pepper and anchovy essence. Valoise.—Finely chopped shallots reduced in white wine, mixed with meat extract, egg-yolks, chopped parsley, cream and butter ; whisked in bain-marie ; seasoned with salt and Worcester sauce.