7o POISSONS {FISH) Filets de Soles k la Caneale.—Fillets of soles poached in fish liquor and oyster liquor; dressed and garnished with poached oysters and mush- rooms ; sauced over with maxtre d’hotel sauce. — a la Chasseur Royal.—Steamed fillets of soles dressed on a white fish border, decorated with truffles and garnished with oysters, mushrooms and truffles ; royal chasseur sauce. — a la Cherbourg.—Rolled fillets of soles braised in white wine, dished up and garnished with oysters, crayfish and mussels; sauced over with cardinal sauce. — en fers a Cheval.—Stuffed rolled fillets of sole set in horseshoe-shaped moulds, with mayonnaise or aspic cream, decorated with truffles (cold). — Chevaliere.— Rolled fillets of soles stuffed with fish farce mixed with chopped truffles ; poached in white wine; sauced over with crayfish or bisque sauce, with finely chopped truffles on top. — a la Czarina.—Baked fillets of soles dressed on potato puree, scraped horse-radish on each fillet; served with a rich brown fish sauce flavoured with tomato and meat glaze. — a la Dauphine.—Sole fillets spread over with a mixture of forcemeat, chopped shallots, parsley and mushrooms, folded and braised ; egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with lobster sauce. — a la Diable.—Rolled fillets of soles, crumbed and fried, served in paper cases, with devilled sauce poured over. — a la Diocletien.—Fillets of soles spread with fish farce, folded or rolled, and cooked in butter and Marsala wine ; garnished with small braised let- tuces and small fish quenelles; rich espagnole sauce, flavoured with fish liquor and chopped truffles. — a la Florentine.—Fillets of soles dressed on and coated with a light spinach puree, enriched with cream and flavoured with grated cheese ; baked in oven. — a la Grand Due.—Fillets of soles poached in mushroom liquor, etc.; dressed with alternate slices of truffles and prawn tails, masked with mornay sauce, sprinkled with cheese, etc., and browned ; garnished with asparagus points. — a la St. Germain.—Rolled and crumbed fillets of soles fried in butter, dressed on slices of lemon, with stiff bearnaise sauce forced on top of each ; garnished with olive-shaped fried potatoes. — k l’lndienne.—Fried fillets of soles stuffed with lobster puree; garnished with shreds of piccalilli, gherkins and mushrooms, curry or madeira sauce; served with boiled rice.