36 POT AGES Consomme k la Jardiniere.—A clear soup, gar- nished with carrots, turnips and celery scooped out in olive shapes. — Juliette.—Clarified chicken stock, with a garnish consisting of very small cream quenelles, green pea puree a la Royal cut in cubes, tiny rounds of truffle, and lozenge shapes of hard-boiled white of egg. — Julienne (Julienne Soup).—A clear soup with carrots, turnips, onions, leeks, cabbage and lettuces cut into very thin strips, called julienne, about an inch long. — a la Lilienne.—Clear soup flavoured with tarra- gon and chervil, and garnished with a julienne of slightly baked almonds, truffles and mushrooms. — au Macaroni (Macaroni Soup). — Clear soup, garnished with cooked macaroni cut into short pieces. — a la Madrid.—A tomato-flavoured clear soup, garnished with thin slices of skinned and cooked tomatoes. — a la Magenta.—A rich clear soup, flavoured and coloured with ripe tomatoes, and macedoine of vegetables as garnish. — a la Maneelle.—Clarified beef and veal stock, garnished with dice shapes of roasted chestnuts and julienne strips of cooked game or poultry. — Maigre (Clear Fish Soup).—A clear soup (Lenten soup) made with fish stock and vegetables. — a la Metternich.—Clarified beef stock, flavoured with chicken, garnished with cooked tomatoes cut into dice, and chicken fillets. — a la Milanaise.—Clear soup, garnished with cooked rice, dice of ox-tongue, and shreds of ripe tomatoes. — Mikado.—A curry-flavoured clear chicken soup, garnished with finely-shredded chicken fillets and cooked rice. — a la Mirenmare.—Clarified chicken stock with the following garnish : plainly cooked rice tossed in lobster butter, to which is added oysters cut in dice, chopped truffles and pistachios, and the whole moistened with white sauce and cheese as for salpicon ; filled in very small shell-shaped thin paste crusts, which are handed round with the consomme. — a la Moelle de Boeuf (Beef Marrow Soup).— A clear soup with small rrrarrow-fat quenelles. — a la Monaco.—A clear soup with stuffed fried bread quenelles. — a la Nantaise.—Clarified chicken stock, garnished with green peas.