119 CAPON Chapon a la BoUPgeoise.—Braised, finished in a rich brown sauce reduced with tomato sauce and white wine, garnished with groups of glazed carrots and button onions — k la CavoUP.—Stuffed and braised (breast larded and glazed), served with allemande sauce flavoured with meat glaze and lemon juice, garnished with small baked nouille or macaroni timbales. — a la ChaneeliePe.—Braised capon (breast larded) finished and served with a well spiced white wine sauce (surface of capon, glazed). — k la Edouapd. VII.—Stuffed with cooked rice and foie-gras, cut in dice braised white, and finished in supreme sauce slightly flavoured with curry ; gar- nished with diamonds of Spanish pimientos ; served in casserole. — bpaise a 1’EstPagon.—Braised, with tarragon sauce. — saute a la Fpan^aise.—Parboiled and braised, finished in white wine sauce, with sliced truffles and mushrooms. — bpaise a la Gapfield.—Braised (breast larded), served with a brown sauce mixed with cranberry jelly. — au gTOS sel.—Braised (breast larded and covered with strips of lemon rind), served with demi-glace sauce, containing a little coarse freezing salt added just before serving (hence the name, gros sel). — a l’lvoipe.—Braised, sauced over with a rich ivory-coloured supreme sauce. — a la Pepigueux.—Stuffed with forcemeat and chopped truffles and roasted ; served with perigueux sauce and chicken quenelles. — a la Piemontaise.—Stuffed with forcemeat and sliced truffles and roasted, served with tomato sauce and ravioli paste quenelles, stuffed with veal forcemeat and tomato puree. — Ragout de, aux Petits Pois.—Stewed in brown sauce, with green peas. — a la Regenee.—Stuffed and braised, with white supreme sauce and sliced truffles. — bpaise a la St. Cloud.—Braised (breast larded with strips of truffles and bacon); Madeira sauce. — bpaise aux tpuffes.— Braised (breast larded with truffles) and served with perigueux sauce. — Quenelles de, a la Vatel.—Poached forcemeat quenelles made of capon, chopped truffles and mushrooms, served with a brown truffle sauce. — haehis de, a la VietOPia.—Minced, reheated in supreme sauce, with poached eggs, sprinkled over with finely chopped truffles.