161 VEGETABLES Pommes de terre Colbert.—Cooked potatoes cut into squares, seasoned, stewed in gravy, finished with a little fresh butter and chopped parsley. — Chantilly. —Cut out into round shapes, parboiled in salt water, drained, and finished in bechamel sauce; sprinkled with liquefied meat glaze. — Delmonico.—Finely minced raw potatoes, cooked in butter and cream, seasoned and dished ; sprinkled with brown crumbs and baked in oven. — Duehesse. — Mashed, seasoned, shaped into fingers, or other shapes, brushed over with yolk of eggs, and baked in the oven. — Dauphine. — Same as duehesse ; mixed with choux paste,shaped into balls, and fried in deep fat. — Dieppoise.—Cold boiled potatoes, cut into slices, together with cold sausages, broiled in butter, seasoned, and served with demi-glace sauce. — Espagnole.—Thickly sliced, boiled, drained, and served with espagnole sauce. — Flamande.—Peeled, cut in large dice shapes, tossed in butter, with finely chopped onion and parsley. — fondantes.—Peeled, cut in quarters, parboiled, and cooked in fire-proof casserole, with butter, in oven. — faubonne.—Thickly sliced, and stewed in brown sauce, flavoured with onion. — farcies.—Large kidney potatoes peeled, hollowed out, and filled with any kind of forcemeat; baked in buttered saute pan ; when done glazed with meat glaze. — frisees.—Curl or ribbon shapes, fried in clarified butter or other fat. — gratinees.—Mashed potatoes mixed with grated cheese and butter, browned in the oven or under the salamander. — au gratin. — Sliced, parboiled, mixed with cream, seasoned, and dressed on buttered gratin dish, covered with breadcrumbs, grated parmesan cheese, and a few pieces of fresh butter; browned in the oven. — Garfield.—Peeled, cut into small dice, parboiled, and fried in clarified butter. — Hongroise.— Peeled, minced finely, cooked in stock and butter, seasoned with paprika and meat glaze. — Hanovrienne. — Peeled and sliced, stewed in white stock, with fresh butter and chopped parsley. — Hollandaise. — Plain boiled kidney potatoes, seasoned, sauced over with oiled butter and a few drops of lemon juice, or dressed with hollandaise sauce.