200 SA VOURIES (Eufs a la eoque en surprise (Cold) .—Fresh eggs are carefully emptied, and refilled with scrambled egg mixture, blended, when cold, with mayonnaise; dressed on a bed of crisp cresses. — Cosmopolite.—Poached eggs, trimmed, drained, egged and crumbed, and fried in deep fat; dressed “crown shape,” with sliced truffles in centre; demi-glace sauce. — a la creme. — Hard-boiled eggs, sliced, and finished in rich bechamel or cream sauce. — Creole.—Rounds of toasted and buttered bread spread with chicken cream, slightly poached eggs placed on each, finished in oven ; pour bechamel sauce round base of dish. — croquettes d’ceufs, durs.—Chopped hard-boiled eggs made into salpicon with white sauce, raw egg-yolk and anchovy essence to flavour, shaped into croquettes, egged and crumbed, and fried in fat. — k la Diable.—Halves of hard-boiled eggs stuffed with anchovy paste, seasoned with cayenne pepper, and baked. — durs au gratin.—Hard-boiled eggs cut in slices and ranged on buttered gratin dish, with layer of white sauce and grated cheese ; oiled butter on top, and browned in oven. — durs Italienne.—Halves of hard-boiled eggs, stuffed with anchovy paste and grated cheese; served with bechamel sauce. — durs a la St. Germain (Cold).—Hard-boiled eggs with yolks removed and mixed with mayon- naise and chopped shrimps, refilled, and dressed on a bed of chopped aspic, with a bearded oyster on top of each egg. ■— & Fecarlate.—Poached eggs dressed on rounds of fried bread, spread with tongue paste or slices. — a 1’EcOSSaise.—Whole hard-boiled eggs wrapped in forcemeat or sausage meat, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat; served with tomato sauce. — & l’Eug6nie.—Large cup mushrooms, scooped out, filled with mixture of smoked salmon, truffles, and foie-gras sauce, etc. ; place poached egg on top of each ; decorate with lobster coral and truffle. —■ fareis.—Stuffed eggs. — fareis aux epinards. — Eggs stuffed with spinach. — Florentine. — Poached eggs placed in baked paste croustades lined with spinach purde, sauced over with morna sauce, and browned in sharp oven. — frits k la Suisse.—Eggs, fried whole, sprinkled with grated gruyere cheese and seasoning.