134 GAME (GIBIER) Faisan k la Flamande.—Braised; garnished with small stuffed braised cabbages and fried sausages. — a la Jardiniere.—Braised, dressed in border of pheasant farce; garnished with mixture of spring vegetables. — Livournaise.—Braised in casserole, with cepes, mushrooms, and slice of lean bacon ; salmi sauce. — a la Richemont.—Fillets larded, with truffles and bacon, and braised ; supreme sauce. — Rossini.—Braised white,sauced over with supreme sauce, and garnished with foie-gras and truffles. — en Robe de Chambre.—Boned, cut flat, spread with veal farce, tongue and truffles rolled up and braised ; when cold, wrapped in puff paste and baked ; served with demi-glace sauce ; also served cold with aspic garnish. — Salmi de, aux truffes.— Par-roasted, and stewed in salmi sauce with sliced truffles. — Salmi de, k la Bohemienne.—Broiled, and stewed in madere sauce, chopped ham, and mush- rooms ; garnished with fried bread croutons and whole mushrooms. — Souvaroff.—Braised white, breasts removed, and stuffed with chicken farce ; supreme sauce. — a la Talleyrand.—Larded fillets, braised, dressed in centre of a border made of pheasant forcemeat ; garnished with slices of hard-boiled eggs, crumbed, and fried. Gelinotte.—Hazel hen. — Filets de, au Champagne. — Broiled fillets stewed in champagne sauce. — en Salmi.—Par-roasted, and stewed in brown sauce, olives, etc. Grive.—Fieldfare or thrush. — Bonne Femme.—Tossed in butter, with dice of bacon, mushrooms, and small button onions; finished in demi-glace sauce. — braisees en caisses.—Braised, served in small paper cases. — braisees au Lard.—Braised, with fried bacon ; demi-glace sauce. — a la Chasseur.—Barded and roast; served with mushroom sauce ; garnished with game quenelles. — Genievre. — Braised in casserole, with juniper berries and brown sauce. Mauviettes.—Larks. — Bonne Femme.—Broiled with butter, bacon cut in dice, button onions, and mushrooms; finished in demi-glace sauce, enriched with meat glaze and lemon juice.