54 SA UCES Pain (Bread).—Milk thickened with fresh bread- crumbs, cooked with a small onion stuck with a clove; finished with a little butter and seasoned with salt and pepper; served with roast poultry and some game. Paprika. — Veloute or allemande sauce highly seasoned with paprika and red Hungarian pepper. Parisienne.— A rich brown sauce, with chopped shallots, parsley, lemon juice, and meat glaze, worked up with a little fresh butter; served with entrecotes, steaks, or fillets of beef. Pauvre Homme.—A brown sauce, blended with tomato ketchup and anchovy essence ; suitable as a fish sauce. Perigueux (Perigord).—Madere sauce with finely chopped truffles, enriched with meat glaze. PePSil (Parsley).—Melted butter or bechamel sauce, with finely chopped parsley. Persillade.—A kind of vinaigrette sauce, prepared with mustard, sweet oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, lemon juice, and chopped savoury herbs; served cold with fish, vegetables or salad. Piment. — Demi-glace sauce blended with tomato puree, highly seasoned with chopped pimentos and cayenne. Piquante. — A sharp brown sauce with chopped gherkins, capers and shallots, seasoned with plenty of pepper and essence of anchovy. Poivrade (Pepper). — A brown pepper sauce, flavoured with lean bacon or ham, celery, onions, thyme and bay-leaf, reduced with vinegar, anchovy essence and black pepper. Pomme (Apple).—Apple pulp, slightly sweetened, enriched with whipped cream; served hot with roast pork, goose or duck. Pompadour. — Allemande or veloute sauce with shallots (fried), cream, egg-yolks, chopped mush- rooms, and parsley. Polonaise (Polish).—Veloute sauce with sour cream, grated horseradish, chopped fennel and lemon juice ; served with cutlets or steaks. Portugaise. — Tomato sauce diluted with well- reduced veal gravy, flavoured with onion, blanched and fried, and garlic. Poulette (Veloute).—A white sauce, flavoured with aromatic herbs, thickened with egg-yolks and fresh bu tter,finished with chopped parsley and lemon j uice. Prince de Galles (Prince of Wales.)—A cold sauce prepared with hard-boiled and raw egg-yolks, salad oil, tarragon vinegar, mixed with finely chopped herbs and French mustard ; served with grilled or fried fish, or meat.