104 ENTREES Cervelles d’Agneau.—Lamb’s Brains. •— au beuPFe noip.—Blanched lamb’s brains, boiled and drained, with nut brown butter poured over. — en eoquilles.— Stewed sheep’s brains, baked and served in shells. — fpites.—Parboiled sheep’s brains, egged, crumbed, and fried. — a la Maitpe d’Hotel.—Blanched sheep’s brains soaked in white sauce with chopped parsley. — en Matelote,—Braised sheep’s or lamb’s brains with a red wine sauce; served with small dice of broiled bacon and glazed button onions. — a la Rosita.—Croustades of fried bread with half a poached lamb’s brain, sauced over with mornay sauce, sprinkled with parmesan, and baked ; dished in circle with fine macaroni, and shredded truffles in centre of dish. Beignets de Cepvelles a la Tupque.—Parboiled, seasoned, dipped in frying batter, fried, and served with tomato sauce. Chaptpeuse d’Agneau a la Gastronome.—Boned breasts of lamb, stewed in white stock, cut into strips, ranged in a chartreuse mould, alternately with braised lettuce steamed “ au bain-marie,” and served with demi-glace sauce. Carbonades ala Bechamel.—Larded fillets of lamb or mutton braised, and served with bechamel sauce. •— a la Bretonne.—Cooked as above ; served with puree of white haricot beans. ■— a la Chartreuse. — Cooked as above, cut in slices, and dressed in a plain mould, with green peas, sprigs of cauliflower, and French beans; demi-glace, sauce. — a l’Oseille.—Cooked as above ; served with puree of sorrel. '— sauce Poivrade.—Braised boned loin of lamb or mutton larded, served with poivrade sauce. Casserole a l’Anglaise. — Slices of lean lamb or mutton, with suet crust, stock, and seasoning, stewed in earthenware pot. Cotelettes d’Agneau.—Lamb cutlets. — a la Constance. — Breaded and fried, with financiere ragout as garnish. — aux Coneombres. — Broiled or grilled, with slightly fried cucumbers. — a la Cussy.—Breaded and fried ; served with velout6 sauce, mixed with chopped cooked ox- tongue and mushrooms. — k la Duchesse.—Braised, masked with duxelle purde, egged, crumbed, and fried; dished up on a border of green peas pur£e ; served with sauce supreme.