68 POISSONS [FISH) Darne de Saumon k la Vert-Pre.—Cold salmon coated with green chaudfroid sauce, garnished with dressed salad, sliced cucumber, and diamond shapes of aspic ; served cold. Escalopes de Saumon a l’lndienne.—Fried salmon cutlets served with curry sauce and rice. — k la Nantaise.—Collops of salmon, seasoned and broiled in butter; dished up alternately with slices of lobster; dressed with stewed oysters and lobster sauce. Filets de Saumon a la Duehesse.—Braised fillets of salmon arranged in the centre of a mashed potato border, masked with rich brown sauce,and garnished with mushroom heads and slices of tomatoes. — aux huitres.—Rolled fillets of salmon with stewed oysters braised and served with a rich brown sauce. — sautes a la Perigueux. —Braised fillets of salmon with truffle sauce. — k la Regenee (Regent Style).—Rolled fillet of salmon, stuffed and served with regent sauce. Grenadins de Saumon a la Venitienne.—Fillets of salmon, larded, seasoned and braised, dressed in a circle alternately with heart-shaped bread croutons, sauced with a well-buttered parsley sauce. Hure de Saumon aux truffes. — Braised head- piece of salmon with truffle sauce. — a la Cambaceres.—Braised head-piece of salmon, garnished with truffles, mushrooms and stoned olives, sauced with a rich brown fish sauce seasoned with cayenne and lemon juice. — a la Moderne.—Boiled and baked head-piece of salmon, sauced over with brown fish sauce; gar- nished with small groups of cork-shaped pieces of fish sausage, sliced truffles, mushroom heads, and stoned and blanched olives ; top of fish garnished with slices of lemon, truffles and parsley. Mousseline de Saumon a la Cardinal.—Timbale or dariole of light salmon forcemeat (souffle), served with cardinal sauce. Pate de Saumon a l’Homard.—Raised salmon pie with layers of lobster meat. Petits Souffles de Saumon a l’lndienne.—Cold souffle of curried salmon, decorated with anchovy butter or anchovy cream. Queue de Saumon aux huitres.—Braised tail- piece of salmon with stewed oysters. Tranehettes de Saumon en Belle Vue.—Small sandwich-shaped moulds of salmon set in aspic and mayonnaise cream. Sole bouillie.—Boiled sole.