i6 DINNER MENUS menus are usually prepared a day or more in advance, so that the needful provisions may be purchased and other necessary arrangements made, thus allowing ample leisure to get everything ready in good time, and avoiding much confusion when the moment for cooking and serving arrives. The menu must in all cases be strictly followed. DINNER (LE DlNER). The word “ dinner ” is supposed to be a corruption of dix lieuves, indicating the hour at which in the time of the Normans this meal was taken. In a book published in 1512, entitled the Household Book, it is stated that the family rose at six, breakfasted at seven, dined at ten, supped at four, and closed the gates at nine p.m. Dinner with all classes forms the principal meal of the day. The working and middle classes take it at mid-day, whilst the better classes and fashionable society partake of it between 6 p.m. and 9 p.m. The aristocracy have always dined later in the day than the other classes. The number of courses of a dinner depends on the circumstances of the host and hostess, but the courses have increased with time and fashion, whilst the number of dishes served have decreased; that is to say, that instead of serving two soups, two or three fish, and as many entrees, not more than one, or at the most two, are now placed on modern menus. MENU DU DINER. Potage. French. Queue de Boeuf Poisson. Filets de Cabillaud a la Normande Entree. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Milanaise Roti. Dinde roti aux Marrons Entremet. Pouding a la Viennoise Soup. English. Ox-tail Fish. Fillets of Cod (.Normandy style) Entree. Mutton Cutlets (.Milanese style) Roast. Roast Turkey stuffed with Sweet. Chestnuts Viennese Pudding It will be observed that no vegetables are given on the above bill of fare. One or two vegetables should be served; these are selected according to taste and season. The following, in addition to potatoes, is a list of vegetables procurable in January: artichokes (Globe and Jerusalem), brussels sprouts, celery, greens, savoys, salsify, parsnips, turnips, Spanish onions. Season—January or February.