129 ENTREES OF CHICKEN Poulet Romaine.—Braised, finished in tomato sauce reduced with marsala; garnished with sliced truffles, braised lettuce, and macaroni timbales. — & la St. Cloud.—Braised white or boiled ; breast larded with truffles and ox-tongue and barded; served with supreme sauce mixed with finely chopped truffles. — & la St. Lambert.—Fricasseed, dished up in pyramidal form, surrounded with groups of small braised carrots, green peas, and French beans. — & la Stanley.—A delicate fricassee of chicken, with rich supreme sauce ; garnished with fine sheds of truffle and ham or tongue. — Supreme de, Jeanette (invented by M. A. Escoffier).—Braised chicken fillets (white) ; when cold coated with white chaudfroid sauce and aspic ; decorated with tarragon leaves. — Trianon.—Barded and roasted whole in fire-proof casserole, finished with demi-glace sauce reduced with chablis ; garnished with artichoke bottoms filled alternately with mushroom heads and green peas. — Timbales de, a la Meridionale. — Souffle of chicken, filled in timbale moulds, with concentrated tomato puree in the centre, steamed in the oven, and served with madere sauce. — a la Vert-Pre.—Boiled ; served with veloute or supreme sauce, containing chopped chervil and tarragon, and spinach greening. — a la Vigo.— Braised, and finished in Madeira sauce ; garnished with small tomatoes, scalded, and baked whole. Poulet saute a la Bayonnaise. — Fried, with coarsely minced ham, stewed in brown sauce, sherry wine, small peeled and sliced tomatoes, dressed in a border of stewed rice. — a la Bearnaise.—Sauteed, finished in a veloute sauce, enriched with cream, meat glaze, white wine, chopped parsley, and tarragon leaves. — Beaulieu.—Like “ Cocotte,” to which a garniture of marble-shaped fried potatoes and dice shapes of artichoke bottoms is added. — k la Bourgeoise.—Par-fried and stewed in brown sauce, with chopped mushrooms and red wine ; garnished with green peas and young carrots. •— k la Chasseur. — Sauteed, and stewed in es- pagnole and tomato sauce, with white wine, chopped parsley, chopped mushrooms, and lemon juice. — k la Demidoff.—Sauteed, stewed in brown sauce diluted with sherry ; dressed in a border of cooked rice.