194 MEAT SAVOURIES Huitres en brochettes.—Large oysters, bearded, dipped in oiled and seasoned butter and covered with fresh breadcrumbs, fastened on skewers, and grilled over the fire ; dressed with skewers stuck in bread croutons, and garnished with lemon slices and parsley. — en cassolettes. — Bearded oysters ranged in threes or fours in small buttered china cassolette or ramakin cases, seasoned, two or three prawn tails, with piquante demi-glace sauce added to each, and thus cooked in oven; served in the cassolette cases. — frites a la Diable.—Fried oysters devilled. — aux fines herbes. — Grilled oysters with savoury herb butter. — k la Normande.—Ragout of oysters, crayfish tails, and truffles, mixed with sauce normande, dressed in very small china casseroles, allowing one for each person. — SUP J>ain grille.—Oysters on toast. Les huitpes a eheval. — Oysters on horseback (rolled in bacon and grilled). Sardines a la Diable.—Devilled sardines. — aux ceufs poches.—Sardines with poached eggs. — Proven^ale.—Sardines on toast with egg sauce. Saumon fume k la Diable. — Smoked salmon devilled. — au gratin.—Baked salmon, gratin style. Meat Savouries. Batons de Caviar.—Baked puff paste fingers split open and filled with seasoned caviare. Beignets de gibier k la Diable.— Devilled game fritters. — de jambon.—Ham fritters. Brochettes de foie de volaille.—Chicken livers and bacon slices tossed in butter and fastened on little skewers, crumbed and broiled; served with bearnaise sauce. Canapes k l’Arlequin.—Buttered toast decorated with strips of chopped tongue, smoked salmon, gherkins, truffles, and hard-boiled white of egg, arranged in lattice work fashion. — & la Coequeri. — A puree of chicken and ham and butter, spread on toasted or fried bread slices, covered with plenty of grated cheese, browned under salamander, and garnished with gherkins, capers, and beetroot. — Reforme.—Squares or oblongs of toasted bread spread with herb butter; garnished the same as for arlequin, but arranged in different design.