132 GAME {GIBIER) Bdeasse brais^es k l’Orange.—Braised woodcock or snipe, served with orange sauce. — en Salmi.—Par-roasted or par-fried, and stewed in salmi sauce ; garnished with olives, etc. — a la Stockholm.—Parboiled, stuffed with beef and pork forcemeat, chopped shallots, mushrooms, and gherkins, braised in fire-proof casserole ; white wine sauce. Caille.—Quail. — en caisses.—Boned, stuffed with foie-gras farce, braised, cut in halves, and dressed in quail cases; served with perigueux sauce. — en casserole. — Braised whole in fire-proof earthenware stewpan (casserole); garnished at will with braised lettuce, endive, mushrooms, button onions, truffles, financiere, etc.; sent to table in the casserole. — en Compote.—Par-roasted, and stewed in brown sauce, with dice of broiled bacon and fried bread croutons, small mushrooms, and braised button onions. — Demidoff. — Braised whole in casserole, with small shapes of carrots, turnips, sliced truffles; demi-glace sauce ; sent to table en casserole. — a la Diane.—Boned, stuffed, and braised in hearts of lettuce en casserole ; financiere garniture. — George Sand.—Boned, stuffed, and par-braised ; when cold, rolled in puff paste and baked in oven. — a la Jardiniere.—Broiled or braised quails, with finely cut young vegetables, carrots, turnips, beans, peas, etc.; demi-glace sauce. — a la Lucullus.—Boned, stuffed, and braised, with game quenelles and sliced truffles. — a la Mirepoix.—Marinated in white or red wine vinegar, carrots, savoury herbs, and juniper berries, etc.; then braised ; sauce, marinade. — au Nid. —Halved, tossed in butter, and cooked en casserole with sliced truffles and demi-glace sauce ; finished with nest-like border of shredded artichoke bottoms. — a la Perigueux.—Braised; brown sauce with truffles. — Piemontaise.—Braised whole, dressed in cooked rice mixed with tossed chicken liver, foie-gras and truffles, in casserole, and finished in oven ; sent to table in same pan as cooked in. — en Polenta.—Stewed in brown sauce, dressed in polenta border. (Polenta is Italian oatmeal.) — Pouding de, k l’Anglaise. — Quail pudding, mould lined with suet crust, filled with quails, slices of beef, seasoned, and then boiled or steamed.