203 OMELETS (Eufs Waldimir.—Eggs (new) placed in fireproof buttered dish, covered with chopped truffles and asparagus points, seasoned, strewn with grated parmesan cheese, slightly baked in oven, and sent to table with supreme sauce poured round edge of dish. Cotelettes aux ceufs.—Minced hard-boiled eggs, prepared with grated cheese and herb seasoning, moistened with raw yolks and sauce, shaped like cutlets, egged, crumbed, and fried. Pyramide d’ceufs k la Reforme.—Stuffed halves of hard-boiled eggs, dished up in a pyramidal form, sprinkled with finely chopped ham and truffles, sauced, and baked in a quick oven. Ragout d’ceufs k la Frangaise.—Slices of hard- boiled eggs, with truffles and morels, stewed in red wine sauce. OMELETTES-OMELETS. An omelet is usually defined as a dish consisting of beaten and seasoned eggs, fried in butter over a quick fire, and shaped like a cushion. There are three varieties of omelets: the plain (simple and compound), the stuffed (puree), and the puffed (souffle omelets). An almost endless variety of omelets can be pre- pared, either plain, compound, savoury, or sweet, because the addition of a special ingredient often brings about a new name. As a savoury, the so-called omelettes fines herbes are the most favoured, the fine herbs being mainly repre- sented by chopped parsley. A number of other omelets besides the savoury kinds are introduced in this register, most of which make admirable break- fast or lunch dishes. A little sauce or gravy is frequently served with an omelet, and should be poured round the base of the dish and not over the omelet. Simple and Compound Omelets. Omelette aux anchois. Omelette aux bucardes. Omelette au caviar. Omelette aux champignons. Omelette aux dames. Omelette aux crevettes. Omelette aux ecrevisses. Omelette aux fines herbes. Omelette au fromage. Omelette de homard. Anchovy omelet. Cockle omelet. Omelet filled with caviare. Mushroom omelet. Clam omelet. Shrimp omelet. Prawn omelet. Savoury omelet. Cheese omelet. Lobster omelet.