14 SPELLING AND PRONUNCIATION Potage petite marmite (potaa j pee-tee mar-meat) Beef broth vegetables, served in small earthen pots with garnish. Potage a la Reine (potaa j rain) Chicken puree with cream, garnished with small fried bread croutons. Potage St. Germain (san-jer-man) Green pea soup wit cream. Potage a la Soubise (soo-beese) Puree of onions. Potage au tomates (oh-toe-mat) Tomato puree (filtered soup). Poularde au riz (poo-lard oh WKEfBoiledchicken with rice. Poule au pot (pool o po) A fowl boiled and served with bourgeoise sauce. Poulet saute (pool-ay so-teh) Joints of chicken saute, with mushrooms, etc. Pruneaux au riz (prune-o oh ree) Pmnes with rice. Prunes (preun) Prunes. Puree (puh-reh) Pulp of vegetables or fruit. Quartier de pre sale (pray-sal-eh) Fore-quarter oj Southdown mutton. Quenelles (quh-nel) Pounded meat, poultry or fish mixed with panade and poached in stock. Ragout (ra-goo) A rich stew of meat or poultry. Ragout (rah-goo) Brown steiu of meat or poultry. Raie (reh) Skate. Raisin (ra-san) Grapes. Rechauffe (reh-shoh-feh) Cold meat warmed up. Ris-de-veau a la jardiniere (ree-de-vo) Sweetbreads garnished with vegetables. Rissoles (ree-sohl) Half-moon shapes of fried minced pastry containing meat, fish, poultry or game. Rognons (rohn-yon) Kidneys. Rouget (roo-jeh) Red Mullet. Salmis (sahl-mee) A rich brown stew of game. Saute (soh-teh) Tossed in butter; cooked rapidly. Souffle (sou-fleh) Puffed. Applied to very light culinary preparations. Soupe au choux (soop oh shoo) Cabbage soup with cream liaison (thickened with cream). Soupe au lait (soop oh leh) Milk soup thickened with potato puree. Soupe a l’oignon (soop-ah ldn-yon) Onion soup. Terrine (teh-reen) Earthen dish; term applied to dishes served in such a vessel. Tete de veau (teht de vo) Calf’s head. Timbale (tam-bal) Thimble-shaped moulds applied to crusted hash, purees, etc., baked or steamed. Thon (ton) Tunny-fish. Tomates (toe-mat) Tomatoes. Truite (trweete) Trout. Vol-au-vent (vohl-oh-vohn) Case of pastry in which stewed meat or fruit is served.