OMELETS 204 Omelette aux hultres. Omelette au jamb on. Omelette au lard. Omelette aux lentilles. Omelette axix moules. Omelette au naturel. Omelette aux olives. Omelette aux pommes de terre. Omelette aux rognons. Omelette aux tomates. Omelette aux truffes. Oyster omelet Ham omelet. Bacon omelet. Lentil omelet. Mussel omelet. Plain omelet. Olive omelet. Potato omelet. Omelet with stewed kidney. Tomato omelet. Truffle omelet. Omelette a l’Alg^rienne. — Plain omelet, filled with artichoke bottoms, stewed in tomato sauce. — a l’Anglaise.—Plain omelet, garnished with thin rashers of fried bacon. — Allemande.—Rich pancake batter, fried in butter rather thickly,and folded; usually served with salad. ■— Amerieaine.—Savoury omelet, filled with sliced tomatoes tossed in butter, chopped bacon, and fried shallots. — Bearnaise.—Plain omelet, mixed with asparagus puree, and filled with mushroom and artichoke bottom ragout; sauced with bearnaise round base. — bonne femme.— Savoury omelet, filled with sorrel puree. — a la ehasseup. — Savoury omelet filled with minced game ; sauce, madere. — Czarina.— Plain omelet, filled with a delicate cucumber stew. — Duehesse.—Very small savoury omelets, mixed with chopped tongue and dressed on slices of tongue; sauce, tomate. — Espagnole. — Savoury omelet, containing dice shapes of fried ham, filled with sauteed tomatoes. — fourree.—Stuffed or compound omelet (filled with a savoury mixture). — Franeaise.—Savoury omelet, containing cream, and filled with eschalot flavour. — aux hareng’s fumes.—Omelet with fillets of kippered herrings. — HongTOise.—Omelet containing paprika, season- ing, etc., stuffed with fried ham, onion, and veloute sauce ; veloute sauce poured round omelet. — Imp4ratriee.—Omelet filled with delicate ragout of mushrooms, bearded oysters, and chicken fillets; sauce, veloute. — Indienne.—Omelet flavoured with curry, filled with cooked rice, chopped mint, onion, or chives ; curry sauce. — Italienne.—Plain omelet, stuffed with chicken liver, ham, and mushrooms tossed in butter ; sauce, tomate.