137 ENTRIES OF GAME Chevreuil brais6 a la St. Hubert.—Braised pickled venison, larded ; finished in brown sauce flavoured with claret and cinnamon; garnished with stoned prunes, glazed with meat extract. — Civet de.—Jugged venison,with red currant jelly served separate. — Cotelettes de, a la Turque.—Cutlets, egged, crumbed, and fried ; fried parsley garnish ; tomato sauce. — Cumberland. — Braised, with marinade sauce, port wine, and orange juice flavour introduced. — Escalopes de, k la Chasseur.—Scallops breaded and fried; served with chasseur sauce mixed with red currant jelly. — Fricot de, k la Piemontaise.—Jugged neck or breast, with small savoury rice timbales ; tomato sauce. — Grenadin de, aux truffes. Small fillets, larded and braised ; served with truffle sauce. — Longe de, k la Tomate.— Braised loin with tomato puree. — Noix de, k la gelee de groseille.—Braised kernel, with brown sauce flavoured with red currant jelly. — a la Sultane.—Marinated neck, loin or fillet, stewed in salmi sauce containing pickled sultanas, reduced with port wine. — Tournedos de, k la Milanaise.—Very small steaks, broiled or grilled ; served with stewed macaroni and tomato sauce. V enaison.—V enison. — Filet de, aux Olives.—Grilled venison steaks dressed with stoned olives and brown sauce. — Cuissot de, k la Richemont.—Boned, larded, and braised or roasted leg, served with small fried sweet potatoes and red currant jelly. Lapin op Lapereau.—Rabbit. — Gibelotte de, & la Bourguignonne.—Par-fried, and stewed in brown sauce, with claret and braised button onions. — Croquettes de, k la Maintenon. — Minced cooked rabbit, made into salpicon, with bechamel sauce, shaped into croquettes, egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with brown sauce reduced with sherry wine. — fpits k la Tartare. — Boned, pickled or marinated, boiled and pressed, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat; served with tartare sauce. — a l’lndienne.—Curried, with boiled rice. — k la Minute.—Cut up, tossed in butter, and stewed in Madeira wine sauce.