ENTREES io8 Epaule—Shoulder. Epaule d’Agneau roul6e aux petits pois.— Boned, rolled shoulder of lamb, braised, served with green peas. — a la Bretonne.—Braised ; served with a puree of white haricot beans, and demi-glace sauce. — braisee aux truffes. — Boned, stuffed and rolled, braised; served with sliced truffles and demi-glace sauce. — a la Chevet.—Boned, rolled, roasted and glazed ; served with a brown sauce reduced with white wine, flavoured with chopped shallots and parsley. — glaeee.—Boned, rolled, braised and glazed ; served with demi-glace sauce. — a la Montmorency.—Boned, stuffed with force- meat, larded and braised; served with a garniture of cock’s combs, mushroom heads, truffles, chicken quenelles, and slices of sweetbread, done in veloute or allemande sauce. — a la Paysanne.—Boned and braised; garnished with small stewed carrots, turnips and peeled tomatoes; demi-glace sauce. — a la Polonaise.— Boned, braised, and sliced; dressed in the centre of a border of mashed pota- toes ; sauced over with gravy, sprinkled over with fried breadcrumbs, and baked. — a la Sainte-Menehould.—Boned and braised, with carrots, turnips, bacon and savoury herbs ; when done cut into slices, dished up, covered with brown sauce, breadcrumbs, and small pieces of butter, browned in a hot oven or under the sala- mander. — aux tomates farcies. — Braised, with stuffed baked tomatoes and demi-glace sauce. — a la Windsor.—Boned, rolled and braised ; gar- nished with cauliflower, carrots, turnips, capers, and fried potato croquettes ; espagnole sauce. Epigrammes. — Boned breast of lamb or mutton, braised or boiled, pressed, and cut into small por- tions (collops) ; denotes also a dish of alternate cutlets, cut from the neck and the breast, according to the style adopted. Epigrammes d’Agneaux a la Perigord.—Fried slices of lamb stewed in truffle sauce. — k la B6arnaise.—Prepared as above ; when cold coated with veloute sauce, dipped in eggs and breadcrumbs, and fried in clarified butter ; served with b£arnaise sauce in the centre of dish.