no ENTREES berries, peppercorns, and savoury herbs; braised, and served with brown sauce enriched with sour cream. Filet de Mouton braise k la Villeroi. — Braised whole, cooled, cut up, and masked with allemande sauce, then egged and crumbed in bread and grated cheese .fried in deep fat,and served with tomato sauce. Fricassee d’Ag’neau.—Stewed breast of lamb in white sauce with mushrooms and chopped parsley. — aux Champignons.—Stewed breast of lamb in white sauce with sliced mushrooms. — aux Houblons.—Stewed breast of lamb with hop sprigs. — aux pointes d’Asperges.— Stewed breast of lamb with asparagus points. Haehis de Viande.—A superior kind of hashed or minced meat. — a 1’EeOSSaise.—Hashed or minced meat laid in a pie dish ; seasoned, covered with brown or white sauce and breadcrumbs, and baked in the oven. — aux ceufs poehes.—Hashed or minced cold meat fried in butter and heated up in brown sauce, with poached eggs placed on top. — a la Pompadour.—Hashed meat, with stewed mushrooms, truffles, and artichoke bottoms as garnish. — a la Portugaise.—Sliced cold lamb or mutton slightly browned in butter, with ham, carrots, and shallots, a little garlic, and parsley ; heated up in brown sauce. Haricot or Ragout.—Pieces of loin or neck of mutton or lamb, fried in butter, with a few small turned carrots, turnips, and onions, drained, and stewed in brown sauce. — a la Bourgeoise. — Braised, with vegetables; garnished with same, and small braised button onions and boiled potato dumplings. — a 1’EcOSSaise. — Stewed lamb in brown sauce, surrounded with small forcemeat timbales lined with thin pancakes. — a la Flamande.—Stewed in brown sauce, with spring vegetables cut into neat shapes. — a la Hessoise.—Par-fried, stewed in brown sauce; served with sour-crout (choux-croute), and pieces of small ham sausages. — a l’lndienne. — Par-fried, and stewed in curry sauce ; served in a border of boiled rice. — a la Parisienne.— Par-fried, stewed in brown sauce, with cubes of carrots and turnips and fried button onions; garnished with small round fried potatoes.