126 POULTRY (VOLAILLE) Poulet Cardinal.—Breast bone removed, stuffed with veal forcemeat, and boiled; garnished with small quenelles and slices of truffles; served with cardinal sauce, composed of white sauce, tomato essence, lobster butter, and chilli vinegar. — a la Careme.—Breast and wings flattened and cut into round shapes, braised and pressed, finished in madere sauce, and dressed on border of potato puree (baked); centre filled with julienne of truffle, mushroom and tongue; bearnaise sauce on each medallion, and madere sauce round base of dish. — en Casserole.—Browned in butter, with or with- out mirepoix, stewed or braised in an earthenware fire-proof stewpan, in brown sauce; sent to table in same pan. — a la Catalane.—Saute of chicken, ranged in earthenware casserole, with layers of rice, bouquet, etc., and finished in oven. — Cdeil. —Breast and wings, larded with strips of tongue and truffles, braised white, dressed in border of potato puree (browned in oven) upon a foie-gras farce ; sauced over with demi-glace. — a la Chanut.—Saute of chicken (tossed in butter with garlic and shallot flavouring), white wine, demi-glace, and sliced tomatoes, dressed on crou- tons of bread ; garnished with sauteed mushrooms, new potatoes (fried), and green peas, liquor reduced and strained over. — Cotelettes de, a la Chinoise. — Pounded chicken, free from skin and sinews, flavoured with salt, pepper, curry powder, and nutmeg, rubbed through a sieve and mixed with breadcrumbs and egg white, shaped into cutlets, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter; served with tartare sauce. — a la Chevaliere.—Fricasseed (fillets larded with strips of truffles, braised and glazed), garnished with mushrooms, truffles, cocks’ combs, and small fried chicken croquettes. — k la Chivry.—Braised; garnished with rings of Spanish onions, filled with onion purde, chives, and chopped tarragon, sauced over with a rich herb sauce. — en Coeotte or a la Casserole.—Small fat chicken braised whole in a fire-proof casserole; garnished with slices of ham, artichoke bottoms, and mushrooms; demi-glace sauce. — en Compote.—Stewed in rich brown sauce, with mushrooms, slices of fried bacon, and braised button onions.