VEGETABLES 164 Pommes de terre surprise.—Baked in their skins, opened, and the interior mixed with butter, cream, fine herbs, and seasoning, refilled and rebaked. — Suedoise.—Sliced, and stewed with fried onions and gravy. — la Turque.—Puree as for croquettes, made into small half-moon shapes, filled with anchovy paste, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter. — Tyrolienne. — Medium sized kidney potatoes, seasoned, stewed with cream, beef broth, and small pieces of butter; when dished sprinkled with grated cheese. — Vaudoise.—Peeled and sliced, ranged in layers on a buttered baking dish, seasoned with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and grated gruyere cheese, top sprinkled with grated cheese, breadcrumbs, and a few drops of oiled butter ; baked in the oven. — Viennoise.—Cut into dice, stewed in beef broth, flavoured with onions and cloves, and sprinkled with finely chopped parsley when dished up. *— VaPSOVienne. — Choux-paste fritters, emptied, and filled with seasoned potato puree. — Villageoise. — Finely chopped cold potatoes, seasoned, stewed in fresh milk, cream and butter. — Worlitz. — Puree prepared as for croquettes, shaped into squares, egged, crumbed in grated parmesan cheese, on one side only, with a small piece of lobster butter on centre of each, and baked in sharp oven. Bopdupe de pupee de pommes.—Border of mashed potatoes. Quenelles de pommes de teppe.—Small potato dumplings poached in salt water, drained, dished up, and sprinkled over with fried breadcrumbs. Salsifis—Salsify. Salsifis fPitS.—Fried salsify. — a la bechamel.—Stewed in white sauce. — au beUPFe fondu.—Boiled, and served with oiled butter. — Hollandaise.—Stewed in stock and served with hollandaise sauce. Beignets de salsifis.—Boiled, drained, seasoned, dipped in batter, and fried in deep fat. T omates—T omatoes. Beignets de tomates. Puree de tomates. Tomates ernes. Tomates an naturcl. Tomates sautees. Tomates frites. Tomates farcies. Tomates grillees. Tomato fritters. Mashed tomatoes. Raw tomatoes. Plain boiled tomatoes. Tomatoes tossed in butter. Fried tomatoes. Stuffed tomatoes. Grilled tomatoes.