59 PIKE Blanquette d’AnguiUe.—Stewed eel in white sauce. Friture d’Anguille.—Skinned and boned pieces of eel, seasoned, egged, crumbed and fried, served with piquant sauce. Barbue bouillie.—Boiled brill. — au gratin.—Baked brill, gratin style. — braisee A 1’AmiPal.—Brill braised with chablis and white stock, garnished with fried oysters and mussels, pommes Parisienne, and thin slices of truffle and lemon, served with cardinal sauce. Filets de Bapbue fpite.—Fried fillets of brill. — A la Grand Due.—Fillets of brill, dipped in veloute sauce, eggs and breadcrumbs, served with veloute sauce, to which is added horseradish, tomato pulp and cream, garnished with mussels and oysters. — A la Madeleine.—Fillets of brill covered on one side with whiting forcemeat mixed with herbs, placed in paupiette rings and sauteed, and white stock and mirepoix; then dipped in egg and bread- crumbs and fried ; served with marseillaise sauce — A la Russe.—Fillets of brill poached in richly flavoured fish essence (reduced fish stock), sauced over with a mushroom sauce, and glazed under the salamander. Blanchailles A la Diable.—Whitebait devilled. — au naturel.—Whitebait fried in deep fat. Bouille-A-Baisse (French Fish Stew).—Fish stew made from various kinds of fish and lobster flavoured v/ith garlic, savoury herbs, and white wine. COUPt Bouillon.—A French savoury fish stew, pre- pared from all kinds of fish, tomatoes, etc. Bpochet A l’Aneienne.—Stewed pike, served with white sauce, garnished with truffles, gherkins, mush- rooms and capers. — A la Castelaine (Pike, CastelaineStyle).—Braised pike stuffed with sliced truffles, tongue and bacon, served with white sauce, and garnished with lobster croquettes, truffles and oysters. — A la CaVOUP (Pike, Cavour Style).—Broiled pike, garnished with nouilles, grated horseradish and carrots, served with rich veloute sauce. — fpit.—Fried pike. — fapei et gratine.—Stuffed pike, baked, gratin style. — grille.—Grilled or broiled pike. — A la Remoulade (Pike.Remoulade Style).—Grilled pike served with a remoulade sauce. Filets de Bpoehet pique A la Colbert.—Filleted pike, larded, steamed in the oven, with white wine sauce.