ENTREES io6 Cotelettes de Mouton a la Bouehere.—Breaded and fried ; served plain or with gravy. — a la Bypon.—Par-broiled, pressed, immersed in brown sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried, dished up in a circle, with stewed kidneys in centre. — a la ChaSSeuP.—Broiled, served with brown sauce containing finely chopped mushrooms. — a la Choiseuil.—Spread over with veal force- meat, mixed with chopped herbs and mushrooms, wrapped in pig’s or lamb’s caul, dipped in oiled butter, rolled in fresh breadcrumbs, and fried ; tomato sauce. — a la ClamaPt.—Breaded, fried, dished up in a circle with puree of green peas in centre; demi- glace sauce. — a la Dpeux.—Breaded and fried ; garnished with minced fried bacon, tongue and gherkins ; dished up in a circle with mashed potatoes in centre. — a la FinaneiePe.—Larded, cooked in butter, sliced onion, carrot and bay-leaf; dressed in crown shapes, with financiere ragout in centre. — a la Fpangaise.—Breaded and fried in butter ; garnished with macedoine of vegetables; sauce, madere. — aux HaPiCOtS Vepts. —Fried, garnished with French beans. — a l’lndienne.—Breaded and fried, served with curry sauce and boiled rice. — a ritalienne.—Marinated in a mixture of salad oil and chopped savoury herbs, egged and crumbed in finely chopped mushrooms, parsley, shallots, lemon-peel, a pinch of mace, and breadcrumbs, fried in butter; Italian sauce. — a la Maintenon.—Split open from side, filled with a stuffing of chopped mushrooms, parsley, shallots, and chicken forcemeat, broiled or baked in the oven, dressed alternately with heart shapes of tongue and ham ; Italian sauce. — a la Madpas.—Breaded and fried (crumbs mixed with finely chopped ham) ; garnished with piccalilli cut in julienne shreds, and served with curry sauce. — a la Mancelle.—Plain broiled or grilled, dressed round a puree of chestnuts ; demi-glace sauce. —]& la Milanaise.—Grilled, dressed in the centre of a rice border, the rice being stewed with tomato puree and parmesan cheese; demi-glace or tomato sauce. —Ik la Minute.—Plain grilled or broiled, with gravy or brown sauce, chopped mushrooms and shallots.