EGG SAVOURIES, ETC. igg (Eufs brouille aux pointes d’asperges. — Scrambled eggs with asparagus points; stir seasoned eggs with butter, cream, and asparagus points over fire till set, dress on toasted bread, and put a teaspoonful of velout£ sauce on centre of each. — bpouilles aux champignons.—Scrambled eggs, with minced preserved mushrooms. — bpouilles aux fines herbes.—Scrambled eggs, mixed with finely chopped parsley, chervil, and chives ; served with fried bread croutons. — brouilles k l’lndienne.—Scrambled eggs, sea- soned with curry powder and cayenne pepper. — bP0Uill6s k l’ltalienne (Scrambled Eggs, Italian Style).—Scrambled eggs placed in centre of risotto border, i.e., cooked savoury rice mixed with fried chicken livers ; tomato sauce round base of dish. — bpouilles au jambon.—Scrambled eggs, with finely shredded or minced ham. — bpouilles, Lyonnaise.—Scrambled eggs with fried onions. — bpouilles aux tPUffes.—Scrambled eggs, with chopped or shredded truffles. — a la mode de Caen.—Slices of hard-boiled eggs, cooked in a rich white cream sauce, with slices of Spanish onion. — en eaisses.—Eggs baked in paper cases. — a la Carmelite.—Halves of hard-boiled eggs stuffed with fried chopped shallots, parsley, sorrel, and yolks of eggs, and baked. — aux champignons.—Eggs stuffed with mush- room puree and baked. — Chipolata.—Cassolettes of bread, shaped to take form of eggs, fried, and filled with poached eggs; garnished with braised button mushrooms, button onions, dice of ham, chestnuts, small fried sausages, and fried Parisian potatoes ; sauce, madere. — a la Christen. — Halves of tomatoes scooped out, lined with spinach, with poached egg on top of each ; white wine sauce round dish. — Colbert.—Small china souffle cases lined with light chicken farce, and raw egg in each, seasoned, and poached in oven ; coated with Colbert sauce. — Comtesse.— Poached eggs dressed on croutons of toasted or fried bread, sauced over with hol- landaise, and chopped truffles on top. — coque k la ereme de volaille.— Egg shells filled with a light chicken cream, and poached in stock ; cut off top of shells, and garnish with a slice of truffle on each.