IO SPELLING AND PRONUNCIATION OF PRINCIPAL WORDS USED IN FRENCH MENUS. The custom of writing menus for luncheons, dinners or suppers is one of long standing, not only in this country but in all parts of the civilised world, although there are many people who regard it with a certain amount of prejudice. Those who go abroad or frequent first-class hotels, clubs and restaurants, are familiarised with the langue de cuisine; but the occa- sional diner is frequently at a loss to understand not only the terms and phrases used in the compilation of the menu, but also their correct pronunciation. It is a recognised fact that we owe much of the advancement and development of cookery to the French, who excel in the culinary art; and with the introduction of special dishes and processes of food preparation, we have also to a certain extent become acquainted with many of the ordinary culinary terms used in the French language, which, as far as menus are concerned, has become the fashion, not- withstanding the inconvenience which the average Englishman feels in consequence. It is, however, a matter of difficulty to give the correct rendering of the phonetic pronunciation of French words, on account of there being in English no equivalents in many instances for the sounds in French. The accents must receive especial attention in writing or reading menus, as the meaning of a word may be completely changed by its use or omission. At the same time, it must be observed that there is, in general, no especial stress of voice on any one syllable in French, even when an accent is placed over a letter in that syllable. The accent determines the sound or pronunciation of the letter alone. The following suggestions and explanations having reference to the various courses comprising a luncheon or dinner menu may prove helpful, not only in the compilation of the latter, but also as an aid to the correct interpretation and pronunciation * of the phraseology generally in vogue. The following are a few examples of the names of dishes and words used in French menus, with their approximate pronunciations: Aigre (ehgr) Sour, acrid or piquant. Aigrefin (eh-gre-fan) Haddock. * It is, however, impossible to give exact equivalents to the French u, the c in many instances, the oi and the oil. Our phonetic rendering is approximate only.