128 POULTRY (VOLAILLE) Poulet frit k la Tyrolienne.— Jointed, seasoned, egged, crumbed, and fried slowly in clarified butter ; served with tomato sauce. — frit a la Viennoise.— Boned, cut into small portions and flattened, marinated, drained, egged, crumbed, and fried ; tomato sauce. — a la General.—Braised; garnished with groups of green peas and asparagus points; served with madere sauce. — haehis, a l’Eearlate.—Stewed in demi-glace sauce and garnished with slices of braised ox- tongue. — k l’lvoire.—Boiled ; breast covered with slices of lemon and barded ; served with supreme sauce. — a l’lndienne. — Stewed in curry sauce, with Indian pickles or piccalilli, cut in fine strips; served with boiled rice. — Livournaise.—Split open from back, flattened, steeped in lemon juice and sweet oil, flavoured with bay-leaf, parsley, and onions, drained, breaded, egged, and broiled in butter; served with mayon- naise sauce flavoured with anchovy essence. — marine frit.—Boiled and cut into pieces, steeped in lemon juice and oil, drained, dipped in frying batter, and fried. — Montmorency.—Stuffed with a salpicon of sweet- breads, truffles and mushrooms, breast larded and braised; garnished with sliced sweetbreads and mushroom heads ; served with madere sauce. — a la Montmorency.—Boned, stuffed with sausage forcemeat mixed with chopped truffles, and breast larded ; braised, cut up, and served with demi- glace sauce. — Paschaline.—Braised, sprinkled with chopped mushrooms, sauced over with a rich veloute sauce and garnished with halves of hard-boiled eggs stuffed with veal forcemeat and fried. — poele aux Groseilles vertes.—Stewed in the oven in earthenware casserole; brown sauce with green gooseberries. — k la Polenta.—Braised white, finished in white wine and tomato sauce, garnished with small timbales of maize or polenta. — Pondiehery.—Sauteed, stewed in brown sauce, mixed with apple puree, the juice and rind of a mandarin orange finely chopped; served in a border of boiled rice. — PPOVen§ale.—Stewed, with braised onions, sliced tomatoes, mushrooms, and madere sauce. — & la Reine.—Fricasseed, dished up in pyramidal form, garnished with chicken quenelles, mushroom heads, sliced truffles, and fried bread croutons.