184 ENTREMETS Charlotte de Pommes.—Apple charlotte. Grisette de pommes.—Apple puree mixed with crushed macaroons, sugar, sultanas, chopped lemon rind, and whisked whites of eggs ; baked in souffle dish. Pommes au beurre. — Peeled and cored apples, baked with butter in the oven, and glazed, sauced over with syrup, and flavoured with nutmeg or cinnamon. — bonne femme.—Same as ” au beurre.” — la Conde.—Apples, pared and cored, cooked in the oven, with sugar, lemon juice, and butter; dressed on a bed of rice ornamented with angelica, glace cherries, raisins and almonds; served hot or cold with apple syrup. — a la Duehesse.—Peeled apples, scooped out in small rounds, cooked in syrup, dressed on genoise croute, with a layer of apple marmalade ornamented with small sticks of angelica stuck in each round of apple ; served with hot or cold apple syrup. — Lexington.—Peeled and cored apples, steamed whole; when cold, egged and crumbed in crushed macaroons or cake crumbs ; centre filled with pine- apple pulp and red currant jelly; served hot with fruit syrup. — mepinguees.—Apples cooked whole or in halves, dressed on rice, masked with meringue mixture, dredged with sugar, decorated, and baked in oven. ■— a la neige (Hot).—Apple puree mixed with whisked whites of eggs, filled in gratin dish with custard, and browned in oven. — Polonaise (Hot).—Slices of apples, cut crosswise, ranged on a layer of marmalade on a gratin dish, masked with syrup, sprinkled with crushed maca- roons, ground cinnamon, and sugar; baked in a moderate oven and served in the baking dish. — PoPtugaise (Cold).—Small cored apples, rubbed over with lemon juice, stewed in syrup with maraschino liqueur ; centre of apples filled with red currant jelly, with a crystallised cherry over top ; served with the syrup. Poudings—Puddings. Ponding d'abricots. — aux amandes. — d'amandes a l'orange. — a lananas. — au chocolat. — de cabinet. — au citron. Apricot pudding. Almond pudding. Almond pudding with orange flavour. Pineapple pudding. Chocolate pudding. Cabinet pudding. Lemon pudding.