SWEETS 177 Bordure a la Japonaise (Cold).—Savarin border, soaked in maraschino syrup and set in jelly Bavaroises—Cremes. Bavaroise a la Colbert (Cold).—Timbale shape of vanilla cream, with chocolate cream in centre, decorated with whipped cream. — de bananes.—Vanilla cream mixed with banana pulp set in moulds. Bavaroise aux framboises. Bavaroise au chocolat. Bavaroise an melon. Bavaroise au cacao. Blancmanger a la vanille. Blancmanger a la creme. Blancmanger aux pistaches Blancmanger aux avelines. Raspberry cream. Chocolate cream. Melon cream. Cocoa cream. Vanilla blancmange. Cream blancmange. Pistachio kernel cream. Blancmange flavoured with filbert. Coffee cream. Chocolate cream. Vanilla cream. French tea cream. French coffee cream. Peach kernel cream. Like caramel cream, flavoured Creme au cafe. Creme au chocolat. Creme a la vanille. Creme Frangaise au the. Creme Frangaise au cafe. Creme aux noix de pe ches. Creme renversee.- with lemon. — au caramel (Caramel Cream). — Egg custard cooked in mould, coated with brown sugar. — brulee.—Similar to caramel cream. — euite a la Puisse.—A kind of bavaroise mixed with glace fruit and cream, set in fancy mould lined with wine jelly, and decorated. — diplomate.—Rich custard mixed with macaroons and Savoy biscuits, set in a mould lined with jelly, and decorated. — de fraises a la chartreuse.—Strawberries set in wine jelly in fancy mould (bottom and side) and filled with strawberry cream, flavoured with chart- reuse liqueur. — frappee aux milles fruits.— Vanilla cream mixed with stiff whites of eggs, mixed glace fruit, and liqueur as flavour, set in moulds, and iced. — a la Genoise.—Rich custard mixed with crushed macaroons, orange juice, and glac6 cherries, flavoured with brandy, set in moulds. — Imperatrice.—Vanilla cream mixed with chopped pistachios and glace cherries, set in a border mould previously masked with wine jelly, and suitably decorated. — jubilee. —A rich fruit cream set in the centre of a mould of port wine or claret jelly.