67 SALMON Saumon k la Montmorency.—Head piece or middle cut of salmon baked, dished up, upper skin re- moved ; sauced over with matelote sauce; garnished with stoned and stuffed Spanish olives. — a la Godard (Salmon, Godard Style).—Braised salmon with a collection of stewed vegetables dressed round the dish. — a la Hollandaise.—Boiled salmon with Dutch sauce, garnished with olive-shaped boiled potatoes. — & la Miehat Pacha.— Boiled salmon with date sauce. — en papillotes.—Heart-shaped slices of salmon wrapped in grease-proof paper and thus boiled or baked ; served with a rich brown herb sauce. ■— ala Piemontaise (Salmon, Piedmontese Style).— Fried fillets of salmon; garnished with small timbales of savoury rice ; tomato sauce. — a la Richelieu (Salmon, Richelieu Style).— Grilled pickled salmon with tomato sauce. — a la Rothschild (or a la Perigueux).—Broiled salmon or salmon trout stuffed with truffles and served with truffle sauce. — a la Victoria (Salmon, Victoria Style).—Broiled salmon with stewed oysters, crayfish quenelles, madeira sauce. Cotelettes de Saumon a la Danoise.—Salmon cutlets spread on each side with anchovy paste and fried ; served with Danish sauce. Darioles de Saumon alaMoseovienne.—Darioles, shapes of salmon, ornamented with truffles, oysters, chopped aspic and cucumber ; served cold. Darne de Saumon a la Chambord.—Boiled middle cut of salmon, skinned, dished up, gar- nished with fish quenelles, heads of mushrooms, cooked oysters, slices of truffles and crayfish tails, sauced with a rich brown fish sauce. — a l’Amiral. — Boiled middle cut of salmon, skinned, dished up, sauced over with a rich brown fish sauce, and garnished with fried oysters and lobster collops. — aux lines herbes.—Grilled salmon steak with parsley butter. — k la National.—Broiled piece of salmon and white sauce; garnished with groups of stewed potato and cucumber balls. — k la RavigOte.—Boiled centre piece of salmon, masked and decorated with cold ravigote sauce and fresh butter, centre of salmon filled with salad or vegetable macedoine, and sides garnished with hard-boiled egg, green peas and chopped aspic; served with tartare sauce ; served cold.