I'JO Gigot de daim voti. SALADS Selle de daim votie. Selle d’elan votie. Lievve voti. Mavcassin voti. Gigot de venne voti. Filet de venne voti. Selle de venne votie. Cuissot de sangliev voti. Gigot de sangliev voti. Reins de sangliev votis. Roast leg of deer (fallow deer). Roast saddle of deer. Roast saddle of moor deer. Roast hare. Roast young wild boar. Roast leg of reindeer. Roast fillet of reindeer. Roast saddle of reindeer. Roast haunch of wild boar. Roast leg of wild boar. Roast loin of wild boar. SALADES-SALADS. The variety of salads is almost endless: raw herbs or plants (salad plants) known as acetarious or succu- lent plants, hot or cold cooked vegetables, cold fish, shell fish, cooked poultry, game, and meat, and even fruits, indifferently mixed or blended together, form salads. It would therefore seem that almost every- thing edible can be converted into a salad. In a typical plain salad cabbage or cos lettuce forms the foundation, whilst the Russian salad, or salade Russe, is regarded as the most vechevche of dressed salads. Green or plain salads are unquestionably the most popular. The secret of these salads is of course the dressing, so that salad making and salad mixing is an art, and the complete mastery of it is granted to but few. With a little knowledge of how to please the palate, with careful and judicious use of seasoning materials, it is, however, possible for everyone to achieve fair success in this branch of the culinary art. In addition to salt and pepper, oil, vinegar, and the fouvnituve d’hevbes,mayonnaise forms the most important ingredient for mixing or dressing salads. The great point in all salads, but especially those served with a roast, is that they be well blended, correctly seasoned, and nicely garnished. A salad must look cool, inviting and dainty, if it is to be a success. There are salads and salads, but unless a cook or maitre d’hotel has what Hamlet calls a feeling fov his business, the salad misses its character—that is, its dressing. A correct dressing must be so blended that no one flavour predominates, otherwise the salad is a failure from the epicurean point of view. Salade d’anchois. Anchovy salad. Salade d'aspevges. Asparagus salad. Salade de bettevave. Beetroot salad.