133 ENTREES OF GAME Caille Regenee. — Boned, stuffed with foie-gras farce, and braised ; garnished with financiere; truffle sauce. — SOUS la Cendre.—Barded, wrapped in oiled paper, cooked in wood embers, the same as baked potatoes ; remove paper when done ; brown sauce reduced with white wine. Croustades k la Champenoise.—Braised halves of quails, stuffed with game forcemeat, chopped mushrooms and liver, dressed on fried bread crou- tons, glazed, and served with demi-glace sauce. Canards Sauvages.—wild ducks. — & rAm^rieaine.—Stuffed with suet and bread stuffing, and braised ; served with salmi sauce con- taining chopped shallots, duck liver, and port wine. — k la Chasseur.—Stuffed with game forcemeat and chopped mushrooms, and braised ; served with a game sauce flavoured with black currant jelly. — Filets de, aux truffes.—Fried fillets, served with salmi sauce, with sliced or chopped truffles. — aux NavetS.—Par-roasted, and stewed in brown sauce, with braised young turnips. — aux Olives. — Par-fried, and stewed in brown sauce, with turned French olives. — en Salmi.—Par-roasted, and stewed or jugged in salmi sauce. Coq de Bruyere aux quenelles de truffes. — Heath-cock larded and braised ; served with small quenelles of chicken and chopped truffles. — a la Polonaise.—Heath-cock, jointed, parboiled, steeped in game marinade, and braised in the oven ; served with brown game sauce mixed with sour cream. Faisan.—Pheasant. — k la Bonne Femme.—Braised whole, with small pieces of ham and slices of Spanish onion ; served with a brown sauce mixed with Indian chutney. — Bruxelloise.—Braised in casserole, with mirepoix and brussels sprouts; garnished with the latter ; brown sauce. — aux ChOUX.—Braised in casserole, with stewed spring cabbages, fried slices of bacon, small carrots, and sausages. — Cavour.—Roast or braised, dressed in casserole with nouilles, previously tossed in butter ; derai- glace sauce. — Compote de, au Madere.—Stewed in madere sauce. — Cotelettes de, k la Richelieu.—Pheasant force- meat shaped into cutlets, and poached ; when cold, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat; served with brown truffle sauce.