EGG SAVOURIES, ETC. 201 CEufs frits & la tomate.—Fried eggs with tomato sauce. — Garfield.—Whole hard-boiled eggs wrapped in forcemeat, egged, crumbed in crushed vermicelli, and fried in clarified butter; served with piquant sauce. — a la gourmet. — Stuffed with crayfish tails, chopped truffles, and smoked salmon, and baked. — Grand Due.—Scrambled eggs dressed on small croutons of fried bread, sauced over with rich bechamel and reduced tomato, garnished with asparagus tips and shredded truffles. — Granville.—Coarsely shredded hard-boiled eggs, stewed in brown onion sauce, flavoured with lemon rind and mace. — a la gruyere.—Scrambled eggs with grated gruyere cheese. — Hussard.—Rounds of fried bread spread with minced ham and mushrooms, with tomato slice on top and poached egg, sauced over with hol- landaise; served hot. — a l’lndienne.—Curried eggs with rice. — maire.—Poached eggs, trimmed, and dressed on toast, garnished with finely shredded ox-tongue, ham, and truffles; sauced over with madere sauce. — maitre d’hotel.—Sliced hard-boiled eggs cooked in parsley sauce. — a la Matelot.—Eggs poached in meat stock, dressed on rounds of toast, sauced over with a rich brown fine herb and onion sauce; garnished with fillets of anchovies. — Meyerbeer. — Poached eggs dressed on grilled sheep’s kidneys, sauced over with perigueux sauce. — Montpensier. — Poached eggs, dressed on fried bread croutons, spread with foie-gras puree, centre of dish green peas ; garnished with truffles. — k la neige.—Whisked whites of eggs, seasoned, steamed in moulds, and served with cream sauce. — Norfolk. — Halves of hard-boiled eggs, egged, crumbed, fried in butter, and served with piquant sauce. — a la Pache.—Hard-boiled eggs sliced, mixed with mushroom heads, and heated in tomato sauce; dressed in centre of rice border. — sur pain grille.—Poached eggs on toast. — k la Pasqual.—Small eggs poached in seasoned milk, trimmed, drained, and masked with chaud- froid sauce ; when cold, dressed in a nest made of baked nouilles, and, if liked, a fish farce founda- tion. — poches aux epinards. — Poached eggs with spinach.