97 VEAL Frieandeau de Veau au naturel.—Braised and served with plain gravy. — a la Regence.—Larded, braised, and glazed with its own gravy reduced; garnished with veal quenelles, slices of sweetbread, mushrooms and truffles ; sauce, madere. — a la Tomate.—Served with stewed tomatoes and tomato sauce. Fricandelles de Veau, Sauce Tomate. — Small veal forcemeat dumplings, boiled, drained, and when cold egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with tomato sauce. — au gratin.—Veal forcemeat dumplings boiled, placed in a buttered dish, covered with white sauce and breadcrumbs ; browned in the oven. Filets de Veau k la Bechamel.—Fillets of veal boiled and stewed in bechamel sauce. — a la Fran§aise.—Braised fillets of veal, served with a brown sauce, blended with tomato puree. — farei a la Fpan§aise.—Larded fillets of veal stuffed and rolled, and braised ; served with brown sauce and marble-shaped fried potatoes. — aux Haricots Verts.—Broiled fillets of veal with French beans. — a la Milanaise.—Fried fillets of veal, garnished with stewed macaroni mixed with white sauce, parmesan cheese, and finely shredded ox-tongue; tomato sauce. — a l’Oseille.—Small veal fillets broiled, and served with sorrel puree. — a la Puree de Coneombres.—Broiled fillets of veal with mashed cucumber. — roti aux Pommes Pailles.—Roast fillet of veal larded ; garnished with very finely cut strips of fried potatoes. — a la Talleyrand.—Small circular or oval slices of veal fillets fried in butter, and finished by cooking in a cream sauce flavoured with lemon juice and shallots, and enriched with egg-yolks. Fricassee de Veau k l’Anglaise.—Stewed veal in white sauce with sliced preserved mushrooms ; served with thin slices of fried bacon. — a l’Allemande.—Stewed pieces of breast of veal in white sauce, garnished with small quenelles, crayfish tails, asparagus, and sprigs of cauliflower. Gateau de Veau aux truffes.—Savoury veal cake baked and served with truffle sauce. — au bain-marie.—Veal cake poached or steamed ; served with white sauce. Goulaehe de Veau k la Hongroise. — Finely cut broiled veal with pepper sauce. E