64 POISSONS {FISH) Limande en souehet. — Boiled flounders with julienne vegetables cooked in fish stock, served with some of the liquor. Maquereau a la Maitre d’Hotel. — Broiled mackerel with parsley butter. — k la Boulonnaise.—Boiled mackerel, garnished with mussels and oysters, served with white fish sauce. — bouilli, sauce capres.— Boiled mackerel and caper sauce. — a l’eau de sel.—Mackerel cooked in salted water and garnished with olive-shaped boiled potatoes. — a la Flamande.—Broiled mackerel with Flemish sauce. — au pePSil.—Boiled mackerel and parsley sauce. Filets de Maquereau a l’lndienne (Fillets of Mackerel, Indian Style.) — Braised fillets of mackerel, served with curry sauce, reduced with white wine. — au vin blanc.— Broiled mackerel fillets with white wine sauce. — au gratin.—Baked fillets of mackerel, gratin style. Merlan bouilli k l’Anglaise. — Boiled whiting with parsley sauce. — frit.—Fried whiting. — grilles.—Grilled whiting. — au gratin.—Baked whiting, gratin style — a la Verdi.—Fillets of whiting, poached in white wine, dressed, and coated with bearnaise sauce sprinkled over with julienne of truffles; tomato sauce round base of dish. Filets de Merlan a la Juive.—Fillets of whiting soaked in oil and vinegar, coated with batter, and fried in deep fat, served with Joinville sauce. — a la Comtesse (Fillets of Whiting, Countess Style).—Baked fillets of whiting, dressed in paper cases, garnished with crayfish tails and small liver forcemeat balls. — frits a la Frangaise (Fried Whiting, French style).—The fish is wiped and scored along the sides, but not skinned, dipped in milk, well floured and fried in fat until crisp ; served with anchovy or shrimp sauce. — a la Maitre d’Hotel (Fillets of Whiting, Hotel- keeper’s Style).—Broiled fillets of whiting with parsley butter. — al’Orly (Fillets of Whiting, Orly Style).—Filleted whiting, seasoned, dipped in white of egg and flour, fried crisp, and served with tomato sauce. — frits ct la tomate.—Fried fillets of whiting with tomato sauce.