HORS-D'CEUVRE 3i (Eufs a la Suedoise.—Small hard-boiled eggs cut in halves, filled with green herb butter and egg-yolk ; prettily decorated and served on glass dishes. Olives la Madras.—Spanish olives stuffed with anchovy and chutney puree, dressed on croutons. Croutons k l’Espagnole.—Large Spanish olives stuffed with tartare sauce, placed on round croutons, with anchovy fillets twisted round olives; decorated with lobster coral, egg-yolk and parsley. Petites Bouehees k la Caroline.—Very small rice cassolettes filled with seasoned chopped hard-boiled white of egg and truffles. Palmiers d’Ecrevisses.—Small oval-shaped paste crusts filled with picked shrimps and mayonnaise dressing (cream), finished with chopped parsley and lobster coral. Petites Caisses k la Casanova.—Small china or paper ramakin cases, filled with celery and truffle shreds, seasoned with tartare sauce, an oyster, slice of egg on top, and decorated with green herb butter. Roulettes a la Creole.—Thinly cut slices of brown bread spread with game or chicken puree, mixed with pounded capers and anchovy paste, rolled up, buttered, and sprinkled alternately with chopped parsley and lobster coral. Bonnes-Bouehes de Sardines k la Royale.— Sardine patties (royal style) filled with puree of sardines, and garnished with truffles, gherkins, etc. Sardines sur Canapes.—Sardine canapees (boned and skinned and dressed on fried or toasted bread). Bonnes-Bouehes de Sardines.—Fancifully cut shapes of brown bread filled with sardine paste; decorated with hard-boiled egg and savoury butter. Canapes de Sardines a la Fran^aise.—Small fried bread croutons masked with sardine paste or butter, layers of sardines, chopped parsley, and coated with remoulade sauce. Salade Suedoise.—Cooked lean veal, fillets of salt herrings or kippers ; cooked potatoes and beetroot, all cut in dice ; seasoned with oil, vinegar, salt and pepper ; garnished with hard-boiled egg-yolks. Canapes de Saumon fume.—Smoked salmon on toast. Tartelettes de Saumon, Eeossaise. — Little tartlet crusts of pastry filled with shreds of cooked salmon and mayonnaise-aspic; garnished with slices of hard-boiled egg and truffle. Tartines k la Baroda.—Very small sandwiches, lined with chicken and rice puree, flavoured with curry ; masked with white chaud-froid sauce, and decorated with set aspic.