49 SA UCES Castelaine. — Demi-glace, with pimienta (Spanish pepper) and finely chopped ham, flavoured with lemon juice. Cazanova.—A cold fish or salad sauce, composed of mayonnaise, finely shredded truffles and whites of hard-boiled eggs, flavoured with garlic. Celepie (Celery).—A white sauce, with cooked chopped celery ; served with boiled poultry. Champagne.— Thin brown sauce, reduced with champagne and ham essence. Champignons (Mushrooms).—Velout£ and mush- room liquor, or demi-glace and sliced mushrooms. Chantilly. —Well reduced bechamel blended with whipped cream. Chasseur (Huntsman). — Espagnole sauce, with chopped shallots, mushrooms and parsley, flavoured with pepper, lemon juice and game essence. Chateaubriand.—Rich brown sauce, made with meat glaze, espagnole sauce, fresh butter, white wine, lemon juice, and chopped parsley, flavoured with cayenne pepper and red currant jelly. ChaudfPOid.—Masking or coating sauce, made of well-reduced white, fawn, cream, green or brown sauce, blended with sufficient gelatine or aspic to set when cold. Chevreuil (Venison).—A brown sauce, reduced with claret, port wine, and thinly sliced gherkins, seasoned with red pepper. Chorroil.—Bearnaise blended with tomato puree. Colbert. — Thin brown fish sauce, enriched with butter and glaze, finely chopped herbs, and lemon juice. aux Concombres (Cucumber).—Bechamel or white cream sauce blended with cucumber puree. Corniehon (Gherkin).—A brown sharp sauce, like poivrade, with finely chopped gherkins. Crevettes (Shrimp).—Pink fish sauce with picked shrimps. Creme (Cream). — Bechamel sauce finished with fresh cream. Cumberland.—Thin brown sauce, with meat glaze, orange juice, red currant jelly, lemon juice, and port wine, fine shreds of orange rind, seasoned with mustard, paprika and ginger. Curry.—A pale brown or fawn coloured sauce, made with veloute gravy, finely chopped onion fried in butter, and curry powder, well reduced and tamined. Danoise (Danish).—White wine sauce, flavoured with grated cheese, anchovy cream and lobster butter. Demi-glace (Half Glaze).—Espagnole reduced with veal stock or gravy of light consistency. c