121 TURKEY Dinde bouillie, sauce Persil.—Boiled, with parsley sauce. — brais^e aux 6pinards.—Braised breasts, with spinach. — brais^e k rindienne.—Stuffed legs, braised, finished in curry sauce, and served with boiled rice. — k la Chipolata.—Larded and stuffed with sausage meat or veal forcemeat and roasted, dished up with a ragout of small sausages, squares of fried bacon, button mushrooms, quenelles, and sliced truffles heated in madere sauce. — euisses de, farcies k la Garibaldi.—Legs, boned, stuffed with chicken and veal forcemeat, truffles, chopped ham and tongue, and braised ; served with small macaroni and rice timbales ; sauce tomate. — k l’^touffade aux concombres.—Stewed in the oven in brown sauce, garnished with braised cucumbers. — Filets de, k la Chicoree.— Braised fillets with endive or chicory puree. — Filets de, k la Cardinal. — Breasts, stewed in white sauce, coloured with tomato puree, garnished with stewed crawfish-tails and lobster corals. — frite It la Tomate.—Cold turkey cut into pieces, seasoned, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat; served with tomato sauce. — a la Godard.—Breast, larded, stuffed with veal forcemeat, sliced sweetbread, mushrooms, and braised; garnished with sliced truffles, mushroom heads, cocks’ combs, turned olives and chicken quenelles; madere sauce. — grillee k la Diable.—Cold roast turkey cut into pieces, spread with devilled butter, and grilled ; served with a sharp sauce flavoured with curry. — aux Morilles. — Stewed in white sauce with morels (a species of mushrooms). — k la Provencale.—Stuffed, with finely chopped boiled onions, breadcrumbs, chopped parsley, egg yolks, sliced truffles and seasoning, and roasted ; served with tomato sauce. — k la Reyniere.—Roast, dished up, garnished with small fried sausages and chestnuts, cooked in chicken stock ; served with brown sauce containing finely chopped and braised liver. — k la St. James.—Stuffed, with sausage meat, chopped cooked turkey liver and shallot seasoning, and roasted; served with brown sauce. Small shapes of cranberry jelly are served separately. F