165 VEGETABLES Tomates au gratin.—Skinned and sliced, ranged on buttered dish, with shallots and brown sauce, covered with breadcrumbs, etc., and baked in the oven. — a la Caroline.—Stuffed with cooked rice, seasoned with meat glaze and grated parmesan cheese; baked — a la CPeole (Cold).—Ripe, firm tomatoes, scooped out and filled with shredded celery, beetroot, and hard-boiled egg ; finished with tartare sauce and dressed on lettuce leaves. — a l’Espagnole. — Stuffed with breadcrumbs, chopped ham, moistened with egg-yolk, brown sauce, and seasoned ; baked in the oven ; served with demi-glace sauce. — aux fines herbes.—Stewed in gravy and butter, with finely chopped parsley. — a la Florentine.—Cut in halves, stuffed with a mixture of fried chopped chicken livers, grated parmesan cheese, egg-yolks, fried chopped shallots, and breadcrumbs, moistened with sherry and seasoned, sprinkled with breadcrumbs, grated cheese, and butter; baked. — frappees en mayonnaise. — Peeled raw tomatoes, scooped out in centre and frozen, filled with half frozen mayonnaise, and served on lettuce leaves. — a l’lndienne.—Halves of tomatoes stuffed with curried rice and baked. — a la Proven§ale. — Stuffed with onion puree, flavoured with garlic, and braised ; served with demi-glace sauce. — k la Sieilienne.—Stuffed whole with a mixture of tomato pulp, chopped ham, parsley, shallots, mush- rooms, and breadcrumbs, moistened with a madere sauce, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and grated cheese; baked. — a la Toscane.—Stuffed with chicken farce and braised ; served with perigord sauce. Topinambours—Jerusalem Artichokes. Topinambours a la creme. — Stewed in white cream sauce. — ct la Bechamel.—Stewed in white sauce. — k l’Espagnole.—Stewed in brown sauce. — a la GeOPgienne.—Sliced and boiled, seasoned, fried in butter, and sprinkled with fried bread- crumbs. — au gpatin.—Parboiled and stewed in white sauce; dished up, covered with breadcrumbs and cheese ; browned in the oven. — a l’lndienne.—Parboiled and stewed in curry sauce ; served with boiled rice.