HORS-D' CEUVRE 29 Cassolettes a l’Epieupienne.—Little pastry cases filled with seasoned lax, tongue, olives and gherkins, all cut into fine shreds. Brisolettes de Caviar a la Moscovite.—Caviare dressed in paste crusts, Moscow style. Brisolettes de Caviar.—Very small farthing rolls cut in halves and filled with caviare, surface masked with aspic, and garnished with anchovy fillets, parsley, etc. Caviar aux Blinis.—This is a special supper dish, the caviare being served on a glass dish set in a block of ice ; garnished with quarters of lemon and parsley. Blinis is served at the same time. It is a kind of light sponge or yeast mixture, a savarin without sugar baked in small pans, and sent to table hot with a boat of sour cream. Caviar en Belle-vue.—Halves of lemon prettily edged, centre filled with caviare ; dressed on bread socle in pyramidal form ; garnished with parsley. Caviar sur Canape a la Remoulade.—Caviare canapees, remoulade style. Caviar a la Capueine.—Small oval or boat-shaped bread crusts, filled with caviare and chopped prawns, seasoned with mayonnaise; garnished with hard-boiled egg and cress. Dariole de Caviar.—Caviare darioles, dressed in small tartlet pastry crust, seasoned. Caviar aux Eerevisses.—Small fried bread cups, filled with caviare and prawns; garnished with olives and gherkins. Caviar en Salade.—A neatly dressed salad of caviare, and small dice of tomato and hard-boiled egg- Tartines de Caviar en ehaudfroid. — Round fried bread croutons, slit open and filled with caviare, coated alternately with brown and white chaud-froid sauces, dressed round a small salad. Tranches de Caviar, Remoulade.—Layers of bread covered with caviare, decorated with savoury butter, and cut into neat slices. Chantrelles en Salade.—Chantrelles are a species of mushroom grown in Switzerland. When cooked they are dressed with plain salad dressing seasoning and served as hors-d’oeuvre. Crabe garnie.—Dressed crab. Bonnes-Bouches de Crevettes k l’Avondale,— Bouche-shaped cups of pastry, filled with shrimps or prawn tails ; garnished with tomato aspic. Denises a la Turque.—Dainty little sandwiches filled with prawns, tomato puree, hard-boiled egg and anchovy, and decorated with paprika butter. b 3