HORS-D’CEUVRE 28 Anchois et queues d’Ecrevisses au Capisantis. —Anchovies and crayfish tails dressed in shells. Rosettes aux Anchois. — Little rounds of fried bread spread with anchovy butter and garnished with anchovy fillets, with small mushroom head in centre, arranged in rosette form, and decorated with green herb butter and chopped hard-boiled egg. Anchois en Salade.—Anchovy salad dressed with oil and vinegar. Bceuf fume a la Hambourgeoise.—Smoked beef, Hamburg style. Bceuf haehe a l’Aspie. — Shredded beef with savoury jelly. *Canapes a rArlequin.—Oblong or crescent shapes of toasted and buttered bread, with strips of tongue, smoked salmon, gherkins and truffles, arranged in harlequin style. Canapes a la Coquelin.—Croutons of fried bread, spread over with a paste composed of cooked ham, chicken, butter and grated cheese; garnished with gherkins, beetroot and capers. Canapes a la Diana.—Layers of chopped ham, truffles and hard-boiled egg-yolks placed alternately on croutons of bread; decorated with chopped aspic. Canapes a la Darvelle.—Oval-shaped pieces of toasted or fried bread, spread with anchovy paste, and finished with layers of ham and caviare; decorated with hard-boiled eggs and aspic. Canapes a la Geneve.—Oblong croutons of fried bread spread with a paste composed of anchovy, sardine and ham ; garnished with hard-boiled egg- yolk and white, and parsley. Canapes a la Selon.—Buttered water biscuits covered with slices of hard-boiled egg dipped in lemon juice and chopped parsley, caviare in centre, and garnished with prawns. Canapes a la Turque.—Finger-shaped pieces of fried bread spread with savoury ham mixture, decorated with three distinct coloured butters, anchovy, herb and yolk of egg. Canapes a la Turbigo.—Halves of very small rolls of bread (farthing rolls), filled with crayfish tails, celery, truffle and egg white ; dressed with tomato and r£moulade sauce. Canapes & la Windsor.—Puree of cooked chicken fillets, ham, tongue, butter, Cheshire cheese, mustard and cayenne, spread on canapees of fried bread; garnished with gherkins and hard-boiled egg whites. * Canapes are made of either toasted or fried bread, cut into suitably shaped slices.