66 POISSONS (FISH) Raie k la poulette.—Skate stewed in parsley sauce. — ail beurre noir.—Boiled skate with nut brown butter. — & la bourgeoise.—Boiled skate with brown sauce, garnished with croutons of bread, glazed over with meat extract. Renke a la broche.—Grilled renk. RougetS a l’ltalienne.—Broiled red mullets with Italian sauce. — au beurre fondu.—Broiled mullets with melted butter. — en filets a la Juive.—Fillets of red mullets soaked in oil, etc., fried and garnished with parsley ; served with tartare or vert pre sauce. — aux fines herbes. — Stewed red mullets with fine herb sauce. — a la Franeillon.—Grilled red mullets, dressed on bread croutes spread with anchovy butter; served with tomato sauce flavoured with anchovy; garnished with fried straw potatoes and fried parsley. — au gpatin.—Baked red mullets, gratin style. — grilles, sauee ravigote.—Grilled mullets and ravigote sauce. — en papillotes (Red Mullets in Paper Cases).— Red mullets wrapped separately in oiled paper, with the ends twisted, and thus baked or broiled, dished up, and served with brown fine herb sauce. — a la Venitienne.—Baked red mullets with brown sauce; garnished with Spanish olives, stuffed with fish forcemeat and mushroom heads. Saumon bouilli, sauce Hollandaise. — Boiled salmon, Dutch sauce. — grille au beurre d’anehois.—Grilled salmon with anchovy butter. — grille au persil.—Grilled salmon with parsley butter. — grille aux fines herbes.—Grilled salmon with fine herb butter. — & la Matelote.—Sauteed slices of salmon with espagnole sauce, poached fish quenelles, slices of mushrooms and truffles ; garnished with braised button onions, truffles, etc. — a la Parisienne.—Slices of salmon, cut rather thick, braised in mirepoix and claret; dished up and garnished with groups of champignons, little fish croquettes, crayfish tails, and poached oysters ; sauce genoise is served with it. — en tranches a la Meuniere (Slices of Salmon, Meuniere Style).—Slices of salmon braised and served with a rich brown sauce, flavoured with savoury herbs.