HALIBUT 61 Coquilles aux Queues d’Ecrevisses.—Coquilles of crayfish tails. Beignets de Clames.—Clam fritters. Crabe fareie.—Dressed and stuffed crab. Ecrevisses farcies.—Stuffed crayfish. Beignets d’ECPeviSSes.—Crayfish fritters. Escargots k l’Anglaise.—Stewed snails. Beignets d’EscargOtS.—Snail fritters. Eperlans en Brochettes.—Fried smelts on skewers. — a la Celestine.—Boned smelts stuffed with force- meat, placed on pancake and forcemeat sandwiches cut in triangles or other shapes, sauteed ; garnished with prawns, and served with rdmoulade sauce. — au Citron. — Smelts dipped in panurette and fried; garnished with fried parsley and lemon. Served with plate of brown bread and butter. — a la Diable.—Fried smelts devilled. — frits.—Fried smelts. — gPatines.—Baked smelts. — fareis a la Pouraine.—Smelts stuffed with forcemeat, mushrooms and parsley, covered with melted butter, and baked ; dished up, covered with bechamel sauce, and browned under salamander. Souffle d’Eperlans.—Souffle consisting of fillets of smelts, whiting, bechamel sauce, cream and white of egg. Esturgeon a 1’AnchoiS. — Boiled sturgeon with — ala Cardinal (Sturgeon, Cardinal Style).—Boiled sturgeon, garnished with quenelles of whiting and crayfish, and served with cardinal sauce. Darne d’Esturgeon a la Milanaise (Sturgeon Steak, Milanese Style).—Middle piece or steak of sturgeon stewed ; garnished with eel-pout livers and crayfish tails. Papillotes d’Esturgeon.—Stewed sturgeon in paper cases. Goujon (Gudgeons).—A kind of small fish-like white- bait, dipped in flour, and fried in deep fat. Grenouilles frites.—-Fried frogs. Beignets de Grenouilles.—Frog’s legs fritters. Grondins farei etOUffe.—Baked gurnet, stuffed ; dished on fried bread croutons ; served with sauce matelote, mixed with anchovy essence and fish liquor. — a la Talleyrand.—Baked fillets of gurnet, served with a sauce consisting of butter, flour, fish liquor, fish stock, cream, and yolks of two eggs beaten up with lemon juice. Halibute au gratin.—Baked halibut.