VEGETABLES 154 Carottes & la Lilloise.—Cut into thick round slices, cooked in a little water with fresh butter and sugar to season, finished in bechamel sauce, egg-yolks, cream, and chopped parsley. — k la MaitFe d’Hotel.—Parboiled (pared and cut in quaters), cooked in white stock, thickened with veloute sauce, fresh butter, a little sugar, and chopped parsley ; garnished with fried bread croutons. — k la Poulette.—Boiled and stewed in white sauce with chopped parsley. — au Saumon fume.—Young carrots and aspara- gus points stewed, and garnished with slices of smoked salmon. Compote de Carottes.—Young carrots scraped and cooked till tender in vanilla flavoured syrup; dressed and served like fruit compote. — a la Creme.—Turned, parboiled, and cooked in white sauce enriched with cream and butter. — farcies.—Young carrots hollowed out and stuffed with green pea puree mixed with egg-yolks, and braised in butter and gravy. — a la Vichy.—Small, round, young carrots, boiled, tossed in butter, and sprinkled with finely chopped parsley. Celeri—Celery. Celeri a la Bechamel.—Boiled celery, served with white sauce. — a l’Espagnole.—Boiled in stock and stewed in brown sauce. — frit It la Tomate.—Boiled, cut in four-inch lengths, seasoned, dipped in frying batter, and fried in hot fat; served with tomato sauce. — a la Fermiere.—Parboiled, stewed in stock with a layer of lean pork ; served with brown sauce. — a la Genevoise.—Parboiled, stewed in stock, with layers of fat bacon; when done, drained, ranged in a baking dish, sauced over with veloute, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and parmesan cheese, and baked in the oven until brown. — a ritalienne.—Parboiled celery heads stewed in stock, covered with thin slices of bacon; served with Italian sauce. — au Jus.—Stewed in and served with gravy. ■— k la Paysanne.—Boiled, cut in five-inch lengths, stewed in brown sauce. — au Veloute.—Parboiled, stewed in stock, finished with veloute sauce. — a la Villepoi.—Boiled, cut in four-inch pieces, drained, dipped in veloute sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried in hot fat; served plain or with tomato sauce.