210 DESSERT Mousse de fraises k la Nansen.—Vanilla cream ice, flavoured with noyeau, decorated with spun sugar. — Neluski.— Pistachio cream ice, flavoured with chocolate, centre filled with caramel cream, decorated with small chocolate macaroons. — printaniepe. — Bomb of vanilla or chocolate cream ice, interior filled with whipped cream, mixed with fresh strawberries, etc. — bombe Sarah Bernhardt. — Rose flavoured cream ice (souffle character), centre filled with violet flavoured mousse containing crystallised violets. — Sultane.—Vanilla cream, mixed with powdered French almond rock, chocolate caramel in centre, decorated with whipped cream. — Tosea.—Coffee cream ice souffles, flavoured with kirsch, and served in cases. — Venitienne or Venetia. — Bomb of pistachio cream ice, centre filled with whipped cream flavoured with orange flower water, and thus frozen. DESSERT. After the Entremet comes the Dessert, which in- cludes cheese, followed by fruit—fresh fruit and dried fruit, glace or crystallised or candied—Bon-bons, Petits fours, fancy biscuits, and sometimes small fancy dessert ices. Nuts and biscuits should always be included as an essential part of the dessert. As regards cheese, * Fromage,” which is served before the fruit, etc., of a dinner or luncheon, this item is frequently mentioned on the menu, but it is not considered essential. It is usual to serve at least two kinds or varieties of cheese. Small pats of fresh butter, dry, plain biscuits, and pulled bread should be handed with it. The most popular kinds of cheese are : Cheddar, Cheshire, Gloucester, Stilton, Gruyere, Gorgonzola, Roquefort, Camembert, Brie, and the various Cream Cheeses. COFFEE (caf£ noir). This forms the last item of a menu. There are three blends or styles of coffee, either of which is eminently suitable as Cafe noir : French Cafe, Cafe Turque, and Cafe Russe. Turk; three. Coffee is Liqueurs, su or liqueur branfy? kirsch, re usually LIBRARY is the strongest of the all cups. schwasser, cognac, d with coffee.