127 ENTREES OF CHICKEN Poulet a la Diable.—spring chickens split open at the back, highly seasoned with cayenne, dipped in oiled butter, and grilled; spread over with mixed mustard or devilled butter. Cold fowl treated in same manner. — a l’Ecarlate.— Braised, garnished with heart- shaped slices of cooked ox-tongue; served with demi-glace or veloute sauce. — Epigrammes, a la Villeroi.—Fillets, seasoned and slightly broiled, immersed in veloute sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried; served with tomato sauce. — Epigrammes aux truffes.—Boned and skinned, cut into heart shapes or fillets, larded with trufflesj and broiled in butter; served with truffle sauce. — Escalopes, a l’Anglaise.—Minced (cold roast or boiled), stewed in bechamel sauce, filled into scallop shells, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and small pieces of butter, and baked in a quick oven. — Filets, a rimperiale. — Larded breasts and wings, braised, and served with game quenelles and truffles. — Filets, a la Jardiniere.—Breasts broiled ; gar- nished with groups of young spring vegetables ; demi-glace sauce. — Filets de, a la Marcelle. — Chicken fillets, crumbed and broiled in butter, dressed round a shape of Anna potatoes ; sauce, Godard, flavoured with paprika. — Fricassee aux Champignons.—Stewed in white sauce with sliced mushrooms. — Fricassee, k la Havelock. — Blanched and stewed in allemande sauce, enriched with egg- yolks and fresh butter; garnished with rings of ox-tongue, truffles, mushrooms and cocks’ combs. — frit a la Dauphine.— Broiled, coated with veloute sauce, egged, crumbed, and fried; garnished with small potato croquettes ; tomato sauce. — frit a la Duchesse.— Boned, cut into small por- tions and flattened, steeped in oil and lemon juice, flavoured with savoury herbs and onions, drained, egged, crumbed, and fried ; served with veloute sauce, blended with cream and minced ham. — frit k l’Orly .— Parboiled, cut into neat pieces, and marinated; dipped in frying batter and fried in clarified butter; garnished with fried parsley ; tomato sauce. — frit k la Tartare.— Boiled ; when cold, cut into joints, seasoned, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat; served with tartare sauce.