163 VEGETABLES Pommes de tepre noisette. — Peeled, cut into large dice shapes, parboiled, and fried nut brown in butter. — de poisSOn.—Peeled and neatly shaped, boiled in salt water, drained, melted butter poured over; served with, or as a garnish for, fish. — au papmesan.—Sliced, stewed in stock or white sauce, with grated parmesan cheese. — pilPee a la Jackson. — Mashed, mixed and garnished with anchovy fillets. — PaPisienne. — Small ball shapes, scooped out when peeled, blanched, and fried in clarified butter. — pup4e a la creme.—Mashed, with cream. — pepsillees.—Peeled, cut into marble shapes, par- boiled, and broiled in butter ; sprinkled with chopped parsley. — a la paysanne.—Thickly sliced, stewed in beef broth, flavoured with fried onions ; demi-glace sauce is poured over when dished up. — a la Reitz.—Peeled, cut into small thin strips, and fried crisp in butter. — Pissolees. — Small ball or other shapes, par- boiled, drained, and broiled in butter. — en PObe de chambpe.—Boiled or baked in their jackets. — FOties au foup.—Baked potatoes (done in the oven). — a la Robert.—Peeled, sliced, and stewed in a sharp brown sauce. — a la Rouennaise.—Mashed as for croquettes, shaped like olives, dipped in frying batter, and fried in hot fat. — sautees.— Cold boiled potatoes cut into slices, seasoned, and tossed in butter. — sautees k la Lyonnaise. — Same as saute potatoes, mixed with finely chopped fried onions. — SaVOyaPde. — Peeled, sliced thinly, mixed in layers, with butter and grated cheese, baked in the oven. — Saxonne.—Medium-sized balls of potato puree (same as for croquettes), egged and crumbed twice, well fried in hot fat; when done, scooped out and filled with onion puree, reclosed, and served quickly. — San Remo.—Small potato dumplings seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, dipped in melted butter and chopped parsley, then in grated par- mesan cheese ; when set, egged and crumbed, and fried in clarified butter. — Strasbourg.— Sliced, stewed in white sauce, dished up, and baked in the oven.