SALADS H 3 *73 Salade k la Grimod.—Consists of cabbage lettuce, cooked French beans, beetroot, and slices of cold game ranged on slices of toasted bread, previously dipped in sweet oil; garnished with groups of whites and yolks of eggs, beetroot or chervil; seasoned with plain salad dressing. — HenPiette.—Sprigs of cooked cold cauliflower, fine shreds of cooked carrots, turnips, French beans, and truffles, seasoned with French dressing. — d’hivep.—Endive, celery, beetroot, horse-radish, and boiled potatoes; seasoned with oil, vinegar, pepper and salt. — a l’ltalienne (Italian Salad).—Prepared with various kinds of smoked meats or sausages (shredded), cooked vegetables, tunny fish, an- chovies, olives, and capers ; seasoned with tartare sauce. — a la Judie.—Slices of cooked carrots, turnips, potatoes, and beetroots, ranged in pyramidal form in salad bowl; garnished with cooked brussels sprouts, French beans, and cauliflower sprigs; dressed with ravigote sauce. — Jockey Club.—Finely cut strips of celery, cold potatoes, cooked French beans, preserved mush- rooms, gherkins, and lettuce hearts, dressed with mayonnaise; garnished with anchovy fillets and hard-boiled eggs. — au lard.—Green salad dressed in usual way, with streaky bacon cut in dice, fried, and finished in vinegar, poured over the salad. — de legumes a la Lyonnaise.—Vegetable salad (macedoine of vegetables), mixed with thin slices of Lyons sausage cut in strips, anchovy fillets, olives, capers, and beetroots; dressed with cold ravigote sauce. — a la Miliken.—Salad composed of Spanish pimientos and truffles, cut in dice shapes, and cold boiled rice ; seasoned with mayonnaise ; dressed on lettuce leaves. — Mapiette. — Piccalilli or mixed pickles, raw cucumber, and not over ripe pears, cut in fine strips, and dressed with mayonnaise. — Napolitaine.—Thin slices of Bologna sausage and sliced hard-boiled eggs, dressed alternately (crown shape) ; centre filled with shredded celery, lettuce, and beetroot; dressed with tartare sauce, and sprinkled with chopped parsley. — a la paysanne (Farmhouse Salad).—Consists of sliced cooked red cabbage (pickled), cold potatoes, and celery root, all cut in thin slices ; seasoned with salad dressing.