34 POTAGES Consomm6 Cel^stine (Celestine Soup).—A clear gravy soup with thin pancakes cut into julienne strips. — k la Chasseur.—A clear, game-flavoured soup, garnished with small game quenelles. — Chataleine. — Clear soup with slight tarragon flavour, garnished with royal custard, mixed with artichoke pur£e, green peas, and French beans. — Chiffonnade (Chiffonade Gravy Soup).—A clear soup garnished with finely shredded spring onion heads, green peas, and lettuce leaves stamped out round, seasoned with green mint and tarragon leaves. — Choron a la Richelieu.—Clarified game stock, garnished with julienne strips of cooked game, pea shapes of young carrots and Brazil tapioca. — Christophe Colombe.—Clear chicken broth,with two coloured diamond shapes of poached savoury egg custard. — aux Choux fareis.—Clear soup garnished with stuffed Brussels sprouts. — Clair.—Clear soup (plain). — Claremont.—Clear soup with royal custard and fried onion rings as garnish. — Cock-a-Leekie (Cock-a-Leekie Soup). — Clear chicken broth, with leeks cut into julienne strips, pearl barley, and small dice of cooked chicken. Prunes are sometimes added as a garnish. — a la Colbert.—A clear soup with small poached eggs and green peas. — a la Conde.—A clear game soup, garnished with quenelles of haricot bean puree and julienne strips of partridge fillets. — Croute a-U Pot.—A clear beef soup, garnished with stock-pot vegetables and very thinly cut pieces of toasted bread. •— a la Dante.—Clarified beef stock in which two or three roast pigeons have been cooked. Garniture : small darioles of chicken farce in two colours, i.e., white and yellow, the latter coloured with saffron, also truffles and ox-tongue. — & la Daumont.—Clarified beef stock with fine tapioca, and a garnish of champignons and cooked ox-palate cut into julienne strips. — Deslignae.—A clear soup with dice of egg custard. The eggs for this are mixed with milk and stock, finely chopped parsley, celery, and truffles before poaching. — aux Diablotines.—Clarified beef stock with tiny baked bread crusts, seasoned with cheese and cayenne.