74 POISSONS (FISH) Soles k la Villeroise.—Soles cooked in cyder and mushroom liquor, garnished with cubes of plain boiled potatoes. Stoudines de Poissons k la Russe.—Fillets of soles and small fillets of salmon poached and dressed alternately in crown shape, masked with aspic, and served with iced horseradish sauce. Turban de Filets de Soles k la Montpelier.— Cold fillets of soles set in turban or border mould, with green herb chaudfroid sauce, aspic, etc. ; garnished with white of egg and truffle; centre filled with dressed salad, etc. Timbale de Filets de Soles k la Savoy.—Poached fillets of soles finished in rich white wine sauce, mixed with truffle, macaroni and crayfish, served in pastry crust made of pate a foncer. Sterlet a la Russe (Sterlet, Russian Style).— Broiled sterlet with braised button onions, small ball-shaped fried potatoes, and anchovy sauce. — au bleu.—Boiled sterlet. Tanehe au bleu.—Boiled tench. — grillee au beurre d’Anehois.—Grilled tench with anchovy butter. — a la Maitre d’Hotel. —Broiled tench with parsley butter. Truite au bleu.—Trout boiled in water and white wine flavoured with herbs. — au beurre d’Anehois. — Broiled trout with anchovy butter. — a la Cambaeeres.—Baked trout, garnished with slices of truffles, heads of mushrooms, stuffed olives and fleurons ; brown genoise fish sauce. — au Chablis.—Braised river trout (mirepoix and chablis) garnished with olive-shaped potatoes, plain boiled, and parsley ; sauce noisette (see Sauces). — a la Christiania. — Boned trout stuffed with fish farce and hard-boiled egg slices, rolled up, cooked in stock and milk; skinned when cold and masked with aspic jelly and mayonnaise; garnished with caviare canapees, etc. — a la Divonnaise.—Braised river trout, breaded, sauced over with sauce genoise; garnished with braised button onions and mushroom heads. — frite.—Fried trout. — a la Meuniere (Trout, Meuniere Style).—Braised trout served with burnt butter, breadcrumbs, and chopped parsley. — a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Broiled trout with parsley butter. — a la Malvoisie.—Boiled trout masked with aspic mayonnaise; garnished with cucumber balls ; served with mayonnaise flavoured with cucumber puree.