ENTREES 88 Filets de Bceuf k la Therapeia. — Broiled; dressed on a bed of mushroom puree, sprinkled with finely chopped herbs, garnished with olive-shaped fried potatoes and truffles, sauced over with nut- brown butter and Worcester sauce. — a la Toreador.—Grilled, rather underdone ; gar- nished with sauteed fresh mushrooms and Spanish pimentos; tomato sauce. — a la Viennoise.—Fillet or other tender lean beef chopped finely and shaped into small fillets, fried in butter, garnished with onion puree and fried onion rings; brown sauce. — a la Wellington.—Tossed in butter over a brisk fire, cooled and wrapped carefully in thinly rolled- out puff paste, with a layer of “ fines herbes ’ ’ spread over the fillets; brush over the paste with egg-yolk and bake in moderate oven io to 15 minutes; dress on potato puree (socle), garnish with green peas, French beans, truffles, and potatoes cut in cubes and tossed in butter. Toupnedos de Boeuf. — Small fillets of beef, trimmed into oval shapes, weighing about two ounces. They are usually dressed on croutons of fried bread. Unless otherwise stated, all tournedos are to be broiled or tossed in butter over a fairly quick fire. — a FArlesienne.—Tournedos dressed on croutons, sauced over with demi-glace containing julienne strips of celery. — a rAlexandra.—Larded, braised and glazed ; dressed on croutons with slice of truffle on each; garnished with quarters of artichokes ; sauce peri- gueux. — a l’Apmand.—Grilled, dressed on fried bread croutons covered with foie-gras puree; garnished with souffle potatoes and slices of truffles ; sauce, bordelaise. — bpais4s au Celeri.—Larded fillets of beef braised with celery, and finished in rich brown sauce; dressed on croutons in a circle, with celery in centre. — k la ChasseUP.—Slightly marinated, fried in butter, and served with chasseur sauce. — a la Colbept.—Fried in equal parts of sweet oil and butter, dished up in circle, centre of dish filled with small rounds of fried potatoes ; eschalot sauce reduced with sherry wine. — a la Dpexel.—Grilled, dressed on fried bread croutons coated with bearnaise sauce, border of each fillet garnished with tomato puree, slice of truffle in centre, and dish surrounded with straw potatoes (pommes pailles).