44 POTAGES Potage de Marrons.—Pur^e of chestnuts. — de Marrons k la Chasseur (fawn).—Chestnut puree, enriched with cream and garnished with dice of cooked game. — de Mauviettes St. Hubert.—This is a pale brown cream soup, made with veal stock, roux and braised larks, garnished with fillets of larks cut into strips. — a la Mercedes.—Jerusalem artichoke puree, en- riched with cream and egg-yolks, garnished with dice of artichoke bottoms and chicken fillets. — a la Montglas (Montglas Soup, white).—A thick soup made of capon, with minced truffles and mushrooms. — de Mufle de Bceuf.—Ox-cheek soup (brown). — Mulligatawny.—Thick mulligatawny soup. — a la Nivernaise. — A puree of vegetables, potatoes, turnips, leeks and sprouts, enriched with cream, and garnished with jardiniere. — aux Oignons.—A cream-like onion soup. — a l’Orleans (Orleans Soup, white).—A chicken puree with tapioca as liaison. — a rorleans Maigre.—A soup made with white bread and milk, finished with cream. — a l’Oseille .—Puree of sorrel (light green). — de Pain bis a la Russe.—Russian brown bread soup with poached eggs. — a la Palestine (Palestine Soup, cream).—Puree of Jerusalem artichokes with small bread croutons. — a la Parmentier (Parmentier Soup, cream).—A cream-like potato soup with croutons of fried bread. — au Pauvre Homme (Poor Man’s Soup, brown).— A kind of brown meal soup, the flour being roasted with butter or dripping to a chestnut brown colour. — de Perdreaux.—Partridge soup. — de Perdreaux a la Grand Due (brown) — Partridge puree, thickened with oatmeal, garnished with small mushroom quenelles. — de Pieds de Veau.—Calf’s feet soup (white). — Pierre le Grand.—White barley cream (veal stock foundation), with puree of pigeon and dice of pigeon fillets as garnish. — de Pigeons Sauvages. — wild pigeon soup (brown). — a la Pluehe (Pluche Soup, pink).—Potato soup with finely minced carrots and herbs. — de PlllVierS.—Plover soup (brown). — Puree de Poireaux. — Puree of leeks with croutons. — de Poireaux a la Creme.—Leek soup enriched with cream.