122 POULTRY (VOLAILLE) Dinde & la Toulouse.—Boiled, dished up with a ragout of sliced mushrooms, sliced sweetbread, sliced truffles, cocks’ combs and forcemeat quenelles heated in allemande or veloute sauce. — a la Yorkshire.—Boned turkey stuffed with forcemeat and slices of cooked York ham, braised or boiled; garnished with groups of vegetable macedoine, and served with ham sauce. Dindonneau saute aux Champignons.—Young turkey, stewed, with sliced mushrooms. — braise au Madere. — Braised, finished in Madeira sauce. OIE—GOOSE. Note.—In those cases where the bird is cooked whole it can be served as remove (releve). Oie kl’Anglaise.—Roast, stuffed with sage and onion filling and roasted ; served with apple sauce (separately) and gravy or brown sauce. — saut£e a la Bourgeoise.—Broiled and stewed, with green peas, braised carrots, and button onions. — aux Chataignes.—Stuffed with veal forcemeat, mixed with blanched chestnuts (cooked whole) and braised ; served with apple sauce (separately). — Chipolata.—Roast or braised, dished up with chipclata garnishing (see Dinde a la Chipolata) ; served with apple sauce. — Dauphinoise.— Stuffed, wi,th chestnut puree and chopped and braised shallot; served with brown sauce blended with orange juice and shredded orange rind. — A 1’EtOUffade.— Stuffed, with boiled chopped onions, sausage meat, breadcrumbs and seasoning ; braised in oven, dished up with a border of glazed turnips, brown sauce. — a la Mont Vernon.—Stuffed with boiled chopped onions and mashed potatoes; dressed in border of halves of apples, baked brown with goose grease in the oven, and served with brown sauce flavoured with red currant jelly. — & l’Orange. — Par-roasted, stewed or braised ; garnished with sliced oranges, and served with orange sauce. — Boudins de foie-gras Parisienne.—Small goose liver sausages, broiled, dished in the centre of a border of mashed potatoes,served with madere sauce. — Quenelles de Foie-gras P6rigueux.—Goose liver quenelles, poached ; served with truffle sauce. — braisee k la Polonaise. — Braised, garnished with sourcrout (sauerkraut), veal quenelles and small smoked pork sausages.