139 ENTREES OF GAME Lievre, Pat6 de, a l’Anglaise (Hare Pie).—Cut into small joints, filled in a pie dish, with forcemeat, slices of bacon, liver and stock, covered with puff- paste crust, and baked in the oven. — Pat6 de, k la Franpaise.—Raised pie crust, filled with pieces of fried hare, pork farce, bacon, mushrooms, and stock, baked in the oven. — Rable de, a la St. Denis.—Loin or neck cut into cutlets, braised, and served with truffle sauce. — Rable de, k la Mode.—Small joints (larded fillets), fried in butter, and stewed in brown sauce, with small pieces of salt or pickled pork ; flavoured with chilli vinegar ; served in casserole. OUFS.—Bear. Cuissot d’Ours a la Cussy.—Boned leg, marinated or pickled, braised, and served with salmi sauce, sliced truffles, etc. Frieot d’Ours k la Chasseur.—Jugged, with chas- seur sauce. Jambpn d’Ours Braise, au vin de Malaga. — Braised bear’s ham, with malaga or port wine sauce. Renne.—Reindeer. — Cotelettes de, Sauce Poivrade.—Reindeer cut- lets fried, with pepper sauce. Sareelle.—Teal. — bardees a la Westphalie.—Barded and braised, with slices of broiled Westphalian ham and truffles ; demi-glace or champagne sauce. — en Salmi.—Teal stewed in brown sauce with olives, etc. Sanglier.—Wild boar. — Carre de, k la Russe.—Braised neck ; served with sweet orange sauce containing sultanas. — Cotelettes de, sauee Madere.—Braised wild boar cutlets, with madere sauce. — Cuissot de, aux Cerises. — Braised leg of young wild boar, flavoured with red wine, castor sugar and cinnamon; served with brown sauce, containing glace cherries. — Cumberland.—Braised, with salmi or marinade sauce; port wine and orange juice flavour intro- duced. — Grand Veneur.—Marinated and encrusted in bread dough, and baked or roasted; served with reforme sauce. — en Chevreuil or Venaison.—Larded leg or fillet, marinated and braised; sauce venaison, and crou- tons. — Jambon de, aux Petits Pois.—Braised ham of wild boar with green peas. — a la Robert.—Fried wild boar cutlets with Robert sauce.