VEGETABLES 152 Souffle d’Artichauts k la Lyonnaise.—Green artichoke pur6e, mixed with chicken souffle mixture, centre garnished with champignon puree, cooked in artichoke moulds, served hot with supreme sauce. Asperges—Asparagus. Asperges en Branches a l’Allemande.—Green asparagus cooked in chicken stock ; served with cream sauce. — a la Bechamel.—Boiled, with bechamel sauce. — a la Bearnaise.—Boiled, dressed with layers of grated gruyere cheese, top covered with finely minced fried onions, cheese, and breadcrumbs; browned in hot oven. — en branches au beurre fondu.—Boiled, with oiled butter. — en branches a la Colbert. — Boiled, with poached eggs and brown sauce. — a la Fribourg.—Boiled, sprinkled with grated gruyere cheese, and sauced with hot oiled butter. •— ala Hollandaise.—Boiled, with hollandaise sauce. — a l’ltalienne. — Boiled head portion; dressed with white sauce or oiled butter, sprinkled with grated cheese, and browned in sharp oven or under salamander. ■— a la Melba.—Giant asparagus tied in bundles and. cooked in salted water; served with sauce Melba. — a la Nigoise.—Boiled, and served cold, with a sauce made of sweet oil, hard-boiled egg-yolks, passed through a sieve, vinegar and seasoning. ■— en Petits Pois.—Green asparagus points (sprue), cut very small to resemble peas, and boiled. — a la Piemontaise.—Boiled ; dressed with grated parmesan cheese and white sauce. — Polonaise.—Boiled soft portion ; dressed with nut brown butter and fried breadcrumbs. — sautees au Beurre.—Boiled, and finished in butter. •— au Veloute.—Boiled,and finished in veloute sauce. — a la Vinaigrette.—Boiled, with vinaigrette sauce. Pointes d’AspergeS.—Asparagus points. — a l’Argenteuil. — Puree of green asparagus points or sprue, mixed with chicken cream farce (cooked), set in asparagus shaped mould, so as to resemble a bundle of asparagus (white part, chicken forcemeat) ; served hot, with supreme sauce ; or cold, with aspic and salad. — a la S6villienne. — Asparagus puree served inside a shape mounted with cooked cold asparagus, masked with aspic ; served cold and garnished with a salad of artichoke bottoms in the centre.