ENTREES d 3 77 Turbotin k la Lussinoise.—Small young turbot filleted and steeped in marinade, then cooked in an onion mirepoix; upon this a light layer of fish farce is placed and then finished in the oven ; sauce aux champignons is poured over the top before serving ; served in casserole. Croquettes de Poisson.—Cutlet shapes of mixture composed of cold fish, bechamel sauce, anchovy essence, egg-yolk, dipped in egg and breadcrumbs or panurette, and fried in deep fat. Entrees de Poisson froid.—Cold dressed fish entrees; suitable also as luncheon, buffet, cold collation, and ball supper dishes. Petites Bouchees k la Suedoise. — Pastry crusts filled with ragout of sweetbread, lobster, crayfish tails and broiled bacon, top of bouchees sprinkled with grated cheese, breadcrumbs and lobster butter, and browned in oven. Pate de Poisson k l’Amerieaine (American Fish Pie).—Pie crust filled with layers of mashed potatoes, cooked turbot, cod or haddock, flaked; white sauce and grated cheese ; surface egged and sprinkled over with grated cheese,and baked in oven. — a la Mariniere.—French raised pie filled with twisted fillets of sole, pieces of eel, mushroom heads, prawn tails, button onions, anchovy sauce flavoured with claret, and baked. Timbales de Poisson k la Mapigny.—Small dariole moulds lined with fish farce, centre filled with prawn tails, herring roes and truffle, made up as salpicon ; sauce hollandaise with crayfish butter; served hot. Vol-au-Vent k la Chambopd.—Round or oval puff paste crust (vol-au-vent) filled with crayfish tails, truffles, mushrooms, small fish quenelles, bearded oysters and genoise sauce. ENTREES. Dishes following the fish, or preceding the remove when such is served, are called entrees ; which, being translated into English, means “ entrances.” Hence the dishes served under this heading are considered by the epicure as the first of the essential dishes of the dinner, and rightly so, because there may be dinners without hors-d’oeuvre, and even without soup, or without a remove or releve, but there can be no proper dinner without an entree course. Entries are defined as “ dressed dishes,” or “ made