SA UCES 53 Miroton.—Demi-glace blended with finely minced, blanched, and fried onions, tomato sauce, vinegar and mustard to flavour. a la Moelle (Beef Marrow).—Espagnole sauce flavoured with fried shallot, mixed with blanched beef marrow cut in thin slices, chopped parsley, vinegar and cayenne to taste. MoPnay.—Bechamel enriched with egg-yolks and grated cheese. aux Mollies (Mussel). — Hollandaise sauce with cooked mussels. Mousseline.—A very light froth-like sauce, holland- aise whisked with double cream. Other mousseline sauces are made with tomato or spinach foundations. Moutarde (Mustard).—Melted butter or bechamel sauce, mixed with prepared mustard. Nantua.—Bechamel reduced with fish essence and finished with crayfish butter. Napolitaine.—A brown sauce with finely minced ham, claret, currant jelly, and grated horseradish, flavoured with shallots, bay-leaf, thyme, and cloves, Ni§Oise. — Demi-glace blended with concentrated Italian tomato puree. Noisette.— Hollandaise sauce mixed with based, pounded, and sieved hazel nuts, finished with double cream. Nonpapeille. — Hollandaise sauce enriched with crayfish or lobster butter, mixed with chopped lobster meat, mushrooms, hard-boiled whites of eggs, and truffles. NOPmande.—A white fish sauce, thickened with egg- yolks, fresh butter and cream, flavoured with lemon juice and essence of fish. Nopvegienne (Norwegian).—A cold sauce, prepared with hard-boiled egg-yolks (passed through a sieve), yolks of fresh eggs, salt, pepper, prepared mustard, oil and vinegar, mixed with finely chopped herbs. aux Olives.—A brown sauce with stoned or turned olives, flavoured with lemon juice; served with ducks, fowls and beef. aux CEufs (Egg).—A white sauce with hard-boiled eggs finely chopped. Oignon (Onion).—A white sauce with minced and blanched onions, seasoned with nutmeg, salt and pepper ; served with rabbit or mutton. Oseille (Sorrel).—Gravy or demi-glace sauce with finely chopped blanched sorrel leaves ; served with fish, veal or fowls, etc. OPange.—Reduced gravy sauce, mixed with orange juice and finely shredded orange rind; served with roast duck or game. c 3