BEEF 87 stuffed onions glazed ; bearnaise and demi-glace sauces. Filets de Bceuf a la Dauphine. — Larded and grilled ; garnished with fried cocks’ combs, sliced truffles ; p£rigueux sauce. — aux fines herbes.—Grilled or broiled ; with brown savoury herb sauce. — a la Garfield.—Larded and grilled ; served with finely cut julienne strips of ham, tongue, truffles and mushrooms; poivrade sauce. — a la Gouffe.—Larded and fried ; garnished with small beef-marrow toasts; demi-glace sauce. — a la Jardiniere. — Grilled ; garnished with groups of spring vegetables. — a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Grilled; with parsley butter. — au Malaga.—Barded and braised ; dressed with madere or Marsala wine sauce; garnished with potato croquets done up in the shape of grapes, with nouille paste stalks inserted, and fried. — a la Marinade. — Larded and marinated in vinegar wine and herbs; grilled or braised; poivrade sauce. — a la Mirabeau.—Broiled ; garnished with fried eggs, tarragon leaves, and anchovy fillets on fillets of beef; group of truffles and champignons around dish; madere sauce. — Moscovite. — Larded; placed in Rhine wine marinade, and braised or sauteed; served with madere sauce, and garnished with chopped and rolled almonds. — aux Olives farcies.—Grilled ; with stuffed olives. — a la Palmeritaine.—Larded and broiled, and garnished with stuffed aubergines and mashed potatoes. — a la Polonaise.—Finely chopped lean beef and chopped suet, seasoned, and shaped like fillets ; egged, crumbed, and fried in butter; garnished with small rounds of fried potatoes; demi-glace sauce. — a la Proven^ale. — Grilled ; garnished with stuffed mushrooms and tomatoes; demi-glace or madere sauce. — a la Sieilienne.—Grilled; served with rings of fried onion ; sauce, madere. — a la Sigurd.—Larded fillet of beef, marinated in madere, and braised ; garnished with small potato cassolettes filled with asparagus point puree, sauteed artichoke bottoms cut in dice, chestnut croquettes, and mushroom heads. — aux truffes.— Broiled or grilled ; served with brown sauce containing sliced truffles.