95 VEAL Cotes et Cotelettes de Veau k la Maitre d’Hotel. —Plain broiled veal cutlets served with maitre d'hotel butter. — a la Marshal.—Egged and cheese-crumbed veal cutlets fried ; served with bigarade sauce. — k la Milanaise.—Veal cutlets garnished with macaroni, stewed in tomato sauce and parmesan cheese. — au naturel.—Plain broiled or grilled veal cutlets. — panees.—Breaded and fried veal cutlets. — en papillotes. — Stuffed veal cutlets braised, served in paper cases. — a la PaFjarski.—Cutlet shapes of minced veal, egged, crumbed, and fried; sauce, demi-glace and tomate. — a la Parma.—Veal cutlets egged and crumbed in grated parmesan cheese, and fried; tomato or demi-glace sauce. — a la Prusse.—Veal cutlets spread with a mixture of truffles and finely chopped shallots braised. — a la Reine.—Veal cutlets egged and crumbed, broiled in butter; served with demi-glace sauce, truffles, and preserved mushrooms. — saut6es au beurre.—Veal cutlets broiled in butter ; served with plain gravy. — a la Singapat.—Veal cutlets larded with small strips of smoked ox-tongue, and braised. — a la Soubise.—Egged, crumbed, and fried veal cutlets ; served with white onion puree. — a la Saint-Cloud.—Veal cutlets larded with strips of truffles, broiled in fresh butter, and garnished with forcemeat quenelles ; sauce, allemande. — k la ZingaPa. — Fried veal cutlets dished up alternately with cutlet-shaped slices of broiled ham ; sauce, madere. Cepvelle de Veau.—Calfs brain. — au beignets.—Calf’s brain fritters. — au beUPPe noip.—Poached calf’s brain; served with nut-brown butter. — a la Demi-glace.—Calf’s brain cooked in brown sauce. — a la FinanciePe.—Boiled calf’s brain with a rich financiere sauce and garniture. — fpitupe OP fpites.—Fried calf’s brain. — au gpatin.—Calf’s brain prepared with white sauce, dressed on dish, and browned in oven. — aux huitPes.—Calf’s brain stewed with oysters and chopped parsley. — a la Milanaise. — Fried calf’s brain served with macaroni and tomato sauce ; garnished with ham, tongue, finely-shredded mushrooms, and truffles.