FISH SAVOURIES 193 AnchoiS frits.—Fried anchovies. Eclairs d’anchois.—Small anchovy pasties. Beignets de Poisson.—Fish fritters. — fumes.—Smoked fish fritters. Bisquits au beurre d’anehois.—Anchovy butter biscuits. Bonnes-bouehes aux huitres.—Oyster tit-bits. Canapes a la creme de laitanees.—Blanch some cod’s roe (fresh), pound in mortar, and add whipped cream and seasoning ; dress on little canapes of fried bread, finger, oval, or oblong shapes ; sprinkle over with lobster coral and krona pepper, heat in sharp oven, and dish up. — Nantua. — Rounds of toasted bread spread with green herb butter, stoned olives stuffed with anchovy placed in centre of each, with a prawn or crayfish tail. — de sardines.—Sardines on toast. Coquille de homard.—Scalloped lobster. Crabe aux ceufs a la Diable.—Curried crab and egg. — sur canapes k l’lndienne.—Curried crab on toast. — a la tomate.—Crab with tomato purde. Croustade de sardines au fromage.—Sardines in pastry crusts with grated cheese. Croutons d’anehois aux fines herbes.—Savoury anchovy paste on toast. — au fromage.—Anchovy fingers with cheese. — a l’lndienne.—Curried anchovies on toast. Croutes de merluche fume.—Smoked haddock mixed with bechamel sauce, cheese, and egg yolk, and heated ; spread on buttered toast and baked. Homard au gratin.—Baked lobster, gratin style. Huitres a FAmericaine. — Grilled oysters with tomatoes. — au beurre.—Broiled oysters in butter. — k la Colbert. — Marinated oysters, drained, egged, crumbed, and fried in sweet oil; served with sauce Colbert. — a l’Horly.—Marinated oysters dipped in frying batter and fried in deep fat; garnished with slices of lemon and parsley ; sauce, tomato. — a l’ltalienne. — Soused or marinated oysters, drained and dipped in flour, and then in beaten seasoned eggs, fried in an omelette pan with clari- fied butter ; served with nut brown butter. — a la Villeroi.—Poached oysters in fish stock ; drained and coated with reduced bechamel sauce, then egged and crumbed, and fried in sweet oil; garnished with lemon quarters and parsley. 1