76 POISSONS {FISH) Turbot sauce aux ceufs.—Boiled turbot and egg sauce. — sauce aux Anehois.—Boiled turbot and anchovy sauce. — k la Reyniere (Turbot, Reyniere style).—Stewed turbot served in shells, dressed with shrimp sauce. — bouilli a la Victoria.—Boiled turbot garnished with ball-shaped lobster croquettes, prawns and parsley, served with Victoria sauce. Escalopes de Turbot a la Dauphine.—Fillets or escallops of turbot, poached and covered with fish farce, baked, and dressed in centre of decorated border of potato puree, sauced over with prawn or crayfish sauce, and garnished with small fish quenelles. Filets de Turbot frits.—Fried fillets of turbot. — k la Careme.—Slices of turbot, garnished with slices of truffles, mushrooms, halves of oysters, dressed on border of whiting forcemeat, with garni- ture and picked prawns in centre; sauced over with rich cardinal sauce. — a la Cussy.—Fillets of turbot poached in white wine, mushroom liquor, etc. ; garnished with mushrooms, cock’s kernels and quenelles, covered with allemande and tomato sauces (blended) ; decorated with slices of lemon and fleurons. — a la Florentine.—Sauteed fillets of turbot covered with layer of spinach puree and bechamel sauce, mixed with grated cheese, then sprinkled with breadcrumbs, grated cheese and oiled butter, and kake(i — a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Broiled fillets of turbot with parsley butter. — a la Salamandre.—Poached fillets of turbot, dished up in row on buttered dish, covered with veloute or rich bechamel sauce, sprinkled with grated cheese, etc., and browned under salamander. — au Vin blane. — Broiled fillets of turbot with white wine sauce. Fleurettes de Turbot a la Hollandaise.—Small flat dariole shapes of cooked turbot set with mayonnaise cream, dressed on bed of salad or little blocks of aspic (cold). Supreme de Turbot a la Royale. — Fillets of turbot poached in white wine, etc., dressed on gratin dish, covered with rich white fish sauce, sprinkled with grated Swiss cheese and butter, and browned in the oven. Timbales de Turbot a la Russe.—Small timbale shapes of cooked flakes of turbot, garnished with prawns, parsley, etc., dressed round a rice shape.