ENTREES 102 Rognon de Veau.—Calf’s kidney. — a la Bordelaise.—Fried and stewed ; red wine sauce with chopped shallots and parsley, and dice shapes of fried potatoes. — a la Demidoff.—Sliced, fried in butter, with sliced mushrooms, chopped parsley, and stewed in sauce madere ; dressed in border of stewed rice mixed with truffles. — en Demi-glace.— Veal kidneys, barded, and braised whole ; served with demi-glace sauce. — grilles.—Grilled veal kidneys cut in halves and served with fried bacon. — a la Maitre d’Hotel .—Stewed veal kidneys with sliced mushrooms and chopped parsley. — sautes. — Thinly sliced veal kidney, tossed in butter, and stewed with onion sauce. — sautes au Vin blane.— Sliced, sauteed, and stewed in white wine sauce. — sautes au Vin rouge.— Sliced, sauteed, and stewed in red wine sauce. Roulade de Veau au Madere.—Rolled fillet or boned loin of veal stuffed and braised ; served with madere sauce. Saute de Veau a la Marengo.—Slices of cushion, neck, or loin of veal, fried and stewed, with sliced mushrooms,chopped shallots, tomato and espagnole sauce ; flavoured with sherry wine ; dished up in pyramid form ; garnished with eggs fried whole in very hot sweet oil, and bread croutons. Tendrons de Veau.—Veal gristles, or veal tendrons, cut off the thick end of the breast of veal and fried, and stewed in brown sauce. — aux Coneombres.—Braised and garnished with stewed cucumbers. — a l’Indienne.—Stewed in curry sauce, with slices of fried bacon and boiled rice. — a la Proven§ale.—Fried in salad oil, with finely chopped onions and herbs, drained, and stewed in a brown onion sauce. — frits a la Suisse.—Braised ; when cold cut into one inch thick slices, egged, crumbed, and fried; tomato sauce. — ail Veloute.—Braised white and stewed in veloute sauce. — A la Villeroi.—Braised ; when cold, cut into slices, soaked in marinade, drained, dipped in frying batter and fried ; tomato sauce. Tete de Veau.—Calf’s head. — a l’Amdrieaine.—Stewed in tomato sauce, with peeled tomatoes, chopped parsley, and fennel. — k l’Anglaise.—Stewed in brown sauce, garnished with calf’s brain fritters and sippets of bread.