172 SALADS Salade de Chou rouge.—Salad made with pickled red cabbage; garnished with hard-boiled white of egg, etc. — eomtoise.—Seasoned lettuce salad, with coarsely- minced streaky bacon (petit sale), fried crisp in butter, poured hot over the salad, and well mixed. Salt should be omitted in this salad, as the pork is usually salt enough. — k la Dumas.—Dice shapes of cooked potatoes, beetroots, gherkins, or pickled cucumbers, and sliced tomatoes, dressed with a mixture of hard yolks of eggs rubbed through a sieve, anchovy essence, oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt; garnished with chopped whites of eggs, tarragon, chervil, beetroot, chives, and white lettuce leaves. — Elva.—Beetroot salad, garnished with Elva plums stuffed with tartare sauce. — k l’Espagnole.—Sliced tomatoes, cooked kidney beans, French beans, Spanish peas, pickled button onions ; dressed with mayonnaise sauce. — d’ete.—Lettuce, cucumber, artichoke bottoms, all cut into thin slices ; seasoned with salad dressing, and garnished with radishes and pickled beetroot. — Eva.—Artichoke bottoms cut in dice, cooked asparagus points, sliced mushrooms, and ham cut in strips ; dressed with remoulade sauce. — a la Flamande (Flemish Salad).—Consists of fillets of Dutch herrings, apples, beetroot, cooked potatoes, brussels sprouts, seakale and cauliflower, cut up neatly, seasoned with plain salad dressing. — k la Fpangaise.—Cabbage lettuce mixed with finely chopped salad herbs, and dressed with a mixture composed of two parts of olive oil, one of French wine, vinegar, salt, pepper, and French mustard ; garnish of slices of beetroot and hard- boiled eggs is optional. — Francillon. — Olive-shaped cooked potatoes, oysters, and slices of truffles, seasoned with oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and chopped parsley. — de Fruits.—Fruit salad, dressed with syrup, liqueur, or wine. — Georgette. — Cucumber, beetroot cut into fine strips, mixed with boiled rice, seasoned with mayonnaise, and filled in heart of artichoke ; gar- nished with truffles. — Gallati.—Blanched mushrooms, diced and tossed in butter, mixed while hot with cooked asparagus tips, French dressing, and a little French mustard.