SA UCES 50 k la Diable (Devilled).—Chopped shallots blended in butter and reduced in vinegar, diluted with demi-glace and red wine, reduced and highly seasoned with Worcester sauce, cayenne, etc. Diplomate.—Bechamel sauce blended with lobster butter and anchovy essence. Duehesse.—Bechamel, enriched with fresh butter, with finely chopped ox-tongue and mushrooms. Duglere.—Tomato sauce blended with bechamel and fish essence, finished with fresh butter and chopped parsley. Duxelle.—Brown sauce enriched with meat glaze, chopped mushrooms, truffles, ham, blended shallots and parsley, flavoured with lemon juice. Eehalote (Shallot).—Thin brown gravy sauce, with finely chopped shallots and parsley, blended in butter, flavoured with shallot vinegar, or finely chopped shallots mixed with vinegar and lemon juice and seasoning; served with oysters. Eerevisses (Crayfish).—White cream sauce mixed with crayfish butter. Epieurienne. — Mayonnaise cream mixed with cucumber puree, aspic, chopped gherkins and chutney; served cold. Espagnole (Foundation Sauce).—A brown sauce made with brown roux, mirepoix of vegetables and ham or bacon, meat stock, wine and seasoning. Estragon (Tarragon).—Demi-glace reduced with white wine and tarragon vinegar, with finely chopped blanched tarragon leaves. Fenouil (Fennel).—A white sauce, with finely chopped fennel flavoured with lemon juice ; served with boiled fish. Fermiere (Farmhouse). — Brown sauce, with finely chopped ham, parsley and capers; served with game. Financiere.—Brown madere sauce reduced with chicken essence, truffle and mushroom liquor. Fines Hepbes.—A white or brown sauce with finely chopped herbs (parsley, tarragon and chervil); chopped shallots blended in butter are sometimes added. Flamande (Flemish).—A white sauce with egg-yolks, flavoured with mustard. Francois.—Tomato sauce reduced with white wine, with chopped mushrooms finished with butter. Garibaldi.—A brown sauce, flavoured with crushed garlic, capers, curry, anchovy paste and mustard ; served with fish or meat. Generale.—A brown savoury sauce, flavoured with lemon juice, tarragon vinegar, orange peel finely chopped, garlic and sherry.