100 ENTREES OreiUes de Veau.—Calf’s Ears. — farcies, sauce tomate. — Stuffed with force- meat and baked, and tomato sauce. — a la Lyonnaise.—Boiled, cut into strips, stewed in brown sauce, and served with fried onion rings and bread croutons. — a la Tomate.—Calf’s ears fried with tomato sauce. Queue de Veau.—Calf’s tail. — a l’Allemande. — Calf’s tail stewed in white sauce. — a rindienne.—Curried calf’s tail with rice. Ragout de Veau.—Pieces of breast or other parts of veal, fried and stewed in brown sauce, with sliced mushrooms, carrots, turnips, and button onions. Ris de Veau.—Sweetbread. — a la St. Cloud. — Braised sweetbread larded, served with tomato sauce and sliced truffles. — a la ChasseuP.—Stewed in brown sauce; served in a border of puree of game. — a la ChiCOPee.—With chicory or endive puree. — a la Colbept. — Slices of cooked sweetbread, dipped in melted butter, sprinkled with fresh breadcrumbs, and broiled; served with Colbert sauce. — a la Comtesse.— Braised, garnished with small puff paste bouchees filled with vegetable macedoine tossed in butter. — a la Creme sup Bopdupe de Riz. — White sweetbread stew; served on a border of rice. — a la Dauphine.—Larded and braised; served with potato croquettes and sorrel pur£e. — en Demi-Deuil. — Braised sweetbreads, larded with black truffles only. — a la Duxelles.—Slices of sweetbread coated with velout6 sauce, mixed with chopped parsley, ox- tongue, and mushrooms, breaded and fried ; sauce, supreme. — aux epinapds.—Braised sweetbread with spinach. — fpit, sauce tomate. — Fried sweetbread with tomato sauce. — a la Finaneiepe.—Same as Toulouse, but garni- ture is prepared in brown Madeira sauce. — a la Godard.—Like financiere, with the addition of stuffed olives. — l’ltalienne.—Fried sweetbread, masked with white sauce and breaded ; Italian sauce. — & la Japdiniepe.—Larded and braised, with neatly cut groups of spring vegetables; demi-glace sauce. — & la Matignon.—Parboiled, slightly marinated in white wine and savoury herbs seasoning, and braised ; served with demi-glace sauce.