BEEF 85 Chateaubriand k la Cordon Rouge.—Basted with oiled butter, seasoned, sprinkled with finely chopped ham and fresh breadcrumbs, and broiled ; garnished with sliced truffles, brussels sprouts, and small stuffed tomatoes; demi-glace sauce. — a la Grecque.—Grilled ; garnished with fried egg- plants (aubergines); madere sauce with chopped parsley. — a la Hoteliere. — Grilled ; sauced over with supreme sauce and a few drops of dissolved meat glaze. — k la Lombarde.—Grilled; garnished with stuffed, baked tomatoes ; madere sauce. — k la Marquise.—Broiled in butter; garnished with artichoke bottoms, filled with small stuffed lettuce. — a la Marseillaise.—Broiled ; surrounded with groups of glazed carrots, button onions, and small pieces of fried calf’s feet; bordelaise sauce. — a la Rosny.—Broiled in butter; served with fried slices of cucumber and poivrade sauce. — a la Veron.—Stuffed from the side with chopped blanched beef-marrow and savoury herbs, basted with sweet oil and grilled; served with echalote sauce. Beef Steak or Small Rump Steak. Beef Steak a la Bardoux.—Steaks cut rather thin, dipped in oiled butter rolled in a mixture of fresh breadcrumbs, chopped beef-marrow and parsley, salt and pepper, fried briskly and served with brown herb sauce. — a la Brisse.—Slightly marinated and broiled; served with richly spiced tomato sauce, surrounded with small turnip timbales. — a la GodaPd.—Grilled ; garnished with sliced sweetbreads, mushroom heads, quarters of arti- choke bottom, and truffles ; demi-glace sauce. — kl2i SoyeP.—Thickly cut steaks, dipped in oiled butter, sprinkled with breadcrumbs, finely chopped chives, parsley and seasoning, and broiled; sauce fines herbes. — Suedois.—Small steaks cut from rump, seasoned, and cooked in butter ; dressed with onion, finely cut and fried, and garnished with saute potatoes. — a la Tupinoise.—Grilled ; garnished with small nouilles timbales ; tomato sauce. Entrec6tes—Sirloin Steaks. Entrecotes a la Beapnaise.—Grilled; served with bearnaise sauce.