90 ENTREES Toupnedos de Bceuf k la Nelson. — Par-fried tournedos, finished in casserole .with braised button onions, demi-glace or madere sauce, and dice of fried potatoes. ■— a la Nesselrode.—Garnished with chestnut puree, potato chips, sauced round with demi-glace. — k la Ni§Oise.—Sauteed beef fillets dressed on croutons ; garnished with small French beans and small tossed tomatoes ; sauce, demi-glace. — a l’OPSay.—Tournedos dressed on croutons, gar- nished with stoned olives, mushrooms, and chateau potatoes; sauce, madere. — Othello.—Poached or fried egg on each tournedo, with p^rigueux sauce. — a la Parisienne.—Broiled, with a garnish of asparagus points, noisette potatoes, and bearnaise sauce. — Piemontaise.—Tournedos dressed on croutons, garnished with small timbales of rice mixed with chopped truffles, with mushroom head on each ; sauce, demi-glace. •— PompadoUP. — Tournedos spread with tomato puree, with a slice of fried ham and a slice of truffle on top of each ; clear gravy. — Ppince Mupat.—Small fillets of beef and slices of raw foie-gras, of similar size, broiled separately, dressed together on bread croutons; garnished with turned Spanish olives, stuffed with farce de champi- gnons and olive-shaped potatoes baked in butter ; sauced over with tomato and madere blended sauce. — a la Quipinal.—Tournedos dressed on croutons, spread with duralle or champignon puree; garnished with straw potatoes ; sauce, madere. — a la Rachel.—Tournedos dressed on artichoke bottoms, sauced over with beef marrow sauce (moelle). — a la Riche.—Artichoke bottoms, filled with green peas, placed on each tournedo, with a slice of truffle on top; sauce, chorron. — Savoisienne.—Braised tournedos done in casse- role, with demi-glace sauce, small button onions, champignons, green peas, and chateau potatoes. — a la Sepibe.—Tournedos dressed on croutons of rice spread over with foie-gras puree ; sauce, madere. — Stpasboupg’eoise.—Slice of braised foie-gras and a slice of smoked sausage on each tournedo ; sauce, madere. — a la ThiePS.—Pre-fried tournedos finished in casserole, with braised button onions, slices of truffles, stoned olives, and brown sauce flavoured with sauterne.