92 ENTREES Lang*ue de Boeuf.—Ox-Tongue. — A la Flamande.—Braised ox-tongue, garnished with groups of cooked carrots, turnips, green peas, French beans, and braised spring cabbage, sauced over with brown sauce. — fum6e aux petitS pois.—Smoked, braised ox- tongue with green peas. — au gratin (Baked Ox-Tongue).—Sliced boiled ox-tongue dressed on a buttered baking dish, with a mixture of brown sauce, breadcrumbs, chopped shallots, parsley and mushrooms, yolks of eggs, and fresh butter, baked in a quick oven, and served on the dish it is baked on. — a l’lndienne.—Curried ox-tongue with boiled rice. — k la Napolitaine.—Braised ox-tongue, with stewed macaroni, tomato puree, and parmesan cheese. — au Parmesan.—Boiled ox-tongue sliced, arranged on a gratin dish, with a mixture of white sauce, grated parmesan cheese, breadcrumbs, chopped shallots, and fresh butter, baked in a quick oven. — a la Robert. — Stewed ox-tongue with brown onion sauce. — k la Romaine.—Braised pickled ox-tongue, served with a sauce composed of espagnole sauce, white wine, blanched currants, sultanas, Italian pine- seeds (pignolis), flavoured with chilli vinegar and castor sugar. Miroton de Boeuf.—Sliced cooked beef broiled in butter and chopped onions, and stewed in brown sauce. Noix de Boeuf a la Bourgeoise.—Braised piece of kernel or cushion of beef larded, finished in a richly flavoured brown sauce with a little tomato pur£e, garnished with braised carrots and button onions. — A l’etouffade.—Kernel of beef with brown sauce, stewed in the oven. Olives de Boeuf k l’Anglaise.—Thin slices of rump steak spread over with suet stuffing, rolled and braised, served with richly flavoured brown sauce, chopped parsley, and thin slices of fried bacon. Opeilles de Boeuf k la Sainte-Menehould.—Boiled pickled ox-ears, when cold dipped in batter and fried in deep fat. Paupiettes de Boeuf k la Richelieu.—Sliced fillets of beef spread with forcemeat, rolled and braised; garnished with forcemeat quenelles, truffles, mush- rooms ; served with Richelieu sauce.