141 COLD ENTREES Chaudfroid de Foie-gras en caisse.—Round or oval-shaped slices of foie-gras, masked with white or fawn chaudfroid sauce, set in souffle cases, and decorated with slices of truffle. — de Gelinottes.—Hazel-hen. — de Poulets.—Cooked chicken fillets, wings and legs skinned, masked with chaudfroid sauce or savoury jelly ; decorated with truffles. — de Perdreaux.—Partridge. Coq de Bois en Gelee.—Fillets of cold black grouse set in mould in savoury jelly. Cotelettes d’Agneau.—Lamb cutlets. — de Chevreuil en Gelee.—Braised venison cutlets masked with savoury jelly. — Danzig.—Braised or broiled cutlets, pressed, coated with foie-gras farce, and masked with white chaudfroid sauce blended with green pea puree; ornamented with truffle and white of egg, dressed on vegetable aspic border. — de Foie-gras en aspic.—Goose-liver cutlets set in savoury jelly. — M0SC0Vienne.—Neck braised whole, cut into cutlets, set in aspic blended with chopped green mint, dressed on border of tongue, truffles, peas, beans, and egg, set in aspic, macedoine of vege- tables seasoned with tartare in centre of dish. — de Mouton.—Mutton cutlets can be prepared and dressed in the same manner as described for lamb cutlets. — de Mouton en Belle Vue. — Broiled or braised mutton cutlets, masked with chaudfroid sauce, dressed cold in savoury jelly, with truffles and fancifully cut vegetables. — Renaissance. — Broiled cutlets, pressed, and coated with liver farce mixed with mushrooms and onion puree, masked with tomato aspic, decorated with white of egg and truffle, and dressed round salad pyramids. — de Sanglier en mayonnaise. — Cooked wild boar cutlets dressed with mayonnaise aspic. — Vallorbes.—As above, with celery and truffle salad mixed with tartare sauce in centre of dish, in place of the ordinary salad. — de Veau en Belle Vue.—Veal cutlets truffled, larded and braised, set in savoury jelly with macedoine of vegetables ; when cold, masked with white chaudfroid sauce and garnished with truffles. — de Volaille a la Russe.—Cold chicken cutlets, truffled and larded, masked with mayonnaise aspic, and dressed on vegetable salad.