SOUPS 41 Creme Valeneienne.—White cream of rice soup, with a liaison of sago cooked in consommd. — de Volaille Chevaliere.—Light white chicken cream, with truffles and tongue julienne as garnish. — de Volaille a la Fran§aise (fawn)—A light brown chicken puree enriched with cream. Potage des Ambassadeurs.—A light cream soup, made with chicken stock, rice and peas pur£e, and finely shredded sorrel. — a l’Americaine (American Soup, red).—Tomato soup thickened with rice or tapioca. — a 1’AndalOUSe.—Light white soup (veal stock foundation) mixed with tomato puree, and nouilles as garniture. — d’Anguilles a l’Allemande.—German eel soup (white). — a l’Argenteuil (Argenteuil Soup).—Filtered rice and cream soup with asparagus points. — d’Asperges a la Prineesse (Asparagus Soup, Princesse Style, white). — Asparagus pur£e, gar- nished with asparagus points and rice. — d’Asperges aux Quenelles.—Asparagus puree with small chicken quenelles. — Puree d’Aubergine. — Egg plant or vegetable marrow soup (white). •— a la Bagration (cream).— A light cream made of veal stock, with small chicken quenelles. — aux Beeasses.—Woodcock soup (brown). — Puree de Bceuf (Beef Soup, brown).—A thick soup made of beef. — a la Bonne Femme (Good Woman Soup, green). —Sorrel cream soup, with small chicken forcemeat quenelles. — a la Creme de ble vert aux ceufs.—Green corn soup with eggs (green). — Bouille-a-Baisse.—A rich fish soup, with small fillets of fish, onions and tomatoes as garnish. — Puree a la Bretonne (Breton Soup, cream).—A puree of white haricot beans with croutons. ■— de Cailles.—Quail soup (brown). — Puree de Canard a l’Anglaise.—A thick soup made from duck giblet (brown). •— a la Capri.—A thick game soup, garnished with minced quail fillets and cocks’ combs. — de Carottes.—Puree of carrots (pink). — Puree a la Castelaine.—a thick brown soup made with beef. — Puree de Celeri a la Creme.—Puree of celery with cream. — Puree de Champignons. — Mushroom soup (light brown). — a la Chantilly .—Lentil puree with cream liaison.