HORS-D'CEUVRE 30 Denises a la Prineesse.—Dainty little sandwiches filled with chicken puree, walnuts and cream mixture ; garnished with small cress. Pate d’Eerevisses sur Canapes.—Potted crayfish on small fingers of toasted bread. Croutes d’Eerevisses k la Tartare.—Croutes of crayfish or prawn tails dressed with tartare sauce. Escargots aux fines herbes.—Snails with fine herb butter. Bonnes-Bouehes de Foie-gras. — Goose-liver patties. Canapes de Foie-gras a la Russe.— Rounds of toasted bread spread with foie-gras puree, a dice of hard-boiled egg placed on top ; garnished with anchovy fillets and caviare. Darioles de Foie-gras.—Goose-liver darioles. Nids a la Chartres.—Little nest-shaped bread croutes filled with foie-gras puree, decorated with truffle and hard-boiled white and yolk of egg. Canapes de Harengs a la Russe.—Fingers of fried bread spread with anchovy butter mixed with herring roes ; fillets of kippered herrings are placed on each ; garnished with gherkins. Ballotins de Homard a la Reforme.—Ballotines of lobster, reform style. Bonnes-Bouehes a la Cardinal. — Lobster and anchovy bonnes-bouches. Canapes de Homard a la Reine. — Lobster canapees, queen style. Homard a la Careme.— Lobster dressed careme style. Darioles de Homard a la Tomate.—Lobster darioles with tomatoes. Tartines k la Cardinal.—Fancifully cut sandwiches made of brown bread and savoury lobster puree; decorated with truffle, hard-boiled egg, gherkin, and parsley. Darioles d’Huitres a la Carlton.—Oyster darioles Carlton style. Jambon sur Canapes. — Ham on fried bread croutons. Petites Bouehees de Jambon a la Creme.— Small puff-paste patties filled with minced ham and cream. Laitanee de Cabillaud fume sur Canapes.— Smoked or pickled tunny fish on toast. Langue de Boeuf sur Canapes.—Ox-tongue on toasted or fried bread slices. Lax fume aux Coneombres.—Salad made of thin slices of smoked salmon and thin slices of cucumber, neatly dressed on small glass dishes. CEilfs fareis ala Russe.—Stuffed eggs,Russian style.