SOLE 69 Sole frite a l’Anglaise.—Fried sole with anchovy sauce or melted butter. — k la Bosniaque.—Steamed sole, seasoned with paprika and white wine; garnished with julienne of carrots, celery and mushrooms cooked in fish stock ; sauce, au vin blanc. — frite k la Colbert (Sole, Colbert Style).—Fried sole, stuffed with fine herb butter. — frite.—Fried sole. — frite a la Gastronome.—Stuffed fried sole with shrimp sauce. — au gratin.—Baked sole, with brown sauce and mushrooms. — gratinee.—Baked sole, gratin style. — grillee a la Maitre d’Hotel. —Grilled sole with parsley butter. — a la Hambourgeoise..—Steamed sole, garnished with julienne strips of carrot and celery root cooked in stock, sauced over with sauce vin blanc. — a la Normande.—Poached soles in white wine, etc., garnished with oysters, mussels and button mushrooms, sauced over with normande sauce, served with buttered and browned slices of French rolls. — au Parmesan. — Soles cooked in mushroom liquor, etc., sauced over with bechamel, flavoured with parmesan cheese ; browned under salamander and served in same dish. — au Vin blanc.—Braised sole with white wine sauce. Filets de Soles a l’Americaine.—Fillets of soles cooked with white wine in gratin dish ; sauced over with rich tomato sauce and lobster butter ; breaded and browned in oven. — en Aspic.—Folded fillets of sole poached, dressed in border shape, centre filled with seasoned salad. — aux aubergines.—Baked fillets of soles dressed with nut brown butter; garnished with fried olive shapes of aubergine (egg-plant). — Belles de Nuit.—Fillets of soles forced with fish farce and prawns; poached in white wine ; gar- nished with mushroom heads, potato cubes, and tomatoes ; sauce, normande. — a la Boitel.—Fillets of soles folded and poached in white wine and mushroom liquor; dressed on dish and sauced over with white mushroom sauce; baked. — a la Bovin.— Poached fillets of soles with rich cream sauce flavoured with fish essence ; garnished with potato balls and chopped parsley. — a la Catalaine.—Poached fillets of soles dressed on border of Jerusalem artichokes, centre filled with c£pes tossed in butter ; sauced over with well- reduced rich bechamel sauce.