48 SA UCES Bechamel (Foundation Sauce).—Made with milk or milk and stock, flour, and butter (white roux), flavoured with pepper, nutmeg, and bay-leaf. Beefsteak.—A light brown sauce made of chopped onion, parsley, meat glaze and butter, flavoured with sherry and lemon juice. au BeUPre.—Melted butter sauce. Beurre Cpemeuse.—Creamed butter sauce ; beaten egg-yolks and butter stirred into boiling stock. BeUPPe Noip (Burnt Butter).—A thin brown sauce made with nut-brown butter, flavoured with tarra- gon vinegar and anchovy essence. Big’aPade.—Demi-glace sauce with shreds of orange rind, flavoured with orange juice and red currant jelly. Blanche.—White sauce, made with white roux, half stock and milk, finished with butter and lemon juice. Blanquette.—Allemande (white) sauce, enriched with an extra quantity of cream. Bohemienne (Bohemian).—A white sauce made with fresh breadcrumbs, white stock, butter, and grated horseradish, seasoned with pepper and salt. Bonne Femme.—A white sauce made with finely chopped onion and shallots, blended in butter and cooked in fish stock, thickened with egg-yolks and whipped cream, seasoned and flavoured with lemon juice. Bonnefoy.—A light bordelaise sauce, into which fresh butter, chopped parsley, and beef marrow is incorporated. Bordelaise (Bordelaise).—A brown sauce, with re- ductions of red wine, chopped parsley, tarragon and shallots. Bourg’uig'nonne (Burgundy). — Espagnole sauce, finely minced onions reduced in Burgundy wine, flavoured with thyme, bay-leaf, cloves and mace. Bretonne (Brittany).—Brown onion sauce, thickened with a little haricot puree. Bulgare.—Cold tomato sauce, blended with finely shredded cooked celery. Byron.—Demi-glace sauce, with a reduction of claret and chopped truffles. aux Cappes (Caper).—A white sauce, with capers. Capres Brune (Brown Caper Sauce).— A brown sauce with capers, seasoned with black pepper and nutmeg. Cardinal. — White fish sauce mixed with lobster coral, or spawn, flavoured with essence of anchovies and tarragon vinegar. Carlet.—A white cream-like sauce, made with fish stock, white wine, butter, flour, and egg-yolks, seasoned with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and sugar.