55 SA UCES Prineesse.—Well reduced allemande or bechamel, with chicken essence and mushroom liquor, sliced mushrooms and double cream. PFOVengale.—Demi-glace with tomato pulp, finely- chopped and fried onions, sliced mushrooms, and chopped parsley and olives, flavoured with lemon juice and garlic. Raifort (chaude) (Horseradish, hot).—Bechamel sauce, mixed with grated horseradish and a little cream. Raifort (froide) (Horseradish, cold).—Sour cream, mixed with freshly grated horseradish and a little vinegar, seasoned with sugar and salt. Ravigote (chaude).—A white sauce, flavoured with savoury herbs, reduced with wine vinegar, finished with fine herbs, butter and cream (hot). RavigOte (froide).-—Mayonnaise sauce, mixed with chopped parsley, chives, chervil, tarragon and shallots, tinted with a little spinach greening (cold). Reforme.—Poivrade sauce, diluted with port wine, red currant jelly and Worcester sauce. Regenee.—Demi-glace or gravy sauce, reduced with white wine and truffle essence, flavoured with finely minced and blended onions. Reine-Marie (Queen Mary).—A brown sauce, made with rich meat gravy, port wine, chopped shallots, parsley, and pounded anchovies ; served with all kinds of roast meats or boiled fish. Remoulade.—A mayonnaise sauce, with chopped parsley, fennel, tarragon leaves, shallots, and pre- pared mustard. Ricardo.—A brown sauce, prepared from the carcase of game, with finely minced fried onions, toasted bread, sherry, thickened with a little meat glaze; served with dishes of game, etc. Riche.—Hollandaise enriched with lobster butter or spawn, with dice shapes of truffles and crayfish tails. Richelieu.—A brown game sauce, with Madeira wine and meat extract. Robert (Robert).—A brown sauce, with finely chopped onions fried in butter, chilli vinegar, prepared mustard, and a little anchovy essence. Romaine (Roman).—Demi-glace or espagnole sauce, mixed with currants, sultanas, Italian pine-seeds (pignoli), diluted and reduced with white wine vinegar, and strained. Rouennaise.—Madere sauce blended with duck liver puree. Ru SSe (Russian).—Allemande or bechamel, with grated horseradish, finely chopped ham, shallots, reduced with vinegar and white wine, seasoned with sour cream, sugar, pepper and salt; served hot.