VEGETABLES 162 Pommes de terre Italienne.— Sliced, placed in layers in buttered and breaded mould, with, alternately, slices of salami sausage, and white sauce mixed with cream, chopped hard-boiled yolks of eggs, grated parmesan cheese, chopped ham, and anchovy fillets ; baked in the mould. — ImperatPice.—Walnut shapes,parboiled,drained, mixed with sliced truffles and mushrooms, and broiled in butter. — julienne.—Peeled, cut into very thin strips like matches, and fried a light brown colour in deep fat. — au land.—Cold potatoes cut into dice shapes, mixed with dice shapes of bacon, seasoned, and fried in butter. — Macaire.—Baked in their skins, cut open, interior mixed with butter and fine herbs, refilled, and rebaked. — Maine.—Peeled, chopped coarsely, and stewed in milk and butter; seasoned with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. — maitne d’hotel.—Sliced, and stewed in white sauce, with chopped parsley. — maehees. — Peeled, boiled in beef stock, and mashed, seasoned with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and sprinkled over with chopped parsley. — a la Madeleine. — Small, even-sized kidney potatoes, scraped or peeled, tossed in butter, seasoned, and baked in the oven. — melangees. — Coarsely sliced, parboiled, mixed with an equal quantity of sliced cooking apples, stewed with a little fresh butter, and seasoned with salt. — Milanaise. — Cut into dice shapes, parboiled, drained, and seasoned, stewed in white sauce with squares of cooked ham and grated parmesan cheese, and mixed with yolks of eggs ; shaped into croquettes, egged, crumbed, and fried in hot fat. — Mignonette. — Like straw potatoes, only cut a little coarser ; sprinkled with chopped parsley when done. — Mont-Done.—Mashed, mixed with cream, grated cheese, and seasoning; filled in shells and baked in oven. — Mousseline. — Fried potato balls (croquettes), interior filled with whipped seasoned cream; re- heated before serving. — Nantaise.—Mashed, dished up in dome shape, masked with supreme sauce, sprinkled with bread- crumbs and oiled butter, and browned in the oven. — Navanraise.—Peeled, cut in half-inch squares, and fried in oil, drained, and sprinkled with salt.