131 ENTREES OF GAME Poulet saut6 a la Perigueux. — Par-fried and stewed chicken with truffle sauce. — a la PrintanieFe. — Par-fried and stewed in brown sauce ; garnished with groups of green peas, small cut carrots, and French beans. — au Piz gratine.—Par-fried and stewed in brown sauce, with dice shapes of bacon and chopped onions, dressed on a bed of rice, covered with rice and tomato puree, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and small pieces of butter, and baked in the oven. — & la St. George.—Fried in oil, and stewed in veloute sauce and sliced mushrooms ; surface glazed with meat extract. Poussins.—Very young chickens (baby or chic- chickens)-. — HambOUPg. — Stuffed with quenelle meat and braised ; garnished with noisette potatoes, truffles, and artichoke bottoms ; demi-glace sauce. — Lyonnaise. — Cut into joints, blanched, and marinated in oil, vinegar, and herbs, dipped in frying batter, and fried in deep fat; garnished with fried onion rings ; tomato sauce. — ParmentieP.—Braised as above, with cubes of fried potatoes added. — POPtUgaise.—Par-fried and stewed in brown sauce flavoured with sherry, with sliced tomatoes and cubes of cucumber. — Tupenne.—Browned in butter and stewed in earthenware stewpan in the oven, with brown sauce, noisette potatoes, slices of tomatoes, and truffles. Quenelles de Volaille a l’ltalienne.—Pounded chicken meat mixed with chopped mushrooms, shaped into quenelles, and poached in stock ; served with sauce, containing chopped truffles, mush- rooms, demi-glace, and ham. — a la Supreme.—Pounded chicken fillets, filled into quenelle moulds, with salpicon in the centre, and steamed in the oven ; served with supreme sauce, and garnished with slices of truffles. Souffle de Volaille a la Reine.—Light chicken forcemeat enriched with cream, filled in moulds, and steamed ; served with supreme sauce and gar- nished with slices of truffles. GIBIER—GAME. Volaille Sauvage—Wild Poultry. Becasse.—Woodcock. — a la Minute.—Broiled woodcock or snipe, served with madere sauce.