130 POULTRY (VOLAILLE) Poulet saute k la Duse.—Cut into joints, fried in oil, and stewed in tomato sauce with artichoke bottoms cut in dice, dressed in border of risotto (stewed savoury rice), sprinkled over with chopped white Pi£mont truffle. — k la Fermiere.—Sauteed, stewed in demi-glace sauce diluted with cream, lemon juice, sprinkled with chopped parsley, and garnished with groups of small cut spring vegetables. — a la Florentine.—Sauteed and stewed in brown sauce and tomato puree, and flavoured with chopped shallots, green pepper, and white wine. — a la GodaPd.—Breast, fillets and wings skinned, larded with truffles and bacon, broiled in butter, and stewed in white sauce with chopped mush- rooms ; garnished with whole truffles, mushroom heads, and fleurons. — a la HongTOise.—Sauteed and stewed in veloute sauce, flavoured with white wine, chopped parsley, and paprika pepper. — aux HuitPes.—Par-fried, and stewed in white sauce with bearded oysters. — a la Inkermann.—Sauteed and stewed in tomato sauce, flavoured with curry and meat glaze ; gar- nished with fried eggs, and small slices of broiled ham. — a l’ltalienne. — Par-fried, and stewed with brown sauce, flavoured with tomato, dished in border of rice; seasoned with tomato puree and parmesan cheese. — Lathuile.—Jointed, tossed in butter, mixed with dice shapes of par-fried potatoes and slices of artichoke bottoms, and finished in demi-glace sauce; garnished with groups of braised button onions and fried parsley. — a la Lyonnaise.—Broiled, jointed, and stewed in tomato and espagnole sauce, reduced with white wine, minced onions, and fried in butter. — a la Marengo.—Jointed, seasoned, and fried in oil, stewed in rich brown sauce, with sliced mush- rooms, and truffles ; garnished with whole fried eggs, bread croutons, and braised button onions. — Maseotte.—Jointed, tossed in butter, and stewed in madere sauce with slices of truffles ; garnished with artichoke bottoms and noisette potatoes. — Mousquetaipe.—Cut in joints and sauteed in butter and chopped ham, drained, and finished in a tomato sauce flavoured with claret, meat glaze, and lemon juice; garniture: cubes of foie-gras, fleurons, cocks’ combs, cepes, and truffles. — a la Paysanne.—Par-fried and stewed in brown sauce, with olive-shaped carrots, turnips and celery root.