15 THE MENU. Menu mal fait, diner perdu.—A. Careme. Mend is the French word for “bill of fare,’’ the kitchen bill, and the table card. It is the programme or plan of a meal — the architect’s plan, of which the cook is the builder. Menu making is an art that is learnt only by experi- ence. To be able to plan or compile a recherche luncheon, dinner, or supper, is regarded as a high accomplishment, for indeed much of the success of a repast depends upon its menu. The arrangement of an elaborate dinner is an art in itself, and consists in selecting the various courses so that the dishes harmonise with each other ; the chief requirements being that: 1. Each dish shall be different in composition and mode of cooking. 2. The composition of the individual dishes must be excellent; while they should be well cooked, tastefully dressed, and yet distinct in character. 3. The harmonising effect is obtained by so arrang- ing the dishes that each one is distinct from the other, bearing no relation in appearance to the preceding or following dishes. 4. A judicious selection of the raw materials, having regard to the season of the year, must be made in all cases, else the menu of a meal may be easily marred. 5. The various meats and other more important materials must not be repeated in the same menu from one course to another. 6. The various kinds of sauces employed in the preparations, and serving as accompaniments to the dishes, must each be distinctly different in colour, taste and flavour. The true estimate of the value of a menu as a literary compilation is not to be obtained by observing the attention given to it by the guest at a dinner table, for at such a time the average diner is engaged in concentrating his whole mind on a rapid analysis of the good things present and to come. It is later, in some leisured moment, that the menu is read with a critical eye, and if found the least worthy from a literary point of view, is treasured as an interesting souvenir of a memorable occasion. Menus are planned for every meal, breakfast, luncheon, dinner and supper, but of all these the dinner menu is of the greatest importance. For special occasions, i.e., Dinner parties, etc.,