105 LAMB AND MUTTON Cotelettes d’Agneau aux epinards.—Grilled or fried ; garnished with spinach. — A la Jardiniere.—Breaded and fried ; served with stewed spring vegetables. — a la Longuet.—Partially cooked, pressed, and coated with villeroi sauce mixed with mushroom and soubise puree, then egged and crumbed, and fried in butter; garnished with mushroom heads ; sauce, demi-glace. — a la Maltaise.—Breaded and fried ; served with well reduced sauce, composed of veloute sauce, sherry, lemon and orange juice, and finely shredded orange peel. — a la Mareehal.— Egged and cheese crumbed, fried, with bigarade sauce. — A la Minute.—Plain grilled or fried ; served with gravy or demi-glace sauce. — en papillotes. — Par-broiled, wrapped in oiled paper with ends twisted, baked in the oven, and served with demi-glace sauce. . — aux petits pois.—Broiled ; garnished with green peas. — k la Prineesse.—Par-fried, pressed, coated with chicken farce, mixed with finely chopped parsley, shallots, mushrooms, ham, lemon juice, and grated nutmeg; when set, egged, crumbed, and fried; dressed round a puree of green peas or asparagus. — a la Robert.—Breaded and fried; served with brown onion sauce. — A la Royale.—Grilled, dressed en couronne, with foie-gras pur£e and tomato pulp (mousse) in centre ; garnished with pommes souffl£es ; sauce madere. — k la Sainte-Menehould.—Stuffed from the sides with a mixture of bechamel sauce, grated cheese, chopped shallots, mushrooms, and parsley ; braised in the oven and served with Italian sauce. — a la Singarat.—Grilled or broiled; served with finely shredded ox-tongue and onion puree. — aux truffes.—Grilled or broiled ; served with truffle sauce. — a la Villeroi.—Broiled or grilled and pressed, dipped in veloute sauce, rolled in crushed vermicelli, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat. Cotelettes de Mouton.—Mutton cutlets. — a l’Avignonnaise.—Boiled or grilled, dressed in a circle on a baking dish, masked with veloute sauce, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and parmesan cheese, and baked in the oven. — k la Bardoux.—Breaded, and broiled in butter ; served with green peas mixed with chopped fried ham.