COLD ENTRIES 144 Petites Croustardes Milanaise.—Puff-paste tartlet crusts, flavoured with cheese ; when cold, lined with tomato cream, filled with light ham souffle mixture ; decorated with whipped cream. Petites Langues k l’Espagnole.—Ox-tongue and chicken or veal farce poached in small tongue moulds, masked with brown chaudfroid sauce and aspic; garnished with macedoine of vegetables, etc. Ris d’Agneau, Sevignb.—Lamb’s breads braised, pressed in pastry rings, coated with villeroi sauce and aspic; garnished with green pea puree, and dressed on seasoned salad. — A l’Amiral.—Oval slices of braised sweetbread, masked with white chaudfroid sauce, decorated with slices of truffles; dressed on vegetable aspic border, with suitable salad in centre of dish. Ris de Veau k la Biarritz (or Monte Carlo).— Braised sweetbread, glazed, cut into slices, coated with fawn-coloured chaudfroid sauce, decorated with truffles and chilli skins; dressed on rice border or carved rice block (socle) with hatelet in centre. Roulade Norv6gienne.—Cooked breast of veal, lean beef and bacon, minced up and shaped into roll, boiled or braised, and glazed with brown chaudfroid sauce ; garnished with slices of truffles, etc. Salade de Poulets.—Chicken salad. Souffles de Jambon.—Pounded ham mixed with madere sauce, cream, and aspic, set in moulds ; decorated with truffle strips, etc., set on ice, and turned out when required. Supreme de Veau k rAspic.—Braised, larded cushion piece of veal cut into fillets, and masked with white chaudfroid sauce and aspic, decorated with truffle, etc., and dressed on carved rice block (socle); garnished with chopped aspic. Tartines de Volaille en Surprise. — Sandwich shapes of chicken, tongue and chicken farce, poached in sandwich moulds, and coated, when cold, with aspic cream; decorated with finely cut strips of tongue and truffle ; served on a bed of green salad. Terrine de Gibier a la Suisse.—Fire-proof terrine lined with bacon, veal and pork farce, and filled with boned and skinned sliced game (either hare, partridge, or pheasant), moistened with stock, top covered with bacon and farce, and thus cooked in oven; when cold, surface masked with aspic, and decorated with slices of hard-boiled egg and truffle.