142 COLD ENTREES Creme de Volaille en Tomates. — Scooped-out tomatoes filled with chicken cream and poached; when cold, skin removed and coated with aspic; garnished with chopped aspic and parsley. Cuisses de Volaille, Belle Alliance.—Boned, stuffed, and braised legs of chicken, masked with chaudfroid sauce and aspic ; garnished with truffles, and dressed in aspic; vegetable border. Darioles de Foie-Gras k la Vatel.—Fluted dariole moulds lined with aspic, and decorated with white of egg and truffle slices; filled with layer of foie- gras pat£ and aspic. — de Volaille a la Chartreuse.—Small dariole shapes of chicken cream, centre filled with mush- room, truffle, and chicken mince. Dominos de Foie-Gras.—Domino-shaped moulds lined with aspic, decorated with white of egg and truffle spots to represent dominos; coated with mayonnaise, aspic, or white chaudfroid sauce, and filled with foie-gras slices; dipped in madere flavoured sauce; dished up on a delicate celery salad. Filets de Bceuf en Chaudfroid.—Fillets of beef, larded, braised, glazed with brown chaudfroid sauce and aspic ; decorated with truffle and white of egg ; garnished and dressed according to taste. Filets de Caneton a la Lorraine. — Roasted duckling fillets, spread over with foie-gras or ham puree, and masked with brown chaudfroid sauce and aspic ; decorated with truffle, etc.; dressed on ham mousse border. — a la Madrid.—Braised whole, cut into fillets, masked with mayonnaise aspic, mixed with grated horseradish and mustard ; garnished with slices of tomatoes, chopped aspic, and cress. — Javanaise.—Larded and braised whole, glazed with demi-glace and aspic; garnished with vege- table macedoine dressed with aspic, etc., grated horseradish, and tomatoes; suitable as remove or supper dish. Fleurettes de Foie-Gras.—Small square, oblong, or oval (flat) moulds, lined with aspic and decorated with chervil leaves, truffle and chilli skin, masked with aspic cream and filled with foie-gras mixture (pounded) ; chicken, salmon, and turbot may be prepared in this style. Galantine de Dinde aux Truffes.—Galantine of turkey with truffles. — d’Ortolans en Chaudfroid.—Braised, stuffed ortolan shaped into galantine, masked with chaud- froid sauce ; garnished with truffles and macedoine of vegetables and chopped aspic.