135 ENTREES OF GAME Mauviettes farcies aux truffes.—Boned, stuffed with forcemeat and truffles, and braised; served with truffle sauce. — Lueullus. — Boned, stuffed with foie-gras, and braised, dressed in cases and served with truffle sauce. — a la Madrid.—Boned, stuffed with pounded veal, ham, and breadcrumbs, braised and glazed, dressed in paper cases, or in border of potatoes ; demi-glace sauce. — Parmentier.—Boned, stuffed with celery puree, and braised ; when cold, wrapped in puff paste and baked ; dressed in border of finely cut fried straw potatoes ; demi-glace sauce. — Pompadour.—Boned, stuffed with chopped beef, crumb bread, braised, and served with perigueux sauce. Ortolans k la Proven§ale.—Braised ortolans with richly stewed onions ; sauce, Robert. — a la Delmonico.—Boned, stuffed with ham farce and chopped truffles, braised in earthenware pot (casserole),covered with paste crust; sent to table in the casserole. — Marianne. — Braised in casserole, with spinach and demi-glace sauce. — & la Perigord.—Braised, with truffle sauce. — a la Polonaise.—Broiled and stewed ; garnished with sauerkraut, small pease dumplings, and pieces of smoked sausage. Perdrix—Perdreaux.—Partridge—Grouse. — Bateliere.—Braised, with button onions, mush- rooms, fried eggs, and crayfish tails ; demi-glace sauce — a la Beauharnais. — Braised, garnished with asparagus tips, fresh button mushrooms, and artichoke bottoms ; truffle sauce. — en Casserole.—Braised in earthenware stewpan, with dice shapes of bacon, button onions, mush- rooms, and bouquet garni; brown sauce flavoured with lemon juice. — a la Chasseur.—Par-roasted and stewed, with chopped mushrooms, claret sauce, and chopped lemon rind; garnished with fleurons or sippets of bread. — Chartreuse de.— Stewed, with braised spring cabbages and young carrots, dressed in timbale with alternate layers of vegetables ; brown sauce. — Chantilly.—Stuffed with foie-gras and braised ; garnished with lentil purde in border or timbales ; sauce madere. — aux ChOUX.—Braised, with bacon and stewed spring cabbages.