150 ENTREMETS DE LEGUMES. (DRESSED VEGETABLES.) Although this course is exceedingly popular on the Continent, and especially in France, dressed vege- tables as an Entremet are not much in favour in England; many dinners are served where only plain vegetables are given, and dressed vegetables as a separate course is but seldom included. This is regrettable, because in point of excellence as well as economy dressed vegetables deserve to be more largely, if not generally, introduced in dinner menus. Of these vegetables, Asparagus, Green or Globe Arti- chokes, Jerusalem Artichokes, Cardoons, Celery, Salsify, Celeviac, Cauliflower, Seakale, Spinach, Tomatoes, Green Peas, Sprouts, Potatoes, French Beans, Mushrooms, Cucumbers and Aubergines are particularly adapted for dressing as an Entremet Course. The dressing varies considerably. Asparagus, Artichokes, and Cauli- flowers are often served plainly boiled, dished on toasted bread, with a good white sauce or oiled butter. Oiled butter must be perfect; fresh and sweet butter only should be used, and a dash of lemon juice incor- porated. Many of these vegetables are well suited to be cooked au gratin ; others are tossed in butter, after being boiled and well drained ; whilst others, such as Tomatoes, Potatoes, Cucumbers, Aubergines, Mush- rooms, and Artichoke Bottoms, etc., are stufted. There are about 200 ways of cooking and dressing potatoes, and of these quite 100 render them fit for use as savoury vegetables. Asparagus and Artichokes are also served au Vinai- grette, i.e., with a plain salad dressing, consisting of oil, vinegar, chopped chives or parsley, chopped gherkins, and seasoning. Bechamel, Tomato, Hollandaise, Piquante and Poivrade Sauces are frequently used for dressing vegetables. Many dainty souffles of Vegetable Puree rank prominently as savouries; for these, Spinach, Cucumber, Lettuces, Tomatoes, Artichokes, Carrots, etc., are generally used. Lastly, Vegetable Fritters should be accorded a prominent place under this heading. These are made of Salsify, Celery, or Celeriac, Beetroot, Cardoons, C6pes, etc. These are generally first cooked, and when cold cut into slices or small pieces, then dipped in batter, and fried.