160 VEGETABLES Pommes de terre a l’Allemande.—Plain boiled, sauced over with brown sauce mixed with lemon juice, white wine, well reduced and thickened with egg yolks and butter. — k la Bpaban§onne.— Mashed potatoes, mixed with finely chopped blanched shallots, parsley, and grated cheese, seasoned with pepper, salt, and nut- meg, dressed on a shallow dish, top sprinkled with breadcrumbs, grated cheese, and bits of butter ; browned in the oven. — a la Bignon. — Peeled and parboiled, centre scooped out and filled with forcemeat, and baked with butter. — a la bechamel.—Parboiled, and stewed in white sauce. — Bpetonne. — Cold boiled potatoes, peeled, cut into squares, broiled in butter, mixed with finely chopped fried onions, chopped parsley, and a little brown sauce. — a la bourgeoise.—Mashed, dressed on a dish (dome shape), basted with melted butter, sprinkled over with fresh breadcrumbs and cheese, and baked. — bonne femme.—Same as paysanne, with squares of fried bacon added. — Bordelaise.—Peeled, sliced thinly, fried soft in a saute pan, with oiled butter and finely chopped onions. — Chatonilland.—Oblong shaped soufflee or puff potatoes, made from large kidney potatoes. — cuites au bouillon.—Boiled in beef broth. — cuites SOUS la eendre.—Baked in hot ashes (in their jackets). — Chateau. — Oval or olive shapes of potatoes, blanched, drained, fried a light colour in clarified butter, and sprinkled with chopped parsley. — eopeau (Potato Ribbons).—Peeled, cut similarly to sugar loaves; peeled carefully so that the peel (ribbon) remains whole; fried in very hot fat. — croquettes.—Mashed or puree, seasoned, mixed with yolks of eggs, shaped into ball or any other shapes, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat. — Chateaubriand.—Peeled, cut into quarters and pared into neat shapes, parboiled, drained, and fried in butter. — a la creme.—Sliced, and stewed in white sauce enriched with cream. — en cotelettes.—Puree as for croquettes, shaped like cutlets, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat. — eomtesse. — Sliced, ranged neatly in buttered timbale mould, with veloute sauce, and baked in a hot oven.