SWEETS 1S3 P£ches—Peaches. Peehes & la Cardinal.—Halves of peaches studded with almond strips and stewed in raspberry syrup, dressed on genoise border ; served hot or cold. — Montreuil.—Halves of peaches stewed in maras- chino syrup, dressed in centre of a semolina border; served hot or cold. — Melba (Cold).—Halves of peaches cooked in vanilla syrup, filled with vanilla cream ice, and dressed in pyramidal form, sauced over with rasp- berry puree, and sprinkled with chopped almonds. — a la Ninette (Cold).—Small brandied peaches, dressed on macaroons soaked in maraschino, sauced over with cold custard sauce. — Opientale (Iced).—Halves of peaches stewed in syrup, flavoured with kirsch and maraschino, drained and cooled, filled with raspberry ice, and dressed on shapes of vanilla cream ice. — Piemontaise.—Halves of peaches filled with almond paste (marzipan), dressed on croutons of genoise, and then cooked in oven ; served hot with syrup. Timbales de Peehes Marie-Louise (Hot).—Small timbale shapes of genoise hollowed out and filled with peach puree mixed with whisked egg white, baked and glazed; halves of peaches, glazed, placed on top of each, and decorated with glace cherries cooked in kirsch flavoured syrup. Poires—Pears. Poires a la Reine (Hot).—Border of genoise cake and custard, poached, dressed with compote of pears, sauced over with raspberry syrup. — a la Florentine (Cold).—Compote of pears, dressed on a bed of cooked semolina, flavoured with vanilla, sauced over with apricot marmalade. — a la Mapquise.—Bartlett pears cooked in vanilla syrup, dressed on timbale of rice, flavoured with maraschino, meringued over, and baked ; served hot or cold. — k la Sieilienne. — Halves of Bartlett pears stewed in syrup, drained, filled with almond paste, placed on cake croutons, and glaced in oven; served hot. Pommes—Apples. Casserole de pommes au riz (Hot).—Stewed apples ranged in a casserole with layers of cooked rice, mixed with chopped glace cherries and almonds; baked, and ornamented with glac£ fruit.