POSITION OF VISCERA AT THE OUTLET OF THE PELVIS. 751 of the finger introduced into the gut, the surgeon readily detects enlargement or other disease of this organ; he is enabled also, by the same means, to direct the point of a catheter when its introduction is attended with much difficulty, either from injury or disease of the membranous or prostatic portions of the urethra. Behind the prostate is the posterior surface of the neck and base of the bladder; a small triangular portion of this organ is seen, bounded, in front, by the prostate gland; behind, by the recto-vesicfil fold of the peritoneum; on either side, by the vesiculse seminales and vasa deferentia; and separated from direct contact with the rectum by the recto-vesical fascia. The relation of this portion of the bladder to the rectum is of extreme interest to the surgeon. In cases of retention of urine, this portion of the organ is found projecting into the rectum, between three .and four inches from the margin of the anus, and may be easily perforated during life without injury to any important parts; this portion of the bladder is, consequently, 393.—A View of the Position of the Viscera at the Outlet of the Pelvis. frequently selected for the performance of the operation of tapping the bladder. If the finger is introduced into the bowel, the surgeon may learn the position, as well as the size and weight, of a calculus in the bladder; and in the operation for its removal, if, as is not unfrequently the case, it should be lodged behind an enlarged prostate, it may be easily displaced from its position by pressing upwards the base of the bladder from the rectum. Parts concerned in the Operation o f Lithotomy. The triangular ligament must be replaced, the rectum drawn forwards so as to occupy its normal position, and the student should then consider the position of the various parts in reference to the lateral operation of lithotomy. This operation is usually performed on the left side of the perinseum, as it is most convenient for the right hand of the operator. A staff having been introduced into the bladder, the first incision is commenced about an inch and a half in front of the anus, a little on the left side of the raphe, and carried obliquely backwards and outwards to midway between the anus and tuberosity of the ischium. This incision divides the integument and superficial