375 BRACHIAL. Bend of the Elbow. At the bend of the elbow, the brachial artery sinks deeply into a triangular interval, the base of which is directed upwards towards the humerus, and the sides of which are bounded, externally, by the Supinator longus; internally, by the Pronator radii teres; its floor is formed by the Brachialis anticus, and Supinator brevis. This space contains the brachial artery, with its accompanying veins; the radial and ulnar arteries; the median and musculo-spiral nerves; and the tendon of the Biceps. The brachial artery occupies the middle line of this space, and divides opposite the coronoid process of the ulna into the radial and ulnar arteries; it is covered, in front, by the integument, the superficial fascia, and the median basilic vein, the vein being separated from direct contact with the artery by the bicipital fascia. Behind, it lies on the Brachialis anticus, which separates it from the elbow-joint. The median nerve lies on the inner side of the artery, but separated from it below by an interval of half an inch. The tendon of the Biceps lies to the outer side of the space, and the musculo-spiral nerve still more ex- ternally, lying upon the Supinator brevis, and partly concealed by the Supinator longus. Peculiarities of the Artery as regards its Course. The brachial artery, accompanied by the median nerve, may leave the inner border of the Biceps, and descend towards the inner condyle of the humerus, where it usually curves round a prominence of bone, to which it is connected by a fibrous band ; it then inclines outwards, beneath or through the substance of the Pronator teres muscle, to the bend of the elbow. This variation bears considerable analogy with the normal condition of the artery in some of the carnivora (see p. 99). As regards its Division. Occasionally, the artery is divided for a short distance at its upper part into two trunks, which are united above and below. A similar peculiarity occurs in the main vessel of the lower limb. The point of bifurcation may be above or below the usual point, the former condition being by far the most frequent. Out of 481 examinations recorded by Mr. Quain, some made on the right, and some on the left side of the body, in 386 the artery bifurcated in its normal position. In one case only was the place of division lower than usual, being two or three inches below the elbow-joint. In ninety cases out of 481, or about 1 in 5^, there were two arteries instead of one in some part, or in the whole of the arm.’ There appears, however, to be no correspondence between the arteries of the two arms, with respect to their irregular division ; for in sixty-one bodies it occurred on one side only in forty-three; on both sides, in different positions, in thirteen; on both sides, in the same position, in five. The point of bifurcation takes place at different parts of the arm, being most frequent in the upper part, less so in the lower part, and least so in the middle, the most usual point for the application of a ligature; under any of these circumstances, two large arteries would be found in the arm instead of one. The most frequent (in three out of four) of these peculiarities is the high division of the radial. It often arises from the inner side of the brachial, and runs parallel with the main trunk to the elbow, where it crosses it, lying beneath the fascia ; or it may perforate the fascia, and pass over the artery, immediately beneath the integument. The ulnar sometimes arises from the brachial high up, and then occasionally leaves that vessel at the lower part of the arm, and descends towards the inner condyle. In the fore- arm, it generally lies beneath the deep fascia, superficial to the flexor muscles; occasionally between the integument and deep fascia, and very rarely beneath the flexor muscles. The interosseous artery sometimes arises from the upper part of the brachial or axillary : as it descends the arm, it lies behind the main trunk, and, at the bend of the elbow, regains its usual position. In some cases of high division of the radial, the remaining trank (ulnar interosseous) occasionally passes, together with the median nerve, along the inner margin of the arm to the inner condyle, and then passing from within outwards, beneath or through the Pronator teres, regains its usual position at the end of the elbow. Occasionally, the two arteries representing the brachial are connected at the bend of the elbow by a short transverse branch, and are even sometimes reunited. Sometimes, long slender vessels, vasa aherrantia, connect the brachial or axillary arteries with one of the arteries of the fore-arm, or a branch from them. -»These vessels usually join the radial. Varieties in Muscular Relations.* The brachial artery is occasionally concealed, in some part of its course, by muscular or tendinous slips derived from various sources. In the upper third of the arm, the brachial vessels and median nerve have been seen * Stkuther’s Anatomical and Physiological Observations.