FEMUR. *3* upper end (fig. 105), they run in parallel columns a a from the summit of the head to the thick under wall of the neck, a series of transverse fibres b b decussate the parallel columns, and connect them to the thin upper wall of the neck. Another series of plates cc springs from the whole interior of the cylinder above the lesser trochanter; passing upwards, they converge to form a series of arches beneath the upper wall of the neck, near its junction with the great trochanter. This structure is ad- mirably adapted to sustain, with the greatest mechanical advantage, concussion or weight transmitted from above, and serves an important office in strengthening a part especially liable to fracture. In the lower end, the cancelli spring on all sides from the inner surface of the cylinder, and descend in a perpendicular direction to the articular surface, the cancelli being strongest, and having a more decided perpendicular course, above the condyles. Articulations. With three bones: the os innominatum, tibia, and patella. Development (fig. 106). The femur is developed by Jive centres; one for the shaft, one for each ex- tremity, and one for each trochanter. Of all the long bones, it is the first to show traces of ossification: this first commences in the shaft, at about the fifth week of foetal life, the centres of ossification in the epiphyses appearing in the follow- ing order: First, in the lower end of the bone, at the ninth month of foetal life; from this the condyles and tuberosities are formed; in the head, at the end of the first year afterbirth; in the great trochanter, during the fourth year; and in the lesser trochanter, between the thir- teenth and fourteenth. The order in which the epiphyses are joined to the shaft, is the direct reverse of their appearance; their junction does not commence until after puberty, the lesser trochanter being first joined, then the greater, then the head, and, lastly, the inferior extremity (the first in which ossi- fication commenced), which is not united until the twentieth year. Attachment of Muscles. To the great trochanter: the Gluteus medius, Gluteus minimus, Pyriformis, Obturator internus, Obturator externus, Gemellus superior, Gemellus inferior, and Quadratus femoris. To the lesser trochanter: the Psoas magnus, and the Iliacus below it. To the shaft, its posterior surface: the Vastus externus, Gluteus maximus, short head of the Biceps, Vastus internus, Adductor magnus, Pectineus, Adductor brevis, and Adductor longus; to its anterior surface: the Cruraeus, and Sub-crurasus. To the condyles: the Gastrocnemius, Plantaris, and Popliteus. 106.—Plan of the Development of the Femur. By 5 Centres. THE LEG. The Leg consists of three bones: the Patella, a large sesamoid bone, placed in front of the knee; and the Tibia, and Fibula. K 2