SURGICAL ANATOMY 322 Relations. By its under surface, with the tendons of the long and short Flexors and Lumbricales. By its upper surface, with the Interossei. 197.—The Dorsal Interossei. Left Foot. The Interossei. 198.—The Plantar Interossei. Left Foot. The Interossei muscles in the foot are simi- lar to those in the hand. They are seven in number, and consist of two groups, dorsal, and plantar. The Dorsal Interossei, four in number, are situated between the metatarsal bones. They are bipenniform muscles, arising by two heads from the adjacent sides of the metatarsal bones between which they are placed, their tendons being inserted into the bases of the first pha- langes, and into the aponeurosis of the common extensor tendon. In the angular interval left between each muscle at its posterior extremity, the perforating arteries pass to the dorsUm of the foot; except in the first Interosseous muscle, where the interval allows the passage of the communicating branch of the dorsalis pedis artery. The first Dorsal interosseous muscle is inserted into the inner side of the second toe; the other three are inserted into the outer sides of the second, third, and fourth toes. They are all abductors from an imaginary line or axis drawn through the second toe. The Plantar Interossei, three in number, lie beneath, rather than between, the metatarsal bones. They are single muscles, and are each connected with but one metatarsal bone. They arise from the base and inner sides of the shaft of the third, fourth, and fifth metatarsal bones, and are inserted into the inner sides of the bases of the first phalanges of the same toes, and into the aponeurosis of the common extensor tendon. These muscles are all adductors towards an imaginary, line, extending through the second toe. Nerves. The internal plantar nerve supplies the Abductor pollicis, Flexor brevis digitoruin, Flexor brevis pollicis, and the first and second Lumbricales. The external plantar nerve sup- plies the Abductor minimi digiti, Flexor accessorius, third and fourth Lumbricales, Ad- ductor pollicis, Flexor brevis minimi digiti, Transversus pedis, .and all the Interossei. SURGICAL ANATOMY. The student should now consider the effects pro- duced by the action of the various muscles in frac- tures of the bones of the lower extremity. The more common forms of fracture have been especially selected for illustration and description.