293 OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. Leg. Foot. Dorsal region. Extensor brevis digitorum. Interossei dorsales. Plantar region. First lager. Abductor pollicis. Flexor brevis digitorum. Abductor minimi digiti. Second layer. Musculus accessorius. Lumbricales. Third layer. Flexor brevis pollicis. Adductor pollicis. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. Transversus pedis. Fourth layer. Interossei plantares. Iliac Region. Psoas Magnus. Psoas Parvus. Iliacus. Dissection. No detailed description is required for the dissection of these muscles. They are exposed after the removal of the viscera from the abdomen, covered by the peritoneum and a thin layer of fascia, the fascia iliaca. The iliac fascia is the aponeurotic layer which lines the back part of the abdominal cavity, and encloses the Psoas and Iliacus muscles throughout their whole extent. It is thin above; and becomes gradually thicker below, as it approaches the femoral arch. The portion investing the Psoas, is attached, above, to the ligamentum arcuatum internum; internally, to the sacrum; and by a series of arched processes to the inter-vertebral substances, and prominent margins of the bodies of the vertebrae; the intervals left opposite the constricted portions of the bodies, transmitting the lumbar arteries and sympathetic filaments of nerves. Externally, it is continuous with the fascia lumborum. The portion investing the Iliacus is connected, externally, to the whole length of the inner border of the crest of the ilium. Internally, to the brim of the true pelvis, where it is continuous with the periosteum, and receives the tendon of insertion of the Psoas parvus. External to the femoral vessels, this fascia is intimately connected with Poupart’s ligament, and is continuous with the fascia transversalis; but, corresponding to the point where the femoral vessels pass down into the thigh, it is prolonged down behind them, forming the posterior wall of the femoral sheath. Below this point, the iliac fascia surrounds the Psoas and Iliacus muscles to their termination, and becomes continuous with the iliac portion of the fascia lata. Internal to the femoral vessels the iliac fascia is connected to the ilio- pectineal line, and is continuous with the pubic portion of the fascia lata. The iliac vessels lie in front of the iliac fascia, but all the branches of The lumbar plexus, behind it; it is separated from the peritoneum by a quantity of loose areolar tissue. In abscess accompanying caries of the lower part of the spine, the matter makes its way to the femoral arch, distending the sheath of the Psoas; and when it accumulates in considerable quantity, this muscle becomes absorbed, and the nervous cords contained in it are dissected out, and lie exposed in the cavity of the abscess; the femoral vessels, however, remain intact, and the peritoneum seldom becomes implicated notwithstanding the extreme thinness of the membrane. Anterior tibio-fibular region. Tibialis anticus. Extensor longus digitorum. Extensor proprius pollicis. Peroneus tertius. Posterior tibio-fibular region. Superficial layer. Gastrocnemius. Plantaris. Soleus. Deep layer. Popliteus. Flexor longus pollicis. Flexor longus digitorum. Tibialis posticus. Fibular region. Peroneus longus. Peroneus brevis.