OSTEOLOGY. 4 merits and muscles, and are usually well marked in proportion to tlie muscularity of the subject. Microscopic Structure. If a thin transverse section from the shaft of a long bone be examined with a power of about 20 diameters, a number of aper- tures, surrounded by a series of concentric rings, are observed, with small dark spots grouped around them, also in a concentric manner. The apertures are sections of the Haversian canals (so called after their discoverer, Clopton Havers); the concentric rings are sections of the lamellae, which are developed around the Haversian canals; the dark spots are small cavities in the substance of the bone, called lacunae. The Haversian canals are channelled out of the compact substance for the pur- pose of conveying blood-vessels for its nutrition. They vary in size from the to the -joVo an hicli in diameter, the average size being about They are generally round or oval, sometimes angular. Those nearest to the outer sur- face, where the bone is most compact, are very small; but towards the medullary canal, they gradually acquire a larger size, and open into it, or into the cells of the cancellous tissue. The Haversian canals are lined by a delicate membrane con- tinuous with the periosteum; the smallest canals contain a single capillary vessel; those larger in size contain a network of vessels; whilst the largest contain blood- vessels and marrow. If a thin longitudinal section of the shaft of a long bone be examined, the Haversian canals will be found to run in the long axis of the bone, and parallel with each other, communicating freely by transverse or oblique canals, so as to form, for the most part, rectangular meshes. Some of these canals open on the outer surface, to admit blood-vessels from the periosteum; others communi- cate with the medullary canal, receiving blood-vessels from the interior of this part. By this means, the Haversian canals establish a free communication between the blood-vessels of the periosteum, and those of the medullary membrane. If a higher power is now applied to the same transverse section, each Haversian canal appears surrounded by a series of concentric rings, varying in number from eight to fifteen; these rings are termed the lamellae, and their appearance is pro- duced by transverse sections of concentric layers of bone that have been developed around the Haversian canal, the last formed layer being deposited on that surface next to the blood-vessel. This concentric arrangement is not complete around all the canals; for here and there one set of lamellae may be seen ending between two adjacent ones. Besides the lamellae surrounding the Haversian canals, some are dis- posed parallel with the outer and inner surfaces of the bone; these are termed circumferential lamellae, and may be considered as concentric Avitli the medullary canal. Others, again, penetrate between the Haversian systems; these are termed interstitial lamellae. Each Haversian canal, together with its concentric lamelhe of bone, lacunas, etc., is called an Haversian system, the blood-vessel contained in the central canal being the source of nutrition to the 1 amelias which surround it. Nearly the whole of the compact tissue is made up of these Haversian systems, each one being, to a certain extent, independent of the rest. In a longitudinal section, the lamellae are seen running in lines parallel with the Haversian canal Avhich they surround, except when the section passes transversely or obliquely across a canal, in which case an appearance is seen, somewhat similar to that observed in a trans- verse section. This lamellated structure may be easily demonstrated on a piece of bone softened in dilute acid, Avhen the lamellae may be peeled from the surface of the bone in a longitudinal direction. According to Dr. Sharpey, the lamellae, in structure, consist of fine transparent fibres decussating each other, so as to form a delicate network, the fibres apparently coalescing at their point of junction. The lamellae are perforated, in certain situations, by bundles of fibres which penetrate them in a more or less oblique direction, serving to securely approximate the several plates. The lamellae are also perforated by numerous minute apertures placed at regular distances apart, which are, probably, transverse sections of the canaliculi. In this fibrous basis of the lamellae, the inorganic elements of bone are intimately united.