OSTEOLOGY. 146 the anterior segment of each facet articulates with the third metatarsal; the two" posterior (sometimes continuous) with the external cuneiform. The Third articulates behind, by means of a triangular smooth surface, with the external cuneiform; on its inner side, by two facets, with the second metatarsal; and on its outer side, by a single facet, with the third metatarsal. The latter facet is of circular form, and situated at the upper angle of the base. The Fourth is smaller in size than the preceding; its tarsal extremity presents a terminal quadrilateral surface, for articulation with the cuboid; a smooth facet on the inner side, divided by a ridge into an anterior portion for articulation with the third metatarsal, and a posterior portion for articulation with the external cunei- form; on the outer side a single facet, for articulation with the fifth metatarsal. The Fifth is recognised by the tubercular eminence on the outer side of its base; it articulates behind, by a triangular surface cut obliquely from without inwards, with the cuboid; and internally, with the fourth metatarsal. Articulations. Each bone articulates with the tarsal bones by one extremity, and by the other with the first row of phalanges. The number of tarsal bones with which each metatarsal articulates, is one for the first, three for the second, one for the third, two for the fourth, and one for the fifth. Attachment of Muscles. To the first metatarsal bone, three: part of the Tibialis anticus, Peroneus longus, and First dorsal interosseous. To the second, three: the Adductor pollicis, and First and Second dorsal interosseous. To the third, four: the Adductor pollicis, Second and Third dorsal interosseous, and First plantar. To the fourth, four: the Adductor pollicis, Third and Fourth dorsal, and Second plantar interosseous. To the fifth, five: the Peroneus brevis, Peroneus tertius, Flexor brevis minimi digiti, Fourth dorsal, and Third plantar interosseous. Phalanges. The Phalanges of the foot, both in number and general arrangement, resemble those in the hand; there being two in the great toe, and three in each of the other toes. The phalanges of the first rote resemble closely those of the hand. The shaft is compressed from side to side, convex above, concave below. The 'posterior extremity is concave; and the anterior extremity presents a trochlear surface, for articulation with the second phalanges. The phalanges of the second row are remarkably small and short, but rather broader than those of the first row. The ungual phalanges, in form, resemble those of the fingers; but they are smaller, flattened from above downwards, presenting a broad base for articulation with the second row, and an expanded extremity for the support of the nail and end of the toe. Articulations. The first row, with the metatarsal bones, and second phalanges; the second of the great toe, with the first phalanx, and of the other toes, with the first and third phalanges; the third, with the second row. Attachment of Muscles. To the first phalanges, great toe: innermost tendon of Extensor brevis digitorum, Abductor pollicis, Adductor pollicis, Flexor brevis pollicis, Transversus pedis. Second toe: First and Second dorsal interosseae. Third toe: Third dorsal and First plantar interosse*. Fourth toe: Fourth dorsal and Second plantar interosseae. Fifth toe: Flexor brevis minimi digiti, Abductor minimi digiti, and Third plantar interosseous. — Second phalanges, great toe: Ex- tensor longus pollicis, Flexor longus pollicis. Other toes: Flexor brevis digitorum, one slip from the Extensor brevis digitorum, and Extensor longus digitorum.— Third phalanges: two slips from the common tendon of the Extensor longus and Extensor brevis digitorum, and the Flexor longus digitorum. Development of the Foot. (Fig. 115.) The Tarsal bones are each developed by a single centre, excepting the os calcis, which has an epiphysis for its posterior extremity. The centres make their