OSTEOLOGY. 38 smaller petrosal nerve. 5. Near the apex of the bone is seen the termination of the carotid canal, the wall of which in this situation is deficient in front. 6. Above this canal is a shallow depression for the reception of the Gasserian ganglion. The posterior surface forms the front boundary of the posterior fossa of the skull, and is continuous with the inner surface of the mastoid portion of the bone. It presents three points for examination. 1. About its centre is a large orifice, the meatus auditorius internus. This aperture varies considerably in size; its margins are smooth and rounded; and it leads into a short canal, about four lines in length, which runs directly outwards. The end of the canal is closed by a vertical plate, divided by a horizontal crest into two unequal portions. It trans- mits the auditory and facial nerves, and auditory artery. 2. Behind the meatus auditorius is a small slit, almost hidden by a thin plate of bone, leading to a canal, the aquceductus vestibuli; it transmits a small artery and vein, and lodges a process of the dura mater. 3. In the interval between these two openings, but above them, is an angular depression which lodges a process of the dura mater, and transmits a small vein into the cancellous tissue of the bone. The inferior or basilar surface (fig. 32) is rough and irregular, and forms part of the base of the skull. Passing from the apex to the base, this surface presents eleven points for examination. 1. A rough surface, quadrilateral in form, which serves partly for the attachment of the Levator palati, and Tensor tympani muscles. 2. The opening of the carotid canal, a large circular aperture, which ascends at first vertically upwards, and then making a bend, runs horizontally forwards and inwards. It transmits the internal carotid artery, and the carotid plexus. 3. The aquasductus cochleae, a small triangular opening, lying on the inner side of the latter, close to the posterior border of the petrous portion; it transmits a vein from the cochlea, which joins the internal jugular. 4. Behind these openings is a deep depression, the jugular fossa, which varies in depth and size in different skulls; it 32.—Petrous Portion. Inferior Surface. a