271 ANTERIOR HUMERAL REGION. and affords attachment to the Triceps behind, and the Brachialis anticus in front. It is perforated by the ulnar nerve, and the inferior profunda and anastomotic arteries. At the elbow, the deep fascia takes attachment to all the prominent points round this joint, and is continuous with the fascia of the fore-arm. O11 the removal of this fascia, the muscles of the anterior humeral region are exposed. The Coraco-Brachialis, the smallest of the three muscles in this region, is situated at the upper and inner part of the arm. It arises by fleshy fibres from the apex of the coracoid process, in common with the short head of the Biceps, and from the inter-muscular septum between the two muscles; the fibres pass downwards, backwards, and a little outwards, to be inserted by means of a fiat tendon into a rough ridge at the middle of the inner side of the shaft of the humerus. It is perforated by the musculo-cutaneous nerve. The inner border of the muscle forms a guide to the performance of the operation of tying the brachial artery in the upper part of its course. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the Deltoid and Pectoralis major above, at its insertion it is crossed by the brachial vessels and median nerve. By its ■posterior surface, with the tendons of the Subscapularis, Latissimus dorsi, and Teres major, the short head of the Triceps, the humerus, and the anterior circumflex vessels. By its inner border, with the brachial artery, and the median and mus- culo-cutaneous nerves. By its outer border, with the short head of the Biceps and Brachialis anticus. The Biceps is a long fusiform muscle, situated along the anterior aspect of the arm its entire length, and divided above into two portions or heads, from which circumstance it has received its name. The short head arises by a thick flattened tendon from the apex of the coracoid process, in common with the Coraco- brachialis. The long head, arises from the upper margin of the glenoid cavity, by a long rounded tendon, which is continuous with the glenoid ligament. This tendon arches over the head of the humerus, being enclosed in a special sheath of the synovial membrane of the shoulder joint; it then pierces the capsular ligament at its attachment to the humerus, and descends in the bicipital groove in which it is retained by a fibrous prolongation from the tendon of the Pectoralis major. The fibres from this tendon form a rounded belly, and, about the middle of the arm, join with the short portion of the muscle. The belly of the muscle, narrow and somewhat flattened, terminates above the elbow in a flattened tendon, which is inserted into the back part of the tuberosity of the radius, a synovial bursa being interposed between the tendon and the front of the tuberosity. The tendon of the muscle is thin and broad; as it approaches the radius it becomes narrow and twisted upon itself, being applied by a fiat surface to the back part of the tuberosity, and opposite the bend of the elbow gives off, from its inner side, a broad aponeurosis, which passes obliquely downwards and inwards across the brachial artery, and is continuous with the fascia of the fore-arm. The inner border of this muscle forms a guide to the performance of the operation of tying the brachial artery in the middle of the arm.* Relations. Its anterior surface is overlapped above by the Pectoralis major and Deltoid; in the rest of its extent it is covered by the superficial and deep fascia; and the integument. Its posterior surface rests on the shoulder-joint and humerus, from which it is separated by the Subscapularis, Teres major, Latissimus dorsi, Brachialis anticus, and the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Its inner border is in rela- tion with the Coraco-brachialis, the brachial vessels, and median nerve. By its outer border, with the Deltoid and Supinator longus. * A third head to the Biceps is occasionally found (Theile says as often as once in eight or nine subjects), arising at the upper and inner part of the Brachialis anticus with the fibres of which it is continuous, and is inserted into the bicipital fascia, and inner side of the tendon of the Biceps. In most cases this additional slip passes behind the brachial artery in its course down the arm. Occasionally the third head consists of two slips, which pass down, one in front, the other behind the artery, concealing this vessel in the lower half of the arm.