OSTEOLOGY. 8 to a joint, the epiphyses become separated from the shaft, and such injuries may be mistaken for fracture. Growth of Bone. Increase in the length of a bone is provided for by the deve- lopment of new bone in the cartilage at either end of the shaft (diaphysis); and in the thickness, by the deposition of soft ossifying blastema in successive layers upon the inner surface of the periosteum. The entire skeleton in an adult consists of distinct bones. These are— Vertebral column (sacrum and coccyx included) . 26 Cranium 8 Ossieula auditus 6 Face 14. Os hyoides, sternum, and ribs 26 Upper extremities 64 Lower extremities 60 204. In this enumeration, the patella; and other sesamoid bones, as well as the Wormian bones are excluded, as also are the teeth, which differ from bone both in structure, development, and mode of growth. THE SPINE. The Spine is a flexuous column, formed of a series of bones called Vertebrae. The Vertebra1 are thirty-three in number, exclusive of those which form the skull, and have received the names cervical, dor sal, lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal according to the position which they occupy; seven being found in the cervical region, twelve in the dorsal, five in the lumbar, five in the sacral, and four in the coccygeal. This number is sometimes found increased by an additional segment in one region, or the number may be diminished in one region, the deficiency being supplied by an additional segment in another. These observations do not apply to the cervical portion of the spine, the number of segments forming which is seldom increased or diminished. The Vertebra; in the three uppermost regions of the spine are sepfrate segments throughout the whole of life; but those found in the sacral and coccygeal regions,are, in the adult, firmly united, so as to form two bones—five entering into the formation of the upper bone or sacrum, and four into the terminal bone of the spine or coccyx. General Characters of a Vertebra. Each vertebra consists of two essential parts, an anterior solid segment or body, and a posterior segment, the arch. The arch is formed of two pedicles and two lamina;, supporting seven processes; viz, four articular, two transverse, and one spinous process. The Bodies of the vertebra; are piled one upon the other, forming a strong pillar, for the support of the cranium and trunk; the arches forming behind these a hollow cylinder for the protection of the spinal cord. The different segments are connected together by means of the articular processes, and the transverse and spinous processes serve as levers for the attachment of muscles which move the different parts of the spine. Lastly between each pair of vertebra; apertures exist through which the spinal nerves pass from the cord. Each of these con- stituent parts must now be separately examined.