OSTEOLOGY. of the superior maxillary; behind, by the palate process of the palate hone. This surface presents, from before backwards, the anterior nasal spine; behind this, the upper orifice of the anterior palatine canal; internally, the elevated crest which articulates with the vomer; and behind, the suture between the palate and superior maxillary bones, and the posterior nasal spine. 66.—Eoof, Floor, and Outer Wall of Nasal Fossae. Outer Wall Prof. ofSupMtak T. re c/t TwndU HtJimaitL JJnc. ifarmProa of dittos Inferior Turbina,teal Superior Meatus Middle Meatus Inferior Mcatur liaof Nasal Nasnl> Spine of Frontal pone Horizontal Plate cfFthmeid Sphenoid Floor Prole passed through Naso'lachrymal Canal Bn, a tic passed through Infundibulum . Ant. Nasal Spine Palate T roc of Sip Max', palate Proc. Tost. Nasal Spine Ant. Palatine Canal — The inner wall, or septum (fig. 67), is a thin vertical septum, which separates the nasal fossa? from one another; it is occasionally perforated so that the fossae communicate, and it is frequently deflected considerably to one side. It is formed, in front, by the crest of the nasal bones and nasal spine of the frontal; in the middle, by the perpendicular lamella of the ethmoid; behind, by the vomer and rostrum of the sphenoid; below, by the crest of the superior maxillary and palate hones. It presents, in front, a large triangular notch, which receives the triangular cartilage of the nose; above, the lower orifices of the olfactory canals; and behind, the guttural edge of the vomer. Its surface is marked by numerous vascular and nervous canals, and traversed by sutures connecting the bones of which it is formed. The outer wall is formed, in front, by the nasal process of the superior maxillary and lachrymal bones; in the middle, by the ethmoid and inner surface of the superior maxillary and inferior turbinated bones; behind, by the vertical plate of the palate bone. This surface presents three irregular longitudinal passages, or meatuses, formed between three horizontal plates of 1 tone that spring from it; they are termed the superior, middle, and inferior meatuses of the nose. The superior meatus, the smallest of the three, is situated at the upper and back part of each nasal fossa, occupying the posterior third of the outer wall. It is situated between the superior and middle turbinated bones, and lias opening into it two foramina, the spheno-palatine at the back part of its outer wall, the posterior ethmoidal cells at the front part of the upper wall. The opening of the sphenoidal sinuses is usually at the upper and back part of the nasal fossa?, immediately behind the