412 ARTERIES. On removing the integument, the superficial fascitis exposed, and ramifying in it along the middle line are found some filaments of t?5e small sciatic nerve, and towards the inner part, some offsets from the internal cutaneous nerve. The superficial fascia having been removed, the fascia lata is brought into view. In this region it is strong and dense, being strengthen^ by transverse fibres, and firmly attached to the tendons on the inner and outer sides of the space. It is perforated below by the external saphenous vein. This fascia having been reflected back in the same direction as the integument, the small sciatic nerve and external saphenous vein are seen immediately beneath if, in the middle line. If the loose adipose tissue is now removed, the boundaries and contents of the space may be examined. Boundaries. The popliteal space, or the ham, occupies the lower third of the thigh and the upper fifth of the leg; extending from the aperture in the Adductor magnus, to the lower border of the Popliteus muscle. It is a lozenge-shaped space, being widest at the back part of the knee-joint, and deepest above the arti- cular end of the femur. It is bounded, externally, above the joint, by the Biceps, and below the articulation, by the Plantaris and external head of the Gastroc- nemius. Internally, above the joint, by the Semi-membranosus, Semi-ten- dinosus, Gracilis, and Sartorius; below the joint, by the inner head of the Gastrocnemius. Above, it is limited by the apposition of the inner and outer hamstring muscles; below by the junction of the two heads of the Gastrocnemius. The floor is formed by the lower part of the posterior surface of the shaft of the femur, the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, the upper end of the tibia, and the fascia covering the Popliteus muscle, and the space is covered in by the fascia lata. Contents. It contains the popliteal vessels and their branches, together with the termination of the external saphenous vein, the internal and [external popliteal nerves and their branches, the small sciatic nerve, the articular branch from the obturator nerve, a few small lymphatic glands, and a considerable quantity of loose adipose tissue. Position of contained parts. The internal popliteal nerve descends in the middle line of the space, lying superficial, and a little external to the vein and artery. The external popliteal nerve descends on the outer side of the space, lying close to the tendon of the Biceps muscle. More deeply at the bottom of the space are the popliteal vessels, the vein lying superficial and a little external to the artery, to which it is closely united by dense areolar tissue; sometimes the vein is placed on the inner instead of the outer side of the artery ; or the vein may be double, the artery then lies between them, the two veins being usually connected by short transverse branches. More deeply, and close to the surface of the bone, is the popliteal artery, and passing off from it at right angles are its articular branches. The articular branch from the obturator nerve descends upon the popliteal artery to supply the knee; and occasionally there is found deep in the space an articular filament from the great sciatic nerve. The popliteal lymphatic glands, four or five in number, are found surrounding the artery; one usually lies superficial to the vessel, another is situated between it and the bone, and the rest are placed on either side of it. In health, these glands are small; but when enlarged and indurated from inflammation, the pulsation communicated to them from the popliteal artery makes them resemble so closely an aneurismal tumour, that it requires a very careful examination to discriminate between them. The Popliteal Artery (fig. 232), in its course downwards from the aperture in the Adductor magnus, to the lower border of the Popliteus muscle, rests first on the inner, and then on the posterior surface of the femur; in the middle of its course, on the posterior ligament of the knee-joint; and below, on the fascia covering the Popliteus muscle. Superficially, it is covered, above, by the Semi-membra- nosus; in the middle of its course, by a quantity of fat, which separates it from the deep fascia and integument; and below, it is overlapped by the Gastrocnemius, Plantaris and Soleus muscles, the popliteal vein, and the internal popliteal nerve.