240 MUSCLES AND FASCIA] spinous processes of the six inferior dorsal, from those of the lumbar and sacral vertebras, and from the supra-spinous ligament. Over the sacrum, the aponeurosis of this muscle blends with the tendon of the Erector spin®. It also arises from the external lip of the crest of the ilium, behind the origin of the External oblique, and by fleshy digitations from the three or four lower ribs, being interposed be- tween similar processes of the External oblique muscle. From this extensive origin the fibres pass in different directions, the upper ones horizontally, the middle ones obliquely upwards, and the lower ones vertically upwards, so as to converge and form a thick fasciculus, which crosses the inferior angle of the scapula, and occasionally receives a few fibres from it. The muscle then curves around the lower border of the Teres major, and is twisted upon itself, so that the superior fibres become at first posterior and then inferior, and the vertical fibres at first anterior and then superior. It then terminates in a short quadri- lateral tendon, about three inches in length, which, passing in front of the tendon of the Teres major, is inserted into the bottom of the bicipital groove of the humerus, above the insertion of the tendon of the Pectoralis major. The lower border of the tendon of this muscle is united with that of the Teres major, the surfaces of the two being separated by a bursa; another bursa is sometimes inter- posed between the muscle and the inferior angle of the scapula. A muscular slip, varying from 3 to 4. inches in length, and from \ to f of an inch broad, occasionally arises from the upper edge of the Latissimus dorsi, about the middle of the posterior fold of the axilla, crosses the axilla in front of the axillary vessels and nerves, to join the under surface of the tendon of the Pectoralis major, the Coraco-brachialis, or the fascia over the Biceps. The position of this abnormal slip, is a point of interest in its relation to the axillary artery, as it crosses the vessel just above the spot usually selected for the application of a ligature, and may mislead the surgeon during the operation. It may be easily recognised by the transverse direction of its fibres. Dr. Struthers found it in 8 out of 105 subjects, occurring 7 times on both sides. Relations. Its superficial surface is subcutaneous, excepting at its upper part, where it is covered by the Trapezius. By its deep surface, it is in relation with the Erector spin®, the Serratus posticus inferior, lower Intercostal muscles and ribs, the Serratus magnus, inferior angle of the scapula, Rhomboideus major, Infra- spinatus, and Teres major. Its outer margin is separated below, from the External oblique, by a small triangular interval; and another triangular interval exists between its upper border and the margin of the Trapezius, in which the Inter- costal and Rhomboideus major muscles are exposed. Nerves. The Trapezius is supplied by the spinal accessory and cervical plexus; the Latissimus dorsi, by the subscajmlar nerves. Second Layer. Levator Anguli Scapulas. Rhomboideus Minor. Rhomboideus Major. Dissection. The Trapezius must be removed in order to expose the next layer; to effect this, the muscle must be detached from its attachment to the clavicle and spine of the scapula, and turned back towards the spine. The Levator Anguli Scapulce is situated at the back part and side of the neck. It arises by four tendinous slips from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the three or four upper cervical vertebrae; these becoming fleshy are united so as to form a flat muscle, which, passing downwards and backwards, is inserted into the posterior border of the scapula, between the superior angle and the triangular smooth surface at the root of the spine. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the integument, Trapezius, and Sterno-mastoid. By its deep surface, with the Splenius colli, Transversalis colli, Cervicalis ascendens, and Serratus posticus superior, and with the transverse cervical and posterior scapular arteries. The Rhomboideus Minor arises from the ligamentum nuch®, and spinous pro- cesses of the seventh cervical and first dorsal vertebrae. Passing downwards and