TIIE TEETH. 615 The neck is distinct, large, and rounded. The root is subdivided into from two to five fangs, each of which presents an aperture at its summit. The first molar tooth is the largest and broadest of all: its crown has usually five cusps, three outer and two inner. In the upper jaw, the root consists of three fangs, widely separated from one another, two being external, the other internal. The latter is the largest and the longest, slightly grooved, and some- times bifid. In the lower jaw, the root consists of two fangs, one being placed in front, the other behind: they are both compressed from before backwards, and grooved on their contiguous faces, indicating a tendency to division. The second molar is a little smaller than the first. The crown has four cusps in the upper, and five in the lower jaw. The root has three fangs in the upper jaw, and two in the lower, the characters of which are similar to the preceding tooth. The third molar tooth is called the wisdom tooth (dens sapientice), from its late appearance through the gum. It is smaller than the others, and its axis is directed inwards. The crown is small and rounded, and furnished with three tubercles. The root is generally single, short, conical, slightly curved, and grooved so as to present traces of a subdivision into three fangs in the upper, and two in the lower jaw. Temporary Teeth. The temporary, or milk teeth, are smaller, but resemble in form those of the permanent set. The hinder of the two temporary molars is the largest of all the 321.—-The Temporary, or Milk Teeth. External View. Zrpper Ja v- Mo L a rs Canine Tncisorn milk teeth, and is succeeded by the second permanent bicuspid. The first upper molar has only three cusps, two external, one internal: the second upper molar has four cusps. The first lower molar has four cusps: the second lower molar has five. The fangs of the temporary molar teeth are smaller, and more diverging than those of the permanent set; but, in other respects, bear a strong resemblance to them.