SURGICAL ANATOMY 350 which ascend into the orbit, and supply the Inferior rectus, and Inferior oblique muscles, and the lachrymal gland. Other branches descend through canals in the bone, to supply the mucous membrane of the antrum, and the front teeth of the upper jaw. On the face, it supplies the lachrymal sac, and inner angle of the orbit, anastomosing with the facial artery and nasal branch of the ophthalmic; and other branches descend beneath the elevator of the upper lip, and anastomose with the transverse facial and buccal branches. The four remaining branches arise from that portion of the internal maxillary which is contained in the spheno-maxillary fossa. The descending palatine passes down along the posterior palatine canal with the posterior palatine branches of Meckel’s ganglion, and emerging from the posterior palatine foramen, runs forwards in a groove on the inner side of the alveolar border of the hard palate, to be distributed to the gums, the mucous membrane of the hard palate, and palatine glands. Whilst it is contained in the palatine canal, it gives off branches, which descend in the accessory palatine canals to supply the soft palate, anastomosing with the ascending palatine artery; and anteriorly it terminates in a small vessel, which ascends in the anterior palatine canal, and anastomoses with the artery of the septum, a branch of the spheno-palatine. The Vidian branch passes backwards along the Vidian canal with the Vidian nerve. It is distributed to the upper part of the pharynx and Eustachian tube, sending a small branch into the tympanum. The pterygo-palatine is also a very small branch, which passes backwards through the ptcrygo-palatine canal with the pharyngeal nerve, and is distributed to the upper part of the pharynx and Eustachian tube. The nasal or spheno-palatine passes through the spheno-palatine foramen into the cavity of the nose, at the back part of the superior meatus, and divides into two branches; one internal, the artery of the septum, passes obliquely downwards and forwards along the septum nasi, supplies the mucous membrane, and anasto- moses in front with the ascending branch of the descending palatine. The external branches, two or three in number, supply the mucous membrane covering the lateral wall of the nares, the antrum, and the ethmoid and sphenoid cells. Surgical Anatomy of the Triangles of the Neck. The student having considered the relative anatomy of the large arteries of the neck and their branches, and the relations they bear to the veins and nerves, should now examine these structures collectively, as they present themselves in certain regions of the neck, in each of which important operations are being constantly performed. For this purpose, the Sterno-mastoid, or any other muscles that have been divided in the dissection of these vessels, should be replaced in their normal position; the head should be supported by placing a block at the back of the neck, and the face turned to the side opposite to that which is being examined. The side of the neck presents a somewhat quadrilateral outline, limited, above, by the lower border of the body of the jaw, and an imaginary line extending from the angle of the jaw to the mastoid process; below, by the prominent upper border of the clavicle; in front, by the median line of the neck; behind, by the anterior margin of the Trapezius muscle. This space is subdivided into two large triangles by the Sterno-mastoid muscle, which passes obliquely across the neck, from the sternum and clavicle, below, to the mastoid process, above. The triangular space in front of this muscle, is called the anterior triangle; and that behind it, the posterior triangle. Anterior Triangular Si*ace. The anterior triangle is limited, in front, by a line extending from the chin to the sternum; behind, by the anterior margin of the Sterno-mastoid; its base, directed upwards, is formed by the lower border of the body of the jaw, and a line