OSTEOLOGY. io6 bone. 92. Obeeratton a little lower than the head, terminating in a rounded summit, which affords attach- ment to the internal lateral ligament of the wrist. The head is separated from the styloid process by a depression for the attachment of the triangular inter- articular fibro-cartilage; and behind, by a shallow groove for the passage of the tendon of the Extensor carpi ulnaris. Structure. Similar to that of the other long bones. Development. By three centres; one for the shaft, one for the inferior extremity, and one for the olecranon (tig. 92). Ossification commences near the middle of the shaft about the fifth week, and soon extends through the greater part of the At birth, the ends are cartilaginous. About the fourth year, a separate •Plan of the Development of the Ulna. osseous nucleus appeal’s in the middle By 3 Centres. of the head, which soon extends into the styloid process. About the tenth year, ossific matter appears in the ole- cranon near its extremity, the chief part of this process being formed from an extension of the shaft of the bone into it. At about the sixteenth year, the upper epiphysis becomes joined, and at about the twentieth year the lower one. Articulations. With the humerus and radius. Attachment of Muscles. To the olecranon; the Triceps, Anconeus, and one head of the Flexor carpi ulnaris. To the coronoid process; the Bra- ehialis anticus, Pronator radii teres, Flexor sublimis digitorum, and Flexor profundus digitorum. To the shaft; the Flexor profundus digitorum, Pro- nator quadratus, Flexor carpi ulnaris, Extensor carpi ulnaris, Anconeus, Supinator brevis, Extensor ossis meta- carpi pollicis, Extensor secundi inter- nodii pollicis, and Extensor indicis. The Radius. The Radius (so called from its fancied resemblance to the spoke of a wheel), is situated on the outer side of the fore-arm, lying parallel with the ulna, which exceeds it in length and size. Its upper end is small, and forms only a small part of the elbow-joint; but its lower end is large, and forms the chief part of the ■wrist. It is one of the long bones, having a prismatic form, slightly curved longitudinally, and presenting for examination a shaft and two extremities. The Upper Extremity presents a head, neck, and tuberosity. The head is of a cylindrical form, depressed on its upper surface into a shallow cup, which articulates with the radial or lesser head of the humerus in flexion of the joint. Around the circumference of the head is a smooth articular surface, coated with cartilage in the recent state, broad internally where it rotates within the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, narrow in the rest of its circumference, to play in the orbicular ligament. The head is supported on a round, smooth, and constricted portion of bone, called the neck, which presents, behind, a slight ridge, for the attachment of part of the Supinator brevis. Beneath the neck, at the inner and front aspect of the bone, is a rough eminence, the tuberosity. Its surface is divided into two parts by a vertical line —a posterior rough portion, for the insertion of the tendon of the Biceps muscle; and an anterior smooth portion, on which a bursa is interposed between the tendon and the bone.