753 PELVIC FASCIA. prostate and neck of the bladder may be cut through, which allows of infiltration of urine behind the pelvic fascia into the loose cellular tissue between the bladder and rectum, instead of escaping externally; diffuse inflammation is consequently set up, and peritonitis from the close proximity of the recto-vesical peritoneal fold is the consequence. If, on the contrary, the prostate is divided in front of the base of the gland, the urine makes its way externally, and there is no danger of any infiltration taking place. During the operation, it is of great importance that the finger should be passed into the bladder before the staff is removed: if this is neglected, and the incision made through the prostate aud neck of the bladder be too small, great difficulty may be experienced in introducing it afterwards ; and in the child, where the connections of the bladder to the surrounding parts are very loose, the force made in the attempt is sufficient to displace the bladder up into the abdomen, out of the reach of the operator. Such a proceeding has not unfrequently occurred, pro- ducing the most embarrassing results, and total failure of the operation. 395.—Side View of the Pelvic Viscera of the Male Subject showing the Pelvic and Perinseal Fasciae. It is necessary to bear in mind that the arteries in the perinasum occasionally take an abnormal course. Thus the artery of the bulb, when it arises, as some- times happens, from the pudic, opposite the tuber ischii, is liable to be wounded in the operation for lithotomy, in its passage forwards to the bulb. The accessory pudic may be divided near the posterior border of the prostate gland, if this is completely cut across: and the prostatic veins, especially in people advanced in life, are of large size, and give rise when divided to troublesome haemorrhage. Pelvic Fascia. The pelvic fascia is a thin membrane which lines the whole of the cavity of the pelvis, and is continuous with the transversalis and iliac fasciae. It is attached 3 c