OSTEOLOGY. 68 The Internal, or Cerebral Surface (fig. 62), presents three fossa} on each side, called the anterior, middle, and posterior fossae of the cranium. The Anterior Fossa is formed by the orbital plate of the frontal, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, the ethmoidal process and lesser wing of the sphenoid. It is the most elevated of the three fossae, convex externally Avhere it corresponds to the roof of the orbit, concave in the median line in the situation of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid. It is traversed by three sutures, the ethmoido-frontal, ethmo- sphenoidal, and fronto-sphenoidal; and lodges the anterior lobe of the cerebrum. It presents, in the median line, from before backwards, the commencement of the groove for the superior longitudinal sinus, and crest for the attachment of the falx cerebri; the foramen ccecum, this aperture is formed by the frontal and crista galli of the ethmoid, and, if pervious, transmits a small vein from the nose to the superior longitudinal sinus. Behind the foramen coecum is the crista galli, the posterior margin of which affords attachment to the falx cerebri. On either side of the crista galli is the olfactory groove, which supports the bulb of the olfactory nerve, perforated by three rows of orifices which give passage to its filaments; and in front by a slit-like opening, which transmits the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve. On the outer side of each olfactory groove are the internal openings of the anterior and posterior ethmoidal foramina; the^foriner, situated about the middle of its outer margin, transmits the nasal nerve, which runs in a groove along its surface, to the slit-like opening above mentioned^ whilst the latter, the posterior ethmoidal foramen, opens at the back part of this margin under cover of a projecting lamina of the sphenoid, it transmits the posterior ethmoidal artery and vein to the posterior ethmoidal cells. Further back in the middle line is the ethmoidal spine, bounded behind by an elevated ridge, separating a longitudinal groove on each side which supports the olfactory nerve. The anterior fossa presents laterally eminences and depressions for the convolutions of the brain, and grooves for the lodgment of the anterior meningeal arteries. The Middle Fossa, somewhat deeper than the preceding, is narrow in the middle, and becomes wider as it expands laterally. It is bounded in front by the posterior margin of the lesser wing of the sphenoid, the anterior clinoid process, and the anterior margin of the optic groove; behind, by the petrous portion of the temporal, and basilar suture; externally, by the squamous portion of the temporal, and anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, and is separated from its fellow by the sella Turcica. It is traversed by four sutures, the squamous, spheno-parietal, spheno-temporal, and petro-sphenoidal. In the middle line, from before backwards, is the optic groove, which supports the optic commissure, terminating on each side in the optic foramen, for the passage of the optic nerve and ophthalmic artery; behind the optic groove is the olivary process, and laterally the anterior clinoid processes, which afford attach- ment to the folds of the dura mater, which form the cavernous sinuses. Sepa- rating the middle fossae is the sella Turcica, a deep depression, which lodges the pituitary gland, bounded in front by a small eminence on either side, the middle clinoid process, and behind by a broad square plate of bone, surmounted at each superior angle by a tubercle, the posterior clinoid process; beneath the latter process is a groove, for the lodgment of the sixth nerve. On each side of the sella Turcica is the cavernous groove; it is broad, shallow, and curved somewhat like the italic letter f: it commences behind at the foramen lacerum medium, and ter- minates on the inner side of the anterior clinoid process. This groove lodges the cavernous sinus, the internal carotid artery, and the orbital nerves. The sides of the middle fossa are of considerable depth; they present eminences and depressions for the middle lobes of the brain, and grooves for lodging the branches of the middle meningeal artery; the latter commence on the outer side of the foramen spinosum, and consist of two large branches, an anterior and a posterior; the former passing upwards and forwards to the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, the latter passing upwards and backwards. The following foramina may also be seen from before backwards. Most anteriorly is the foramen lacerum