586 ORGANS OF SENSE. Tlie Choroid is a thin, highly vascular membrane, of a dark brown, or chocolate colour, which invests the posterior live-sixths of the central part of the globe. It is pierced behind by the optic nerve, and terminates in front at the ciliary ligament, where it bends inwards, and forms on its inner surface a series of folds, or plaitings, the ciliary processes. It is thicker behind than in front. Externally, it is con- nected by a tine cellular web (rnembrana fused) with the inner surface of the sclerotic. Its inner surface is smooth, and lies in contact with the retina. The choroid is composed of three layers, external, middle, and internal. 305.—'The Veins of the Choroid. (Enlarged.) The external layer consists of the larger branches of the short ciliary arteries, which run forwards between the veins before they bend downwards to terminate on the inner surface. This coat consists, however, principally of veins, which are disposed in curves, hence their name, vence vorticosce. They converge to four or five equi-distant trunks, which pierce the sclerotic midway between the margin of the cornea and the entrance of the optic nerve. Interspersed between the vessels, are lodged dark star-shaped pigment cells, the fibrous offsets from which, communicating with similar branchings from neighbouring cells, form a delicate network, which, towards the inner surface of the choroid, loses its pigmentary character. The middle layer consists of an exceedingly fine capillary plexus, formed by the short ciliary vessels, and is known as the tunica, Ruyschiana. The network is close, and finer at the hinder part of the choroid than in front. About half an inch behind the cornea, its meshes become larger, and are continuous with those of the ciliary processes. The internal, or pigmentary layer, is a delicate membrane, consisting of a single layer of hexagonal, nucleated cells, loaded with pigment granules, and applied to each other, so as to resemble a tesselated pavement. Each cell contains a nucleus, and is filled with grains of pigment, which are in greater abundance at the circumference of the cell. In perfect albinos this epithelium contains 110 pigment, and none is present in the star-shaped cells found in the other layers of the choroid. The ciliary processes should be next examined : they may be exposed, either by detaching the iris from its connection with the ciliary ligament, or by making a transverse section of the globe, and examining them from behind. The Ciliary processes are formed by the plaiting or folding inwards of the middle and internal layers of the choroid, at its anterior margin, and are received