TARSUS. *43 concave from side to side; the anterior, although nearly of equal length, is nar- rower, of an elongated oval form, convex longitudinally, and often subdivided into two by an elevated ridge; of these the posterior one articulates with the lesser process of the os calcis; the anterior one, with the upper surface of the calcaneo- scaphoid ligament. The internal surface presents at its upper part a pear-shaped articular facet for the inner malleolus, continuous above with the trochlear surface; below the articular surface is a rough depression, for the attachment of the deep portion of the internal lateral ligament. The external surface presents a large triangular facet, concave from above downwards, for articulation with the external malleolus; it is continuous above with the trochlear surface: and in front of it is a rough de- pression for the attachment of the anterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament. The anterior surface, convex and rounded, forms the head of the astragalus; it is smooth, of an oval form, and directed obliquely inwards and downwards; it is continuous below with that part of the anterior facet on the under surface which rests upon the calcaneo-scaplioid ligament. The head is surrounded by a con- stricted portion, the neck of the astragalus. The posterior surface is narrow, and traversed by a groove, which runs obliquely downwards and inwards, and transmits the tendon of the Flexor longus pollicis. To ascertain to which foot it belongs, hold the bone with the broad articular surface upwards, and the rounded head forwards; the lateral triangular articular surface for the external malleolus will then point to the side to which the bone belongs. Articulations. With four bones; tibia, fibula, os calcis, and scaphoid. The Scaphoid. The Scaphoid or Navicular bone, so called from its fancied resemblance to a boat, is situated at the inner side of the tarsus, between the astragalus behind and the three cuneiform bones in front. This bone may be distinguished by its boat- like form, being concave behind, convex, and subdivided into three facets in front. The anterior surface, of an oblong form, is convex from side to side, and sub- divided by two ridges into three facets, for-articulation with the three cuneiform bones. The posterior surface is oval, concave, broader externally than internally, and articulates with the rounded head of the astragalus. The superior surface is convex from side to side, and rough for the attachment of ligaments. The inferior, somewhat concave, irregular, and also rough for the attachment of ligaments. The internal surface presents a rounded tubercular eminence, the tuberosity of the scaphoid, which gives attachment to part of the tendon of the Tibialis posticus. The external surface is broad, rough, and irregular, for the attachment of ligamentous fibres, and occasionally presents a small facet for articulation with the cuboid bone. To ascertain to which foot it belongs, hold the bone with the concave articular surface backwards, and the broad dorsal surface upwards; the broad external surface will point to the side to which the bone belongs. Articulations. With four bones; astragalus and three cuneiform; occasionally also with the cuboid. Attachment of Muscles. Part of the Tibialis posticus. The Cuneiform Bones have received their name from their wedge-like shape. They form with the cuboid the most anterior row of the tarsus, being placed between the scaphoid behind, the three innermost metatarsal bones in front, and the cuboid externally. They are called the first, second, and third, counting from the inner to the outer side of the foot, and from their position, internal, middle, and external. The Internal Cuneiform. The Internal Cuneiform is the largest of the three. It is situated at the inner side of the foot, between the scaphoid behind and the base of the first metatarsal