416 ARTERIES. The branches of the anterior tibial 233.—Surgical Anatomy of the Anterior Tibial and Dorsalis Pedis Arteries. artery are, the Recurrent tibial. Muscular. Internal malleolar. External malleolar. The recurrent branch arises from the anterior tibial, as soon as that vessel has passed through the interosseous space; it ascends in the Tibialis anticus muscle, and ramifies on the front and sides of the knee-joint, anastomosing with the articular branches of the popliteal. The muscular branches are numerous; they are distributed to the muscles which lie on either side of the vessel, some piercing the deep fascia to supply the integument, others passing through the I interosseous membrane, and anastomosing with branches of the posterior tibial and peroneal arteries. The malleolar arteries supply the ankle-joint. The internal arises about two inches above the articulation, passes beneath the tendon of the Tibialis anticus to the inner ankle, upon which it ramifies, anastomosing with branches of the posterior tibial and internal plantar arteries. The external passes beneath the ten- dons of the Extensor longus digitorum and Extensor proprius pollicis, and sup- i plies the outer ankle, anastomosing with the anterior peroneal artery, and with I ascending branches from the tarsea branch lj of the dorsalis pedis. Dorsalis Pedis Artery. The dorsalis pedis, the continuation of the anterior tibial, passes forwards from the bend of the ankle along the tibial side of the foot to the back part of the first interosseous space, where it divides into two branches, the dorsalis hallucis and communicating. Relations. This vessel in its course for- wards, rests upon the astragalus, scaphoid, and internal cuneiform bones, and the ligaments connecting them, being covered by the integument and fascia, and crossed near its termination by the innermost tendon of the Extensor brevis digitorum. On its tibial side is the tendon of the Extensor proprius pollicis; on its fibular side, the innermost tendon of the Extensor longus digitorum. It is accompanied by two veins, and by the anterior tibial nerve, which lies on its outer side. ;