MAXILLARY REGIONS. 2 IS the upper lip and ala of the nose; its most important action is upon the nose, •which it dilates to a considerable extent. The action of this muscle produces a marked influence over the countenance, and is the principal agent in the expression of contempt. The two Dilatores nasi enlarge the aperture of the nose, and the Compressor naris appears to act as a dilator of the nose rather than as a constrictor. The Depressor aloe nasi is a direct antagonist of the preceding muscles, drawing the ala of the nose downwards, and thereby constricting the aperture of the nares. 6. Superior Maxillary Region (fig. 148). Levator Labii Superioris. Zygomaticus major. Levator Anguli Oris. Zygomaticus minor. The Levator Labii Superioris is a thin muscle of a quadrilateral form. It arises from the lower margin of the orbit immediately above the infra-orbital foramen, some of its fibres being attached to the superior maxilla, some to the malar bone; its fibres converge to be inserted into the muscular substance of the upper lip. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the lower segment of the Orbicu- laris palpebrarum; below, it is sub-cutaneous. By its deep surface, it conceals the origin of the Compressor naris and Levator anguli oris muscles, and the infra- orbital vessels and nerves, as they escape from the infra-orbital foramen. The Levator Anguli Oris arises from the canine fossa, immediately below the infra-orbital foramen; its fibres incline downwards and a little outwards, to be inserted into the angle of the mouth, its fibres intermingling with those of the Zygomatici, the Depressor anguli oris, and the Orbicularis. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Levator labii superioris and the infra-orbital vessels and nerves. By its deep surface, with the superior maxilla, the Buccinator, and the mucous membrane. The Zygomaticus major is a slender fasciculus, which arises from the malar bone, in front of the zygomatic suture, and, descending obliquely downwards and inwards, is inserted into the angle of the mouth, where it blends with the fibres of the Orbicularis and Depressor anguli oris. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the sub-cutaneous adipose tissue. By its deep surface, with the malar bone, the Masseter and Buccinator muscles. The Zygomaticus minor arises from the malar bone, immediately behind the maxillary suture, and, passing downwards and inwards, is continuous with the outer margin of the Levator labii superioris. It lies in front of the preceding. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the integument and the Orbicularis palpebrarum above. By its deep surface, with the Levator anguli oris. Nerves. This group of muscles is supplied by the facial nerve. Actions. The Levator labii superioris is the proper elevator of the upper lip, carrying it at the same time a little outwards. The Levator anguli oris raises the angle of the mouth and draws it inwards; whilst the Zygomatici raise the upper lip and draw it somewhat outwards, as in laughing. 7. Inferior Maxillary Region (fig. 148). Levator Labii Inferioris (Levator menti). Depressor Labii Inferioris (Quadratus menti). Depressor Anguli Oris (Triangularis menti). Dissection. The Muscles in this region may be dissected by making a vertical incision through the integument from the margin of the lower lip to the chin: a second incision should then be carried along the margin of the lower jaw as far as the angle, and the integument carefully removed in the direction shewn in fig. 147. The Levator Labii Inferioris (Levator menti) is to be dissected by everting the lower lip and raising the mucous membrane. It is a small conical fasciculus.