IOI HUMERUS. one for the greater tuberosity, one for the radial, one for the trochlear portion of the articular surface, and one for each condyle. The centre for the shaft appears very early, soon after ossification has commenced in the clavicle, and soon extends towards the extremities. At birth, it is ossified nearly in its whole length, the extremities remaining cartilaginous. Between the first and second years, ossification commences in the head of the bone, and between the second and third years the centre for the tuberosities makes its appearance usually by a single ossific point, but sometimes, according to Beclard, by one for each tu- berosity, that for the lesser being small, and not appearing until after the fourth year. By the fifth year, the centres for the head and tuberosities have enlarged and become joined, so as to form a single large epiphysis. The lower end of the humerus is n TT t , i • ,i j. ii. • 8q.—Plan of the Development oi the liumerus. developed in the following manner: ' By 7 Centres At the end of the second year, ossifi- cation commences in the radial portion of the articular surface, and from this point extends inwards, so as to form the chief part of the articular end of the bone, the centre for the inner part of the articular surface not appearing until about the age of twelve. Os- sification commences in the internal condyle about the fifth year, and in the external one not until between the thirteenth or fourteenth year. About sixteen or seventeen years, the outer condyle and both portions of the arti- culating surface (having already join- ed) unite with the shaft; at eighteen years, the inner condyle becomes join- ed, whilst the upper epiphysis, although the first formed, is not united until about the twentieth year. Articulations. With the glenoid ca- vity of the scapula, and with the ulna and radius. Attachment of Muscles. To the greater tuberosity, the Supra-spinatus, Infra-spinatus, and Teres minor; to the lesser tuberosity, the Subscapu- laris; to the anterior bicipital ridge, the Pectoralis major; to the posterior bicipital ridge and groove, the Latissimus dorsi and Teres major; to the shaft, the Deltoid, Coraco-brachialis, Brachialis anticus, external and internal heads of the Triceps; to the internal condyle, the Pronator radii teres, and common tendon of the Flexor carpi radialis, Palmaris longus, Flexor digitorum sublimis, and Flexor carpi ulnaris; to the external con- dyloid ridge, the Supinator longus, and Extensor carpi radialis longior; to the external condyle, the common tendon of the Extensor carpi radialis brevior, Ex- tensor communis digitorum, Extensor minimi digiti, and Extensor carpi ulnaris, the Anconeus, and Supinator brevis. I he Fore-arm is that portion of the upper extremity, situated between the elbow and wrist. It is composed of two bones, the Ulna, and the Radius. The Ulna. The Ulna (figs, go, 91), so called from its forming the elbow (wA,ei'77), is a long bone, prismatic in form, placed at the inner side of the fore-arm, parallel with the radius, being the largest and longest of the two. Its upper extremity, of great