83 STERNUM. ux centres. One for the first piece or manubrium, four for the second piece :>r gladiolus, and one for the ensiform appendix. The sternum is entirely cartilaginous up to the mid- lie of foetal life, and when ossification takes place, the ossific granules are depo- sited in the middle of the ntervals between the ar- ticular depressions for the costal cartilages, in the fol- lowing order (fig. 71). In the first piece, between the ifth and sixth months; in the second and third, between the sixth and se- venth months; in the fourth piece, at the ninth month; in the fifth, within the first year, or between tine first and second years after birth; and in the ensiform appendix, between the se- cond and the seventeenth or eighteenth years, by a single centre which makes its appearance at the upper part, and proceeds gra- dually downwards. To these may be added the occasional existence, as described by Breschet, of two small epi-sternal cen- tres, which make their ap- pearance one on each side of the interclavicular notch. These are regarded by him as the anterior rudiments of a rib, of which the pos- terior rudiment is the ante- rior lamina of the trans- verse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. It occa- sionally happens that some of the segments are form- ed from more than one centre, the number and posi- tion of which vary (fig. 73). Thus the first piece may have two, three, or even six centres. When two are present, they are generally situated one above the other, the upper one being 71.—Development of Sternum, by Six Centres. 'H 1fcrlf 'piece [5-2 mo.fated or Minuihrium T ione Appearance )3<S? 7 J for 2 idplerz or ’*■ - kSf P Gladiolus | ^ ( r) 1 for’Ensiform 1 Cartilage j' 2 i ‘ if gthmo. 5. I’lT.’A , M .. 72. MWi wu/m \ recce!ip unite , | eaccepfi in old oye 1" 2. Time %===&£ j 35-1,0. of f^l ) Union Ii 20-251! year 1; k i J sown after puberty \yi yeerily cartHafjiiuuis in 0 advanced life 7 3.—Peculiarities. for Hfpteee- /Lor snore centres piece, iisuaili: one ) 4 (! | 2placed Intera ll'-f And in Mode of Union A rresl of Bevel op m. eu l of later ail piece.i producing ■Sternal fissure. Sc —Sternal fora men G 2