34i SUPERIOR THYROID; LINGUAL. The superior laryngeal, larger than either of the preceding, accompanies the superior laryngeal nerve, beneath the Tliyro-hyoid muscle; it pierces the thyro- hyoid membrane, and supplies the muscles, mucous membrane, and glands of the larynx and epiglottis, anastomosing with the branch from the opposite side. 1 The crico-thyroid (inferior laryngeal) is a small branch which runs trans- versely across the crico-thyroid membrane, communicating with the artery of the opposite side. The position of this vessel should be remembered, as it may prove the source of troublesome haemorrhage during the operation of laryngotomy. Surgical Anatomy. The superior thyroid, or some of its branches, are occasionally divided in cases of cut throat, giving rise to considerable haemorrhage. In such cases, the artery should be secured, the wound being enlarged for that purpose, if necessary. The operation may be easily performed, the position of the artery being very superficial, and the only structures of importance covering it, being a few small veins. The operation of tying ,the superior thyroid artery, in bronchocele, has been performed in numerous instances with partial or temporary success. When, however, the collateral circulation between this vessel with the artery of the opposite side, and with the inferior thyroid is completely re-established, the tumour usually regains its former size. The Lingual Artery (fig. 212) arises from the external carotid between the superior thyroid and facial; it runs obliquely upwards and inwards to the great cornu of the hyoid bone, then passes horizontally forwards parallel with the great cornu, and, ascending perpendicularly to the under surface of the tongue, turns forwards on its under surface as far as the tip of that organ, under the name of the ranine artery. Relations. Its first, or oblique portion, is superficial, being contained in the tri- angular inter-muscular space already described, resting upon the Middle constrictor of the pharynx, and covered by the Platysma and fascia of the neck. Its second, or horizontal portion, also lies upon the Middle constrictor, being covered at first by the tendon of the Digastric, and the Stylo-hyoid muscle, and afterwards by the Hyo-glossus, the latter muscle separating it from the hypoglossal nerve. Its third, or ascending portion, lies between the Hyo-glossus and Genio-liyo-glossus muscles. The fourth, or terminal part, under the name of the ranine, runs along the under surface of the tongue to its tip, it is very superficial, being covered only by the mucous membrane, and rests on the Lingualis on the outer side of the Genio-liyo-glossus. The hypoglossal nerve lies nearly parallel with the lingual artery, separated from it, in the second part of its course, by the Hyo- glossus muscle. The branches of the lingual artery are, the Hyoid. Sublingual. Dorsalis Linguae. Ranine. The hyoid branch runs along the upper border of the hyoid bone, supplying the muscles attached to it, and anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side. The dorsalis lingua (fig. 212) arises from the lingual artery beneath the Hyo- glossus muscle; ascending to the dorsum of the tongue, it supplies its mucous membrane, the tonsil, soft palate, and epiglottis; anastomosing with its fellow from the opposite side. The sublingual, a branch of bifurcation of the lingual artery, arises at the anterior margin of the Hyo-glossus muscle, and, running forwards and outwards beneath the Mylo-hyoid to the sublingual gland, supplies its substance, giving branches to the Mylo-hyoid and neighbouring muscles, the mucous membrane of the mouth and gums. The ranine may be regarded as the continuation of the lingual artery; it runs along the under surface of the tongue, resting on the Lingualis, and covered by the mucous membrane of the mouth; it lies on the outer side of the Genio-hyo- glossus, and is covered by the LIyo-glossus and Stylo-glossus, accompanied by the gustatory nerve. On arriving at the tip of the tongue, it anastomoses with