POSTERIOR HUMERAL REGION. 273 receiving the attachment of the muscular fibres, they join together above the elbow, and are inserted into the back part of the upper surface of the olecranon process, a small bursa, occasionally multilocular, being interposed between the tendon and the front of this surface. The long head of the Triceps descends between the Teres minor and Teres major, dividing the triangular space between these two muscles and the humerus into two smaller spaces, one triangular, the other quadrangular (fig. 171). The triangular space transmits the dorsalis scapulae vessels; it is bounded by the Teres minor above, the Teres major below, and the scapular head of the Triceps, ex- ternally: the quadrangular space transmits the posterior circumflex vessels and nerve; it is bounded by the Teres minor above, the Teres major below, the scapular head of the Triceps internally, and the humerus externally. Relations. Its posterior surface is overlapped by the Deltoid above, superficial in the rest of its extent. By its anterior surface, with the humerus, musculo- spiral nerve, superior profunda vessels, and back part of the elbow-joint. Its middle or long head is in relation, behind, with the Deltoid and Teres minor; in front, with the Subscapularis, Latissimus dorsi, and Teres major. The Subcmconeus is a small muscle, distinct from the Triceps, and analogous to the Subcrureus in the lower limb. It may be exposed by removing the Triceps from the lower part of the humerus. It consists of one or two slender fasciculi, which arise from the humerus, immediately above the olecranon fossa, and are inserted into the posterior ligament of the elbow-joint. Nerves. The Triceps and Subanconeus are supplied by the musculo-spiral nerve. Actions. The Triceps is the great Extensor muscle of the fore-arm; when the fore-arm is flexed, serving to draw it into a right line with the arm. It is the direct antagonist of the Biceps and Brachialis anticus. When the arm is extended, the long head of the muscle may assist the Teres major and Latissimus dorsi in drawing the humerus backwards. The long head of the Triceps protects the under part of the shoulder-joint, and prevents displacement of the head of the humerus downwards and backwards. Muscles of the Fore-arm. Dissection. To dissect the fore-arm, place the limb in the position indicated in fig. 168 ; make a vertical incision along the middle line from the elbow to the wrist, and connect each extremity with a transverse incision; the flaps of integument being removed, the fascia of the fore-arm is exposed. The deep fascia of the fore-arm, continuous above with that enclosing the arm, is a dense highly glistening aponeurotic investment, which forms a general sheath enclosing the muscles in this region; it is attached behind to the olecranon and posterior border of the ulna, and gives off from its inner surface numerous inter- muscular septa, which enclose each muscle separately. It consists of circular and oblique fibres, connected together at right angles by numerous vertical fibres. It is much thicker on the dorsal than on the palmar surface, and at the lower than at the upper part of the fore-arm, and is strengthened by tendinous fibres, derived from the Brachialis anticus and Biceps in front, and from the Triceps behind. Its inner surface gives origin to muscular fibres, especially at the upper part of the inner and outer sides of the fore-arm, and forms the boundaries of a series of conical-shaped fibrous cavities, in which the muscles in this region are contained. Besides the vertical septa separating each muscle, transverse septa are given off both on the anterior and posterior surfaces of the fore-arm, separating the deep from the superficial layer of muscles. Numerous apertures exist in the fascia for the passage of vessels and nerves; one of these, of large size, situated at the front of the elbow, serves for the passage of a communicating branch between the superficial and deep veins. The muscles of the fore-arm may be subdivided into groups corresponding to T