36° ARTERIES. Plan of Relations of First Portion of Right Subclavian Artery. Integument, and superficial fascia. Platysma and deep fascia. Clavicular origin of Sterno-mastoid. Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid. Internal jugular and vertebral veins. Pneumogastric, cardiac and phrenic nerves. It arises from the end of the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta, oppo- site the second dorsal vertebra, and ascends to the inner margin of the first rib, behind the insertion of the Scalenus anticus muscle. This vessel is, therefore, longer than the right, situated more deeply in the cavity of the chest, and directed almost vertically upwards, instead of arching outwards like the vessel of the opposite side. It is in relation, in front, with the pleura, the left lung, the pneumogastric, phrenic, and cardiac nerves, which lie parallel with it, the left carotid artery, left internal jugular and innominate veins, and is covered by the Sterno-thyroid, Sterno- hyoid, and Sterno-mastoid muscles; behind, with the oesophagus, thoracic duct, inferior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, Longus colli, and, vertebral column, To its inner side is the oesophagus, trachea, and thoracic duct; to its outer side, the pleura. Plan of Relations of First Portion of Left Subclavian Artery. Pleura and left lung. Pneumogastric, cardiac, and phrenic nerves. Left carotid artery. Left internal jugular and innominate veins. Sterno-thyroid, Sterno-hyoid, and Sterno-mastoid muscles. Inner side. Outer side. The relations of the second and third jiortions of the subclavian arteries are precisely similar on both sides. The Second Portion of the Subclavian Artery lies between the two Scaleni muscles; it is very short, and forms the highest part of the arch described by that vessel. In front. Beneath. Pleura. Behind. Recurrent laryngeal nerve. Sympathetic. Longus colli. Transverse process of seventh cervical vertebra. First Part of the Left Subclavian Artery (tig. 205). In front. (Esophagus. Trachea. Thoracic duct. Pleura. Behind,. (Esophagus and thoracic duct. Inferior cervical ganglion of sympathetic. Longus colli and vertebral column.