55 MALAR BONE. The Malar Bones. 49.—Left Malar Bone. Outer Surface. The Malar are two small quadrangular bones, situated at the upper and outer part of the face, forming the prominence of the cheek, part of the outer wall and floor of the orbit, and part of the temporal and zygomatic fossae. Each bone presents for examination an external and an internal surface; four processes, the frontal, orbital, maxillary, and zygomatic; and four borders. The external surface (fig. 49) is smooth, convex, perforated near its centre by one or two small apertures, the malar foramina, for the passage of nerves and vessels, covered by the Orbicularis palpebrarum muscle, and affords attachment to the Zygomaticus major and minor muscles. The internal surface (fig. 50), directed backwards and inwards, BrMespasscd a h is concave, presenting internally Tenlf^ MaUr Canal, a rough triangular surface, for articulation with the superior maxillary bone; and externally, a smooth concave surface, which forms the anterior boundary of the temporal fossa above, wider below, where it forms part of the zygomatic fossa. This sur- face presents, a little above its centre, the aperture of one or two malar canals, and affords attach- ment to part of two muscles, the Temporal above, and the Masse- ter below. Of the four processes, thQ frontal is thick and serrated, and articulates with the external angular process of the frontal bone. The orbital process is a thick and strong plate, which projects backwards from the orbital margin of the bone. Its upper surface, smooth and con- cave, forms, by its junction with the great ala of the sphenoid, the outer wall of the orbit. Its under surface, smooth and con- vex, forms part of the temporal fossa. Its anterior margin is smooth and rounded, forming part of the circumference of the orbit. Its superior margin, rough, and directed horizontally, arti- culates with the frontal bone behind the external angular pro- cess. Its posterior margin is rough and serrated, for articulation with the sphenoid, internally it is also serrated for articulation with the orbital surface of the supeiioi maxillary. At the angle of junction of the sphenoidal and maxillary poitions, a short rounded non-articular margin is sometimes seen; this forms the anterior boundary of the spheno-maxillary fissure: occasionally, no such non-aiticular 50.- -Loft Malar Bone. Inner Surface.