OSTEOLOGY. 126 through the pelvis during parturition. It is also important to the surgeon as indicating the direction of the force required in the removal of calculi from the bladder, and as determining the direction in which instruments should be used in operations upon the pelvic viscera. Differences between the Male and Female Pelvis. In the male, the bones are thicker and stronger, and the muscular eminences and impressions on their sur- faces more strongly marked. The male pelvis is altogether more massive; its cavity is deeper and narrower, and the obturator foramina of larger size. In the female, the bones are lighter and more expanded, the muscular impressions on their surfaces are only slightly marked, and the pelvis generally is less massive in structure. The iliac fossee are broad, and the spines of the ilia widely separated; hence the great prominence of the hips. The inlet and the outlet are larger; the cavity is more capacious, and the spines of the ischia project less into it. The promontory is less projecting, the sacrum wider and less curved,* and the coccyx more moveable. The arch of the pubes is wider, and its edges more everted. The tuberosities of the ischia and the acetabula are wider apart. In the foetus, and for several years after birth, the pelvis is small in proportion to that of the adult. The cavity is deep, and the projection of the sacro-vertebral angle less marked. The antero-posterior and transverse diameters are nearly equal. About puberty, the pelvis in both sexes presents the general characters of the adult male pelvis, but after puberty it acquires the sexual characters pecu- liar to it in adult life. OF THE THIGH. The thigh is formed of a single bone, the femur. The Femur. The Femur is the longest, largest, and strongest bone in the skeleton, and almost perfectly cylindrical in the greater part of its extent. In the erect posture, it is not vertical, being separated from its fellow above by a considerable interval which corresponds to the entire breadth of the pelvis, but gradually inclines downwards and inwards, so as to approach its fellow towards its lower part, for the purpose of bringing the knee-joint near the line of gravity of the body. The degree of this inclination varies in different persons, and is greater in the female than in the male, on account of the greater breadth of the pelvis. The femur, like other long bones, is divisible into a shaft, and two extremities. The Upper Extremity presents for examination a head, a neck, and the greater and lesser trochanters. The head, which is globular, and forms rather more than a hemisphere, is di- rected upwards, inwards, and a little forwards, the greater part of its convexity being above and in front. Its surface is smooth, coated with cartilage in the recent state, and presents, a little behind and below its centre, an ovoid depression, for the attachment of the ligamentum teres. The neck is a flattened pyramidal process of bone, which connects the head with the shaft. It varies in length and obliquity at various periods of life, and under different circumstances. Before puberty, it is directed obliquely, so as to form a gentle curve from the axis of the shaft. In the adult male, it forms an obtuse angle with the shaft, being directed upwards, inwards, and a little forwards. In the female, it approaches more nearly a right angle. Occasionally, in very old subjects, and more especially in those greatly debilitated, its direction becomes horizontal, so that the head sinks below the level of the trochanter, and its length diminishes to such a degree, that the head becomes almost contiguous with the shaft. The neck is flattened from before backwards, contracted in the middle, and broader at its outer extremity, where it * It is not unusual to find the sacrum in the female presenting a considerable curve extending throughout its whole length.