PTERYGO-MAXILLARY REGION. 219 The Temporal is a broad radiating muscle, situated at the side of the head, and occupying the entire extent of the temporal fossa. It arises from the whole of the temporal fossa, which extends from the external angular process of the frontal in front, to the mastoid portion of the temporal behind; and from the curved lino on the frontal and parietal bones above, to the pterygoid ridge on the great wing of the sphenoid below. It is also attached to the inner surface of the temporal fascia. Its fibres converge as they descend, and terminate in an aponeurosis, the fibres of which, radiated at its commencement, converge into a thick and flat tendon, which is inserted into the inner surface, apex, and anterior border of the coronoid process of the jaw, nearly as far forwards as the last molar tooth. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the integument, the temporal fascia, aponeurosis of the Occipito-frontalis, the Attollens and Attrahens aurem muscles, the temporal vessels and nerves, the zygoma and Masseter. By its deep surface, with the temporal fossa, the External pterygoid and part of the Buccinator muscles, the internal maxillary artery, its deep temporal branches, and the tem- poral nerves. Nerves. Both muscles are supplied by the inferior maxillary nerve. 10. Pterygo-Maxillary Region. Internal Pterygoid. External Pterygoid. Dissection. The Temporal muscle having been examined, the muscles in the pterygo- maxillary region may be exposed by sawing through the base of the coronoid process, and drawing it upwards, together with the Temporal muscle, which should be detached from the surface of the temporal fossa. Divide the ramus of the jaw just below the condyle, and also, by a transverse incision extending across the commencement of its lower third, just above the dental foramen; remove the fragment, and the Pterygoid muscles will be exposed. [ 52‘—The Pterygoid Muscles; the Zygomatic Arch and a portion of the Ramus of the Jaw having been removed. The Internal Pterygoid is a thick quadrilateral muscle, and resembles the Masseter in form, structure, and in the direction of its fibres. It arises from the pterygoid fossa, its fibres being attached to the inner surface of the externa, pterygoid plate, and to the grooved surface of the tuberosity of the palate bone;