688 ORGANS OF VOICE AND RESPIRATION. lobule (lobular bronchial tube), and again subdividing, ultimately terminates in the intercellular passages and air-cells ot‘ which the lobule is composed. Within the lungs the bronchial tubes are circular, not flattened, and their constituent elements present the following peculiarities of structure. The cartilages are not imperfect rings, but consist of thin laminrn, of varied form and size, scattered irregularly along the sides of the tube, being most distinct at the points of division of the bronchi. They may be traced into tubes the dia- meter of which is only one-fourth of a line. Beyond this point, the tubes are wholly membranous. The fibrous coat, and longitudinal elastic fibres, are continued into the smallest ramifications of the bronchi. The muscular coat is disposed in the form of a continuous layer of annular fibres, which may be traced upon the smallest bronchial tubes: they consist of the unstriped vai’iety of muscular fibre. The mucous membrane lines the bronchi and its ramifications throughout, and is covered with columnar ciliated epithelium. According to the observations of Mr. Rainey,* the lobular bronchial tubes, on entering the substance of the lobules, divide and subdivide from four to nine times, according to the size of the lobule, continuing to diminish in size until they attain a diameter of g^th to -g^tli of an inch. They then become changed in structure, losing their cylindrical form, and are continued onwards as irregular passages (intercellular passages), through the substance of the lobule, their sides and extremities being closely covered by numerous saccular dilatations, the air-cells. This arrangement resembles most closely the naked eye appearances observed in the reticulated structure of the lung of the tortoise, and other reptilia. The air-cells are small, polyhedral, alveolar recesses, separated from each other by thin septa, and communicating freely with the intercellular passages. They are well seen on the surface of the lung, and vary from -o-jj-oth to -J^th of an inch in diameter; being largest on the surface, at the thin borders, and at the apex; and smallest in the interior. At the termination of the bronchial tubes, in the intercellular passages, their constituent elements become changed: their walls are formed by an interlacing of the longitudinal elastic bundles with fibrous tissue; the muscular fibres disappear, and the mucous membrane becomes thin and delicate, and lined with a layer of' squamous epithelium. The latter membrane lines the air-cells, and forms by its reduplications the septa intervening between them. The Pulmonary Artery, conveys the venous blood to the lungs: it divides into branches which accompany the bronchial tubes and terminates in a dense capillary network upon the walls of the intercellular passages and air-cells. From this network, the radicles of the pulmonary veins arise, coalescing into large branches, they accompany the arteries, and return the blood, purified by its passage through the capillaries, to the left auricle of the heart. In the lung, the branches of the pulmonary artery are usually above and in front of a bronchial tube, the vein below. The Pulmonary Capillaries form plexuses which lie immediately beneath the mucous membrane, on the walls and septa of the air-cells, and upon the walls of the intercellular passages. In the septa between the cells, the capillary network forms a single layer. The capillaries are very minute, the meshes being only slightly wider than the vessels: their walls are also exceedingly thin. The Bronchial Arteries supply blood for the nutrition of the lung: they are derived from the thoracic aorta, and, accompanying the bronchial tubes, are dis- tributed to the bronchial glands, and upon the walls of the larger bronchial tubes and pulmonary vessels, and terminate in the deep bronchial veins. Others are distributed in the interlobular areolar tissue, and terminate partly in the deep, partly in the superficial, bronchial veins. Lastly, some ramify upon the walls of the Smallest bronchial tubes, and terminate in the pulmonary veins. The Superficial and Deep Bronchial Veins unite at the root of the lung, and Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xxviii. 1845.