METATARSAL BONES. *45 presents two articular facets separated by a rough depression; the anterior one, situated at the superior angle of the bone, articulates with the outer side of the base of the second metatarsal bone; the posterior one skirts the posterior border, and articulates with the middle cuneiform; the rough depression between the two gives attachment to an interosseous ligament. The external surface also presents two articular facets, separated by a rough non-articular surface; the anterior facet, situated at the superior angle of the bone, is small, and articulates with the inner side of the base of the fourth metatarsal, the posterior, and larger one, articulates with the cuboid; the rough non-articular surface serves for the attachment of an interosseous ligament. The three facets for articulation with the three metatarsal bones are continuous with one another, and covered by a prolongation of the same cartilage; the facets for articulation with the middle cuneiform and scaphoid are also continuous, but that for articulation with the cuboid is usually separate. The superior or dorsal surface, of an oblong form, is rough for the attachment of liga- ments. The mferior or plantar surface is an obtuse rounded margin, and serves for the attachment of part of the tendon of the Tibialis posticus, part of the Flexor brevis pollicis, and ligaments. To ascertain to which side it belongs, hold the bone with the broad dorsal surface upwards, the prolonged edge backwards; the separate articular facet for the cuboid will point to the proper side. Articulations. With six bones: the scaphoid, middle cuneiform, cuboid, and second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. Attachment of Muscles. Part of Tibialis posticus, and Flexor brevis pollicis. The Metatarsal Bones. The Metatarsal bones are five in number; they are long bones, and subdivided into a shaft, and two extremities. The Shaft is prismoid in form, tapers gradually from the tarsal to the phalangeal extremity, and is slightly curved longitudinally, so as to be concave below, slightly convex above. The Posterior Extremity, or Base, is wedge-shaped, articulating by its terminal surface with the tarsal bones, and by its lateral surfaces with the contiguous bones; its dorsal and plantar surfaces being rough, for the attachment of ligaments. The Anterior Extremity, or Head, presents a terminal rounded articular surface, oblong from above downwards, and extending further backwards below than above. Its sides are flattened, and present a depression, surmounted by a tubercle, for ligamentous attachment. Its under surface is grooved in the middle line, for the passage of the Flexor tendon, and marked on each side by an articular eminence continuous with the terminal articular surface. Peculiar Metatarsal Bones. The First is remarkable for its great size, but is the shortest of all the meta- tarsal bones. The shaft is strong, and of well-marked prismoid form. The posterior extremity presents no lateral articular facets; its terminal articular surface is of large size, of semi-lunar form, and its circumference grooved for the tarso- metatarsal ligaments; its inferior angle presents a rough oval prominence, for the insertion of the tendon of the Peroneus longus. The head is of large size; on its plantar surface are two grooved facets, over winch glide sesamoid bones; the facets are separated by a smooth elevated ridge. The Second is the longest and largest of the remaining metatarsal bones; being prolonged backwards, into the recess formed between the three cunei- form bones. Its tarsal extremity is broad above, narrow and rough below. It presents four articular surfaces: one behind, of a triangular form, for articu- lation with the middle cuneiform; one at the upper part of its internal lateral surface, for articulation with the internal cuneiform; and two on its external lateral surface, a superior and an inferior, separated by a rough depression. Each of the latter articular surfaces is divided by a vertical ridge into two parts; L