INTERNAL MAXILLARY. 349 mater. Before entering the cranium, it gives off a branch to the nasal fossa and soft palate. The inferior dental descends with the dental nerve, to the foramen on the inner side of the ramus of the jaw. It runs along the dental canal in the substance of the hone, accompanied by the nerve, and opposite the bicuspid tooth divides into two branches, incisor and mental, the former is continued forwards beneath the incisor teeth as far as the symphysis, where it annastomoses with the artery of the opposite side; the mental branch, escapes with the nerve at the mental foramen, supplies the structures composing the chin, and anastomoses with the submental, inferior labial, and inferior coronary arteries. As the dental artery enters the foramen, it gives off a mylo-hyoid branch, which runs in the mylo-liyoid groove, and ramifies on the under surface of the Mylo-hyoid muscle. The dental and incisor arteries during their course through the substance of the bone, give off a few twigs which are lost in the diploe, and a series of branches which correspond in number to the roots of the teeth; these enter the minute apertures at the extremities of the fangs, and ascend to supply the pulp of the teeth. Branches of the Second, or Pterygoid Portion. Deep temporal. Masseteric. Pterygoid. Buccal. These branches are distributed, as their names imply, to the muscles in the maxillary region. The deep temporal branches, two in number, anterior, and posterior, each occupy that part of the temporal fossa indicated by its name. Ascending between the Temporal muscle and pericranium, they supply that muscle, and anastomose with the other temporal arteries; the anterior branch communicating with the lachrymal through small branches which perforate the malar bone. The pterygoid branches, irregular in their number and origin, supply the Pterygoid muscles. The masseteric is a small branch which passes outwards above the sigmoid notch of the lower jaw, to the deep surface of the Masseter. It supplies that muscle, and anastomoses with the masseteric branches of the facial and transverse facial arteries. The buccal is a small branch which runs obliquely forwards between the Internal pterygoid, and the ramus of the jaw, to the outer surface of the Buccinator, to which it is distributed, anastomosing with branches of the facial artery. Branches of the Third, or Spiieno-Maxillary Portion. Alveolar. Vidian. Infra-orbital. Pterygo-palatine. Posterior or Descending palatine. Nasal or Spheno-palatine. The alveolar is given off from the internal maxillary by a common branch with the infra-orbital, and just as the trunk of the vessel is passing into the spheno- maxillary fossa. Descending upon the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone, it divides into numerous branches; one, the superior dental, larger than the rest, supplies the molar and bicuspid teeth, its branches entering the foramina in the alveolar process; some branches pierce the bone to supply the lining of the antrum, and others are continued forwards on the alveolar process to supply the gums. The infra-orbital appears, from its direction, to be the continuation of the trunk of the internal maxillary. It arises from that vessel by a common trunk with the preceding branch, and runs along the infra-orbital canal with the superior maxillary nerve, emerging upon the face at the infra-orbital foramen, beneath the Levator labii superioris. Whilst contained in the canal, it gives off branches