MUSCLES AND FASCIAE. 2jS inner third of the muscle. The fibres pass horizontally outwards, to be inserted into the lower fourth of the anterior surface and external border of the shaft of the radius. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the Flexor profundus digitorum, the Flexor longus pollicis, Flexor carpi radialis, and the radial vessels. By its poste- rior surface, with the radius, ulna, and interosseous membrane. Nerves. All the muscles of the superficial layer are supplied by the median nerve, excepting the Flexor carpi ulnaris, which is supplied by the ulnar. Of the deep layer, the Flexor profundus digitorum is supplied conjointly by the ulnar and anterior interosseous nerves, the Flexor longus pollicis and Pronator quadratus by the anterior interosseous nerve. Actions. These muscles act upon the fore-arm, the wrist, and hand. Those acting on the fore-arm, are the Pronator radii teres and Pronator quadratus, which rotate the radius upon the ulna, rendering the hand prone; when pronation has been fully effected, the Pronator radii teres assists the other muscles in flexing the fore-arm. The flexors of the wrist are the Flexor carpi ulnaris and radialis; and the flexors of the phalanges are the Flexor sublimis and Profundus digitorum; the former flexing the second phalanges, and the latter the last. The Flexor longus pollicis flexes the last phalanx of the thumb. The three latter muscles, after flexing the phalanges, by continuing their action, act upon the wrist, assisting the ordinary flexors of this joint; and all assist in flexing the fore-arm upon the arm. The Palmaris longus is a tensor of the palmar fascia; when this action has been fully effected, it flexes the hand upon the fore-arm. Radial Region. Supinator Longus. Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior. Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevior. Dissection. Divide the integument in the same manner as in the dissection of the ante- rior brachial region; and after having examined the cutaneous vessels and nerves and deep fascia, they should be removed, when the muscles of this region will be exposed. The removal of the fascia will be considerably facilitated by detaching it from below upwards. Great care should be taken to avoid cutting across the tendons of the muscles of the thumb. The Supinator Longus is the most superficial muscle on the radial side of the fore-arm, fleshy for the upper two-thirds of its extent, tendinous below. It arises from the upper two-tliirds of the external condyloid ridge of the humerus, and from the external intermuscular septum, being limited above by the musculo-spiral groove. The fibres terminate above the middle of the fore-arm in a flat tendon, which is inserted into the base of the styloid process of the radius. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the integument and fascia for the greater part of its extent; near its insertion it is crossed by the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and the Extensor primi internodii pollicis. By its deep surface, with the humerus, the Extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior, the insertion of the Pronator radii teres, and the Supinator brevis. By its inner border, above the elbow, with the Brachialis anticus, the musculo-spiral nerve, and radial recurrent artery; and in the fore-arm, with the radial vessels and nerve. The Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior is placed partly beneath the preceding muscle. It arises from the lower third of the external condyloid ridge of the humerus, and from the external intermuscular septum. The fibres terminate at the upper third of the fore-arm in a flat tendon, which runs along the outer border of the radius, beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb; it then passes through a groove common to it and the Extensor carpi radialis brevior, immediately behind the styloid process; and is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the index finger, its radial side. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Supinator longus, and fascia of the fore-ann. Its outer side is crossed obliquely by the extensor tendons of