49 SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. 43.—Eight Nasal Bone. with I'ronfral 13 VAt with —Ojrposii/e borne. 44.—Right Nasal Bone. lumtih A 'o n t a l Sfi Tie - crest iviiA 33 -rpendicidacr iPlatef'Ethmoid!/. groove for nasal nerve Outer Surface,. Inner Surface Nasal Bones. The Nasal are two small oblong bones, varying in size and form in different individuals; they are placed side by side at the middle and upper part of the face, forming, by their junction, the ‘bridge’ of the nose. Each bone presents for examination two sur- faces, and four borders. The outer surface is concave from above downwards, convex from side to side; it is covered by the Com- pressor nasi muscle, marked by numerous small arterial furrows, and perforated about its centre by a foramen, sometimes double, for the transmission of a small vein. Sometimes this foramen is absent on one or both sides, and occasionally the foramen coecum opens on this surface. The inner surface is concave from side to side, convex from above downwards; in which direction it is traversed by a longitudinal groove (sometimes a canal), for the passage of a branch of the nasal nerve. The superior border is narrow, thick, and serrated for articulation with the nasal notch of the frontal bone. The inferior border is broad, thin, sharp, directed obliquely downwards, outwards, and backwards, and serves for the attach- ment of the lateral cartilage of the nose. This border presents about its centre a notch, which transmits the branch of the nasal nerve above referred to; and is prolonged at its inner extremity into a sharp spine, which, when articulated with the opposite bone, forms the nasal angle. The external border is serrated, bevelled at the expense of the internal surface above, and of the external below, to articu- late with the nasal process of the superior maxillary. The internal border, thicker above than below, articulates with its fellow of the opposite side, and is prolonged behind into a vertical crest, which forms part of the septum of the nose; this crest articulates with the nasal spine of the frontal above, and the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid below. Development. By one centre for each bone, which appears about the same period as in the vertebras. Articulations. With four bones: two of the cranium, the frontal and .ethmoid; and two of the face, the opposite nasal and the superior maxillary. No muscles are directly attached to this bone. Superior Maxillary Bone. The Superior Maxillary is one of the most important bones of the face in a surgical point of view, on account of the number of diseases to which some of its parts are liable. Its minute examination becomes, therefore, a matter of considerable interest. It is the largest bone of the face, excepting the lower jaw; and forms, by its union with its fellow of the opposite side, the whole of the upper jaw. Each bone assists in the formation of three cavities, the roof of the mouth, the floor and outer wall of the nose, and the floor of the orbit; enters into the formation of two fossae, the zygomatic, and spheno-maxillary; and two fissures, the spheno- maxillary, and pterygo-maxillary. Each bone presents for examination a body, and four processes, malar, nasal, alveolar, and palatine. The body is somewhat quadrilateral, and is hollowed out in its interior to form a large cavity, the antrum of Highmore. It presents for examination four sur- faces, an external or facial, a posterior or zygomatic, a superior or orbital, and an internal.