MUSCLES AND FASCIiE. 242 Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Trapezius, Rhomboidei, and Serratus magnus. By its deep surface, with the Splenius, upper part of the Erector spins, Intercostal muscles and ribs. The Serratus Posticus Inferior is situated opposite the junction of the dorsal and lumbar regions, is of an irregularly quadrilateral form, broader than the pre- ceding, and separated from it by a considerable interval. It arises by a thin aponeurosis from the spinous processes of the last two dorsal and tAvo or three upper lumbar vertebra;, and from the inter-spinous ligaments. Passing obliquely upwards and outwards, it becomes fleshy, and divides into four flat digitations, which are inserted into the loAver borders of the four lower ribs, a little beyond their angles. Relations. By its superficial surface, it is covered by the Latissimus dorsi, with the aponeurosis of which its own aponeurotic origin is inseparably blended. By is deep surface, with the posterior aponeui'osis of the Transversalis, the Erector spin®, ribs and Intercostal muscles. Its upper margin is continuous with the vertebral aponeurosis. The vertebral aponeurosis is a thin aponeurotic lamina, extending along the Avhole length of the back part of the thoracic region, serving to bind down the Erector spin®, and separating it from those muscles Avhich connect the spine to the upper extremity. It consists of longitudinal and transverse fibres blended together, forming a thin lamella, which is attached in the median line to the spinous processes of the dorsal vertebrae; externally, to the angles of the ribs; and below, to the upper border of the Inferior serratus and tendon of the Latissimus dorsi; above, it passes beneath the Splenius, and blends with the deep fascia of the neck. The Serratus posticus superior should now be detached from its origin and turned out- Avards, Avhen the Splenius muscle will be brought into view. The Splenius is situated at the back of the neck and upper part of the dorsal region. At its origin, it is a single muscle, narrow and pointed in form; but it soon becomes broader, and divides into two portions, which have separate inser- tions. It arises, by tendinous fibres, from the loAver half of the ligamentum nuchas, from the spinous processes of the last cervical and of the six upper dorsal vertebrae, and from the supra-spinous ligament. From this origin, the fleshy fibres proceed obliquely upwards and outwards, forming a broad flat, muscle, Avhich divides as it ascends into two portions, the Splenius capitis and Splenius colli. The splenius capitis is inserted into the mastoid process of the temporal bone, and into the rough surface on the occipital bone beneath the superior curved line. The splenius colli is inserted, by tendinous fasciculi, into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the three or four upper cervical vertebrae. The Splenius is separated from its fellow of the opposite side by a triangular interval, in which is seen the Complexus. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Trapezius, from which it is sepa- rated beloAV by the Rhomboidei and the Serratus posticus superior. It is covered at its insertion by the Sterno-mastoid. By its deep surface, with the Spinalis dorsi, Longissimus dorsi, Semi-spinalis colli, Complexus, Trachelo- mastoid, and Transversalis colli. Nerves. The Splenius and Superior serratus are supplied from the external posterior branches of the cervical nerves; the Inferior serratus, from the external branches of the dorsal nerves. Actions. The Serrati are respiratory muscles acting in antagonism to each other. The Serratus posticus superior elevates the ribs; it is, therefore, an inspi- ratory muscle; Avhile the Serratus inferior draws the loAver ribs downwards, and is a muscle of expiration. This muscle is also probably a tensor of the vertebral aponeurosis. The Splenii muscles of the tAvo sides, acting together, draw the head directly backwards, assisting the Trapezius and Complexus; acting sepa- rately, they draw the head to one or the other side, and slightly rotate it, turning