HEART; LEFT AURICLE. 663 The columnce carnece are the rounded muscular columns which project from nearly the whole of the inner surface of the ventricle, excepting near the opening of the pulmonary artery. They may be classified, according to their mode of connection with the ventricle, into three sets. The first set merely form prominent ridges on the inner surface of the ventricle, being attached by their entire length on one side, as well as by their extremities. The second set are attached by their two extremities, but are free in the rest of their extent; whilst the third set {columnce papillares), three or four in number, are attached by one extremity to the wall of the heart, the opposite extremity giving attachment to the chordce tendinece. The semilunar valves, three in number, guard the orifice of the pulmonary artery. They consist of three semicircular folds, formed by a duplicature of the lining membrane, strengthened by fibrous tissue. They are attached, by their convex margins, to the wall of the artery, at its junction with the ventricle, the straight border being free, and directed upwards in the course of the vessel, against the sides of which they are pressed during the passage of the blood along its canal. The free margin of each is somewhat thicker than the rest of the valve, is strengthened by a bundle of tendinous fibres; and presents, at its middle, a small projecting fibro- cartilaginous nodule, called corpus Arantii. From this nodule, tendinous fibres radiate through the valve to its attached margin, and these fibres form a consti- tuent part of its substance throughout its whole extent, excepting two narrow lunated portions, placed one on either side of the nodule, immediately behind the free margin; here, the valve is thin, and formed merely by the lining membrane. During the passage of the blood along the pulmonary artery, these valves are pressed against the sides of its cylinder, and the course of the blood along the tube is uninterrupted; but during the ventricular diastole, when the current of blood along the pulmonary artery is checked, and partly thrown back by its elastic Avails, these valves become immediately expanded, and effectually close the entrance of the tube. When the valves are closed, the lunated portions of each are brought into contact with one another by their opposed surfaces, the three fibro-cartilagi- nous nodules filling up the small triangular space that would be otherwise left by the approximation of the three semilunar folds. Between the semilunar valves and the commencement of the pulmonary artery are three pouches or dilatatious, one behind each valve. These are the pulmonary sinuses {sinuses of Valsalva). Similar sinuses exist betAveen the semilunar valves and the commencement of the aorta; they are larger than the pulmonary sinuses. The Left Auricle is rather smaller but thicker than the right, measuring about one line and a-half; it consists of tAvo parts, a principal cavity or sinus, and an appendix auriculae. The sinus is cuboidal in form, and concealed in front by the pulmonary artery and aorta; internally, it is separated from the right auricle by the septum auricu- larum; and behind, it receives on each side the pulmonary veins, being free in the rest of its extent. The appendix auricula: is somewliat constricted at its junction with the auricle; it is longer, narrower, and more curved than that of the right side, and its mar- gins more deeply indented, presenting a kind of foliated ajipearance. Its direction is forwards towards the right side, overlapping the root of the pulmonary artery. In order to examine its interior, a horizontal incision should be made along the attached border of the auricle to the ventricle; and from the middle of this, a second incision should be carried upwards. The following parts then present themselves for examination: The openings of the four pulmonary veins. Auriculo-ventricular opening. Musculi pectiuati.