OSTEOLOGY. 94 latter muscle takes origin by a few fibres from this part. The broad and narrow portions of bone above alluded to are separated by an oblique line, which runs from the axillary border, downwards and backwards; to it is attached the aponeu- rosis separating the two Teres muscles from each other. The Spine is a prominent plate of bone, which crosses obliquely the inner four-fifths of the dorsum of the scapula at its upper part, and separates the supra from the infra-spinous fossa: it commences at the vertebral border by a smooth triangular surface, over which the Trapezius glides, separated by a bursa; and, gradually becoming more elevated as it passes forwards, terminates in the acromion process which overhangs the shoulder joint. The spine is triangular and flattened from above downwards, its apex corresponding to the posterior border; its base, which is directed outwards, to the neck of the scapula. It presents two surfaces and three borders. Its superior surface is concave, assists in forming the supra-spinous fossa, and affords attachment to part of the Supra-spinatus muscle. Its inferior surface forms part of the infra-spinous fossa, gives origin to part of the Infra-spinatus muscle, and presents near its centre the orifice of a nutritious canal. Of the three borders, the anterior is attached to the dorsum of the bone; the posterior, or crest of the spine, is broad, and presents two lips, and an intervening rough interval. To the superior lip is attached the Trapezius, to the extent shown in the figure. A very rough prominence is generally seen occupying that portion of the spine which receives the insertion of the middle and inferior fibres of this muscle. To the inferior lip, throughout its whole length, is attached the Deltoid. The interval between the lips is also partly covered by the fibres of these muscles. The external border, the shortest of the three, is slightly concave, its edges thick and round, continuous above with the under surface of the acromion process; below, with the neck of the scapula. The narrow portion of bone external to this border, serves to connect the supra and infra-spinous fossaj. The Acromion process, so called from forming the summit of the shoulder (cucpov, a summit; w/u.09, the shoulder), is a large, and somewhat triangular process, flattened from behind forwards, directed at first a little outwards, and then curving forwards and upwards, so as to overhang the glenoid cavity. Its upper surface directed upwards, backwards, and outwards, is convex, rough, and gives attachment to somo fibres of the Deltoid. Its under surface is smooth and concave. Its outer border, which is thick and irregular, affords attachment to the Deltoid muscle. Its inner margin, shorter than the outer, is concave, gives attachment to a portion of the Trapezius muscle, and presents about its centre a small oval surface, for articulation with the scapular end of the clavicle. Its apex, which corresponds to the point of meeting of these two borders in front, is thin, and has attached to it the coraco-acromion ligament. Of the three borders or costas of the scapula, the superior is the shortest and thinnest; it is concave, terminating at its inner extremity at the superior angle, at its outer extremity at the coracoid process. At its outer part is a deep semicircular notch, the 6upra-scapular, formed partly by the base of the coracoid process. This notch is converted into a foramen by the transverse ligament, and serves for the passage of the supra-scapular nerve. The adjacent margin of the superior border affords attachment to the Omo-hyoid muscle. The external, or axillary border, is the thickest of the three. It commences above at the lower margin of the glenoid cavity, and inclines obliquely downwards and backwards to the inferior angle. Immediately below the glenoid cavity, is a rough depression about an inch in length, which affords attachment to the long head of the Triceps muscle; to this succeeds a longitudinal groove, which extends as far as its lower third, and affords origin to part of the Subscapularis muscle. The inferior third of this border which is thin and sharp, serves for the attachment of a few fibres of the Teres major behind, and of the Subscapularis in front. The internal, or vertebral border, also named the base, is the longest of the three, and extends from the superior to the inferior angle of the bone. It is arched, intermediate in thickness between the superior and the external borders, and that portion of it