54 OSTEOLOGY. including the two incisor teeth. In some animals, this remains permanently as a separate piece, constituting the intermaxillary bone; and in the human subject, where the jaw is malformed, as in cleft palate, this segment may be separated from the maxillary bone by a deep fissure extending backwards between the two into the palate. If the fissure be on both sides, both segments are quite isolated from the maxillary bones, and hang from the end of the vomer, not unfrequently being much displaced, and often accompanied by congenital fissure of the upper lip, either on one or both sides of the median line. The maxillary sinus appears at an earlier period than any of the other sinuses, its development commencing about the fourth month of foetal life. Articulations. With nine bones; two of the cranium—the frontal and ethmoid, and seven of the face, viz., the nasal, malar, lachrymal, inferior turbinated, palate, vomer, and its fellow of the opposite side. Sometimes it articulates with the orbital plate of the sphenoid. Attachment of Muscles. Orbicularis palpebrarum, Obliquus inferior oculi, Leva- tor labii superioris alaeque nasi, Levator labii superioris proprius, Levator anguli oris, Compressor nasi, Depressor ala; nasi, Masseter, Buccinator. The Lachrymal Bones. The Lachrymal are the smallest and most fragile bones of the face, situated at the front part of the inner wall of the orbit, and resemble somewhat in form, thinness, and size, a finger-nail; hence they are termed the ossa unguis. Each bone presents for examina- tion, two surfaces and four borders. The external (fig. 48) or orbital surface is divided by a vertical ridge into two parts. The portion of bone in front of this ridge presents a smooth, concave, longitudinal groove, the free margin of which unites with the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, com- pleting the lachrymal groove. The upper part of this groove lodges the lachrymal sac; the lower part assists in the formation of the lachrymal canal, and lodges the nasal duct. The portion of bone behind the ridge is smooth, slightly concave, and forms part of the inner wall of the orbit. The ridge, and part of the orbital surface immediately behind it, affords attach- ment to the Tensor tarsi: the ridge terminates below in a small hook-like process, which articulates with the lachrymal tubercle of the superior maxillary bone, and completes the upper orifice of the lachrymal canal. It sometimes exists as a separate piece, which is then called the lesser lachrymal bone. The internal or nasal surface presents a depressed furrow, corresponding to the ridge on its outer surface. The surface of bone in front of this forms part of the middle meatus; and that behind it articulates with the ethmoid bone, filling in the anterior ethmoidal cells. Of the four borders, the anterior is the longest, and articulates with the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone. The posterior, thin and uneven, articulates with the os planum of the ethmoid. The superior, the shortest and thickest, articulates with the internal angular process of the frontal hone. The inferior is divided by the lower edge of the vertical crest into two parts, the posterior part articulating with the orbital plate of the superior maxillary bone ; the anterior portion being prolonged downwards into a pointed process, which articulates with the lachrymal process of the inferior turbinated hone, assisting in the formation of the lachrymal canal. Development. By a single centre, which makes its appearance soon after ossi- fication of the vertebrae has commenced. Articulations. With four bones; two of the cranium, the frontal and ethmoid, and two of the face, the superior maxillary and the inferior turbinated. Attachment of Muscles. The Tensor tarsi. 48.—Left Lachrymal Bone. External Surface. unit Frontd A