OSTEOLOGY. 114 The Metacarpus. Tho Metacarpal bones are five in number: they are long cylindrical bones, presenting for examination a shaft, and two extremities. Common Characters op the Metacarpal Bones. The shaft is prismoid in form, and curved longitudinally, so as to be convex in the longitudinal direction behind, concave in front. It presents three surfaces: two lateral, and one posterior. The lateral surfaces are concave, for the attach- ment of the Interossei muscles, and separated from one another by a prominent line. The posterior or dorsal surface is triangular, smooth, and flattened below, and covered, in the recent state, by the tendons of the Extensor muscles. In its upper half, it is divided by a ridge into two narrow lateral depressions, for the attachment of the Dorsal interossei muscles. This ridge bifurcates a little above the centre of the bone, and its branches run to the small tubercles on each side of the digital extremity. The carpal extremity, or base, is of a cuboidal form, and broader behind than in front: it articulates, above, with the carpus; and, on each side, with the adjoining metacarpal bones; its dorsal and palmar surfaces being rough, for the attachment of tendons and ligaments. The digital extremity, or head, presents an oblong surface, flattened at each side, for articulation with the first phalanx; it is broader and extends farther forwards in front than behind; and is longer in the antero-posterior than in the transverse diameter. On either side of the head is a deep depression, surmounted by a tubercle, for tho attachment of the lateral ligament of the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. The posterior surface, broad and flat, supports the Extensor tendons; and the anterior surface presents a median groove, bounded on each side by a tubercle, for the passage of the Flexor tendons. v. Peculiar Metacarpal Bones. The metacarpal hone of the thumb is shorter and wider than the rest, diverges to a greater degreo from the carpus, and its palmar surface is directed inwards towards the palm. The shaft is flattened and broad on its dorsal aspect, and does not present the bifurcated ridge peculiar to the other metacarpal bones; concave from before backwards on its palmar surface. The carpal extremity, or base, presents a concavo-convex surface, for articulation with the trapezium, and has no lateral facets. The digital extremity is less convex than that of the other metacarpal bones, broader from side to side than from before backwards, and terminates anteriorly in a small articular eminence.on each side, over which play two sesamoid bones. The metacarpal bone of the index-finger is the longest, and its base the largest of the other four. Its carpal extremity is prolonged upwards and inwards; and its dorsal and palmar surfaces are rough, for the attachment of tendons and ligaments. It presents four articular facets: one at the end of the bone, which has an angular depression, for articulation with the trapezoid; on the radial side, a flat quadri- lateral facet, for articulation with the trapezium; its ulnar side being prolonged upwards and inwards, to articulate, above, with the os magnum; internally, with the third metacarpal bone. » The metacarpal bone of the middle-finger is a little smaller than the preceding; it presents a pyramidal eminence on the radial side of its base (dorsal aspect), which extends upwards behind the os magnum. The carpal-articular facet is concave be- hind, flat and horizontal in front, and corresponds to the os magnum. On the radial side is a smooth concave facet, for articulation with the second metacarpal bonq; and on the ulnar side two small oval facets, for articulation with the fourth metacarpal. The metacarpal bone of the ring-finger is shorter and smaller than the pre- ceding, and its base small and quadrilateral, its carpal surface presenting two facets, for articulation with the unciform and os magnum. On the radial side are two oval facets, for articulation with the third metacarpal bone; and on the ulnar side a single concave facet, for the fifth metacarpal.