52 OSTEOLOGY. the inferior meatus. The inferior division of this surface is concave, rough and uneven, and perforated by numerous small foramina for the passage of nutrient vessels. The Antrum of Highmore, or Maxillary Sinus, is a large triangular-shaped cavity, hollowed out of the body of the maxillary bone; its apex, directed out- wards, is formed by the malar process; its base, by the outer wall of the nose. Its walls are everywhere exceedingly thin, its roof being formed by the orbital plate; its floor by the alveolar process, bounded in front by the facial surface, and behind by the zygomatic. Its inner wall, or base, presents, in the disarticulated bone, a large irregular aperture, which communicates with the nasal fossas. The margins of this aperture are thin and ragged, and the aperture itself is much con- tracted by its articulation wifh the ethmoid above, the inferior turbinated below, and the palate bone behind. In the articulated skull, this cavity communicates with the middle meatus of the nose generally by two small apertures left between the above-mentioned bones. In the recent state, usually only one small opening exists, near the upper part of the cavity, sufficiently large to admit the end of a probe, the other being closed by the lining membrane of the sinus. Crossing the cavity of the antrum are often seen several projecting lamina: of bone, similar to those seen in the sinuses of the cranium; and on its posterior wall are the posterior dental canals, transmitting the posterior dental vessels and nerves to the teeth. Projecting into the floor are several conical processes, corresponding to the roots of the first and second molar teeth; in some cases, the floor is per- forated by the teeth in this situation. It is from the extreme thinness of the walls ot this cavity, that we are enabled to explain how a tumour, growing from the antrum, encroaches upon the adjacent parts, pushing up the floor of the orbit, and displacing the eyeball, projecting inward into the nose, protruding forwards on to the check, and making its way backwards into the zygomatic fossa, and down- wards into the mouth. The Malar Process is a rough triangular eminence, situated at the angle of separation of the facial from the zygomatic surface. In front, it is concave, forming part of the facial surface; behind, it is also concave, and forms part of the temporal fossa; above, it is rough and serrated for articulation with the malar bone; whilst belovr, a prominent ridge marks the division between the facial and zygomatic surfaces. The Nasal Process is a thick triangular plate of bone, which projects upwards, inwards, and backwards, by the side of the nose, forming part of its lateral boundary. Its external surface is concave, smooth, perforated by numerous fora- mina, and gives attachment to the Levator labii superioris almque nasi, the Orbicularis palpebrarum, and Tendo oculi. Its internal surface forms part of the inner wall of the nose; it articulates above with the frontal, and presents a rough uneven surface, which articulates with the ethmoid bone, closing in the anterior ethmoid cells; below this is a transverse ridge, the superior turbinated crest, for articulation with the middle turbinated bone of the ethmoid, bounded below by a smooth concavity, which forms part of the middle meatus; below this is the inferior turbinated crest (already described), for articulation with the inferior turbinated bone; and still more inferiorly, the concavity which forms part of the inferior meatus. The anterior border of the nasal process is thin, directed obliquely downwards and forwards, and presents a serrated edge for articulation with the nasal bone: its posterior border is thick, and hollowed into a groove for the nasal duct; of the two margins of this groove, the inner one articulates with the lachrymal bone, the outer one forms part of the circumference of the orbit. Just where the latter joins the orbital surface is a small tubercle, the lachrymal tubercle; this serves as a guide to the surgeon in the performance of the operation for fistula lachrymalis. The lachrymal groove in the articulated skull is converted into a canal by the lachrymal bone, and lachrymal process of the inferior tur- binated; it is directed downwards, and a little backwards and outwards, is about