STRUCTURE OF THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 481 partly appearing on the surface as a smooth, olive-shaped eminence (fig. 262). It consists, externally, of white substance; and, internally, of a grey nucleus, the corpus dentatum. The grey matter is arranged in the form of a hollow capsule, open at its upper and inner part, and presenting a zig-zag, or dentated outline. White fibres pass into, or from the interior of this body, by the aperture in the posterior part of the capsule. They join with those fibres of the anterior column which ascend on the outer side, and beneath the olive, to form the olivary fasciculus, which ascends to the cerebrum. 263.—The Columns of the Medulla Oblongata, and their Connection with the Cerebrum and Cerebellum. The restiform body is formed chiefly of fibres from the posterior column of the cord; but it receives some from the lateral column, and a fasciculus from the anterior, and is continued, upwards, to the cerebrum and cerebellum. On entering the pons, it divides into two fasciculi, above the point of the fourth ventricle. The most external one enters the cerebellum: the inner one joins the posterior pyramid, is continued up along the fourth ventricle, and, joining the fasciculi teretes, passes up to the cerebrum. Septum of the medulla oblongata. Above the decussation of the anterior pyramids, numerous white fibres extend, from behind forwards, in the median line, forming a septum, which subdivides the medulla iyto two lateral halves. Some of these fibres emerge at the anterior median fissure, and form a band which curves round the lower border of the olivary body, or passes transversely across it, and round the sides of the medulla, forming the arciform fibres of Rolando. Others appear in the floor of the fourth ventricle, issuing from the posterior median fissure, and form the white strise in that situation. Grey matter of the medulla oblongata. The grey matter of the medulla is a continuation of that contained in the interior of th.e spinal cord, besides a series of special deposits, or nuclei. - In the lower part of the medulla, the grey matter is arranged as in the cord, hut, at the upper part, it becomes more abundant, and is disposed with less apparent regularity, becoming blended with all the white fibres, except the anterior pyramids. The part corresponding to the transverse grey commissure