144 OSTEOLOGY. in front. It may be distinguished by its large size, as compared with the other two, and from its more irregular wedge-like form. It presents for examination six surfaces. The internal surface is subcutaneous, and forms part of the inner border of the foot; it is broad, quadrilateral, and presents at its anterior inferior angle a smooth oval facet, over which the tendon of the Tibialis anticus muscle glides; rough in the rest of its extent, for the attachment of ligaments. The external surface is concave, presenting, along its superior and posterior borders, a narrow surface for articulation with the middle cuneiform behind, and second metatarsal bone in front; in the rest of its extent, it is rough for the attachment of ligaments, and prominent below, where it forms part of the tuberosity. The anterior surface, reniform in shape, articulates with the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The posterior surface is triangular, concave, and articulates with the innermost and largest of the three facets on the anterior surface of the scaphoid. The inferior or plantar surface is rough, and presents a prominent tuberosity at its back part for the attachment of part of the tendon of the Tibialis posticus. It also gives attachment in front to part of the tendon of the Tibialis anticus. The superior surface, is the narrow pointed end of the wedge, which is directed upwards and outwards; it is rough for the attachment of ligaments. To ascertain to which side it belongs, hold the bone so that its superior narrow edge looks upwards, and the long articular surface forwards; the external surface marked by its vertical and horizontal articular facets will point to the side to which it belongs. Articulations. With four bones; scaphoid, middle cuneiform, and first and second metatarsal bones. Attachment of Muscles. The Tibialis anticus and posticus. Tiie Middle Cuneiform. The Middle Cuneiform, the smallest of the three, is of very regular wedge- like form; the broad extremity being placed upwards, the narrow end downwards. It is situated between the other two bones of the same name, and corresponds to the scaphoid behind, and the second metatarsal in front. The anterior surface, triangular in form, and narrower than the posterior, arti- culates with the base of the second metatarsal bone. The posterior surface, also triangular, articulates with the scaphoid. The internal surface presents an articular facet, running along the superior and posterior borders, for articulation with the internal cuneiform, and is rough below for the attachment of ligaments. The external surface presents posteriorly a smooth facet for articulation with the external cuneiform bone. The superior surface forms the base of the wedge; it is quadrilateral, broader behind than in front, and rough for the attachment of ligaments. The inferior surface, pointed and tubercular, is also rough for liga- mentous attachment. To ascertain to which foot the bone belongs, hold its superior or dorsal surface upwards, the broadest edge being towards the holder, and the smooth facet (limited to the posterior border) will point to the side to which it belongs. Articulations. With four bones; scaphoid, internal and external cuneiform, and second metatarsal bone. The External Cuneiform. The External Cuneiform, intermediate in size between the two preceding, is of a very regular wedge-like form, the broad extremity being placed upwards, the narrow end downwards. It occupies the centre of the front row of the tarsus between the middle cuneiform internally, the cuboid externally, the scaphoid behind, and the third metatarsal in front. It has six surfaces for examination. The anterior surface triangular in form, articulates with the third metatarsal bone. The posterior surface articulates with the most external facet of the scaphoid, and is rough below for the attachment of ligamentous fibres. The internal surface