CARDIAC. 447 Cardiac Veins. The veins which return the blood from the substance of the heart are, the The Great Cardiac Vein is a vessel of considerable size, which commences at the apex of the heart, and ascends along the anterior inter-ventricular groove to the base of the ventricles. It then curves to the left side, around the auriculo- ventricular groove, between the left auricle and ventricle, to the back part of the heart, and opens into the coronary sinus, its aperture being guarded by two valves. It receives the posterior cardiac vein, and the left cardiac veins from the left auricle and ventricle, one of which, ascending along the left margin of the ventricle, is of large size. The branches joining it are provided with valves. The Posterior Cardiac Vein commences, by small branches, at the apex of the heart, communicating with those of the preceding. It ascends along the posterior inter-ventricular groove to the base of the heart, and terminates in the coronary sinus, its orifice being guarded by a valve. It receives the veins from the posterior surface of both ventricles. The Anterior Cardiac Veins are three or four small branches, which collect the blood from the anterior surface of the right ventricle. One of these, larger than the rest, runs along the right border of the heart, the vein of Galen. They open separately into the lower part of the right auricle. The Vena Thebesii are numerous minute veins, which return the blood directly from the muscular substance, without entering the venous current. They open, by minute orifices, (foramina Thebesii), on the inner surface of the right auricle. The Coronary Sinus is that portion of the great cardiac vein which is situated in the posterior part of the left auriculo-ventricular groove. It is about an inch in length, presents a considerable dilatation, and is covered by the muscular fibres of the left auricle. It receives the great cardiac vein, the posterior cardiac vein, and an oblique vein from the back part of the left auricle, the remnant of the obliterated left innominate trunk of the foetus, described by Mr. Marshall. The coronary sinus terminates in the right auricle, between the inferior vena cava and the auriculo-ventricular aperture, its orifice being guarded by a semilunar fold of the lining membrane of the heart, the coronary valve. All the branches joining this vessel, excepting the oblique vein, above-mentioned, are provided with valves. The Pulmonary Veins return the arterial blood from the lungs to the left auricle of the heart. They are four in number, two for each lung. The pul- monary differ from other veins in several respects. I. They carry arterial, instead of venous blood. 2. They are destitute of valves. 3. They are only slightly larger than the arteries they accompany. 4. And they accompany those vessels singly. They commence in a capillary net-work, upon the parietes of the bronchial cells, where they are continuous with the ramifications of the pulmonary artery, and, uniting together, form a single trunk for each lobule. These branches, successively uniting, form a single trunk for each lobe, three for the right, and two for the left, lung. The vein of the middle lobe of the right lung unites with that from the upper lobe, in most cases, forming two trunks on each side, which open separately into the left auricle. Occasionally they remain separate ; there are then Great cardiac vein. Posterior cardiac vein. Anterior cardiac veins. Yen® Thebesii. The Pulmonary Veins.