PELVIS. 125 the middle, and four inches and a half posteriorly. From this description, it will he seen that the cavity of the pelvis is a short, curved canal, considerably deeper on its posterior than on its anterior wall, and broader in the middle than at either extremity, from the projection forwards of the sacro-coccygeal column above and below. This cavity contains, in the recent subject, the rectum, bladder, and part of the organs of generation. The rectum is placed at the back of the pelvis, and corresponds to the curve of the sacro-coccygeal column, the 1 (ladder in front, behind the symphysis pubis. In the female, the uterus and vagina occupy the interval between these parts. The loiver circumference of the pelvis is very irregular, and forms what is called the outlet. It is bounded by three prominent eminences: one posterior, formed by the point of the coccyx; and one on each side, the tuberosities of the ischia. These eminences are separated by three notches; one in front, the pubic arch, formed by the convergence of the rami of the ischia and pubes on each side. The other notches, one on each side, are formed by the sacrum and coccyx behind, the ischium in front, and the ilium above: they are called the sacro- sciatic notches; in the natural state they are converted into foramina by the lesser and greater sacro-sciatic ligaments. The diameters of the outlet of the pelvis are two, antero-posterior and trans- verse. The antero-posterior extends from the tip of the coccyx to the lower part of the symphysis pubis; and the transverse from the posterior part of one ischiatic tuberosity, to the same point on the opposite side: the average measurement of both is four inches. The antero-posterior diameter varies with the length of the coccyx, and is capable of increase or diminution, on account of the mobility of this bone. Position of the Pelvis. I11 the erect posture, the pelvis is placed obliquely with regard to the trunk of the body; the pelvic surface of the symphysis pubis looking upwards and backwards, the concavity of the sacrum and coccyx looking down- wards and forwards ; the base of the sacrum, in well-formed female bodies, being nearly four inches above the upper border of the symphysis pubis, and the apex of the coccyx a little more than half an inch above its lower border. This obliquity is much greater in the foetus, and at an early period of life, than in the adult. Axes of the Pelvis (fig. 102). The plane of the inlet of the true pelvis will be represented by a line drawn from the base of the sacrum to the upper margin of the symphy- sis pubis. A line carried at right angles with this at its middle, would correspond at one extremity with the umbilicus, and at the other with the middle of the coccyx ; the axis of the inlet is therefore directed downwards and backwards. The axis of the outlet produced upwards, would touch the base of the sacrum; and is therefore directed downwards and forwards. The axis of the cavity is curved like the cavity itself: this curve corresponds to the concavity of the sacrum and coccyx, the ex- tremities being indicated by the central points of the inlet and out- let. A knowledge of the direction of these axes serves to explain the course of the foetus in its passage 102.'—Vertical Section of the Pelvis, with lines indicating the Axes of the Pelvis.