FEMUR. i is connected wi th the shaft, than at its summit, where it is attached to the head. It is much broader in the vertical than in the anterior posterior diameter, and much thicker below than above, on account ot the greater amount of resistance required in sustaining the weight of the trunk. Its anterior surface is perforated by nu- merous vascular foramina. Its posterior surface is smooth, broader, and more con- cave than the anterior; and receives to- wards its outer side the attachment of the capsular ligament of the hip. Its superior border is short and thick, bounded externally by the great trochanter, and its surface perforated by large foramina. Its inferior border, long and narrow, curves a little backwards, to terminate at the lesser trochanter. The Trochanters (rpo)/aa), to run or roll) are prominent processes of bone which afford greater leverage to the muscles which rotate the thigh on its axis. They are two in number, the greater, and the lesser. The Great Trochanter is a large irregular quadrilateral eminence, situated at the outer side of the neck, at its junc- tion with the upper part of the shaft. It is directed a little outwards and back- wards; and, in the adult, is about three quarters of an inch lower than the head. It presents for examination two surfaces, and four borders. Its external surface, quadrilateral in form, is broad, rough, convex, and marked by a prominent diagonal line, which ex- tends from the posterior superior to the anterior inferior angle: this line serves for the attachment of the tendon of the Gluteus medius. Above the line is a tri- angular surface, sometimes rough for part of the tendon of the same muscle, some- times smooth for the interposition of a bursa between that tendon and the bone. Below and behind the diagonal line is a smooth triangular surface, over which the tendon of the Gluteus maximus muscle plays, a bursa being interposed. The in- ternal surface is of much less extent than the external, and presents at its base a deep depression, the digital or trochan- teric fossa, for the attachment of the ten- don of the Obturator externus muscle. The superior border is free; it is thick and irregular, and marked by impressions 103.—Right Femur. Anterior Surface.