OSTEOLOGY. io8 attachment to the posterior ligament of the wrist, and is marked by three grooves. The most external is broad, but shallow, and subdivided into two by a slightly elevated ridge. The external groove transmits the tendon of the Extensor carpi radialis longior, the inner one the tendon of the Extensor carpi radialis brevior. Near the centre of the bone is a deep, but narrow, groove, directed obliquely from above downwards and outwards; it transmits the tendon of the Extensor secundi internodii pollicis. Internally is a broad groove, for the passage of the tendons of the Extensor communis digitorum, and Extensor indicis; the tendon of the Extensor minimi digiti passing through the groove at its point of articulation with the ulna. Structure. Similar to that of the other long bones. Development (tig. 93). By three centres: one for the shaft, and one for each extremity. That for the shaft, makes 93.—Plan of the Development of the Radius By 3 Centres. its appearance near the centre of the bone, soon after the development of the humerus commences. At birth, the shaft is ossified ; but the ends of the bone are cartilaginous. About the end of the second year, ossification commences in the lower epiphysis; and about the fifth year, in the upper one. At the age of puberty, the up- per epiphysis becomes joined to the shaft; the lower epiphysis becoming united about the twentieth year. Articulations. With four bones; the humerus, ulna, scaphoid, and semi- lunar. Attachment of Muscles. To the tu- berosity, the Biceps; to the oblique ridge, the Supinator brevis, Flexor digitorum sublimis, and Flexor longus pollicis; to the shaft (its anterior sur- face), the Flexor longus pollicis and Pronator quadratus; (its posterior sur- face), the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and Extensor primi internodii pollicis; (its outer surface), the Pro- nator radii teres; and to the styloid process, the Supinator longus. THE HAND. The Hand is subdivided into three segments, the Carpus or wrist, the Meta- carpus or palm, and the Phalanges or fingers. Carpus. The bones of the Carpus, eight in number, are arranged in two rows. Those of the upper row, enumerated from the radial to the ulnar side, are the scaphoid, semi-lunar, cuneiform, and pisiform; those of the lower row, enumerated in the same order, are the trapezium, trapezoid, magnum, and unciform. Common Characters of the Carpal Bones. Each bone (excepting the pisiform) presents six surfaces. Of these, the ante- rior or palmar, and the posterior or dorsal, are rough, for ligamentous attach- ment, the dorsal surface being generally the broadest of the two. The superior and inferior are articular, the superior generally convex, the inferior concave; and the internal and external are also articular when in contact with contiguous bones, otherwise rough and tubercular. Their structure in all is similar, con-