23° MUSCLES AND FASCIiE. The Palato- Glossus, or Constrictor Isthmi Faucium, although one of the muscles of the tongue, serving to draw its base upwards during the act of deglutition, is | more nearly associated with the soft palate, both in its situation and function; it will, consequently, be described with that group of muscles. Nerves. The Palato-glossus is supplied by the palatine branches of Meckel’s j ganglion; the Lingualis, by the chorda tympani; the remaining muscles of this group, by the hypoglossal. Actions. The movements of the tongue, although numerous and complicated, : may easily be understood by carefully considering the direction of the fibres of the 1 muscles of this organ. The Genio-hyo-glossi, by means of their posterior and inferior fibres, draw upwards the hyoid bone, bringing it and the base of the tongue forwards, so as to protrude the apex from the mouth. The anterior fibres will restore \ it to its original position by retracting the organ within the mouth. The whole ’ length of these two muscles acting along the middle line of the tongue will draw it downwards, so as to make it concave from before backwards, forming a channel I j along which fluids may pass towards the pharynx, as in sucking. The Hyo-glossi \ muscles draw down the sides of the tongue, so as to render it convex from side to side. The Linguales, by drawing downwards the centre and apex of the tongue, render it convex from before backwards. The Palato-glossi draw the base of the tongue upwards, and the Stylo-glossi upwards and backwards. 5. Pharyngeal Region. Constrictor Inferior. Constrictor Superior. Constrictor Medius. Stylo-pharyngeus. Palato-pharyngeus. Dissection (fig. 156). In order |l to examine the muscles of the I pharynx, cut through the trachea I and oesophagus just above the 1 sternum, and draw them upwards by dividing the loose areolar tis- sue connecting the pharynx with > the front of the vertebral column, i The parts being drawn well for- wards, the edge of the saw should be applied immediately behind the styloid processes, and the base j ■ of the skull sawn through from below upwards. The pharynx and mouth should then be stuffed j with tow, in order to distend its j cavity and render the muscles 1 tense and easier of dissection. The Inferior Constrictor, i the most superficial and thick- est of the three constrictors, ;; arises from the side of the ! cricoid and thyroid cartilages. To the cricoid cartilage it is attached in the interval between the crico-thyroid, in front, and the articular facet for the thyroid cartilage be- hind. To the thyroid cartilage, it is attached to the oblique I line on the side of the great ala, the cartilaginous surface behind it, nearly as far as its posterior border, and to the inferior cornu. From these attachments, the fibres spread backwards and inwards, to be inserted into the fibrous raphe in the posterior median line of the