SCAPULA. 91 narrow and more uneven internally; it gives attachment to the Subclavius muscle, and, by its anterior margin, to the strong aponeurosis which encloses it. Not un- frequently this groove is subdivided into two parts, by a longitudinal line, Avliich gives attachment to the intermuscular septum of the Subclavius muscle. The internal or sternal end of the clavicle is triangular in form, directed in- wards, and a little downwards and forwards; and presents an articular facet, con- cave from before backwards, convex from above downwards, which articulates with the sternum through the intervention of an inter-articular fibro-cartilage; the circumference of the articular surface is rough, for the attachment of numerous ligaments. This surface is continuous with the costal facet on the inner end of the inferior or subclavian surface, which articulates with the cartilage of the first rib. The outer or acromial extremity, directed outwards and forwards, presents a small, flattened, oval facet, directed obliquely downwards and inwards, for articu- lation with the acromion process of the scapula. The direction of this surface serves to explain the greater frequency of dislocation of this bone upon, and not beneath, the acromion process. The circumference of the articular facet is rough, especially above, for the attachment of the acromio-clavicular ligaments. Peculiarities of the Bone in the Sexes unci in Individuals. In the female, the clavicle is generally less curved, smoother, and more slender than in the male. In those persons who perform considerable manual labour, which brings into constant action the muscles connected with this bone, it acquires considerable bulk, becomes shorter, more curved, its ridges for muscular attachment become prominently marked, and its sternal end of a prismatic or quadrangular form. The right clavicle is generally heavier, thicker, and rougher, and often shorter, than the left. Structure. The shaft, as well as the extremities, consists of cancellous tissue, invested in a compact layer much thicker in the centre than at either end. The clavicle is highly elastic, by reason of its curves. From the experiments of Mr. Ward, it has been shown that it possesses sufficient longitudinal elastic force to raise its own weight nearly two feet on a level surface; and sufficient transverse elastic force, opposite the centre of its anterior convexity, to raise its own weight about a foot. This extent of elastic power must serve to moderate very con- siderably the effect of concussions received upon the point of the shoulder. Development. By two centres: one for the shaft, and one for the sternal extre- mity. The centre for the shaft appears very early, before any other bone; the centre for the sternal end makes its appearance about the eighteenth or twentieth year, and unites with the rest of the bone a few years after. Articulations. With the sternum, scapula, and cartilage of the first rib. Attachment of Muscles. The Sterno-cleido mastoid, Trapezius, Pectoralis major, Deltoid, Subclavius, and Sterno-hyoid. The Scapula. The Scapula forms the back part of the shoulder. It is a large flat bone, triangular in shape, situated at the posterior aspect and side of the thorax, between the first and eighth ribs, its posterior border or base, being about an inch from, and nearly parallel with, the spinous processes of the vertebrae. It presents for examination two surfaces, three borders, and three angles. The anterior surface, or venter (fig. 84), presents a broad concavity, the sub- scapular fossa. It is marked, in the posterior two thirds, by several oblique ridges, which pass from behind obliquely forwards and upwards, the anterior third being smooth. The oblique ridges, above-mentioned, give attachment to the tendinous intersections; and the surfaces between them, to the fleshy fibres of the Subscapu- laris muscle. The anterior third of the fossa, which is smooth, is covered by, but does not afford attachment to, the fibres of this muscle. This surface is sepa- rated from the posterior border, by a smooth triangular margin at the superior and inferior angles, and in the interval between these, by a narrow edge which is