OSTEOLOGY. 8o gives attachment to the Genio-hyoid in the greater part of its extent; above, to the Genio-hyo-glossus; below, to the Mylo-hyoid, Stylo-hyoid, and aponeurosis of the Digastric; and between these to part of the Ilyo-glossus. The posterior sur- face is smooth, concave, directed backwards and downwards, and separated from the epiglottis by the thyro-hyoid membrane, and by a quantity of loose areolar tissue. The superior border is rounded, and gives attachment to the thyro-hyoid membrane, and part of the Genio-hyo-glossi muscles. The inferior border gives attachment, in front, to the Sterno-hyoid; behind, to part of the Thyro-hyoid, and to the Omo-hyoid at its junction with the great cornu. The lateral surfaces are small, oval, convex facets, covered with cartilage for articulation with the greater cornua. The Greater Cornua project backwards from the lateral surfaces of the body; they are flattened from above downwards, diminish in size from before backwards, and terminate posteriorly in a tubercle for the attachment of the thyro-hyoid ligament. Their outer surface gives attachment to the Hyo-glossus; their upper border, to the Middle constrictor of the pharynx; their lower border, to part of the Thyro-hyoid muscle. The Lesser Cornua are two small conical-shaped eminences, attached by their bases to the angles of junction between the body and greater cornua, and giving attachment by their apices to the stylo-hyoid ligaments. In youth, the cornua are connected to the body by cartilaginous surfaces, and held together by ligaments; in middle life, the body and greater cornua usually become joined; and in old age, all the segments are united together, forming a single bone. Development. By five centres; one for the body, and one for each cornu. Ossification commences in the body and greater cornua towards the end of foetal life, those of the cornua first appearing. Ossification of the lesser cornua com- mences some months after birth. Attachment of Muscles. Sterno-hyoid, Thyro-hyoid, Omo-hyoid, aponeurosis of the Digastricus, Stylo-hyoid, Mylo-hyoid, Genio-hyoid, Genio-hyo-glossus, Ilyo- glossus, Middle constrictor of the pharynx, and occasionally a few fibres of the Lingualis. It also gives attachment to the thyro-hyoidean membrane, and the stylo-hyoid, thyro-hyoid, and hyo-epiglottic ligaments. THE THORAX. The Thorax, or chest, is an osseo-cartilaginous cage, intended to contain and protect the principal organs of respiration and circulation. It is the largest of the three cavities connected with the spine, and is formed by the sternum and costal cartilages in front, the twelve ribs on each side, and the bodies of the dorsal vertebra; behind. The Sternum. The Sternum (figs. 69, 70) is a flat narrow bone, situated in the median line of the front of the chest, and consisting, in the adult, of three portions. Its form resembles an ancient sword: the upper piece, representing the handle, is termed the manubrium; the middle and largest piece, which represents the chief part of the blade, is termed the gladiolus; and the inferior piece, like the point of the sword, is termed the ensiform or xiphoid appendix. In its natural position, its direction is oblique from above, downwards, and forwards. It is flattened in front, concave behind, broad above, becoming narrowed at the point where the first and second pieces are connected; after which it again widens a little, and is pointed at its extremity. Its average length in the adult is six inches, being rather longer in the male than in the female. The First Piece of the sternum, or Manubrium, is of a somewhat triangular form, broad and thick above, narrow below at its junction with the middle piece. Its anterior surface, convex from side to side, concave from above downwards, is smooth, and affords attachment on each side to the Pectoralis major and sternal