477 PIA MATER. The visceral layer invests the brain more loosely, being separated from direct contact with the cerebral substance by the pia mater, and a quantity of loose areolar tissue, the sub-arachnoidean. On the upper surface of the cerebrum, the arachnoid is thin and transparent, and may be easily demonstrated by injecting a stream of air beneath it by means of a blowpipe; it passes over the convolutions without dipping down into the sulci between them. At the base of the brain, the arachnoid is thicker, and slightly opaque towards the central part; it covers the anterior lobes, is extended across between the two middle lobes, so as to leave a considerable interval between it and the brain, the anterior sub-arachnoidean space; it is closely adherent to the pons and under surface of the cerebellum; but between the hemispheres of the cerebellum and the medulla oblongata, another considerable interval is left between it and the brain, called the posterior sub-arachnoidean space. These two spaces communicate together across the crura cerebri. The arachnoid membrane surrounds the nerves which arise from the brain, and encloses them in loose sheaths as far as their point of exit from the skull, where it becomes continuous with the parietal layer. The sub-araclmoid space is the interval between the arachnoid and pia mater: this space is narrow on the surface of the hemispheres; but at the base of the brain, a wide interval is left between the two middle lobes, and behind, between the hemispheres of the cerebellum and the medulla oblongata. This space is the seat of an abundant serous secretion, the cerebro-spinal fluid, which fills up the interval between the arachnoid and pia mater. The sub-arachnoid space usually communicates with the general ventricular cavity of the brain, by means of an opening in the inferior boundary of the fourth ventricle. The sac of the arachnoid also contains serous fluid; this is, however, small in quantity compared with the cerebro-spinal fluid. Structure. The arachnoid consists of bundles of white fibrous and elastic tissues intimately blended together. Its outer surface is covered with a layer of scaly epithelium. It is destitute of vessels, and the existence of nerves in it has not been satisfactorily demonstrated. The cerebro-spinal fluid fills up the sub-arachnoid space, keeping the opposed surfaces of the arachnoid membrane in contact. It is a clear, limpid fluid, having a saltish taste, and a slightly alkaline reaction. According to Lassaigne, it consists of 98^5 parts of water, the remaining i’5 per cent, being solid matters, animal and saline. It varies in quantity, being most abundant in old persons, and is quickly reproduced. Its chief use is probably to afford mechanical protection to the nervous centres, and to prevent the effects of concussions communicated from without. Pia Mater. The pia mater is a vascular membrane, and derives its blood from the internal carotid and vertebral arteries. It consists of a minute plexus of blood-vessels, held together by an extremely fine areolar tissue. It invests the entire surface of the brain, dipping down between the convolutions and laminae, and is prolonged into the interior, forming the velum interposition and choroid plexuses of the fourth ventricle. Upon the surface of the hemispheres, where it covers the grey matter of the convolutions, it is very vascular, and gives off from its inner surface a multitude of minute vessels, which extend perpendicularly for some distance into the cerebral substance. At the base of the brain, in the situation of the sub- stantia perforata and locus perforatus, a number of long straight vessels are given off, which pass through the white matter to reach the grey substance in the interior. On the cerebellum, the membrane is more delicate, and the vessels from its inner surface are shorter. Upon the crura cerebri and pons Varolii, its characters are altogether changed; it here presents a dense fibrous structure, marked only by slight traces of vascularity. According to Fohmann and Arnold, this membrane contains numerous lym- phatic vessels. Its nerves are derived from the sympathetic, and also from the