I 21 OS INNOMINATUM. distinct impressions. Two of tliese, seen at tlie front part of the tuberosity, are rough, elongated, and separated from each other by a prominent ridge; the outer one gives attachment to the Adductor magnus, the inner one to the great sacro- sciatic ligament. Two, situated at the back part, are smooth, larger in size, and separated by an oblique ridge: from the upper and outer arises the Semi-mem- branosus; from the lower and inner, the Biceps and Semi-tendinosus. The upper- most part of the tuberosity gives attachment to the Gemellus inferior. The ramus is the thin flattened part of the ischium, which ascends from the tuberosity upwards and inwards, and joins the ramus of the pubes, their point of junction being indicated in the adult by a rough eminence. Its outer surface is rough for the attachment of the Obturator externus muscle. Its inner surface forms part of the anterior wall of the pelvis. Its inner border is thick, rough, slightly everted, forms part of the outlet of the pelvis, and serves for the attach- ment of the crus-penis. Its outer border is thin and sharp, and forms part of the inner margin of the obturator foramen. The Pubes forms the anterior part of the os innominatum; it is divisible into a horizontal ramus or body, and a perpendicular ramus. The body, or horizontal ramus, presents for examination two extremities, an outer and an inner; and four surfaces. The outer extremity the thickest part of the bone, forms one-fiftli of the cavity of the acetabulum: it presents, above, a rough eminence, the ilio-pectineal, which serves to indicate the point of junction of the ilium and pubes. The inner extremity is the symphysis; it is oval, covered by eight or nine transverse ridges, or a series of nipple-like processes arranged in rows, separated by grooves; they serve for the attachment of the interarticular fibro-cartilage, placed between it and the opposite bone. The upper surface, triangular in form, Avider externally than internally, is bounded behind by a sharp ridge, the pectineal line, or linea-ilio-pectinea, which, running outAvards, marks the brim of the true pelvis. The surface of bone in front of the pubic portion of the linea-ilio-pectinea, serves for the attachment of the Pectineus muscle. This ridge terminates internally at a tubercle, which projects forwards, and is called the spine of the pubes. The portion of bone included betAveen the spine and inner extre- mity of the pubes is called the crest; it serves for the attachment of the Rectus, Pyramidalis, and conjoined tendon of the Internal oblique and Transversalis. The point of junction of the crest Avith the symphysis is called the angle of the pubes. The inferior surface presents, externally, a broad and deep oblique groove, for the passage of the obturator vessels and nerve; and, internally, a sharp margin, which forms part of the circumference of the obturator foramen. Its external surface, flat and compressed, serves for the attachment of muscles. Its internal surface, convex from above dowmvards, concave from side to side, is smooth, and forms part of the anterior Avail of the pelvis. The descending ramus of the pubes passes outwards anti downwards, becoming thinner and narrower as it descends, and joins Avith the ramus of the ischium. Its external surface is rough, for the attachment of muscles. Its inner surface is smooth. Its inner border is thick, rough, and everted, especially in females. In the male, it serves for the attachment of the crus penis. Its outer border forms part of the circumference of the obturator foramen. The cotyloid cavity, or acetabulum, is a deep, cup-shaped, hemispherical de- pression; formed, internally, by the pubes; above, by the ilium; behind and beloAV, by the ischium, a little less than two-fifths being formed by the ilium, a little more than two-fifths by the ischium, and the remaining fifth by the pubes. It is bounded by a prominent uneven rim, Avhich is thick and strong above, and serves for the attachment of a fibro-cartilaginous structure, which contracts its orifice, and deepens the surface for articulation. It presents on its inner side a deep notch, the cotyloid notch, which transmits the nutrient vessels into the interior of the joint, and is continuous with a circular depression at the bottom of the cavity: this depression is perforated by numerous apertures, lodges a mass of fat, and its margins serve for the attachment of the ligamentum teres. The notch is