352 SURGICAL ANATOMY. belly of the Digastric and Stylo-liyoid muscles; in front, hy the middle line of the neck. The floor of this space is formed hy the anterior belly of the Digastric, the Mylo-hyoid, and Hyo-glossus muscles; and it is covered by the integument, superficial fascia, Platysma, and deep fascia; ramifying between which, are branches of the facial and ascending filaments of the Superficial cervical nerve. This space contains, in front, the submaxillary gland, imbedded in the surface of which is the facial artery and vein, and its glandular branches; beneath this gland, on the sur- face of the Mylo-hyoid muscle, is the submental artery, and the mylo-hyoid artery and nerve. The back part of this space is separated from the front part, by the stylo-maxillary ligament; it contains the external carotid artery, ascending deeply in the substance of the parotid gland; this vessel here lies in front of, and super- ficial to, the internal carotid, being crossed by the facial nerve, and gives off in its course the posterior auricular, temporal, and internal maxillary branches; more deeply is the internal carotid, the internal jugular vein, and the pneumogastric nerve, separated from the external carotid by the Stylo-glossus and Stylo-pharyn- geus muscles, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Posterior Triangular Space. The posterior triangular space is bounded, in front, by the Sterno-mastoid muscle; behind, by the anterior margin of the Trapezius; its base corresponds to the upper border of the clavicle; its apex, to the occiput. This space is crossed, about an inch above the clavicle, by the posterior belly of the Omo-hyoid, which divides it unequally into two, an upper or occipital, and a lower or subclavian. The Occipital, the larger of the two posterior triangles, is bounded, in front, by the Sterno-mastoid; behind, by the Trapezius; below, by the Omo-hyoid. Its floor is formed from .above downwards by the Splenius, Levator anguli scapuke, and the middle and posterior Scaleni muscles. It is covered by the integument, the Platysma below, the superficial and deep fascias; and crossed, above, by the ascending branches of the cervical plexus; the spinal accessory nerve is directed obliquely across the space from the Sterno-mastoid, which it pierces, to the under surface of the Trapezius; below, it is crossed by the descending branches of the same plexus, and the transversalis colli artery and vein. A chain of lymphatic glands is also found running along the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid, from the mastoid process to the root of the neck. The Subclavian, the smaller of the two posterior triangles, is bounded, above, by the posterior belly of the Omo-hyoid; below, by the clavicle; its base, directed forwards, being formed by the Sterno-mastoid. The size of this space varies according to the extent of attachment of the clavicular portion of the Sterno- mastoid and Trapezius muscles, and also according to the height at which the Omo-hyoid crosses the neck above the clavicle. The height also of this space varies much, according to the position of the arm, being much diminished on raising the limb, on account of the ascent of the clavicle, and increased on drawing the arm downwards, when this bone is consequently depressed. This space is covered by the integument, superficial and deep fascia; and crossed by the descending branches of the cervical plexus. Just above the level of the clavicle, the third portion of the subclavian artery curves outwards and downwards from the outer margin of the Scalenus anticus, across the first rib, to the axilla. Sometimes, this vessel rises as high as an inch and a-half above the clavicle, or to any point intermediate between this and its usual level. Occasionally, it passes in front of the Scalenus anticus, or pierces the fibres of this muscle. The subclavian vein lies beneath the clavicle, and is usually not seen in this space; but it occasionally rises as high up as the artery, and has even been seen to pass with that vessel behind the Scalenus anticus. The brachial plexus of nerves lies above the artery, and in close contact with it. Passing transversely across the clavicular margin of the space, are the supra-scapular vessels; and traversing its upper angle in the same direction, the transverse cervical vessels. The external jugular vein descends vertically downwards behind the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid, to terminate