Inferior Maxillary Nerve. 520 CRANIAL NERVES. cartilaginous substance which fills in that aperture, and enters the carotid canal, on the outer side of the carotid artery, to join the carotid plexus. The pharyngeal nerve (pterygo-palatine) is a small branch arising from the back part of the ganglion, occasionally springing from the Vidian nerve. It passes through the pterygo-palatine canal with the pterygo-palatine artery, and is distributed to the lining membrane of the pharynx, behind the Eustachian tube. The Inferior Maxillary Nerve distributes branches to the teeth and gums of the lower jaw, the integument of the temple and external ear, the lower part of the face and lower lip, and the muscles of mastication: it also supplies the tongue with one of its special nerves of the sense of taste. It is the largest of the three divisions of the fifth, and consists of two portions, the larger, or sensory root, proceeding from the inferior angle of the Gasserian ganglion; and the smaller, or motor root, which passes beneath the ganglion, and unites with the inferior maxillary nerve, just after its exit through the foramen ovale. Immediately beneath the base of the skull, this nerve divides into two trunks, anterior and posterior. The anterior, and smaller division, which receives nearly the whole of the motor root, divides into five branches, which supply the muscles of mastication. They are the masseteric, deep temporal, buccal, and pterygoid. The masseteric branch passes outwards, above the External pterygoid muscle, in front of the temporo-maxillary articulation, and crosses the sigmoid notch, with the masseteric artery, to the Masseter muscle, in which it ramifies nearly as far as its anterior border. It occasionally gives a branch to the Temporal muscle, and a filament to the articulation of the jaw. I The deep temporal branches, two in number, anterior and posterior, supply the deep surface of the Temporal muscle. The posterior branch, of small size, is placed at the back of the temporal fossa. It is sometimes joined with the masseteric branch. The anterior branch is reflected upwards, at the pterygoid ridge of the sphenoid, to the front of the temporal fossa. It is occasionally joined Avith the buccal nerve. The buccal branch pierces the External pterygoid, and passes dotvnwards beneath the inner surface of the coronoid process of the lorver jaw, or through the fibres of the Temporal muscle to reach the surface of the Buccinator, upon which it divides into a superior and an inferior branch. It gives a branch to the External pterygoid during its passage through this muscle, and a few ascending filaments to the Temporal muscle, one of which occasionally joins rvitli the anterior branch of the deep temporal nerve. The upper branch supplies the integument and upper part of the Buccinator muscle, joining Avith the facial nerve round the facial vein. The loiver branch passes forwards to the angle of the mouth; supplies the integument and Buccinator muscle, as Avell as the mucous membrane lining its inner surface, joining with the facial nerve. The pterygoid branches are trvo in number, one for each Pterygoid muscle. The branch to the Internal pterygoid is long and slender, and passes inwards to enter the deep surface of the muscle. This nerve is intimately connected at its origin with the otic ganglion. The branch to the External pterygoid is most frequently derived from the buccal, but it may be given off separately from the anterior trunk of the nerve. The posterior and larger division of the inferior maxillary nerve also receives a few filaments from the motor root. It divides into three branches, auriculo- temporal, gustatory, and inferior dental. The Auriculo-temporal Nera'e generally arises by trvo roots, betAveen which passes the middle meningeal artery. It passes backAvards beneath the External pterygoid muscle to the inner side of the articulation of the loAver jaAv. It then turns upwards with the temporal artery, betAveen the external ear and condyle of