179 ELBOW-JOINT. Teres minor; and internally, by the tendon of the Subscapularis. The capsular ligament usually presents three openings: one at its inner side, below the coracoid process, partially filled up by the tendon of the Subscapularis; it establishes a communication between the synovial membrane of the joint and a bursa beneath the tendon of that muscle; a second, not constant, at its outer part, where a com- munication sometimes exists between the joint and a bursal sac belonging to the Infra-spinatus muscle. The third is seen in the lower border of the ligament, between the two tuberosities, for the passage of the tendon of the Biceps muscle. The Coraco-humeral or Accessory Ligament, is a broad band which strengthens the upper and inner part of the capsular ligament. It arises from the outer border of the coracoid process, and descends obliquely downwards and outwards to the front of the great tuberosity of the humerus, being blended with the tendon of the Supra-spinatus muscle. This ligament is intimately united to the capsular in the greater part of its extent. The Glenoid Ligament is a firm fibrous band attached round the margin of the glenoid cavity. It is triangular on section, the thickest portion being fixed to the circumference of the cavity, the free edge being thin and sharp. It is con- tinuous above with the long tendon of the Biceps muscle, which bifurcates at the upper part of the cavity into two fasciculi, which encircle its margin, and unite at its lower part. This ligament deepens the cavity for articulation, and protects the edges of the bone. It is lined by the synovial membrane. The Synovial Membra,ne lines the margin of the glenoid cavity and the fibro- cartilaginous rim surrounding it; it is then reflected over the internal surface of the capsular ligament, covers the lower part and sides of the neck of the humerus, and is continued a short distance over the cartilage covering the head of this bone. The long tendon of the Biceps muscle which passes through the joint, is enclosed in a tubular sheath of synovial membrane, which is reflected upon it at the point where it perforates the capsule, and is continued around it as far as the summit of the glenoid cavity. The tendon of the Biceps is thus enabled to traverse the articu- lation, but is not contained in the interior of the synovial cavity. The synovial membrane communicates with a large bursal sac beneath the tendon of the Sub- scapularis, by an opening at the inner side of the capsular ligament; it also occasionally communicates with another bursal sac, beneath the tendon of the Infra-spinatus, through an orifice at its outer part. A third bursal sac, which does not communicate with the joint, is placed between the under surface of the deltoid and the outer surface of the capsule. The Muscles in relation with the joint are, above, the Supra-spinatus; below, the long head of the Triceps; internally, the Subscapularis; externally, the Infra- spinatus, and Teres minor; within, the long tendon of the Biceps. The Deltoid is placed most externally, and covers the articulation on its outer side, and in front and behind. The Arteries supplying the joint, are articular branches of the anterior and posterior circumflex, and supra-scapular. The Nerves are derived from the circumflex and supra-scapular. Actions. The shoulder-joint is capable of movement in almost any direction, forwards, backwards, abduction, adduction, circumduction, and rotation. 5. Elbow-Joint. The Elbow is a ginglymoid or hinge joint. The bones entering into its forma- tion are the trochlear surface of the humerus, which is received in the greater sigmoid cavity of the ulna, and admits of the movements peculiar to this joint; those of flexion and extension, whilst the cup-shaped depression of the head of the radius articulates with the radial tuberosity of the humerus, its circumference with the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, allowing of the movement of rotation of the radius on the ulna, the chief action of the superior radio-ulnar articulation. n 2