HEART. 659 and glistening, and secretes a thin fluid, which serves to facilitate the movements of the contained organ. The arteries of the pericardium are derived from the internal mammary, the bronchial, the oesophageal, and the phrenic. The Heart. The heart is a hollow muscular organ, of a conical form, placed between the lungs, and enclosed in the cavity of the pericardium. Position. The heart is placed obliquely in the chest: the broad attached end, or base, is directed upwards and backwards to the right, and corresponds to the interval between the fifth and eighth dorsal vertebras: the apex is directed for- wards and to the left, and corresponds to the interspace between the cartilages of the fifth and sixth ribs, one inch to the inner side, and two inches below the left nipple. The heart is placed beneath the lower two-thirds of the sternum, and projects further into the left than into the right cavity of the chest, extending from the median line about three inches in the former direction, and only one and a half in the latter. Its upper border would correspond to a line drawn across the sternum, on a level with the upper border of the third costal cartilages; and its lower border, to a line drawn across the lower end of the gladiolus, from the costo-xiphoid articulation of the right side, to the part corresponding to the apex. Its anterior surface is rounded and convex, directed upwards and forwards, and I formed chiefly by the right ventricle and part of the left. Its posterior surface is flattened, and rests upon the Diaphragm. The right border is long, thin, and sharp; the left border short, but thick and round. Size. The heart, in the adult, measures about five inches in length, three inches and a half in breadth in its broadest part, and two inches and a half in thickness. The prevalent weight, in the male, varies from ten to twelve ounces; in the female, from eight to ten: its proportion to the body being as 1 to 169, in males ; 1 to 149 in females. The heart continues increasing in weight, and also in length, breadth, and thickness, up to an advanced period of life; and this is more marked in men than in women. Component parts. The heart is subdivided by a longitudinal muscular septum, into two lateral halves, which are named respectively, from their position, right and left; and a transverse constriction divides each half of the organ into two cavities, the upper cavity on each side being called the auricle, the lower the ventricle. The right is the venous side of the heart, receiving into its auricle the dark venous blood from the entire body, by the superior and inferior cava?, and coronary sinus. From the auricle, the blood passes into the right ventricle; and from the right ventricle, through the pulmonary artery, into the lungs. The blood, arterialized by its passage through the lungs, is returned to the left side of the heart by the pulmonary veins, which open into the left auricle; from the left auricle the blood passes into the left ventricle, and from the left ventricle is dis- tributed, by the aorta and its subdivisions, through the entire body. This con- stitutes the circulation of the blood in the adult. This division of the heart into four cavities, is indicated upon its surface in the form of grooves. Thus, the great transverse groove separating the auricles from the ventricles, is called the auriculo-ventricular groove. It is deficient, in front, from being crossed by the root of the pulmonary artery, and contains the trunk of the nutrient vessels of the heart. The auricular portion occupies the base of the heart, and is subdivided into two cavities by a median septum. The two ventricles are also separated into a right and left, by two longitudinal furrows, which are situated, one on its anterior, the other on its posterior surface: these extend from the base to the apex of the organ: the former being situated nearer to the left border of the heart, and the latter to the right. It follows, therefore, that the right ventricle forms the greater portion of the anterior surface of the heart, and the left ventricle more of its posterior surface. u u 2