291 OF TIIE MUSCLES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. which is much increased on flexing the limb. The patient at the same time loses the power of extending the fore-arm. The treatment consists in relaxing the Triceps by extending the fore-arm, and retaining it in this position by means of a long straight splint applied to the front of the arm; the fragments are thus brought into closer apposi- tion, and may be further approximated by drawing down the upper fragment Union is generally ligamentous. Fracture of the neck of the radius is an exceedingly rare accident, and is generally caused by direct violence. Its diagnosis is somewhat obscure, on account of the slight deformity visible from the large number of muscles which surround it; but the move- ments of pronation and supination are entirely lost. The upper fragment is drawn out- wards by the Supinator brevis, its extent of displacement being limited by the attach- ment of the orbicular ligament. The lower fragment is drawn forwards and slightly upwards by the Biceps, and inwards by the Pronator radii teres, its displacement forwards and upwards being counteracted in some degree by the Supinator brevis. The treatment essentially consists in relaxing the Biceps, Supinator brevis, and Pronator radii teres muscles, by flexing the fore-arm, and placing it in a position midway between pronation and supination, extension having been previously made go as to bring the parts in apposition. Fracture of the radius (fig. 184.) is more common than fracture of the ulna, on ac- count of the connection of the former with the wrist. Fracture of the shaft of the radius near its centre may occur from direct violence, but more frequently from a fall forwards, the entire weight of the body being received on the wrist and hand. The upper fragment is drawn up- wards by the Biceps, and inwards by the Pronator radii teres, holding a position midway between pronation and supination, and a degree of fulness in the upper half of the fore-arm is thus produced; the lower fragment is drawn downwards and inwards towards the ulna by the Pronator quadratus, and thrown into a state of pronation by the same muscle; at the same time, the Supinator longus, by elevating the styloid process, into which it is inserted, will serve to depress still more the upper end of the lower fragment towards the ulna. In order to relax the opposing muscles the fore-arm should be bent, and the limb placed in a position midway between pronation and supination; the fracture is then easily reduced by exten- sion from the wrist and elbow: well padded splints should then be applied on both sides }f the fore-arm from the elbow to the wrist; the hand being allowed to fall, will, by its 3wn weight, counteract the action of the Pronator quadratus and Supinator longus, and devate the lower fragment to the level of the upper one. Fracture of the shaft of the ulna is not a common accident; it is usually caused by lirect violence. Its more protected position on the inner side of the limb, the greater strength of its shaft, and its indirect connection with the wrist, render it less liable to injury than the radius. It usually occurs a little below the centre, which is the weakest part of the bone. The upper fragment retains its usual position ; but the lower fragment s drawn outwards towards the radius by the Pronator quadratus, producing a well marked lepression at the seat of fracture, and some fulness on the dorsal and palmar surfaces of he fore-arm. The fracture is easily reduced by extension from the wrist and fore-arm. rhe fore-arm should be flexed, and placed in a position midway between pronation and supination, and well padded splints applied from the elbow to the ends of the fingers. Fracture of the shafts of the radius and ulna together is not a common accident; it may irise from a direct blow, or from indirect violence. The lower fragments are drawn ipwards, sometimes forwards, sometimes backwards, according to the direction of the racture, by the combined actions of the Flexor and Extensor muscles, producing a degree >f fulness on the dorsal or palmar surface of the fore-arm; at the same time the two frag- nents are drawn into contact by the Pronator quadratus, the radius in a state of pronation: he upper fragment of the radius is drawn upwards and inwards by the Biceps and Prona- ■or radii teres to a higher level than the ulna; the upper portion of the ulna is slightly slevated by the Brachialis anticus. The fracture may be reduced by extension from the vrist and elbow, and the fore-arm should be placed in the same position as in fracture of he ulna. In the treatment of all cases of fracture of the bones of the fore-arm, the greatest care s requisite to prevent the ends of the bones from being drawn inwards towards the nterosseous space: if this is not carefully attended to, the radius and ulna may become mchylosed, and the movements of pronation and supination entirely lost. To obviate his, the splints applied to the limb should be well padded, so as to press the muscles lown into their normal situation in the interosseous space, and so prevent the approxima- -ion of the fragments. 184.—Fracture of the Shaft of the Radius. u 2