206 MUSCLES AND FASCIAL very liable to serous infiltration. The superficial fascia varies in thickness in different parts of the body: in the groin it is so thick as to be capable of being sub- divided into several laminas, but in the palm of the hand it is of extreme thinness, and intimately adherent to the integument. The superficial fascia is capable of separation into two or more layers, between which are found the superficial vessels and nerves, and superficial lymphatic glands; as the superficial epigastric vessels in the abdominal region, the radial and ulnar veins in the forearm, the saphenous veins in the leg and thigh, as well as in certain situations cutaneous muscles, as the Platysma myoides in the neck, Orbicularis palpebrarum around the eyelids. It is most distinct at the lower part of the abdomen, the scrotum, perinaeum, and in the extremities; is very thin in those regions Avhere muscular fibres are inserted into the integument, as on the side of the neck, the face, and around the margin of the anus, and almost entirely wanting in the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, where the integument is adherent to the subjacent aponeurosis. The superficial fascia connects the skin to the subjacent parts, serves as a soft nidus, for the passage of vessels and nerves to the integument, and retains the warmth of the body, from the adipose tissue contained in its areolas being a bad conductor of caloric. The aponeurotic or deep fascia is a dense inelastic and unyielding fibrous membrane, forming sheaths for the muscles, and affording them broad surfaces for attachment, it consists of shining tendinous fibres, placed parallel with one another, and connected together by other fibres disposed in a reticular manner. It is usually exposed on the removal of the superficial fascia, forming a strong investment, which not only binds down collectively the muscles in each region, but gives a separate sheath to each, as well as to the vessels and nerves. The fasciae are thick in unprotected situations, as on the outer side of a limb, and thinner on the inner side. Aponeurotic fasciae are divided into two classes, aponeuroses of insertion, and aponeuroses of investment. The aponeuroses of insertion serve for the insertion of muscles. Some of these are formed by the expansion of a tendon into an aponeurosis, as, for instance, the tendon of the Sartorius; others do not originate in tendons, as the aponeuroses of the abdominal muscles. The aponeuroses of investment form a sheath for the entire limb, as well as for each individual muscle. Many aponeuroses, however, serve both for investment and insertion. Thus the aponeurosis given off from the tendon of the Biceps brachialis near its insertion is continuous with, and partly forms, the investing fascia of the forearm, and gives origin to the muscles in this region. The deep fascia3 assist the muscles in their action, by the degree of tension and pressure they make upon their surface; and, in certain situations, this is increased and regulated by muscular action, as, for instance, by the Tensor vaginae femoris and Gluteus maximus in the thigh, by the Biceps in the leg, and Palmaris longus in the hand. In the limbs, the fasciae not only invest the entire limb, but give off septa, which separate the various muscles, and are attached beneath to the periosteum; these prolongations of fasciae are usually spoken of as intermuscular septa. The Muscles and Fasciae may be arranged, according to the general division of the body, into, r. Those of the head, face, and neck. 2. Those of the trunk. 3. Those of the upper extremity. 4. Those of the lower extremity. MUSCLES AND FASCIvE OF THE HEAD AND FACE. The Muscles of the Head and Face consist of ten groups, arranged according to the region in which they are situated. 1. Cranial Region. 2. Auricular Region. 3. Palpebral Region. 4. Orbital Region. 5. Nasal Region. 6. Superior Maxillary Region. 7. Inferior Maxillary Region. 8. Inter-Maxillary Region. 9. Temporo-Maxillary Region. 10. Pterygo-Maxillary Region.