698 URINARY ORGANS. convex behind than in front. In the female, it is larger in the transverse than in the vertical diameter, and its capacity is said to be greater than in the male. When moderately distended, it measures about five inches in length, and three inches across, and the ordinary amount which it contains is about a pint. The bladder is divided into a summit, body, base, and neck. The summit, or apex, of the bladder is rounded and directed forwards and upwards; it is connected to the umbilicus by a fibro-muscular cord, the urachus, and also by means of two rounded fibrous cords, the obliterated portions of the hypogastric arteries, which are placed one on each side of the urachus. The summit of the bladder behind the urachus is covered by peritoneum, whilst the portion in front is uncovered by it, and rests upon the abdominal wall. The urachus is the obliterated remains of a tubular canal existing in the embryo, which connects the cavity of the bladder with a membranous sac placed external to the abdomen, opposite the umbilicus, called the allantois. In the infant at birth, it is occasionally found pervious, so that the urine escapes at the umbilicus, and calculi have been found in its canal. The body of the bladder in front is not covered by peritoneum, and is in relation with the triangular ligament of the urethra, the posterior surface of the symphysis pubis, the Internal obturator muscles, and, when distended, with the abdominal parietes. The posterior surface is covered by peritoneum throughout. It corresponds, in the male, with the rectum; in the female, with the uterus, some convolutions of the small intestine being interposed. The side of the bladder is crossed obliquely from below, upwards and forwards, by the obliterated hypogastric artery: above and behind this cord, the bladder is covered by peritoneum; but, below aud in front of it, the serous covering is wanting, and it is connected to the pelvic fascia. The vas deferens passes, in an arched direction, from before backwards, along jthe side of the bladder, towards its base, crossing in its course the obliterated hypogastric artery, and passing along the inner side of the ureter. The base (fundus) of the bladder is directed downwards and backwards. It varies in extent according to the state of distension of the organ, being very broad when full, but much narrower when empty. In the male, it rests upon the second portion of the rectum,(from which it is separated by a reflection of the recto-vesical fascia. It is covered posteriorly, for a slight extent, by the peri- toneum, which is reflected from it upon the rectum, forming the recto-vesical fold. The portion of the bladder in relation1 with the rectum corresponds to a triangular space, bounded behind by the recto-vesical fold; on either side, by the vesicula seminalis and vas deferens; and in front, ’by the prostate gland. When the bladder is very full, the peritoneal fold is raised with it, and the distance between its reflection and the anus is about four inches; but this distance is much diminished when the bladder is empty and contracted. In the female, the base of the bladder lies in contact witli the lower part of the cervix uteri, is adherent to the anterior wall of the vagina, and separated from the upper part of the anterior surface of the cervix uteri by a fold of the peritoneum. The neclt (cervix), of the bladder, is the constricted portion continuous with the urethra. In the male, its direction is oblique in the erect posture, and it is surrounded by the prostate gland. In the female, its direction is obliquely down- wards and forwards. Ligaments. The bladder is retained in its place by ligaments, which are divided into true and false. The true ligaments are five in number, two anterior, and two lateral, formed by the recto-vesical fascia, and the urachus. The false ligaments, also five in number, are formed by folds of the peritoneum. The anterior ligaments (yubo-prastatic), extend from the back of the pubes, one on each side of the symphysis, to the front of the neck of the bladder, and upper surface of the prostate gland. These ligaments contain a few muscular fibres, prolonged from the bladder.