OF THE TARSUS. i<# The Superior Calcaneo-Cuboid Ligament (Jig. 144) *s rt thin and nairow fasci- cuius, which passes between the contiguous surfaces of the os calcis and cuboid, on the dorsal surface of the joint. The Internal Calcaneo-Cuboid (Interosseous) Ligament (fig. 144) is a short, but thick and strong, band of fibres, arising froi intervenes between it and the astragalus; the superior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament, cuboid bone. This ligament forms one of first and second row of the tarsus. The Long Calcaneo- Cuboid (fig. 145)’ the most superficial of the two plantar ligaments, is the longest of all the liga- ments of the tarsus, being attached to the under surface of the os calcis, from near the tuberosities, as far forwards as the anterior tubercle; its fibres pass forwards to be attached to the ridge on the under surface of the cuboid bone, the more su- perficial fibres being continued onwards to the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. This ligament crosses the groove on the under surface of the cuboid bone, converting it into a a canal for the passage of the tendon of the Peroneus longus. The Short Calcaneo- Cuboid Ligament lies nearer to the bones than the preceding, from which it is separated by a little areolar adipose tissue. It is exceedingly broad, about an inch in length, and ex- tends from the tubercle and the depres- sion in front of it on the fore part of the under surface of the os calcis, to the in- ferior surface of the cuboid bone behind the peroneal groove. A synovial mem- brane is found in this articulation. 2. The ligaments connecting the os calcis with the scaphoid, are two in number: — Superior Calcaneo-Scaphoid. Inferior Calcaneo-Scaphoid. the os calcis, in the deep groove wine ing closely blended, at its origin, with It is inserted into the inner side of the the chief bonds of union between the 1 j.c.—Ligaments of Plantar Surface of the Foot. The Superior Calcaneo-Scaphoid (fig. 144) arises, as already mentioned, with the internal calcaneo-cuboid in the deep groove between the astragalus and os calcis; it passes forward from the inner side of the anterior extremity of the os calcis to the outer side of the scaphoid bone. These two ligaments resemble the letter Y, being blended together behind, but separated in front. The Inferior Calcaneo-Scaphoid (fig. 145) is by far the largest and strongest of the two ligaments of this articulation; it is a broad and thick band of ligamentous fibres, which passes forwards and inwards from the anterior and inner extremity of the os calcis, to the under surface of the scaphoid bone. This ligament not only serves to connect the os calcis and scaphoid, but supports the head of the astragalus, forming part of the articular cavity in which it is received. Its upper surface is lined by the synovial membrane continued from the anterior calcaneo- astragaloid articulation. Its under surface is in contact with the tendon of the Tibialis posticus muscle.