ARTERIES. 4 H surface of the femur, supplying it and the knee-joint, and anastomosing with the superior external articular artery. The external branch passes above the outer condyle, beneath the tendon of the 232.—The Popliteal, Posterior Tibial, and Peroneal Arteries. Biceps, and divides into a superficial and deep branch: the superficial branch sup- plies the Vastus externus, and anastomoses with the descending branch of the exter- nal circumflex artery; the deep branch supplies the lower part of the femur and knee-joint, and forms an anastomotic arch across the bone with the anastomotica magna artery. The azygos articular is a small branch, arising from the popliteal artery opposite the bend of the knee-joint. It pierces the posterior ligament, and supplies the ligaments and synovial membrane in the interior of the articulation. The inferior articular arteries, two in number, arise from the popliteal, beneath the Gastrocnemius, and wind round the head of the tibia, below the joint. The internal one passes below the inner tuberosity, beneath the internal lateral ligament, at the anterior border of which it ascends to the front and inner side of the joint, to supply the head of the tibia and the articulation of the knee. The external one passes outwards above the head of the fibula, to the front of the knee-joint, lying in its course beneath the outer head of the Gastrocnemius, the external lateral ligament, and the tendon of the Biceps muscle, and divides into branches, whicli anastomose with the artery of the opposite side, the superior articular, and the recurrent branch of the anterior tibial. Anterior Tibial Artery. The anterior tibial artery commences at the bifurcation of the popliteal, at the lower border of the Popliteus muscle, passes forwards between the two heads of the Tibialis posticus, and through the aperture left between the bones at the upper part of the interosseous membrane, to the deep part of the front of the leg; it then descends on the anterior surface of the interosseous ligament, and of the tibia, to the front of the ankle-joint, where it lies more superficially, and becomes the dorsalis pedis. A line drawn from the inner side of the head of the fibula to midway between the two malleoli, will be parallel with the course of the artery.