ORGANS OF SENSE. 572 not unlike a Pacinian corpuscle, which occupies the principal part of the interior of each papilla, named ‘ tactile corpuscle.’ The nature of these bodies is obscure. Wagner described them as oval-shaped bodies, made up of super-imposed saccular laminae, presenting some resemblance to a miniature fir cone, and regarded them as directly concerned in the sense of touch. Kolliker considers that the central part of the papillae generally consists of a more homogeneous connective tissue than the outer part, surrounded by a sort of sheath of elastic fibres, and believes that these corpuscles are merely a variety of this structure. The nerve-fibres, ac- cording to this observer, run up in a waving course to the corpuscle, not penetrating it, but forming two or three coils round it, and finally join together in loops. These bodies are not found in all the papillae; but from their existence in those parts in which the skin is highly sensitive, it is probable that they are specially concerned in the sense of touch, but their absence from the papillae of other tactile parts shows that they are not essential to this sense. No lymphatics have as yet been discovered in the papillae. The epidermis, or cuticle (scarf-skin), is an epithelial structure, accurately moulded on the papillary layer of the derma. It forms a defensive covering to the surface of the true skin, and limits the evaporation of watery vapour from its free surface. It varies in thickness in different parts. Where it is exposed to pressure and the influence of the atmosphere, as upon the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, it is thick, hard, and horny in texture; whilst that which lies in contact with the rest of the body, is soft and cellular in structure. The deeper and softest layers have been called the rete mucosum, the term rete being applied, from the deepest layers presenting, when isolated, numerous depressions, or com- plete apertures, which have been occupied by the projecting papillae. The free surface of the epidermis is marked by a network of linear furrows of variable size, marking out the surface into a number of spaces of polygonal or lozenge-shaped form. Some of these furrows are large, as opposite the flexures of the joints, and correspond to the folds in the derma produced by their move- ments. In other situations, as upon the back of the hand, they are exceedingly fine, and intersect one another at various angles: upon the palmar surface of the hand and fingers, and upon the sole, these lines are very distinct, and have a curvilinear arrangement, and depend upon the large size and peculiar arrangement of the papillae upon which the epidermis is placed. The deep surface of the epidermis is accurately moulded upon the papillary layer of the derma, each papilla being invested by its epidermic sheath; so that when this layer is removed by maceration, it presents a number of pits or depressions corresponding to the elevations of the papillae, as well as the furrows left in the intervals between them. Fine tubular prolongations from this layer are continued into the ducts of the sudatory and sebaceous glands. In structure, the epidermis consists of flattened cells, agglutinated together, and having a laminated arrangement. In the deeper layers the cells are large, rounded or columnar, and filled with soft opaque contents. In the superficial layers the cells are flattened, transparent, dry, and firm, and their contents converted into a kind of horny matter. The difference in the structure of these layers is dependent upon the mode of growth of the epidermis. As the external layers desquamate, from their being constantly subjected to attrition, they are reproduced from beneath, successive layers gradually approaching towards the free surface, which, in their turn, die and are cast off. These cells are developed in the liquor sanguinis, which is poured out on the free surface of the derma; they contain nuclei, and form a thin stratum of closely- aggregated nucleated cells, which cover the entire extent of the papillary layer. The deepest layer of cells, according to Kolliker, are of a columnar form, and are arranged perpendicularly to the free surface of the derma, forming either a single or a double, or even triple, layer: the laminae succeeding these are composed of cells of a more rounded form, the contents of which are soft, opaque, granular, and soluble in acetic acid. As these cells successively approach the surface by the development of fresh layers from beneath, they assume a flattened form from the |