298 MUSCLES AND FASCIiE. muscle to the femoral artery should he carefully examined, as its inner border forms the chief guide in the operation of including this vessel in a ligature. In the upper third of the thigh, it forms, with the Adductor longus, the side of a triangular space, Scarpa’s triangle, the base of which, turned upwards, is formed by Poupart’s ligament; the femoral artery passes perpendicularly through the centre of this space from its base to its apex. In the middle third of the thigh, the femoral artery lies first along the inner border, and then beneath the Sar- torius. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the fascia lata and integument. By its deep surface, with the Iliacus, Psoas, Rectus, Vastus interims, anterior crural nerve, sheath of the femoral vessels, Adductor longus, Adductor magnus, Gracilis, long saphenous nerve, and internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The Quadriceps extensor includes the four remaining muscles on the front of the thigh. It is the great Extensor muscle of the leg, forming a large fleshy mass, which covers the front and sides of the femur, being united below into a single tendon, attached to the tibia, and above subdividing into separate portions, which have received separate names. Of these, one occupying the middle of the thigh, connected above with the ilium, is called the Rectus femoris, from its straight course. The other divisions lie in immediate connection with the shaft of the femur, which they cover from the condyles to the trochanters. The portion on the outer side of the femur is termed the Vastus externus; that covering the inner side, the Vastus internus; and that covering the front of the femur, the Crurceus. The two latter portions are, however, so intimately blended, as to form but one muscle. The Rectus femoris is situated in the middle of the anterior region of the thigh; it is fusiform in shape, and its fibres are arranged in abipenniform manner. It arises by two tendons; one, the straight tendon, from the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium; the other is flattened, and curves outwards, to be attached to a groove above the brim of the acetabulum; this is the reflected ten- don of the Rectus, it unites with the straight tendon at an acute angle, and then spreads into an aponeurosis, from which the muscular fibres arise. The muscle terminates in a broad and thick aponeurosis, which occupies the lower two-thirds of its posterior surface, and, gradually becoming narrowed into a flattened tendon, is inserted into the patella in common with the Vasti and Crurasus. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the anterior fibres of the Gluteus medius, the Tensor vaginae femoris, Sartorius, and the Psoas and Iliacus; by its lower three-fourths, with the fascia lata. By its posterior surface, with the hip- joint, the external circumflex vessels, and the Cruraeus and Vasti muscles. The three remaining muscles have been described collectively by some anatomists, separate from the Rectus; under the name of the Triceps extensor cruris; in order to expose them, divide the Sartorius and Rectus muscles across the middle, and turn them aside, when they will be fully brought into view. The Vastus externus is the largest part of the Quadriceps extensor. It arises by a broad aponeurosis, which is attached to the anterior border of the great trochanter, to a horizontal ridge on its outer surface, to a rough line, leading from the trochanter major to the linea aspera, and to the whole length of the outer lip of the linea aspera; this aponeurosis covers the upper three-fourths of the muscle, and from its inner surface, many fibres arise. A few additional fibres arise from the tendon of the Gluteus maximus, and from the external intermuscular septum between the Vastus externus, and short head of the Biceps. These fibres form a large fleshy mass, which is attached to a strong aponeurosis, placed on the under surface of the muscle at its lowest part; this becomes contracted and thickened into a flat tendon, which is inserted into the outer part of the upper border of the patella, blending with the great extensor tendon. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Rectus, the Tensor vaginas femoris, the fascia lata, and the Gluteus maximus, from which it is separated by a