OSTEOLOGY. 7° part of the temporal bone, the orifice of the mastoid foramen may be seen; and, just previous to its termination, it has opening into it the posterior condyloid foramen. The External Surface of the base of the Skull (fig. 63) is extremely irregular. It is bounded in front by the incisor teeth in the upper jaws; behind, by the superior curved lines of the occipital bone; and laterally, by the alveolar arch, the lower border of the malar bone, the zygoma, and an imaginary line, extending from the zygoma to the mastoid process and extremity of the superior curved line of the occiput. It is formed by the palate processes of the two superior maxillary and palate bones, the vomer, the pterygoid, under surface of the great wing, spinous process and part of the body of the sphenoid, the under surface of the squamous, mastoid, and petrous portions of the temporal, and occipital bones. The anterior part of the base of the skull is raised above the level of the rest of this surface (when the skull is turned over for the purpose of examination), surrounded by the alveolar process, which is thicker behind than in front, and excavated by sixteen depressions for lodging the teeth of the upper jaw; they vary in depth and size according to the teeth they contain. Immediately behind the incisor teeth is the anterior palatine fossa. At the bottom of this fossa may usually be seen four apertures, two placed laterally, which open above, one in the floor of each nostril, and transmit the anterior palatine vessels, and two in the median line of the intermaxillary suture, one in front of the other, the most anterior one transmitting the left, and the posterior one (the larger) the right naso-palatine nerve. These two latter canals are sometimes wanting, or they may join to form a single one, or one of them may open into one of the lateral canals above referred to. The palatine vault is concave, uneven, perforated by numerous foramina, marked by depressions for the palatal glands, and crossed by a crucial suture, which indicates the point of junction of the four bones of which it is com- posed. One %r two small foramina, seen in the alveolar margin behind the incisor teeth, occasionally seen in the adult, almost constant in young subjects, are called the incisive foramina; they transmit nerves and vessels to the incisor teeth. At each posterior angleof the hard palate is the posterior palatine foramen, for the transmission of the posterior palatine vessels and anterior palatine nerve, and running forwards and inwards from it a groove, which lodges the same vessels and nerve. Behind the posterior palatine foramen is the tuberosity of the palate bone, perforated by one or more accessory posterior palatine canals, and marked by the commencement of a ridge, which runs transversely inwards, and serves for the attachment of the tendinous expansion of the Tensor palati muscle. Projecting backwards from the centre of the posterior border of the hard palate is the posterior nasal spine, for the attachment of the Azygos uvulae. Behind and above the hard palate is the posterior aperture of the nares, divided into two parts by the vomer, bounded above by the body of the sphenoid, below by the horizontal plate of the palate bone, and laterally by the pterygoid processes of the sphenoid. Each aperture measures about an inch in the vertical, and half an inch in the transverse direc- tion. At the base of the vomer may be seen the expanded alas of this hone, receiving between them the rostrum of the sphenoid. Near the lateral margins of the vomer, at the root of the pterygoid processes are the pterygo-palatine canals. The pterygoid process, which hounds the posterior nares on each side, presents near its base the pterygoid or Vidian canal, for the Vidian nerve and artery. Each process consists of two plates, which bifurcate at the extremity to receive the tuberosity of the palate bone, and are separated behind by the pterygoid fossa, which lodges the Internal pterygoid muscle. The internal plate is long and narrow, presenting on the outer side of its base the scaphoid fossa, for the origin of the Tensor palati muscle, and at its extremity the hamular process, around which the tendon of this muscle turns. The external pterygoid plate is broad, forms the inner boundary of the zygomatic fossa, and affords attachment to the External pterygoid muscle.