?6 OSTEOLOGY. malar, and internally in the internal angular process; towards the inner third of this ridge is the supra-orbital notch or foramen, for the passage of the supra- orbital vessels and nerve, and at its inner side a slight depression for the attachment of the cartilaginous pulley of the Superior oblique muscle. Beneath the supra- orbital ridge is the opening of the orbit, bounded externally by the orbital ridge of the malar bone; below, by the orbital ridge formed by the malar, superior maxil- lary, and lachrymal bones; internally, by the nasal process of the superior maxillary, and the internal angular process of the frontal bone. On the outer side of the orbit, is the quadrilateral anterior surface of the malar bone, perforated by one or two small malar foramina. Below the inferior margin of the orbit, is the infra- orbital foramen, the termination of the infra-orbital canal, and beneath this, the canine fossa, which gives attachment to the Levator anguli oris; bounded below by the alveolar processes, containing the teeth of the upper and lower jaw. Beneath the alveolar arch of the lower jaw is the mental foramen for the passage of the mental nerve and artery, the external oblique line, and at the lower border of the bone, at the point of junction of the body with the ramus, a shallow groove for the passage of the facial artery. The Orbits (fig. 65) are two quadrilateral hollow cones, situated at the upper and anterior part of the face, their bases being directed forwards and outwards, and their apices backwards and inwards. Each orbit is formed of seven bones, the frontal, sphe- noid, ethmoid, superior maxillary, malar, lachrymal and palate; but three of these, the frontal, ethmoid and sphenoid, enter into the formation of both orbits, so that the two cavities are formed of eleven bones only. Each cavity presents for examination, a roof, a floor, an inner and an outer wall, a circumference or base, and an apex. The Roof is concave, directed downwards and forwards, and formed in front by the orbital plate of the frontal; behind, by the lesser wing of the sphenoid. This surface presents internally the depression for the fibro-cartilaginous pulley of the Superior oblique muscle; externally, the depression for the lachrymal gland, and posteriorly, the suture connecting the frontal and lesser wing of the sphenoid. The Floor is nearly flat, and of less extent than the roof; it is formed chiefly by the orbital process of the superior maxillary; in front, to a small extent, by the orbital process of the malar, and behind, by the orbital surface of the palate. This surface presents at its anterior and internal part, just external to the lachry- mal canal, a depression for the attachment of the Inferior oblique muscle; ex- ternally, the suture between the malar and superior maxillary bones; near its middle, the infra-orbital groove; and posteriorly, the suture between the maxillary and palate bones. The Inner Wall is flattened, and formed from before backwards by the nasal process of the superior maxillary, the lachrymal, os planum of the ethmoid, and a small part of the body of the sphenoid. This surface presents the lachrymal groove, and crest of the lachrymal bone, and the sutures connecting the ethmoid, in front, with the lachrymal, behind, with the sphenoid. The Outer Wall is formed in front by the orbital process of the malar bone; behind, by the orbital plate of the sphenoid. On it are seen the orifices of one or two malar canals, and the suture connecting the sphenoid and malar bones. Ancjles. The superior external angle is formed by the junction of the upper and outer walls; it presents, from before backwards, the suture connecting the frontal with the malar in front, and with the orbital plate of the sphenoid behind; quite posteriorly is the foramen lacerum anterius, or sphenoidal fissure, which transmits the third, fourth, ophthalmic division of the fifth and sixth nerves, and the ophthalmic vein. The superior internal angle is formed by the junction of the upper and inner wall, and presents the suture connecting the frontal with the lachrymal in front, and with the ethmoid behind. This suture is perforated by two foramina, the anterior and posterior ethmoidal, the former transmitting the anterior ethmoidal artery and nasal nerve, the latter the posterior ethmoidal The Orbits.