403 SCIATIC. 250-—The Arteries of the Gluteal and Posterior Femoral Regions. Terminati,,! of inter tuil CitxumjfeJ, 'Superior Perforating The internal pudic artery in the female is smaller than in the male. Its origin and course are similar, and there is considerable analogy in the distribution ol its branches. The superficial artery supplies the labia pudenda; the artery of the bulb supplies the erectile tissue of the bulb of the vagina, whilst the two terminal branches supply the clitoris; the artery of the corpus cavernosum, the cavernous body of the clitoris; and the arteria dorsalis clitori- dis, the dorsum of that organ. The Sciatic Artery (fig. 230), the larger of the two terminal branches of the anterior trunk of the in- ternal iliac, is distributed to the muscles on the back of the pelvis. It passes down to the lower part of the greatsacro-sciatic fora- men, behind the internal pudic, resting on the sacral plexus of nerves and Pyri- formis muscle, and escapes from the pelvis between the Pyriformis and Coccy- geus. It then descends in the interval between the trochanter major and tu- berosity of the ischium, accompanied by the sciatic nerves, and covered by the Gluteus maximus, and di- vides into branches, which supply the deep muscles at the back of the hip. Within the pelvis it dis- tributes branches to the Pyriformis, Coccygeus, and Levator ani muscles; some luEmorrhoidal branches, which supply the rectum, and occasionally take the place of the middle haimor- rhoidal artery; and vesical branches to the base and neck of the bladder, vesi- culas seminales, and pros- tate gland. External to the pelvis it gives off tbe coccy- geal, inferior gluteal, comes nervi iscliiadici, muscular, and articular branches. The coccygeal branch runs inwards, pierces the great and supplies the Gluteus maximus, the integument, and other structures on back of the coccyx. The inferior gluteal branches, three or four in number, supply the Gluteus maximus muscle. The comes nervi iscliiadici is a long slender vessel, which accompanies the great u d 2 Middle Perforating jJI Inferior To fo rriling Superior Muscular Suprrrln (email jlrticulan. Superior External Aa'tlcalar sacro-sciatic ligament, the