2l6 MUSCLES AND FASCLE. placed on the side of the frcenum of the lower lip. It arises from the incisive fossa, external to the symphysis of the lower jaw: its fibres descend to be inserted into the integument of the chin. Relations. On its inner surface, with the mucous membrane; in the median line, it is blended with the muscle of the opposite side; and on its outer side, with the Depressor labii inferioris. The Repressor Labii Inferioris (Quadratus menti) is a small quadrilateral muscle, situated at the outer side of the preceding. It arises from the external oblique line of the lower jaw, between the symphysis and mental foramen, and passes obliquely upwards and inwards, to be inserted into the integument of the lower lip, its fibres blending Avith the Orbicularis, and with those of its fellow of the opposite side. It is continuous with the fibres of the Platysma at its origin. This muscle contains much yellow fat intermingled with its fibres. Relations. By its superficial surface, with part of the Depressor anguli oris, and Avith the integument, to which is closely connected. By its deep surface, Avith the mental vessels and nerves, the mucous membrane of the lower lip, the labial glands, and the Levator menti, with which it is intimately united. The Depressor Anguli Oris is triangular in shape, arising, by its broad base, from the external oblique line of the loAver jaw; its fibres pass upwards, to be inserted, by a narroAV fasciculus, into the angle of the mouth. It is continuous Avith the Platysma at its origin, and with the Orbicularis and Risorius at its insertion. Relations. By its superficial surface, Avith the integument. By its deep surface, Avith the Depressor labii inferioris and Buccinator. Nerves. This group of muscles is supplied by the facial nerve. Actions. The Levator labii inferioris raises the lower lip, and protrudes it for- Avards; at the same time it Avrinkles the integument of the chin. The Depressor labii inferioris draws the loAver lip directly downAvards and a little outAvards. The Depressor anguli oris depresses the angle of the mouth, being the great antagonist to the Levator anguli oris and Zygomaticus major: acting with these muscles, it Avill draw the angle of the mouth directly backwards. 8. Intek-Maxillary Region. Orbicularis Oris. Buccinator. Risorius. Dissection. The dissection of these muscles may be considerably facilitated by filling the cavity of the mouth Avith tow, so as to distend the cheeks and lips; the mouth should then be closed by a few stitches, and the integument carefully removed from the surface. The Orbicularis Oris is a sphincter muscle, elliptic in form, composed of con- centric fibres, Avhich surround the orifice of the mouth. It consists of two thick semicircular planes of muscular fibre, which surround the oral aperture, and inter- lace on either side with those of the Buccinator and other muscles inserted into this part. On the free margin of the lips the muscular fibres are continued unin- terruptedly from one lip to the other, around the corner of the mouth, forming a roundish fasciculus of fine pale fibres closely approximated. To the outer part of each segment some special fibres are added, by which the lips are connected directly Avith the maxillary bones and septum of the nose. The additional fibres for the upper segment consist of four bands, ttvo of Avhich (Accessorii orbicularis superioris) arise from the alveolar border of the superior maxilla, opposite the incisor teeth, and arching outwards on each side, are continuous at the angles of the mouth Avith the other muscles inserted into this part. The two remaining muscular slips, called the Naso-labialis, connect the upper lip to the septum of the nose: as they descend from the septum, an interval is left between them, which corresponds to that left by the divergence of the accessory portions of the Orbi- cularis aboA'e described. It is this interval which forms the depression seen on the surface of the skin beneath the septum of the nose.