518 CRANIAL NERVES. From this nerve some filaments are distributed to the incisor, canine, and first biscupid teeth; others are lost upon the lining membrane covering the fore part of the inferior meatus. The palpebral branches pass upwards beneath the Orbicularis palpebrarum. They supply this muscle, the integument, and conjunctiva of the lower eyelid, joining at the outer angle of the orbit with the facial nerve and malar branch of the orbital. The nasal branches pass inwards; they supply the muscles and integument of the side of the nose, and join with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic. The labial branches, the largest and most numerous, descend beneath the ' Levator labii superioris, and are distributed to the integument and muscles of the upper lip, the mucous membrane of the mouth, and labial glands. All these branches are joined, immediately beneath the orbit, by filaments from the facial nerve, forming an intricate plexus, the infra-orbital. Spheno-Palatine Ganglion. I The spheno-palatine ganglion (Meckel’s) (fig. 281), the largest of the cranial j ganglia, is deeply placed in the spheno-maxillary fossa, close to the spheno- palatine foramen. It is triangular, or heart-shaped in form, of a reddish-grey colour, and placed mainly behind the palatine branches of the superior maxillary i| nerve, at the point where the sympathetic root joins the ganglion. It consequently does not inyqlve those nerves which pass to the palate and nose. Like other j ganglia, it possesses a motor, a sensory, and a sympathetic root. Its motor root >j is derived from the facial, through the Vidian; its sensory root from the fifth; and its sympathetic root from the carotid plexus, through the Vidian. Its branches ;j are divisible into four groups; ascending, which pass to the orbit; descending, to the palate; internal, to the nose; and posterior branches to the pharynx. The ascending branches are two or three delicate filaments, which enter the orbit by the spheno-maxillary fissure, and supply the periosteum. Arnold describes ! and delineates these branches as ascending to the optic nerve; one, to the sixth nerve (Bock); and one, to the ophthalmic ganglion (Tiedemann). The descending or palatine branches are distributed to the roof of the mouth, l the soft palate, tonsil, and lining membrane of the nose. They are almost a direct j continuation of the spheno-palatine branches of the superior maxillary nerve, and * are three in number, anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior, or large palatine nerve, descends through the posterior palatine 1 canal, emerges upon the hard palate, at the posterior palatine foramen, and passes forwards through a groove in the hard palate, nearly as far as the incisor teeth. It supplies the gums, the mucous membrane and glands of the hard palate, and com- , municates in front with the termination of the naso-palatine nerve. While in the posterior palatine canal, it gives off inferior nasal branches, which enter the nose through openings in the palate-bone, and ramify over the middle meatus, and the middle and inferior spongy bones; and, at its exit from the canal, a palatine branch is distributed to both surfaces of the soft palate. The middle, or external palatine nerve, descends in the same canal as the pre- J ceding, to the posterior palatine foramen, distributing branches to the uvula, | tonsil, and soft palate. It is occasionally wanting. The posterior, or small palatine nerve, descends with a small artery through ;i the small posterior palatine canal, emerging by a separate opening behind the! posterior palatine foramen. It supplies the Levator palati and Azygos uvula3 muscles, the soft palate, tonsil, and uvula. The internal branches are distributed to the septum, and outer wall of the nasal fossae. They are the superior nasal (anterior), and the naso-palatine. The superior nasal branches (anterior), four or five in number, enter the back part of the nasal fossa by the spheno-palatine foramen. They supply the mucous membrane, covering the superior and middle spongy bones, and that lining