ARTICULATIONS. 188 io. Metacarpophalangeal Articulations (fig. 137). These articulations are of the ginglymoid kind, formed by the reception of the rounded head of the metacarpal bone, into a superficial cavity in the extremity of the first phalanx. They are connected by the following ligaments: Anterior. Two Lateral. 137.—Articulations of the Phalanges. The Anterior Ligaments are thick, dense, and fibrocartilaginous in texture. Each is placed on the palmar surface of the joint, in the Interval between the lateral ligaments, to which they are connected; they are loosely united to the metacarpal bone, but very firmly to the base of the first phalanges. Their Metacarjio-pTuda.iujiua paimar surface is intimately blended with the transverse ligament, each ligament form- '> ing with it a groove for the passage of the flexor tendons, the sheath surrounding which is connected to it at each side. I3y their internal surface, they form part of the articular surface for the head of the metacarpal bone, and are lined by a synovial membrane. The Lateral Ligaments are strong rounded cords, placed one on each side of the joint, each being attached by one extremity to the tubercle on the side of the head of the metacarpal bone, and by the other, to the contiguous ex- tremity of the phalanx. The Posterior Ligament is supplied by the extensor ten- don placed over the back of each joint. Actions. The movements which occur in these joints are flexion, extension, adduction, abduction, and circumduction; the lateral move- ments are very limited. ii.nqcal A.rtbc II 1 II 1 11. Articulations of the Phalanges. These are ginglymoid joints, connected by the following ligaments: Anterior. . Two Lateral. The arrangement of these ligaments is similar to those in the metacarpo-pha- langeal articulations; the extensor tendon supplies the place of a posterior ligament. Actions. The only movements permitted in the phalangeal joints are flexion and extension; these movements are more extensive between the first and second phalanges than between the second and third. The movement of flexion is very extensive, but extension is limited by the anterior and lateral ligaments.