MUSCLES AND FASCIAE. 274 the region they occupy. One group occupies the inner and anterior aspect of the fore-arm, and comprises the Flexor and Pronator muscles. Another group occupies the outer side of the fore-arm; and a third, its posterior aspect. The two latter groups include all the Extensor and Supinator muscles. Anterior Brachial Region. 17*—Front of the Left Fore-arm. Superficial Layer. superficial Muscles. 1 ' J Pronator radii teres. Flexor carpi radialis. Palmaris longus. Flexor carpi ulnaris. Flexor sublimis digitorum. These muscles take origin from the internal condyle by a common tendon. The Pronator Radii Teres arises by two heads. One, the largest and most superficial, from the humerus, immediately above the internal condyle, and from the tendon common to the origin of the other muscles; also from the fascia of the fore-arm, and inter- muscular septum between it and the Flexor carpi radialis. The other head is a thin fasciculus, which arises from the inner side of the coronoid process of the ulna, joining the preceding at an acute angle. Between the two heads passes the median nerve. The muscle passes obliqifely across the fore-arm from the inner to the outer side, and terminates in a flat tendon, which turns over the outer margin of the radius, and is inserted into a rough ridge at the middle of the outer sur- face of the shaft of that bone. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the deep fascia, the Supinator longus, and the radial vessels and nerve. By its posterior surface, with the Brachialis anticus, Flexor sublimis digitorum, the median nerve, and ulnar artery. Its outer border forms the inner boundary of a triangular space, in which is placed the brachial artery, median nerve, and tendon of the Biceps muscle. Its inner border is in contact with the Flexor carpi radialis. The Flexor Carpi Radialis lies, on the inner side of the preceding muscle. It arises from the internal condyle by the common tendon, from the fascia of the fore-arm, and from the inter-muscular septa between it and the Pronator teres, on the inside; the Palmaris longus, externally; and the Flexor sublimis digitorum, beneath. Slender and aponeurotic in structure at its commencement, it increases