MUSCLES AND FASCLffi. 254 Dissection. To expose the Rectus muscle, its sheath should be opened by a vertical incision extending from the margin of the thorax to the pubes, the two portions should then be reflected from the surface of the muscle, which is easily effected, excepting at the lineae transversse, where so close an adhesion exists, that the greatest care is requisite in separating them. The outer edge of the muscle should now be raised, when the posterior layer of the sheath will be seen. By dividing the muscle in the centre, and turning its lower part downwards, the point where the posterior wall of the sheath terminates in a thin curved margin will be seen. The Rectus Abdominis is a long, flat muscle, which extends along the whole length of the front of the abdomen, being separated from its fellow of the opposite side by the linea alba. It is much broader above than below, and arises by two tendons, the external or larger being attached to the crest of the os pubis; the internal, smaller portion, interlacing with its fellow of the opposite side, and being connected with the ligaments covering the symphysis pubis. The fibres ascend vertically upwards, and the muscle becoming broader and thinner at its upper part, is inserted by three portions of unequal size into the cartilages of the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs. Some fibres are occasionally connected with the costo-xiphoid ligaments, and side of the ensiform cartilage. 166.—A Transverse Section of the Abdomen in the Lumbar Region. The Rectus muscle is traversed by a series of tendinous intersections, which vary from two to five in number, and have received the name linem transversal One of these is usually situated opposite the umbilicus, and two above that point; of the latter, one corresponds to the ensiform cartilage, and the other, to the interval between the ensiform cartilage and the umbilicus; there is occasionally one below the umbilicus. These intersections pass transversely or obliquely across the muscle in a zigzag course; they rarely extend completely through its substance, some- times pass only half way across it, and are intimately adherent to the sheath in which the muscle is enclosed. The Rectus is enclosed in a sheath (fig. 166) formed by the aponeuroses of the Oblique and Transversalis muscles, which are arranged in the following manner. "When the aponeurosis of the Internal oblique arrives at the margin of the Rectus, it divides into two lamellae, one of which passes in front of the Rectus, blending with the aponeurosis of the External oblique; the other, behind it, blending with the aponeurosis of the Transversalis; and these, joining again at its inner border, are inserted into the linea alba. This arrangement of the fasciae exists along the upper three-fourths of the muscle; at the commencement of the lower fourth, the posterior wall of the sheath terminates in a thin curved margin, the concavity of which looks downwards towards the pubes; the aponeuroses of all three muscles passing in front of the Rectus without any separation. The Rectus muscle in