19 ascertained. Clinical experience appeared to him to bear out the experimental results of the French naturalist, but with the view of settling the matter, he resected the bones of a number of living dogs, with and without the periosteum. The evidence thus obtained put beyond all question the power of the periosteum to form new bone, independently of any assistance from the old one. Still the subperiosteal method of resection made but little way, in spite of abundant clinical experience. Another and still more laborious series of vivisections was required, before the problem was definitely solved. These results achieved by Ollier of Lyons, were published in 1867 in two volumes, under the title “Experi- mental and Clinical Treatise on the Regeneration of Bones and on the Artificial Production of Osseous Tissue.”’*' The first volume is experimental, the second clinical. Ollier dedicated them to Claude Bernard and Velpeau in these words, “ When I left experimental physiology for the practice of surgery, I wished to tread the paths you have marked out, the one in determining the methods of scientific medicine, the other, in showing, during forty years, the fertility of its applications.” In his introduction (p. 2), Ollier lays down that “ experiments on living animals are of the greatest utility to surgery.” Chassaignac’s invention of the ecraseur has proved of the utmost utility to operating Surgeons. How it was perfected, and how the rules for its employment were determined, is best told in a condensed translation of his own words.f “ Physio- logical experiments concerning linear crushing (ecrasement lineaire). * Traite Experimental et Clinique de la Regeneration des Os et de la Production artificielle du Tissu osseux, par L. Ollier. Paris 1867. t Traite Uinique et Pratique des Operations Chirurgicales, par E, Chassaignac. Paris' 1861. T. ler p. 75, et seq. See also Traite de I’Ecrasement lineaire Nouvelle Methode pour prevenir I’Effusion du Sang dans les Operations Chirurgicales, par M. E. Chassiagnac. Paris 1856.