16 accepted as an authority. It led to immediate reform of sm'gical practise, and stimulated further experimental en- quiries, which in them turn have home the haj^piest results, in saving human life and misery. Mr. Travers’ first and most illustrious pupil was his old master Sir Astley Cooper. He tells us, “ I practised gastroraphy in consequence of the results of the following experiments (on living dogs). As far as a judgment can be formed from these experiments, it will be seen that this operation is in them both safe and effectual; for I have made the experiment of dividing the intestine, and afterwards sewing its extremities together and found it succeed.”* Jobert (de Lamballe),! Samuel D. Gross,§ of Philadelphia, and BouissonJ of Montpellier, have repeated those researches, and the results have been so far confirmed and extended, that Shipton’s original experiment, of removing a portion of the whole circumference of the alimentary canal, is now an established operation, against otherwise mortal disease in the human subject. So far as wounds of the intestine and the operation for hernia are concerned, the ex- perimental researches referred to have materially reduced their dangers. The fertile suggestiveness of young Shipton’s experiment did not exhaust itself in the labours of Travers and his successors. When the anti-vivisectionists exclaim against the cruelty and uselessness of an English medical student excising a portion of a dog’s intestine and proving its survival, I invite them to reflect, on the successful removal by the *The anatomy and surgical treatment of abdominal hernia, by Sir Astley Cooper, 2nd Ed., by C. Aston Key, London, 1827, p. 51. tEnteroplastie on Autoplastic du Canal Intestinal. Traits de Chirurgie Flastique par A. J. Joliert (de Lamballe). Paris, 1849, T. 2 p. 80 et eeq. §A System of Surgery, by 8. D. Gross, London and Philadelpliia, 1872. Vol. II, p. 603. JTribut i la Chirurgie ou mOmoires sur divers sujets de cette science par E. F. Bouisson, Paris, Montpellier, T. ler p. 139, et seq.