THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK1 Telegrams :—•" Apsley, Slough." APSLEY, SLOUGH, Bucks. A Sanitarium for the cure of Gout, Rheumatism, Bronchitis, Headache, Epilepsy, Mental Depression, Anaemia, Neuralgia and Neuritis, Hay Fever, Bright's Disease, Dyspepsia and other Uric Acid diseases. The uric-acid-free diet is carried out under medical supervision. Apsley House is situated on a well-drained gravel soil, in its own sheltered grounds in a beautiful and interesting country near Eton and Windsor, and an excellent service of trains between Slough and Paddington (G.W.R.), in 24 to 30 minutes, gives ready access to London. During the cold months the house is thoroughly supplied throughout with fresh warm air, making it a comfortable home for invalids and others during winter and spring. The district offers admirable opportunities for boating, golfing, cycling, riding, driving, &c. For terms apply to Secretary.THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK CONTAINING US RECIPES FOR THE URIC-ACID-FREE DIET BY MRS. JOHN J. WEBSTER AND LONDON J. & A. CHURCHILL 7 GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET 1905Printed by Ballantvne <&» Co. Limited Tavistock Street, LondonTHIS BOOK IS RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED TO THE ORIGINATOR OF THE URIC-ACID-FREE DIET BY HIS TWO GRATEFUL PATIENTS THE AUTHORSCARLO GRASSI, Ltd. Grocers, Foreign Warehousemen, and Wine and Spirit Merchants, 26 GERRARD ST., SHAFTESBURY AVENUE, LONDON, W. Finest Quality Vegetables and Fruits of all kinds in 10 02. and 32 oz. glasses, a convenient size for small families VEGETABLES. Fonds d'Artichauts, 9d. and is. 6d. Carrots, Macedoine, Spinach, Turnips, 6d. and is. per glass. FRUITS. Apricots, Cherries, Figs, Greengages, Macedoine, Peaches, Pears, Pineapple, Raspberries, Strawberries, 9d. and is. 4d. MACARONI. Finest Genoa, per lb. ; per 4 lb. Box, is. 8d. Finest Naples, per lb. 3d. Fancy Shapes for Soups, per lb. 3jd. Tagliatelli fresh daily, per lb. 6d. SALAD OIL. Trebly refined, perfect for Salads and Mayonnaise, per bottle, is. 6d., per doz. 16s.; per half bottle, iod., per doz. 9s. 6d. WlfrJE VINEGAR. Manufactured by ourselves and unsurpassed for use with Salads, per bottle, 2s. ; per half bottle, is. 3d. Noted House for Olives, Curry Powder, Caviare, Imperial Plums, Dessert Fruits, Old Matured Wines, Spirits and Liqueurs. Table Delicacies of every description. See Catalogue for Prices of all Kitchen Utensils, Household Goods, &c. &c. Agents for Welbmk's Duplex BoilerettesCONTENTS Introduction . Hints on Cookery . Food Values . Soups and Purees . Savouries Vegetables Sweets .... Nut Dishes Bread, Pastry, Cakes, &c. Salads .... Sauces, &c. Menus . * . Index .... PAGE 'ix xvi xxv 1 27 78 103 165 188 204 213 223 229 1INTRODUCTION. This little book has been written in the hope that it may be of help to those who live upon the " Uric-acid-free11 diet, for the cure of all uric acid troubles. As the author of this diet advises all his patients to live upon the plainest food, and to eschew, as far as pos- sible, all condiments, it may be thought that in many ot the recipes which follow, the authors have paid too much attention to making the dishes resemble those containing meat, fish, &c. This has been done, however, to help those who, having lived up to middle age upon highly seasoned and stimulating foods, find it difficult, if not impossible, at first, to give up condiments; and it has been thought better to wean them from the old diet in this way, rather than to allow them to suffer from loss of appetite, and its consequences. Although other condiments have been given in the recipes, salt has been omitted ; because the author is of opinion that it causes retention of uric acid. If, however, patients, at first, find that they cannot do without it, their cooks can easily add what they require. There are many dishes amongst the various recipes given which will not be suitable to all digestions ; but, as patients are the best judges themselves of what they bx THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK are able to digest, there is a large variety given them to select from. Most patients will do well to leave out any dish containing tomato during the very cold weather, or to choose those only which contain a large proportion of potato, to counteract the acid of the tomato. It is well also to remember in arranging a dinner, that if there is any acid in the savoury the sweet would be better without fruit. A few Menus have been arranged to give patients an idea what to choose for dinner, &c; and a little intelligent attention to these, and to the table of food values, ought to make it easy for any patients to cater for themselves, without running any great risk of either over or under feeding. The number of grains of albumen contained in some of the dishes is given with the recipes for the same, and these will no doubt help the patients in any calculations they may wish to make of the food value of other dishes. Intelligence, however, must be brought to hear upon the subject; the patients who "have minds above such vulgar details11 will come badly off upon this diet, unless they are fortunate enough either to have some one about them whose minds will bend to " vulgarities,11 or appetites and digestions so good, that they can live upon the simpler forms of food, upon which it would be impossible for any normal being to over feed. To those whose attention has been directed to the nourishing values of foods, apart from the " Uric-acid- free 11 diet, the amount of ignorance displayed, by those whose duty it should be to guide others, is astonishing. For instance, how often one hears of medical men telling their patients to take "as much milk as they can drink !11 without inquiring whether they happen to beINTRODUCTION xi the kind of people who can take any given quantity, or explaining to them the amount of nourishment contained in milk, and the consequent danger to health when it is taken in large quantities, in conjunction with other foods. Doctors complain that the generality of their patients will have drugs ; though they would often be better without them; but when medical men begin to study, and teach the chemical properties of foods, they will soon cease to be looked upon as mere dispensers of drugs. When such ignorance flourishes in quarters where we expect at least to find some knowledge of the value of foods, it is not to be wondered that there are mothers who ruin the healths of their children by improper feeding. One valuable article of food—cheese—has now a very bad reputation for its supposed indigestible qualities ; whereas in the days of our grandfathers, when people drank less tea, and ate less stimulating food, it was supposed to assist digestion. Perhaps then it was treated rightly—as a relish to bread—and not eaten in large quantities; whereas now, tastes have become so vitiated by over indulgence in highly stimulating foods, that when it is taken, it is rather as cheese and bread than as bread and cheese. The habit of eating it after the digestion has been sufficiently tried by quantities of butchers meat, has also had much to do with its evil reputation ; and when discomfort and pain follows, it is, of course, always put down to the cheese ! An amusing experience in support of this occurred quite recently to a gentleman who has lived upon this diet for some years. He had been spending the morning with a friend, busily employed in the open air, and they bothxii THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK returned to their hotel to lunch, with the best of appetites. The man on the " Uric-acid-free " diet ordered a" Welsh Rabbit," while his friend was provided with a large plate of roast beef, and a second helping. When the " Welsh Rabbit" appeared, he said to the " Dieter," " Ah ! you are not to be pitied after all," and he ordered the waiter to bring him one also ; and whilst it was being prepared, he passed the time by partaking of boiled fruit pudding, with suet crust. When it appeared he fell to, as if he had taken nothing particular since breakfast, and cleared the dish, which must have contained from four to six ounces of cheese ! The " Dieter," meanwhile, had taken what he required of his "Welsh Rabbit," with his bread. During the afternoon the friend became exceedingly uncomfortable, and, turning to the " Dieter," he ex- claimed : " That diet of yours may suit you. I must say that you look very well on it; but my digestion won't stand it; I feel awfully bad! " One hears much about the waste of food amongst the lower classes through ignorance, and no doubt if they had the knowledge to prepare their food properly, they would be well nourished at half the cost; but has any one ever calculated the cost of the enormous waste of food amongst the well-to-do, caused by over feeding, and improper diet, to say nothing of the cost of trying to get rid of the results of both ? Let us hope that a time is coming when children will be taught something of the values and properties of foods at school, in the place of many smatterings of subjects that are of neither use nor interest to them. Perhaps then we shall approachxiii INTRODUCTION the time when it will be as " bad form " to eat more than is necessary as it is now to drink more than is good for one. Those, however, who have suffered much on the old diet, and are willing and anxious to try this treat- ment, will, the writers hope, be helped by their experience to find a diet amongst the various recipes, suitable to their needs. A little patience will be re- quired before the patient becomes accustomed to the change of food; but this will be well rewarded by the freedom from pain and discomfort, as the diet gradually improves the state of the blood. This improvement naturally takes a little time to effect; for a state of things that has taken long to bring about, cannot be expected to be cured in a few weeks. One lady who was suffering from troubles, which this diet is known to relieve, was persuaded to give up tea as a preparation for eventually going upon the diet; she did so for tioo days, and finding it depressing went back to her old habits, because " she was sure the diet would not suit her !11 She must have been either one of the strange mortals who " enjoy" bad health, or her sufferings could not have been very acute, if they were easier to bear than a few days of depression. This book is simply a cookery book for the diet; it is not its province to explain the medical foundations of the " Uric-acid-free " diet, which are explained in the scientific writings of its Originator. The writers have, however, thought it advisable and helpful to give the following ex- tracts from a useful leaflet by the Author of the System : " It is just as impossible to keep up strength and nutrition without nitrogen as without oxygen.xiv THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK " We generally depend for our nitrogen upon substances containing albumens, and it is the habit of tins country at the present day to get it almost entirely from animal albumens, in ignorant disregard of the poison that animal tissues contain. " It can be calculated from the data given in works on Physiology that a man, in order to get enough nitrogen, must be supplied with from 8 to 11 grs. of albumen per day for each pound of body weight. Children require more; thus a child of 35 lbs. weight may require as much as an adult three times its weight, and this gradually diminishes until the adult standard is reached, while old and sedentary people may require considerably less than the adult allowance. "And now, applying the rule of the relation of albumen to body weight : " A young adult weighing (after reducing weight of clothing) ten stone, or 140 lbs., and leading a hard-working life, would have to consume 140x 10 =1400 grs. of albumen per day, and these might be got as follows : " 17 ozs. bread (8 per cent, albu- mens = 34 grs. per oz.) . . = 578 grs. " 2 pints milk (3 per cent, albu- mens = 13 grs. per oz.) . . = 525 grs. " J oz. cheese (33 per cent, al- bumens = 140 grs. per oz.) . = 140 grs. " 2 ozs. rice (5 per cent, albu- mens = 21 grs. per oz.) . . = 43 grs. "12 oz. vegetables and fruit (2 per cent, albumens = 8 grs. per oz.) . . = 114 grs. 1400 grs.INTRODUCTION XV " If this man lives and works in the open air, he may have such a good appetite for bread, macaroni, rice, potatoes, nuts and fruit, that no milk and cheese will be required; but those who live in towns and are more sedentary, will generally require to add these latter to a greater or less extent." A few hints on cooking have also been given, as most of the dishes depend largely upon their careful prepara- tion for their appetising properties. When the com- paratively small range of foods which the diet allows is remembered, the difficulties of the authors in arranging the combination of foods and vegetables will be appre- ciated. In vegetarian cookery the range is much larger, hence the number of recipes which the books can boast. But if they were debarred from using the yolks of eggs, asparagus, mushrooms, and the whole of the pulses in their savouries, and chocolate and coffee in their sweets, the number of recipes would be consider- ably diminished. The authors are indebted to various friends for certain recipes, which they have kindly supplied, and which have been adapted to the diet; and especially to their respective cooks, for the intelligent interest and patience which they have shown in the working out of all the recipes.HINTS ON COOKING. It is as necessary to most people that their food should look nice as that it should have an agreeable taste; and although on this diet the cook has not the materials for much show, it is all the more important that she should make the best of what she has. If care is taken in following the recipes given, both the eye and the palate will be gratified; and the cook will have the satisfac- faction of knowing that the result is mainly due to her careful cooking. Indeed, this diet, though it would seem at first sight to give the cook but few opportuni- ties for showing her talents, yet gives her every chance of exercising both her taste and her ingenuity. As milk enters largely into the dishes which she has to prepare, one of the first things to impress upon the cook is the keeping of it fresh and sweet. It must never remain uncovered in the larder, as it will imme- diately take the flavour of anything that happens to be near it; and if it is put in the ice chest in hot weather, it must never be placed in the same compartment with either fruit or vegetables. Strawberries will impart a very disagreeable flavour to milk, if it stands uncovered anywhere near them ; any article of food that has the least smell will spoil its flavour, so that the only remedy is to keep milk carefully covered.xvii HINTS ON COOKING The greatest possible care should also be taken with the saucepans, &c, in which it is cooked. Aluminium saucepans are the best for this purpose, for the milk is not so liable to burn in them as it is in enamelled saucepans, and they are much easier to keep clean. Although the first cost is much greater than the enam- elled saucepans, in the end they are certainly cheaper, for there is no enamel to wear off or become cracked. The cook must remember in cleaning them that no soda must be used or they will turn black ; if they are allowed to remain in plain water, there will be no difficulty whatever in cleaning them. They are to be bought at the Army and Navy Stores, or from any good iron- monger. The French fireproof ware will be found very good in the cooking of all dishes in which milk is used, and for stewing fruit. The " Marmites11 have the advantage of being cheap, and also of being very easily kept clean. The fireproof china dishes, &c, are a little more expen- sive, but they look very nice, and various savoury dishes which are sent to table in the utensils in which they are cooked look best when served in them. The milk boilers for use at table—which cannot boil over—are made in this ware, and are admirable in every way. A very good selection of these useful utensils is always to be found at the Army and Navy Stores. Double pans will also be found very convenient. Indeed, for the cooking of porridge and the preparation of many of the dishes containing milk for which recipes are given, they may almost be termed indispensable. The danger of burn- ing is avoided, and only careless stupidity in neglecting to keep the outer pan filled with water could producexviii THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK that most disagreeable of dishes, burnt porridge. The pans are now quite inexpensive, and can be procured at any good ironmongers. Soups made with milk, if carefully prepared, are delicious ; and many meat-eaters confess that they like them quite as well as those made from stock prepared in the usual way. They are especially valuable on this diet, for the patient takes part of the milk prescribed in this agreeable way. All the soups for which recipes are given are made with milk, except a few; and those have cheese amongst the ingredients, which brings them up to the milk soups in nourishing value. Care must be taken tofolloiv out the recipes exactly if the soups are to be successful. Cheddar cheese must always be used where it is given in the recipes, for if Parmesan and various other cheeses are substituted, they will become a sticky mass at the bottom of the tureen. Onions must always be fried when the direction is given; for if this detail is neglected, it will make all the difference between success and failure in the flavour of the soup. The thickening of the soups is also a very important matter ; and when it is possible, brown or white roux—according to the colour of the soup—should always be used instead of flour. Full directions for making these thickenings for soups, sauces, and gravies are given ; and when the cook has once realised the immense saving in time, and the im- provement to her soup in flavour, where roux is used, she will not grudge the half-hour or so spent in pre- paring it, say, once a month. Many cooks, and writers upon cookery, say that the difference in flavour when a soup or sauce is thickened with roux instead of flourHINTS ON COOKING xix is as great as the difference between baked and raw pastry ! This illustration may be exaggerated, but the difference is undoubtedly very great; and as every help is required to make the soups palatable, cooks will do well always to keep on hand a stock of white and brown roux. Some housekeepers may think its prepara- tion extravagant, but if the dabs of butter and the flour thickenings—many of them half wasted—which are generally used to thicken soups and sauces, were all added up, the extravagance would certainly be on the side of the latter methods. AVhen soups, sauces, or gravies require to be browner than the brown roux, or fried onion makes them, a little Parisian Essence is the best browning to use for this purpose. It is simply burnt sugar sold at all grocers by that name, and will be found much more convenient and economical than any home-made prepai'ation. There is another important thing in connection with soups that the cook should always bear in mind, and that is the seasoning. Soup, while it should always be tasty, should never be highly seasoned. Ground pepper should never be used, as mistakes are very liable to occur, and the soup made too hot. If peppercorns— black or white according to the colour of the soup— are used, the agreeable flavour of the pepper is given, without any fear of the soup being spoiled by being too hot. Ground pepper has another disagreeable pro- perty when used in soups; it sinks to the bottom, and the last person served often gets more than his share. A cook must remember that there is a wide difference between the seasoning of sauces and soups. A sauce or gravy must always be well seasoned, as it is intended asxx THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK a relish, and unless it is distinctive, it does not serve its purpose; but the same seasoning in a soup, which is taken in larger quantities, would be quite out of place, and very disagreeable. Perhaps the most important item in this diet is the bread, and no pains should be spared to have it of the best, and of various kinds. Baker's bread, when it is good, is very useful for toast and bread-crumbs; but bread to eat with other foods is best when home-made. The American bread-maker, mentioned in the recipe for bread, is a most valuable invention. It is called " The Three Minutes Bread-Maker," and can be obtained from the Stores or any good ironmonger; it really kneads the bread perfectly in that time. If the instructions given in recipe No. 385 are carefully followed, the result will be really good and appetising bread, which keeps good for a week. Many experi- ments were made before the amount of yeast, &c. was decided upon ; and in the recipe the least possible quantity, consistent with light bread, is given. Bread keeps better if made in tins; but if it is to be eaten within three days after making, it may be made into round loaves and baked on the oven shelves. All pieces of bread, and crusts cut from toast, pro- vided that these are not burnt, should be saved, and every two or three days they should be put in a tin in the oven—which must not be too hot—and baked until they are a light brown all through. They should then be crushed with a rolling-pin on a pastry-board until they are quite fine, and put away in a biscuit or other covered tin, which should be kept for that purpose. Another preparation of dried bread-crumbs, calledxxi HINTS ON COOKING " Rusk-crumbs,11 will also be found very useful. Recipes for many dishes are given in which these rasp- ings and rusk-crumbs are used, and it is well to have a supply always on hand. The " Apsley Rusks11 are a grateful change from bread and toast when carefully prepared according to the recipe given. The cook must not however be sparing of her trouble, for if the bread is not cut thin the result will not be good. Various recipes are given for the making of paste for tarts, &c, which can be made with either butter or " Albene.11 " Albene11 is a nut butter, excellent for all cooking purposes, and can be procured from Messrs. Broomfield and Co., 83 Upper Thames St., E.C. It is cheaper than salad oil for frying, and makes very good pastry. Recipe No. 397 for Puff* paste is a very old recipe, which has been used in one of the authors1 family for over a hundred years. It is a lesson to the modem housewife in care and patience ; but the result is so excellent that it is quite worth the little extra trouble bestowed upon it. The only alteration that has been made in the original recipe is the addition of baking-powder, which can be left out if desired. It is the best description of the method of making paste that the authors have met with; and with this, many cooks, who have used it, quite agree. Frying is an art in which it is necessary for all cooks to excel; and it is really a very simple process if a little thought and common sense are brought to bear upon it. The great thing is to have the fat at the right temperature, so that a coating is immediately formed round the substance fried, to prevent the fat, soakingxxii THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK into it, which would cause it to be greasy and indi- gestible. The fat should be quite still before the article to be fried is put into it. Cooks soon learn the exact moment it is ready ; but the inexperienced will find it a great help if, when they think the fat is hot enough, they put in it a small piece of bread. If the bread immediately takes a pale yellow colour, and is crisp, the fat is ready, and should be used at once. An inverted sieve placed on a plate on the stove should always be ready to receive the article that is fried. The fat then drains away immediately, and leaves the article crisp. It is well to mention the error which many cooks fall into in the cooking of macaroni, and all Italian pastes, by soaking them. All Italian pastes should be thrown into plenty of boiling water, and boiled as quickly as possible for some minutes, no matter how they are to be cooked after. The time to boil them in this way depends on the kind of macaroni, &c. Genoa macaroni takes half an hour in water, and Naples only twenty minutes ; the smaller kinds according to size, vermicelli taking only five minutes. This boiling in water must always precede the cooking in milk, gravy. &c, if the macaroni is to be a successful dish. Onions are a most useful and appetising addition to many dishes, especially on this diet; but many people find that they disagree with them. If, however, the cook before using them for any dish would first put them into cold water and bring them quickly to boiling-point, and let them boil for two or more minutes, according to the size of the onion, they would then be found to agree with the most delicatexxiii HINTS ON COOKING digestion. This should be done first, no matter how the onions are to be cooked afterwards; and, of course, they must be well drained before proceeding to do anything else with them. One often hears complaints about the salad oil for salads; often, however, it is not the oil which is to blame at all, but the vinegar. Malt vinegar should never be used with oil, for it imparts an exceedingly disagreeable flavour to the salad, for which the oil is often blamed. If the same oil is used in conjunction with French vinegar the flavour will generally be found to be quite right. The best oil should always be used for salads, Sec.; there is another oil for frying quite good enough for the purpose, and much cheaper. Care should be taken in mixing salads to use as little vinegar as possible. The recipes give the proportion, but some people would be better with even less ; because it is the vinegar in the salad which generally disagrees with people. Let the lettuce be quite dry—it should be tossed in a cloth after washing and draining—and it must be torn with the fingers into suitable pieces for eating. Lettuce should never be cut. A bit of onion should always be added, but care should be taken that it is finely minced in the bowl in which the salad is mixed. It is best scalded first if the salad is for a delicate person. A nut mill is almost a necessity for any one living on this diet; for even if nuts are not largely used, almonds for flavouring are always better for going through the mill before they are pounded. The nut mills supplied by T. J. Bilson and Co., 88 Gray's Inn Road, London, W.C., have been found by the authors to be very good.xxiv THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK There are a few things that should never be neglected by cooks who prepare the food for this diet, which may be enumerated as follows : Don't neglect — To weigh the articles carefully, in the proportions given in the recipes. „ ,, To fry onions well for flavouring. „ „ To skin tomatoes whenever the recipe prescribes it. „ „ To wash and dry lettuces well for salad. „ „ To tear and not cut lettuce. „ „ To scald and mince the onion well for salads. „ „ To wash all vegetables with the greatest care. „ „ To keep all utensils perfectly clean.FOOD VALUES COMPILED FROM ATTWATER'S TABLES. 2 2 ARTICLE. u o Pi '3 2 « o Article. hi ea a. •o 43 o H ^ N • O § .9 t-i a O ,grH hi o S.9 2 o s.s Ph &< 6 TTnfi \TTT TT Urn xAominy . . . Macaroni Q.Q O 3 16 i 03 00 Rill Ian cutter .... 1 u Oatmeal • • • lo 1 66 Buttermilk 3-0 12 Rice .... 8-0 32 Cream .... 2-5 12 Rice Flour 8-6 36 Milk, whole . • O O 1 Q xtoiieci uats . . 16'7 70 _*±I1K, COLltlvJIlecU. t . 0 0 OO xvye j lour . • . Do o o 2o fin Sago • • • Spaghetti , y u 12 1 oo 50 CHEESES. Vermicelli . . . Wheat, entire . , 10'9 13*8' 45 58 American . . . Cheddar. Cheshire . 288 27-7 26-9 124 120 116 Wheat, flaked Wheat, Graham Wheat, shredded . 13-4 13-3 10-5 56 55 45 Cream .... 25-9 112 Dutch .... 37-1 168 BREAD, BISCUITS, &c. Fromage de Brie , 15-9 68 Limhurger 23-0 98 Breadcorn (Johnny Cake) 7-9 32 Neuchatel 18-7 82 Cracker Cream 9-7 45 Roquefort 22-6 98 Cracker Water 11-7 60 Skimmed Milk 31-5 135 Graham Bread 89 36 Swigs Gruyere 21-6 120 Macaroon Rye Bread White Bread . 6-5 11-9 80 28 45 34 GRAIN, FLOUR, ii n biscuit 9-8 43 MEAL, &c. n n home-made 9-1 41 Barley Meal and Flour . „ „ milk. 96 46 10-5 45 u J. Vienna 9-4 42 Buckwheat Flour . 6-4 25 Vanilla Wafer 6-6 28 Corn Flour . 7-1 28 Zwieback, or Rusk 9-8 45 cFOOD VALUES Article. VEGETABLES. Artichoke Beet, cooked . Cabbage curly „ sprouts Carrot . Cauliflower Celery . Corn, green Cucumber Horse-radish Olive . Onion Parsnip . Potato . „ cooked, boiled „ chipped „ „ mashed „ sweet, raw, or fresh Radish . Rhubarb Sauerkraut Spinach, fresh Tomato . Turnip . FRUITS (Frb h). Apple Apricot . Banana, yellow Blackberry Cherry . Cranberry Currant . Fig, green Grape Huckleberry . Lemon . a. u — o <u Jf « ■o 5 p * N n O 5** 25 o 26 2-3 1-6 4-1 4-7 1-1 1-8 1-1 3-1 0- 8 1- 4 11 1-6 1- 6 2- 2 2-5 6-8 2-6 1-8 1-3 0- 6 1- 7 2- 1 0- 9 1- 3 0- 4 1- 1 1-3 1-3 1-0 0- 4 1- 5 1-5 1-3 0-6 10 9 9 6 18 18 4 6 4 12 4 4 6 6 9 9 28 9 6 4 6 9 Artiolr. Nectarine Orange . Pear Pineapple Plum . Pomegranate Prune Raspberry, red Strawberry Water Melon Wortleberry FRUITS (Dried). Apple Apricot . Citron . Currant Zante Date Fig Pear Prune Raisin . FRUITS (Canned and Preserved). Apple, Crab . ,, Sauce . Apricot . Blackberry Blueberry Cherry . Cherry Jelly . Fig, stewed . Marmalade Orange-peel Peach Pear Pineapple Prune Sauce . Proteid per cent. Grains Proti in 1 oi. 0-6 0-8 — 0-6 — 0-4 — 1-0 4 1-5 4 0-9 — 1-0 4 1-0 4 0-4 0-7 1-6 4 4-7 18 0-5 2-4 9 2-1 9 43 18 2-8 9 21 9FOOD VALUES xxvii 2 2 ARTIOItK. d per a> O Article. d per \ Proti _g O © d - O <u a) £ ° ts £ ° © Strawhprrv 0-7 UUWw . . . « . 5-7 20 Tomato Ppftfiprvp^ 0-7 ,, L'i tllwl OVA . . 6-3 24 X' 1 1 l " 1 l * ■ ■ 15-6 60 J-LlUxi-U' y • • i 15-4 60 NUTS. Lichi 29 12 Pecan .... 96 38 Almond .... 21-0 92 Pine Kernel, Pinon 14-6 58 Beech .... 21-9 92 „ Pignoliae . 33-9 146 Biotes (Acorn) 8-1 36 „ PinioneP 6-7 28 Brazil .... 17-0 73 Pistachio 22-8 95 Butter .... 27-9 116 Sabin Pine Nut 28-1 112 Chestnut, fresh 6-2 28 Walnut . 184 79 „ dried 10-7 45 „ Californian 27-6 118ERRATA Page xxv—;for " cream ' 2.5 and 12' " read " nil, nil." ,, 7—3rd line from bottom, for "preceding" read "following." ,, 12—Recipe 21, add J lb. Potatoes to Ingredients. ,, 29—12th line from bottom, for " preceding " read " following." „ 38—nth line from top,/or " stir " read " stew." ■ . 39—7th line from bottom, for " cook" read " soak." ,, 60—14th line from top,for " Potatoes" read "Onions." ,, 94—13th line from top, for " raw " read " new." ,, 155—Recipe 316, in Ingredients, read "two teacupfuls of Flour." ,, 158—Recipe 325, in Ingredients, read "four ounces of Flour and two ounces of Butter." ,, 200—Recipe 402, in Ingredients, read "two breakfast-cupfuls of Flour." „ 217—7th line from lop, for " skin " read " skim."I SOUPS AND PUREES. 1. Artichoke Soup (No. i). Ingredients. One quart of Milk. Three pounds of Artichokes. Two Spanish Onions. Three Bay leaves. One gill of Cream. One lump of Sugar. Pepper to taste. Peel and slice the onions and throw them into cold water and let them come to a boil as quickly as possible ; let them boil fast for three minutes, then drain the water from them. Boil the artichokes until they are tender in the milk, with the onions and lump of sugar. Pass all through a sieve, then return to the saucepan with the bay leaves and pepper, and simmer for half an hour; add the cream last thing. Serve very hot with croutons. 2. Artichoke Soup (No. 2). Ingredients. One pound and a half of Arti- chokes. One quart of Milk. Three quarters of an ounce of Butter. Six ounces of Onions. One dozen and a half white Peppercorns. A tablespoonful of white Eoux, or a small teaspoonful of Corn Flour. Fry the onion in the butter until it becomes a nice yellow, but it must not get brown. Put the pepper-2 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK corns in the milk and bring it to boiling-point. Then add the onions, and let them simmer for an hour. In the meantime boil the artichokes until quite tender, which should be in twenty minutes or half an hour; rub them through a sieve, with the onion which has been stewed in the milk. Strain the milk, and stir it into the artichoke until it is quite smooth. Now return the soup to the pan and let it boil up ; thicken it with the white roux, or the corn flour which must have been first mixed smoothly with a very little cold milk. (See " Hints on Cooking.") Boil the soup up again, and serve either with croutons or toasted bread cut in dice. 3. Barley Cream Soup. Ingredients. One quart of Milk. Two Onions. Two ounces of Butter or Albene. One Carrot, three Turnips, four One gill of Cream. Peppercorns, two Bay leaves. Two ounces of Pearl Barley. Prepare the vegetables and fry them in the butter for ten minutes, then add them to the milk with the bay leaves and peppercorns, sprinkle in the barley, and let it cook slowly for four hours in a double saucepan, removing any scum that rises; pass through a fine sieve (do not press it), return to the saucepan, and add the cream, and simmer for a few minutes ; serve with sippets. Add a little more milk if too thick.8 SOUPS AND PUREES 4. Carrot Soup (No. i). Ingredients. One pound of Carrots. One quart of Milk. Three-quarters of an ounce of Butter. Four ounces of Onion. A tablespoonf ul of white Eoux or a teaspoonf ul of Corn Flour. One dozen white Peppercorns. Wash and scrape the carrots, and boil them until tender in plenty of salted water; they will take from half an hour to two hours, according to age. Put the milk with the peppercorns, loosely tied in muslin, in a saucepan to get hot on the stove. Fry the onion in the butter until a very pale yellow (it must not brown), add it to the milk, and let it boil up, and then simmer for an hour. Rub the carrots through a sieve. Remove the peppercorns from the milk—squeezing the muslin well in doing so to extract the flavour. Pour the milk through the sieve and rub the onion through. Mix smoothly, and return the soup to the saucepan and boil it up. Thicken with either the white roux or the corn flour. If the corn flour is used, be careful to mix it smoothly first with cold milk. Then boil up again, and serve with either fried croutons or toasted bread cut in dice. 5. Carrot Soup (No. 2). Ingredients. One pound of Carrots (red part only). One quart of Milk (boiling). Two Tomatoes. One ounce of Butter. Pepper to taste. Boil the carrots for half an hour in about a pint of water, then drain and allow them to cool; grate or4 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK pound all the red part until quite smooth. Skin the tomatoes and cook with the butter in a small saucepan, and add to the carrot. Add all to the boiling milk (double saucepan), and let it simmer for three-quarters of an hour. Serve with fried bread. 6. Cauliflower Soup. Ingredients. One large or two small Cauliflowers. One quart white Stock. Boil the cauliflower in water until tender, but not broken. Keep little sprays of the white part to add to the soup before serving; add the rest to the stock and simmer for ten minutes, then put it through a wire sieve. Return to saucepan, add the sprays of cauli- flower, make very hot, and serve. 7. Celery Soup (No. i). Ingredients. Four large heads of Celery. Cayenne Pepper and Nutmeg to One and a half pints of Milk. taste. One tablespoonful of Cream de riz. Quarter of a pint of Cream. Well wash the celery and cut up into small pieces. Boil it in the milk until quite tender (one hour in double saucepan), then pass through a sieve, return to the saucepan and add pepper, nutmeg, a pinch of sugar. Let it simmer for a quarter of an hour, then add the cream about five minutes before serving, but do not let it boil. Serve with croutons or parsley balls.5 SOUPS AND PUREES 8. Celery Soup (No. 2). Ingredients. One good head of Celery. One quart of Milk. One dozen white Peppercorns. Half an ounce of Butter. A tablespoonful of white Roux or a teaspoonful of Corn Flour. Two ounces of Onion. Wash a good sized head of celery and cut it up into pieces two inches long. Put it into a saucepan with the milk and the peppercorns tied in a muslin, leave room for the milk to get into the muslin so that the flavour of the pepper can be extracted. Let it get hot on the stove. In the meantime fry the onion in the butter a pale yellow—it must not brown—and add it to the milk. Let it boil, then simmer until the celery is tender, which should be in an hour or less. Remove the peppercorns, and rub the whole through a sieve. Return to the saucepan and boil up. Thicken with either the roux or corn flour. If the corn flour is used, it must be first smoothly mixed with a very little cold milk. (See " Notes on Cooking.") Serve with croutons of fried bread. 9. Celery Soup (Brown). Ingredients. Three nice heads of Celery. One Spanish Onion. Half a pint of Cream. One quart of Milk. Three Bay leaves. Well wash the celery, and use only the white parts scald the onion, and fry the celery and onion in a little butter or Albene until a nice brown colour. Put a pint and a half of the milk into a double saucepan, and6 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK when it boils put in the fried celery and onion, and keep it boiling until the mixture becomes a pulp. Then pass through a sieve, and add the cream to the mixture. While these have been cooking the other half-pint of milk should have been boiling separately with the bay leaves ; take out the bay leaves and add the milk to the rest of the mixture, also a little pepper. Put all back into the saucepan to get very hot, and serve. 10. Cheese Soup. Ingredients. Eight tablespoonfuls of grated One and a half ounces of Butter. dry Cheddar Cheese. Four ounces of Onions. Four tablespoonfuls of Bread- One quart of Water. crumbs. One spot of Parisian Essence. Twelve black Peppercorns. Slice the onions and throw them into a saucepan of cold water, let them boil up very quickly, then drain them and mince them finely and fry them in the butter; they must be a nice rich brown, but must not on any account burn. Now add the water, which must be boiling, and the pepper tied loosely on a bit of muslin; let them boil up quickly and simmer for half an hour. Mix the bread-crumbs and cheese and put them at the bottom of a warm soup tureen. Remove the muslin containing the peppercorns from the soup, and squeeze well to extract all the flavour. Add a spot of Parisian Essence. Boil up again and pour over the breadcrumbs and cheese in the tureen, stirring all the time the soup is being poured in. Let the tureen remain one minute before the Are, and if any skin forms on the top it should be removed carefully before serving; this, how-SOUPS AND PUREES 7 ever, should be done very quickly as the soup must be served very hot. Parisian Essence is simply burnt sugar, which is sold under that name at all grocers; it is much more convenient and economical than a home- made preparation. (See " Hints on Cooking.") 11. Cucumber Puree. Ingredients. Two large Cucumbers. One tablespoonful of grated One quart of Milk. Onion. One ounce of Butter. One tablespoonful of Cream. One and a half ounces of Flour. Pepper to taste. Peel and cut the cucumber into two-inch lengths (remove the seeds if old cucumbers are used). Put the milk into a double saucepan and bring it to the boil, then add the cucumber and let it cook for twenty minutes; add the onion, pepper, and butter. Mix the flour to a smooth paste in a little cold water; add this and allow all to boil for ten minutes, stirring all the time. Let it stand for a few minutes, add the cream, and serve with fried croutons. 12. Leek Soup (White). Ingredients. Four Leeks. One tablespoonful of white One quart of Milk. fioux, or a dessertspoonful One ounce of Butter. of Corn Flour. Twelve white Peppercorns. Four Cloves. Prepare the leeks exactly as in the preceding recipe until the frying in the butter, when they must not be allowed to get brown, only a light yellow. Then add8 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK them to the milk, which must have been heating on the stove, with the white peppercorns tied loosely in muslin. Let them boil up, and then simmer for an hour. Re- move the cloves and peppercorns. Thicken with either the white roux or the corn flour. If the corn flour is used it must be first mixed smoothly with a little cold milk. (See " Hints on Cooking.11) Let it boil up, and serve with toasted bread cut in dice. 13. Leek Soup (Brown). Ingredients. Four Leeks. One quart of Water. Eight tablespoonfuls of grated dry Cheddar Cheese. One and a half ounces of Butter. One spot of Parisian Essence. Twelve black Peppercorns. Remove the outer leaves and trim the roots of the leeks. Divide them lengthwise into quarters, and cut them into pieces an inch long. Wash them quite free from grit—be very careful about this as they are diffi- cult to wash. Put them into cold water and bring them quickly to boiling-point; let them boil three minutes. Drain them, and fry a light brown in the butter. Now put them in a saucepan with the water and the black peppercorns loosely tied in muslin; let them boil up quickly and then simmer gently for an hour. Remove the peppei'corns and squeeze the muslin well, to extract all the flavour. Put the grated cheese at the bottom of a warm soup tureen. Pour the soup, which must have boiled up again, over the cheese, stirring all the time, and serve with toasted bread cut in dice.SOUPS AND PUREES 9 14. Macaroni Soup (No. i). Ingredients. One quart of Milk. One ounce of Butter. Half a pound of Macaroni. | Pepper to taste. Boil the macaroni in half a pint of water for twenty minutes, then drain and cut in half-inch lengths. Boil the milk (in a double saucepan) with the butter and pepper, thicken with two tablespoonfuls of barley flour or potato flour, add the macaroni, and cook for three- quarters of an hour. 15. Macaroni Soup (No. 2). Ingredients. One and a half ounces of Macaroni. One quart of Water. Eight tablespoonfuls of grated dry Cheddar Cheese. One and a half ounces of Butter. Four ounces of Onions. One spot of Parisian Essence. Twelve black Peppercorns. Break up the macaroni into two-inch lengths and throw it into plenty of fast boiling water, and let it boil quickly for an hour, when it will be tender enough to cut into small pieces about a quarter of an inch long. Slice the onions and put them in cold water, bring them to boiling-point as quickly as possible, then drain them and mince finely. Now fry them in the butter a nice brown—not too dark—and stir them into the water, which must be boiling. Add the black peppercorns tied in muslin, and simmer for half an hour. Take out the peppercorns and squeeze the muslin to extract all the flavour. Put in the bits of macai'oni. Place the grated10 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK cheese in a warm soup tureen. Boil up the soup and stir it into the cheese. Serve at once. Sparghetti or any other form of macaroni does just as well as pipe macaroni. 16. Mulligatawny Soup. Ingredients. Six tablespoonf uls of cold curried Three Bay leaves. vegetables. | One pint and a half of Water. Any curried vegetables left over from the day before will come in nicely for this soup. Pass them through a sieve and put into a saucepan with the water. If the soup is liked very strong it will be well to add another teaspoonful of currie-powder; mix it in a little cold water first, then add to the mixture with the bay leaves and let simmer for about half an hour. Remove the bay leaves, and serve with plain boiled rice. 17. Onion Soup (No. i). Ingredients. Eight large Spanish Onions. One quart of Milk. Two blades of Mace. Six Peppercorns. Three Cloves. Take off" the two outer skins of onions and scald with boiling water ; put into a saucepan, with half a pint of water and half a pint of milk, the mace, peppercorns, and cloves, and boil for one and a half hours, then pass all through a sieve and put into the remainder of the milk (i| pints), which should be boiling (in a double saucepan). Thicken with a tablespoonful of potatoSOUPS AND PUREES 11 flour, and serve very hot. A little butter and cream can be added if liked. 18. Onion Soup (No. 2). Ingredients. One large Onion. Slice of Bread half an inch thick. Two ounces of Butter. | One pint of vegetable Stock. Cut the onion into dice, put into a stewpan with the butter, and fry a golden brown. Toast the slice of bread to the same colour, break into small pieces, and add to the onion with the stock. Simmer gently for thirty-five minutes. Or, Cut up an onion and fry a golden brown in a saucepan over a slow fire. Add a pint of boiling water and cook half an hour. Strain through a sieve, add two ounces of vermicelli, and cook twenty minutes. Pepper to taste. 19. Onion Soup (No. 3). Ingredients. One pound of Onions. One tablespoonful of white Roux One quart of Milk. Half an ounce of Butter. One dozen white Peppercorns. Slice the onions and throw them into cold water. Bring them quickly to boiling-point and let them boil for twenty minutes, then drain them. Now add them to the milk, which should be heating slowly on the stove, with the peppercorns loosely tied in a bit of muslin so that the flavour can be extracted more easily. Put in the butter and boil up quickly, then simmer very slowly12 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK for half an hour. Remove the peppercorns and pour into a sieve, rubbing all the onion through. Now return to the saucepan and thicken with the white roux, and let it boil up. Serve with toasted bread cut into dice. 20. Parsnip Soup. Ingredients. One pound of Parsnips. Two ounces of Onions. Three sticks of Celery. One quart of Milk. One ounce of Butter. A tablespoonful of white Roux, or a bare dessertspoonful of Corn Flour. One dozen white Peppercorns. Slice the parsnips and the onions, cut the celery into two-inch lengths. Put the parsnips in a saucepan to boil quickly for half an hour, then add the onions and celery for five minutes. Drain them carefully and put them in a dry stewpan with the butter and let them fry until the onion is a very pale yellow ; don't let any of the vegetables get brown. Now add the milk which must be boiling, and the peppercorns tied loosely in a bit of muslin. Let them stew very gently for an hour, then pour into a wire sieve and rub all the vegetables through, first removing the peppercorns. Return the soup to the pan, and stir until quite smooth. Thicken with either white roux or corn flour. If corn flour is used, mix first with very little cold milk. Let the soup boil up again. Serve with toasted bread cut into dice. 21. Potato Soup (No. i). Ingredients. One and a half pints of Milk. Three large Onions. Three Bay leaves. Two tablespoonfuls of Cream. Boil the potatoes together with the onions (which must first be scalded) in one pint of water for three-quartersSOUPS AND PUREES 13 of an hour, then pass through a sieve. Add to them the boiling milk (in a double saucepan) with the bay leaves, and simmer for half an hour. Add the cream last thing and serve with fried croutons. 22. Potato Soup (No. 2). Ingredients. Two pounds of Potatoes. One Onion. One Leek. Head of Celery. One ounce of Butter. Pint and a half of Water. Half a pint of Milk. Three tablespoonfuls of Tapioca. Pepper to taste. Peel and slice the potatoes. Scald the onion in boiling water. Clean and take away all the outside and green part of the leek, also the outside of the celery, and put all into a stewpan with the butter. Let them all cook for an hour and a half without burning—shake the pan constantly to prevent this—add the water, and cook until soft. Rub through a sieve and put them back into the paxi with the milk. Let it come gently to boiling-point, and then sprinkle in the crushed tapioca and boil for another quarter of an hour. More milk may be added if required. 23. Potato Soup (No. 3). Ingredients. Four large Potatoes. One quart of Milk. Four ounces of Onion. One ounce of Butter. Pepper. Choose four potatoes weighing quite a pound. Wash and scrub them well and bake them in their skins.14 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK They will take quite an hour in a hot oven. Now squeeze out the potato into a sieve, and rub it through. Slice the onion and throw it into cold water ; bring it to boiling-point quickly, then drain at once, and fry a pale yellow in the butter. Add to it the milk and boil up quickly, then let it simmer for half an hour. Pour it into the sieve which the potatoes have been rubbed through, and rub all the onion through also. Stir it carefully so that no lumps remain and return it to the saucepan. Add pepper to taste and boil up, stirring all the time. Serve with toasted bread cut into dice. 24. Potato Soup (Brown). Ingredients. One quart of Milk. One pound of Potatoes (cold will do). One Spanish Onion (peeled and scalded with boiling water). Pepper to taste. Fry the potatoes and onions together in a little Albene until a dark brown (about one hour), but not burnt. Pass all through a wire sieve, then add to the boiling milk (in a double saucepan), and let it simmer for half an hour. Add a little colouring if needed. 25. Puree Blanc. Ingredients. Six large Potatoes. Three large Onions. One quart of Milk. One ounce of Butter. One tablespoonful of Cream. Put the milk into a double saucepan, prepare the potatoes and onions (scald the latter), and add to theSOUPS AND PUREES 15 milk with a little pepper and nutmeg. Let them simmer gently until the vegetables are thoroughly cooked. Pass all through a sieve and put in double saucepan and boil again ; add the butter and cream, and serve with fried croutons. A little parsley may added if liked, and this soup is very good made with half water and half milk. 26. Rice and Tomato Soup. Ingredients. One tablespoonful of Rice. One quart of Milk. One pound of Tomatoes. One ounce of Butter. Four ounces of Onions. One dozen white Peppercorns. Throw the rice into plenty of slightly salted water, and let it boil slowly for twenty minutes or until tender. It should boil quickly for two or three minutes at first. Drain it, and keep it warm until it is wanted. Slice the onions and throw them into cold water, let them first boil and then drain them. Now fry them in a stewpan in the butter, a very light yellow. Slice the tomatoes and add them to the onions, and let all simmer slowly—so that the mixture will not become dry—for half an hour. The milk—with the peppercorns tied loosely in muslin—must in the meantime be heating on the stove. Let it boil up before adding it to the onion and tomato, when all should simmer together for a quarter of an hour. Remove the peppercorns, squeezing the muslin well to extract all the flavour; pour all into a sieve and rub the tomato and onion through. Mix smoothly and return to the pan. Add the rice, with salt to taste, and let all boil up together. Serve very hot.16 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 27. Salsify Soup. Ingredients. One pound of Salsify. One tablespoonful of white One quart of Milk. Boux. Half an ounce of Butter. One dozen white Peppercorns. Scrape the salsify and throw them into cold water in which a little vinegar has been put; let them remain until required. Boil them in lightly salted water until tender, which should be in an hour, when they must be rubbed through a sieve. Put the peppercorns in the milk and let it boil, then simmer very slowly for half an hour. Strain out the peppercorns, and add the milk slowly to the salsify, mixing well. Now return to the saucepan, and boil up. Add the white roux and boil again. Serve with croutons of fried bread. 28. Spinach Soup. Ingredients. Four tablespoonfuls of boiled One ounce of Butter. Spinach. One tablespoonful of white Two ounces of Onion, Boux. One quart of Milk. One dozen white Peppercorns. Prepare the spinach as follows : Wash well in three or four waters, always lifting the spinach from the water with the hands to let the sand drop to the bottom of the pail. Boil it in as little water as will keep it from burning and stir frequently ; it will take from ten to fifteen minutes to cook, according to age. Drain it and rub through a sieve. What is left over after the soup is made can be used for one of the other spinach dishes for which recipes are given.17 SOUPS AND PUKEES Slice the onion, throw it into cold water, bring it quickly to boiling-point, then drain carefully and fry it in the butter a pale yellow. Now put it in the milk, which must have boiled with the peppercorns. Let all simmer together for half an hour, then strain out the onion and peppercorns, and add the milk to the pre- pared spinach. Mix smoothly and boil up. Thicken with white roux. Serve with fried croutons of bread. 29. Spinach (Puree of). Ingredients. A pint of Spinach Pulp. | Two ounces of Butter. Pepper. Boil the spinach as in preceding recipe, and when it is tender rub it through a sieve. Put the pulp in a saucepan with the butter and pepper. Stir it over the fire until it is quite hot. Serve with croutons. 30. Stock for White Soup. Ingredients. One quart of Milk. One ounce of Butter. Two ounces of Barley Flour. | Pepper to taste. Well mix the barley flour with a little cold milk until quite smooth. Let the milk be boiling (in a double saucepan), add the barley flour, butter, and pepper, and boil until it thickens. 218 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 31. Swiss Soup. Ingredients. One large Carrot. Two Artichokes. One large Leek. Half a Cauliflower. Two Turnips. One quart of Milk. Six Brussels Sprouts. Two tablespoonfuls of Cream. Prepare the vegetables and cut with fancy cutter, and boil carrot, turnips, leeks, and artichokes together in half a pint of water till soft, but not broken ; then add the sprouts and cauliflower for five minutes. Strain the vegetables, taking care not to break them, but save the water they were boiled in and add it to the boiling milk (in a double saucepan), thicken with two table- spoonfuls of barley flour (or white flour); add the vege- tables and cream last thing. 32. Tomato Soup (No. i). Ingredients. One pound of Tomatoes. One dozen white Peppercorns. Four ounces of Onions. One tablespoonf ul of white Koux, One quart of Milk. or bare dessertspoonful of One ounce of Butter. Corn Flour. Slice the onions and throw them into cold water, bring them quickly to boiling-point, then drain them carefully. Now fry them a pale yellow in the butter. Cut the tomatoes in halves and put them in a stewpan, add the fried onion, and simmer them for half an hour gently so that they will not get dry. Boil the milk with the peppercorns ; as soon as it has boiled, let it simmer for half an hour, then strain. Rub the tomato and onion through a sieve, add the boiled milk, andSOUPS AND PUREES 19 mix well. Return to the saucepan, and thicken with either white roux or corn flour. If the corn flour is used it must be first mixed smoothly with a little cold milk and added to the soup when almost boiling. Boil up again. Serve with croutons of fried bread. 33. Tomato Soup (No. 2). Ingredients. Two pounds of Tomatoes. One tablespoonfuliof chopped One large Onion. Parsley. One quart of Milk. One tablespoonful of Flour. One ounce of Butter. Pepper to taste. Cut up the tomatoes and onions (scald well first) and cook in half a pint of water until tender, then pass through a sieve. Boil the milk in a double saucepan, thicken with one tablespoonful of flour (mixed into a smooth paste in a little cold milk first), add to the milk a little parsley and the tomatoes and onions and make very hot, but do not boil. Serve with macaroni and fried bread. 34. Tomato Soup (No. 3). Ingredients. One pound of Tomatoes. Four Bay leaves. One ounce of Butter. Very little Nutmeg. Two Onions. One dessertspoonful of white One pint and a half of Milk. Koux. Pepper to taste. Well scald the onions (see "Hints on Cooking"), and put them into a double saucepan with the milk and bay leaves. Let them cook slowly for two hours, then take out the onions and bay leaves and thicken withTHE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 20 the roux. With half the butter add pepper and nut- meg, and stand the saucepan where it will keep very hot but not boil. Pour boiling water on the tomatoes, when the skin will come off easily, cut them into rather thick slices, and cook for fifteen minutes in a small saucepan with the other half ounce of butter. Add all together, make very hot, and serve with fried croutons. 35. Tomato Soup (Brown). Ingredients. One pound of Tomatoes. Four ounces of Onions. One quart of Water. One and a half ounces of Butter. Eight tablespoonfuls of grated dry Cheddar Cheese. One spot of Parisian Essence. One dozen black Peppercorns. Slice the onions and throw them into cold water, bring them quickly to boiling-point, then drain them carefully. Now slice the tomatoes and fry them with the onions in the butter until they are a nice brown— not too dark. Add them to the water—which must be boiling—and the peppercorns, loosely tied in a bit of muslin. Boil up, and let them simmer for half an hour. Remove the peppercorns and pour the rest into a sieve, and rub the onions and tomato through. Now return to the saucepan, and boil up. Place the cheese at the bottom of a warm soup tureen, stir in the soup, and serve immediately. Send either croutons, or toast cut in dice, to table with the soup.21 SOUPS AND PUREES 36. Tomato Soup (Green). Ingredients. One pint of hard green Toma- One pint of Milk. toes. Half an ounce of Butter. One teaspoonful of Carbonate of One tablespoonful of Flour. Soda. Pepper to taste. Cut the tomatoes into dice and put into a deep saucepan with a pint and a half of water; first bring the water to the boil. Let boil again after the toma- toes are in. Have ready the soda and milk, put in the soda and then the milk, stir well, and bring to the boil. Well mix the butter and flour together; add this last thing with the pepper. 37. Tomato Puree. Ingredients. One pound of Tomatoes. Two tablespoonfuls of Brown Gravy. One ounce of Butter. Pepper. The gravy is made according to recipe for Brown Gravy. Slice the tomatoes into a stewpan, add the gravy and the butter, and let them boil up quickly, stirring occasionally. As soon as the tomatoes come to boiling-point cover the saucepan closely, and put it where it will not boil but stew very gently, as the tomatoes must not get dry. Stew for half an hour, and stir once or twice during the time. Rub through a sieve, and serve with toasted bread or croutons. Tomato puree is used for so many dishes that it would be well to have a supply on hand during the hotTHE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK weather. Tomatoes should be very sparingly used during cold weather as the acid is liable to disagree with many people. 38. Turnip Soup. Ingredients. One pound of Turnips. Two sticks of Celery. One quart of Milk. One ounce of Butter. Four ounces of Onions, One dozen white Peppercorns. One tablespoonful of either white Roux or a bare dessertspoon- ful of Corn Flour. Cut the turnips in quarters and let them boil quickly for half an hour, then drain them. Slice the onions, throw them in cold water, bring them quickly to boil- ing-point, then drain them immediately and fry them in the butter a pale yellow. Now add them to the milk, which must have been boiled with the pepper- corns (tied in a bit of muslin). Cut the celery in two- inch lengths, and add that also with the turnips to the milk. Let all stew together until the turnip is tender, which should be in half an hour. Remove the pepper- corns and pour into a sieve. Rub all the vegetables through and return to the saucepan. Thicken with either white roux or corn flour. If corn flour is used it must be first smoothly mixed with a little cold milk. (See " Hints on Cooking.11) Boil up after the thicken- ing has been added. Serve with either croutons or toasted bread cut in dice.23 SOUPS AND PUREES 39. Turnips (Puree of). Ingredients. Two pounds of Turnips. | One ounce of Butter. Pepper. Boil the turnips until tender, which will be from half an hour to an hour and a half, according to age. Drain them very carefully and rub them through a sieve. Put them in a clean saucepan with the butter, and pepper to taste. Stir them over the fire until the butter has melted, and they are very hot. 40. Vegetable Soup (No. i). Ingredients. Half a pound of Carrots. Six ounces of Onions. A small head of Celery. One quart of Milk. One ounce of Butter. One tablespoonful of white Koux. One dozen white Peppercorns. Cut the carrots in halves, then in two-inch pieces. Boil them in plenty of water for half an hour. Slice the onions and put them in cold water, let them boil up quickly, and then drain them. Fry them in the butter and add them to the milk, which must have boiled with the peppercorns (tied in a bit of muslin). Cut the celery into two-inch lengths and add that also to the milk with the carrots. Stew all together for half an hour after boiling. Remove the peppercorns, pour into a sieve, and rub all the vegetables through. Thicken with white roux. Boil up after adding the thickening. Serve with toasted bread cut in dice.24 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 41. Vegetable Soup (No. 2). Ingredients. Two pounds of mixed Vege- tables : Carrots. Turnips. Leeks. Onions (scalded). Potatoes. Parsnips (very little). Artichokes. Celery. One and a half pints of Milk. Pepper to taste. Boil all the vegetables together in half a pint ot water until soft; pass all through a sieve; add to the boiling milk (in a double saucepan) and simmer gently for a half an hour. 42. Vegetable Marrow Soup. Ingredients. One pound of Vegetable Marrow. One ounce of Butter. Four ounces of Onions. One quart of Milk. Two large sprigs of Parsley. One tablespoonful of white Eoux. The peel of a quarter of a Lemon. One dozen white Peppercorns. Slice the onions and throw them into cold water, let them boil up quickly, then drain. Now fry them a nice pale yellow in the butter. Cut the vegetable marrow in slices and add it with the fried onion to the milk, which must have boiled. Tie the sprigs of parsley together, put the lemon-peel and the pepper- corns in a muslin, and add both to the milk. Boil up quickly, then simmer until the marrow is quite tender, which should be in half an hour. Remove the muslin with peppercorns and lemon-peel in it, squeeze it care- fully to extract all the flavour. Take out the parsley ; pour the rest into a sieve, and rub the vegetable marrow and onion through. Return to the saucepan, thickenSOUPS AND PUREES 25 with white roux. Boil up after the thickening is added. Serve with croutons of fried bread. 43. Vermicelli Soup (No. i). Ingredients. One and a half ounces of Vermi- Eight tablespoonfuls of grated celli. dry Cheddar Cheese. One quart of Water. One spot of Parisian Essence. One ounce and a half of Butter. Twelve black Peppercorns. Boil the vermicelli in plenty of slightly salted water for twenty minutes. Slice the onions and put them in cold water, bring them to boiling-point as quickly as possible, then drain them and mince them finely. Now fry them in the butter a nice brown—not too dark— and stir them into the water, which must be boiling. Add the black peppercorns (tied in muslin) and simmer for half an hour. Take out the peppercorns and squeeze the muslin to extract all the flavour. Drain the vermi- celli and add it to the soup. Place the grated cheese in a warm soup tureen. Boil up the soup and stir it into the cheese. Serve immediately. 44. Vermicelli Soup (No. 2). Ingredients. One quart of Milk. Half a pound of Vermicelli. One Onion. One tablespoonful of Cream. Wash the vermicelli and boil it until tender in boiling water, drain it. Put the milk into a double saucepan26 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK with the onion (which must first he scalded with boiling water)and boil for twenty minutes; take the onion out and pour the milk over the vermicelli and return it to the saucepan, and let it simmer for ten minutes. Add the cream last thing, and serve very hot with croutons.SAVOURIES. 45. American Corn Rissoles. Ingredients. One pint of American Corn. Yolk of one Egg (not more One tablespoonful of Cream. than six hours old). Whites of two Eggs. One ounce of Apsley Kusks. Cook the corn for one hour in a double saucepan, when cool add the cream, eggs, and rusk crumbs; beat all well together, form into cakes, and fry in boiling Albene until a golden brown. 46. Apsley Duck. Ingredients. One nice Vegetable Marrow. Four Sage leaves. Six ounces of Bread-crumbs Pepper. (white). White of one Egg. Half a grated Spanish Onion. Peel the marrow evenly and remove one end and take out all the seeds, then fill up with the following mixture : Bread-crumbs, grated onion (scald the onion well first), sage, and plenty of pepper. Mix well together and bind with the well-beaten white of egg. Fill the marrow and bake in a moderate oven for one and a half hours. Baste well with butter. Serve with apple sauce and brown gravy.28 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 47. Artichokes (Jerusalem), Scalloped. Ingredients. One pound of Artichokes. Four tablespoonfuls of Bread- A quarter of a pound of grated crumbs. Parmesan Cheese. Two ounces of Butter. Pepper. Wash and pare the artichokes, boil them until quite tender, which should be in twenty minutes. Press all the water from them and rub them through a sieve. Now beat in one ounce of the butter and season them with pepper. Butter either a French baking-dish, or sufficient china scallop shells to hold the mixture— room must be left in each shell for the Parmesan and bread-crumbs. If a dish has been used, sprinkle the Parmesan evenly over the artichoke puree, and then the bread-crumbs in the same way. Break up the remaining ounce of butter in bits, and scatter them over the dish. If the scallop shells are used the Parmesan, bread-crumbs and butter must be divided according to the number of scallops. They should be browned nicely in a quick oven. 48. Bread and Onion Pudding. Ingredients. Quarter of a pound of Bread The whites of two Eggs. raspings. Half a pint of Milk. A teaspoonful of Sage. One ounce of Butter. Half a pound of Onions. Pepper. Put the bread raspings in a bowl. (See "Bread Raspings".) Boil the milk and pour it over the raspings ; cover with a plate and let them stand for anSAVOURIES 29 hour. Now slice the onions—they must be weighed after peeling. Throw them into cold water and let them come to a boil as quickly as possible; let them boil fast for three minutes then drain the water from them. Chop them roughly and add them to the milk raspings. Rub the sage between the fingers and put it through a sieve, so that there will be no bits of stalk in it, add it with a seasoning of pepper to the other ingredients. Now beat up the whites of egg and melt the butter, mix both very carefully into the pudding. It may be either baked for an hour in a moderate oven and served in the dish it was baked in, or steamed for two hours in a well buttered mould and turned out. 49. Cauliflower, Curried. Ingredients. A medium-sized Cauliflower. | Half a pint of brown Gravy. Curry Powder. Prepare the cauliflower exactly as in the preceding recipe, but it should be divided into pieces about the size of a large walnut. When the cauliflower is tender, and well drained, place it in a stewpan and pour over it the gravy, in which a teaspoonful of curry powder has been smoothly mixed. Let it stand for ten minutes where it will not boil but keep it very hot. The gravy must be made according to the recipe for " Brown Gravy,"" but a little more thickening must be added. More or less curry powder can be added, but this quantity will suit ordinary tastes. Serve with boiled rice. (See " Rice, boiled for Curry".)30 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 50. Cauliflower with Parmesan Cheese. Ingredients. A small Cauliflower. Two ounces of grated Parmesan Cheese. A quarter of a pint of Plain White Sauce. Trim all the green from the cauliflower, wash it well, and cut the stalk so that it will stand firmly on a baking-dish. Place it in a little vinegar and water for a quarter of an hour, to draw out the insects, then put it into boiling water with a little salt. It will take about twenty minutes to boil. Try the stalk to see whether it is tender ; it must not be broken. Drain it very carefully and place it in a baking-dish. A French fireproof dish is the best, as the cauliflower can be sent to table in it. Make a quarter of a pint of sauce from recipe for " Plain White Sauce." Pour this carefully over the cauliflower, then sprinkle the Parmesan cheese over the sauce and brown in a hot oven. Serve immediately. 51. Cauliflower a la Maitre d'Hotel. Ingredients. One ounce of Butter. | One ounce of Bread-crumbs. One Cauliflower. Cook the cauliflower first, and pick out all the white pieces and sprinkle them with bread-crumbs, and put over them pieces of butter. Pour the following sauce over: Two ounces of grated Cheese, One ounce of Butter. One pint of Milk. One tablespoonful of Flour.SAVOURIES 31 Make a sauce of these and pour round, or serve separately. 52. Cauliflower and Tomato Souffle. Ingredients. One Cauliflower. Three ounces of grated Par- Three Tomatoes. mesan Cheese. Three tablespoonfuls of melted One ounce of Bread-crumbs. Butter. White of three Eggs. Pepper to taste. Cook the cauliflower until quite tender, then pass it through a coarse sieve with the tomatoes (which have been previously skinned), mix in the melted butter, add the cheese and pepper; last of all add the whipped whites of eggs. Stir very lightly and put into a buttered souffle tin. Sprinkle with the bread-crumbs, and bake from twenty minutes to half an hour. 53. Cauliflower au Gratin. Ingredients. One large Cauliflower. One tablespoonful of Flour. One ounce of brown Bread- One gill of Milk. crumbs. Three ounces of grated Cheese. One ounce of Butter. Pepper to taste. Clean and partly boil the cauliflower and drain it well. Make a sauce as follows: Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, pour the milk in, and let boil for ten minutes, stirring all the time, then add the cheese and pepper. Pour this sauce over the cauli- flower, sprinkle the bread-crumbs on top, and put into a Dutch oven for fifteen minutes until browned all over. It must be served very hot.32 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 54. Celery Cheese. Ingredients. Two heads of Celery. Four ounces grated Parmesan or A little Bechamel or good White Cheddar Cheese. Sauce. A little Salt, Pepper and Nutmeg. Cook the celery, either plain or braised, and cut into short lengths and put in a well buttered baking-dish. Add the seasoning, then pour over the sauce, and sprinkle the cheese on the top. Bake in a quick oven until browned. 55. Celery Croquettes. Ingredients. Two or three heads of Celery, One pint of Milk. according to size. Two tablespoonfuls of Cream. White of one Egg. Two Bay leaves. Pepper and powdered Mace. Trim and wash the celery and cut it into short lengths. Then pour some boiling water over, and let it stand for ten minutes. Put the milk into a saucepan with the bay leaves, mace, and pepper, and then add the celery to this, and let it cook until tender. When tender drain, and cut it into small pieces. Melt a teaspoonful of butter in a stew-pan and stir in an ounce of flour ; when well mixed add a gill of milk ; stir till it boils, and put in the chopped celery. Cook for about fifteen minutes, adding a little pepper, the white of an egg, and a little cream. Spread the mixture on a dish and let it get cold. Make up into Croquettes, roll them in rusk crumbs, and ivy in boiling Albene to33 SAVOURIES a golden colour. Drain well on a cloth or paper, and serve hot. 56. Celery au Gratin. Ingredients. Four heads of Celery (white One pint of Milk. part only). One tablespoonful of Flour. Two tablespoonfuls of grated One tablespoonful of Butter. Parmesan Cheese. Pepper to taste. Cook the celery in the milk for half an hour, then drain and cut into three-inch lengths ; make a sauce with the flour, butter, and the milk the celery was boiled in, then add the cheese; mix well. Butter a pie dish, put in a layer of celery, and then a layer of sauce, till the dish is full. Sprinkle bread-crumbs on the top, and add bits of butter. Put in the oven to brown (about half an hour). 57. Celery and Macaroni Stew, Ingredients. Three heads of white Celery. One pint of Milk and Water. One Bay Leaf. Two ounces of Macaroni. Gill and a half Bechamel Sauce. Little Pepper, and Grate of Nutmeg. Trim and wash the celery and boil it till tender in the milk and water, with the bay leaf. Drain and cut into short lengths. Cook the macaroni in boiling water, drain, and cut into short pieces also. Heat up the sauce, and add the celery and macaroni, with the seasoning, and let the whole simmer for fifteen minutes. Do not break the celery or macaroni, and serve very hot. 3THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 34 58. Celery Sticks (a Cold Savoury). Ingredients. One head of Celery. Half a Cream Cheese. One ounce of Butter. Pepper, Mustard, Cayenne, and a little chopped Parsley. Well clean the celery and cut the nicest white sticks into three lengths. Mix the butter, cheese, and season- ing together, and fill in the concaves with the mixture. Serve garnished with parsley. 59. Cheese (Baked). German Dish. Ingredients. Four ounces of Cheese. An Onion or Shallot the size Half an ounce of Butter. of a filbert. A quarter of a pint of Milk. Pepper. If the cheese is fresh it may be cut into thin slices, but if dry it must be grated. Place it at the bottom of a shallow baking-dish. Slice the onion and throw it into cold water; bring it quickly to boiling-point, and let it boil one minute, then drain it, and mince it finely and sprinkle it over the cheese with a little pepper. Now beat the white of egg, but only until it ceases to be stringy, then mix it well into the milk and pour it over the cheese. Bake it in a hot oven until it sets. Sprinkle the top with bread raspings. (See " Bread Raspings.'-') Return it to the oven for one minute, and rve as hot as possible.35 SAVOURIES 60, Cheese Balls, 'Ingredients. Two ounces of Cheese. | Whites of two Eggs. Pepper to taste. Beat the whites of the eggs on a plate until quite stiff'; add the cheese (grated), and the pepper. Mix with a knife. Form the mixture into small balls, roll in toast crumbs, and put into boiling Albene. Cook till a pale brown colour, and serve very hot on a napkin. The drier the cheese the better. 61. Cheese (Devilled), Ingredients. Two ounces of Cheese. One tahlespoonful of hot Pickles. Piece of Butter size of a walnut. Cayenne Pepper and Mustard to taste. Put the cheese into a stewpan with the butter, and allow it to melt; when quite melted, add the pickles, chopped up, and the pepper and mustard, and serve on rounds of toast. 62. Cheese Dumpling. Ingredients. Six ounces of Cheese. One Onion. Pepper to taste. Partly cook the onion, strain, and chop up finely; grate the cheese, add to the onion with the pepper. Have ready some paste, put the mixture in the centre. Enclose and form into a ball, and dust with flour; tie it up in a cloth, and boil one and a half to two hours.36 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 63. Cheese Fingers. Ingredients. Two slices of Toast. One tablespoonful of Cream. Two tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan. Two ounces of Sweet Almonds. Pepper to taste. One tablespoonful of chopped Parsley. Blanch the almonds and cut them in four, fry in the butter till a golden brown, and drain well. Mix together the cream and cheese, pepper, and chopped parsley, and spread the mixture on the toast; cut into lengths about one and a half inches wide, sprinkle the almonds on top, and serve very hot. 64. Cheese Fritters. Ingredients. Two ounces of grated Cheese. Half a pint of Milk. Two ounces of Flour. The white of one Egg. Salad Oil, or Albene. Mix the milk, a little at a time, very smoothly with the flour, and let it stand for two hours or more; it must be covered. Now mix in the grated cheese. Beat the white of egg until it is all froth, but it need not be very stiff, and add that also to the batter. Have some salad oil, or "Albene," hot enough for frying (see "Hints on Cooking1'), and put in the batter a table- spoonful at a time. As the fritters are cooked remove them with a fish-slice and put them on an inverted sieve to drain. Keep the batter mixed as each tablespoonful is taken out. Serve as hot as possible, piled up on a dish.SAVOURIES 37 65. Cheese Omelet. Ingredients. Three teaspoonfuls of grated One ounce of Butter. Cheese. Whites of three Eggs One teaspoonful of chopped Pepper to taste. Parsley. Whip the whites of the eggs !to a very stiff froth, then add the cheese and pepper, lastly the chopped parsley (which must be very fine and quite dry), and mix all lightly together. Melt the butter in a small frying-pan; when it is smoking hot pour the mixture in; let it set, then fold over and send to table on a hot- water dish, without a cover; but it must be served at once. 66. Cheese on Toast. Ingredients. Two ounces of grated Cheese. A slice of buttered Toast. Two tablespoonfuls of Milk. Pepper. Grate two ounces of any kind of dry cheese, or, if the cheese is too new to grate, slice it very thinly. Put the cheese in a small stewpan with the milk, and very little pepper. Stir over the fire, or a gas ring, until it is quite melted. Have ready a piece of buttered toast about four inches square. Pour the cheese evenly over the toast, and serve as quickly as possible on a hot- water dish.THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 38 67. Cheese and Onion on Toast. Ingredients. A slice of buttered Toast. Half a pint of Milk. Two ounces of grated Cheese. | Half a pound of Onions. Pepper. Prepare the toast as in preceding recipe. The onions must be weighed after they are peeled. Slice them and throw them into cold water. Let them boil up quicklv, then drain them well. Chop them a little and put them with the milk; bring them quickly to boiling-point, then stir gently until quite tender, which should be in about half an hour. Season nicely with pepper, and add the cheese, stirring until it has melted. Pour over the toast, and serve as hot as possible. 68. Cheese Paste for Sandwiches. Ingredients. Six ounces of grated Cheese. Four tablespoonfuls of Tomato Pur6e. Pepper. Mix the grated cheese to a smooth paste with the tomato puree. (See " Tomabo Puree.") Add pepper to taste. The paste will keep for three or four days, but it must be kept covered. Spread on thin bread and butter.39 SAVOURIES 69. Cheese and Potato Pudding. German Dish. Ingredients. Three ounces of Parmesan Cheese. The whites of six Eggs Six ounces of Potato. Half a pint of Cream. Three ounces of Butter. Pepper. The potatoes should be prepared as potato snow Melt the butter slightly and beat it to a cream, then mix it well with the potatoes. Make the cream hot and pour it over the Parmesan, but do not stir it. When it is nearly cold mix it with the potatoes and the well-beaten whites of eggs ; add pepper to taste. Put the mixture into a well-buttered mould and bake in a moderate oven. Turn out, and serve very hot. 70. Cheese Pudding (No. i). Ingredients. Six ounces of grated Cheese. Half a pint of Milk. Three-quarters of a pound of Two ounces of Butter. Bread-crumbs. The whites of four Eggs. Pepper. Melt the butter in the milk, then pour it over the bread-crumbs and the cheese. Let these cook for twenty minutes, then add a dust of pepper. Beat .he whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and add them to the other ingredients, being careful to mix all well together. Butter a baking dish and pour the mixture into it, and bake in a quick oven for about tluee-quarters of an hour.40 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 71. Cheese Pudding (No. 2). Ingredients. Half a pound of Bread-crumbs. Half a pound of grated Cheese. One pint of Milk. White of one Egg. Pepper to taste. Prepare the cheese, which should be a stale Gruyere or Cheddar, add it to the bread-crumbs, warm the milk and pour it over the cheese and bread-crumbs ; whip the egg to a stiff froth and add to it also the pepper. When the mixture is cool, put into a pudding basin and steam for about half an hour. Equals 2172 grains proteid. 72. Cheese Pudding (No. 3). Ingredients. Six ounces grated Cheese. Four ounces mashed Potatoes. Three ounces Rice. One ounce Butter. White of one Egg. Pepper to taste. Pick over the rice and throw into boiling water ; let it cook for half an hour, then drain, and when cool line a pudding basin with the rice, and fill up with the following mixture : Mash the potatoes with the butter, add the grated cheese and pepper, whip the white of the egg to a stiff froth, mix all together, and fill the basin. Put a greased paper on top, and steam for one hour. Equals 1037 grains proteid.41 SAVOURIES 73. Cheese Pudding (Canadian). Ingredients. Four ounces of grated Cheese. Three ounces of Bread-crumbs. Half a piut of Milk. One ounce of Butter. The whites of three Eggs. A small teaspoonful of mixed Mustard. Boil the milk and pour it over the bread-crumbs, and let them stand on the stove—covered up—for a quarter of an hour. Now mix in the grated cheese, mustard, and butter, and, last of all, the whites of eggs, which must be beaten up to a rather stiff froth. Butter a baking-dish and put in the mixture, and bake for a quarter of an hour to twenty minutes in a hot oven. Serve immediately. 74. Cheese Ramequins (No. i). Ingredients. A quarter of a pound of Pastry. | One ounce of grated Cheese. The white of one Egg. Make the pastry from the recipe, "A good pastry for tarts, &c." Roll out the pastry very thin ; sprinkle over it half the grated cheese ; fold, and roll out again as before. Sprinkle the rest of the cheese, fold the pastry again, and roll out an inch thick. Stamp it into small rounds with a pastry cutter. Brush over with white of egg, and bake in a quick oven. Serve very hot, piled on a dish.THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 42 75. Cheese Ramequins (No. 2). Ingredients. Four ounces of grated Cheese. Three ounces of Bread-crumbs. Half a pint of Milk. One ounce of Butter. The whites of three Eggs. A small teaspoonful of mixed Mustard. Boil the milk and pour it over the bread-crumbs and let them stand on the stove, covered up, for a quarter of an hour. Now mix in the grated cheese, mustard, and butter, and last of all the whites of eggs, which must be beaten to a rather stiff froth. Butter some little china ramequin cases, and fill them three parts full of the mixture. Bake for about ten minutes in a hot oven, and serve immediately. 76. Cheese Sandwiches. Ingredients. Grated Cheese. Bread and Butter. Mustard. Cut some nice thin slices of thin bread and butter, spread over them a very little mustard. Cover them evenly with a very thin layer of grated cheese, and place bread and butter over them. Press the slices of bread and butter together, pare off the outer crust, and cut into three-cornered pieces, and arrange on a napkin. These sandwiches are very nice eaten with either cucumber or lettuce without any dressing.SAVOURIES 43 77. Cheese Straws (No. i). Ingredients. Four ounces of Flour. Two ounces of grated Cheese. Two ounces of Butter. A pinch each of Cayenne and pounded Mace. Rub the butter into the flour. Mix the cheese with the other ingredients well together. Add as much water as will make a stiff paste. Roll out about a quarter of an inch thick. Cut into fingers about four inches long and half an inch wide. Bake them for five minutes in a hot oven, and serve cold. 78. Cheese Straws (No. 2). Ingredients. Two ounces of Cheddar Cheese. I Two ounces of Flour. Two ounces of Parmesan Cheese. | Two ounces of Butter. Pepper to taste. Grate the cheese, add the flour, beat the butter to a cream, and add to the cheese and flour with the pepper. Mix well together with the hand, and roll out about a quarter of an inch thick and cut into fingers, and bake ten minutes. 79. Cheese and Tomato Toast. Ingredients. A slice of buttered Toast. Four tablespoonfuls of Tomato Puree. Pepper. Make a slice of toast an inch thick from a half- quartern loaf, butter it well. Put the tomato puree inTHE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 41 a small stewpan with the grated cheese and a little pepper. Stir over the fire until the cheese is melted, then spread evenly over the toast, and serve as hot as possible. The tomato puree must be made according to recipe given for " Tomato Puree." 80. Cucumber Sandwiches. Ingredients. Slices of Cucumber. Thin Bread and Butter. Grated Cheese. Pepper. Take some neat slices of bread and butter. Sprinkle them with grated cheese, and dust a very little pepper over them. Lay very thinly-sliced cucumber over this and cover them with more bread and butter; press them slightly together and cut off the crust. Cut into nice shapes, and serve on a d'oyley. 81. Cucumber stewed with Onions. Ingredients. A moderate-sized Cucumber. A dessertspoonful of white Boux Half the Cucumber's weight in or a teaspoonful of Corn Flour. Onions. One ounce of Butter. Half a pint of Milk. Pepper. Peel the cucumber and cut it in halves lengthwise, and again into pieces about two inches long. Peel and slice the onions and throw them into cold water, bring them quickly to boiling-point; boil for one minute, then drain. Now put the cucumber with the scalded onions in a stewpan with the milk and a little pepper and let them boil, and then stew gently for half an hour-45 SAVOURIES Thicken with either the white roux or corn flour. Serve very hot with croutons or pieces of toast. 82. Forcemeat. Ingredients. Four ounces of Bread-crumbs. An Onion as large as a hazel-nut. A dessertspoonful of chopped Parsley. A teaspoonful of Flour. One ounce of Butter. The white of one Egg. Half a saltspoonful of Lemon rind. Half a teacupful of Milk. A very little Nutmeg. Pepper. grated Put the bread-crumbs in a bowl. Slice the onion very thin, mince it very fine; add it to the bread-crumbs with the parsley, lemon rind, nutmeg, flour, and pepper. Two saltspoonfuls of salt and half a saltspoonful of pepper would be sufficient for most people, Now make the milk hot and add the butter, and when it has melted pour it over the bread-crumbs, &c. Beat the white of egg slightly and add it to the other ingredients. Stir well, and taste to see whether it is sufficiently seasoned ; if not, add more seasoning. The mixture will now be ready for use. 83. Gnochi. Ingredients. One pint of Milk. One pint of Water. Quarter of a pound of Semolina. Boil the milk and water together in a double sauce- pan, sprinkle in the semolina, slowly stirring all the time, for three-quarters of an hour. Turn out to cool in a flat dish. When cold cut into shapes, cover each with bread-crumbs and flour, and fry in boiling Albene.46 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK A tablespoonful of sweet herbs may be added if liked, or a flavouring of onion. 84. Hot Pot. Ingredients. One pound and a half of Potatoes. One tablespoonful of chopped Three-quarters of a pound of Parsley. Onions. One ounce of Butter. One small Tomato. A quarter of a pint of Milk. Pepper. The onions and potatoes must both be weighed after they are peeled. Slice the onions and potatoes and throw them into cold water. Bring them quickly to boiling-point, and let them boil one minute, not more, then drain them. Put them into a baking-dish with the tomato, which must be skinned and sliced. Add the chopped parsley, which must be sprinkled over the potatoes and onions and mixed in. Season nicely with pepper—as much pepper as will lie on a threepenny- piece would be right for most people. Pour in the milk and break up the butter in bits, and place it over the top. It can be baked in a covered baking-dish or an ordinary pie-dish, and will take two hours to cook in a modei'ate oven. 85. Irish Stew (No. i). Ingredients. Twelve good potatoes. Six large Onions. One Carrot. Two ounces of Butter. A little Parsley. Pepper to taste. Cut up the potatoes in one-inch squares ; well scald and cut up the onions, chop up the carrot and parsley; boil all together in a pint of water until the vegetables47 SAVOURIES are cooked, but not pulped. Add the seasoning and butter fifteen minutes before serving. 86. Irish Stew (No. 2). Ingredients. Three pounds of Potatoes. Three large Spanish Onions. One large Cauliflower. Two Turnips. Two ounces of Butter. One ounce of Pearl Barley. A pint and a half of Water. Pepper to taste. Put the butter into a large saucepan ; well scald the onions, slice them very thin, and cook in the butter for five minutes; then cut the potatoes into four, cut the turnip into one-inch squares, break the cauliflower into small pieces; well wash the pearl barley, and add all to the onions and butter; then add the pepper and the water last of all. Cover closely, and cook gently for three hours. A little chopped parsley may be added if liked. 87. Irish Stew (No. 3). Ingredients. One pound of Potatoes. Three-quarters of a pound of Onions. One ounce of Butter. Half a pint of Milk. Pepper. The potatoes and onions should both be weighed, after peeling. Slice the potatoes and onions and throw them into cold water; bring them quickly to boiling- point, and let them boil for a minute. Drain them, and put them in a double pan ; boil the milk and pour it over them. Season with pepper and add the butter. Stew for two hours and a half. Half a saltspoonful of pepper will season the stew nicely.48 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 88. Macaroni Cakes, or Rissoles. Ingredients. Three ounces of pipe Macaroni. Two ounces of grated Cheese. Two whites of Eggs. One tablespoonful of chopped Parsley. One pint of Milk. Pepper to taste. Break the macaroni into very small pieces and throw it into the boiling milk, and let it boil for three-quarters of an hour, or until it is firm ; add the grated cheese, chopped parsley and pepper, and allow to simmer ten minutes longer, then add the whites of eggs whipped to a stiff froth ; mix well and turn into a flat or shallow dish. When cold form into cakes, any shape desired, brush over with whites of eggs and bread-crumbs, and fry in boiling Albene. 89. Macaroni with Cheese. Ingredients. Four ounces of Macaroni. Four ounces of grated Cheese. Pepper Half a pint of Milk. One ounce of Butter. Break the macaroni into two-inch lengths, and throw it into plenty of fast boiling water, and let it boil quickly for half an hour. Now drain it and add the milk to it and a little pepper, bring it to boiling-point quickly, and then let it simmer gently for another half- hour. The macaroni should be perfectly tender, but unbroken, and the cheese and butter may now be added, stirring the contents of the stewpan continuously—one way until the whole of the cheese is melted and thoroughly mixed with the macaroni. Turn it out on49 SAVOURIES a dish, and serve as hot as possible. Another way of serving the macaroni makes a prettier dish :—Instead of adding the cheese and butter to the macaroni in the stewpan, a layer of the macaroni may be put at the bottom of a well-buttered French baking-dish, and part of the cheese scattered over it; then the rest of the macaroni must be put over the cheese, and the remainder of the cheese used as before. The top should be covered with fine bread-crumbs, and the butter broken up in bits and placed over the top. The dish should now be placed in a hot oven and quickly browned. [Note.—It is necessary to stir the macaroni occasionally when boiling quickly in the water, and after the milk has been added, it must be stirred frequently, or it will stick to the pan and spoil.] (See Macaroni, " Hints on Cooking.") 90. Macaroni and Cheese Pudding. Ingredients. Four ounces Macaroni. Three ounces grated Cheese. One ounce white Bread-crumbs. Four Sage leaves. Half a large Spanish Onion. Whites of two Eggs. Pepper to taste. Break the macaroni into three-and-a-half-inch lengths and put into boiling water, and let boil for half an hour; then drain, and when cool, line a well-buttered pudding basin with the macaroni, and fill in with the following mixture: Scald the onion and chop very finely with the sage leaves, add the cheese and bread-crumbs. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and mix well; fill the basin with this, and cover with macaroni, then a cloth, and steam for three hours. Rice may take the place of macaroni for a change.50 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 91. Macaroni Cheese Straws. Ingredients. Four ounces Macaroni (large I Two ounces grated Cheese. Zita pipe). White of one egg. Cook the macaroni for quarter of an hour in boiling water. Strain, and let it get cool. Cut up into even lengths of four inches, twist them or tie them together, and dip into the lightly-beaten white of egg, and then in the grated cheese and bread-crumbs (or mix the cheese, bread-crumbs, and pepper together and dip into this). Fry a light brown in boiling Albene, drain well, and sprinkle with a little grated cheese. Lettuce or water- cress is nice with this dish. 92. Macaroni (Creamed). Ingredients. Four ounces of pipe Macaroni. Three Cloves. Half-ounce of Butter. Three ounces grated Cheese. One Onion. One gill of Cream. Blade of Mace. Half-pint of Milk. Break the macaroni into small pieces; well scald the onion and stick cloves into it. Put milk into a sauce- pan, add the macaroni and onion, pepper, and mace, and cook for three-quarters of an hour, then take out the onion, cloves, and mace, and add the cheese, butter, and cream ; let this simmer for five minutes, then put into a pie-dish, sprinkle with rusk crumbs, and send to table very hot.51 SAVOURIES 93. Macaroni (Curried). Ingredients. Four ounces of Macaroni. One large Onion. Two ounces of Butter. Two tablespoonfuls of Curry Three ounces of cooked Rice. Powder. Half a pint of Water. Break the macaroni into two-inch lengths, throw into boiling water, andjcook for twenty minutes, then drain ; slice the onion and fry a golden brown in the butter, add the curry powder, also the water, and let them cook for fifteen minutes in the frying-pan, then pass all through a sieve and add to the macaroni, and let it cook for half an hour. Cook the rice according to recipe No. 118, and with this make a border round the dish, and put the curried macaroni inside, and serve very hot. 94. Macaroni (Italian). Ingredients. Three ounces pipe Macaroni. Two ounces Butter. One tablespoonful chopped One teaspoonful grated Onion. Parsley. Quarter-pint White Sauce. Three ounces grated Cheese. Pepper to taste. Throw the macaroni into boiling water for twenty minutes, drain, and cut up into two-inch lengths ; mix the parsley, butter, onion, and grated cheese with the sauce, then add the macaroni, put mixture in a dish, and cover with bread-crumbs ; put in the oven for half an hour. Serve with this some very thinly sliced Spanish onion, with a small cucumber cut up with it; cover with three tablespoonfuls of oil, the juice of half a lemon, and a little cayenne pepper.52 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 95. Macaroni (Neapolitan). Ingredients. Half a pound Zita Macaroni (large pipe). Four ounces Flour. White of one Egg. One teacupful of Milk. One pound of Tomatoes. One ounce Butter. One Parmesan Cheese. Half a pint of Salad Oil. Pepper to taste. Break the macaroni into one-inch lengths and throw it into plenty of boiling water. Scald the onion and stick a few cloves into it, and add to it the macaroni, and boil quickly until the macaroni is cooked, but not broken. Pour off the water and drain well. Have ready a batter made of the egg, milk, and flour, made by putting the flour into a basin, and put the egg into the middle of it, and add the milk slowly, stirring all the time, till half of it is used. Then beat the batter well till bubbles form on the top. Add the rest of the milk and let it stand till the macaroni is cooked. This makes the batter lighter. Cut the tomatoes in halves, and put them on a buttered baking-tin in a moderate oven, with the rest of the ounce of butter in small bits on the top of them. Bake till just tender, but not broken. Make the salad oil very hot in a saucepan. When the macaroni is drained from the water, throw four or five bits of it into the hot oil. If it browns quickly put in the other bits and fry a light brown. Lift out of the oil, drain on white paper, re-heat the oil, and continue to dip in batter and fry in oil all the rest of the macaroni: Put the tomatoes in a ring, round a deep fire-proof dish. Heap the fried macaroni in the centre. Put a border of the grated cheese round the outside edge of the ring of tomatoes. Make very hot53 SAVOURIES in the oven. Serve at once in the dish in which it was baked. 96. Macaroni Savoury. Ingredients. Four ounces Macaroni. Half a pound of Tomatoes. Four ounces Parmesan Cheese. Two ounces of Butter. Half a pint of Milk. Three ounces Bread-crumbs. Half a pound of Onions. Pepper. Break the macaroni into two-inch lengths and throw it into plenty of fast boiling water and let it boil quickly, stirring occasionally, for half an hour, and then drain the water from it. Now add the milk with pepper and let it boil up quickly, and then simmer for another half-hour, when the macaroni should be quite tender. Stir very frequently to prevent it sticking to the pan. The onions in the meantime should have been peeled and sliced and boiled until tender, in plenty of water. They must then be drained and slightly chopped. The tomatoes also must be thrown into boiling water for a few seconds, and when removed the skins will come off quite easily ; they must now be sliced. Now butter a good sized French baking-dish and scatter in some bread-crumbs ; shake out all that do not stick to the butter. Place a layer of the macaroni at the bottom of the dish and scatter over it a third part of the Parmesan. Over that place the chopped onions and then the sliced tomatoes, and then the remainder of the macaroni. Cover this with half the remaining Parmesan, and over that scatter the rest of the bread- crumbs. Now scatter the last of the Parmesan, and over that the butter broken up into small pieces, and54 THE APS LEY COOKERY BOOK place over the top. Bake for about twenty minutes in a hot oven; it should be a rich brown all over. This is an excellent dish and well repays the cook's trouble, if attention is paid to all the details. If Genoa macaroni is used it requires a longer time to prepare than Naples. Twenty minutes in the water is long enough for Naples- (See " Hints on Cooking ".) 97. Macaroni (Scalloped). Macaroni may be prepared exactly as in the pre- ceding recipe ; but instead of putting it into a French baking-dish it may be put in scallops, and the same directions followed. 98. Macaroni Scallops (No. i). Ingredients. Two ounces pipe Macaroni. Two tablespoonfuls Tomato Four ounces Parmesan Cheese. Sauce. Two ounces Butter, or Albene. Pepper to taste. Six Scallop shells. Cook the macaroni in half a pint of milk and water for half an hour. Drain and cut up into small pieces and add one ounce of the butter, with the pepper and all the cheese. Mix it well; grease the shells and put a little of the tomato sauce in each, then fill up with the macaroni; sprinkle with bread-crumbs and pieces of butter, and put them in the oven to brown for twenty minutes.SAVOURIES 55 99. Macaroni Scallops (No. 2). Ingredients. Four ounces pipe Macaroni. Four ounces cooked Chestnuts. Two tablespoonfuls of Cream. A little Butter, or Albene. One small Spanish Onion. Two ounces grated Cheese. Pepper to taste. Throw the macaroni into boiling water for half an hour, then drain and chop up very fine with the onion (which has been well scalded first). Cook the chestnuts and pass through a sieve. Mix altogether with the cream; butter some scallop shells and fill them with the mixture. Sprinkle over them a layer of grated cheese and then one of bread-crumbs on top. Cut up the butter into small pieces and put them on the bread- crumbs ; brown in the oven for about a quarter of an hour. 100. Macaroni and Tomatoes. Ingredients. Four ounces pipe Macaroni. Half a pound of Tomatoes. Two ounces of Butter, and Pepper to taste. Boil the macaroni for half an hour in boiling water, then drain. Butter a pie-dish and put a thick layer of macaroni at the bottom ; skin the tomatoes by putting them into a basin and pouring boiling water over them, cover them with a plate for five minutes and the skins will come off quite easily. Then cut them into thin slices and put a layer on the macaroni, then some pieces of butter and a sprinkling of pepper, then another layer of macaroni, and so on till the dish is full, leaving56 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK tomato on top with a few rusk-crumbs sprinkled over; put in the oven for a quarter of an hour. Serve with grated cheese. 101. Macaroni and Tomato Sauce (No. i). Ingredients. Four ounces of Macaroni. Half a pint of Milk. Pepper. Half a pint of Tomato Sauce. Follow the directions given in recipe for " Macaroni Cheese 11 as to the boiling of the macaroni in water and stewing it in milk. Let it absorb all the milk. Pile it on a dish and pour over it half a pint of tomato sauce, prepared according to directions given for "Tomato Sauce." 102. Macaroni and Tomato Sauce (No. 2). Ingredients. Fight ounces of Macaroni. Two ounces of Butter. Half a pint of Milk. One Spanish Onion. One pound of Tomatoes. Pepper to taste. Break the macaroni into pieces and throw it into boiling water and boil for an hour. Make a sauce by putting the milk, and butter and the onion (scalded and grated) into a saucepan with the pepper. Scald the tomatoes and skin them and rub through a hair sieve, and add to the sauce. Add all to the macaroni and well mix. Serve very hot, with grated Parmesan cheese separately.57 SAVOURIES 103. Milk and White of Egg. Ingredients. Half a pint of Milk. | The white of one Egg. Boil the milk and add it to the beaten white of egg. The white of egg must only be beaten until it ceases to be stringy; it must not be stiff. This is a very nourishing drink. 104. Mock Beef Rissoles (No. i). Ingredients. Three ounces of Rice. Two ounces of grated Horse- radish. Half a teaspoonful of Mustard. Three tablespoonfuls of Cream. Half a pint of Milk. White of one Egg. Juice of a quarter of a Lemon. Cook the rice in the milk for forty-five minutes, add the grated horse-radish. Mix the mustard with the cream and pepper, add all together, and mix well, then add the whipped-up white of egg, and form into rissoles. Roll in rusk-crumbs and fry in boiling Albene till a golden brown. Serve with brown gravy. 105. Mock Beef Rissoles (No 2). Ingredients. Three ounces of fine fiusk crumbs. Two ounces of grated Cheese. Three ounces of grated Horse- radish. Three-quarters of a pint of Milk. Whites of three Eggs. One teaspoonful of made Mustard. Mix well together the rusk-crumbs, cheese, mustard, pepper, and horse-radish. Boil the milk and pour itTHE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 58 over them, and allow it to stand for one hour. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and well mix all together, roll in fine rusk-crumbs and fry in boiling Albene. Serve very hot. If made into nine rissoles the value of each one is 86 grains. 106. Mustard and Cress Sandwiches. Ingredients. Bread and Butter. | Mustard and Cress. Cut some neat slices of bread and butter and cover them with equal parts of mustard and cress. Cover then with more slices of plain bread and butter. Press them lightly together and cut in neat three-cornered pieces. Serve on a d'Oyley. The long stalks should be cut away from the mustard and cress before it is used for the sandwiches ; when it has been very carefully washed, it should be dried on a clean towel. 107. Nouilles and Cheese. Ingredients. Eight ounces of Nouilles. Three pints of boiling Water, Two ounces of Butter. Pepper Two ounces of grated Gruyere or Parmesan Cheese. Three good-sized Tomatoes. d taste. Let the water be boiling in an aluminium saucepan and throw in the nouilles gently, and let it boil slowly for about ten minutes, and allow it to stand for a few minutes. Have ready another enamel or aluminium saucepan about the same size, into which put the butter with the tomatoes (which must be skinned and cut up),SAVOURIES 59 and let them cook while the nouilles are straining, about fifteen minutes. Now add the nouilles and the pepper to the tomatoes and butter, also the cheese. Mix all together, and serve very hot. 108. Onions au Gratin. Ingredients. Fire small Spanish Onions. Four ounces of grated Cheese. Two ounces of Butter. One tablespoonful of Flour. Quarter of a pint of Milk (or Cream). Pepper to taste. Use onions as near in size as possible, and pour boiling water on them (in a saucepan) and allow to simmer for one hour. Drain them well, and put them into another clean saucepan, and pour the following sauce over: Melt the butter in a saucepan, sprinkle in the flour, stirring all the time, then add the milk, slowly, and let it boil for five minutes ; add the grated cheese and pepper, and pour over the onions ; cover closely and cook gently for half an hour. Serve with a little chopped parsley over. 109. Onions Baked with Grated Cheese. Ingredients. Two pounds of Onions. Two ounces of Butter. Two ounces of grated Cheese. Pepper. Peel and slice the onions—the slices should be about half an inch thick—throw them into plenty of cold salted water and bring them quickly to boil- ing-point ; skim then, and let them boil gently for twenty minutes. Drain them carefully, and put them60 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK into a buttered baking-dish, add a little pepper, and break the remainder of the butter in bits and place it over the onions. Put them in a hot oven for a quarter of an hour. Now remove the dish from the oven and sprinkle the grated cheese over the onions—do this very quickly—return to the oven until the cheese is melted and slightly browned, which should be in ten minutes or less. Serve immediately. 110. Onions and Tomatoes (Baked). Ingredients. One pound of Onions. One and a half ounces of Butter. Half a pound of Tomatoes. Two ounces of Bread-crumbs. Pepper. Prepare the onions as in recipe, "Potatoes baked with Grated Cheese." Put the tomatoes in fast boiling water for a few seconds, when the skin can be removed easily. Slice them. Butter a baking-dish and put a layer of the onions at the bottom. Now place the tomatoes over them, and put the remainder of the onions on the top. Dust a very little pepper over each layer. Cover the onions with the bread-crumbs, and break up the re- mainder of the butter and place it over the dish. Bake for three-quarters of an hour in a hot oven. 111. Parsnip Fritters. Ingredients. Parsnips. | Batter. | Pepper. Wash and scrape the parsnips and throw them into plenty of boiling water. Skim them frequently during boiling. They will be tender in half an hour to anSAVOURIES 61 hour, according to size and age. Moderate-sized parsnips are most suitable for this dish. When they are quite tender, slice them either round or lengthwise, and dip them into frying batter. (See "Batter for Frying.") The batter may be seasoned if liked. Fry them in either salad oil or Albene. (See " Hints on Cooking.") 112. Parsnips (Scalloped). Ingredients. A breakfastcupful of mashed Parsnips. One ounce of Butter. Four ounces of Bread-crumbs. Pepper. Boil the parsnips as in preceding recipe, and when quite tender drain them well and rub them through a sieve. Butter some scallops or one small French baking- dish. Throw in some bread-crumbs and shake out all that do not stick to the butter. Take half the butter and stir it into the mashed parsnips ; if they are not hot enough to melt the butter warm them on the stove or over the fire ; season them with pepper, and put them either in the scallops or the little dish. Cover them with the bread-crumbs. Break up the remainder of the butter into little bits and put over the top. Brown in a hot oven. 113. Potatoes and Cheese. Ingredients. One pound mashed Potatoes (cold). One ounce of Butter. Three ounces of grated Cheese. Quarter of a pint of Milk. Mash the potatoes and add the cheese and pepper. Put the milk and butter into a small saucepan and62 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK bring to the boil, and pour over the potatoes and cheese. Beat well for five minutes, put into a buttered pie-dish, and bake in a quick oven for fifteen minutes ; or, put into scallop-shells, and sprinkle with rusk- crumbs and bake for a few minutes. 114. Potato and Onion Pie (No. i). Ingredients. One pound of Potatoes. One pound of Onions. One ounce of Butter. A teacupful of Milk. Pepper. Paste (short). • Slice the onions and potatoes and put them into cold water. Bring them to boiling-point, and boil quickly for three minutes. Now put them into a pie-dish and add the butter and the milk, which must be boiling, and season well with pepper. Cover the dish with a stout crust, made according to recipe for "Short Paste.11 Bake in a moderate oven for an hour and a half. No time must be lost in covering the pie with the crust, and putting it into the oven, as the potatoes and onions must not be allowed to cool or the flavour will be spoiled. 115. Potato and Onion Pie (No. 2). Ingredients. Six large Potatoes. Three ounces of Butter. Three large Onions. | Pepper. Peel and wash the pototoes and cut them into slices about the eighth of an inch thick ; slice the onions very thin, in rounds. Butter a pie-dish and put a layer of potatoes at the bottom, then a few pieces of butter,63 SAVOURIES then a layer of onion and pepper, and so on, till the dish is full, leaving onions on top. Cover with an old plate or tin, and cook slowly in the oven for three hours. Serve with grated cheese. A short-crust may be put on this if liked. 116. Potatoes with Parmesan. Ingredients. One pound of Potatoes. Two ounces of grated Parmesan. Half a pint of Savoury White Three ounces of Bread-crumbs. Sauce. A quarter of an ounce of Butter. Prepare the sauce according to recipe for " Savoury White Sauce " (No. 439). The potatoes must be boiled, but they must be firm. Cut them into slices a quarter of an inch thick, and put a layer at the bottom of a pie- dish ; cover these with a thin coating of the sauce. Repeat this until the potatoes and the sauce are all used. Now sprinkle the Parmesan over the sauce and cover with the bread-crumbs. Break the butter in small bits and place it over the top. Brown in a hot oven for about twenty minutes. 117. Potato and Onion Pudding. Follow the receipt of " Potato and Onion Pie,1' except that you line a pudding-bowl with the crust, and cover the pudding also with crust. This pudding should be steamed for three hours.THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 64 118. Rice Boiled for Curry. Ingredients. Rice. | Water. | Butter. The rice should be picked over but not washed. Throw it into plenty of quickly boiling water, and let it boil up, and continue to boil quickly for one minute1. Then pour in a very little cold water to check it. It should now boil slowly, but continuously, for fifteen to twenty miuutes. It is boiled enough if the grains are soft when pressed between the thumb and finger. Drain it, and return it to the saucepan, which should be dried and buttered. Cover it with a clean cloth and allow it to steam on the stove, where it is not too hot, or in a slow oven. Stir it lightly with a fork and let it remain for a quarter of an hour. Each grain should then swell up and be well separated. 119. Rice and Cheese (No. i). Ingredients. One breakfastcupful of Rice. | Half a pint of Milk. Four ounces grated Cheese. Wash the rice and boil it until cooked (in a double saucepan). Strain well, and add the milk and a spoon- ful of butter, and pepper to taste. Simmer again together ; grease a pie-dish well and fill up with alter- nate layers of the above mixture and the grated cheese. Sprinkle grated cheese on the top, and a few pieces of butter. Put in a hot oven and brown well. Serve very hot.SAVOURIES 65 120. Rice and Cheese (No. 2). Ingredients. Four ounces of Rice. Six ounces of Cheese. Pint and a half of Milk. Pepper to taste. Wash the rice and put it into a double saucepan with the milk, let it simmer for three hours until all the milk is absorbed, then add the cheese, cut into small pieces (any stale pieces will do), let it cook for another quarter of an hour, then turn into a pie-dish, sprinkle a few grated rusk-crumbs over, and serve at once. Equals 1183 grains proteid. 121. Rice and Cheese (No. 3). Ingredients. Four ounces of Rice. Two ounces of Butter. Three ounces of Cheese. Pint and a half of Milk. Wash the rice and cook with the milk in a double saucepan for three hours, then add the cut-up cheese, butter, and pepper. When the cheese is melted, turn the mixture out into a pie-dish, and sprinkle rusk crumbs on the top, and serve. Equals 938 grains. Semolina may be cooked in the same way. 122. Rice Pudding (Savoury). Ingredients. Four ounces of Rice. Two ounces of grated Parmesan. A quarter of a pint of Tomato Two ounces of Bread-crumbs. Sauce. Half an ounce of Butter. Boil the rice according to recipe " Rice Boiled for Curry.1'1 When it is cooked mix well with the tomato 5THE APS LEY COOKERY BOOK 66 sauce, made according to recipe for "Tomato Sauce." Now put it into a buttered baking-dish and sprinkle over it the grated Parmesan. Cover with bread-crumbs, and break the butter into bits and strew it over the top. Brown in a quick oven, and serve very hot. 123. Rice (Savoury). Ingredients. Three and a-half ounces of Rice One pint of Milk. Four ounces of Onion. The whites of two Eggs. A heaped tablespoonful of chopped Parsley. Two ounces of Bread-crumbs. Half an ounce of Butter. Pepper to taste. Peel and slice the onions and throw them into cold water; let them boil up quickly, and then drain and mince them. Put the rice into a double pan ; boil the milk and pour it over the rice, and add the minced onion. Let them stew until the rice has absorbed all the milk, which will take quite two hours. Remove the pan from the fire, and stir in the chopped parsley and the beaten whites of eggs. Season the mixture to taste. Butter a baking-dish and put in the rice, cover with the bread-crumbs, and break up the butter in small pieces and place it over them. Brown as quickly as possible in a hot oven or before the fire. 124. Rice and Tomatoes. Ingredients. Four ounces of Rice. One pint of Milk. Half a pound of Tomatoes. One ounce of Butter. Pepper to taste. Pick over the rice and simmer in the milk until per- fectly soft, then add seasoning. Peel the tomatoes andSAVOURIES 67 cut them up, taking out all hard parts, and bake them in a shallow dish in the oven. When cooked beat them into the rice, add the butter, and serve very hot. 125. Rissoles (Savoury). Ingredients. Two ounces of Bread-raspings. Two ounces of grated Cheese. Four ounces of mashed Potatoes. One heaped tablespoonful of chopped Parsley. Four ounces of Onion. The whites of four Eggs. A saltspoonful of Pepper. Two tablespoonfuls of Milk. Oil, or Albene. Put the bread-crumbs, cheese, potatoes, parsley, and pepper into a bowl, large enough to mix them thoroughly. Peel and slice the onion and throw it into cold water; let it boil up quickly and remain boiling for one minute, then drain it and chop it finely, and add it to the other ingredients in the bowl. Mix all thoroughly, and moisten with the beaten whites of egg and the milk. Mix again very carefully and cover the mixture, and let it stand for at least four hours. Now form it into any shape preferred, and fry in either salad oil, or Albene. (See " Hints on Cooking.") Prepare the bread-raspings according to recipe given. The ris- soles are equally good either hot or cold; but it must be remembered that they are intended as a relish to plainer food. They are very nourishing, being weight for weight of rather more value than beef and mutton.68 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 126. Risotto. Ingredients. One teacupful of Rice. Two ounces of Albene. Half a pint of Stock. One teacupful of grated Cheese. Cayenne to taste. Cook the rice in the stock for two hours and a half (in a double saucepan), add the Albene, cheese, and seasoning last thing, and serve very hot. 127. Sage and Onions (Baked). Ingredients. Two pounds of Onions. Two ounces of Butter. Two ounces of Bread-crumbs. Two teaspoonfuls of powdered Sage. Pepper. Slice the onions and boil them until tender, then drain and chop them, and add the butter, bread-crumbs, and sage. The sage must be rubbed fine between the fingers and then shaken through a sieve before it is measured, to ensure there being no bits of stalk in it- Season the mixture with pepper, and bake in a baking- dish for about an hour. 128. Savoury Cauliflower. Ingredients. One Cauliflower. Two ounces of Butter. Small bunch of Sweet Herbs. One Onion, Carrot, and little Celery (sliced). One tablespoonful of Flour. Fry the onion, carrot, celery, and herbs altogether in the butter. When nicely browned, shake in the flour, pour on a pint of boiling water, stirring it well all theSAVOURIES 69 time, and let it cook gently for half an hour, then pass it through a hair sieve. Boil the cauliflower separately until well cooked, drain it, and pour the above sauce over. Put in the oven a few minutes, and serve very hot. 129. Savoury Cheese Cakes. Ingredients. Two ounces of Rice. One tablespoonful of mixed Two ounces mashed Potatoes. sweet Herbs. Three ounces grated Cheese. Whites of two Eggs. Half a pint of Milk. Pepper to taste. Cook the rice in the milk for fifteen minutes, then add the cheese and mixed herbs. Let it boil up for five minutes longer, then add the mashed potatoes (any cold ones will do) and pepper ; whip the eggs, and add them last of all. Form into flat cakes, and roll in rusk crumbs (or white bread-crumbs), and fry in boiling Albene. 130. Savoury Fillets. Ingredients. One pint of Milk. Three ounces of ground Bice. Two ounces of Butter. Three mashed Potatoes. A grate of Onion. A little Mace. Pepper to taste. Bring the milk to boiling-point (in a double sauce- pan) ; mix the rice with a little of the cold milk ; add this to the hot milk, and cook with onion, mace, and butter until perfectly thick. Now add the mashed potatoes, stir thoroughly, and spread the mixture on a wetted dish, smooth over with a knife, and leave to cool. Shape into fillets, dip in egg and bread-crumbs (rusk-70 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK crumbs), and fry in boiling Albene. Serve with white or parsley sauce. [Note.—Egg mentioned above is the white beaten with a knife on a plate.] 131. Savoury Pudding. Ingredients. A quarter of a pound of Bread raspings. Four ounces of grated Cheese. Four ounces of mashed Potatoes. Four ounces of Onion. A heaped tablespoonful chopped Parsley. The whites of four Eggs. A quarter of a pint of Milk. One saltspoonful of Pepper. of Pour the milk and the slightly-beaten whites of eggs over the bread-raspings, mix well, and put them aside for four hours or more. They must be closely covered. Now peel and slice the onion and put it into a saucepan with cold water; let it boil up quickly, and continue to boil for a minute. Drain it, and chop it finely, and add it, with the other ingredients, to the soaked bread-rasp- ings. Butter a mould rather thickly and fill with the mixture. Steam for three hours. 132. Savoury Rice " Cutlets." Ingredients. Three and a half ounces of Rice. The whites of three Eggs. One pint of Milk. Half a pound of Bread-crumbs. Four ounces of Onion. Salad Oil, or Albene. A heaped tablespoonful of Pepper, chopped Parsley. Peel and slice the onions, throw them into cold water ; let them boil up quickly, then drain and mince them. Put the rice into a double pan, boil the milk and pour it over the rice, and add the minced onion.71 SAVOURIES Let them stew until the rice has absorbed all the milk, which will take quite two hours. Turn the mixture into a bowl, and let it get nearly cold. Now stir them, with the chopped parsley, into the cooled rice and season nicely with pepper. Beat up two of the whites of eggs into a stiff froth, and add that also to the mix- ture. Have the other white of egg beaten up slightly, take a tablespoonful of the mixture and dip it into the egg, then cover it with bread-crumbs. Shape them into cutlets an inch thick and put them into the frying basket. Fry them a rich brown and garnish with parsley. The cutlets are rather difficult to form, and a little patience is necessary to make them a success; but they quite repay the cook for her trouble when finished. If, however, she is not expert at this kind of work, it will be best for her to treat the mixture as in recipe for " Savoury Rice." 133. Savoury Rice Rissoles. Ingredients. Four ounces of Eice. Four large Sage leaves. One ounce of Butter (or Albene). Whites of two Eggs. One small Onion. Half a pint of Milk. A little Pepper. Well wash the rice and cook for half an hour in the milk, then add the butter, and very finely chopped sage and onion and pepper; boil for a few minutes longer, then add the well-whipped whites of eggs, and when cool form into shape, roll in fine rusk-crumbs, and fry a light brown in boiling Albene. Serve round a mould of mashed potatoes. Semolina may be cooked in the same way.THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 72 134. Semolina and Cheese Pudding. Ingredients. Two tablespoonfuls of Semolina. Two ounces of grated Cheese. One ounce of Butter. Half a pint of Milk. A little grated Onion. Put the milk into a double saucepan and bring it to boiling point, then stir in the semolina; boil for fifteen minutes, stirring constantly. Put into a well-greased baking-dish, sprinkle rusk-crumbs on the top, and bake a light brown. Equals 480 grains proteid. 135. Semolina and Cheese Rissoles. Any of the above mixture when cold will make these. Mix in first the white of one egg (for about half the above quantity), form into balls or rissoles, roll in rusk- crumbs or raspings, and fry in boiling oil, or Albene, till brown. 136. Sea-kale (Scalloped). Ingredients. Cold boiled Sea Kale. Bread-crumbs. Butter. Pepper. When any sea-kale is left, it can be cut into inch lengths and put into buttered scallop shells, with any remaining sauce and pepper. Cover with bread-crumbs; put bits of butter over the top, and bake in a hot oven for ten minutes.73 SAVOURIES 137. Spinach with White of Egg. Use either of the recipes for preparing spinach, and poach the whites of egg according to recipe for " White of Egg in Moulds." Cut the egg in thick slices and place it over the spinach. Serve very hot. 138. Tapioca and Tomatoes. Ingredients. A tablespoonful of Tapioca. One ounce of Parmesan. One ounce of Butter. One ounce of Bread-crumbs. Two medium-sized Tomatoes. Pepper. Soak the tapioca for two hours in water, and then put it to boil; add a little more water if it requires it, until it is quite done, and the consistency of porridge. Put the tomatoes in boiling water for a few seconds, when the peel will come off easily. Slice them after they are peeled and lay them at the bottom of a well-buttered baking-dish. Season the tapioca with pepper, and stir in half the butter and spread it over the tomatoes. Now put in the Parmesan and sprinkle the bread-crumbs over the top. Break up the remainder of the butter in bits, and place it over the bread-crumbs. Bake in a hot oven for about twenty minutes. 139. Tomato and Forcemeat Pie. Ingredients. One pound of Tomatoes. Forcemeat. | Short Paste. Put the tomatoes in boiling water for a few seconds, when the peel will come off easily. Slice them after74 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK they are peeled, and place them at the bottom of a shallow pie-dish. Place a layer of forcemeat over them about an inch thick. Cover the dish with a short crust, and bake until the crust is done. Make the forcemeat according to " Forcemeat" recipe, and the crust from recipe for " Short Paste." 140. Tomato and Potato Pie. Ingredients. A teacupful of Tomato Puree. One pound of sliced Potatoes. A quarter of a pound of Onions. A teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. One ounce of Butter. Pepper. Short Paste. Slice the onions and put them in cold water with the potatoes, let them boil up quickly, and boil for one minute, then drain them, and put them in a pie-dish. Now mix in the chopped parsley, tomato puree, butter, and pepper to taste. Cover with a short crust, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour and a half. The tomato puree must be made according to recipe for " Tomato Puree." The short paste according to recipe for " Short Paste." 141. Tomatoes (Stuffed). Ingredients. Large Tomatoes. | Butter. Forcemeat. Wipe some large tomatoes as nearly one size as possible. Cut a round hole in the stalk end, and put in some forcemeat. As much forcemeat can be put in as will lie nicely on the top of the tomato. Place a bit of butter, as large as a hazel-nut, on each tomato, andSAVOURIES 75 bake them in a tin, in a moderate oven; they will bake in from twenty minutes to half an hour, according to size. Make the forcemeat according to recipe for " Forcemeat." 142. Tomatoes on Toast. Cut some tomatoes in halves and bake them for about ten minutes in a hot oven. Have ready some small pieces of buttered toast, and put half a tomato on each piece. Serve very hot. 143. Vegetables (Curried.) Ingredients. Half a pound of Carrots. Half a pound of Onions. Half a pound of Turnips. Half a pint of Brown Gravy. Half a pound of Celery. One ounce of Butter. Curry Powder. Cut the vegetables into neat small pieces and throw them into a saucepan with cold water. Let them boil up, then drain them at once, and dry them on a cloth. Now put them in a stew-pan with the butter, and fry them nicely, taking care that they do not burn or get very brown. Have the gravy very hot, and add it to the vegetables, and let them stew very slowly until they are quite tender, which will be in about half an hour. Now add curry powder to taste, and let the curry stand for another five minutes on the stove, then dish it up. Send plenty of boiled rice to table with it. Make the gravy according to recipe given for " Brown Gravy."76 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 144. Vegetable Marrow (Stuffed). Ingredients. A small Vegetable Marrow. Forcemeat. Half a pint of Gravy. Peel a vegetable marrow, not more than eight or nine inches long, cut it in halves lengthwise, and remove the seeds. Put it into fast boiling salted water, and let it boil gently for ten minutes. Lift it carefully, and let it drain ; then wipe it with a clean cloth. Have ready some forcemeat, and fill the hollow in the middle of one half and place the other half on the top. Tie the halves together with twine, and lift the marrow carefully into an oval baking-dish. Pour the gravy over the marrow, and cover it closely with another dish over it. Baste occasionally, and bake for an hour in a hot oven. If it is baked in a French baking-dish with cover, it can be sent to table in the dish it was baked in. If an ordinary dish is used, it would still be better to serve in the dish in which it was baked, as the marrow might be difficult to remove, but a napkin must be fastened round the dish to make it look tidy. Make the gravy according to recipe for "Brown Gravy," and the forcemeat accord- ing to recipe for " Forcemeat.11 145. Whites of Eggs in Moulds. Ingredients. Whites of Eggs. | Parsley. Butter. Butter well some china ramequin cases, and sprinkle as much chopped parsley in them as will stick to the77 SAVOURIES butter. Pour the white of an egg in each, and poach them until they are set. Serve them as a garnish to vegetables, &c, either hot or cold. 146. White of Egg on Toast. Poach the white of an egg in an egg-poacher—this will make it a neater shape. Drain it well, and place it on a piece of buttered toast.VEGETABLES. 147. Artichokes. Ingredients. Three pounds of Jerusalem Artichokes. Peel and put them into cold water; if they are young put them into some boiling water and allow them to boil for twenty minutes ; but if old put them into cold water and let boil until tender. Drain them well, and place them in a vegetable dish, and pour over a little good white sauce. Serve at once or they may discolour. Sprinkle a little chopped parsley over them. 148. Artichokes (Green, Boiled). Ingredients. Green Artichokes. Clarified Butter, or Oil and Vinegar. Green artichokes are best plainly boiled and served with plain melted butter, or oil and vinegar. Well wash and trim the artichokes ; cut off the stalks so that they will stand. Boil them in plenty of water with the tops downwards, and let them boil gently, until the leaves can easily be removed. The chokes can be removed or not, according to taste, before they are dished. (See " Clarified Butter.")VEGETABLES 79 149. Beetroot (Boiled). Well wash the beetroot, but be careful not to break the skins. Boil for two hours, or longer if large ones, drain them, and let them get cold; cut into very thin slices, and use as for salad. 150. Beetroot (Stewed). Ingredients. A medium-sized Beetroot. | Half a pint of Brown Gravy. A very little Lemon-juice. Boil the beetroot until tender, being careful not to break the skin, as this spoils the colour. Remove the skin, and cut the beetroot in thin slices and lay it in a stew-pan. Pour over it half a pint of brown gravy (see " Brown Gravyand let it stew gently for half an hour, then add a squeeze of lemon-juice, and serve. 151. Brussels Sprouts (Boiled). Pick, trim, and wash the sprouts very carefully. Put them into plenty of fast boiling water. The sprouts will, of course, check the boiling for a time, but they must be brought to a boil as quickly as possible; add a very small bit of soda, and boil very fast for fifteen minutes. They must be drained immediately they are done, or both colour and flavour will be spoiled.THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 80 152. Brussels Sprouts, Dressed with Butter. Ingredients. One pound of Sprouts. | Half an ounce of Butter. Pepper. Prepare and boil the sprouts as in the preceding recipe, but when drained dry them in a clean cloth. Dissolve the butter in a pan and shake the sprouts in it over the fire for a few minutes; season them with pepper, and serve very hot. 153. Cabbage in a Mould. Ingredients. A large Savoy Cabbage. Two ounces of Butter. Pepper. Any kind of cabbage will do for this dish, but Savoy is best. Prepare and wash it carefully. Put it into plenty of fast boiling water with a small bit of soda. The water will, of course, stop boiling when the cabbage is put in, but it should be brought to boiling-point as quickly as possible. Let it boil until tender, which should be in from thirty to forty minutes. Drain it well and chop it. Stir in the butter; season nicely with pepper, press it into a buttered mould, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. Turn out, and serve. This dish is very nice with little moulds of white of egg. (See " White of Egg in Moulds.")81 VEGETABLES 154. Carrots (Stewed). Ingredients. Two pounds of Carrots. | Half a pint of Brown Gravy. Half a teaspoonful of mixed Mustard. The carrots should be scraped and washed before weighing. Cut them lengthwise into quarters, if large, and again into pieces two inches long. Throw them into cold water, and let them boil up quickly; if the carrots are old, throw away the water after the first fifteen minutes and put them into fresh hot water. This is unnecessary when the carrots are young; it is also better not to cut the carrots when they are quite small, as they look best served whole. Boil them until quite tender, which will be in from half an hour to an hour, or longer, according to age. Drain them well and put them into the gravy. (See " Brown Gravy/1) Let them stew very gently for twenty minutes. Mix the mustard with a little of the gravy, which should be cool, and add it to the rest. Serve very hot with fried or toasted bread. 155. Cauliflower Fritters. Ingredients. One Cauliflower. | Batter for frying Savouries. Well clean, and partly boil, the cauliflower, and break into pieces; dip them in the batter, and fry in boiling oil, or Albene. 682 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 156. Cauliflower (Stewed). Ingredients. A medium-sized Cauliflower. | Half a pint of Brown Gravy. Divide the cauliflower into neat pieces and wash these well. It is well to put them into vinegar and water for a quarter of an hour, as this will be sure to draw out the insects. Put them into boiling water and boil until tender, which should be in fifteen or twenty minutes. If a little of the stalk is pressed between the finger and thumb it can be easily ascertained whether the cauli- flower is done. The pieces should remain firm though sufficiently cooked. Drain them carefully, and lay them in a stewpan with the gravy, and let them stand for ten minutes before serving. The gravy must be made according to the recipe for " Brown Gravy." 157. Celery (Boiled). Ingredients. A large head of Celery. | Half a pint of Plain White Sauce. Use only the best part of the celery, the remainder can be kept for flavouring soups. Cut the head into quarters and again into six-inch lengths; wash it well, and tie it into bundles. Put them into cold water, and let them boil up quickly at first, and then gently until the celery is tender. Drain them well, and remove the cotton they have been tied with, arrange the celery neatly in a vegetable dish, and pour the white sauce over them. See recipe for " Plain White Sauce."83 VEGETABLES 158. Celery Croutons. Ingredients. Two heads of Celery. One teaspoonful of chopped "Whites of two Eggs. Parsley. One gill of Cream. Six rounds of fried Bread. Well wash and cook the celery (hearts only) in a little milk (half a pint of milk and water mixed) until it is quite tender; drain, and chop it up, not too fine. Well whip the whites of eggs, and add to them the cream and chopped parsley and pepper. Now mix all together, and put into a clean saucepan to get very hot; but it must not boil; stir it all the time. Serve on the rounds of fried bread. Garnish with parsley. 159. Celery Fritters. Ingredients. Three heads of cooked Celery. Bread-crumbs. One saltspoonful of chopped Thyme. Half a Lemon rind (grated). One saltspoonful of chopped Parsley. Cayenne Pepper to taste. Take the cooked heads of celery and cut into lengths of four inches ; be sure they are well drained and quite dry. Well mix the bread-crumbs with the seasoning, then dip the celery in a frying batter, then in the bread- crumbs ; if they are not well coated dip them in again, and fry to a light brown. Serve with fried parsley.THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 84 160. Celery (Stewed). Ingredients. A large head of Celery. One dessertspoonful of Flour. Half a pint of Milk. Pepper. One ounce of Butter. Sippets of Bread. Remove all the outside pieces from the celery. Pare the root carefully, but reserve all that is good; cut it into quarters and then into three-inch lengths. Wash it well and throw it into cold water, let it come quickly to boiling-point, and boil for five minutes. Drain it, and put it with a little pepper to stew slowly in the milk until it is tender, which will be in about three- quarters of an hour. Keep back two tablespoonfuls of the milk and mix this smoothly with the flour, and add it slowly to the celery, stirring all the time. Put in the butter and let it boil up. Taste to see whether it is nicely seasoned, if not add more pepper. Serve with toast cut in three-cornered pieces. 161. Celery Toast. Ingredients. Two heads of Celery. One teaspoonful of Mace, Two tablespoonfuls of Cream. Pepper, and Lemon rind, Three slices of buttered Toast. mixed. Prepare the celery and cook it until tender, in a little milk; then drain well, and cut it into pieces of one inch; put the cream into a very clean saucepan with the seasoning, then add the celery, and make it very hot (but do not let it boil). Cut the toast into diamonds, or squares, and spread the mixture on it; serve very hot.VEGETABLES 85 162. Cucumber (Stewed). Ingredients. Two or three fresh CucumberB. One tablespoonful of Cream. One ounce of Butter. Two tablespoonfuls of Milk. One ounce of Flour. Peel the cucumbers, cut them into quarters length- ways, remove the seeds (unless very young ones), wash them, and then throw them into boiling water for fifteen minutes. Take them out carefully with a slice, and let them drain. Make a sauce as follows : Melt the butter, add the flour, and stir well, pour the milk on, and let it boil for five minutes, then add the cream. Put the cucumber in this sauce, make it very hot, and serve. Instead of flour and butter use white roux for thick- ening if preferred. 163. Endive (Dressed). Ingredients. Two heads of Endive. Pepper. One ounce of Butter. Croutons. Wash the endive very well and throw it into fast boiling water, let it boil for ten minutes, and then change the water. It should boil for another twenty minutes, and the flavour would be improved if the water were changed again during that time ; this takes off the bitterness. Drain it very dry and chop it. Season it with pepper, add the butter, and toss it in a stewpan until it is quite hot. Serve with croutons.86 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 164. Leeks (Boiled). Ingredients. Young Leeks. | A dessertspoonful of vinegar. Leeks should be very young if served alone. Trim oft' the outer leaves and green ends, and cut into six-inch lengths. Wash them well in two or three waters. Tie them in bundles, and put them in boiling water with a dessertspoonful of vinegar. Let them boil until quite tender, which will be in about three-quarters of an hour. Drain them well, and serve on hot toast, and pour savoury white sauce over them. (See " Savoury White Sauce.") 165. Lettuce (Dressed). Ingredients. Four cabbage Lettuces. One ounce of Butter. A little Lemon-juice. Pepper. Trim off the outer leaves of the lettuces, and do not use the stalks, as they are bitter. Wash them very carefully, and boil them in plenty of salted water until they are tender, which will be in half an hour, or less. Drain them as dry as possible, and chop them. Add the butter, and season with pepper and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Toss them in a stewpan until they are quite hot, and serve with croutons.87 VEGETABLES 166. Lettuce (Stewed). Ingredients. Six or eight Lettuces. I One tablespoonful of Lemon- One ounce of Butter. | juice. Pepper to taste. Trim away all the outer leaves and stalks of the let- tuces, wash the hearts carefully, and boil them in plenty of water for twenty minutes or half an hour; drain, and press them well. Turn on to the chopping board and chop lightly; put into a clean saucepan with the butter and lemon-juice. Make very hot, and serve with fried potatoes round the dish. 167. Onions (Baked). Ingredients. Six or eight even-sized Spanish Onions. Two ounces of Butter. Two ounces of Albene. One ounce of Flour. Pepper to taste. Peel the onions, taking off the two outside skins, scald them, and remove the core, and fill up with the flour and butter in the following manner: Mix the butter and Albene together, with a wooden spoon, add the flour, a little at a time, also the pepper; fill the onions with this, and bake for two hours, turning them occasionally to prevent burning.THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 168. Onions (Boiled). Ingredients. Six large Spanish Onions. | Two ounces of Butter. One ounce of Flour. Peel the onions and pour sufficient boiling water over them to cover them; let them stand for ten minutes, and then take them out of the hot water, and put-them into a saucepan with cold water; let boil for two hours. Drain well, and serve with plain melted butter poured over. 169. Onions Stewed (Brown). Ingredients. Two pounds of Onions. Two ounces of Butter. A teaspoonful of Flour. Pepper. Half a pint of Water. If large Spanish onions are used they should be cut in halves, horizontally; but if the onions are only about double the size of an egg, they may be cooked whole. Peel them and put them into cold water, and let them boil up quickly and continue boiling gently for five minutes, then drain them. Now put them into a stew- pan with the butter and let them stew gently for three hours. The onions should be turned once during the cooking, and if they are in halves they should be placed first on the round end, and finished with the cut side down. Great care should be taken in turning them, as they should not be broken. If quite small onions are used, only about the size of an egg, two hours and a half would be sufficient to stew them, but unless the onions are quite tender the dish will be spoiled. WhenVEGETABLES 89 they are cooked they must be lifted carefully and placed on a hot dish ; if in halves the cut side should be at the top. They must be kept hot while the sauce is made. To make the sauce, pour half a pint of boiling water over the browned butter in the stewpan and let it boil over the fire for a few minutes, stirring meanwhile with a wooden spoon, to get all the brown from the pan. Now mix a teaspoonful of flour with a very little cold water, and then add the contents of the stewpan, stir- ring as it is poured in. Return to the fire and boil up; taste to see whether it is agreeably seasoned, if not, add more pepper. Pour over the onions, and serve imme- diately. The onions should be rich golden brown, and the sauce a shade darker. A small spot of Parisian Essence may be added to the sauce if it is not sufficiently brown. This is a delicious dish if carefully cooked, but if the butter is allowed to bum instead of only browning the onions will be spoiled. 170. Onions (Stuffed). Ingredients. Six Spanish Onions. Three ounces of Bread-crumbs. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. Half teaspoonful of mixed Sweet Herbs. One ounce of Albene. Whites of two Eggs. Peel the onions, scald them, and take out the hearts, and fill them with the following mixture. Well mix the_ bread-crumbs, parsley, herbs, pepper, and chopped Albene together, add the whites of the eggs (whipped up.) Fill the onions with this, and place them in a saucepan side by side. Pour one pint of good brown gravy over them, and stew gently for four hours,90 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK turning them often so that they cook evenly. When tender take them out carefully, and thicken the gravy they were cooked in with a little flour and water; let it boil up again, pour over the onions, and serve. 171. Parsnips (Boiled). Well wash and peel the parsnips, throw them into cold water, and let them remain for half an hour, then put them into boiling water for about three-quarters of an hour (if old, two hours is not too long.) Serve them plain or mash them with butter and cream; or, boil for half an hour, drain them, allow them to cool, and dip into flour and fry them a golden brown. 172. Potatoes Baked in their Jackets. Wash and scrub some potatoes of equal size, and bake them in a hot oven until they are cooked, which will be in an hour or an hour and a half according to size. When they are sufficiently cooked they should be broken open to let out the steam, and this will make them light and floury. 173. Potato Balls (No. i). Ingredients. Two pounds of Potatoes. | Whites of three Eggs. Chopped Parsley (if liked). The potatoes must be well cooked, though they do as well cold as hot for this; mash them well, and mix them with the well-beaten whites of eggs ; form with aVEGETABLES 91 spoon into balls or rolls, dip in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry in boiling Albene ; drain well, and serve. Mix the chopped parsley in before the egg, if liked. 174. Potato Balls (No. 2). Ingredients. Two breakfast cupf uls of mashed Potatoes. The whites of two Eggs. One ounce of Butter. Four ounces of Bread-crumbs. Pepper. Frying Oil, or Albene. The potatoes must be boiled according to No. 175 ; they will then be perfectly dry. Rub them through a sieve, and beat in the butter with some pepper until they are thoroughly mixed. Beat up the whites of eggs slightly, and put a quarter of it aside for the coat- ing with bread-crumbs; mix in the rest with the potatoes. Now roll the potatoes into balls about as large as walnuts; brush them over with the white of egg, and cover them with bread-crumbs, and fry in either oil or Albene. (See " Hints on Cooking.") Serve very hot piled on a dish, and garnish with parsley. 175. Potatoes (Boiled). Potatoes should be put into cold water after they are pared and allowed to remain there until they are wanted. They should be boiled in an iron saucepan? and as little water used as will cover them. Let them boil up quickly, and then continue to boil very slowly for twenty minutes. Now drain them, and place a folded cloth over them, and let them stand on the stove92 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK to finish cooking by steaming them. When they are quite cooked, which can be ascertained by thrusting a fork in them, remove the cloth and shake them from time to time while standing on the stove for another five minutes; this will make them floury. If they cannot be dished at once, lay the cloth over them again while they have to wait. Potatoes should be chosen as nearly of a size as possible, and if some are very large they should be cut to match the others, or they will not be cooked in the same time. 176. Potatoes and Onions (Braised). Ingredients. Four large Spanish Onions. Two ounces of Butter. Eight large Potatoes Pepper to taste. Pour boiling water over the onions; let them stand for ten minutes, then chop them up, and put them into an iron saucepan with the butter. After a quarter of an hour add the potatoes (peeled, but put in whole). Let all gently simmer for two hours, add pepper, and serve very hot. 177. Potatoes Browned with Butter. Boil some medium-sized potatoes according to recipe No. 175, but when they have boiled for twenty minutes, instead of steaming them on the stove, put them in a baking-tin and place a bit of butter, the size of a filbert, on each potato. Put them in a hot oven, and in a quarter of an hour, or less, turn them care- fully, that they may be evenly browned. Use a broad- bladed knife to turn them, in case they stick to the tin,93 VEGETABLES Half an Onion. One ounce of Butter. Pepper to taste. for they will be spoiled if they are broken. Another ten minutes will finish browning them. Serve very hot- 178. Potato and Cabbage Fritters. Ingredients. Half a pound of Potatoes (hot or cold). Four ounces of Brussels Sprouts or Cabbage. Mince the potatoes, sprouts, and onion very finely together, melt the butter, and add it to this with the pepper. Form into fritters, roll in rusk-crumbs, and fry in boiling Albene. Drain, and serve, with parsley round the dish. 179. Potatoes (Cold, Fried). Ingredients. Half a pound of cold boiled Half an ounce of Butter. Potatoes. Pepper. Chop up the potatoes, dust them with a little pepper. Let the butter get quite warm in a frying-pan, and then stir in the potatoes very quickly. Toss them with a knife until they are quite hot, and touched with brown, then serve as quickly as possible. 180. Potatoes (Fried). Ingredients. Potatoes. | Frying Oil, or Albene. Wash and peel the potatoes and cut them in slices about as thin as a shilling. They should be cut94 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK horizontally, as the slices will be rounder. Throw them into cold water, and keep them there until they are wanted, and then dry them well on a clean cloth. The oil to fry them must be boiling; this may be known when it ceases to hiss and is still. Put in the potatoes, a few at a time, and move them about that they may be equally cooked. When they are brightly browned and crisp, lift them with a fish slice, and put them on an inverted sieve to dry. (See " Hints on Cooking 181. Potatoes (Fried Whole). Ingredients. Small new Potatoes. Frying Oil, or Albene. Cold raw potatoes may be warmed in this way, but they must not be broken, and they must not be too large. The early forced new potatoes are best fried, as they are more mealy than those grown in the open air. Boil according to recipe No. 184," Potatoes (New)." Be sure that they are well dried, and fry them in boiling oil, or Albene. When they are brightly browned, drain them on an inverted sieve, and serve very hot. 182. Potatoes (Mashed). Ingredients. Two pounds of Potatoes. | One ounce of Butter. A teacupful of Milk. Boil the potatoes according to recipe No. 175, to ensure their being quite dry, which is of great im- portance if they are to be a success. Now rub them through a sieve and return them to the saucepan. Beat95 VEGETABLES in the butter until it is thoroughly mixed, then add the milk, mixing them carefully. Stir the potatoes over the fire until they are quite hot, as the butter and milk will have cooled then. If they are preferred brown, pile them on a vegetable drainer, and fork them over, and brown before a hot fire. If they are browned they will not need to be stirred over the fire, for they will get hot in the browning. 183. Potatoes and Onions (Mashed). Ingredients. Two pounds of Potatoes. Two or three good Spanish Onions. One gill of boiling Milk. One ounce of Butter. Put the potatoes and onions in a stewpan together, with only sufficient water to cover them. When thoroughly done, beat well with a fork, and add [the butter and boiling milk ; beat until a thick smooth paste is produced. Serve very hot. 184. Potatoes (New, Boiled). Ingredients. One pound of new Potatoes. | A sprig of Mint. A quarter of an ounce of Butter. Wash them well, scrape off the skin. Throw them into boiling water and add the mint, if liked. After they have boiled up let them simmer until tender, which will be in from fifteen to thirty minutes, according to age. Drain them, and let them dry on the stove with the lid half on the saucepan. Serve them in a hot vegetable dish and put the butter over them.THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 9fi 185. Potatoes (Saute). Ingredients. Two pounds of cold Potatoes. Teaspoonful of chopped Parsley Three ounces of Butter. Pepper to taste. This is a good way to use up cold potatoes. Cut the potatoes into slices about a quarter of an inch thick. Put them into a saucepan with the butter, cover them, and allow them to cook for twenty minutes. Add the parsley, and pepper last thing, and serve very hot. 186. Potato Snow. Ingredients. One pound of Potatoes. Boil the potatoes according to recipe No. 175 to ensure their being quite dry. Put them through the potato masher (see "Hints on Cooking"), and let them drop lightly into the vegetable dish, which should be hot. They should not be touched after they are in the dish or their appearance will be spoiled. 187. Savoy Cabbage (Stewed). Ingredients. A medium sized Savoy Cabbage. | Half a pint of Brown Gravy. Pepper. Put a Savoy cabbage in plenty of salted boiling water and boil until tender. Drain it well and chop it. Put it in a stewpan with the gravy and a seasoning of pepper. Let it simmer very gently for half an hour,VEGETABLES 97 stirring it occasionally. Serve very hot with croutons, or pieces of toasted bread cut in three-cornered pieces. 188. Sea-kale (Boiled). Ingredients. Sea-kale. | White Sauce. Carefully wash and brush the sea-kale to remove the sand and grit, cut out the black parts of the roots, and tie them into bundles. Throw them into plenty of boiling, slightly salted water, and keep them boiling quickly until tender. They will be cooked in from twenty minutes to half an hour, according to age. Drain them well and serve the kale on toast with the heads in one direction. Pour white sauce over them, and serve. The sauce must be made according to recipe for " Plain White Sauce." 189. Spinach (No. i). Ingredients. Three pounds of Spinach. One ounce of Butter. The spinach must be well washed in plenty of water, in at least two vessels, lifting it out of one into the other several times, with fresh water each time, and then let it stand in cold water for at least an hour. Drain well, and cook in a very little water for half an hour, or longer if old. Drain and press it well, chop very fine and return to the saucepan for a few minutes with the butter. Serve with croutons of fried bread. 7THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 98 190. Spinach (No. 2). Ingredients. Same quantity of Spinach as before. Cook the spinach as before, adding one ounce more of butter. Poach three whites of eggs lightly and place thern on the spinach. Cut some potatoes into chips and fry them a golden brown in Albene; drain them well on blotting-paper, and serve round the spinach and eggs. Plain boiled rice served round this dish of eggs and spinach is also very nice. 191. Spinach, Boiled (No. 3). Ingredients. Spinach. | Butter. Pick the leaves from the stalks and wash them well in several waters, lift them out of the water with the hands that all the sand or grit may sink to the bottom. Put them into a saucepan with as much boiling water as will keep them from burning, and let them boil until tender, stirring frequently. Take the spinach up, drain it, and press it well; chop it small, and put it into a clean saucepan with a slice of butter and a little pepper. Stir it well until it is quite hot. Serve with toast cut into three-cornered pieces.VEGETABLES 99 192. Spinach with Cream. Ingredients. Three pounds of Spinach. One ounce of Butter. One gill of Cream. Pepper to taste. Cleanse and cook the spinach in the usual way, drain it well, and pass it through a fine sieve; return it to a clean saucepan, add the butter and cream and pepper ; beat it well and simmer for five minutes. A little lemon- juice can be added if liked. 193. Tomatoes (Baked). Ingredients. Four medium-sized Tomatoes. | One ounce of Butter. Toasted Bread. Put the tomatoes in a tin and divide the butter into four, and place a piece on each tomato. Bake them in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes, and baste them occasionally with the butter. Cut some toasted bread about an inch thick in four rounds, and put them on a hot dish. Place a tomato on each round of toast, and pour over each a little of the butter and juice from the tin. Plain boiled rice may be served with them. 194. Tomatoes (Stewed Whole). Ingredients. One pound of small Tomatoes. | Half a pint of Brown Gravy. Choose quite small tomatoes for this dish. Wipe them, and put them in a stewpan with the brown gravy. Bring them quickly to boiling-point, and let them stew100 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK gently for half an hour. Serve very hot, with boiled rice or potatoes. Make the gravy acccording to recipe given for " Brown Gravy.1" 195. Turnips. Peel the turnips very thinly and throw them into cold water ; if they are young, they can be boiled whole for twenty minutes and served plain ; if old, they are better cut up and boiled for half an hour. Drain and press them well; then mash them with a wooden spoon, add one ounce of butter, make very hot, and serve. A tablespoonful of cream can be added if liked. 196. Turnip Tops. Take as many turnip tops as required; pick out all the decayed leaves, wash well in plenty of water. Put into boiling'water for half an hour, drain them well, and cut or chop them like spinach; return to the saucepan with one ounce of butter. Make very hot, and serve. 197. Turnips (Stewed). Ingredients. One pound of Turnips. | Half a pint of Brown Gravy. Very young turnips must be used for this dish. Peel them and cut them in quarters. Boil them quickly in plenty of water for a quarter of an hour—not longer. Drain them carefully and put them in the gravy. Let them boil up quickly, and then stew until the turnips are quite tender, which will be in about half an hour.VEGETABLES 101 198. Vegetable Marrow (Boiled). Peel the marrow and remove the seeds, cut it into six or eight pieces according to size, and put them in boiling water, and let them boil gently until tender. They will be done in fifteen or twenty minutes accord- ing to age. Drain them very carefully, and cover them with white sauce. Make the sauce according to recipe given for " Plain White Sauce." 199. Vegetable Marrow (Fried). Pieces of marrow cooked as in preceding recipe, and dipped in batter and fried in either oil or Albene, make a delicious dish. Make the batter according to recipe given for " Batter for Frying Savouries." 200. Vegetable Marrow (Stewed). Ingredients. A.small Marrow. A small Onion. Half a pint of Milk. One dessertspoonful of Flour. A blade of Mace. One ounce of Butter. Pepper. Peel a marrow about eight inches long, remove the seeds, and cut it into pieces about four inches square. Put it into a stewpan with the milk, mace, and the onion peeled, but not sliced. Add pepper and let it boil up quickly, then stew very gently, until the marrow is tender, which will be in half an hour. Remove the onion and the mace. Take up the pieces of marrow gently, and place them on the dish on which they will be served, and keep them hot. Now work the flour inTHE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 102 the butter and thicken the milk with it, boil it up, and pour over the marrow. Garnish with toast, and serve very hot. 201. Vegetables (Stewed). Ingredients. Half a pound of Carrots. Half a pound of Turnips. Half a pound of Celery. Half a pound of Onions. Half a pint of Gravy. One ounce of Butter. Pepper. Cut the celery in pieces two inches long, and the carrots in four lengthwise, and then in pieces two inches long. Cut the turnips small and slice the onions. Throw them into a saucepan of cold water and bring them quickly to boiling-point. Let them boil a minute, and then drain them carefully. Put them in a stewpan with the butter and fry them until they are nicely browned, without burning them. Have the gravy boiling, or very hot, add it to the vegetables with pepper, and let them stew gently for an hour. Serve with pieces of toasted bread. Make the gravy according to recipe given for " Brown Gravy."SWEETS. 202. Admiral Pudding. Ingredients. Eight ounces of Potatoes. Eight ounces of Flour (or Bread- Twelve ounces of Carrots. crumbs). Four ounces of Sugar. Three ounces mixed Candied Eight ounces of Sultanas. Peel. Four ounces of Albene. Pass the carrots and potatoes when cooked through a sieve; add the Albene (chopped fine) and flour or bread-crumbs. Mix well, then add the sultanas, sugar, and candied peel, put into a well-greased mould and steam for five hours. Serve with lemon or sweet sauce. 203. Apple Fritters. Ingredients. Apples. | Batter No. 384. Peel and core the apples and cut them into thin slices; dip them in the batter and fry in boiling oil or Albene. The fritters will be much improved il the slices of apple are boiled for one minute in sugar and water, and drained before dipping them in the batter.104 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 204. Apple Gateau. Ingredients. One pound of Apples. Half an ounce of Vegetable Three ounces of loaf Sugar. Gelatine. One pint of "Water. Juice of half a Lemon. Peel and core the apples; cut them into quarters, and stew them with the water, sugar, and lemon- juice, until tender, but not broken; take them out carefully and add the gelatine to the liquid, stir until melted, and return the apple for a few minutes. Rinse out a mould with cold water; pour in and allow it to set. Turn out and serve with whipped cream on top. (Colour the liquid with cochineal, if desired.) 205. Apple Jelly (No. i). Ingredients. Seven pounds of Apples. Seven pints of Water. Two ounces root Ginger (or one teaspoonful of ground Ginger). Two ounces blanched Almonds. Boil the apples in the water for half an horn*, then strain through a sieve. Add to each pound of liquor three-quarters of a pound of sugar, and boil the liquor twenty minutes, then add the sugar and ginger, and boil twenty minutes more. Put the jelly into small jars, and before it sets drop in the nuts. Lemon-juice may be added instead of ginger if preferred.SWEETS 105 206. Apple Jelly (No. 2). Ingredients. Six pounds of Apples. | Three pints of Water. Lump Sugar. Peel, core, and cut up the apples, and bake in a stew- jar with three pints of water. When a pulp, turn into a jelly-bag and hang over a pan all night to let all juice through. To every pint of juice add one pound of lump sugar, and boil one hour ; when properly done it will be stiff. Put into air-tight jars. 207. Apple Mould. Ingredients. Four pounds of Apples. | One pound of lump Sugar. Wipe the apples quite clean, core and cut them up, and put in a stew-jar in the oven with a little sugar sprinkled over, and stew till quite soft, and allow to cool. When cold rub through a sieve. Rinse a preserving pan with cold water and put in the pulp, together with the sugar, and boil about half an hour, stirring all the time. It requires great care to prevent burning, and must be boiled quickly or it will not set firmly in the mould (which must be rinsed with cold water last thing before putting in the jelly).106 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 208. Apple Pudding. Ingredients. PaBte. Apples. | Sugar. Line a pudding bowl with paste made according to recipe for " Paste for Puddings." Fill it with sliced apples and sweeten it to taste. Put on cover of paste, and steam. A pudding made in a pint basin will take two hours to steam, and one made in a quart basin will take three hours. 209. Apple Tart. Ingredients. Apples. Paste. Cloves. Sugar. Peel and slice some apples and fill a tart dish of the size required. Sweeten to taste, add a tablespoonful of water or two if the tart is large. Put in one or two cloves if the flavour is liked. Line the edge of the dish with paste the third of an inch thick, put on a cover, and bake in a quick oven. When the crust is cooked raise it carefully with a knife to see whether the apples are soft, and if not let the tart remain on the stove until the apples are sufficiently cooked. Make the paste according to recipe for " Paste Puff for Tarts." 210. Bananas, Baked (Australian). Slit as many bananas as desired and bake in a shallow tin in a moderate oven until tender. Serve as a vegetable (or sweet) in their jackets.107 SWEETS 211, Bananas and Cream (No. i). Ingredients. Six Bananas. One ounce of castor Sugar. One ounce of Butter. Quarter of a pint of Cream. Teaspoonf ul of Whiskey or Bum. Peel and cut the bananas into rather thick slices, put them into a glass dish, and sprinkle over the sugar. Warm the cream and butter together, add the flavour- ing, let it stand in the saucepan about five minutes, then pour over the bananas, and serve with finger biscuits. 212. Bananas and Cream (No. 2). Ingredients. Six Bananas. One tablespoonful of castor Half a pint of Cream. Sugar. Peel and slice the bananas into two-inch lengths, put into a glass dish, sprinkle over the sugar. Whip the cream (not too stiff") and cover the bananas ; serve with any cold milk mould. 213. Banana Cream. Ingredients. Ten Bananas. Two Oranges. One tablespoonful of castor Sugar. Half a pint of Cream. One ounce of Vegetable Gelatine. Half a pint of Milk. Peel the bananas and pass them through a sieve, and add the sugar and whipped cream ; soak the gelatine in two tablespoonfuls of cold water, when dissolved, add it108 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK to the milk, and let it just come to the boil, then add it to the cream and banana and mix lightly. Turn into a mould and let it stand in a cool place; when set, turn out, and put the oranges (cut into thin slices) round, and serve. 214. Banana Custard (Australian). Ingredients. Four Bananas. One pint of Custard. (See No. 448.) Slice the bananas thinly into a glass dish; pour the custard whilst hot over them ; the heat brings out the flavour of the fruit. Serve cold. 215. Banana Fritters. Ingredients. Two Bananas. The juice of half an Orange. A dessertspoonful of Sugar. Batter. Cut the bananas in quarters lengthwise. Lay them in a small deep dish and sprinkle them with the sugar, then squeeze the orange-juice over them. Let them lie in the juice for three or four hours, and then drain them carefully, and dip them in frying batter and fry them in either oil or Albene. The batter must be prepared according to recipe No. 383 or 384.SWEETS 109 216. Banana and Orange Cream. Ingredients. Four Bananas. Two Oranges. One tablespoonful of powdered Vegetable Gelatine. Two tablespoonsful of Lemon- juice. One teacupful of castor Sugar. Half a pint of Cream. Soak the gelatine in half a cupful of cold water over- night, and next morning dissolve it in the same quantity of boiling water. Peel the bananas and rub them through a sieve, add the juice and pulp of the oranges, and the lemon-juice and sugar. Mix all well together and add to the gelatine. Set the mixture in a cool place until it begins to stiffen. Whip the cream till stiff and stir all together; put into a mould and let it stand on ice a few hours. 217. Banana Pudding (Uncooked). Ingredients. Six Bananas. Whipped Cream or Custard. Three tablespoonsful Strawberry- Jam. Peel and mash the bananas; put the jam into a round glass dish, and place the bananas round it. Serve with custard separately, or whipped cream put round.110 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 218. Bananas (Stewed). Ingredients. Four Bananas. | Half a pint of Water. Three ounces lump Sugar. Peel and slice the bananas and either stew or bake them in a jar in the water and sugar until tender. The juice should be syrupy. 219. Batter Pudding (Baked). Ingredients. Two tablespoonsful of Flour. Half a pint of Milk. The whites of two Eggs. One ounce of Butter. Mix the flour very smoothly with the milk, adding the milk a little at a time until it is all used. Let it stand for two or three hours and then melt the butter and mix it with the batter. Now beat up the whites of eggs, and add them. Beat up all well together, and pour in a well buttered dish, and bake in a moderately hot over. 220. Batter Pudding (Boiled). Prepare the pudding exactly as in the preceding recipe, but it must be put into a buttered mould and boiled for two hours.SWEETS m 221. Blackberry Jelly. Ingredients. Blackberries. Half a pound of Sugar to every pint of juice. Put as many blackberries as desired into ajar, and sprinkle a little sugar over, then put in the oven for three hours to draw out the juice. When sufficiently tender, strain through coarse muslin or a cloth, squeezing out as much juice as possible. To each pint of juice allow half a pound of lump sugar, and boil in a preserving pan until it is set. 222. Blancmange. Ingredients. One Pint of Milk. Two tablespoonfuls Flour. of Corn A dessertspoonful of castor Sugar. One Bay leaf. The whites of two Eggs. Take from the milk enough to mix the corn flour into a thick batter. Put the rest with the bay leaf to simmer until the milk has acquired a nice flavour. Remove the bay leaf and add the sugar ; boil up the milk and pour into the mixed corn flour, stirring quickly all the time. Now beat up the whites of eggs a little, they must not be stiff, and stir well into the corn flour. Boil up the mixture over the fire, stirring continually. Have ready a mould which has been well rinsed in cold water; pour in the corn flour and put in a cool place to set.112 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 223. Bread and Butter Fritters. Ingredients. Four slices of Bread and Butter. Half an ounce sifted Sugar. One tablespoonful of Raspberry Jam. Spread the jam on to the bread and butter and press them well together, cut into rounds with a cutter, dip in a good batter (see No. 384), and fry a golden brown. Serve with the sugar sprinkled over. Any other jam may be used. 224. Bread Pudding (Baked). Ingredients. One pound of pieces of Bread. One pint of boiling Milk. Four ounces of Sultanas. stale Two ounces of Butter (or Albene). One and a half ounces of moist Sugar. Little Nutmeg. Pour the milk on the bread, let it stand a few minutes, then mash it up. Mix the sugar and butter together, and add all to the bread and milk ; mix well and put in a well-buttered dish, and bake one and a half hours in a moderate oven. 225. Bread Pudding a la Francaise (Baked). Ingredients. One pound of stale pieces of Whites of three Eggs. Bread One ounce of candied Peel. One pint of boiling Milk. Essence of Vanilla or Cinnamon, Two ounces of Butter, or Albene. to taste. Put the pieces of bread into a basin and pour over the boiling milk and cover with a plate; let them stand113 SWEETS for twenty minutes, and then add the butter and eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Finely shred the candied peel and put in also the flavouring. Mix thoroughly and pour into a well-greased mould and steam for three hours. Turn out carefully, and serve with jam or sauce. 226. Candied Fruit Pudding. Ingredients. Quarter of a pound of Two ounces of Butter. candied Fruit. Two ounces of Flour. Quarter of a pound of Two whites of Eggs. Bread-crumbs. Half a pint of Milk. Any kind of candied fruit that is getting a little damp to use at dessert will do for this pudding; if it is large it should be shredded, but if cherries are used they may just be cut in halves. Mix the flour with the bread-crumbs and the candied fruit. Make the milk hot and melt the butter in it, and pour it over the bread-crumbs, &c. Now beat the eggs to a stiff froth and mix it well with the other ingredients. Have ready a buttered mould and pour in the mixture, and steam for three hours. One of the wine sauces, or plain sweet white sauce, may be served with this pudding. 227. Carrot Pudding (No. i). Ingredients. Twelve ounces of Carrots. One and a half ounces Sugar. Eight ounces of grated Bread- Three ounces Currants. crumbs. Three ounces Sultanas. Two and a half ounces Albene. Whites of three Eggs. A little grated Nutmeg. Well cook the carrots and then grate or pass through a^ sieve. Chop up the Albene, pass the bread-crumbs114 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK through a sieve ; pick over currants and sultanas, mix all together with the sugar and nutmeg. Well beat the whites of eggs and add last of all, with a little milk if not moist enough. Put into a well-greased mould and steam for four hours. 228. Carrot Pudding (No. 2). Ingredients. Four ounces of Carrots. Four ounces of Cake-crumbs. One breakfast-cupful of Milk. Half a wineglassful of Sherry. Two ounces of Sugar. Half an ounce of candied Peel (or crystallised Cherries). Boil the carrots until tender, drain, and pass through a sieve ; add the cake-crumbs (any stale pieces of plain cake). Put the milk on to boil with the sugar, pour- over the cake-crumbs and carrot, mix well, add the sherry. Bake in a well-buttered pie-dish for half an hour. Garnish the top with candied peel (or cherries) before putting into oven. 229. Casserolle of Apples. Ingredients. Two pounds of Apples. One teaspoonful of Essence of Two ounces of Vegetable Gelatine. | Ginger. Six ounces of Sugar. Dissolve the gelatine in a pint of cold water, add the sugar and a teaspoonful of essence of ginger. Put it into a stewpan, and let it boil for five minutes, taking care it does not burn. Next, put the apples (pared, cored, and quartered) into the liquid, to boil until soft, but not broken. Take out the apples and place them in115 SWEETS the casserolle mould, rinsed out with cold water. Strain, and colour the liquid with cochineal and pour it over the apples. Serve cold. 230. Casserolle of Oranges. Ingredients. Six Oranges. Two ounces of Vegetable Eight ounces of Sugar. Gelatine. Dissolve the gelatine in a pint of cold water; put it in a brass stewpan with the sugar and let it boil for five minutes, taking care it does not burn. Have the oranges ready, peeled and separated into quarters, taking out seeds and all white skin, add them to the liquid, and allow all to boil for ten minutes. Take out the oranges and place them in a mould. Reduce the liquid (by boiling) until it is barely enough to fill the mould and pour over. Serve cold. 231. Casserolle of Prunes. Ingredients. One pound of Prunes. An ounce and a half of Agar Agar. Three-quarters of a pound of lump Sugar. One pint of Water. Well wash the prunes and cook them for three- quarters of an hour in the water. Drain them through a sieve and carefully remove the stones without breaking the fruit more than necessary. Take out the kernels and put one in each prune. Put the water that the prunes were cooked in into a clean saucepan, with the .sugar, and boil for thirty minutes, then add the prunes,116 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK and let it simmer for fifteen minutes ; soak the agar agar in a little cold water for an hour before using it; add it to the prunes when they have simmered fifteen minutes and stir gently until dissolved. Rinse out a mould with cold water, fill it, and allow it to stand until next day. Serve with whipped cream. 232. Castle Baskets. Ingredients. Six Castle Puddings (made as Three ounces of Angelica. No. 233). Juice of half a Lemon. Four ounces Bed Currant Jelly. Two ounces of Cocoa-nut. Three gills of Cream. One tablespoonful of Sugar. Take the castle puddings, which should be a day old, carefully scoop out the middles, roll them in a little jelly, then in the cocoa-nut, so that they are well covered. Whip the cream with the sugar until thick ; add the lemon-juice (teaspoonful) ; fill the baskets with this. Cut the angelica into long strips, and form the handles to the baskets. Serve cold. 233. Castle Puddings. Ingredients. Two ounces of Albene. One and a half ounces of Two ounces of Flour. castor Sugar. Two whites of Eggs. Half a Lemon-rind. Beat the Albene until it is like cream, then add the sugar and grated lemon rind. Put in the flour, a little at a time, beating it well as the flour is added Now add the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth.SWEETS 117 Butter some small moulds and bake fifteen minutes. Serve with sweet or lemon sauce. Angelica handles and crystallised cherries may be added if desired, to form into little baskets. 234. Charlotte Russe. Ingredients. An ounce and a half of Vegetable Gelatine. One pint of Milk. Quarter pint of Cream. Whites of Eind of half a Lemon (grated). Half a wineglass of Sherry. Two ounces of Sugar. Four ounces of Macaroons, four Eggs. Soak the gelatine in a little of the milk; whip the whites of the eggs very stiff, also the cream; boil the rest of the milk with the sugar and lemon rind, add it to the gelatine, stirring all the time ; when dissolved turn into a bowl, and mix all together. Add the sherry and beat until it is thick. Line a plain buttered mould with the macaroons, pour the mixture in, and let it stand until next day. (May be coloured with cochineal if liked.) 235. Cherry Cake (German). Ingredients. A quarter of a pound of Butter. Two ounces of Almonds. A quarter of a pound of Bread- Cinnamon. Cloves. crumbs. The whites of six Eggs. Two pounds of black Cherries. Two ounces of castor Sugar. Pick and stone the cherries. Make the milk hot and melt the butter in it. Blanch the almonds and put them through the nut mill, and pound them well in a mortar. Now mix the almonds with the bread-crumbs, sugar, and a pinch each of cloves and cinnamon. Pour118 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK over the milk and melted butter, mix again carefully, and add the cherries. When all are well mixed together stir in the whites of eggs, which must be well beaten. Bake in a shallow tin in a moderate oven for an hour. The cake should be about an inch and a half thick. 236. Cherries (Stewed). Ingredients. One pound of cooking Cherries. | A quarter of a pint of W"ater. Six ounces of Sugar. Make a syrup with the sugar and water, that is, just melt the sugar in the water, but do not allow it to boil and thicken, then pour it over the cherries, and bring them quickly to boiling-point, and skim them well. Now let them simmer very slowly until they are tender, then turn them into a bowl to cool. 237. Christmas Pudding (No. i). Ingredients. Half a pound of Raisins. Half a pound of Sultanas. Half a pound of Almonds. Half a pound of Pine kernels. Half a pound of Demerara Sugar. Half a pound of Albene. Quarter of a pound of mixed Peel. One pound of Bread-crumbs. Four Apples. One Lemon, rind and juioe. Half a Nutmeg. Whites of five Eggs. Two wineglasafuls of Brandy. Stone the raisins, pick over and wash the sultanas, shred the peel, blanch the almonds, clean the pine kernels, and put them both through a nut-mill, and then pound them, grate the nutmeg and the lemon rind. Mix all these with the bread-crumbs, sugar, and119 SWEETS apples, which must be peeled, cored, and chopped. Chop the Albene like suet, and add to the mixture with the nutmeg and lemon-juice. Let the ingredients stand for a night, and then well beat the whites of the eggs, and add them with the brandy, and mix all well to- gether. Put into well-buttered moulds, and allow the pudding to steam for seven hours, and when warming again for use, for about half the time. 238. Christmas Pudding (No. 2). Ingredients. One pound of Kaisins. One pound of Sultanas. Half a pound of Sugar. Three-quarters of a pound of Albene. Half a pound of Bread-crumbs. Quarter of a pound of Flour. Half a pound of Almonds. Quarter of a pound of Brazils. Quarter of a pound of Walnuts. Quarter of a pound of crystallised Cherries. Six ounces of Peel. One tablespoonf ul of mixed Spice. Quarter of a Nutmeg. Half a Lemon, and rind. Half a Carrot grated. Whites of three Eggs. Half a tumbler of Brandy. Proceed in the same way as No. 1 by mixing all the dry ingredients first together ; the nuts should all be carefully prepared by removing every particle of skin, and put them through the nut mill twice it necessary, then pound them well in a mortar, put into buttered moulds, and steam about three hours. Grate the carrot fine, cut the crystallised cherries up fine, add these to the mixture, well stir, and allow to stand over night. Add the eggs and brandy next morning, and follow the same directions with regard to boiling.120 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 239. Christmas Plum Pudding (No. 3). Ingredients. Oue pound each of Raisins and Currants. One pound of Bread-crumbs. A quarter of a pound of each candied Lemon, Citron, and Orange. Four ounces of Flour. Half a pound of Sugar. One dozen each of sweet and bitter Almonds. One pound of Butter. One Nutmeg. The grated rind of a Lemon. The whites of eight Eggs. Half a pint of Milk. Two Sherry-glassf uls of Brandy. Stone the raisins, pick the currants, shred the candied lemon, citron, and orange; blanch, chop, and pound the almonds and grate the nutmeg. Mix all well together, with the fresh lemon rind, bread-crumbs} sugar, and flour. Warm the butter slightly and beat it up, and then add it to the other ingredients, mixing thoroughly. Now beat up the whites of eggs and mix well with the rest, and cover the mixture carefully. Set it aside for at least six hours ; it is better left over night. Then add the milk and brandy, and mix again thoroughly. Put the mixture into buttered moulds, and steam for seven hours. 240. Clear Apples. Ingredients. Eight large Apples. One pint of Water. Eight ounces lump Sugar. Half a pint whipped Cream. Make a syrup by boiling the sugar and water to- gether for a quarter of an hour. Pare and core the apples, keeping them whole ; put them as you pare them into a basin of cold water to keep them white. Put the apples into a stewpan, pour over the boiling syrup, andSAVEETS 121 leave on the fire a very few minutes ; take them out carefully and place in a glass dish. Make the syrup pink, with a few drops of cochineal, and pour it over the apples. Serve cold, with a teaspoonful of whipped cream on each apple. 241. Compot of Mixed Fruits. Ingredients. Strawberries, Grapes, Raspberries, Nectarines, Green Figs, Melon, Pine Apple, &c. Cut up the larger fruits, and sift a little sugar over all in a dish. Make a syrup of the following: one pound of sugar, one and a half pints of water. Boil together until reduced to a pint, and pour over while hot, and let it stand on ice for twenty-four hours. Turn into a salad bowl, and serve very cold. Make plenty of syrup so that the fruit floats about in it. 242. Cooked Sultanas. Well pick over and clean any quantity of sultanas and cover them with boiling water at night, and they are ready for breakfast next morning. Maybe eaten alone, or with porridge or wheat flakes and cream. 243. Custard and Apple Pudding. Ingredients. Savoy Biscuits. | Stewed Apple. Custard. Cover the bottom of a china or glass dish with Savoy biscuits. Spread apples stewed to a pulp over them.122 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK Make the custard with Bird's Custard Powder, according to recipe given with each packet, and pour over sufficient to mask the apples. Serve when quite cold. 244. Damson Cheese. Ingredients. Damsons. Sugar. Thoroughly clean as many damsons as desired, break the skins with a fork, put into jars to stew in the oven until tender, sprinkling some sugar over. When quite soft allow them to cool, then rub through a sieve; and to every pound of fruit add nine ounces of sugar. Put them in the preserving-pan (rinsed out with cold water first), and boil until it is set. A few of the kernels blanched and sprinkled in when boiling is an improvement. 245. Date Pudding (Steamed). Ingredients. Eight ounces of stoned Dates. Two ounces of Albene. Eight ounces of Bread- or Eusk Three whites of Eggs, crumbs. One gill of Milk. One ounce of Sugar. Clean and stone the dates and cut them into four; make the milk hot, put the Albene in the milk, and pour it over the bread-crumbs ; let it stand for five minutes, then add the dates, and mix well. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth; add all together, and steam for three and a half hours. Serve with sweet sauce.123 SWEETS 246. Fig and Apple Tart. Ingredients. Half a pound of Figs. Half a pound of Apples. Three ounces of Sugar. Half a pint of Water. Paste. See that the figs are quite clean, then put them in an enamelled stewpan with the sugar and water. Bring them very quickly to boiling-point, then put them where they will just simmer very gently, keeping the pan covered for an hour and a half. Now turn them into a tart-dish and add the apples, which must be weighed after they are peeled and sliced. Mix them together and cover them with a paste made according to recipe for " Paste, PufT for Tarts and Tartlets.11 Bake in a hot oven. Raise the crust gently when it is sufficiently baked, and look whether the apples are tender, if they are not, let the tart stand on the top of the stove for a few minutes to finish them. 247. Fig Pudding (No. i). Ingredients. Eight ounces of Figs. Eight ounces of Bread- or Rusk crumbs. Half a pint of Milk. Six ounces of Butter, or Albene. One ounce of Sugar. One tablespoonful of Treacle. Warm the treacle and milk together, chop the figs very fine. Mix the sugar and butter together ; add to the other ingredients, and mix very carefully. Steam in a buttered basin one hour and a half.124 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 248. Fig Pudding (No. 2). Ingredients. Four ounces Bread-crumbs. Half a Lemon rind. Three ounces of Figs. Two whites of Eggs. One tablespoonful of Sugar. Half a pint of Milk. Chop the figs into small pieces and mix well with the bread-crumbs, sugar, and lemon rind (grated). Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add to the milk, and mix all well together; pour into a well-buttered basin, and steam for three hours. 249. Fruit Jelly. Ingredients. One ounce of Agar Agar. One wineglassful of White Wine. Half a pint of Water. Eight ounces of lump Sugar. Half a Lemon. Three whites of Eggs. One pint of mixed cooked Fruits. Dissolve the agar agar in the water, add the sugar and the juice of the lemon. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth ; add together, and?put into a sauce- pan, and stir well until it boils, then pass through a jelly-bag two or three times. When cold (but not set) add the wine. Stew the fruit (apples, pears, stoned cherries, peaches, and apricots) in a little water, leave them in the syrup till cold. Fill a mould with layers of jelly and fruit until full; leave till next day. Turn out carefully and serve with cream. Rinse out the mould with cold water before putting in the jelly.SWEETS 125 250. Fun Pudding. Ingredients. Half a pound of Ratafias. Three whites of Eggs... Two ounces of castor Sugar. Three ounces of Flour. One pint and a half of Milk. Three ounces grated Cocoa-nut. Whip the whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth, then add the sugar and a little of the milk; now sprinkle in the flour, very slowly stirring all the time, add the rest of the milk, and put into a clean saucepan on the fire, and stir well until it thickens, being careful not to let it burn. Put the ratafias into a glass dish and pour the mixture over; when nearly cold sprinkle the cocoa-nut on top, and serve cold. 251. German Pudding. Ingredients. Three ounces of Rice. Two ounces of stoned Raisins. Two ounces of Butter. One pint of Milk. Three ounces of ground Almonds. Whites of three Eggs. Just a suspicion of powdered Cinnamon. Cook the rice and milk in a double saucepan for half an hour, then add the ground almonds, butter, raisins, and cinnamon. Mix well and cook for ten minutes longer, then add the whipped-up whites of eggs. Well grease a mould, pour the mixture in, cover with a greased paper, tie a cloth over, and steam for two hours.THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 252. Ginger Pudding. Ingredients. One breakfast-cupful of Flour. Half a breakfast-cupful of Treacle. Half a breakfast-cupful of Milk. Two ounces of Butter, or Albene. One tablespoonf ul of brown Sugar. One teaspoonful of ground Ginger. Half a teaspoonful of Carbonate of Soda. Warm the milk, butter, sugar, and treacle all together, then sprinkle in the flour into which the ginger has been first mixed ; dissolve the soda in a little cold milk, and add it last thing. Steam in a well-greased basin for about four hours. 253. Ginger Pudding (Steamed). Ingredients. Half a pound of Bread-crumbs. Quarter of a pound of moist Sugar. Quarter of a pound of Butter. Two large teaspoonf uls of Ginger. Warm the butter and mix with the sugai*, mix the ginger with the bread-crumbs (rusk-crumbs are better); well mix all together, dry ; put into a buttered basin, and steam from three to four hours. 254. Ginger Pudding (Brown). Ingredients. Two ounces of Bread-raspings. One teaspoonful of ground Ginger. Three ounces of Butter. The whites of two Eggs. One ounce of Sugar. One tablespoonful of Golden Syrup. Two ounces of candied Lemon peel. Half a pint of Milk. Make the milk hot and melt the butter and golden syrup in it, and pour over the bread-raspings. Cover them and let them remain for half an hour. Now mixSWEETS 127 in thoroughly the ginger, sugar, and candied lemon. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and add them to the other ingredients, and mix well together. Put the mixture in a well-buttered mould and steam for three hours. Serve sweet white sauce with the pudding. 255. Ginger Pudding (Green). Ingredients. Four ounces of Bread-crumbs. Two ounces of Flour. Four ounces of green Ginger. The whites of two Eggs. Two ounces of Butter. A quarter of a pint of Milk. In weighing the ginger for this pudding it is best to weigh it in the basin in which it will be mixed, then the syrup will not be wasted. Weigh the basin first, and then put in the ginger with a proper proportion of the syrup. Now cut up the ginger in bits about as large as a pea. Add the bread-crumbs to the ginger. Make the milk hot and melt the butter in it, and pour it over the bread-crumbs and ginger. Now mix in the flour very carefully, and stir all well together. Beat up the whites of eggs until they are stiff, and mix them well with the other ingredients. Pour the mixture in a well-buttered mould and steam for three hours. Serve with any sweet sauce that is liked. 256. Ginger with Cream. Ingredients. Preserved Ginger. | Whipped Cream. Cut up some ginger about the size of peas, and put a teaspoonful and a very little syrup in each paper rame- quin case. Fill the cases with whipped cream, and serve.128 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 257. Gooseberry Tart. Ingredients. One pound of green Goose- Two tablespoonfuls of berries. Water. Six ounces of Sugar. Paste. Pick the gooseberries and put them in a tart-dish; cover them with sugar, and put in the water. Use paste No. 396, and bake in a hot oven. When the paste is baked, it is better to place the tart on the top of the stove to simmer the gooseberries until they are quite tender. If the crust is carefully lifted with a knife, a skewer may be inserted to try whether the gooseberries are sufficiently cooked, as the tart will be spoilt unless they are quite soft. 258. Greengages (Stewed). Ingredients. One pound of Greengages. Six ounces of Sugar. A quarter of a pint of Water. Put the greengages in a stewpan and pour over them sufficient water to cover them, and let them boil up quickly, and continue boiling, for a minute. Now turn them carefully in a cullender, and as soon as they are cool enough to touch, remove the skins; they will come off quite easily. Make a syrup with the sugar and water, but do not let it boil after the sugar is melted. As each greengage has the skin removed drop it into the syrup. Bring them to boiling-point, but do not let them boil; they must simmer very gently for an hour. If they are carefully done they will be unbroken129 SWEETS when they are cooked. All plums are much better for having the skins removed, as most of the acid which disagrees with many people is in the skins. 259. Ground Rice Mould (Economical). Ingredients. One pound of ground Rice. Two ounces of castor Sugar. White of one Egg. Essence of Katafia. Pint and a half of Water. Put the rice and water in a saucepan (double), together with the sugar, allow it to boil, stirring every few minutes. When it boils add the flavouring, also the beaten white of egg, which mix in gently. Pour into a well-greased mould, and put in a cool place. This will set very quickly. Serve with stewed fruit. 260. Half-Pay Pudding. Ingredients. Eight ounces of Sultanas. Half a pint of Milk. Four ounces of Flour. Two tablespoonfuls of Treacle. Four ounces of Bread- or Rusk- Four ounces of Butter, or crumbs. Albene. Warm the milk, butter, and treacle together; mix the flour, bread-crumbs, and sultanas, and add the liquid; well mix and steam in a buttered mould or basin for three and a half hours. 9130 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 261. Hydropathic Pudding. Ingredients. Six slices of stale Bread. One pound of Currants (red). Four ounces of Raspberries, j Four ounces of Sugar. One gill of Cream. Cook the fruit and sugar together for ten minutes, then dip the slices of bread into the juice, and line a plain pudding basin with it, each piece overlapping. Then fill the basin with the fruit, put a piece of bread on the top, cut the bread round the edge to make it even with the basin; put a plate over, and a heavy weight on top, and leave it until it sets (which will be in about four hours). Turn out and put the whipped cream on top. (This can be made with various kinds of fruit in season.) 262. Jack Pudding. Ingredients. Three ounces of Rice. Six large Apples. One ounce of Sugar. One pint of Milk. Four Cloves. One tablespoonful of Sherry Rind of half a Lemon. (or Rum). Whites of three Eggs. Put the rice and milk into a double saucepan, with the cloves and lemon rind, and allow them to cook until the milk is thick and creamy; peel and core the apples, and cook in another saucepan with the sugar; when well cooked beat them with a wooden spoon until smooth, add the apples to the rice (take out the cloves and lemon rind first), mix well, and add the sherry (or rum). Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, mix allSWEETS 131 well together, pour into a well-buttered pie-dish, and bake for half an hour. 263. Jam Pudding. Ingredients. Any kind of Jam. Paste. Roll out a piece of paste half an inch thick, any quantity, according to the size of the pudding required. Spread over the jam, but leave a margin of an inch all round. Now slightly damp the margin left, and fold the paste very lightly. Wrap it loosely in a well- buttered paper and steam for four hours. Serve with plain sweet sauce. The paste must be made according to recipe for " Paste for Puddings." 264. Lemon (or Orange) Jelly. Ingredients. Eight Lemons. One ounce of Vegetable Gelatine. Four ounces of Sugar. Two Oranges. Half a pint of Water. Take the oranges and lemons and grate the rinds, and add it to the strained juice, sugar, and water ; put them in a saucepan, and boil for five minutes, then add the gelatine, which has been soaked in a little cold water. When dissolved pass all through a jelly-bag or hair sieve; rinse with cold water a fancy mould, put in the mixture, and allow it to set. Reverse the quantity of oranges and lemons for an (/range jelly.132 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 265. Lemon Pudding. Ingredients. Twelve ounces of Bread-crumbs. Four ounces of Albene and Butter mixed. Four ounces of Sugar. Whites of two Eggs. Two Lemons, juice and grated rind. A little Nutmeg. Grate the bread and pass it through a sieve, mix the butter and Albene with the bread-crumbs; mix the lemon- juice with the sugar, grate the rind on to the bread- crumbs, and also the nutmeg. Well beat the whites of two eggs and mix all together; add a little milk if necessary. The mixture should be rather soft. Put into a well-buttered basin, and steam three and a half hours. 266. Lemon Sponge. Ingredients. Half an ounce of Agar Agar. I Two tablespoonfuls of Brandy. Eight ounces of lump Sugar. [ One pint of "Water. Two Lemons. Put the agar agar into the water to simmer for a quarter of an hour; let it get cold, then add the sugar and the rind of one lemon grated, and the juice of two. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth; add the brandy to the eggs. Whisk all together till very firm, then put into a mould to set till next day.SWEETS 133 267. Macaroni and Apple Pudding. Ingredients. One pound of Applea. Four ounces of pipe Macaroni. Two ounces of Sugar. One ounce of Butter, or Albene. Two ounces of white Bread- crumbs. One tablespoonful of Cream. One white of Egg. Bind of half a Lemon (grated). Cook the macaroni in boiling water for three-quarters of an hour, or until it is tender, but not broken; drain it well. Butter a pie-dish or pudding basin, and line with the macaroni. Now sprinkle it with bread-crumbs. Pare and cut up the apples very fine, mix with the lemon peel (grated), cream, and the whipped-up white of egg and sugar; fill the basin with this mixture, and sprinkle a few bread-crumbs on the top. Cut up the butter and put small pieces on the bread-crumbs. Now put a layer of macaroni; trim it round, cover with a plate and bake for one hour. Turn out, and serve with a white sauce. 268. Macaroni Pudding Ingredients. Six ounces of Macaroni. One ounce of Butter. One pint of Milk. A little grated Nutmeg. Break the macaroni into small pieces and throw into boiling water, and keep it boiling for half an hour, drain it well and return to the saucepan, add the milk, butter, and nutmeg, and let it simmer gently for fifteen minutes. Turn into a buttered pie-dish and bake until firm—about half an hour.134 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 269. Marmalade. Ingredients. Twelve Seville Oranges. I Ten pounds of Sugar. Six sweet Oranges. Rind and juice of two Lemons. Slice the oranges very thin, removing all pips. Put the pips into a small basin and pour over them a pint of boiling water, and allow them to stand till next day. Put the sliced oranges into a stone pan with six quarts of cold water, and let them stand for twenty- four hours. Put on to boil with the strained liquid from the pips, and, boil for two hours, then add the sugar and boil another hour or until set. This makes about fifteen pounds of marmalade. 270. Marmalade Pudding (No. i). Ingredients. Half a pound of Marmalade. Three ounces of Bread-raspings. Two ounces of Butter. The whites of two Eggs. A quarter of a pint of Milk. Make the milk hot, and melt the butter in it. Pour the mixture over the bread-raspings, and mix in the marmalade. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix well into the other ingredients. Butter a mould and put in the mixture, and steam for three hours. Serve with sweet white sauce, or a wine sauce.SWEETS 135 271. Marmalade Pudding (No. 2). Ingredients. Three ounces of white Bread- crumbs. Three tablespoonfuls of Mar- malade. One ounce of Butter. Well butter a pie-dish and put a layer of bread- crumbs at the bottom, then a layer of marmalade, then another layer of bread-crumbs, and so on, until the dish is full, leaving bread-crumbs on the top. Cut the butter into very small pieces and sprinkle i^ over the top. Bake in a fairly hot oven for half an hour. 272. Marmalade Pudding (Steamed). Ingredients. One tablespoonful of Flour. Two tablespoonfuls of Marmalade. Two ounces of Butter. One ounce of Sugar. Half a pint of Milk. Two drops of Essence of Vanilla. Whites of three Eggs. Put the butter into a saucepan and let it melt; stir in the flour, then add the milk, flavouring, and sugar. Let it boil for fifteen minutes, and add the whipped-up whites of eggs. Butter a basin or mould, and line it with the marmalade, and pour in the mixture, and steam for about half an hour. 273. Marmalade Tartlets. Ingredients. Marmalade. Paste. Make the paste according to recipe for " Paste, Puff for Tarts and Tartlets." Fill the tartlet cases with marmalade immediately they leave the oven.THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 136 274. Melon Compote. Ingredients. Two pounds of Melon. Four ounces of Sugar. One teaspoonful of ground Ginger. A Bay leaf. Take off the hard outside of the melon, and remove all the centre ; cut into pieces about the size of a plum. Make a syrup of the sugar flavoured with a little of the melon peel, bay leaf, and the ginger, in about half a pint of water; let this simmer for about an hour, and pour it over the pieces of melon. 275. Military Pudding. Ingredients. Eight ounces of Bread- or Rusk- crumbs. Six ounces of Butter, or Albene. Four ounces of moist Sugar. Rind and juice of one large Lemon. Any Jam deBired. Well mix the butter, crumbs, sugar, and lemon to- gether ; grease a medium-sized baking-dish and spread a layer of jam on the bottom, put the mixture on the top, and bake for about half an hour. 276. Milk Jelly. Ingredients. Half an ounce of Agar Agar. One pint of Milk. One ounce of Sugar. Lemon rind to flavour. Soak the agar agar in a very little water all night, then add the boiling milk with the sugar and lemon rind. Let it simmer fop five minutes, then strain into a mould; put it to set until next day.137 SWEETS 277. Milk Rice. Ingredients. Four ounces of Eice. Nutmeg. One quart of Milk. Sugar. Wash the rice and put it into a double pan. Boil the milk and pour it over the rice. Let it cook for two hours, and then sweeten with sugar and flavour with nutmeg to taste. Milk rice is very liable to burn, so that it is safer to use a double pan. It takes longer to cook in this way, but it is much more satisfactory. (See " Hints on Cooking.) 278. Milk Sago. Ingredients. Four ounces of Sago. Nutmeg. One quart of Milk. Sugar. Prepare this exactly as in preceding recipe, " Milk Rice." Any other flavouring can be substituted for the nutmeg. A strip of thin lemon peel simmered for the last half-hour in the milk makes an agreeable flavouring.138 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 279. Mince-meat (No. i). Ingredients. One pound of Raisins. One pound of Currants. One pound and a quarter of Apples. A quarter of a pound each of can- died Citron, Orange, and Lemon. One pound of Sugar. One teaspoonful of Cinnamon. Half a grated Nutmeg. Half a saltspoonful of pow- dered Cloves. Two sherry-glassfuls of Brandy. Pick and wash the currants, stone the raisins. Peel and slice the apples ; they must be weighed after they are prepared. Shred very finely the citron, orange, and lemon. Put them all into a large bowl, and mix them well, and then chop them either on a chopping-board or in a chopping-bowl. When the fruit has been suffi- ciently chopped return it to the large bowl, and mix in the sugar and spices. Put the mince-meat in a jar and pour the brandy over it. When it is used it should be well mixed,and until it is required must be kept very care- fully covered. A dessertspoonful of mince-meat should be put into a three-inch pie; and as there is no suet in the mince-meat, a piece of butter, the size of a hazel-nut, must be placed in the middle of the mince-meat in each pie. 280. Mince-meat (No. 2). Ingredients. One pound of Raisins. One pound of Sultanas. One pound of Apples (after they are peeled and cored). Eight ounces of Pine kernels. Eight ounces of Chestnuts, Twelve ounces of mixed Peel. Eight ounces of brown Sugar. One teaspoonful of mixed Spice. One Nutmeg. Two Lemons. Wineglassful each of Sherry and Brandy. Stone and chop the raisins ; pick over and well clean the sultanas ; peel and core the apples ; grind the nuts139 SWEETS very finely twice through a good nut-mill; chop the peel very fine ; boil the lemons for two hours and chop into small pieces (taking out all pips); add all together, and mix well, putting the spice and wine in last. Cover tightly and keep for about a fortnight before using. Almonds may be used in place of pine kernels. 281. Mince Pies. Ingredients. Mince-meat. Paste. Prepare the paste according to recipe for "Paste, Puff" (old recipe), and use the mince-meat prepared according to either recipe for " Mince-meat." 282. Moonshine. Ingredients. One ounce of Vegetable Gelatine. Quarter of a pound of Sugar. One pint of boiling Water. Two Lemons. Dissolve the gelatine in a little cold water, add the pint of boiling water and sugar, also the grated rind of the lemons. Boil for a quarter of an hour, strain, and add the juice of the two lemons ; when nearly cold whisk it till snow-white; put into a mould to set till next day. 283. Mulberry Jelly. Ingredients. One and a half pints of Mul- I Four ounces of Tapioca, berry juice. Sugar. Extract the juice from the mulberries by placing them in a jar, and bruising them with a wooden spoon ;140 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK then place the jar—which must be covered—in a sauce- pan of boiling water. Let the water boil until the j uice flows freely from the mulberries; then strain them through a fine hair sieve. Do not squeeze the mulberries, but let the juice drop slowly through. Crush the tapioca so that no lumps remain; then pour the mul- berry juice over it and let it stand all night. Boil it until it is quite clear, stirring to keep it from burning, and add sugar to taste. Pour into small moulds which have been standing in cold water. Serve with either cream or custard—made with Bird's Custard Powder. Windfalls do quite well for this dish, and those who possess mulberry trees will find that the fruit can be utilised to great advantage in this way. 284. Normandy Pudding. Ingredients. Six ounces Bread-crumbs. Six ounces castor Sugar. Six small sour cooking Apples. One Lemon. One saltspoonful ground Cloves. One teaspoonful of ground Cin- namon. Whites of six Eggs. Peel, slice, and core the apples or chop them up, not too finely ; put them with all the other dry ingredients in a basin, and stir well; add the whisked whites of eggs slowly. When thoroughly mixed add the lemon- juice and the finely-grated rind of half of it (also a little brandy or rum if liked), and pour the mixture into a well-greased mould, tie over a greased cloth or paper, and steam for about three hours. Serve with white-wine sauce. [Note.—The use of rum or brandy is optional. The pudding is much more tasty if one or the other is added.]141 SWEETS 285. Normandy Pippins (Stewed). Ingredients. Half a pound of Nor- mandy Pippins. Six ounces of Sugar. One quart of Water. Wash the pippins well and soak them over night in one quart of water. Remove the apples from the water with a spoon, so as to let all impurities sink to the bottom of the bowl. Now pour off the water that the pippins have been soaked in, and strain it over them, leaving the sediment. Add the sugar, and let them boil up quickly, when they must be well skimmed. Now put them where they will simmer very slowly until they are quite tender, but unbroken, and they have turned a rich brown. This will take between three and four hours. If Normandy pippins are cooked quickly they are quite spoiled. 286. Omnibus Pudding. Ingredients. Six ounces of Flour (or Kusk- crumbs). Four ounces of Albene. Six ounces of Sultanas. Four ounces of Golden Syrup. Half a pint of Milk. Mix the butter and flour together and add the sultanas. Warm the syrup and milk together, and add to the rest. Steam in a well-buttered basin for four hours. Serve with any white sauce.H2 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 287. Orange Compot. Ingredients. Six Oranges. | One pint of Water. Eight ounces of Sugar. Peel and cut the oranges into rounds. Save all the juice and put it, and some shreds of peel (without any white), into the water with the sugar. Boil this for one hour to make a syrup, and pour over the rounds of orange and allow to cool. 288. Orange Fritters. Ingredients. One pint of Milk. Two tablespoonfuls of castor Four ounces of Flour. Sugar. Whites of two Eggs. Two sweet Oranges. White and yolk of one Egg (not Few drops of Vanilla essence, more than six hours old). Mix the flour with a little of the cold milk, put the remainder of the milk into a double saucepan, when nearly boiling add the flour and milk, also the well- beaten eggs ; when thickened, strain well, and put back into the saucepan to obtain the right consistency ; add the sugar and essence of vanilla. Peel the oranges, divide into sections, remove the white skin and pips, and cook in half a pint of water, and four ounces of sugar, for about ten minutes, then take up and drain on a sieve. Drop the orange sections into the above batter, mixing the whole carefully. Fry the fritters in hot butter or oil, taking each orange section up in a spoon, with ample batter to well cover it, and so dropping it into the fat. Do not frySWEETS 143 too many at one time. When of a nice golden colour take them up and drain well on paper or a cloth. Dredge with icing sugar, and arrange them nicely on a dish covered with lace paper. Serve plain or with an orange-flavoured syrup. These are also nice to garnish a rice or vermicelli mould. 289. Orange Jelly. Ingredients. Fourteen Oranges. One ounce of Agar Agar. Six ounces of loaf Sugar. One or two Lemons. Strain the juice of the oranges and lemons through a fine sieve. Make a syrup of the sugar and pour it boiling hot on the thinly-pared rind of two oranges. Dissolve the agar agar, and add to the syrup, then mix the juice in and allow it to get cold. Although not stiff enough to set well in a mould, it is much nicer than if more gelatine were added. 290. Orange Meringue. Ingredients. Four ounces of Rice. Two ounces of Sugar. One quart of Milk. Any flavouring desired. Boil the rice in the milk for four hours until all the milk is absorbed. Pour into a basin and let it get cold, and turn out into a glass dish. Pour over a compot of oranges according to recipe No. 287, and put whipped cream on the top.THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 144 291. Orange Pudding. Ingredients. Four Oranges. One tablespoonful of ground Whites of two Eggs. Eice. Two tablespoonfuls of 6ifted One pint of Milk. Sugar. Frosting on Top. Whites of two Eggs. | One tablespoonful sifted Sugar. Peel and cut the oranges into thin slices, and remove all the pips and white skin, and sift over the sugar. Warm the milk and pour it on the well-beaten whites of eggs. Make a smooth paste of the ground rice with a little water, and add to the milk and egg (in a sauce- pan), stir until thick, then pour over the fruit. Make the frosting by beating the eggs to a stiff froth with the sugar, pour over, and put it in the oven a few minutes to harden. Excellent hot or cold. 292. Peach Trifle. Ingredients. Two pounds of Peaches. One gill of Water. Four ounces of Sugar. Stale Sponge or plain Cake. One gill of Cream. Cut the peaches in halves, removing the stones, cook them with the sugar and water until tender, but not broken. Remove the centre of the cake, being careful not to break it, leaving a wall about an inch and a quarter thick all round. Soak this with the syrup, and fill the centre with the fruit. Whip the cream with a teaspoonful of castor sugar, and put round the top of the cake, leaving the fruit piled up in the centre.145 SWEETS 293. Plums (Stewed). In stewing plums follow the recipe given for " Stewing Greengages." 294. Potato Cakes. Ingredients. Half a pound of mashed Potatoes. One pint of Milk. Two ounces of Macaroons. Whites of four Eggs. Cook and mash the potatoes. Pass the macaroons through a nut mill. Boil the milk and add to the potatoes, then add the macaroons, let all boil together for five minutes. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and mix with the other ingredients, and let the mixture get cold. Form into small round cakes, flour them, and fry in boiling Albene. Drain well, and serve with castor-sugar. 295. Potatoes with Cream. ■Ingredients. Four large Potatoes, or one pound of new ones. One gill of Cream. Two ounces of Butter, or Albene. One tablespoonful of Flour. Juice of half a Lemon. Pepper and Nutmeg to taste. Cook the potatoes (but see they do not break), and allow them to get cold. Make the sauce as follows : Put the butter into a saucepan, rub in the flour, add the cream, pepper, nutmeg, and lemon-juice. When quite smooth, put in the potatoes until they are very hot; take out the potatoes, put in the centre of a dish and pour the sauce round. 10140 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 296. Prune Pudding. Ingredients. Eight ounces of Prunes. I Two tablespoonfuls of Flour. One pint of Milk. Three whites of Eggs. One teaspoonful of ground Ginger. Beat the eggs to a stiff froth, add about a quarter of the milk, all the flour and ginger ; then by degrees add all the milk, and then the prunes. Steam in a well- greased basin an hour and a half. The following makes a nice sauce for this pudding: Two ounces of Almonds. Four drops of Vanilla. Half a pint of Cream. "Wineglassful of Brandy. Two ounces of Sugar. Mix the sugar and cream and brandy together, add the almonds (blanched and chopped fine), and pour over the pudding, or serve separately. 297. Prunes (Stewed). Ingredients. One pound of Prunes. Half a pound of Sugar. Three half-pints of Water. Wash the prunes well, and put them in a bowl with three half-pints of cold water, and let them soak for twelve hours. Lift them from the water with a spoon, so as to let all impurities sink to the bottom of the bowl. Put them in a saucepan and strain the water that the prunes were soaked in over them, being careful to leave all the sediment at the bottom. Add the sugar, and let them boil up quickly, when they must be skimmed. Now put them where they will simmerSWEETS 147 slowly, until they are quite tender, but unbroken. This will take from two to three hours. 298. Queen's Pudding. Ingredients. Eight Savoy finger Biscuits. Three tablespoonfuls of Easp- berry Jam. Half a pint of Custard. The whites of four Eggs, Roll the biscuits to make rather fine crumbs and spread them over the bottom of a small pudding-dish. Make the custard with Bird's Custard Powder, according to recipe given with it, and pour it over the biscuit- crumbs whilst hot. Now spread the raspberry jam over the custard, and whip the whites of eggs into a stiff froth and place it over all. Put the pudding in a hot oven for five minutes and let it brown slightly, then serve at once. 299. Queen's Tartlets. Ingredients. Puff Paste. Fresh Strawberries or Easpberries. Castor Sugar. Whipped Cream. Make the paste according to recipe for good " Puff Paste." When the tartlet cases are baked and just cool, fill them with either fresh strawberries or raspberries, slightly broken up and covered with castor sugar. Leave room for the whipped cream, which must be put on the top. Serve on a d'Oyley.148 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 300. Raisin Pudding (Baked). Ingredients. Eight ounces of Flour. Three whites of Eggs. Two ounces of Albene. Three gills of Milk. Five ounces of Raisins, or One teaspoonful of Baking Sultanas. Powder. Rub the Albene into the flour, then mix the baking- powder with the flour; add the raisins or sultanas. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth ; add them to the milk. Mix all together and put into a well- greased pie-dish, and bake for three-quarters of an hour. 801. Raspberry Jam. Ingredients. One pound of Raspberries. Three-quarters of a pound of crushed loaf Sugar. When the fruit has been carefully picked, put it with the sugar in layers on a dish, or in a deep bowl, according to the quantity of fruit that is to be preserved. Let it remain for four hours, and then turn it into a preserving pan and bring it to boiling-point quickly, stirring almost continuously to prevent it from burning. Remove the scum as it rises or the jam will not be clear. Let it boil gently for three-quarters of an hour, after it boils evenly all over. Turn it into jars, and when cold cover in the ordinary way and store it in a dry place.SWEETS 14 302. Raspberry Jelly. Ingredients, One pint of Raspberry juice. | One pound of loaf Sugar. To draw the juice from the raspberries, put them in a jar and bruise them slightly, then place the jar in a pan of boiling water and keep it boiling gently until the juice flows freely. Lay a piece of muslin in a fine sieve and pour the juice into it until no more will flow; then turn the fruit into the sieve, and leave it to let the juice drain away from it; but it must not be pressed or the juice will be muddy. Measure the juice carefully and add the sugar, in lumps, in the quantity given. Let it boil gently and skim it carefully. When it has boiled for half an hour, pour a teaspoonful on a cold plate, and if it sets the jelly is done, if not, let it boil a little longer. Put it in small pots and cover, when cold, in the usual way. The flavour is much improved by one part of red-currant juice being used to two parts of raspberry, but the currants would make the jelly too acid for most people on this diet. 303. Restorative Jelly. Ingredients. One ounce of Barley. Two pints of Water. One ounce of Rice. Half a small Lemon. One ounce of Sago. One tablespoonful of Sugar. Thoroughly wash the rice, sago, and barley, and put into a double saucepan with the water, and lemon rind cut thinly ; let them simmer for three hours, then strain . and add the sugar. Take hot as a drink or cold as a jelly.150 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 804. Rice and Apple Pudding. Ingredients. Ono breakfast-cupful of Rice. Two Cloves. Six Apples (good cooking Half a Lemon, rind only. Apples). Two teaspoonfuls of Sugar. Boil the rice for a quarter of an hour in boiling water, strain through a hair sieve. Put a cloth into a pudding-basin, lay the rice all round it like a crust; quarter some apples as for a tart, and lay them in the middle of the rice, add the sugar, lemon rind, and cloves over the apples with rice and tie the cloth fairly tightly. Boil the pudding for one hour, or steam it for one and a half hours, and serve with some sweet sauce poured over. 305. Rice and Apple (Baked). To use up any stewed Apples and cold Rice. Put the apple in the bottom of a pie-dish, then the cold cooked rice. Well beat the whites of two eggs, add a teaspoonful of icing sugar, and spread this on the top, and bake in the oven a light broAvn, just sufficient to warm the rice and apple through. Three ounces of Rice. 306. Rice Balls. Ingredients. Rind of one Lemon. Half "a "pint of Milk. A pinch of Sugar (or Salt). Pick over the rice but do not wash it; put it into a stewpan with sufficient water to cover it, with the sugar (or salt), and let it swell till the water is absorbed. Add151 SWEETS the milk and lemon rind, and stew gently for an hour put into moulds or tins, and serve with stewed fruit. 307. Rice Blancmange. Ingredients. Two and a hali ounces of ground Eice. One Bay leaf. Half a pint of Milk. One tablespoonful of Sugar. Take enough milk from the pint to mix the rice smoothly. Put the remainder in an enamelled saucepan with the bay leaf, and let it remain until the milk is nicely flavoured. If lemon flavour is preferred, use the thin rind of half a lemon. Remove the flavouring and add the sugar, and pour over the mixed rice, stirring as the milk is poured in. Return the mixture to the saucepan, and boil until the rice leaves the spoon easily, stirring the whole time. Pour into a damp mould, and let it stand in a cool place for three or four hours before turning out. Serve stewed fruit or custard with the blancmange. 308. Rice Cakes (Small). Ingredients. Half a pound of ground Rice. Six ounces of castor Sugar. Four ounces of Butter. The whites of four Eggs. Warm the butter slightly and then beat it to a cream. Add the rice and beat it well, then mix in the milk and the whites of eggs well beaten. Drop the mixture in small cakes on a buttered baking-tin and sift sugar over them. Bake in a well-heated oven.152 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 309. Rice Froth. Ingredients Eight ounces of Eioe. One ounce of Sugar. Quarter of a pint of Milk. Whites of two Eggs. A little Easpberry or other Jam. Boil the rice in water; when nearly done add the milk, and let it boil a little longer, stirring well. Put into a pie-dish, and when cold cover with the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth with the sugar, dotting the jam about in small lumps on top. 310. Rice Pudding (Plain). Ingredients. One ounce and a half of Eice. One pint of Milk. A little One dessertspoonful of Sugar. Half an ounce of Butter. Nutmeg. Wash and pick over the rice, and put it in a pudding- dish. Boil the milk and pour it over the rice. Mix in the butter and sugar, and grate a little nutmeg over the whole. Bake the pudding in a moderate oven for two hours. After the first hour it should be placed where it will not brown, but will allow the milk to thicken with the rice. 311. Rice Pudding a la Francaise. Ingredients. Four ounces of Carolina Eice. One pint of Milk. One ounce of Butter. Two ounces of Sugar. Four drops essence of Vanilla, or Four ounces of ground Almonds. Whites of three Eggs. Well wash the rice and put into a double saucepan with the milk, and the butter, and sugar, and allow it to153 SWEETS cook slowly for two hours, stirring occasionally. Turn out, and let it get cold, then add the vanilla (or almonds) and the well-beaten whites of eggs. Grease a pudding- basin and steam the mixture for one hour and a half. Serve with jam or sweet sauce. 312. Rice Pudding with Burnt Sugar. Ingredients. Two and a half ounoes of Rice. Pint and a half of Milk. Two tablespoonfuls of castor Sugar. White of one Egg. Wash the rice and put into the boiling milk (double saucepan) and let it simmer gently until well done. Put the sugar into a small saucepan with four tablespoonfuls of water, and let it boil until it becomes brown and thick, then spread it round a mould which has been previously warmed. Mix in the egg with the rice, and pour into the mould, and set it in a stewpan with some boiling water. Put the pan into the oven until the top of the pudding is brown, then set it on stove to simmer half an hour or longer. Turn out, and serve very hot. 313. Rice (whole in Moulds). Ingredients. Four ounces of Rice. I One dessertspoonful of Sugar. One pint of Milk. | A Bay leaf. Wash the rice and pick it over, and put it in a double pan. Boil the milk and pour it over the rice, add the bay leaf and sugar; if the flavour of lemon154 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK is preferred add half the thin rind of a lemon. Cook the rice for two hours and a half, and see that the water in the outer pan is kept boiling all the time, and the pan is not allowed to boil dry. Pour into a damp mould, or small moulds, and put in a cool place for five or six hours. Turn out carefully. Serve stewed fruit with the moulds. 314. Roly-Poly Pudding. Ingredients. 8a.m. Short Paste. Use the recipe " Paste for Puddings." Take any quan- tity of paste, according to the size of the pudding re- quired, and roll it out half an inch thick. Spread the jam over the paste, leaving a margin of an inch all round. Now slightly damp the margin left and fold the paste very lightly, but press the edges together. Wrap the pudding loosely in a buttered paper and steam for four hours. Sweet white sauce can be served with it if liked. The pudding can be made with golden syrup instead of jam for a change. 315. Sago Pudding. Ingredients. One ounce of Sago. One dessertspoonful of Sugar. One pint of Milk. The thin rind of half a Lemon. Half an ounce of Butter. A little grated Nutmeg. Wash the sago and then put it in a pie-dish, with as much boiling water as will just cover it; let it stand for an hour. Meantime put the milk in a saucepan155 SWEETS with the lemon rind, and let it simmer until it is nicely flavoured. Pour away any water that the sago has not absorbed, and add the milk, which must have been strained and sweetened and the butter melted in it. Grate over it a little nutmeg, and bake it in a moderate oven for about an hour. 316. Satisfaction Pudding. Ingredients. One teacupful of Butter, or One teacupful of preserved Albene. Ginger chips. One teacupful of Milk. One teaspoonful Carbonate of One teacupful of Golden Syrup. Soda. One teacupful of Flour. Warm the butter, syrup, and milk together. When well mixed, sprinkle in enough flour to make a stiff batter; add the ginger chips and soda last thing, and steam for about five hours. 317. Semolina Mould. Ingredients. Two ounces of Semolina. One ounce of Sugar. One pint of Milk. Half a Lemon. Half a teaspoonful of Vanilla. Rinse a saucepan with cold water, then put in the milk and sugar. When it boils add the semolina, slowly, stirring all the time. Cook for three-quarters of an hour, then add the flavouring. Rinse out a mould with cold water, pour the mixture in, and let it stand until cold.156 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 318. Snow Balls. Ingredients. Half a pound of Carolina Eice. Four ounces of lump Sugar. Pint and a half of Milk. Four good cooking Apples. A little Nutmeg. Wash the rice in a strainer, and pick it over carefully. Put it into a saucepan with the milk, and cook it until the milk is thick ; add the sugar and nutmeg, stirring all the time. Peel and core the apples. Wet the corners of a clean cloth, and spread them over with rice. Place an apple in each centre, adding a little sugar and a clove in each. Work the rice up so as to form a crust all round. Tie up securely and boil half an hour. (A ball in each corner.) 319. Snow Pudding. Ingredients. Eight ounces of Sugar. Three Lemons. Half an ounce of Vegetable Whites of three Eggs. Gelatine. Quarter pint of Water. Soak the gelatine in the water until dissolved, add the grated rind and juice of the lemons and the sugar. Boil all together for a few minutes, let it cool, then add the well-whipped whites of eggs. Mix well together, put into a mould to set till next day, or may be served at once in a glass dish.157 SWEETS 320. Snowdon Pudding. Ingredients. Eight ounces of white Bread- crumbs. Six ounces of Albene. Three ounces of Sugar. Three tablespoonfuls of Jam (peach or aprioot). Whites of four Eggs. Mix the bread-crumbs and Albene together with the sugar and jam ; add the well-beaten whites of eggs last thing. Steam in a well-greased basin for about three hours. Serve with a sauce of the same jam as used in the pudding, and whipped cream. 321. Spotted Dick. Ingredients. Six ounces of Flour. Four ounces of Sultanas, or Eaisins. Three ounces of Albene. One teaspoonful of Baking- powder. "Water. Chop the Albene as you would suet, and mix it into the flour with the sultanas (or raisins) and the baking- powder. Add as much water as will make a paste thick enough to roll out, as for roly-poly pudding or jam roll. When rolled out fold over and put into a pudding cloth and boil for about one hour. 322. Stewed Apples and Peach Jam. Ingredients. Eight ounces peach Jam (or bottled Peaches). Four ounces of Sugar Half-pint of Water. Six or eight large even-sized Apples. Two gills of Cream. Boil the sugar and water together for half an hour .Have the apples ready peeled, and cored, and put themTHE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 158 into the sugar and water; let them stand to simmer for four or five hours very slowly (they must be cooked, but not broken). Take out the apples very carefully and fill them with the peach jam. Whip the cream and put a little on each apple. Pour the syrup round and serve. 323. Stewed Figs. The best way to ensure dried figs being soft is to soak them overnight in cold water, and then stew them in a jar in the oven, gently, for several hours. A little ginger or a few drops of lemon-j uice is an improvement. 324. Strawberry or Gooseberry Fool. Ingredients. One pound of either Fruit. Half pound of Sugar. One gill of Water, or Milk. One gill of Cream. Cook the fruit in the water (or milk) with the sugar, for twenty minutes, or until tender and well cooked; then rub through a sieve with a wooden spoon. When the fruit is cold add the cream, mix well, and serve cold. 325. Strawberry Pudding. Ingredients. Two ounces of Flour. Four ounces of Butter or Albene. Half a teaspoonf ul of carbonate of Soda. One ounce of castor Sugar. Whites of two Eggs. Two tablespoonfuls of straw- berry Jam. Beat the butter to a cream, add it to the sugar; whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix it with butter159 SWEETS and sugar the time. Sprinkle the flour in gradually, stirring all Put in the jam, well mixing all the time; add the soda last thing. Steam in a well-buttered mould or basin for four hours. 326. Sultana Pudding (Steamed). Ingredients. Half a pound of Flour, or Kusk- crumbs. Twelve ounces of Sultanas. Quarter of a pound of brown Sugar. Quarter of a pound of mashed Carrots. Quarter of a pound of mashed Potatoes. Quarter of a pound of Albene. One tablespoonful of Treacle. Two ounces of finely-cut candied Peel. Well mix the flour (or bread-crumbs), sultanas (after they have been carefully picked over), carrots, and potatoes (both must be well mashed first), and sugar together. Warm the treacle and Albene and add these with the candied peel last thing. This pudding is im- proved by being mixed overnight, and should rise very high. Steam in a buttered basin about four hours. 327. Sweet Potato Pudding. Ingredients. Four ounces of Potatoes. Two ounces of Butter, or Albene. Three ounces of Sugar. Whites of three Eggs. Juice of one Lemon. Cook and mash the potatoes, beat in the butter and sugar, then add the well-beaten whites of eggs, and? lastly, the juice of the lemon. Put into a well-greased mould and steam for half an hour. Can be baked if liked.160 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 328. Tapioca and Apple Pudding. Ingredients. One ounoe of Tapiooa. Half an ounce of Butter. One pint of Milk. Half a pint of stewed Apple. One dessertspoonful of Sugar. A little grated Nutmeg. Wash the tapioca and soak it in as much boiling water as will cover it for an hour. Boil the milk and put in the sugar and butter. Place the apples at the bottom of a pie-dish. Now pour away any water that has not been absorbed by the tapioca, and spread the tapioca over the apples. Pour in the sweetened milk, and grate a little nutmeg over all. Bake in a moderate oven for an hour. 329. Tapioca Pudding. Ingredients. One ounce of Tapioca. The thin rind of half a Lemon. One pint of Milk. A tablespoonful of finely-grated One dessertspoonful of Sugar. Bread-crumbs. Half an ounce of Butter. A little grated Nutmeg. Wash the tapioca and put it in a pie-dish. Cover it with boiling water and let it stand an hour. Pour off any water that has not been absorbed. Meantime, put the milk to simmer with the lemon rind, until it is nicely flavoured, then remove the lemon and add the sugar and butter. Sprinkle the bread-crumbs over the tapioca, and pour over the milk. Grate a little nutmeg over the pudding, and bake for an hour in a moderate oven.SWEETS 161 330. Treacle Pudding. Ingredients. Golden Syrup. | Paste. Make the paste according to recipe " Paste for Pud- dings/1 Roll out to half an inch, and spread golden syrup over the paste, leaving a margin of an inch all round. Dip the pastry brush in cold water and slightly squeeze the edges. Wrap loosely in buttered paper and steam for three hours. 331. Treacle Tart. Ingredients. Three tablespoonfuls of Golden Syrup. Two ounces of Bread-crumbs. Half an ounce of Butter. Paste. Make the paste according to recipe for " Paste, Puff for Tarts and Tartlets." Line a shallow eight- or nine- inch tin with paste. Put in the bread-crumbs, which must be very fine. Melt the butter, and pour it over the bread-crumbs, and warm the golden syrup and pour that evenly over all. Bake in a hot oven for about twenty minutes. 332. Valentia Pudding. Ingredients. Eight ounces of Bread- or Rusk- crumbs. Three ounces of Valentia Raisins. One ounce of Butter. One pint of Milk. Three ounces of Sugar (castor' Whites of three Eggs. Vanilla or Wine to ilavour. Put the milk and butter on to boil. When it boils add the crumbs, sugar, stoned and coarsely-chopped iiTHE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 162 raisins. Boil for two or three minutes, and put aside to cool. Beat the eggs to a froth, and add them to the cool mixture. Mix well, and flavour to taste. Pour into a greased mould or basin, cover the top with a greased paper, and steam for two hours. Allow the pudding to stand until it shrinks away from the side of the basin, which will be in a minute or two. Turn out carefully on to a hot dish. Serve with a good sweet sauce. 333. Vegetable Marrow Tartlets. Ingredients. Vegetable Marrow (about one and a half pounds). White of one Egg. One teaspoonful of Ginger. Half a pint of Milk. One tablespoonful of Sugar. One tableBpoonful of Flour. Peel and remove the seeds of the marrow and cook for twenty minutes in the milk, with the sugar and ginger. When tender, pass through a sieve, return to the sauce- pan, and add the flour, mixed to a smooth paste, with a little of the milk; let it thicken, stirring all the time (about five minutes). Remove from the fire, add the well-whipped white of egg. Make some pastry, accord- ing to recipe No. 396, fill with the mixture, and bake for twenty minutes. 334. Vermicelli Pudding (No. i). Ingredients. Four ounces of Vermicelli. One pint of Milk. Half the thin rind of a Lemon Put the milk to simmer with the lemon rind until it is nicely flavoured, then take it out and add the sugar and butter. A dessertspoonful of Sugar. Half an ounce of Butter. A little grated Nutmeg.163 SWEETS Throw the vermicelli into plenty of fast-boiling water and let it boil quickly for five minutes, then drain it well. Now stir it into the sweetened milk, and let it boil up, stirring until it boils. Turn it into a pie-dish and grate a little nutmeg over it, and let it bake in a moderate oven for one hour. 335. Vermicelli Pudding (No. 2). Ingredients. One pint of Milk. Two tablespoonfuls of castor Two ounces of Vermicelli. Sugar. "Whites of two Eggs. Eind of two Lemons (grated). Put the milk into a double saucepan and let it boil, then sprinkle in the vermicelli, breaking it up a little as you do so. Allow it to boil gently in the milk till it looks clear, and is soft, and about twice its original size. Then add the sugar and grated lemon rinds, and let it cool for five minutes. Add the well-beaten whites of eggs. Pour the mixture into the greased basin, or mould, cover with a greased paper, and steam gently for about half an hour. Turn out carefully and serve hot or cold, garnished with orange fritters made according to recipe for " Orange Fritters.'" 336. Wine Pudding. Ingredients. Eight ounces of stale Cake- crumbs. One wineglass of Sherry. One pint of Milk. Whites of two Eggs. One ounce of Sugar. Pass the cake through a nut mill, or break into small pieces, put it into a basin and pour the boiling164 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK milk over; let it stand for fifteen minutes, then beat well with a fork, and add the sugar and sherry. Put into a greased pie-dish to bake. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff' froth, put them on the top, and bake for twenty minutes. (A little lemon rind or juice may be added, if liked.)NUT DISHES. INTRODUCTION. These are the best and most natural food of man ; they are loved by children, who are always hungry for them, in marked contrast with their attitude towards meat, which they often have to be forced to eat. Yet once they have been forced to take it for a time, it may, like other stimulant poisons, set up a craving and, therefore, have to be continued. Like all natural foods nuts are best taken uncooked and in their natural state, and those who begin to eat them as children prefer them uncooked; but adults who have ruined their circulation, teeth, and digestion by years of stimulant poison taking, may be quite unable to do this. Hence the use of very tender nuts at first, and often more or less careful cooking, has become for them a necessity. Nuts are a comparatively concentrated food, being for the most part twice as nourishing as bread, and with one or two exceptions they are free from starch, which is the cause of so much dyspepsia in degenerate stimulant takers. They are a food which is already fairly cheap, but which, with the expenditure of a little care and forethought on production and storage, might easily be rendered cheaper still.166 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 337. Almond Biscuits. Ingredients. Two ounces of Almonds. Two ounces of Flour. Half an ounce of castor Sugar. White of one Egg. One tablespoonful of milk. Blanch the almonds and put them through a nut mill twice; well mix them with the sugar and flour. Whip the eggs and add the milk, and mix all together thoroughly. Roll out fairly thin, cut into small rounds, and bake in a quick oven for ten or fifteen minutes. 338. Almond and Bread Pudding. Ingredients. Three ounces of sweet Almonds. Six Bitter Almonds. Four ounces of Bread-crumbs. Two ounces of Butter. Half a pint of Milk. The grated rind and juice of a Lemon. The whites of three Eggs. Two tablespoonfuls of Sugar. Two tablespoonfuls of Flour. Blanch the almonds and put them through the nut- mill. Pound them well, adding a little water occasionally to prevent them oiling. Add them to the milk, and let them simmer on the stove for a quarter of an hour, then pour over the bread-crumbs, and add the butter, sugar, flour, and lemon rind and juice. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and mix them well into the other ingredients. Butter a mould and pour in the mixture and steam for four hours.NUT DISHES 167 339. Almond Cake. Ingredients. Four ounces of ground Almonds. Six ounces of Flour. Four ounces of Butter. One ounce of Citron. Four ounces of Albene. One teaspoonful of Baking- Three ounces of Sugar. powder. Three whites of Eggs. Beat the butter and Albene to a cream and add the sugar and flour, a little at a time, so that they may be well mixed; then add the almonds and thinly-sliced citron and mix them weU together. Mix the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and add to the other ingredients, stirring all the time; add the baking- powder last thing. Put into a well-buttered cake-tin and bake for three-quarters of an hour. 340. Almond Cake (German). Ingredients. Half a pound of Almonds. A teacupful of Milk. Half a pound of castor Sugar. Two ounces of Butter. The whites of ten Eggs. The grated rind of a Lemon. Four ounces of Flour. Blanch the almonds and put them through the nut mill; then pound them well in a mortar, a little at a time, adding a drop of water occasionally to prevent them oiling. Make the milk hot enough to melt the butter. Mix the sugar, flour, and lemon rind very carefully, and then add the milk, a little at a time, and mix until perfectly smooth. Now add the almond paste to the flour, &c, and mix all well together; then beat the whites of eggs to a stiff' froth and mix them in168 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK also. When all the ingredients have been carefully mixed, spread the mixture about an inch thick on a well buttered and floured baking-tin. Bake in a moderate oven from twenty minutes to half an hour. 341. Almond Cones. Ingredients. Four ounces of ground Almonds. Half a teaspoonful of powdered One ounce of castor Sugar. Cinnamon. Whites of three Eggs. Mix the almonds, sugar, and cinnamon well together; whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and add to the mixture. Line a flat baking-sheet with buttered paper. Put little rough heaps of the mixture on the sheet, a good distance apart. Bake very carefully in a slow oven for fifteen minutes. (Watch carefully or they will burn.) 342. Almond Cup Pudding. Ingredients. Four ounces of sweet Almonds. Two ounces of bitter Almonds. Two ounces of Butter, or Albene. One ounce of Two whites of Eggs. One tablespoonf ul of Cream. One and a half ounces of Flour, castor Sugar. Blanch the almonds and pass them through a nut mill, then pound them well in a mortar for about ten minutes ; add the butter (beaten to a cream) and the cream and sugar, then add the flour slowly, stirring all the time. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and mix all together. Grease some small tins and half fill them, put into a quick oven for about half an hour.NUT DISHES 169 Serve with brandy sauce, if desired. If made into six puddings, each one is equal to 117 grains or three ounces of bread. 343. Almond and Honey Cakes. Ingredients. One pound of Flour. One pound of Honey. Six ounces of Almonds (ground). Three ounces of Albene. One teaspoonful of powdered Cloves. One teaspoonful and a half of carbonate of Soda. Three ounces of Butter. Put the honey, butter, and Albene on the fire, and let it boil up. Mix the flour, cloves, and almonds together, pour the boiling mixture on them. Mix the carbonate of soda in a little cold milk, and add the last thing. Mix all well together and let it stand for five or six hours; then roll out into one-inch thick rounds or squares, put a few almonds on the top, and bake till a golden brown (about fifteen minutes). 344. Almond Milk. Ingredients. Four ounces of sweet Almonds. Six bitter Almonds. Orange-flower Water. One quart of Water. Blanch the almonds and put them through a nut mill. Pound them, a little at a time, adding from time to time a spot of orange-flower water, to prevent them oiling. When all are well pounded return them to the mortar and pour the cold water over them, and mix well. Place a clean cloth over the mortar, put a plate over that, and let them stand three or four hours, then strain and bottle for use. This is a very170 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK nourishing drink but not so nourishing as milk, as may be seen by studying the " Table of Food Values." 345. Almond Pastry. Ingredients. Four ounces of sweet Almonds. Two bitter Almonds. Four ounces of Flour. Four ounces of castor Sugar. The whites of three Eggs. A quarter of a teaspoonful of Baking-powder. Blanch the almonds and put them through a nut- mill, then pound them well in a mortar, a little at at a time, adding occasionally one drop of water to keep them from oiling. When they are all well pounded return the whole to the mortar, and add gradually the flour, which must be sifted, and the sugar. Stir in the whites of eggs, which must be well whisked. Drop one tablespoonful, for each cake, on a cake-tin, and put them to bake immediately in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. They should be kept in a closed tin in a dry place. 346. Almond Pudding. Ingredients. Four ounces of ground Almonds. Two ounces of melted Butter. Eight ounces of white Bread- Whites of three Eggs. crumbs. Grated rind of one Lemon. Four ounces of Sugar. A little grated Nutmeg. Mix the bread-crumbs, almonds, sugar, lemon, and nutmegs together and add the melted butter ; then whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and mix with the other ingredients. Put into a well-greased basin .NUT DISHES 171 cover with greased paper, and steam for two hours. Serve with any sweet sauce. Equal to 850 grains. 347. Almond and Raisin Pudding. Ingredients. A quarter of a pound of Bread- Two ounces of Butter. crumbs. Two ounces of Sugar. Two dozen Almonds. Two ounces of Flour. A quarter of a pound of Raisins. Half a pint of Milk. The whites of three Eggs. Blanch the almonds and put them through the nut mill, then pound them well in a mortar. Add one drop of water occasionally to prevent them oiling. Stone the raisins and chop them, but not very fine, and add them with the almonds, sugar and flour to the bread-crumbs. Make the milk hot and melt the butter in it, and stir it into the other ingredients. Beat up the whites of eggs and add them also, stirring the whole very carefully. Butter a mould and put in the mixture, and steam for four hours. 348. Almond and Rice Cakes. Ingredients. Two ounces of ground Almonds. Two ounces of Butter, or Albene. Two ounces of castor Sugar. Four ounces of ground Rice. Two whites of Eggs. Beat the butter to a cream ; add the sugar and almonds, then sprinkle in the rice, beating it all the time. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and mix all together. Drop about a teaspoonful on a well- greased baking-tin, either flat or shallow, and bake in a quick oven for five or ten minutes.172 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 349. Almond Soup. Ingredients. Four ounces of Almonds. One quart of Milk. Six Cloves. One small blade of Mace. Four ounces of Onions. One ounce of Butter. Two dozen white Peppercorns. A tablespoonful of white Roux, or a small dessertspoonful of Corn Flour. Put the milk in a saucepan with the cloves, mace, and peppercorns ; bring it to boiling-point, and let it stand on the stove, where it will just simmer. Slice the onions, and fry them in the butter a pale golden colour ; be very careful not to let them brown. Now add them to the milk and let it boil up once more, then set it aside to simmer for half an hour; strain it, and allow it to cool. Blanch the almonds, put them through a nut mill, then pound them well in a mortar, addhig one drop of water occasionally to prevent them oiling. When the almonds are well pounded and the milk is cool, add the milk, a little at a time, to the almond paste, mixing it as smoothly as possible until it is all used. Now boil up the soup, stirring all the time. Thicken with either a tablespoonful of white roux, or a bare dessertspoonful of corn flour. ("See Hints on Cook- ing.") Boil up again. Serve with croutons.NUT DISHES 173 350. Brazil Nut Cutlets. Ingredients. Four ounces of Bread-crumbs. Half a pint of "White Sauce. Three ounces of skinned and Two teaspoonfuls of mixed grated Brazil Nuts. Herbs (Parsley, Thyme, and ( Whites of three Eggs. Mace). After preparing the bread-crumbs and nuts, it is better to run them both through a nut-mill, and then add the herbs. To make the sauce for binding, put a teaspoon- ful of butter into a small enamel saucepan, to which add gradually half a teaspoonful of flour; when this boils add about a teacupful of milk. When boiled and thickened a little, add to the nuts and bread-crumbs. Add the well-beaten whites of eggs last thing, and a little lemon-juice if liked. Allow it to cool, then form into cutlets and fry in boiling Albene. Serve with bread sauce. Make into ten cutlets, when each will be calculated as sixty-three grains, or equal to about two ounces of bread. 351. Chestnuts with Bread Sauce. Ingredients. One dozen Chestnuts. Half a pint of Bread Sauce. Half a pint of Milk and Water. Make the sauce according to recipe given for " Bread Sauce." Prepare the chestnuts as No. 357, and smother with bread sauce.174 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 352. Chestnut Cream. Ingredients. One pound of Chestnuts. Vanilla pod. Two ounces of castor Sugar. Half a pint of Milk. White of one Egg. One gill whipped Cream. Slit the chestnuts and boil them in water till nearly tender; then drain and shell them, remove the inner skin, and cook them till quite done, in the milk, containing a piece of the vanilla pod. Rub the nuts through a wire sieve. Cream the sugar and eggs together. Put it to the puree, and mix well over the fire. Stir till cool, and place on ice. To serve, pass the puree through a coarse sieve on to the dish in which it will be sent to table. Mask the surface with whisked and sweetened cream, to which a little vanilla flavouring has also been added. Decorate it neatly, shaping by means of a forcer a pretty pattern on top, and place a few crystallised violets on top, or rose leaves. The dish is then ready for table. 353. Chestnut Flour Soup (Groult's Prepared Chestnut Flour.) Ingredients. One quart of Milk. I One Spanish Onion (skinned Four ounces of Chestnut Flour. and scalded). A tablespoonf ul of Cream. Boil the milk with the onion (in a double saucepan) for one hour. Mix the chestnut flour to a smooth paste in a little cold milk, and add it to the boiling milk ; let175 NUT DISHES it simmer for half an hour. Take the onion out last thing and add the cream. 354. Chestnuts Fricasseed. Ingredients. One dozen Chestnuts. Half a pint of Milk and Water. Half a pint of Savoury White Sauce. Make the sauce according to recipe given for " Savoury White Sauce." Bake the chestnuts in a hot oven for ten minutes or less if they are young. The peel and inner skin can then be easily removed. Drop them into the milk and water—equal parts of each—and stew them gently with a little salt for half an hour, keeping the saucepan covered. Now drain them, and put them on a dish and pour the sauce over them. It will be best to try the chestnuts when they have been in the oven a little more than five minutes, as they should be removed as soon as the skin will come away easily. More chestnuts should be baked than are really wanted, as there are often bad ones amongst them. 355. Chestnut Patties. Ingredients. One and a half pounds of Chest- nuts. Two tablespoonfuls of Cream. A quarter of a pint of Milk. Two teaspoonfuls of mixed Herbs. Eight or ten Pattie cases. Throw the chestnuts into boiling water for half an hour, remove^ both outer and inner skins, and pass through a fine sieve, then add the cream, milk, herbs,176 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK and pepper, and mix well together; if too stiff, a little more milk and cream can be added. Fill the cases and put them in the oven for fifteen minutes. Serve, gar- nished with parsley. 356. Chestnut Pie. Ingredients. One pound of Chestnuts. Three tablespoonfuls of Sauce. Two ounces of Butter. One tablespoonful of Rusk- Three ounces of Macaroni. crumbs. One tablespoonful of Flour. Throw the chestnuts into boiling water for half an hour; take them out a few at a time and skin them ; pass them through a nut mill or sieve. Cook the macaroni in one pint of milk, drain, and cut it up into small pieces. Make a sauce of the milk it was boiled in with the flour and butter. Well grease a pie-dish and put a layer of macaroni at the bottom, then a layer of the sauce, then put the chestnuts. Add the rest of the sauce, and put a thin layer of macaroni and rusk-crumbs on the top. Put in the oven for half an hour to brown. 357. Chestnut Puree. Ingredients. One dozen Chestnuts. I One Onion the size of a walnut. Half a pint of Milk. | One ounce of Butter. Pepper. Bake the chestnuts in a hot oven for about ten minutes, when the inner skin will come off easily. Put them in a saucepan with the milk and onion. Bring them quickly to boiling-point, then let them stew slowlyNUT DISHES 177 for half an hour. Keep the saucepan covered while they are stewing. Now remove them from the milk, leaving the onion behind, and rub them through a sieve. Work half a teaspoonful of corn flour into the butter; then stir three tablespoonfuls of the milk, in which the chest- nuts were stewed, into the chestnuts, and add the butter and corn flour and a little pepper. Stir over the fire until the butter is melted, and serve very hot. 358. Chestnuts (Scalloped). Ingredients. One dozen Chestnuts. Half a pint of Milk. One Onion the size of a walnut. One ounce of Butter. Pepper. Bread-crumbs. Prepare the chestnuts exactly as in the preceding recipe until they are rubbed through the sieve. Then add three tablespoonfuls of the milk in which the chest- nuts were stewed, and a little pepper. Now put the mixture in buttered scallop shells and cover with bread- crumbs. Break up the butter in small bits and place it over the scallops, and put in a hot oven for a few minutes to brown. 359. Chestnut Souffle. Ingredients. Two pounds of Chestnuts. Four ounces of castor Sugar. Half a pint of Milk. Whites of four Eggs. Vanilla pod. Cook the chestnuts in boiling water for a quarter of an hour; remove the outer and inner skins, and put them in a stewpan with the milk and Vanilla pod, and178 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK cook slowly till the nuts are tender. Remove the Vanilla pod. Mash the chestnuts and pass them through a fine sieve. Return the puree thus obtained to a clean stew- pan ; add the castor sugar to it. Whisk the whites of eggs stiffly and incorporate with the puree. Butter a souffl£-dish and fill three parts with the above prepara- tion. Bake it in a moderately-heated oven for about forty minutes. Dredge the top with Vanilla sugar, and place the souffld-dish on a round flat dish covered with a folded napkin. Serve quickly. 360. Chestnut Soup (No. i). Ingredients. One quart of Milk. Three Bay leaves. One pound of Chestnuts. One gill of Cream. Pepper to taste. Throw the chestnuts into boiling water, and let them boil for three-quarters of an hour ; remove all skins and pass through a sieve. Then add them to the boiling milk /double saucepan) with pepper and bay leaves ; add cream the last thing, and serve with fried croutons. 361. Chestnut Soup (No. 2). Ingredients. Two dozen Chestnuts. One quart of Milk. Half an ounce of Butter. Six Cloves. Three ounces of Onions. One dozen white Peppercorns. Bake the chestnuts either on the stove or in a hot oven until the skins are easily removed, which will be in ten minutes or less, according to age. More chestnutsNUT DISHES 179 should always be baked than are required, to allow for bad ones. Remove the skins and drop them into a saucepan, in which the milk and the peppercorns and cloves—tied in a bit of muslin—has already been heated. Place the saucepan on the stove where the milk will keep hot without boiling. Slice the onion very thin and fry it in the butter, a very pale yellow ; be careful that it does not brown. Now add it to the milk and let it simmer until the chestnuts are tender, which will be in about half an hour. Re- move the muslin containing the cloves and peppercorns, and rub all through a sieve. Return to the saucepan and thicken with a tablespoonful of white roux, or a dessertspoonful of corn flour. (See " Hints on Cooking.") Allow to boil up, and serve, with croutons of fried bread or toast cut in dice. 362. Cocoa-nut Biscuits. Ingredients. Half a pound of desiccated Cocoa-nut. Two ounces castor Sugar. Three ounces ground Eice. Whites of three Eggs. Mix well together the cocoa-nut, sugar, and ground rice. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and add to the other ingredients, a little at a time, until it is well mixed. Then put on a well-greased baking-tin, in very rough heaps (about a tablespoonful). Bake in a quick oven for five minutes, then let the oven cool down, and cook slowly for half an hour. They should be a golden brown,180 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 363. Cocoa-nut Cakes. Ingredients. Eight ounces of Flour. Four ounces of Cocoa-nut (desic- Three ounces of Butter. cated). One and a half ounces of Sugar. Two teaspoonfuls of Baking- Whites of three Eggs. powder. Well mix the flour and butter together, then add the sugar, cocoa-nut, and baking-powder. Whisk the eggs to a stiff froth, and mix with the other ingredients thoroughly for a few minutes, then drop about a table- spoonful in little heaps on the oven shelf or baking- sheet, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. 364. Grated Cocoa-nut Pudding. Ingredients. One large Cocoa-nut. A clear Strawberry or Currant Jelly. Take a large cocoa-nut, bi'eak in pieces, pare off the bark outside. Throw the pieces into cold water, then dry them with a cloth and grate on a coarse grater, and heap it on a flat dish, and serve with any good preserve ; or arrange it round a jelly flavoured with raspberry or strawberry. 365. Mixed Nut Puree (No. i). Ingredients. Three ounces of Walnuts. Four ounces of Biscuits. Three ounces of Almonds. Half a pint of Cream. Three ounces of Chestnuts, A quarter of a pint of Milk, or Brazils. A few drops of Vanilla. Blanch the almonds and remove every particle of skin from the walnuts and chestnuts (or Brazils), and putNUT DISHES 181 them all through a nut mill, and mix well together. Boil the milk separately and pour over the nuts ; allow it to cool, then add the cream and Vanilla, and beat all thoroughly together. Put the biscuits (sweet or plain ones, as liked) into a glass dish, and pour the mixture over and allow it to stand for about two hours. A little whipped cream may be put on the top, if liked, or a few ratafia biscuits and crystallised cherries. 366 Mixed Nut Puree (No 2). Ingredients. Five ounces of Almonds. One teaspoonful of Vanilla. Four ounces of Pine kernels. Four ounces of Biscuit (any One and a half ounces of Walnuts. kind). One and a half pints of Milk. Prepare the nuts and pass them through the nut'mill twice, also the biscuits. Mix all well together, pour the boiling milk over, and add the Vanilla. When cold, serve in a glass dish with whipped cream. 367. Nut Pudding (No. 1). Ingredients. Six ounces of Pignolias. Six ounces of Almonds. Six ouncea of Walnuts. Whites of four Eggs. Four ounces of Busk-crumbs. Flavour with a little Lemon. Prepare the nuts and put them two or three times through a good nut mill, then pound in a mortar ; add the rusk-crumbs. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add the flavouring, and mix all well together. Put into a well-greased basin and steam for about seven hours. It may be cooked without the rusk-crumbs ifTHE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 182 desired, and is nice either cold or hot. One ounce of this is equal to ninety-five grains proteid, or two and a half ounces of bread. 368. Nut Pudding (No. 2). Ingredients. Four ounces of Pignolias. Four ounces of Busk-crumbs Four ounces of Almonds Four ounces of Sultanas. Whites of four Eggs. Prepare the nuts and grind in a nut mill well, then pound with a pestle and mortar thoroughly. Put the rusk-crumbs through the nut mill and then through the sieve ; pick over and soak the sultanas in cold water (the night before), strain, and add them to the nuts and crumbs. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and mix in last thing. Put into a basin and steam for six or seven hours. One ounce is equal to ninety-six grains proteid, or two ounces of rusk. 369. Nut Pudding for Diabetic Patients. Ingredients. Four ounces of Pine kernels. Four ounces of Almonds. Four ounces of Brazil nuts. Four ounces of Walnuts. Whites of five Eggs. Well grind the nuts and pound them well in a mortar. Add the well-beaten whites of eggs, and steam in a well-greased basin for about five hours. Albumen value, 1852 grains.NUT DISHES 183 370. Nut and Fruit Pudding. Ingredients. Eight ounces of Pine kernels. Eight ounces of Almonds. Four ounces of Dates, or Figs. Four ounces of Sultanas. Blanch the almonds and grind them with the pine kernels in a nut mill, and pound well in a mortar. Clean and partly cook the sultanas by pouring boiling water over them a few hours before required. Stone and clean the dates and chop them up ; mix all well together by putting through a mincing machine. Steam in a basin or mould, about seven hours. Any other nuts or fruits may be substituted. Albumen value, about the equal of rusk, weight for weight. 371. Nut Jelly. Ingredients. Two ounces of grated Almonds. Two tablespoonfuls of Cream. Two ounces of grated Pine An ounce and a half of Vegetable kernels. Gelatine. One and a half pints of Milk. One ounce of castor Sugar. Soak the gelatine all night in a little of the milk ; put the remainder of the milk into a double saucepan and bring to boiling-point, then add the gelatine, and allow it to boil for five minutes; pour this over the very finely-ground nuts, add the sugar and cream, and beat all well together for ten minutes. Pour into a mould (rinse the mould with cold water first), and put it to set until next day.184 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 372. Nut Paste for Sandwiches. Ingredients. Two ounces of Pine kernels. Two ounces of Almonds. Four drops of Rose-water. Juice of one Orange. Thoroughly grind the nuts by putting them twice through a good nut mill. Put them on to a plate, and add the rose-water and mash them well with a knife or a wooden spoon; add the orange-juice last thing; and put into small pots and serve like potted meat. A nice addition to the breakfast-table ; eaten like potted meat. 373. Nut and Potato Patties. Ingredients. Five ounces of Potatoes. Two ounces of Pine kernels. Two ounces of Almonds, or Walnuts. One ounce of Butter. One tablespoonful of Cream. A little Parsley and Pepper. Well cook and mash the potatoes with the butter and cream, and cut into rounds about two inches thick, with a tumbler; cover with white of egg and bread- crumbs, and fry in boiling Albene until the outside is quite crisp. Take them out and drain them, and make a hole in the centre. Remove all the soft potato inside, or as much as possible without breaking the case. Grind the nuts together through a nut mill, and fill up the potato case with this. Or, if preferred, a filling of grated cheese is very nice, with a little chopped parsley on top. The above quantity will make six patties, and the value of each if filled with nuts or cheese is about eighty-six grains, or the equivalent of two and a half ounces of bread.185 NUT DISHES 874. Pistachio Creams. Ingredients. Six ounces of Pistachio Nuts. One pint of Oream. Two tablespoonfula of Eose- water. One ounce of Sugar. Blanch the nuts, and pound them well with the rose- water, until the consistency of paste. Add the cream and put into a small saucepan with the sugar, and let it just boil. Allow it to cool and put it into jelly or custard glasses. Serve cold. 375. Rice and Almond Moulds. ingredients. Four ounoes of Eice. One quart of Milk. Two taMespoonfulB of Sugar. One ounce of Bweet Almonds. Two bitter Almonds. Blanch the almonds and put them through the nut mill, then pound them in a mortar, adding one drop of water from time to time, to prevent them oiling. Wash the rice carefully, and put it in a double pan with the sugar and almonds. Let it cook until the rice is tender, being careful to keep plenty of boiling water in the outer pan; it will take about two hours and a half to cook. Stir occasionally while the rice is cooking. Beat it with a wooden spoon for a minute, and press it into a damp mould. Let it stand in a cool place for at least five hours. Turn it out carefully, and pour either custard or cream over it.186 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 376. Rice and Nuts. Ingredients. Four ounces of Carolina Rice. | Two ounces of grated Almonda. One and a half pints of Milk. Well wash the rice, and put on to boil with the milk in a double saucepan, until it becomes very firm—it should take two hours—then add the grated almonds ; mix well, and put into a pie-dish, and bake for fifteen minutes. A few sultanas can be added if desired, and any kind of nuts can be substituted for almonds. 877. Rice and Nut Rissoles. Ingredients. Two ounces of Rice. Three-quarters of a pint of Three ounces of ground Milk. Almonds. White of one Egg. Two ounoes of Pine Kernels. Little Pepper. Put the rice and milk into a double saucepan ; cook them for two hours, or until the milk is absorbed, then add the almonds, and pine kernels and pepper; stir it round a few times until well mixed, then add the well- beaten white of egg. Mix again, then form into rissoles; roll in fine rusk-crumbs, and fry in boiling Albene. Equals 800 grains.NUT DISHES 187 378. Walnut Balls or Rissoles. Ingredients. Four ounces of Walnuts. Whites of three Eggs. Four ounces of Bread-crumbs. Half a pint of Sauce. Seasoning, &c, as " Brazil Nut Cutlets." Proceed in exactly the same way as the " Brazil Nut Cutlets," No. 350, only forming into balls instead of flat. The value of each if made into ten balls will be seventy- five grains, or the equivalent of a little more than two ounces of bread. 379. Walnut Cutlets. Ingredients. Four ounces of Bread-crumbs. Half a teaspoonful of Flour. One ounce of shelled Walnuts. One teacupful of Milk. One teaspoonful of Butter. White of one Egg. One teaspoonful of grated Onion. One Lemon. Run the bread-crumbs and skinned walnuts through a nut mill. Then mix them in a basin with the butter and the grated onion. Melt a large teaspoonful of butter in a saucepan with half a teaspoonful of flour, and add the milk gradually. When this boils add the other ingredients, pepper to taste, and white of egg. When removed from the fire, add a teaspoonful of lemon- juice. Stir well, and turn out into a dish to cool, then shape into cutlets; dip in white of egg and bread- crumbs (or rusk-crumbs), and fry in boiling Albene. Serve with bread sauce or tomato sauce. If made into six cutlets the value of each is forty-six grains, or one ounce of rusk.BREAD, PASTRY, CAKES, &c. 380. "Apsley" Rusks. This form of toasted bread is much more easily digested than toast, as it is more completely cooked. The bread used in making the rusks must be at least three or four days old; new bread is difficult to cut into thin slices. The oven must be moderate, and the time taken in cook- ing will vary with its heat, averaging from twenty minutes to half an hour. Cut the bread thinly and place on the oven shelf, or on a slide that fits on to the oven shelf and can be taken in and out easily. The rusks must be carefully watched and turned as they become brown on one side, and should be made fresh each day. Use what are left over each day for making " Rusk Crumbs or Raspings.'" 381. Bannocks. Ingredients. One pound of fine Oatmeal. One ounce of Butter. Half an ounce of Baking-powder. Mix together the oatmeal and baking-powder, rub in the butter, and make it into a stiff dough with water. Roll out as thin as possible, cut into rounds with a tumbler. Butter a frying-pan, and cook a few at a time; when done on one side turn carefully. Serve with butter or golden syrup. Any left over can be put in the oven and made hot again.BREAD, PASTRY, CAKES, &c. 189 382. Batter. Ingredients. Four ounces of Flour. One tablespoonful of salad Oil. Quarter of a pint of tepid Water. Whites of two Eggs. Mix the oil and flour together, and make into a smooth batter with the water; well beat the whites of eggs and stir them in last thing. 383. Batter for Frying Savouries. Ingredients. Half a pint of Milk. | Two ounces of Flour. Half a teaspoonful of Baking-powder. Mix the milk and flour very smoothly together, add- ing the milk a little at a time until it is all used; stir in the salt. The batter must always be mixed at least three hours before it is required, or it will not be light. Add the baking-powder just before the batter is used, and be careful to mix it in very thoroughly. This batter is used for various recipes given throughout the book. 384. Batter for Frying Sweets. Ingredients. Four ounces of Flour. Half an ounce of Sugar. One ounce of Butter. One gill of Water. White of one Egg. Mix the flour with a quarter of a pint of cold water to a smooth paste; dissolve the butter in a saucepan, then stir in the flour and water. Add the white of the egg beaten to a stiff froth, and stir very lightly. Add the sugar last. It is then ready for use.190 THE APSLEY COOKERY HOOK 385. Bread. Ingredients. Four pounds two ounces of Flour. Three-quarters of an ounce of Yeast. One pint and three-quarters of Water. A quarter of an ounce of Salt. An American bread-mixer should be used in making this bread. (See " Hints on Cooking.") Best seconds flour is better than superfine flour. The water must be warm, but not too hot to bear the hand in. Mix the yeast smoothly with the water, pouring in a little at a time until it is all used; add the salt, and stir all well together. Pour the liquid into the bread-mixer. Now add the flour, which must be sifted. Fasten the top on the mixer, and turn the handle for exactly three minutes. Remove the cover, and have ready a well- floured pastry-board. Take a large knife and remove the dough from the central screw, divide it into four equal parts, and place each part in a well-greased bread- tin. Let the tins stand in a warm place for one hour to rise. The plate rack above an ordinary kitchen stove is a good place. Then put them in a very mode- rately heated oven, and after the first twenty minutes increase the heat until it is hot, but not so hot as is required for pastry. The loaves must bake for one hour. Bread is much better baked in tins ; but if tins are not used, the dough must be divided into four, and formed into round cakes and placed on the oven shelves, which must be first floured. Three-quarters of an hour to rise, and the same time to bake, will then be quite long enough. Great care should be taken in weighing and measuring the quantities.BREAD, PASTRY, CAKES, &c. 191 386. Bread-Raspings (to Prepare). All pieces of bread should be put aside in a clean bowl, and when enough has been saved to fill a good- sized baking-tin, they should be baked in a slow oven until they are a rich golden colour all through. They should then be rolled on a pastry-board—a small quan- tity at a time—until they are fine enough for use, and then put into a biscuit-box with a well-fitting lid, which should be kept in a dry place. These raspings are used in many recipes for both sweet and savoury dishes, and a good supply should always be kept in hand. They are not only better and more easily digested than ordi- nary bread-crumbs for many dishes, but they are much more economical, and are the means of every scrap of bread being utilised. As the rolling would scratch and dent the board and rolling-pin used for pastry—and it is necessary to keep them perfectly smooth—a special rolling-pin and board should be kept for this purpose. 387. Bread (Sultana). Ingredients. Half a pound of Sultanas. [ One large tablespoonful of Dough. castor Sugar. To make a very good sultana bread take a quarter of the dough—made according to preceding recipe— and put it to rise with the loaves; and then, before putting it into a tin, work the sultanas and sugar into it. The sultana loaf must, be baked exactly like the other bread.192 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 388. Croutons. Ingredients. Bread. | Salad Oil, or Albene. Cut some slices of crumb of bread about half an inch thick. If the croutons are required for soup they should be cut into dice, but if for garnishing they may be stamped into any shape, or cut into three-cornered pieces. Fry them in hot salad oil, or " Albene,11 and drain them on an inverted sieve. (See "Hints on Cooking.") 389. Devonshire Cutround. Ingredients. Eight ounces of Flour. I A small teaspoonful of Baking- One ounce of Butter. powder. Little less than half a pint of Water. Mix the flour, butter, and baking-powder together thoroughly ; add the water. Roll out and cut into rounds about one inch thick, with a tumbler. Bake in a quick oven, and serve hot—cut in two and buttered. 390. Fruit Loaf. Ingredients. Twelve ounces of Sultanas. One pound of Flour. Eight ounces of Albene. Half pint of Milk. Whites of two Eggs. Quarter of a teaspoonful of carbonate of Soda. Rub the Albene and flour together; when well mixed add the sultanas. Put the soda into the milk, then add the well-beaten whites of eggs. Beat all thoroughlyBREAD, PASTRY, CAKES, &c. 193 together; put into a well-greased baking-tin, and bake in a quick oven for an hour and a quarter. 391. Johnny Cake. Ingredients. One breakfast-cupful of Maize Ona teacupful of Sugar. Meal. One ounce and a half of Butter. One and a half breakfast-cupfuls White of one Egg. of Flour. Half a teacupful of Milk, Baking-powder. Rub the butter into the flour, add the sugar and baking-powder; beat the egg and mix with the milk; add to the dry ingredients, forming a very thick batter. Bake in a well-greased shallow baking-tin, in a mode- rately hot oven for about three-quarters of an hour. Cut open and butter whilst hot; or it may be eaten cold. A teacupful of sultanas may be added if liked. 392. Lancashire Potato Cake. Ingredients. One pound of mashed Potatoes. A quarter of a pint of Milk. Half a pound of Flour. Half a teaspoonful of Baking- Two ounces of Butter. powder. The potatoes should be quite dry before they are put through the potato-masher. Rub the butter in the flour, then mix the potatoes and flour together. Stir in the milk, and roll out on a well-floured pastry-board about half an inch thick. Cut into cakes the size of a breakfast saucer, and bake in a quick oven. The cakes can be split and a little butter spread between, or they can be served plain. They must be sent to table very hot, and are best as a breakfast dish. 13194 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 393. Pancakes. Ingredients. Half a pint of Milk. The whites of two Eggs. Two ounces of Flour. Butter, Mix the flour and milk smoothly together, adding a little milk at a time, until it is all used. Now put the batter aside, for at least two hours, or the pancakes will not be light. When it has stood, beat up the whites of eggs, rather stiff, and mix them well with the batter. A six-inch frying-pan makes the nicest pancakes, and for this size half a teacupful of batter will be required, and a piece of butter half the size of a walnut. Just let the butter get hot, and thoroughly grease the pan before putting in the batter. Turn with a broad-bladed knife as soon as brown, and brown on the other side. Roll when done, and sift powdered sugar over the pancakes. If whites of eggs are not handy, a teaspoonful of baking- powder instead makes excellent pancakes; but, of course, they are not so nourishing. 394. Buckwheat Pancakes. Ingredients. Four tablespoonfuls of Half a pint of Milk. Buckwheat Meal. Half a teaspoonful of Whites of two Eggs. Baking-powder. Whisk the whites of the eggs for a few minutes, then sprinkle in the meal a little at a time, add the milk, and beat well for ten minutes; let it stand for one hour, then fry as ordinary pancakes in a small frying-pan that has had a well-greased piece of paper rubbed over it. Serve very hot, with syrup .BREAD, PASTRY, CAKES, &c. 195 395. Paste (Fried). When paste, made according to either of the recipes, has been kept two or three days, and it is not required for tarts, &c, a very nice dish can be made by rolling it out three-quarters of an inch thick, andstamping it into small rounds, and frying these in either oil or Albene. The fat must not be quite so hot as for general frying. If the cook tries it by throwing in a bit of bread, and puts in the paste as soon as the bread crisps, and before the fat is hot enough to brown it, then the paste will be done perfectly. The rounds of pastry should have sugar sifted over them, and be piled on a dish paper. Any stewed fruit is nice served with them. 396. Paste, Puff for Tarts and Tartlets, &c. Ingredients. One pound of Flour. | Half a pound of Butter. A teaspoonful of Baking-powder. Divide the butter into three portions. Put the flour into a bowl, and mix the baking-powder thoroughly with it, first, however, taking out three tablespoonfuls for working the pastry. Rub one portion of the butter into the flour, and mix it with as little water as will make the paste smooth. Roll this out until it is an inch thick, then divide in halves. Put one half aside, and roll out the other until it is very thin, less than a quarter of an inch in thickness. Break up the second portion of the butter into small bits, and lay these over196 THE APS LEY COOKERY BOOK the paste, leaving a margin of quite an inch to allow for the butter spreading in rolling. Dredge with flour, and fold in three, then roll out until the paste is an inch thick. Treat the other half in exactly the same manner, using the third portion of butter. When this is done, place the two pieces on the top of one another, and roll out until only half an inch thick. Now fold the paste and place it between two dishes, and put it aside in a cool place until next day. When rolling out the paste for tarts, take care to keep it one way of the grain. If in using the cuttings they are placed straight, one on top of the other, the last bit of paste will be as light and flaky as the first used. 397. Paste, Puff (Old Recipe.) Ingredients. One pound of Flour. | One pound of Butter. A teaspoonful of Baking-powder. Take three ounces of the flour from the pound, to use for working up the paste, and put the remainder in a bowl and mix it well with the baking-powder. Divide the butter into four portions, and rub one into the flour, then mix with as much water as will make a perfectly smooth paste. Now roll out the paste to the thickness of a shilling, and break up the butter into bits the size of a hazel-nut, and place them over the paste. Dredge lightly with some of the flour taken out for working. Be careful to leave a margin of an inch, to allow for the butter spreading in the rolling. Fold the paste into four, and roll out again to the thickness of a shilling. Repeat these directions exactly, in working in the third and fourth parts of the butter.BREAD, PASTRY, CAKES, &c. 197 When all the butter has been used fold the paste into three, and once again lengthwise, and lay it in a deep dish and cover closely. Let it stand in a cool place for at least twelve hours. This paste will keep two or three days without baking, unless the weather is very hot. Be very careful in making up the paste into tartlets, tarts, &c, to keep it the way of the grain in rolling out, or as the flakes lie. The cuttings if placed flat, one on the top of the other, and rolled out, will then be just as light and flaky as when first rolled out. Some cooks spoil quite a quarter of the paste in the making of tartlets, &c, by not observing this rule ; for if the cuttings are gathered up carelessly in the hand, and made into a ball, and then rolled out, all the work of the cook is spoiled ; for paste treated so will be very little better than ordinary short-paste. This recipe has been used in the writer's family for over a hundred years, and if it is carefully followed the result is excellent. It may seem very troublesome to the novice, but after a very little practice it will be found that the paste is quickly and easily made, con- sidering the result. The only change the writer has made in the old recipe is to use a little baking-powder. The preceding recipe is fomided upon the old one, in the method of working the paste, but it is less rich ; it is, however, an excellent paste, and if instructions are carefully followed it will be found to be far above the average met with in middle-class households.198 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 398. Paste for Boiled Puddings. Ingredients. One pound of Flour A heaped teaspoonful of Six ounces of Butter. Baking-powder. Water. Take out two large tablespoonfuls of the flour to work up the paste, and mix the rest with the baking-powder. When these have been well mixed, rub in the butter and stir in as much water as will make a rather stiff' paste. It is best to mix in the water with the hand, as you can then feel immediately when sufficient has been added. Flour a pastry-board and roll out the paste to half an inch in thickness. Fold the pastry in three, and roll out again, when it will be ready for use. Keep the board and rolling-pin well floured with the flour that was taken from the pound at first. This pastry can be used equally well for either fruit or vegetable puddings. 399. Roux (Brown and White for Thickening). Ingredients. One pound two ounces of Flour. | One pound of Butter. See that the flour is thoroughly dry and then sift it. Squeeze the butter in a cloth to remove all the moisture. Now put the butter in an enamelled stew- pan and let it stand on the stove until it runs to oil. It is necessary to heat the oiled butter so that the scum will rise, but care must be taken that it does not get too hot. When all the scum has been removed, the stewpan should be put in a cooler part of the stove soBREAD, PASTRY, CAKES, &c. 199 that the sediment may settle to the bottom. Skim off the froth very carefully and pour the oil in a basin, leaving the sediment at the bottom of the stewpan. Remove the sediment from the stewpan and pour back the oil—now clarified butter—and sprinkle in the flour gradually, stirring all the time. Put the stew- pan on a slow fire, or on a gas-ring, turned low, and stir continually with a wooden spoon. Keep scraping the bottom of the pan to prevent the mixture burning ; be very careful about the scraping and stirring or the roux will be spoiled. As soon as the mixture begins to colour, a very little, put half of it into a jar for white roux. It must not turn more than a cream colour, as it is intended to thicken white soups and white sauces. Now return the saucepan to the fire and continue the stirring and scraping until the remaining roux has become a bright brown. Be careful that it does not get too dark; a light chocolate colour is the correct shade. Immediately the roux is dark enough, remove it from the stove at once, but continue stirring for some minutes, as enamelled stewpans retain the heat after they have been removed from the fire, and the mixture would burn if the stirring was discontinued at once. Have ready a large slice of onion and throw it into the roux, if there is any fear that it is getting too dark ; this checks the heat at once. This is brown roux for thickening brown soups and gravies. It will keep for weeks, and although the process seems rather trouble- some, it really in the end saves time. In using the roux it is best to scrape oft' the quantity you require with a spoon, and not add it to the soups and sauces in a lump.THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 200 400. Rusk-Crumbs or -Raspings. All the small pieces of rusks, crumbs and broken pieces, can be utilised for rusk-crumbs, and should be kept in a tin. The best and quickest way is to put them through a nut mill, then through a fine sieve; keep all the coarse ones for decorating and the fine ones for puddings, raspings, &c, and whatever mentioned in the recipes. They are much nicer in many puddings than ordinary bread-crumbs. 401. Scones for Breakfast (No. i). Ingredients. Eight ounces of Flour. Two ounces of Butter. Quarter pint of Milk. Half a teaspoonful of Baking- powder. Rub the butter and flour together, well mix in the baking-powder, then add the milk. Make into a smooth dough and roll out about three-quarters of an inch thick—make any shape or size required—put them immediately into a moderate oven, and bake for twenty minutes. 402. Scones for Breakfast (No. 2). Ingredients. White of one Egg. Two ounces of Butter. One breakfast-cupful of Flour. One teaspoonful of Baking- powder. A pinch of Bait. Quarter of a pint of Milk. Whip the egg and mix with the milk. Rub the butter and flour together and add the baking-powderBREAD, PASTRY, CAKES, &c. 201 and salt. Well mix all together and make into cakes about half an inch thick, any shape desired, and bake for about twenty minutes. 403. Scotch Scones. Ingredients. Three tumblerfuls of Flour. One tumblerful of sweet Milk. One teaspoonful of Cream of Tartar. One teaspoonful of carbonate of Soda. One teaspoonful of Butter. Mix the cream of tartar and soda with the flour, rub in the butter, and add the milk last thing. Roll out lightly, shape into rounds, and bake in a quick oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. Cut open and butter. To be eaten hot or toasted. 404. Scones (Soda). Ingredients. One pound of Flour. Half a pint of Milk. Two ounces of Butter. Half a teaspoonful of Soda. Half a teaspoonful of Tartaric Acid. Rub the tartaric acid and soda in the flour and put them through a sieve ; work in the butter; make a hole in the middle of the flour and pour in the milk, and mix as quickly as possible. Roll out, about an inch thick, and cut into rounds the size of a pudding plate, and then into eight wedge-shaped divisions.202 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 405. Short-Paste. Ingredients. One pound of Flour. I A heaped teaspoonful of Baking- oix ounces of Butter. powder. Water. Take from the flour three large spoonfuls to work up the paste. Now mix the baking-powder with the remaing flour and rub in the butter. Mix in as much water with the hand as will make the paste workable ; it must not on any account be wet, but it must not be too stiff. Flour the pastry-board, and roll out the paste until it is half an inch thick. Be careful that the rolling-pin is well floured. Fold the paste in three and roll out again, and it will be ready for use. This paste may be used for either fruit or vegetable pies. It is best made the day before it is wanted and kept in a cool place. 406. Vanilla Biscuits. Ingredients. Four ounces of Flour. Two ounces of Butter. Four ounces of Pine kernels. A pinch of Baking-powder. One ounce of Sugar (castor). White of one Egg. Two drops of Essence of Vanilla. Put the pine kernels twice through a nut mill. Rub the butter into the flour free from lumps, add the sugar and ground pine kernels, and then the baking-powder. Well whip the egg and add the vanilla, and mix all together thoroughly. Roll out a moderately thin paste, cut into rounds, and bake in a quick oven ten to fifteen minutes.203 BREAD, PASTRY, CAKES, &c. 407. Yorkshire Cake. Ingredients. Whites of two Eggs. Two ounces of Sugar. Two ounces of Flour. One teaspoonful of Baking- Two ounces of Butter. powder. Two ounces of ground Rice. Very little Milk. Mix the butter and flour well together with the rice and sugar, add the baking-powder, and just sufficient milk to moisten; mix well together. Spread on two buttered plates and bake for ten minutes. When done, spread jam over one, place the other on the top, and sprinkle with sugar. A layer cake is made in this way, with about six layers of cake, and jam or jelly in between, and icing sprinkled with walnuts (halves) on the top.SALADS. 408. Banana and Orange Salad. Ingredients. Four Bananas. Juice of half a Lemon. Two Oranges. Sugar (if liked). Peel and cut the bananas and oranges into thin slices and mix lightly; pour the lemon-juice over, and serve very cold. 409. Beetroot and Spanish Onion Salad (No. i). Ingredients. A small Beetroot. The same weight of Spanish Onion. A teaspoonf ul of French Vinegar. One and a half tablespoonfuls of Salad Oil. Pepper. Boil and slice the beetroot. Slice the onion and put it into cold water, bring it to boiling-point quickly, and drain it. Now put it into fresh hot water and boil until tender, then drain it carefully. Place the sliced beetroot in a salad bowl, and when the onion is cold mix it with the beetroot and the oil and vinegar. Add pepper to taste.SALADS 205 410. Beetroot and Spanish Onion Salad (No. 2). Ingredients. One Spanish Onion. One small Beetroot. Six slices of Cucumber. Two tablespoonfuls of Salad Oil. Four drops of Tarragon Vinegar or the juice of a quarter of a Lemon. Scald the onion and allow it to get cold. Boil and peel the beetroot and lay it in alternate slices in a glass dish or salad bowl. The cucumber is an improvement, if liked. Mix the salad oil and vinegar or lemon-juice together, and pour over. 411. Brussels Sprouts Salad. Ingredients. Half a pound of cold Sprouts. A small teaspoonful of French Vinegar. A tablespoonful of Salad Oil. Pepper. This is a nice way to use cold boiled Brussels sprouts. Put the sprouts in a salad bowl, and just before they are required dust a little pepper over them. Now add the oil and vinegar and mix all very well together, and serve at once. 412. Cauliflower Salad. Ingredients. One Cauliflower. A little Parsley or Capers. Orated Onion (if liked). Sauce made according to recipo No. 421. Boil the cauliflower until tender, but not broken, drain well, and let it get cold. Break into small pieces,206 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK and sprinkle well with the chopped parsley or capers (and onion if liked). Serve with the sauce, separately or poured over. 413. Celery and Macaroni Salad. Ingredients. Two ounces of Macaroni. One ounce of white Celery. Salad Dressing, made as No. 421. Two large Tomatoes. Boil the macaroni until tender, and drain it well. Cut into short lengths and add the finely-shredded celery. Put the salad dressing into a salad bowl and add the celery and macaroni. Just before serving cover with a thin layer of mayonnaise sauce, and garnish with the tomatoes cut into thin slices (first peeling them). 414. Celery and Watercress Salad. Ingredients. Three nice hearts of Celery. | One bunch of Watercress. Take the branches of the celery off one by one, and throw them into cold water ; well clean them, and then cut into four-inch lengths. Then cut each branch into four pieces, lengthways, and put into water to curl up. Add the watercress, well washed, and let them stand together for an hour. Take out and drain well, or put in a clean cloth and dry. Then put into a salad bowl and serve with " salad dressing.''1 (A little cooked beet- root may be added if liked.)207 SALADS 415. Cucumber Salad. In dressing a cucumber with oil and vinegar care should be taken not to use too much vinegar. The proportion of one part vinegar and three parts oil is best for digestion, and for people on this diet. French vinegar should always be used with oil, as malt vinegar in conjunction with oil produces a disagreeable bitter taste, for which the oil is often blamed. (See " Hints on Cooking.") 416. Endive Salad. Ingredients. One head of Endive. A dessertspoonful of Salad Oil. Half of a small Beetroot. Three dessertspoonfuls of French A small slice of Onion. Vinegar. Pepper. Wash the endive and tear it into convenient pieces for eating ; it must not be cut. Slice the beetroot very thin. Put a very thin slice of onion, about the size of a shilling, in the salad bowl, and mince it as fine as possible. Now add the endive,! which should be well dried by tossing it in a clean cloth. Dust in the pepper, mixing the salad at the same time, then add the oil and vinegar, and mix very thoroughly. Serve immediately.208 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 417. Fruit Salad. Ingredients. Eight ounces of Sugar. Half an ounce of chopped Almonds. Half an ounce of Pistachio Nuts. One pint of cold Water. A few Cherries, Bananas, Apricots, Strawberries, &c. Boil the water and sugar together to a syrup. Cut up what fruit is required and put into a dish, and pour the boiling syrup over and let stand until cold. Then sprinkle in the nuts; mix very lightly. Stir in two wineglassfuls of Maraschino, or any liqueur liked, the last thing, and put into a salad bowl. Serve whipped cream separately. 418. Lettuce Salad. Ingredients. A large Cos Lettuce. I Oil and French Vinegar. A slice of Onion. Pepper. Wash the lettuce very carefully and put it in a sieve to drain. Have ready a clean cloth, and tear up the lettuce in convenient pieces for eating (never cut lettuce for salad), toss them lightly in the cloth until they are dry. Fut a thin slice of onion, about the size of a shilling, at the bottom of the salad bowl and mince it as finely as possible, and add the lettuce to the onion. Dust in some pepper, and add two tablespoonfuls of oil and a dessertspoonful of vinegar ; mix very thoroughly, and 6erve at once. French vinegar must always be used with oil. Malt vinegar imparts a very disagreeable taste to the salad, for which the oil is often blamed.SALADS 209 419. Orange Salad. Ingredients. Four Apples. | Four Oranges. Cut some oranges and apples into slices, arrange alternately in a dish, and cover with whipped cream. 420. Potato Salad. Ingredients. Half a pound of cold boiled new Potatoes. A teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. Pepper. Half of a small Shallot, or a bit of Onion. Two tablespoonfuls of Salad Oil. One tablespoonful of Vinegar. Old or new potatoes can be used, but new ones are best for this salad. Slice them carefully so as not to break them. Put a layer at the bottom of a salad bowl and sprinkle them with a little of the shallot and parsley, which must be mixed together and finely minced. Dust a little pepper over them. Repeat this until all the potatoes and parsley and shallot are used. Now add the oil and vinegar, and mix very thoroughly. 421. Salad Dressing. Ingredients. One teaspoonful of dry Mustard. Two tablespoonfuls of Cream. Juice of quarter of a Lemon. Three tablespoonfuls of Salad Oil. A little Pepper. Put the mustard into a basin, add the cream and salad oil, a little at a time, until it is used up. Then 14210 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK add the lemon-juice and beat well. It should be like a thin batter. (If well corked will keep for five days.) 422. Salad (Mixed). Ingredients. A small Cob Lettuce. The third part of a small Cucumber. A slice of Onion. A few slices of Beetroot. Oil and French Vinegar. Pepper. Wash the lettuce very carefully and drain it. Have a clean cloth ready. Tear the lettuce in convenient pieces for eating, and toss it in the cloth to dry. Peel and slice the cucumber. Take the slice of onion—which must not be larger than a shilling, and very thin—put it at the bottom of the salad bowl, and mince it very fine. Now arrange the lettuce, cucumber, and beetroot in layers. Mix well whilst adding the oil and vinegar, dusting in a little pepper from time to time as it is being mixed. The proportion of oil to vinegar should be one part vinegar and three of oil. Salad should not be too wet; and when mixed all the oil and vinegar used should adhere to the lettuce, &c, and not be in the bowl. Nothing but practice will teach the exact quan- tity of oil and vinegar to use. It is impossible to give the exact quantities, as the lettuce may vary in size. A salad in which cucumber is used will always be more moist than one made of lettuce alone.211 SALADS 423. Salad with White of Egg. Poach the whites of two eggs in little moulds of tin or china. Be careful to butter the moulds first. Then cut them in rounds a quarter of an inch thick, and garnish any of the green salads for which recipes are given. 424. Sweet Salad (a Summer Dish). Ingredients. Four Bananas. Two Oranges. Two tablespoonfuls of castor Sugar. Peel and slice the bananas and put the sugar over them. Squeeze the juice from the oranges, strain out the pips, and pour it over the sugar and bananas. Cover closely, and let the salad stand overnight. Mix it carefully, and serve it in a glass bowl. This salad should only be taken in warm weather, or the orange might cause it to disagree with many people. 425. Tomato Salad. Ingredients. One pound of Tomatoes. A dessertspoonful of French A slice of Onion. Vinegar. A teaspoonful of made Mustard. Three tablespoonfuls of Salad Pepper. Oil. Choose ripe tomatoes and put them in boiling water for a few seconds, when the skin can be removed easily. Let them cool and then slice them. Take a slice of onion, as large as a shilling, put it in the salad bowl, andTHE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 212 mince it as finely as possible. Place the sliced tomatoes over it. Put the mustard in the salad spoon, put in the vinegar, and stir all together, and pour over the toma- toes. Now pour in the oil, and mix very well. This is an excellent dish for hot weather. Potatoes in some form should always accompany it to table.SAUCES, &c. 426. Apple Sauce (No. i). Ingredients. Six large Apples. I Half an ounce of Sugar. One ounce of Butter. | Quarter of a pint of Water. Peel and cut the apples into thin slices. Put into a clean saucepan with the water and sugar, let it cook slowly, taking care that it does not burn. When cooked to a pulp beat well with a wooden spoon, add the butter, and serve hot. 427. Apple Sauce (No. 2). Ingredients. Three medium-sized Apples. I A bit of Butter the size of a Two tablespoonfuls of Water. hazel nut. One teaspoonful of Sugar. Peel, core, and slice the apples; place them in a saucepan with the water. Let them stew gently until reduced to a pulp, which should be in half an hour. Now add the sugar and butter, and beat all well with a fork.THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 428. Bread Sauce. Ingredients. Three tablespoonfuls of fine An Onion weighing one ounce. Bread-crumbs. Three Cloves. Half a pint of Milk. Half an ounce of Butter. Pepper. Put the milk with the onion, cut in halves, and the cloves in a saucepan. Boil up quickly, and let it simmer for half an hour, then strain. Put the bread- crumbs in a basin and pour the strained milk over them. Add pepper to taste, and beat up. Return to the saucepan, and stir continually until it boils. 429. Brown Gravy (No. i). Ingredients. One tablespoonful of Flour. | Half a pint of Milk and Water, Two ounces of Butter. | mixed. Pepper to taste. Melt the butter in a saucepan, slowly add the flour, stirring well, then add the boiling milk and water. Let it boil for five minutes, then add four drops of brown- ing and pepper, mix well, and serve very hot. 430. Brown Gravy (No. 2). Ingredients. Three ounces of Onion. Six black Peppercorns. Half of a small Tomato. Half an ounce of Butter. Three Cloves. Half a pint of Water. A teaspoonful of brown Koux. Slice the onions and the tomato, and fry them in the butter until they are a rich brown—be careful that theySAUCES, &c. 215 do not burn—add the water, which must be boiling, and put in the cloves and peppercorns. Stew for an hour, keeping the saucepan covered. Strain, and thicken with the brown roux. If not sufficiently brown add a spot of Parisian essence. (See " Hints on Cooking.") 431. Celery Sauce. Ingredients. Two heads of Celery. Two ounces of Butter. One and a half ounces of Flour. Half a pint of Milk. Pepper, Nutmeg, and Mace. Well wash the celery and scald it for twenty minutes; drain it well and cut it up into one-inch lengths. Melt the butter, sprinkle in the flour very slowly, stirring it well, then add the milk, and let it boil and thicken. Season with the pepper, mace, and nutmeg to taste, then add the celery, and let simmer for ten minutes. If liked quite smooth it can be passed through a sieve and made hot again. 432. Cheese Sauce. Ingredients. One and a half ounces of Flour. Mustard and Pepper to taste. Herbs if desired. Two and a half ounces of Cheese (Cheddar). One and a half ounces of Butter. Half a pint of Milk. Grate the cheese, mix with the butter, flour, and seasoning. Place in a saucepan and pour over it the inilk. Boil until the cheese is dissolved. Serve very hot, with plain vegetables or plain boiled rice.216 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 433. Horse-radish Sauce. Ingredients. Two tablespoonfuls of Cream. Four ounces of grated Horse- One tablespoonful of made radish. Mustard. Juice of half a Lemon. A little Milk if needed. Peel and grate the horse-radish, mix it with the cream and made mustard, add pepper to taste, also the lemon- j uice. If too stiff add a little milk ; it should be rather thicker than double cream. 434. Jam Sauce (for Sweet Puddings). Ingredients. Two tablespoonfuls of Jam. | Half a pint of Water. Pour the water, which must be boiling, on any kind of jam, and let it simmer for half an hour, then strain, and serve. Such jams as damson, black or red currant, raspberry, and red plum are the most suitable. This sauce should be served with bread, batter, rice, and sago puddings. 435. Mint Sauce. Ingredients. Three tablespoonfuls of Chopped One gill of Water. Mint. Two heaped tablespoonfuls of One gill of Malt Vinegar. castor Sugar. Boil the water and stir in the sugar, then add the vinegar. Let it cool, then pour it over the mint, which must be chopped very finely. It should stand for half an hour before serving.217 SAUCES, &c. 436. Onion Sauce. Ingredients Half a pound of Onions. Half a pint of Milk. One dessertspoonful of Flour. One ounce of Butter. Pepper. Slice the onions and put them in cold water. Let them boil up quickly and skin them. They must boil until tender, which will be in fifteen or twenty minutes, according to age. Drain and chop them, but not too finely. Take from the milk enough to mix the flour very smoothly, and boil the rest. As soon as it boils pour it slowly into the mixed flour and milk, stirring all the time. Return it to the saucepan, add the chopped onions and the butter, and season nicely with pepper. Boil it up again, stirring all the time. 437. Parsley Sauce. Ingredients. Two tablespoonfuls of chopped Parsley. Half a pint of Milk. One dessertspoonful of Flour. One ounce of Butter. Pepper. Pick and wash the parsley very carefully, throw it into fast-boiling water for one minute, drain it, and chop finely. Take from the milk enough to mix the flour very smoothly and boil the rest. As soon as it boils pour it very slowly into the mixed flour and milk, stirring all the time. Return it to the saucepan, add two table- spoonfuls of the chopped parsley, also the butter, and season nicely with pepper. Boil it up quickly, stirring all the time.THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 218 438. Plain White Sauce. Ingredients. Half a pint of Milk. One ounce of Butter. One dessertspoonful of Flour. Pepper. Take from the milk as much as will mix the flour very smoothly; boil the rest, and when it has boiled stir it slowly into the mixed flour and milk. Return it to the saucepan, stir in the batter, and season with pepper. Boil up again, stirring all the time. 439. Savoury White Sauce. Ingredients. Half a pint of Milk. Two ounces of Onion, Half an ounce of Butter. Two ounces of Carrot. One heaped dessertspoonful A 6mall stick of Celery, of white Boux. Six white Peppercorns. Put the milk with the cloves and peppercorns to boil, and when it has boiled set it aside. Cut up the onions, carrot, and celery in small pieces, and add them to the milk ; boil up again, then stew gently for half an hour. Strain out the vegetables and return the milk to the saucepan ; stir in the butter, and thicken with white roux. Boil up and stir all the time. 440. Tomato Sauce. Ingredients. Half a pound of Tomatoes. Four ounces of Onions. A gill of Water. One ounce of Butter. One teaspoonful of white Boux. Pepper. Slice the onions and throw them into cold water, bring them quickly to boiling-point, and then drain219 SAUCES, &c. them ; now fry them a very pale yellow In the butter. Add the water, which must be boiling, and let them simmer very slowly for ten minutes. Slice the tomatoes and put them with the onion and water, let them boil up, and then simmer again for another ten minutes. Now pour into a sieve and rub the tomato and onion through. Return to the saucepan; season nicely with pepper, thicken with white roux, and boil up, stirring all the time. 441. White Sweet Sauce. Ingredients. Half a pint of Milk. A dessertspoonful of castor A teaspoonful of Corn Flour. Sugar. Half an ounce of Butter. A strip of Lemon-peel. Mix the com flour smoothly with a little milk; boil the rest with the sugar and lemon-peel. When boiled mix slowly with the corn flour, stirring all the time. Add the butter and boil up, still stirring. Remove the lemon-peel before serving. 442. Wine Sauce (for Sweet Pudding). Ingredients. Half a gill of Sherry. I A dessertspoonful of castor A gill and a half of Water. Sugar. A small teaspoonful of Corn Flour. Boil the water, then add the sherry. Mix the corn flour very smoothly with a very little water, and add the wine and water with the sugar, stirring carefully all the time. Return to the saucepan and boil up, still stirring. Any light wine will do as well as sherry.THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK 220 443. Wine Sauce (German). Ingredients. One gill of Wine. | The whites of two Eggs. A dessertspoonful of castor Sugar. Beat up the whites of eggs to a froth—not too stiff. Put the sugar in the wine and make it hot, then beat it quickly to the whites of eggs. 444. Clarified Butter. Melt the butter, and let it get quite hot, but it must not boil. Skim it carefully, and pour it off the sedi- ment which will have settled at the bottom of the saucepan. Serve in a hot tureen. 445. Curd Cheese. Ingredients. One quart of Milk. | Juice of three Lemons. Put the milk into a basin, add the strained juice of the lemons to it, and let it stand in a temperature of about 54°, for twelve hours. Have ready a butter muslin about eighteen inches square, put it over a basin, and pour the curd into this, tie it round with string, and hang on a nail over a sink to drain for a few hours ; then put between two plates, with a weight on top, and press until all the moisture is pressed out. Turn out, and eat like ordinary cheese, or with sugar or fresh fruit.SAUCES, &c. 221 446. Porridge. Ingredients. Four ounces of medium Half a pint of Water. Oatmeal. Half a pint of Milk. Soak the oatmeal overnight in the water, then cook in a double saucepan for about one hour and a half in the morning with the milk. A small piece of butter mixed in before serving is an improvement. 447. Hominy Porridge. Ingredients. Half a pound of Hominy. One pint of Milk. One ounce of Butter. Soak the hominy all night in one pint of cold water, then put on in a double saucepan, and cook for one and a half hours with the water it was soaked in, also the milk; just before serving stir in the butter. (Golden syrup may be served with this dish.) 448. Custard (Boiled). Ingredients. One pint of Milk. Two Laurel leaves. The peel of half a Lemon, j Two ounces of Sugar. Five Eggs (not more than 6ix hours old). Pour the milk into a clean saucepan with the laurel leaves and lemon-peel, and set it on a moderately hot stove for about twenty minutes, and when on the point222 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK of boiling strain it into a basin to cool. Then stir in the sugar and the well-beaten eggs, again strain it into a jug, which place in a deep saucepan of boiling water, and stir it one way until it thickens ; then pour it into a glass dish or into custard cups.MENUS. Breakfasts. No. 1. Milk. Toast and Apsley Rusks. Porridge. Nuts. No. 2. Milk. Toast and Scones. Fried Potatoes. Nuts. No. 3. Milk. Toast and Apsley Rusks. Lancashire Potato Cakes. No. 4. Porridge. Fried Potatoes. Buckwheat Pancakes. Apsley Rusks. Milk. No. 5. Hominy Porridge. Chip Potatoes. Johnny Cake. Apsley Rusks, Bread. Milk. No. 6. Barley Porridge. Saute- Potatoes. Corn Cakes. Rusks, Bread. Milk.224 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK Lunches. No. 1. Bread and Apsley Rusks. Cheese. Salad. Potatoes in their Jackets. Milk. Butter or Oil. No. 2. Bread and Scones. Macaroni and Cheese. Lettuce (dressed). Boiled Potatoes. No. 3. Milk. Cauliflower, with Par- mesan Cheese. Apsley Rusks. Bread. Potato Balls. No. 4. Scalloped Macaroni. Potatoes (baked). Rice Pudding. Baked Apples. No. 5. Rice (savoury). Mashed Potatoes. Bread-and-Butter Pudding Ground Rice Mould. No. 6. Irish Stew. Potatoes. Batter Pudding (baked). Sago Pudding.SS5 MENUS Dinners for Hot Weather. No. 1. Tomato Soup. VegetableMaiTow(stuffed). New Potatoes. Rice and Almond Moulds. Stewed Greengages. Cheese Straws. No. 2. Spinach Soup. Tomatoes (stuffed). Potatoes (fried whole). Ginger and Cream. Cheese Fritters. No. 3. Vegetable Marrow Soup. Cucumber stewed with Onions. New Potatoes. Sweet Salad. Canadian Cheese Pudding. No. 4. Brown Potato Soup. Savoury Rice Rissoles. Baked Potatoes. Spinach. Queen Pudding. Clear Apples. Castle Baskets. Orange Salad. No. 5. Tomato Soup. Irish Stew. Cheese Balls. Parsnips. Spotted Dick. Ground Rice Mould. Casserole of Apples. No. 6. Puree Blanc. Celeriac. Curried Vegetables and Rice. Hydropathic Pudding. Banana Custard. Cauliflower Fritters. Potatoes. Salad.226 THE APSLEY COOKERY BOOK Dinners for No. 1. Artichoke Soup. Tomato and Potato Pie. Almond and Raisin Pudding. Cheese on Toast. No. 2. Almond Soup. Curried Cauliflower and Rice. Potato Snow. Apple Tart. Cheese Ramequins. No. 3. Macaroni Soup. Onions stewed (Brown). Boiled Potatoes. Ginger Pudding (Green). No. 4. Artichoke Soup. Macaroni (Italian). Potato and Onion Pie. Turnip Tops. Lemou Pudding. Cold Weather. Rice Froth. Baked Apples. No. 5. Cauliflower Soup. Mock Beef Rissoles. Brown Gravy. Saute Potatoes. Mashed Turnips. Normandy Pudding. Snow Pudding. No. 6. Swiss Soup. Walnut Cutlets. Bread Sauce and Brown Gravy. Potatoes. Sea-kale. Charlotte Russe. Peach Trifle. Salad and Cheese. Biscuits.MENUS No. 7. Chestnut Soup. Apsley Duck. Apple Sauce and Brown Gravy. Mashed Potatoes. Brussels Sprouts. Ginger Pudding. Fun Pudding. Celery Sticks. No. 8. Celery Soup. Macaroni Cheese. Stuffed Tomatoes. Mashed Potatoes. Carrot Pudding. (Sauce). Mixed Nut Puree.17 Gold, Silver, and other Prize Medals awarded. ALBENE PURE, COLORLESS, ODORLESS, and TASTELESS VEGETABLE FAT. Guaranteed by Dr. GRANVILLE SHARPE and Dr. BERNARD DYER to be absolutely and Entirely Vegetable, and free from any admixture whatever. It is by Analysis 99*97 of pure Vegetable Fat. Far better for all Cooking purposes than butter, lard, or any animal fat. ALBENE is the original article, is now and always has been infinitely SUPERIOR TO ANY IMITATION. MAKES SPLENDID BISCUITS, CAKES, PIES, &c. Will keep fresh and sweet for years In any climate. HUNDREDS OF TESTIMONIALS. Sample Tin Free for Three Penny Stamps. BROOM FIELD AND CO., Proprietors and Sole Manufacturers, 83 Upper Thames Street, LONDON. Works: SNODLAND, KENT. Of all Vegetarian Stores and Restaurants, and Grocers everywhere A 3 lb. tin sent carriage paid on receipt of a P.O. for 2/6. ALBENEINDEX. SOCTPS AND PUREES No. of Rtcipi. 1. Artichoke (No. 1), 1 2. „ (No. 2), 1 3. Barley Cream, 2 4. Carrot (No. 1), 3 5. „ (No. 2), 3 6. Cauliflower, 4 7. Celery (No. 1), 4 8. „ (No. 2), 5 9. Celery, Brown, 5 10. Cheese, 6 11. Cucumber Puree, 7 12. Leek, White, 7 13. „ Brown, 8 14. Macaroni (No. 1), 9 15. „ (No. 2), 9 16. Mulligatawny, 10 17. Onion (No. I), 10 18. „ (No. 2), 11 19. „ (No. 3), 11 20. Parsnip, 12 21. Potato (No. 1), 12 22. „ (No. 2), 13 23. „ (No. 3), 13 24. „ Brown, 14 25. Puree Blanc, 14 26. Rice and Tomato, 15 27. Salsify, 16 28. Spinach, 16 29. „ Puree of, 17 30. Stock for White Soup, 17 31. Swiss, 18 32. Tomato (No. 1), 18 33. „ (No. 2), 19 34. „ (No. 3), 19 35. „ Brown, 20 36. „ Green, 21 No. o/ Recipe. 37. Tomato Puree, 21 38. Turnip, 22 39. „ Puree of, 23 40. Vegetable (No. 1), 23 41. „ (No. 2), 24 42. „ Marrow, 24 43. Vermicelli (No. 1), 25 44. „ (No. 2), 26 SAVOURIES 45. American Corn Rissoles, 27 46. Apsley Duck, 27 47. Artichokes (Jerusalem), Scalloped, 28 48. Bread and Onion Pudding, 28 49. Cauliflower, Curried, 29 50. Cauliflower, with Parmesan Cheese, 30 51. „ & la Maltre d'Hotel, 30 52. „ and Tomato Souffle, 31 53. au Gratin, 31 54. Celery Cheese, 32 55. „ Croquettes, 32 56. „ an Gratin, 33 57. „ and Macaroni Stew, 33 58. „ Sticks, 34 59. Cheese, Baked (German Dish), 34 60. „ Balls, 35 61. „ Devilled, 35 62. „ Dumpling 35 63. Cheese Fingers, 36INDEX 230 No. oj Recife. 64. Cheese Fritters, 36 65. „ Omelet, 37 66. „ On Toast, 37 67. ,, and Onion on ' Toast, 38 68. „ Paste for Sand- wiches, 38 69. „ and Potato Pudding (German Dish), 39 70. „ Pudding (No. 1), 39 71. „ „ (No. 2), 40 72. „ „ (No. 3), 40 73. „ „ Canadian, 40 74. „ Ramequins (No. 1), 41 75. „ „ (No. 2), 42 76. „ Sandwiches, 42 77. „ Straws (No. 1), 43 78. „ „ (No. 2), 43 79. „ and Tomato Toast, 43 80. Cucumber Sandwiches, 44 81. „ Stewed with Onions, 44 82. Forcemeat, 45 83. Gnochi, 45 84. Hot Pot, 46 85. Irish Stew (No. 1), 46 86. „ „ (No. 2), 47 87. ,. „ (No. 3), 47 88. Macaroni Cakes, 48 89. „ with Cheese, 48 90. „ and Cheese Pud- ding, 49 91. „ Cheese Straws, 50 92. ,, Creamed, 50 93. „ Curried, 51 94. „ Italian, 51 95. „ Neapolitan, 52 96. „ Savoury, 53 97. „ Scalloped, 54 03. „ Scallops (No. 1), 54 99. „ „ (No. 2), 55 100. „ and Tomatoes, 55 ]01 „ andTomatoSauce (No. 1), 56 No. Oj Recipe. 102. Macaroni and Tomato Sauce (No. 2), 56 103. Milk and White of Egg, 57 104. Mock Beef Rissoles (No. 1), 57 105. „ „ „ (No. 2) 57 106. Mustard and Cress Sand- wiches, 58 107. Nouilles and Cheese, 58 108. Onions au Gratin. 59 109. „ Baked with Grated Cheese, 59 110. „ and Tomatoes, Baked, 60 111. Parsnip Fritters, 60 112. Parsnips, Scalloped, 61 113. Potatoes and Cheese, 61 114. Potato and Onion Pie (No. 1), 62 115. „ „ „ (No. 2), 62 116. Potatoes with Parmesan, 63 117. Potato and Onion Pudding, 63 118. Rice boiled for Curry, 64 119. „ and Cheese (No. 1), 64 120. „ „ „ (No. 2), 65 121. „ „ „ (No. 3), 65 122. Rice Pudding, Savoury, 65 123. „ Savoury, 66 124. „ and Tomatoes, 66 125. Rissoles, Savoury, 67 126. Rissotto, 68 127. Sage and Onions, Baked, 68 128. Savoury Cauliflower, 68 129. „ Cheese Cakes, 69 130. „ Fillets, 69 131. „ Pudding, 70 132. „ Rice "Cutlets," 70 133. „ „ Rissoles, 71 134. Semolina and Cheese Pudding, 72 135. „ Rissoles, 72 136. Sea-kale, Scalloped, 72 137. Spinach with White of Egg, 73 138. Tapioca and Tomatoes, 73231 INDEX iVo. of Recife. 139. Tomato and Forcemeat Pie, 73 140. „ and Potato Pie, 74 141. „ Stuffed, 74 142. Tomatoes on Toast, 75 143. Vegetables, Curried, 75 144. Vegetable Marrow, Stuffed, 76 145. Whites of Eggs in Moulds, 76 146. White of Egg on Toast, 77 VEGETABLES 147. Artichokes, 78 148. „ Green, Boiled, 78 149. Beetroot Boiled, 79 150. „ Stewed, 79 151. Brussels Sprouts, Boiled, 79 152. Brussel Sprouts, dressed with Butter, 80 153. Cabbage in a Mould, 80 154. Carrots, Stewed, 81 155. Cauliflower Fritters, 81 156. „ Stewed, 82 157. Celery, Boiled, 82 158. „ ' Croutons, 83 159. „ Fritters, 83 160. „ Stewed, 84 161. „ Toast, 84 162. Cucumber, Stewed, 85 163. Endive, Dressed, 85 164. Leeks, Boiled, 86 165. Lettuce, Dressed, 86 166. „ Stewed, 87 167. Onions, Baked, 87 168. „ Boiled, 88 169. „ Stewed (Brown), 88 170. „ Stuffed, 89 171. Parsnips, Boiled, 90 172. Potatoes Baked in their Jackets, 90 173. Potato Balls (No. 1), 90 174. „ „ (No. 2), 91 175. Potatoes, Boiled, 91 176. „ and Onions, Braised, 92 177. „ Browned with Butter, 92 No. of Recipe. 178. Potato and Cabbage Fritters, 93 179. Potatoes, Cold Fried, 93 180. „ Fried, 93 181. „ Whole, 94 182. Potatoes, Mashed, 94 183. „ and Onions, Mashed, 95 184. „ New, Boiled, 95 185. „ Saute, 96 186. Potato Snow, 96 187. Savoy Cabbage, Stewed, 96 188. Sea-kale, Boiled, 97 189. Spinach (No. 1), 97 190. „ (No. 2), 98 191. „ (No. 3), 98 192. „ with Cream, 99 193. Tomatoes, Baked, 99 194. „ Stewed whole, 99 195. Turnips, 100 196. Turnip Tops, 100 197. Turnips, Stewed, 100 198. Vegetable Marrow, Boiled, 101 199. „ „ Fried, 101 200. „ „ Stewed, 101 201. Vegetables, Stewed, 102 SWEETS 202. Admiral Pudding, 103 203. Apple Fritters, 103 204. „ Gateau, 104 205. „ Jelly (No. 1), 104 206. „ „ (No. 2), 105 207. „ Mould, 105 208. „ Pudding, 106 209. „ Tart, 10(5 210. Bananas, Baked (Austra- lian), 106 211. „ and Cream (No. 1), 107 212. „ (No. 2), 107 213. Banana Cream, 107 214. „ Custard (Austra- lian), 108232 INDEX No. of Recipe. 215. Banana Fritters, 108 216. „ and Orange Cream, 109 217. „ Pudding Un- cooked, 109 218. „ Stewed, 110 219. Batter Pudding, Baked, 110 220. „ „ Boiled, 110 221. Blackberry Jelly, 111 222. Blancmange, 111 223. Bread and Butter Fritters, 112 224. „ Pudding, Baked, 112 225. „ „ alaFrangais, Baked,112 226. Candied Fruit Pudding, 113 227. Carrot Pudding (No. 1), 113 228. „ „ (No. 2), 114 229. Casserole of Apples, 114 230. „ of Oranges, 115 231. ,, of Prunes, 115 232. Castle Baskets, 116 233. „ Puddings, 116 234. Charlotte Russe, 117 235. Cherry Cakes, German, 117 236. Cherries, Stewed, 118 237. Christmas Plum Pudding (No. 1), 118 238. Christmas Plum Pudding (No. 2), 119 239. Christmas Plum Pudding (No. 3), 120 240. Clear Apples, 120 241. Compot of Mixed Fruits, 121 242. Cooked Sultanas, 121 243. Custard and Apple Pud- ding, 121 244. Damson Cheese, 122 245. Date Pudding, Steamed,122 246. Fig and Apple Tart, 123 247. Fig Pudding (No. 1), 123 248. „ „ (No. 2), 124 249. Fruit Jelly, 124 250. Fun Pudding, 125 251. German Pudding, 125 252. Ginger Pudding, 126 253. ,, „ Steamed, 126 254. „ „ Brown, 126 255. „ „ Green, 127 No. of Recipe. 256. Ginger with Cream, 127 257. Gooseberry Tart, 128 258. Greengages, Stewed, 128 259. Ground Rice Mould, 129 260. Half-Pay Pudding, 129 261. Hydropathic Pudding, 130 262. Jack Pudding, 130 263. Jam Pudding, 131 264. Lemon (or Orange) Jelly, 131 265. „ Pudding, 132 266. „ Sponge, 132 267. Macaroni and Apple Pud- ding, 133 268. Macaroni Pudding, 133 269. Marmalade, 134 270 Marmalade Pudding (No. 1), 134 271. Marmalade Pudding (No. 2), 135 272. Marmalade Pudding, Steamed, 135 273. Marmalade Tartlets, 135 274. Melon Compote, 136 275. Military Pudding, 136 276. Milk Jelly, 136 277. „ Rice, 137 278. „ Sago, 137 279. Mince-meat (No. 1), 138 280. „ „ (No. 2), 138 281. Mince Pies, 139 282. Moonshine, 139 283. Mulberry Jelly, 139 284. Normandy Pudding, 140 285. „ Pippins, Stewed. 141 286. Omnibus Pudding. 141 287. Orange Compot, 142 288. „ Fritters, 142 289. „ Jelly, 143 290. ,. Meringue, 143 291. „ Pudding, 144 292. Peach Trifle, 144 293. Plums, Stewed, 145 294. Potato Cakes, 145 295. Potatoes, with Cream, 145 296. Prune Pudding, 146 297. Prunes, Stewed, 146 298. Queen's Pudding, 147233 INDEX No. of Recife. 299. Queen's Tartlets, 147 300. Raisin Pudding, Baked, 148 301. Raspberry Jam, 148 302. „ Jelly, 149 303. Restorative Jelly, 149 304. Rice and Apple Pudding, 150 305. „ and Apple, Baked, 150 306. „ Balls, 150 307. ,. Blancmange, 151 308. „ Cakes, Small, 151 309. „ Froth, 152 310. „ Pudding, Plain, 152 311. „ „ alaFrangais, 152 312. „ „ with Burnt Sugar, 153 313. „ whole in Moulds, 153 314. Roly-Poly Pudding, 154 315. Sago Pudding, 154 316. Satisfaction Pudding, 155 317. Semolina Mould, 155 318. Snow Balls, 156 319. „ Pudding, 156 320. Snowdon Pudding, 157 321. Spotted Dick, 157 322. Stewed Apples and Peach Jam, 157 323. Stewed Figs, 158 324. Strawberry or Gooseberry Fool, 158 325. „ Pudding, 158 326. Sultana Pudding, Steamed, 159 327. Sweet Potato Pudding, 159 328. Tapioca and Apple Pud- ding, 160 329. Tapioca Pudding, 160 330. Treacle Pudding, 161 331. „ Tart, 161 332. Valentia Pudding, 161 333. Vegetable Marrow Tartlets, 162 334. Vermicelli Pudding (No. 1), 162 335. „ „ (No. 2), 163 3.?6. Wine Pudding, 163 NUT DISHES No. of Recipe. Introduction, 165 337. Almond Biscuits, 166 338. and Bread Pudding 166 339. »i Cake, 167 340. ii „ German, 167 341. »i Cones, 168 342. Almond Cup Pudding, 168 343. ii and Honey Cakes, 169 344. 91 Milk, 169 Pastry, 170 345. 11 346. II Pudding, 170 347. 1 and Raisin Pud- ding, 171 348. 11 and Rice Cakes, 171 349. II Soup, 172 350. Brazil Nut Cutlets, 173 351. Chestnuts with Bread Sauce, 173 352. Chestnut Cream, 174 353. „ Flour Soup, 174 354. Chestnuts Fricasseed, 175 355. Chestnut Patties, 175 356. „ Pie, 176 357. „ Puree, 176 358. Chestnuts, Scalloped, 177 359. Chestnut Souffle, 177 360. „ Soup (No. 1), 178 361. „ „ (No. 2), 178 362. Cocoa-nut Biscuits, 179 363. „ Cakes, 180 364. Grated Cocoa-nut Pudding, 180 365. Mixed Nut Puree (No. 1), 180 366. „ , „ (No. 2), 181 367. Nut Pudding (No. 1), 181 368. „ „ (No. 2), 182 369. „ „ for Diabetic Patients, 182 370. Nut and Fruit Pudding. 183 371. „ Jelly, 183 372. „ Paste for Sandwiches, 184 373. „ and Potato Patties 184 374. Pistachio Creams, 185INDEX 234 No. oj Recipe. 375. Eice and Almond Moulds, 185 376. „ and Nuts, 186 377. „ and Nut Rissoles, 186 378. Walnut Balls or Rissoles, 186 379. „ Cutlets, 187 BREAD, PASTRY, CAKES, &C. 380. " Apsley " Rusks, 188 381. Bannocks, 188 382. Batter, 189 383. „ forFryingSavouries, 189 384. „ for Frying Sweets, 189 385. Bread, 190 386. „ Raspings, to Prepare, 191 387. „ Sultana, 191 388. Croutons, 192 389. Devonshire Cutround, 192 390. Fruit Loaf, 192 391. Johnny Cake, 193 392. Lancashire Potato Cake, 193 393. Pancakes, 194 394. Buckwheat Pancakes, 194 395. Paste, Fried, 195 396. Paste, Puff for Tarts and Tartlets, 195 397. „ Puff, Old Recipe, 196 398. „ for Boiled Puddings, 198 399. Roux, Brown and White for Thickening, 198 400. Rusk-crumbs or -raspings, 200 401. Scones f or Breakfast (No. 1), 200 402 „ (No.2), 200 403. Scotch Scones, 201 404. Scones, Soda, 201 405. Short Paste, 202 406. Vanilla Biscuits, 202 407. Yorkshire Cake, 203 SALADS No. oj Recipe. 408. Banana and Orange Salad, 204 409. Beetroot and Spanish Onion Salad (No. 1), 204 410. Beetroot and Spanish Onion Salad (No. 2), 205 411. Brussels Sprouts Salad, 205 412. Cauliflower Salad, 205 413. Celery and Macaroni Salad, 206 414. „ and Watercress Salad, 206 415. Cucumber Salad, 207 416. Endive Salad, 207 417. Fruit Salad, 208 418. Lettuce Salad, 208 419. Orange Salad, 209 420. Potato Salad, 209 421. Salad Dressing, 209 422. „ Mixed, 210 423. „ with White of Egg, 211 424. Sweet Salad, 211 425. Tomato Salad, 211 SAUCES, &C. 426. Apple Sauce (No. 1), 213 427. „ „ (No. 2), 213 428. Bread Sauce, 214 429. Brown Gravy (No. 1), 214 430. „ „ (No. 2), 214 431. Celery Sauce, 215 432. Cheese Sauce, 215 433. Horse-radish Sauce, 216 434. Jam Sauce, for Sweet Pud- dings, 216 435. Mint Sauce, 216 436. Onion Sauce, 217 437. Parsley Sauce, 217 438. Plain White Sauce, 218 439. Savoury White Sauce, 218 440. Tomato Sauce, 218 441. White Sweet Sauce, 219 442. Wine Sauce, for Sweet Puddings, 219235 INDEX No. v Recipe. 443. Wine Sauce (German), 220 444. Clarified Butter, 220 445. Curd Cheese, 220 446. Porridge, 221 447. Hominy Porridge, 221 US. Custard Boiled, 221 MENUS Breakfasts, 223 Lunches, 224 Dinners for Hot Weather, 225 Dinners for Cold Weather, 226 Printed by Ballantyne &• Co. Limited Tavistock Street, LondonT. J. BILSON AND CO. 88 GRAY'S INN ROAD, LONDON, W.C. Importers of and Dealers in DRIED FRUITS, NUTS AND COLONIAL PRODUCE. Californian Dried Apricots, Nectarines and Peaches. All kinds of Dates, Figs, &c. Nuts of every Description, Shelled and Unshelled, and Nut Meals. BILSON'S COKER NUT BUTTER (hard or soft texture), which is a splendid substitute for the ordinary dairy butter, perfectly wholesome and of delicate flavour, 8d. per lb., carriage forward. Sample Tin, post free 6d. Agents for THE IDA NUT MILL which it the best Mill ever offered for grinding all kindi of Nuts, Cheese, Dried Bread, &c, is. 6d. and 3s. 6d. each. H. WRIGHT & CO.'S IXION BISCUITS AND OTHER PREPARATIONS. DR. HAIG'S BOOKS. Write for Catalogue, £d. stamp, and mention this book.ENGLISH CHEESE MADE IN THE CELEBRATED CHEDDAR DISTRICT Minimum of Salt used, as recommended by Food Specialists, and supplied to " Apsley," Slough Price 9d. per lb. Sizes from 14 lb. L. A. GRIFFIN DIBDINS AND MOORSIDE FARMS WEST TOWN, SOMERSET Telephone: 0197 Leatherhezd HENRY MOORE tf SON LEATHERHEAD, SURREY Mills:—Ockham, Cob ham & Fetcham STONE-GROUND FLOUR & WHEATMEAL (BOLTED OR UNBOLTED) H. M. & SON guarantee all Flour and Wheatmeal ground through old-fashioned Mill-stones at their own Mills from best English Wheat. Strongly recommended by Mrs. C. W. Earle in her " Third Pot Pourri." Any quantity put on Rail to all parts of the United Kingdom Prices on application