178 CULJJ'TjUfY JOYYlJf G-3 JPOlf put m one clove of garlic, a small quantity of mustard povvder, a dash of grated nutmeg, and some white pepper. Mix thoroughly, and if upon tasting you find that it is lequired, add a little salt. Keep on stirring the mixture at a very moderate heat for quite ten minutes, then remove the garlic, take the sauce-pan from the fire, stirring occa- sionally till the contents are nearly cold, then add the yolks O OU1 previously beaten up with a table-spoonful of milk, and well strained ; mix well; incorporate swiftly with the mixture the whites of five eggs beaten to a froth, pour this into a deep round tin, and put it into the oven which must not be too hot; from twenty to thirty minutes baking will make the fondue ready for the table, to which it must be quickly sent, in its tin, with a napkin folded round it.”—(G.C.) If the early stage of preparing the fondue mixture were conducted in the bain-marie pan, there would be no risk of overheating it. A simpler recipe by the same author runs as follows:— Make a thickish paste in a sauce-pan with milk and flour, taking care that it is quite smooth : add to, and thoroughly mix with it as much grated cheese as you have used flour, and a little over, a small quantity of salt, a little flour of mustard, and some pepper. Beat up, if you have used as much as a pint of milk for the paste, three or four eggs. Incorporate them with the paste, then fill a dish, or a number of patty-pans with it, bake a nice brown colour, and serve. “ Ramequinsf or little fondues of cheese, are invariably popular. They are not hard to make : I choose a simple recipe which runs thus :—Put one ounce of butter in a roomy sauce-pan, with a quarter pint of water, a pinch of salt, and a dust of black pepper; boil it, and add two ounces of flour. Stir over the fire for four minutes, and then mix with it two ounces of grated Parmesan, and two eggs, one after the other. Put the paste thus formed on a buttered- baking sheet in lumps the size of a hen’s egg, flatten them