83 S0U<P-JrfJlKIJ*G—C0J7cnj*UE(I>. many of them as were procurable, have been used : now place the meat on a dish, remove the string that bound, it, and serve it surrounded by maccaroni previously boiled till tender, and a puree obtained by rubbing all the vege- tables through the wire sieve, moistened with a little of the bouillon or consommti. Don’t rush away with the Anglo-Saxon idea that there is no “goodness” (Martha’s word) in soup-meat. “There is,” says the G. C., “as much nutriment in it as there would have been, had it been roasted; and much more than if it had been converted into salt junk, as it is the English custom to do with the silverside of beef.” You can vary the bouilli by tomato sauce, any piquante sauce, or even soubise. The soup-meat with maccaroni, and puree of tomatoes is the favourite “ manzo guernito” of the Italian dinner. Talking of soup-meat, does everyone know that the potted meats so largely exported, and commonly appreciated in this country, are made from the meat of which the tinned soups are composed? It is a fact nevertheless, and every atom of meat is thus turned to account by the preserved provision dealers. The potted meat you see in a confec- tioner’s window at home, neatly capped with melted butter, is made from the beef which produced the stock of the mock turtle (I bet anything it is “ mock turtle,”) he advertises at a shilling a basin—enterprising man ! I tested this myself. Having before me a large piece of soup-meat apparently full of nutriment, I determined as an experiment, to make potted meat of it. Martha, my cook, looked sourly on—(I little knew that I was robbing her of the price of that meat from the nearest pastry-cook) and called it, for her part, a “hawful mess,” but we, who ate it, found it delicious. In London, and all large towns in England, a regular private trade in soup-meat, bones, and fragments, is carried on between our cooks and the keepers of refreshment rooms, which both parties regard as perfectly legitimate. To return to the subject of soups:—having, I hope, mastered the difficulties of the consomme, or foundation of