14S 0172? LUfiJ’CHEOJTS. shape; make an incision in it lengthways, and insert there- in a long strip of bacon, fat and lean in equal parts, previ- ously rolled in chopped marjoram parsley, a little shallot, and some pepper: tie up the fillet now, carefully, with tape. Take a good slice of bacon, mince it very small with thyme, marjoram, lime peel, a clove of garlic, half an onion (Bom- bay) and a carrot; shake this mixture in a little butter at the bottom of a stew-pan, and when it melts, place the fillet upon it, and turn itgently till it browns nicely ; now pour in a pint of tomato purge diluted with beef gravy to the consis- tency of ordinary pea soup: simmer your fillet in this till it is done, it ought to be kept at least a couple of hours at a gentle heat: when ready to serve, strain off the sauce, place the fillet upon a very hot dish, remove the tape, and pour a little of the sauce over it. Have ready some hot, boiled, and drained, maccaroni in a sauce-pan, empty all the' sauce that remains amongst the maccaroni, shake into it a table-spoonful of finely grated cheese, toss the whole over the fire for a minute, and dish it separately in a very hot dish. Serve the two together immediately. Maccaroni, in the usual Italian fashion, is infinitely superior to our perpetual method of serving it. It makes an excellent luncheon dish. Boil the maccaroni in a sauce-pan (rubbed with a clove of garlic) until it is tender • the moment it is tender, stop the boiling by adding cold* water, -if not it will be sodden. Drain it carefully, as you do nee and let it remain in the hot sauce-pan. Now stir into it a table-spoonful of preserved butter (the new Denmark brand is quite first rate) and as you work this about over the fire an assistant should add by degrees a breakfast cupful of fresh tomato pulp a little salt and pepper, and a heaped up table-spoonful of either grated Parmesan from the bottle or any mild thoroughly powdered dry cheese : serve steam- ing fiot without delay. I could, of course, go on suggesting dishes, and describing them ad infinitum,—for luncheons are little banquets which attord enthusiastic cooks a pleasant field for the exercise of