171 EGGS, JAfiOCJlIlOJU, J1J7Q CHEESE. melt a piece of butter the size of an egg in 37our omelette pan: pour in your mixture, stir it about uneasingly until it is lightly set, and turn it out. Tomato pulp may be mixed with the eggs, and any nice meat like ham, tongue, corned beef, game, &c., may be minced up, and added to them. The cream is by no means necessary, neither is the milk, but with the poor eggs of the Indian fowl, I think the assistance they give is very perceptible. By adding grated cheese you have “ ceufs brouilles au fromage “ asparagus peas,” and truffles are also grand ad- ditions recommended by Gouffe. “ CEufs au jus”:—Suppose that you have a nice breakfast cupful of gravy saved from the joint which was served at last night’s dinner. Choose a little pie-dish, and pour some of the gravy into it, so as to cover the bottom well; flavour it with a little minced shallot, or any sweet herb, set it in the oven, and when it bubbles, break into it as many eggs as will fill the dish nicely without crowding; shake some bread-crumbs over the eggs, and some little pieces of minced anchovy, or the remains of any cold fish ; return the dish to the oven for three or four minutes, so that its contents may partly set; then pour the rest of the gravy evenly over the surface, add another layer of fine crumbs, and bake for five or six minutes. Be careful not to let the eggs harden. CEufs a la creme ’:—Choose a shallow pie-dish, and butter it liberally. Pour over the bottom of the dish a layer of cream a quarter of an inch deep, over that shake a coating of well grated cheese a quarter of an inch deep : if wide enough to hold them without crowding, slip in as care- fully as you can, to avoid breaking a single yolk,—six eggs ; give them a dust of black pepper, and salt, and pour a little more cream over the surface, coating it over again with grated cheese. Let the dish remain in the oven until the eggs are set without being hard,—the time will depend upon the state of the oven,—brown the surface by passing a