MEfTTJ FO% £ LITTLE HOME QIfTJTEI[, tyo. 269 water, (or broth) one Bombay onion in quarters, a good handful of French beans, a plant of celery and two carrots sliced; a table-spoonful of walnut ketchup, a salt-spoonful of sugar, pepper, and salt. Cover the pan, and stew the steak ever so gently till the meat parts easily when tested by the fork. Then lift it out, strain the gravy, place the steak on a hot silver dish, arrange the vegetables cut up into very small dice tastefully over it, thicken the gravy with a little butter and flour, add a dessert-spoonful of Madeira, and pour it boiling hot over the steak. 4-—With the above, try your potatoes in this way :— Potato duchesses. mash them up with a little good milk, and the yolks of two eggs; add pepper, salt, some grated nutmeg, and some parsley, or celery leaves chopped fine (a few marjoram leaves are an improvement.) Roll the mixture into balls the size of a pippin, brush them over with a beaten egg, set them on a buttered tin, and bake for a few minutes till a golden yellow colour.* They look pretty, and taste nice. •5- This is the American method of serving egg-plant, and Brinjal fritters. j? a, ™ry g.00.d dish for a change. Par- boil the bnnjals in salt and water, let them get cold, and slice them in longitudinal pieces of a convenient size and thickness for fritters; two inches long, and a quarter of an inch thick. Prepare the batter I have previously described, dipping the pieces of brinjal in it, and frying them a crisp golden brown in abundance of fat. Drain them quite dry, dust a little salt over them,and serve with Dutch sauce (q. v. page 72). 6. This is a simple recipe for a delicious iced pudding, Vanilla custard iced. nofc exPe°sive. Mix the yolks of three . . _ eggs well with a pint of fresh milk, strain it, sweeten it to taste, flavour it with vanilla, and ice it in a small mould. It turns out rich and creamy, not a bit like the milk-and-water ices one so often mourns over. * They may also be formed somewhat smaller, the size of racciuet balls and fried a golden brown in melted butter. racquet Dalis, ♦