JlgOUQ QE^filfT KIECHEJV %EQUISI&E8. 15 corps de cuisine was discovered squatting at work more suo in a dry nullah hard by. The Colonel furiously demanded why the proper kitchens had not been used, and “ all this abominable mess prevented ?” Presently a cook of greater daring than his colleagues replied “What sar ! that bad sense kitchen, sar, I beg your pardon : too much firewood taking : see sar this praper kitchen only.” In the face of so irresisti- ble an argument, the Colonel (albeit irritated beyond measure) was constrained to abandon his cherished project. When presenting Ramasamy, therefore, with novel utensils, let us guard against his denouncing them “bad sense.” We must patiently show him how to use them, proving, if we possibly can, by practical illustration the satisfactory results, saving of time, and so forth, to be gained by their means. Anything complicated should be avoided. As far as my personal experience goes I can recommend the introduction of that invaluable utensil a “ bainmarie,” or long shallow trough, which, filled with hot water, and kept over a low fire, affords a hot bath in which the various little saucepans containing sauces, etc., can be set, and so kept hot without deterioration. You can have one made to order to fit your saucepans in copper, iron, or block tin; the first will, of course, outlast the other two. Native cooks take readily to the mincing machine, and I find that my chef fully appreciates the vegetable cutter, root-knife, dishing up fork, gravy strainer, wire sieve, hair sieve, colander, mortar, wire-frying basket, “ Warren’s fish kettle and vegetable steamer,” and the larding needle, which he can use easily. Larding is one of the branches of the cook s art which comes naturally to a native; as a rule also I think that they surpass Europeans in boning poultry, an operation which Martha rarely attempts. The digester is a vessel that may be given to Ramasamy without hesitation; and he is keenly alive to the value of the stew pan. In frying-pans he is not hypercritical: I