MEJVU FOI? jl (P^q-Y OF SIX. 232 Pomfrefc, fashion. Venetian at the bottom of it, stirring in a table-spoonful of flour; add a little stock, and work the paste so obtained without ceasing, gradually pouring in stock, and adding pounded fowl, until you have exhausted your supply. Let the puree now come to the boil; remove the sauce-pan from the fire, and as you pour it into the tureen, stir into it a wine-glassful of cream, (or that quantity of milk with which the yolk and e™ has been mixed, and strained,) and serve. 2.—Dress your fish in fillets, and bake them in a buttered dish with a slice of tomato laid upon each of them, and a little chopped par- sley and shallot, sprinkled over them. When done, arrange them upon a hot silver dish, and serve with the following green sauce Boil a little spinach, and when done, squeeze it through a piece of muslin: save the pulp you obtain for colouring. Now make a little melted butter, or veloute assisted by a little stock; throw into it some finely minced parsley, a very little shallot, some chopped capers, and gherkins, and colour the whole with the spinach greening. The white fish, the brilliant green sauce, and the scarlet slice of tomato with each portion,present a tasteful combination of colours, which might almost "tempt the dyino- anchoret to eat.” 3. —Be careful in in the mixing of your batter, and use a Prown kramouskys. Prodigal amount of frying medium : : for the salpicon use prawns, boiled, minced, and thickened in rich veloute sauce. Proceed as laid down for "oyster kramouskys,” page 209. 4. —Roast six pigeons early in the day; pick the meat '. ... from them, save the livers, and throw olives?0n °U nS W1 aH the bones into a small sauce-pan with some lean bacon, as much stock as you can spare (to the extent of half filling the sauce- pan) some whole pepper, spice, a sliced carrot, a bunch of parsley, and a clove of garlic, a muslin bag containing some mixed sweet herbs, and any scraps of meat you have lying idle. With this make a strong gravy, by simmering it slowly until almost half wasted : now strain the liquor from