OJT SOTJCP-JrfjZKIJja. 25 through a tamis, or through a wire sieve, and communicated to the stock in the form of a thick pulp, as we find in puree d’artichauts, puree de legumes, purde de gibier, fyc. A soup partaking of the character of a thinish puree, helped up by artificial aid in the way of thickening, is called by some writers a potage d la puree. The bisque again is a purte strictly speaking of crayfish (aux ecrevisses) or of lobster .(de homard) but it can be made successfully with crab, prawns, and shrimps; indeed a nice bisque can be made with any fish.—So much for names. Let us now turn our attention to the consommt, for we may regard it as the foundation upon which nearly every soup is based. “ Stock,” says a capital writer on cookery, “ is to a cook what the medium or the water is to the painter in oils or in water colours. It may be defined generally speaking as a solution in water of the nutritive, and sapid elements contained in meat and bones: salt and spices added to it to make it savoury, and if to this you add the flavour of various vegetables you have soup.” We must remember, however, to start with, that soup in India must be made in one day. We cannot fall back upon the never-empty stock pot of the English kitchen : our’s must be made daily, and, to guard against waste, only in sufficient quantity for the day’s consumption. In saying this I have, of course, mainly before me the climate of Madras, and of the plains of Southern India. At the hill stations and during the cold weather in the northern part of the country, the method, obtaining in British households may, no doubt, with care, and slight modification, be followed. Our soup, then, being actually an ephemeral production we should proceed as follows “ For the type of all stock making, says the G. C. “ there can be no better recipe taken than that of the French pot au feu," let us therefore take his advice in this wise:—“Put a piece of soup meat (say of tour pounds weight—the recipe can, of course, be followed 3