183 <?HE SjflVOUItY QJ&ELEZQE. neither, as cheap, nor as plentiful as in days of yore, are still to be got: we can obtain charcoal, and a broken chatty to hold it: we can get an iron omelette pan, made to order, in the bazar: we need never be without a tin of “Normandy,” “Denmark,” or “cow brand” butter; or, failing that, a bottle of the best salad oil: salt, pepper, and a bottle of dried parsley ought not to be beyond our reach, and an onion is not an expensive luxury. Thus provided, we ought to be in a position to turn out a capital dish, very rapidly, at any time, and any where. Omelettes, as you all know, can be diversified ad libitum: we need never, therefore, be afraid of falling back upon them. Before I proceed to the discussion of omelette-vosk.- ing, however, let me point out that Ramasamy has been led astray altogether with regard to this branch of his art. He sends you up a very nice pudding, symmetrical in design, of a goodly consistency, and of a rich brown colour. You i almost require a dessert knife to help it. It is, of course, lighter somewhat, than a ‘ roly-poly’ pudding made of paste, but it greatly resembles that homely composition. It is a first cousin of the pancake, and Ramasamy evidently uses the stuff of which it is made to dip his plantains into when bidden to make fritters. He starts wrongly to commence with, when mixing his omelette: in addition to the e^s —(the whites of which he whips separately) he puts in°a little flour, some milk or a little water, and, in point of fact, niiil^Bs a li0htisb sort of batter. This, I regret to say, he fries in a fair amount of ghee, folding it into shape, and keeping it on the fire till it is nice and firm, and coloured as I before described. That this is no more an omelette than our old friend “ the man in the moon” I need hardly assure you. Native cooks are nevertheless very easily taught how to make one properly, and rarely fail after a patient exem- ! phfication of the correct method. I must confess that with the exception of “ the Curd’s omelette” previously alluded to, I never picked up a wrinkle concerning this excellent dish from a book. I have never 12