CJlJdtP COOKERY. 1SS into the flour by degrees. When nicely formed, add the baking powder (last thing of all mark) stir it well into the dough, divide it into four equal portions, pat them into shape with the spoons, and place them in four patty- pans well buttered : These must be put on the baking sheet, and slipped into the oven, which should have been heated to receive them to such a degree that you can hardly bear your hand inside it. The time taken in baking depends upon the sort of oven you employ : as soon as the rolls brown very slightly, having risen- into nice round forms, they are ready. This recipe may be altered to five ounces of flour, and three of oatmeal, for a change. “ French Rolls —Half a pound of flour, a dessert-spoon- ful of butter, one small egg, two tea-spoonsful of Yeatman’s powder, a salt-spoonful of salt, four table-spoon9ful of warm milk. Work the butter into the flour. Beat the egg up with the warm milk, and strain it into another cup, dust the salt over the flour, and gradually add the eggy-milk till the dough is formed; then mix the baking powder into it thoroughly; form the dough into two nice oblong rolls, place them on a sheet of well buttered paper, on the baking tin, and set them in the oven ; look, at them after twenty minutes baking, and take them out as soon as their colour indicates that they are done. “ Half pound plain loaf”—Half a pound of flour, two tea-spoonsful of Yeatman’s powder, a salt-spoonful of salt, four or five table-spoonsful of warm water. Work this as above, reserving the baking powder to the last, set the dough in a tin, or form it in the well known “ cottage”, shape, and bake. The ordinary cookery book receipts for fancy breads can be safely followed if you remember the proportion of the baking powder to the pound of flour, and, where eggs are pro- pounded, make an allowance for the difference which exists between the English and the Indian egg. In using Yeatman’s powder,do not let your made rolls, or bread, stand waiting for