JAEJTU FOR fi QIJVJVEIl OF FOUIj\ 248 desire to serve a thick oxtail, go on in the following manner:—Strain the soup, saving all Oxtail soup, (thick.) the tail joints, and leave the soup in a bowl for a while. Pick all the meat from the tail, pound it in a mortar, pass the paste through the sieve, and then skim the fat off the bowl of soup. Take a roomy sauce-pan, melt a lump of butter at the bottom of it, stir in a table-spoonful of flour, and gradually add soup and paste till all has been expended, let the puvde come to the boil (by which time it will be thick enough) ; add a dessert- spoonful of red currant jelly, a dessert-spoonful of anchovy vinegar, and a glass of port, stir vigorously for a minute and serve. The common way of making this soup is simply to thicken the gravy, and to throw in the joints of the tail whole. I have tried the puree, and consider the soup is vastly improved by the pounded meat, the flavour of the oxtail being far stronger. 2.—Bake the whitings very gently, and serve them with Whitings with herbs sauce. green chilli (if liked) a sauce blanche, in which a bunch of parsley, minced fine a very little shallot, a little lime peel, and a little have been mixed. Fowl in tlie American manner. 3. This is a capital method of cooking a fowl, the pro- cess is simply that of steaming, so you will want your fish kettle, and a pan, hig enough to hold the fowl, with a close fitting lid. Truss the fowl: place a big Bombay onion inside the bird, with a couple of slices of bacon ; sew up the vent, pin a strip of bacon over the breast, and set the bird in the pan (without any water or gravy round it) carefully securing the lid with paste if necessary. Immerse the vessel containing the fowl in the fish kettle or any larger pan full of cold water, and set it to boil. Cook it slowly for upwards of an hour without removing the lid which should be scrupulously kept closed. In about an hour and a quarter (after the water came to the boil), you can take the fowl out, and place it at once on a hot dish well