'ss culijtj^y jowrnas FOI? MflQRfi®- getting that the peninsula is a large one, and that the manners and customs which obtain in one district, may never have been heard of in other parts of the Empire. The article is not applicable to any part of the Madras Presidency, and judging from the writer’s suggestions as to the cookery of a tin of beef with yams, and worse still, the fabrication of soup from the fowl bones you picked and left at luncheon, I should say that Vanity had picked up not only an ignoramus, but an uncleanly ignommus, as a contributor. Our friends at Home are told by this auda- cious man that no dinner is complete in India without a burning curry, and that none is successful without “Europe tins.” °I think that, as we go on, I shall be able to prove that at Madras, at all events, we can do pretty well without either. Although I am strongly against the use of tinned things to the extent that many allow, there are nevertheless many articles which you must have in the store-room pickles, sauces, jams, bacon, cheese,. maccaroni, vermice 1, vinegars, flavouring essences, the invaluable truffle, tart fruits, biscuits, isinglass, arrow-root, oatmeal, peail bailey, cornflour, olives, capers, dried herbs, and so on. Grated Parmesan cheese (sold in bottles by Crosse and Blac we ) should never be forgotten, the salad oil should be the best procurable, and no store-room should be without tarragon vinegar, anchovy vinegar, French vinegar, and white wine vinegar. Amongst sauces I consider “ Harvey the best 01 general use; Sutton’s “ Empress of India,” is a strong sauce with a real flavour of mushrooms; “ Reading sauce is veiy trustworthy, and there are others which no doubt commend themselves to different palates, but I denounce “Worcester sauce” as too powerful an agent in the hands of the cook Sutton’s essence of anchovies is said to possess the charm ot not clotting, or forming a stoppage in the neck of the bottle. I have a deep respect for ketchup, soy, and tomato conserve. Then as special trifles we must not forget caviare, olives farcies, and anchovies in oil.