228 J6EJITJ FOIl £ (PJIIZ'Y OF EIG-H<F. handed round in a boat: potatoes in another way and a vegetable may accompany. 6.—The chaud froid will require one snipe a head :—take your six birds, and roast them over a wifwd0sa8nce.es drGSSed bright fire, let them get cold, remove the breasts, forming two fillets of the breast of each bird : Fill a border mould with aspic jelly and set it in the ice box. Arrange your fillets in the well in the centre, placing slices of truffle between each layer of fillets. Meanwhile make the richest sauce you can by boil- ing and simmering all the bones, remnants of meat, and the trails of the snipe in as much common stock as will cover them well; dried thyme, lime peel, a pinch of spice, a tomato, one onion sliced, and some bacon should accompany the bones; after you have simmered this for an hour, strain the liquor clear, and thicken it with butter and flour as previously described; flavour it with red currant jelly, Madeira, and lime juice, and pour it, cold, over the packed fillets—when it has settled well amongst and over them, let the whole remain as long as you can in ice, remove the mould from the jelly, and serve, with crisp dry toast “ in waiting.” 7. —Choose a nice cauliflower or two small ones, and boil Baked cauliflowers. them carefully • they must be under rather than over-done. Place them in a neat dish that will stand the fire, well buttered,—the flowers in the centre, and the tender leaves, and stalks neatly arranged round them,—give them a dust of white pepper and a dream of salt, then pour round, so that all the crevices may be filled, a coffee cupful of good white sauce. Let a layer of grated Parmesan repose on the surface, and bake the dish in a quick oven for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, lastly, by passing a red hot iron just over the top you can brown the surface of the cheese. 8. —Turn the greengages out into a glass dish, stir,a Greengages in cream. bqueur glass of maraschino into the . syiup, and set the dish in the ice-box to get nice and cold. Serve with either moulded, or whipped Cl 6cLUl«