205 JIEjrU F0% JL OF Eias<r. of spinach, or a bunch of water-cress. For the sauce (which should go round in a boat) take six anchovies from the tin, wipe them dry, free them from the oil and pass them through the sieve; add the pulp to about a pint of good veloute (page 79) heat it up, and as you serve, enrich the sauce with a ladleful of good cieam. 4—Make your cassolettes as follows : peel two pounds of potatoes, cook them as usual; when Potato cases with done, stir into them the yolks of five ragout,Financierefashion. e-ggS>add a little grated nutmeg, a little salt, and stir them over* the fire for five minutes. Now pass them through the sieve : pat them to a paste, and flatten that out on your slab about one-and-half inch thick. Let it get cold: then with your cutter, cut it into cylinders (or little drums) two inches in diameter. Egg and bread-ciumb each cylinder, and fry these potato drums till they are a bright golden brown. Now carefully slice off the top of each drum (say) a quarter inch thick ; place the caps so obtained on one side, and scoop out the interior of your drums very care- fully. Fill up each cassolette thus formed, with a portion of ragout a la financiere, (q. v.) place the caps on the top of each, and a few minutes in the oven will bring them to perfection. This entree can, of course, be prepared early in the day, and heated up just when required. 5, Order your saddle some days beforehand and you will get a good one. Roast it, and Saddle of mutton with serve it with red currant jelly, potatoes, green peas. and green peas dressed as you may like best. Quenelles of partridge in jelly. 6.—Simply quenelles of partridge meat., truffe'es, set in aspic jelly, iced, and served with sauce tartare. 7.—“Beat up” (says the G. C.) “a quantity of white of egg into a froth with a little sugar. Egg snow. Have some milk previously sweetened in a sauce-pan on the fire, and when it boils, throw in your egg froth in separate table-spoonsful. A few seconds will IS