JAEJTU Foil fi QIJIJIEIl OF FOUR SOI tom of the pan. When ready (which you will decide by testing the meat), you can add a little more Madeira if y°u find it needed, and serve. Some people make forcemeat halls of hard boiled eggs, or of chicken, with a little ham or tongue, some savoury herbs, and eggs (which should be formed the size of pigeon’s eggs, and poached in gravy) and add them to the soup when serving. I think that the soup costs trouble enough without them, and so many people misunderstand what they are, that making forcemeat balls is often lost labour. 2.—Choose a good deep cut of seer fish, and boil it in salt and water. When done, divide it into Seer with mushrooms. . . . pieces, a nice size for each guest, and place them on one side, covered up. Make about a pint of thin brown sauce, with some gravy, a little onion, flour and butter, as described in Chapter XIII, using the flour sparing- ly, flavour with a little white wine, a very little red currant jelly, and a few drops of lime juice ; when you have worked it well, add a dozen “ black Leicestershire” mushrooms, and the pieces of fish ; heat up without boiling, and serve. Chiclceu, fa shion. S’Lambert 3.—Take two nice chickens, cut them up as if for fricassee, steep the pieces in cold water for half an hour, then drain them, and select the following pieces, viz.:—the four wings, the four legs, two breasts, and four thighs, and place them aside covered up. Take all that remains, viz.:—the backs, pinions, necks, livers, gizzards, and trimmings, and, with an onion cut up, some pepper corns, a few spoonsful of meat gravy, a bit of lime peel, a tea-spoonful of ketchup, and salt, make as good a pint of broth as you can ; when read}7, fish out the livers, and strain the broth. Now put into the stew-pan the selected joints of the chickens, cover them with the strained broth, and stew them gently till done, with one carrot, and a handful of French beans. Now pick out the chicken, strain the broth, and put the vegetables aside. Proceed with the broth to make a nice veloute (rich white sauce) flavoured with a dozen sweet almonds pounded.