60 CULIfTji^Y JOYYTfTGB FOU JtiJlQOIUlS. • employed instead of the easier substitute of hollowed-out rolls. The knack of making nice light pastry is, however, far from common. Neither reading, nor even practical demonstration, will teach it; so unless you are certain that your cook possesses the gift, never permit him to waste good materials in idle experiments. An entree of pastry, .if not unmistakably good, is a blot upon the face of your menu. In nearly all recipes for high class entries contained in good works upon cookery, the use of butter is unsparingly advocated, and cream is also very frequently prescribed. In an early chapter of my jottings, I mentioned that I would far sooner recommend a little extra expense with regard to these items, than in the distribution of elaborate “ Europe stores,” I repeat the opinion emphatically now. The dinner cooked with an adequate allowance of cream and butter, requires but little aid from Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell. Unfortunately, however, for those who desire to follow this precept at Madras, our supply of milk is meagre in quality and quantity, and absurdly expensive. The only way to obtain a little butter fit to eat, if }Tou do not maintain a dairy of your own, is to have a cow milked at your door, and to set the milk so obtained for cream in your own larder. I have never tried to find out the exact cost of a pound of butter thus made, but, approxi- mately speaking, it may be stated that five measures of milk at one rupee (the current rate) will not. yield more than a good third of a pound, so your pound of butter will cost you nearly three rupees! There will be a slight difference if the milk be rich; in my estimate, I speak of course, of the average country cow’s milk purchased at the door. There is a terrible preparation which milkmen sell to our cooks under the title of “kitchen butter.” To add to its attractiveness, it is generally smeared upon a leaf, and carried in the hand! It looks like the compound used for