222 _tfEJ7U FOI^ Ji (PjUt&Y OF EIG-HV. Chicken quenelles, with mixed vegetables out into dice, and heated up in nicely flavoured white sauce. sauce. sherry and a tea-spoonful of red currant jelly, and pour this T?,, 70ur !'!Q° of W^ammes and serve. The sauce should be as thick as ordinary rich cream. A few dice of sliced cornichons (gherkins) may be mingled with the sauce or nunced mushrooms if you have them. 4.—Choose a nicepullet not quite full grown; slightly roast it; let it get cold; cut it up, saving all the meat from the breast, wings, back, and thighs and the liver: throw the skin, fragments, bones and giblets into a sauce-pan to make broth for the , 'Ll" n°W make a coffee cuPful of stiff paste with a little butter, flour, water and a pinch of salt; when ready, take ialf the quantity of butter that you have, chicken meat, and half the amount of paste that you have of butter : mince the chicken m the machine, and pound it in a mortar with the paste and butter; bind the mixture with three eggs,flavour it with a little spiced pepper, and form the quenelles between two table-spoons. For a dinner party, you would, no doubt, put a nice piece of truffle inside each quenelle. For the sauce, take equal portions of carrot, peas, turnip, French beans, and cucumber, all previously boiled ; cut them into dice and heat them up in a white sauce enriched with chicken broth flavoured with almond. In this case make your socle of savoury rice instead of the usual mashed potato: that is, boiled rice, flavoured with salt, a little spice, the pulp of a tomato, and a little finely grated cheese, stirred well with melted butter, and made firm by the addi- tion of the yolks of two or three eggs, according to the quantity required. This may be set in the silver dish, brushed with egg, bread-crumbed, and slightly browned in the oven; the quenelles carefully poached, should then be arranged round it, and the macedoine poured into the centre. **• Trim the undercut of a sirloin nicely, lard it with Fillet Of beef with tar. strip,3 °f bacon with your larding-needle, tare sauce. roast it over a nice brisk fire, and serve plainly sliced with potato chips : water- cress should be the garnish, and sauce tartare should be