289 JrfEJTU FOIl (DrUJTER OF FOUR. sauce-pan on the fire, and stir vigorously till it boils, and thickens; take it off the fire then, and let it get cool, to enable you to remove any fat that may rise, after which the puree can be re-heated, and served with dice of fried bread. This soup is well worth the little trouble it requires : it is, of course, a relation of the bisque family. A spoonful of boiling cream, or milk in which the yolk of an egg has been whipped, may be added, but I think the puree is generally rich enough without that assistance. Skin a couple of eels, clean, parboil, and divide them Stewed eels. !nfco two for stewing. Put into your stew-pan two ounces of buttei, and an ounce and a half of flour; stir over the fire for five minutes,, and add half a pint of claret, and half a pint of stock, with a clove of garlic, an onion, six cloves, and a bag of sweet herbs: boil this for ten minutes, stirring it well with your wooden spoon; now throw in a pinch or salt, a tea-spoonful of spiced pepper, the rind of a lime, and place the pieces of eel in the midst. Simmer this for a half of an hour. Place the pieces of the fish in the i d}s“> strain the gravy rapidly, thicken it, re-heat it almost to the boiling point, add a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and pour it round the fish 3. Choose a first rate neck of mutton, divide it into the Mutton cutlets with neatesfc cutlets you can, give them a sorrel sauce. dust of pepper and salt, and place them , enmarinade for the rest of the day. For the sauce you want one Bombay onion, two handsful of sorrel, one lettuce, and two table-spoonsful of butter. Take a liaht sauce-pan, melt the butter at the bottom of it: throw into it the onion very finely shredded, toss this about till it turns a pale brown, and then add the whole of the sorrel and the me ied hZ f-? ^ T ■ Sfcir the veSetables about in the melted butter till they begin to change colour, and then pour lnidtheHaflCe'pan.ab°,ufc half a Pint of gravy slightly thick- of whi? h fl°Ull U’ tlJ18 wel1’ and Put in a dessert-spoonful of blu fci SUga1’’ thr6T salfc'sP°onsful of salt, and a good dusting of black pepper. Let the vegetables boil for about five