218 JIEJIU FOIl Jk FJkll'lY OF EIGHTY. °f Nf\2, ?eltedi buttf1\ ?>°PPed °nion, some spice, pepper sweet heibs, and grated lime peel, make the very thickest and richest glaze you can: give it assistance with red currant jelly a glass of Madeira, and a little vinegar. Save the livers of the birds, and add that of the rabbit; pound these together, and mix with them some fat bacon, truffle shavings, and red pepper cut the meat into dice (all scraps, skm, etc., should go to help the gravy) and pack your well buttered paper cases with a mixture of glaze, meat and the liver paste—place in the oven till quite hot and then serve. 7. Empty a dozen large tomatoes preserving the cases Tomatoes an gratin. f-f aS. you can ; stuff them with ,,, , , , , the lolloping composition : to the pulp of the vegetable (q. v. page 175) add sufficient bread-crumb to thicken it somewhat, and beat up some ego-s in the pro- portion of one egg to two cases, mix the whofe thoroughly flavour with a couple of pounded anchovies, a tea-spoonful of minced ohves, and one of capers, stuff the cases, dust them over with grated Parmesan, and bake for ten minutes iust before they are wanted. J very careful with your preparation of the batter Peach fritters. for ^^ese fritters; cut the peaches . (American ones in tin are excellent! into neat pieces ; let them lie in a little maraschino, or any nice liqueur till wanted, then dip them in your batter, and fry them in abundance of boiling fat; drain them on blotting findy sifted6™6 ^ yvithPounded loaf sugar, Make a quarter of a pound of fresh butter from cream Green butter. y°u have set at home and put it , . ,, in ice: boil a handful of spinach till endei, and then pass it through the sieve: save the pulp carefully and give it a dust of pepper. Take two sardines from the tin, wipe them carefully to get rid of the oil, skin them and then pound them, bones and all, in a mortar, and pass them through the wire sieve. Mince very finely a lar<re bunch of curly parsley, so as to have at least a heaped up ab e-spoonful of it when minced; mince a dozen capers, and