JAEJTU FOI{ JL <PJt^Y OF EIG-Htf. 209 Beat up the yolks only of three eggs, with a table-spoonful of brandy, one of olive oil, and three Oyster Kramouskys. or f()ur of coid. water: mix into this three table-spoonsful of flour and a salt spoonful of salt, beat this to a paste for ten minutes preparing a rather thicker batter than you would for ordinary fritters: at the time of using, stir in the whites of the two eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Wash your oysters (about a dozen good ones) early in the day/(parboil them if fresh ones, beard them,) and put them to marinade for two hours in the juice of three or four limes, a sliced onion, some whole pepper and a few cloves. Lift them out of this when wanted, cut them up, bind together with liaison of yolks of eggs and thick white sauce, and lay them on six slices of previ- ously boiled bacon; roll up your bacon fillets,and fix them into shape with a tiny skewer; dip them now into the batter, and lay them, ever so gently, in your frying basket, dip this into a seething bath of fat, and fry a golden brown. Serve prettily garnished with curly parsley. If your cook be hopelessly clumsy in handling Kramouskys—try putting your six rolled fillets on one silver skewer (like larks) dip that in batter, and fry;—this will require delicate helping, and each portion must be handed round. 4.—The capon in this receipt should be braised, with a pint of good stock round it, an onion wayap°n 111 tie French sliced, half a glass of sherry, and pep- per and salt to taste : a few slices of fat bacon should be pinned over the breast, and the larding needle may be used also. Braise gently till done. Lift the capon out of the pan, strain and reduce the gravy in which it was cooked, add a couple of table-spoonsful of minced truffle, and pour this over the bird before serving; sippets of dry fried bacon, and slices of lime may garnish the dish. 5.—Wild duck sauce :—Pare as thin as possible the rind of two oranges (sweet limes), cut them into thin shreds and boil them in water for five minutes ; melt a piece of butter in a sauce-pan, stir into it a table-spoonful of flour, and a Boast wild ducks witli Bigarade sauce.