84 CULIJlJlIiY JOWIJIGS FOIl JdJIQIUlB. gently for two hours. Turn the meat, add a couple of onions, and (says Gouffb) a gill of brandy, let the pan simmer for an hour more,—keeping live-coals on the lid throughout the process,—and the braise will be complete. Lift out the joint, and keep it on a hot dish, whilst you strain off the gravy remaining in the stew-pan,—it will be half the amount you originally poured in, but much stronger. You can now send up the joint with the gravy plainly poured round it; or you can pass the vegetables, with which the meat was braised, through the sieve, thicken the gravy, and add the pulp of the vegetables to it. In this manner you can successfully dress a leg of mutton, a loin of mutton, a small sirloin, a piece of the ribs of beei, in fact all small joints. Poultry ducks and geese are far better braised than roasted, unless you keep a fowl-yard of your own, and feed and kill the birds at home. To braise poultry well, you must make the gravy from the giblets, and trimmings of the birds, assisted by a little gravy meat; and all braises are better if you help the gravy with a little extra meat, lhe French throw in a glass or two ot light white wine when braising poultry, and Madeira is a sterling aid in cooking mutton or beef in this method. If you must roast your meat, see that it is not spitted, that is, thrust through by the spit; with a little care a small Indian joint can easily be tied to it. Do not let your cook use skewers, but make him tie a joint into shape, for every stab inflicted in it, will rob the piece of meat of its juiciness. Tastes vary so strangely as to the “doing” of meat, that it is impossible to give a rule for roasting. It is, however, essential to use an equal fire throughout the process, and to CTuard against cooking the outside too fast. Frequent bast- fnor is a sine qua, non, and you should dredge a little flout over the meat to finish with, to produce a crisp, brown frothy surface. You should preserve the fat o youi sn oin or loin of mutton, by tying over it a wrapper of buttered paper.