CULIJJjllfY JOYYTJsTG-S FOR J^JLQTUIB. lltS anchovy essence, seasoned with pepper and salt, and baked in a little pie-dish. Or, the mixture can be placed inside little pastry patties (like oyster patties) and served on a napkin. This latter method is equally practicable with Jerusalem artichoke puree, and will be found (if your cook can make light pastry) very nice indeed. Remember when writing your menu, with regard to these two vegetables, that the ‘ artichaut’ is the globe or leafy kind ; the Jerusalem artichoke should be called ‘ topinambouv. Turnips, knolkhol, carrots, and parsnips do not require much discussion; it should be remarked, howevei, that when nice and young all are worthy of attention, especially as garnishes for entrees, stews, &c. Think of appearance when serving them, and shape the roots into little cones, 01 ovals, of an equal size. I have seen a dish of turnips served a la creme which was worthy of separate service as an entre- met: the roots had been cut into pieces and shaped about the size of a bantam’s egg, boiled to a turn, and served with a coffee cupful of boiling cream poured over them to finish with. Small ‘ early’ carrots and parsnips may be trimmed a uni- form size, boiled gently, and finally tossed in butter, in a frying pan, with pepper, salt, and some finely powdered sugar. The French dish of young turnips called navets glaces ou^ht to be very popular. Trim the turnips into shapes like small pears, or cones, and boil them till nearly done in salt and water; drain them, and put them into a sauce-pan with plenty of melted butter, and sprinkle them bountifully with powdered sugar, stir gently over the fire until they begin to brown, and then add a spoonful or two of clear stock: pepper, salt and a little cinnamon is now given, let them simmer till quite tender and serve them in their own sauce, it is also recommended by some to let the sugar form a sort o caramel round the turnips before adding the stock: in that case you must put the turnip pieces (when the caramel stacre has been reached) into a separate sauce-pan, wash out