Iff 8 OfiJA^P COOKERY. I use mine for omelettes almost every day in cantonment, for which work it is admirably adapted. With a “ Lang lamp” you can make a cup of tea or coffee in the train, by the side of the road, on arrival at a public bungalow, or under a tree whilst the lascars are pitching your tent: and by its aid, and that of a small fr}fing-pan, you can devil a biscuit, fry a rasher, poach an egg, or cook a kidney, to accompany the tea or coffee. It is fed by methylated spirit, a gallon of which would last for at least two months. Having thus directed your attention to two excellent appliances for the camp kitchen,* I will return to the subject of baking bread, for your servants can always contrive afield oven for you without difficulty, which, though infinitely inferior to that of the stove, will perform the task required of it ^fairly enough. But in wet weather, the owner of an Acme will, of course, laugh and grow fat, whilst his neighbour with only Ramasamy’s fine weather make-shift to fall back upon, will beg for bread. I have baked at home regularly now for ten months, using, for ordinary bread, Yeatman’s baking powder, American flour, salt, and water; for fancy rolls, the same with butter, and milk; and have discovered, after many experi- ments, that in this country, the proportions of baking powder to flour which are laid down in the paper of direc- tions accompanying each tin, have to be increased. For eight ounces of flour, for instance, I find that I have to use two tea-spoonsful of Yeatman. I may say without hesitation that very few bread- makers hit off* perfection at starting. I struggled through many disheartening attempts, before I turned out the thing I wanted. The common mistakes are overworking the dough, and using too much liquid. The mixing of dough with the proper quantity of fluid can only be acquired by practice, and all beginners knead too heavily through over * There are, I dare say, cooking stoves, fed by mineral oils, patented by other farms, which are similar to the Acme in working : I have confined my remarks to the one which I have thoroughly tested.