JlgOTJ1? SAUCES rj<r G-EJTEItjIL. 65 wooden spoons, a flour dredger, a couple of earthen ware hovels, a block tin perforated strainer with handle, a wire sieve, a hair sieve, and a mortar. The materials you will call into play from time to time will be :—butter, flour, eggs, pepper, salt, onions, limes, a few cloves of garlic, mixed spices, the contents of your cruet stand, say:—“Harvey,” and mushroom ketchup; anchovy, chilli, tarragon, and French vinegars; and mustard, with pickled gerlcins, capers, and red-currant jelly. Made gravy, or stock, will occasionally be wanted, for which special provision must be made, but for ordinary sauces you can generally manage to make enough broth from scraps and trimmings. In doing this you have the consolation of knowing that there is nothing wasted. Sundry spoonsful of wine will be necessary now and then, and if you wander be}7ond the rubicon of moderation to the realms of high art, you will naturally ask for truffles, cocks- combs, cream, mushrooms, and olives. Of all writers upon cookery none has dealt more clearly with the subject of sauces than Jules Gouffe. His work may appear difficult to understand in places, and his recipes may seem frequently composed upon too large a scale to be useful to mistresses of small establishments, but in the system he has adopted with regard to this important featuie of kitchen work, he has hit the right nail upon the head. He classes as fundamental “sauces,—from which nearly the whole category may be said to have sprung, those^ well known names Espagnole, Veloule, Allemande, Bechamel and Poivvade,• and even of these the first two may be considered as the parents of the rest, f heie are nevertheless several standing sauces which may be spoken of independently; for instance, melted butter, ollandaise, soubise, maitrc d’ hotel, bread sauce, mayon- naise, tartare, remoulade, ravigotte, Robert, piquante, &c. Let us take these first, for they are perhaps more simple and. oftener in request than Espagnole, veloute, and their various descendants. Failure in the composition of melted butter (sauce blanche) is so common, that I will commence with a few hints with