CULIJTJIIIY JOX<nF&B -FOi? JIflQIiflS. 52 huitres to follow—independently of game, joint, sweets, &c., all needing a watchful eye—is surely to be pitied. There is another point to watch when choosing your entrees, and that is their general relationship with each other, or with the other dishes that compose your menu. Artists in ordering dinners go as tar as to say that nothing should be repeated : you must not give, tor instance, a consomme de volaille and presently tollow it with croquettes de volaille, or even fowl as a joint: mutton appearing in a side-dish must not be seen again in any form. Two white meats ought not to be introduced side by side. Though fol- lowing this maxim to the best of our power, we cannot always rely on being able to carry it out thoroughly in Madias. The market °supply is too meagre, at the present time especially, for us to pick and choose as we might wish. Why, I have even lieard of a lady in tears for want of a tuikey, and of another sighing in vain for a pair of young ducks ! To return to our class list of entries, I cannot too strongly uro-e you to go in for dishes from class one moie than you do. Can anything be more acceptable than a nice juicy little chop from a neck of mutton, on whose sides the marks of the grid-iron are plainly visible, reposing against a circle of really well-mashed potatoes, or of savoury rice, homing in its centre a purde of celery, petits pois, or sauce soubise. The grid-iron is invaluable: the chop comes to table lull ot oravy, yet not underdone; it has, to use a kitchen phiase, ‘‘seen the fire” (browned) in places, and is absolutely free from grease which so often mars a dish of chops cooked in the frying pan. For the little Club-dinner this class of entrde is always popular. I noticed that a plain cutlet such as I have described, or a plain fillet of beef, figured in almost every Club menu, I had the pleasure of discussing at home last year. Endless variety can be secured by the cook if he will change his sauce or his puree. Choose the neck chops for these entrees. The fillet of mutton is that tender strip of meat which runs down the inside of the saddle under the kidne). o