197 JAEJIU FOIl Jt FjUlHY OF EIG-HY. 4. —Choose a nice fillet of beef, or the tender meat of a piece of the ribs. Trim this into heart- hs™?9 °f beef shaPed filets of a size large enough for one person each ; lard them with lab bacon, and set them to marinade all day, as described in Chapter XII, page 55: when ready, drain them, and stew them gently in as rich a stock as you can make from the meat and bones you had over after shaping them : when done, strain the gravy, add one tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, and the yolks of four eggs, slightly thickened in a sauce- pan with the lump of melted butter; incorporate these quickly,—the sauce should be thickish, and creamy,—pour it round your grenadins, and serve. Madeira should be added to the gravy during the stewing process, a couple of table- spoonsful ought to be enough for eight grenadins. Dish them round a mould, of carefully mashed potato, and intro- duce a slice of crisply fried bread between each of them. 5. —Speaks for itself: don’t forget to follow my advice about trimming your French beans, Saddle °f mutton with. cpacre 107) and dish them with a good tench bnnn,. ’{ rioh cream, boiling hot, added at the very last moment. 6. —Buy eight quails, four sheeps’ tongues, a little lamb’s liver, and a couple of pounds of gravy withStSene8au?edr0lled’ meat" Make S''avy at once wifch tlie last, boil the tongues, and bone the quails: throw the bones into the gravy, and all scraps you may have of bacon, &c. Now place your boned-birds, breast downwards, on a board, and dust them over with spiced pepper. Proceed to make a forcemeat thus :—Melt a couple !of thick slices of fat bacon in a frying-pan; when melted, throw in three table-spoonsful of the lamb’s liver, and those of the birds too, cut into dice, and one onion shredded finely ; cook the liver in this, and when done, empty the contents of your pan into a mortar, throw in a pinch of salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, work this to a paste, pass it through the sieve, add some finely minced parsley, garden-cress, a salt- spoonful of powdered dried thyme, a little grated lime peel, and