80TJCp-JtfJlKIJTG—C0J<rCLU(pE(D. 39 the sieve, by the way, caution your cook that he must always put whatever he wishes to pass through it, at the shallow end, placing the sieve over a large bowl, or dish, big enough to receive it, and rubbing the 'puree through it with a large wooden spoon : from time to time he must invert the sieve, and scrape off the portion of the puree which always adheres to the reverse side of the hair, or wire. A cook must be patient in the use of this utensil, and achieve his object by perseverance, rather than by boisterous work. If you bear too heavily on the hair, your sieve will soon bulge, and ere long the hair will part company with the wooden cylinder to which it is attached. Purees, as soups, are prepared in this way:—You first must make as good a basin of stock as you can from bones, meat, scraps, (bones of ham and bacon especially valuable) sufficient for the number of people you have to cater for. Let it get cool and remove the fat that rises to its surface. You should flavour your stock to the best of your capabilities with dried sweet herbs, onion, parsley, a carrot or two, celery, &c., or such vegetables as may be available, with salt and pepper to taste. The better your stock, or found- ation, the better your puree. Suppose, now, that you want to make potage d la Cre'cy, which in plain terms is carrot puree :—boil as many carrots as you think will suffice for the quantity of soup you have to make, in salt and water, or broth if you can spare it: when thoroughly done, drain them, and pass them through the sieve. Now mix the pulp so obtained with sufficient of the stock to make a puree a little thinner than you wish your soup eventually to be. Melt a piece of butter at the bottom of a sauce-pan, and work a little flour into it, gradually adding the puree, and stirring without ceasing till the soup comes to the boil, when it will be found of the proper consistency. Skim if necessary, and serve. The pith of this recipe, and of all receipts for purees, lies m the melted butter and flour which must be worked into the