JIJTQ F>OILE(D—COJVCLUQEQ. 95 be met with, where civilisation has not yet penetrated, of sticking an army of cloves into the skin of a ham. Fine your cook a rupee for this desecration and it will not occur again. The ham should either be dredged over as I have described, or, if wanted for a ball supper, wedding breakfast luncheon party, or grand picnic, it should be glazed. Old cookery books give you the funniest nostrums con- cerning the cookery of a ham ; wisps of hay, juniper berries, coriander seed, ale, and even leather shavings, are laid down as flavouring adjuncts. Saltpetre is advised to add to the redness, and in England you find local prejudices for the addition of different wines, in one county elder-wine, in another cowslip-wine, and so on. The end of all things, after all, is to get a really well cured ham, if you secure that, and cook it as I have described, you will not require any leather shavings, but remember that on important occasions a bottle of Madeivci crowns your best efforts with supreme success. Some of the best modem writers on cookery urge us to give up the salting of beef for boiling; “such a practice,” says one of them, “ cannot be too strongly condemned ; for whilst it impairs the wholesomeness of the meat, and makes it less digestible, it considerably diminishes the nutritive properties of it, and, boil it as you will, a piece of salt beef is never so tender as a piece of fresh beef.” We Ancdo- Indians can scarcely bring ourselves to follow this advice in its entirety ; our hump being in itself a spdcialite worthy of admiration in any land. Neither will Englishmen ever be prevailed upon to deny themselves those delicious slices of cold boiled salted silverside, with which they are wont to legale themselves at breakfast, and at luncheon at home. Nevertheless, small pieces of beef, boiled fresh with vegeta- bles are very acceptable. I do not, for instance, think that an Indian brisket is worth salting ; it generally comes to table hard, and dry, not having sufficient depth of flesh; boiled fresh, with the allowance of vegetables I have mentioned this joint will be found nice enough and if laid upon a