71 Sj4 UCES—COJVEIJV TJE(D. these condiments is necessary, we should strain the liquid in which they have been placed. The back-bone of “ bread sauce” is the flavouring of the milk it is made of, to begin with ; that done^ to strain it carefully over your grated crumbs ; then to re-heat it, and finish it off with a good table spoonful of cream at the moment you serve it: in the absence of cream, the yolk of one e^ beaten up in a little milk till i t looks creamy, may be added off the fire, just at the last. To flavour the milk you must take a good sized onion, peal off the outside skin, cut it into quarters, and put them, with a dozen pepper corns, six cloves, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and a salt spoonful of’salt, into a sauce-pan containing not less than half a pint of good nnlk. The utmost care is now necessary, for milk boils up so rapidly that you must watch your sauce-pan narrowly and use a very low fire to retard the boiling sta/e! Kernove the pan as soon as the surface of the milk lools frothy: let it cool a little, and replace it, continuing the operation until. the onion is done, and adding a little milk from time to time to make good the loss by evaporation. Now strain it off through a piece of muslin into a bowl, and add to it, spoonful by spoonful, the stale bread crumbs you have already prepared, till your eye tells you, you have attamed the right consistency • then heat the sauce up aaain and finish it as I previously described. I can always “rely Hand bit Tbg°°. a “ ^ead-sauce” here as I ever ate in fimjand, but then 1 would never attempt it unless I had of the miTlfw6? f COmmauf There be no evasion t le milk. Water at once produces the poultice I have con- demned, and the spoonful of cream, or the yolk whipped ud in mflk must be added if you desire success. ThfsP sauce f J deserves the trouble I have prescribed, and it will be found in the end economical, for by its aid a careful!v loastedfowi provides an enjoyable meal; whilst fillets o^f Ew Z chlc¥n> bread-crumbed, nicely fried and garnished with a crisp curl or two of friprl kLa and at once a superior character. Al grilled over a fast fire, besprinkled' with ted “lead cr’umb