233 JAFJIJJ FOIl <PJi%2Y OF SIX. the various ingredients, and set it to get cool. Meanwhile, stone a couple of dozen French olives, and parboil them, skim the tat that may have risen on the top of your sauce, and then add the olives chopped into dice; let the sauce rest awhile. The meat of the pigeons should be thoroughly pounded, assisted by bread-crumb, to a paste, the livers thoroughly incorporated with it, and some fat bacon; when you have worked this quite smooth, pass it through the sieve, and then fill six little buttered moulds with it, here and there, slipping in a slice of truffle, and some pieces of mushroom; having your moulds thus packed, you can set them in the bain-marie, and steam them gently till they are done; turn them out, and serve with olive sauce pre- viously described, thickened, and brought to the boil at the last moment. Braised leg of mutton with vegetables. 5.—Remove the bone from a leg of mutton, and tie the meat into shape, set it in a stewing-pan with as much broth (made from the bone you cut out) as will half cover it: throw in sliced onions, vegetables of all kinds, peppers, a bunch of parsley, a clove of garlic, a little spice, &c., one glass of Madeira, and set the pan on the fire, with some live coals on the lid as well: let this stew till done, slowly, keeping it from absolutely boiling point, and when it is ready, strain oft the sauce in which it has been cooked, thicken it, chop the vegetables into small dice (there should be as good a variety as you can command) and serve the mutton garnished with vegetable dice, and rich brown gravy. b- Gently stew four partridges in stock with condi- Partridges in jelly. ,s_pices, sweet herbs, and a glass ot Madeira. When done, set the birds to get cold and strain the gravy in which they were done. Now take the fillets of the partridges, and pick all the other meat from the bones as well. The fillets should be put aside. Simmer skin, bones (pounded) and scraps in the gravy a^ain with a little red currant jelly and lime peel, strain, and reduce it to a glaze. Now pound the meat you picked from backs, thighs, with the livers, <fcc., and with your glaze make a rich