*** CULIJJJH?Y JOZYIJiG-S F0% MjKgltfS. Madeira and a dissolved tea-spoonful of “ Julienne,” this consomme devolaille will be found sufficient for two hungry men. When used in connection with a tin of soup, the broth should be poured from the bowl into the pan again, and the tin of soup added to it;* a slow process of boding should now be commenced, during which any scum, the soup may throw up should be studiously removed, for all tinny impurities will thus be got rid of: when all but boiling, a table-spoonful of Madeira should be added, and the soup served. The pieces of fowl may be served in the form of fricassee, with maccaroni and tomato conserve, &c. Very valuable stock, remember, can be made from cold roast mutton bones—(don’t try raw mutton, the taste will be tallowy)—assisted by bacon skin, bones and trimmings, a thick slice of Brunswick or Bologna sausage, and a chicken, or any game you can spare. Birds that have been mauled in shooting can thus be utilized. Purees of game can be made if you have taken out your utensils (page 38), if not, you must make the game broth as strong as possible, helped by a fowl as stock, and thicken it with flour. The addition of Madeira or port is, of course, a sine qud non. Tinned fish served,—as you sometimes see salmon,— plainly, and hot is exceedingly nasty, and in no way im- proved by a cold sauce like tartare. Who, after a moment’s reflection, could send up hot fish with a cold sauce ? Pre- served salmon, fresh herrings, and other tinned fresh fish, if served with tartare or mayonnaise, sauces should be served cold, after having been carefully drained on a sieve from all the tinning juices which adhered to them. Select nice sized pieces, place them on a dish with any garnish you may have such as olives farcies, capers, sliced gherkins, and rolled anchovies, and send the sauce round in a boat. If }Tou want a hot dish of tinned fish, you must choose the nicest pieces and gently warm them up in a rich matelotte * If a thick soup, like mockturtle for instance, you must thicken the consomme with a little flour.