JIEJTU FOIl fi LIttLE HOJIE (DIJIJIEIl. 265 pulp of artichoke by degrees until you have used all you have. The spoon must be kept going all the while, and when the puree comes to the boil, it will be ready to serve. On its way to the table, like all purees, it may be enriched by a table-spoonful of cream, or a little fresh milk into which the yolk of an egg has been stirred, but the addi- tion is not essential. An old fowl makes a good stock for this soup, if assisted by a slice or two, or a bone, of bacon, or ham. Fried sippets of bread should be handed round with it. Let those who rejoice in a dairy try the recipe au maigre thus :—Take as much milk as you want soup, and boil in it twenty pepper corns, some mace, cloves, nutmeg, parsley, and a small onion. When thoroughly flavoured, strain the milk, mingle the pulp of the artichoke with it, as described for stock, and finish it off: in the same manner: the cream must be added in this case. 2.—Choose two or three small dinner rolls which have Prawn croustades. been baked in tins> and will stand up- right. Scoop outall the crumb, and fry the cases so obtained a golden yellow colour in melted butter. Drain them. Now pound enough prawn meat to fill them,' with melted butter, a little spice, pepper and salt; fill your cases, shake a little bread-crumb over the surface of each, place them on a buttered baking tin, and heat them for five minutes in the oven, serve as soon as the tops take colour. 3- This is a capital dish for Darby when it pleases -p , .L, to dine cosily with his Joan, sauce.n geswi sou 180 Prepare the partridges as for roasting: fill them with some chopped Bombay onion (which has been boiled in milk) seasoned with spiced pepper, salt, and a little chopped lime peel. Make a broth with the giblets of the birds, any scraps you may have, a slice o bacon, an onion cut into quarters, a few pepper corns, and a seasoning of salt and pepper: when you have got a broth to your mind, simmer the partridges therein until prefectly tender When done, (they will take three-quarters of an hour) take them out, and drain them, replacing them in the hot pan in which they were done, with the cover on. Now strain the 23