29 ojt soutp-jt^zrpra. Grated Parmesan cheese should always be handed round with clear soups, for it improves many of them. Chilli vinegar in minute particles is considered by some a great improvement. I strongly advise any of my reader’s who write to England for their stores, not to forget to ask for a little bottle of American “ Tabasco” or quintessence of cayenne sold by Messrs. Jackson and Co., Piccadilly, priced half a crown : each bottle is furnished with a patent stopper to enable you to shake out a drop at a time; two drops in each basin of soup is generally found enough, and the flavour is very good, quite superseding chilli-vinegar. The next important feature for consideration in soup- making is the adding of wine, which, I think, may be regarded as very essential. Madeira is better than sherry for most soups—a rich, full, fruity wine, inexpensive for want of age, and scarcely to be recommended for after dinner drinking,—is the class best adapted for kitchen use. If sherry be preferred, it ought to be a fruity one, and sound, not a cheap extraordinary compound composed of molasses, washings of sherry casks, and the most villainous brandy, but honest sherry, lacking age, perhaps, yet bond fide wine. “There is a good saying,” observes an author on cookery, “that is appropriate here:—“It is no use spoiling the ship for the sake of a ha’porth of tar,”—it is, I think, no use spoiling a good soup for the sake of a spoonful of wine.” Be careful, however, not to over-do the soupgon of wine that yon add to a clear soup; a good table spoonful is, to my mind, enough for a tureen filled for eight persons. Thick soups, especially those made of game, mock turtle, giblet, kidney, and the like, take a larger share of wine: hare soup requires port or burgundy, wild duck and teal soup also, whilst potages of snipe, partridges, quails, junglefowls, &c., are, I think, better enriched with Madeira. I will conclude this, my first Chapter on Soup-makin^, with a code of general rules on the subject:— 1. Take care that your sauce-pan, stew-pan, or digester, is thoroughly clean before you commence operations; a good