217 JAEJ7TJ FOIl fi FJIIITY OF EIGHT. ready some cocks’ combs, sliced mushrooms, a little grated lime peel, and a slice of truffle for the top of each croustade. Now reduce the broth the rabbit was boiled in, and make a rich white sauce; pick off all the meat from the rabbit, and pass it through the mincing machine and through the sieve,—the bones of course being thrown into Ihe broth to help your veloute. Now pack your croustades exactly like miniature vols au vent, with pounded rabbit, slices, or dice of tongue, the rabbit’s kidney, and the other ingredients, cut to fit the cases, moistening the whole with your creamy velouU: put a slice of truffle on the top of each, and cover it with the cap you cut to fit it. A few minutes in the oven will bring the croustades to perfection, when they should be quickly served. Send round dry toast with this dish. 5.—Trim a good joint of the ribs of beef by cutting the tender meat boldly in one long piece cW9creLbeef With a" from fche bones; the tough flap, can either go into the stock pot, or be set with the bones to produce a good gravy for the joint, the latter for choice. Shape the long piece of meat as best you can (it will look rather like “ roly-poly pudding”) and preserve all the fat you can find which should be fixed with skewers : lard it with fat bacon, and tie it to your spit with string. Let it be roasted over a clear fire. Serve this in slices, with a sauce (q. v. page 205) made with melted butter and flour, to which a judicious proportion of pounded anchovies, and lastly, a spoonful of good cream have been added. Potatoes, French beans,and salad should be sent round with the sauce. 6.—This is an economical dish, for you can use in it the „ . gravy of the mushrooms saved in No. 2, the liver of the rabbit which com- posed part of No. 4, and the gravy (skimmed and strained) that remained after cooking the chops for No. 3. Take four snipes and four pigeons, or three partridges and three pigeons, or any game you can get. Roast the birds, pick the meat from their breasts, take the bones, and scraps, and with them assisted by the gravy of No. 3 and the mushroom sauce 10