!4 CULTJIjmY JOttTJiaS FOIt MJLQZflS. Left entirely alone, with articles of his own selection around him, the native cook is, however, a singularly ingenious creature. All men who have been accustomed to a °nomad life under canvas—far from the busy hum of cantonments-will, I think, agree with me in this. Given a hole in the ground, and a couple of stones for her range, with a bundle of jungle sticks, a chatty or two, perhaps a dekshaw, and a fan, wherewithal to prepare a dinner, can you picture to yourself the face of Martha, the thoiough good cook” of an English household ? An amusing episode happened some five years ago which struck me at the time as illustrative to a degree of Rama- samy’s opinion of the British system of c°oke,T-.I hap- pened to be with a Regiment at Se^a“derabJd.,Wn^^ reasons connected with the antiquated barracks it occupied was ordered to move into a standing camp. Our Colonel, an exceedingly young and fortunate officer, was a rampant soldTer of the new'school. His brain was ever busy with new ideas: it was even reported that he slept with Wolse- ley’s soldier’s pocket-book” and “The rules for ^nailing m connection with Outpost duty under his pillow. The order to march into camp delighted him. After issuing his orders concerning the geometrical lines in ^ the tents to be pitched, not even forgetting tbe whitewash ing of the tent pegs, he turned his attention to kltfb®ns' Here was an opportunity for practically establishin a “Wolseley’s field* kitchen.” Two Officers who had lecentl} nassed successfully through the Garrison course of mstiuc- tion were accordingly sent for, and, as a personal favoui to the Commanding Officer, requested to camnin^ ground, and lay out a series of broad-auow kitchens foi the Reffiment. The work was done, and we marched nfn pnmn° the next day. Whilst the men were busy at stables, the Colonel rode about inspecting everyt ing, pi^ sently he came upon the neatly ^ £ his astonishment, found them deseited . , men’s be seen ! Orderlies flew to find out where on earth the men s breakfasts were being cooked, aud in a few minutes