236 JMejuj Foif fi (Pyuiq-y of six. yoik3 of two eggs (save the whites) with one table-spoonfuf of waT a”6 ^ Salad °^> an(i four or five table-spoonsful of water. Amalgamate with this three table-spoonsful of imported flour, and a pinch of salt. Beat the mixture by addincTw^6 ^ * fl°’ blng h t0 fche riShfc consistency by adding water, or flour, as the case may require When leady, add, at the last moment, the whites you saved, whip- ped to a froth : dip your collops into this, and drop them Hby °,le ln. a dee-P saute'-Pan> Abed with boiling fat; as soon as they turn a nice yellow brown, lift them out, drain far wSh Sbee ;° ^ 0U7ing paPer’ and serve them, crisp and ar3 > with sauce hollandaise in a boat. (q. v. jia^e 68 ) 3.—Roast a fair sized fowl, protecting the breast from . Chaud-froid Of fowl in burmnS by a buttered paper; when jelly. cold, carve the bird carefully, removing ,, the filets, and trimming each joint as neatly as you can ; remove the skin from these pieces and put them aside. Break up the carcass, and throw it, with all fragments of skin and bone, and the giblets of the fowl previously saved, into a sauce-pan, with as much stock as will cover the whole : add two onions, a clove of garlic, some cloves, sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and simmer the contents o your pan as long as you can, finally adding a glass of sherry, and bringing the broth to the boil. Now strain, and remove all fat that may rise, and reduce the sauce a little; take it off the fire, and stir in the yolks of two e^gs beaten up with the juice of a lime. Let the sauce get cold, and then dip each piece you laid aside into it, richly coatino- every one ot them: now pack them in the centre of a border” mould filled with aspic jelly, and pour the rich sauce over them. set the mould in the ice box, and serve with iced sauce tartare. Slices of truffle may, of course, be introduced in the packing of your chaud-froid with marked effect. ^ This is an effective entrde:—line a number of patty pans with good paste, and fill each with a share of thoughtfully composed rabbit ragout a la financiere; (the . Eabbit patties, finan- ciers fashion.