47 J?EGfilft2)IJTG 0172? FISH. sters’ in the world, either flour their fish, or dip it in batter ; both methods are, to my mind, vastly superior to the bread- crumbing process. If, however, you must use crumbs see that they are stale, and well sifted ; not the pithy lumps, both great and small, too often set before you, because Raraasamy will not look ahead, and rarely, if ever keeps a bottled supply of stale, well rasped bread in hand. Under the head of baking we come to that very excellent method of treating fish which is familiar to most of you as “ cut gratin.” The cook can, in this way, produce very pleasant results, with very little toil. You can commence as plainly as possible, and go on to the most elaborate and fanciful dishes, the principles in all being similar. The fish, to begin with, should either be whole, in fillets, or slices. The pie dish should be well buttered ; tomatoes, maccaroni, mushrooms, truffles of course, finely-minced parsley, shallot, lime peel, and such fines herbes as you can command, should be used for the more elaborate compositions, whilst parsley, shallot, and butter alone with fine bread-crumbs will suffice for the plainer dish for ordinary occasions. A gravy made from the bones and trimmings, with a few pepper corns, a minced shallot and a glass of any light white wine, like chablis, hock, or sauterne, may be gently poured round your dish when it is packed ready for the oven : but the liquid, ought never to come up to the level, quite, of the top layer of the fish in the pie dish. In connection with maccaroni and tomatoes, you should try a dusting of grated parmesan. Olives farcies, rolled anchovies, and prawns, form, with truffles, and mushrooms, the most appropriate garnish for an artistic “ au gratin,” and cream is often judiciously introduced to enrich the combination. Fishes baked whole, and carefully stuffed are generally . veiv well suited to fresh water fish, and a delicious way of cooking a Madras mullet, or a dish of whitings. O