16 CTJLIJ'JJili Y JOe±cnj'TG-S FOI{ J£JL@>I{£B. do not think he perceives the difference between a saute pan and an omelette pan. He dislikes anything heavy, and generally asks for a small iron-pan. I feel disposed to agree with a friend in Madras, whose experience in culinary matters is great, who advocates a heavy iron frying-pan, steady over the fire on account of its own weight,—for all real saute work, and, of course, a handy vessel tor omelettes. The large pan he recommends can be made in any Indian bazaar, and, when used in conjunction with the frying basket, 1 should think it would be found most valuable. Like many English cooks, the native is apt to discard the grid-iron and take the frying-pan for many things which ought invariably to be cooked in the former vessel : this tendency requires watching, for, in many of the receipts I hope to give, broiling is essential. I hesitate to pronounce any opinion upon the metal best adapted for kitchen utensils, for upon this point different people think differently. Copper is, we all know, um- versally recommended on account of its durability. You see nothing else in the kitchens of restaurants, clubs, &c., and in all establishments where the demands upon the chef are frequent and elaborate. If treated with ordinary care, no evil should result from its use. Enamelled iron ware looks nice when new, but the slightest carelessness destroys the enamel, and when once cracked it may be considered done for. Plain wrought iron vessels, tinned, are serviceable, and block tin for certain utensils is not to be despised. In my own kitchen I have a mixed collection which answers its purpose well enough. With regard to the equipment necessary for an ordinary establishment I can safely recommend -.—four stew-pans ot sizes, six sauce-pans assorted, one large sauce-pan wit steamer, an iron three-gallon digester, one braising-pan, two frying-pans, (one heavy and one light,) one omelette-pan, a fluted grid-iron, a tin fish kettle, an ordinary iron kettle, two spits of sizes, and one bainmarie capable ot holding four or five small sauce pans.