JAEJTTJ F01? ji LIEHLE HOME QlJTJVEIl, #c- 271 2.—Clean and trim a fine pomfret; detach the flesh from the bone with a sharp knife : take the niMd^manner.1110 Nor’ ^wo sides so obtained, and season them on their respective inner sides (which were near the bone) with pepper, salt, a little finely chopped parsley, and some minced mushroom, lay them together again : the fish resuming its former appearauce. Now butter a flat silver dish, or one that will stand the fire, strew over the butter some minced boiled onion, place the fish thereon, moisten it with a little chablis, or light white wine of that class, and bake it in the oven. Whilst baking, make a good veloute, in which you should pour the liquor of a tin of oysters, and use the broth made from the bones and trimmings of the pomfret. When the fish is nearly done, take it out of the oven ; pour the liquor from its dish into your veloute: garnish the fish with the oysters of the tin previ- ously mentioned, and some black Leicestershire mushrooms, over all pour your veloute,— which should be nice and thick, -set the dish in the oven again for five minutes, and serve with croutons of bread, buttered on each side, and coloured a pale brown in the oven. This will be found an excellent dish far from difficult: veloute remember, is merely a rich creamy white sauce. o. Tie a whole fillet of beef into a compact shape and t;,.,, , , , „. ... ^ai‘d it with plenty of fat bacon : braise (cold)6 ° 386 m ]e y’ it ’n stock, and vegetables : when done, fake it out, remove the string, and place the meat in an oblong shape with a heavy weight upon it; when thoroughly cold, and set, trim it all round with a sharp knife, glaze it with its own gravy reduced, and set it in aspic wru 6 *Ce ^°X’ A P^aiQ oblong mould should be selected. When you turn it out, garnish with hard-boiled eggs, and paisley, and serve with the best salad you can devise, and a good mayonnaise sauce.* . frilis recipe may be followed with a home cured ox tongue : boil tho tongue, of course, you cannot braise it.