57 EJV<TI?EES—C0JV<FIJ7 UE(D. off in shaping the cutlets, for from them the basis of the sauce which is to accompany the dish can, with a little assistance, be composed. Having thus discussed the general methods of cooking cutlets, and fillets, we ought next to consider a few good sauces to accompany them, but as I have resolved to devote a chapter to that branch of the cook’s art, I must ask you to follow me now in a brief resume of wrinkles regarding the higher classes of entrees. Under class the second we come to that very useful style of entree which I have called the “ half-rich.” For these “ made-dishes” you begin to call to your aid the mincing machine and mortar, and, unless your experience be above the average, success will almost wholly depend upon your following with accuracy every line of the recipe you may select. A well-flavoured rissolette, croquette, boudin, or quenelle, if nicely cooked, and served with a good sauce a purte, or a macedoine de legumes, is worthy of a place in any menu ; but the slightest slovenly work is fatal. Our good friend Kamasawmy has been taught to believe that cutlets must be composed of chopped meats, so he is wont to. send to table pretty often under that title a dish of rissolettes, with a fragment of bone inserted in each of them. I need hardly remind my readers, for instance, of the dish of “ chicken cutlets” which form the standing plat of the Madras Hotel. I know that some cookery books describe as cotelettes certain artistic mixtures of meats, with bits of bone introduced to make them look like true cutlets, but I would prefer calling such dishes by their proper names, for they undoubtedly belong really to the tribe of croquettes, rissoles, &c., &c. Chicken, ox and sheep’s tongues, tender mutton, ham, bacon, oysters, pigeons, turkey, rabbit, the livers of all poultry, of rabbits, and game,—whether previously cooked or not, provide materials out of which these entrees can be made. It is in the judicious blending of two or more