21 Ijsf <?HE SZOIlE-ItOOM- saw such things actually regarded as delicacies, and put upon the table to the exclusion of the good fresh food procurable in the market.” This is the proper way of looking at this question. There will be times and places, when and where )7ou will be obliged to fall back upon Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell, and be thankful; until those evil days come upon you, however, do not anticipate your penance, but strive to make the food you can easily procure, palatable and good by scientific treatment. I look upon tinned provisions in the hands of Ramasamy as the cloaks of carelessness, and slovenly cooking; he thinks that the tin will cover a multitude of sins, so takes com- paratively little pains with the dish that it accompanies. There are many ladies who when giving out stores for a dinner party, have no hesitation in issuing tins to the value of many rupees, but if asked for extra cream, butter, and gravy-meat,—the true essentials of cookery,—begin to consider themselves imposed upon. The poverty of our cookery in India results almost wholly from our habit of ignoring these things, the very backbone, as it were, of the cook’s art. If an English cook, surrounded with the best market supplies in the world, be helpless without her stock, her kitchen butter, and her cream and eggs, how much more should Ramasamy be pitied if he be refused those necessaries, for his materials stand in far greater need of assistance. Unless you have practically tried to find out what can be done with the fish, flesh, fowl, and vegetables of India by studious cookery, you will scarcely believe the extent of your power, and how independent you really are of preserved provisions. It is absolutely annoying to those who have worked the subject up to read an ai'ticle like that headed “ Curry and Rice” in a recent number of Vanity Fair. I he writer wrecks on the rock upon which many drift, who, with a little knowledge of the peculiari- ties of some particular part ©f the country, sit down with impudent confidence to treat of India generally, quite for-