CULT^J^Y JOYYIfTG-8 FOI{ feu it should be watched, and skimmed, and the salt, and flavouring vegetables, and herbs, added when the scum has been removed. The water, let me observe, must not be boil- ing, it should be as hot as you can bear to touch, and the early stage of coming to the actual boil should be retarded as much as possible. Boiled meat at the English dinner table is often spoiled bj being “ galloped,” as cooks say, that is, done too fast. _ Meat thus maltreated cannot fail to be tough. You must simmer your hump, or your ham, just as carefully as you would the meat of a pot au feu. When once boiling point has been attained, ease off the fire a little, and endeavour to obtain a uniform heat below the pot that will just keep its surface, as it were, alive ; an occasional bubble, is what you want, with gentle motion, the water muttering to you not jabbering and fussing, as it does when boiling. If you follow this process, you will never have to send a boiled leg of mutton away from the table because of its being too underdone inside to be fit to eat. The common error made by cooks in England, just as much as by our Ramasamy, consists in their keeping up the hicdi pressure too long, whereby the outside of the joint is rapidly done, and the inside scarcely cooked at all. l ie joint looks done, and is consequently sent up with the unsatisfactory result which I have pointed out. Simmering a joint of meat is undoubtedly a troublesome process in India, the cook’s attention must be kept up throughout the work. He cannot lift the potto the hob, or change its position on the range, as the English cook can so easily do. de must be ever watchful about his fire, and guard against there being too much, or too little fire-wood under his s ew- pan In fact, I doubt whether it is possible for Ramasamy to conduct the simmering process satisfactorily with only the common appliances of the coolcroom at his command. Those who possess ranges, or cooking stoves, should count themselves especially fortunate : their cooks can regulate