85 80U<p-jtjunjiG—cofT<rifruEQ. a chef indeed. Asking one day in a hurry for any clear soup they could give me, Madame Gregoire arched her eye- brows and said “ Ah ! m’sieur it would not pa}' us to make for our customers the consomme: Oxtail, mock turtle, and Pui'ee de pois we have ready; for a clear soup we must have notice of a few hours,” and we exchanged our regrets that Englishmen could not appreciate, even in the midst of July, a potcige a la printani&re. Still I confess that a thick soup is acceptable at times : In cool weather; when you return as hungry as a hunter from some physical enterprise; or when you have a little cosy dinner of only a very few items to discuss—a soup, a slice of a joint, a dressed vegetable, and your cheese,—but I hesitate to recommend soups of this class for a Madras dinner party,—to be placed before men whose labours all day have been sedentary, and ladies who have lunched well, and passed their day in graceful repose. And it is mainly for them, be it remembered, that I compose what a friendly critic terms my “ menus mignons.” There is one feature about thick soups which is worthy of attention, and that is that you need not be so scrupu lously careful in the making of the stock, or in selecting the materials of which the stock is made, for you have not to flunk of that clearness which is the salient feature of your consomme. Thick soups can therefore, be made of the bones of cooked meat, and scraps that would never do for potac/e d la Julienne for instance. 1 J Let us take as a type of a really good thick soup that called potage a la bonne femme, which says the G C is made in this way. Prepare a quart or more of stock, and keep that by your side, now:—“Cut up a good sized (Bombay) onion into very thin rounds, and place them in a sauce-pan with a good allowance of butter. Take care not to let the onion get brown, and when it is half done anrl°T in tT° thl'?e ha“dfuls of sorrel, a little lettuce’ and a bunch of parsley, all finely cut: add pepper salt a little nutmeg and keep stirring until the y^etabies are neaily done. You then add a fcablespoonfufof pounded