JtfEJTU FOP Jk QIJIJIEIl OF FOUp. 255 3.—This is a dish of neck chops, nicely trimmed, which have been larded with bacon and set aisefashionUtlet8’ MUau' en marinade all day, and then bread- crumbed, secundum artem, with finely sifted crumbs, some minced parsley, a very little shallot, and a little grated cheese, all shaken together. When nicely crumbed with this mixture, the cutlets must be fried a golden brown in abundance of fat, and served round a hollow mould of “savoury rice” (given in Menu No. VII, page 222) with the following composition in the hollow in the centre:—“ Buttered eggs” coloured with tomato pulp, and mixed with two heaped up table-spoonsful of boiled maccaroni cut into dice. 4. Truss the bird nicely, lard its breast, stuff it with A hen turkey braised. veiX cavefully made turkey stuffing as explained in Chapter XVII, and place it in a deep stew-pan upon a bed of sliced bacon. Put a couple of .sheep’s trotters, cut into small pieces, round it, with a sliced Bombay onion, two carrots, some chopped sweet herbs, whole pepper corns, lime peel, and a clove of gailic. Pour into the pan a good pint of gravy made from the giblets, trimmings, and any scraps you may have, with a wineglassful of Madeira, and cook the bird gently with live coals on the stew-pan lid, as well as under the vessel, lor about three hours, brown the larding on the breast by passing a red hot iron close to it, and serve. Strain the giavy, thicken it, add some minced truffles, and send it lound in a boat. Potatoes and cauliflower accompanying. o. A small tin of Pate de foie gras will do for this little Mould of foie gras. party. Cut a thick slice of fat bacon f , into dice, and fry it with a seasoning of spiced pepper, some minced shallot, parsley, and marjo- ram ; when the bacon is. melted, add some finely minced lv.er (that of the foregoing turkey could be spared) fry tin the hot bacon, and then turn the contents of your saute pan into a bowl to cool. Now break up the pdtS pict out the truffles, and foie gras, and place then? on one side; pound the pate forcemeat, and the cooled liver