28 CULTJsrjlIfY JOWIJTQ-S FOI? JAJIQIIJIS. you should boil it independently in plain water in order that the outside dirty part may be washed off by becoming dissolved—plain washing in water is not enough. There is another feature in a clear soup which I have reserved for special attention, and that is the colouring. Now an idea prevails amongst numbers of English people that a soup to be good and strong must be dark-coloured. Old-fashioned people speak of your modern consomme as a weak washy composition only fit for foreigners. But if you take the very self-same liquor and brown it with a lot of burnt onion, and thicken it with flour, they are perfectly satisfied. Did you ever make jugged-beef tea for a sick friend, the strongest possible essence of raw lean beef, was not the liquor so obtained as clear as sherry, pale- coloured, with a quantity of granulated particles of the beef floating in it? Well, when strained that would have been consommd without the flavouring produced from vegetables and the bouquet of sweet herbs, and surely strong enough for the veriest John Bull that ever talked nonsense about cookery. Now if you desire to impart a golden brown tint to your clear soup, or a darker tint (which the gods forfend), you must achieve your object by a browning (Caramel) made thus :—put a gill of water into a small frying pan, with a quarter pound of white sugar, and half an ounce of butter; set it over the fire, and stir it till it reaches the brown tint you want: add half a pint of water to it—boil, and skim it, let it get cold, and then bottle and cork it down for use. A little of this should be put into the soup prior to the three hours’ simmering stage, if a golden brown be the tint desired. If you can beg, buy, borrow, or steal (for that would be almost pardonable in such a case) a small bottle of French- made sue colorant, you need not trouble your head about the colouring, for a little of that exquisite preparation will colour and also slightly improve the flavour of your consomme.