127 ItEGMfiTJFFEB. pardon,”) is necessary, a little cream, or some fresh milk helped up with the yoke of an egg, and a few drops of anchovy sauce; Ramasamy being at the same time entreated not to make the mould into a pretty pattern with quarters of hard boiled egg, &c., an effect which cannot be achieved without free use of his finger and thumb. " Twice- laid, as this dish is called at Home, cannot be sent up better than in a simple mould like mashed potato, streaked with a fork outside, and baked till it takes a pale brown tint. Chopped hard boiled egg may be stirred into the fish and potatoes with advantage. “ Kegeree” of the English type is composed of boiled rice, chopped hard boiled egg, cold minced fish, and a lump of tiesh butter: these are all tossed together in the frying pan, flavoured with pepper, salt, and any minced garden herb like cress, parsley, or marjoram, and served “ smokino- hot ’ If your cook be a good hand at puff-pastry, you mmht aie worse at luncheon than by having petits pates" of minced fish made for you. The salpicon must be diluted with a rich sauce, and flavoured with whatever herb you like best. A far off thought of celery is not to be despised. For the sauce in which you mean to re-cook fish, do not rorget the bones and trimmings. A broth made of fish bones with a few pepper corns, a sliced boiled onion, a bit ° ce eiy a piece of lime peel, and an anchovy instead cf set 3 ie ds you a capital liquid which, when worked up wi i melted butter and flour, generally produces a favour- able impression. Ihe chief features to be noted in cooking hashes and minces are much the same. Prepare the meat, after having caiefully cut off all browned parts, as you may desire° Make the best broth you can with the trimmings and bones • sl.AhthxaIndaifly sfcock or gravy so much the better; thicken maten-iis tb,tflaV0Ur lhlS aefrdlng to your taste, and the neCeSSary and tu7 W,thm your ,-eachJ strain it if necessary, and then warm up your meat. A mince or a