MEJTU FOIf fi (Pjq^q-Y OF 81X. 226 4.—Put six or eight nicely trimmed choplets of mutton Mutton cutlets & la ° a stew-pan with some scraps Maintenon. ot bacon, onion, carrot, dried herbs, n . , . PePPer> salt, and a pinch of grated &mren^lt^littl^00d Sravy-and gently stew hSPf t,u d°ne' Now lay them out on a large Yfe? .by “other with a weight upon it- when w'hiV ot° d- S?m finalIy iufc0 shaPe if necessary. ’ Mean- Z\ £\ ®t^ln °ravy ™ which they were stewed, remove all tat and set it on one side. Now mince an onion very fine and a few capers, with two or three truflles also. Fry the onions a golden brown, add the minced capers and truffles with pepper, salt and a spoonful of chopped parsley, moisten with a little of the gravy, and then put the mince away to get cold : cut some papers for your cutlets and oil them • now spread your cold thick mince over your cutlets liberally, loll them or rather fold them in their papers most carefully and broil them on the grid-iron sufficiently long to heat them thoroughlyor if preferred, they can be just as well heated in the oven,. Serve your cutlets in their papers, and Jet a rich sauce be handed round (in a boat) made of the remains of the gravy originally got from the cooking of the cutlets, flavoured with red currant jelly, anchovy vinegar and a spoonful of sherry, all judiciously applied—the sauce should be slightly thickened with flour. -B. Petit pois verts should accompany entree No. 1, and the “ Maintenon cutlets” maybe placed round a little well of mashed potatoes filled with celery puree. Laid the fillet carefully, and tie it up into a convenient with shaPe for roastiiig. Roast it over a W1 brisk fire, and when sufficiently done, serve with some minced anchovies and olives tossed in melted butter poured over it at the last mo- ment. 1 or the haricots verts:—Remember not to allow your cook to cut the beans into the vermicelli-like strips you see everywhere. All that is necessary is to peel off the external fibre which runs round the outside edge of the pod; leave the pods so peeled intact, and boil them with an onion for Fillet of French beans beef