137 <?HE SJ1V0UI?Y OJrfELEYZE. Cold cooked vegetables, tossed a while in melted butter separately, may be thus added with success. I recommend pieces of the flower of the cauliflower, artichoke bottoms cut into dice, or Jerusalem artichokes sliced, and cut up. Peas, the grains of Indian corn, chopped French beans, or the seeds of the bandecai or moringa pod are thus very pleasantly treated. In the case of an “omelettes aux legumesa dust of grated cheese gives a finishing touch when the omelette reposes in the hot dish. The “ omelette au Parmesan” (or any mild cheese) is a speciality, as simple as it is delicious. A table-spoonful of grated and finely sifted cheese to three ordinary eggs, salt to taste, and a dessert spoonful of rich cream, if possible, or new milk, compose the mixture. Incorporate the ingre- dients, and proceed as recorded in the previous directions. Remember that it should be served just before all the juicy mixture quite sets, so that in the dish there may be an exudation of creamy moisture, and don’t forget to dust over the surface a canopy of grated cheese. This must go from the fire to the plate, as it were,—delay in serving is hard on any omelette. And now we come to the Cure’s pilce de resistance, con- cerning which I spoke at the beginning of this Chapter. The salient feature of this plat was the combination of tunny, and carp’s roes, by which it was flavoured. Half a slice of pieserved tunny, and the soft roes of two herrings a la sardine finely minced together, with a little shallot, and a dessert spoonful of parsley should be tossed in bubtei a while, and then stirred into a basin containing six well mixed eggs. Cook the mixture as already explained, and turn it out, when ready, into a hot dish containing a little melted butter a few drops of lime juice and some minced shallot, and parsley. If you cannot get preserved tunny, a piece of nicely tinned salmon will be found an •agreeable substitute, and cod’s roes will form a pleasant companion thereto. The Cure' used fresh tunny, and fresh