JVfEJIU FOIl Jl QlJIjlEIl OF FOUIl. 24.7 2. —Any fish will do, divided into portions, or fillets. Boil the fish, and put it aside : boil befs6er fish with cucum' the cucumber, cut it into lengths about two inches long and one inch wide, prepare a nice white sauce with chicken bones for the stock, flavour it with almonds and a little spice, gently warm up the pieces of fish, and cucumber, together therein, and serve. On no account let the heating up reach boiling point. 3. —This dish is a variation of that given in Menu No. IV, page 209, being composed of a well Chicken kramouskys. devised salpicon or mince of chicken with tonafue, minced mushrooms, and truffles, bound with a thick sauce, and divided into portions which are wrapped up in slices of bacon (previously boiled) dipped in batter, and fried a crisp golden tint. It is a dish that needs neither sauce, nor vegetable; all you want with it is your roll and your glass of wine. 4. —Roast the loin to a turn, serve it with potatoes cooked in your favourite manner, red currant Loin of mutton with iePy and a puree of Bombay onions which should go round in a boat. For the puree, you must boil the onions till tender, mash them, and pass them through the sieve; work into the pulp that you then get, a coffee-cupful of cream, or milk enriched with the yolk of an egg, with a little gravy; flavour with a little pepper, salt, and a very little lime peel, heat it up as hot as possible, and serve. Its consistency ought to be that of thick custard ; no flour please. 5. —The Jerusalem artichoke is one of the most useful vegetables we get. I choose a very bakfdUSmchee^Cil0keS simple, yet tasty dish of them; its correct name is topinambours au gratin:—boil the artichokes till quite tender: then mash them with a silver fork, moistening them with cream, (or milk with the yolk of an egg) season with salt and pepper, place the artichoke in a buttered pie-dish, give the surface a layer of grated cheese, and bake till it takes colour. Let the vegetable rest upon its own merits for