F%I<?<rEIlS. 151 for at least ten minutes. If the batter appear too thick, add a little water until its consistency be satisfactory, i.e.:—it should cover the spoon when lifted' out of it with a coating about the eighth of an inch thick. This stage having been reached, take the whites of the three eggs, and whip them to a stiff froth, which must be stirred into your batter at the time of using. This recipe may be reduced for a small dish of fritters as follows:—two ordinary eggs, one table-spoonful of brandy, a dessert spoonful of salad oil, two or three table-spoonsful of water, and one and a half table-spoonful of flour. For sweet fritters, use su^ar instead of salt. Another good batter is made thus :—Beat up equal parts of salad oil, and brandy,—say, a table-spoonful of each; add the yolk of an egg, and incorporate with this, sufficient flour to make a thick paste, which you thin to the required consistency by the addition of water, reserving the whipped white of the egg to finish with. ° I have more than once alluded to “ beignets” in previous chapters, and receipts for several will be found amongst my menus. The kramousky is, I think, the prince of all savoury fritters, and is susceptible of being served in many delicious ways. The oyster, pounded shell fish, minced fish of any kind, sweet-breads (when you can get them) or any deli- cately composed mince of fowl, or of meat, with tongue or ham, can be thus turned to an artistic account. Whatever your salpicon or minced composition, may be made of, the specialties of the kramousky are the little jacket of fat bacon in which it is enveloped, and the batter in which it is dipped. The bacon should be previously cooked, and cut into thin slices, two and a half inches long, and one and a half deep : two oysters, or a heaped up tea-spoonful of any salpicon, should be laid in the centre of each: the bacon must then be folded over it very neatly, and kept ready for the dipping process, which must be carried out cautiously • the frying should be conducted as already described ^ "