159 BfiLjiQB. The other form of salad dressing is closely allied to mayonnaise sauce, and has many admirers. With some vegetable ingredients it undoubtedly works better than its plainer relative. In England, however, it is nearly always spoilt by being drowned with vinegar,—common, acid stuff without any flavouring,—and in nearly every cookery book of the average capacity, you are told to mix oil and vinegar in equal parts, which I have already denounced. In point of fact, the part played by the vinegar in these dressings ought to be so small (as regards measurement) that a fixed amount can scarcely be laid down. In propor- tion to the oil, a quarter is to my mind the outside allot- ment that should be given. This is a good every-day salad mixture:— Put the very hard boiled yolks of two eggs into a slop basin, with a tea-spoonful of powdered mustard, a salt spoon- ful of salt, a pinch of sugar, and a tea-spoonful of minced shallot. Bruise these with a wooden or silver spoon, and work them to a paste with a little salad oil, add oil by degrees till your paste is about the consistency of batter, then toss into it the raw yolk of an egg, continue the working, and add oil, till you have a nice rich sauce coating the spoon pretty thickly : you can now dole out a little tarragon vinegar, and mix it thoroughly with the other ingredients: the sauce will become creamy the moment it receives the vinegar. Taste your sauce by dipping a leaf of lettuce into a spoonful of it, and finish it off, as regards further addition of oil and vinegar, according to discretion. The eye, and the palate are your surest guides : no true salad maker works by measure. As soon as you have got a creamy, well-flavoured sauce to suit your fancy, strain it through the little block tin strainer to get rid of every lump, and the little bits of onion. This should be done over the sauce-boat, which should be put into the ice box as soon as it is filled. I recommend very strongly that the salad, nicely dressed in its bowl, and the sauce in its boat, should be preserved separately, and handed round together. If you mix a salad