25A JtEJ'TU FOI? fi QIJVJfEI? OF FOUIf. through the mincing machine, and pound it thoroughly to a paste,using a little of the soup to help that operation" When the jDounded meat is ready, skim any fat that may have risen on the surface of your soup, take a roomy sauce-pan plaTeTt on the fire, put a couple of ounces of butter intuit, stir into the butter a table-spoonful of flour, work it to L smooth paste, and then add, by degrees both soup and snipe paste keeping the spoon at work the whole time. When all is expended, let the purte reach the boil in order to thicken ofTS 7’ At the last> add a glass of port, a tea-spoonful of led currant jelly, and the juice of a good linm Now get your tureen ready, break a raw egg into a cup,' savin* the yolk carefully; mix a little of the soup with the yolk, and when well mixed, pass it through a perforated strainer into the tureen. Lift the sauce-pan from the fire ZL.T' uT • 8t?i"ed W Serve. Additional ichness would be obtained if you were to pour into the tuieenwith the soup, stirring as you did so, a coffee cupful of boiling cream. F ~1' ^K)0'sc an- ^ice fish, and about an equal amount of Fish rolled in pancakes. Prawns—the whole being sufficient for four portions. Boil the fish and prawns and when cold, make a nice salpicon or coaise mince of them, with some chopped mushrooms. Mix the mince in a sauce-pan with some rich veloute, and bind it with a couple of eggs, let it get cold again, and divide it into four nice portions, just as you would for “ kramouskys.” Now make a large pancake, or two small ones, and when not quite done, take them from the pan, spread them on a flat dish, and from them cut four pieces about four inches square Blace your salpicon portions in the centre of each and wrap them up neatly, set the folded pancakes on a well buttered flat silver dish, egg them, bread-crumb them, pour some melted butter over them, and bake until a nice golden brown: serve m the same dish, laid upon a napkin. The. pancakes should be nice and thin, and you should season your salpicon with “spiced pepper.” «Dutch sauce” (not 1 nouanaaisc jrou know) should accompany.