251 MWU F°i{ £ of fouii. nice clear white gravy with them. When jtou have thoroughly pounded the meat, and mixed it well with paste, and egg, form it into six egg-shaped cutlets; intro- duce in the centre of each a piece of truffle the size of a shilling (the trimmings of the truffles should be chopped, and mixed with the pounded meat) now bread-crumb them and fry them a very light gold colour. Prepare a circle of mashed potato, place it neatly in the dish you intend for your entree, dispose the croquettes carefully round it and pour under them a rich white sauce, made with the chicken broth you drew from the scraps, slightly flavoured with almond, salt, and enriched with a goodly spoonful of cream. Between every croquette, you can introduce a crisply fried curl of bacon, and a slice of truffle may repose upon each of them. For the “asparagus points,” you must cut off the green ends of the stalks of a tin of asparagus. Heat them gently up in veloute; give them a few drops of anchovy vinegar, and pour them into the middle of your potato circle. 4.—A fricandeau ought, I believe, to be reserved for a Fricandeau of beef. ?llet °f V6f' °nl^ but 1 am nought to suggest your trying one with beef, thus Get two undercuts of the sirloin, if one be too small, trim them into a neat shape, and attach them together by two good skewers. Lard them freely with fat bacon. If you cannot lard, having no needle, you must introduce a slice of bacon into each fillet by making therein a longitudinal incision ; slip into it your slice of bacon, and pin the lips of the incised meat together with a small skewer. Your fricandeau is now ready foi the stew-pan, into which please put the trimmings of the meat, two ounces of carrot sliced, two ounces of onion sliced, a pinch of salt, a pinch of sugar, and a pinch of pepper: place your fillets upon the vegetables, and pour into the pan half a pint of good gravy; let this cook up to boiling point, and keep it on the fire till the broth has somewhat reduced and thickened: then add a pint more gravy, and let it simmer for an hour with the pan half covered. Now c ose your pan : put some live charcoal on the lid which