136 CTJL&r&lT JOWrVG-8 Foil MfiQUjiS. the oven: see that your baking apparatus is all but readv that"'IT COmm?r.tmtki,ng the bread* You wil1 observe tl at I lecommend the baking powder to be put into the * ough, not mixed with the flour in a dry state to start with in London Mr. Woolf follows the latter method. I cannot exp am what causes it, but I have found that the bread never turns out so satisfactorily here, if the powder be put lnearJv: the temperature may have something to do with tins ; at all events, experience seems to show that the pow- cer expends its effect to-a great extent, during the working of the dough if mixed with the flour first; whereas, if put in as a finishing touch, the bread being rapidly consigned to the oven, the result is invariably satisfactory. I advise home-bakers to make rolls rather than large loaves There is ess waste with them. A roll is either eaten in toto or eft untouched. . If intact, you have merely to dip it in milk, and put it into the oven—damp; it will turn out a»ain almost as freshly as a new roll. Bread, once cut, is apt to get dry, and with the exception of being sliced for toast or grated for bread-crumbs, is not very presentable a second’ time In baking, be very careful that your flour is well sifted and thoroughly dry. In a moist climate like this it is advisable to dry it in the oven before using it; the sifting must be carried out by a sieve. I have made very eatable bread with carefully sifted country flour, the sifting of which is an imperative necessity, be it observed, unless you have no objection to a gravelly loaf. Now let us discuss the animal and vegetable food of camp life, taking soups first:— . Many people think that because they cannot get beef in camp, they cannot have a freshly made soup. Now there are a few capital soups requiring no meat at all, which are known as ‘ soupcs <xu maigre.” I will give you two : Soupe a l oignon : —Slice a couple of Bombay onions • powder them well with flour, let them fry awhile in a stew- pan with plenty of butter; before they begin to brown at all add water, pepper, and salt, let the whole boil till the