CULIJVJillY JOZQpTGB FOJ? J£Jk<£%£B. 2 at luncheon, they no longer occupy a position in the dinner menu of establishments conducted according to the new regime. A little treatise on cookery, then, showing the reader how to accomplish successfully, with the average means at his disposal in this country, some of the many tasty dishes spoken of in the modern English and continental books upon the subject, will, I am sanguine enough to hope, be received with kindly toleration, it not with cordiality, by those who consider it worth while to be interested in matters culinary. Thirsting for some instruction of this kind, I remember buying, some three ears ago, a little book which had just then been published at Madras, and which promised by its title to provide the thing needful. Alas! how sorely dis- appointed was I with my purchase, for the work had as- suredly been written for the Anglo-Indian in England lather than for the Englishman in India. There were fifteen pages devoted to receipts for “curries,” “ pillaw,” and “ ketchree, ■whilst four were given for “ sambal,” and four for fresh “ chutneys.” There were also directions recorded for the concoction of “ cocoanut oil,” “pish pash,” “ conjee water, “ghee,” “buffado,” “chepatties,” “ding dong,” “ country captain,” “ ramakin toast,” and “ washerman’s pie !” As lono- as the authoress confined her instructions to dishes purely oriental, and to compositions requiring peculiar Indian condiments, her information was, I dare say, to those who needed it, somewhat useful; but surely it must have been a spirit of gentle banter that prompted her to describe in all the stem reality of type “ a mutton cut et a? , m India,” “a spiced cutlet in paper,” “ brain cutlets, French meat balls,” and (0 ! horror) “ crumb chops ! Reading these receipts with a too lively recollection of the fabrications themselves, I concluded that the intention of the writer had been to bring before the retired Anglo-Indian sundry pain- ful visions of the past:—of days of jolting travel and th