Cfijd. CP COOKERY. 18 9 sauce, veloutd, or poulette, or you must wrap them en papi- lottes and broil them a moment (page 48.) All trimmings and odd bits can be saved and worked up as rissoles, or in any of the ways I have mentioned for cold fish in earlier chapters. Fresh-water fish is often to be had by men out in camp. In cooking them, many recipes already given for filleted fish may be followed : clean them thoroughly, wash them well to get rid of all muddy taste, scale, trim, and soak them after cleaning, in water. A fish like murrel may be treated like a pike:—after having been carefully cleansed, and trimmed, stuff it with turkey forcemeat (page 88) sew it up, trim it in a circular shape with its tail in its mouth and bake it in apie-dishsurroundedby chicken stockabouthalfan inch deep. A glass of any white winelike hock, chablis, or sau- terne may be put into the stock, and onion, and any vegeta- bles you can spare. The fish should be basted every now and then, and when it had absorbed the gravy and seems soft, take it out of the oven. Put a pat of mditre d’hotel butter on the top of it, and serve in its own dish with a napkin folded round it. A good sized murrel will take from half an hour, to three quarters in baking. A stuffing made with a tinful oysters, well drained and cut up, mixed with a pint of bread-crumbs soaked in milk or stock, some spiced pepper, a little chopped lime peel, and a couple of minced anchovies, all stirred together, and bound with a couple of eogs> is highly acceptable with a murrel. Eels ought to be slightly boiled first, whatever you do with them, you then get rid of their oiliness. After being thus treated, you can cut them into fillets for frying, for stewing, or for a pie. Eel fillets dipped in batter, and fried in oil (lots of it) with a plain sharp sauce are delicious. The matelolte will be found in the menus. Tinned Australian, and other preserved lumps of meat, are valuable additions, to the store box of the jungle-wallah/but they require very delicate handling, because they are almost