SIS JtfEJVU FOB Jl OF EIG-HCH. pan simmer, skimming off the scum that nses. In an hour you will have a well flavoured broth in which the taste of the tomato is easily recognised. _ When quite satisfied with the broth, strain it off, let it cool, skim it, and thicken it plainly with flour and butter. . riace the sauce-pan in the bain marie pan, and let it keep hot there. In making the croquettes of the duck meat you saved, use some minced bacon, lean and fat in equal shares, one tea-spoonful to each croquette, the bird’s liver, any truffle or mushroom parings there may be to spare, and put one olive farcie whole in the centre of each: season the pounded meat with pepper and salt, don’t use any spice, but dry some sage leaves in the oven, and make a powdei of them, giving about half a salt-spoonful of the powder to each croquette. °Form the croquettes with egg, bread-crumb them in the usual way, and fry them a pale golden brown in abundance of fat, serve, with the Bordelaise sauce, piping hot, and a centre of petits pois verts, 4.—A nice dish of neck cutlets trimmed neatly and grilled over a very fast fire. Each cutlet Mutton cutlets with oucrht dipped into melted butter, or brushed over with salad oil before it is placed on the grid-iron. The sauce should be made thus:—Parboil two, or three, fair sized Bombay onions, cut them up roughly and put them into a sauce-pan with a ladleful of butter, a pinch of sugar, and pepper and salt to fancy; let them cook slowly so that they do not take colour, add a table-spoonful of boiled rice, or pearl barley, and a cup- ful of broth and let the simmering go on till the lumps of onion are quite soft; then add a heaped up table-spoonful of finely grated cheese, stir this in well for a minute or two, then lift it up, and work the mixture through the sieve as you would a puree. Heat it up gently in the bain marie pan, and at the last stir in a table-spoonful of rich cream. Serve the cutlets round a wall of mashed potato, and fill in the centre with French beans d la maiire d’hdtel. Let the sauce go round in a boat with the entree: it ought to be a thick creamy looking sauce of the consistency of tartare,