lc?J? CULIJTJltfY JOZZIJTG-8 FOJJ JAJKJJIIJIS. the radiator, or ornamental chimney, previously mentioned. I lius adjusted, it is also very useful for airing damp linen or drying wet clothes : you have merely to place a large circular basket over it, and spread the things thereon, for the chimney is so contrived that the heat radiates laterally, and there is therefore no chance of burning or scorchino- In camp, the first thing the Acmd would do for you would be to boil the water for your tea : if a raw December, or January morning in the Deccan, or on the plateau of Mysore,you would not object to the operation being performed inside your tent, for the warmth would be very pleasant. It would then bake the bread for your breakfast, and warm up any rechauffe destined for that meal at the same time. During the day it would make the soup, and in the evening be available for work for dinner. I do not say that you could do without a charcoal fire, but the stove would do a large portion of the day’s cooking, and in a way vastly superior to any ordinary fire, either in camp or cantonment. In soup-making, tor instance, and in stewing operations, you possess the power of producing the exact amount of heat you need by turning down the wicks at will. I have made a pot au feu, in a Warren’s kettle placed upon my Acmd, the like of which I defj'' a native cook to produce with a common cookroom fire, simply on account of this regulating power. A gallon flask of kerosine oil should be made to fit the stove box for short periods of camp life. If a man were settled in a standing camp, or out in his district for an indefinite period, he would, of course, require a keg of oil. j I use my stove for some hours daily, and my month’s 1 expenditure does not exceed ten quart bottles. Another of Mi’. Woolf’s valuable inventions, which I can | strongly advise the traveller to obtain, is the “Lang spirit 1 lamp:” the large one costs five shillings and sixpence, and is a never failing source of comfort on a journey. In camp | it would be found a most useful appendage to the Acme | stove for light work, such as boiling milk for coffee, cooking eggs in all sorts of ways, heating sauces, frying bacon, &c. *