191 CJJJCP COOKERY. bacon, give it a dust of spiced pepper, and roll the pancake over like a roly-poly pudding : brush it over with an egg, bread-crumb it, and bake it a golden brown in your oven. If you look upon a tin of preserved meat as a dish that has been cooked once, and has accordingly to bo dressed en rechauffes, you will not fail to turn it to good account. But warmed up as it comes from the tin, unaided, and carelessly dished, it preseuts an irregular mass of sodden and tasteless diet which few would care to touch unless driven to do so by the calls of ungovernable hunger. Messes like Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell’s “ducks and green peas,” “ Irish stew,” “ ox cheek and vegetables,” &c., should be avoided carefully, but if you find that your butler has sent such things to camp, you must pick the meat out of its surroundings, dress it with some fresh chicken meat, as a rissole, or a mince, and cook the gravy and vegetables with some fresh chicken broth as a sauce. I have already spoken of tinned vegetables, (pages 122 and 123) and also of the produce of the country. The traveller ought to try and find out what country garden stuff can be got from the villages near his camp. The recipes I have given will be found easy, and the monotony of tinned food will be much relieved by an occasional nicely dressed dish of common vegetables. I will conclude this chapter with a reliable recipe for cooking a hare. If you have shot the hare yourself so much the better1 * * * * *, for then you will not find its heart, liver and kidne}7s gone. Skin, clean, and wash the animal well, saving the three parts I have mentioned carefully; when quite clean, wipe the carcass inside and out, and fill it with a well made stuffing as for turkey (page 88). The kidneys and heart should be minced, fried in fat bacon, with a little onion; when done, the contents of the pan should be poured into a bowl to cool, and when cold, pounded to a paste, and mixed with the forcemeat. The back of the hare should be larded,