153 CULIJJJlIiY JOttrjtQ-a FOIL J£Jk<gltJlB. spoonful of minced marjoram, a clove of garlic, two green capsicums shred, one minced shallot. Or:—To the same vinegar, add the rind of three limes, a dozen cloves, a dozen pepper corns, and the same green herbs and onion. The bruised seed of garden-cress, celery, and parsley, in equal portions,—say a tea-spoonful of each, a clove of garlic, and two capsicums finely minced, make, when added to half a pint of tarragon vinegar, an invaluable element of salad dressing. A very few drops of the strongly flavoured vinegars I have described are, of course, ample to “ animate the bowl.” A cook’s ingenuity will aid him in concocting other varieties easily enough. When made, cork your bottle down tightly, seal it with wax, and set it in the sun,—an operation which presents but little difficulty in this country. In a week or two, you may strain the liquid, and take it into use. An excellent salad is that made by slicing raw tomatoes, with a Bombay onion. The dressing given should be like that recommended for lettuce, only that, inasmuch as there must be much juice from the tomatoes, your allowance of oil may be abundant; and, as tomatoes are sweet, there may be a little freer use of the vinegar cruet. As in all salads, tarragon, or any aromatic vinegar, may be employed advan- tageously in this one, and minced fines herbes may be sprinkled over the whole. This is obviously a salad for the sterner sex, and one which no man would partake of just before a ball, on his wedding day, or at all during the halcyon period which generally precedes that ceremony. O ! why is our rose thus thornily encumbered ? Whj7 was it ordained that man should never eat of the fragrant bulb without remembering it to his sorrow ? I heard a cook once sa}7 that the forbidden fruit in the garden of Eden must have been an onion. “ Hence,” said he, “ the curse it carries with it, and hence the universal dislike with which it is regarded by the ladies/' But this man was a free thinker.