200 Mejtu F0Ii of fqu^ shin &c°nina^diS t0 flafcfc,ei1 and cold. Now throw your shin, “C-j into the soup kettle adding to the liquor alreadv proceedUfoCient ^ l° C°Ver the “eatwmpletely : ?etaidLX1b jr C0WSTm" skif ming veiT carefully, and letaidmg the boiling point as much as you can by periodical and adTtlTerl Whe" boiU"= **« Iff Bombay onions in quarters, a head of celery a couple of carrots, the rind of two limes, a larcre bunch of spoonful ofT fTnCe °f fHed basil> (sold in bottles) a tea- lin half led thyme>and ot marjoram, (the herbs in a mus- iin ba ) a dozen pepper corns, two anchovies cut up, half a f- of mushroom.ketchup, a tea-spoonful of cammed and miiT6"8 0! 7110! f01' about th'ree hours, skimming the to Z ocSrasionaI1y. and on no account permitting the vessel bow?! No.w ^ry carefully, and set the "soup in a info ™ cool, and throw up all grease. Cut the cold head to one:and-half inch squares, skim the cool soup well, and infco a larSe sauce-pan, adding the pieces of head, iiet the pieces cook gently in the consomme for half an hour, then drain them, and again strain the soup; clarify it f necessary adding a glass of Madeira and a few drops of mie juice; let this heat up finally and pour the soup into the tureen, over a dozen or so carefully selected pieces ot the head arranged therein. Serve, with limes cut into quarters which should be handed round, and Madeira should iohow. 1 he basil is most necessary, and the whole success or the soup depends upon a strict attention to the flavouring herbs, and ingredients. For the thickGo back to the period when you strained Thick mock-turtle. the soup, and set it to get cool. Take r .. , ’ a lai’ge sauce-pan, and melt at the bottom of it quarter pound of butter, mix into it three ounces of flour, when it looks nice and velvety, gently add your soup, (stirring it in by cupsful) and the pieces of head. a glass of Madeira should now go in, with a few drops of hme juice; let the soup come up to the boil to thicken properly and let it simmer slowly immediately afterwards, constantly stirring to prevent the meat sticking to the bot-