§6 CULTJTJ1IIY JOYYIJTaS FOIt him, “ rough hew them as he may,” but for an entree we must study appearance. A cutlet to be grilled should be dipped at once in a little melted butter, or salad oil and broiled over a clear fire. If to be stewed, it should be first browned by being turned fre- quently in a pan with a little melted butter; the pre- viously prepared gravy should then be added, in which the cutlet should simmer gently till done. The whole success of a stew depends upon the simmering. If the cook carelessly allow the pan to come to the boil, the cutlets (or anything else) will be done for. How often are hashes, and rechauffes of cold meat sent to table as hard and tasteless as leather, simply because the cook permitted them to boil ? Hashes and salmis of cold meat and game may be defined, properly speaking, as carefully composed sauces in which meat is placed cold, and then gradually heated until sufficiently hot to serve. My own rule with a salmi is to take it off the fire as soon as the steam rises freely from the surface, to turn it immediately into a silver dish heated with scalding water, and send it up. The process of bread-crumbing a cutlet deserves far more care than a great majority of cooks bestow upon it. To do this really nicely (for an entree) you should proceed in this way: lift your cutlet from the marinade, drain it a moment, then dip it into the following composition two eggs, one dessert spoonful of salad oil, one dessert spoonful of water, well beaten together, and turn it over and over in a plateful of fine, stale bread-crumbs which have been dried in the oven pounded, and thoroughly silted ; it should then be laid aside for half an hour, after which it should be dipped again, and again rolled in crumbs. Amongst the crumbs may be sprinkled some finely minced parsley and shallot, with some powdered dried sweet herbs. The frying should be conducted in abundance of boiling fat, and the colour of the cutlets should be a pale golden brown. All thrifty cooks should carefully save the scraps of trim- mings, the outer flap, and the ends of bone which were cut