^0ji8<T jZJJQ gOILEQ. S'3 Leicestershire sheep, the three-and-a-half pound leg of mut- ton, or the wizen loinlet,—and let us assume that the meat, though small, is fairly good,—-what shall we do with it ? In a country where it is impossible to keep cooked meat, the fact of a joint being small need hardly be considered a drawback, but we have before us a good deal of bone in proportion to the meat, and very little fat. I say boldly that plainly roasting such a fragment is a mistake. Unless the joint be of a fair size, and above the average as to fat (like the saddle, or the specially fine sirloin we buy for a dinner party) I would never roast it. The morsel can ill afford to lose the little gravy it possesses which the stab of the spit is bound to draw, and which we rarely see sent to table, for Ramasamy appreciates it as an adjunct to his curry. The only way to cook little joints, such as I allude to, is to braise them. In this way you obtain all the nourishment the meat can give, and a tasty dish into the bargain. For the benefit of those who do not quite understand the process I had better mention that braising consists in placing meat in a closed stew-pan, with a little made gravy or stock round it, vegetables cut up, and a judicious allowance of salt and pepper. In this the meat is slowly cooked, whilst it is browned externally by live coals placed on the stew-pan lid. There is thus heat from above and below the pan, and the joint is cooked in its own gravy. To braise a little Indian joint successfully you must first bone it, then trim it, tie it with a string into a neat shape, give it a dust of salt and pepper, and put it on one side, whilst you make the best broth you can from the bones you cut out, and the trim- mings : this should occupy the cook all morning: having obtained all you can from the bones, strain off 3Tour broth, let it get cool, skim off the fat and now proceed to cook the meat. Melt some butter or fat at the bottom of your stew-pan first, and turn the meat about in till it begins to take colour, then add your broth (a pint and a half or thereabouts will he found enough) with two carrots, four good sized onions, pepper, and salt: let it come slowly to the boil, then simmer