140 CULTJJJHiY JOttIJfG-S FOR JdfiQIlfiB. giving, and though we may invite them to breakfast, we can really give them a luncheon, as far as the menu is concern- ed. I attended a party of this kind not long ago at Madras, the complete success of which has encouraged me to advo- cate its adoption in supercession of luncheons at 2 P. m. The Frenchman takes his cafe au lait, with a roll, as we take chota hazri, which carry him satisfactorily till eleven, or even twelve o’clock ; the dejeuner d la fourchette is then a substantial meal. Cannot we, when there are no distracting office hours to think of, do likewise ? A breakfast party ends about the hour that luncheons be»in. Both hosts and guests have, therefore, ample time to recover their appetites, and to indulge in a quiet afternoon’s rest, before the even- ing drive, and dinner. A pleasant luncheon or breakfast party should possess the following characteristics :—a judiciously selected list of guests, a prettily arranged table, a light yet artistic menu, with cups of claret, sauterne, hock, or chablis, iced ad libi- tum, and in no way spoilt by sugar. Liqueurs may be handed round to finish with, and the best coffee you can make should follow. In composing your memo you should avoid adhering in any way to the order and style of a dinner. Thus, you need not give any soup at all, but lead off with oysters in their shells accompanied by brown bread and butter cut thin, limes cut into quarters, and vinegars and peppers of kinds. An old standing dish to commence a luncheon party used to be mulligatani. If properly made, this soup is a meal in itself: there are so many condiments, spices, and highly flavoured elements in its composition,—not to mention the burning chilli, and the concomitant ladleful of rice which custom decrees, —that he who partakes of it finds the delicate power of his palate vitiated, as far as the appreciation of any dainty plat that may follow is concerned, whilst the edge of his appetite is left unto him sorely blunted. So I say, reserve mulligatani for your luncheon at home alone, enjoy it thoroughly, rice and all, and—nothing more. Having dis- cussed your oysters, some half dozen dishes or so may