CULTfljLTlY J0YY1J7GS FOf? 174 “ (Eufs aux topinambours”:—This delicious entremet should be prepared in this wise:—choose four good sized Jerusalem artichokes, trim, boil, and set them to cool; take four hard boiled eggs, and cut them in halves; out of the artichokes prepare eight flat slices, and place half an egg upon each slice with the rounded end uppermost; set them on a buttered dish, heat them thoroughly in the oven, and just before serving, pour over them some thickly worked “ veloute cm parmesan,” or some melted maitre d’hotel butter. A dusting of “ spiced salt” should be given on taking the eggs from the oven. This is nicer still with artichoke bottoms,—the leafy kind. Maccaroni, and the numerous varieties of the Italian paste family of which it is the best known member, should invari- ably be plunged into boiling water to commence with—no matter whether you intend to cook them in milk, or stock, afterwards—in order to rid them of the imperceptible dirt which clings to them. Remember that maccaroni is a much handled comestible, and that washing it in water is not enough. I adverted to this when speaking of soups (page 27), and described how the cleansing can alone be effected. Besides, maccaroni must not be wetted to begin with by any liquid not boiling. Mark these golden rules :—“ washing maccaroni is useless and unnecessary, putting it to cook in cold water is a blunder, soaking it is a crime.” Treat it as our native cooks do rice,—here let me yield to Ramasamy, or his tunnycutch (?) the praise that either he, or she, deserves,— and throw it into plenty of boiling water, test it occasionally with a fork, as soon as it is nice and tender, stop the boiling by a dash of cold water, lift the vessel, and drain it com- pletely returning the maccaroni to the hot pan. If you want to cook Italian pastes in milk or stock, whichever you use should be boiling: parboil the paste in boiling water for five minutes to clean it, drain it carefully, and turn it into the stock or milk as the case may be to finish cooking. “ Maccaroni d V Italienne” will be found in Chapter XXV, (page 143).