173 EG-G-S, JtfjZCCjltfOJfl, JIJTQ CHEESE. minced olives, capers, anchovies, mushrooms, and truffles; very finely grated ham, the bruised liver of a chicken, the re- mains of a pdtd de foie gras, or a little sausage meat. A judi- cious selection of two or three of these ingredients, seasoned with “ spiced pepper” is what you require,—say, one tea- spoonful of mixed farce to each half yolk. Having dressed your cases to your mind, fry a little square of bread for each one, as for canapds (q. v., page 141) and place them thereon : arrange them on a flat silver dish slightly buttered, pour a little melted butter over each egg, and bake for five minutes. Some nicely fried breaxl-crumbs may be strewn over the dish when going to table. Eggs may, of course, be served in this manner very plainly farcis: a little minced curled parsley or marjoram, with a pounded anchovy, and some chopped olive, for instance, would not be a bad mixture when worked up with the hard yolks. Hard boiled eggs may be fricasseed, or gently heated up, in a rich sauce like veloutd, Espagnole, orpoulette, and those who do not object to fried onions, might do worse than con- coct a dish with their assistance in this way :— . ®ufs oignons :—Slice up a good sized Bombav onion, and fry the rings in butter till they are nice and biown, add a little flour to the butter, and when it is mixed, poui in a breakfast cup of cream or fresh milk : give this a dusting with salt and “spiced pepper,” and put into the sauce four hard boiled eggs cut into slices; simmer the sauce-pan till its contents are thoroughly hot, and servo garnished with curls of crisply fried bacon, alternated with neatly cut pieces of fried bread. If you desire to err on the side of studied simplicity, cut four hard boiled eggs in halves, trim them like “ ceufs /ams to stand upright, set them on a flat silver dish slightly buttered, and bake them until quite hot, then serve with a cap of 'niaitre d hotel. butter, prawn butter (or any fancy eri?ft from la?.fc. night’s dinner) meltiDg over each half egg o o The error will be pardonable.