260 JAEJTU FOF£ fi LITTLE ELOJJLE (PIJVJTEE. an onion should be boiled in the water with the fillets, and pressed into the sauce through the sieve. Prepare an ordinary fowl as if for roasting, cutting off Fowl in Wyvern’s way. a11 superfluous bones, the pinions, neck, and legs below the joint, which, with the heart, gizzard, and liver (the giblets), throw into as much water as will cover them : an onion sliced, and some whole peppers. Whilst this is producing a broth, lard your fowl with strips of fat bacon, and stuff the cavity of its car- cass with plain 'unashccl potatoes, and boiled onion—two- thirds of the former, to one of the latter. When your broth is ready, put it into a deep stew-pan, and place the fowl therein, with a carrot cut into slices, celery leaves, and stalks, pepper corns, a bunch of parsley, and some dried thyme in a muslin bag, and a glass of sherry. Braise the bird in this till done:—Meanwhile pound the liver you boiled in the broth, and get ready some tomato pulp (say) a tea-cupful. Lift out the fowl, and dish it upon some previously boiled maccaroni: strain off the gravy in which it was braised, thicken it, add the liver, and tomato pulp, give it a rapid boil up, and pour it over the fowl. The stuffing of the fowl helps to preserve its juiciness, and lends a nice flavour to it. 4^—Place some boiled maccaroni at the bottom of a small „ , .... well buttered pie-dish; dust over itsome ronUnd°toinatoes.maCCa' grated cheese; upon this place a layer of previously boiled bandecais, dust them with white pepper, and some grated cheese: on the top arrange a number of slices of tomato also dusted with cheese; pour a little milk in which the yolk of an egg has been beaten (or cream if you can allow it) in amongst your layers, not nearly to cover them though, just to moisten the bottom of the dish, and bake for ten or twelve minutes; serve with cold tartare or mayonnaise sauce in a boat. 5.—I have often spoken of the batter for fritters, so will Apple fritters. n°fc th® reciP6' Soak the aPPle slices in brandy or rum, and dish them with powdered loaf-sugar dusted over them.