SJLUOES—OOJT^IJTTJEQ. 72 with the yolks of the eggs, and then to let the sauce remain on the fire, stirring well until it is very hot (but not boiling) and serving it in a hot sauce-boat. The cold form of this sauce is perhaps the easiest, and I think as nice as any :— you simply rasp the moringa, or horse-radish root, till you have a cupful of fine scrapings, and mingle them with an ordinary mayonnaise, or tartare sauce. Cream is, of course, a great addition, but the usual mixture of eggs, oil, mustard, and vinegar, will give you a good result; and this leads me to discuss the two sauces I have mentioned at once. Mayonnaise sauce is certainly one of the most useful, and popular of all the sauces we attempt out here. In ordering it, if you know what to say, and give good materials, you may be certain of success. Be sure that the oil you give is thoroughly good, or the result will be very painful; and examine your mustard, vinegar, and eggs. Assuming that these are all satisfactory, set to work in the following manner:— Commence with the dry ingredients, and put into a soup- plate, or slop basin, the very hard-boiled yolks of two eggs, a pinch of salt, a dessert spoonful of mustard powder, a tea- spoonful of finely minced shallot, and a dust of white pepper. Bruise these together thoroughly with the back of a silver spoon; now add a, little oil, and work your materials to a paste, adding the oil patiently by degrees until you get it nice and moist; next throw in the yolks of two raw eggs, and continue your working, adding oil without measure, and judging by your eye when you think you have made enough sauce, for the tarragon vinegar you finally add will not be more than a good table-spoonful; the moment vinegar is added, the sauce will assume a creamy appearance, and when worked sufficiently, will be ready for the block tin strainer (to get rid of “onion atoms,” lumps of egg, &c.), and then for the table. It made on the plains early in the afternoon the sauce-boat should be placed in the ice box; but, to be suc- cessful, Mayonnaise sauce ought, if possible, to be made as near the time of service as possible. When cream is used