have, but until I attended this big Indian dinner, I never culijtjiiiy joYY^raa FOi? when in season, and vegetables from Bangalore, and the Neil "her ries, in addition to the standard produce of the country. If, therefore, we concentrate our attention suffi- ciently upon what we can get from market, our demand on tinned food should be very small indeed. Take now for instance a tin of the ordinary preserved mushrooms,—those made you know of white leather,—what is the use of them, what do they taste of ? Yet people giving a dinner party must needs garnish one entree at least with them, and the Madras butler would be horrified if his mistress were to refuse him that pleasure. The stewed “black Leicestershire are the best preserved mushrooms to be had, but even between them and the fresh fungus there is a great gult fixed. A few'years ago I met an officer of the Artillery, who after havin" served in various parts of the world had just been appointed to a command in this Presidency. Conversation happened to turn upon cookery, and the Colonel soon proved himself to be a man who had for years studied the science oj» amove. He had had little or no experience of Indian lile, and he expressed himself agreeably surprised rather than otherwise, at the style of living to which he had been introduced. “ But,” he said, “ preserve me from your din™*3 of ceremony.” He had arrived, he told me,quite unexpectedly a few evenings before, and had been at once invited to the mess; the dinner,—just the ordinary daily one-was he thought, excellent, and so it was the next day, and the y following, but on the fourth day he was formally mvited o dine as a Mess guest, and that was a very different affair Considerable expense had been gone to, he observed, on this occasion in tinned provisions, but with the worst possible result. There was a dish of preserved salmon hot, and sodden • the entries were spoilt by the introduction of terrible sausages, and mushrooms; and thetmnedvegeta- bles were ruined by being wrongly treated by jhe^cook, ‘‘There are few men,” the Colonel we ’ , y have had more to do with preserved provisions than 1