JrfEJTU FOIl fi (Pjlll&Y OF EIG-HV. SSI side only with a beaten egg, now dust over them some finely minced parsley, a little cooked onion chopped fine, a very little grated lime peel, and a little white pepper: roll up your fillets and pin them into shape with a small skewer : now strain off your liquor from the bones and trimmings, and set your fillets in it to boil gently till done (they should take about 12, or 14 minutes) take them out, draw out the skewers, set them on a very hot dish, and cover them up. Now melt a lump of butter quickly in a sauce-pan, work a spoonful of flour into it: throw in a little salt and moisten, with as much of the fish broth as will make a nice white sauce to cover your fillets; add, as you take the sauce-pan off the fire, a dessert-spoonful of tarragon vinegar and a table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Pour it over your fillets and serve. 3.—Braise a breast of mutton in a stew-pan with some water, onion, two tomatoes, carrots, wifh spinach°f m u fc 0 n celery, whole pepper, salt, a clove or two, some parsley, and a tea-spoonful of dried thyme: when sufficiently done to enable the to remove the bones, draw the pan from the fire, take out the breast, and pick out the bones; then place it flat on a dish with a heavy weight upon it: strain the water and vegetables in which the meat was cooked, putting the vegetables aside, and setting the gravy to cool. These operations should be performed early in the day. When the breast has become thoroughly cold, remove the weight, and divide the meat into six nice collops. Brush them over with egg, and bread-crumb them with some very finely sifted stale bread-cumbs crisped in the oven. Let them stand for an hour, and repeat the process,— re-crumbing them again. Now fry them in boiling fat a nice golden brown, take them out, drain them dry, and arrange them round a tiny mould of spinach. For the sauce:—skim every atom of fat from the gravy you set to get cold, put a lump of butter in a sauce-pan, work a little flour into it when melted, gradually add your gravy, and the pulp of all the vegetables worked through a wire sieve ; stir well, and let the sauce thicken, add a tea-spoonful of