10 CULTfTJlIlY JOYYIJIGS FOIl the up-hill task of managing Ramasamy. The consequence was that the ordering of a dinner with him was generally productive of a very stormy morning. I remember one spe- cial day hearing my friend’s voice raised to its highest pitch ; presently the door of the little room he occupied as an office flew open, and out rushed the cook followed by his preceptor violet in the face with wrath. The unhappy menial, in a state of hopeless mental aberration, had taken down that he was to boil the Pate de foie gras, and ice the asparagus ! I was called in as interpreter and peace- maker, and man)^ a morning after that did I convey my friend’s orders to the mess cook. I was obliged, however, to demand an empty room, for even during my interpretations the President’s patience would evaporate, and the walls would ring with language that was fashionable when George the Third was King. There are two ways of imparting the details of a menu to your native cook :—one through the medium of your butler, the other by conversation with the man himself. For many reasons I advocate the latter plan. Some cooks do not care for the butler’s interference, and in many estab- lishments the cook and butler do not pull. Butlers again are prone to conceit, and often pretend to understand what you want done, rather than confess their ignorance. One remembers the same failing in one’s munshi who never admitted himself puzzled by the most intricate passage in English that you could place before him. So I prefer to get° the cook alone, and talk to him very gently in his own patois. I encourage him by a bland demeanour, and if obliged to speak retrospectively of a failure, I strive to do so with a smile. You will soon get round Ramasamy when he finds that you never indulge in “ very bad ’busing:” he then gains confidence in you and learns rapidly. Between ourselves too, surely an artist who can actually compose a “ Vol au vent a la financier e,„ a kia- mousky aux lvditres,” or a “ supreme de volatile, deserves some consideration at our hands. Thq patois is easily acquired and you will soon find yourself interpreting the