167 SORS Q'CEUVIiES. off the hard skin of the tongue, and pass the meat through your mincing machine: after that,'pound it thoroughly in your mortar, adding the butter and gravy during the operation: press the meat through your wire-sieve to get rid of gristle, and lumps, work the spiced pepper and mace into it, and pat it down tightly in a jar: smooth the surface: melt a table-spoonful of the same sort of butter in a sauce-pan, and pour it over the surface; let it get cold, and the work will be completed. This receipt is practicable, as to quantities, with cold corned beef, chicken and tongue (half and half), cold roast beef, and even mutton. Roast beef, and mutton, require about three anchovies to the pound, as they have not the flavour of salted meat. Potted snipe, hare, partridges, &c., are excellent. Don’t forget the livers when you are potting birds, and turn back to page 58 for my recipe for “foie gras forcemeat,” a little of which will encourage your game pate exceedingly. If you happen to have any spare atoms of truffles handy, slip them into the potted meat, and no man will blame you. Mock-crab” is the name given to a very good hors doeuvre in which cheese plays a prominent part; this is how it is made :—half a pound of prawn meat, a quarter of a pound of good fresh cheese, a dessert-spoonful of mustard powder, a table-spoonful of salad oil, a table-spoonful of “anchovy vinegar,” and a liberal dusting of spiced pepper. Pound every thing (omitting the prawns) and work the mixture till it looks like a rich mayonnaise sauce, adding oil if necessary to obtain that result: when creamy, mingle it with the prawn meat, pounded, &c., as in the former leceipt, and trim it into a shapely little mould for serving. “Pulled bread” accompanies the cheese in the place of biscuits. You can make it easily enough, if you bake at home, as follows:—Make a pound loaf, and when the bread is all but done, take it from the oven, tear the crumb from the inside with a fork in irregular pieces, place them on a buttered baking tin and crisp them in the oven.