gg CULJJTfi^ JOTCTIJTG-S FOR JAJlQIiJlS. Now although a vast quantity of wretched meat is sold in the Indian market, I think that people who are willing to pay a cr0od price, and whose servants are not unusually dishonest, can ^generally get fair beef and mutton at he large stations of this Presidency. A really bad servant will o course cheat you with greater cruelty in buying your meat than in anything. At some places the beef is better than the mutton, and vice versa, but I think that, if not haggle w over his prices, a butcher is always to be found who can sup- ply you with eatable meat. At the present time, owing o. le calamity which befel us last year, and the two pievious seasons of scarcity, our market here is not neai } as supplied as it formerly was; nevertheless,_good meat is be crot. The mutton at the Madras Club is excellent, and you always get a nice cut from a saddle at a dinner pai }. The comparative scarcity however, of eatable meat is in a great measure due to ourselves. It' the butchers were certain of sales at remunerative prices they would produce a far better article than they do, but when people grumble at an extra anna charged on a seer of well-fed meat you can scarcely expect much improvement. The expenses attending sheep-feeding are pretty well proved by the statistics of the old established mutton clubs up-country The members, it is true, get capital meat, but it costs them, first and last, very nearly what it would in England. Native graziers can hardly be expected to turn out equally good mutton at a cheaper rate. Setting aside the joints that you occasionally get when a stall-fed ox has been slaughtered, or a grain-fed sheep cut up ; and without considering the exceptionally good meat, of mutton clubs, it is the duty of the chronicler of these jot- tin cr3” to treat of the average produce of the countiy, an to endeavour to provide his readers with a few useful hints as to the cookery thereof. Let us therefore take the ordinal y joint of beef or of mutton which Ramasamy brings daily from bazaar for “ Master and Mrs. only” :-the diminutive «sirloin, the ribs scarcely larger than the loin chops of a