COJTCEItfUJIG HHE COOK cy HIS MJ0J-GEJ'/LEJim. 9 repetitions. Are not the accounts, also, of the erudite mditre d’hStel full often prone to cause,—even at the pretty writing table of the cosy boudoir,— great searchings of heart ? In other words, must you not pay for your luxury, and even murmur not in the presence of the artist who spares you so much trouble ? Those who are not gifted with patience, those who ’are not physically strong, those who have important calls upon their time away from home, and, of course, those who do not feel capable of directing culinary operations, cannot do better than entrust the management of their kitchens to alien heads, but all who are equal to the task should take the helm in their own hands, remembering that ancient canon,—“ if you want a thing well done, do it yourself.” I place those who have not patience first on the list of persons whom I deem incapable of managing their cooks. I do so advisedly, for of all failings inimical to the success- ful direction of a native servant a hasty temper is the most fatal. The moment you betray irritation and hastiness in your manner towards Ramasamy, he ceases to follow you : his brain becomes busy in the consultation of his personal safety, and not in the consideration of the plat you are endeavouring to discuss with him. In this matter I, of course, address my readers of the sterner sex : ladies, I know, are never angry, and even when a little put out, do they not contrive to veil their feelings with a sweet subtlety which men can envy yet never hope to acquire? Once upon a. time I knew very intimately the Mess Pre- sident of a Regiment (not yet forgotten I fancy at Bangalore) who possessed to an eminent degree the qualities necessary for his difficult position. He was an acknowledged connois- seur in wines, excelled in the composition of a menu, and lejoiced in a bountiful development of the bump of manage- ment. Long association, however, with one of the best Mels- men a Regiment ever had in England had spoilt my friend for