87 ItOfiS# fiJTQ SOILEQ—OOfifElfilUEQ. sage leaves, and scald them in boiling water for five minutes, take them out, and when the onions are tender, turn them out, drain them dry, and proceed to mince them with the sage leaves,very fine. Add to this, five ounces of bread-crumbs, and dust over the mixture a liberal allowance of spiced pepper (which I give at the end of this Chapter) and salt: when nicely worked together, bind the ingredients with the yolks of two eggs, and an ounce of butter cut into dice : it will now be ready for use. The proportions of this stuffing may be relied on: it is mild, yet pleasantly flavoured, and, “ leaves not a trace of sad memory behind.” Goose stuffing is made in a similar way, and it is a plea- sant addition to some joints of pork: let my friends on the Hills try a loin, boned, rolled, and stuffed with this, and roasted over a bright fire. To return to fowl stuffing. The only birds that should be stuffed in the crop are turkeys, and exceptionally fine capons. Who amongst you ever saw a roast fowl in England, stuffed ? The barbarous practice has become common out here, and ought to be put down as utterly wrong. Moisture, which is so necessary in roasting, should be secured by either larding the fowl with fat bacon, or tying a slice of bacon over the breast. I advocate a stuffing for the inside of a fowl intended for braising as follows :—well mashed potato, and boiled Bombay onion, in the proportion of two-thirds of the former, to one-third of the latter. The mashed potato, of course, contains butter, spiced pepper, and a little milk or cream, or the yolk of an egg, and helps to pre- serve the juiciness of the bird ; the flavour it imparts too is, I think, agreeable. An author for whom I entertained the greatest respect uiges the practice I mentioned in my last chapter of put- ting one sweet onion, and a lump of salt butter, inside every chicken, or fowl, to be roasted. But this cannot be called “stuffing.” A turkey, on the other hand requires carefully made forcemeat, and, as you all know there are many varieties thereof. Truffles, and chestnuts