26 CULIJJJ1IIY JOZYI^G-S FOi? by adding or reducing as you may require) tightly bound with a string, and the bones and all with it into a digester pot filled with water, so as to completely cover the meat. Put the pot by the side of the fire and let it become gradu- ally heated. As this takes place a scum will form upon the surface which must be carefully removed as it rises. The clearness of the soup will depend upon all the scum being taken off, and upon the water being kept from boiling point until it is all removed. This done; have the follow- ing vegetables carefully cleaned and cut up in small pieces, which you put into the sauce-pan a few at a time, viz. : a couple of onions, a clove of garlic, (not a whole bulb please) three or four carrots, two or three turnips, and a leek (if you can get one) one head of celery, a bunch of curly parsley, and a couple of tomatoes. Then put in, tied up in a piece of muslin, some thyme, marjoram, a handful of whole pepper, and allspice, a little cinnamon, a blade of mace, and two or three cloves. A tea spoonful each of dried thyme and marjoram will be found enough. The exact pro- portions of these things cannot be fixed arbitrarily; the flavour of no one of them should predominate ; and to attain this, taste and practice are necessary: You can next put in an ounce of salt, a dessert spoonful of sugar, a tablespoonfnl of Harvej7’ sauce, and two of mushroom ketchup ; when the pot au feu is, so to speak, thus completed, it must be left to simmer slowly from three to four hours. Then, or before, if, by tasting, the soup is found sufficiently flavoured, the muslin bag must be taken out. The soup is now strained into a basin and left to cool, so that any remaining fat may be effectually skimmed off. The clear liquor is then warmed and served with maccaroni, bread sippets, or vegetables, &c., according to the kind of soup you wish to have. This is, to my mind, the simplest recipe you can follow to achieve a bright clear consomme. It is, of course, imper- ative that you proceed exactly as described. First, the meat covered with cold water, and brought very slow y o the boil, being very carefully skimmed the while, when the skimming is completed, the vegetables, the little