121 VEGETABLES— COJTOL UQEQ. in my menus, and whether plainly boiled, or stewed, cannot fail to please those who are fond of them. A very presentable dish is made of them “ ctu gratin’’ in this way:—boil them till tender; cut them up as finely as possible and mash them, mix the pulp well, adding a coffee cupful of cream, or milk enriched with the yolk of an egg, pepper, and salt. Put it into a shallow pie-dish, strew a layer of grated cheese over the surface, and bake for a few minutes till the top takes colour. You must, of course, butter the pie-dish, and also pour a little melted butter over the cheese. Salsify—(scorzonera)—is an edible root which we oimht to grow abundantly in India. 1 do not know whether any of our horticultural societies have yet introduced it or not; in case it may have been grown, Intake the opportunity of recommending the previous recipe as equally applicable to the mashed roots of this plant; it has a very perceptible flavour of the oyster (is indeed called the “ oyster plant” in America) and forms a delicious entremet. The roots peel easily when boiled, and the pulp is as white as snow. Simply mashed with cream, and a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, with a covering of bread-crumbs strewn over it, and a little melted butter, then baked till brown, and served, salsify presents an exact imitation'of “ oysters scalloped.”’ Salsify pm ee with cieam, can be served wherever oyster sauce is recommended; and as a white soup {puree) it can be sent up as a bisque d’hllitres. Asparagus, and seakale, if procurable, need to be carefully boiled dramed, and served au naturel, with sauce blanche JJutch sauce, or a nice salad sauce of oil, vinegar, pepper' and salt. There is a custom followed by ignorant English as well as native cooks, of placing a slice of toasted bread in the dish destined to receive a bundle of asparagus, &c., over which a plentiful bath of white tasteless flour and water is finally poured. The toast is utterly unnecessary, and the sauce ought invariably to be handed round, piping hot, in a boat. A few drops ol lime juice or tarragon vinegar should be stirred into 11