77 Bfi UOES—COJVCLU(DE(X>. pan with an ounce of butter, fry them a golden brown, then add a breakfast cupful of broth, or water, and the pieces of meat previously prepared ; shake the pan every now and then, and let the meat take colour: now add water enough to cover the meat, &c., completely, and let the contents of the pan come slowly to the boil, skimming care- fully during that period; when the surface seems nicely clear of grease and scum, add a cupful of cold water and two carrots sliced, a turnip, a good piece of celery, a clove of garlic, half a dozen pepper corns, a spoonful of dried sweet- herbs tied up in a bag, a bunch of parsley, some burnt sugar colouring, and salt to taste. As soon as the vegetables have been cooked, remove the pan from the fire, and place it so that it may simmer slowly for a couple of hours : now lift it up, and strain off your gravy : there should be quite a pint and a half of it. Now take a sauce-pan and melt an ounce ot butter at the bottom of it, stir in an ounce of flour and make a brown roux, when the colour satisfies you, add by degrees, stirring as you do so, the pint or so of strong gravy you strained from the stew-pan. Let the contents of your sauce-pan come to the boil, stirring the whole time, and then set it in the bain-marie pan to remain hot till wanted : any fat that may rise during the thickening pro- cess should be skimmed off, but if the gravy be properly made, and skimmed before it is added to the roux there will be. very little to take off in the bain-marie stage. The bain marie remember, is a vessel containing boiling water, and kept over the fire, in which you immerse sauce-pans containing made sauces to preserve them hot for use. Espagnole sauce is therefore, simply a good rich brown giavy, thickened with flour. It depends for its flavour upon the admixture of vegetables, and the true essence of the meat you employ to make it. From this sauce you can proceed ^compose a number of rich preparations as follows • —Hnancihre, Pcmgueux, Bordelaise, Provencale, Gene- voise, Matelotte, Chateaubriand, Begence, Italienne, and liobert with others too numerous to mention. The specialites of the sauces I have enumerated consist in