Jj’OjSSS' fiJTQ SOILED— COJTOLUCDEQ. 92 the heat they want at will. But, with a common cookroom fireplace, the difficulty of maintaining the unvarying gentle heat so highly essential, appears to me to be very great. Daring the boiling of a joint the water should at all times be kept so as to cover it: if there be any loss by evaporation, it should be made good by the addition of cold water. No matter what meat you boil, you will find it improved by the addition of a few vegetables. Custom has ruled that we should put in carrots, and turnips, with boiled beef— turnips, or sweet onions, with boiled mutton,—onions with a rabbit, etc., jmt true cooks add a judicious assortment of herbs,etc.,to every boiled dish. ABombay onion, some celery, a carrot, parsley, a sprig of marjoram, or thyme, a little bag of flavouring materials such as a clove of garlic, a blade of mace, a few cloves, some whole peppers, and the peel of a lime, should always go into the pan with a boiled fowl. Unless you have tried them, you have no idea how these things improve the taste of boiled joints. It is a very capital plan to boil a fowl in the soup-stocJc Herein you have the true essence of economy—no waste. The soup gains all the fowl loses in the boiling, whilst the fowl gains richness and flavour by being done in the stock. One lot of vegetables and herbs suffices for both, and abso- lutely- nothing is thrown away but the muslin bag which contained the spices, garlic, &c. I need hardly remind you that in suggesting this to Ramasamy you will meet with opposition. He will tell you, in all probability, that “ mixted the fowl and soup-meat, cannot come the good taste,” and when you insist upon a trial, he will go away sorrowful, for the broth produced in boiling a fowl, purely and simply, is his perquisite (or rather we do not ask for it) and “ mixted with rice only,” makes with a chilli or two—a bowl of “ pish-pash.” Nevertheless, the fact exists beyond a doubt that a fowl is vastly improved by being thus cooked: it