84 CULIJ4J1I?Y JOWIJJG-S FOIf most soups, we will now consider a variety of little things which, I refrained from attempting in my first chapter. Regarding clear soups again : an idea prevails with some people that these require to be assisted with gelatine, or isinglass, to give them a sort of glutinous consistency. Ramasamy has discovered a very pernicious sort of starch which he produces from a raw-potato, and by this compound the soup in many houses I know is ruined; the potato imparts a crude, inky flavour to the consomme which is hard to describe on paper, but is fatal in its effect upon the palate. Ramasamy should be cautioned on no account to use what he calls “ potato-thickening” again, under any circumstances whatever, and, once for all, let me observe that clear soups require no isinglass. The consomme cannot be too bright and clear. “ Country parsley,” (to my mind) spoils any soup, our natives are very fond of it, I have interdicted its use in my kitchen under pain of a fine. Tarragon is the best flavouring herb you can use in clear soup, but we have only the vinegar in India, not the plant itself, and a leaf or two is, what we desire in soup. I brought out some dried tarragon leaves from England which I have found highly satisfactory, and can safely recommend others to try. Unfortunately tarragon is not included in Crosse and Blackwell’s dried herb list, so you must write, if sufficiently enthusiastic, to a fiiend who has a large kitchen garden, and beg him to till a bottle or two with tarragon leaves carefully dried for you. In London any green-grocer can comply with this order from June till the end of October. Now about thick soups, apart from purees these are perhaps more popular with the majority of English people, than the thin clear. There is an expression of richness and of strength in them which cannot fail to captivate the Briton. °He, therefore, that would gratify his countrymen must frequently offer them a soup which is in itseli a meal. I made the acquaintance of a little French woman in Loudon whose husband kept a pastry cook s shop and was