6g CULTP^RY JOYYIJVG-S FOR JiJkQl&B. sieve, and mingle it with a little rich sauce blonde, or with boiling cream for your birthday, wedding day, or the christening day of your first baby. There is no sauce more popular with judges of good food than Hollandaise; in perfection it is a grand sauce, and not very easy to make. In its homely form it may be described as sauce blanche, to which a few yolks of eggs have been added, and a squeeze of lime juice in its more elaborate treatment it becomes a custard of yolks of eggs, water, vinegar or lime juice, and butter Some are in favor of vinegar, others prefer lime juice, which they work thus . —Beat up the yolks of three eggs in a little water in which some pounded allspice has been dissolved, add salt to. taste, and about three ounces of fresh butter. Put this mixture into a small sauce-pan, and plunge it into a bain mane pan, or stewpan large enough to receive it, full of boiling watei . steam your mixture in this way till it thickens, and stir in your lime juice to finish with. Gouffd’s recipe may be con- densed in this way -.-reduce twotable spoonsful aboutTtea with a little salt and pepper added to it, till about a tea spoonful remains strain, and add to it two table spoonsfu of water, two yolks of eggs; put this on the fire heaUt thoroughly, stirring it well with a wooden spoon, add }ou butter “(four ounces by degrees,) with a little water now an then to prevent its curdling: this process had better be carried out in a bain marie pan, for you thus obtain the amount of gentle heat which is necessary to preserve tl sauce in a velvety condition. Those capital compositions Mayonnaise. Tai'taro. Remou- lade Ravirotte, &c„ are better known as cold sauces, but theie •ire hot forms of preparing Tartare and the two last named not often presented. They are descended from sawe muante which is simply made ii this way :-Fry in melted butter some minced onion with some chopped parsley, «lery kaves garden cress, and one clove of garlic; and °f » gol^n hue add equal "parts of vinegar, and water, or broth and