134 CULIJT^I{Y JOYYTJIGS FOIl JAfiQRfiB. coine across a dissertation on omelette-making which seemed to have been composed by a man who had made one himself. The manner in which I learnt the little I know on the subject was as follows:—I was marching with a Regiment from Bangalore to Secunderabad. At a place called Pennaconda in the Bellary District, I was most hospitably entertained by a member of the Madras Civil Service. Though so far away from any civilized place, the dinner placed before me in the quondam public bungalow in which my host resided, might have graced a ‘petit table in the stranger’s room of a London Club. His breakfast was an equally artistic meal, and was concluded by an omelette,—made on the spot,—by my accomplished friend himself. If this imperfect essay happen to catch his eye, he will, I am sure, forgive the honest tribute of his grate- ful pupil. Calling for a slop-basin, he broke into it four ordinary country fowl’s eggs whole, and added the yolks only of two more. He thus had six yolks, and four whites. These he thoroughly mixed by using two forks : he did not beat them at all. When thoroughly satisfied that incorporation had been effected, he flavoured the mixture with a salt spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of very finely minced shallot, a heaped up table-spoonful of minced curly parsley (grown in his garden) and—to crown all—a table-spoonful of really rich cream. He stirred this for a minute, and, as far as its first stage was concerned, the omelette was ready. We now left the dining-room for the verandah where there was a good charcoal fire in an iron bra- sier, (a half chatty would have sufficed of course) and upon it a pan about ten inches in diameter, very shallow, with a nar- row rim well sloped outwards. A pat of butter was melted in the pan, sufficient in quantity to thoroughly lubricate the whole of its surface, and leave a coating of moisture over all. As soon as ready, quite burning hot,—the butter having ceased to splutter, and beginning to brown,—with one good stir round, the mixture was poured into the pan. At the moment of contact, the under part of the omelette formed, this was rapidly lifted by the spoon, and the unformed portion allowed to run beneath it; the left hand, holding the