55 EJT 'TIIEE 8— C OJT 5C1JJ UE (E>. cloves of garlic chopped up, some whole peppers, a few cloves, a tea spoonful of salt, a couple of tea spoonsful of dried thyme or marjoram, a table spoonful of minced parsley, and a strip or two of lime peel. This mixture can be preserved for daily use, with slight additions from time to time, and the flavour can be modified by changing the sweet herbs, or withdrawing them. The taste of game can be imparted to mutton by placing the meat in a marinade of vinegar, portwine, and walnut ketchup—(a wine glass of each)—in which a table spoonful of red currant jelly has been dissolved; with a pinch of ground spice, some pepper corns, salt, a chopped onion and a dessert spoonful of marjoram and thyme blended. A hash of cold- mutton collops that have lain a few hours in this preparation is very like that of venison, and the fillets of an Indian hare, (a little underdone in the roasting) similarly steeped all day, are really excellent. In this particular instance you must strain the marinade, and add it to the gravy in which the hash or fillets have to be simmered. Marinade need not be made in extravagant quantities ; it should cover the bottom of the dish on which you place the meat, your object being gained by occasional turning, and basting. When wanted, the cook should lift the meat from the dish, let it drain a minute or so, and then proceed to business. Independently of the method in which you purpose to cook them, a great deal depends upon the careful trimming of a dish of mutton cutlets. How uninviting do these miniature chops look when they have been cut anyhow from the joint to which they belonged ? First, saw off the ends of the row of bones level, and cut off the outer flap.; now take a very sharp knife, and divide the row of cutlets down to the bone with one clean decided cut between each of'them, and, lastly, sever them with a single stroke of the chopper. Now lay them on your board, and give them a few strokes with your cutlet bat, trim them into shape, and then place them in the marinade. The hungry man may be able, no doubt, to eat the cutlets his cook may send