JtEJVU FOJf Jl EJU^EY OF EIGHY. £16 this off veiy carefully and the soup will be ready to serve, tureen61 t SP00nfUl °f Madeira is enougl1 wine for the whole 2. This is a dish of fish au gratin. Divide a good cut Seer, Neopolitan fa- of se®r figb lnto slices, parboil them, and cut them into portions about large shion, „ • nu , et)ough for each guest. Boil some mac- caiom till tender: slice up some nice ripe tomatoes, have your bottle of Parmesan cheese by your side, and a plate upon whichyou should turn out the mushrooms only (not the giavy) of a tm of black Leicestershire mushrooms. Now butter a nice sized pie-dish (not too deep in the sides) and ar- range the maccaroni on the bottom of it: dust over the mac- carom a little of the Parmesan : now put a layer of the sliced tomatoes and arrange your portions of fish upon it with a piece of mushroom between each of them, and a slice of tomato in the centre of each : give a light surface dressing o Parmesan ; pour a little melted butter over it, and bake the dish for about a quarter of an hour. A little pepper and salt m i rnu -ken gently over each layer as you pack the dish. I here is so much moisture in the tomatoes, that no wine or gravy should be added. The oven should be quite hot. 3- This I gave in menu No. IV; choose some nice neck Mutton cutlets in jelly Ch°PS °/ ^ beSt mutt0Il, lard them with ravigotte sauce. ar*d introduce some pieces of truffle with the point of a sharp knife: m:ake a gravy of the trimmings, and stew the chops gently till tendei. Set them to get cold, and place a weight over them. When ready, pack them in a mould of aspic jelly, and serve with sauce ravigotte (page 74) for a change. 4. Take eight stale dinner rolls, tinned, of about two „ , £11 , inches in diameter: cut them so as to rabbit. leave a case a little more than an inch deep : scoop out every atom of crumb and trim the tops that you cut off neatly, so as to fit the top of the hollowed rolls. Boil a small rabbit, boil two sheeps’ tongues, grate some ham or lean bacon, boil a few sweet-breads if you can get them, have