176 CULIJl^Y J0YYIJ7G-S F0% MfiQFJlE. dency: why permit such waste ? the trouble of making a few bottles of this conserve would be amply repaid when the plants have died down. A spoonful or two of the preserve, thinned with a very little stock, and with a pat of butter worked into it, would at all times be handy for dressing mac- caroni. A dusting of finely grated cheese should, of course, accompany it. Here is a ' foreign composition’ which I commend to the at- tention of those who like Italian cookery :—Mince a clove of garlic, a shallot, three anchovies, boned and well wiped from the tin oil, and four olives, put the mince into a small sauce- pan with three table-spoonsful of the best salad oil,boil till the bits of garlic and onion begin to brown, and then turn the mixture into a sauce-pan containing a large dish of hot boiled maccaroni, stir it well, and serve. An Italian cook would probably put in half a dozen, or more, cloves of garlic : in the proportions I have given, however, I do not think the taste of the bulb will be considered more prononce than it is in chutneys, and numerous dishes made in India which we eat without murmuring. The accepted form of serving maccaroni with English- men is either swimming in white sauce round a boiled fowl, or turkey, or in a pie-dish “ au gratin’’ The former is generally presented in such a flabby, tasteless manner, that the general unpopularity of the Italian paste may be easily accounted for. The “ au gratin’’ is better understood, but even there, there is room for im- provement. First boil the maccaroni as I have laid down, if in milk or stock, so much the better. Well butter a pie-dish, arrange the maccaroni therein neatly, give it a dusting with black pepper and salt, pour round it a cupful of good sauce blanche (q. v., page 66) in which you have mixed two ounces of grated cheese : let this run well in amongst the bed of maccaroni, and shake over the surface a liberal coating of grated cheese. Make this thoroughly hot, in the oven, brown the surface of the cheese by passing a hot iron about half an inch above it, and send it up. Mac-