EGGS, JAJlCCJH{OJT.I, jfiJTQ CHEESE. 175 Another excellent method may be described as follows:— Make a breakfast capful of good chicken broth flavoured with an onion, sweet herbs, and black pepper corns. With that make a nice “veloute cm fromage” in this way:—melt an ounce of butter in a sauce-pau, stir into it a table-spoonful of flour, mix them to a paste and by degrees pour in the chicken broth; as this is heating up, add to it two ounces of grated cheese, or Parmesan from the bottle, a table-spoon- ful of powdered mustard, salt, and spiced pepper,” at discretion ; continue to stir the sauce until it reaches a creamy thickness, when you can finish it by a table-spoonful of cream. Now put into the sauce two ounces of boiled maccaroni, heat it up well without boiling, and serve. The association of tomatoes with maccaroni seems to be as happy as that of green peas with a duckling, egg sauce with salt fish, or red currant jelly with a well hung saddle. These vegetables are generally applied in the form of pur€e, to achieve which you must cut them into quarters, trim them from stalk, &c., and put them into a sauce-pan with just sufficient water to cover them, a few pepper corns, two or three cloves of garlic, a tea-spoonful of dried basil, and a little salt; boil till the quarters are quite soft, and then turn the contents of the sauce-pan out upon a hair sieve. Let the watery part escape, you do not want it, and when thus drained, pick out the garlic, and rub the vegetable through the sieve with a wooden spoon: the pulp that comes through,—well peppered with black pepper,—must be heated again with a lump of butter before it is mixed with the maccaroni. Maccaroni with “ conserva di pomi d’oro” is an Italian delicacy. The conserva is, as may readily be supposed, a regular jam made by reducing a good quantity of the puree aforesaid in a sauce-pan over the fire, stirring it without ceasing until it attains the consistency of paste. This may be preserved in bottles, and if securely corked, and waxed, will keep well. During their season tomatoes absolutely rot on the ground in many a private garden in this Presi-