JIFJIU FOIl fi (PJUtTY OF SIX. 225 the custard is obviously optional. I have found a slight deviation from this receipt very nice, viz.:—simply make a small omelette flavoured with parsley and shallot, a slight degree more firm than you have it for breakfast: let it get cold, and cut it up for the soup with the vegetable cutter into various pretty shapes. Grated Parmesan should be handed round. 2.—Divide your Pomfret, maitre d’hotel fashion. pomfret into nice fillets, egg them on one side, and shake over the egg some finely minced curled parsley only. Boil the fillets,—neatly rolled up and skewered, in gravy made from their own bones and trim- mings, and dish them on a hot dish as soon as they are done. Now melt an ounce of butter in a small sauce-pan, throw in a table-spoonful of chopped curled parsley, and finish the sauce, off the fire, with the yolk of an egg beaten up with the juice of a lime : pour over the fillets and serve. S.—Lightly roast six 37oung pigeons : slice the breasts of the birds off whole, and place the six BOTdeiaise°sauce!°n Wlth so obtained tn marinade in oil, vinegar, minced parsley, and shallot. Take the bones, trimmings, livers, &c., and put them into a sauce-pan with a good breakfast cupful of gravy; sim- mer this until you have extracted all the goodness from your pigeon scraps, and then strain it. Now chop up an onion, and one clove of garlic (a sine qua non) very small : stir a piece of butter the size of an hen’s egg at the bottom of a sauce-pan over the fire, and throw in your chopped onion, &c., let it slightly brown, and then add the gravy you previously made, with two or three tomatoes chopped into dice, pepper and salt to taste, and the juice of a lime, with one glass of claret. Bring this sauce to boiling point, let it simmer awhile, and then strain it. Replace it in the sauce-pan, thicken it with a little flour, and place your six fillets in it to gently heat up without coming to the boil; when quite hot, place the fillets in their dish, pouring the sauce round them and serve, with a crisply fried curl of bacon, between each of them.