268 JdEJTU F01? fi LI6E6LLB HOJvLE QIJVJJEI?, fyc. and creamy, add a cupful of consomme, stirring via-orouslv and continue to add consommi and kidney paste by decrrees working them well together, till you have used them up’ now let the purte come to the boil; add a glass of port a tea-spoonful of red currant jelly, and a tea-spoonful of <mod vinegar, stir well for a minute over the fire, and serve with croutons of fried bread. Like all purges, a coffee cupful of boiling cream or a coffee cupful of milk in which the yolk of an &&& has been stirred, may be added to this soup off the fire for additional richness. This puree will be found so like a game soup that many will doubt its having any connection with kidneys. In hot trying weather, a rich sustaining soup of this kind is very acceptable. 2- Choose a nice crab, have it boiled, cleaned, and picked : Baked crab. place the meat in a soup plate, and ,„ . £^ve ^ a dust of black pepper. Boil till tender, sufficient maccaroni to line the bottom of a small pie-dish, and grate a tea-cupful of mild cheese. Now rub the bottom of the pie-dish with butter, place the macca- nmi thereon,and pour some melted butter over the maccaroni. bhake a dust of grated cheese over its surface. Next place the crab meat, well worked with melted butter, over the maccaroni, and, as you arrange it, dust it with spiced pepper. Over the crab, dredge a nice dressing of the grated j o e eighth of an inch deep, and pour a little melted butter over the surface. Bake till the top takes colour, and serve. No sauce is necessaiy with this, but if you like, you can send round a sauce piquante, or any plain sharp relish of that class. Vegetables are sometimes scarce at Madras, and our Beefsteak stewed with variety for this dish somewhat meagre; vegetables. but we can always get delicious Bom- bay onions, fair French beans, and carrots. Turnips seem too strong late in the season, so I would not advise your using them. Choose a nice steak, iy it, to begin with till it takes a nice brown colour on both sides, then put it into your stew-pan, with half a pint of