58 OULIJJJIIIY JOWWG-S FOi? JAJIQW- of them together, in the thorough pounding and incorpora- tion thereof, in the selection of the condiments he employs to improve them, and so on, that the skill of the good cook can be detected. If you preserve your own ox tongues in this country, and keep one generally ready for use, you will have a very valuable thing to fall back upon for “ made ’ entrees: cured sheep’s tongues, too, are very useful, and a little lamb s liver is sometimes a good thing to have at hand in case of need. Calves’ liver cut into dice, and fried with some shallot in the pan in which some fat bacon has been melted, then set to get cold, and pounded in the mortar, forms the well known minced meat which surrounds a pate de foie gras and all French pdtes. The frying-pan should be rubbed with garlic before operations are commenced and some minced onion should go in with the liver: if you add to the mix- ture when pounded the minced trimmings of any truffles you may have been using, the flavour will be exactly that of the pate. A little jar of this composition, made at home, will be found well worth the trouble it costs to make, when you are preparing (say) a dish of croquettes de volaille and want to improve the flavour of them. The same hints I have given regarding the bread-crumb- ing of mutton cutlets, hold good with reference to the crumb- ing of croquettes. If possible, indeed, you should be more particular in preparing your crumbs. Bread crisped in the oven and then pounded in the mortar produces the chapeiuie used by French cooks. The sauces of this kind of entice require the utmost study, and will be treated of hereafter. Touching the highest class of entrees it is impossible to say very much in the way of advice. You must go in fora little more expense than you did in classes one and two. Butter, cream, truffles, mushrooms, special gravy meat &c must not be shirked, but be given to the cook with a, hberal hand. As your Goufffl bids you, so must you proceed with- out a murmur.