ifOjSS^r J1]<T(D SOILEQ—COJTZIfTUECD; 89 herbs, and that you cannot get parsley ; why not secure the colour by a good spoonful of spinach greening, it is almost tasteless, and the colour is a great thing in stuffing. This, carefully made, is Martha’s ordinary veal, or turkey stuffing, and ought to taste just as nice here as that we so well remember at home. Forcemeats are, of course, added to, and perhaps improved, by chopped ham, tongue, liver, mushrooms, bacon, a little anchovy, a casual oyster, and, of course, truffles. The addi- tion of these things should, however, be thoughtfully carried out, and the proportions on no account left at hap-hazard to the tender mercy of the average Ramasamy. Amongst the many barbarous tricks of Native cooks, there is an especial one which I ought to have brought to prominent notice before. I refer to the method which obtains in the cookroom of removing the feathers from poul- try, geese, ducks, and game. I cannot call it “plucking,” for, as many of you know, the feathers are got rid of whole- sale by plunging the bird into scalding hot-water ! The immediate effect of this ignorant habit is to harden and parch the skin of the fowl, to prevent the proper exudation of moisture during roasting, and to render the flesh dry and tasteless. Birds must be plucked by hand, and their small down must be singed. To ensure this being done in your kitchen, order all birds to be brought for inspection when trussed for cooking, and the smallest experience will enable you to detect the parchment-like skin of the scalded bird, from that of the hand-plucked one, which will be cool and soft, with an unmistakable freshness which the other cannot have. A basket containing the feathers should also be shown, for they will expose scalding in a minute. It is needlessto say that game is ruthlessly spoiled by this trick of the kitchen, and even the chicken destined for a curry is robbed of half its flavour by being scalded first. The prac- tice is, of course, the offspring of idleness,—a subterfuge to escape trouble. ° I would also point out that the common way of killing poultry m this country is inhuman, and, in a culinary