27 OJT 80TJ<P-JvljlKIJ7G. bouquet of sweet herbs and spice,—the salt, sugar, and a small allowance of sauce and ketchup. Now a period of three hours to simmer, followed by straining: the liquor you have after this is actually consomme or strong broth quite clear and pale. Removing the fat whilst the simmering is going on is obviously a very important stage which cannot be too patiently manipulated. The fat so obtained is in- valuable for frying purposes. It should be melted, and strained through a piece of muslin after it has settled. It may so happen that owing to insufficient skimming in the early stage of the proceedings, you find to your sorrow that the consomme is not as clear as you could wish :—you must therefore clarify it. There are two good ways of doing this :—the simpler, and I believe, more efficacious of the two is to put into the cool broth some very small fragments of raw beef, free from fat, put it on the fire again tifl it boils, then strain. Perhaps, however, you may not have saved a bit of meat for this contingency, so you must attain your object with the white of an egg, thusBreak an egg, and throw the white and the shell together into a slop basin,—be careful not to let an atom of the yolk go in,—beat the white and shell up to a stiff froth, and mix it, flake by flake very completely with the cool soup, put it on the fire stirring well till it boils. Take it off immediately, cover it close let it stand tor a quarter of an hour, and then stiain it off through the tamis, or hair sieve. Let me here point out the cause of another misadventure m the satisfactory appearance of a clear soup,—one that en occuis in consomme with maccaroni, vermicelli, and [\eaV tai ?-U hay?. °ot y°ur stock as bright and clear as sherry, but after adding the ingredients just mentioned a change comes over the spirit of your dream ’’—the soun food8of the y' The leai°n iS fch'S : a11 Preserved> farinaceous lood of the maccaroni class contains dirt,—dirt that vou do not perceive, and which can only be removed by parboiling Accordmglj, whenever you intend- to add it £ Zltmt