240 JtEJJU FOI? fi QIjrprEI? OF FOUIl minutes, then, if you find the sauce too thick and, or as cooks say, “ stodgy,” dilute it with a little more gravy till it assumes the consistency of a rich puree, ease the fire and let the sauce simmer for an hour. At the end of that time it will be ready to accompany your cutlets, which should be drained from their marinade, dipped in melted butter, and gulled over a bright clear fire. Prepare a circle of mashed potato,fill it with thesauce burning hot, and arrange the cutlets round the outside of the circle, with bunches of water- cress for garnish, A really tasty cold dish, garnished with blocks of Galantine of capon. bl’°kerl aSPic fche whole fresh from the ice box, and accompanied by a good salad is, to my mind, a worthy piece de resistance for a little dinner party at Madras in the month of May. A galantine too, is a dish that is well adapted for a Neilgherry picnic, so let us discuss the following recipe :—Choose a fine fowl, capon, or hen-turkey; purchase one of Crosse and Blackwell’s “picnic tongues” (in the round tins) and proceed as follows: Having cleaned the bird, and hav- ing carefully saved the liver, heart, and gizzard, lay it breast downwards on a board, and proceed to bone it (Rama- sanry does this generally very cleverly) you may sever the pinions, legs, and neck, but draw the skin carefully over the places, and sew them up, so that the outer skin may be as whole as possible. Cut off all the meat from the pinions and legs (removing the sinew) and flatten the carcass before you with a cutlet bat. Make a forcemeat as follows :—five ounces bread-crumb stale, five ounces minced fat bacon, the rind of a lime minced fine, a dessert-spoonful each of thyme and marjoram, spiced pepper, salt, a table- spoonful of minced parsley, all bound with three eggs : mix this as previously described and keep it by your side in a basin. Now turn out the “ picnic tongue,” straighten it, and cut a solid piece of the best meaty part to form the centre of your galantine: it should be nearty as long as the carcass of the fowl (leaving room for folding up) and nearly the full thickness of the tongue after the skin has been peeled off. Slice up the remainder of the tongue, separating fat slices