51 HIJtfES MOU<Z EJTXIIEES. Having thus arranged the various dishes which come under the head of entrees in a systematic form, the task of selection therefrom must be governed by the sort of dinner you intend to give, the different items that compose your menu, and the capabilities of your cook. As a rule, jmu should generally, for the sake of contrast, select one dish from class one, and the other from either class two, or three; or an iced entree followed by one from either of the two richer classes. Never attempt to give more than two entrees, be your dinner a banquet for forty covers, or a party of eight friends. The menu of the best mess dinner I ever attended in India (given to a late Governor of Madras whose taste in culinai’y matters was proverbial) contained but one iced, and one elaborate entree. These were of course served separately, and to provide against delay, there were (for forty guests) four dishes formed of each composition. In ordering your entrees you should carefully consider the amount of work your cook will have upon his hands at the critical time of serving them, and bear in mind that the more he has to do then, the more likely will he be to make mistakes. How can it be expected that a cook can serve equally well two hot entries demanding attentive manipulation up to the last moment ? Select, therefore, for one of your side- dishes something that can be prepared beforehand and easily heated when required, so that your chefs attention need not be distracted from the other. On these grounds t le iced entree is a grand invention : it can be made early in the day, and then set in the ice-box, ready to follow the fash without delay, and the sauce can also be similarly tieated. Dishes that merely require heating in the oven i are a godsend to a cook, for he can compose them at his leisure during the afternoon, and put them aside till within i ^ lew minutes of the time when they are wanted, keeping their sauces nice and hot in the bain-marie pan. But the unhappy man who has (say) to turn out a dish of cutlets & la Maintenon, with delicately grilled kramouskys aux