177 EGGS, MTQ? CHEESE. caroni “ au gratin’’ should be nice and moist: you can use cream instead of sauce blanche if you like, and tomato puree may be introduced in its composition. A little minced fish like herring, prawns, lobster, or anchovy, may be dotted about amongst the maccaroni, and with minced ham and chicken, or tongue and chicken, you can make a capital home-dinner entree, following in other respects the ordinary recipe. Several dishes will be found in my menus in which maccaroni figures, for I have the highest opinion of its merits in savoury cookery. The rules I have given will, I think, be found reliable with respect to all kinds of Italian paste, and I sincerely hope that what I have said may be the means of drawing my fellow exiles’ attention to a comestible which deserves far greater attention than it receives. An inexpensive article of food which, with a little attention, may be made a luxury, is surely a thing that the banished lover of good things can ill afford to despise. The “fondue’’ or “ cheese souffle” is the dish par excel- lence of which when successfully made, the good cook has just cause to be proud.' It requires the most delicate man- Iagement, and an atom will ruin the undertaking, for with all souffles, to fall short of perfection means failure. Prac- tice and experience go a long way towards turning out this piece de resistance satisfactorily, it is nevertheless one of those things in which the best hand may occasionally err; so, for a dinner party, beware of placing too great confidence in it, have another dish ready to go round in case the fondue fail to “ come off,” and don’t enter it in your menu. Here is the best recipe I ever read for this dish:— “ Melt an ounce of butter in an enamelled sauce-pan, and stir into it a table-spoonful of flour. When the two are well amalgamated, put in a small quantity of milk, and about three ounces of grated Parmesan cheese. Stir the mixture on a very slow fire till it assumes the ap- pearance of thick cream, and beware of its becom- ing too hot, or boiling, for that would be fatal. Now