142 CULIjV^IfY J0TTIJ7G8 FOJf J£Jk<£I(JkB. . heart-shaped, two inches in diameter if round, and two inches square if rectangular, try these a pale golden colour in butter, and set them on a dish to get cold. To complete the canape, first spread a layer of “green butter” over each fried piece of bread, upon that place a layer of prawn meat pounded with butter, and slightly seasoned with Nepaul pepper; smooth this with a dessert knife, place a leaf of lettuce (cut from the golden heart,) upon the top of the prawn meat, and a piece of beetroot shaped with your cutter. Over each canape when thus prepared, and placed in the dish for serving, pour a table-spoonful of rich, thickly worked, mayonnaise sauce, and a little chopped olive, or chopped capers, or the two mixed, may be judiciously sprinkled over each cap of mayonnaise di’essing. Instead of prawn meat, you can use chicken, worked as for quenelles, an atom of the divine truffle might then be added to each canape, and the thinnest slice of tongue might cover it. Instead of lettuce, a few sprigs of the flower of cold cauliflower can be introduced, or any cold vegetable of a delicate kind, asparagus points to wit. Any fish may be used in this fashion :—caviare, cod’s roe, lobster, herring a la sardine, sardines, and anchovies. Fancy some neatly picked fillets of the last named fish, wiped free from oil, and the skin and bones removed, reposing on the green butter; over them a goodly sprinkling of sliced olives, then the lettuce, &c., as previously described—“ say dost thou like the picture ?” In houses where the cook can really master an omelette properly, one with Parmesan, or laid upon a fricassee of cauliflower flowers, or composed aux points d'asperges, or aux truffes, may safely form an item of your choicest lun- cheon bill of fare. Here is a pretty little recipe for an Italian dish which, to my mind, sounds worthy of a trial, and well adapted for a mid-day festival: take a fillet of beef (the undercut of the sirloin please) preserve it whole after trimming it into