Fi?i<r<rEits. 158 I have already indicated the vegetables which make good fritters, and repeat here my high opinion of that method of treating them. Try this:—pound a dish of boiled prawns in the mortar with some butter, and weak gravy; when quite worked to a puree, incorporate them with the batter mixture, and drop it by dessert spoonsful at a time, into your sawihf-pan: let them cook till they turn a rich golden brown, and are as crisp as biscuits then drain, and serve them on a napkin. If you omit the prawn purde, and simply fry spoonsful of the plain batter, you will have “ pancake fritters,” which may be either sent up as a savoury entremet, to be eaten with butter, pepper, and salt; or as a sweet one, when they must be dusted over with powdered sugar, and sprinkled with lime juice. In the latter case, a spoonful of brandy shaken over the fritters improves their general effect. All fruit fritters can be cooked in the batter I have described. Peaches, apricots, pears, and apples make deli- cious fritters; the pineapple is equally amenable to the saute- pan; whilst oranges and our lowly plantain are not to be despised. For the four former fruits we must look to the tin; those that come to us from America are specially to be recommended. Pineapples, when in season, can be procured in the market; if out of season, the American tinned slices are capital substitutes. Oranges can be used in their season, and the plantain is a perennial friend. Whatever fruit be chosen, let it be set en marinade in liqueur, brandy, or rum. Delicate fruits require liqueur, the pineapple is better associated with rum, the plantain and orange are thankful for either rum or brandy. A wineglass is enough. The fruit, sliced, and prepared for the “ beignets,” should be laid in a soup-plate, dusted over with sugar, and sprinkled with the brandy, or liqueur. After an hour, the slices should be turned over, basted again, and that should be repeated during the afternoon, until they are required by the cook.