RICKEI'S. 46 Os. D. i. 18 (531)- femur, with a forward and inward curvature of the shaft from rickets. The inferior articular surface, which looks downwards and outwards, is very distinctly altered from arthritis deformans affecting the knee. Os. D. i. 19 (480). The femur of an adult, measuring in its maxi- mum length only 24-5 cm., probably the result of arrested development brought about by rickets in early life. The head of the bone is depressed, so that its upper surface is on a level below that of the trochanter major. In the region of the anterior intertrochanteric line, there is a circumscribed area covered by a crust of porous new bone. The small trochanter projects almost directly backwards, and the gluteal ridge is unusually prominent. The shaft, which is flattened antero-posteriorly, pre- sents a slight degree of curvature outwards. The inferior end of the bone is broad and flat, and the margins of the articular surface are very markedly “lipped,” probably the result of arthritis deformans of the knee-joint. Os. D. i. 20 (532). A similar specimen, from which the head and lower end of the bone have been removed with the saw. Os. D. i. 21 (525)- "l"he femur of a young subject, in which the epiphyses have not yet united. The shaft is flattened from side to side, and presents an extensive curvature forwards. Os. D. i. 22 (535). T he femur of a child, in which the shaft is flattened from before backwards and curved outwards and forwards. Os. D. i. 23 (538). A Tibia and Fibula, the shafts of which, in consequence of rickets, are remarkably curved inwards and flattened. The curvature is considerable, the two bones remain- ing parallel with each other. At the most prominent part of its curve, which is about the centre of the bone, the shaft of the fibula measures about 3*5 cm. in width, but not more than I cm. in thickness. Os. D. i. 24 (539). A tibia and fibula similarly curved and flattened, and unusually short from arrested development, the result of rickets in early life. A little above the most prominent part of the curvature the two bones are anchylosed to each other by a narrow bridge of bone. The curvature is so very extreme that the inferior articular surface of the tibia looks upwards and out- wards. Os. D. i. 25 (543). T he tibia of an adult, curved like a bow with the convexity inwards; the shaft is very considerably flattened from before backwards. There is a small bony projection on the sharp inner border of the shaft in its upper third, while on the posterior aspect of the bone, near its lower end, there is a circumscribed depression with raised irregular edges, probably produced by the pressure of an exostosis springing from the fibula.