266 KIDNEY. Gren.-U. A. W. vi. 3 (1311-1312). Retention Cysts in Kidney. Organ shewing chronic interstitial changes; capsule thickened and adherent; lines of vessels in the cortex distorted and irregular; larger vessels shew fibrous thickening. A large retention cyst is seen at the lower part of the organ, and a number of similar smaller cysts are present in the cortex under the capsule, one of these being seen in section at the upper part of the cut surface. The adherent capsule has been stripped off the smaller section, and demonstrates that the cysts are in the substance of the organ. Arteries injected with vermilion. Gen.-U. A. W. vi. 4 (1306). Retention Cysts in Kidney. One large and several smaller cysts, due to blocking of the tubules and their subsequent dilatation with retained secretion, are seen bulging under the capsule. The latter is thickened and adherent. Gen.-U. A. W. vi. 5 (1305). Retention Cysts in Kidney. These are most frequently due to blocking and dilatation of tubules in the cortex. Other evidence of chronic interstitial change is seen in the imperfect stripping of the capsule which has been firmly adherent to the organ, irregular tags and layers of fibrous tissue being left still adhering to its surface. Over the largest retention cyst, the whole thickness of the capsule has been left, owing to the difficulty of removing it without tearing the cyst wall. The renal artery is injected, and shews marked thicken- ing of its walls. The pelvis (injected) and ureter are dilated. Gen.-U. A. W. vi. 6 (1314). Portion of Kidney shewing num- erous small retention cysts, thickening of vessels, and interstitial changes. Gen.-U. A. W. vi. 7 (1318). Large Retention Cyst in Cortex of Kidney immediately under capsule. VII. Mixed Tumours. Gen.-U. A. w. vii. Gen.-U. A. W. vii. 1 (1294). Mixed Malignant Tumour of Kidney involving the upper part of the organ. The surface shews irregular nodulation corresponding to the irregularly rounded, alveolar structure seen on section. Infiltration of the kidney substance is occurring at margin of tumour, which appears to originate from suprarenal tissue. There is also cartilage present, the tumour being probably due to embryonic intermingling. Gen.-U. A. W. vii. 2 (1291). Mixed Malignant Tumour of Kidney. Portion of a large carcinomatous tumour affecting the organ. The whole mass was very soft and extremely vascular, and weighed about 40 lbs. The cut surface shews an arrange- ment of the tumour into large irregularly rounded areas mapped out by lines of fibrous tissue. Translucent areas of cartilage are seen at some parts of the tumour, which has probably originated from embryonic intermingling of tissues.