25 GUNSHOT INJURIES. the posterior surface, and emerged opposite tl\e inner condyle of the femur. The articular surfaces of the bones shew destructive changes, characteristic of suppurative arthritis. The superior tibio-fibular articulation is also destroyed. Os. B.f.54 (A 23). A similar specimen illustrating the results of suppurative arthritis in the knee following on gunshot injury. Death occurred on the twenty-ninth day. Os.B.f.55 (A 35)- The lower third of a femur, shewing extensive destruction of the outer aspect of the internal condyle caused by a musket-ball. From a man aged 45. Amputated on the twenty-fifth day. Os. B.f. 56 (A 37). A comminuted fracture of the internal condyle of the femur implicating the articular surface. The ball is seen lodged in the cancellated texture of the condyle. Primary amputation was performed. The patient was a youth of 18. Os. B. f. 57 (A 40). A gunshot comminuted fracture of the inner condyle of the femur, in the substance of which the ball is buried. The articular surface is fissured across. Suppurative arthritis supervened, and the limb was amputated on the twenty-first day. (From a man aged 24.) Os. B.f. 58 (A41). The lower end of the femur, and the patella of the left side, from a man aged 23. A musket-ball comminuted the outer border of the patella and lodged in the external con- dyle of the femur. The man died on the eighth day. Os. B. f 59 (A 38). The lower third of a femur, shewing a musket- ball lodged a little above the external condyle, just at the junc- tion of the epiphysis with the shaft. The fracture extends to the edge of the articulating surface of the bone. Removed by primary amputation. Os. B. f. 60 (A 31). The bones of the knee-joint, removed by amputation twenty-seven days after a gunshot injury, in which the ball entered at the front and inner aspect of the tibia and came out through the head of the fibula. In the former splinter- ing and fissuring extend down into the shaft and upwards into the knee-joint. The articular surfaces have been destroyed by suppurative arthritis. Os. B.f 61 (A 27). The upper ends of the Tibia and Fibula of a man aged 40, shewing the track of a ball which entered the posterior aspect of the tibia close to the articulation with the fibula, shattered the head of the latter, and penetrated the capsule of the joint. Death occurred on the tenth day. Os. B. f 62 (A 30). The upper end of a tibia, in which a musket- ball passed directly through the head of the bone from behind forwards, carrying in with it a portion of the outer table of the bone. A large sequestrum of the cancellated tissue occupies the track of the ball. There is also a fissure extending across the