GUNSHOT INJURIES. 21 Os. B.f. 19 (A 58), Three Ribs shewing the manner in which they are snapped across when struck by a musket-ball. Os. B. f. 20 (B 14.). A comminuted fracture of the fifth rib near its middle, and of the axillary border and body of the scapula, caused by a musket-ball which entered the thorax between the sixth and seventh costal cartilages on the right side, made a breach in the diaphragm, and lacerated the subjacent portion of the liver; it then passed upwards, wounding slightly the three lobes of the lung on that side, fractured the fifth rib, and made its outward passage through the scapula. The patient, a soldier, who committed suicide by pointing his musket to his breast and pulling the trigger with his toe, survived the injury about twenty- four hours. (Presented by Dr Handyside.) Gunshot Injuries of the Upper Exire?nity. Os. B.f. 21 (A57). A recent comminuted fracture of the right Clavicle. Os. B.f 22 (A42). The upper end of the Humerus of a young man, aged 18, in which the head of the bone is almost com- pletely split by a musket-ball in two directions, one transversely, nearly parallel with the epiphysial cartilage, and the other at right angles to this, extending upwards across the articular sur- face. Part of the scarlet jacket is seen firmly impacted between the ball and the bone. Death occurred on the eleventh day. Os. B.f. 23 (A 55). The head and neck of the humerus, and a narrow tongue-shaped splinter of the outer shell of the shaft, about 6*5 cm. long, separated from the remainder of the humerus by a ball entering at the bicipital groove. From a man aged 35. Os. B.f 24 (A75). The upper two-thirds of the humerus of a man aged 30, shewing an extensive comminuted fracture caused by a musket-ball. Death occurred on the thirty-fifth day. Os. B. f. 25 (A 73). The middle portion of the shaft of the humerus of a young man, aged 18, fractured and fissured by a ball which entered on the outer side of the right arm. There is a consider- able deposit of recent spongy bone on the periosteal surface. The limb was amputated on account of haemorrhage on the fourteenth day. )(A 53)- A portion of the shaft of a humerus of a man aged 26, shewing an extensively splintered frac- ture caused by a musket-ball. (A 54)- The lower end of the same humerus. Os. B. f. 27 (A 56). The lower end of a humerus of a man aged 20, shewing a comminuted fracture of the lower end of the shaft, with extensive splintering of the bone, caused by a musket-ball.