14 FRACTURES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. Os. B. e. 52 (Y 8). The Tibia and Fibula of a young subject; the former bone is fractured at its lower end, the latter through its upper and lower fourths. 'There is considerable deformity from the angular displacement of the different fragments. Os. B. e. 53 (I22). A tibia and fibula, shewing several fractures, which were probably caused by falling from a height on to the feet. The tarsal extremities of both bones are smashed into pieces. 'I'he shaft of the tibia is also broken through the junc- tion of its middle and lower thirds, the line of fracture running obliquely from behind, downwards and forwards ; it would appear that the sharp lower end of the upper fragment pierced the skin, making the fracture a compound one, for changes resulting from suppurative inflammation are to be seen along the edges of both fragments and on the adjacent periosteal surfaces. There is another fracture at the extreme upper end of the fibula; here the upper end of the lower fragment has been driven by the violent impact for some little distance into the substance of the head of the bone. Os. B. e. 54(123). ^ beautiful specimen of compound com- minuted fracture of the tibia through the middle of its shaft, fol- lowed by suppurative inflammation. A large fragment of the bone has perished, and appears as a loose sequestrum lying in the interval between the broken ends of the shaft. The latter are surrounded by a considerable mass of new bone, which unites them to the fibula. Os. B. e. 55 (124). The tibia and fibula of the right side fractured through the lower third of their shafts, and united with over- lapping of the fragments. The fibula is broken at a higher level than the tibia. Os. B. e. 56 (125)* The bones from a very severe case of com- minuted fracture of the leg, probably produced by falling on the feet from a height; the fracture was probably rendered compound by penetration of the skin by the fragments. Suppurative in- flammation supervened, and a large portion of the tibial shaft has perished, and is seen as a discoloured sequestrum embedded in the new bone uniting the various fragments together. Os. B. e.,57 (126). A compound fracture of the lower end of the fibula, with suppuration and elevation of the periosteum in part, and consequent exfoliation of the compact outer shell of the upper fragment. The arteries have been injected. Os. B. e. 58 (127). A tibia and fibula; the former has been frac- tured immediately above the ankle-joint, the latter about 7^5 cm. higher up; the two bones have become united to each other by bone both at the site of the fibular fracture and imme- diately below the head of the fibula. Os. B. e. 59 (128). A fracture of the shaft of the fibula in its upper fourth ; well united.