169 STOMACH. mucous membrane shews signs of chronic catarrh. From a woman aged 24, who died of tubercular disease of lungs, liver, and kidneys. Al. D. d. 2 (815)- Large Chronic Gastric Ulcer on posterior wall, near lesser curvature. The ulcerative process has opened into the splenic artery and caused fatal haemorrhage. Portions of the liver and pancreas are adherent to the stomach. Presented by Professor Spence. Al. D.d. 3(8i5flf). Chronic Gastric Ulcer. At the base is seen an opening into the splenic vein. A portion of pancreas is left in situ. Al. D. d. 4 (816). Ulcer of Stomach. Cardiac end of stomach, shewing a small circular ulcer, about half an inch in diameter, near the cardiac orifice. An aneurism of a branch of the cor- onary artery has formed in the floor of the ulcer, and projects into the cavity. Al. D. d. 5. Chronic Perforating Ulcer. The ulcer is situated on the posterior wall near the lesser curvature, and has penetrated the walls of the stomach, but was adherent posteriorly to the other viscera. From a woman 21 years of age. Presented by Professor Greenfield, 1888. Al. D. d. 6 (818). Chronic Gastric Ulcer. An oval perforation with callous margin is seen near the pylorus, which is thickened and contracted. There is great hypertrophy of the muscular coat. Pigmentation—the result of previous haemorrhages—is seen. There is also a worm-eaten appearance of the mucous membrane. Al. D. d. 7 (820). Chronic Gastric Ulcer. A perforation occupies about half the extent of the floor of the ulcer, the rest being formed by the adherent pancreas. The margin of the ulcer is very thick, especially at one side, and there is stellate puckering in the surrounding gastric wall. Injected specimen. Al. D.d. 8 (840). Duodenal Ulcer. An ulcer with thickened edges and a small oval perforation is seen adjoining the pyloric orifice. There is evidence of inflammation on the serous surface. Al. D. d. 9 (817). Ulcer of Stomach. Section of stomach, with part of liver attached. The stomach shews a very large oval-shaped ulcer, measuring nearly 4 inches by 3 inches, with thickened, elevated, and somewhat undermined edges. The floor is adherent to the liver, the substance of which is partially eroded. See Medical and Surgical Journal^ October 1835.