I71 STOMACH. There was very extensive chronic syphilitic osteitis and perio- stitis ; gummata in the liver, right suprarenal capsule, and lung; waxy disease of liver, kidneys, etc. Presented by Professor Greenfield, 1888. Al. D. f. 8. Stricture of Pylorus. The pyloric orifice is contracted to the size of a goose quill. There is but little infiltration or thickening, but a sort of septum has been formed, probably by new growth. The stomach was greatly dilated No secondary growths. From a woman 42 years of age. Presented by Dr Buchan of Plymouth. Al. D. f. 9 (8i6a). Stricture of Pylorus. Stomach shewing great contraction of the pylorus, into which a piece of whalebone is inserted. The mucous membrane, for two inches at the pyloric end, is ulcerated. Cancer of the Stomach. Al. D. g. Al. D. g. 1 (939). Malignant Disease. The cardiac orifice of the stomach is occupied by a fungating, flocculent new growth. The peritoneum over the diaphragm is thickened and intimately adherent to the left lobe of the liver and stomach. From a man aged 73. Al. D. g. 2 (940). Malignant Disease. A nodular, fungating, and ulcerating carcinoma occupies the posterior wall of the stomach chiefly towards the cardiac end. At one spot it has caused perforation into the left lobe of the liver, which is adherent to the stomach; the right lobe exhibits secondary nodules. Patient a woman aged 46. Al. D. g. 3 {951). Malignant Disease. A fungating, cancerous mass occupies a large part of the cardiac end of the stomach, to which a portion of liver is seen adhering intimately. Al. D. g. 4 (933). Malignant Disease. The contraction of a can- cinomatous growth occupying the circumference of the stomach has caused “ hour-glass ” constriction. The surrounding wall is thickened and nodulated. Al. D. g. 5 (934)- Malignant Disease. The stomach, as a whole, is greatly contracted, and all its coats thickened. The trans- verse colon is similarly but more slightly affected. This pre- paration, as well as AL D. g. 7, 8, and 9, is described by Professor Hughes Bennett in his book on Cancerous and Cancroid Growths^ Edinburgh, 1849. Al. D. g. 6 (958tz). Malignant Disease. A cancerous mass is seen growing externally along the lesser curvature of the stomach. There are nodules of a similar growth in the part of liver attached.