309 URINARY CALCULI. Fusible phosphates invest the nucleus, and form the great mass of the Calculus. Thin laminae of the urates are interposed between the phosphatic deposits. Extracted by the late G. Bell, Esq., from Mr Wilson, of Ratho. See H. 9. Pre- sented by Dr G. Bell. Gen.-U. S. C. 3. Ovoidal Calculus, white and friable on its outer surface. Weight, 345 grains. Nucleus, uric acid, with traces of the urates of ammonia and lime. Its situation is excentric, for the phosphatic deposit is almost exclusively confined to one surface and the two extremities. This deposit, which is not laminated, consists essentially of the fusible phosphate, with a considerable amount of carbonate of lime and magnesia, Gen.-U. S. c. 4. Section of a large oval Calculus. Nucleus, which is very much broken, uric acid and urate of lime. It is excentric, the phosphatic deposit occurring chiefly on one surface and the tw'o extremities. This is chiefly fusible phosphate, but there is sufficient carbonate of lime and magnesia to render the ash rather infusible. Gen.-U. S. c. 5. Section of an elongated fusiform Calculus. Nucleus, uric acid, with small quantities of the urates of lime and ammonia. The phosphates are mainly at the extremities of the uric acid nucleus, a very thin layer only being found on its surfaces. There is a small excess of the phosphate of lime. Gen.-U. S. C. 6. A flat oval Calculus. Weight, 416 grains. The great mass of the Calculus consists of uric acid, with a minute trace of urate of ammonia. The phosphates are deposited as a thin layer on the surface. Gen.-U. S. C. 7. Large irregular Calculus, shaped like a cast of the lower part and neck of the bladder. The bladder is described (No. 1346). Weight, 2021 grains. Nucleus excentric, and composed of uric acid and urate of ammonia, with traces of the urates of lime and magnesia. Crystalline phosphates vary in their thickness at the two ends. Gen.-U. S. C. 8. Elongated Calculus. Weight, 564 grains. Nucleus, uric acid, which also forms the great mass of the Calculus. This is deposited in the form of compact laminae. The phosphatic deposit on the surface of the uric acid is not of uniform thickness, being placed principally at one extremity. Its texture is crystalline and semi-crystalline. Ge.n-U. S. c. 9. Section of a small irregular Calculus. Uric acid and the urates of ammonia and lime, with fusible phosphates upon the surface. Gen.-U. S. c. 10. Three small Calculi, presenting on one surface a small knob-like prolongation. Weight, 215 grains. Nucleus small. Uric acid, urate of lime, and trace of urate of ammonia. Phosphates in considerable quantity.