lO FRACTURES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. Os. B. e. 8 (89). A comminuted fracture of the neck of the right femur, with splitting of the trochanter, in which bony union has occurred, with great displacement of the fragments, together with the formation of a large amount of new bone. Os. B. e. 9 (90). An oblique fracture through the upper end of the left femur, immediately below and involving the trochanters; union has occurred, with shortening and deformity, from over- riding of the lower fragment, so that the upper end of the latter lies in front of the neck of the bone-. Os. B. e. 10 (90a). A fracture of the left femur through the great trochanter, at its junction with the shaft; united, with shortening of the neck, from absorption and the formation of a large amount of new bone (callus). Os. B. e. 11 (906). A fracture of the right femur through the neck and trochanters, at their junction with the shaft, in which bony union has occurred, with lateral displacement of the fragments and great deformity. Os. B. e. 12(91). An impacted fracture through the trochanters of the left femur; bony union has followed, with shortening of the neck, partial absorption of the head, and displacement of the fragments. Os. B. e. 13 (92). A recent fracture of the femur of a child a few months old in the upper third of the shaft. The vessels have been injected, and the periosteum partially reflected. The com- pact shell of the bone has only given way on the convex aspect of the break : so-called gretnstick fracture. Os. B. e. 14(93). A left femur, without its head and part of the neck; an intracapsular fracture of the neck had occurred, with subsequent absorption of the latter. Around the lesser trochanter some new bone has been found in connection with the tendon of the ilio-psoas. Os. B. e. 15 (50a). A vertical transverse section of an ununited intracapsular fracture of the right femur; the neck of the bone has been completely absorbed, and the opposing surfaces of the head and of the base of the neck are covered over and united to each other by fibrous tissue. Os. B. e. 16 (93a). The hip-joint, from a case of ununited intra- capsular fracture of the neck of the femur (prepared by Prof. Annandale, i860). The capsular ligament is laid open from the front, and the fractured ends of the bones are seen to be much absorbed, and connected only by a few fibrous bands. Os. B. e. 17 (94). An oblique and comminuted fracture, extending through the neck and trochanters of the left femur. The injury is quite recent, and was probably caused by gunshot injury.