WAXY KIDNEY. 255 Gen.-U. A. m. 2 (1256). Waxy Degeneration of Kidney with Acute Nephritis. Both kidneys from same case, the lower one injected. The organs are enlarged and exceedingly soft and easily lacerable ; the capsule strips readily, and the surface is divided into irregular lobule-like areas by somewhat deep sulci. Microscopically.—There is advanced waxy change, together with considerable interstitial inflammation and tubular catarrh. From a female, aged 21, who had suffered from syphilis, and who died with uraemic and other symptoms of acute nephritis. Gen.-U. A. m. 3 (1255). Upper Kidney.—Waxy Degeneration of Kidney and Acute Nephritis. Injected. The interpyramidal cortex and pyramids are swollen. Microscopically.—Advanced waxy change, with acute inflammatory exudation along the vessels and some catarrh of the tubular epithelium. Lower Kidney.—Early Waxy Disease and Catarrhal Nephritis. The organ is slightly enlarged. Gen.-U. A. m. 4 (1206). Waxy Degeneration of Kidney, with superadded Acute Nephritis. Injected. The organ is enlarged, chiefly owing to increase of the cortical tissues, the lines of the tubules being considerably swollen; the capsule is thickened and firmly adherent. Microscopically.—There is extensive acute catarrh of the epithelium lining the tubules, and inflammatory exudation especially marked round the vessels in the boundary and subcapsular areas. Gen.-U. A. m. 5 (1274a). Waxy and Fatty Degeneration of Kidney. Arteries injected very imperfectly with carmine; veins blue. Capsule somewhat thickened and adherent, especi- ally along irregular sulci on the coarsely lobulated surface, which shews the stellate veins injected. Kidney substance very firm. On section.^ the gland is atrophied and the pelvic fat increased in amount. The cortex shews rows of small semi-translucent dots which stain dark brown with Iodine, and represent waxy glomeruli along the interlobular vessels; the tubular areas be- tween these shew some acute catarrhal swelling and fatty change, and also a few cysts. The vasa recta in the medulla shew well marked change with Iodine, and the larger vessels are thickened and degenerated. Presented by Professor Sanders, April 10, 1872. Gen.-U. A. m. 6 (12746). Waxy Degeneration of Kidney. In- jected. The whole organ is somewhat small and its surface shews coarse irregularities typical of some forms of waxy disease, and there are some large irregular cortical cysts. O71 section^ the cortex is relatively not much altered in proportion to the medulla; its vascular markings are somewhat irregular at parts and the renal vessels are distinctly thickened and degenerated. The vasa recta, glomeruli, etc., stain dark brown with Iodine.