20 GUNSHOT INJURIES. Os. B. f. 11a (346). The right parietal and occipital bones of a child, shewing several minute circular apertures, the edges of which are smoothly rounded Gunshot Injuries of the Spine and Thoracic Wall. Os. B.f. 12 (A 15). The last dorsal Vertebra of a man in whom a musket-ball entered about three inches to the side of the spinous processes, entering the chest at the angle of the eleventh rib, fracturing it between its neck and angle, and lodged in the vertebra. The ball, with part of the man’s dress, is impacted in the body of the vertebra, projecting slightly into the spinal canal. The patient, a man of 36, died on the tenth day. Os. B.f. 13 (A 14). The second and third cervical vertebrae of a man who received a musket-shot in the mouth, returned to his regiment, and did duty from the fifteenth to the thirty-eighth day after he was wounded. Difficulty of swallowing, pain and stiffness of the neck, obliged him to return to hospital, where he died twenty-five days after admission. The bodies of both vertebrae are extensively destroyed by suppurative and ulcerative pro- cesses, induced by the lodgment of the bullet. Os. B. f 14 (A 16). Three vertebrae from a case in which a musket- ball entered the chest at the angle of the eleventh rib, and was cut out over the curvature of the ninth, presumably of the oppo- site side. The specimens shew that the ball passed through the root of the spinous process of the last dorsal vertebra, driving a portion inwards into the spinal canal, and carrying away the transverse and part of the articular processes. The patient died on the sixth day. Os. B. f 15 (A 17). “ Three vertebrae shewing the diseased actions which supervene occasionally in the osseous structures of the vertebrae when a gunshot injury has been sustained in any part of the canal. No history.” (Old Catalogue.) Os. B. f. 16 (A 18). “ Portion of a vertebra shewing how the pro- cesses and other portions are occasionally struck off from the bodies by musket-shot, and the carious action that follows. No history.” (Old Catalogue.) Os. B. f 17 (B 15). The first cervical vertebra of a stag, through which a small shot has passed, shewing in both laminae the small opening caused by the entrance of the shot, and the larger one by its exit. (Presented by Dr J. A. Sidey, Edinburgh.) Os. B.f. 18 (A21). The lateral half of the sacrum and os inno- minatum of a soldier who died of tetanus after gunshot injury. The ball has struck with great force, breaking across the posterior plate of the sacrum and smashing the posterior superior angle of the ilium.