75. ARTHRITIS DEFORMANS. Os. E. g. 27 (468). A similar specimen, in which the femoral head is so tightly grasped by the altered acetabulum that very little movement is permitted at the hip. The floor of the acetabulum bulges very prominently on the pelvic aspect of the bone, and presents an irregularly rounded aperture close to the ilio-pecti- neal line, through which the altered articular surface of the head of the femur may be seen. Os. E. g. 28 (Y 125). The bones of a hip-joint shewing very re- markable alterations, which, in the absence of any history, may be ascribed to arthritis deformans. The femoral head is repre- sented by a conical mass of bone, sessile on the upper end of the shaft; this cone terminates in a pointed extremity which is directed downwards and inwards. The base of the cone is “ lipped ”—/.<?., surrounded—by a rim or collar of new bone. The articular surface is devoid of cartilage, but it is smooth, in colour and consistence resembling the bone of a fish. The acetabulum is correspondingly altered; the head of the femur fits accurately into the socket, and in such a way that the limb must have been much flexed and adducted, and its range of movement extremely limited. Os. E. g. 29. The bones of the hip-joint, from a subject in the Dissecting-Room, presenting changes which are the result of advanced arthritis deformans. The head of the femur has the appearance of being sessile on the upper end of the shaft, and depressed below the level of the great trochanter; it has further become altered in shape, and its articular surface is directed for- wards as well as inwards. The cartilage on the articular surfaces has largely disappeared—the latter being rough, uneven, and studded with little prominences, consisting partly of bone and partly of cartilage. (Presented by Professor Sir W. Turner, 1890.) Os. E. g. 30 (230). A femur of unusual girth and size, in which the shaft is curved like a bow outwards, and flattened from before backwards. The head of the bone shews alterations re- sulting from arthritis deformans of the hip, viz., “lipping” of the articular surface, the latter being extremely rough and uneven, with numerous large apertures like ulcers, leading into the can- celli of the head. The inferior articular surface presents the appearance of commencing degenerative changes of a similar character. Os. E. g. 31 (231). A similar specimen, probably the fellow of the preceding. Os. E. g. 32 (591). A K nee-joint, in which the greater part of the synovial membrane is closely covered with hypertrophied fringes, polypoidal processes, and pedunculated small bodies; these extend close up to the articular margins, which are slightly “lipped.” The cartilage over the articular surfaces is for the most part intact, shewing only commencing fibrous transformation