TUBERCULAR DISEASES OF JOINTS. 65 Os. E. d. 25 (3685^). A vertical transverse section of the hip-joint of a boy of 16, which at one time had been the seat of a tuber- cular arthritis. The femur is fixed in the acetabulum in the adducted position by firm fibrous union of the opposed surfaces, notably at the points of attachment of the ligamentum teres. Microscopic examination of the bones revealed old tubercular foci, both in the head of the femur and in the spongy tissue forming the floor of the acetabulum. (Prepared by Professor Annandale, i860. Figured and described by Dr H. A. Thomson, Labor. Rep. Roy. Col. of Rhys. Edin. vol. ii. p. 172.) Os. E. d. 26 (467). The bones of a hip-joint, macerated, in which extensive destruction of their articular portions, resulting from tubercular arthritis, has been followed by complete bony anchy- losis, the femur being markedly adducted. Os. E. d. 27 (464). Bony anchylosis of the hip-joint, the result of an arthritis, probably tubercular in character. Os. E. d. 28 (368). T he bones of the pelvis and lower extremities of an adult, shewing Bilateral Dislocation of the Head of the Femur, probably resulting from Arthritis of both hip-joints. The upper end of the femur is deficient on either side, the head and neck are entirely wanting in the left femur, a portion of the head only is wanting in the right. In the right innominate bone the acetabulum is represented by an irregular depression presenting no resemblance to the normal socket of the hip, while above and behind it, close to the great sciatic notch, there is a flattened elevated mass of bone, the surface of which has been rubbed by the altered femoral head. On the left side there is a large oval aperture in the position of the acetabulum, leading straight into the pelvic cavity, while immediately behind this the bone is flattened and rubbed smooth by friction. The grooves for the psoas and iliacus muscles are converted into deep depressions. The long bones of the extremities are very distinctly wasted, especially on the left side, where the maximum length of the femur is 50 mm. and the maximum length of the tibia is 35 mm. shorter than the corresponding bones of the right limb. On the left side the knee-joint has been maintained rigidly flexed for many years, and the articular surfaces are correspondingly altered. [In the Old Catalogue the case is described as one of old “ scrofulous caries ” of both hip-joints. | Os. E. d. 29 (Y 37)- The bones of a Knee-joint from an advanced case of tubercular arthritis. Towards the posterior aspect of the internal condyle of the femur there is a wedge-shaped seques- trum, embedded in the cancellated tissue, with its base towards the joint and its apex towards the medulla. The surface exposed to the joint is eburnated and polished like porcelain. The sequestrum as a whole is whiter and denser than the bone in which it is embedded. There are similar sequestra in the external condyle and in the outer tuberosity of the tibia. The articular E