VI PREFACE. of the Anatomical Museum of the University of Edinburgh.” It should be noticed that in the catalogue the specimens were arranged in groups, each being distinguished by an initial letter, and the specimens were arranged numerically each in its own group. Prior to the resignation of Professor Monro tertius^ Mr John Goodsir was appointed Conservator of the Museum, and in 1846 he succeeded to the Chair of Anatomy. Great additions were made to the number of specimens in the Museum during his con- servatorship and in the earlier years of his professorship, especially to illustrate the Comparative Anatomy of the Vertebrata and Invertebrata. Dr T. Spencer Cobbold was appointed, under the direction of Professor Goodsir, to catalogue the collection of Comparative Anatomy, and the specimens were arranged in physiological groups, after the plan pursued in the Hunterian Collection in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England. It was also decided to rewrite the catalogue of the Pathological collection, and to incorporate the additions made in recent years. This duty was entrusted to Dr Spencer Cobbold. Instead of following the method pursued in Mr Mackenzie’s Descriptive Catalogue of indicating each group by an initial letter, and numbering the specimens in that group consecutively, a continu- ous enumeration was adopted, and two thousand seven hundred and sixty-one pathological specimens were catalogued. In 1859, Sir David Monro, M.D., presented a collection of anatomical preparations, which had formed the private collection of his father. Professor Monro iertius. On the death of Professor Goodsir, in 1867, the Senatus purchased his private collection, and added it to the Museum. In 1896, Dr D. Argyll Robertson, University Lecturer on Ophthalmology, presented and catalogued his valuable collection to illustrate Diseases of the Eye, Eyelids, and Orbit. The Medical School having outgrown the accommodation provided for it in the University Buildings, South Bridge, new and commodious buildings were erected in Teviot Place in 1880 and subsequent years. In 1884, a large Museum, designed by Sir R. Rowand Anderson in consultation with the Professor of Anatomy, Sir William Turner, was completed and the entire