CIRCULATORY SYSTEM. 154 Oir. G. d. 47 (2199). Large sacculated aneurism of transverse part of arch of aorta, nearly filled with laminated clot; trachea and right bronchus perforated. Oir. G. d. 48 (2203). Aneurism of transverse part of arch of aorta, nearly filled with laminated clot, and pressing against the manu- brium sterni. Oir. G. d. 49 (2208). Sacculated aneurism of posterior part of arch of aorta, bursting into left bronchus. Oir. G. d. 50 (2200). A large, irregularly sacculated Aneurism, which involves the greater part of the transverse aortic arch, and compresses the trachea, left recurrent laryngeal nerve, and the left innominate vein, which is obliterated. The anterior part of the sac contains a large mass of firm laminated coagulum. Oir. G. d. 51 (2196). Aneurism of arch of aorta. Three aneur- ismal sacs ; the first commences just beyond the valve, and is the size of an orange; the second, a large, irregular sac, imme- diately beyond it, which is adherent to the manubrium sterni; the third, smaller and somewhat rounded, occupies the circum- ference of the vessel just beyond the origin of the left subclavian, Oir. G. d. 52 (2144). Extreme atheroma and aneurismal dilatation of arch of aorta. Rupture of aneurism into left bronchus. Cir. G. d. 53 (2187). Very large aneurism of the arch of the aorta, filled with clot, except where this is channelled for passage of blood to descending aorta; aneurism laid open in front between the left subclavian and left common carotid arteries; wall deficient posteriorly where it pressed on the vertebrae; left vagus compressed and atrophied. Cir. G. d. 54. Aneurism of transverse portion of arch and descend- ing aorta, shewing double sac, the lower of which has been laid open to display a laminated clot. Presented by Professor Grainger Stewart. Oir. G. d. 55 (2205). Aneurism of arch of aorta. Aorta, generally dilated, shews an aneurism the size of a walnut, arising from the posterior wall just beyond the left subclavian artery. Oir. G. d. 56. A very large Aneurism of the aorta, affecting the ascending and transverse parts of the arch. The right side of the manubrium sterni and the upper three right costal cartilages are absorbed. Monro Collection. Oir. G. d. 57 (2210). Fusiform aneurism of third part of arch of aorta, containing clot. Oir. G. d. 58 (2147). Atheroma and fusiform dilatation of aortic arch, chiefly the third part. An opening has been made to shew the atheromatous inner surface of the artery.