LOOSE BODIES IN JOINTS. 79 the last four of which there were symptoms of loose body in the joint. At the operation the articular margins of the femoral condyles were found to be “ lipped; ” the case was regarded as one of arthritis deformans.) Os. E. j. 4. Three loose portions of articular cartilage, removed by operation from the lower end of the femur in a man aged 32, in whom they had given rise to symptoms of loose body in the knee-joint. Os. E.j. 5. Two loose bodies, flattened in shape, and about the size of a bean, having a smooth endothelial investment, and containing cartilage and bone in their interior. They were prob- ably attached to the synovial membrane in a case of arthritis deformans. One body was removed from either knee of the same patient. Os. E.j. 6. A loose body removed from the right knee, flattened in shape, irregularly nodulated on one aspect and smooth on the other, and consisting of hyaline cartilage, which is com- mencing to ossify. Os. E.j. 7. Two loose portions of articular cartilage, removed from the knee-joint. (Presented, along with the four preceding specimens, by Professor Annandale, 1890.) Tiwlours of Joints. Os. E. k. [No specimens.] A 7ichylosis of Joints. Os. E. 1. [Specimens illustrating Osseous Anchylosis resulting from Arthritis, which, in the absence of any history, cannot be classified in the preceding series.] Os. E. 1. 1 (453). The bones of an Elbow-joint, which have become anchylosed to each other by abundant formation of new bone which obscures the position of the joint. In particular there is a large plate-like mass of bone on the posterior aspect, which is grooved for the ulnar nerve. Os. E. 1. 2 (451a). The bones of an elbow anchylosed in the flexed position. Os. E. 1. 3 (452). The bones of an elbow-joint, so closely united by bone that only traces of the forms of their articular surfaces can be discerned. Os. E. 1. 4 (450). A sawn section of a similar specimen. Os. E. 1. 5(Ys6). A specimen of osseous anchylosis at the elbow, which has resulted from a compound fracture involving the joint. (Presented by Henry I.ee Norris, jun., M.B.)