63 TUBERCULAR DISEASES OF JOINTS. Os. E. d. 7 (2goa). The elbow-joint of a child, injected and cut in vertical section ; the component bones are enlarged, their articu- lar surfaces destroyed, the joint being completely disorganised. The olecranon is separated as a wedge-shaped sequestrum, lying in a cavity which communicates by several pus-discharging sinuses with the skin surface. Os. E. d. 8 (298). The opposite half of the preceding specimen. Os. E. d. 9 (364). The macerated bones of an elbow-joint, in which the destructive effects of tubercular arthritis are seen in an extreme degree. Os. E. d. 10(451). The elbow-joint of a child, shewing a condition of Osseous Anchylosis which has resulted from Tubercular arthritis with partial destruction of the articular surfaces. The shafts of the humerus, radius, and ulna are considerably atrophied. Os. E. d. 11 (Y 158). Plaster cast of a diseased elbow-joint. Prob- ably tubercular. Os. E. d. 12 (301). An injected hand, contracted and deformed as a result of long-standing disease of the Carpus and Metacarpus. There are several sinuses opening on the skin surface, from which portions of dead bone were discharged over a considerable period. Os. E. d. 13 (456). The radius and ulna, with the carpus and metacarpus, from a case of tuberculosis of the wrist. Most of the carpal bones are anchylosed to each other, to the radius and ulna, and to the metacarpals. The carpo-metacarpal joint of the thumb has alone remained healthy. The shaft of the second metacarpal is extensively destroyed as a result of tubercular osteomyelitis in the medulla. Os. E. d. 14 (455). A similar specimen, in which anchylosis and incorporation of the carpus and metacarpus has followed on a more advanced destruction of the distal row of carpal bones by tubercle. Os. E. d. 15 (457). A similar specimen. The carpo-metacarpal joint of the thumb has suffered tubercular disorganisation with the others. Os. E. d. 16(458). A similar specimen, in which anchylosis has occurred with the hand in the position of extreme ulnar flexion. Os. E. d. 17(459). A similar specimen of anchylosis of the carpus and metacarpus. Os. E. d. 18 (302). A longitudinal section of the Finger of a child, in which tubercular necrosis has destroyed the entire second phalanx. The sequestrum is seen m situ, with the surrounding parts swollen, caseated, in parts breaking down. There are several pouting sores or sinuses on the skin surface. The speci- men is a good example of what is called “Tubercular” or “ Strumous Dactylitis.”