54 TUMOURS OF BONE. Sarcoma of Bone. Os. D. p. 49 (612). A Sarcoma, involving the Manubrium Sterni and projecting into the anterior mediastinum. From a woman aged 25. The disease was of five months’ duration, and ter- minated with severe dyspnoea. After death several small tumours of the same character were found in the mesentery. Os. D. p. 50 (614). A myeloid sarcoma of the shaft of a Rib. The tumour, which is about the size of a small egg, is encased by a fibrous membrane, apparently continuous with the periosteum. Its substance, as seen in section, is soft and brain-like. Os. D. p. 51. A sarcoma, which has developed in the substance of one of the true ribs. It forms a tumour 12 cm. in length and 7‘5 cm, in breadth, which projects into the thorax beneath the pleura, and is covered externally by the periosteum and intercostal muscles. On section it has an alveolar structure, with areas of degeneration and softening. Os. D. p. 52. A very large fibrous sarcoma of the scapula, re- moved from a boy aged eight by Professor Annandale, and presented by him to the Museum, 1879. Os. D. p. 53 (6l0flf). The plaster cast of a scapula affected with sarcoma, from a patient in the Royal Infirmary. The entire scapula was removed by Professor Syme, the arm being left. The case is described in Mr Syme’s work. On Exdsion of the Scapula. The microscopic characters of the tumour are described by Professor Sir W. Turner in the Edin. Med. f oiirn. 1863. Os. D. p. 54 (6106). Portion of the above scapula and tumour connected with it. Os. D. p. 55 (185). The Humerus of a young subject. The upper two-thirds of the shaft in the recent state was the seat of a periosteal sarcoma, which entirely enveloped the bone as high as the level of the upper epiphysial cartilage. In this area the compact tissue of the original shaft is to a certain extent eaten into and absorbed, but is covered for the most part by irregular stalactitic masses and spicules of new bone belonging to the tumour, and running at right angles to the surface of the shaft. Os. D. p. 56 (610). A central myeloid .sarcoma of the upper end of the humerus, which has expanded the bone in a globular fashion and perforated the shell on the outer aspect, so as to ulcerate on the skin surface and constitute a “fungus haema- todes.” Os. D. p. 57 (25446). A large periosteal sarcoma partially sur- rounding the humerus in its upper two-thirds. The tumour bulges externally beneath the skin of the arm, and at one point has given rise to a fungating ulcer. The large vessels of the arm have been injected and dissected. (Presented by Professor Spence.)