130 NERVOUS SYSTEM. surrounding substance of which, together with the temporo- sphenoidal lobe and corpus striatum, was softened. Patient, a woman aged 27, suffered from fits for a year before death. N. A. r. 10 (2001a). Tumour in connection with the Cerebral Membranes. The tumour, the size of a small apple, is attached to the dura mater covering the inner surface of the left half of the frontal bone. From a nurse in the Royal Infirmary who committed suicide. N. A. r. 11 (2001 6). Tumours in connection with the Cerebral Membranes. Brain from the preceding case, displaying the destruction of the surface of the hemisphere from pressure of the tumour. N. A. r. 12(1993). Tumour of the Brain. A lobulated tumour attached to the right optic thalamus and corpus striatum, and involving the septum lucidum and fornix. The ventricles contained four ounces of serum, and the lining membranes were studded with numerous minute, firm granulations. N. A. r. 13 (1995). Tumour of the Brain. The new growth in the upper part of the right parietal lobe has become calcified. The arachnoid over it formed a cyst, which contained serum. Patient, aged 57, had suffered from epileptic attacks with left-sided hemiplegia for twenty-three years. N. A. r. 14 (1996). Tumour of the Brain. A spongy growth, situ- ated outside and below the left corpus striatum and optic thalamus, which, together with the choroid plexus, are involved and pushed over to the right side. Patient, a man aged 49, suffered from epilepsy ten months before death. N. A. r. 15 (1997)- Tumour of the Brain. A large tumour is seen near the base of the brain, occupying the position of the left hippocampus and the space between the optic tracts. The consistence of the tumour varied. Patient, a woman aged 84, had suffered from epilepsy since the age of five. N. A. r. 16 (2002). Tumour of the Brain. The new growth, of the size of a walnut, occupies the third ventricle and reaches the back of the anterior crura of the fornix. It bulges at the base of the brain and compresses the optic commissure. There is a small tumour between the corpora quadrigemina. Patient a young man. The symptoms were of a month’s duration. N. A. r. 17 (2004) Tumour of the Brain. A vascular growth formed of tortuous blood-vessels and pia mater is situated in the white matter of some of the upper cerebral convolutions. Professor Hughes Bennett’s case. N. A. r. 18 (2005). Tumour of the Brain. A vascular growth, partly broken up, situated in the left optic thalamus. Professor Alison’s case.