102 TUMOURS OF THE BONES OF THE SKUT.L. Tuberculosis of the Tories of the Skull. Os. G. L (“ Scrofulous CariesS) [No specimens.] Leoniiasis Ossea {Virchozv). Os. G.j. [No specimens.] Acromegaly (^Marie). Os. G. k. [See also Bones, Diseases of.] Tumours of the Bones of the Skull a7id of their Coverings. Os. G. 1. Exostosis arid Enostosis. Os. G. 1. 1 (546). A skull-cap, presenting a linear series of three ivory exostoses, situated in the outer table of the frontal bone. They are sharply-defined, button-like elevations, with a polished surface resembling ivory. The outer table is otherwise very rough and uneven, with numerous small exostoses the size of mustard-seeds. (Figured in Professor Miller’s Principles of Surgery, third edit. 1853, p. 447.) Os. G. 1. 2 (Y 5ptz). The base of the skull of an old person, shewing a rounded, compact exostosis about the size of a cherry springing from the occipital bone at the outer extremity of the superior curved line on the right side. The alveolar margin of the upper jaw is completely absorbed. Os. G. 1. 2a. The skull of an old man, shewing a cancellous exostosis, about the size of a small walnut, springing from the anterior border of the great wing of the sphenoid at its junction with the posterior wall of the antrum. The skull also shews a persistent frontal suture. (Presented by Mr John Anderson^ Student of Medicine.) Skull in Anthropological Cabinet. Os. G. 1. 3 (546a). A large bony tumour or enostosis, growing from the frontal bone, and projecting into the anterior fossa of the skull on the left side, as a nodular hillocky mass ; this caused a corresponding depression in the frontal lobe of the brain. The tumour also projects on the inner wall of the orbit. The frontal sinus, which is dilated, communicates directly with the orbital cavity by a large rounded opening in the roof of the latter. (From the Dissecting-Room.) [Crania, shewing exostoses growing from the wall of the external auditory meatus, and projecting into its canal, in a Peruvian, a Chatham Islander, a New Zealander, and a Sandwich Islander, are in the Collection of Race Crania in the Anthropological Cabinet. See description by Professor Sir W. Turner in Joumat of Anal, and Phys. vol. xiii. page 200, and in Peports of Voyage of H.M.S^ Challenger, part xxix. page 117. ]