373 TUMOURS. Enlargements of Glands. Inflammatory Masses and Abscesses. T. A. h. T. A. h. 1 (2654). Section of an enlarged Lymphatic Gland of the neck, completely converted into calcareous and osseous matter. T. A. h. 2 (2654a). Two enlarged Inguinal Glands, covered by condensed cellular material, and converted into white calcareous looking matter. T. A. h. 3 (2655). T WO enlarged Lymphatic Glands connected with the submaxillary gland. On microscopic examination the enlargement is seen to be of inflammatory origin. T. A. h. 4 (2656). Specimen shewing destruction of the right Tonsil. Behind and external to it there was a large abscess communi- cating with the sheath of the great vessels of the neck, and which contained a quantity of dark foetid matter. The external and internal carotids were practically denuded, and the trunk of the hypoglossal nerve exposed. There are three ragged holes in the right side of the palate, with ulceration of the surrounding mucous membrane. Also, there is an irregular ulcerated opening in the extremity of the common carotid, and another at the commencement of the internal jugular vein, which is thickened and obliterated immediately opposite to the division of the common carotid. The patient was a woman (Ei. 28. The swelling at the angle of the right jaw was of eight days’ duration, and was associated with difficulty in deglutition, which gradually increased. There was great restlessness and thirst, and the pulse was 104 to 116, and small and compressible. Two days before death she ejected from her mouth some thick mucous, with pus and blood of a foetid odour in it. The tumour opened the day before death, and purulent matter and sloughs were discharged. There were also repeated arterial haemorrhages on the day and evening before death. For further details see Edin. Med. Journal., October 1837. T. A. h. 5 (2658). Specimen of Tonsils enlarged by chronic tonsillitis, and removed by operation. T. A. h. 6 (2659). Two specimens of Tonsils which have been much enlarged by chronic tonsillitis. T. A. h. 7 (2704). Firm, opaque bodies of an irregular, cuticular shape, varying in size from a pea to a bean, and composed of numerous concentric laminae of Fibrin. They were obtained from the abdomen in a case of ascites. They are composed of fibrin with a few entangled lymphocytes. T. A. h. 8. Lymphadenoma of the glands of the neck. The glands are all enlarged and look somewhat caseous, but are not par- ticularly matted together.