TUMOURS OF BONE. 57 is but little altered in form, although its interior is occupied by ossified tumour tissue. The central and periosteal portions of the growth are continuous with each other on the posterior aspect of the bone, above the condyles. (Presented by Pro- fe.ssor Annandale.) Os. D. p. 74 (Y 191). An ossifying sarcoma of the lower end of the femur of an adult, completely encircling the bone, and form- ing a special tumour mass on the posterior aspect which is fully the size of a man’s head. The substance of the tumour is extensively ossified, while it is also largely hollowed out into multilocular cysts, the walls of which in certain parts are trans- lucent. (Removed by amputation by Professor Sir Joseph Lister in 1874.) Os. D. p. 75. An ossifying sarcoma of the lower end of the femur, from a lad aged 20. The tumour involves the entire thickness of the bone, and projects also externally, infiltrating the muscles of the thigh and the soft structures of the knee-joint. The structure of the tumour, as seen in section, consists of a dense, bone-like material. Professor Annandale amputated through the middle of the thigh in January 1890, and presented the specimen to the Museum. Os. D. ID. 76 (Y 177)- upper two-thirds of a femur, in which the periosteal surface is pccupied by a mass of irregular new bone representing the ossified portion of a sarcoma which enveloped the shaft in this situation. Spontaneous fracture occurred through the trochanters. Os. D. p. 77 (601). A portion of an ossifying periosteal sarcoma. (Presented by Professor Miller.) Os. D. p. 78 (623). 'fhe lower half of a femur, macerated, shewing the new bone formed on the surface of the shaft in connection with the growth of a periosteal sarcoma, which must have entirely enveloped the femur. A section has been made of the internal condyle to shew the sclerosis of the old bone which accompanies periosteal tumour growth. ' Os. D. p. 79 (599). A transverse section of a macerated specimen of ossifying periosteal sarcoma of the shaft of a femur. The latter is entirely surrounded by dense calcareou.s-looking osteoid tissue. Os. D. p. 80 (600). Another portion of the same tumour. (This and the preceding specimen were presented by Professor Miller.) Os. D. p. 81 (624). A large sarcoma involving the Patella (of which the cartilage of the articular surface alone remains), and entirely covering the knee-joint on its anterior and lateral aspects, and penetrating the skin in two places. The joint itself is not impli- cated. The tumour is probably a small round-celled sarcoma. (Removed from an old soldier post-mortem. The glands in the groin were enlarged.)