NEPHRITIS. 261 of the capsule; the surface is irregular and shews a few small cysts; the cortex is greatly atrophied; vessels shew great fibrous thickening, and the pelvis and calyces are somewhat dilated. The smaller (left) kidney shews the same series of changes, but in much greater degree; it also demonstrates the firm adhesions of the capsule not only to the kidney, but to the surrounding fatty tissue, a condition due to the anastomosis of the capsular vessels with the small branches of the lumbar arteries supplying the fat around the kidney. Gen.-U. A. p. 8. Granular Contracted Kidney. Arteries in- jected with vermilion. Surface finely granular. Section shews irregularity of vascular markings, i.e.^ lines of the interlobular arteries in the cortex. Tubules somewhat swollen, probably owing to some catarrhal changes. Gen.-U. A. p. 9. Granular Contracted or “ Cirrhotic ” Kidney, with Secondary Catarrh and Fatty Degeneration. From a case of aortic incompetence in a man of 58. The organ is small in size. The capsule was thickened and adherent, separating imperfectly, and leaving thin shreds attached to the irregularly granular surface. O71 section^ there is marked pallor. Hence the term, “ small pale,” or “ small white, granular contracted ” kidney. There is very marked irregular thinning of the super- ficial cortex, the deep cortex being relatively less affected, and shewing more distinct mottling, with opaque whitish points. The pelvic fat is relatively increased in amount in order to fill the space left by the atrophy of the organ. Presented by Professor Greenfield, 1905. Gen.-U. A. p. 10. Granular Contracted or “Cirrhotic” Kidney, with advanced Atrophy. From a female aged 48, with chronic interstitial pneumonia and bronchiectasis, and greatly degener- ated blood-vessels. The kidney is very much diminished in size. The capsule was thickened and adherent, and, on stripping, has left a surface which is very irregular and “granular,” shewing red and white mottling, and numerous cortical cysts. On section^ the cortex—both superficial and deep—is greatly atrophied, and contains several cysts. It is very irregular in arrangement, and presents a mottled appear- ance. The fat at the hilum has extended inwards to fill the space left by the atrophy of the deep cortex. The vessels are much thickened. Presented by Professor Greenfield, 1905. Gen.-U. A. p. 11. Granular Contracted or “Cirrhotic” Kidney, in which there has occurred acute suppurative nephritis fol- lowing septic catarrh of the bladder. PTom a female, with advanced mitral stenosis and great arterial degeneration. The capsule is much thickened and was adherent to the very irregularly “ granular ” surface, which shews red and yellow mottling. On section^ the cortex, especially the superficial portion, has undergone considerable atrophy, there being, however, more recent swelling of the deeper part. The cortex