ANATOMY OF STUMPS. I I I have been dissected out. (The patient from whom the speci- men was removed committed suicide two years after the opera- tion by drinking several ounces of chloroform.) Os. L. a. 11 (641). A plaster cast of the stump above described. Os. L. a. 12 (647). A completely-dissected preparation of a stump, after amputation of the thigh. The muscles are shrivelled and fibrous, and have become incorporated with each other at their divided extremities by the scar tissue formed at the end of the stump. The thickened bulbous ends of the nerves are similarly incorporated with the scar tissue. The femoral artery is atro- phied, and has been laid open to shew the remains of the coagulum which occupies the lumen of the vessel. (Presented by Professor Spence.) Os. L. a. 13(644). The upper half of a femur, from a case of amputation through the middle of the thigh ; the shaft of the bone is markedly atrophied, and the cut end pointed and rounded off. Os. L. a. 14(651). The half of a longitudinal section of the end of a femur, shewing the condition of the bone 6| weeks after amputation of the thigh. The medullary canal is covered in by a thin layer of bone continuous with the compact tissue of the shaft. Os. L. a. 15(652). An injected and dissected preparation of a stump, from a case in which the flap amputation was performed a little below the knee. It shews more especially the large anastomosing arteries running in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, and also the large bulbs which have formed at the cut ends of the nerves. Os. L. a. 16 (6586). A dissected stump, from a case in which the mid-tarsal or Chopart’s amputation was performed with complete success. - Os. L. a. 17 (662a). A dissected stump from a child, in whom the tarso-metatarsal or Key’s amputation had been performed with complete success. (Presented, with the three preceding speci- mens, by Professor Spence.) Os. L. a. 18 (642). A plaster cast of the stump formed after amputation at the hip, in a boy of 13. The amputation was performed on account of sarcoma of the femur by Dr Handyside in the Royal Infirmary, and the case is recorded by him in the Edmburgh Monthly Medical Journal^ 1845. (The sarcoma of the femur is in the Museum. Specimen Os. D. p. 59 (617.) Os. L. a. 19 (Y 128). A similar cast, after amputation at the hip- joint. Os. L. a. 20 (653). The cast of a stump, after amputation through the lower third of the leg.