310 URINARY CALCULI. Gen.-U. S. C. 11. Section of an elongated Calculus; nucleus, uric acid and urate of ammonia, with traces of the urates of lime and magnesia on surface, unequally deposited. Fusible phosphate, with small quantities of carbonate of lime and magnesia. Gen.-U. S. C. 12. Fragment of a Calculus; nucleus, uric acid and urate of ammonia, with traces of the urates of lime and soda. Fusible phosphate on surface. Gen.-U. S. c. 13. Rounded Calculus, about the size of a walnut; white externally. Weight, 348 grains. Nucleus, uric acid, with small quantity of urate ammonia. Cortex, phosphate of lime. Gen.-U. S. C. 14. Large, roundish, somewhat flattened Calculus, with several spine-like processes on surface. Weight, 885 grains. The great mass of the Calculus is composed of uric acid, mixed with a little urate of lime somewhat irregularly arranged around the central nucleus. A thin layer of the fusible phosphate invests the outer surface. Gen.-U. S. c. 15. Small, oval, and flattened Calculus. Weight, 218 grains. Nucleus, uric acid. The outer part of the Calculus of fusible phosphate, mixed with a trace of carbonate of lime. Gen.-U. S. C. 16. Irregularly triangular-shaped Calculus. Weight, 358 grains. The mass consists of uric acid and the urates of ammonia and lime, deposited without any regular concentric arrangement. The surface chiefly of phosphate of lime, with traces of carbonates of lime and magnesia and oxalate of lime. Gen.-U. S. C. 17. Elongated Calculus. Weight, 420 grains. The section shows a cavity, on the walls of which there is an abundant crystalline deposit. This deposit occurs around a central nucleus. External to this cavity the Calculus is slightly lamellar in its arrangement. Uric acid, with fusible phosphate. Gen.-U. S. C. 18. Calculus of a slightly kidney-shaped form. Length, 2 J inches; weight, 626 grains. Surface irregular, with crystalline deposits. Interior partly arranged in laminae, with wide interspaces. Composed of uric acid and urate of ammonia, with phosphatic external deposit. Gen.-U. S. C. 19. Three small irregularly-shaped Calculi. The nucleus in the one examined is excentric, and consisted of uric acid, and traces of urates of ammonia, magnesia, and lime. The phosphatic deposit is on one surface. Gen.-U. S. C. 20. Longitudinal section of a reniform Calculus. The nucleus at one extremity is composed of uric acid, with urate of lime and a trace of urate of magnesia. Earthy phos- phates, which are deposited in layers upon one surface of the nucleus, form the bulk of the Calculus; the proportion of triple phosphate is very small. A deep fissure extends across the Calculus.