SUPPURATIVE DISEASES OF THE SKULL. 98 Results of Acute Inflammation of the Bones of the Skull and of their Coverings^ including Stippurative Periostitis and Osteomyelitis of the Cranial BoneSy the Lesions tcsually termed Caries^ Necrosis^ &c.y the result for the inost part of co7nbined traimatic and bacterial origin. Os. G. g. Os. G. g. 1 (288a). A preparation in spirit of the brain, calvarium, and scalp, in which nearly the entire anterior half of the vertex of the skull has been cast off or exfoliated as a result of necrosis. The exposed membranes are in a condition of advanced suppura- tive meningitis, and the dura shews a large circular aperture, through which pus from beneath the dura escaped externally. The meningitis extended to the base of the brain. Os. G. g. 2 (288). A frontal bone, shewing one very large and several smaller gaps in that portion of it which forms the fore- head, probably the result of necrosis, which has chiefly affected the outer table. Os. G. g. 3 (245). Portions of the occipital and parietal bones, shewing a large gap in the occipital bone a little to the left of the apex of the lambda. The margins of the gap are irregularly eaten out, and the surface of the surrounding bone is the seat of considerable new formation on the pericranial aspect. Os. G. g. 4 (294). Several plate-like sequestra of considerable size, exfoliated from the outer table of the skull. Os. G. g. 5 (B 19). An exfoliation from the outer table of the parietal bone. allingall Collectioni) Syphilitic Diseases of the Bones of the Skull and Face. Os. G. h. Os. G. h. 1 (334). A specimen in which numerous gummata have developed in the substance of the pericranium or external periosteum, and produced changes in the cranial bones which are characteristic of advanced syphilis. At the outer angle of the right orbit the outer table has been destroyed over a limited area, leaving a circular gap in which the diploe is exposed; the surface of the diploe is very irregular, and its tissue is con- densed ; in the upper part of the frontal plate there is a similar sharply-defined gap in the outer table, oval in shape, with smooth bevelled edges; the diploe exposed in this area has been to a large extent destroyed and removed by ulceration, and the inner table is perforated over a corresponding area. In the parietal bones there have been three similar circular ulcers, two of which are re- presented by depressed radiating scars in the outer table. There is no formation of new bone in the vicinity of any of the ulcers.