103 TUMOURS OF THE BONES OF THE SKULL. Sarcoma. Os. G. 1. 4 (605). A skull-cap, which has been cut in section to shew a sarcomatous mass in the frontal bone, whic has destroyed and penetrated both tables, so that the tumour forms a fungating projection both on the cerebral and external aspects. There is further to be seen on the inner surface of the skull, at the junction of the coronal and sagittal sutures, a circular area in which the bone is pitted and eroded by the growth of a tumour in the dura; the surface around this area is studded with vertical spicules of new bone. Os. G. 1. 5 (606). A slice removed from the preceding specimen. Os. G. 1. 6 (604). A skull-cap, shewing a heaped-up mass of new bone occupying a large circular area of the outer table in the middle of the vertex. The new bone has a honeycomb-like structure, with that arrangement of the trabeculae at right angles to the surface of the old bone which is characteristic of the bony framework of malignant tumours. Os. G. 1. 7 (5906). A large fibro-cartilaginous sarcoma of the upper jaw, removed by Professor Sir Joseph Lister in 1875. Os. G. 1. 8 (594). A soft cellular sarcoma of the upper jaw, removed by Professor Syme. Os. G. 1. 9 (594Clf). The base of a skull, shewing a large sarcoma of soft consistence involving the sphenoid, ethmoid, and right superior maxilla, which bulges into the cranial cavity and nearly fills up the middle fossa of the skull; it also projects into the right orbit and nose and forms a prominent tumour in the situation of the antrum on the right side. Posteriorly the tumour projects into the pharynx. (Presented by Dr Fairbairn.) Os. G. 1. 10 (5946). The base of a skull, shewing a large sarcoma- tous tumour, apparently arising in the body of the sphenoid, and projecting into the pharynx, nose, orbits, and middle fossa of the skull. The tumour involved the first to the seventh cranial nerves on the left side, and the first to the sixth nerves on the right side ; also the internal carotid arteries, and the accompanying sympa- thetic nerves. (From a patient in the Royal Infirmary under the care of Professor Hughes Bennett; the case is described in his Lectures on Clinical Medicine.') Os. G. 1. 11 (YX). The skull of a Dog, shewing the bony frame- work of a malignant tumour springing from the junction of the superior maxilla and zygomatic arch. Os. G. 1. 12(596). A cast in wax of an enormous fibro-sarcomatous tumour, springing from the antrum of Highmore, which was removed by Mr Liston in the Royal Infirmary. Os. G. 1. 13 (Y 151). A cast of the head in plaster of Paris, shewing a large tumour of the upper jaw.