IV. RESULTS OF AMPUTATIONS OF THE LIMBS. A, The Anato7ny of Stmnps. Os. L. a. Os. L. a. 1 (632). The upper third of the shaft of a humerus, from a case in which amputation had been performed through the Arm several years before death. The shaft is attenuated and some- what pointed, while the sawn section is covered over with com- pact bone, and is smoothly rounded. Os. L. a. 2 (634a). A dissected and injected preparation of a stump, from a case of amputation through the middle of the Forearm, shewing more particularly the attachments which have taken place between the severed tendons and the fibrous matrix of the stump. Os. L. a. 3 (6346). A similar preparation, from a case of amputa- tion through the upper third of the forearm. The skin has been partially reflected to shew the fibrous covering of the stump and its continuity with the fascia of the forearm. Os. L. a. 4 (637)- A similar preparation, dissected on one side to shew the atrophied condition of the divided muscles and the new attachments which they have formed, the large size of the anastomosing arterial branches, and the large fibrous bulbs which have developed at the cut extremities of the median and ulnar nerves. (Presented, along with the two preceding specimens, by Professor Spence.) Os. L. a. 5 (634). The bones of the forearm, from a case of ampu- tation above the wrist; the radius and ulna have become anchylosed at the point of amputation, and their conjoined ends form a semicircle, the surface of which is covered by smooth compact bone. Os. L. a. 6 (635). The radius and ulna from a case of amputation through the lower third of the forearm; the cut ends of the bones are pointed and covered in with new bone. Os. L. a. 7 (633). A portion of bone from a stump, in which the medullary canal is covered in by a thin layer of bone. Os. L. a. 8 (638). A cast of the hand, shewing the stumps result- ing from amputation of the index, middle, and ring Fingers. Os. L. a. 9 (639). A similar specimen. Os. L. a. 10(640). A partially-dissected stump, from a case in which Professor Syme amputated through the middle third of the Thigh. The neck of the femur is markedly attenuated ; the small trochanter projects to an unusual degree. The muscles are well preserved, and their new attachments at the end of the stump