SUPPURATIVE DISEASES OF BONE. 3/ shaft. In this and in the preceding specimen the inferior articular surface of the bone is deeply ulcerated from secondary suppurative arthritis having occurred in the knee-joint. Os. D. d. 41 (310a). 1 he femur of a young subject, shewing a sequestrum consisting of the entire thickness of the shaft for several inches in extent, enveloped in an incomplete case of new bone formed by the periosteum. In the process of exfolia- tion the sequestrum has penetrated the knee-joint and led to disorganisation of the latter. (Presented by Professor Syme.) Os. D. d. 42 (309). A sequestrum from the femur, consisting of the entire circumference of the shaft. The margins of the sequestrum are pitted by the granulations which led to its separation from the living bone. Os. D. d. 43 (311). T he Tibia of a young subject, in which there has occurred an extensive necrosis of the shaft; the sequestrum is incompletely enveloped by the case of new bone. The disease has extended to the ankle-joint, and caused ulceration of the articular surface of the tibia. Os. D. d. 44 (312). A dissected preparation in spirit of the shaft of a tibia, removed by amputation from a boy aged 10, on account of acute suppurative periostitis and osteomyelitis. A large portion of the shaft of the bone has perished; the seques- trum is partly exposed, but it is enveloped by a thick case of new bone pierced by several cloacae. The disease has involved also the head of the tibia, and brought about disorganisation of the knee-joint. Os. D. d. 45 (320). A sequestrum consisting of a portion of the shaft of the tibia, from a similar case, removed by operation. (The patient recovered the use of the limb.) Os. D. d. 46 (323). A sequestrum, consisting of the entire thick- ness of the diaphysis of the tibia in its upper part. Os. D. d. 47 (Y 13). A sequestrum, consisting of the entire thickness of the shaft of the tibia, and about 10 cm. in length. Os. D. d. 48. A preparation in spirit from a case of acute suppurative periostitis and osteomyelitis, in which the greater portion of the shaft of the tibia has perished en masse. Os. D. d. 49 (249a). The upper portion of the tibia, from a case of diffuse suppurative periostitis, in which the periosteum was separated from the shaft over a large area. The surface of the shaft is bare, and quite smooth, except at its upper end, where it is extensively pitted and rarefied by granulations derived from the periosteum. Os. D. d. 50 (2496). The periosteum and surrounding soft parts removed from the preceding specimen; that part ^f the perios-