GUNSHOT INJURIES. 24 Os. B.f.43 (A 45). A similar specimen. Amputation was per- formed five hours after the injury. Os. B.f.44 (A 46). A similar specimen, in which one splinter is nearly 18 cm. in length. (From a man aged 30.) Os. B. f. 45 (A 47). A similar specimen. Os. B. f.46 (A 60). The greater part of a femur of a man aged 22 ; the shaft was broken across near the lower end, some dis- tance below a wound in the thigh, where the ball was found in contact with the bone. A fissure extends upwards from the transverse fracture for more thah 15 cm. Suppuration has occurred beneath the periosteum in the greater part of the shaft, and has caused extensive destruction and pitting of the compact shell. Death occurred on the twenty-ninth day. Os. B. f. 47 (A 61). A splintered comminuted fracture of the shaft of the femur produced by gunshot injury in a man aged 26. Three of the detached fragments have become united to the shaft by new bone, while a large portion has perished, and is marked off from the living shaft by a shallow groove. T"he man died on the forty-first day, amputation having been performed eleven days previously. Os. B. f. 48 (A 63). A comminuted splintered fracture of the shaft of the femur from a man aged 25, in which portions of bone have died from suppurative osteomyelitis and periostitis following on a gunshot injury. The limb was amputated on the fiftieth day. Os. B.f.49 (A 66). A comminuted fracture at the upper third of the femur from a lad of 19, removed by amputation on the seventy-sixth day. The different fragments appear to have all lived, and they are roughly united to each other and to the shaft above and below by new bone. (John Stephens, 7th Regiment.) Os. B. f. 50 (A 68). A portion of the shaft of a femur from a case of gunshot fracture, removed by amputation forty-four days after the injury. Os. B. f. 51 (A 28). The lower third of a femur from a man aged 24, in which a ball entered at the posterior aspect, a little above the outer condyle, and smashed up the adjacent bone for some distance; a minute fissure extends from the comminuted area towards the knee-joint. Primary amputation was resorted to. Os. B. f. 52(A24). a Patella, struck at its outer edge by a musket- ball and smashed. The injury was followed by disease of the knee-joint. Os. B. f. 53 (A 22). The bones of the Knee-joint of a marine aged 22, who died forty-eight days after a gunshot injury, in which the ball entered on the outside, about 2'5 cm. below the knee coursed upwards and inwards, grazing the head of the tibia a