53 TUMOURS OF BONE. of the gluteus maximus are very prominent. The lower end of the bone is greatly expanded, and presents two large bony masses just above either condyle. The inferior articular surface is altered by arthritis deformans, being very distinctly ‘Mipped” round the margin, and also eburnated and polished, especially over the external condyle. The tibia of the same limb shews similar alterations in its upper extremity. Os. D. p. 39 (562). The upper portion of a femur shewing a flat- tened mass of bone projecting forwards and upwards from the posterior part of the small trochanter, in the position of the tendon of the ilio-psoas. Os. D. p. 40 (533). r he femur of an adult, having on the middle of the anterior part of its shaft a growth of bone about 8 cm. long and 3 mm. wide, convex on its anterior surface, attached by a broad base. It is continuous with the surface of the shaft above and on its outer side, but on its inner side and below it projects over the shaft with a sharp thin margin and a long pointed process. Its surface is occupied by a layer of compact tissue. The shaft of the bone as a whole is curved outwards, and is very dense and heavy. The small trochanter, gluteal ridge, and linea aspera are prominent. The inferior articular surface presents changes from arthritis deformans. Os. D. p. 41 (563). A similar specimen. Os. D. p. 42 (561). A portion of the shaft of a femur, in which there is a large irregular mass of bone projecting from the linea aspera in the position of the adductor longus muscle. Os. D. p. 43 (556). A femur, presenting a similar but very much smaller mass of bone in the same situation. Os. D. p. 44 (557). A femur, in which a similar bony mass projects outwards at the site of bifurcation of the linea aspera, so as to overhang the outer aspect of the shaft. There is a smaller bony projection from the internal condyle just below the adductor tubercle. Os. D. p. 45 (558). A somewhat similar specimen. Os. D. p. 46 (560). A femur, in which a flattened sessile mass of bone projects from the inner lip of the linea aspera. It is spongy and friable, and is not completely invested by compact bone. Os. D. p. 47. The lower end of a femur, in which a flat plate- like mass of bone projects backwards and outwards from the outer lip of the linea aspera, in the position of the external intermuscular septum. (Presented by Prof. Sir W. Turner.) Os. D. p. 48. A femur, in which a pointed process of bone, 3*5 cm. in length, projects almost directly downwards from the surface of the shaft at its junction with the great trochanter. (Presented by Professor Sir W. Turner.)