HYDRONEPHROSIS. 269 hypertrophied. The right ureter is very much dilated, as is also the pelvis of the kidney, the organ being elongated, and its substance compressed and atrophied. The lumen of the left ureter is obliterated, and the left kidney is represented by a small mass of fibrous tissue, to which the normal suprarenal gland is still seen attached. Gen.-U. B. C. 13. Hydronephrosis. Dried specimen. The kidney substance has entirely disappeared, and the organ is represented by a large cyst-like structure, partially subdivided up into loculi, the walls of which are composed of the remains of the more resistent fibrous tissue framework and capsule of the kidney. The cause of the condition has been the blocking of the ureter by the impaction of a renal calculus, which is still seen in position. Gen.-U. B. C. 14 (1316). Hydronephrosis. Dried specimen. From man aged 38. Large cyst-like structure constituting the remains of the right kidney, the secreting tissue of which has been entirely destroyed owing to the distension of the pelvis of the organ following obstruction and obliteration of the ureter. The walls of the cyst have become extensively calcified; and it contained 18 oz. of a clear, straw-coloured fluid, mixed with crystals and masses of cholesterin. The renal vessels were extremely attenuated, and the cyst was firmly adherent to the inferior vena cava (seen in situ) and to the under surface of the liver. Gen.-U. B. C. 15 (1309). Slight Hydronephrosis. Several retention cysts are also present under the capsule. Gen.-U. B. C. 16 (1212). Flydronephrosis. Atrophy of the kidney, with destruction and disappearance of the entire secreting tissue of the organ, occurring in an old woman with aneurism of the coeliac axis. The condition has probably been due to blocking of the ureter, which has caused hydronephrosis, followed by absorption and contraction. Presented by Pro- fessor Hughes Bennett. Gen.-U. B. C. 17 (U. l). Hydronephrosis. Very marked dilata- tion of pelvis of kidney. Gen.-U. B. c. 18 (1347). Dilatation of Ureters. Posterior part of bladder, with lower ends of ureters attached. The latter are extremely dilated, and their walls thickened. Gen.-U. B. c. 19 (1348). Lower part of Ureter, shewing some dilatation. Gen.-U. B. C. 20 (1349). Hydronephrosis. Preparation of kidneys, ureters, and bladder. Latter shews thickening and contraction of its walls. Ureters, pelvis, and calyces of both kidneys dilated. (See also specimens Gen.-U. B. g. i ; Gen.-U. C. h. 2 ; Gen.-U. D. a. i.)