9 DEFORMITIES OF THE PELVIS. A nchylosis of the Vertebral and Pelvic Jomts, Os. F. f. Of Doubtful or Unknown Origin. Os. F. f. 1 (404). A portion of the occipital bone, together with the cervical vertebrae ; the joints between the occiput and atlas and between the axis and third cervical vertebra are respectively anchylosed by bone. Os. F. f. 2 (405). from disease. Os. F. f. 3 (407). vertebra. Anchylosis of the atlas with the occiput, resulting Anchylosis of the axis with the third cervical Os. F. f. 4 (409). Os. F. f. 5 (410). Os. F. f. 6 (410a). Os. F. f. 7 (427). A similar specimen. A similar specimen. A similar specimen, preserved in spirit. The posterior arches of three dorsal vertebrae, in which the laminae and spines are completely anchylosed to each other by bone. Os. F. f. 8(Y27). Part of a dried pelvis, shewing anchylosis of the left sacro-iliac articulation, with some contraction of the pelvic brim on the same side. Osteomalacia. Os. F. g. Distortions of the Pelvis from Osteomalacia. Os. F. g. 1 (Y 49). The dried pelvis and lumbar spine of an adult, shewing the most extreme distortion from antecedent osteomalacia. The cavity of the brim is reduced to a tri-radiate fissure by the downward and forward displacement of the lumbar vertebrae and sacrum, and by the pushing inwards of the lateral walls of the pelvis at the cotyloid cavities, and by the approxi- mation of the sides of the pubis ; the latter bones are almost parallel with each other, while the symphysis forms a projection in front; hence the term ‘‘beak-shaped pelvis.” The sacrum is compressed, so that the tip of the coccyx is closely approximated to the promontory. The ilium on either side is folded on itself at an acute angle. The structure of the lumbar vertebrae, as seen in the sawn section through one of them, is partly rarefied and partly sclerosed. Os. F. g. 2 (Y 51). A similar specimen, in which the pubic bones- are fused with each other in the middle line, so that the con- jugate diameter at the brim is reduced to 4*5 cm. The hori- zontal ramus of the pubis on the right side has been broken across. The Caesarean section was performed on the woman to whom the pelvis belonged by the late Dr Henderson of Perth. The specimen is figured in Professor Hamilton’s Prac- tical Observations.