TUBERCULOSIS. 240 R. 0. f. 2 (2374)- Acute Phthisis—Left Lung minutely injected. Extensive consolidation with a small cavity at the apex of the lung. Inflammatory lymph marking recent pleurisy. R. C. f. 3 (2383). Acute Phthisis, with Pneumo-thorax; upper part of Right Lung shewing extensive tubercular infiltration. Large irregular cavity. R. 0. f. 4 (2399). Phthisis and Pneumo-thorax; part of lower lobe of Lung shewing tubercular infiltration. Small cavity beneath pleura has perforated pleura and caused acute pleurisy. R. 0. f. 5 (L. 7)- Acute Phthisis with haemorrhage. Portion of lung shewing extensive consolidation, which resembles that of catarrhal pneumonia. The lung tissue has a coarse appear- ance, and in parts there is greyish white uniform consolidation. On one side an area of haemorrhage, decolourized by spirit, and some grey nodular patches. Microscopically giant celled tubercle, especially around the bronchi, and extensive catarrhal change in the air cells. R. 0. f. 6 (2401). Lung studded with groups of rapidly softening tubercle nodules, in some parts confluent into large areas. Small irregular cavities are forming towards the upper part. Acute Pleurisy. R. 0. f. 7 (2373). Vertical section of Left Lung; extensive scat- tered nodules of caseating Tubercle and extensive infiltration, forming patches of greyish consolidation. Scars on pleural surface. R. 0. f. 8 (2389). Two sections of Lung. Lower portion shews acute Tuberculosis with extensive Broncho-pneumonic infiltra- tion ; upper piece. Chronic Tuberculosis with cavity formation. Below the lung is a large tubercular gland. R. O. f. 9 (2404). Portion of Lung shewing Miliary Tubercle, and a large tubercular cavity beneath pleura, lined by a smooth membrane, and intersected by imperfect columns of pulmonary tissue. R. C. f. 10 (2380). Phthisis, subacute. Upper lobe consolidated with grey or yellowish infiltration and excavated to numerous cavities with greyish walls. Rapidly spreading tubercular infiltration and softening in lower lobe. Bronchial glands considerably enlarged, apparently tubercular. R. 0. f. 11 (2381). Acute Phthisis, rapid tubercular infiltration, caseation and extremely rapid softening. Large irregular cavities with shreddy walls, some of which have opened into pleural cavity. Smaller Bronchi in lower part of Lung consider- ably dilated.