RESUI/rS OF EXCISION OF JOINTS. 8i with each other. The shafts of the bones are attenuated from long disuse. The neck of the femur has been absorbed, so that the head is almost sessile on the upper extremity of the shaft; it is also altered in direction, so that it looks downwards. No history. Os. E. 1. 17(486). The bones of the leg, in which anchylosis has occurred both at the Superior and Inferior Tibio-fibular articula- tions. The bones are remarkably light and spongy, the surface compact bone very small in amount. In connection with each anchylosis there is considerable alteration in the form of the constituent bones, suggesting a similarity to the changes seen in cases of multiple cancellous exostoses of the long bones. Os. E. 1. 18 (Y 54) The upper ends of the tibia and fibula similarly anchylosed. Os. E. 1. 19 <,487). A similar specimen. Os. E. 1. 20 (489). A similar specimen. Os. E. 1. 21 (491)- A similar specimen. Os. E. 1. 22 (496). The lower ends of the tibia and fibula anchy- losed to each other. Os. E. 1. 23 (495). A similar specimen, in which there is partial ossification of the interosseous membrane and a good deal of thickening of the lower end of the fibula, probably the result of a fracture through the latter bone. Os. E. 1. 24 (285). The Tarsus and Metatarsus of a Horse, in which the bones have become anchylosed and their outlines hidden by a large amount of irregular new bone. Specimens illustrating the results of Excision of Joints. Os. E. m. Os. E. m. 1 (402a). A dried preparation of an Elbow, in which the joint had been excised many years prior to death. The follow- ing is an abstract from a description of the specimen by G. J. Malcolm Smith, M.B., in the yournaL of Anat. and Phys. vol. viii.“The right limb was atrophied, the forearm shortened, and the elbow-joint flail-like. The superior extremities of the radius and ulna rested on the front of the lower extremity of the humerus. The elbow could not be flexed past a right angle,, but could be completely extended. In rotation of the forearm both radius and ulna moved on the humerus. Round the extremities of the three bones was an imperfect fibrous capsule, with a small synovial membrane resembling a bursa. There was no orbicular ligament. No new bone had been formed except as much as was necessary for the covering in of the cancellated texture at the sawn sections. The shafts of the bones above and below are atrophied.” (From the Dissecting-Room.)