58 TUMOURS OF BONE. Os. D. p. 82 (6l8). A coloured wax cast of the upper portion of a femur representing a small sarcomatous tumour in the substance of the cancellated tissue at the base of the small trochanter. (From a patient in St Bartholomew’s Hospital, who, three weeks before death, underwent amputation for a malignant growth near the knee, and in whose body several similar tumours were found. Presented by Dr Spencer Cobbold.) Os. D. p. 83 (Y 175)- A circumscribed periosteal sarcoma of the upper end of the Tibia, infiltrating the outer compact shell, but not penetrating to the interior of the bone. The tumour is of soft consistence throughout. (Presented by Professor Annandale.) Os. D. p. 84 (Y 176). A circumscribed periosteal sarcoma of the upper end of the tibia of a young subject, which has penetrated the outer shell and is infiltrating the medulla. (Presented by * Professor Annandale.) Os. D. p. 85 (619c). A large sarcoma in the region of the calf, im- plicating the periosteal surfaces of the tibia and fibula in their entire length. Removed by amputation through the knee-joint. (Presented by Professor Annandale.) Os. D. p. 86 (602). A large ossifying sarcoma, implicating the periosteal surface of the upper two-thirds of the shaft of the tibia in a young subject. The tumour tissue has penetrated the medulla, and has led to spontaneous fracture of the bone about its centre. Os. D. p. 87 (603). A slice removed from the last specimen, macerated, to shew the structure of the newly-formed bone. Os. D. p. 88 (626). A periosteal sarcoma, involving the upper ends of the tibia and fibula. Os. D. p. 89 (625). A large fibrous sarcoma growing from the periosteum of the fibula, and completely enveloping the upper half of its shaft. The tumour projects upwards into the popli- teal space, and downwards over the posterior and outer aspect of the leg. Os. D. p. 90. A large lobulated periosteal sarcoma enveloping the upper half of the shaft of the tibia, flattening the fibula and displacing it outwards, and at the same time enlarging the interosseous space between the two bones. (Presented by Pro- fessor Annandale.) Os. D. p. 91 (629). A longitudinal section of the tibia, which is much increased in girth, and presents a gradual anterior curva- ture of the shaft, like that met with in osteitis deformans. The medullary cavity is enlarged, and in the middle third of the bone is occupied by a soft sarcomatous tumour which has penetrated the anterior shell of the bone, and formed a fungating bleeding ulcer on the skin surface on the front of the leg. The compact