23 GUNSHOT INJURIES. Os. B. f. 35 (A 70). The upper half of the Femur from a man aged 2 1, who died eighty-four days after a gunshot injury of the thigh; the femur was comminuted by the ball at the junction of the middle and upper thirds, suppurative inflam- mation had followed, and a large portion of the compact shell had perished. Os. B. f. 36 (A 65). A beautiful specimen of extensive com- minuted and splintered fracture of the shaft of the femur about its middle, resulting from gunshot injury in a man aged 20; amputation below the lesser trochanter was successfully per- formed on the 136th day. Many of the splintered fragments have perished, and may be seen partly embedded in the very abundant new bone which has been formed ; the latter unites the fragments which have survived, to each other and to the shaft of the bone above and below. The musket-ball is flattened, and may be seen lying amongst the fragments. Os. B. f. 37 (A 71). The lower three-fourths of the femur of a Carlist prisoner, shewing a very oblique fracture of the middle of the shaft which has been followed by suppurative inflam- mation. Os. B. f. 38 (A 59). The lower two-thirds of the femur of a man who died thirty-five days after a gunshot injury of the thigh. T'he ball struck the inner aspect of the bone obliquely, driving in a portion of the compact shell, detaching two other portions and splintering the bone upwards and downwards. The ball is wedged in between the fragments. Os. B. f. 39 (A 69). A portion of the femur which had been obliquely fractured; subsequent osteomyelitis has caused the death of a considerable portion of the outer shell on the inner side. Os. B. f.40 (A 67). An oblique gunshot fracture of the upper third of the femur in which similar changes have supervened. Removed by amputation seventy-seven days after the injury. Man aged 23. Os. B.f.41 (A 72). A portion of the shaft of a femur shewing a heaped-up mass of bone on the anterior surface, which formed at the point struck by a musket-ball, the latter being flattened by the force of the blow. The external wound healed, but the patient sank on the i8ist day under an “irritative fever” (pyoemia ?). The ball was found to have grazed the femur at its lower third, having passed obliquely through the rectus muscle and lodged between the bone and the vastus externus. From a man aged 46. Os. B. f. 42 (A 44). A comminuted fracture, at the lower third of the right femur, exhibiting in a beautiful manner the long splitting and splintering of bones from gunshot wounds. One large splinter of bone is driven into the medullary canal. Primary amputation was performed.