71 GOUTY ARTHRITIS. Os. E. d. 75 (500). The os calcis and astragalus, in which all the articular surfaces have suffered from a process of ulceration, which has terminated in osseous anchylosis of the calcaneo-astra- galoid joint. Os. E. d. 76 (286). “ The lower part of the tibia and bones of the foot of a Dog (?), shewing inflammatory thickening and anchylosis of the tarsus.” (Old Catalogue.) Os. E. d. 77. A transverse section of the wrist of a man aged 27, in whom an excision had been performed on account of tuberculosis of the carpus by Dr John Duncan. The disease recurred in the wound and necessitated amputation through the forearm four months later. The specimen shews an extensive tubercular infiltration of the soft parts, which involves the tendons and nerves, and which has perforated the skin surface on the dorsum of the wrist, constituting a sinus. Os. E. d. 78. A thin vertical section of a knee-joint, removed in an amputation of the thigh by Professor Chiene, shewing two rounded areas of caseating tubercle in the cancellated tissue, one of them occupying the lower end of the femur and the other the upper end of the tibia. The femur, patella, and tibia are firmly united to each other by fibrous adhesions. Os. E. d. 79. Another section from the same knee-joint, shewing an area of caseating tubercle 2'6 mm. in length and i‘8 mm. in breadth, occupying the extreme lower end of the femur, per- forating its articular surface, and setting up arthritis in the knee- joint. (Presented, along with the two preceding specimens, by Dr Henry Alexis Thomson, 1889.) Gouty Affections of Joints—Gouty Arthritis. Os. E. e. Os. E. e. 1 (3566). The right Hand of an adult, crippled and deformed as a result of Gouty inflammation, chiefly affecting the index and middle fingers, on the palmar aspect of which there are several characteristic ulcers with chalky concretions (tophi). (Presented by Professor Laycock.) Rheimiatic A7'thritis. Os. E. f. [No specimens.] A rthritis Defor)na7is—OsteoarthiRis—so-called Chro7iic Rheimiatic Arthritis, Os. E. g-. Os. E. g. 1 (644a). The Skeleton of the trunk of an adult, shewing in its different parts the anatomical results of arthritis deformans. The bodies of the vertebrae, more especially in the cervical and lumbar regions, present bony outgrowths around their superior and inferior borders, due to ossification of the anterior common ligament. The cartilages of the first rib are ossified, likewise