64 TUBERCULAR DISEASES OF JOINTS. Bones and Joints of the Lower Extre)nity. Os. E. d. 19 (368a). The bones of a Hip-joint, macerated; the articular surfaces are superficially ulcerated throughout their entire extent; the head of the femur is somewhat flattened and diminished in size, while the acetabulum is very considerably broadened. The surfaces in the vicinity of the joint are richly covered with new bone, especially at the sites of attachment of the capsular ligament. There is also a crust of new bone on the pelvic aspect of the acetabulum. Os. E. d. 20 (213). The upper end of a femur shewing similar changes in its head. Os. E. d. 21 (3686). The bones of a hip-joint, macerated, shewing an advanced degree of destruction of the articular surfaces; the acetabulum is irregularly excavated and its floor nearly pene- trated. The head of the femur is deficient on its upper aspect, a large portion of the cancellated tissue having been removed. The surfaces in the vicinity of the joint are encrusted with new bone. Os. E. d. 22 (368). The bones of a hip-joint, macerated, from a very advanced case of tuberculosis, involving the hip and adjacent parts. The acetabulum has suffered most from the destructive process, its margins having all but disappeared and its floor being extensively perforated. The greater part of the ischium and pubis are expanded and irregularly ulcerated, in consequence of a diffuse tubercular infiltration of their cancellated tissue. The head of the femur has been the seat of a tubercular ostitis in the region of the epiphysial cartilage, which has resulted in the sepa- ration of the epiphysis itself as a sequestrum lying free in the cavity of the joint. The specimen is from a young subject, the epiphysial junction of the trochanter major being still visible. As in the preceding specimens, the surfaces in the vicinity of the joint are abundantly covered with a crust of new bone. Os. E.. d. 23 (461). The bones from a case of advanced hip-joint disease, in which partial anchylosis has resulted, with shortening of the limb in the flexed and adducted position. The floor of the acetabulum has been extensively perforated, and the head of the femur projects through it, so as to be seen from the pelvic side, together with a separated portion of the acetabulum adherent to it. The great trochanter is opposed to and partially fused with the upper rim of the acetabulum. Os. E. d. 24 (3686). A preparation of the hip-joint in spirit, in which extensive destruction has occurred as the result of tubercle. The head of the femur perished cn masse^ and was exfoliated ; the acetabulum has been obliterated, and a smooth convex sur- face of bone is seen in the area which it normally occupies. The remainder of the neck and upper end of the femur is displaced upwards on to the dorsum ilii, it being attached to the bone in the region of the acetabulum by a few bands of fibrous tissue.