DISEASES OF THE SKIN. Cut. Ulcers. Cut. A. Out. A. 1. Epitheliomatous Ulcer of the leg, shewing great infil- tration of the subcutaneous structures. Out. A. 2 (2517). Portion of integument, shewing the Cicatrix of an Ulcer. Around the margin are numerous radiated folds of skin produced by contraction of reparative fibrous tissue. Out. A. 3 (2521). Coloured Wax Cast of part of the Left Foot of an x\dult, shewing the results of an advanced condition of Onychia. The toe-nail has fallen off, and an ulcer has formed at the end of the toe, which is also considerably swollen. Out. A. 4 (2522). Left Foot, shewing a multiple form of Ulcera- tion, probably tubercular in origin. The foot was amputated. For further details, see Professor Miller’s Practice of Surgery^ 2nd edition, p. 646. Out. A. 5 (2508). Coloured wax and plaster cast of a “healing” Simple Ulcer. The healing margin is marked by a thin film of new cuticle. Prepared and presented by Professor Goodsir. Out. A. 6 (2509). Coloured wax and plaster cast, shewing a “weak” Ulcer, situated on the fore-arm. There is no marginal film of new cuticle, and the granulations have a dull, unhealthy, and uneven aspect. Prepared and presented by Professor Goodsir. Out. A. 7 (2510). Wax cast, representing an inflamed and irritable Ulcer. The ulcerated surface is beneath the level of the sur- rounding skin, which is considerably inflamed. Out. A. 8 (2511). Cast of one side of the left leg, shewing a varicose and tortuous condition of the veins, and a small Varicose Ulcer. Prepared and presented by Professor Goodsir. Out. A. 9 (2512). Cast of the left leg, shewing two characteristic examples of Callous Ulcers, situated immediately above the ankle. The margins are elevated and abrupt, and the granulations have a dull, unhealthy aspect. Prepared and presented by Professor Goodsir. Out. A. 10 (2513). Cast representing a large Syphilitic Ulcer situated above the left ankle. Prepared and presented by Pro- fessor Goodsir. Out. A. 11 (2514). Wax cast, which shews numerous Syphilitic Ulcers in the lower part of the back of the leg. They are inflamed and deep, and undermine the skin. Prepared and presented by Professor Goodsir.