GUNSHOT INJURIES. 22 Os. B. f. 28 (A 92). Portions of bone, separated from a case of gunshot injury of the humerus. Os. B. f. 29 (A 34). The bones of the elbow-joint of a man aged 23, in whom a ball passed obliquely through the external con- dyle, without fissuring the bone. Suppurative arthritis ensued, and was partially recovered from with bony anchylosis of the joint. The limb was amputated on the 136th day. Os. B. f. 30 (A 43). The bones of the elbow-joint of a soldier aged 25. A musket-ball entered from behind over the internal condyle, which is detached and splintered into several small pieces. The ball is seen impacted amongst the fragments with a portion of the sleeve of the scarlet coat lodged between the ball and the bone. Amputation was performed a few hours after the injury, and the patient died twenty days later. Os. B. f. 31 (A 80). The bones of the right hand and forearm of a man aged 45, amputated 223 days after receiving a gunshot comminuted fracture of the Radius. A large amount of new bone has been formed in the region of the fracture, and anchy- losing the radius to the ulna. The ball is seen loosely embedded in the interior of the altered radius. Gunshot Injuries of the Pelvis and Lower Extre7nity. Os. B. f. 32 (A 19). The Os Innominatum and upper part of the femur seventy-two days after the reception of a gunshot injury, The ball appears to have struck the dorsum ilii, smashed it into many pieces, and passed obliquely out near the sacro-sciatic notch, smashing also the superior portion of the acetabulum. Suppurative inflammation has supervened in the dorsum and venter ilii and in the hip-joint, causing death on the seventy- second day. (From a man named Quin in the loth Regiment.) Os. B. f. 33 (A 20). The os innominatum and lateral half of the sacrum from a man aged 42, who died 121 days after a gunshot injury in the region of the left buttock. That portion of the ilium which enters into the formation of the sacro-iliac joint has been extensively smashed and comminuted by the ball, which is to be seen embedded, together with a large sequestrum, in the centre of the injured area. Os. B. f. 34 (A 62). The acetabular portion of the os innominatum and upper half of the femur from a man aged 23, who died forty- seven days after receiving a gunshot injury in the region of the great trochanter. The ball passed through the femur at the junction of the neck with the shaft, smashing the bone into frag- ments and opening the capsular ligament of the hip. Suppura- tive inflammation has supervened, with exfoliation of portions of bone ; the suppuration has also led to destruction of the articular surfaces of the hip-joint.