TUMOURS OF BONE. 55 Os. D. p. 58 (597). A periosteal sarcoma springing from the inner and anterior aspect of the lower end of the shaft of the humerus of an adult. The specimen has been cut open and partially removed from its attachment to shew the corresponding excava- tion in the bone beneath. Os. D. p. 59 (B 13). A beautiful example of the bony framework of an ossifying sarcoma growing from the lower end of the Radius. The arm was amputated and the preparation presented by Alex. Christie, Esq., surgeon, Bengal Army. {Bal/in<^all Collection.') Os. D. p. 60 (598). A myeloid sarcoma of the Ilium in the shape of a large, lobulated, encapsulated tumour of soft consistence, projecting very considerably on both pelvic and gluteal aspects of the bone. The tumour extends close to the margin of the acetabulum. Os. D. p. 61 (602a). An enormous sarcoma growing from the in- nominate bone, which weighed along with the bone 46 lbs. It was removed after death from a man by Dr Dodson of Winder- mere, who presented it to the Museum. The tumour appears to be of a mixed nature, probably a chondro-sarcoma under- going ossification in some parts, myxomatous degeneration and softening in others. Os. D. p. 62 (6026). Another portion of the same tumour. Os. D. p. 63 (602c). The osseous framework of another portion of the same tumour, shewing the friable and cancellated condition of the innominate bone associated with the growth of the tumour. (Described by Professor Sir W. Turner in the Journ. Anal, and r/ivs. t868.) Os. D. p. 64 (615). A large sarcoma of the innominate bone, infil- trating the ilium and projecting as a rounded mass from the iliac fossa. ITe tumour projected under the skin of the abdominal wall during life, and pulsated strongly, “ which gave rise to great difference of opinion respecting its nature. Among others, Mr Syme and Sir Benjamin Brodie consulted in the case.” (Old Catalogue.) Os. D. p. 65 (6036). The bony framework of a large osteo-sarcoma growing from the innominate bone of a sheep. In the fresh condition the spaces of the tumour were filled with a clear glairy substance like the white of an egg. Os. D. p. 66 (617)- A typical periosteal sarcoma, occupying the middle two-thirds of the shaft of the Femur in a boy of 13, success- fully removed by amputation at the hip-joint by Dr Handyside, and reported by Dr John Struthers in the Edin. Monthly 'yourn. for 1845. A cast of the stump is seen in Specimen Os. L. a. 18 (642). The tumour constitutes a uniform swelling of the femoral shaft in its middle two-thirds, and is smoothly covered by perios- teum externally. On section it looks firm and fibrous. The bone in the affected area is very considerably altered ; the entire