184 ALIMENTARY SYSTEM. Al. E. g. 13 (882). Enteric Fever. The ulcerated patches on the mucous surface of the ileum have coalesced, and stained sloughs are being formed. Small oval ulcers have formed over the solitary glands. The ileo-csecal valve and a part of the colon are left in situ. Al. E. g. 14 (883). Large Intestine. Enteric Fever. The mucous membrane of the caput caecum coli and ascending colon displays extensive ulceration and sloughs, which are almost ready to separate. The mesenteric glands are much enlarged. Al. E. g. 15 (884). Enteric Fever. Two Peyer’s patches and several solitary glands are in an advanced stage of ulceration and sloughing. In one patch the destructive process has caused perforation of the gut. Al. E. g. 16 (885). Enteric Fever. The Peyer’s patches at the termination of the ileum are sloughy, and ready to separate. Perforations are seen at several points in the lower ulcer, through one of which the slough protrudes. There is inflammatory exudation on the serous surface. The opening in the mesen- tery is artificial. Al. E. g. 17 (868). Intestinal Ulceration, following Enteritis (? Typhoid Fever). The greater part of the mucous surface of the large intestine is ulcerated and shreddy. It is pigmented in parts. From a man aged 55, whose illness commenced one month previous to death. Al. E. g. 18 (8700:). Intestinal Ulceration, probably from Enteric Fever. There is a large oval patch in the small intestine, with deeply pigmented floor (probably a Peyer’s patch), and an island of mucous membrane in its centre. Several small ulcers, trans- verse in direction, some of which are healing or have healed, are seen around the patch. Presented by Professor Hughes Bennett. Al. E. g. 19 (886). Intestinal Ulceration (? Dysentery or Enteric Fever). The mucous membrane of the caput caecum coli and colon shews transverse ulcers, with ragged and overhanging edges, in the floor of which the muscular coat is exposed. The solitary glands in the lower end of the ileum are swollen, a few ulcerated, and one Peyer’s patch is swollen, and displays small circular ulcers. Presented by Professor Henderson. Al. E. g. 20 (962). (?) Enteric Fever. Intestine shewing swelling of Peyer’s patches. Al. E. g. 21 (886 a). Swine Fever, or Pig Typhoid. Sloughs of a brownish colour are seen surrounded by thickened rings of mucous membrane. Presented by Principal Williams, New Veterinary College.