SYPHILITIC DISEASES OF TPIE SKULL. lOI fibrous membrane. The surface of the outer table is very un- even and rough, especially about the centre of the vertex, where there are several large shallow depressions, which probably repre- sent the results of pericranial gummata in the healed condition. Os. G. h. 15 (Y6o). A skull-cap which is notably increased in weight; the surface of the outer table is irregularly tuberculated and thickened, and is marked with innumerable foramina and narrow-starred fissures, the latter shewing a tendency to be limited to circular patches ; these changes probably result from a diffuse gummatous hyperplasia of the pericranium. The surface of the inner table is minutely perforated and grooved for blood-vessels. Os. G. h. 16(Bio). The greater portion of a frontal bone, shewing great thickening and sclerosis of the diploe from chronic syphi- litic ostitis. On the surface of the outer table there are several large smooth depressions, resulting from gummatous ulcers, which have healed. {Ballingall Collection. Presented by Dr J. A. Sidey, Edinburgh.) Os. G. h. 17 (295a). The bones of the upper part of the Face. The nasal bones, superior maxillae, palate bones, turbinates, and vomer have all suffered from a gummatous ulceration, originating in the nose. The nasal septum is completely removed, and likewise the posterior half of the palate. The anterior orifice of the nose is narrowed by new bone formed in connection with the nasal margins of the superior maxillae, so that it is repre- sented by a vertical fissure. Os. G. h. 18 (295). A portion of the vomer, exfoliated in a case of gummatous ulceration of the nose. Os. G. h. 19 (344). A dissected preparation in spirit of the base of a skull and pharynx from a syphilitic subject in the dissecting- rooms, shewing a small circular perforation a little to one side of the middle line of the hard palate anteriorly, and a large rounded opening in the posterior portion of the palate, with complete destruction of the epiglottis and greater part of the velum pen- dulum palati. The parts have cicatrised. Os. G. h. 20 (123). The skull of a child shewing changes, the result of Congenital Syphilis; the anterior fontanelle remains widely open, and the frontal suture is not yet obliterated. The outer table of the two halves of the frontal, and of the parietals bounding the fontanelle, is the seat of considerable bony en- crustation or deposit, coarsely porous or cloth-like in texture. In the frontals the new bone occupies a roughly circular area, and forms a flattened boss, symmetrical on the two sides. In the parietals the encrustation is much more extensive, especially in that of the left side, in which every part of the outer aspect is crusted over, with the exception of a small area in the position of the eminence. There is a slight amount of similar roughening on the vertical plate of the occipital bone and in the frontal por- tion of the orbital cavities. The left half of the body of the lower jaw presents a nodular thickening of its external surface.