258 KIDNEY. Gen.-U. A. n. 6 (1272). Acute Nephritis. Kidney partially injected with carmine. The organ is enlarged, principally owing to increase in thickness of the cortex; the surface is slightly granular. Microscopically. — There is intense diffuse inflammation—swelling of glomeruli, catarrh of tubules, swelling and marked leucocyte infiltration of interstitial tissue, great congestion of vessels, haemorrhages, etc. Presented by Professor Sanders, November 3, 1871. //. Subacttle Nephritis. Gen.-U. A. o. Gen.-U. A. O. 1 (1265 and 1266). Subacute Nephritis, mainly Glomerular in type. Injected. The capsule strips easily, leaving a smooth surface shewing injected stellate veins. The cortex is swollen, and in this region the injection has run very badly. Microscopically.—The glomeruli are specially affected and exhibit marked inflammatory swelling of the tuft, and proliferation of the endothelium lining Bowman’s Capsule. Gen.-U. A. O. 2. Subacute Diffuse Nephritis, with superadded acute inflammatory changes. From a man aged 29, with ulcerative endocarditis, albuminuria and hsematuria. The whole organ is considerably swollen. The capsule is not thickened and only very slightly adherent at some points. The surface is smooth and mottled with very numerous minute, dark red, petechial haemorrhages. On section.^ the cortex is greatly swollen, and shews numerous small haemorrhages similar to those seen on surface, together with lighter areas of necrosis and acute fatty change. The vessels are somewhat thickened. Microscopically. —There are widespread glomerular changes, the tubules shew marked catarrhal and some necrotic changes, the vessels are intensely congested, and there are small haemorrhages scattered throughout the tissues. Presented by Professor Greenfield, 1905. Gen.-U. A. O. 3. Subacute Nephritis with extreme glomerular change, together with supervening acute diffuse inflammation and catarrh. Capsule not thickened, but slightly adherent. Surface smooth, and shews several small cortical cysts. Both the surface of the organ and the cortex on section shew characteristic mottling, and also very numerous small irregular red points, a few of which are haemorrhagic in origin, but the majority of which are due to congestive dilatation of vessels. The stellate veins and vasa recta are congested. The patient —a man aged 30—was ill for two months with “rheumatic pains,” acute symptoms supervening weeks before his death, which occurred after a sudden attack of uraemic convulsions. Presented by Professor Greenfield, 1905. Gen.-U. A. o. 4, Subacute Diffuse Nephritis, with specially marked changes in the blood-vessels and glomeruli. (From a case of supposed acute nephritis, shewing the characters commonly attributed to catarrhal change followed by fatty