68 TUBERCULAR DISEASES OF JOINTS. Os. E. d. 45 (384). A knee-joint from which the synovial membrane has been for the most part removed ; the articular cartilages have especially suffered from the arthritis, being partly eaten up by granulations springing from the subjacent bone and partly separ- ated and detached in large portions (ulceration and necrosis of cartilage). OS- E. d. 46 (380). The knee-joint of a child shewing a similar condition of the articular surfaces. The synovial membrane is very greatly thickened by the growth of nodular masses of tubercle in its substance. There is an abscess in the head of the tibia opening on the periosteal surface anteriorly by a sinus, into which a bristle has been passed. Os. E. d. 47 (471)- he knee-joint of a child, injected, and cut in mesial section to shew the encroachment by the thickened syno- vial membrane on the cartilage of the articular surfaces. Os. E. d. 48 (472)- A similar preparation, in which the cavity of the joint is entirely filled by gelatinous synovial tissue, and the opposing articular surfaces are united by fibrous adhesions. Os. E. d. 49 (473)' The opposite half of the preceding specimen. Os. E. d. 50 (386). The knee-joint of an adult cut in vertical sec- tion ; the initial tubercular deposit is visible in the head of the tibia as a diffuse caseating infiltration of the cancellated tissue towards the posterior aspect of the bone. From this point the tubercular process has spread to the soft parts in the popliteal space, giving rise to a cold abscess which communicates with the knee-joint. The joint itself is disorganised, the cartilages separated, and the synovial membrane lined by caseous lymph. There is another cold abscess in front of the femur above the joint. Os. E. d. 51 (383). A knee-joint, removed in an amputation by Mr Pott at St Bartholomew’s Hospital, 1780. In the vertical section which has been made it may be seen that the initial tubercular lesion is situated in the tibial epiphysis, and that it subsequently infected the joint, causing arthritis. Os. E. d. 52 (376). The knee-joint of a child, mesially bisected. There is a large cold abscess in front of the femur, above the sac of the joint, lined by a layer of caseous lymph. Os. E. d. 53 (388). A dried patella shewing ulceration of its articular surface. Os. E. d. 54 (389). x\ similar specimen. Os. E. d. 55 (492). The upper end of a tibia, macerated ; the ex- ternal articular facet is occupied by an irregular mass of new bone, which united it to the femur.