73 AR'IHRITIS DEFORMANS. Os. E. g. 6 (3S6«). Plaster cast of the hands of a patient, shewing the deformity and distortion of the Fingers resulting from arthritis deformans or from chronic polyarticular rheumatism. Os. E. g. 7 (206flf). A preparation in spirit of a very characteristic example of arthritis deformans affecting the Hip. The capsule of the joint is greatly thickened, and its inner surface studded with polypoidal processes or hypertrophied synovial fringes. Along the line of junction between the synovial membrane and the articular cartilage of the head of the femur there are a series of rounded nodular masses of bone, giving the articular surface the characteristic “lipped” appearance, and making the head appear much larger and somewhat conical in shape rather than hemispherical. The articular surface itself is rough and uneven from degenerative changes in the cartilage. Os. E. g. 8 (368/). A preparation of the hip-joint in spirit, shewing certain of the early changes in arthritis deformans. Portions of the articular cartilage of the head of the femur and acetabulum are fibrous and velvety, and the capsular ligament is considerably thickened. (From the Dissecting-Room, i860. Prepared by Professor Annandale.) Os. E. g. 9 (3686). A similar preparation of the upper end of the femur; the head of the bone is bulbous, its margin is “lipped,” and the capsular ligament thickened. (Presented by Professor Annandale.) Os. E. g. 10 (201). An innominate bone in which the acetabulum is enlarged and deepened by new bone round its margin, and the articular surface eburnated in its upper segment where sub- jected to friction and pressure in walking. Os. E. g. 11 (446). A similar specimen, which shews in addition anchylosis of the sacro-iliac joint, resulting from arthritis defor- mans. Os. E. g. 12 (Y 12). A portion of an innominate bone, in which the acetabulum is very greatly enlarged and deepened by the formation of earthy-like new bone in the position of the cotyloid and capsular ligaments of the hip. Os. E. g. 13(202). The head of a femur, considerably enlarged and somewhat conical in shape, and flattened from above down- wards ; the peripheral margin of the head is “ lipped ” ; the superior aspect of the articular surface is eburnated and exten- sively “worm-eaten.” Os. E. g. 14 (204). A similar specimen. Os. E. g. 15 (2080). A similar specimen, in which the eburnation is absent, and the “lipping” of the articular surface is very pro- nounced.