TUBERCULOSIS. 244 R. 0. g. 32 (2424). Chronic Phthisis. A small piece of lung shewing a deeply puckered cicatrix upon the pleural surface. Areas and bands of whitish fibrous looking tissue radiate from this into the lung tissue, especially along the interlobular septa and bronchi. Microscopically these bands consist almost entirely of chronic tubercle, with very numerous giant cell systems. See Professor Hughes Bennett’s work on Tuberculosis, also Edin, Monthly Medical Journal^ Vol. X., third series, p. 232. R, C. g. 33 (2424a). Upper lobe of a Lung, on the pleural surface of the apex of which is an extensive dense cicatrix. Presented by Professor Hughes Bennett. R. C. g. 34 (2425). Portion of apex of right Lung, emphysematous, pigmented, with deep puckerings on the pleural surface, and caseous masses surrounded by deeply pigmented fibrous tissue. Healed Tubercle. (This and the two succeeding specimens are described in Professor Hughes Bennett’s Memoir in Edin. Monthly Journal^ Vol. X., third series, 409 and seq.) R. 0. g. 35 (2426). Left Lung of same case, shewing caseating nodules surrounded by fibrous tissue, and two cavities surrounded by dense fibrous tissue. On the pleural surface distinct puck- erings, one at the apex and one lower down, are situated super- ficial to the cavities. R. C. g. 36 (2427). Thin section of right Lung from the above case. It shews some condensation and cretification of the substance, with signs of incipient emphysema. R. 0. g. 37 (2428). Apex of right Lung, shewing a remarkable white cicatrix on the pleural surface, which is puckered; inter- nally below the cicatrix, linear indurations of lung substance of a black colour, and five cretaceous concretions. See Professor Hughes Bennett’s Memoir in Edin. Monthly Med. Journal^ Vol. X., third series, p. 233. R. 0. g. 38 (L. 4). Very Chronic Phthisis. Portion of Lung with greatly thickened pleura. The lung tissue is very deeply pig- mented, almost black in parts, and shews very numerous small caseous points, and numerous cavities of various size and shape, some of which appear to be due to bronchiectasis. Micros- copically shews very numerous caseous centres, surrounded by lymphoid or reticulated fibrous tissue, and giant cell tubercle systems. There are also dense bands of fibrous tissue. R. C. g. 39 (L. 5). Chronic Phthisis. Portion of Lung shewing great thickening of the pleura, and dense whitish fibrous band intersecting the lung, and fibrous thickening around the bronchi. The lung tissue shews dark grey granite-like consolidation. Some small cavities are also present. Microscopically shews very abundant giant cell tubercle, and also bands of dense fibrous tissue.