187 INTESTINE. Al. E. j. 9 (891). Tubercular Ulceration. Transverse ulcers, with thickened and irregular edges, are displayed in the mucous mem- brane of the caput caecum coli and colon. Injected specimen. Al. E.j. 10 (908). T ubercular Ulceration. In the mucous mem- brane of the small intestine is an ulcer with bevelled edges, which were very vascular. From a child who died of phthisis. Al. E.j. 11 (909). Tubercular Ulceration. An irregular trans- verse ulcer is seen in the mucous membrane of the small intestine. Its floor is thickened and studded with tubercles. The lungs, liver, and mesenteric glands were tubercular. From a man aged 28. Al. E.j. 12 (910). Tubercular Ulceration. The mucous mem- brane of the colon is extensively and irregularly ulcerated. Tubercles are seen in the subserous coat, especially under the floor and edges of the largest ulcer. Al. E.j. 13 (911). Tubercular Ulceration. The mucous mem- brane of the end of the ileum and ileo-caecal valve is extensively ulcerated. The floor of the ulcer is uneven and its edge irregular. A few small ulcers are seen in the caput caecum coli, and the subserous coat of the ileum is studded with tubercles. From a man aged 23. Al. E. j. 14 (912). Tubercular Ulceration. The coats of the colon, especially the mucous, are thickened, and its mucous membrane ulcerated. There is thickening of the mesentery and enlargement of the mesenteric glands. Al. E.j. 15 (857«)- Part of the Colon, shewing extensive Ulcera- tion (probably Tubercular). The ulcers are transverse, almost completely surrounding the bowel, they have greatly thickened edges, and a minutely pitted and eroded base. The mucous membrane shews general thickening. Al. E. j. 16. Tubercular Ulceration. Portion of small intestine, minutely injected, shewing numerous sloughing ulcers, some of which have penetrated to the muscular coat. One large ulcer has started in a Peyer’s patch; several others in solitary glands. The edges of the ulcers are much thickened. Al. E.j. 17. Tubercular Ulceration. Portions of the small intes- tine, shewing tubercular ulcers. Presented by Professor Greenfield. Al. E.j. 18. Tubercular Ulceration. Piece of large intestine, shewing transverse ulcers almost encircling the bowel. Floor of ulcers irregularly thickened. Presented by Professor Green- field. Al. E.j. 19 (913). T ubercular Ulceration. Some of the Peyer’s patches of the small intestine are ulcerated, and almost ready to slough. The surrounding mucous membrane is thickened and the mesenteric glands much enlarged. Injected specimen.