;6 ARTHRITIS DEFORMANS. at certain points; round the margin, however, more especially that over the inner condyle, is being invaded and eaten into by the adjacent synovial membrane. Os. E. g. 33 (385). A preparation of the knee-joint, in spirit, shew- ing alterations which are very characteristic of arthritis deformans. The margins of the articular surfaces are “ lipped ” and nodular ; the articular cartilage, as such, has almost entirely disappeared; in certain parts, more especially over the patella, it has been con- verted into a fibrous connective tissue, having a villous appear- ance ; in other parts, nodules of new bone have been formed in the cartilage, making its surface, especially over the trochlea and condyles of the femur, very irregular and uneven. The synovial membrane has undergone a fibrous thickening, and shews a number of processes, which surround the patella like a fringe. Os. E. g. 34 (240a). The femoral and patellar portions of a knee- joint, in which the articular cartilage is deficient over a rounded circumscribed area on the trochlea and corresponding area on the outer facet of the patella, forming a depression on either sur- face with smoothly bevelled margins. Os. E. g. 35 (373)- Another characteristic specimen. The “ lip- ping ” of the articular surfaces is very pronounced; the trochlear area on the femur is enlarged and eburnated; the condylar portions are covered with the fibrous remains of the articular cartilage. The articular surface of the patella is eburnated and greatly increased in area by the addition of new bone along its outer margin. The thickened joint capsule has also been opened from behind, to shew a large cartilaginous “ loose body ” which has become caught between the outer condyle and the capsule. Os. E. g. 36 (372). The macerated bones of a knee-joint, in which the changes are more advanced. The articular surfaces are “ lipped,” so that the margins overhang the adjacent bone. The trochlear surface of the femur and the outer facet of the patella have been bared of cartilage, while the exposed bone has been rubbed smooth (eburnated). Nodules of new bone have been formed in the semilunar cartilages. A large mass of bone has been similarly formed in the tendon of the quadriceps at its attachment to the upper border of the patella, and smaller nodules are also seen along the attachments of the tendon to the borders of the same bone. Os. E. g. 37 (239). The articular ends of a tibia and femur, in which the most prominent feature is the porcelainous or ivory- like eburnation of the corresponding surfaces of the internal tuberosity and internal condyle. The eburnated area on either bone presents a series of parallel antero-posterior grooves, which have resulted from the hinge-like movements of the joint. The articular surfaces are also “ lipped,” and a considerable amount of new bone has been formed in the tendon of the adductor magnus at its insertion into the tubercle of the femur, and in the ligamentum patellee at its attachment to the tibia.