42 TUBERCULAR DISEASES OF BONE. Os. D. e. 51 (267). The shaft of a Tibia, rounded and thickened by the formation of new bone, which at several points shews circum- scribed excavations or ulcers of considerable depth. The appear- ances seen in the specimen are partly due to the method of maceration. Os. D. e. 52 (Y 30). The femur from an adult, in which there is a limited central necrosis in the lower third of its shaft; the cavity in which the sequestrum lies, opens by a sinus on the anterior surface of the bone, the latter being expanded and the periosteal surface covered with new bone. On the anterior surface of the upper third of the shaft there is a circumscribed periosteal node. This specimen was unearthed during the restoration of St Giles’ Cathedral in 1879. Os. D. e. 53 (299a). A Radius and Ulna, from a case of syphilis, in which the greater part of the shaft of the former bone has ex- foliated so as to leave a gap of several inches. The free ends of the portions of radius which remain are attenuated and finely pointed. The lower articular surface is altered in direction and outline. Tubercle of Bone. Os. D. f. [The majority of specimens illustrating the above are included in the Tubercular Diseases of Joints.] Os. D. f. 1 (363). The left Humerus of a young subject, in which the shaft, from one extremity to the other, is entirely converted into a mere framework of irregular spongy bone, the outer com- pact shell having entirely disappeared. 'The joint surfaces are intact. Spontaneous fracture has occurred through the lower third of the shaft, followed by an attempt at repair with the fragments nearly at right angles to each other. I'he initial lesion was possibly an extensive tubercular osteomyelitis. Os. D. f. 2 (359). T he pelvis and two lower lumbar vertebrae of an adult, m which the Ilium has been extensively diseased. The ventral aspect and the crest of the ilium present a series of circular excavations or ulcers, some of which appear to have healed; the dorsum shews several similar rounded excavations, some of which have smooth margins; others, again, are very irregular, together with a considerable formation of new bone in their vicinity. The two lower lumbar vertebrae are affected with arthritis deformans, and are partially anchylosed to each other. Os. D. f. 3. A longitudinal section of a tubercular finger; the preparation, which is mounted in glycerine jelly and is quite translucent, shews an extensive tubercular infiltration in the interior of the first phalanx (tubercular osteomyelitis) and also scattered miliary tubercles in the marrow-spaces of the second