FRACTURES OF THE LOWER EXTREIVUTV. II Os. B. e. 18 (95)- A fracture of the left femur at the junction of the lesser trochanter with the shaft. Union has followed, with the fragments overriding, the upper lying in front of the lower one. Os. B. e. 19(95«)- An extensive fracture of the left femur, in- volving the base of the neck, the trochanters, and the upper end of the shaft, with impaction and displacement of the frag- ments and great deformity. The fragments are not yet united. Os. B. e. 20 (96). A fracture of the right femur below the lesser trochanter, followed by deformed union, with angular displace- ment of the fragments. The specimen is bisected longitudinally. Os. B. e. 21 (97)- An oblique fracture of the right femur below the lesser trochanter, in which union has occurred, with consider- able shortening, from partial lateral overriding of the fragments. Os. B. e. 22 (98). A fracture of the left femur in its upper third, in which union has occurred, with the fragments overriding for some inches. The lower fragment lies directly in front of the upper one. The specimen is bisected. Os. B. e. 23 (98a). A very remarkable fracture of the right femur in the upper third of its shaft. The upper fragment has been split longitudinally for several inches into two halves by the lower fragment, which may be seen lying in the space between them. Partial union has occurred. Os. B. e. 24 (99). A fracture of the shaft of the right femur about its middle ; union has occurred, with altered configuration of the bone, from overriding of the fragments. Os. B. e. 25 (100). A fracture of the shaft of the right femur below the small trochanter, in which union has taken place, with the upper fragment displaced forwards and tilted outwards by the ilio-psoas, so that it forms an angle with the remainder of the shaft. Os. B. e. 26 (loi). A fracture of the shaft of the right femur in its upper third, which has united in such a way that the anterior curvature of the bone is exaggerated. Os. B. e. 27 (102). A fracture of the shaft of the right femur in its upper third, with angular union, the convexity of the bend facing outwards. The articular surfaces of the condyles are covered in part by new bone, which closely resembles the shape of the semilunar cartilages of the knee-joint. Os. B. e. 28 (Y 6). A curious specimen, shewing multiple frac- ture of the shaft of a left femur. First, at its middle, with deformed union from overriding of the fragments and an elongated process of bone, continued downwards from the upper fragment, which lies in front and to the inner side of the lower. Secondly, the lower part of the shaft is broken both longitudinally and obliquely.