2/2 BLADDER. Gen.-U. 0. d. 2 (1352). Bladder which contained a Calculus. Organ much thickened and contracted. Prostate is enlarged. Gen.-U. 0. d. 3 (1353)- Bladder shewing very marked thicken- ing and contraction of its walls. Left lobe of prostate much enlarged. Gen.-U. 0. d. 4 (1354). Bladder shewing contraction and thicken- ing of its walls, together with slight “sacculation” of the mucous membrane. Gen.-U. 0. d. 5 (1355). Portion of a Bladder shewing dilatation and hypertrophy of its walls, together with commencing saccu- lation, probably due to obstruction to outflow of urine by the enlarged middle lobe of the prostate gland. Gen.-U. 0. d. 6 (1356). Bladder shewing dilatation and hyper- trophy of its walls, and “ sacculation ” of the mucous membrane between the hypertrophied bands of muscular tissue. The prostate gland is enlarged. Gen.-U. C. d. 7 (l357)- Bladder (evaginated) shewing very marked hypertrophy of its muscular bundles, which have come to resemble the musculi pectinati of the heart. The middle lobe of the prostate is much enlarged and projects into the cavity of the bladder, causing obstruction to the outflow of urine, and so producing the condition above described, as well as the “ sacculation ” of the mucous coat between the muscular bundles. Gen.-U. 0. d. 8 (1358). Hypertrophy of Bladder with dilatation. The mucous coat is everted to shew the sacculi formed between the enlarged muscular fasciculi. Gen.-U. 0. d. 9 (1359). Dilatation and Hypertrophy of the Bladder from obstruction to the outflow of urine by the enlarged middle lobe of the prostate. There is also very marked saccu- lation of the mucous membrane between the muscular bands, one of the sacculi so produced being seen projecting on the outer surface of the viscus. Gen.-U. C. d. 10 (1360). Hypertrophy of Bladder with Dilata- tion. The wall of the bladder is thickened and its mucous surface rugose. On one side there is a rounded thin-walled diverticulum about 2 inches in diameter. There are also numerous smaller sacculations. The prostate is enlarged. Some small dark-coloured calculi were attached to the vesical mucous surface. Gen.-U. C. d. 11 (1361). Hypertrophy of Bladder. On the outer surface three diverticula, due to enlargement of the natural sacculi, have been laid open. In parts the bladder wall, together with new-formed inflammatory tissue, is more than an inch thick, and the prostate is enlarged.