SENILE ATROPHY OF THE SKULL. 95 Os. G. b. 5 (Y1806). A skull-cap resembling the preceding speci- mens, in which, however, the external atrophy is present to a very slight degree, while there is a considerable deposit of new bone on the meningeal aspect. The bone, as seen in the sawn section, is of considerable, although unequal, thickness, ranging from 5-15 mm. Internally the skull presents a very uneven surface, partly due to the depth and unusually close ramification of the grooves for the meningeal vessels, and partly to the deposit of new bone on the inner table in the areas between these grooves. The thickening by new bone is most marked in the frontal bone and along the line of the superior longitudinal sinus. Os. G. b. 6 (Y124). A skull-cap, shewing great unevenness of the surface of the inner table ; along the line of the superior longi- tudinal sinus there are numerous large Pacchionian depressions ; the lateral portions present ridges and depressions on the surface which correspond with the cerebral convolutions. Os. G. b. 7 (Y 123). A skull which presents to a moderate degree the changes resulting from senile atrophy. Os. G. b. 8 (Y 122). A skull-cap which is flattened and consider- ably increased in weight. The surface of the outer table is somewhat rough and uneven, especially in the region of the parietal eminences. The diploe is increased in amount, and is condensed. There has been a considerable deposit of new bone on the surface of the inner table. Unilateral Atrophy of the Skull—He7niatrophia Facialis. Os. G. c. [No specimens.] Unilateral Hypertrophy aiid Hyperostosis of the Skull. Os. G. d. Os. G. d. 1. The skull of a male subject which has been rendered remarkably asymmetrical by a pathological overgrowth, involving the bones of the left half of the skull, and ceasing abruptly at the middle line. The overgrowth does not extend behind the plane of the mastoid, and may be said to correspond closely with the distribution of the different branches of the fifth nerve on the left side. The alterations seen in the specimen consist, firstly, in a hypertrophy of the affected bones, so that these are larger than those of the opposite side; secondly, in a nodular and bossy thickening (hyperostosis) of the different bones, seen especially in the zygoma, alveolar margin of upper jaw and pterygoid plates of sphenoid; and thirdly, in the formation of bony tumours (exostoses), the largest of which projects from the