NERVOUS SYSTEM. ii8 N. A. a. 8 (1950). Injuries of Brain. A large Hernia Cerebri, which appeared after trephining for a fracture of the skull and laceration of the dura mater. The fracture extended from behind the middle of the coronal suture to the right eyebrow, where a similar excrescence protruded. The dura mater is thickened by exudation, the superior longitudinal sinus is plugged, and the brain substance appears much disorganised. N. A. a. 9 (1951). Injury of the Brain. A large cavity is seen in the middle lobe of the right hemisphere, which was filled by coagulated blood, and an opening with thickened edges in the dura mater, through which a portion of brain was discharged. From a case of fracture of the skull. N. A. a. 10 (1964). Injury of Brain. Extensive Haemorrhage in right frontal lobe, on interior and anterior aspects, and on inferior aspect of left temporo-sphenoidal lobe. Scattered haemorrhage (subarachnoid) over outer aspect of hemisphere. From the position and character of the haemorrhage it has probably been caused by a fall or blow on left parietal eminence. DISEASES OF THE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. Hcemorrhage, etc. N. A. b. N. A. b. 1 (1923). Pachymeningitis Haemorrhagica Interna (Haema- toma of the Dura Mater). The whole of the serous surface of the dura mater is covered by a false membrane, detached at one side. Between the false membrane and the dura extra- vasations of blood are seen, some recent; others, of older date, are represented by local thickenings and stellate cicatrices. N. A. b. 2 (1927). Pachymeningitis Haemorrhagica Interna. Parts of the serous surface of the dura mater, especially the falx cerebri, are covered with a delicate false membrane. Localised thickenings are seen in the dura mater. N. A. b. 3 (1924). Pachymeningitis Interna. A layer of false membrane lines the inner surface of the dura mater, over the right hemisphere. A more recent exudation is seen on the dura of the left side, which shews thickening at one point. To the front, on the right side, is a collection of caseous-looking material, possibly gummatous. N. A. b. 4 (1925)- Pachymeningitis Interna. A layer of false membrane, partly detached, is seen on the serous surface of the dura mater. N. A. b. 5 (1926). Pachymeningitis Interna. A very thin layer of brownish-coloured exudation is on the serous surface of the dura mater.