6l SUPPURATIVE DISEASES OF JOINTS. Os. D. t. 3. The bones of the foreleg of a dog, in which a small portion of bone appears to have been excised from the middle of the shaft of the radius some weeks before the animal was killed. The cut extremities are now united by a tough fibrous tissue, which encloses several small scattered masses of bone. [These specimens were presented to the Museum by Professor Annandale in 1890. They are figured and described by Professor Syme in the Tra?is. Roy. Soc. Edin. for 1840, and in his Principles of Surgery^ third edition, 1842, p. 192.) DISEASES OF JOINTS. Os. E. Malformations and Abnormalities of Joints. Os. E. a. Congenital Dislocations. [No specimens.] Acute Arthritis, for the most part suppurative m character, and due to the presence of pus-forming bacteria. Os. E. b. Associated with Penetrating Wounds of Joints, Compound Fractures involving Joints, Acute Infective Diseases—e.g., Pyoemia, Specific Fevers, Gonorrhoea, &c. (so-called Metastatic Arthritis), Osteomyelitis of the Articular Ends of Bone, &c. [See also Injuries of Bone, Nos. Os. B. e. 47 (119), Os. B. e. 70 (139), and Diseases of Bone, Nos. Os. D. d. 40 {305a), Os. D. d. 38 (306), Os. D. d. 39 (307), Os. D. d. 41 (310^), Os. D. d. 43 (311), Os. D. d. 44 (312).] Os. E. b. 1 (470). The tibia, patella, and portion of a femur, from a case of multiple injury of the lower extremity. The shaft of the femur has been broken in its lower fourth; the fracture was evidently compound, and was followed by secondary Suppurative Arthritis in the Knee-joint, of which the articular surfaces, much altered in form, are partially united to each other by new bone. There has also been an oblique fracture of the shaft of the tibia at the junction of its middle and lower thirds ; the fragments are smoothly united, but at an angle with each other. Os. E. b. 2 (3106). The upper end of a femur, from a case in which the epiphysis of the head became separated, as a result of acute osteomyelitis (epiphysitis), with abundant formation of pus in the cavity of the Hip-joint. An abscess had also formed beneath the periosteum on the anterior and inner surface of the femur in its upper third (acute suppurative periostitis); in this area the surface layer of compact bone has perished, and is seen in the process of separation. At the upper margin of this area there is a con- siderable mass of new bone. (From a boy of 16, admitted into the Leith Hospital with acute pain and swelling of the right hip.