13 DISEASES OF STUMPS. above the point of amputation. The dead bone is marked off from the living by a distinct groove of separation. The periosteal surface of the shaft above this level is encrusted with new bone. (^Ballingall Collection.) Os. L. b. 6 (A 84). Portions of the radius and ulna of a man aged 25, who underwent primary amputation below the elbow. The cut section of the shaft of the radius has perished, but there is no trace of separation of the dead portion. The patient died on the 23rd day after the amputation. allingall Collection.) Os. L. b. 7 (A 86). A similar preparation of the end of a humerus, from a case in which death occurred on the 24th day after primary amputation of the arm. Necrosis has occurred at the sawn section of the bone, and there is commencing separation of the sequestrum. {Ballingall Collection.) Os. L. b. 8 (A 83). A similar specimen from the femur. Death occurred on the 21st day. {Ballingall Collection.) Os. L. b. 9 (650). The end of a femur from an amputation of the thigh ; the medullary canal is covered over with recent bone ; the periosteal surface is partly covered with irregular processes of new formation; both the old and the new bone have a rarefied, worm-eaten appearance. Os. L. b. 10 (655). The ends of the tibia and fibula from a case of amputation of the leg, in which the cut surfaces and the peri- osteal aspect throughout the shafts are irregularly rarefied and worm-eaten, as if they had been bathed with pus. Os. L. b. 11 (643). The upper half of the femur of a boy, in whom amputation had been performed through the middle of the thigh. At the sawn section the entire thickness of the bone has perished as a result of osteomyelitis; the necrosis extends upwards for an inch or more, but tends to affect only the central portion of the bone, i.e.., that surrounding the medullary canal, so that the sequestrum acquires a characteristic conical shape, the base of the cone being at the sawn section. A considerable amount of new bone has been formed by the periosteum around the sequestrum. Os. Li. b. 12 (A 82). A portion of the extremity of the femur of a man, which was amputated for a severe comminuted fracture. The man died on the 21st day. The bone was found denuded of periosteum for two inches above the sawn extremity. A very limited portion of the sawn end of the bone has perished, and shews commencing separation. The periosteal surface of the shaft above is irregularly pitted and worm-eaten, and is partly covered with a thin crust of new bone. {Ballingall Collection.) Os. L. b. 13 (A 85). A similar specimen from a man aged 37, who died on the 23rd day. {Ballingall Collection.) H