TUBERCULAR DISEASES OF JOINTS. 62 the thigh being flexed on the abdomen. An opening made into the swelling in front gave exit to 20 oz. of pus. Three weeks after the commencement of the attack, an incision was made on the outer aspect of the joint, when the epiphysis of the femur fell out. The upper half of the femur was then removed, and the patient recovered. Presented by Dr Wm. Finlay, January, 1884.) Os. E. b. 3 (275). The lower end of the tibia of a child, in which acute osteomyelitis has resulted in partial death of the lower end of the diaphysis and suppurative inflammation of the Ankle-joint, of which the articular surface has been completely destroyed. Syphilitic Arthritis. Os. E. c. [No specimens.] Tiiberculosis of Joints and Tttbercular Arthritis. Os. E. d. (With which are included the tubercular affections of the articular ends of bone.) Bones a?id Joints of the Upper Extremity. Os. E. d. 1 (361a). The macerated bones from a case of advanced Tubercular Arthritis of the Shoulder-joint. The head of the humerus is almost entirely destroyed, the articular surface of the glenoid has suffered to a less extent, while there is a crust of recent spongy bone on the adjacent periosteal surfaces. Os. E. d. 2 {362). A similar specimen, in which the articular sur- faces are very superficially ulcerated. Os. E. d. 3 (365). A characteristic specimen of tubercular arthritis of the Elbow; the cartilage covering the articular surfaces, with the exception of small eroded-looking fragments near the margins, is replaced by thickened synovial granulation tissue, which has grown inwards from the periphery. The periarticular structures are infiltrated and thickened by similar granulation tissue. Os. E. d. 4 (188). The bones of the elbow from a similar case, macerated; the articular surfaces are superficially destroyed, and the adjacent portions of the shafts are covered by recent periosteal deposit of a spinous character. Os. E. d. 5 (192). The upper end of an ulna from a similar case. Os. E. d. 6 (366). The elbow-joint of a child, injected and cut in vertical section. The joint sac is distended, and is lined by thickened gelatinous synovial membrane, which is granular on certain portions of its free surface. The cartilage is apparently normal. The cancellated tissue of the articular ends of the bones is rarefied. The tissues in the neighbourhood of the joint are abnormally vascular.