TUMOURS OF BONE. 52 Os. D. p. 32 (571). A cancellous exostosis of the distal phalanx oh the great toe, seen in the macerated state. Os. D. p. 33 (572). A longitudinal section of the great toe, shewing an exostosis springing from the dorsum and pushing up the nail. Os. D. p. 34 (215 and 564). The long bones of the right lower ex- tremity of an adult, shewing multiple cancellous exostoses towards the ends of the bones. In the femur the shaft is some- what flattened and its substance very light; there is an irregularly tuberculated eminence of bone, both on the anterior and posterior aspects of the cervix, at its junction with the shaft. The lower extremity of the bone is expanded, and presents a nipple-shaped exostosis immediately above the condyles posteriorly, also a spinous projection of bone a little above the internal condyle. The articular surfaces of the knee are healthy. The superior tibio-fibular articulation is obliterated by a bony mass uniting the tibia and fibula in this situation. There is a similar bony mass projecting from the shaft of the tibia just below the internal tuberosity. Lastly, from the posterior surface of the lower end of the same bone, a large exostosis projects backwards and also outwards, so as to lie against the posterior surface of the fibula, which is considerably thinned by pressure at this point. Os. D. p. 34a. Pedunculated exostosis from the upper end of shaft of left fibula. (From a native of India ; presented by I). Macbeth Moir, M. R.) Tumour-like Growths of Bone, False Exostoses, many of ivInch correspo7id m situatiofi to muscles and teyidojis at their attachments to bone. Several of the specimens m this group are from cases in which thetx existed Arthritis Deformans in one or more of the joints. Os. D. p. 35 (Y 26). A Humerus, in which there is an elongated, irregularly elevated mass of bone in the position of the insertion of the deltoid muscle. The upper end of the bone is wanting. Os. D. p. 36. Model in wood of the lower end of a left humerus, in which a long pointed exostosis projects forwards from the place of origin of the flexors and pronators, and an irregular exostosis grows downwards from the external condyloid ridge. (Presented by H. A. Lediard, M.D.) Os. D. p. 37 (552). An os innominatum, in which an elongated mass of spongy bone projects from the anterior inferior spine, so as to correspond in a certain degree to the position and direction of the tendon of origin of the rectus femoris muscle. Os. D. p. 38 (559 and 490). A remarkably altered femur, in which there projects straight backwards an irregularly rounded exostosis, about the size of a small walnut, from the posterior surface of the bone, midway between the trochanters. It is pedunculated. The anterior intertrochanteric ridge and that for the attachment