INJURIES OF JOINTS. Os. 0. Dislocations of the Lower Jaw. Os. C. a. [No specimens.] Dislocations of the Vertebral Cohtnin. Os. C. b. [.See Fractures of.] Dislocations of the Shoulder Girdle and Upper Extremity. Os. C. c. Os. 0. C. 1 (40). The manubrium sterni and right Clavicle, shewing an unreduced forward dislocation of the latter bone at the sterno- clavicular joint; the interarticular cartilage remains attached to the clavicle. There appears to have been a fracture through the middle third of the clavicle at a former period; it is firmly united. (.Spirit preparation.) Os. 0. C. 2 (167). A dried specimen of unreduced subcoracoid dis- location of the Humerus, with indented fracture of the head of the bone from impaction against the anterior lip of the glenoid fossa. (Described and figured by Francis M. Caird, M.B., in the Edin. Med. Jonrti. for Feb. 1887.) Os. 0. C. 3 (171)- A plaster cast of the upper part of the trunk from which the preceding specimen was obtained. Os. C. C. 4 (168). “A dissected preparation in spirit of a recent subcoracoid dislocation of the humerus, with indented fracture of the head of the bone, produced by impact against the anterior lip of the glenoid fossa.” (Described and figured by F. M. Caird, M.B., Edin. Med. Journ. Feb. 1887.) Os. 0. C. 5 (169). A dissected preparation in spirit of a subcoracoid dislocation of the head of the humerus of old standing. A new joint has formed between the displaced head and the neck of the scapula, of which the capsule has been partially reflected to shew the changes which have occurred in the articular surface of the head of the bone, and which are similar to those met with in arthritis deformans. From the posterior aspect of the shaft of the humerus, and 4’5 cm. below the anatomical neck, there projects backwards and upwards a thick truncated bony process, 4 cm. in girth and 6 cm. in length, the free extremity of which occupies the glenoid cavity, and forms with the latter a joint, allowing of a certain amount of movement attended with grating. To the free extremity of this process are attached the tendons of the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor. The subscapularis has no attachment to the humerus. The tendon of the biceps is displaced from the bicipital groove, and occupies the deep sulcus between the glenoid and the displaced head of the humerus.