44 RICKETS. met with in osteomalacia. The sacrum presents an exaggerated concavity forw^ards. The bones of the limbs are short and stunted; the humerus is abnormally short, with broad articular ends, and great prominence of the deltoid ridge and internal condyle. The hands appear disproportionately large. The articular ends of the femur are unusually broad, while its shaft is curved markedly forwards. The shafts of the tibia and fibula are flattened from side to side, and are curved forwards and inwards. (The skeleton is that of “ Bowed Joseph,” leader of the Meal Riots in Edinburgh,who died in 1780.) Os. D. i. 2 (507). The skeleton of a child, from a case of severe rickets. The skull is enlarged equally in all its dimensions. T"he thorax is laterally compressed, while the sternum is pro- jected forwards. The vertebral column shew^s no abnormal curvature. The front of the pelvis is beaked by the approxima- tion of the acetabula, the lower end of the sacrum is directed straight forwards, and the iliac bones present a transverse hori- zontal fold parallel with the crest and a little below the latter. The femora are curved forwards and outw^ards, the tibia and fibula directly forwards. The scapulae are folded on themselves horizontally, the humeri very markedly curved forwards, the radius and ulna, more especially on the left side, are curved outw^ards and forwards. The epiphysial ends of all the long bones are enlarged. Deformities of the Individual Bones from Rickets. [For Rickety Deformities of Vertebral Column and Thorax, see Vertebral Column, Diseases of.] Of the Sternum. Os. D. i. 3 (514)* The Sternum and Costal Cartilages of a child. The sternum presents a very considerable anterior curvature, while the cartilages are bent suddenly backwards to join the ribs. The deformity is that described as “ pigeon-breast.” Os. D. i. 4 (515)* The sternum of an adult, shewing a less degree of anterior curvature. Os. D. i. 5 (516). A similar specimen. Of the Bones of the Upper Limb. Os.‘D. i. 6 (519)- The Humerus of an adult, abnormally short and slender, with the lower portion of the shaft curved outwards. The structure of the bone, as seen in longitudinal section, is quite healthy.