26 GUNSHOT injurh:s. entire articular surface of the outer tuberosity, and another extending down the shaft of the bone for 5 cm. (From a sergeant, aged 37, of the ist Regiment, who died forty-eight days after the injury.) Os. B. f. 63 (A 32). The upper end of a tibia from a man aged 41, shewing the track of a musket-ball right through the head of the bone from before backwards with Assuring and splintering, upwards into the knee-joint and downwards into the shaft; the injury was followed by suppurative arthritis in the knee, and death on the thirty-fourth day. Os. B. f. 64 (A 33). A similar specimen from a man aged 23, in whom primary amputation was performed. Os. B. f. 65 (A 39). The upper end of the tibia of a man aged 24, shewing a musket-ball lodged in the head of the bone in front of the spine. The epiphysis has not yet united. Amputation was performed eighteen hours after receipt of the injury. Os. B. f. 66 (A 48). The upper end of a tibia from a man aged 32 ; the bone is broken across and fissured a little below the head. Amputation was performed nine hours after receipt of the injury. Os. B. f. 67 (A 29). The lower two-thirds of the tibia and fibula of a man aged 40, shewing a comminuted splintered fracture of the former bone, and a simple transverse fracture of the latter about 7*5 cm. above the ankle-joint. Suppurative inflamma- tion appears to have followed on the injury and caused the death and extrusion of several of the fragments. Death occurred on the ninety-ninth day. Os. B. f. 68 (A 51). The lower half of the tibia of a man aged 28, shewing a recent comminuted splintered fracture of the shaft of the bone caused by a musket-ball. Os. B. f. 69 (A 52). Portions of the tibia and fibula, much shattered from a gunshot wound. Many of the fragments are wanting. Os. B. f. 70 (A 49). Portions of the tibia from a recent comminuted fracture of the shaft about its middle. From a man aged 23. Os. B. f. 71 (A 76). Two portions of the tibia from a man aged 42, shewing a comminuted fracture through the lower third of the shaft caused by a round shot striking the leg. Suppuration and death of certain portions of bone followed. The jimb was amputated below the knee on the nineteenth day. Os. B. f. 72 (A 77)- The upper two-thirds of the tibia of an artil- leryman who received a ball into the substance of the bone without further fracture. The upper end of the shaft is expanded, and on the subcutaneous surface, about 8 cm. below the inner tuberosity, there is a large open cavity in the substance of the