48 OSTEITIS DEFORMANS. Os. D. k. 2 (194). T he shaft of an Ulna longitudinally bisected. The bone is clumsy-looking, increased in girth, and is slightly bent backwards. The surface of the bone is smooth, but is perforated by an unusual number of vascular apertures. The sawn section exhibits the encroachment on the medullary canal by condensed spongy tissue, while the compact tissue of the external shell has itself become rarefied. These changes possibly result from osteitis deformans. Os. D. k. 3 (238). A portion of the shaft of a Femur greatly in- creased in circumference; its surface is uneven and minutely nodulated, and exhibits numerous pores or apertures for blood- vessels. The compact tissue of the shaft, as seen in section, is partly spongy and partly dense and chalk-like. Os. D. k. 4 (210). T he upper end of a femur cut in vertical section. The shaft is increased in circumference, and is porous and spongy on its external surface. The cancellous tissue in the substance is coarser, with denser trabeculae than normal, and encroaching on the medullary canal, but a great portion of the cancellous tissue has been converted into dense chalk-like bone, the latter occurring in the form of irregular patches. Os. D. k. 5 (252). A Tibia, curved throughout its whole length with the convexity of the curve directed forwards; the circumference of the shaft is uniformly increased from end to end; the external surface is rough and irregular, with numerous grooves and aper- tures for blood-vessels. In the longitudinal section which has been made, the medullary canal is seen to be enlarged, the can- cellous tissue rather coarse in its arrangement, and the compact tissue increased in thickness. Probably from a case of osteitis deformans. Os. D. k. 6 (269). A tibia, in which the shaft is similarly curved forwards ; the circumference of the bone is very greatly increased, while its surface is tolerably smooth. [See also Specimen Os. D. p. 91.] Leontiasis Ossea (Virchow). Os. D. 1. [See Skull, Diseases of.] Acromegaly (Marie). Os. D. m. Os. D. m. 1. The Skull and portions of the Skeleton of a man, aged 36, who had suffered from acromegaly, and who died ot diabetes mellitus in the Royal Infirmary in 1878. The skull is unusually large, and presents a disproportionate increase in the dimensions of the face, this being chiefly due to an increase in the vertical diameter of the superior and inferior maxillae. The muscular ridges are unusually developed. The superciliary ridges are large and prominent, and the frontal sinuses dilated. The orbital cavities are increased in their transverse diameter. The