66 TUBERCULAR DISEASES OF JOINTS. surfaces, unoccupied by sequestra, are deeply ulcerated and destroyed. The periosteal surfaces in the vicinity of the joint are covered with characteristic spines and ridges of new bone. Os. E. d. 30 (325). The upper end of a tibia, sawn across and shewing a wedge-shaped sequestrum of considerable size in the substance of the cancellated tissue. Os. E. d. 31 (331). A large sequestrum, consisting of the entire thickness of the tibia immediately below the epiphysial cartilage. Os. E. d. 32 (327a). The head of a fibula, detached by necrosis, in a case of tubercular arthritis involving the knee. Os. E. d. 33 (Y 40). The bones of the knee from a young subject, shewing in the lower femoral epiphysis a large mass of calcified tubercle, occupying the entire external condyle and perforating the articular surface of the latter. The upper end of the tibia is represented by a thin shell of bone, of which the contents have disappeared in the process of maceration. The articular surfaces are ulcerated throughout; the periosteal surfaces are covered with new bone, which, on the anterior surface of the patella, is in the form of long, delicate spicules running parallel with each other. Os. E. d. 34 (317)- upper portion of a tibia of a young subject, in which there is a large cavity in the upper end of the diaphysis, containing a sequestrum of cancellated bone, and opening both on the articular aspect of the inner tuberosity and on the perios- teal surface. The articular surface is extensively ulcerated. Os. E. d. 35 (378). The knee-joint from a young subject, mesially bisected. There is a well-defined mass of caseating tubercle in the upper epiphysis of the tibia, encroaching on the epiphysial cartilage below and penetrating the articular cartilage above, and causing arthritis. The tibia as a whole is partially dislocated backwards; the joint is acutely flexed. In front of the femur there is a large cold abscess cavity, lined with caseous lymph, and communicating with the cavity of the joint. Os. E. d. 36 (378a). The opposite half of the preceding specimen. Os. E. d. 37 (382). The knee-joint from a boy aged 4. A tuber- cular “abscess” has developed in the upper end of the tibia and perforated the articular cartilage over the outer tuberosity pos- teriorly, causing arthritis. The abscess also opened on the periosteal surface of the tibia, immediately below the inner tuberosity. The abscess cavity contained a sequestrum. Os. E. d. 38 (Y 300). The synovial membrane around the patella, from a case of tubercular synovitis or hydrops of the knee, in a woman of 40. The joint contained several ounces of turbid synovia and a number ofimasses of clotted fibrin. The synovial membrane is very greatly thickened, and is thrown into a series of folds, processes, and fringes, like a cauliflower, these being