FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. 2 Os. B. a. 4 (6). A skull-cap from which a large portion of the right parietal bone was separated by a sabre cut, together with other injuries. The separated portion appears to have lived, and is partly adherent to the surrounding bone. There are other signs of reparative processes having taken place for several weeks before death. Os. B. a. 5 (7). The skull of a child, with extensive depressed comminuted fracture at the junction of the coronal and sagittal sutures, and a fissured fracture running down to the base of the skull through the frontal bone into the left orbit. There are no evidences of repair. Os. B. a. 6 (ll8). An attenuated skull-cap presenting two large oval gaps in the bone near the junction of the sagittal with the lambdoidal suture. The remains of a fissured fracture run from ^ the larger of the two holes downwards into the right temporal bone. The original injury was probably a compound com- minuted fracture. Os. B. a. 7 (Y 170). A skull-cap from the dissecting-room shewing a fracture of the right parietal bone, in which union has occurred with depression of the inner table alone to the extent of 2 cm. The outer table is quite smooth, and shews the remains of a fissured fracture. Os. B. a. 8(B7 and B 22). A skull presenting a very extensive comminuted fracture of the frontal and upper part of the right parietal bones. A large triangular portion of the frontal bone, which was detached and depressed below the level of the sur- rounding parts, is firmly united in this position. Several loose fragments, of which one is preserved (B 22), were removed from a fracture in the parietal bone. The patient, a workman in Ports- mouth Dockyard, survived the injury for a considerable time, but the circumstances of his death are not known. (Presented by J. Burns, Esq., surgeon. Royal Navy. Ballingall Collection.) Os. B. a. 9 (B 12). Portion of a skull with an irregular elliptical aperture produced by a stone or other missile without wound of the scalp. (Presented by Dr Keiller, Edinburgh. Ballitigall Collection.) Os. B. a. 10 (8). One half of the cranium of an adult, with a gun- shot wound in the coronal suture. New bone has been formed around the aperture in the skull, the margins of which are con- siderably depressed below the level of the surrounding bone. Os. B. a. 11 (10). A small fragment of a skull driven inwards by a bullet, and removed with the bullet in situ by trephining. Os. B. a. 12 (ll). A portion of the temporal bone, shewing a cir- cumscribed depressed fracture, resulting from gunshot injury. In the process of repair, new bone has been thrown out around the bullet, which remained in situ., and may be seen projecting on the internal surface of the bone.