8 GUNSHOT INJURIES. Os. B. e. 101 (Y 78). Cast of a fracture of both bones of the leg^ with great displacement and projection of the fragments under the skin. Os. B. e. 102 (Y 94). Cast of a fracture of both bones of the leg; the lower ends of the upper fragments override in front so as to cause bulging of the skin. The fracture was probably of old standing. Os. B. e. 103 (Y 88). Cast of a Potts’ fracture of the fibula; badly united, the foot being displaced outwards. (Presented by Professor Annandale.) GUNSHOT INJURIES OF BONE. Os. B. f. [The following specimens belong to the collection of the late Sir George Bal- lingall, the last Professor of Military Surgery in the University. The preparations marked with the letter A were made by Mr Rutherford Alcock during the service of “ the British Legion of Spain.” Those marked with the letter B were collected by Sir George Ballingall himself. For further information regarding the specimens, reference may be made to the printed Catalogues of “ the Museum attached to the Class of Military Surgery in the University of Edinburgh.”] Gtmshot Injuries of the Head and Face. Os. B. f. 1 (A 6). A portion of the Frontal bone with an irregular perforation caused by a musket-ball. The aperture is larger on the inner than on the outer side. Os. B. f. 2 (A 7). A portion of the Parietal bone, with a cleanly- cut circular perforation caused by a musket-ball; a fissure ex- tends downwards from the aperture. The patient died on the third day. Os. B. f. 2a (A 2). Part of the parietal bone, dura mater, and brain of a man, aged 32, who was struck by a musket-ball, underwent the operation of trephining, and died on the thirteenth day. The ball was found firmly dovetailed in the bone, partially split, and jagged. Several depressed portions of bone were taken away. Suppurative meningitis and encephalitis supervened, and caused death as stated above. Os. B. f. 3 (A 8). A portion of the skull in which a ball struck the . left parietal bone, causing a compound fracture with depression. The trephine was applied on the seventh day, and the depressed portions removed. The patient, a man aged 20, died on the twenty-third day after the injury of suppurative meningitis. The surface of the inner table around the trephine aperture is irregularly pitted and “worm-eaten.”