TUBERCULAR DISEASES OF JOINTS. 69 Os. E. d. 56 (493). The left tibia from a girl of 16, who died of phthisis, after suffering for many years from disease of the knee- joint. The bone is greatly atrophied; the periosteal surface of the greater part of the shaft is spongy and rough, and here and there covered with a crust of recent bone. The superior articular extremity has been extensively destroyed by ulceration, and is much altered in form. Os. E. d. 57 (474)' "i he bones of a knee-joint, in which the articular surfaces are extensively ulcerated, while their margins are becom- ing united to each other by new bone. Os. E. d. 58 (475). The knee-joint of a child, in which complete Bony Anchylosis has followed on a tubercular arthritis. The bones of the leg are rotated outwards, and are united with the femur at a right angle. The fibula is extremely atrophied. Os. E. d. 59 (484). The bones of a knee-joint, cut in vertical sec- tion ; bony anchylosis has followed on a tubercular arthritis, which had caused extensive destruction of the articulating surfaces. Os. E. d. 60 (485). A similar specimen. Os. E. d. 61 (394). An injected preparation of the Ankle-joint in Tubercular Arthritis. The articular surfaces of the tibia, fibula, and astragalus are covered with a layer of granulations derived from the subjacent bone; portions of the articular cartilage may be recognised lying between or incorporated with the granula- tions (“ ulceration of cartilage ”). Behind and below the internal malleolus there is a large sinus connecting the interior of the joint with the skin surface. Os. E. d. 62 (393). A similar preparation. Os. E. d. 63 (398). The lower epiphysis of the tibia of a child, injected, in which the articular surface is covered by a layer of exuberant granulations springing from the subjacent bone, which have eaten up the articular cartilage, leaving only an irregular portion of the latter around the periphery of the joint (“ ulcera- tion of cartilage ”). Os. E. d. 64 (397). The bones of an ankle-joint, in which the articular cartilages have been extensively destroyed by a similar process. Os. E. d. 65 (396). The bones of an ankle-joint in the macerated state. The opposing articular surfaces have been destroyed, with the exception of a definitely circumscribed area on the upper and outer surface of the astragalus, which is occupied by a characteristic tubercular sequestrum.