SYPHILITIC DISEASES OF BONE. 38 teum which covered the smooth shaft of the tibia is also smooth, while above it exhibits granulations which occupied the pits and cavities in the bone, resulting from their absorptive action. [For specimens illustrating the necrosis which follows on the section of bones in amputations of the limbs, see Stumps, Diseases of.] Syphilis of Bone. Os. D. e. Involving Several Parts of the Sreleion. Os. D. e. 1 (Y 59). An incomplete Skeleton, from an adult female subject who had suffered from Syphilis. The bones entering into the formation of the nose are extensively destroyed by gummatous ulceration of long standing; the destruction par- ticularly affects the nasal bones and the nasal process of the left superior maxilla. The shafts of the long bones of the limbs shew traces of former periostitis in the shape of a thin porous crust of new bone, tending to be symmetrical on the two sides. This crust of new bone is much more extensive and abundant in the bones of the lower extremity. In addition to these lesions the skeleton is much deformed from rickets, the bones of the limbs are short and bent, while the vertebral column shews a very extreme rotation-lateral curvature, of which the convexity is to the right. Os. D. e. 2 (Y 67)- The complete skeleton of a well-formed adult male subject who had suffered from syphilis. In the skull the outer table is roughened, and presents several rounded depres- sions, \vhich probably mark the sites of previous tertiary ulcers. The bones of the upper limbs shew a somewhat diffuse crust of spongy bone on their periosteal surfaces. This is best seen in the left radius. The femoral shafts shew a thicker and more exten- sive periosteal deposit, which is fairly symmetrical. The left tibia is much thickened, in a characteristic nodular fashion, throughout the whole length of the shaft, while the right tibia shews a flattened node about the centre of its inner or sub- cutaneous surface. Nodes on the Shafts of the Long Bones. Os. D. e. 3 (273). T he middle portion of the shaft of a Tibia, shew- ing a typical syphilitic node on the inner aspect of the shin. The node is definitely localised and consists of spongy bone. Os. D. e. 4 (244). A tibia, shewing multiple nodes along the anterior margin of the shaft. The convexity of each node is minutely perforated by vascular canals. Os. D. e. 5 (246). An elongated and curved tibia, shewing a flat- tened sclerosed node about the centre of the anterior margin of its shaft.