6o RESULTS OF RESECTIONS OF BONE. Os. D. p. 100 (2542s). A vertical section of the leg, shewing the extension of an epitheliomatous ulcer of the integuments over the shin into the subjacent bone. The tumour growth has penetrated the entire thickness of the tibia, and has reached the periosteum on its posterior aspect. The epithelioma was pre- ceded by an abscess, from which portions of dead bone were discharged. From a man aged 36. The specimen was injected by Mr James Simpson, and presented to the Museum by Pro- fessor Chiene. Cysts in Bone—Animal Parasites. Os. D. q. fThe cystic tumours of the jaws are described under Diseases of the Skull. Cysts in bone originating in solid tumours are described with the latter.] [No specimens.] Other Parasitic A ffections of Bone. Os. D. r. Mycetoma. Actinomycosis. [No specimens.] Results of Resections of Bone—Osteotomy. Os. D. s. Os. D. S. 1. A patella, sawn in vertical section, shewing com- plete osseous union after section and wiring together of the fragments in an excision of the knee-joint for disease in a young adult. The preparation was obtained three months after the operation, owing to amputation being required on account of extension of the disease. (Presented by Professor Annandale.) Experimental Resections of Bone. Os. D. t. Os. D. t. 1. The bones of the foreleg of a dog, in which Professor Syme exposed the radius and removed ij in. from the centre of the shaft, together with the periosteum; the dog being killed six weeks later, the cut extremities were seen to be extending towards each other in a conical form, with a great deficiency of bone between them, and in place of the portion removed there was merely a small band of tough ligamentous tissue. Os. D. t. 2. The bones of the opposite foreleg of the same dog, in which Professor Syme performed a similar experiment on the radius, the periosteum, however, being left in situ. After six weeks the dog was killed. A compact mass of bone may be seen to occupy the space left by the portion removed, and rather exceeding it in thickness.