34^ SKIN. Cut. A. 12 (2515)* cast, shewing a large Syphilitic Ulcer situated on the outer side of the leg. The darker coloured parts of the surface is due to the employment of Unguentum Hydrargeri and Calomel in the case from which the cast was taken. Prepared and presented by Professor Goodsir. Out. A. 13 (2489). Wax cast of a fore-arm, which shews a large, deep Ulcer, caused by a Burn. Out. A. 14 (2519). Cast shewing an irritable Ulcer situated at the lower and inner part of the thigh. Out. A. 15 (2520). Coloured plaster cast of the left hand of a child, shewing an Ulcer at the point of the middle finger, which was due to an advanced condition of Onychia. Presented by Professor Syme. Out. A. 16. Cancerous Ulcer of groin, ulcerating into the iliac artery. Annandale Collection (273). Injuries, htflam^nation. Repair and Gangrene. Cut. B. Out. B. 1 (2480). Preparation shewing numerous arteries in Cicatrices. The incisions had been made through the abdominal parietes of a Pig, with resulting adhesions of the intestines to the abdominal wall. Out. B. 2. Gunshot injury to the hand and fore-arm. Out. B. 3 (2481). Portions of integument from the belly of a Pig, shewing wound kept together by stitches and almost united. Out. B. 4 (2482). Section of the abdominal parietes of a Pig. The specimen is injected, and shews numerous blood-vessels extending through a cicatrix. Out. B. 5 (2485). Injected specimen of a left fore-arm, which had been amputated by Professor Syme in consequence of a severe Burn, which caused extreme distortion below the wrist. Out. B. 6 (2486). Right arm, which had been amputated in con- sequence of extreme flexion and contraction, which were the results of a severe Burn. Out. B. 7 (2488). Portion of the fascia and subcutaneous cellular tissue from the palmar surface of the hand, shewing cicatrisation and contraction of the branches of the median nerve, which passes through the Cicatrix. Out. B. 8 (2488a). Hand and fore-arm of a woman which shews the effects of a Burn. The patient, while in a state of intoxication, had fallen down in front of the fire with her arm and hand extended. The hand had apparently shrivelled up