3i8 urinary calculi. Gen.-U. S. m. 5. Portions of a Calculus, about the size of a walnut; the nucleus is absent. The Calculus is made up of crystals, extending in a radiating manner from the cavity formerly containing the nucleus. The Calculus is composed of phosphate of lime. Gen.-U. S. m. 6. Calculus, constricted at its centre, having an hour-glass appearance. The longer portion was in the prostatic urethra and the round portion in the bladder. The operation for extraction was very difficult. Calculus rough and brown externally. The section presents a slightly laminated appear- ance, with a crystalline structure towards the exterior. Phos- phate of lime, yielding about 90 per cent, of ash. The organic matter, uric acid, combined with ammonia and magnesia. From the Bell Collection. Gen.-U. S. m. 7. Fragment of a Calculus; the nucleus is lost. The residue consists of phosphate of lime, with carbonate of lime and magnesia. Gen.-U. S. m. 8. Four fragments of a Calculus, passed by a man. Phosphate of lime, with trace of carbonate. Q. D. d. 26 Old Catalogue. Fttsible Calculus of Dr Wollaston, co7t sis ting of varying proportions of Phosphate of Lime, Phosphate of Magnesia and Ammonia, Gen.-U S. n. Gen.-U. S. n. 1. Section of large, oval, compact Calculus, rough and semi-crystalline in structure externally. It contains an excess of phosphate of lime, which somewhat interferes with its fusibility. A trace also of carbonate of lime. Gen.-U. S. n. 2. Large, spheroidal Calculus, 7J inches in circum- ference \ friable in texture, of a chalky colour, and a faint laminar appearance. Weight, i860 grains. It contains also a trace of uric acid and a small quantity of carbonate of lime. Gen.-U. S. n. 3. Numerous fragments of a white, soft, extremely friable Calculus. Essentially a fusible Calculus, with a quantity of carbonate of lime, and traces of urates of lime, ammonia, and magnesia. Gen.-U. S. n. 4. “ Calculous concretions passed above the pubis and near the anus, along with the urine, by a boy who suffered lithotomy four or five years ago, now in misery. 13th January 1792.” Fusible Calculus, with traces of urates of lime and ammonia, and a quantity of carbonate of lime.