TUBERCULOSIS, ETC. 263 and consequent destruction of the kidney tissue. The capsule is greatly thickened, and the walls of the pelvis and ureter are thickened and infiltrated, the latter being firmly adherent to the capsule during the upper part of its course. Presented by Professor Alison. Gen.-U. A. q. 2 (1281). Tuberculosis of Kidney. The organ is slightly enlarged, and its surface shews a lobulated appearance corresponding to the diseased areas within the organ; the capsule is much thickened and adherent, and is infiltrated at one part with tubercular disease. 0?i section^ the glandular substance is largely replaced by irregular cavities with caseous walls and contents. The ureter is greatly thickened and infiltrated. Gen.-U. A. q. 3 (1282). Tuberculosis of Kidney—“ Renal Phthisis.” Arteries injected. The kidney substance is almost entirely replaced by large cyst-like cavities, which have resulted from progressive ulceration and dilatation of the pelvis and calyces. The walls of these spaces are ragged, caseous, and practically non-vascular. Gen.-U. A. q. 4 (1283). Tuberculosis of Kidney—“Renal Phthisis.” Arteries injected to demonstrate the non-vascularity of the ragged caseous walls of the cavities. [See opposite half of same kidney, Gen.-U. A. q. 3 (1282).] The capsule has been partially detached and several small tubercular nodules are present on its inner surface and also on the surface of the kidney itself. Prepared and presented by Professor Goodsir. Gen.-U. A. q. 5. Tuberculosis of Kidney—“Renal Phthisis.” The secreting substance of the organ is almost entirely destroyed, and replaced by large cyst-like spaces with ragged caseous walls. These have resulted from the gradual ulceration and dilatation of the pelvis and calyces. This kidney was removed by opera- tion from a girl, aged 16 years, and was presented by Professor Annandale, October 8, 1885. Gen.-U. A. q. 6 (1285). Tuberculosis of Kidney. Dried specimen. The caseous contents of the cavities have undergone calcific- ation, and “when recent, resembled red lead in appearance;” nothing is left of the original kidney structure but the capsule and some fibrous tissue septa. There was also in this case extensive tubercular disease of the left lung. Gen.-U. A. q. 7 (1284). Tuberculosis of Kidney. Section of kidney containing numerous tubercular cavities with caseous walls. II. Syphilis. Gen.-U. A. r. [No specimens.] III. Leprosy. Gen.-U. A. s. [No specimens.]