SKIN. 349 Cut. O. 10. Lower half of a leg and an arm shewing advanced con- dition of Elephantiasis. Presented in 1898 by Dr Chastellier, Chief Medical Officer, Mauritius. Out. C. 11. Cast of the Scalp of a patient from an Asylum shewing marked Hypertrophy. The skin is thrown into folds, some of which pass from side to side, others from before backwards. Presented by Dr John J. Cowan. Cut. C. 12. Cast of the Scalp of a patient from an Asylum shewing marked Hypertrophy. The skin is thrown into folds, which run from before backwards. Presented by Dr John J. Cowan. Cut. C. 13. Keratoma from the occiput of a man aged 70 years. Presented by Dr David Hepburn. Chronic Skin Diseases. Cut. D. Cut. D. 1. Anaesthetic Leprosy of twenty years’ duration in an East Indian coolie, who was an inmate of the British Leper Asylum. Donor, Dr Neall, 1897. Cut. D. 2 (2533). Scales collected in the course of one night from a patient suffering from Psoriasis diffusa. Presented by Pro- fessor Traill. Out. D. 3 (2534). Scales from a man cet. 23, affected with Leprosy. Presented by Professor Traill, May 31st, 1842. Cut. D. 4 (2496). Portion of skin, shewing well-marked Ichthyosis, obtained in the dissecting-rooms. Almost the whole of the skin of the body presented a similar appearance. Cut. D. 5. Series of eight casts presented by Dr T. Anderson Stuart of Sydney, illustrative of different forms of Leprosy. (1) Cast of the leg and foot shewing a large swelling on the front of the lower part of the leg. The toes have been considerably destroyed by ulceration, and the foot is markedly everted, and is also dislocated at the ankle joint. This condition is due to Nerve Leprosy. (2) Cast of a hand shewing the results of Nerve Leprosy. The fingers have all been sloughed off. (3) Cast of the hand showing very extensive sloughing off of the fingers, due to Nerve Leprosy. (4) Cast of the hand and fore-arm shewing a Leprous nodule in the palm, and also great contraction of the tendons of the fingers, which are curled up and immovable, in the palm of the hand,