ALIMENTARY SYSTEM. 172 Al. D. g. 7 (935). Malignant Disease. The stomach is contracted ; there is extensive infiltration of the mucous and submucous coats, and great hypertrophy of the muscular coat, especially towards the pyloric end. Al. D. g. 8 (936). Malignant Disease. The new growth has diffusely infiltrated the coats of the stomach, especially the submucous and mucous. The latter exhibits great rugosity and superficial honeycombed ulcers towards the pyloric end. Al. D. g. 9 (937)- Malignant Disease. The new growth has in- filtrated the gastric wall diffusely, especially along the lesser curvature. Near the greater curvature is an ulcer which has .perforated the wall. Around the perforation on the serous coat is a small amount of inflammatory exudation. Al. D. g. 10 (938). Malignant Disease. The stomach is much contracted and thickened all over, but especially along the lesser curvature. The mucous coat displays great irregularity and polypoid projections, and together with the submucous is markedly infiltrated with new growth. There is no ulceration. The cardiac and pyloric orifices are contracted, and the sur- rounding muscular coat hypertrophied. From a man aged 56. The liver was leaden in colour, pulpy, and of the size of an ordinary spleen. Al. D. g. 11 (941). Malignant Disease. A large cancerous mass on the posterior wall of the stomach has ulcerated through to the liver, the left lobe of which is firmly adherent to the stomach. Al. D. g. 12 (942). Malignant Disease. The coats of the stomach are infiltrated with new growth, and its walls separated into several layers. There is a jagged opening at one end. Al. D. g. 13 (943). Malignant Disease. A fungating, cancerous mass is seen on the mucous surface of the stomach. Portions of the growth have sloughed, exposing the muscular coat. Al D. g. 14 (946a). Cancer of the Stomach. Stomach shewing a very large mass of cancerous infiltration, chiefly in the anterior wall. The new growth has apparently started from the lesser curvature. On its inner surface it is extensively ulcerated. Symptoms for eight months. No vomiting or black stools. Presented by Dr James Ritchie, 1880. Al. D. g. 15 (949). Malignant Disease. A very large cancerous mass, broken down in the centre, is seen on the posterior wall of the stomach. An opening communicates with the liver, which is extensively involved, and adherent to the stomach. Al. D. g. 16 (946). Malignant Disease. The lesser curvature and pyloric end of the stomach are infiltrated by new growth, which is extensively but superficially ulcerated. The pylorus, which is free from new growth, is extremely contracted, and cancerous masses (? enlarged glands) are seen attached to the duodenum. Professor Alison’s case.