8o ANCHYT.OSIS OF JOINTS. Os. E. 1. 6 (460). The metacarpal bone and phalanges of a Thumb, which have become anchylosed by bone. The head of the metacarpal bone has been displaced backwards and outwards, probably as the result of a compound dislocation, so that the shaft of the bone is united at an open angle with the proxmial phalanx. Os. E. 1. 7 (447)- The anterior segment of a pelvis in which anchy- losis has occurred at the Pubic Symphysis, together with the formation of a considerable amount of irregular new bone on the anterior aspect of the joint and adjacent portions of the pubic bones. Os. E. 1. 8 (Y 24). A specimen of very complete anchylosis of the Hip-joint following on destructive arthritis of the latter. The femur is strongly adducted. Os. E. 1. 9 (465). A similar specimen, sawn in vertical section to shew the complete fusion of the constituent bones. Os. E. 1. 10 (469). A similar specimen.. There are traces of an old fracture of the femur just below the trochanters. Os. E. 1. 11 (478). The bones of a Knee-joint, in which anchylosis has resulted from a suppurative arthritis secondary to disease of the articular ends of the femur and tibia. The latter is much increased in girth by a large “ abscess cavity ” in its interior, and its periosteal surface covered with large plates, processes, and ridges of new bone. Os. E. 1. 12 (470). An anchylosed knee, the result of disorganisa- tion of the joint, associated with a compound fracture of the femur immediately above the condyles. The fracture is united, with some overriding and angular deformity. Os. E. 1. 13 (477)- ^ similar specimen, in which the initial lesion consisted in a severely comminuted compound fracture of the lower end of the femur and extending into the joint. Os. E. 1. 14 (481). A specimen of very complete anchylosis of the knee following on disease of the joint. The tibia has been dis- placed backwards and rotated outwards previous to the anchy- losis. The shafts both of the femur and tibia, as seen in the sawn sections, present a very unusual degree of thickening and sclerosis. Os. E. 1. 15 (483). A similar specimen, in which, however, the bones are anchylosed in the flexed position. The specimen has been sawn in vertical section, and shews the continuity of the osseous trabeculae from the femur to the tibia. Os. E. 1. 16 (482). A complete section of the femur and tibia, from a case of deformity of the right lower extremity, probably resulting from disease of the knee-joint. At the knee-joint the two bones are united at an angle, and are completely incorporated