70 TUBERCULAR DISEASES OF JOINTS. Os. E. d. 66 (328). The bones of the leg and foot, macerated, from a case of advanced tuberculosis of the Ankle and Tarsus. The disease in the ankle, astragalo-scaphoid, and calcaneo-cuboid joints has been recovered from, and the different articulations are anchylosed. The os calcis presents on its outer aspect a large sequestrum of the cancellated tissue, the base of which is at the free surface, while the margin is separated from the remainder of the bone by a deep line of ulceration. On the inner aspect there is a large rounded aperture or sinus, at the bottom of which may be seen the sequestrum already described. Os. E. d. 67 (330). The bones of the tarsus and metatarsus. The adjacent portions of the head of the astragalus and scaphoid have been extensively destroyed as a result of tubercle. Os. E. d. 68 (399). The bones of the ankle and foot. The articular surfaces of the ankle-joint have been destroyed by a similar pro- cess of tubercular inflammation. Os. E. d. 69 (499). The bones of the foot, shewing complete bony anchylosis of the astragalus and os calcis from previous tuber- cular inflammation, while the opposing surfaces of the astragalus and scaphoid are superficially ulcerated. Os. E. d. 70 (401). The foot of a young subject, injected and sawn in antero-posterior vertical section. The specimen illustrates the relations of a large multilocular Cold Abscess beneath the skin on the dorsum of the foot, resulting from and connected with tubercular disease of the scaphoid and middle cuneiform bones and the joint between them. Os. E. d. 71 (402). Part of the tarsus and metatarsus from a case of tuberculosis. The bones have been macerated, and shew considerable rarefaction of their spongy framework, and at the same time an extensive formation of new bone on their periosteal surfaces of a spinous and laminated character. Os. E. d. 72 (329). The os calcis and cuboid bones, very exten- sively altered in their configuration by tubercular destruction; they are joined together by a narrow bridge of bone belonging to the os calcis. Os E. d. 73 (501). The distal bones of the tarsus and the meta- tarsus. The bases of the latter are fused with the former into one mass of bone. The second metatarsal appears to have been previously removed by operation. Os. E. d. 74 (Y 178). The lower ends of the tibia and fibula, and the bones of the foot, from a case of tuberculosis. The shaft of the fifth metatarsal has been extensively destroyed by a tuber- cular osteomyelitis, the shaft of the first metatarsal has suffered to a less degree from a similar lesion. The periosteal surfaces of the tarsal bones are encrusted with recent spongy bone; a similar crust has been formed on the shaft of the tibia, while the compact tissue of the latter, as seen in the sawn section, is partly converted into spongy bone.