99 SYPHILITIC DISEASES OF THE SKULL. Os. G. h. 2 (335). Another characteristic specimen of advanced syphilis of the skull, in which certain of the gummata probably had developed in the substance of the diploe, as well as in the peri- cranium. With one exception, the gummatous destruction of the bone has resulted in perforation of the skull; most of the perfora- tions are small, sharply cut, as if produced by a worm ; in the right parietal there is a large gap, irregularly circular in shape, in which the outer table is destroyed over a much larger area than the internal, the exposed diploe surrounding the gap being “worm-eaten” and irregularly pitted. Os. G. h. 3 (336). The base of a skull, shewing an advanced condi- tion of gummatous destruction of the mastoid and petrous por- tions of the left temporal bone; the skull is perforated, and the middle and internal ear destroyed. Os. G. h. 4 (337)- A skull-cap, shewing four characteristic scars in the outer table, which have followed upon localised destruction of the bone, produced by gummata in the pericranium. In the left parietal bone there still remains a circular gap in the outer table ; the diploe, however, exposed in the floor of the ulcer presents a smooth condensed layer on the surface. Os. G. h. 5 (341). A skull-cap, shewing numerous excavations and perforations resulting from gummata, which have developed both in the pericranium and in the tissue of the diploe, and caused changes in the bones after the manner already described. Os. G. h. 6 (342). Portions of the skull-cap of a woman who had suffered from syphilis, and who had gone through several full courses of mercury. The whole thickness of the skull has been extensively removed by a process of gummatous destruction (syphilitic cario-necrosis) over a large area, obviously produced by the confluence of isolated circular areas of destruction. New bone has been extensively formed in the situation of the inner table, reproducing the latter. Os. G. h. 7 (332). The skull of an adult, in which the bones of the vertex over a large area are almost completely destroyed, as a result of gummatous deposit and inflammation. The affected area has a serpiginous margin, and represents several isolated foci of disease, which have become confluent, partly by exfolia- tion of the portions of the skull intervening between the different foci. Anteriorly in the region of the left orbit healing appears to have occurred, while posteriorly in the region of the left parietal the destruction is still proceeding, with a sharply-cut edge and exfoliation on the surface. Os. G. h.. 8 (33^)- skull-cap, in which the entire extent of the outer table and isolated portions of the inner table have suffered a partial destruction from gummatous inflammation. There are no large sequestra of the outer table nor large perforations; the