TEETH. 220 Al. M. a. 3. Left Alveolar and Mesial Palatal Cleft. The alveolar fissure lies between the left middle incisor and a left precanine tooth. One left bicuspid tooth is wanting. From an adult. Presented by Dr John Smith. Al. M. a. 4. Cast of the upper and lower Dentary Arcades. Left Alveolar and Mesial Palatal Cleft. The left central incisor pro- jects almost horizontally forwards, and bounds one side of the alveolar cleft. A small precanine tooth forms the opposite boundary. In the lower jaw the left lateral incisor is situated behind its proper place in the arcade. From the Museum of the London Dental Hospital. Al. M. a. 5. Cast of the upper Dentary Arcade, shewing Mesial . Palatal and Left Alveolar Clefts. Between the right canine and the cleft are three incisor teeth. The left canine is close to the cleft, and immediately on its palatal side is a tooth, pro- bably a displaced precanine. Presented by Professor Annandale. Al. M. a. 6. Cast of upper Dentary Arcade of a child, shewing transitional dentition, Mesial Palatal and Left Alveolar Clefts. A precanine is situated between the cleft and the left canine tooth. From the Museum of the London Dental Hospital. Al. M. a. 7. Cast of upper Dentary Arcade with left Alveolar and Mesial Palatal Clefts. The left canine tooth lies next the cleft, and there is no appearance of a precanine tooth. Presented by Professor Annandale. Al. M. a. 8. Three casts of the upper Dentary Arcade of a boy with Mesial Palatal and right Alveolar Clefts. One in the eleventh year shews the cleft bounded on the right side by the milk canine. One in the sixteenth year shews both a permanent canine and a precanine bounding the right side of the alveolar cleft. The third cast was taken between the eleventh and six- teenth years. Presented by W. Bowman Macleod, Esq., L.D.S. Al. M. a. 9. Cast of double Alveolar and Mesial Palatal Clefts. No evidence of incisor teeth in the conjoined premaxillary bones. On each side a precanine tooth lies between the milk canine and the distal side of the cleft. From the Dental Hospital, London. Al. M. a. 10. Cast of upper Dentary Arcade, with double Alveolar and Mesial Palatal Clefts, from a youth of 14. All the permanent teeth, except the wisdoms, have cut the gum. Two mesial incisors are in the premaxillae, one of which is raised above the plane of the arcade. On each side a well- marked precanine tooth intervenes between the canine and the alveolar cleft. Presented by W. Bowman Macleod, Esq., L.D.S. Al. M. a. 11. Cast of the upper Dentary Arcade. The left canine is displaced outwards. The hinder part of the hard palate is cleft mesially. Presented by Professor Annandale.