PHARYNX AND CESOPHAGUS. 165 Al. B. 13 (750). Diverticulum of Small Intestine, adherent by a continuation from its distal end to the mesentery, leaving an aperture through which a loop of intestine passed and became strangulated. Dried preparation. Al. B. 14 (750^)- Dried preparation of Small Intestine, shewing a long Diverticulum which has formed a complete turn on itself Presented by Professor Syme. Al. B. 15 (751). Malformation of Rectum. Rectum, bladder, and skin of perinaeum of child, shewing the condition of imperforate anus, for which an operation has been attempted. The cul-de-sac of the rectum is distended, and there is a con- striction at its junction with the sigmoid flexure. Al. B. 16 (75Iflf). Malformation of Rectum. Rectum from male child, which ends by a small opening through the trigone of the bladder. Al. B. 17 (751^)- Malformation of Rectum. Pelvic viscera and external organs of generation from a male infant. The anus is imperforate, and the rectum terminates inferiorly by a narrow pointed extremity. Presented by Professor A. R. Simpson. The case is described by Dr Bryce in the Edinburgh Medical Journal^ October 1865, p. 384. Al. B. 18. Malformation of Rectum. A section through the rectum and membranous part of the urethra of a male infant. The rectum opens into the urethra. The opposite section is in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh. Presented by Dr William Craig, who described it in the Edin- burgh Medical Jourtial^ March 1884. PRiEGASTRIO REGION. Diseases of the Pharynx, CEsophagus, and Soft Palate. Al. C. Al. 0. 1 (814a). From the same case as Al. D. d. i. Stricture at the upper end of the (Esophagus, supposed to be due to cicatri- sation after ulceration. Al. 0. 2 (7426). A large fusiform dilatation of the (Esophagus, with the windpipe, aortic arch, and stomach, from a patient of Dr Alexander Wood’s. Al. 0. 3 (742 c). Fusiform dilatation of the (Esophagus. Pre- sented by Dr Alexander Hamilton, Windermere. Al. C. 4 {g26d). Polypus of the Pharynx. A large pyriform, lobulated, fibrous polypus, growing into canal of oesophagus. When the patient vomited the polypus was forced up to the