SUPPURATIVE DISEASES OF BONE. 33 Os. D. c. 13. A tibia and fibula in which the shaft of either bone, in its lower half, is much increased in size and weight by a process of chronic ostitis and periostitis. (Presented by Professor Sir W. Turner.) Os. D. C. 14(200). The metacarpals of the right fore-limb of a Horse. Along the line of contact of the small inner, wdth the large metacarpal, a considerable amount of new bone has been formed, constituting an irregular tumour-like mass and anchylos- ing the two bones together. The condition is called “ Splints ” by veterinary surgeons. Os. D. C. 15 (200'3f). One of the Caudal Vertebrae of a large Cetacean in which every part of the periosteal surface is covered with a very thick crust of spongy bone, which is pierced by several large canals for the blood-vessels supplying the subjacent bone. Inflammations, for the most part suppurative^ arising from the presence of pusforming bacteria. Os. D. d. Os. D. d. 1 (l86). The lower third of a Humerus the shaft of which is much thickened by new bone of an irregular character (probably from a case of suppurative inflammation of the elbow). Os. D. d. 2 (367). The bones from a case of whitlow of the index finger. The Phalanges are ulcerated on their dorsal aspect,, and shew ridges of new bone along their palmar margins. Os. D. d. 3 (300). The hand (injected) from a case of whitlow of the index finger. The first phalanx is bared of soft parts and is completely dead (necrosis). Os. D. d. 4 (228). The shaft of a Femur, shewing a cavity in its interior from which a large sequestrum has been removed. The bone forming the wall of the cavity is pierced by several cloacae. Os. D. d. 5(A8p). Preparation of a femur which was amputated through its lower third on account of gunshot fracture of the tibia, in a soldier aged 23. The alterations to be seen in the specimen are the result of changes following upon the amputa- tion, which continued up till the patient’s death on the 122nd day. The bone of the shaft at the sawn extremity has perished as a result of osteomyelitis, and appears as a partially separated cylindrical sequestrum. The periosteal surface of the shaft, as high up as the lesser trochanter, is enveloped by a thick crust of new bone, having a very beautiful coral-like structure. Towards the sawn section this periosteal bone becomes much thicker and forms a case around the sequestrum, which may be seen pro- truding from the centre. {Ballingall Collection.) Os. D. d. 6 (369). The upper end of a femur, which is expanded in the region of the trochanters, while the compact outer shell is extensively ulcerated on the surface. c