29 INJURIES OF JOINTS. Os. 0. C. 6 (Y 152). A plaster cast of the upper part of the trunk of an adult shewing a subcoracoid dislocation of the humerus. Os. 0. C. 7 (174)- A plaster cast of the right arm, exhibiting com- pound dislocation of the head of the Radius outwards. Os. C. C. 8 (175)- A plaster cast of the posterior aspect of an elbow, shewing dislocation of the head of the radius outwards. Os. C. C. 9 (175a). A plaster cast of the region of the elbow, shewing a dislocation of the head of the radius outwards. (Presented by David Hepburn, M.B., Senior Demonstrator of Anatomy, 1890.) Os. 0. C. 10 (176). A dissected preparation, shewing an old-standing dislocation of the head of the radius forwards, in which the neck of the bone has undergone a remarkable elongation, resulting from the displacement. (Described by Dr Johnson Symington, Jourfi. of A flat, and Phys. 1878.) Os. 0. c. 11 (Y III). Plaster cast of a hand, shewing dislocation of the terminal phalanx of the Thumb. (Presented by Professor Annandale.) Dislocations of the Pelvis and Loiver Extremity. Os. C. d. Os. 0. d. 1 (178). A dissected and dried preparation of a disloca- tion of the head of the Femur backwards in the direction of the sacro-sciatic notch, associated with multiple fracture. The femur is flexed and rotated inwards. The head of the bone rests against the posterior aspect of the acetabulum. The tendon of the pyriformis runs across its most prominent part. The tendon of the obturator internus, with the two gemelli, lie below the level of the head, and are tightly stretched over the posterior aspect of the neck. A small fragment of bone has been broken off from the periphery of the articular surface of the head of the femur, and may be seen to occupy the acetabulum. There are further three separate fractures of the innominate bone—one through the posterior extremity of the iliac crest, and extend- ing into the sacro-iliac joint; a second through the inner and anterior wall of the acetabulum, extending into the thyroid fora- men ; and a third through the centre of the ischial tuberosity. Os. 0. d. 2 (Y 58). A left innominate bone from a case of back- ward dislocation of the head of the femur of old standing, in which a new socket has formed for the head of the bone on the dorsum ilii of an unusually perfect form. Os. 0. d. 3 (178a). Plaster cast of the leg, shewing a dislocation of the Foot inwards without fracture of the fibula, the result of jumping to the ground from a height. (Presented by Mr Tufnell of Dublin through Sir George Ballingall.)