ARTHRITIS DEFORMANS. 77 Os. E. g. 38 (240). The lower end of a femur shewing similar changes. Os. E. g. 39 (479). The lower end of a femur in which the articular margins are “lipped.” There is further a raised nodule of new bone in the centre of the articular surface of the external condyle. Os. E. g. 40 (529). T he femur of an adult, in which the shaft is flattened and curved outwards and forwards from rickets in early life. The inferior articular surface shews “ lipping ” of its mar- gins, eburnation over the projecting internal condyle, and a “ worm-eaten ” condition of the remainder of the articular surface. Os. E. g. 41 (392). The bones of the leg and tarsus, shewing changes which probably resulted from arthritis deformans. The inferior tibio-fibular, the calcaneo-astragaloid, and the astragalo- scaphoid joints are anchylosed. A considerable amount of new bone has been formed at the sites of attachment of tendons, ligaments, and fasciae, and also deepening the grooves for the tendons behind the malleoli. The Ankle-joint itself has been disorganised ; the articular surface formed by the tibia and fibula is deeply excavated, and presents a large cavity, which has been opened into, in the lower end of the tibia; the remainder of the articular surface is occupied by a very rough and irregular bone having a chalky, “ worm-eaten ” appearance. The articular sur- face of the astragalus is similarly altered. Os. E. g. 42 (498). The lower ends of a tibia and fibula presenting similar changes. Os. E. g. 43 (199). T he left carpus of a Horse, including the lower end of the radius, scaphoid, lunare, cuneiform, and pisiform bones, shewing a porcelainous or eburnated condition of portions of their articular surfaces, together with the formation of new bone around their margins. Os. E. g. 44 (283). The tarsus of a Horse, in which the superior articular surface of the astragalus is characteristically eburnated and marked by a series of parallel antero-posterior grooves. There are further nodular outgrowths of bone around the articular margins. Os. E. g. 45 (284). A similar specimen, in which the eburnated areas present an infinite number of holes or apertures, represent- ing the orifices of the enlarged Haversian canals, which have been opened into by the wearing away of the surface layers of the bone. Os. E. g. 46 (Y 14). T he bones of the ankle-joint of a Horse shew- ing similar changes. [Specimens illustrating the development of bone at the insertions of tendons in association with arthritis deformans have, for the sake of convenience, been included in the Tumours of Bone. See Osteomata, False Exostoses.]