TUBERCULOSIS OF THE SPINE. 8/ Os. F. d. 16 (356). A macerated specimen of four dorsal vertebrae, which present a degree of superficial ulceration on the anterior aspect of their bodies, apparently in the process of healing and recovery, without any curvature of the spine. Os. F. d. 17 (428). A similar preparation of the lowest three dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae. The bodies of the tenth and eleventh dorsal have been extensively destroyed by tubercle, and have fallen together ; while those of the twelfth dorsal and first lumbar are anchylosed to each other by a series of bony processes, which bridge across the interval occupied by the intervertebral disc, and resemble those met with in arthritis deformans. Os. F. d. 18 (354). A preparation in spirit of the third and fourth lumbar vertebrae. The anterior portion of the body of the first- named bone, at its junction with the intervertebral disc, shews an irregular excavation of its substance, resulting from tubercle. Os. F. d. 19(351). A macerated preparation of the lumbar ver- tebrae. The bodies of the first, second, and third have been extensively destroyed by tubercle. Os. F. d. 20 (375). A similar preparation of the twelfth dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae. The body of the former has suffered from extensive tubercular destruction of its substance, so that it has nearly separated into an upper and a lower portion. Os. F. d. 21 (Y33). Five dorsal vertebrae, which have been so altered that they form an acute angle or curve of an exaggerated type. The bodies were probably extensively destroyed by tubercle, and then collapsed and became anchylosed. There is no trace of recent disease. Os. F. d. 22 (418). A similar preparation. Os. F. d. 23 (351^). The four lower lumbar vertebrae and the sacrum, from a case of long-standing tuberculosis, with suppura- tion, which opened externally on the right side by a sinus near the great trochanter, and on the left in the lumbar region. The bodies of the fourth and fifth lumbar on their anterior aspect, and the central mass of the sacrum towards its posterior aspect, shew the usual excavation and destruction produced by tubercle ; they have subsequently become anchylosed to each other by new bone, bridging across from one bone to the other. (Pre- sented by Dr John Cleland.) Os. F. d. 24 (Y 53). The macerated pelvis of a child, in which the upper four segments of the sacrum have been extensively destroyed and eaten away by tubercle. The bone forming the acetabulum on the left side appears to have suffered in a similar way. Os. F. d. 25 (360). The pelvis of an adult, in which the lower part of the sacrum has been very extensively diseased and removed, probably as a result of tubercle. That portion of the ilium