STOMACH. 167 Al. 0. 13 (930a). Malignant Stricture of the (Esophagus. (Eso- phagus, from which a part of the posterior wall has been removed to shew a stricture a little above the bifurcation of the trachea. Presented by Professor Grainger Stewart, April 1878. Al. 0. 14 (931). Malignant Stricture of the (Esophagus. The new growth at the lower end of the oesophagus has invaded and ulcerated the cardiac end of the stomach. An opening in the oesophagus communicated with a small cavity containing foetid pus. The patient had suffered for nineteen years from vomiting after taking food. Al. 0. 15 (932). Malignant Disease of the (Esophagus. The new growth, after invading a large part of the lower end of the oesophagus and cardiac end of the stomach, has ulcerated and caused perforation of the walls of the stomach and of the oesophagus into the pericardium, the serous coat of which shews signs of recent inflammation. Al. C. 16 (932a). Malignant Stricture of the (Esophagus. Im- mediately above the cardiac orifice of the stomach the circum- ference of the oesophageal wall is almost entirely oooupied by an ulcerated epitheliomatous mass, containing numerous cavities, some of which communicate with softened glands. One of the latter has been laid open behind. From a case of Professor Hughes Bennett’s. Al. O. 17 (926a). Adhesion of Soft Palate to the wall of the Pharynx, probably the result of syphilis; absence of uvula. A minute opening admitted a probe into the naso-pharyngeal chamber. Described and figured in Edinburgh Monthly Medical Journal^ January i860. Presented by Professor Sir William Turner. DISEASES OF THE STOMACH. Al. D. Effects of Poisonings etc, Al. D. a. Al. D. a. 1 (735). Tongue, Gullet, Stomach, and part of Duo- denum, from a case of sulphuric acid poisoning. Al. D. a. 2 (736). Stomach and part of Duodenum, from a patient who died eight days after taking half an ounce of arsenic. Some ulceration of the mucous membrane at the cardiac end of the stomach, and deep ulceration at the pyloric end. Pre- sented by John Lizars, F.R C.S. Al. D. a. 3 (739)* Stomach, from a case of poisoning by King’s yellow (sulphide of arsenic). The patient swallowed two ounces of the poison, and died eighteen hours after. The stomach con- tains a quantity of mucus, and there is extensive inflammation of the mucous membrane, which is excoriated in parts.