PREFACE. Vll collection was transferred to it. The Upper Gallery of the Museum was appropriated for the display of the Pathological specimens. As more favourable opportunities were now given for their study, it became evident that a manuscript catalogue, con- structed on a continuous numerical system, was cumbrous and ill adapted for the use of the students. Consultations then took place between the Conservator, Professor Turner, and the Professor of Pathology, Professor Greenfield, regard- ing the preparation of a new catalogue to be subsequently printed. It was decided to revert in some respects to the method employed in the Descriptive Catalogue published in 1829, to indicate each group of diseases by a distinctive letter or letters, and to adopt for each group its own numerical arrangement. Professor Greenfield kindly undertook to select the titles for the groups and sub-groups. It was also decided to include in the printed catalogue a description of the specimens which belonged to the Museum attached to the former class of Military Surgery, now the property of the University. This collection consisted of two parts, first the preparations made by Sir Rutherford Alcock during the service of the “British Legion of Spain; ” and secondly, the collection formed by Sir George Ballingall, the Professor of Military Surgery from 1823 to 1856, when the Chair was abolished. Mr H. Alexis Thomson, M.D., F.R.C.S., was requested to under- take the description of the preparations illustrating the diseases of the Organs of Motion and Locomotion, which occupies one hundred and fourteen pages of the printed Catalogue. The Conservators desire to express their obligations to him for the time and care which he bestowed in cataloguing the specimens to illustrate this important group of diseases. The sections on the diseases of the Nervous, Circulatory, Alimentary and Respiratory Systems were revised by Professor Greenfield with the assistance of Dr E. Christison Carter, and the section on the Genito-Urinary System, pp. 253 to 298, was compiled by Dr W. E. Carnegie Dickson, partly from descriptions revised by Professor Greenfield, and partly after microscopic observations made by himself. The Calculi were analysed in 1856 by Edmund Atkinson, Ph.D., and William Turner, at that time Demonstrator of Anatomy, and were catalogued by the latter.