7 FRACTURES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. Os. B. d. 22 (56). A fracture of the shaft of the humerus in its middle third, and also of the olecranon process of the ulna. The latter fracture has not united, and the detached fragment is altered in shape and separated from the ulna by an interval of 2 cm. Os. B. d. 23 (57). Longitudinal section of the fractured humerus of a goose; the fragments are united at nearly right angles, with overriding of the fragments. The section demonstrates the method of closure of the medullary canal and the union of separated fragments by a large amount of provisional callus. Os. B. d. 24 (58). A fracture of the humerus of a child; the peri- osteum has been injected, and the layer of ensheathing callus developed from it is well seen. Os. B. d. 25. A humerus shewing a deformity of its shaft re- sulting from a previous fracture near the lower end of the bone. The line of fracture was oblique, and ran from above downwards and inwards, terminating immediately above the internal condyle. (Presented by Prof. Sir W. Turner). Os. B. d. 26 (59). The bone of a bird, fractured in two places, and united with considerable deformity. Os. B. d. 27 (62), The bones of the arm, shewing several recent fractures; one through the humerus in its lower third, the shaft of the Ulna in two places, and the lower end of the Radius exten- sively comminuted. No repair has taken place. Os. B. d. 28 (60). A multiple comminuted fracture of the bones forming the elbow-joint, followed by anchylosis ; the radius and ulna have also been broken through the middle of their shafts and the fragments united to each other at an angle. Os. B. d. 29 (61). A fracture of the olecranon process of the ulna, and probably also of the internal condyle of the humerus, fol- lowed by anchylosis of the elbow-joint. Os. B. d. 30 (63). The bones of the forearm, fractured about the middle of their shafts ; united with little deformity. Os. B. d. 31 (64). The bones of the left forearm, obliquely frac- tured in their middle third ; angular union, with slight approxi- mation of the bones to each other, has resulted. Os. B. d. 32 (65). The bones of the forearm fractured in the middle third of their shafts, and united with abundant ensheath- ing callus. Os. B. d. 33 (66). An ununited fracture of the bones of the fore- arm about the middle of their shafts; the fractured ends are tipped with a kindjof cartilage, and fit each other in an irregular,, hinge-like manner, forming a false joint.