84 ARTHRITIS DEFORMANS OF THE SPINE. Os. F. b. 17 (432). A similar specimen, in which the uniting bridge of bone has been broken across so as to shew the finely cancel- lated structure of the new bone. Os. F. b. 18 (431). Three lumbar vertebrae similarly anchylosed. Os. F. b. 19 (433). The four lower lumbar vertebrae and upper part of the sacrum similarly anchylosed, and shewing a slight degree of lateral curvature of the spine. Os. F. b. 20 (434). The fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae and the sacrum, anchylosed together chiefly by their transverse processes ; there is also some eburnation of the superior articular facets of the fourth lumbar vertebrae. Os. F. b. 21 (435). Six dorsal vertebrae of a Horse, of which the bodies are completely anchylosed and concealed by a continu- ous sheet of new bone, occupying the position of the anterior common ligament; the bone is thickest and most prominent where it bridges across the interval between two vertebrae. The extremities of the spinous processes are becoming anchylosed in a similar fashion, and also, to a less degree, the laminae. Os. F. b. 22 (439). A similar specimen, in which, however, the spinous processes and laminju are completely fused together. Os. F. b. 23 (430). Two lumbar vertebrae from the human sub- ject, in which the transverse processes on the left side are united and fused into a bony mass, which projects for a considerable dis- tance downwards and outwards, in shape resembling a bayonet. Os. F. b. 24 (448). Portions of the last lumbar vertebra, sacrum, and right os innominatum. The two first-mentioned bones are anchylosed after the manner already described as characteristic of arthritis deformans ; while the Sacro-iliac joint shews a pre- cisely similar condition of external anchylosis by a broad bridge of bone passing across the front of the articulation. The central portion of the ilium is unusually thin, consisting only of a com- pact lamina of bone no thicker than parchment, probably the result of what is usually called “ senile atrophy ” of the bone. Os. F. b. 25 (444). The right half of a pelvis, in which the sacro- iliac joint is similarly anchylosed. The outer lip of the iliac crest is unusually prominent and tuberculated ; new bone has been deposited in relation to the acetabulum, probably in part an ossification of the cotyloid ligament of the hip-joint. Os. F. b. 26 (445). A similar specimen. Os. F. b. 27 (443). The posterior segment of a pelvis, in which both sacro-iliac joints have become anchylosed, and the last lumbar vertebrae united to the sacrum after the manner charac- teristic of arthritis deformans. Os. F. b. 28 (440). A pelvis, in which both sacro-iliac joints are anchylosed by a mass of bone on the anterior aspect of the joint.