49 ACROMKGALY. palatal arch is elongated, relatively narrow, and deeply concave. The enlargement of the condyles of the lower jaw has caused a considerable expansion of the glenoid cavities, while the dis- appearance of the eminentiae articularis bounding the latter anteriorly allows of a partial forward luxation of the jaw as a whole. The cranial bones present a hypertrophy of their normal structure. The pituitary fossa is very greatly enlarged at the expense of the surrounding bony parts; the optic groove is obliterated, and the optic foramina flattened from above down- wards. The vertebrae are of large size, and show changes re- sembling those met with in arthritis deformans. The sternum and ribs are of gigantic size. The ensiform and costal cartilages shew various degrees of ossification. The bones of the extremities are heavy and clumsy; their surface layer is rough and porous, and marked by an infinite number of shallow longitudinal grooves. The sterno-clavicular and right elbow-joints have been the seat of an arthritis resembling arthritis deformans. The bones of the hands and feet shew no characteristic alteration. The pelvis is unusually large and bulky, and the muscular ridges very pro- minent. (The brain and the enormously-distended stomach from this subject are preserved in the Museum. An account of the case was published by Dr D. J. Cunningham in the Jour?ial of Ana t, and Phys. vol. ix., and a description of the skeleton, by Dr H. A. Thomson, in the same Journal^ vol. xxiv. Presented by Professor Sir W. Turner.) Changes in the Bones in Diseases of the Nervous System. Os. D. n. {E.g., General Paralysis of Insane, Locomotor Ataxia, &c.) [No specimens.] Changes in the Bones in Scorbutus. Os. D. o. [No specimens.] Tmnours of Bone. Os. D. p. [For Tumours of the Bones of the Skull and Face, see Skull, Diseases of.] Fibroma. Os. D. p. 1 (623a). A circumscribed Fibrous tumour, connected with the periosteum of the inner and upper part of the femur below the lesser trochanter. The bone has undergone con- siderable absorption where the tumour was in contact with it. (From the Dissecting-Room.) D