72 ARTHRITIS DEFORMANS. the ziphi-sternum. In the right hip-joint the head of the femur has been Dislocated Backwards on to the dorsum ilii, in conse- quence of disintegration of the posterior wall of the acetabulum the head of the femur, which is characteristically ‘Dipped,” but otherwise is normal, is retained in its new position by a large hemispherical mass of new bone, forming a kind of socket for its reception. On the brim of the pelvis on the same side there is. an elongated mass of new bone, apparently due to ossification having occurred in the tendon of the psoas muscle. The left femur has been divided through its middle third by an amputa- tion performed some time before death. i(l70). A scapula, which presents alterations associated with forward subluxation of the humerus, resulting from arthritis deformans of the Shoulder. The glen- oid cavity is convex rather than concave, is elongated from above downwards, and its anterior half smoothly polished or eburnated. On the front of the neck oF US. nj. g. \ the scapula there is an elevated plate of new bone, against which the partially dislocated head of the- humerus must have rested. (183). The upper end of the humerus from the same case, in which the alterations correspond to those described above. Os. E. g. 3 (182). The upper end of a humerus from a diseased shoulder, in which the head is considerably flattened, and its- articulating area increased in size, by the development of new bone around the margin, causing the “ lipped ” appearance which is characteristic of the articular surfaces in arthritis deformans. Part of the convexity of the head is smoothly polished and dense white like ivory—the “ porcelainous deposit,” or eburnation of “ chronic rheumatic arthritis.” Os. E. g. 4 (Y 159). The bones of the left arm of an adult. The humerus is abnormally short and curved, the result probably of rickets in early life, while its superior articular end shews changes similar to those described in the previous specimen. Os. E. g. 5 (187). The bones of the Elbow-joint from a man aged 50. The lower end of the humerus is very markedly “lipped,’' and its articular surface eburnated, more especially over the trochlea, where the eburnated surface presents a series of parallel grooves produced by the movement of the joint in flexion and extension. Over the capitellum the eburnated surface shews a number of minute circular apertures, corresponding to the enlarged Haversian canals, which have been opened into by the wearing away of the articular surface. The “ lipping ” of the radial and ulnar articular surfaces is very pronounced, while attached to the capsular ligament, and in contact with the head of the radius anteriorly, there is an isolated mass of new bone of considerable size. The joint was said to have been dislocated in youth.