56 TUMOURS OF BONE. thickness of the shaft is converted into compact bone, the medul- lary canal being obliterated. The surface of the bone next the tumour is very irregular and uneven from new formation of bony tissue. Os. D. p. 67 (619). A periosteal sarcoma of the lower end of the femur, forming a large tumour mass surrounding the bone, and projecting into the upper part of the ham ; in the vertical section which has been made, the tumour is seen to be infiltrating the cancellated tissue of the lower end of the femur (in which the epiphysial line is still discernible), and the ligaments of the knee-joint. The specimen is injected. Os. D. p. 68 (620). A section removed from the last specimen. Os. D. p. 69 (619a). A periosteal sarcoma of the thigh-bone of a girl, involving the greater extent of the shaft and extending downwards to the edge of the articular cartilage over the trochlea. The limb was amputated at the hip-joint by Professor Spence, who presented the specimen to the Museum. Os. D. p. 70 (6196). A longitudinal section of the shaft and con- dyloid extremity of a femur, shewing a large periosteal sarcoma completely enveloping the bone. The tissue of the tumour is soft throughout, and at its lower part is penetrating the compact shell of the bone. The lower epiphysial cartilage is quite dis- tinct. (Presented by Professor Spence.) Os. D. p. 71 (621). A vertical section of a typical central myeloid sarcoma of the lower end of the femur, expanding the bone equally in all directions to a mere shell, and forming a con- tinuous layer beneath the articular cartilage. The tissue of the tumour is for the most part soft and homogeneous like blood- clot, and was originally of a maroon colour. Os. D. p. 72 (622). A dried preparation of the femur of a boy 12 years of age. onnected with the lower third of the shaft, above the epiphysial line, is an enormous cyst-like cavity, the wall of which consists of a thin layer of bone in parts replaced by mem- brane. d"he cavity of the cyst communicates with the interior of the shaft of the femur, while the bony wall of the cyst is con- tinuous with the outer compact shell. 'I'he specimen is referred to in the Old Catalogue as being an example of the so-called spma-ventosa or windthorn, but it appears to be the shell of a large, slow-growing sarcoma, originating in the medulla of the diaphysis. (The specimen is figured in Syme’s Principles of Siuo^er}\ third edit. 1842, p. 200, and in Miller’s Principles of S2/ri:ery, third edit. 1853, p. 452.) Os. D. p. 73 The lower half of a femur, which is almost com- pletely enveloped by a large sarcoma; the tumour covers both the periosteal and articular surfaces of the bone, distending the cavity of the knee-joint and bulging into the popliteal space. Its external surface is smooth and lobulated. The femur itself