DISEASES OF THE LOWER JAW. 104 Diseases of the Jaws. Os. G. m. [Syphilitic Lesions of the Upper Jaw have been included with those of the Bones of the Skull; similarly, most of the Tumours of the Upper Jaw have been grouped with Tumours of the Bones of the Skull, q.v.~\ Os. G. m. 1 (Y 38). The lower jaw of a Ruminant, in which the articular surface of the condyle and the periosteal surface of the ascending ramus are superficially eroded or ulcerated. Os. G. m. 2 (289). The greater portion of the left half of a lower jaw, which is stated to have been separated after Suppurative Periostitis and Osteomyelitis. The specimen does not shew any morbid change. Os. G. m. 3 (290). A sequestrum, consisting of that portion of the body of the jaw included between the mental foramina; it con- tains the sacs of the permanent incisors. Os. G. m. 4 (291). A sequestrum, consisting of the posterior margin of the angle, ascending ramus, and condyle of the lower jaw of a child, which is stated to have separated after ten months’ sup- puration. “New bone afterwards supplied its place, and the patient could open and close her mouth with facility.” (Old Catalogue.) Os. G. m. 5 (292). Three minute sequestra, separated from the lower jaw. Os. G. m. 6 (293). Two sequestra of larger size. Os. G. m. 7. The lower jaw of a child, removed entire through the mouth without any incision, in a case of acute suppurative periostitis and osteomyelitis (acute necrosis). (Presented by Professor Annandale, 1890.) Os. G. m. 8 (608). The lower jaw of a child, aged four years, shewing a cystic cavity at the symphysis, the soft contents of which, together with the anterior wall, have been removed. The permanent incisors and canines are seen exposed in the interior of the sac (so-called Dentigerous Cyst). Os. G. m. 9 (547)- The right half of a lower jaw, shewing a series of compact Exostoses projecting on either side of the alveolar margin, in the position of the gum. Os. G. m. 10 (548). A small exostosis of the lower jaw. Os. G. m. 11 (548a). A bony tumour, of ivory-like hardness, and about the size of a pigeon’s egg, which was removed from the lower jaw of a young woman by Professor Annandale, and pre- sented by him to the Museum (so-called Odontoma).