129 TUMOURS. of circular outline are to be seen. They were very vascular. The largest, over the superior longitudinal sinus, is ulcerated, and at one point appears on the serous surface of the membrane. N. A. r. 3 (1946). Tumours in connection with the Cerebral Membranes. A large lobulated growth, which probably started from the dura mater in the neighbourhood of the right lateral sinus. Externally, it projects through the occipital bone ; inter- nally, it is seen to have considerably displaced the right lobe of the cerebellum and pons Varolii. Dissected to shew the tym- panum and surrounding parts. N. A. r. 4 (1946 a). Tumours of Cerebral Membranes. A large nodular, fibro-cartilaginous tumour, situated between the posterior lobes of the cerebrum and the cerebellum, and to the left of the falx cerebri, to which it has vascular adhesions. N. A. r. 5. Tumours of Membranes of the Brain. Dura mater shews numerous flattened sarcomatous tumours on its external surface, corresponding with similar growths on inner surface of cranium. Tumours are small round-celled sarcomas, secondary to sarcoma of a rib. There were similar tumours in the pleura, spinal canal and cord, liver, lungs, etc. Patient a man aged 40. There were no symptoms of brain disease. Presented by Professor Greenfield. N. A r. 6. Cranium from same case as preceding, shewing the growths on inner surface corresponding with those on the dura mater. N. A. r. 7. Tumour involving the Membranes and Brain. A cartilaginous tumour of rounded shape, the size of an orange, embedded in the substance of the right temporo-sphenoidal lobe, from which it was readily shelled out, being adherent only by a few small vessels. The tumour grew from the bone of the right side of the sella turcica, and caused compression and atrophy of the right fifth nerve and the Gasserian ganglion. There was also paralysis of the right third nerve and double optic neuritis. J3uration of marked symptoms about five years. Patient a woman 35 years of age. Microscopically, the tumour is mainly myxo- chondromatous, with partial ossification. Presented by Professor Greenfield. N. A. r. 8 (1999)- Tumour in connection with the Cerebral Membranes. A lobulated, fibro-cartilaginous growth, which was attached to the dura mater covering the right supraorbital plate. It was adherent to the under surface of the frontal lobe. N. A. r. 9 (2001). Tumour in connection with the Cerebral Mem- branes. A rounded nodulated growth, nearly two inches in diameter, which rested on the right orbital plate of the frontal bone, and was connected with the dura mater. It is mostly embedded in the posterior and outer part of the frontal lobe, the