URINARY CALCULI. 312 Gen.-U. S. C. 32. An oval laminated Calculus, very rough externally; removed after death from the bladder of Robert Douglas, Earl of Morton, 25th January 1730. Weight, 434 grains. Uric acid, trace of urate of ammonia, and small quantities of the urates of lime and magnesia. A quantity of phosphate of lime and a trace of oxalate. Gen.-U. S. C. 33. Oval and somewhat flattened laminated Calculus of a pale colour, both internally and externally. Weight, 131 grains. Uric acid and urate of ammonia, alternating with layers of the fusible phosphate. Traces also of the urates of lime and magnesia. Gen.-U. S. C. 34. Small flattened laminated Calculus, with a smooth white outer surface. Weight, 56 grains. Nucleus, uric acid and urate of ammonia; exterior, fusible phosphate. Gen.-U. S. C. 35. Three Calculi, extracted by Dr G. Bell from the bladder. The interior is laminated; the exterior layer presents a radiated crystalline appearance. The outer surfaces are for the most part smooth and polished. Uric acid, with traces of urate of lime and magnesia, and earthy phosphate, with a little oxalate of lime. Gen.-U. S. C. 36. Ten small irregularly shaped Calculi, with smooth white and polished outer surfaces. Nucleus, uric acid and urate of ammonia, with traces of urate of soda. Exterior formed of fusible phosphate, with small quantities of carbonate of magnesia and lime. Gen.-U. S. C. 37. Elongated oval Calculus, with a laminated appearance on section and a roughish outer surface. Nucleus small, and composed of uric acid. The mass of the Calculus consists of earthy phosphate, with small quantities of carbonate of lime and magnesia, and a little oxalate of lime. Presented by Professor Goodsir. Gen.-U. S. C. 38. Section of a Calculus of irregular form. Uric acid, urate of ammonia, with traces of urate of lime and magnesia. A layer of earthy phosphate on exterior. Gen.-U. S. C. 39. Two portions of a Calculus, composed of uric acid and urate of ammonia, with a little urate of lime, the exterior being fusible phosphate, with traces of carbonate of magnesia and lime. Gen.-U. S. c. 40. Two Calculi: one deeply hollowed out on one surface; the other rounded in one part, as if corresponding to the hollow of the larger one. Both laminated in interior. The larger one is almost entirely uric acid, with a little phosphate of lime; the smaller one consists of uric acid and urate of ammonia, with fusible phosphate, the phosphate and urate alternating towards the exterior.