SUPPURATIVE DISEASES OF BONE. 34 Os. D. d. 7 (370). T he lower half of a femur, in which there are several irregular masses of new bone or osteophytes at the inser- tion of the adductor magnus and along the inner border of the shaft, together with a continuous crust of new bone on the posterior aspect, probably the result of a suppurative arthritis in the knee, the lower articular surface shewing extensive ulceration. Os. D. d. 8 (235). The lower half of a femur, in which the perios- teal surface is covered by new bone of a very irregular character, partly opened out and carious. The inferior articular surface is in a similar condition. Os. D. d. 9 (Y 55)- The Tibia and a portion of the Fibula, from a case of chronic ostitis and periostitis, which has resulted in a great increase in size of the entire shaft, and anchylosis of the bones with each other. The outer surface of the tibia is irregularly ^eroded by vascular apertures, and presents a sinus about the centre of its internal aspect. Os. D. d. 10 (242). The bones of the right leg, in which, as a result of long-standing inflammation, the fibula has become so greatly increased in thickness throughout the whole shaft that it con- siderably exceeds the tibia in circumference. On the anterior aspect of its shaft there is a small sinus leading down to a sequestrum in the medulla. The medullary canal itself is almost obliterated. The bones are anchylosed to each other at their lower ends. (From the Dissecting-Room.) Os. D. d. 11 (278). The shaft of a fibula, on the anterior surface of which there are two excavations opening into the medullary cavity, in which there is probably a sequestrum. The margins of these excavations and the neighbouring shaft are covered with new bone. Os. D. d. 12 (282). The upper end of a fibula, much enlarged and altered in form, as the result of extensive changes in the head and upper portion of the medulla. The old bone of the shaft is rarefied. Os. D. d. 13(314)- The shaft of the tibia of an adult, shewing extensive necrosis of the entire thickness of the bone. There has been no attempt at the formation of new bone. Os. D. d. 14(315). The lower end of a tibia, with a sequestrum of the shaft in its centre. The wall of the cavity enclosing the sequestrum consists of new bone, and is pierced by several large cloacae. Os. D. d. 15 (316). A tibia, in which the tarsal extremity is ex- panded, with a sequestrum in its interior, and covered externally by a foliaceous periosteal deposit. Os. D. d. 16(318). The shaft of a tibia, shewing a sequestrum enclosed in a thick case of new bone; the condition has prob- ably originated in a compound fracture.