321 URINARY CALCULI. Gen.-U. S. o. 3. Small Calculus, of a somewhat triangular shape and smooth brown exterior. Weight, 27 grains. Nucleus, a dense reddish-brown body, apparently a piece of brick, around which crystalline phosphate of lime was deposited, radiating from the nucleus. The triple phosphate was looked for, but not detected. Gen.-U. S. O. 4. Section of a flattened oval Calculus. Nucleus, apparently a small pebble, around which fusible phosphates were deposited in white concentric layers. Gen.-U. S. O. 5. Section of a flattened oval Calculus. The nucleus appears to be a small stone, around which fusible phosphates, with traces of carbonate of magnesia, were deposited in white concentric layers. Gen.-U. S. O. 6. Section of a flattened Calculus. The nucleus is a small piece of iron. The Calculus consists of the fusible phosphate, with traces of the carbonate of lime and magnesia, deposited in white concentric layers. Gen.-U. S. O. 7. Section of a flattened oval Calculus. Nucleus, a small pebble. Fusible phosphates, with traces of the carbonates of lime and magnesia, deposited in white concentric layers. Gen.-U. S. o. 8. Section of a flattened oval Calculus. Nucleus, a small piece of brick. Calculus consisting of the ammoniated- magnesia phosphate, with traces of the carbonate of lime and magnesia, deposited in concentric layers. Gen. U. S. O. 9. Section of a flattened oval Calculus. Nucleus, a small pebble. Calculus consists of ammonio-magnesia phosphate, with traces of carbonate of lime and magnesia, in white concentric layers. Gen.-U. S. o. 10. Calculus of the size and shape of a walnut; . smooth and polished on its outer surface; presenting as its nucleus a thin piece of wood three-fourths of an inch in length, which looks like a piece of a thorn, or a cherry stalk. Around it the Calculus matter is deposited in three distinct layers, each layer being formed of distinct crystals radiating outwards. The Calculus consists of phosphate of lime and triple phosphate. There is a mere trace of organic matter, which is not uric acid. From the Bell Collection. Presented by Dr G. Bell. Gen.-U. S. o. 11. Small Calculus of an angular form, with a very smooth and white outer surface. Nucleus, a small pebble, around which the triple phosphate is deposited in an irregularly laminated manner. There is a little organic matter, which is not uric acid.