DISEASES OF LARYNX. 231 R. A d. 2 (2288). Larynx, Tongue, and Pharynx, in which the mucous membrane is thickened, apparently from oedema. Numerous small ulcers are in the mucous lining of the larynx and pharynx. In front of the larynx is an abscess cavity expos- ing the thyroid cartilage. Perichondritis. R. A. e. R. A. e. 1 (2308). Larynx, in which the Cricoid Cartilage is seen lying loose in a cavity which contained pus, the surrounding tissues being greatly thickened. There is ulceration over the right vocal cord. Patient died suddenly. Syphilis. R. A. f. R. A. f. 1 (2305). L arynx, shewing extensive ulceration of the mucous membrane of the Epiglottis and false vocal cords, and great thickening and exudation in the mucous membrane below the true vocal cords. R. A. f. 2 (2304). A large Ulcerated opening through the centre of the projecting angle of the Thyroid Cartilage. The sur- rounding mucous membrane is thickened. The ventricles of the Larynx are enlarged. The mucous membrane of the trachea is thickened and ulcerated. R. A. f. 3 (2303). Extensive and deep Ulceration is seen about the Epiglottis and the right Arytenoid cartilage, the result of a Perichondritis. There is a small cyst in the left lobe of the Thyroid gland. R. A. f. 4 (2300). Ulceration and thickening of mucous membrane of Epiglottis—contraction of rima. A deep ulcerated cavity between epiglottis and root of tongue, which reaches the sub- stance of the genio-hyo-glossi muscles. Mucous membrane both of Larynx and Pharynx thickened and ulcerated. R. A. f. 5 (2293). Deep ulceration of the mucous lining of the Larynx, reaching from just below the vocal cords, and extending to the lower part of the Trachea. Laryngotomy had been per- formed in the lower part of the larynx, and a deep ulcer is situated in the mucous membrane around the opening for the canula. R. A. f. 6 (2295). Larynx and Tongue. The mucous membrane of the Epiglottis is irregularly thickened and ulcerated, especially over the left vocal cord, which is much swollen. The ventricles of the Larynx are much contracted. The Aryteno-epiglottic folds are thickened. The Larynx contained mucus mixed with pus. R. A. f. 7 (2294). Larynx and Tongue. Deep and extensive ulceration and nodular thickening of the mucous membrane of the Larynx, Pharynx, and Trachea. In the latter some of the cartilaginous rings are exposed.