I5I ANEURISM. Oir. G. d. 8 (2lS^a). Small aneurism of commencement of aorta which had ruptured into the pericardium. Dried specimen. Presented by Professor Sir William Turner. Cir. G. d. 9 (2136). Extreme atheroma of the aorta. Rupture of small aneurism of the ascending part into pericardium. Oir. G. d. 10 (2177)- Small sacculated aneurism of aorta, imme- diately above right coronary artery, ruptured into pericardium; aorta dilated and atheromatous; right ventricle and aorta opened from behind. Presented by Dr Pack. Cir. G. d. 11 (2178). Small aneurism of aorta immediately above semilunar valve, projecting into the cavity of the left auricle, into which it has ruptured at the apex of one of the nipple- shaped projections from its wall; the cavities of the heart are considerably dilated. Figured by Dr Byrom Bramwell in Diseases of the Hearty fig. 281. Oir. G. d. 12 (2179)- Aneurism of aorta immediately above semi- lunar valve, ruptured into left auricle; left ventricle greatly dilated ; atheroma of first part of aorta. Cir. G. d. 13 (2181). Arch of aorta, shewing aneurism the size of a small orange, projecting from and communicating with the artery by a circular opening, situated half an inch above the semilunar valve. Oir. G. d. 14 (2182). Aneurism the size of an orange, from the posterior and left side of the aorta, immediately behind the semilunar valve; the walls of the auricles form part cf its parietes posteriorly; it communicates by a ragged opening with the pulmonary artery. Cir. G. d. 15 (2088). Saccular aneurism of first part of aorta, communicating by two rounded apertures with pulmonary artery; dilatation and atheroma of aorta; chronic endocarditis of aortic valve; dilatation and hypertrophy of left ventricle. Cir. G. d. 16 (2183). Large saccular aneurism of the commence- ment of the aorta, communicating by two openings with the right auricle. Cir. G. d. 17 (2201). Aneurismal sac three inches in diameter, projecting backwards from the ascending aorta. Heart shews delicate fibrous filaments, resulting from pericarditis. Cir. G. d. 18 (2188). Large aneurism of ascending aorta, pro- jecting more to the right than the left side, and adhering by its anterior surface to the sternum and first and second ribs of the right side; the sac communicates with the aorta by an opening with smooth edges the size of a half-crown piece; the sac contains a large mass of laminated clot.