93 MALFORMATIONS OF THE SKULL. Os. G. a. 2 (Y 169a). A skull-cap, presenting two elongated gaps in the parietal bone on either side, close to the posterior superior angle, and, like the apertures in the preceding specimen, per- fectly symmetrical. Looking at the calvarium from within, the lambdoidal suture is seen to be imperfectly closed ; while the fossae along the line of the superior longitudinal sinus, produced by the pressure of Pacchionian bodies, are unusually large and deep. Os. G. a. 3 (Y 117). A skull-cap, presenting three very remarkable gaps in the posterior segment of the vertex ; two of them are situated symmetrically near the upper and hinder angle of the parietal bones, while the third occupies the middle line of the occiput immediately beneath the apex of the lambdoidal suture. Two of the apertures are large enough to admit the middle finger; they are oval in shape, and the margins are smooth and rounded off An unobliterated suture runs between the aperture in the left parietal and that in the occipital, crossing the lambda at a right angle. The coronal suture is unusually distinct on the inner surface of the skull. The surface of the outer table is rough and uneven. (From a woman aged-25. Described and figured by Professor Sir W. Turner, Edhu Med. Jonrn. 1865.) Overlapping of the Bor.es of ll:e Skull at the Suiuies. Os. G. a. 4 (Y 117^)- The skull-cap of an adult, presented to the Museum by Professor Hughes Bennett. The calvarium is small, light, and unusually vaulted both from side to side and from before backwards, and the component bones overlap each other in a very remarkable way. At the lambda the occiput over- rides the parietals, its upper margin forming a very prominent ridge across the posterior segment of the vertex. Along the sagittal suture there is merely an exaggeration of the normal amount of alternate overlapping of the two bones. At the coronal suture the parietals override the frontal bone, so that the margins of the former and of the latter stand out as prominent ridges on the outer and inner surfaces of the skull respectively. The frontal suture is persistent and very prominent, from the tendency of the left half to override the right portion. The, squamous temporal overrides the parietal at the squamous suture on either side. All the sutures are ossified and rigid in the positions that have been described. The bones themselves, as seen in the sawn section, are unusually thin, there being scarcely any diploe between the two tables. Os. G. a. 5 (Y 117^)- A flattened, badly-formed skull-cap, thin and light, and presenting at the coronal suture an unusual degree of overlapping of the bones. In the middle the parietals overlaj) the frontal, but at the sides the frontal overlaps the parietals : this is precisely the reverse of the normal arrangement, and makes the skull-cap appear constricted at the coronal suture. The outer surface of the bones is rough and uneven ; there is scarcely any diploe remaining between the two tables.