DISEASES OF STUMPS. 114 Os. L. b. 14 (A 87)- rhe sawn end of the femur of a man who underwent primary amputation, and died on the 32nd day from pyoemia. i^Ballingall Collection.) Os. L. b. 15 (A 88). A similar preparation, in which, however, the bone protruded more than an inch from the stump when the man died on the 30th day. One-third of the protruding portion was dead, and completely uncovered; while above this a thickened collar of new bone had formed, and extended for some distance upwards along the shaft. {Ballingall Collection.) Os. L. b. 16 (A 81). A portion of the femur removed on the fif- teenth day after primary amputation of the thigh in a man aged 26, on account of osteomyelitis having followed upon the opera- tion. The bone is dead to the extent of a narrow circle close to the sawn section, while the remainder of it is partly encrusted with recent periosteal bone, and partly pitted and worm-eaten by periosteal granulations. Os. L. b. 17 (B 20). A ring-like sequestrum, which was extruded from the stump in a case of amputation of the femur in a young subject. {Ballingall Collection.) Os. Li. b. 18(636). The upper half of a radius, from a case of amputation of the forearm, in which a similar sequestrum is seen at the sawn section of the bone. Os. L. b. 19(Y25)- The cut end of a femur, removed post- mortem 43 days after amputation of the thigh. There has occurred a limited necrosis of the compact tissue at the sawn section, while the exposed medullary canal is partly occupied by the fragmentary remains of the spongy bone. The periosteal surface of the shaft is extensively perforated and pitted by peri- osteal granulations. Os. L. b. 20 (649). The cut end of a femur, removed two months after amputation of the thigh. Partial necrosis of the compact tissue at the sawn section has occurred, and the sequestrum is embedded in new periosteal and medullary bone. Os. L. b. 21 (656). The ends of the tibia and fibula, from an amputation in the upper third of the leg, showing similar changes. Os. L. b. 22 (647a). A vertical section of the stump formed after amputation above the ankle-joint, shewing a large fibrous tumour (sarcoma?), which has grown over the ends of the bones, and has caused bulging of the skin over the face of the stump. A second amputation was performed at a higher level. (Presented by Professor Spence.)