TUMOURS OF RONE. 59 tissue of the other parts of the bone is small in amount, it having been largely converted into spongy bone. The fibula appears to be normal. The leg was amputated by Professor Syme. Os. D. p. 92 (627)- The upper end of a tibia, macerated. The bone is much expanded, apparently by the growth of a sarcoma in its interior. Os. D. p. 93 (390). The bones of the leg from a “ scrofulous sub- ject ” (Old Catalogue). The compact tissue of the shaft of the tibia in its middle two-thirds has been removed, and the remaining spongy bone is rarefied and altered in structure. Spontaneous fracture has occurred at the junction of the middle and lower thirds, and has partially reunited. The diseased area of the shaft is very sharply defined from the adjacent healthy bone, and there is little or no new formation of bone by the periosteum in the vicinity. The above changes are probably the result of a malignant tumour in the soft parts over the bone. Os. D. p. 94 (630a). A sarcoma, involving the Tarsus and Meta- tarsus, which has apparently originated in the metatarsal bone of the great toe. (Removed by amputation and presented to the Museum by A. M. Edwards, F.R.C.S.E.) Os. D. p. 95 {62'ja). The left hind extremity of a Rat, shewing a circumscribed tumour-like expansion of the tarsal bones, probably the framework of a sarcoma. (Presented by Professor Hughes Bennett.) Secouriary Cancer of Do7ie. Os. D. p. 96 (611). A longitudinal section of a Sternum, from a case of cancer of the female breast. The bone is enlarged and expanded in all directions, and is entirely replaced by soft tumour tissue, which, instead of being homogeneous like a sarcoma, presents an alveolar arrangement corresponding to the structure of a cancer. Externally the tumour tissue is covered by periosteum. Os. D. p. 97 (613). A longitudinal section of a sternum similarly enlarged from cancerous infiltration of its entire substance. (From a woman aged 30, who had frequent attacks of peritonitis and cancerous tumours in various parts of the body.) Specimen (1066), shewing cancer of the liver, and Specimen (1384), a small cancer of the neck of the bladder, are from the same case. Os. D. p. 98 (628). A large epitheliomatous ulcer, involving the skin over the front of the leg and penetrating deeply into the substance of the tibia. (Removed by amputation in the Dum- fries Infirmary.) Os. D. p. 99 (25420^). A leg, shewing a cauliflower-like epithelio- matous ulcer in the upper part of the front of the leg, which has penetrated deeply into the substance of the head of the tibia and produced an excavation in its interior. Injected by Mr A. B. Stirling. (Presented by Professor Sir Joseph Lister.)