9 FRACTURES OF THE PELVIS. Os. B. d. 49 (82). A section of an old fracture of the shaft of the radius; obliquely united, with considerable overriding of the fragments. Os. B. d. 50 (190). The bones of the forearm, dwarfed and de- formed from rickets in early life; there is an old fracture of the upper end of the radius at the level of the tuberosity, in which the fragments have united at an angle. The carpal articular surfaces of both bones shew changes resembling those met with in arthritis deformans. Os. B. d. 51. A dissected preparation of the hand and fore- arm of a boy, shewing complete separation of the Lower Epiphysis of the Radius, along with a transverse fracture of the shaft of the ulna 4 cm. above its lower extremity. Fractures of the Pelvis and Lower Extremity, Os. B. e. Os. B. e. 1 (38). A right Innominate bone, in which Fracture has occurred through the horizontal ramus of the pubis and through the ascending ramus of the ischium; irregular union has occurred, with considerable deformity. Os. B. e. 2 (85). A vertical transverse section of a typical example of impacted Fracture of the neck of the Femur, in which the neck at its junction with the shaft is driven into the substance of the great trochanter, splitting the latter, and detaching the small trochanter. Union has partially taken place. (This specimen is figured in Professor Miller’s Surgery, third edition, 1853, p- 675-) Os. B. e. 3 (85a). The other half of the preceding specimen pre- served in spirit. Os. B. e. 4 (86). An intracapsular fracture of the neck of the femur cut in longitudinal section, in which bony union has occurred, with absorption and shortening of the neck. Os. B. e. 5 (87)- A vertical section of the head and neck of the femur; the latter is said to have been fractured and united by bone. The neck of the bone is shortened from absorption, and there are changes in the head resembling those met with in arthritis deformans. Os. B. e. 6 (88). ITe opposite half of the previous specimen, in which the fracture may be seen to have been impacted, the upper fragment being driven into the lower. Os. B. e. 7 (88a). An Ununited Fracture of the neck of the femur ; the articulating portion of the head is completely detached, and the neck of the bone completely absorbed.