g6 OVERGROWTH OF THE BONES OF THE SKULL. internal table of the frontal bone into the cranial cavity. All the foramina and canals in the base of the skull are enlarged on the left side, more especially those through which the branches of the fifth nerve pass; the apertures also in the bones of the face, which transmit the terminal branches of the same nerve, are very distinctly enlarged. (From a man aged 53, who had suffered from epilepsy major since infancy, and who spent the last twenty-three years of his life in the Norfolk County Asylum. Presented to the Museum by Dr D. G. 'Phomson, Superintendent of the Asylum, through his brother. Dr Henry Alexis Thomson. The specimen is described in the Med. Chir. Trans. Edin. vol. X., and in the Edin. Med. Journal.^ January 1891.) Increase in Thickness of the Bones of the Skull from Chronic Inflammation (Cranitis Chronica), in- cluding Osteitis Deformans., Hyperostosis of the Skull., Cfc. Os. G. e. Os. G. e. 1 (504a). The right half of the skull of an adult, shewing a great increase in thickness and alteration in the structure of the bones of the cranium. All the sutures are obliterated. The outer surface of the bones is finely porous or spongy, and is per- forated by innumerable apertures for blood-vessels. The inner surface is also minutely perforated for vessels, and the grooves for the branches of the meningeal arteries are enlarged and un- usually complicated. The sawn surface of the bone is for the most part dense and compact like limestone, especially in the region of the internal table ; towards the outer table the bone is irregularly porous or cancellous. The above changes are probably the result of Osteitis Deformans. Os. G. e. 2 (503). A portion of a similar cranium. Os. G. e. 3 (504). A similar specimen. Os. G. e. 4 (180). A thick, heavy skull, in which there has occurred a very considerable formation of new bone upon the inner table, together with sclerosis of the diploe. In the sawn section the layer of new bone is very evident at certain parts. As a result of this change, the cerebral aspect of the skull-cap is irregular and very uneven, especially on the two halves of the os frontis, where it is nodulated and hillocky. The Pacchionian depres- sions along either side of the middle line are very distinct. Os. G. e. 5 (502). The greater part of the frontal bone, shewing a similar condition, but in which the entire thickness of the bone is remarkably sclerosed, shewing no trace of its original arrange- ment of two tables and intervening diploe. The thickening is very irregular, and causes nodular bumps on the cerebral aspect of the bone. The surface of the inner table is minutely per- forated for vessels.