ALIMENTARY SYSTEM. 190 Al. E. 1. 21 (978). Malignant Stricture of the Large Intestine. The new growth seen in the descending colon has ulcerated. Above the obstruction the gut is dilated. Al. E. 1. 22 (979)- Malignant Stricture of the Large Intestine. The colon is dilated immediately above the obstruction. Al. E. 1. 23 (980). Malignant Stricture of the Large Intestine. Above the obstruction the walls of the gut are infiltrated and its muscular coat hypertrophied. Al. E. 1. 24 (981). Malignant Stricture at the Ileo-Caecal valve. The new growth appears to have involved and caused contrac- tion of the caput caecum coli. Al. E. 1. 25 (982). Malignant Disease of the Large Intestine. The large mass of new growth seen occupying the lumen of the colon caused obstruction of the bowels during life. A portion of the stomach wall is closely adherent to the colon and shews signs of commencing infiltration. Al. E. 1. 26 (986). Malignant Disease of the Large Intestine. The transverse colon is extensively involved in a fungating mass of new growth, which has also caused matting of the small intestine and retraction of the omentum. The walls of the colon are greatly infiltrated, and there is extensive ulceration and sloughing. Large nodules of tumour are seen on the serous surface. The liver contained secondary nodules. Patient aged 50. Al. E. 1. 27 (987)* Malignant Disease of the Large Intestine. A fungating and ulcerated patch is seen on the mucous surface of the descending colon. Al. E. 1. 28 (990 6, C, d). Intestinal Polypi, probably due to new growth. Three sections of large intestine from the same person. Numerous outgrowths are seen on the mucous surface, some sessile, others with long pedicles. Presented by Professor Hughes Bennett. Al. E. 1. 29 (991). Malignant Disease of the Large Intestine. The circumference of the gut is infiltrated with new growth, which has ulcerated, and at one point caused perforation into the small intestine, a coil of which is adherent. Al. E. 1. 30 (665 0)- Colon, from a woman who had received a severe blow on the abdomen, shewing ulceration of mucous membrane and contraction of the gut at and below this point. Probably a malignant stricture. Al. E. 1. 31 (845)- Intestinal Stricture (Malignant). The growth involves the last inch and a half of the ileum and the ileo-caecal valve, which is much thickened and its orifice contracted. The ileum above the obstruction is much dilated, its muscular coat hypertrophied, and its mucous membrane in many places ulcerated and cicatrized.