OVERGROWTH OF THE BONES OF THE SKULL. 97 Os. G. e. 6 (Y 160). The skull-cap of a West Indian negro, in which the outer table is remarkably thickened and altered in structure over the entire area of the vertex, excepting the portion on either side covered by the temporal fascia, which is normal. The thickened outer table presents on the pericranial aspect a close, honeycomb-like arrangement of the cancelli, the spaces here and there, however, being filled up with bone, so that the surface layer is in parts compact. The skull-cap is very greatly increased in weight. The surface of the inner table is normal. (Presented by Professor Sir William Turner.) Changes in the Skull believed to be caused by Rickets. Os. G. f. Os. G. f. 1 (506). A portion of the frontal bone from a rickety subject, shewing considerable inequality in its thickness ; the surface of the outer table has a rarefied, spongy appearance, to be associated with an increased vascularity of the pericranium. The substance of the bone is made up of a cancellous diploe. Os. G. f. 2(Y6i). The skull-cap of a child, in which the anterior fontanelle remains open. On the outer surface of the skull, a little below and behind the parietal eminence on either side, there is a well-defined circular elevation or node, consisting of newly-formed spongy bone. That on the left side is much more spongy, and occupies a larger area than that on the right. The outer table is otherwise normal. The surface of the inner table shews more extensive changes, of the nature of “ osteoporosis,” affecting symmetrical areas in the parietals and two halves of the frontal. The inner surface of the occipital is similarly affected. The change is most advanced at the centre of ossification of the affected bones, where it probably commenced, and then extended towards the margins. The inner table, instead of forming a compact layer, is now intersected by grooves and fissures, cross- ing each other in every possible direction, and forming a close network. In the lambdoid suture there are a number of Wormian bones. Os. G. f. 3 (505)* The parietal bones of a child, which had prob- ably suffered from rickets ; the bones are thickened, and con- sist of a light, dry, porous, and friable tissue, the external surface of which is rough, and the internal surface minutely perforated for blood-vessels. Os. G. f. 4 (505^)- The left parietal of an infant, in which the bone is thickened and friable; the entire outer surface, with the exception of the region of the parietal eminence, is rough, spongy, elevated, in parts like coarse woollen cloth. Towards the posterior-inferior angle there are three circular apertures in the bone. It is difficult to say whether the above changes are the result of rickets or congenital syphilis. G