89 CURVATURES OF THE SPINE. A n tero-Posterior Cnrva tu re—Kyphosis. Os. F. e. 4 (403). The skull and spinal column of an adult. From the second cervical vertebra to the last lumbar the spine forms a single curve, the whole of which is more concave anteriorly than the normal dorsal curve. The different vertebrae are for the most part anchylosed to each other by the same kind of bony outgrowths from the margins of the bodies as have been described in Arthritis Deformans. The occiput is firmly anchy- losed by bone to the atlas, and the latter to the axis. The posterior ends of the ribs are included in the anchylosis in the dorsal spine. [Other specimens in the Museum are Os. F. b. 2 (Y 16), and Os. F. b. 4 (Y 17).] Lateral Curvature—Scoliosis— Rotation-L ateral Curvature. Os. F. e. 5 (510). The natural skeleton of the trunk of an adult, which presents in the dorsal region a combination of rotation- lateral and antero-posterior curvature of the spine, together with associated deformity of the thorax and pelvis, all of which probably resulted from Rickets in early life. The antero-posterior curvature of the dorsal spine is so complete that the initial lateral curvature is masked to a large extent, and the vertebral bodies are rotated to the right to such a degree that their anterior surfaces look backwards as well as outwards ; while the apices of their spinous processes, in spite of the lateral curvature, together constitute a line which deviates but little from the middle line of the back. The thorax on the right side is much contracted ; the angles of the ribs, instead of being obtuse, are very sharply bent, so that they have come to lie in immediate contact with the bodies of the vertebrae, against which they are flattened ; the sixth and seventh ribs have been broken across in this situation, and partially reunited. The angles of the left ribs are very obtuse and almost obliterated, and their shafts are directed nearly horizontally outwards, enlarging this side of the thorax in compensation for the contraction of its right side. The hump-back in this specimen is formed by the displaced bodies of the vertebrae, covered by the ribs, and is situated to the right of the middle line. The Pelvis presents the condition which is termed flat, the conjugate at the brim being less than the normal. Os. F. e, 6 (513). Part of the spinal column and portions of the ribs, shewing similar alterations arising from rickets, as are described in the preceding specimen. Os. F. e. 7 (Y 45). Part of the spinal column and pelvis, presenting a very moderate degree of lateral curvature of the dorsal seg- ment, with the convexity to the right, together with compensatory curves in the cervical and lumbar regions in the opposite direc- tion. There is no appreciable amount of rotation of the ver- tebrae. I'heir bodies, however, and the intervertebral spaces are reduced in depth along the concavity of the different curves.