12 FRACTURES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. Os. B. e. 29 (Y 7)- A comminuted fracture of the shaft of the femur at its lower third, probably caused by a gunshot injury; partial necrosis of several of the fragments has occurred, and at the same time imperfect union of the other fragments to the shaft above and below by new bone. The injury was evidently followed by suppurative inflammation in the parts involved. Os. B. e. 30 (135)* The lower half of a right femur, shewing a stalactitic mass of callus, associated with the repair of a com- pound fracture, in which suppurative inflammation supervened. Os. B. e. 31 (103). A fracture of the shaft of the right femur in its upper third ; united without any deformity. Os. B. e. 32 (104). A fracture of the shaft of the left femur at the lower third. Angular union has occurred, with backward dis- placement of the lower fragment and partial overriding. The head of the bone shews changes characteristic of arthritis deformans. Os. B. e. 33 (104a). A preparation in spirit of an oblique fracture of the lower part of the shaft of the femur in a young subject, cut in vertical section. The fragments are seen overlapping each other, the lower fragment lying behind and at a consider- able distance from the upper. Os. B. e. 33^ (1046). The opposite half of the preceding specimen. Os. B. e. 34 (105)- A fracture of the right femur in the lower third of its shaft, in which union with overriding of fragments has occurred. Os. B. e. 35 (106). A comminuted fracture of the shaft of a left femur, with overriding of the fragments and incomplete bony union. Os. B. e. 36 (107). A fracture of the shaft of the femur in its middle third, in which deformed union has occurred with the fragments overriding each other for fully 5 cm., the upper one lying in front and to the outer side of the lower. Os. B. e. 37 (108). An oblique fracture of the shaft of the left femur in its middle third ; united with overriding, the upper fragment lying in front and to the outer side of the lower. The compact bone of the upper fragment is much thicker than that of the lower, this being probably the result of tearing across of the nutrient artery. Os. B. e. 38 (109 and no). The opposite half of the preceding specimen. Os. B. e. 39 (III). A fracture of the shaft of a left femur at its lower third; united. This specimen is cut in longitudinal section, and the line of union is demonstrated by the internal or myelogenic callus occupying the medullary canal. The head of the bone shews changes like those seen in arthritis deformans.