INFLAMMATION OF BONE. 32 Os. D. c. 4 (Y 22). T he tibia and fibula of an adult much increased in size and altered in their outward form by a diffuse periosteal deposit of a foliaceous and spinous character, and causing anchy- losis of the two bones. Os. D. C. 5 {241). The tibia and fibula of an adult, much enlarged and altered in form by an extensive deposit of new bone, which extends also across the interosseous space and firmly unites the two bones to each other. Over the fibula the new bone presents a foliaceous and spinous appearance, while in the middle two- thirds of the subcutaneous surface of the tibia there is a porous spongy crust like that formed beneath an ulcer of the soft parts. Os. D. C. 6 (245). The tibia and a portion of the fibula shewing similar changes. Os. D. c. 7 (266). A similar specimen, in which the changes are more characteristic. The tibia is enlarged throughout; the new bone on its surface is very irregular and bulky, and extends across the interosseous membrane to the fibula. A little below the middle of the inner or subcutaneous surface of the tibia there is a raised, circumscribed, circular area, over which the bone has the minutely perforated structure usually associated with an ulcer in the soft parts over the bone. Os. D. C. 8 (277). A fibula shewing similar changes. At the lower fourth of its peroneal surface (subcutaneous portion) there is an elevated spongy mass of bone, probably the result of an ulcer in the soft parts. Os. D. C. 9 (259). The tibia of an adult, in which, probably in association with disease in the knee-joint, there is an irregular deposit of bone over a limited area of the upper end of the shaft. Along the popliteal line there are two very prominent bony tubercles or osteophytes. Os. D. C. 10 (272). A portion of the shaft of a tibia longitudinally bisected. There is a thick layer of new bone covering the periosteal surface, the spongy character of which contrasts very well with the dense bone of the original shaft beneath. Os. D. c. 11 (280). A fibula in which the shaft has become much enlarged and altered in outline by an extensive development of new bone over its entire surface. The new bone presents a foliaceous or lichen-like appearance, and is for the most part spongy in character. Os. D. C. 12 (391). The bones of the leg of an adult; the tibia is much increased in girth and size; in the lower half of the shaft there is an interval or gap, four inches in length, caused by the removal of the entire thickness of the bone, with the exception of some of the compact tissue on that aspect which faces the fibula ; the margins of the gap are sharply cut; the exposed medullary canal is covered in with spongy bone. The shaft of the fibula is covered with new bone, by which it is anchylosed to the tibia.