lOO SYPHILITIC DISEASES OF THE SKULL. outer surface is honeycombed with small ulcers, which have coalesced with each other to form a continuous irregular carious surface. Os. G. h. 9 (339). The skull-cap of a woman of 22, who died of hepatic and renal disease, and who had suffered at a previous period from syphilitic disease of the skull. The outer table in the frontal and parietal regions is extensively depressed and scar- like on the surface, and minutely perforated for vessels, and had probably exfoliated in considerable pieces at the previous period referred to above. The pericranium is stated to have been much thickened. Os. G. h. 10 (340). A skull-cap in which both the outer and inner tables are superficially ulcerated over an extensive area. That on the outer aspect is of older standing, and is probably the result of gummatous inflammation, starting in the pericranium, and in the frontal plate has terminated in repair, with numerous radiat- ing depressed scars. Os. G. h. 11 (343). A portion of the skull-cap preserved in spirit, with the arteries of the pericranium injected, shewing several small, rounded, sharply-cut perforations, extending through both tables of the skull. Os. G. h. 12 (Y 120). The skull-cap of an adult, shewing a hemi- spherical bulging in the centre of the vertex, which corresponds to an area of irregular excavation on the cerebral aspect, apparently produced by a growth originating in the dura mater, probably gummatous in character. There are several smaller excavations on the inner surface of the skull, two of which have perforated the outer table. Os. G. h. 13 (Y 121). The skull-cap from a subject in the Dissecting- Rooms, shewing a large irregular opening in the region of the right parietal eminence, of which the edges are bevelled and smooth. External to this opening there are two smaller aper- tures of a similar character, separated from the former and from each other by a narrow bridge or septum of bone. The surface of the inner table around these openings is irregularly grooved and worm-eaten. At the junction of the coronal and sagittal sutures in the outer table there is a small oval depression, with smooth edges and floor, which probably represents the results of a pericranial gumma in the healed condition. The surface of the outer table surrounding the depression is minutely perforated for blood-vessels. Os. G. h. 14 (Y 116). The skull-cap from a case of Prof. Laycock’s in the Royal Infirmary, which presents on the inner surface, at the junction of the frontal and parietal bones on the left side, a large hollow area, resulting from the elevation and absorption of the bone in this area by the pressure of a tumour growing from within the skull, probably a gumma of the, dura mater. The expanded bone of the vault of this area is largely replaced by a