TUBERCULAR DISEASES OF JOINTS. 6/ best marked round the patella. Microscopically the membrane shews miliary tubercles scattered throughout its entire thickness. (Presented by Dr Henry Alexis Thomson. Figured and described by him in the Labor. Rep. Roy. Col. of Rhys. Edin. vol. ii. p. i66.) Os. E. d. 39 (374). A knee-joint opened into, to shew the thickened gelatinous synovial membrane overlapping the greater portion of the articular surface of the femur, and encroaching on the articular surface of the patella. The crucial ligaments are also covered by the pulpy membrane. Os. E. d. 40 (379^)- ^"^e limb of a child, amputated through the lower third of the thigh by Professor Spence. The knee-joint, which has not been opened into, is flexed, and shews the charac- teristic tumour, or White Swelling, resulting from the gelatinous thickening of the synovial membrane and periarticular tissues. Os. E. d. 40cf (387)- The femoral portion of a tubercular knee- joint, shewing the thickening of the synovial membrane, and the manner in which the latter encroaches upon and overlaps the margins of the articular surface. Os. E. d. 41 (381;. The articulating portion of a femur from a tubercular knee. The articular cartilages are thinned and ex- tensively perforated by granulations springing from the subjacent bone (ulceration of cartilage). The synovial membrane sur- rounding the femur is thickened and gelatinous. The specimen is minutely injected. Os. E. d. 42 (384a). The patella and synovial membrane from a tubercular knee. The latter is thickened and overlaps the peri- phery of the bone, while the articular cartilage is extensively separated from the subjacent bones. Os. E. d. 43 (379). The knee-joint from an advanced case of tuber- cular arthritis in a child. The joint is acutely flexed; the skin covering it anteriorly has sloughed, so that the lower end of the femur is exposed, surrounded by the thickened synovial mem- brane, and with the articular cartilages extensively ulcerated and detached. Amputation through the upper third of the leg had been previously performed without healing having taken place. Os. E. d 44 (375). A knee-joint from a case of tubercular arthritis which had gone on to suppuration. The synovial sac is enor- mously distended, especially in its upper and anterior portion; it contained a large quantity of pus; the synovial membrane is greatly thickened, and is covered with large lymphy masses and flakes like those seen in empyema. The articular surfaces are all but hidden by the membrane having spread from the peri- phery inwards.^ 1 here are cicatrices on the skin on the lateral aspects of the joint. The specimen is well injected.