128 NERVOUS SYSTEM. N. A. p. 2 (19296). Syphilitic Disease of the Membranes. An umbilicated nodule of morbid growth projects from the inner surface of the dura mater. A similar nodule is seen in the cortex, which, with the subjacent white matter, is involved in the new growth. Presented by Professor Laycock. N. A. p. 3. Syphilitic Disease of the Membranes of the Brain. Dura mater over vertex, shewing gummatous infiltration. Two rounded areas of infiltration, nearly symmetrical in position, are seen towards the frontal region. Another, of larger size, is seen over the occipital region. The thickened dura was adherent both to the cranium and to the pia mater. There were also gummata on the external surface of the cranium, and extensive infiltration of the pia. Patient, a woman 24 years of age, suffered from congenital syphilis; there was extensive waxy and syphilitic disease of the viscera. Death from acute pericarditis, associated with waxy Bright’s Disease. Presented by Professor Greenfield. N. A. p. 4 (1994)- Syphilitic d'umour of the Brain. A well-defined nodular gumma, superficially situated in the right parietal lobe. The adjacent dura mater is covered with exudation on its external surface, and at other parts is locally thickened. Patient, a woman aged 24, had received a blow over the spot, and had suffered from syphilis. N. A. p. 5 (2013a). Tumour of the Brain. A flat gummatous tumour, superficially situated in the left frontal lobe, with a sur- rounding area of softening. The dura and pia mater are greatly thickened, and adherent to the tumour. Death from epilepsy. Presented by Professor Goodsir. N. A. p. 6. Syphilitic Disease of the Membranes and of the Brain. Portion of brain and membranes from upper and posterior temporo-sphenoidal region on left side. The dura and pia mater are much thickened, and intimately adherent to the cortical substance. Continuous with these, a gummatous tumour is embedded in the substance of the brain. Patient, a man aged about 30, under the care of Dr Affleck, died from acute encephalitis and meningitis around the tumour. No history of any previous symptoms of brain disease. Presented by Professor Greenfield. Tumours of Brain and Memb^'anes. N. A. r. N. A. r. 1 (1944). Tumour of Cerebral Membranes. A nodular new growth is seen on the dura mater. It caused adhesion to the lateral aspect of the posterior lobe of the left hemisphere, and softening of the surrounding cerebral substance. Patient a woman aged 24. N. A r. 2 (1945)- Tumour of the Cerebral Membranes. On the outer surface of the dura mater four soft fungating tumour masses