4 FRACTURES OF THE SPINE AND OF THE THORAX. Os, B. a. 28 (29). A fracture of the lower jaw on the left side,, opposite the mental foramen. Ununited. The edges of the frag- ments are pitted from absorption and suppurative inflammation. Fractures and Fracture-Dislocations of the Vertebral Column, Os. B. b. Os. B. b. 1 (166). A Fracture of the body of the seventh cervical Vertebra, with forward displacement of the vertebrae above and projection of those below into the spinal canal, causing com- pression of the cord. Os. B. b. 2. The upper four cervical vertebrae of Fallen, a Tamil, who was hanged in Perak in March 1890. The drop was 8 ft. 6 in. The man’s weight was estimated at about 140 lbs. ' The third cervical was dislocated from the fourth and fractured through both laminae and the left pedicle. The ring of the noose was under the left ear. (Presented by Dr W. Duncan Scott.) Os. B. b. 3 (31). The bodies of six dorsal and lumbar vertebrae, one of which, probably the twelfth dorsal, has been fractured into two portions, the upper of which is displaced backwards so as to project into the spinal canal. Os. B. b. 4 (32). A fracture of the body of the twelfth dorsal vertebra. The bone has become wedge-shaped, with the apex in front, and is fused with the body of the first lumbar by external callus. The spinal canal is not encroached upon. The alteration in shape of the fractured vertebra has led to an angular bend of the spine at the junction of the dorsal and the lumbar regions. Os. B. b. 5 (32a). The other half of the preceding specimen, shewing, in addition, a fracture through the head of the tenth rib. New bone has l)een formed around the head of the rib, and embraces in part the bodies of the adjacent vertebrae. Os. B. b. 6 (33). A fracture of the body of the ninth dorsal vertebra and of its left transverse process. The body of the bone is compressed into the form of a wedge, the apex of which is anterior, so that the spine has become bent at an angle. Os. B. b. 7 (33«). A dissected preparation in spirit of the dorso- lumbar spine, shewing a fracture dislocation of the ninth dorsal vertebra; the lower fragment is displaced backwards and has compressed the spinal cord, while the vertebrae above have fallen forwards, and form an angle with the portion of the spine below. Fractures of the Sternum, Ribs, and Costal Cartilages. Os. B. c. Os. B. C. 1 (Y 2). A transverse Fracture through the body of the Sternum; united, with the upper fragment overriding.