257 NEPHRITIS. Gen.-U. A. m. 11. Advanced Waxy Degeneration, together with Subacute Glomerular and Interstitial Nephritis. From a case of rheumatic endocarditis in a man aged 20. The organ is greatly enlarged, and is very firm in consistence. The capsule is slightly thickened and adherent. Surface smooth, pale yellowish white in colour, and somewhat translucent in appear- ance. On section^ the cortex is greatly increased in size, and is pale, translucent, and waxy in appearance. Vessels of pyramids shew chronic venous congestion. The hilum of the organ is much encroached upon by the swelling of the gland substance. Presented by Professor Greenfield, 1905. [See also Specimen Gen.-U. A. p. 6.] Infiammatory Changes. /. Acute Nephritis, etc. Gen.-U. A. n. Gen.-U. A. n. 1 (1246). Acute Nephritis and Abscess of Kidney. Several large, irregular abscess cavities in the lower part of the kidney. These are lined by exudation, and are possibly tuber- cular in nature. Gen.-U. A. n. 2 (1261). Pyelo-Nephritis. The kidney is rather small in size. The capsule is very slightly thickened and adherent, and the walls of the pelvis and ureter are thickened and lined by an inflammatory exudation. Mic7'oscopically.—• Acute catarrh of convoluted tubules and numerous casts in collecting tubules, together with subacute changes in some of the glomeruli, etc. Presented by Professor Henderson. Gen.-U. A. n. 3 (1269). Acute Nephritis. Injected ; arteries red, veins and capillaries blue. The capsule has been stripped, leaving a smooth surface. The cortex is increased in thickness. Microscopically. — The appearances are those of acute post- scarlatinal nephritis. Presented by Professor Sir Thomas Grainger Stewart. Gen.-U. A. n. 4 (1270). Acute Catarrhal Nephritis, supervening upon Subacute Nephritis. Injected, arteries red, veins blue. The cortex, both superficial and interpyramidal, is greatly swollen. Microscopically. — There is intense catarrh, more especially of the convoluted tubules, together with older stand- ing subacute glomerular and interstitial inflammatory changes. Presented by Professor Sanders, September 1872. Gen.-U. A. n. 5 (1271). Acute, supervening upon Subacute, Nephritis. Injected. The cortex, both superficial and inter- pyramidal, and also the medulla, are considerably swollen. Microscopically. — There are slight glomerular and interstitial changes, combined with a more acute catarrhal condition of the convoluted tubules. Presented by Professor Sanders, April 20, 1872.