256 KIDNEY. From a case of tuberculosis. See also R. C. e. 6 (2369/^) and 7 (2369^:), sections of lung shewing Miliary Tubercle. Presented by Professor Sanders, June 23, 1872. Gen.-U. A. m. 7. Waxy and Fatty Degeneration of Kidney. From a girl, aged 13, who had suffered from tubercular disease of the cervical vertebrae for two years. The organ is consider- ably enlarged. Capsule is thickened and adherent, stripping imperfectly in layers, leaving a pale smooth surface. On section^ cortex and medulla are much increased in size, the former presenting a pale, irregularly mottled appearance. Vasa recta shew chronic venous congestion. Microscopically.—Advanced waxy and fatty changes. Presented by Professor Greenfield, 1905. Gen.-U. A. m. 8. Advanced Fatty and Waxy Degeneration of Kidney, with some atrophy. From a man, aged 54, with very chronic phthisis of over two years duration. Organ slightly enlarged. Capsule not thickened and strips easily. Surface coarsely irregular. On section^ the glandular tissue is very pale yellowish-white in colour. The cortex is very irregular, the interpyramidal part being swollen and irregularly mottled, and the superficial part slightly atrophied. Vessels thickened. Pelvic fat somewhat increased. Presented by Professor Green- field, 1905. Gen.-U. A. m. 9. Advanced Waxy Degeneration and Subacute Interstitial Nephritis. From a case of very marked syphilitic interstitial pneumonia in a man aged 54. The organ is en- larged and very firm in consistence. The capsule was very slightly thickened and adherent. Surface coarsely irregular and somewhat pale, with irregular opaque yellowish mottling. On section^ the cortex — especially the superficial portion— and the medulla are atrophied. There is fine mottling of the cortex, and the vasa recta shew chronic venous congestion. The vessels are much thickened and degenerated, and there is great increase in the amount of pelvic fat. A small fibroma is seen in section in one of the pyramids. Presented by Professor Greenfield, 1905. Gen.-U. A. m. 10. Waxy Degeneration of Kidney, Acute Catarrhal Nephritis and Infarction, occurring in an organ already affected by chronic interstitial nephritis. From a case of syphilis. The capsule is thickened and firmly adherent, stripping imperfectly in layers. The surface is finely irregular, exhibiting numerous minute cysts, and two large, irregular, deeply congested areas of infarction. O71 section^ the cortex is somewhat swollen, and shews a fine mottled appearance. The vessels of the medulla are deeply congested. Several very irregularly shaped, pale yellowish brown infarcts, surrounded by a darker zone of hyperaemia, are present. The renal vein is thrombosed, and the arteries are thickened. Presented by Professor Greenfield, 1905.