RICKETS. 45 Os. D. i. 7 (520). The humerus of an adult; the bone is abnor- mally short from arrested development; the head is flattened and distorted; the muscular ridges are very much exaggerated, especially that for the insertion of the deltoid. Of the Bones of the Loiver Limb. Os. D. i. 8 (536). The Femur and Tibia of an adult, deformed as a result of rickets. The femur is curved in the form of a semi- circle with the convexity outwards and forwards; the tibia is similarly curved, with the convexity inwards and backwards, the two bones together forming a curve like the letter S, with corres- ponding alterations in the direction of the articular surfaces. The shafts of the bones are also flattened from before backwards, and the internal condyle of the femur is considerably elongated. Os. D. i. 9 (530). The femur of an adult, in which the upper and middle thirds of the shaft are curved forwards and laterally com- pressed and flattened. The linea aspera projects prominently backwards along the concavity of the curve, its posterior margin forming the chord of the arc which is formed by the anterior wall of the femur. The gluteal ridge is exaggerated, and the neck of the bone unusually short. Os. D. i. 10 (524). A similar specimen; the curvature of the shaft is inwards as well as forwards, and the inferior articular surface is altered from arthritis deformans, involving the knee-joint. Os. D. i. 11 (522). A rickety femur, shewing a similar curvature of the shaft. Os. D. i. 12 (Y 10). A similar specimen, in which there is an anterior curvature limited to the upper part of the shaft. Os. D. i. 13(523). A femur, in which there is a more extensive curvature of the shaft forwards and outwards. Os. D. i. 14(526). A similar specimen. Os. D. i. 15 (527). A similar specimen, in which there is also a considerable broadening of the lower articulating end of the bone, together with elongation of the internal condyle. There is further a deposit of spongy bone in the region of the anterior intertrochanteric line. Os. D. i. 16(528). The femur of an adult, with a very distinct curvature of the shaft forwards and inwards, and prominence of the gluteal ridge. The inferior articular surface looks outwards and backwards, probably in consequence of a corresponding curvature of the shaft of the tibia. Os. D. i. 17 (521). The femur of an adult, elongated and very con- siderably attenuated, and presenting a curvature of the shaft forwards and inwards. The small trochanter is unusually pro- minent.