85 TUBERCULOSIS OF THE SPINE. Os. F. b. 29 (442). A pelvis, in which the changes are to be seen which precede anchylosis of the sacro-iliac joints ; the adjacent margins of the articular surfaces are converted into irregularly tuberculated ridges, which tend to bridge across the interval between the two bones. There is further a partial ossification of the sacro-sciatic ligament at its point of attachment to the ischial tuberosity. Os. F. b. 30 (441). A similar specimen. Syphilis of the Vertebral Column. Os. F. c. [No specimens.] Tuberciclosis—Caries of the Bodies of the Vertebi'ce— Potis Disease. Os. F. d. Os. F. d. 1 (165). A preparation in spirit of the upper three cervi- cal vertebrae. The opposing articular surfaces of the atlas and axis are superficially ulcerated, and the odontoid process has been to a large extent removed by a similar process. Os. F. d. 2 (352). A macerated preparation of the cervical ver- tebrae, in which the bodies have been extensively destroyed by a tubercular ostitis affecting the upper five of the series ; spon- taneous fracture occurred through the anterior arch of the axis, close to the base of the odontoid process, with consequent dislocation of the atlas forwards, and to the right. Anchylosis has subsequently taken place, fixing the bones in their abnormal position. (Presented by Professor Syme.) Os. F. d. 3 (353). The upper three cervical vertebrae from a patient who died suddenly. The right superior articular facet of the atlas has been destroyed by a process of ulceration. The liga- ments are stated to have given way. Os. F. d. 4 (408). The upper five cervical vertebrae from a case in which, as a result of destruction of the atlo-axoid ligaments, the atlas has been dislocated almost directly forwards, causing great narrowing of the spinal canal. The atlas and axis are anchy- losed in their abnormal position by abundant bone of new formation, a special process or bridge of bone uniting the odon- toid process with the anterior arch of the atlas. The superior articular surfaces of the latter bone and a portion of its posterior arch have been destroyed by ulceration. Os. F. d. 5 (4050). The base of a skull, and the first and second cervical vertebrae, all anchylosed together by bone, as a result of antecedent disease, which was probably tubercular in character. 4Te axis is dislocated backwards, and the spinal canal much narrowed.