259 NEPHRITiS. degeneration.) Patient, a female aged 36. The capsule is not thickened or specially adherent, and the organ is firm in con- sistence, the surface being smooth and pale yellow in colour. On s€ctio7i, the cortex—and, to a less extent, the medulla—are somewhat swollen, and pale yellow in colour. Microscopically.— There is subacute inflammatory proliferation of the interstitial tissue and marked changes of considerable duration in the vessels and glomeruli, together with some atrophy and catarrh of the secreting tubules. Presented by Professor Greenfield, 1905. Gen.-U. A. O. 5. Subacute Diffuse Nephritis. From a case of • ulcerative endocarditis in a male aged 19. The organ is much increased in size, and the capsule is thickened and adherent. Surface smooth. Cortex greatly swollen, and shews a mottled appearance. Vessels of pyramids congested. Presented by Professor Greenfield, 1905. Gen.-U. A. o. 6. Subacute Diffuse Nephritis, with extensive glomerular and interstitial changes and hyaline degeneration of the arterioles. Capsule not thickened or adherent. Surface shews commencing “granularity,” and is very pale in colour. On section^ the superficial cortex is slightly thinned, and shews some irregular mottling, the deep cortex being relatively large and paler than the superficial portion. This specimen shews a condition supposed, before the use of the microscope, to be “fatty” in character. On microscopic examination., there is subacute interstitial nephritis, with very advanced changes in the glomeruli, especially in the deeper part of the superficial cortex. Presented by Professor Greenfield, 1905. Gen.-U. A. O. 7. Subacute Diffuse Nephritis, with specially marked Interstitial and Glomerular changes, and extreme Hyaline Degeneration of the Arteries. From a case of cardiac dilatation, albuminuria and hydrothorax in a woman, aged 40, who died of cerebellar haemorrhage. The organ is of normal size. Its capsule is only slightly thickened and adherent, and, on stripping, has left a smooth, mottled red and pale yellow surface, shewing numerous minute cysts. On section, the cortex is pale and slightly mottled, and is not much altered in size and naked-eye appearance. There is well-marked chronic venous congestion present. Presented by Professor Greenfield, 1905. Chronic Nephritis, including Secondary Granular Contracting Kidney, Granular Contracted Kidney, etc. Gen.-U. A. p. Gen.-U. A. p. 1 (1214a). Very advanced atrophy, probably Granular Contraction, of the Kidney. There are a few small