ALIMENTARY SYSTEM. 166 back of the mouth. The polypus was removed by ligature of the pedicle. Presented by Professor Annandale. Al. 0. 5 (926). Polypi of CEsophagus. From the anterior part of the mucous membrane, two inches below the level of the orifice of the larynx, a large pedunculated and lobulated polypus hangs down. There appears to be another growth commencing along the left side of the opening of the larynx. On irritating the fauces, part of the growth was protruded as far as the incisor teeth. The longest lobe reached the cardiac end of the stomach. Walls of the oesophagus much hypertrophied. Patient, a man of 70, had suffered for many years from the growths, and died from obstruction to respiration and de- glutition. Edinburgh Physical and Literary Essays^ Vol. II. Al. C. 6 (929a). Ulceration of the Pharynx. *A deep ulcer, with irregular and overhanging edges, on the anterior wall of the pharynx, half an inch below the aperture of larynx. The floor of the ulcer opens into a cavity which does not communicate with the larynx. The ulcer is probably due to malignant growth. Al. C. 7 (927). Malignant Stricture of the (Esophagus. Three sessile cancerous growths are seen on the anterior wall of the oesophagus, an inch above the bifurcation of the trachea. The tube is dilated above and ulcerated below the growths. The disease was of three years’ duration. Al. C. 8 (927a). Malignant Stricture of the CEsophagus. The walls of the oesophagus are much contracted for a distance of two inches below the level of the cricoid cartilage. Below the obstruction the walls are infiltrated with new growth. An enlarged cervical gland is retained in situ. Al. 0. 9 (9276). Malignant Stricture of the (Esophagus. A large ulcer, with its edge much thickened and overhanging at one side, extends round the circumference of the tube. Presented by Professor Hughes Bennett. Al. C. 10 (928). Malignant Stricture of the (Esophagus. One inch above the bifurcation of the trachea the lumen of the tube is contracted by a malignant growth, and its mucous membrane extensively ulcerated. At one point there is an oblique per- foration into the trachea, through which pus escaped and caused death. Disease of three years’ duration. Al. 0. 11 (929). Malignant Disease of the (Esophagus. The new growth, probably an epithelioma, has broken down and formed an ulcer, which occupies the whole circumference of the wall to the extent of two inches. The surface of the ulcer is honey- combed and extremely flocculent. Al. 0. 12 (930). Malignant Stricture of the (Esophagus. The walls of the oesophagus are thickened and contracted by an ulcerating epithelioma, which has opened into the left bronchus. The atheromatous aorta is left in situ.