INJURIES OF JOINTS. 30 Os. C. d. 4 (Y 77)- Plaster cast of a compound dislocation of the ankle, in which the tibia is protruding through the skin on the outer aspect of the limb. [The dislocations resulting from disease are placed among the Diseases of Joints. Fractures involving joints are placed with the other specimens of Fracture.] Displacements and other Injuries of Inter articular Cartilages. Os. C. e. Os. 0. e. 1. The greater part of the internal semilunar cartilage removed by operation from the right knee-joint. The cartilage had been torn from its attachments and broken across by an antecedent injury. From a man aged 25, who, after the opera- tion, recovered the perfect use of his joint. Os. O. e. 2. A large portion of the internal semilunar cartilage, along with the adjacent portions of the external semilunar, removed successfully by operation. Os. 0. e. 3. Two separate portions of the internal semilunar car- tilage, presenting a fibrous, shreddy aspect, removed successfully by operation. Os. 0. e. 4, A portion of a semilunar cartilage, which had been partially detached by injury, and was successfully removed by operation. (Presented, with the three preceding specimens, by Professor Annandale, 1890.) DISEASES OF BONE. Os. D. Hypertrophy and Atrophy of Bone. Os. D. a. [Many specimens illustrating atrophy and hypertrophy of bone are included with the Diseases of the Skull. Specimens illustrating atrophy of bone are also to be found among the Diseases of Joints and with the results of Amputation of the Limbs.] Os. D. a. 1 (Y 33). The Humerus of an adult which has undergone Atrophy to an extreme degree from some cause unknown. Os. D. a. 2 (358). A Sternum shewing a deep concavity on its posterior aspect, caused by the atrophic pressure of an aortic aneurism. Changes hi the Bones with Age. Os. D. b. Os. D.b. 1. The facial bones of a woman aged 80, to illustrate their senile atrophy and the almost complete absorption of the alveolar border of the Superior Maxilla.