TUBERCULOSIS OF THE SPINE. 86 Os. F. d. 6 (406). The upper four cervical vertebrcC, of which the second, third, and fourth, after partial destruction of their bodies by tubercle, have become firmly anchylosed to one another. Os. F. d. 7 (411). A similar condition of the second, third, and fourth cervical vertebrae. Os. F. d. 8 (412). A similar specimen. Os. F. d. 9 (413). A similar specimen. Os. F. d. 10 (348a). A preparation in spirit of the dorsal spine and posterior mediastinum of a child, in which an abscess con- nected with tuberculosis of the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae has perforated into the pleural cavity on either side. Os. F. d. 11 (348). A macerated preparation of the dorsal region of the spine, in which the bodies of all the dorsal vertebrae have been the seat of tubercular deposit and inflammation. Those from the fifth to the twelfth, inclusive, have especially suffered, their bodies having been nearly completely destroyed and removed, with the result that they have fallen together or col- lapsed, and produced a very pronounced angular curvature. The remains of the diseased bodies and their laminae have become anchylosed to each other by bone. Os. F. d. 12(355). A similar specimen, which has not been macer- ated, but preserved in the recent state in spirit. The bodies of the dorsal vertebrae have been so extensively destroyed by the tubercular process that a considerable portion of the spinal cord is exposed from the front. Os. F. d. 13(349). A macerated preparation of the dorsal ver- tebrae, in which may be seen the results of a tubercular ostitis, not so advanced as in the preceding specimens. The greater number ol the bodies present a rarefied, excavated, spongy struc- ture, the surface compact layer having entirely disappeared. The bodies of the fifth and sixth have been more extensively destroyed, and they have fallen together so as to produce a moderate degree of angular curvature. Os. F. d. 14(30). A similar preparation of the dorsal vertebrae, sawn in vertical section. The tubercle has been limited to the fourth, fifth, and sixth ; of these the body of the fifth has entirely disappeared; the adjacent portions of the fourth and sixth have become approximated, producing a moderate angular curvature. The cancellated tissue of these bodies, as seen in the sawn section, is very distinctly sclerosed. The spinal canal is not diminished in size. Os. F. d. 15 (350). A macerated preparation of the dorsal vertebrae, in which three of the bodies have almost entirely disappeared, with consequent angular curvature. The bodies of the vertebrae above and below are all anchylosed to each other by irregularly nodulated masses of new bone on their anterior and lateral aspects, after the manner characteristic of arthritis deformans.