CURVATURES OF THE SPINE. 88 which enters into the formation of the sacro-iliac joint has entirely disappeared, leaving a peculiar crescentic bay or gap in the posterior margin of the bone, through which the articular surface of the sacrum is visible. There is a crust of recent bone on the gluteal aspect of the ilium in the vicinity of the gap. Curvahtres of the Spine, together with the Deformities of the Thorax a^id Pelvis resulting the7xfrom. Os. F. e. Angular Curvature from Tubermlosis of the Vertebrce. Os. F. e. 1 (347). A very marked and typical example of this con- dition, consisting of the natural skeleton of an adult, in which the bodies of the third dorsal to the third lumbar vertebrae have been almost completely destroyed by Tubercle, and their remains fallen together, so that the second dorsal has become closely approximated to the third lumbar, while the spinous processes of the destroyed vertebne form a prominent projection or hump- back in the dorsal region. The ribs are closely approximated, and appear of unusual length ; they are all directed very obliquely downwards and forwards in lines nearly parallel with the lower part of the spine, and their extremities reach below the crests of the ilia. The posterior ends of the ninth and twelfth ribs, inclu-' sive, have suffered from a similar tubercular destruction to that seen in the bodies of the corresponding vertebrae. The fourth left rib is bifid at the anterior extremity. In the pelvis the con- stituent bones are unusually thin, and shew scarcely any development of the parts for the attachment of muscles ; in all probability there was paralysis of the lower extremities of long standing. The outlet of the pelvis is much contracted, while the conjugate diameter at the brim is elongated (kyphotic pelvis). The cervical spine is curved markedly forwards (lordosis) to com- pensate for the posterior curvature in the dorsal region, so that the head must have been deeply sunk between the shoulders. 'Os. F. e. 2 (512). A similar specimen, in which Tubercle has led to the destruction of the fifth and eleventh dorsal vertebrae, and consequent collapse of the bodies and angular curvature. 'Os. F. e. 3 (Y 41). The spinal column and pelvis of an adult woman, shewing a similar angular curvature, resulting from Tubercular destruction of the bodies of the sixth dorsal to the third lumbar vertebrae. The Pelvis is deformed in consequence of the spinal curvature ; its condition is usually described as kyphotic. The most prominent features of the deformity consist in the dispro- portionate increase in the antero-posterior diameter at the brim, this measuring 16 cm., and the contraction of all the diameters at the outlet in virtue of the approximation of the coccyx and ischial tubera.