26o KIDNEY. sub-capsular cysts, and dense adhesions of the thickened capsule both to the kidney and to the surrounding fatty tissue which is abnormally increased in amount. Presented by Professor Lay- cock, January 1871. Gen.-U. A. p. 2 (1213). Extreme atrophic condition of left Kidney from a case of gout. The cause of the condition is not apparent. Presented by Professor Laycock. Gen.-U. A. p. 3 (1273). Granular Contracted Kidney. Injected with carmine. The capsule is very much thickened and very adherent, stripping imperfectly in layers, and leaving a rough granular surface. This is to a large extent due to the produc- tion of a supplementary circulation from branches of the lumbar arteries supplying the perinephric fat, which anastomose with the vessels of the capsule and pelvis of the kidney; these in turn anastomose with the more superficial vessels in the kidney substance, and are seen injected in the specimen. On section^ the cortex is atrophied and its vascular markings are very irregular. The larger vessels are greatly thickened, and there is marked increase in the amount of pelvic fat, the small vessels of which have become injected from the renal artery, demonstrating the presence of the collateral anastomosis above mentioned. Presented by Professor Sanders, June 20, 1872. Gen.-U. A. p. 4 (U. 3). Chronic Granular Contraction of Kidney. Partially injected with carmine. Capsule thickened and adherent; surface irregular and shewing small cysts. The whole organ is atrophied, a change due mainly to diminution of the cortex. Vessels greatly thickened. Pelvic fat increased in amount. Gen.-U. A. p. 5 (1274). Chronic Granular Contraction of Kidney, with superadded Acute Catarrhal Nephritis. Injected; artery red, vein blue. The organ is small and firm; its capsule thickened and adherent, and the surface finely granular and shewing several cysts. On section, the cortex is atrophied as a whole, but the lines of the tubules are somewhat swollen at parts; there are a few cortical cysts, and the arteries are thickened and degenerated. Presented by Professor Sanders, December 19, 1872. Gen.-U. A. p. 6 (1262). Chronic Granular Contraction and Waxy Disease of Kidneys. Both organs are small and atrophied, the lower one especially so. The capsules of both are some- what thickened and adherent, and leave a fine granular surface on stripping. Microscopically.—Advanced granular contraction and some waxy change. Presented by Professor Henderson. Gen.-U. a. p. 7 (1257). Chronic Granular Contraction of Kid- neys. Both organs from a case which died with uraemic symptoms. The larger (right) shews thickening and adhesion