SUPPURATIVE DISEASES OF BONE. 36 rounded aperture leading into a cavity in the interior of the bone, which probably contained a sequestrum. (Presented by Dr Wilson of Buenos Ayres.) Os. D. d. 32 (Y 37). The Cannon bone of an Ox ; the anterior and lateral aspects of the upper two-thirds of its shaft are encased by a mass of periosteal bone, of which the surface layer is com- pact and relatively smooth; anteriorly it presents three rounded apertures leading into a cavity in the substance of the new bone. The specimen is sawn in vertical section. The following specimens illustrate the results of Diffuse Suppura- tive Periostitis and Osteomyelitis^ commonly called Acute Necrosis:— Os. D. d. 33 (361). A sequestrum which consists of the entire ’ Clavicle ; previous to exfoliation, the sternal end has been irregu- larly destroyed by the suppurative inflammation involving the soft parts covering the bone. Os. D. d. 34 (296). A large sequestrum, from a case of acute sup- purative osteomyelitis of the humerus; the specimen consists of the entire thickness of the shaft, and is over three inches in length. Os. D. d. 35 (296a). A similar sequestrum, from the humerus of a girl aged 7. (Presented by Mr John Campbell.) Os. D. d. 36 (297). A similar sequestrum, from the humerus of a young subject. Os. D. d. 37 (305). The shaft of a Femur, from a case of extensive osteomyelitis in a young subject. A considerable portion of the old shaft has perished, appearing as a sequestrum enveloped by a thick case of new bone, which is pierced by several sinuses or cloacae, and presents a foliaceous appearance on its periosteal surface. Os. D. d. 38 (306). A similar specimen. The inferior articular surface of the femur is irregularly ulcerated, the disease having probably spread from the femur to the knee-joint, and produced a suppurative arthritis in the latter. Os. D. d. 39 (307). The shaft of a femur, from a case of acute suppurative osteomyelitis ; the lower end of the shaft is expanded, and contains in its interior several sequestra of spongy bone. 'The cavity in which these are contained opens on the surface by several large irregular apertures. On the posterior aspect of the shaft a quantity of irregular new bone has been formed by the periosteum. The limb was amputated. Os. D. d. 40 (305a). The shaft of a femur from a } oung subject, in which a large sequestrum has been spontaneously extruded from its original position in the continuity of the bone, and is now loosely attached to the posterior aspect of the newly-formed