375 TUMOURS. T. B. a. 6 (2609). Large Round Celled Sarcoma. Large irregular tumour composed of brown masses, surrounded by a firm fibrous tissue network. The tumour is attached to the tunica vaginalis, the body of the testicle being unaffected. There is, on miscroscopic examination, a considerable amount of myxomatous change in the sarcomatous parts. T. B. a. 7 (2607). Section of a soft tumour growing beneath and involving the tissues of the scalp. Its structure is that of a Round Celled Sarcoma, in which there has been a considerable amount of haemorrhage. T. B. a. 8 (2613). Small roundish tumour removed by operation from the temple region of the scalp. Its structure is that of a Mixed Celled Sarcoma. T. B. a. 9 (2621). Irregular tumour, originally of a soft consist- ence and straw-yellow colour, situated between the occipito- frontalis muscle and the fore part of the frontal bone. The specimen also shews that a large portion of the frontal bone has been absorbed, leaving a thin, irregularly spiculated margin. The tumour in structure is a small Round Celled Sarcoma. T. B. a. 10 (2625a). Part of a large fleshy growth removed from the thigh by Professor Miller. Several cysts have been exposed, and their interiors are almost completely filled up by fungoid masses. On microscopic examination, the tumour is found to consist of a Round Celled Sarcoma, which is invading muscular tissue. spindle Celled and Fibro-Sarcomas. T. B. b. T. B. b. 1 (2585). Section of a large tumour, composed of large Spindle Cells. There are also numerous cartilaginous areas and some osseous deposits. The tumour had been fifteen years present in the platysma myoide.s, and was removed by operation. T"he tumour weighed 12 lbs., and the operation was followed by a good recovery. T. B. b. 2 (2586). Section of a lobulated Fibro-Sarcoma of a yellowish-while colour involving the muscles of the fore part of the thigh of a man cct. 40. A tumour of a similar structure had been removed previously from the same situation. T. B. b. 3 (2591). Large Fibro-Sarcoma removed by operation from the wall of the abdomen. Several weeks after the operation the tumour growth recurred, and projected from the wound. The patient was a man cet. 50, and died hectic. T. B. b. 4 (2598). r umour about the size of an apple attached to the tendinous sheath at the base of the great toe. Some haemorrhage is seen in the substance of the low^er part of the tumour. The structure of the tumour is that of a Fibro-Sarcoma, with a considerable amount of myxomatous change in parts.