19 GUNSHOT INJURIES. Os. B. f. 4 (A 9). A portion of the left parietal bone in which a ball, striking the bone, caused a compound fracture across one of the branches of the middle meningeal artery; the trephine was applied on the second day. The patient, a man aged 47, died on the twenty-third day. The surface of the inner table around the gap is pitted and “ worm-eaten.” Os. B. f. 5 (A 10). A portion of the left parietal bone perforated by a ball in the exact position of the main branch of the middle meningeal artery. There was no extravasation of blood. The ball lodged in the cerebrum. The patient, a man of 30, died on the twenty-seventh day. Os. B. f. 6 (A 12). The anterior portion of a Skull, shewing the course of a large fragment of a shell through the bones of the face, in its way obliquely downwards from the left orbit to the opposite side of the neck. Death occurred on the fourth day. Os. B. f. 7 (A 13). The anterior portion of a skull, shewing a com- minuted fracture of the frontal bone by a ball which entered over the left eyebrow, where portions of the bone are to a certain extent carried inwards and on a lower level than the surrounding parts; passing transversely across the forehead, it emerged over the centre of the right eyebrow. Death occurred on the fifth day. Os. B.f. 8(B6). A skull shewing the results of an extensive gun- shot injury received at Waterloo, which the patient survived for many years. There is a large irregular gap in the frontal region, more than six inches in circumference; the bone surrounding the gap is very greatly thickened. The nasal portions of the frontal bone, the nasals, nasal processes of superior maxillae, the ethmoid, and lachrymals have been extensively destroyed. From the absence of teeth in either jaw and the absorption of the alveolar margin, it is evident that the subject of the injury (a field-officer in the army) must have lived to an adt^anced age. Os. B. f. 9 (B II). Portions of bone removed from the skull by operation. Os. B.f. 10 (B13). Portion of the lower jaw of a stag, in which a small shot is seen to be lodged on the inner side near the last molar tooth, and to be partly embedded by new bone. (Pre- sented by Dr J. A. Sidey, Edinburgh.) Os. B. f 11 (B 34 and B 133). Cast of the face of Alphonze Louis, the “ gunner with the silver mask,” who had the whole of his lower jaw carried away, and his right forearm severely injured, by the fragment of a shell at the last siege of Antwerp, and for whom the very ingenious contrivance B 133 was invented. (For details of the case see Lond. Med. Gaz. vol. xii.; Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ. vol. Ivii. ; and Ballingall’s Military Surgery.^ fifth edit. p. 324. Presented by Robert Nasmyth, Esq.)