262 KIDNEY. shews very irregular mottling, and numerous small points of suppuration. There is also marked chronic venous congestion, and the arteries are extremely thickened and degenerated. Presented by Professor Greenfield, 1905. Gen.-U. A. p. 12. Granular Contracted or “Cirrhotic” Kidney. Purely atrophic form due to arterial degeneration. From a woman, aged 77, who died from compression of the trachea by a mediastinal tumour, and who suffered from old interstitial pneumonia and tuberculosis. The kidney is small and the capsule thickened and adherent. The surface is granular and shews numerous minute retention cysts, and also one of larger size. On section, the cortex shews irregular wasting, more especially of its superficial portion. The vessels are thickened. Presented by Professor Greenfield, 1905. Gen.-U. A. p. 13. Chronic Granular Cantraction supervening upon subacute interstitial nephritis, together with more recent acute changes. From a very alcoholic patient, aged 34, with cirrhosis of the liver, who died of extensive acute lobar pneu- monia involving the whole of the right lung. The capsule is much thickened and is adherent both to the surrounding perinephric fat and to the surface of the kidney, which is very granular, and shews atrophic sulci and marked mottling. On section, the cortex shews commencing atrophy, more especially of its superficial portion, it is irregularly mottled with small yellowish patches, and presents extensive catarrhal and fatty changes, especially in the deep or interpyramidal cortex, which is much swollen. Presented by Professor Greenfield, 1905. Gen.-U. A. p. 14. Kidney from a case of Chronic Lead Poisoning in a man aged 45. The changes present in this specimen are not those usually found in lead poisoning, which more commonly produces a form of chronic granular contraction. The capsule is not thickened or adherent, and the surface is smooth and pale in colour. On section, there is general pallor of the organ, most marked in the deep cortex, which is relatively swollen, and in the medulla. The superficial cortex is somewhat mottled and is slightly irregular in its arrangement. Micro- scopically there is extensive degeneration of the smaller arteries and of the glomeruli. The tubules shew marked catarrh and degenerative changes. Presented by Professor Greenfield, 1905. Chronic Infective Granulomatous Diseases. /. TuberctUosis. Gen.-U. A. q. Gen.-U. A. q. 1. (1280). Tuberculosis of Kidney — “Renal Phthisis.” The organ is greatly enlarged, and its glandular sub- stance almost entirely destroyed and replaced by large com- municating cavities with ragged, caseous walls, formed by the progressive dilatation and ulceration of the pelvis and calyces,