31 SENILE ATROPHY OF BONE. Os. D. b. 2. The Inferior Maxilla from an aged person; the bone is greatly reduced in size; it is edentulous, and the alveolar border is completely absorbed; the basilar portion of the bone, which alone remains, is cylindrical and markedly attenuated. The rami are oblique in direction and the angle obtuse. The articular portion of either condyle has been ground or worn away in the movements of the joint, and the orifices of the enlarged Haversian canals are exposed on the articular surface (so-called senile arthritis). (Presented, with the preceding speci- men, by Professor Sir W. Turner.) Os. D. b. 3. A right Femur, illustrating the changes which are sometimes met with in old age. Though large and well formed, the entire bone is remarkably light. The angle of junction between the neck and the shaft does not differ from the normal. The internal structure of the bone has been largely cleared away and the medullary canal correspondingly increased in size by a process of rarefaction, which, commencing in the interior, has converted the deeper layers of the compact tissue into spongy bone, so that, of the outer shell, only a thin layer remains. At either extremity of the bone the cancellous frame- work has been reduced to a network of delicate thread-like trabeculae. On the articular aspect of the head of the bone, the compact layer on the surface has been replaced by a similar rarefied tissue over a limited area just outside the site of attach- ment of the ligamentum teres. (From an old woman who died in the workhouse. All the bones were affected with a similar atrophy, especially the ribs and the spongy ends of the long bones, where the bone was easily indented with the finger nail. The marrow in all the bones was transformed into a reddish- brown gelatinous material. Presented by Chas. W. Cathcart, M.B., 1890.) Inflammations arising frotn Mechanical InjttryDisease of Surroutiding Parts^ and other causes not ascer- taitied. Os. D. c. Os. D. c. 1 (287). A preparation in spirit of the Tarso-metatarsal bone of an Emu, longitudinally bisected, shewing a circumscribed rounded swelling under the periosteum, which consists of recently- formed spongy bone. The specimen is injected. Os. D. C. 2 (497)- The lower half of a Tibia and Fibula of an adult man. The latter is much thickened by irregularly-formed new bone, and is united to the tibia by similar bone occupying the interosseous space. The inflammation has in this specimen chiefly affected the periosteum, and has probably resulted from ulceration of the soft parts over the bone*. Os. D. C. 3 (276). A fibula which has become enlarged and thick- ened by the formation of new bone on its periosteal aspect over the entire extent of the shaft.