268 PELVIS OF KIDNEY AND URETER. Gen.-U. B. C. 5 (1237)- Hydronephrosis, due to blocking of the pelvis by a calculus. The infundibula have become distended into intercommunicating cyst-like spaces, with corresponding atrophy of the glandular substance. The specimen is injected to demonstrate the vascularity of the fibrous tissue walls of the spaces. Gen.-U. B. C. 6 (1223). Hydronephrosis, accompanied by almost complete atrophy of the secreting substance of the kidney. The ureter, pelvis and infundibula are dilated, probably owing to the blocking of the ureter by an impacted renal calculus, several small calculi having been passed by the patient. Gen.-U. B. C. 7 (1222). Slight Hydronephrosis of Right Kidney. The pelvis is laid open to demonstrate the degree of dilatation of the kidney and its infundibula. The whole kidney is enlarged, the capsule has been adherent, and there are several retention cysts under the surface, due to blocked and distended tubules in the cortex. Gen.-U. B. C. 8 (1218). Hydronephrosis. Kidney shewing dilatation of the ureter, pelvis, and infundibula, due to obstruc- tion of the urethra by an enlarged prostate, which is shewn still in position at the base of the bladder ; the enlarged middle lobe is seen bulging forwards and upwards into the vesical cavity. Gen.-U. B. C. 9 {I21ja). Hydronephrosis of the Left Kidney, due to the involvement of the ureter in a psoas abscess follow- ing tubercular disease of the spine. The specimen shews great dilatation of the pelvis and infundibula, with corresponding destruction of the secreting tissue of the organ. Presented by Professor Sir William Turner. Gen.-U. B. C. 10 (1216 and 1217). Hydronephrosis, etc. Prepara- tion of the kidneys, ureters and bladder, shewing a condition of hydronephrosis and dilatation of the ureters due to urethral obstruction resulting from malignant disease of the prostate; the muscular coat of the bladder is markedly hypertrophied; the prostate is enlarged and is the seat of a malignant growth which has infiltrated the base of the bladder, especially on the right side. Gen.-U. B. C. 11 (1345). Hydronephrosis and Dilatation of the Right Ureter, the result of obstruction to the outflow of urine, probably by stricture of the urethra, the muscular tissue of the bladder being also hypertrophied. As a consequence of the long continued pressure, which has also caused the dilatation of the ureter, pelvis, and infundibula, the glandular substance of the right kidney has undergone compression and atrophy, in the production of which condition an impairment or loss of function has probably also aided. Gen.-U. B. C. 12 (1215). Hydronephrosis, etc., the result of stricture of the urethra. The bladder is greatly dilated and