82 DISEASES OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. Os. E. m. 2. The parts in the region of the elbow of a child aged 7, removed post-mortem two years after excision of the joint for disease. The ends of the bones are covered, and closely united to each other by a strong capsule of fibrous tissue, permitting of flexion and extension as in the normal joint. (Presented by Professor Annandale.) [Specimens illustrating dislocations resulting from disease of the joint —Patho- logical Luxations— From Tubercular Arthritis, Os. E. d. 25, 29, From Arthritis Deformans, Os. E. g. i, 2.] DISEASES OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN AND PELVIS. Os. F. Congenital Malformations. Os. F. a. Spina Bifida. [See also Nervous System, Diseases of.] Arthritis Deformans—Osteoarthritis—Chronic Rheu- matic A rthritis—Spondylitis Deformans—Exter- nal Anchylosis—Outgrowths of Bone. Os. F. b. Os. P. b. 1 (181). An Atlas and Axis in which the articular sur- face of the odontoid, and corresponding surface of the atlas, are polished or eburnated so as to resemble ivory. Os. F. b. 2 (Y 16). The Vertebrae and adjacent portions of the ribs from a case of arthritis deformans. The spinal column presents a gradual posterior curvature or kyphosis. On the lateral aspects of the bodies, from the second dorsal to the third lumbar inclusive, there are a series of projecting nodular masses of new bone, bridging across the intervertebral discs and the costo-verte- bral joints so as to anchylose the bones immovably to one another, and cover in the heads of the ribs. These bony masses are formed by the projection of bony plates from the adjacent margins of two vertebral bodies, and their subsequent fusion opposite the intervertebral disc. Os. F. b. 3 (Y 35). The cervico-dorsal spine from the axis to the fifth dorsal vertebra. The bodies, articular processes, and laminae are all anchylosed so as to form one continuous bony mass, with which, in the dorsal region, the heads of the ribs are incorporated. The superior articular surfaces of the axis are pitted and “ worm-eaten,” as a result of disease of the atlo-axoid joint.