43 RICKETS. phalanx. Connected with the first phalanx are several areas of softening caseated tubercle in the soft parts (cold abscesses), both on the dorsal and palmar aspects of the phalanx. (Pre- pared and presented to the Museum by Dr Henry Alexis Thomson, 1889.) Changes supposed to result from Mercurial Poisoning. Os. D. g. Os. D. g. 1 (Y 62). The skeleton of a Dog, in wTich the bones of the limbs, and to a less extent those of the head and trunk, are covered by a uniform crust of new bone of a spongy character on their periosteal surfaces. This deposit is of considerable thickness, and is symmetrical on the two sides of the body. (This specimen is figured and described in Prof. Hughes Bennett’s Clinical Lectures on the Principles and Practice of Medicine., fifth edition, 1868, p. 978. It is referred to as follows:—“The dog lived in a painter’s shop, and was frequently seen lapping the vermilion oil paint, and there could be no doubt that in this way there was introduced into his system a considerable quantity of mercury. After death, numerous cancerous-like masses were found in the lungs and internal viscera.”) Os. D. g. 2 (238a). A longitudinal section of the femur, from the preceding specimen. Affections of Bone due to Rheumatism. Os. D. h. [No specimens.] [Changes in the bones in the so-called “ Chronic Rheumatic Arthritis ” are included with the Diseases of Joints. See Arthritis Deformans.] Rickets. Os. D. i. Os. D. i. 1 (508). The Skeleton of an old man affected with rickets; in height it measures about 107 cm. The head is of average size and well formed, the jaw's are edentulous, and their alveolar margins entirely absorbed. The vertebral column is curved so that the upper dorsal vertebrae present a convexity to the left, while the lower present a still greater convexity to the right, the bodies of the vertebrae being also rotated in association with these curvatures. The thorax is displaced almost entirely to the left of the middle line, and the sternum presents a con- siderable convexity forwards. The pelvis 'is obliquely contracted at the brim in association with the spinal curvature, but is also compressed and heart-shaped, resembling the pelvic deformity