78 CHARCOT’S DISEASE OF JOINTS. Arthritis in Diseases of the Nervotis System. Os. E. h. [Articular changes in I.ocomotor Ataxy, “ Charcot’s Disease of Joints,” &c.] Os. E.h. 1. The bones of a knee-joint, macerated, shewing a number of destructive changes characteristic of Charcot’s Disease. The Tibial articular surface is represented by a large irregular deep excavation, of which the outer wall is formed by the remains of the outer tuberosity, while the inner wall consists of a con- tinuous semicircular plate of new bone, occupying the position of the capsule of the joint. The inner tuberosity has entirely disappeared; the cancellous tissue exposed at the bottom of the excavation is partly condensed and rubbed smooth, and partly eroded and “ worm-eaten.” The surface is nowhere porcelainous. The remaining portion of the outer tuberosity is covered with normal articular cartilage. The inner condyle of the femur has largely disappeared, the outer is covered with normal cartilage, and there are a number of nodules of new bone in the capsular ligament at its attachment round the articular margin. (Removed by amputation from a lunatic by Professor Annandale in 1865, and presented by him to the Museum.) Senile Arthritis—“ Malum SenileS Os. E. i. [No specimens.] Loose a7id Pendulous Bodies in Johits. Os. E. j. [In addition to those which are described with the diseases giving rise to them.] Os. E.j. 1 (591a). “ Loose cartilages from the Knee-joint, presented by Professor Annandale.” The specimen consists of three bodies, of which the largest is nearly as big as a hen’s egg. The surface is very irregularly nodulated, and consists of opaque, white, fibro-cartilaginous tissue. The largest body has been cut in section, and presents a nodule of bone in its centre. Os. E.j’. 2 (5916). “ Portions of the synovial membrane of the right knee-joint, illustrating the formation of loose cartilages. In some places these cartilages are sessile, one is pedunculated, whilst at the bottom of the jar are several which were free in the cavity of the joint.” (Presented by Professor Sir W. Turner.) Os. E.j. 3. A loose body removed from the left knee-joint, oval, flattened and curved on itself 5 cm. in length, 3 5 cm. in breadth, and T cm. in thickness. The convex surface is studded over with irregular nodules of cartilage, while the concave surface is quite smooth. On section the body consists of a plate of bone in the centre, and a thick layer of mixed hyaline and fibro-car- tilage on either aspect. (Removed by operation from a man aged 41, who had suffered from his knee for ten years, during