ARTHRITIS DEFOR M AN S. 74 Os. E. g*. 16(2II). a similar specimen, in which the new bone formed around the articular surface forms a projecting collar which overhangs the cervix on its posterior aspect. The articular surface itself is very rough and uneven, new bone having been formed on certain portions, while the area exposed to friction and pressure by the weight of the body transmitted through the acetabulum is pitted and “worm-eaten.” Os. E. g. 17 (206). A similar specimen. Os. E. g. 18 (209). A similar specimen. Os. E. g. 19 (Y II). A similar specimen. Os. E. g. 20 (203). The upper end of a femur, in which the head is elongated and conical, as a result of the new bone developed around the articular margin being prolonged on to the cervix as far as the anterior trochanteric line. The superior aspect of the head is eburnated and “worm-eaten.” Os. E. g. 21 (208). The upper end of a femur, in which the head is very greatly enlarged and altered in appearance, so that it has become obtusely conical or limpet-shaped, while the articular surface, which has been bared of cartilage, is rough and uneven. The cervix has been partly absorbed, the remains of it are buried in the enlarged head, so that the margins of the latter are in close contact with the trochanters. Os. E. g. 22 (205). A somewhat similar specimen, in which the head is flattened and depressed, subsequent to absorption of the neck, so that it lies at a level below that of the trochanters. The articular surface is earthy-looking, is rubbed smooth on the superior aspect, while elsewhere it is deeply pitted and excavated. Os. E. g. 23 (207)- A similar specimen, in which the head is of normal size, but it is depressed downwards against the junction of the neck and shaft, and is completely fused with the small trochanter, the cervix having disappeared. Os. E. g. 24 (Y 15). The upper end of a femur, unearthed during the restoration of St Giles’ Cathedral, in which the neck and adjacent part of the bone is bent or curved, so that the angle which the neck forms with the shaft is considerably less than 90°, and the head occupies an abnormally low position relatively to the great trochanter. The superior aspect of the articular sur- face is eburnated and polished like ivory, while the remaining portions are “ worm-eaten ” and worn. Os. E. g. 25 (462). The bones of a hip-joint, in which the head of the femur is imprisoned in the acetabulum by the projecting rim or collar of bone, added to the latter by ossification occurring in the cotyloid and capsular ligaments of the hip. The rim of the acetabulum grasps the neck of the femur. Os. E. g. 26 (463). A similar specimen.