FRACTURES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 15 Os. B. e. 60 (129). An oblique fracture of the tibia, just below the tubercle; united with scarcely any deformity. Os. B. e. 61 (130). An oblique fracture of the tibia at the junction of its middle and lower thirds, and of the fibula immediately above the ankle-joint, both of which have united; at the site of the fibular fracture, the two bones have become anchylosed to each other. Os. B. e. 62 (131)- A recent oblique fracture of the tibia at its lower third, and of the fibula at its upper and lower ends. (The patient survived fifteen days.) There are scarcely any signs of repair to be seen at the broken ends. Os. B. e. 63 (132). A fracture of the tibia and fibula through their lower thirds, with deformed union and anchylosis of the bones to each other across the interosseous space at the seat of fracture. Os. B. e. 64(133). A comminuted fracture of the lower ends of the tibia and fibula extending into the ankle-joint. Suppuration and disorganisation of the joint has followed, with anchylosis of the fractured bones. The injury was probably caused by falling on the feet from a height. Os. B. e. 65 (Y 9). A fracture of the shaft of the fibula through its middle third. The site of the fracture is indicated by the ensheathing callus. Os. B. e. 66 (134)- A fracture of the fibula of a child at its upper fourth. A section has been made of the bone to shew the ensheathing callus. Os. B. e. 67 (136). A fracture of the extreme lower end of a fibula, breaking off the external malleolus. The fragment has united in good position. Os. B. e. 68 (137)* A comminuted fracture of the tibia and fibula just above the ankle-joint, with splitting of the tibia into the joint. Union has occurred with deformity and anchylosis of the bones along the interosseous space. Os. B. e. 69 (138). The bones of the right leg with the astragalus and os calcis. The tibia and fibula are broken across at their lower thirds, the fibula at a slightly higher level than the tibia. The fragments of the tibia are rounded off, with the medullary canal closed in, a considerable gap remaining between them. The fibula is united, with overriding and shortening. Os. B. e. 70 (139). A compound fracture of the tibia into the ankle-joint, and of the fibula in its lower fourth. Suppuration and disorganisation of the joint has followed, with anchylosis of the astragalus and os calcis. The fractures are partially united. The injury was probably caused by a fall on the feet, driving the astragalus upwards, and splitting the tibia after the fashion of a wedge.