90 CURVATURES OF THE SPINE. Os. F. e. 8 (Y 46). A spinal column, presenting a similar combina- tion of antero-posterior and lateral-rotation curvature (kypho- scoliosis), as has been seen in Specimens Os. f. e. 5 (510), and Os. f. e. 6 (513), probably also resulting from rickets in early life. The lateral curvature affects the dorsal spine, again with the convexity to the right, the vertebrae being also rotated in the same direction ; the bodies of the latter and the intervertebral spaces are greatly reduced in depth along the concavity of the curve. The ribs present the same alterations as have been already described in Specimen Os. f. e. 5 (510). Os. F. e. 9 (Y 44). An articulated spinal column and pelvis, shewing a moderate degree of lateral curvature, of which the convexity is to the left in the dorsal region, while in the lumbar region it is directed to the right. The vertebrae are markedly rotated, the anterior surface of the bodies constituting the convexity of the curves. The pelvis is asymmetrical (scoliotic), the constituent bones being imperfectly developed, the symphysis displaced to the right side, and the sacrum abnormally flat. The right oblique diameter of the brim is 2 cm. less than the left oblique. Os. F. e. 10. One of the dorsal vertebrae and two ribs from a case of rotation-lateral curvature, in which the convexity was to the right. The bones are anchylosed to each other by new bone occupying the position of the ligaments uniting the ribs to the vertebra. The vertebra is characteristically asym- metrical ; its body is wedge-shaped, the apex of the wedge occu- pying the concavity of the curve. Its articular and transverse processes and the lamina on the concave side are compressed and atrophied, while those on the convex side are correspondingly increased in size and are wide apart. The spinous process is markedly twisted to the left or concave side, while the anterior aspect of the body faces to the right. The ribs, which belong to the convex side of the curve, present a sharp curve forwards immediately beyond their tubercles; anteriorly, on the other hand, they are quite straight. Their shafts are broad and flat. Os. F. e. 11 (416). Four dorsal vertebrae, from a case of rotation- lateral curvature, in which the laminae and articular processes are anchylosed along the concavity of the curve. Os. F. e. 12 (426). Six dorsal vertebrae, anchylosed to each other by bone, and presenting a very unusual degree of lateral curva- ture, with the convexity of the curve to the right, and unaccom- panied by any rotation of the vertebrae. Os. F. e. 13(Ys6). Two dorsal vertebrae, from a case of rotation- lateral curvature of the spine ; the bodies are characteristically wedge-shaped, the base of the wedge occupying the convexity of the curve. The posterior arches are distorted, and the spinous processes twisted, so that their apices point to the convexity of the curve. The articular processes and laminae on the convex side are anchylosed together. [Other specimens in the Museum are Os. D. i. i (508), and Os. D. e. i (Y 59).]