94 SENILE ATROPHY OF THE SKULL. Senile Changes in the Skull. Os. G. b. Senile Atrophy—Malum Senile (Virchozv). Os. G. b. 1 (Y 119). A skull, which is comparatively small and unusually light. The outer surface of the vertex is rough and uneven, and presents numerous vascular foramina. The sutures are obliterated ; there is a broad shallow groove in the position of the sagittal suture. The parietal eminence on either side has disappeared, and in its place there is a large triangular fossa, which is sharply bounded externally by the temporal ridge. The bone in the depressed area is thin and translucent, and is minutely perforated for vessels. The diploe, as seen in the sawn section, is of unequal thickness, and is unusually porous. The groove for the main branch of the middle meningeal artery is so deep that its floor is formed by the external table. The inner table is irregularly bossed and thickened, especially in the left half of the- frontal bone. (Described and figured in Paget’s Lectures on Surgical Pathology., edited by Turner, third edit., p. lOI.) Os. G. b. 2 (ll8a). The atrophied calvarium of an old man, presenting a comminuted fracture in the right parietal region, together with multiple-fissured fracture, extending probably into the base of the skull of the same side, and across the vertex into the temporal and mastoid regions on the left side. The injuries occurred shortly before death. The skull-cap is very thin and light, and presents symmetrical depressed areas in the parietal bones similar to those described in the preceding specimen. Os. G. b. 3 (Y 180). Another skull-cap from an atrophied skull, in which the parietal depressions are well marked ; they occupy the situation of the parietal eminence, and are shaped like a triangle, with the corners rounded, while the base of the triangle corres- ponds to the temporal ridge. The bone in the depressed area is , thin and translucent, and apparently consists of the internal table only. The margins of the fossa gradually merge into the thicker surrounding bone. The inner surface of the calvarium is very rough and uneven, and presents along the middle line numerous depressions for Pacchionian bodies. The inner surface of the parietals on either side presents a close network of vascu- lar grooves, which is very characteristic. The diploe is small in amount, and is sclerosed in structure. Os. G. b. 4(Y i8oa). A skull-cap from an aged subject, resembling the preceding specimens, but shewing an extreme degree of general atrophy. It is relatively small, but markedly arched, and rounded in form. It is very light and thin ; the sawn sec- tion of the bones shews an average thickness of 1-2 mm., the diploe having practically disappeared.