123 HYDROCEPHALUS. Chronic Hydrocephalus—syn. Hydrocephalus Inte7'nus —Conge7iital Hydrocephalus^ N. A. i. N. A. i. 1 (1978). Chronic Hydrocephalus. Brain shewing great dilatation of lateral ventricles, especially the left. Presented by Dr Graham. N. A. i. 2 (1979). Chronic Hydrocephalus. The lateral ventricles, which are much dilated, contained three ounces of bloody serum. The third ventricle was in a similar condition j the distension causing its floor to appear at the base of the brain, between the crura cerebri and Sylvian fissures, and to become adherent to the optic nerves. Patient a male aged i6. For symptoms see MSS. Catalogue. N. A. i. 3 (1980). Chronic Hydrocephalus. Portion of brain. The foramen of Monro between the two enlarged lateral ventricles is seen to be dilated. N. A. i. 4 (1981). Chronic Hydrocephalus. The right hemisphere shews great distension of the lateral ventricle. From a patient in the Children’s Hospital. Presented by Dr James Dunsmure. N. A. i. 5. Head of Child (? hydrocephalic). Preserved in spirit. N. A. i. 6. Head of Hydrocephalic Child, shewing the characteristic bulging, especially transversely and posteriorly. N. A. i. 7 (1977)- Congenital Hydrocephalus. Skeleton of a hydro- cephalic foetus. The occiput is prolonged backwards, making the length of the cranium seven inches, the breadth being four and a half inches. The left parietal bone is prolonged much further back than the right, so that the head is extremely un- symmetrical. Presented by Professor Syme. N. A. i. 8. Congenital Hydrocephalus. Skeleton of a hydro- cephalic foetus, shewing very wide separation of the cranial bones at the several sutures. Very numerous Wormian bones have been formed, especially towards the posterior part. N. A. i. 9. Congenital Hydrocephalus. Skeleton of a hydro- cephalic foetus. The cranium is almost entirely membranous, the bones being represented by an extremely thin shell, and the squamous portion of .the temporals almost entirely absent. The anterior portion is somewhat globular, and shews well the depres- sion and altered angle of the orbital plates of the frontal bone. The right half of the cranium shews much greater distension than the left, especially backwards. Measurements—maximum circumfer- ence, 17 J inches ; transversely over vertex from meatus to meatus, 14 inches; longitudinally over vertex from root of nose to occipital protuberance, 14 inches; length, 6J inches; height, inches (from foramen magnum to vertex).