183 INTESTINE. Al. E. g. 3 (8766). (?) Enteric Fever. Caput caecum coli, shewing enlargement and prominence of solitary glands. The ileum in this case was ulcerated. Al. E. g. 4. Enteric Fever. Piece of Ileum of a woman aged 26, who died on the eighth day of malignant enteric fever in June 1879, shewing great swelling of the Peyer’s patches and solitary glands, which were much congested. All the agminated and solitary glands throughout the ileum were in a similar condition. For drawing of this specimen see Lancereaux’ A//as of Pathological Anatomy (Eng. trans.), Plate Ixviii. Pre- sented by Professor Greenfield. Al. E. g. 5. Another piece of Ileum, from the same case, shewing especially a greatly swollen and vascular Peyer’s patch, and also swollen solitary glands. Presented by Professor Greenfield. Al. E. g. 6. Enteric Fever. Pieces of small intestine, during the third week of fever, shewing the early stages of formation of ulcers. The upper piece shews a small slough in the middle of a Peyer’s patch, which is also swollen at its upper end. The middle piece shews the separation of two sloughs, which occupy part of a Peyer’s patch. The lower piece shews a small ulcer forming in one swollen solitary gland. For drawings of these specimens see Lancereaux’ Atlas of Pathological Anatomy (Eng. trans.), Plate Ixix. Presented by Professor Greenfield, 1888. Al. E. g. 7. Enteric Fever, from the same case. A small piece of intestine everted to shew the separation of sloughs from part of a Peyer’s patch. Presented by Professor Greenfield. Al. E. g. 8 (877)- Enteric Fever. The solitary glands and Peyer’s patches are greatly swollen, and a mass of considerably en- larged mesenteric glands is left in situ. Al. E. g. 9 (878). Enteric Fever. The lower end of ileum, shew- ing the great swelling of Peyer’s patches and solitary glands preceding ulceration. This and the two succeeding specimens were presented by Professor Henderson. Al. E. g. 10 (879). Enteric Fever. A more advanced condition, shewing invasion of the tissue surrounding Peyer’s patches, and commencing ulceration in some of the latter. Al. E. g. 11 (880). Enteric Fever. The enlarged Peyer’s patches in the lower end of the ileum are in a more advanced stage of ulceration, which has exposed the muscular coat in some places. Al. E. g. 12 (881). Enteric Fever. All the Peyer’s patches and some of the solitary glands of the lower end of the ileum are ulcerated, and sloughs of the infiltrated tissue are in process of formation. The mesenteric glands are much enlarged.