454 Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. H.R.H, Prince of Wales, 73* H. S. H. Duke of Teck, E. K. WILSON, Nos. 13 4 38, SUSSEX PLACE, ONSLOW BAEDENS, appointment tn % Rational draining Sfofpd of (ftookerg, MAKER OF EVERY DESCRIPTION OF COOKING AND HEATING APPARATUS, Begs to call attention to the following Specialities:— “THE KENSINGTON RANGE.” This Range has an open fire for roasting, a wrought-iron oven, with a flue circulating all round, making the oven of an equal heat in every part; the top of oven forms a hot plate, on which vessels can be kept stewing ; the same fire also heats two boilers, the one for supplying hot water in any part of the house, and the other for supplying hot water or steam in the kitchen. The patterns are so arranged that the proportions of oven or fire or boiler room can be varied to suit the requirements of the establishment. The Prices of these Ranges are—3 ft. 6 in. £13 lOs.; 4 ft. ,£14 15s.; 4 ft. 6 in. £15 15s.; 5 ft. £16 10s. Fitted with One Wrought-iron Oven, One Cast-iron Boiler, and One Wrought-iron High-pressure Boiler, as described. E. K. WILSON’S “KENSINGTON KITCHENER.” This close fire Range is believed to be as perfect as can be produced, and is the result of many years of experience and attention. Fitted with One Wrought-iron Oven, One Cast Boiler and Covings, and Plate Rack. The prices are as follows:—3 ft. 6in. £10 18s. Gd. ; 4ft. £12 5s.; 4ft. 6in. £14 5s.; 5 ft. £1512s. 6d. I; If fitted with Extra Wrought-iron high-pressure Boiler, £2 10s. extra. If fitted with Two Ovens, one for pastry and one for meat, and One Wrought-iron high-pressure Boiler, 4 ft. £18 10s.; 4 ft. 6 in. £20 18s. 6d.; 5 ft. £22 10s.; 5 ft. 6 in. £24 10s. E. K. Wilson has paid great attention to the making of Stoves for Cooking by Gas, since the introduction of the Bunsen principle of diluting gas with air; the great cleanliness and economy secured by a properly balanced burner, made on this principle, renders gas a most valuable agent for many culinary purposes. THE STUDENTS’ GAS STOVE Is made in several sizes, and is fitted with a Roaster, an Oven for Baking, and Ring Burners on the top for Stewing. The Prices are as follows :—No. 1, £2 8s.; No. 2, £3 10s. ; No. 3, £5 5s. GAS STEWING PLATES are a most valuable addition to any Kitchen, and are made in every variety of size, with Atmospheric Ring Burners, from 15s. upwards. The fault found with all Ovens of Gas Stoves has been, that although they cooked the pie or pastry, they could not be made to brown the crust. After consultation with the Lady Superintendent at the National Training School, E. K. W. has introduced an Additional Burner, which browns the pastry most successfully. NOTE.—E. K. WILSON waits upon intending Purchasers to advise as to the best kinds of COOKING APPARATUS for their purpose, free of charge, in any part of London, or if in the Country, at the cost of second class railway fare.