National Training School for Cookery. 407 The fee for this five months’ course of training is ^20. [May be paid by instalments in special cases.] During her course of training at the School, the student can, if she likes, dine with the other pupils, for is., or if that is beyond her means, she is allowed to purchase any little dish that happens to be cooked as a lesson at a merely nominal charge. Students can get comfortable lodgings in the neighbourhood of the School, either with a Lady who has taken a house expressly for the pur- pose of accommodating the students of the various Art Schools at South Kensington, or at the house of the Head Cook, the charges for lodgings and partial board ranging from i6j-. to 25s. a week. Saturday is a whole holiday at the School. The staff teachers receive £2 a week all the year round, and their dinner at the School while employed in London; when sent to reside out of London they receive a further sum of 30s. a week for board and lodging, and all their travelling expenses; three months’ notice on either side terminates the engagement. When the staff teachers are all employed a few extra teachers are taken on “as improvers,” at/i a week, and thus they become competent to fill good appointments in the Provinces, when they offer. These engagements are terminable by a week’s notice on either side. The work of teachers on the staff varies somewhat according to the nature of their appointment, i.e., if employed in the School itself, she would have to be in her kitchen by 9.30 a.m. to see that her kitchen-maid had everything in proper order for the pupils to begin work at 10 a.m., the lessons end at 4 p.m.,the teacher would in most cases be able to leave the School at 5 p.m. and on Sunday she would be quite free. If the staff teacher is sent to the Provinces the hours of work in that case depend greatly upon the Local Committee who for the time being employ her, but the number of hours of work are limited to 24 in the week, to be distributed by arrangement with the Local Committee and the teacher.” There is a shorter course for teachers wishing to train for Artizan teaching only, lasting ten weeks ; the fee is £8 8s.