Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. 447 GEO. KENT, 199, HIGH HOLBORH. LIST OF CO OFF BY BFQUISITFS. '[/"ENT’S Mincing Machines, ns. 6d. to sor. Adapted j JV for mincing Fruits, Meats, Suet, Mincemeat, &c. [ TT"ENT’S New Patent Marmalade Cutter. Made ex- -IV pressly for cutting Marmalade, Fruits, and Vege- table Substances, for family use. "[/"ENT’S Saw Back Kitchen Knives, is. 6d., 2s. 6d ancf JV 3V. 6d. Saw bones and save Superior Knives from rough use. TRENT’S Triturating Strainer, 27s. 6d to 37s. 6d. Re- JV duces to pulp, or liquid, and strains every descrip- tion of Animal and Vegetable Substance. XfENT’S Jelly Strainer, 12s. 6d. Jelly Blancmange, JV &c., rapidly strained and kept in a thin liquid state, free from dust. ■[/■ENT’S Eccentric Masher, 9d. For Mashing Potatoes,. IV Turnips, &c. "[/■ENT’S Brawn Mould, 7s. 6d. Tongues, &c., pressed1 -IV by regulating Screw. T/’ENT’S Vegetable Cutter, 30J. French Beans and -IV other Vegetables cut into strips instantaneously. ■(/■ENT'S Whisks and Mixing Machines, 2is. to iioj. Ji. These Machines produce from a given quantity of ingredients a larger and better batter in one-fourth the time than any other process. XT’ENT’S Egg Beater, 3 s. 6d. and 5-r. Egg Mixtures, JV Batters, and other ingredients for Cakes, Omelets, Salads, Sauces, &c., mixed in a few seconds by this little machine. T/"ENT’S Bread Makers. Puddings, Pastry, and Cakes- -IV this machine mixes and kneads in a few minutes. TRENT’S Bread Cutter, 16s. to 46V. Slices of bread JV gauged to any thickness ; time and labour saved y. waste prevented. TRENT’S Potato Masher and Bread Grater, 12s. 6d.. -IV Potatoes, by a few turns of the handle, mashed to Perfection ; Bread Grated with equal rapidity, TRENT’S Cocoa Mill, 12s. 6d. Reduces to powder in- JV stantly Cocoa-berries, and affords the means of en- suring a cup of that nutritious beverage as readily as a cup of coffee. TRENT’S Revolving Toasters, 25s. Bacon, Chops, JV Steaks, &c., cooked to perfection. ■[/■ENT’S Butter Press, 10s. 6d. Salt and Rancid JV Butter greatly purified. Also valuable as a Fruit Press. -[/■ENT’S Bane Crushers, 21 s. Small Poultry, Game- -IV and other bones broken up for Soup, &c. J^ENT’S Improved Coffee Mills, 6s. 6d. "[/■ENT’S Self-Acting Coffee Roaster, 21 s. This Ma- -IV chine may be used at the kitchen or parlour grate- The Coffee is all roasted alike, none burnt or overdone; None left raw or partly done. ■[/■ENT’S Apple Parer, 8s. od. This Wonderful Ma- JV chine Pares, Cores, and Slices Apples instanta- neously. gENT’S Chestnut Roasters, 7s. 6d. "[/■ENT’S Lemon and Orange Parers, 8s. 6d. Similar to above. gENT’S Rotary Slicers, 3*. 6d. "[/■ENT’S Milk Saver, is. Prevents Milk boiling over JV or burning. ■gENT’S Improved Lemon Squeezers, is. ■(/"ENTS Champagne Frappe Machine. From 30s. To -IV be used with rough Ice and Salt or Freezing Mixture. ■gENT’S Improved Rolling Pins, is. 3d. [/■ENT’S Ice Maker, £5, £12 12s., £16 16s., £35, £60, -IV and ■[/■ENT’S Rotary Ice Cream Freezers. From 32s. For -IV making Ice, Ice Creams, Water Ices, or cooling Wine. ■[/■ENT’S Six Minute Churns, ior. 6d. to 27s. 6d. The- Churn will make Butter lrom Milk in six minutes, and from Cream in about half that time, extracting every atom of Butter which the Cream or milk contains. ■[/■ENT’S Wood Box Chums, 25s. to 50J. All Sizes kept -IV in Stock. ■RENT'S New Miniature Ice Pail, 12J. 6d. TRENT’S Ice Pails, from one quart to 18 quarts. Also •IV Moulds of various Patterns. TRENT’S Patent Ventilated Ice Safes produce results JV hitherto considered unattainable. Fish, Meat, Poultry, Game, Venison, Fruit, Milk, Butter, &c., kept- sweet, flavour retained, condition improved. Price family size, to £30. ■[/■ENT’S Invalid’s Refrigerator, 95J. A Small Port- ■IV able Cabinet, with Ice Compartment, Water Tank, and Provision Chamber, for Preserving Invalid’s Food and Liquids free from taint, &c. ■[/■ENT’S Ordinary Refrigerator, for preserving Ice ancil JV cooling Wine, &c. Price from .£3 3s. TT’ENT’S Freezing Mixture. And every article con- -IV nected with cooling and freezing, combining all the real improvements of recent date. ■[/■ENT’S Oyster Opener, 15^. Any inexperienced person -IV can open any description of oyster without cutting the fish or breaking the shell, yet retaining all the juice and freshness of the fish. 15 INTERNATIONAL PRIZE MEDALS. The very large number of Kent’s Knife Cleaning Machines and other domestic Labour-saving Appliances of Kent’s sold for use, not only in public establishments, but also in very small private families, goes to prove that they are deemed indispensable to complete the arrangements for the comfort and economy of every well-appointed house- Yet for the convenience of parties who may wish to inquire of those who have had Kent’s Machines very long in con- stant daily use, G. Kent has permission of reference to nearly every Club, Hotel, and Restaurant in London and the Provinces, and also those on the Continent. KNIFE-CLEANING MACHINES.—THE REAL AND THE IMITATION. Purchasers of Knife Cleaners are told by those who (on account of larger profits) are interested in the sale of machines made in imitation of Kent’s, that they are identically the same, Kent’s patent having expired, and thus truth is employed to aid misrepresentation; the fact being that two old patents did expire some years since, but Kent’s Improved Knife Cleaners, made in nine different sizes, from £2 2a. to £14 14s., are protected by two existing Patents, and any infringement would subject the persons to proceedings in Chancery. Kent’s Original Knife Cleaners, are however, still supplied, and to meet the convenience of those with whom price is an important consideration, Kent’s Original Knife Cleaners, made in nine different sizes, from £1 12s. to £10 10s., are quite as low in price as are the imitations, and are greatly superior to them in efficiency and durability. Anyone not able to obtain these machines of their ironmongers, should communicate to GEO. KENT, Manufacturer of Domestic Labour-saving Appliances, 190, 199, 200, 201, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.