442 Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. NO MORE CHICORY IN YOUR COFFEE 11! Ml RU A the t>est Coffee Improver ever introduced, is the produce ITIUUnHilHi of finest ripe Figs, S f well known abroad f°r O fl P" P RT OH HI T T highly recommended many years as liflT L UL Uni! I Ly by the Faculty and Children, as COFFEE OF HEALTH. MOCHARA should be mixed 1 part with 3 or 4 pure Coffee. Sold by all Grocers and Chemists, in lib. Tins, at Is. i lb. SAMPLE TINS SENT FOE lOd., FREE BY POST. From “ The Commercial Record.” ‘‘ English people have for many years talked of and admired French Coffee as furnished by the •cafetiers or coffee-house keepers of Paris. Some persons, knowing how roasted fig, in powder, was used on the continent, christened it ‘ French Coffee.’ The present importers call it ‘ Mochara * from >the aroma which it gives to common descriptions of coffee, making them almost equal to Mocha. Even the best Mocha can be improved by a small addition of ‘ Mochara,’ without it it appears watery and wanting in colour. All coffees are improved by the addition of ‘ Mochara ; ’ it may be mixed to the extent of io or 20 per cent, without damage to the flavour of the finest coffee, indeed, greatly adding to its colour, its mellowness, and fragrance ; and when we reflect that this product costs less than half the price of coffee, we see that with cheap coffees the addition of 30 per cent, of ‘ Mochara ’ will render these inferior qualities more fragrant and more palatable, with the enormous advantage of rendering a cheap article cheaper still.” From “ The Exporter.” “ The flavour and aroma of the most superior coffee is improved by the addition of a small per- centage, while as regards inferior sorts, its use in larger proportions will be found to render them •equal or even superior to many high-priced qualities. The preparation has been pronounced by high medical authorities to be perfectly wholesome, and an efficacious remedy in cases of indigestion and costiveness. This will be at once understood when we say that Mochara is simply a product of the finest figs, roasted and powdered, the value of which is too well known in a hygienic sense to require comment, and deserves the attention of dyspeptics.” From “ The Paris Exhibition, 1878.” “ Mochara is, in short, what it professes to'be—a genuine coffee improver, and a thoroughly whole- some production, which is more than can be said of chicory. Its introduction here was for some time retarded by customs and restrictions, but these having been modified it is now being brought into public notice by the Mochara Coffee Company, whose City office is at 6oa, Watling Street. As soon -as Mochara is known widely to the public, we may expect a re-extension of the popularity of coffee.” From “ The British Mercantile Gazette.” “We have tried the Mochara, and can testify -from our personal experience as to the great improvement which it effects in its admixture with coffee. If we would have our coffee as it ought to be, we must take a lesson from the East, where it is so largely consumed, and approaches most nearly to perfection. Now the principal cause of the difference between coffee as the Orientals have it and the coffee that we are accustomed to is, that Mochara enters largely into the preparation of their •coffee, and until recently has been entirely unknown to us.” From “ The Civilian.” “ We have tasted the coffee mixture with Mochara, and can pronounce it to be excellent in flavour •and aroma.” From “ La Mode Illustree.” “Visitors to Paris and other continental cities are well aware that better coffee is easily obtained there than here in England, and it is erroneous to suppose that all the source of complaint rests with the making. ‘ Mochara,’ a new combination of highly roasted figs and other aromatic compounds, which improves the colour and flavour of coffees, is being introduced here with every sign of success, and, apart from its hygienic properties, may be mentioned as possessing every element of success. It must not be mistaken for chicory, for which it is an elegant substitute, and has not that acidity common to chicory, and the ‘ Mochara’ is an invaluable remedy for constipation.” THE MOCHARA COFFEE CO., 60a, Watling Street, London, E.C. g& MOCHARA IS WARRANTED FREE FROM CHICORY.