446 Advertisements.—National Training School for Cookery. THE FINEST TEA THE WORLD PRODUCES. Cooper Cooper & Co. undertake to answer the oft-heard question, “ Why is tea so deart” and they say that it is simply because the public in this, as in other matters, are powerless to insist on having their share of the advantages which result from falling markets. Tea, in fact, was never so cheap to buy since it was first imported into England, as may be easily ascertained by a reference to the current market reports, and yet relatively the retail price was never so exorbitant. Now Cooper Cooper & Co. have resolved to rectify this discrepancy, and to this end they undertake to sell the best teas that can be purchased at their respective prices at a small commission only on the actual prices paid to the importers. This system of business is specially intended to bring the public into partnership, as it were, or at all events to enable them to become participators in the great margin of profit which lies between the wholesale and retail price of tea. Cooper Cooper & Cods prices will be found to be ninepence per pound less money than those usually charged for identical qualities, while their highest class first crop teas at 3s. a pound are of a quality that is very rarely to be obtained at any price whatever. SELECTED FROM THE LIST OF CHOICE BLACK TEAS. 1. The finest Lapsang Souchong, 3^. a lb. This tea is exquisitely delicate in flavour, silky on the palate, and one of the finest teas ever imported into England. 2. The finest Moning Congou, 3s. a lb., is soft, silky, delicately flavoured tea, and drinks full and round on the palate. 3. The finest Kyshow Congou (the Prince of Teas), 3^. a lb., is a brisk, pungent, deliciously flavoured tea, of amazing strength, beautifully manipulated—full of flower ; to taste this tea in perfection it should be drunk without cream or milk, as these to a great extent hide the pungent, malty flavour which is so grateful to the palate. 4. The finest Assam Congou, 3^. a lb. This is a very strong tea, of Indian growth, draws a deep red liquor, is very pungent, a little coarse, but drinks full in the mouth. It is quite a distinct class of tea, rather peculiar, and not appreciated by all —in fact, to like it requires an acquired taste. UNNUMBERED TEAS. In Slate-tinted Bags.—Choice Moning Congou, 2s. 6d. a lb. This is the best of the second crop, and possesses great strength and good flavour, and will be found always good alike. In White Bags.—Marvellously good Black Tea, 2s. a lb. This Tea will be found perfectly pure, of fair strength and attractive flavour. Cooper Cooper & Co.’s Prices are for nett Cash only, without Discount. COOPER COOPER & CO., (EXCLUSIVE TEAMEN), 50, King William Street, London Bridge; 63, Bishopsgate Street Within, E.C.; 268, Regent Circus, W.; and 35, Strand, W.C. (near Charing Cross).