20 National Training School for Cookery. BOILING/ Now we will show you how to boil meat. 1. We must give attention to the fire, and build it up gradually with small pieces of coal, so as to make it burn clear and bright. 2. We must not have a smoky fire for boiling, or the meat will get smoked, we should start with a good fire> and keep it up by adding occasionally small coal and so prevent smoke as much as possible. N.B.—We do not require such a clear bright fire as for roasting. 3. We now take a saucepan sufficiently large to hold the joint to be cooked. 4. We fill the saucepan almost full of cold water, and put it on the fire to warm. N.B .—Salt should always be added to the water in the saucepan to make the water taste, unless the meat to be cooked is already salted, in which case it should be omitted. 5. We now take the joint\ say, for example, a piece of the silver side of beef salted. 6. We must see that it is quite clean, and if necessary we must scrape it with a knife, and wipe it over with a clean cloth. N.B.—Meat should not as a rule be washed in water, as it takes some of the goodness out. Meat that has been kept some time, and is not quite fresh, might be washed with vinegar and water, but it must be well wiped afterwards. N.B.—Salt meat must not be washed with vinegar and water, but only with salt and water. 7. We must now weigh the piece of salt beef \ so as to find out how long it will take to boil, as ten minutes are allowed for each lb. of meat. N.B.—This rule refers to the boiling of all meat except fork, which requires fifteen minutes to each lb. of meat. i , A. —In boiling meat to be eaten the joint should be first plunged into boiling water, in order that the albumen on the outside of the joint may become hardened, and so prevent the escape of the juices of the meat. B. —The temperature of the water should then be lowered gradually (by adding a small quantity of cold water and drawing the saucepan to the side oi the fire), and the meat allowed to simmer gently, or it will become tough.