National Training School for Cookery. 405 BUILDINGS REQUISITE FOR SCHOOLS FOR COOKERY. A school where twelve students may be practised in the several necessary processes or branches of cookery requires as follows :— 1. A room about 20 ft. x 18 ft., and not less than 10 feet high, having a small suitable stove. 2. A scujlery of somewhat less dimensions. 3. A larder, open to the north if possible. 4. A cellar for coal and wood. This may be taken as the smallest amount of accommodation which is absolutely necessary for giving constant and systematic instruction. If it be desired to give lectures to numbers exceeding twelve, another room or rooms should be provided proportioned in size to the number of persons to be accommodated. The premises for the National Training School for Cookery are temporary, and were constructed in a large iron shed. Such a shed is not to be recommended on account of the great variations of temperature in it; but the approximate dimensions of the Training School are given as affording some guide in providing the requisite accommodation for a Training school. 1. A lecture or demonstration room, accommodating, say 120 students, on seats rising above one another; size, 39 ft. x 36 ft. 2. Two practice kitchens, one for middle class cookery, size, 39 ft. x 21 ft., accommodating thirty students, and one for artizan cookery, accommodating about twelve students, size, 18 ft. x 21 ft., and not less than 10 feet high. 3. A scullery, or room used for practical lessons in cleaning utensils, &c., with sink draining out-of-doors; size, 20ft. x 15 ft. 4. A larder; size, 15 ft. x n ft. 5. An office and meal room ; size, 18 ft. x 21 ft. 6. A ladies’ waiting-room and lavatory; size, 16 ft. x 14ft. 7. A servants’ waiting-room ; size, 15 ft. x n ft. To this list a store-room and coal-cellar should be added. There is also a private demonstration room for the teachers in training; a practice class room, size 12 ft. x 24 ft., accommodating twelve children, fitted up with six little stoves, dressers the length of the room, and six sets of the simplest utensils for cookery.