TERMS USED IN COOKING, ETC. &4 Moitiller: To add broth or water during cooking. Nougat: A mixture of almond and burnt sugar and lemon-juice Nouilles : Strips of paste made of eggs and flour. Panada'. A mixture of bread, milk, &c., used in making force* meats. Paner: To egg and bread-crumb. Papillotes: Greased paper fastened over fish and cutlets. P&te : A small pie. Paupiettes : Slices of meat rolled. Piiee de resistance : The principal joint of the dinner. Pilau : A dish of meat or poultry with rice. Piping'. Sugar decorations used in ornamenting cakes, pastry, &c. Pique'. Larded. Pluche '. Leaves of parsley, chervil, tarragon, lettuce, &c., cut very small. Poe lee : Stock used instead of water for boiling. Potage '. Soup. Printaniers : Early spring vegetables. Profiteroles : Light pastry with cream inside. Purte : Meat and vegetables reduced to a pulp and then mixed with other liquids to the consistency of thick soup. Quenelles : Delicate forcemeat formed into balls and poached. Ragodt'. Quenelles, mushrooms, truffles, &c., mixed in a rich sauce. Relevi: The remove dishes. Remolade: Salad dressing. Rissoles: Pastry made of light puff paste filled with minces and fried. Roux : A mixture of butter and flour used for thickening soups and sauces ; there are two kinds, white and brown. Salmi: A highly finished hash of game or wild fowl with a rich sauce. Salpicon : A mixture of different finely chopped meats. Sauce piquante : A sharp sauce, vinegar or lemon predominating. Sauter: To cook in a saucepan with sauce, constantly shaking it. Serviette, d la : Served up in a table-napkin. Sippets \ Small pieces of bread cut into different shapes, fried and used for garnish. SoufflS: Alight pudding. Stock : The broth of which soups are made. Tamis, tammy: A strainer or fine sieve for straining broth, sauces, creams, &c., through. Timbale : A sort of pie made in a mould. Tourle : Tart fruit pie baked in a shallow dish. Trife \ A sweet dish made of sponge cake, macaroons, jam, wines, and liqueurs. Trousser: To truss. VelouU'. A very rich white sauce.