83 AND IN THE KITCHEN. flair : A French custard. Flamber : To singe fowls or game. Flans : Varieties of French cheese cakes. Florentines 1 Light pastry iced over. Foncer: To put slices of ham or bacon at the bottom of the sauce' pan. Fondue : A cheese dish of the souffle order. Fricandeaux: A dish of lamb or veal cookery, &c., without bone larded and glazed with a concentration of their own liquor. Fricassee: Chickens, &c., cut in pieces and cooked in rich white sauce with mushrooms and other accessories. Fritter : Anything made in batter and fried. Galelte : A broad thin cake, a kind of muffin. Gateau: A cake. Gaufres : Light spongy biscuits. Glad: Anything iced. Glaze: Stock boiled down to jelly. Godiveau: A variety of forcemeats. Gras : Made with meat. Gratin : A forcemeat made with meat and thin panee. Gratiner: To grill. Haricot: A stew made with mixed vegetables and meat. Hors-d'oeuvres : These are appetisers, or whets to the appetite, and eaten before soup, and consist of sardines, oysters, and anchovies, caviare, foreign dried sausages, &c. Jardinilre : Vegetables stewed in their own sauce. Lardoon : The strips of bacon used for larding. Liaiso7i: A mixture of cream and egg, used to thicken with. Lit: Thin slices in layers with seasoning between. Luting : A paste made of flour and water and used to fasten on the lids to pie-pans when preserving game, in order to prevent evaporation. MacSdoine : A mixture of vegetables with the addition of some kind of sauce. Macedoine of fruit: A mixture of fruits in syrup. Madeleine : A kind of queen cake ornamented with preserve and sugar, See. Maigre: Without meat. Mask : To cover meat over with forcemeat, &c- Matelote : A rich fish stew made with wine. Mayonnaise : Salad dressing. Mazarine : An ornamental entree. Menu : Bill of fare. Meringues : Light pastry made with whites of egg and sugar. Mirlitons : Varieties of French cheese-cakes. Miroton : Slices of meat, larger than collops, stewed in rich sauce and dished up in a round.