r THE EAR—AFFECTIONS OP THE MIDDLE EAR 211 Ettstaehian viz. Eustachian obstruction, and where the condition of — the middle ear is in other respects normal, hearing will at once be restored (though often only temporarily) if, on inflating the tympanum by Valsalva's or Politzer's method, or by the Eustachian catheter,* the atmo- spheric pressure upon the two surfaces of the mem- brana tympani is rendered equal. 359. Owing to the anatomical relations of the Complications of middle ear, viz. its communication with the mastoid ^iMeE^" cells on the one hand, and its close connection with the * Valsalva's method consists in the patient holding his nose, and forcing air by powerful expiration into the middle ear while the mouth is closed. Politzer's method depends upon the fact that during the act of deglutition the opposed sides of the faucial orifice of the Eusta- chian tube are drawn apart by the palate muscles. The patient takes some water in his mouth to be swallowed at a given signal J the nozzle of a Politzer's air-bag is passed about half an inch up the nostril; both nostrils are then compressed upon the nozzle by means of the thumb and forefinger of the operator's left hand; during the swallowing of the water which has to be performed at the direction of the operator, the latter with his right hand forcibly compresses the air-bag. The result of this is that air is forcibly driven' into the nasul fossae,- at this moment {i.e. during deglutition), the upper part of the pharynx being shut off from the lower, the nostrils being closed, and the orifice of the Eustachian tube being patent, the air compressed in the nasal cavity, being prevented from escaping in any other direction, passes (unless it is unable to overcome the obstruction) through the Eustachian tube into the interior of the tympanum. ^ _ Catheterism of Eustachian tuhe.~ln cases where the obstruction .8 so severe as not to yield to other methods (viz. Valsalva's or Politzer's) It may be necessary to catheterise the Eustachian tube ^.e pa«s the Eustachian catheter, and then send a Ire ^ o ; a ong blowing through it with the mouth or using a Pol tze;