7 skulking about. For the furtlier enabling them to observe that nothing went wrong at the grave, they placed upon it a lighted lamp, so that if any one came to open it, he must first move the lamp, which would lead to his immediate discovery. Having taken these precautions, they refreshed themselves with a cheerer of whisky, with which they were always supplied, with a view of keeping out the clamp. The resurrectionists, well knowing the effect of alcoholic liquids on the brain, resolved to risk the pistols of the watchers, and actually succeeded in taking off the lamp, opening the grave, removing the body, refilling the hole, and re- placing the lamp, under the very noses of the keepers, without having been observed, and the removal was never detected. This, however, was at a great hazard, for if these half-drunk men had come upon them unawares, fighting, and perhaps shooting, would have been the order of the evening. Besides this danger of personal harm to which the resurrecting students were liable, if caught in the act, they might be discovered afterwards, and were subject to punishment, fines, or imprison- ment, if legally convicted. An instance of this kind occurred to a party of students, some of whom are now practitioners in Glasgow, and who at that time did not think they would ever arrive at their present high position. Fom- students, who were attending the private medical school of Glasgow, were engaged in removing from a grave, in what was then called the North-west Burying-ground, a body which had been recently buried. They accomplished their object, and suc- ceeded in leaving the grave in a proper condition, removing all traces of the depredation. Unfortunately, one of them dropped near the spot one of his gloves, which were worn on these occasions for protecting the hands from injury ; and in the morning this tell- tale was found by the watch, and information immediately sent to the friends. No time was lost in examining the grave, when, of course, it was found empty of its late tenant. The Sheriff was applied to, and a warrant granted for the search of the dissecting- rooms. By this time the hue and cry had got abroad, and a perfect mob beset the approaches to the College and High Street, vowing vengeance on the body-snatchers. Before the private medical school was searched, the face and other parts of the body were disfigured by dissection, and it was hoped that it would not be recognised; but the deceased had a false tooth, set in gold, which had not been taken out of the mouth, and this at once led to the detection. The teacher and his principal dissector were at once accused of the deed, but stoutly denied being the parties concerned, and as firmly refused to give the names of those employed. Some of the students were precognosced, and there is little doubt that the offenders would have been discovered at last, if they had not made the best use of their present liberty by leaving the country, until the investigation was finished, and the