4 trast between its present position and that before the passing of the Anatomy Act is most striking. The manner in which the schools in London were supplied is now well known. A set of men, of great bodily strength, and of usually low and depraved liabits, as well as ungovern- able temper, who were styled " resurrection men," undertook the supply of the dissecting-rooms. They resorted to the most extra- ordinary means to obtain bodies for disposal. They had men in their pay who assisted them in their actual labours, but they kept in their own hands the arrangements with the various teachers. They bought over with large bribes the keepers of graveyards in and around London, and often paid large sums to watchmen to admit them to vaults and other places of interment. They some- times succeeded in robbing houses of unburied bodies, filling the coffins with stones or other heavy substances; and on one occasion they were known to have taken from the outhouse of a tavern, a body which was lying for a legal examination by the coroner the day following. They were not unfrequently detected, either by the vigilance of private watchers, or by the jealousies of some other set, who informed on each other, and were imprisoned for longer or shorter periods. They were liable to attacks from parties of friends, who sometimes watched the graves for several days, and were in various ways subject to danger. Li consequence of these difficulties, the sums they demanded from the teachers of anatomy were enormous, and had the effect of preventing the great body of the students from learning anatomy by dissection. For a considerable time the regular price demanded for subjects was £12, and even at that rate it was difficult to get the men to work. 13esides the ordinary payments made to these men, the teachers had often to pay large sums for carriage and as douceurs to get them to work, and often they had to pay their expenses at the rate of 10s. a-week when thev were detected and fined, or lodged in prison.* In reflecting on the difficulties of those times, one cannot help shuddering at the atrocious and inhuman expedients resorted to by those who supplied the anatomical rooms in Edinburgh for some time. The facts brought to Hght at the trial of the barbarian. Burke, and his associate. Hare—names that will be execrated in all time to come—present a picture of brutality unsurpassed in the annals of history, and cast _ a blot on the science with which they were connected, that will not soon be eradicated. This in passing, for at present I am referring to the more legitimate but still disgusting means employed by the resurrection men, who gained a livelihood, and sometimes amassed large sums of money, in the pursuit of their laborious and loath- some employment. Such were some of the disadvantages attend- * Many of the above statements are taken from the " Life of Sir A. Cooper."