9 naval and military surgeons to come to Glasgow for a little revi- sion, and many more would avail themselves of it were it more generally known. The assistant-surgeon of the Banshee^ last winter, spent a fortnight, before passing his examination for full surgeon, in studying in our dissecting-room ; and though he had given me no previous notice, he was kept constantly employed. The surgeon of the Frincess Boyal^ one of the Baltic fleet, called with a naval friend, and expressed a wish to go through a course of operations before sailing. Although this was in the month of January, at the busiest time of our session, he was supplied, and was hard at work in a few days. Last spring, my friend. Dr. Davidson, was residing, for a short time of recess, in Ayrshire. Without previous notice, he received an appointment as surgeon to the naval hospital at Therapia, on the Bosphorus. He got the official letter on a Friday, and was ordered to sail from Southampton on Tuesday. This being impossible, he got leave till the Tuesday fortnight, and being very desirous to refresh his memory a little, he applied to me. He was supplied in two days, and being an excellent anatomist and clever surgeon, before he sailed from Southampton he had dissected the principal regions, taken up the main arteries, and performed all the capital operations on the body. These are mentioned as instances of the rapidity with which we obtain our supply; and I do not believe that it could be got with the same certainty in many other anatomical schools. Those surgeons in Glasgow who occasionally revise their anatomy at our dissecting-room, can easily corroborate the above statement. But, perhaps, the best way of showing the extent of our re- sources will be to give, in a few figures, the returns from the superintendent of our receiving-house, to the Inspector of anatomy for Scotland:—From 1846 to 1850, both years included, there were of unclaimed bodies, to be buried at the public expense, and available for the purposes of anatomy, under the Anatomy Act, 842. Of these, 300 were required and used in the anatomical schools. From 1851 to 1854, both years included, there were 548 bodies available, of which 267 were used for the purposes of anatomy. In all, during the last nine years, there were of avail- able bodies 1490, of which only 567 were required for the schools; leaving 923, which might have been got if needed.* It is true that some of these must have died during the vacation, at a time when they could not have been made available; but to make up for this it must be remarked, tliat those who have charge of the working of the Anatomy Bill have only taken advantage of certain sources, to which it is most readily applied; but by a little trouble there are others, whicli, if necessary, could be taken advantage of, • T^® ^^"^ ^»kGn, because, during that time, the present super- intendent has had charge of the Morrjue, and the figures have been most accu- rately kept.