8 fama had subsided. Tliey therefore left the town, some under assumed names, and remained away for a considerable time, until it was deemed safe to return. In the meantime the teacher, and two of his senior students, were tried, at great length, before tlic Justiciary Court in Edinburgh ; and after hearing a great amount of evidence on both sides, the jury brought in a verdict of Not proven." The amount of popular excitement produced by these disclo- sures was so great, that it was hardly safe to be seen entering or leaving the schools, and it resulted in a closer watch being set on the graveyards, and the more general adoption of mortsafes and iron stancheons around the tombs. A lingering remains of this feeling is to be found in the greetings which our newly-fledged collegians receive, as they walk about High Street in their gaudy plumage, being congratulated, on the opening of the session, with contemptuous sneers of " Doctor," " Burker," &c. It certainly appears strange to us now to hear of a professor and his students being tried before the Justiciary Court, for adopt- ing the only means open to them for the pursuit of anatomy; it being a singular anomaly, that a surgeon, before obtaining his license to practise, was required by law to have studied practical anatomy, and, at the same time, was liable to imprisonment or transportation, for adopting the only plan whereby he could obtain a competent knowledge of that branch. The consequence was, that great numbers of students from this country repaired to the schools in Paris, where the same absurd restrictions were not in force, and where tliere was a legal provision for the study of anatomy, as among ourselves at the present day. How different is the case now! A student has but to intimate his wish, and in a few days he finds himself supplied, without being aware of the source whence the material for dissection has been obtained; he gives himself no trouble about the matter, and is very well satisfied with himself, if he is so persevering as to go on quite to the end with what he has begun. The expense, too,^ 13 so trifling, as to enable the humblest individual to avail himself largely of these advantages. Tlie students, and even the teachers, are now quite relieved from all trouble connected with supplying the anatomical rooms, there being an official appointed to caiTy out the provisions of the Anatomy Act, and a government medical Inspector, to observe and report on the transactions of the anato- mical schools of Scotland. Under these auspices, our supply in Glasgow is practically unlimited, and hitherto has been far more than sufficient for the wants of our school; and hence no one is ever obliged to wait on, wasting time in idleness. If a student, at any time, is required to wait a few days, it is always because there are not a sufficient number unoccupied to join him. As soon as he finds a proper number of companions, they are at once supplied. The knowledge of this fact not unfrequently induces