10 so that tlie preceding figures might easily'he increased by a half perhaps doubled. ' These remarks apply equally to the supply of the anatomical schools at the College and the Andersonian University; yet so carefully and quietly are the provisions of the Anatomy Act carried on, that few of our citizens are aware that thei-e are two flourishing anatomical schools in our city; at least their existence is not forced on their notice by any disagreeable pro- ceedings, and the feelings of the poorest are held sacred. Besides this, in terms of the Act, every body, after having been examined at the schools, is regularly inteiTcd a't the expense of the teachers. What a contrast does not this present to the night-watching, the rioting, the mobbing, of former times ! I am not sure that this increased facility in obtaining bodies has produced a corresponding amount of application on the part of the students; for although those who earnestly set to work, and those who have a partiality for the study, take advantage of these resources, yet I cannot help thinking that there are others who sometimes shy their practical studies, under the belief that they can pursue them at any time they choose. I am confident that the receipt of a body into a dissecting-room in the olden time, when it was obtained by a hard night's labour, at the risk of life or liberty, would be attended with an amount of interest which cannot be expected at the present day, and would be followed by a degree of perseverance in study, and attention to the directions of the teacher, which would be well to be imitated by those who now occupy the rooms. A feature, however, is now to be found which could not have existed formerly. The more advanced students, after having completed their dissections, are in the habit of performing the operations of surgery on the dead body. This is one of the most important parts of practical anatomy, for a knowledge of practical surgery, sufficient to enable a surgeon to enter on the practice of his profession, is not to be obtained in any other way. It would be an act of fool-hardihood for a man to go forward to an operation, who has not previously performed a similar one, as well as examined the relations of the parts impli- cated, on the dead body. The explanation of the steps of the operation in the class-room, and seeing it perfonned by another, are powerful auxiliaries in enabling him to take up a proper idea of its nature, but cannot give the confidence which results from the satisfaction of having already performed it on a dead body. Besides this information, and consequent confidence, the student acquires, what is not less necessary, an ease and firmness in the use of his instruments, which he soon finds are to be managed in a way quite different from ordinary dissection. And this makes it all the more necessary, that, before finally quitting the dissect- ing-room, he should learn to change the light and sweeping movements of his knife, to which he has been accustomed, for