3 time, and therefore several material parts of anatomy were left out." In confirmation of this statement, it may be mentioned that the syllabus of Mr. Bromfield's lectures, published in 1743, including anatomy and surgery, comprises the whole in thirty- eight; that of Dr. Nichols, in 1746, proposes anatomy, physio- logy, the general principles of pathology, and midwifery, to be completed in thirty-nine; and that of Mr. Nourse, published m 1748, " Totam rem anatomicam complecteTiSj' has only twenty- three.* What a contrast does not that present to the present day, when the " Res Anatomica" is included in two separate and distinct courses, taught simultaneously during a period of six months, and into which the whole subject can with difficulty be condensed! But Avhat would one of those teachers have said, who was in the habit of teaching operative surgery on a dead dog, could he now walk into one of our dissecting-rooms and see the students in the pur- suit of practical anatomy ? And yet the importance of this branch has been much overlooked of late years, in consequence of the attention that has been drawn to the discoveries in microscopical anatomy and animal chemistry. These two studies are most im- portant, and are peculiarly interesting from the light which they throw on physiological inquiry; but so much has been said and written about them, that anatomy, and particularly practical ana- ; tomy, which is, after all, the true basis of surgical proficiency, has 1 been thrown into the shade, and has met with apparent neglect. I This should not be the case, for it is one of the few branches of ! study which, in most instances, can only be acquired during : student life. Others may be pursued as well, and even better, i during the first few years of practice; but with regard to this, the I practitioner is removed from his school, and, except fi*om an occa- sional ins2:)ection, his real anatomical knowledge remains in statu \ quo. It is idle to talk of books and drawings; the practitioner ' well knows that the anatomy which is to avail him, is what he saw while a student.f Now, in this respect, the Glasgow student I has immense advantages, which are not sufficiently recognised, I nor well enough known. There is no presumption in stating ! what is consistent with fact, that Glasgow stands unexcelled, and I probably unequaled, as a school of practical anatomy. The con- I * Ilunterian Oration of Thomas Chevalier, F.R.S., 1821. ' t It is sometimes said that the crying up of anatomy is a piece of afTectation, \ and tiiat an intimate knowledge of anatomy is not required for the vast majority 1 of surgical operations ; that the only difference between a good anatomist and I one who is not so proficient, is, that during an amputation, for instance, the ' anatomist names the arteries as he ties them, while the other ties whatever bleeds without more ado. I}ut in the present day this fallacy does not need to be exposed—the ligature of arteries, the excision of tumours from the neck, the j decision on the practicability of an operation in the neighbourhood or under tho lower jaw, are examples requiring a thorough and ready knowledge of anatomy. There is moi-o, aflectation in decrying anatomy than in supporting its claims.