11 the circumscribed and more decided incisions usually required in surgical operations. With this object in view, in our dissecting- room in the Andersonian University, we use every means for encouraging the student to perform the operations, especially in the summer session, which, except during tlie first six weeks, is not so favourable for dissection; and in the later weeks of the session, om- room might be likened to the cock-pit of a man-of- war during a naval engagement. It has often surprised me, that the surgeons in practice in Glasgow do not more frequently avail themselves of the above- mentioned abundance of supply, especially during the autumn recess, when there are rio students in town to reap the advantage of it. Some do occasionally, and one or two regularly, occupy themselves in our dissecting-room; but the majority seem to differ from Sir Astley Cooper in his opinion, which was, that true sur- gical proficiency could only be obtained by frequently dissecting and operating on the dead body. Before concluding, I cannot help alluding to the effect of the Anatomy Bill on the community at large. This has been most beneficial, for instead of the anxious watchiugs over the graves of fi-ieuds, and the terror that every morning would reveal traces of those who had been employed in removing the bodies, they now rest assured that there is no risk of such a proceeding, and their feelings are unharassed by any anxiety. Those who have charge of these matters carry on their duties so quietly, that the citizens never hear of the anatomical school; and the supply of the school is intentionally kept a kind of mystery, which no one has any interest to inquire into, so long as it does not interfere with the private feelings of any member of the community. Another thing to be noticed is the altered feelings with which the students are regarded by the citizens. In those days, the name of a medical student was always associated with everything that is bad; and, in not a few instances, the pursuits in which they had to engage were not calculated to elevate their sentiments; but now they are, with propriety, accounted among the peaceful and regular inhabitants of the city. What a change, too, in the outward appearance of the newer churcliyards ! Compare the graveyard at St. David's, or beside the Cathedral, with their damp, airless vaults, and great menagerie- looking cages surrounding the tombstones, with the elegantly laid out and tastefully finished sepulchres of the Necropolis and Sighthill. What an amount of money must have been laid out in iron, to render tliese resting-places secure, grim, forbidding! How much more pleasing to the feelings of friends, when they go to indulge their natural grief, to sec the tomb unfettered, even though It be only covered with the simple turf or flowers, or marked by the plainest stone! In this way, too, they can be better arranged, with spaces for flowers, shrubs, and ti'ees, and