6 siderably advanced in decomposition. Such as they were, liow- ever, it may be believed that the dissectors woukl be most dili- gent in the study of what it had cost them such hard labour to ohtain. But, in addition to the difficulty and toil of resurrec- tioning, it was attended with no small amount of danger. The friends of those who were buried used frequently to take their turn of watching the grave, and sometimes were armed with loaded pistols, thus endangering the lives of their fellow-men for the sake of a dead body. Parties of students have actually been fired at while engaged at or leaving a grave, and on one occasion, inany years ago, a young man, while watching the grave of a rela- tive, was shot dead, in consequence of a pistol accidentally going off. This was in the old Kam's-horn, or North-west burying-ground. The unfortunate lad received the bullet in his chest, was imme- diately carried to the Infirmary, and died soon after. On another occasion, a bullet was lodged in the window-shutter of a dwelling- house in George Street, having been fired from a pistol by one of a party of watchers in the same burying-ground. It is truly surprising that, notwithstanding these and similar accidents, the custom of watching our graves with loaded fire-arms was winked at or encouraged by the authorities, even up to the passing of Mr. Warburton's Anatomy Act; while, at the same time, the lives and properties of the living lieges were thought sufficiently protected during the night by a set of lazy old men, armed, not with guns and pistols, but only with stout sticks. One would think that the dead might have been as easily and as well protected in a similar way. It is a curious circumstance, that up till very lately, if not still continued, a pistol used to be fired in one of the graveyards near the High Church at midnight, to give notice that the watch is set, and fire-arms are kept on the premises. The following incident, which shows the danger to which the students were subjected, and their determination to get what they wanted in spite of all difficulties, may be remembered by some who were then at their studies. A patient of a celebrated surgeon in Glasgow, having died of some internal disease, under peculiar circumstances, he was very anxious to be allowed to examine the body after death. The friends having decidedly refused to permit the body to be opened, the surgeon determined to obtain, without their consent, what they had refused to his reasonable request. He therefore employed a party of his students to get the body from the grave. As was usual under similar circumstances, the friends employed some men to watch the grave, and prevent the body being removed. These men being accustomed to the job, and not being so immediately interested in the security of the grave, contented themselves with sitting in a watch-house, which was in a corner of the graveyard, and occasionally coming out and firing a pistol, to warn off any depredators Avho might be