HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 612 axial fibula in the second segment of the pelvic appendage, as opposed to the preponderance of the upper end of the post-axial ulna over the pre- axial radius, further increases this difficulty, as muscles which are most probably homologous have, as a consequence of this difference in position, different insertions. In cases of difficulty the homologies may perhaps be determined by reference to the origins, some of which are fairly con- stant. Thus for instance the triceps, the great extensor of the forearm, is inserted into the post-axial ulna; while the quadriceps, the extensor of the leg, is inserted into the pre-axial tibia, and yet the justness of their homological comparison is indicated by the fact that their origins are from corresponding portions of the bone segments. This statement as to the muscular origins may seem to contradict what has aheady been said with reference to the homology between the latissimus dorsi and the gluteus maximus, as the former does not arise from the shoulder girdle in the same way that the latter does from the pelvic ghdle; but other considerations have led to the belief expressed, and the student, instead of being bewildered and discouraged by this apparent arbitrary use of determining data, must recollect that various causes, some superior and others inferior, have led to modifications of structure which can only be solved by recognising the various processes which have contributed to this apparent difference but really hidden similarity. Table of Homologies of tue Limb-muscles. (Krause.) Thoracic limb. Subscapularis. Deltoid, acromial part. Conico-bracbialis. Supra-spinatus. Infra-spinatus. Teres major. ,, minor. Quadrigeminus Lracbii/ short head and tendon. Quadrigeminus short head and aponeu- rosis. Quadrigeminus long bead and tendon. Brachialis anticus. Triceps hrachii and anconeus. „ „ long head. ;} „ ext. head and anconeus. » „ middle. Subanconeus. Pelvic limb. Psoas magnus. Iliacus. Ghiteus maximus. Gluteus minimus. „ medius. Pyriformis. Biu'salis. Obturator externus. Quadi-al us femoris. Tensor fasciae latse. Sartorius. Gracilis. Semitendiuosus. Biceps femoris, long head. Semimembranosus. Biceps femoris, short head. Quadriceps femoris. Rectus femoris. Vastus internus. „ ext. and crureus. Subcrureus. Pectineus. Adductor longus. „ brevis. „ minimus. „ magnus. The German name for the biceps.