DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. 600 The transverse metatarsal ligament is a stfongish fibrous band resem- bling that in the hand, and connecting together the heads of the meta- tarsal bones. To its posterior edge are connected a thin fascia covering the interossei muscles, the tendons of the flexor longus and brevis digi- torum, and longus pollicis. The digital nerves and the transversalis pedis conceal it. Directions.—Reflect the flexor brevis minimi digiti by dividing it near its middle, and divide the transverse metatarsal ligament betvreen the bones ; separate the interossei muscles, remove the fascia covering them, and dissect out the muscular branches of the external plantar nerve. Fourth Layer of Muscles.—In this layer are found the interossei and the tendons of the tibialis posticus and peroneus longus. The Pedal Interossei muscles resemble those in the hand, with this exception, that in the hand they are arranged around the middle line of Fii'st intosg. Second ,, TUird „ Fig. 387.—Plantar interossei of right foot. the whole member; while in the foot they are grouped around the second toe which is taken as the mid-line. They are placed in the interval between the metatarsal bones, and are seven in number, consisting of two sets —three palmar, and four dorsal, which are the larger, two being found in each space except the innermost, which lacks a plantar interosseous muscle. The Plantar Interossei are placed beneath and between the three outer metatarsal bones. They are slender, single, fleshy slips, being connected with but one metatarsal bone, and arise from the bases, inner sides, and under surfaces of the shafts of the third, fourth, and fifth metatarsal bones, and are inserted into the inner or tibial sides of the bases of the first phalanges of the same toes, and partly by an expansion to the aponeurosis of the common extensor. These muscles are smaller than the dorsal, are placed more in the sole of the foot, and are all adductors towards the mid-line of the second toe.