641 DISSECTION Of THE PERINJEUM. assists that organ in its contraction. Were it not for this accumulation of fat there would exist two deep hollows on either side of the rectum which would almost hang free, i.e., would only be connected to the parietes by its vessels and nerves. In old and thin people, or after wasting diseases, there is frequently a hollowness on either side of the rectum owing to the absoi-ption of the fat from this part as well as in other portions of the body. A mass of fat enclosed in strong fibrous partitions will also be found over the ischial tuberosities. The fibrous septa are adherent to the skin, and frequently a_ large uni- or multilocular bursa will be found be- tween these fat masses and the skin. I have rarely found these bursa3 in children; they are developed later, and are the result of pressure or fric- tion, and act as pads to prevent the skin being injured by the body weight in sitting, riding, &c. They sometimes enlai-ge or inflame in people who ride much, and have consequently received the name of ' rider's bm-sa^.' Fig. 463.—Vertical tbansveese section through the pelvis, bladder, AND rectum. The object of the fibrous septa being adherent to the skin is—as in the case of the skin under the os calcis—not only to keep the fat in its place at the point of pressure, but to prevent too much sliding of the skin in sitting, riding, &c., so that the skin which has become accustomed to pressure and friction shall be confined to its place. The loose fatty tissue of the fossae is frequently the seat of inflammation and abscess, which may burst either externally or into the rectum, or in both directions, forming the various kinds of fistulce. In two cases under my care, both males, there was extensive emphysema following these abscesses. (]\Ir. Bryant, in his ' Surgery,' mentions a similar case, and Mr. Pusey of Liver- pool has recently published in the ' Ijancet' a very interesting case of this kind, which however recovered.) This emphysema is fortunately of very rare occurrence, and one which can only be explained by the air having penetrated to the superficial layer of fatty tissue, which is continuous T T