621 EOMOLOGIES OF THE LiMBS. Taule of Homologous Limb Aeteries. Thoracic limb. Brachial. Superior prol'imdii. Anterior circuinlUiX. Median collateral.' Posterior circumflex. Anastomoses round elbow, liadial. Ulnar. Ulnar metacarpal. Dorsal or posterior interosseous. Anterior carpal arch. Posterior ,, „ Dorsal interosseous. „ digital. Deep palmar arch, rahu'.ir iuterossei. digital. Peh'ic limb. \ Ischial hrancli of the sciatic and popliteal ] artery. j Femoral and its musculo-articular branch in vast. int. and anastomotica magna. I'lxteriial circuuiQex. Descending brancli of ext. cirllex. Internal circumliex. Anastomoses round knee. Posterior tibial in leg. (Jommon peroneal. Posterior tibial in foot. Posterior peroneal. Anterior tibial, in leg. Anastomoses around os calcis. Dorsal tarsal arch. „ interosseous. „ digital. Plantar arch. „ interossei. digital. The Veins partake of the homologies of their corresponding arteries. The superficial veins of the forearm and arm, viz. the median basilic, the median cephalic, the cephalic, and basilic represent together a large vein, which Bardeleben regards as the vena princeps brachii and compares with the internal saphena. The external saphena is then homologous with the basilic in the forearm, and the cephalic in the arm is regarded as a down- ward mnning branch of the princeps brachii, which is represented in the thigh by a femoro-popliteal vein. This communicates in the popliteal space with the popliteal and internal saphena veins, but this does not exjjlain the com'se and varieties of the upper part of the cephalic vein which sometimes forms a ring around the clavicle and anastomoses with the external jugular. Thoracic limb Cephalic, in forearm. Median. Basilic, in arm. ,, in forearm. Cephalic, in arm. Table of Homologies of tue Limb Veins. Pelvic limi. Internal or great saphena. } External saphena. Femoral and popliteal. The homologies of the Limb Lymphatics are sufficiently obvious. The superficial and deep lymph vessels correspond in the main, the elbow and [lopliteal glands respond to each other, exce})t that the latter are more numerous, and the axillary and inguinal glands also answer to each other in receiving the returned lymph from the limb and partly from the trunk. ' This is a Inancli of the superior profunda or profunda bnichii, which, however, is not homologous with the profunda femoris. J