BISSECTIOy OF THE LOWER LIMB. greatest resistance is required. Belcnu and posteriorly it is thin, loose, and longer than in its other parts. Its external surface is somewhat rough and covered by numerous muscles, being separated in front by a synovial bursa from the psoas and iliacus. This bursa frequently communicates with the joint by a circuhu- aperture. The capsular ligament of the hip differs from that of the shoulder in not being perforated by a tendon, and in being less loose. Certain jDortions of the capsular ligament are stronger than others, forming the accessory bands of fibres. ()n the front there is a wide longi- tudinal layer of fibres, the central thick portion of which is called tlie ilio-femoral ligament, or ligament of Bertin. It extends obliquely across the front of the joint and strengthens it in this situation. It is attached above to the anterior inferior iliac spinous process, and widens below, where it is fixed to the middle of the anterior intertrochanteric line. It is sometimes bifm'cated at its lower end, an arrangement which Bigelow looks on as usual, and he has described it under the name of the Y Liga- vimt. This ilio-femoral ligament is the strongest in the body, and prevents over-extension of the joint. It is also the main means in keep- ing up the erect position without tiring the extensor muscles, and the action of the gluteal muscles is counterbalanced by its tension. The femur being fixed, it will considerably assist in sustaining the pelvis on the femoral head. The outer portion of the anterior smfaceof the capsu- lar ligament is also thickened, and extends from half an inch below and outside the anterior inferior iliac spinous process, opposite the outer head of the rectus, to the fore and upper part of the great trochanter and neck of the femiu'. This portion of the capsular ligament checks adduction of the femur. It is called the ilio-trochanteric band. The inner portion of the front of the capsule is also thickened, and is called the puho-femoral band; it is fixed above to the prominent portion of the pubes internal to the acetabulum, and below is attached to the rough surface at the anterior part of the femoral neck, in front of, and on a level with, the lesser tro- chanter. This portion limits additction of the joint. The capsule at its posterior part has a transverse band of fibres about the width of the index-finger which arches over a,nd surrounds the neck of the bone. This band is fixed by its lower edge to the cervix femoi-is by a thin layer of .ligamentous tissue and synovial membrane. To its upper edge are attached the longitudinal posterior fibres of the capsule. This arrangement obviates that restriction of the to and fro movements of the joint, which would occur if the longitudinal fibres were attached to the posterior part of the neck of the femur instead of being inserted into the transverse band of the capsule. Relations.—In cleaning the capsular ligament the student must have noticed the more immediate muscular relations of the joint. In front and helo^v are the psoas and iliacus, separated by a biusa; above, iu front, and to the inner side are the pectineus and obturator externus ; the shoi-t- head of the rectus is above, and above and behind are the long-head of the rectus and the gluteus minimus, the latter closely adherent to the capsule. The obturator intemus and gemelli, the tendon of the obturator externus, the quadratus femoris, and the pyriformis are behind. The femoral artery runs over the front of the joint a little internal to the femoral head, being separated by muscular fibres. The great sciatic nerve runs jws-