HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 24 Gyncecological anatomy, the last including the anatomy of the foetus and child. Anthropometry is the name given to the method -which consists in measuring, weighing and comparing, or contrasting the various parts or organs of the human subject. The ordinary descriptions furnished by the text-books are founded on the dissections of a large number of male and female adults, and are taken as the norm; but my view is, and I would impress it on the student, that before we can obtain the true norm, very many thousands more subjects must be carefully dissected; and the attentive worker will soon become convinced of this fact, because he will observe that in no two bodies are the parts and relations exactly alike, and to strike anything like a correct average, it is necessary to have an enormous number of accm-ate observa- tions from which a correct mean must be drawn. Fm-ther, the element of ' personal equation,' which is a strong one, must be duly allowed for in drawing conclusions from the observations of different workers. For the purposes of the practical surgeon, physician, and gynecologist, the facts of ordinary adult and foetal anatomy are sufficient; but to a thorough comprehension of the subject it is necessary to study the develop- ment of the embryo, and this forms another division of anatomy, which is termed Embryology. The student must refer to his systematic books, or to the various monographs on the subject of human and comparative development, for this branch of the subject; but the anatomy of the foetus will be given in a separate section of this work. Anthropotomy, or Practical, or Technical Anatomy, deals with the method of dissecting the body, of preparing it prior to dissection, and of preserving the various organs and parts for the museum. Applied Anatomy is, as the term would convey, the application of anatomical facts, and especially of the relations of the various organs and parts to each other, to the practical purposes of the surgeon, physician, and obstetrician, and may be accordingly divided into sm-gical, medical and obstetric anatomy, the last including the anatomy of the foetus. Physiological or Textttral Anatomy is synonymous with general ana- tomy, and deals with the minute structure of organs, preparatory to study- ing their uses or functions. Artistic or Plastic Anatomy comprehends, chiefly, the study of the external configuration of the body, its prominent bony and soft markings and depressions, and the changes produced by muscular action, and is studied by those desiring to excel in the delineation of the forms, the expression of the countenances, and the njodifications of the figures of man and the lower animals. Forensic Anatomy deals with the changes produced in the body by occupation, climate, injury, and other causes, and if these be produced by disease or poisons, it becomes a branch of the science of Pathological Anatomy. Teratological Anatomy has to do with the structure of monstrosities, whether due to deficient or excessive development, and may best be con- sidered a branch of embryology, or of pathological anatomy. Anatomy may be studied from two chief standpoints, the morpho- logical, and the physiological. In the morphological study the various branches of anatomy are called into play to aid in the elucidation of