61 ANATOmCAL TECHNICS. 1 part of each to 250-500 parts of water. The parts, or sections, are then treated with concentrated glycerine. Hoyer's mass,.though less brittle than Hyrtl's, is also too fragile ; and I would recommend the following formula to make a mass, which is much more tenacious: White wax .... 1 part Resin ^ » A still more supple mass may be made thus : Eesin ...... 5 parts Ux tallow, suet, or lard . . lA „ These injections may be coloured by some of the materials already given, or 90 parts of vermilion, or 30 parts of Prussian blue may be added to 300 parts of the injection mass. The liquified injection should be filtered through lint to rid it of any impurities. To inject the Lungs.—This may be done in situ, or after removal of the lungs, trachea, and heart; and the arteries, veins, and bronchi can then be injected. To inject the Liver.— It and the diaphragm should be removed to- gether, and the inferior vena cava above and below the liver should be tied. The injection should be made through the portal vein or hepatic artery, and bile duct if required. To inject the Kidney.—This may be done in situ, or if after removal the capsular vessels and spermatic vein should be ligatured. Before in- jecting it any organ should be placed in a warm bath of a temperature of 33° for about two hours and injected under water, and after injection it should be put in the position desired, and allowed to cool. If this be not done at this stage, the injection will most likely break.' The injection is more thorough if the organ have been thoroughly hydrotomised and subsequently injected with a preservative fluid. The injection of hydrate of chloral 10 in 100 gives good results, as it hardens the vascular walls. The cooled organ shoidd be placed in a glass or porcelain receptacle that has a hole in its bottom, which is closed by a glass or porcelain plug. A solution of two-thirds of nitric or hydi'ochloric acid to one-third water should be poured into the vessel until the viscus or part is covered.^ In from three to four weeks the organic matter is reduced to an offensive pulp, and if the plug be removed fi'om the bottom of the vase this and the acid will run away. If this maceration has not been sufficient, some more acid should be applied and left in contact with the organ for about two weeks ; and when the organic matter is destroyed, a small stream of water is allowed to flow over the preparation to wash the surface of the injection-cast and to cleanse it of any small pieces which may be adherent. The preparation is then allowed to dry, and subsequently coated with varnish, which is gently poured over it to give it a shining aspect. Any ' IE the organ bo isolated before injection, it is bust lo wasli it well out, both internally and externally, then to squeeze out the water and hang it up to allow the water to drain off. It shr)uld them be placed in l-o I'rieiir's or some other suitable preservative fluid for half an hour before ])r()ceoding with the other sl,c]).s. ^ Tt is h.;tter at first to place tlic proparation in equal parts of the acid and water, and gradually strengtlicn.