549 nissi:cTioN of the lower limb. under the extensor brevis digitorum und supplies that muscle and the tarsal joints, and anastomoses with the external plantar, the metatarsal, peroneal, and external malleolar arteries. Relations oj? the Dorsalis Pedis Artery. In front.—Skin, fascife, and iunei-nioat tendon of tlie extensor brevis digitorum. Inside.—Extensor proprius pollicis Outside. — Extensor longus dig-itonuu and anterior tibial nerve. Behind.—Tlie astragalus, scaphoid, internal cuneiform, and their ligaments. The Metatarsal Branch ai-ises between the base of the metatarsal bones, passing out beneath the short extensor. Occasionally there are two metatarsal vessels, the second being the smaller, and commonly when there is but a single metatarsal vessel it arises in common with the tarsal artery. Its direction will vary according to its point of origin, being oblique when it arises far back and nearly transverse if it be given off further forwards than usual. It anastomoses with the external plantar and tarsal arteries, and gives off the interosseous branches. The Interosseous Vessels are three in number, and are given off from the convexity of the metatarsal arch. They are small straight vessels which pass upon the three outer dorsal interossei, and divide slightly behind the clefts of the toes into two dorsal collateral branches for the adjoining toes. The outermost of these vessels sends off a small branch to the outer side of the little toe. At the fore part of each interosseous space they are joined by the anteHor 'perforating branches from the digital arteries of the plantar arch, and at the back part of each interosseous space they receive the "posterior perforating branches from the plantar arch. They supply the interossei muscles. The Dorsal Artery of the great toe (dorsalis hallucis) passes forwards from the dorsalis pedis at the point where the latter dips down to the sole. It passes along the outer border of the first metatars.il bone to the cleft between the first and second toes, and divides into two branches, the inner one passing beneath the tendon of the extensor pollicis to the inner border of the great toe, the other branch bifm-cating to nomish the adjacent sides of the great and second toes. The Anterior Tibial and Dorsalis Pedis veins have similar extent and connections to the arteries they accompany. They form loops ai-ound the vessels by cross branches and receive bi-anclies corresponding to those of the artery, and communicate with the internal saphenous vein. They join the posterior tibial to form the popliteal vein. The valves in the deep veins of the leg are numerous, ten or a dozen being found between the knee and heel. Dissection.—Cut through the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius below the annular ligament, and tlirow them towards the toes. The extensor brevis digitorum will then be exposed.