SUMMARY OF DISSECTIONS. A brief repetition of the method of dissecting each region and of the structures found, layer by layer, is given in this section. I believe this will be found very serviceable to students who have abeady dissected and who are again about to prosecute dissections in a later stage of their cur- riculum. DISSECTION OF UPPER LIMB. PECTORAL REGION. 1. Incisions. 1. From the episternal notch to the xiphoid cartilage. 2. From the upper part of this incision to the insertion of the deltoid. 3. From the lower part of it another across the inferior boundary of the axilla to the upper third of the inner side of the arm. Reflect the skin. 2. In the subcutaneous cellulo-fatty layer dissect out the cutaneous acromial branches from the descending branches of the cervical plexus and the cutaneous nerves from the intercostals; also cutaneous twigs from the long thoracic, internal mammary, and superior thoracic arteries, and the accompanying veins and superficial lymphatics. 3. If the subject be a female note the position, relations, attachments, and sheath of the mammary gland ; then remove and dissect it. 4. Define the aponem'osis of the pectoralis major; then reflect it. 5. Make out the attachments and relations of the pectoralis major, pectoralis minor, and serratus magnus, and define the regions of the sterno- mastoid and the insertions of the external oblique and rectus. 6. After reflecting the pectoralis major, make out the attachments of the costo-coracoid membrane and note the structures which pierce it; then reflect and define the attachments of the subclavius and dissect out the first part of the axillary artery and study its relations and its branches, also the cords of the brachial plexus and the axillary vein. 7. Reflect the pectoralis minor to expose the second part of the axillary artery and the accompanying nerves and veins, and dissect the external intercostals and their fascite. INFRA- CLA VICULAR REGION. If the previous instructions have been followed, the boundaries of this place will have been disturbed, but if the pectoralis minor and the costo- coracoid membrane remain undisturbed the following dissection will expose the contents of the space. 1. Reflect the costo-coracoid rnernbrane, whicli will he found to form part of the slieath of the pectoralis minor below, and above to be attached