DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 2-11 anastoinotica magna anastomose with, the jjosterior ulnar retim'rent; in front of the oiiUr condyle, the superior profunda joins the radial re- current ; behind this condyle and between it and the olecranon, the posterior articular branch of the superior profunda unites with the posterior interosseous recurrent, and part of the superior profunda joins the anasto- inotica magna. There is also an anastomotic arch above the olecranon between the anastomotica magna, posterior ulnar recurrent, and posterior interosseous recurrent. The student will observe that the anastomotica magna has most to do, and is only not engaged in this free anastomosis in the front of the outer condyle. THE PALM OF THE HAND. Dissection.—Make a longitudinal incision along the middle of the palm, and one transverse to it along the webs of the fingers, and reflect the skin in and out, being careful of the palmaris brevis beneath the inner flap and the palmar cutaneous branches of the median and ulnar nerves. The palmar fascia and palmaris brevis should be cleaned, and the transverse ligament at the roots of the fingers must be preserved. Just above the digital commissures, between the processes of the palmar fascia, the digital vessels and nerves will be perceived. Those for the outer side of the index finger and the inner side of the little finger become apparent rather farther back than the others. Between the digital vessels and nerves the lumbri- cales muscles will be observed. The skin and subcutaneous fatty tissue must be carefully removed from the fingers and thumb by an incision along the middle of each, so that the sheaths of the flexor tendons, the cutaneous ligaments, and the collateral digital vessels and nerves and lymphatics may be exposed. Cutaneous Ligaments of the Phalanges,—Prof. Cleland, in 1867, in the ' Report of the Proceedings of the British Association,' stated ' that strong ligaments, hitherto undescribed, extend from the sides of the phalanges, near the phalangeal articulations, and are inserted into the skin, helping to retain the different parts of the integument in the posi- tions which they are adapted to occupy.' He also describes them in the 'Journal of Anatomy,' vol. xii. p. 5. These ligaments are very constant structures; those at the first digital interphalangeal joint are well developed, and also those at the inter- phalangeal joint of the thumb ; and a similar though distinct arrangement can be seen at the distal joints of the fingers and toes. At the first inter- phalangeal articulation a strong band of fibres arises from the lateral ridge of the first phalanx in the distal half of its extent, some of them within and some without the grasp of the ligamentum vaginale, and joining this hand are a few fibres coming from the lateral prominence of the base of the second phalanx. This band passes down behind the digital artery and nerve, and its fibres spread out on reaching the skin, those on the palmar aspect turning over to the mid-line of the finger. A smaller decussating band is situated behind this, and it arises from the lateral ridge of the second phalanx and passes up by the side of the first phalanx to its insertion into the skin. At the last joint of the fingers the chief band passes up from the lateral prominence at the base of the last phalanx, and is strengthened by It