HUMAN MOJiPIIOLOGY. 444 from the pelvis across the back of the thigh and knee joint, and have been called the ' hamstring mitscles,' from their cord-like aspect at the sides of the ham, or popliteal space. That on the outer side is the biceps; the two on the inner are the semitendinosus and semimembranosus. The Biceps is a long muscle placed on the posterior and outer aspect of the thigh. It arises by two heads, a long and a short. The long or ischial takes origin from the inner and lower side of the back of the tuber ischii, by a tendon common to it and the semitendinosus ; the shoi't or femoral head arises from the outer lip of the linea aspera between the vastus externus and adductor magnus, passing from just below the inser- tion of the gluteus maximus to within two inches of the outer condyle. It also arises from the posterior surface of the external intermuscular septum. The fibres from the long-head form a fusiform belly, and passing down and out, end in an aponeurosis on the posterior surface of the muscle and receive the fibres of the short head. This aponeurosis gradually contracts into a tendon which divides into two pieces, and after embracing the external lateral ligaments of the knee is inserted into two prominences on the outer side of the head of the fibula, and sends a strongish prolongation to the outer tuberosity of the tibia, and from this process an expansion is sent to the deep fascia of the leg. The tendon of this muscle forms the upper and outer boundary of the popliteal space. Relations.—It is superficial except at its origin, where it is covered by the gluteus maximus. Belotv the deep and superficial fascia and skin are superficial to it, its deep surface is in relation with the upper part of the semimembranosus, the adductor maximus, vastus externus, and the great sciatic nerve. The popKteal artery and vein are to its inner side, and the external head of the gastrocnemius, the plantaris, and superior external articular vessels are in relation with its deep surface in the popliteal space. The external popliteal nerve is in close relation to its inner border in the popliteal space. This nerve must not be divided in tenotomy of the biceps tendon. Action.—The hamstring muscles flex the leg upon the thigh. The biceps is natmrally, then, <i flexor of the leg, and when the leg is not fixed it can, in consequence of its direction obliquely down and out, rotate the tibia slightly oitiwards. Its long-head will extend the hip joint when the knee is straight. The leg being fixed the long-head will support the pelvis on the femur, and the short-head will draw down the femur so as to flex the knee in stooping. Nerve.—The great sciatic. Varieties.—There may be an extra long-head arising from the tuber ischii or from the upper part of the linea aspera or internal condyloid ridge, or other parts, and the short-head may be absent. Otto noticed a slip passing from the long head to the tendo-Achillis. The Semitendinosus is situated at the loosterior and inner aspect of the thigh ; it is a somewhat slender muscle, and remarkable for the great length of its longer tendon. It arises from the back of the tuber ischii, from the inner side of the tendon common to it and the long head of the biceps, and also by fleshy fibres from an aponeurosis which unites the two muscles to the extent of about three inches. It is fusiform, and passes down and in, ending at the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the thigh in a long round tendon, which passes along the inner side of the popliteal space.