HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 4 tells us that Erasistratus only devoted himself earnestly to the study of anatomy after he had given up practice as a physician. Hence, he had to retract many of his opinions. Thus, having taught that the nerves pro- ceeded from the dm-a mater and not from the brain, he now acknowledged his error. Erasistratus knew of the valves of the heart, and distinguished them as the sigmoid and tricuspid ; he also paid special attention to the anatomy of the brain: he described its convolutions, ventricular cavities, the origin of the nerves, and their distribution. He even distinguishes two species of nerves—those of sensation and those of motion. He shared with Herophilus the credit of having observed the chyliferous vessels in goats killed after feeding ; but their discovery remained sterile until they were rediscovered by Aselli. After Herophilus and Erasistratus the progress of anatomy seems to have received a check. Human bodies were no longer' dissected, and the instruction in the schools seems to have been confined to the anatomy of animals. From this period also dates the dispute between the empuics and the dogmatics, the former rejecting anatomy as a useless science, while the latter justly maintained that, in order successfully to battle with disease, the physician should be acquainted with the structure of the body and the functions of its parts. Enough, anatomy fell into undeserved neglect, so that, among the numerous successors of Herophilus and Erasistratus to the time of Galen, there are only three names which deserve mention in relation to anatomy; namely, Marinus, who lived under Nero, and whom Gralen describes as the restorer of anatomy. None of his writings have reached us, but Galen seems to have liberally availed him- self of his labours. He is mentioned as having fixed upon seven as the number of pairs of nerves, and also to have described the hypoglossal under the name of the sixth pair. After Marinus appeared Rufus Ejphesus, who, according to Suidas, lived in the reign of Trojan. The works of this author which have reached us are, ' De Vesicae Renumque Morbis;' < De Purgantibus ;' ' De Partibus Corporis Humani.' He tried to fix the anatomical nomenclature. He admits that his description of the human body was founded upon his studies of the bodies of apes. He distinguished the nerves into two classes, those of sensation and of motion ; he recognised the Fallopian tubes, and was probably the first who described the cbiasma of the optic nerves. Aulus Cornelius Celsus probably lived in the Augustan age (about 40 B.C.-20 A.D.), but neither this point, nor even his profession, is perfectly ascertained, for he wrote treatises on agriculture, I'hetoric, and military matters, as well as on medicine. What concei-ns us here is that his work ' De Medicina,' consists of eight books, which have raached us as a rich depository of the anatomical knowledge })ossessed at his period. From this work it appears that Celsus was well acquainted with the central oi-gans of respiration and circulation, the trachea, lungs, and heart, and also with the alimentary canal and abdominal glands. He had a fair knowledge of the uterus and its appendages. His knowledge of osteology seems to have been extensive. He describes the sutures, and some of the apertures of the cranium, the maxillary bones, the vertebrae and their articular connections. It is even supposed by some that he knew the semicircular canals.