HUMAN MORFHOLOGY. 646 ins with the fibres of the external sphincter, and to a less extent with those of the internal, and is inserted into the skin around the anus.' Action—It raises and inverts the lower end of the rectum, especially its posterior part, and aids in replacing the mucous membrane which has been protruded and everted during defjEcation. It also supports the lower part of the rectum, vagina, bladder, urethra, prostate, and vesiculae seminales during expulsive efforts. The posterior portion may move the coccyx up and to one side, and also raise the posterior part of the anus. Relations.—These are important. This muscle has two siirfaces and three borders, and enters into both the anterior and posterior perinaeal regions. Its tipper or pelvic sm-face is concave, and is covered by the recto-vesical part of the pelvic fascia, its loiver or perinceal aspect is convex downwards, and is covered by the anal fascia. It forms the inner boundary of the ischio-rectal fossa, and is in contact with the middle perinaeal fascia 1 Fig. 467,—DiAGEAM op a hoeizontal section of the pelvis to show the MUSCLES OP THE PELVIC DIAPHRAGM FEOM ABOVE. in front, with the external sphincter in the middle, and with the cellulo- fatty layer of the ischio-rectal fossa behind. The middle perinaeal fascia being transversely and this muscle ob- liquely placed, there exists, in consequence, a space filled with fatty tissue between the two; this is the anterior prolongation of the ischio-rectal fossa already mentioned. Its external border is its origin, its internal edge extends from the pubes to the rectum, and is in relation with the rectum, prostate, and pubo-rectal aponeurosis, and its posterior transverse border passes between the ischial spine and the rectum, and is parallel to the » The anterior origins of this muscle are frequently separated by cellular tissue. This and the fact that they descend to the sides of the prostate, have caused them to be described and named by Santorini, and subsequently by Albinus, Sommering, Winslow, and Weber- Hildebrandt, as a separate muscle, the levator constrictor' or compressor prostata). In the female, these anterior fibres descend on the sides of the vagina. Henle, in his Uandhitch d. sijstematisohoi Aiuitomie des Meiischeii, last edition, describes a layer of involuntary muscular fibres, with some interspersed voluntary fibres, which passes behind the prostate and its venous plexus to join the opposite muscle. This layer rests on the junction of the sphincter ani and bulbo-cavernosus, and he has named it thepra-rectalis,