77 ANATOMICAL TECHNICS. evaporation is lessened by applying a glass cover which may be retained in place bv a stout india-rubber band. A saturated solution of common salt or sugar is a less expensive and very serviceable preserving medium, but moulds tu'e apt to form in any of these materials unless the air be rigidly excluded. The addition of some germicide, as salicylic or carbolic acids or thymol, may check the formation of moulds. Deep incisions may be made at a few points on the under surface of the muscles or viscera of large preparations for the better penetration of the preserving fluid. For Permanent Preparations, glass receptacles of various shape^ cylindrical, plain, ovoid, &c., should be used, and those selected in which the preparation can be best seen. The parts are placed in the desired position by glass rods, horse-hair, ivory, or metal pins, and the bottle care- fully lilled with the preservative liquid. The preparation should be well covered, air should be excluded, and the open mouth of the receptacle should be covered with tinfoil or with thick sheet-lead, and then with a piece of bladder which has been previously macerated, so that it can be well stretched over the mouth of the bottle. This is then tied to the groove around the neck of the bottle, but beneath it it is well to close any holes in the lead which have been made to attach the prepai'ation with sealing-wax, so as to prevent evaporation; and the whole should have a coating of Brunswick black or varnish. A second layer of bladder and varnish is reqmsite in permanent preparations. Wet preparations keep best where sunlight can reach them, in dark places they assume an un- pleasant dai'k colour, especially nervous and ligamentous structm'es.^ Presenting Specimens in Paraffcne or Wax.—Glycerine jelly and other materials have been used for permanently putting up certain anato- mical preparations which are not too large. The human brain and liver are too large to be thus preserved. M. Fredericq of Belgium macerates the specimens for several days in pure alcohol, and then in essence of terebinthine. They are then plunged into a heated solution of paraffine or wax. M. Duval recommends heating the preparations in azotic or chromic acid before plunging them in the paraffine. The label or description should then be affixed to the receptacle, but should not interfere with the view of the preparation. For small prepai'a- tions, stoppered bottles answer very well, but their usual round shape interferes with a correct view of the specimen because of the refraction of light caused by the curved surface of the glass. For this reason flat-sided vessels should be used, and the preparation so fixed that it caji be inspected while placed flat on the table or when put upright. ' It is much better, except in the case of dry preparations, as of bones, &p., to substitute a f^lass top for the tinfoil or sheet-lead, as the preparation shows better on account of the extra amount of light admitted. The glass top should be cemented down with a mixture of «W gutta percha, 5 parts, and asphalt, 4 parts. These should bo melted together and applied when hot. The edges of the glass cover are previously ground, and it should be immersed in warm water and dried just before application. The back of Ihc glass jars may be painted with pale blue or lavender, which help to lighten up the preparation.