CHAPTER III. ANATOMICAL TECHNICS. A COMPETENT anatomist needs nothing other than the unprepai'ed sub- ject before him, but it is usual to inject the arterial system, and other- wise prepare the body before the incipient anatomist dissects it. In this section, therefore, we will consider, 1, the methods of injecting the body; 2, the anatomical laboratory, or dissecting room, and its appliances; 3, the method of dissecting the various apparatuses, muscles, vessels, nerves, &c.: 4, the method of preserving anatomical dissections or sections ; and 5, we will conclude with some hints to the student as to how he should study anatomy and how to make frozen sections. The Preparation of the Subjects.—There are two objects which are sought to be attained before the body is brought into the dissecting room. The first is to prevent or retard decomposition; and the second is, to fill the blood-vessels or the arterial division of them, so as to enable the student to trace out the smaller branches and their anastomoses, and to avoid cutting them. If some conservative fluid were not injected through the body by means of the arterial system, decomposition and putrefaction would proceed apace, more especially in the hot weather. In summer, twenty-four hours will produce a change in the body, and in winter it takes from two days to a week, or even more, according to the degree of cold, to produce putrefaction, which is recognised by the greenish coloiu- of the skin, by the raising of the epidermis, which is then easily removed, and by the peculiar odour that is given off at the putrefying points. These preservative injections were largely used in embalming, and are ordinarily liquid. The materials which constitute them pass through the walls of the capillaries into the substance of the tissues, and soak into the various anatomical elements. For the study of the arteries another kind of injection, which consists of a solidifiable substance, is thrown into the arteries, after the conservative fluid has been injected into them. It is not my intention to enter into minute details' upon the various preserva- tive fluids and their relative merits, nor to go largely into the question of embalming. For the pur^ioses of the student it will suffice to give the best means of preserving the cadaver during a certain time—say a month or six weeks—which should be ample for all practical purposes. The body being cold, there is no great need to introduce a warm injection, and if the liquid be prepared it may be injected into any artery, and the whole arterial system filled, unless there be a firm clot in some large vessel whicli impedes tlie injection ; but it is better to select a large vessel such as the femoral or carotid arteries, and if the body has been subjected to post-mortem examination it will be easy to inject the subject