ANATOMICAL TECHNICS. 51 There are diflferent kinds of injections, the ordinary ones being em- ployed for the arteries and veins, and are opaque, unless it be intended to make microscopic sections, and then the vehicle is transparent. The trans- parent or fine injections are used in the study of the capillaries, but these vessels may also be injected with ojiaque materials. Special injections are used in the methods of coiTOsion and macera- tion. COMMON OR ORDINARY INJECTIONS. Grood injection masses should consist of materials which rapidly yield to a moderate heat and which become solid on cooling. They should not be too soft in warm weather, nor too brittle in winter—two inconveniences which belong to injection masses in which tallow is used. It is better to dissolve the matei'ials given in the following formulae in the water bath, but if one be obliged to prepare them over a fire, or over a gas flame, the materials should be placed in an earthen vessel the interior of which is varnished or enamelled. The mixture should not be allowed to boil, and diu-ing heating should be constantly stirred with a metal or glass rod or clean piece of wood. These injections may be pre- pared just before being used, or may be allowed to cool and be used sub- sequently. All the following formulae are good, but the last is the most penetrating injection, and the fourth is the simplest and cheapest. The spermaceti may be left out from it: — 1. Tallow Burgundy pitch or resin . Olive oil Essence of turpentine Dissolve in a water bath and keep for use 2 Dissolve. Dissolve. Dissolve. Dissolve. Tallow . White wax Venetian turpentine Yellow wax . Tallow . Olive oil Tallow . Yellow wax . Venetian turpentine Spermaceti Spermaceti White wax Venetian turpentine 6. Plaster of Paris (finest) Size .... Aqua, enougli to make a thin solution. 300 parts V20 „ 120 „ 60 „ 600 400 2do 300 720 180 1000 30 120 120 120 60 00 lb. 1 3 oz. This injoction sets in half an hour, and dissection can bo at once com- menced. Plaster injections sliould not be used if frozen sections are to be made, as they are too brittle. E 2