HUMAN MOIirilOLOGY. 78 HINTS ON HOW TO STUDY ANATOMY. The student frequently wastes much valuable time for lack of know- ledge of a proper method on which to study a given subject. After many years' experience in learning and teaching, I can recommend the following plan, as one which will lessen the labour and expedite the progress of the learner. Should the dissector not possess some knowledge of biological terms (a somewhat unlikely circmnstance, it is to be hoped, in these days of more extended and better teaching of natural science), he should, the evening before he commences dissecting a part, get a moderately good •knowledge of these and of the bones of the part he is about to dissect. He should do this with his bones and a good osteology before him. Then he should read about thirty pages concerning the part he is to dissect on the morrow, and he will enter the dissecting room with some pleasure to commence his task. These thirty pages are to be again gone through while he is dissecting, and he should not proceed further until he is thoroughly master of that portion of his work. By adopting this method he will, by steadily dissecting even only three hours a day, acquire, in the course of three months, a solid knowledge of a certain portion of anatomy. In the evening he should read some systematic work on the part he is dis- secting, the best English works being those of Quain and Gray. This ■method should be repeated daily; but on each occasion he should recapitu- late and examine himself on the previous day's work, and at the end of the week he should go over all that he has done during the previous days. Any difficulties will be smoothed for him by the demonstrators, whose attention he should draw to all anomalies, at the same time noting them in his book. Surface markings, bony prominences, &c., he can test on himself or on a fellow student. Frequent recapitulation and self-examina- tion are necessary in a difficult subject like anatomy. With regard to the lectures on anatomy, and with reference to note- taking, the student must be advised to attend the former as regularly as possible, otherwise he will lose the sequence of the lecturer's thoughts; but his notes should be short and to the purpose. To effect these desira- ble objects he should ascertain the programme of the lectures, so as to read up in his textbooks the subject for the day, before the lecture begins, because by so doing he will more readily understand the lecturer, and will know what notes to take, i.e. should the matter of the lectiu-e be con- tained, as much of it must of necessity be, in his anatomical handbooks, he need not take that part of the lecture down unless the lecturer has put the matter in a new light; but any novel statements and ideas will strike the student who is thus prse-prepared, and he will make a note of them. Should the student be waiting for a part, he should look at others dis- secting the part on which he will have to work, and should examine any preparations or models in the dissecting room, referring to the plates in his handbook; but any leisure time can well be filled up by thoroughly mastering his osteology, as then the attachments of muscles, to recollect which is generally considered difficult by students, will become much easier. When dissecting, the student should not waste his time in making a