200 HUMAN MORrilOLOGY. Actions.—It extends the wrist, but differs from the longior in extend- ing instead of flexing the elbow. Nerve.—The posterior interosseous. Varieties.—Its tendon may divide into two or more slips, which may be inserted into two of the metacarpal bones, or a slip may pass to the fourth metacarpal. The Extensor Communis Digitorum is placed between the extensors carpi brevior and minimi digiti, and is single at its origin, but divided into four tendons below. It arises from the external condyle by the tendon common to it and the other superficial extensors, from the intermuscular septum, and from the deep fascia. Just below the middle of the arm it sends in three or four tendons, which pass with the extensor indicis through Tendon of ext. carpi brev.- Tendon of ext. carp. long. - Ext. ossis met. poll. Ext. primi iut. poll Tend. ext. 03s> met. poll. Tend. ext. carp. hrev. Tend. ext. prim, iutnod. poll. Anatomical gniiff-box Tend. ext. carp. riul. long. Tend. ext. oss. met. poll. Toud. extv indicis. Union of tendons of ext. com. 11'. 1st dorsal intoss, Ulna Ext. secandi int. poll. Ext. indiols Tendons of ext. com. and indicis Tendon ot ext. carp. uln. _ Tendon of ext. mlii. digiti 4th dorsal intoss. FlCi. 120.—POSTEKIOR MUSCLES OP THE LEFT FOREABM AND TENDONS PASSING UNDER POST-ANNULAR LIGAMENT. a separate partition beneath the posterior annular ligament and in the innermost broad groove on the back of the radius. The tendons diverge as they pass to their insertions. There is one synovial membrane for the tendons of the two muscles. The innermost tendon divides into two after escaping from the posterior annular ligament, and all of them are inserted into the dorsum of the second and third phalanges in the following way : opposite the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation each tendon becomes narrower and thicker, and gives off a thin fasciculus upon each side of the joint; these, and the tendon, serve as the posterior ligament of the meta- carpo-phalangeal and interphalangeal articulations. On the dorsum of