223 DISSECTION OF Tim UPPER LIMB. qiiaili'atus, :ind (lie ulnar vessels and nerve. Jts outer or radial border is in relation above with the palmaris longus, and in its lower two-thirds with the idnar vessels and nerve. Its tendon jpierces the anterior annular ligament. /It'/'ions.—It flexes the wrist on its ulnar side, and draws the hand inwards, it then bends the elbow joint. Acting from below, it assists the previous muscles in climbing. Groove.—The ulnar. Vaneties.—Sometimes there is a supernumary muscle passing from the inferior fourth of the anterior surface of the ulna to the unciform, and occasionally some muscular iibres pass transversely from the internal oondvle to the ulna just above the ulnar nerve. At times its tendon gives fibres to the anterior annular ligament. The Radial Artery is one of the two terminal branches into v.'hich the brachial divides. It appears from its direction to be the continuation of the brachial, though it is not so large as the ulnar. It passes along the front of the outer side of the forearm to the lower end of the radius, below which it winds round the outer border of the wrist, and at the back of the space between the metacarpals of the thumb and forefinger passes forwards into the palm of the hand and crosses to its inner side to join the deep branch of the ulnar artery and form the deep palmar arch. In the forearm it extends from ojDposite the radial neck to the anterior ])art of the styloid process, being to the inner side of the radial shaft above, and in front of it below. A line drawn from the centre of the elbow to the fore part of the radial styloid process will indicate its position. It is more superficial than the ulnar, and its upper part is rather deeper than its lower. In front of it are the skin, superficial and deep fasciae, and it is slightly overlapped above by the supinator longus. Behind it are the tendon of the biceps, the supinator brevis, and pronator radii teres, the radial head of the flexor sublimis, the flexor longus pollicis, the pronator quadratus, and the lower end of the radius. It is between the supinator longus and the pronator teres in its upper third, and in its lower between the tendons of the flexor carpi radialis and supinator longus. Accompanying veins lie on its sides and join by branches over the artery. The radial nerve runs along the outer side of the vessel in the middle third of its course, and some twigs of the musculo-cutaneous nerve cross along the lower part of the vessel as it winds round the wrist. It is separated from the supinator brevis by some fatty tissue. The pulse is usually taken at the lower part of the radial artery just above the wrist. Branches.—In the forearm the radial gives off the following branches : the radial recun-ent, superficialis volse, anterior carpal, and several mus- cular. The Radial Recurrent vnries much in size, and is the first branch, being given off" immediately below the elbow. It passes transversely out- wards, and then upwards between the branches of the musculo-spiral nerve, resting on the supinator brevis, and is then between the supinator longus and brachialis anticus. It supplies the upper part of the muscles at the outer side of the limb, and anastomoses in front of the outer condyle with the terminal branches of the superior profunda artery. A branch of moderate size is given off from the lower side of this artery to anastomose with the posterior interosi^eous recurrent.