HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 630 a superior tubercle of the femoral neck placed at the upper end of the anterior intertrochanteric line, and in the middle of this line an inferior tubercle, which latter, according to Williams, indicates the limit between the origins of the vastus internus and crureus. The limit between the anterior and posterior sm-faces is not uncommonly more pronounced than usual, and springs from just below and anterior to the trochanter minor, and is continuous above with the anterior intertrochanteric line. In about half the cases there is a supra-condyloid process or tubercle at the pos- terior part of the internal condyle, and the inner head of the gastrocnemius arises from it. This process has been found, though rarely, of two centi- metres in length, and is separated from the internal condyle by a smooth depression which has been called the supra-condyloid fossa. Sometimes a corresponding tubercle at the upper end of the external condyle is present, and the plantaris arises from it; and above this latter tubercle, or about the situation of the bifm'cation of the linea aspera, a process three centimetres long and nine millimetres thick has been observed. This has been termed the third trochanter, and when not pathological may be con- sidered homologous to the humeral supra-condyloid process. In the femur of an elderly woman I saw a bony projection about the size of a shilling, and raised nearly half an inch from the bone surface. This was situated about half an inch below the great trochanter, about the middle of the outer aspect of the bone. It did not appear to be pathological, and if it could be shown to occur in a certain percentage of cases, would better deserve the term third trochanter than the process at the lower end just mentioned. As a rule, on each condyle there is a flat impression or groove (pressure facets) which begins at the intercondyloid fossa and passes laterally out, becoming broader. It is more frequent and pronounced on the inner condyle. These are produced by the pressure of the anterior edges of the semilunar fibro-cartilages during complete extension. The tibial surfaces of these condyles are separated from the patellar sm'face through a more or less developed ridge which crosses anterior to the pressure facets. Mikulicz states that frequently a groove, uncovered by cartilage, runs between the lateral edges of the patellar surface and the remaining part of the external condyle, which, being distinct fi'om the lateral pressure facets, he thinks, may be pathological; but its frequent occurrence is, in my opinion, against this view. Tibia.—The outer edge of the ujDper articular surface of the external tuberosity, as well as the inner edge of the internal, are often separated from the rest of the articular surface by circular lines. The parts external to this line correspond to the fibro-cartilages, and the parts internal to the femoral condyles. Corresponding differences are present in the femoral condyles. A rough surface on the antero-lateral part of the external tuberosity into which the ilio-tibial band or ligament of the fascia lata is inserted has been called the tuberculum tibice. At the inner sides of the tubercle and at the lower end of the tibia there occur, though rarely, the superior and inferior trochlear processes. The tendon of the graciHs or spmimembranosus passes beneath the upper one, and the tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor hallucis longus beneath the lower one. In rickety subjects I have often observed the superior process, especially in cases of knock-knee, and it seems probable that it may be produced by overgrowth at the epiphysial Une through irritation produced by the