5G8 HUMAN MORFIIOLOGY. Relations.—In front, from within out, are the tibialis anticus, ex- tensor pollicis, extensor communis digitorum, and peroneus tertius, the anterior tibial vessels and nerve being between the extensors pollicis and digitorum, and the nerve being external to the artery. Behind, from within out, are the tibialis anticus, flexor longus digi- torum, posterior tibial vessels and nerve, and flexor longus pollicis. The tendons of the peroneus longus and brevis lie in the groove behind the external malleolus. The Arteries to the joint are derived from the malleolar branches of the anterior tibial, and from the peroneal and dorsalis pedis. The Nerves are supplied by the anterior tibial. Dissection.—Remove all the soft parts, excepting the ligaments, which will be known by their glistening aspect, from the dorsum and the sole of the foot; and cleanse the connective tissue from between the ligamentous bands which connect the various tarsal, metatarsal, and phalangeal bones. Articulations of the Tarsus.—These may be subdivided into three sets. (1) The joints of the first row of tarsal bones ; (2) those of the second row; and (3) ligaments connecting the bones. The External Galcaneo-astragaloid Ligament is a strong short band, which goes from the outer sm^face of the astragalus, just below its external malleolar facet, to the outer edge of the os calcis. It is parallel with, and situated in front of the middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle. The posterior Galcaneo-astragaloid Ligament is made up of a few short narrow fibres, which pass obliquely back and in, between the posterior extremity of the astragalus and the upper adjoining sm-face of the os calcis. It is grooved by the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. The Interosseous Ligament is the chief bond of union between the boues. It is made up of numerous strong vertical and oblique fibres, fixed above to the groove between the astragaloid articular facets, and below to the corresponding depression on the upper surface of the os calcis. It is very strong and thick, and is an inch in breadth. There are two synovial membranes, one for the anterior and the other for the posterior calcaneo-astragaloid joint. The anterior one passes be- tween the head of the astragalus and the scaphoid. Articular Surfaces.—The interosseous ligament must be cut through before these sm'faces can be studied. There are two articular sm-faces on both the astragalus and os calcis, the anterior and the posterior. The anterior one of the os calcis is concave, and occasionally divided into two; the posterior is convex transversely. The astragaloid sm-faces have just the reverse shape to those of the os calcis, the anterior being convex, the posterior concave. The former one is placed on the under sm-face of the head of the astragalus, and is common to the asti-agalus, os calcis, and scaphoid. The synovial membrane very rarely communicates with that of the calcaneo-cuboid joint. Movements.—In standing, the body weight forces the astragalus down and in, flattening the pedal arch, so that its head rests on the calcaneo- scaphoid ligament and the interosseous ligament is rendered tense. When the pressure is removed, the arch of the foot is restored and the astmgalus is carried up and out by the elasticity of the ligaments. The interosseous astragalo-calcEvnefil ligament is the centre of the only kind of motion, i.e.