88 HUMAN MORTJIOLOGY. parous and sebaceous glands. The depth of this space varies with the position of the limb. It is deepest and most prominent with the arm pendent, but if the arm be lifted, its anterior and posterior boundaries are carried up and rendered tense, and the space becomes more shallow. The fifth rib is in a line with the lower border of the pectoralis major; the first visible digitation of the serratus magnus corresponds to the upper edge of the sixth rib; and the second visible digitation to the seventh rib. The interval between these is the sixth intercostal space, which is a good guide in tapping the chest or in counting the ribs. As before stated, the head of the humerus can be felt in the axilla when the arm is raised, but the axillary glands cannot usually be felt if they be in a normal condition. Depressions.—Besides the deep hollow of the axilla there are certain intermuscular spaces, which are notable landmarks. There is a slight depression between the pectoral and deltoid muscles about the middle of the clavicle. The cephaUc vein runs upwards in this space, and the de- scending branch of the acromial thoracic artery runs down, and the coracoid process can be plainly felt through it near the humerus. Sometimes there is a second groove near the sternal end of the clavicle, which passes outwards and corresponds with the interval between the sternal and clavi- cular origins of the pectoralis major. On each side of the biceps is a, groove, which terminates anteriorly in a depression in front of the elbow. The inner of the two is the deeper, and is the guide to the brachial artery. Along these bicipital depressions the external and internal intermuscular septa can be felt in moderately thin subjects. Beneath the anterior fibres of the deltoid the coraco-aeromial hgament can be made out. The ulnar nerve passes into the forearm between the olecranon and in- ternal condyle, and injuries to the inner side of the elbow cause sharp pain along the inner side of, the forearm and in the little and ring fingers, giving rise to the notion that in this position was placed the ' Funny Bone.' Below the front of the outer condyle, and slightly separated from it, the head of the radius may be felt if the forearm be rotated. Dissection.—Make an incision through the skin only along the middle of the sternum, another, along the clavicle for the inner two- thirds, and continue it down the front of the arm about two inches beyond the anterior axillary fold, carrying it down as far as the hinder fold of the axilla. A third incision is to be made from the ziphoid cartilage to the posterior part of the axilla. Eeflect this flap towards the arm. The fatty subcutaneous layer or superficial fascia of the thorax is similar to that in other parts of the body, but in this region contains less fat. Beneath this is a stronger special fascia, which is continuous with the fascia of the neck and upper extremity above, and of the abdomen below, and closely invests the muscles. On the thoracic wall it is thin, but is much thicker across the axillary fold. It divides into two layers opposite the mamma, one passing in front and the other behind, and numerous septa from both its layers pass into the substance of the gland and sup- port its lobes. Fibrous processes pass from, the anterior layer to the skin