AKATOMICAL TECHNICS. The portal vein can be injected by opening the abdomen, turning aside the omentum and some siMall intestine, and introducing the cannula into one of the veins accompanying the branches of the superior mesen- teric ai-tery. The whole portal system may easily be injected, as there are no valves in these veins, and they do not communicate with other veins. If the subject have been well injected the appearances will be those described under the head Results of Operation on p. 65. PARTIAL INJECTIONS. It is sometimes advantageous, in order to save the injecting material, to make only partial injections for the study of certain limited portions of the body ; thus, the head aud neck, the trunk, the limbs, or parts of these, may have their arteries, veins, or lymphatics injected, or even all of these if thought necessary. Injection of the Head and Neck.—If only one side is desired to be injected it may be done through the lower part of the common carotid, or internal jugular vein. The veins of the head and neck being almost en- tirely devoid of valves, a good injection of these parts may be made against the ordinary com-se of the circulation which is towards the heart. To inject both sides, the sternum must be raised fi-om below, leaving it and the first rib adherent to the soft parts of the neck. The lungs must be separated and the aorta tied before it gives off the innominate artery, and also beyond the origin of the left subclavian. Then both subclavians should be tied in the subclavian triangles outside the scaleni, care being taken not to divide the transverse cervical artery, otherwise the injection will escape at the wound. It may be necessary to secure the bronchial arteries if they have been woimded. Should the vertebral artery be given off, as occasionally occms, outside the scalenus, it must not be included in the ligature of the subclavian, which should be tied beyond it. It will be sufficient to inject 'through one carotid, as the free anastomoses of the vessels of opposite sides allow of the injection of the other side. Injection of the Upper Limb.—The first part of the axillary artery just beyond the clavicle must be carefully opened, the cannula introduced and tied in, and half a pound of injecting material thrown into the arteries. If the veins be injected at the same time, or subsequently, the axillary vein should be tied through the same incision, and the superficial and deep veins of the limb will be filled by injecting from two of the small veins of the hand, as already indicated. To inject the upper limb or any part of it after separation from the trunk, one simply has to tie a cannula into the end of the divided main artery, and to tie any collaterals through which the injection might es- ca])e. When the limb has been sufiiciently injected, the vessels are tied, and coagulation accelerated by placing in cold water. Injection of the Lower Limb.—This should be done through the external iliac artery, being careful in cutting down on that vessel not to wound the epigastric or circumflex iliac branches. If the injecfion How freely and be thoroughly successful, these branches and tlieir anastomoses with the internal mammary and lumbar, &c., will be distended. To inject the veins of tlae lower limb two cannula) should be introduced