665 DISSECTION OF THE PERINJEUM. chiefly of transverse fibres, and is united at its base with the deep layer of the superficial fascia. It is continued forwards around the anterior part of the membranous portion of the urethra, and is lost upon the bulb. The posterior layer is continuous with the recto-vesical division of the pelvic fascia, and is also continuous with the anterior layer of the deep perinseal fascia above, and passes back around the posterior part of the membranous urethra and the outer surface of the prostate gland. Relations.—Superficial to the anterior layer are the three muscles just described, and the superficial perinieal vessels and nerves ; and between the two layers are, from above downwards, the subpubic ligament, the dorsal vein of the penis, the membranous part of the urethra and its muscles, Cowper's glands and their ducts, the pudic vessels and nerves, the artery Fig. 486.—Diageam of the triangular ligament of Cowpee. 1. Deep layer of superficial fascia. 2. Its junction with tbe anterior layer of the triangular ligament behind the Eupfi. transverse nuiscle. 3. The blending of the two layers of the triangular ligament posteriorly. On the left of the figure the continuation of 1 with the superficial abdominal fascia is sliown. The two layers of the triangular ligament are differently shaded for the sake of diagrammatic clearness. Excepting Cowper's glands all the structures between the triangular ligament and the deep layer of supf. periiiieal fascia have been removed. and nerve to the bulb, and a venous plexus. To see these, the following directions must be obeyed. Dissection.—On the left side carefully divide the anterior layer of the deep perinseal fascia near the pubic arch ; raise it and reflect it inwards ; carefully clean any structures exposed, and remove the veins if necessary. Position of parts between the layers of the Deep Perinaeal Fascia.—In the mid-line, below the pubes, is the subpubic ligament, and below this are the dorsal vein of the penis and membranous part of the m-ethra, below which are the ducts of Cowper's glands, the latter being beneath the deep transverse muscle. Near the base of the ligament is the deep transverse muscle; and above it, passing inwards from behind the pubic arch to the urethra, is the constrictor urethrse which surrounds the membranous urethra. Close to the pubic arch on either side are the pudic vessels and