HISTORICAL SKETCH. 17 cellular structure of plants, which was followed up by a still more im- portant work on the cellular structure of both plants and animals by Th. Schwann, Berlin, 1839, and laid the foundation of histology. Thus Harvey's principle, ' Omne vivum ex ovo,' was displaced by Virchow's law, < Oinuis cellula e cellula,' which in its turn, may be modified by recent re- seai'ches. Max Schultze pointed out the identity between the sarcode substance of the lower organisms and the cell-contents in the higher animals, and gave to these substances the name protoplasm. He therefore contended that an envelope was not necessary for the existence of a cell. Kecklinghausen demonstrated in 1863 the so-called wandering cells, and Waller and Conheim the diapedesis of the blood-corpuscles. "With regard to the cellular theory and the doctrine of evolution, it may not be out of place to mention that Lorenz Oken (1779-1851), the great naturalist, had already in 1805 advanced the dogmas that 'The organic world has for its basis an infinity of vesicles (or cells). The first organic points are vesicles. . . . Plants and animals can only be metamor phoses of infusoria. . . . No organism is, nor has ever been created, which is not microscopic. . . . Whatever is larger has not been created but de- veloped. . . . Man has not been created, but is developed.' These propo- sitions appeared in Oken's treatise 'On Generation' ('Die Zeugung,' Frankf., 1805). With Oken must be associated Goethe (1750-1832), whose researches on the intermaxillary bone and the theory of the vertebrate nature of the skull, claimed also by Oken, contributed to the promotion of morphological science. Jean Lamarck (1704-1829) promulgated in his ' Philosophic Zoologique de Paris,' 1809, the theory that all organised beings, from the lowest to the highest forms, were progressively developed from microscopic particles. It is, perhaps, noteworthy that in the same year in which Lamarck's zoology appeared was born Charles Darwin, who in his works on ' The Origin of Species,' the ' Descent of Man,' &c., endeavours to explain how all existing species have descended from one or a few forms of life. It may be long before the controversies which the theories of development and evolution have excited are laid to rest. Space, as already stated, will scarcely permit me to name the authors of valuable works on microscopic, comparative and descriptive anatomy which have appeared during the last twenty years, Tiedemann, Ernst von Baer (1792), Th. W. Bischoff, Eeichert, Hyrtl, Henle, Riidinger, Helm- holtz, Luschka, Aeby, Meyer, Krause, Strieker, Hoffmann, Langer, Gegen- baur, Kolliker, Hiickel, &c., in Germany; G. and E. Saint-Hilaire, Milne- Edwards, Sappey, Cruveilhier, &c., in France ; Richard Owen, Goodsir, Allen Thomson, Parker, Struthers, Humphry, W. H. Flower, Huxley, Mivart, Rolleston, Turner, Goodsir, Ellis, and the two Quains, Sibson, Quekett, Beale, in England ; Donders, Vrolik, Schroeder van der Kolk, in the Netherlands, are only a few of the many eminent men of those countries who have in recent times greatly contributed to the advancement of the science of anatomy. 0