ANATOMICAL TECHNICS. 55 the liquid slowly thrown into the vessels. The injection mass should not be too warm. A good test for ordinary practical purposes is, that the fins^er should just be able to support the temperature of the liquid. The syringe being tilled, it should be held with the piston down and its nozzle iipwards. The piston should be slowly pushed up until a little of the injection material runs out. The object of this proceeding is to exclude the air. Then the syringe should be quickly and cleverly fitted into the cannula, and the stopcock being tm-ned in the proper dii-ection, the injec- tion is slowly and eve^ily thrown in. When the syringe is empty the stopcock is turned to a right angle, the syringe refilled, and the process repeated until a feeling of resistance is experienced. Four to six pounds of injection is sometimes necessary to completely fill the arterial system. The injection is successful when the vessels of the skin are seen to assume a pinkish hue ; then a quivering sensation is usually felt. The piston of the syringe may be pushed home by the abdominal wall of the operator, but the force necessary in this, or in any other method, is pro- portionate to the calibre of the cannula, being greater with small cannulse. The injection being completed, the stopcock is turned to a right angle, the third ligature, which was placed beneath the vessel and left untied. Fig. 15.—Another foiim op injection syringe with stop-cock and cannula. must now be securely fastened to prevent the egress of the injection mass, the cannula should be withdrawn, and the coagulation of the injection and the fixing of the colouring matter may be hastened by replacing the warm water of the bath by cold or iced water. Mechanical Injection Syrinr/e.—^By the use of the instrument figured below, all great muscular effort is avoided and regularity of action assured. It is equally serviceable for preservation or coloured injections, but must be kept thoroughly clean. The subject he'mg ]nit on its back, the empty apparatus is adapted to the cannula, which has been previously well fastened in the aorta (see fig. 16), or in the femoral or brachial. The syringe is then withdrawn, pivoted to one side, and the stopcocks turned towards the injector and fixed by strings to the bracket which su])i)ort3 the instrument. The injection matter is held by the left hand and pre- sented to the nozzle of the syringe, which is then worked by the right, and when tlie syringe is full tlie threads are removed, the stojicocks tm-ned off", and the syringe placed in the aortic cannula. Tlie stopcocks are (lien opened and the injection thrown in. The left thumb and fingers steady the syringe and cannula during the injection, and should close both stop-