HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 634 do not interfere with the dissection of the arms and head and neck, there- fore the possessors of these can go on with their parts. After cai-rj'ing out the instructions in the following paragraphs, the student should pass a stitch through the lower part of the scrotum and fasten it to the skin of the abdomen, but if the subject have been preserved in salt this may not be necessary, as the scrotum will have shrunk. Practical Surgery.—In introducing the staff, sound, or catheter the student most likely met with some difficulty, so a few words explanatory of the usual difficulties, and some directions to avoid them, will be of service to him, and he must always bear them in mind when attempting to introduce an instrument on the living. How to joass a Catheter.—Gret a medium-sized catheter or bougie, rub it with a clean towel or handkerchief to clean and warm it, oil it well, and stand at the left side of the subject, with the instrument in the right hand and the penis in the left (the student should practise all operations with both hands, so as to acqiure ambi^lexterity). Now introduce the end of the instrument into the external meatus, and di'aw the penis over the catheter, which is to be gently pushed on with its end touching the upper aspect of the m-ethra, and kept steadily in the middle line. If a slight hitch be felt when the instrument has travelled about four and a half inches in the adult, withdi'aw it slightly and try again. This hitch generally occurs at the triangular ligament, so called. When it has been passed about four to five inches, depress the handle between the thighs, at the same time gently urging it on into the bladder. The left index finger, introduced into the rectum, will tell the student if the instrument be in the middle line, and will be useful in guiding it into the right direction. These dh-ections apply to passing the instrument in the supine as well as in the erect position of the body, except that in the latter the handle need not be so much depressed. Should there be a small quantity of urine in the bladder, as is usually the case jpost mortem, it will run out of the in- strument, should the latter be pervious. If the m"ine be prevented from escaping, the catheter can be rotated in the bladder, but if the bladder be contracted, the end of the instrument will rub against its muscular walls, and impart a feeling of soft roughness to the hand. If the coats of the bladder ai^e encrusted with phosphates, a grating sound will be elicited, and if one or more stones be in the viscus, a distinct ringing, clicking, or roughened sound will be given out by bringing the instrument quickly into contact with them. These manoeuvres are adopted in Sounding for stone in the bladder.—To the inexperienced, there are certain sources of fallacy in sounding for stone, due to the bony smTound- ings of the bladder, met with especially in children. The student may become familiar with these by adopting the following manoeuvres. The sound being well in the bladder and the handle depressed between the thighs, draw the sound forward and it will come in contact with the back of the symphysis pubis ; then push the sound straight backwards and the anterior aspect of the sacrum with its promontory will be struck. At the sides of the bladder, the sjpines of the ischia may be felt. The feel and sound of these bony parts, touched with the bladder coats between them and the sound, are of a dead character, and very different to those of a calculus. It is more difficult to introduce an instrument in the cadaver than in the living subject, because the m-ethra in the former is relaxed,