5G2 HUMAN MOllPJIOLOQY. most part pass down from the external border of the tibia to the oblique line on the inner fibular surface at its upper two-thirds, and to the posterior edge of the fibula along the lower third. Some fibres cross in the opposite manner. This ligament is broader above than below, and in its upper part there is an oval apertm-e about an inch in length, near the neck of the fibula, for the passage of the anterior tibial artery to the front of the leg; and at its lower part, about an inch above the lower edge of the fibula, is a small opening for the anterior peroneal vessels. Below, it is continuous with the inferior interosseous ligament; and it is perforated in numerous places along its length for the passage of small vessels. It separates the muscles in front from those at the back of the leg, the former being the tibialis anticus, extensor longus digitorum, extensors proprius pollicis and peroneus tertius, with the anterior tibial vessels and nerve. The latter are the tibialis posticus and flexor longus jDollicis. Inferior Tibio-fibular Joint.—The ligaments of this articulation are Pig. 442i—Left ankle joint opened. Anterior aspect. four: anterior and posterior, inferior tibio-fibular or inferior interosseous, and transverse. The anterior inferior ligament is a flat triangular band, broader below than above, and extends obliquely down and out over the front of the articulation, between the contiguous margins of the tibia and fibula. In front it is in relation with the peroneus tertius, deep fascia of the leg and skin. Behindf with the inferior interosseous ligament, and is also in contact with the cartilage covering the upper anterior part of the astragalus. The 'posterior inferior ligament is smaller than the anterior, and has similar connections behind the articulation. The inferior ligament of this articulation, called the inferior interos- seous, to distinguish it from the interosseous ligament or membrane between the tibia and fibula, consists of many strong, short, transverse, yellowish fibrous bands, distinct from the posterior ligament, which fill the space between the contiguous rough surfaces of the tibia and fibula, and form their chief bond of union. It is attached to the end of the fibula above the small pit, and to the contiguous part of the tibia and posterior border of the articulation, and assists in deepening the hollow for the