HUMAN MOItniOLOOY. 80 has since been more or less extensively carried out by Pirogoff, Luschka, Legendre, Henle, Braune, Eiidinger, and other continental anatomists ; but in this country it has never been practised to any extent till about two years ago, when it was practised extensively in the Koyal College of Surgeons of England.^ Experience has shown that, in order to obtain good sections, the body requires to be frozen till all its tissues become of a metallic hardness. This effect may be produced by subjecting it to a temperature of from —15° to —18° Cent, for about seventy-two hours. In cold countries, such as Eussia and even some parts of Grermany, all that is required during a severe frost is to expose a subject to the air for about sixty hours, or even shorter, when it will be completely frozen and ready for sectioning. In this country, however, such low temperatm-es never occur, so that we require to employ artificial means of freezing. Of these the simplest and generally the most convenient method is by means of a mixture composed of salt and ice. In this way a minimum temperature of —18° Cent, or Zero Fah. can be obtained, but in practise it is almost im- possible to get the ultimate degree of cold which can be produced by the mixture. We are, however, able to reduce the temperature of the air round the body to about —12° or —14° Cent., which is sufficient to freeze it hard enough for sectioning in about three days. The action of salt and ice as a freezing mixtui'e is owing to the salt causing rapid melting of the ice. The conversion of the water from the solid to the liquid state is attended with an absorption of heat which is supplied by sm-rounding sub- stances. The subject has, therefore, to be placed in relation to the mixture, so that the heat may be abstracted as much as possil^le from the former alone; means have also to be taken, which will be afterwards described, to prevent the surrounding atmosphere from supplying heat to the melting mass. It will thus be apparent that freezing a subject can be best accomplished when the atmosphere is coldest, in fact, during a severe frost. We must now consider the modus operandi of section-making. First, then, regarding the subject or material. In selecting a body for freezing it is desirable to get a fresh, well-developed subject, not beyond middle age, which has not been in contact with alcohol. The necessity for this latter precaution is obvious. Spirit has a very low freezing-point, con- sequently if the subject has been covered with a spirit cloth, or has even been exposed to the vapom- of alcohol, some will have been taken up by the tissues, which will not freeze at the temperature that would otherwise suffice. Care must also be taken to prevent salt or salt water coming in contact with the subject, as that would render it more difficult to freeze on account of the freezing point of salt water being lower than that of fresh water. An injection of wax and lard may be run into the arteries and veins to distend them.^ To do this the body requires to be placed in hot water till the tissues are warmed, so that the injection mass may run freely in the vessels. The arteries may be injected from the femoral, but the veins require to be injected from the extremities - -one of the large super- ficial veins on the dorsum of the hand and of the foot answers. An injection can also be thrown into the veins of the trunk by making an incision about five centimetres long through the umbilicus, and carefully ' See British Mrdinal Jownal, vol. i. for 1870. * Legendre used red for the arteries and black for the veins.