HISTORICAL SKETCH. 7 ANATOMY OF THE ARABS. After the conquest of Egyjjt by Omar (640), the Arabs began to appreciate scientific culture. The Greek Christians in Syria, and also the Jews, became the teachers of the conquerors by new translations of Greek works into Arabic. An academy was instituted at Bagdad, and a college of physicians, the president of which had to examine all such as intended to practise the art of healing.^ Almamum, the grandson of Almansur, became the great promoter of the culture.of science, for he gave orders to his ambassadors in Greece to' purchase all Greek and Roman works they could obtain in order to have' them translated. Under the Moorish khalifs Spain became the chief seat of learning. Alhakem erected an academy at Cordova which during several centuries was the most celebrated in the world, and was frequented by all desirous of obtaining knowledge. The library contained, according to Casiri, 250,000 books. Sevilla, Toledo, and Murcia also had high schools, which flourished until the end of the Moorish dominion. The anatomy of the Arabian physicians was almost entirely borrowed from the Greeks, chiefly from Galen, as the Koran forbids dissection. Yet there were not wanting physicians among the Arabs who declared that anatomy could not be learned entirely from books, and that even Galen's dicta must be verified by autopsy. Under these circumstances it was nigh impossible that anatomy^ as such, could flourish. The most celebrated names amongst the Arab physicians, such as Ibn Sina (Avicennes), Rhases, Averrhoes, &c., were almost all blind, followers of Galen, and left no mark in anatomical science. In the beginning of the thirteenth century (1213), Frederick II., King of the Romans and Sicily, promulgated a law, according to which no one was allowed to practise surgery unless he had previously undergone an examination in anatomy. A certain Martianus, a physician of Sicily, is said to have received from this prince authority to give every five years lectures on the dead body to physicians and surgeons. The revival of science in general, and with it of anatomy, took place in Italy. Bologna first, and afterwards Pisa and Padua, acquired great celebrity as medical and anatomical schools, and attracted students from all parts of the world. The revival of practical anatomy may be said to have commenced with Lrugi Mendini de Luzzi (Mundinus or Mundinius). He was probably born at Bologna, where, it is said, his father kept an apothecary or druggist's shop. In the year 1314 Mundinus was professor at Bologna, and in 1315 he ])ublicly dissected two female subjects. Not long after, he published a treatise on anatomy, which for a long time was the only text-book used in the Universities of Bologna and Padua. The first edition bears the title' ' Anothomia ' (.sic) Mundini, &c., Papaia, 1478. Another edition, illustrated by woodcuts, entitled ' Fasciculus Medicintt;,' &c., was published by J. Kethem, Venetiis, 1495. One of the woodcuts represents Mundinus lecturing, surrovmded by students; a dead body lying on the table (o be dissected. ' Ahull'iirag, Chrov. Si/r. ]i. 181.