DISSECTIOiY OF THE LOWER LIMB. 3G5 puritied with its fleshy part towards the intestine ; a probe-pointed bistoury must be introduced carefully along it, and the thickened neck of the sac and some fibres of the edge of Grimbernat's ligament must be divided in an inward direction. The gut and omentum will then most likely be able to be returned, but if not the operator will seek for the third cause of irre- ducibility. The strictures inside the sac may be due to various pathological con- ditions, such as adhesion of the coils of intestine to each other and to the sac, or to the omentum which may be adherent to the sac. These may, if considered desii-able, be separated and the protruded parts returned, or, after seeing that the strictures are well divided, and the canal and its aper- tures quite free, the intestine may be left where it was found, and the wound closed. Danger to surrounding Parts.—As already stated, the deeper in- cisions or nicks, in dividing a strictm-e at the internal ring, must only be OlilitorateJ Lypjgiiotric arteries Fl6. 265.— DiSSECTIOJJ OF THE INTERNAL FEMOEAL EINGS FROM WITHIN. THE PEEITONBUM AND BLADDEE REFLECTED. made in an inward direction, or inwards and upwards, or backwards. Gim- bernat's ligament would be divided in the former case, and in the latter the pubic portion of the fascia lata and Cooper's ligament. It must not be made forwards for fear of injuring the vas deferens and the spermatic vessels. In the female it would not matter so much, because the round ligament is not so ini})ortant or vascular a structure as the spermatic cord, but the forward direction of the incision must be avoided in either sex because the abnormal obturator artery curves along the lower edge of Poupart's ligament to get to the inner side of the ring, and the bistoury must not be directed outwards lest the femoral vein be wounded. In the usual inward direction of the incision the pubic branch of the epigastric and the spermatic cord will not be injured unless the cut be too extensive. Lawrence states that once in about eighty operations the obturator artery will be found to take the unusual course in front, i.e.