HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 27:2 THE ELBOW JOINT. Dissection.—Should the ligaments have become dry they may ho moistened by being placed in water for a short time; then the muscles and tendons surrounding the joint must be removed, and the ligaments ' cleaned.' The Elbow Joint is formed by the lower end of the humerus and the . upper end of the vilna and radius. It is a true ginglymus, or hinge joint, in which the trochlear surface of the humerus articulates with the greater sigmoid cavity of the ulnar, and the cup-shaped depression on the radial ! head articulates with the radial portion of the trochlear surface or capitu- ■ lum vet capitellum of the humerus. The articular surfaces are covered 1 by a thin layer of cartilage, and joined by four ligaments—anterior, pos- • Fig. 190.—Ligaments of the eight elbow seen from the inner side. terior, external, and internal lateral. These are more or less continuous with each other, forming a kind of capsule. The Anterior Ligament is a thin fibrous layer strongest at its middle, and its fibres are separated here and there by masses of fat. Above, it is attached around the upper margin of the coronoid fossa, and below to the anterior surface of the coronoid process of the ulna and orbicular ligament, being continuous at the sides with the lateral ligaments. It is composed of three sets of fibres, of which the superficial are oblique and pass from the inner condyle down and out to the orbicular Hgament. The middle fibres are vertical, and extend from the upper part of the coronoid pit and blend with the preceding. The transverse set intersect the middle fibres at a right angle. It is in relation in. front with the brachialis anticus, and behind with the synovial membrane. The Posterior Ligament is thinner and looser than the anterior, and consists of irregular fibres, which are attached to the humerus, just above the olecranon fossa, and below to the margin of the olecranon. The upper superficial fibres pass transversely across the olecranon fossa. The deeper * Before opening any joint, the student should study the state of the tendons as to tenseness and relaxation in the various movements of which the joint is capable. 1. Ant. lig. 2. lut. lilt. 3. Orb. lig. 4. Oblique lig. 5. Intoas. lig. 6. lut. tuberosity.