JDIiSSIICTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. front tind buck of the knee to join the inner ones of the thigh. Some of these lymphatic vessels pass behind the outer malleolus, accompany the external saphenous vein, and pass between the heads of the gastrofnemius to empty themselves into the popliteal glands. From the middle of the back of the thigh, lymphatics pass on the outer and inner sides, to debouch into the inguinal and femoral glands. The Deep Lymphatics of the foot, leg, and thigh accompany the deep blood-vessels, are few—three or four to each artery—and consist of three sets named after the vessels which they accompany, viz. anterior tibial, posterior tibial, and peroneal, and enter the popliteal glands. Sometimes a small gland is found near the anterior tibial artery on the front of the interosseous membrane above the middle of the leg, and then the anterior tibial set of lymphatics may pass through it, but usually neither the deep nor superficial absorbents enter any gland in the leg, but the deep, after receiving the lymphatics which accompany the branches of the femoral ai'tery, run up around the femoral vein and enter the deep femoral glands, i.e. those around the femoral vessels. In inflammation of the foot and leg, dark red tender lines show the position of these vessels. They very rai'ely become varicose. Dissection.—Reflect the deep layer of the superficial fascia by incisions similar to those through the skin, and be careful of the vessels and nerves. The handle of the scalpel will be useful in effecting the separation. The Deep Layer of the Superficial Fascia is a thin membrane containing little fat, and is most developed on the inner side of the saphena vein and near Poupart's ligament. It is separated from the superficial layer by the cutaneous vessels and glands, and is continuous with the deep layer of abdominal fascia. It is firmly adherent to the lower edge of Poupart's ligament, to the body and ramus of the pubes, and to the fescia lata, with which it becomes blended about three inches below the groin. About an inch below Poupart's ligament it covers and par- tially fills up the saphenous opening, to the circumference of which it is attached externally by fibrous bands, but internally by loose connective tissue. It is also connected with the anterior layer of the sheath of the femoral vessels. The portion of this deep layer which stretches over the saphenous opening has many apertures for small blood-vessels and lymphatics, and is called the cribriform fascia. There are two main sets of fibres in the fascia cribriformis ; One set is oblique from without down and in fi-om the falciform process, the other runs down and out. These are attached to the spine of the pubes, to the pectineal crest and to Grimbernat's liga- ment. A complete femoral hernia or rupture has this as one of its cover- ings. Fluid effused between the superficial and deep layers may extend up on to the abdomen, and down and round the limb, and even into the abdomen through the inguinal canal and vice versa ; but if extravasated under the deep layer it cannot reach the abdomen in consequence of its attachment to Poupart's ligament unless this be ulcerated through. It may get through the openings in the cribriform fascia, then along the femoral vessels into the pelvis and down the thigh, but this is rare. Dissection.—Make a vertical incision through the skin only, along the middle of the front of the thigh to the tubercle of the tibia ; and another, a transverse one, at the lower end of this across the leg, and reflect the flaps in and out (see fig. 229). A subcutaneous bursa over the patella.