230 HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. muscles and the nerve itself, and anastomoses with the inferioi* profiiiifla, anastomotica magna, and over the olecranon, with the posterior interos- seous recurrent. The common Interosseous is the largest branch of the ulnar, and is a short thick trunk about an inch long, being given off immediately below the radial tuberosity. It passes to the back of the forearm above the upper border of the interosseous membrane, and divides into an anterior and posterior interosseous branch. These will be subsequently dissected. Muscular branches from the ulnar supply the muscles along the inner side of the forearm, and some of them pierce the interosseous ligament to supply parts of the extensor muscles. The Anterior Carpal is a very small vessel, which passes across the front of the carpus beneath the flexor profundus, and inosculates with the anterior radial carpal, forming an arch which supplies the carpal bones and articulations^ and anastomoses above with the anterior interosseous, and below with the recurrent branches from the deep palmar arch. The Metacarpal artery may be a branch of the posterior carpal, or may be given off from the ulnar near its lower end, arising as a separate vessel. The Posterior Carpal is very small, and is given off just above the pisi- form bone, and turns back under the Flex. Carp. Ulna,ris along the meta- carpal bone to the little finger, beiug its inner dorsal branch. Varieties.—-This may effect its origin, course, size, and branches. Origin.—About once in thirteen cases it vax'ies in its origin, and, with one exception, in which it arose two or three inches below the elbow, it was given otf either from the axillary or brachial, but very frequently from the latter. Grruber in a case of high origin of this vessel noticed a transverse branch connecting it, opposite the elbow, with the brachial. Course,—Its position is more variable than that of the radial. When arising high up it nearly always is superficial to the superficial flexors (one exception has been noted), but is beneath the deep fascia; it may, how- ever, be subcutaneous. In one case of high origin it divided subcu- taneoilsly into the superficial and deep branch. When the vessel is subcutaneous, it may continue in that position or become sub-aponemotic lower down, and be distributed in the usual manner. The vessel from which the high ulnar comes afterwards divides into the radial and common interosseous, the latter being usually a branch of the ulnar. It is there- fore probable that this unusual arrangement is a consequence of an early obstruction of the ulnar artery below the origin of the interosseous, and the development of a superficial vasa aberrans which unites the part of the ulnar below the obstruction with the axillary or brachial. In these abnormalities the interosseous comprises the portion of the ulnar above the obstruction as well as the ordinary interosseous branch, and this view is bbrne out by the fact that the recurrent ulnar branches come from it. Its size may vary and is often accompanied by opposite and compensa- tiner divisions in the radial. Branches.—Both ulnar recurrents have been seen to come from the lower part of the brachial, and they frequently arise from the ulnar by a common trunk. The Common Interosseous may arise from the brachial, and much more