609 HOMOLOGIES Of Till! LIMBS. tendon of this muscle to the reflected part of the piso-metacarpal ligament. The ligamentura teres of the hip may appear to offer difliculty, but this is solved by the ftict that there is an occasional corresponding ligament in the shoulder ; there is, however, nothing homologous to the crucial ligaments of the knee in the elbow. The orbicular ligament between the radius and ulna is interarticular, it is true, but does not correspond witli the crucials either homologically or physiologically, as the latter connect the tibia and femur, whereas the orbicular unites the two bones of the forearm. I have on two or three occasions noticed thickened processes of the synovial membrane of the elbow, passing from the trochlea in front and behind to the margin of the larger ulnar sigmoid cavity. These may be analogous to the crucials, but I can scarcely regard them as homologous. I should state that two of these subjects, the one male and the other female, were elderly, and it may be supposed that these processes were pathological, but the joint sm'faces gave no obvious indications of disease ; the third was a younger subject, and free from any arthritic mischief. The semilunar tibro-cartilages of the knee are entii-ely unrepresented in the elbow, and it may be that the difference of function of the upper limbs, due to om- up- right position, has caused the disappearance of structures which may have existed in our progenitors which (although not pointed out by any other anatomist so far as I am aware) are undoubtedly homologous to them. For instance, in the dog and cat the lower portion of the external lateral bgaraent forms a thick fibro-cartilaginous cap, which is fixed on the radius and ulna and is united to the anterior ligament and to the annular orbi- cular ligament of the superior radio-ulnar joint, and although in these animals this cap completes the osteo-fibrous ring in which the upper end of the radius revolves, still, being interposed between the humerus and bones of the forearm it must act as a buffer in the same way as do the menisci of the knee. The human knee joint is occasionally divided into two parts, an outer and inner, by a median partition of synovial membrane, and this condition is found normally in some lower animals. MUSCULAR HOMOLOGIES. General Morphology.—In most of the lowest vertebrates and in early stages of human foetal development the muscles, as a whole, are in groups corresponding closely to the skeletal ground plan of the organisation of vertebrates. Fishes and some amphibians possess in a high degree the vertebrate segmentation, the muscles being partitioned into zones or seg- ments termed myotomes by divisions or partitions called sclerotomes, wluch may be membranous, cartilaginous, or bony, and which pass trans- versely from either side of the vertebral column through the body walls, and correspond in position and number of segments with the vertebrtie and ribs. Tt is very difficult in man and the higher animals to trace the homologous axial muscles, on account of the greater degree of specialisation of the muscles in connection with the limbs. In the deeper trunk-muscles however the typical vertebrate subdivision may be traced, but in the more superficial muscles of the trunk, and especially of the limbs, por- tions of the myotomes coalesce so as to form muscles of greater or less length, and this is to a great extent due to the extension down and ont- wards from the trunk of these structures. 11 R