240 EUMAN MOUVIIOLOGY. Tilna, and from part of the bone below it; also from the anterior border of the ulna, and from a strong aponeurosis which covers the inner third of the muscle. The fibres pass, some transversely, and others obliquely out to be inserted into the lower fourth of the anterior surface and external border of the radius, where it is rather narrower. Rdations.—Su'perfi.cially, with the flexor profundus, flexor longus poUicis, flexor carpi radialis and radial vessels ; deeply, with the radius, idna, interosseous membrane and interosseous vessels and nerve ; along its loiuer border is the anterior carpal arch ; and above its upper the antei-ior inl/Crosseous artery passes to the back of the forearm. Action.—The radius is moved forwards over the ulna and the hiind pronated by this muscle. Kei've.—Anterior Interosseous. Varieties.—It is very rarely absent, but may be subdivided into two or three layers, or it may extend further up on the forearm bones than usual. It may be prolonged down on the carpus, either on the radial side as a radial carpal, or on the ulnar as an ulnar carpal vessel. The Anterior Interosseous Artery is a branch of the common inter- osseous of the ulna, and runs down in front of the interosseous membrane in company with the anterior interosseous nerve. A thin aponeurotic arch connects it to the interosseous ligament. It lies usually between the flexor longus pollicis and flexor profundus, but may run in the substance of the latter muscle. It gives off muscular twigs to the deep muscles and the nutrient arteries of the radius and ulna which run towards the elbow. At the upper border of the pronator quadratus a branch descends in front of that muscle, and anastomoses with recurrent branches from the anterior carpal and deep palmar arches. The continuation of the artery pierces the interosseous membrane, passing behind the pronatus quadratus, and descends to the back of the wrist to anastomose with the posterior interosseous artery and the posterior carpal branches of the radial and ulnar. The Median Artery is a long branch of the anterior interosseous. It accompanies the median nerve, supplying it, and ends in the flexor sublimis, or passes beneath the annular ligament to the palmar arch. The Varieties of the Median Artery have been given in describing those of the ulna. The Anterior Interosseous Nerve comes from the median, gives lateral branches to the deep flexors, and ends in the under-surface of the pronator quadratus. Directions.—The student should examine the insertion of the brachialis anticus and biceps, and the attachments of the other muscles connected with the forearm bones. He should note the change in the direction of the biceps tendon, its anterior sm-face becoming external and vice versa, and observe how the supinator brevis surrounds its insertion. He should also define the bursa between the tendon and the forepart of the radial tubercle, and see if there be a sesamoid bone in the tendon. The anasto- moses about the elbow should now be more thoroughly dissected. Anastomoses around the Elbow Joint.—In front of the inner condyle, the anterior terminal twig of the inferior profunda, and part of the anasto- iriotica magna join the anterior ulnar recurrent; behind the same condyle, the posterior terminal branch of the inferior profunda and a twig of the