521 DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. student will be able in another joint, in wliich the anterior crucial has not been cut, to observe that if the posterior be divided and the anterior left intact, the articular surfaces of the tibia can be passed neai'ly completely behind the condyles, although they cannot be moved further forwards than before it was divided. External rotation is not checked by either crucial, as they uncross, and will allow the tibia to be placed hind-fore- most. Some anatomists state that the posterior ligament checks rotation out. The Tnter-aTticiilar or Semilunar Fihro-carlilages or Menisci are two laminae which partly cover the articular tibial surface. They are triangular on section, the bases being thick and convex, and attached to the margins of the tibial head. The apices are thin, concave, and free Their upper surfaces are concave and in contact with the femoral condyles, their lower surfaces are flat and rest on the tibia. Each cartilage covers about the outer two-thirds of the corresponding articular surface of the tibia, leaving the rest of its articular surface uncovered, and both their «. Int. condyle. b. Patella. c. Tibia. d. Fibular lieacl. e. Ext. condyle. 1. Quadriceps tendon. 2. Lig. patellce. 3. Bui'sa. 4. Ext. fibro-cartilage. 5. Ant. and 6. Posterior crucial liga- ments. Fis. 401.—Right knee in flexion. Vertical section through the outer CONDYLE AND PATELLA. ONE-THIRD. surfaces are covered by the synovial membrane. They are fibrous at their tibial attachments and cartilaginous between the articular siu-faces. The internal fibro-cartilage is almost semicircular, being broader behind than in front, and somewhat elongated from before back Its con- vex margin is attached to the head of the tibia by the coronary ligament, and is united to the internal lateral ligament. It is fixed in front by a thin pointed process to a depression anterior to the inner ai-ticular surface of the tibia and in front of the anterior crucial ligament. Its posterior extremity is much wider, and is attached to the inner lip of the depres- sion behind the tibial spine between the attachment of the posterior cra- cial and the hinder attachment of the external fibro-cartilage. The external fibro-cartilage is nearly circular and covers a gi-eater part of the articular surface than the internal. Its circumference is bound to the'tibia by the coronary ligament, and its extremities are firmly fixed to the depressions in front and behind the tibial spine, being within the points of insertion of the internal fibro-cartilage. Its outer side is grooved by the tendon of the popliteiis. Its anterior extremity is fixed