271 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. dissect out its attachments; and when these have been inade out, trace the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis to its insertion, and also an ex- pansion from the flexor carpi ulnaris to the base of the fifth metacarpal bone. The Anterior Annular Ligament is a strong fibrous band which arches over the carpus, and converts the deep gi-oove on the anterior aspect of the carpal bones into a canal, beneath which the flexor tendons of the fingers pass into the palm. It serves to bind down these tendons and prevent their being dislocated in the various and complicated rnotions of the hand and tingers. It is continuous above with the deep fascia of the forearm, and receives some fibres from the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris; the lower margin is connected with the palmar fascia and gives oiigiij to niost of the short muscles of the thumb and little finger. The palmaris longus is partly attached to its upper and iijner part, and it is crossed by the pal- maris longus, the ulnar vessels and nerve, and the palmar cutaneous fila- ments of the median and ulnar nerves, and a twig of the njusculo-cutaneous. Fio. 180.—Longitudinal section' theough a hail and its bed. Magnifieo SIX TIMES. It is attached externally to the ridge of the trapezium and the tuberosity of the scaphoid, and internally to the pisiform bone, and unciform process of the unciform. It is pierced by the tendon of the flexor carj^i radialis, and beneath it the tendons of the sublime and deep flexors, the flexor longus pollicia, median nerve, and anastomotic twigs between the deep palmar and anterior carpal arches, pass. Two synovial membranes also pass beneath this ligament—a separ.ite one for the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis, and a larger one enclosing the tendons of the flexors sub- limis and profundus. The Tendon of the Flexor Carpi Radialis lies in the groove of the os trapezium between the attachments of the annular ligament to that bone, but external to it. It is bound to the gi'oove in the bone by a fibrous sheath lined by a synovial membrane, and is inserted into the outer side of Ihe base of the metacarpal bone of the index finger, and sends a slip to that of the little finger. The student should now recapitulate his knowledge and then proceed with the dissection of the ligaments of the elbow, wrist, and joints of the metacarpus and phalanges.