372 HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. Nunnely of Leeds recorded in the ' Lancet' about twelve years ago, an interesting case of fracture of the neck of the femur, with double femoral artei-y, giving rise to anomalous and very interesting symptoms. It is not, to my knowledge, stated if this double condition of the vessels existed on both sides in the above mentioned cases. Change of Position.—Four instances in which the femoral artery was replaced at the back of the thigh by a trunk continuous with the internal iliac, have been recorded. This unusual vessel accojnpanies the great sciatic nerve to the popliteal space and leaves the pelvjs through the great sacro-sciatic foramen. Its relations in the ham are similar to those of the normal vessel. Anomalies of the Branches.—The deep femoral is sometimes given off from the inner side, and more rarely from the back of the common femoral. It may be given oft' nearer to, or further from, Poupart's Ligament than its usual position. In one case recorded by E. Quain it commenced above Poupart's ligament, and in another four inches below it, but in the latter instance the circumflex arteries were not given off" by the profunda, but from the superficial femoral. When given off" opposite to or above Pou- part's ligament it is a branch of the external iliad which divides into superficial and deep femoral, the common femoral being wanting. Many occasional branches, such as the deep epigastric, or aberrant obturator, have been seen to be given off" from the femoral; and as rarities the accessory deep femoral, the accessory external circumflex, a dorsalis penis or ilio-lumbar maybe derived from it. The great saphenous artei^ is an occasional large vessel, and when present comes off" either above or below the origin of the profunda, and passes at first between the adductor magnus and vastus internus, then pierces Hunter's canal to reach the inner side of the knee and accompanies the long saphenous vein to the inner malleolus. Surgical Anatomy.—The femoral may be readily compressed just below Poupart's ligament where the artery is very superficial. The pressure may be either digital or by means of a tourniquet, and must be du'ected backwards, at the upper part of Scarpa's triangle, but outwards against the shaft of the femur, in the middle third of the thigh. If the common femoral be tied, the main collateral channels for re-establishing the circulation, are the anastomoses of the ascending branches of the external circumflex below, with the descending branches of the gluteal and circumflex iliac arteries above and on the outer side; on the inner side the ascending branches of the internal circumflex below, join the descend- ing branches of the obturator and sciatic above, to the inner side, and behind. At the back of the thigh, the comes nervi ischiatici branches of the sciatic descend to join the superior articular vessels of the popliteal, and also unite with the perforating; and, on the outer side, the external circumflex also joins the ilio-lumbar which comes from the. posterior division of the internal iliac. After ligature of the superficial femoral artery, circulation is maintained by the descending branches of the external circumflex anastomosing with the external articular branches of the popliteal and with some enlarged muscular vessels, also with the anastomotica magna through the superior external articular, and blood may reach the anterior tibial recurrent artery from the external circumflex by means of an anastomosis with the external