674 HUMAN MOnniOLOGY. membrane. The ai-ticulation between the external cuneiform and cuboid is provided either with a distinct synovial sac, or with a prolongation of the common tarsal synovial membrane. The synovial membrane of the cuneiform articulations is common to many of the tarsal bones. Situated between the cuneiforms and sca[ihoid, it sends a process forwards between the inner and middle cuneiform to between the second and third metatarsal bones. Another pro- longation goes out, one to the joint between the scaphoid and cuboid, and occasionally a third to the articulation between the cuboid and external cuneiform. Joint Surfaces.—There are three facets on the scaphoid; the two outer being flattened, the inner rounded. The cuneiforms join to form a shallow hollow which is elliptical and most excavated to its inner side. Movements. — The cuneiforms move out and up on the scaphoid when the foot is inverted, and in eversion they glide down and in. The internal cuneiform moves more than the rest because of the shape of Tibia Tendo-Achillis Fig. 453.—Vertical antero-posterior section op the foot through the innermost row ow bones. the articulating surfaces, and because the tibialis anticus is there at- tached. The dorsal ligaments are made tense when the bones are depressed, and as they rise they are kept together by the interosseous and transverse plantar bands. In walking and standing these bones are somewhat separated, and the pedal arch and transverse ligaments are stretched. Articulation of the Metatarsal Bones with each other,—The bases of these bones, the first excepted, are joined by dorsal, plantar, and interos- seous ligaments. The dorsal and plantar ligaments are small transverse bands which go from one metatarsal bone to the adjoining one. The interosseous ligaments are short transverse bands between the rough non- articular portions of their lateral surfaces. The articular surfaces are coated with cartilage and have processes of the synovial membrane from the tarsal and metatarsal joints. The distal extremities of the metatarsal bones are connected by the transverse metatarsal ligament. This liga- ment connects the great toe with the rest of the metatai-sal bones,