291 DISSECTION OF THE UPPEIl LIMB, Movements.—The motions between the bones of the first and second rows between themselves ai-e limited to a slight degree of gliding. The aiiicular sm'faces are flat, and the interosseous ligaments short, and there is more motion permitted in the first row than in the second, because the interosseous ligaments are looser or sometimes non-existent. The Inter- or Garpo-Canyal Movements, i.e. those between the bones of the two rows, consist of flexion and extension, and although the joint is in part .doubly condyloid, no rotation or lateral motion is permitted, unless the bones be slightly sepai-ated, and then these are very small. In the ordinary condition, rotation and lateral motion are prevented, not only by the ligaments, but by the inner part of the scaphoid striking against the OS magnum, and by the cuneiform impinging against the unciform. Flexion.—In this movement the palm of the hand approximates to the anterior surface of the forearm. The magnum and unciform glide backwards on the upper carpal row, and, projecting behind, render tense the posterior ligament. It is more limited than extension, and is checked by the contact of the bones and by the extensor tendons. Extension.—In this movement the dorsum of the hand is approxi- mated to the dorsal sm-face of the forearm. It is called dorsi-fiexion by Meyer. It is more extensive than flexion, and the head of the magnum, 1. Tendons of ext. oss. met. poll, and priroi intnodii. 2. Bxts. carp. rad. long, and brev. 3. Ext. secundl intnod. poll. 4. Ext. com. and indicis. 5. Ext. carp, ulnaris. Fig. 215.—Vertical teansveese section of left radius and ulna just above the wrist. The ext. min. dig. is not shown, but lies equidistant between 4 and 5, between the bones. and upper part of the unciform, glide forwards on the hollow of the upper row until motion is checked by the meeting of the bones and by the anterior ligaments and flexor tendons. Over-extension is permitted to some degree in the 'radio-carpal, inter- or carpo-carpal joints, because the upper art icular surfaces of both rows of carpal bones are prolonged fm-ther on the dorsal than on the palmar aspect, and also because of the weak- ness of some of the carpal and carpo-metacarpal palmar ligaments. ' Carpo-Metacarpal Joints.—The metaoarpal bones are articulated with the second carpal row, the joint between the metacarpal of the thumb and trapezium being a separate one. The metacarpal of the thumb is connected by a thick but loose cap- sule which passes from the circumference of the base of the metacarpal bone to the rough edge around the articular suiface of the trapezium. It IS thickest outside and behind, and is lined by a separate synovial mem- brane. It is an arthrodial joint, and possesses great power of movement on account of its saddle-shaped articular surfece. On section each bone appears to be received into a cavity of the other, according to the direc- tion the section takes. For this reason it has been described as a joint u 2