610 HUMAN MOlirnOLOGY. Professor Huxley has named the two sets of muscles which lie above and below the embryonic vertebral axis, the ejpi- and hyjyo-sJceletal, re- spectively, and these terms correspond to the epaxial and hypaxial of other wiiters. In man the latter group is little developed, and is chiefly repre- sented by the nuchal prevertebral muscles, and by the transversus abdominis. The epaxial muscles are divisible into a dorso-lateral and ventro-lateral group. The former consists chiefly of the long and short erector muscles of the spine and head, and in the latter division are included the longi- tudinal muscles, such as the rectus abdominis, sterno-hyoid, and genio- hyoid. The ventro-lateral group include the sterno-mastoid, scalenes, intercostals, and flat abdominal muscles; the limb muscles also come primarily from this ventro-lateral mass. When muscles are attached partly to the trunk and partly to the limbs they are called extrinsic, but when attached entu-ely to the limb girdles and the limb segments they are termed intrinsic. Homological correspondences are found not only between individual muscles and muscular groups of man, but also between human muscles and those of inferior animals ; but as their attachments, relations, form, and actions vary greatly in different animals in consequence of the different functions which they have to perform, and as there are frequent varieties in the same species and often in the same individual, the exact determin- ation of the homologies is a matter of considerable difficulty and is conse- quently, at present, not thoroughly ascertained. The frequently occurring muscular varieties in man taken in consideration with the fact that they are generally repeated in the same form or some modification of it, points to the present or past existence of some fundamental and typical form in the animal series, and many of these so-called varieties are almost exact representations of forms which exist in different species of animals lower in the scale. I believe that if the attachments, forms, and relations of all these so-called varieties were regularly noted and compared, we should in a short time possess sufl&cient data to be able to trace the life-history, and consequently the true homologies, of the muscular system. The student must be awakened to the fact that varieties occm- in the lower animals as well as in man, and are subject to a similar explanation. Special Morphology.—In the pelvic limb there are two muscles of which the homologies in the thoracic appendage have not yet been deter- mined : these are the psoas and pyriformis. The former passes to the pre-axial antero-internal aspect of the limb ; the other to its post-axial or postero-external aspect. The bud-like process from the side of the embryo receives, probably, an enveloping sheath of muscular tissue fi-oni the ventro-lateral division of the epiaxial group, and this envelope is at first a simple investing infundibulum or funnel, but in process of growth it undergoes segmentation concmTently with the breaking up of the bony parts into the future sections of the limb. The superficial fibres of this sheath often pass entirely over one segment to more distal parts, but the deeper fibres pass, usually, from one segment to the next. Prof. Humpln-y thinks that two of the three layers into which the axial ventro-lateral group divides may be traced into its limb segments, and that tbey corre- spond to the external oblique and superficial part of the internal oblique layers. In the thoracic member the first segment of this muscular sheath is longer and its parts more easily recognised. This is due to the more