320 Summary of Muscles of Thoracic Qir. Name Pectoralis major „ miuor Subclavius Serratus magnus Biceps Ooraco-Lracbialis BracMalis anticua Deltoid Siipra-spinatus Infra- „ Teres minor Teres major Latissimus dorsi Subscapiilaris Triceps Pronator teres Plexor carpi radialis Palmaris lougiis Flexor carpi ulnaris Flexor sub. dig. Flex. long. poll. Flex. prol'. dig. Pronator qiiadratns Supinator lougus Origin Cbivicle, sternum, and first to seventh costal cartilages Third to fifth cost, cartgs. First costal cartilage First to ninth ribs Long bead, glenoid cav- ity; short head, coracoid process, middle facet Coracoid process, outer facet Humerus lower half inter- muscular septum Clavicle outer half, acro- mion, and spine of scapula Supra-spinous fossa Tnfra- „ „ Axillary border of scapula Inferior angle of scapula Si.xth lower dorsal, fifth lumbar, half iliac crest, and four last ribs Subscapular fossa Long head : below glen- oid cavity, outer head: outer surface of hu- merus. Inner head: in- ner surface of humerus Inner condyle of humerus deep fascia Internal condyle, deep fascia Internal condyle and fascia Internal condyle, fascia, post, edge of ulna Inner condyle, septum, coronoid process of ulna, and oblique line of radius Radius, ant. surface, outer half intoss. memb. ulna, coronoid process Ulna, upper two-rthirds, innerhalf intoss. memb. Ulna, lower ant. fourth Suprri- condyloid ridg<} oi' huuierus and intermus- cular septum Insertion Humerus, outer bicipital ridge Coracoid proc. of scapula, inner facet Under surf, clavicle, middle third Base of scapula Eadial tubercle and deep fa^icia Middle of front of humerus Coronoid process of ulna Humerus, middle of outer siu'face Great humeral tuberosity Middle facet, great tu- berosity Lowest facet of great tuberosity Inner bicipital ridge Bottom of bicipital groove Lesser tuberosity Oleci'anon process of ulna Middle of outer sui-f. of radius Second metacarpal, pal- mar aspect Palmar fascia Pisiform and fifth meta- carpal, palmar aspect Second phalanges of the four fingers, palmar aspect Base of last phalanges of thumb, palmar aspect Third phalanges of the four fingers, palmar aspect Radius,lower ant. fourth liase of styloid process of radius Action Adductor of arm ai elevator of stern u and ribs Depre.sses scapula . raises ribs Depresses clavicle ( raises first rib Draws scapula fn wards or raises ribj Flexor and supinat" of forearm or di presses shoulder Draws arm forwar and inwards Flexor and slig" supinator Raises arm or depre" shoulder External rotator i arm External rotator ( arm External rotator Internal ,, draws arm in a backwards Internal rotator Extensor of fore-ar or depressor of sc pula Rotates radiusinwan Flexor of hand Tensor of palmar fasc' and flexor of hand Fle.xes the hand Flexor of second phf langes and then ( wrist Flexes second phalani and then the third . Bends the third phii langes, then the othe and the wrist Rotates the radius Flexor and supinatc uf forearm