R UMAN MORTHOL O G Y. Dissection.—The student must now clean the great sacro-sciatic ligament, again noticing the coccygeal artery and nerve which pierce it. Only a portion of the lesser ligament will be seen until the greater has been reflected. These ligaments pass from the sacrum, ilium, and coccyx, to the spine and tuberosity of the ischium. The Great Posterior, or Superficial Sacro-Sciatio Ligament is triangular, thin and flat, and narrower in the middle than at its extremities. Its base is fixed to the posterior spinous process of the ilium, to the fourth and fifth transverse tubercles of the sacrum, and to the margins of the sacrum and coccyx at theii* lower part. It passes obliquely forwards, out- wards, and downwards, and becoming thicker and narrower, is inserted into the inner margin and anterior part of the ischial tuberosity, increasing in breadth, and is prolonged forwards along the inner margin of the ischial ramus forming the falciform ligament. The free concave edge of this ligament is blended with the obturator fascia, forming a groove which lodges and protects the internal pudic vessels and nerves. Its upper and lower margins are concave. Post. Slip, sacro-iliac / Fig. 312.—The eight saceo-sciatic and sacro-iliac ligaments. Between the upper two liorizontal lines is the great sciatic foramen, and between the lower two is the lesser. Relations.—On its 'posterior surface are branches of the sacral nerves, and gluteus maximus which arises from it. Its anterior stw/ace is blended with the inner part of the lesser ligament, and is in relation with the ob- turator internus. Its upper border forms the lower boundary of the lesser sacro-sciatic foramen. Its lower border forms part of the limits of the perineum. The coccygeal branch of the sciatic and some twigs from the gluteal artery pierce it, as well as the coccygeal nerve. Dissection.—Divide the great ligament near its origin, and reflect it to see the attachment of the small ligament. The Lesser, anterior, or deep sacro-sciatic ligament is triangular, thin, and much shorter and smaller than the preceding. It is attached internally by its broad base to the outer margin of the sacrum and coccyx, anterior to the attachments of the great ligament with which it is blended; its apex is inserted into the point and part of the posterior aspect of the spine of the ischium. It is not so strong as the great ligament.