HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 12 ' It may have been that he was acquainted with the circulation of the blood. Who can tell the extent of his knowledge until the volume be carefully examined, figure by figure, line by line, page by page, by an anatomist ?' ANATOMY IN FRANCE AND ENGLAND. Hitherto Italy had taken the lead in science, and consequently in ana- tomy ; but the institution of the College de France, in 1550, by Francis I. attracted a great many students to that country. Among the professors appointed were Guidi Gruido, better known by his Latin name Vidus Vidius, and Winter (Gruinterius) of Andernach, a German. Vidius died in 1567. The anatomy of Guidi (' De Anatomia,' lib* 8) was published at Venice, in 1611. Winter published in 1536, for the benefit of his pupils, an ele- mentary treatise on Anatomy, entitled ' Anatomicorum Institutionum secundum Galeni Sententiam ad Candidatus Medicinas,' lib. iv., Basilese. In this school were educated Charles Etienne, Servet, Jacques Dubois, (Sylvius), who himself became the teacher of Vesalius. Winter died in 1574, aged eighty-four. Jacques Dubois {Sylvius) was born at Louvilly in 1478, and took his degree as Bachelor of Medicine in 1531 ; he was, at the departure of Vidius for Italy, appointed Professor at the College of Triquet. There is no doubt that Dubois dissected many human bodies, yet such was his infatuation for Galen that he distrusted his own senses; hence his anatomy and physiology are almost entirely cast in the mould of the physician of Pergamos. Among his works are : ' Methodus sex Librorum Galeni de Differentiis et Causis Morborum,' Parisiis, 1539; ' Vesali cujus- dam Calumniarum in Hippocratis Galenique rem Anatomicam Depulsio,' Parisiis, 1551. Dubois must not be confounded with Franciscus de le Boe, also called Sylvius. Dubois' name is perpetuated in anatomical nomenclature by the ' Fossa Sylvii,' and aqueductus Sylvii. Among the distinguished pupils of Sylvius must be mentioned Charles Etienne, born at Paris about the beginning of the sixteenth century; died 1564, aged sixty. Of his anatomical works may be cited, 'De Dissectione Partium Corporis Humani,' Parisiis, 1545. Servetus (Michal Servet), born in 1509 at Villa Nuova Arragonia, was also a pupil of Sylvius* In his work ' Christianissitni Eestitutio ' occurs a passage, which, if it does not by any means prove that he understood the systemic circulation of the blood, at all events shows that he had a fair knowledge of the pulmonary circulation. His fate is ^vell known: he was burnt as a heretic at Geneva, in 1553, aged forty-fom\ Andreas Gcesalpinus of Arezzo (1519-1619), the eminent philosophical botanist and physiologist, occupies perha2:)S the most prominent place among the predecessors of Harvey. He describes very clearly the ]3ul- monary circulation, as is shown from the following passages:—'... to this circulation of the blood out of the right ventricle of the heart through the lungs into its left ventricle, what appears upon dissection answers very well.' • That he had a glimpse of the systemic circulation is proved by ' 'Huic sanguinis circulationi cx dexfro cordis Ventriculo per pulmones in sinistmm ejusdem ventriculum optime respondent ea qiuu ex disseclione appai'ent.'—Qucist. I'cri- 2iatctio. lib. v. cap. iv.