HOMOLOGIES OF THE LIMBS. G07 structure. Some mammals (the carnivora, &c.) have the scaphoid and the semilunar united into one in the adult, tlie scaphoid-lwnar, and Flower has shown that there is sometimes in the young dog a separate ossific centre in the distal portion of the scapho-lunar which corresponds in position and connections with the os centrale of other animals ; and Wilder has noticed the same occmxence in the carpus of a young lion. In the adults of these animals, however, this portion of bone becomes completely ossified so as to form the scapho-lunar. some animals the proximal part of the os magnum may separate and form an os centrale. Some animals possess a tenth carpal bone, which appears to correspond to the tubercle of the scaphoid, and Gregenbam- regards this as the typical radial sesamoid, and considers that the tarsal scaphoid may correspond to this along with the os centrale. The astragalus is homologous to the carpal, scaphoid, and lunar con- joined, or to the radial portions of these bones. The OS calcis is believed to be homologous with the cai'pal cuneiform, and some anatomists think that it includes the pisiform, but Allen Thomson is of opinion (differing from Gregenbaur in this point) that any one may convince himself of the truth of this latter view by the inspection of the hand and foot of a bear. In a 3'oung bear, and also in some other animals, the enlarged pisiforme has an epiphysis exactly similar to that on the tuberosity of the os calcis, and this, according to Allen Thomson, refutes the view that the pisiform corresponds to the calcanean epiphyses. The most striking difference between the carpus and tarsus seems to be that in the former the os centrale disappears dming normal development, while in the tarsus it remains as the scaphoid. In the hand the position of the tarsal navicular is taken by the os radiale, which undergoes a thicken- ing in its palmar portion. In the tarsus the intei-medium unites with the OS tibiale, which is homologous with the os radiale, to form the astragalus, whilst in the hand the os radiale remains separate from the os intermedium.. The tarsal os centrale coalesces also with the astragalus. Table of the Homologous Bones of the Upper and Lowee Limbs. Tliorcccic limh. Scapula. Precoracoid- Coracoid. Glenoid cavity. Clavicle. Humerus. Ilium. Pubes, Ischium. Cotyloid cavity. Absent. Femur. Felvic limb. Radius. Ulna. (Jarpus. Metacarpus. Great tuberosity. Small „ External condyle. Tibia. Fibula. Tarsus. Lesser trochanter. Great „ Internal condyle. Phalanges of lingers. Pollex. Metatarsus. Hallux. Phalanges of toes.