H UMAN MOItPIIOL 0 G Y. 394 linea aspera. This muscle is twisted so that the surfaces which ai-e directed forwards and backwai-ds near the pelvis are, at the femur, turned in and outwards. Relations.—Anteriorly, with tlie pubic part of the fascia lata, which separates it from the femoral vessels, the deep external pudic artery, and the internal saphenous vein. Fosterlorly, with the anterior branches of the obturator vessels and nerve, the obturator externus and abductor brevis muscles, and with the hip-capsule. Its inner harder is in relation with the adductor longus, and its outer is separated from the psoas by a slight cellular interval along which runs the femoral artery. Varieties.—It is frequently divided into two portions which are sepa- rated above, and have their nerves from different sources, the outer part being supplied from the anterior crui-al and the inner by the obturator nerve. This dual separation is normal among animals. It has been seen attached to the capsule of the hip or even inserted into it. Action.—It adducts the femm- and flexes the hip-joint, further, because of its oblique direction and twisted arrangement it can rotate the thigh outwards. Acting from the femur, it supports the pelvis, or can draw it forwards in stooping. Nerved-—Branches from the lumbar plexus. The Adductor Longus is the most superficial of the three adductors and is a flat triangidar muscle, internal to, but on the same plane, as the pec- tineus, with which it is often blended. It arises by a short, flat, narrow tendon from the front of the body of the pubes at the angle of junction of the crest and the symphysis, and expands into a broad fleshy belly which passes down, back, and out, to be inserted by an aponeurosis into the middle third, or into nearly the whole of the inner margin of the linea aspera, between the adductor magnus and the vastus internus. Aponeu- rotic bands connect its tendon of insertion with the adductor magnus and vastus internus, helping to form Hunter's canal. Relations.—Anteriorly, with the sartorius, fascia lata, and near its in- sertion with the femoral vessels. Posteriorly, Avith the adductor brevis and magnus, the anterior branches of the obturator vessels and nerves, and near its insertion with the profunda artery and vein. Its outer border is close to the pectineus and its inner border to the gracilis. It forms the inner boundary of Scarpa's triangle. Varieties.—It may be divided into two muscular bundles, or it may extend as far as the knee, its tendon being inseparably united with that of the adductor magnus. Action.—It adducts the femur, assisting the other adductors, and it can flex the hip-joint. It aids the other adductors in drawing forwards the leg in walking or running, and in grasping the sides of the horse in riding. Taking its fixed point at the femur, it helps to prop the pelvis on the femoral head and also flexes it on the thigh. Nerve.—The obturator. Dissection.—To expose the branches of the obturator artery and nerve, also the adductor brevis muscle and the profunda artery and vein with their branches, the pectineus and adductor longus must be divided near their origins and carefully reflected, so as not to injure the small accessory obturator nerve which turns beneath the outer border of the former muscle, and so as not to destroy the branches of the obturator nerve be-