DISSECTIOy OF THE LOWER LIMB. 619 should be carefully removed, the student noticing the synovial pouches above the condyles and the bands from the external fibro-cartihiges in front and behind the posterior crucial ligament. The remaining intra- articular ligaments will now be exposed and cleaned. These ai*e the two crucials, the two semilunar fibro-cartilages, the transverse, and the coro- nary. While studying these ligaments the student should move the joint in various directions so as to verify the statements made with regard to their tension and laxity in the ditferent motions of which it is capable. The Cviicial Ligaments are two very strong inter-osseous fibrous cords passing from the upper surface of the tibia to the sm-faces of the inter- condyloid notch. They are jilaced nearer the back than the front of the joint and cross each other, and have therefore been called crucial. These femoro-tibial ligaments are placed one in front of the other, and are called ant&tnor and posterior. The Anterior or External Crucial Ligament is smaller and more oblique than the posterior. It is attached above by its shorter posterior fibres into the inner and back part of the outer condyle of the femur, and Femur 6 Tibia Fig. 398.—Vertical teansverse section of eight knee in extension ; posterior part of the section seen from the front, by its longer anterior fibres into the upper and hinder part of the inter- condyloid fossa; and below to the inner side of the depression in front of the tibial spine, close to the inner margin of the inner articular surface, reaching to the inner part of the spine, and being blended with the an- terior end of the external semilunar fibro-cartilage. The Posterior or Internal Crucial Ligament is larger and more ver- tical, and is fixed above by its posterior shorter fibres to the inner condyle alongside its oblique curvature, while its longer anterior fibres are attached to the outer and fore part of the inner condyle. From its an- terior surface a fasciculus is given off" which blends with the posterior part of the anterior crucial ligament. In front and behind this ligament are two processes of the external semilunar fibro-cai'tilage. Actions.—The external ligaments having been cut through, the student, by moving the joint in various directions, will learn the use of