HUMAN MORrilOLOGY. i fibres from the rough expansion of the distal extremity of the phalanx, while others pass directly to the skin behind this band. The general result of this arrangement may be described as being the formation of a fibrous septum on each side of each finger, lying immediately behind the palmar digital branches of artery and nerve, and their chief use seems to be to keej) in their places the pai-ts of the integument at the backs of the • joints during flexion and extension, and to prevent bagging of the skin at the sides of the joints during flexion,' Cutaneous Nerves of the Palm.—These come from the median and I ulnar nerves, which give some unnamed filaments to the skin, and the two • palmar cutaneous nerves. The Palmar Cutaneous of the Median crosses the anterior annular • ligament in two branches; the inner extends to near the middle of the palm, joining the palmar branch of the ulnar, and the outer gives branches to the skin over the thenar eminence, and anastomoses with the anterior branch of the external cutaneous nerve. The Palmar Cutaneous Branch of the ulnar crosses the anterior annular ligament on the ulnar artery, entwining round it, and accompanying it to Fig. 151.—Cutaneous ligaments of fingers (Cleland). the palm, supplying the skin and joining the corresponding branches of the median nerve. The Palmaris Brevis is a thin quadrilateral subcutaneous muscle, about two inches wide on the ulnar side of the hand. Its fibres are collected into separate bundles, and arise by tendinous fasciculi from the annular ligament and middle piece of the palmar fascia. Its fleshy fibres pass horizontally to be inserted into the skin over the hypothenar eminence. Relations.—Superficially, ^ith the skin, to which it is closely adherent at its inner part; deeply, with the inner piece of the palmar fascia, which separates it from the ulnar vessels and nerves, and from the muscles of the little finger. Action.—It draws the skin of the inner side of the hand towards the centre and deepens the hollow of the palm. Nerve.—^The ulnar. Varieties.—It is sometimes entirely absent, and occasionally blends with the flexor brevis minimi digiti. There is considerable variation in its breadth, thickness, the strength of its fibres, and also their length and direction. It sometimes consists of only a few scattered fibres. ' These ligaments were described by a German before Dr. Cleland's first description, but not so completely as by him. See an early number of the Jahresbo'ichte fiir Anat. uiul Phijsiulogic, edited by Hofmau and Schwalbe.