PREFACE. ix Struthers, Turner, Cleland, Redfern, Houghton, Pettigiw, Buchanan, Mivart, and Lankester. Among younger men who are raising the teaching of human anatomy, the following names stand prominently out, Balfour and Creighton of Cambridge, Thane and Curnow of London, Macahster and Cunningham of Dublin, Jeffries Parker of Otago University, New Zealand, Charles of Cork, Watson of Owens College, Manchester, Mitchell Banks of Liverpool, Nunneley of Leeds, Clark of Glasgow. The various lecturers and demonstrators at the London and provincial schools are, nowadays, doing excellent service by paying more attention to the teaching of applied anatomy, and I hope the day is not far distant when students will be taught and examined in the bearmgs of anatomy to surgery, medicine, and gynoecology. A few words as regards the illustrations. Ten years' ex- perience in teaching anatomy has convinced me of the great utility of figures in lightening the labour of learning and teaching this science—it being, of course, understood that this book is to be chiefly used ivJiile the student is dissecting. The publishers have, in consequence, been liberal in the matter of illustrations, and as the work had to be produced at a price suitable to the majority of students, it must be obvious that if (as I should have liked) all the figures had been newly drawn and cut, this necessary condi- tion could not have been fulfilled. Moreover, there is nothing gained by reproducing that which is already well represented. I therefore obtained as many illustrations as requisite from the best sources at my disposal, but a large number has been specially prepared for this work. Some of the latter are from my own drawings and dissections, and several have been executed either by or under the direction of Mr. E. N. Smith, others by Mr. D'Alton, and a few by my friend Mr. Kendlc, of King's College. Some of the figures are, perhaps, somewhat rough and diagi'am- matic, but I strongly hold that illustrations, if deficient in an artistic sense, may nevertheless be very useful to the student, provided the anatomical details be correct. The borrowed illustrations, most of which have been altered and improved in the lettering, are from the well-known works of