HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 25G and latterly Cleland, say that these and the dorsal interossei flex the first phalanges and extend the last two, and this view is supported by Prof. Allan Thomson in the last edition of Quain's ' Anatomy.' Nerves. The two outer lumbricales are supplied by the median ; the two inner by the ulnar nerve. Varieties.—T\ie?,e frequently occur. Sometimes there are only three, the fourth being absent, and in rare cases there are five or six. One finger (most frequently the third or fourth) has sometimes two inserted into it, or one muscle may be inserted into two fingers. The fourth has been noticed to supply the place of the fourth tendon of the flexor profundus. The first may arise from the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis or from a supple- mentary muscle of the forearm. The second may have two heads of origin. The thu'd and fourth may have only one head of origin, instead of two from the radial side of the tendons for the third and fourth fingers. It is rare to see them inserted into the ulnar side of the phalanx. The first and second may both be inserted into the first phalanx of the middle finger. 1. Hex. sub. 2. Flex, profund. 3. Sbeatbs of tendons reflected. 4. Vincula access. 6 and 6. Lig. brev. Fio 168.—Flexor tendons and their attachments and processes. Tendon of the Flexor Longus Pollicis.—This, after escaping from the annular ligament, passes out between the heads of the flexor brevis pollicis, and is inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the thumb. The common synovial membrane surrounds it beneath the annular ligament, and commonly sends a prolongation into its digital sheath. Dissection.—Cut through the tendons of the flexor profundus above the wrist, and throw them, with the lumbricales, towards the fingers, being careful of two slender vessels and nerves entering the two inner lumbricales. The deep palmar arch, the deep branch of the ulnar nerve, and the palmar interossei muscles will be exposed. The muscles of the thumb and little finger are to be cleaned and defined. Muscles of the Thumb.—Of the four short muscles comprising this group, the most superficial is the abductor pollicis; beneath it is the opponens pollicis, and to the inner side of the latter is the flexor brevis pollicis. The adductor pollicis passes from the middle metacarpal bone to the first phalanx of the thumb. The Abductor Pollicis is a thin flat muscle about an inch wide, and is immediately beneath the skin. It arises from the radial side and upper