SUMMARY OF DISSECTION OF LOWER LIMB. 627 nerve in the mid-line, and theii' branches, also the posterior cutaneous twigs of the internal saphena nerve. 3. Keflect the aponeurosis by similar incisions, preserve the saphena vein and nerves, which must be dissected out. 4. The deep fixscia is then exposed. Notice its attachments to the tibia and fibula, and its strengthening process at the inner and outer side of the ankle, also its continuation with the popliteal fascia above. Pre- serve the vessels and nerves piercing it. 0. Eeflect the fascia near the gastrocnemius, and the tendon of the plantaris will be exposed. Follow the tendo-Achillis to its insertion, and note the bursa between it and the os calcis. 6. Keflect the gastrocnemius, when the soleus will be exposed. Note its two processes of origin, and its insertion into the tendo-Achillis. Ee- flect the soleus to expose the deep fascia separating the superficial from the deep muscles. 7. Eeflect this fascia, dissect out the posterior tibial artery and veins, posterior tibial nerve, and the peroneal artery and vein. 8. Define the origins of the flexor longus hallucis, tibialis posticus, flexor communis digitorum, and peronei. 9. Either pull these muscles aside, or divide their tendons to expose the mterosseous membrane and define the attachments and relations of the latter. 10. Trace out the tendons and synovial sheaths of the tibialis anticus, flexor longus digitorum, and flexor longus hallucis behind the internal malleolus and beneath the internal annular ligament. 11. Follow out the structm-es, passing across and around the ankle joint, and define their relative positions. 12. The knee joint and its internal and external articular ligaments and joint surfaces must now be dissected, also the tibial and fibular ligaments. PLANTAR REGION. 1. Continue the median incision to the end of the middle toe. 2. Make transverse ones on the outer and inner side along the webs of the toes 3. Notice the plantar cutaneous branches of the posterior tibial and plantar nerves, the cutaneous branches of the plantar arteries, and the calcanean branch of the posterior tibial. 4. Define and dissect the three processes and digital prolongations of the plantar fascia. Be careful of the digital vessels and nerves near the webs of the toes, also of the cutaneous branches of the plantar arteries and nerves. 5. Open each process of the plantar fascia and observe the partitions from the outer and inner side of its median portion forming the three compartments in the sole. 6. Dissect out the attachments of the superficial muscles and study their actions. 7. Eeflect the superficial muscles to expose the flexor communis digitorum, flexor accessorius, flexor longus hallucis, and lumbricales, and follow out the internal and external plantar vessels and nerves, S 8 2