140 IIIJMAN MORPHOL 0 G Y. The Teres Major is broader and flatter, and arises from a rough surface on the dorsal aspect of the inferior angle of the scapula and from the intermuscular aponeurosis. Its fibres are longitudinal and twist upon themselves to be inserted by a flat tendon about two inches wide ai^d long, partly into and partly behind the inner bicipital ridge. At its insertion the tendon is behind that of the latissimus dorsi, with which it is partly blended. There is sometimes a bursa separating these muscles above at their insertion, and another bursa between the tendon and the bone This muscle and the latissimus dorsi give off a tendinous expansion to the deep fascia of the ai'm. Relations.— Anteriorly, with the subscapularis, latissimus dorsi, coraco- brachialis and short head of the biceps, axillary vessels and brachial plexus of nerves. Posteriorly, it is separated from the skin by the latissimus iltoid from head minor major Fig. 69.—Attachmenis ok the iuuht scapular muscles. Posterior view. 9. Ti'ansvei-se ligament of scapula with sections of supra-scapular vessels above, and the nnrvB beneath it. lU. Coraco-cluviculnr ligaments. Most of the ossifio points of the scapula are also shown. dorsi in front and long head of the triceps behind. Its upper border is separated from the teres minor by the long head of the triceps, and its lower border forms with the latissimus dorsi part of the posterior wall of the axilla. The upper and inner border of this muscle forms the lower boundary of a triangular space, of which the base is at the upper part of the humerus, and the other side the axillary costa of the scapula, which is covered in front by the subscapularis and behind by the teres minor muscles. The long head of the triceps divides this triangle into an upper or outer quadrangular space, and a lower or inner triangular interval. Through the quadrilateral space, which is bounded above by the teres minor, below by the teres major, outside by the humerus, inside by the long head of the triceps, pass the posterior circumflex vessels and the circumflex nerve ; and through the triangular space, which is bounded above