DISSECTION OF THE PERINJEUM. 049 the posterior inferior iliac spine, and inserting into the back of the coccyx. It is frequently present. The Sacro-coccygeiLS anter ior, or curvator coccygis of Von Behr, occu- pies a corresponding position in front of the sacrum, and coccyx, and is less constant than the preceding muscle. These fibres represent some of the caudal muscles of the lower animals. Their names indicate theii' actions, and filaments from the lower sacral nerves supply them. Dissection.—On the undissected side, the student must carefully remove the fat in a dii-ection corresponding to that of the vessels and nerves, which run for the most pai't transversely or obliquely inwai-ds; those to the posterior part of the anus and rectum pass back, and those for the urethra and muscles of the anterior space course forwards. He must note that the superficial pad of fat is separated from a deeper layer by the inferior htemorrhoidal vessels and the posterior twig of the perinreal branch of the internal pudic nerves. These must be traced outwards to their Gt. Fig. 471.—Vertical median section op the pelvis. Left side seen from within and the viscera removed. origin from the internal pudic artery and nerve, which may be felt along the outer wall, in an aponeurotic sheath of the obturator fascia. At the posterior part of the fascia the artery is about an inch and a half from the surface, or from the lower margin of the ischial tuberosity, but only half an inch from the surface at the anterior part of the space, where it passes under and then pierces the triangular ligament to get between its layers and to divide into its two terminal branches, viz. the artery to the coiyus cavernosum and the dorsal arte^'y of the penis. The pelvic and gluteal portions of the internal pudic artery and nerve will be subsequently dissected; only the perinseal portion is seen in this dissection. Instructions.—Feel the structures just mentioned, and roll them under the finger ; define the posterior edge of the triangular ligament, feel the sacro-sciatic ligaments and the spine of the ischium. By referring to the