162 HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. Variations.—This vessel is subject to many peculiarities in its divi- sion, course, distribution, and relations, which possess special surgical interest, not only from the comparative frequency of its peculiarities, but because it has not unfrequently to be tied or compressed. Goitrse.—Sometimes the brachial artery and median nerve pass to- wards the inner condyle to regain its usual position at the bend of the elbow, either through a bony prominence or ring, which was mentioned in giving the surface markings, or under a fibrous arch, from which, in this case, the pronator teres arises. Sometimes this anomaly occurs without the development of any bony prominence. This abnormal con- dition in man resembles the normal position of the artery in some of the, carnivora. A very rare condition consists in the division of the brachial into two vessels near its origin, the artery being single above and below. Another rare occurrence is the origin of the radial ulnar and interosseous together, from the end of the brachial at the ordinary situation below the elbow. Division.—This may be above or below the usual point, the normal condition prevailing; i.e. in about three-fom'ths of the cases the vessel bifurcates in its normal position. When the artery divides above its usual point (it may do so at any point from the axilla to behind the elbow), the radial in three cases out of four is the one prematurely given off; but sometimes it is the ulnar, or a branch corresponding to the ulnar in it - distribution below the middle of the forearm is given off from the trunk, which subsequently divides into the usual radial and interosseous arteries of the forearm, the latter being ordinarily a branch of the ulnar. There is no correspondence between the arteries of the two arms of the same subject, with reference to. this irregular division. In sixty-one bodies it was present on one side only, in forty-three on both sides, in different posi- tions in thu'teen, and on both sides in the same position in five. The point of division is most frequently in the upper, less so in the lower, and less in the middle third of the arm, where it is usually tied. In any of these instances two large vessels would be found in the arm instead of one. Two vessels instead of one are present in some part of the arm in about one out of five subjects. The position of these two vessels possesses much surgical interest. Commonly they are close together and occupy the usual position of the brachial, but the radial artery when given off in this manner frequently arises from the inner side of the brachial, and runs ^posteriorly with the larger vessel (the brachial or ulnar interosseous), and crosses over it at the bend of the elbow under the deep fascia, but very often it pierces the fascia near the elbow and runs subcutaneously. If the ulnar be the branch given off high up from the bi'achial, it fre- quently leaves the ordinary position of the brachial at the lower part of the arm near the inner condyle. It is generally superficial to the flexors, but under the fascia, and sometimes between the skin and fascia, and very rarely beneath the muscles. In some instances the two vessels repre- senting the brachial are joined at the bend of the elbow by a transverse branch, which comes from the larger (or larger interosseous) to the radial or radial recurrent, and more rai-ely the two anomalous vessels are really reunited. The vasa aherrantia or aberrant arteries are long slender vessels which