354 HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. pubic portion of the fascia lata and Cooper's ligament; inside, the iliac and transversalis fasciae meet, and outside is the femoral vein. The Deep or Internal Femoral Ring is oval, and about half an inch in its greatest diameter which is transverse, and is larger in the female. This is one reason why femoral hernia is more common in females. It is the upper opening of the canal, and leads into the abdomen. In front of the ring are Poupart's ligament and the deep arch ; behind it are the ilio-pectineal line and the pectineus, covered by the pubic part of the fascia lata and Cooper's ligament; inside are Grimbernat's ligament, the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, the trans- versalis fascia and the deep arch, and outside is the femoral vein, separated from it by the septum between it and the canal. The student must note that this ring is immediately outside and around the upper or abdominal end of the canal, and is not formed by the fasciae forming the walls of the latter although these pass from the abdomen to the thigh within it. Fig. 252.—The relations of the eight internal femoral and abdominal rings seen from the inside. The iliacus, covered by the iliac fascia, is to the right of the figure and is cnt, as also is the os imiominatum. The rectus is shown just above the symphysis. The external femoral ring, or saphenous opening, is anterior or super- ficial to the sheath, so that a hernia would have to carry before it, or tear through the anterior layer of the sheath, before it could pass through this opening. Relations of the Internal Femoral Ring or aperture.—The structures surrounding the ring outside the femoral sheath have already been men- tioned, but I will repeat them. Bounding the canal, and at its front, are Poupart's ligament, and the deep crural arch, inside are Gimbernat's liga- ment and the conjoined tendon ; outside is the femoral vein separated by a fibrous septum; and behind are the pubes covered by the pectineus, and the pubic portion of the fascia lata with its thickening, which has been described as a ligament called the Ligament of Cooper. Directions.—To see the vessels and other structures bounding this ring, the student should arrange with the dissector of the abdomen, and