666 HUMAN MO TiPlIOL0G Y. nerves, the latter being deeper than the artery, which here gives its branch to the bulb. The posterior layer of the fascia, which separates these structures from the pelvic cavity, is placed beneath these structures. The deep lymphatic vessels of the penis accompany the dorsal vein. Muscles.—There are two of these in connection with the membranous portion of the urethra. They are the constrictor or compressor uretbrse, and the deep transverse muscle. The Constrictor TJrethrse, or Constrictor Isthmi TTrethralis, or Orbicular muscle of the urethra, consists of a number of transverse fibres which en- close the membranous part of the urethra, and pass, some above and others below it. It arises by aponeurotic fibres from the upper part of the pubic ramus on each side for half or three quarters of an inch, and from the pos- terior layer of the triangular ligament. Each half of the muscle passes in- wards, and divides into two layers which surround the membranous m-ethra, one set passing over, the other under that canal, from the prostate behind to the bulb in front, and unite by a tendinous raphe on the upper and lower surfaces of the urethra with the muscles of the opposite side. It may be regarded as a single muscle extending across the perinaeum, and enveloping the urethra in the same manner as the sphincter ani encloses the lower end of the rectum. Action.—Both muscles act as a single sphincter, and diminish the calibre of the membranous urethra expelling its contents. It is relaxed during micturition, but at the end of that process it contracts and assists the ejaculator in emptying the canal. Relations.—Its inner surface is in relation with the circular in- voluntary muscular fibres of the m'ethra, and its outer with the deep layer of the triangular ligament, which separates it from the anterior fibres of the levator ani. It is enclosed between the two layers of the deep fascia. Nerve.—The perinfeal. Variety.—The tendinous raphe is not constant. The Deep Transversus Perinsei, or Levator Urethrse of Santorini, or Guthrie's muscle, is inconstant, and is a thin flat layer near the base of the triangular ligament. It arises from the margin of the pubic arch, and passes obliquely in, behind the bulb and the membranous part of the vurethra, to the mid-line, where it joins its fellow of the opposite side, and is inserted into the central perinseal point. Actioii.—It will, like the superficial transverse muscle, fix the central point of the perinseum. Relations.—It conceals Cowper's gland, is between the two layers of the deep fascia, and has the pudic artery and nerve beneath it at its outer side, and the artery of the bulb above its upper border. Nerve.—The peringeal. Variety.—It may be absent, and is not always separated from the preceding muscle. Dissection.—Carefully divide the thin constrictor urethras muscle to expose the involuntary circular fibres surrounding the membranous urethra. The Circular Muscular Fibres are immediately beneath the transverse fibres of the constrictor, and are continuous posteriorly with the circular fibres of the prostate and bladder. They surround the urethra fr om the