HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 1G8 The Median Nerve was named from its com-se. It runs along the middle of the arm and forearm to the hand, and lies between the ulnar on the inner, and the musculo-spiral and radial on the outer side. It arises by two roots, from the outer and inner cords of the plexus—these enclose the third part of the axillary artery, join in front or on the outer side of the vessel—and, passing down the arm, is at first on the outer and then usu- ally in front of the brachial artery in the middle of the arm ; but sometimes it lies behind it, and at the bend of the elbow is on its inner side, where it is placed beneath the bicipital fascia, resting on the brachial anticus. It gives no branches in the arm, and its relations are similar to those of tlic artery. Varieties.—There may be a doubling of one or both heads, and the outci- head may pass behind instead of in front of the brachial artery. It may frequently pass behind the brachial, and may enter the forearm by passing over the pronator teres instead of between its heads. Sometimes there is a fasciculus in the arm, connecting it with the musculo-cutaneous. In very rare instances it may accomj^any the brachial artery beneath the supra-condylar process, as mentioned in describing the anomalies of this vessel. The Ulnar Nerve runs along the inner side of the limb to the muscle^ and skin of the forearm and hand. It is smaller than the median, being placed behind it, and arises from the inner cord of the brachial plexus in common with the internal cutaneous and inner head of the median. At first it is close to the inner side of the axillary and brachial arteries, and at the middle of the arm crosses obliquely over the inner head of the triceps, through the inner intermuscular septum and fibres of the triceps, to the groove between the olecranon and internal condyle, accompanied by the inferior profunda artery. It enters the forearm between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris. There are no branches of this nerve in the arm, but between the olecranon and inner condyle it gives some small articular filaments to the elbow. Varieties.—-Sometimes the ulnar gives muscular twigs to the inner head of the triceps in the upper part of the arm, and if the ep itrochleo-anconeus muscle be present, it receives a branch from the ulna. In three instances Grruber has observed the nerve passing in front instead of behind the inner condyle. The Internal Cutaneous comes from the inner cord of the plexus, and is superficial to the brachial artery as far as the middle of the arm, where it divides into two branches that pierce the deep fascia, and near the axilla it gives an offset to the skin and the inner side of the arm. It is continued on to the inner side of the forearm* The Lesser Internal Cutaneous, or nei've of Wrisberg^ arises from the inner cord, generally with the preceding. It is at first behind the axillary vein, and then passes beneath (but sometimes through the vein) and joins the intercosto-humeral. Afterwards it runs along the inner side of the arm as far as its middle, where it pierces the deep fascia, and supplies the skin of the arm as far as the inner side of the elbow. The Musculo- or External Cutaneous (or jperforans Casserii) supplies the muscles and skin of the front of the arm, and ends in the forearm. It comes from the outer cord of the brachial plexus near the lower border of the pectoralis minor, then pierces the coraco-brachialis, which it supplies,