DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. and palmaris brevis at tbe inner side ; behind it are tbe anterior annular liiraiueut, the muscles of the little finger, the tendons of the flexor sub- liuiis and profundus, and the branches of the median and ulnar nerves. Venie comites accompany the ulnar artery, as also does the ulnar nerve for a short part of its course. Branches.-^Some small twigs to the palm of the hand are given off from the concavity of the arch. A small profunda branch comes from it as soon as the artery enters the palm, and the digital branches are given oft" from the convexity of the arch. The Deep Communicating or Profunda Branch is small and passes ileeply inwards with the deep branch of the ulnar nerve, between the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti near their origins. It joins the termination of the radial artery near the inner border pf the hand to form the deep palmar ai'ch. 1. Ulnar. 2. Sup. voIeb. 3. Radial. 4. Dceparcb. Below it is the supfl, 5. Digitals. 6. Iiitorossci. 7. Coll. digitals. S. Priuceps poll. 9. Had. iud. Fia. IGL—DiAUUAM OF THE PALMAll AKCUES. The D'ujltal Branches are four, and supply the inner side of the little finger, the adjoining sides of the three inner fingers, and the inner side of the index finger, on their palmar aspects. The contiguous sides of the index finger and thumb are supplied by the radial artery. The branch which supplies the inner side to the hand and little finger is imdividcd, but the others bifurcate near the finger webs to furnish the collateral aifjilal arteries. In the hand these vessels lie at first superficial to the flexor tendons, and are accompanied by the digital nerves, which they occasionally pierce; but as they pass forwards with the nerves to the finger clefts they lie between them, and ai-e there joined by the interosseous branches of the deep palmar arch. The artery for the inner side of the htt e finger has its communicating branch for the interosseous about the inifldle of the hand. On the sides of the lingers the digital arteries lie