DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 07 11 is upwards at the root of the neck, and corresponds to the space between the two scalene muscles on the first rib ; or to that between the clavicle, the upper marg in of the scapula and the first rib. The base of the second pyramid (thoracic base) is at the chest wall, and the apex at the humerus between the pectoralis major and the latissimus dorsi. The anterior wall is formed by the pectoralis major over its whole extent and the pectoralis minor over its central portion. The posterior limit, which extends lower and reaches fm-ther out than the anterior, is formed from above downwards by the subscapularis, teres major and latissimus dorsi muscles. It is bounded in- ternally by the first four ribs with the intervening intercostals, covered by their fascia and the upper part of the serratus magnus ; and externally the space is nar-row because the anterior and posterior boundaries converge. It is limited by the coraco-brachialis, biceps and humerus. Contents.—The axilla contains the axillary vessels and their branches, the brachial plexus of nerves and its branches, branches of the intercostal nerves, lymphatic vessels and glands, and a large quantity of loose con- nective tissue and fat. Relative Position of Vessels and Nerves.—^The axillary artery and vein and brachial plexus pass obliquely along the outer boundary of the space, and much nearer the anterior than the posterior wall, the vein being 1. Upper end of humerus. 2. Scapula. 3. Kibs. 4. Pectoralis major. 5. SeiTatus maguua. 6. Subscapularis. 7. Axillary vein. 8. Axillary arterj'. 9. Tendon of long liead of biceps in the bicipital groove. . 10. Short bead of biceps and coraco- brachialis. 11, 12, and 13. Median, musculo-spiral, and musculo-cutaneous nerves. Fig. 33.—Diagrammatic anteho-posterior section through the left AXILLA JL'ST above ITS THORACICO-HUMERAL BASE. lower than, and on the thoracic side of, the artery. At the anterior part of the space, very close to the pectoral muscles, are the thoracic branches of the artery, especially the long thoracic, and parallel with it, though nearer the middle of the axilla, are the external mammary artery and vein. Along the posterior boundary in contact with the lower margin of the sub- scapularis are the subscapular vessels and nerves; and winding round the lower edge of this muscle are the dorsalis scapulcB artery and veins; and close to the humeral end of the muscle the posterior circumflex vessels and nerve curve back and out beneath the axillary vessels to the shoulder. On the thoracic or inner side only a few small branches of the superior thoracic are to be found ; but the posterior thoracic or external respiratory nerve of Bell descends on the outer sm-face of the serratus magnus to supply it; and piercing the anterior superior part of this boundary, the lateral cutaneous or intercosto-humeral nerve, or nerves, pass across the axilla to the inner side of the arm. There is a large quantity of loose connective tissue in the a.xilla, and a number of small arteries and veins, and several lympliatic glands with their intervening lymphatic vessels. The axillary lymphatic fjlands are usually arranged in two sets, one