107 DISSECTION OF THE UPPEIl LIMB. The vessel is here surrounded by the large trunks into whicli the l)rachial plexus is broken up. External to it is the median and the mus- culo-cutaneous for a short distance. On the inner side ai-e the ulnar, the internal cutaneous and lesser internal cutaneous. The internal cutaneous is also superficial to the artery. Behind it are the rausculo-spiral and cir- cumflex nerves, the latter going only to the lower border of the subscapu- laris. Varieties.—The most important peculiarity in a practical sense is the giving off of a large branch from the trunk. This occurs once in ten subjects. In some cases this large branch is the radial (1 in 33); in others it is the ulnar (1 in 72); and very rarely it is the interosseous (1 in 506, E. Quain). In some subjects this large branch gives origin to the subscapular, two circiunflex and superior and inferior prof undae; but some- times only one cii-cumflex and profunda come from it. In these cases the brachial plexus usually sm-rounds the trunk from which the branches come, and not the main vessel. A vas aherrans is sometimes given off from the brachial and joins one of the branches of the axillary. Surgical Anatomy.—In the removal of tumours or in amputation of the arm high up, the third part of the vessel must be compressed by Fig, 41,—Diagram of costo-coracoid membrane and sheath of axillaev ARTERY. Left side. Altered frotn Cuimingliain. directing the pressure from within outwards against the humerus. In aneurism of the brachial the third part may be tied, or a distal ligatm'e may be applied to it in aneurism of the third part of the subclavian or higher parts of the axillary. The second and third parts have been tied, hut it is a safer practice to ligate the third part of the subclavian in cases requiring it. If the vessel be wounded it must be secured above and below the wound, being careful of the surrounding structures, and com- I)ressing the third part of the subclavian; but these cases are usually fatal before the surgeon sees them. Collateral Uircidaiion.—If the first part be tied between the superior and acromio-thoracic, the circulation will be maintained by the same branches as after ligature of the third part of the subclavian, and then will he described with that vessel; but if it be secured between the acromio- thoracic and subscapular, the latter by its free anastomoses with the sca- pular branches of the subclavian will be the main means in maintaining the circulation of the upper limb. If the long thoracic be below the ligature, it will materially assist in consequence of its anastomoses with