C>7 ANA TOMICAL TECHNICS. excluded from prying eyes, and when done with they should be returned to the dissecting-room porter for disposal. A firm deal table painted black and varnished and fitted with drawers will answer all anatomical and histo- logical pm-poses, and if the student be provided with a good dissecting case, an ordinary dissecting microscope, a syringe, and a simple apparatus for dissecting under water, he will be prepared to follow all the instructions of his books, and, in a more advanced stage, to add to the sum of ana- tomical knowledge. Instruments.—A good, dissecting case shoidd be provided with three scalpels of different size, shape, and strength ; with two smaller knives, one for finer dissections, and one having somewhat the shape of a catni'act knife, for the dissection of the eye (these will be serviceable in histology) ; .a brain knife, dissecting hooks, blowpipe, two or three pairs of forceps, grooved director, aneurism needles, one or two tiles, two pairs of scissors, a chisel, a saw,' and a hammer with a hook on the end of the handle. These latter should be fitted into one handle. The dissecting case shoidd be provided with needles, string, and a small bottle containing carbolic oil, also with a hone and a hand lens. Messrs. Mayer & Meltzer, of Great Port- land Street, have made for me an excellent dissecting and post-mortem case combined, at a reasonable price, in which all necessary instruments are provided in a j^ortable form. The chisels, saw, <foC., are fixed into the handle by an excellent recent patent of Mr. Mayer, and can be easily fixed on and removed. The accompanying figures will sufficiently explain the shape, &c., of these instruments, and an hour nnder the guidance of the demonstrator will be much more serviceable in teaching the student their uses than any written description. The large pair of scissors is pro- vided with a movable cover for dividing the intestines. Before proceeding to the consideration of the dissection of the various parts it will be well to give the order of dissection, which it is best to follow, and a few general rules which will be useful to the student. Order of Dissection.—The perinseum is first dissected, and the early half of the day is usually allowed for this. The body is then placed on its back, and the other dissectors 'can continue with their parts, i.e. with the front of the arms and legs, and head and neck. In from two to thi-ee days the body should be turned on its face, the muscles of the back, &q., dissected, and also the s^jinal cord, because if this, is left, as is usually done, to the later stage, the cord will have decomposed into a soft pulp, and the student will have difficidty in making a satisfactory dissection. When the body is on its fixce, the back of the neck, of the shoulder and arm, the buttock, popliteal space, and back of the thigh should be dissected by the owners of these parts; the further steps will be given with the various regions. The brain should be removed not later than the second day, and should be at once placed in methylated spirit. The skull will need to be fixed, and the best mode of doing tliis is by applying Ormsby's cranium holder and fixing it firmly by means of the screws. Some dissectors and pathologists are fearful of soiling or poisoning ' Two koylK>lc sjiws, ono straiglit and tlic otlinr ill- an angle, am very useful in (he din- section of the cranium. They can be adapted to the .single handle contained in tlrj box. A gouge i.sal.so of scirvice, and an ordinary house-painler'.s bru,sli of medium size is of u&c to smear the parts with glycerine to keep them supple. F 2