5 HISTORICAL SKETCH. The Editio jprmcefs of Celsus is that of A. Nicolas, Florent., 1478. Numerous other editions and ti-nnslations have since appeared. Hei'e may perhajDS be mentioned Pelops, the teacher of Galen, who made myology his special study, as may be inferred from the book of Galen, ' De Muscul. Dissectione.' SECOND PERIOD. GALEN TO VJESALItrS. Claudius Galenus was born, about 130 a.d,, at Pergamos. After receiving his elementary instruction from his father, Nicon, a philosopher and mathematician, he commenced his anatomical and medical studies under Satyrus, a celebrated anatomist, and subsequently went to Smyrna, where he received the instructions of Pelops, mentioned above. After the death of his father, Galen travelled to Alexandria, when having possessed him- self of all the medical knowledge there obtainable, he returned to his native place, and, finally, when thirty-four years of age, settled at Rome, where he soon obtained the most extensive practice. Few physicians of his time have worked as hard as Galen. He is said to have written more than five hundi'ed treatises, of which a considerable portion were destroyed by a fii'e. Of those which Galen himself states as having been burnt we shall only cite ' Libri iii. de Anatomia Erasistrati;' 'Libri de Section© Mortuorum;' ' LibH ii. de Sectioue Vivoruni,' &c. &c. Owing to their loss, we possess a comparatively scanty amoutit of the state of anatomy during the most flourishing period of the Alexandrian school. But enough has remained of the works of this voluminous wi'iter to form a pretty accurate idea, of the state of anatomy at his time, and of the merits of Galen as an anatomist. It does not appear that Galen had at any time many opportunities of dissecting human subjects. His dissections were chiefly confined to the lower animals and to apes, to which circumstance must be ascribed most of the eiTors in his anatomical descriptions. Still, it is wonderful with what sagacity he, from the dissection of animals, analogically inferred the struc- ture of the human body. The osteological descriptions of Galen are, considering all circumstances, clear and accurate enough. He dis- tinguishes the bones and sutures of the cranium; he describes the parietal, sphenoid, temporal, and ethmoid bones, and he divides the vertebrae into cervical, dorsal and lumbar. The myology of Gal en, although perhaps less complete thanhis osteology, is nevert:heless singularly rich and accurate. He describes the principal muscles of the head, of the tiimk, and extremities. The six muscles of the eye, the recti and the obliqui, the muscles of the tongue, the larynx, the chest, the abdomen, &c., are not only well described, but their actions ex])lained ; so that most of the names by which the respective muscles are distinguished are still retained in modem anatomy. In neurology Galen distinguishes the cerebral from the spinal nerves. He admits only seven pairs of cerebral nerves, and traces their distribution. Although his description of the brain is not of man but of an ox, yet it is