47 ANATOMICAL TECHNICS. various antiseptic, disinfectant or deodorising materials given in the pre- vious formulae. 18. Wickerheimer's fluids for preserving animal and vegetable tissues. 1. Potassa 36 grammes Salt lo „ Alum 60 „ Dissolved in Aq 3 litres This solution must be heated to 50° Centigrade (122° Fahr.), and 9 grammes of salicylic acid added, together with 45 grammes of methylic alcohol and 250 grammes of glycerine. Sometimes 3 grammes of saltpetre are added, and its preserving power may be improved by increasing the alcohol to 20 grammes, the salicylic acid to 12 grammes, and glycerine to 450 grammes per litre of liquid. This will preserve subjects for about a month free from odour. 2. Dissolve in 3000 grammes of boiling water 100 „ alum 25 „ common salt 12 „ saltpetre 60 „ carbonate of potash 10 „ arseuious acid Cool and filter, and to every ten litres of the solution add 4 litres of glycerine and 1 litre of methylic alcohol. The third formula has been improved by Messrs. Poetz and Hohr of Berlin, who make two kinds, one for injecting and one for macerating and immersing bodies. 3, Arsenioiis acid Sodium chloride Potassium sulphite „ nitrate . „ carbonate Water . Glycerine Wood-naph±ha These fluids may be injected into the vessels or the body, or part may be immersed and preserved in them. After being removed from the fluid and dried, the tissues retain their elasticity and the joints their flexibility. In skeletons thus prepared, the most complicated movements can be executed, such as those of the chest, larynx, and other parts concerned in the mechanism of breathing. Lungs thus prepared may, even after years, be inflated by means of bellows; they swell ten times their size in the collapsed state, the lobes become distinct, the brown colour changes gr;idually into red, and the whole organ appears as if tal-cen from a fresh body. Sections of delicate tissues, morbid formations which have been removed by operation, will appear after months as if in a fresh state. Anatomical preparations that are to be preserved dry are immersed in the fluid from six to twelve days, according to their size, then taken out and dried in the open air. Hollow oi-gans, such as lungs, bladder, intestines, &c., must be filled with the preserving fluid, then placed in a vessel con- taining the same liquid, and afterwards distended with air and dried. For embalming and for preserving the natural colour of organs or parts, they must be put immediately into the fluid and must not be dried. See ' Brit. Med. Jour.' ii. 560, 749 ; also vol. i. For injecting For immersing ]6 grammes 12 grammes 80 „ 60 » 200 „ 150 25 „ 18 » 20 „ 15 » 10 litres 10 litres 4 „ 4 >) 3 4 » a 4 !1