HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 612 brevis digitorum, should be sawn off and thrown towards the toes by dividing the internal attachments of the middle piece of the plantar fascia. A second slice should now be removed from the os calcis, having attached to it the origin of the abductor hallucis, and reflected. Then divide the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum and flexor longus hallucis about two inches above the internal malleolus, and pull them down and out of their sheaths, and reflect them sufficiently to expose the under- lying structures, which should be cleaned. After preparing the digital vessels and nerves, and the insertion of the interossei and lumbricales, the adductor hallucis may be divided and reflected to expose the plantar arch and nerves, and the deepest muscles, and the parts being replaced in their natural positions may be preserved and serve for the demonstration of the structures in the sole, layer by layer. The cut ends of the tendons may be stitched together, and the pieces of the os calcis may be fastened with strong pins. THE KNEE JOINT. Dissection.—Remove the muscles and tendons from aroimd the joint, noticing any prolongations from them, and clean away any connective or fibrous tissue which conceals the ligamentous bands. Define the capsule which passes between the various ligaments. The tendons of the biceps, semimembranosus, popHteus, and adductor magnus should be left undis- turbed. The joint should be submitted to flexion, extension, and rotation, to see which of the extra-articular ligaments are stretched or other- wise. Fig. 390.—Internal aspisct of lkft knee. The knee is the largest joint in the body, and is a ginglymus or hinge joint. The condyles of the femur above, the patella in front, and the upper surface of the head of the tibia below, enter into its formation. The articular surfaces are covered with cartilage and connected by ligaments, some of which are extra-articular, whilst others are within the joint. The external, or extra-articular ligaments, are the anterior, or ligamentum pa- tellae ; the I'josterior, or ligamentum Winslowii, the internal lateral, two ex- ternal lateral, and the capsular. The internal or intra-articidar ligaments.