163 DISSHCTION OF THE UrPER LIMB. come from the brachial ov axiUary and join one of the arteries of the forearm. A branch from beneath these vessels generally joins the radial. The interosseous artery sometimes arises from the upper part of the brachial or axillary, and usually passes down the arm behind the main trunk, and at the elbow passes deeply between the muscles to regain its usual position in the forearm. Pectdlarities in Muscular Relations.—In the upper third of the arm the brachial vessels and median nerve may be covered for three inches by a thick muscular layer from the coraco-brachialis. In the lower half of the arm it may be concealed by a thin broad extra head of the biceps nuiscle, and a narrow muscular slip from the biceps may also cover the vessel for an inch and a half. A musculo-tendinous slip coming from the external bicipital ridge may cross the artery very obliquely, and lie in front of it for thi-ee inches, and be then inserted into the fascia over the pronator teres. A tendinous slip from the deep part of the pectoralis major tendon may obliquely cross the vessel and join the inner intermuscular septum. Not uncommonly the brachialis anticus projects on the outer side of and may overlap the vessel, or it may give off an aponeurosis which passes inwards over the artery and binds the latter down to itself. Sometimes a fleshy fasciculus from the same vessel covers the artery to the extent of two or three inches. When the pronator teres arises high up the fibrous expansion from it passes to the brachialis anticus on the outer side of the vessel, concealing it for about half an inch above the condyles, and forming an arch under which the brachial artery and median nerve pass. S'Lirrjical Anatomy.—To compress this vessel the pressure must be directed from within outwards at the upper part of its course, and in the lower half from before backwards. The insertion of the coraco-brachialis is the seat of election for compression. In wounds of the vessel itself or of those of the forearm or palmar arches, or in aneurisms of the main trunk or its branches, and in some rarer instances, the vessel will have to be tied. If the student have made himself familiar with the relations of the vessels as described he will ordinarily have no difficulty after feeling its pulsation in cutting down upon it, and if he be aware of the most common variations as regards position, division and relations, he will be prepai'ed for abnormal occuiTences. Collateral Circulation.—If the brachial be tied in the upper third of the arm, the blood is brought into the limb beyond the seat of ligature by descending branches given off from the trimk or its branches above the seat of ligation, joining branches which are given off from the brachial or its branches below the point tied. These latter are ascending or recurrent. If the ligature lie at the point stated, branches from the circumflex and subscapular arteries join ascending branches from the superior profunda, but if the brachial be tied below the origin of both profundiE, the circu- lation is continued by the bi-anches of these vessels joining the recm'rent branches from the radial, ulnar, and interosseous. Branches.—These are given off from the outer and inner side of the lirachial; the former are usually muscular and supply the biceps, coraco- Ijrachialis and brachialis anticus. The inner branches are the superior •nnd inferior profunda?, the nutrient and anastomotica magna. 'I'he Superior Profunda is larger than the others, and is given off from the inner and back part of the brachial near the lower border of the' l\l 2