HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 400 given to the rotator muscles which are attached to it. Were it not for this angle, the important rotatory movements of the joint would be con- siderably hampered, and the space necessary on the inner side of the femur for the strong adductors would be much diminished. THE BACK OF THE LEG. Surface MarJdngs.—The bony prominences of the leg are formed by the tibia and fibula. The former bone is on the inner side, is subcuta- neous on that side, and is limited in front and behind by sharpish borders. At its upper and anterior part is a prominent tubercle into which is in- serted the anterior ligament of the knee, or ligamentum patellae. Above this may be felt the outer and inner tuberosities of the head of the tibia, and a tubercle on the outer side of the tibial head. Below, this bone ends on the inner side of the ankle, in the projection called the internal malleolus. On the outer side of the leg, at its upper half, the fibula is covered by the peronei muscles, but is subcutaneous in the lower half, where it can easily be felt. It lies on the outer and back part of the tibia, nearly on a level with its anterior tubercle. Just below the outer side of the knee the head of the fibula may readily be felt, and its lower end forms the projection called the ' external malleolus,' which is on a lower level than the inner. If the foot be extended, the head of the astragalus may be felt below the tibia. The muscular markings are the prominence of the calf which is formed by the gastrocnemius and soleus. The conjoined tendons of these muscles form the tendo-Achillis, which can easily be seen and felt along nearly the lower half of the leg as far as the os calcis. Between the inner border of the tendon and the inner edge of the tibia, but rather nearer the former, is situated the lower part of the i^osterior tibial artery. In front and to the outer side between the bones of the leg will be felt the extensor muscles of the toes, and flexors of the foot. Between these, lying deeply, are the anterior tibial vessels and nerve. A line from the inner side of the head of the fibula to the middle of the ankle will indicate the position of the anterior tibial artery ; whereas, on the back of the limb a line from about the middle of the upper part of the calf to the mid-space between the inner malleolus and tendo-Achillis, will indicate the position of the posterior tibial artery. The Foot.—The surface marldngs on the foot are the following. Be- hind is the tuberosity of the os calcis, and about an inch in front of the internal malleolus is the tubercle of the scaphoid; and about an inch and a half in front of this is a slight depression, which corresponds to the articulation between the internal cuneiform and the metatarsal bone of the great toe. About an inch below the apex of the internal malleolus is the projection of the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis; and beneath the metatarso-phalangeal articulation may be felt the sesamoid bones of the great toe. On the outer border of the foot the student should feel the external tuberosity of the os calcis, the peroneal tubercle of the same bone an inch below the apex of the outer malleolus, and about the centre of this border the tarsal end of the fifth metatarsal bone can clearly be dis-