4.32 HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. out a small })iece from the roof of the acetabulum in order to observe what has already been stated with regard to the capsule, and also to note how the ligamentum teres is affected with regard to its tension or laxity in the various movements of the joint. He may also try to inject into the ioint some warm tallow so as to note if there be any hernial protrusions or \)rojections of the synovial membrane between the layers of the capsule, or whether the synovial membrane of the joint communicates with any of the neighbouring bursas, more especially with the psoas bursa. Capsular Ligament.—The capsular ligament is a strong and thick fibrous capsule passing from the mai'gin of the acetabulum to the femoral neck. It is attached superiorly to'the circumference of the acetabulum, at a short distance from its edge, and by its inner part it blends with the outer surface of the cotyloid ligament. Across the notch at the inner side Toms. fasc. lata3-~^ Ext. out", n Sart» Fascia iliaci The 2 tend*, of rectus- Ant. crural ii. - Tensor fas. (cut) Psoas bursa. Expansion to capsule- Insert", of glut, ma.x.- - - ■ Bursa. - - E.xt. cut", n Int. sai)li. 11. - - - Ext. cirflx. a. Deep epigast'. a. Int. abd'. ring Falciform process reflected Fascia transvei-salis SpeiTnatic cord Supfl. ext. pudic Middle cuf. Profunda a. and muscular n. Int. saph. T. Feni'. a. and int. cut", n. Fig. 3.S4.—Showing the relations op the eight hip joint. Tlie anterior crural nerve is represented as pulled inwards. of the acetabular cavity, it is connected transversely with the outer surface of the obturator membrane and front of the upper part of the tuber ischii. Inferiorly it is attached around the neck of the femm- in front of the anterior, intertrochanteric or spiral-line, and to the base of the femoral neck. Behind it is thinner and is not attached so low down on the neck. Its insertion is from about a finger's breadth from the small trochanter to the middle of the neck of the bone, about half an inch above the posterior intertrochanteric line. At its upper and posterior i)art it is nearer the great trochanter, and passes forwards to blend with the insertion of the thick anterior part. It varies in the arrangement of its fibres, and in its strength on its anterior and posterior aspects. It is considerably thicker and stronger at the anterior and external parts of the joint where tlie