279 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. by its prominence below, forms an expansion which is adapted to an in- ward projection of the coronoid process of the ulnar, and is only used in flexion; the outer lip of the trochlea is everted at the postei'ior superior part, and forms a surface which corresponds to another on the outer aspect of the olecranon, which is only used in complete flexion, and which does not come into contact with any other part of the humerus. In flexion and extension the ulna is, of course, the bone chiefly engaged, and moves forwards and backwards on the trochlear surface of the humerus, but in these motions the radius also moves by its cup-shaped depression on the capitulum, by a ridge internal to the cup, on the groove between tliat process and the trochlea. In semiflexion and semipronation (the motions Fig. 203.—Front view of left ELBOW joint. A. niimcras. B. Ulna. C. Eadlus. 1. Trocliloa. 2. Cnpitelluin. .3. Int. Int. and 4. Ext. lat. lig. 5. Orbiciilnr, nnd 6. Oblique lig. Ulna. Radius. Olecrnuon. Tubercles of same. Hamulus of same. Great sigmoid cavity. Coronoid ])rocess. ' Tuberosity of ulna. Capitellum ,, styloid process of ulna. Head of radius. Neck „ Tubercle of radius, styloid prncesses. Orbicular ligfc. Oblique „ Interosseous llgt. lutorartic. fibro-aartilage. Fig. 204.—Ligaments between left RADIUS and ulna. FRONT VIEW. of pronation and supranation take place not in the humero-uluar joint, but in the radio-ulnar) it is most completely in contact with the capitulum. In complete flexion the anterior margin of the radial head rests against the depression above the capitellum, and in complete ex- tension and supination, the anterior border of the head of the radius is only jus': in contact with the inferior surface of the capitellum. The joint between the capitulum and radius is an arthroidal one. Radio-Ulnar Articulations.—The bones of the forearm are connected by joints at their upper and lower ends, and by an interosseous ligament between their sheaths, forming, 1, a superior radio-ulnar; 2, middle radio- ulnar; and, .3, inferior radio-ulnar joints.