HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 5308 2. In the superficial fascia define the cutaneous veins emptying into the radial and ulnar, and the cutaneous nerves from the musculo-spiral, musculo-cutaneous, and internal cutaneous. 3. Make out the attachments of the deep fascia or aponeurosis to the borders of the radius and ulna; reflect this by a median incision, noting the origins of the extensors from it. 4. Define the origins of the extensors, and trace them as far as the pos- terior annular ligament. 5. Reflect the ^uj^erficial muscles, and dissect out the origins of the deep and the course of the posterior interosseous nerve and artery. 6. Observe the insertion of the supinator brevis, the anastomoses of the posterior ulnar and interosseous recurrents, and the posterior carpal branches of the radial and ulnar. 7. Define the attachments of the interosseous membrane, and observe the posterior interosseous artery coming to the back above it at the upper part, and the anterior interosseous piercing it just above the pronator quadratus, and note its anastomoses with the posterior carpal arch. 8. Dissect the elbow joint, noting the ligaments, especially the pos- terior and external and internal lateral; then open it to observe its articular surfaces. BACK OF THE HAND. 1. Make transverse cuts on the outer and inner side of the median dorsal incision, then reflect the skin from the back of the hand, and by median and lateral cuts from the backs of the fingers and thumb. 2. In the thin superficial fascia dissect out the cutaneous veins, noting the vena salvatella on the little finger and the commencement of the cephalic at the root of the thumb. Observe the cutaneous branches of the radial and uhiar nerves, and trace them to the ends of the fingers. 3. Remove this thin aponeurosis, and observe the tendons of the ex- tensors passing beneath the posterior annular ligaments. 4. Divide this latter structure in the mid-line, note the synovial sheaths of the tendons, and draw the extensor tendons towards the finger ends, observing the attachments of the carpal extensors to the bases of their respective metacarpal bones and the insertions of the extensors of the thumb and digits to the second and third phalanges. o. Dissect out the radial artery and its branches, the carpal, metacarpal, dorsal interosseous, and dorsal digital arteries and venae comites, and define the origins and insertions of the dorsal interossei. 6. The corpuscles of Pacini should be carefully looked for in the twigs of the dorsal and palmar collateral digital nerves, and the anastomoses, between these nerves as well as between their corresponding arteries and veins should be made out. 7. The ligaments and articulations of the wrist, hand, and fingers, and the joint surfaces should now be dissected, and subsequently longitudinal and traiisverse sections of the bones of the thoracic limb should be made in order to understand their structure and the attachments of the perios- teum.