11 HISTORICAL SKErCII. cornua of the ventricles; he also first described the hippocampus, the choroid plexus, aud most of the sinuses at the base of the cranium, also the corpora Arantii of the sigmoid valves. Constantia Vai-oli (Varolius), born at Bologna in 1543 (died in 1575), only published during his life a single epistle, ' De Nervis Opticis,' &c., Padua, 1572, in which he proposes a new method of dissecting the brain. He distinguishes, better than had been done before, the organs at the base of the encephalon, and especially the annular protuberance which bears his name (Pons Varolii). A long time after his death was published his prin- cipal work,' De Eesolutione Corporis Humani Libri Quatuor,' Francf. 1591. Hieronimo Fabrizio (Fabricius ab Aquapendente) was born in 1537 at Aquapendente in the Papal States, and died, at the age of eighty-two, in 1619. He became at an early age the pupil of Fallopius, whom he suc- ceeded in 1 562. Fabricius is now chiefly remembered as having been the tutor of WilHam Harvey, whose great discovery was, according to his own statement, suggested by the discovery of Fabricius of the valvulur struc- ture of the veins. Some of these folds or valves of the veins had been noticed by the predecessors of Fabricius, but no one had given a rational suggestion of their use until Fabricius traced them through the whole venous system ('De Venarum Ostiolae,' Padua, 1603, fob). William Harvey, born at Folkestone, April 1, 1578 ; died June 3, 1657. After a residence of six years in Cambridge, he proceeded to Padua, where he attended the lectures of Fabricius on anatomy, and of Casserius on sm-gery. After taking his degree he returned home, and was appointed, physician to St. Bartholomew's Hospital. The great discovery of the circulation of the blood, obscurely conjectured and partially taught by Servetus, was finally established by the labom-s of Harvey, who proved to demonstration, not merely the minor circulation through the lungs, but the general or systemic circulation of the blood from the left side of the heart, by the aorta and its subdivisions, to the right side by the veins. Although Harvey announced his views on the circulation as early as 1619, in his lectures, it was only in 1628 that he printed his ' Exercitatio Ana- tomica de Motu Cordis et Sanguinis in Animalibus.' It is not within our scope to notice the controversies to which Harvey's discovery gave rise. The only opponent he condescended to answer was Joannes Riolanus, the son, Regius Professor of Anatomy at Paris. Among the many claimants as regards priority in the discovery of the circulation, we may mention, merely as a curiosity, Leonardo da Vinci, whom Dr. Robert Knox, the well-known anatomist, with some hesitation mentions to that effect, not indeed as a discoverer, but as one to whom it might have been known. Dr. Knqx, it appears, had an opi)ortunity of examining in Queen Victoria's library a sketch-book of Leonardo. ' It is,' says Dr. Knox ('Great Artists and Great Anatomists,' London, 1852, ]). 160)^' a small folio, ]ire]iared as a sketch-book, its leaves filled with figures drawn by Leonardo, chiefly from dissections made either by himself or conjointly with Delia Torre. . . . Turning the leaves hastily over, I stum- bled on a drawing of the semilunar valves of the aorta, in a variety of l)ositions, so as to show their descriptive anatomy. The corjiuscules of Arantius have not been forgotten. Now all this occurred long liefore the ag{>, of Fabricius and Harvey, and even before that of Vesalius; for Delia Torre and Da, Vinci ])rcce(l('(rall these.