682 HUMAN MORntOLOGY. Muscles, Joints, &c. of Pelvic Girdle, and tl Name Obturator iiiternus Gemellus superior Origin Inner margin of obturator foramen and memb. Spine of ischium „ inferior Tuberosity of iscliiuin Quadratus femoris Biceps Semitendinosus Semimembranosus Gastrocnemius Plantaris Soleus Popliteus [■lex, long. dig. Tibialis posticus Flex. long. ball. Tib. anticus Extensor long. dig. Peron. tert. Ext. prop, liall. Insertion Femur, upper border of great trocU. To tendon of obt. int. Action ^1 Ext. rotator of femuiJ Ext. rotator Long bead from tuber iscliii, short head from outer lip of linea aspera Tuberosity of ischium Outer head, femur above outer condyle. Inner head, femur above inner condyle Above ext. condyle Tibia, oblique line, and inner border. Fibula post, part of head, and upper third Femur, depression on outer condyle Tibia below oblique line and intoss. lig. Tibia below oblique line, intoss. memb., fib. in- ternal surface Fibula post, and ext. surface and intermus- cular septa Tibia, two-tbirds of outer siu'face and ext. tuber- osity; half of intoss. memb.; deep fascia Tibia, outer half and tuberosity. Fibula anterior three-fourths; intoss. memb., deep fascia and septa Fibula, ant. fourth intoss. memb. and septum Fibula, ant. half, intoss. memb. Post, introcli. line Fibula, outer side of head Tibia below imier tuber- osity Back of int. tuber, of tibia; post. lig. of knee and expansion over popliteus Into tendo-Acliillis and tuberosity of os calcis Os calcis and post. lig. of ankle Tub. calcanei through tendo-AchiUis Tib. above oblique line Grooves scaphoid, and bases of third phalanges of four lesser toes, plantar aspect Tuberosity of scaphoid and first and second cimeiform Base of second phalanx of big toe Int. cuneiform and bftse of first metatarsal To the three phalanges of four outer toes Base of fifth metatarsal Base of second phalanx of great toe Flexes the leg aaf slightly rotates it ocl Flexes the thigh am slightly rotates it ii wards Flexes the thigh an slightly rotates it ii wards Extends the foot Assists gastroc. an. soleus, and rendei tense the capsule Extends the foot Flexes the leg am slightly rotates it i] Flexes third phalange Flexes, adducts, an raises inner horde of foot Flexes the secom phalanx Raises inner border c foot I Extends these toes Flexes the fool Extends this phal8D>