673 DISSECTION OF THE PERINJEUM. inflammation may be excited in the cellular tissue and give rise to peri- tonitis by contiguity of the recto-vesical pouch of the peritoneum. In infants and children it is possible to wound the pudic vessels near the anterior part of the fossa, where they are near the base of the triangular ligament; but posteriorly they are lodged beneath the obturator fascia under cover of the tuber ischii and ischial ramus. Should the artery to the bulb be given ofif sooner than usual it will cross the front of the ischio-rectal fossa and must almost necessarily be wounded. The incision of the prostate should not usually extend beyond the front of the base of the gland, so as to avoid wounding the recto-vesical fascia which separates the pelvis from the perineeum. It should, however, be stated that some operators prefer a free deep incision, because the stone is more readily extracted, because less injury is done to the neck of the bladder through attempts to dilate the prostate and its fibrous sheath, and also because the external incision being free and dependent, there is Little fear but that the m-ine will flow out through the wound. The accessory pudic artei'y, when present, may be, and has been wounded, in some cases causing immediate or subsequent death from haemorrhage, and in others giving great trouble to secm-e it, and causing the patient a long and exhausting convalescence. In elderly people the prostatic plexus of veins is enlarged, and gives rise occasionally to troublesome haemorrhage. Dissection.—Divide the central point of the perinaeum and the fibres of the levator ani' which descend upon the sides of the prostate to the rectum, and di'aw the gut towards the coccyx, at the same time drawing the penis and scrotum well up on the staff. The under surface of the membranous urethra and of the prostate, the neck and part of the base of the bladder, with the vasa deferentia and vesiculae seminales, will be ex- posed and should be cleaned. These parts wiU be studied in another dissection, but the student should now make himself quite familiar- with their feel and relations. Directions.—Fasten together the skin flaps after sprinkling salt fi-eely over the parts that have been dissected, then unfasten the limbs, which are to be placed in the positions proper for their dissection, and the structm-es of the abdominal wall should then be examined. THE FEMALE PERINEUM. In the female there are more differences in the external configuration of the parts than in the internal structure. External Anatomy.—In the mid-line there is the aperture of the vagina, on either side of which are the labia minora and majora. From the clitoris which is situated at the upper part (see fig. 493), two membranous folds which pass down and out are the labia minora; below the clitoris is the meatus of the m-ethra, and lower still is the orifice of the vagina., which is in maidens commonly closed by a thin membrane of variable shape called the hymen. The student should note the mons veneris, which is usually covered ■with hairs, which grow in a triangular manner, the base of the triangle being above, while in the male the pubic hair tapers up to the umbilicus. X X