HUMAN MORFHOLOGY. forwards. Its middle and lower portions can draw the base and inferior angle of the scapula forwards, and rotate the bone round an axis througli its centre, and can raise the acromion and therefore the point of the shoul- der. If its fixed point be at the scapula, it is the most important external inspircdory muscle, as it elevates the ribs and assists the pectoralis and subclavius in expanding the chest. Nerve.—The posterior thoracic (Bell's nerve). Varieties.—Sometimes the lowest slip extend? to the tenth rib and some- times the number of digitations is diminished either by the suppression of the first, but more frequently by the absence of some of the lower digitations, the seventh then being the last. Its three portions may be quite distinct, and the middle part may be absent. It may form one muscle with the levator scapulae, or may be partially united with the external oblique or external intercostals. Dissection.—Detach the digitations of the serratus magnus from the ribs and clean the surface of the intercostal muscles, pi'eserving a thin aponeurosis which passes from each external intercostal muscle to the sternum. Note the lateral cutaneous thoracic nerves. Intercostal Fascia.—A firm thin layer of fascia covers the outer sm'face of the external intercostals and the inner sm'face of the internal, and a more delicate third layer is interposed. These intercostal fasciae are best marked where the muscular fibres are deficient, as between the external intercostals and sternum in front, and between the internal intercostals and spine, behind. The Intercostal Muscles are named from their position. They consist of two thin layers of short oblique fibres, and are named external and internal. Neither fills the whole length of the intercostal space. The external pass obliquely down and forwards between the bony portions of the ribs, and the internal have an opposite direction, so that they cross. The External Intercostals are eleven on each side, and consist of muscu- lar with tendinous fibres directed obliquely forwards and downwards, pass- ing from the outer margin of the groove on the lower margin of the rib above to the upper border of the rib below. For the most part they extend from the tubercles of the ribs posteriorly to near the outer end of the cartilages. Between the true ribs they cease near the cartilages, and a thin aponem-osis having the same direction is continued forwards between the cartilages from where the muscular fibres cease to the, sternum, there covering the internal intercostals. In the lower spaces these muscles are continued between the cartilages, and in the last two they reach to the ends of the spaces. Relations.—Externally with the pectoralis major and minor, sen'atus magnus, rhomboid major, both serrati, scalenus posticus^ sacro-lumbalis, longissimus dorsi, cervicalis ascendens, transversalis colli, levatores costa- rum, and external oblique. Inteiiiially \nt\\ the internal intercostals and intercostal vessels and nerve, from which they are separated by the middle layer of fascia ; and behind from the pleura. D.irections.—To expose the internal intercostals, remove the externals from one or two of the widest spaces, and the muscles will be recognised by the difference in the directions of their fibres. Between the outer and inner intercostals, at the back parts of the spaces, the intercostal vessels and nerves will be seen. A lateral cutaneous branch of the nerve may be