Ill DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. axillary glands and subscapulari'i. It anastomoses with the intercostal internal mammary and the other thoracic vessels. Varieties.—This vessel often comes from the acromio-thoracic or the subscapular, or enlargement of the normal branches of the acromio-thoracic replaces it. The Subscapular is the largest branch of the axillary, and is given off opposite the lower edge of the subscapiilaris, and j^asses down and back along its lower margin to the inferior scapular angle, where it anastomoses with the posterior scapular from the subclavian. It gives branches to the subscapularis, latissimus dorsi, teres major, serratus magnus and axillary glands ; and rather more than an inch from its origin a large branch, the dorsalis scapulce, is given off from it, but this vessel sometimes is given off directly from the axillary. This bends round the lower border of the scapula, quitting the space between the teres minor above, the teres major below, and the long head of the triceps in front. Before passing to the back of the scapula the dorsalis scapulae gives off the ioifra-scapular, which passes beneath the subscapularis to the posterior aspect of the scapula, supplying both these structures and anastomosing with the posterior and supra-scapular arteries. The continuation of the dorsalis scapulae enters the infra-spmous fossa and anastomoses with the supra- and posterior scapular arteries. A third or median branch runs along the axillary border of the scapula between the teres major and minor, and anastomoses with the infra- and posterior scapular on the dorsum of the inferior scapular angle. The loug subscapular- nerve accompanies the subscapular artery, the dorsal branch of which latter sometimes comes directly from the axillary. The Circumflex branches are two, anterior and posterior, and wind round the neck of the humerus. The posterior is much the larger, and is given off from the back of the axillary opposite the lower border of the subscapularis, and passes backwards with its accompanying veins and the circumflex nerve through a qiiadrangular space, bounded above by the teres minor, below by the -teres major, outside by the humerus, and inside by the long head of the triceps, and winding round the humeral neck ramifies in the deltoid, supplying it and the shoulder joint, and anastomosing with the anterior circumflex, suprfiscapular, and acromial thoracic. The termi- nation of this vessel will be subsequently dissected. It cannot now be made out. Varieties.—The posterior circuim^ex is occasionally given off from the superior profunda branch of the brachial. It then ascends behind the tendons of the latissinuis dorsi and teres major. Less frequently it gives off one or more branches, which are usually derived from otlier sources ; thus, it may come from the anterior circuniiiex, the superior profunda., the dorsalis scapulae, or the superior profunda and anterior circumflex together. It is sometimes double. The Anterior Circumfiex, much smaller than the posterior, is given off from the outer side of the axillary just below the posterior circumflex. It passes forwards and outwards beneath the coraco-brachialis and short head of the biceps on the fore pa^t of the hiuneral neck to the bicipital groove, where it divides into two branches : one ascends along the groove to nourish the head of the bone and the shoulder joint; l lui olher passes out and back beneath the deltoid, supplying it and anastomosing with the