80C HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. above and on the inner side of the neck of the sac. In the dissecting- room and post mortem table this variety of the obturator is found about once in seventy-five subjects, and as operations for hernia are much less frequent than post mortems or dissections, it is probable that the latter estimate is the more correct, but it must be borne in mind that this abnormal condition may be present in many cases of hernia which have been reduced without a cutting operation, and that even in some of those which have been operated on, it may have been on the inner side of the ring and yet not sufficiently close to the free edge of Grimbernat's ligament to be wounded. In the dissecting and post mortem rooms I have seen at least five instances in which the vessel was on the inner side of the ring, and many in which it was on the outer side. The enquiring student may with a very little trouble ascertain in the course of a year whether the proportion of one in seventy-five be correct by examining both sides of Transls. fascia Oljturator Gimliernat's rnscia ligt. Ext. cuts, n ./zTIj Ant.orural n Fascia iliacn Acetabulum Obturntor Collis's Opening for obt. fascia ligt. a. and v. Fig. 26G. DiAGEAM OF THE FEMOEAL ARCH, AND TO SHOW THE ANTEEIOR AND POSTEEIOE LAYEES OP THE FEMOEAL SHEATH. 1. Space for femoral vessels. 2. Space for iliacus and psoas. 3. Ext. ingl. ring. 4. lut. femoral ring. 5. Septum of fascia lata. The femoral vessels, with the fascia transversalis passing in frout and the fascia iliaca behind, are shown on tlie left of the flt^ure. The insertions of the ext. oblique to the pubes, to the liiiea alba by Collis's ligt., and to the ilio-pectineal line by Gimbernat's ligt. are depicted. every subject on the post mortem table; and if he have access to the pathological department of the London Hospital, where the largest number of j)0st mortems are annually made, he will be able in twelve months to accumulate facts which may throw much additional light on this interesting and important subject. Having again gone through the anatomy of femoral hernia, and feeling by self cross-examination that he thoroughly understands it, the student must proceed with the dissection of Scarpa's triangle. SCARPA'S TRIANGLE. Dissection.—Remove the fascia lata from the upper third of the thigh and clean the muscles, vessels, and nerves which are exposed. In re- moving the fatty tissue from beneath the common femoral artery, be careful of one or two small nerves from the anterior crural to the pectineus