DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 143 the coracoid process, and above by its base to the conoid tubercle on the under-surftice of the clavicle and to a line passing from it inwards for half an inch. In front of this ligament is the subclavius muscle, and behind is the trapezius. They check forward and backward rotation of the scapula. The two bands of this ligament ai-e joined below posteriorly, but are sepa- rated in front, forming an angle. Special Ligaments of tlie Scapula.—The ligaments j)roper to the scapula are the coraco-acromial or deltoid ligament, the transverse, supra- scapular or coracoid ligament, and the spino-glenoid ligament. The Goraco-Acromial Ligament is sometimes called the anterior ligament of the scapula, and is a broad flat triangular band, passing transversely between the acromion and coracoid processes above the ]. Soapiilar venter. 2..Vertebral border. 3. Superior border. 4. Axillary border. 5. Supra-scapular notch. 6. Coracoid process. 7. Acromion. 8. Clavicle. 9. Humerus. 10. Transverse lig. 11. Trapezoid „ 12. Conoid „ 13. Coraco-acromial. 14. Sup. and int. acro-clav. 15. Coraco-humeral. 16. Capsular. 17. Opening for subscap. bursa. 18. Long tendon o£ biceps. Fig. 72.—SCArULO-HUMERAL AND SCAPULO-CLAVICULAR LIGAMENTS. Anteeiok aspect. shoulder joint. It is fixed by its broad base to the whole length of the outer border of the coracoid process and reaches to the shoulder capsule, and by its apex to the point of the acromion process immediately in front '>f the acromio-clavicular articulation. It consists of an anterior and ])osterior band with a thin intervening portion. The anterior part passes transversely, and the posterior obliquely, back and out. The coracoid and acromion processes, and coraco-acromial ligaments, form an arch above the head of the humerus which protects the shoulder and checks the ascent of the humeral head. Above it are the clavicle and the under-surface of the deltoid. Beloiu is the tendon of the supra-spinatus, a bursa inter- vening. Its anterior border is continuous with the strong cellular layer that passes beneath the deltoid over the tendons of the supra- and infra- si)! nous muscles. Its posterior border is in relation with the gupra- sp in at us. The Transverse, Coracoid or Posterior Ligament is a tliin, flat, fibrous band, narrower at tlie middle than at the attachments, and is fixed at one