Summary of Muscles of Thoracic Girdle, a 322 Name Ext. carp. rad. long. brev. Ext. com. dig. Ext. mill. dig. Ext. carp, idnaris Anconeus Supinator brevis Ext. oasis metcarpi. poll. Ext. primi intnod. poll. Ext. sec. intnod. poll. Ext. indicis Palmaris brevis Lumbricales Abd. min. dig. Flex. brev. min. dig. .A.bd. min. dig. Abd. poU. Oppouens poll. Flex. brev. poll. Add. poll. Palmar interossei (three) Dorsal interossei (four) Origin Lower third supra-con- dyloid ridge of humerus, and intermuscular sep- tum Ext. condyle and deep fascia Ext. condyle and deep fascia, but below it Ext. condyle and inter- muscular septum Ext. condyle and deep fascia Ext. condyle and deep fascia, below former Humerus, ext. condyle; ulna below lesser sig- moid cavity; also from ext. lateral and orbic- ular ligaments Middle of post, surface of radius. Middle of post, surface of ulna and from iutoss. memb. Back of lower part of radius and intoss. mem- brane Back of lower part of ulna and intoss. mem- brane Back of lower part of ulna and intoss. mem- brane, below former Palmar fascia Radial side of tendons of flex. prof. dig. Pisiform and tendon, flex. carp. ulu. Unciform process and annular ligament Unciform and annular ligament Trapezium and anmdar ligament Trapezium and annular ligament Irapezoid, magnum, and middle metacarpal Magnum and base of middle metacarpal Between second, fourth, and lilth metacarpals Adjacent sides of the metacarpals Insertion Dorsal surface of base of second metacarpal Dorsal smface of base of third metacarpal Bases of dorsal surface of second and third phalanges Dorsal surface of second and third phalanges Dorsal surface of base of fifth metacarpal Upper third of ext. surf. of ulna Radius above oblique liue Dorsal surface of base of thumb metacarpal Dorsal surface of base of first phalanx of thumb Dorsal surface of base of second phalanx of thumb Blends with indextendon of communis [palm Skin of inner side of Radial side of ext. com. dig. Inner side of first pha- lanx of little finger Inner side of base of first phalanx of little fina:er Inner side of base of first phalanx of little finjrer Outer side of base of first phalanx and outer sesa- moid Radial side of base of first metacai-pal Inner and outer sides of base of first thumb phalanx and two sesa- moids Inner side of base of first thumo phalanx and in I er sesamoid Ulnar side of first phalanx of second finger, and radial side of fourth and fifth fingers Bases of first phalanges of first, second, and third fingers, and to extensor tendon Action Extends and abduc i the hand Extends and abduc the hand ICxtends the fingers Extends the litt ! finger Extends and addiu the hand Extensor of fbreann External rotator Extends and abdui the thumb Extends first phalai „ second ,, Extends index fiutre Wrinkles skin of pr.) Flex first phalanx Abducts little fingr Bends the first phaln Abducts little tinge Abducts the thumb Opposes thumb to li t finger Flexes the first phaln Adducts the thimih Draw second, four and fifth finger.- middle finger Separate the finger- T