636 HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. canals which do not run through bony or cartilaginous cavities, lu the female the vagina and uterus separate the urethra and bladder from the rectum, but the cervix and posterior aspect of the body of the uterus can be felt through the anterior rectal wall. By passing the index finger into the rectum and putting the thumb on the skin over the coccyx, any fracture, displacement, or growth connected with this bone may be made out. The student should percuss in the middle line above the pubes, so as to become famihar with the dull sound of a distended bladder, and he may then allow the water to run out of the catheter by depressing it and removing the plug. An ordinary rectal speculuon may now be introduced, but a much better view can be obtained by using the expanding one that I have had constructed. "Whichever be used, it should be warmed and oiled, and the narrow end placed within the anus ; then push it gently but firmly first upward and forward, then upward and backward, following the cm-ve of the sacrum. If good daylight be not available, the light from a candle will suffice to note the condition of the mucous membrane, which is much paler than in the living. Notice its longitudinal folds, and if there be internal piles (a common condition) the student will see iDluish or purplish prominences. The instrument should be rotated so that the fenestrum or slit may alternately expose all parts of the mucous membrane. A rectum bougie or ordinary tallow candle, bent to the curve of the sacrum, should now be carefully passed eight or ten inches. It may be obstructed at either of the three transverse folds of mucous membrane, the first of which has already been mentioned. The second is on the left side, about five and a half inches from the anus, and the last on the right, eight inches up, viz. at the upper limit of the rectum. The first fold is constant, one or both of the others may be absent. A small hand, not more than nine inches in circumference, may be passed into the rectum and sigmoid flexures, and valuable information regarding abdominal and pelvic tumours may thus be obtained, but this must be done very carefully for fear of tearing the bowel or its peritoneal covering. Surface and deep guides and limits.—The jperincBum is -the name given to the soft parts which close, like a diaphragm, the outlet of the pelvis. This partition is pierced by the genito-urinary organs and rectimi, and, in the erect position, forms a groove between the buttocks. In the male this region extends, on the surface, from the back of the scrotum in front to the apex of the coccyx behind, and is bounded laterally by the thighs and posteriorly by the buttocks. Its shape is rather that of an in- verted ace of hearts, than lozenge-shaped, and the anterior portion, which inclines down and back, meets the posterior, which slopes up and back, at an imaginary line joining the fronts of the tubera ischii. The pro- jection of the anterior space is due to the prominence of the urethral bulb and corpus spongiosum. In a dried pelvis, prepared \vith only the bones and ligaments, the shape is somewhat like a lozenge or ace of diamonds. The skin is brownish and covered with hairs, which surround the anus, and in the adult male usually extend to the coccyx, but not in the female. In the middle line, over the urethra, where the surface is more convex and slopes, slightly hollowed, to the sides, is a darkish line or raphe, which extends from the front of the anus, along the middle of the scrotum and under the surface of t he penis to the frwnumpreputii. A median line, ridge,