629 VARIETIES OF BONES OF THE PELVIC GIRDLE. Os Coxce, or Innominatum.—Beneath the anterior superior spine there is occasionally a small rough surface, the awpra-cotyloid tubercle, and there is occasionally a ciu-ved Une passing from the anterior inferior spine to the middle of the great sciatic notch which marks off the lower limit of the region of the gluteus minimus; this is the Ivnea arcuata externa inferior. Sometimes a linea arcuata extends from the posterior inferior spine perpendicularly upwards to the extema^l lip of the crest. It defines the region of the gluteus maximus from that of the medius. An ilio- jpectineal or pubic tubercle is often present at the anterior end of the pubic crest behind the tuberculum pubis. Frequently an ilio-pectineal spine is found behind the ilio-pectineal tubercle, and the psoas minor is inserted into it. The external iliac artery and vein pass between this muscle and the ilio-pectineal tubercle. At the junction of the pubic and ischiatic rami there is sometimes a roughish line, termed the piobo-ischiatic ridge, or eminence, and at this place the inner borders of the rami are sometimes raised, forming a crista penis seu clitoridis. The inner and outer bound- aries of the obturator foramen at their upper and inner parts sometimes have sKght bony ridges or projections, termed the superior or internal, and inferior or external, obturator tubercles, respectively. From the superior obturator tubercle a line runs back to the ischiatic spine on the inner sur- face of the ischium. Earely, there is an accessory ischial spine, from which an external ligament,the superior spino-8acral,'pa,sses to the ordinary spino-sacral ligament and forms with it a third sciatic notch, or foramen. This spine, when present, is situated at the junction of the ilium and ischium. Pelvis.—Slight want of symmetry of the two sides is common, as lateral asymmetry is characteristic of the higher groups of animals. The left half is somewhat wider, more round, and its curvature is smoother and belongs more to its anterior portion, whilst the left part of the sacrum is shorter. These dilfferences coincide with the greater development of the right arm and the corresponding compensatory lateral curvature of the dorsal vertebrae, which are concave to the right, and of the lumbar vertebrae, which are concave to the left. There is frequently a pre- axiricular sidcus which runs from the anterior edge of the sacro-iliac joint, and is especially frequent, according to Zaaijer, in Javanese Avomen. The anterior sacro-iliac ligament is attached to it. The pelvic deformities due to rickets and mollities ossium being pathological, need not here be noticed, but it may be mentioned that in about 16 per cent, of the whole the conjugate pelvic diameter is short enough to cause difficulty in partu- rition. Femur.—The length and obliquity of the neck varies in individuals and at different ages. In powerful muscular subjects there is commonly