DISSHCTIOA OF THE UPPER LIMB. size of a hair bristle to that of an ordinary pin. These openings are placed in little depressions and are smaller than their respective ducts. Although this description be rather minute, the dissector may verify it by the ordinary dissecting means at his command and the use of a common magnifying glass. He may inject some of the ducts by means of a hypodermic syringe prior to dissection. In the male this gland and all its parts are present but in a rudimentary state, the gland measuring usually only six to nine lines across and two lines thick. Sometimes the male mamma in young subjects enlarges and secretes a thin watery fluid, and in rare instances it has formed milk. The nipple is small and is surrounded by an areola which is studded with hairs. Blood-Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the breast come from the long thoracic, axillary, internal mammary and subjacent intercostals. The veins end in the axillary and internal mammary trunks, and some in the intercostal veins. Haller described a venous circle around the base of the nipple, and called it the Circulus venosus. This becomes distended in' menstruation, pregnancy and. lactation. The lymphatics of the outer side of the gland enter the axillary lymphatic glands, and those on the inner side debouch into the anterior mediastinal glands. The nerves come from the anterior and lateral cutaneous branches of the third, foui'th and fifth intercostals. Varieties.—There may be two or three nipples on one mamma, and there maybe supernumerary mammae. In rare cases four or five additional breasts have been observed. These supernumerary glands are most fre- quently placed near the ordinary pair, but sometimes they are in the axilla, on the thigh, back, groin or abdomen. The mamma sometimes enlarges to an enormous extent, and I have seen an instance in the Middle- sex Hospital, under the late Mr. De Morgan, in which both reached below the knees. The subject was a girl under twenty. THE AXILLA. D^ssec^^o?^.—Remove the fat and fascia from the pectoralis major, can-ying the scalpel in the direction of its fibres from the thorax to the arm ; remove the fatty tissue from the axilla, being careful of the many vessels, nerves and lymphatic vessels and glands in it. A good plan is to follow up a blood-vessel to the axillary artery or vein, and then remove the fascia from these large vessels and trace out their branches. The alar and long thoracic branches of the axillai-y artery run towards the thorax and nearer the anterior wall of the thorax. The circumflex and subscapular vessels and nerve^are nearer the posterior boundary, where also are the lesser internal cutaneous nerve and the musculo-spiral, near the sheath of the axillary vessels. Close to the posterior aspect of the axillary vein is the lesser internal cutaneous or nerve of Wrisberg, which is joined by the intercosto-humeral, a branch of the second intercostal nerve. Define the large nerves of the brachial plexus and the posterior thoracic nerve, which lies on the seiTatus magnus, and is a branch of the brachial plexus given off above the clavicle. The posterior branches of the intercostal nerves ■will be seen crossing the axilla.