363 mssECTioy of the lower limb. muscle. An incomplete femoral hernia descends some distance along the canal, usually as far as the saphenous opening, but does not escape through this aperture. This form of hernia is small, on account of the firm and resisting character of the tissues bounding the canal, and is dangerous because of the difficulty of feeling or seeing it, and because it takes a shorter period of strangulation to damage the intestine in this kind of rupture on account of the dense nature of its surroundings. In fat people it is often difficult to diagnose it; but the surgeon will not delay an ex- ploratory operation if there be vomiting with pain in this region or in the abdomen, provided no other satisfactory cause be found to explain the symptoms. In rare cases the hernial sac })rotrudes on the outer side of the femoral vessels, in front of, or even behind, and sometimes between them. The diagnosis of these different forms and of the other affections which may be mistaken for a femoral hernia the dissector will study in his works on surgery in a more advanced stage of his curriculum ; but by making him- self once and for all familiar with the salient featm'es of the anatomy of femoral and inguinal hernia he will be prepared, subsequently, to deal with any emergency. It may, however, be here stated that a femoral hernia is usually to be recognised from an inguinal by its smaller size, and by the fact that it does not pass into the scrotum or labium, although in a recent case of strangulated comjDlete femoral hernia on which I operated, it bulged beyond the groove separating the thigh from the labium majus. In such a case it will be observed that the rupture cannot be followed up into the inguinal canal, and that its neck can be traced beloiv Poupart's ligament, although its expanded base may lie above that structure ; in other words, a femoral hernia, whether complete or incomplete, has its neck below Poupart's ligament, and does not pass into the labium, or along the cord into the scrotum; whereas an inguinal hernia, whether complete or incomplete, is always in the inguinal canal which is above Poupart's ligament; and in the latter form it protrudes into the scrotum or labium.' Seats of Stricture,—These may be external or internal to the neck of the sac, or in its substance ; and the external constricting bands are usually fonned by the fascia or tendinous structures bounding the rings. The external cause of strictm'e may be situated at the inner or outer ring, or in the canal, but its most common seat is at the internal ring, where it is usually formed opposite the base of Gimbernat's ligament, where the fiil- ciform process of the fascia lata joins it. The falciform margin of the saphenous opening may also constrict the hernia, and after cutting down on the inner side of the neck of the sac any constricting bands at the saphenous opening, or deeper in at the internal femoral ring, should be carefully divided to the extent of two or three lines in a direction directly inwards, or inwards and upwards. The constriction, if at the external ring, may be more freely divided if necessary. If the hernia cannot be replaced after having divided these structures, and if the finger can be passed towards the abdomen by the side of but external to the hernial sac, the operator would conclude that the obstruction to the return of the intestine lay either within the sac or in its substance. ' Even the rare interstitial forms of inguinal hernias come through some portion of the canal.