40 4NA TOMICAL TE CHNICS. JIYDROTOMY, This name has been given to the method which consists in washing subjects, or parts of them, by passing a large quantity of water through the circuhitory system. By this means the body is relieved of the blood which it contains, and putrefaction is much retarded. Now-a-days, hydro- tomy is very rarely indeed employed, but it is of great value if one wish to preserve subjects for a certain time without having recourse to preserva- tive injections; and if it be desired to make museum preparations, hydro- tomy should be employed before a conservative injection is made use of.^ In the preparation of the viscera, which are so often loaded with blood 'post mortem, it is of great service, both prior to injecting their vessels and ducts, and more especially if the corrosive injections are intended to be employed. I am not aware that the operation of hydrotomy has been employed during dissection, but it has occurred to me that it might prove of service in demonstrating the course of the collateral circulation, more especially in the limbs and in the outer parts of the head and neck. The entii-e subject, or, more conveniently, a part of the body, may be hydrotomised. CQMPLJETE OR ENTIRE HYDROTOMY. A large vessel, such as the common carotid or femoral, must be opened; a glass injection tube or cannula must be inserted into the vessel in the direction of the artery, and must be carefully and firmly tied in. To the free end of the cannula an india-rubber tube is attached, the other end of this tube being fixed to the stop-cock tube of the injectijig apparatus, the size of which will vary according to the amount of pressiu'e required. Or the injection pressm-e may be obtained by means of a connection with the water pipes of the room in which the subject is prepared, provided sufficient pressure can be obtained. For partial injections, one of the various ap- paratuses described and figured in works on practical histology will be sufficient. The strength of the rubber tube, and of the ligatures fixing the tube into the artery, must be proportionate to the pressure of the water. Another ligatvu'e must be placed on the vessel into which the tube has been introduced so as to prevent the escape of the water by t^ie return flow, but it is necessary to make an opening in sonie part of the body, to permit of the escape of the blood before, or imrnediately on commencing, the injection. A good seat of selection, on account of there being no artery in the region, is the midline of the sternum, which should be divided with a small saw, and its two halves separated by a piece of wood driven in between them with some force. This permits the hand to be introduced into the thorax, the pericardium to be seized and opened, and a small incision to be made into the right ventricle. A largish glass tube open at both ends should be inserted into the ventricle; the other ex- tremity'of it should project through the opening in t:he chest. The sub- ject should be placed either on its,side or belly, leaving the outer end of ' Methylated spirit and water may be used if it be desired to obtain a proservative ns well as cleansing effect. E