HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 642 with that of the rest of the body, oi-, by the abscess having perforated the fascise in the anterior perinseal region, allowing the air to ascend along the scrotum to the abdomen, chest, &c. The source of the air in such cases is either the escape of gas from the rectum passing into the abscess, or it arises from decomposition owing to rapid gangrenous inflammation of the cellular tissue of the fossa; which, like most fatty tissue, is very slightly vascular, and is thus liable to rapid destruction. The suppuration may extend to the opposite fossa, but this is unusual in consequence of the separation which exists in the median line or raphe between them. Disease of the lumbar, sacral, or coccygeal portions of the spine, or of the hip or os innominatum, may give rise to abscesses which may burst around the anus. These openings must not be mistaken for ordinary rectal fistula. Ischio-rectal fossa.—The fat having been cleared away on one side, the following observations may be made. The fossa is a conical space, wider at the surface and behind than above and in front. It is about two Fig. 464.—Diagbam of a transverse vertical section through the pelvis, rectum, and ischio-eectal possib. Between the lev. ani, rectum, and the peritoneum there is a space which Bichet called the superior pelvi-rectal space, inches deep externally, deeper behind than in front, and one inch wide at the surface. Its inner wall, formed by the sphincter ani and the inferior or outer surface of the levator ani, is the longest, and is placed obliquely down and inwards. The coccygeus enters into the formation of this wall 'posteriorly. The outer side is vertical, and is formed by the inner sm- face of the obturator internus muscle covered by its fascia, which encloses the internal pudic artery and nerve, and also by the tuber ischii. Posteriorly, is the lower border of the ghUeus maximus, and under and external to it is the great sacro-sciatic ligament. Anteriorly, are the transverse muscle and triangular ligament. There are two pouches in this space ; the anterior one is the larger, and passes above the posterior, which latter cul-de-sac passes above the gluteus maximus. The fossa is covered in by the skin and subcutaneous tissue which form its base, and it is partly covered in at its inner side by the external sphincter and corrugator cutis. Its apex or upper limit is not opposite to the base or orifice, but is placed on its external wall, and is limited by the junction of the fasciae over the obtm-ator internus and lower aspect of the levator ani. 1. Rectum. 2. Peritoneum. 3. Levator ani. i. Obturator ext. 3. Internal pudic artery, drawn too high up. G. Skin. 7. Fatty tissue.