HUMAN MORPIIOLOGV. 104 the clavicle, and having dissected out the structures which pierce it, throw it downwards. The infra-clavicular space and its boundaries and contents will then be apparent. The Infra-Glavicidar Spaceor Triangle is bounded aiove by the clavicle, and heloiu by the upper border of the pectoralis minor. Its base is at the outer margin of the sternum, and its apex at the coracoid process. It is covered in by the skin and superficial fascia, the upper part of the pectoralis major, and the costo-coracoid membrane. Its floor is formed by the anterior part of the first two intercostal muscles. It contains the first part of the axillary vessels in their sheath and the cords of the brachial plexus. In the very rare operation of tying the first part of the axillary artery, this space must be opened into. Directions. — Eaise the lower border of the subclavius, and trace the fascia inclosing it to its attachment, then clean the sheath of the axillary vessels and nerves. The Sheath of the Axillary Vessels and Nerves is a continuation of the deep cervical fascia, being a prolongation from the fascia on the scalene muscles. It resembles in shape and function the funicular membranous tube surrounding the upper part of the femoral vessels. It is a loose sheath, strengthened near the clavicle by the costo-coracoid membrane. Its anterior part is perforated by the same structures which pierce the costo-coracoid fascial band. The Subclavius is a long spindle-shaped muscle between the first rib and clavicle. It arises by a short thick tendon from the anterior part of the cartilage of the first rib in front of the rhomboid or costo-clavicular ligament. Its- fibres pass obliquely up and out, and are inserted into a deep groove on the under-smface of the middle third of the clavicle between the internal and external tubercles which are for the attachment of the eosto- and coraco-clavicular ligaments. Relations.—By its upper surface with the clavicle ; by its .under with the end of the subclavian or commencement of the axillary vessels and brachial plexus of nerves. Its anterior surface is separated from the pec- toralis major by the costo-coracoid membrane, which sends a process also behind it. Action.—It depresses and draws forward the clavicle, and also the scapula indirectly ; and if the clavicle be fixed it raises the first rib. Nerve.— It is supplied by a branch from the cord, which results from the junction of the fifth and sixth cervical nerves, and is given off above the clavicle, being situated in the subcla\dan triangle. Varieties.—It sometimes has no clavicular attachment, being inserted into the root of the coracoid process ; or it may have a double insertion, one into the clavicle and another into the coracoid process. When the former condition exists it may be called the costo-coracoid muscle. Dissection.—Carefully remove the sheath of the axillary vessels and the remains of the costo-coracoid membrane, and clean the axillary vessels and nerves. The Axillary Artery is the continuation of the subclavian, and extends from the lower border of the first rib to the lower border of the latissimus dorsi and teres major muscles, where it becomes the hrachial. In the axilla its position will be indicated by a line from the middle of the clavicle to the inner edge of the coraco-brachialis, but its direction varies with the position of the limb; for when the ai'm is pendent, it forms a curve whose