DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 187 downwards and forwards, the distal fragment of the bone will be drawn upwards and backwards, and vice versa. Fractures of the humerus just above the condyles may be mistaken for dislocation of both bones of the forearms backwards, or for separation of the articular epiphysis, of the humerus. If the fracture be oblique from above downwards and forwards, the lower fragment is drawn up and back by the muscles passing over the elbow joint in front and behind, viz. in the former situation, by the brachialis anticus, and in the latter, by the triceps. If the direction of the fracture be opposite to that just mentioned, the lower fragment is drawn up and forwards by the brachialis anticus and biceps, and the up})er fragment projects back beneath the tendon of the triceps. The upper end of the lower fragment will cause a forw*ard pro- jection in this case, as it would a backward in the former injury. The long tendons of the biceps maybe ruptured, causing loss of motion, pain, and effusion into the joint of the bursa about the shoulder, may enlarge or intlame, and if they communicate with the joint may cause inflammation of it. THE BACK OF THE FOREARM AND HAND. Directions.—The limb must remain on its anterior aspect, but a small block must be jilaced beneath the wrist to render the muscles tense. Before reflecting the skin the student must make himself familiar with the surface markings. He should recapitulate the bony prominences and depressions about the elbow joint, which are given in the beginning of this chapter, and, after having studied the various landmarks, must reflect the skin as directed. Surface Markings of the Forearm and Hand,—The hony 'prominences are formed by the radius and ulna. The upper half of the radial shaft is covered by muscles and can only be felt by making deep pressure. Its head may be felt by pressing the thumb deeply in front and just below the outer condyle, and posteriorly, in the groove below the outer condyle on the outer side of the olecranon. Its lower half is more superficial and can easily be made out, especially immediately above and below where the ex- tensors cross it. Its lower extended portion and styloid process are quite subcutaneous, the posterior aspect of the former being gi'ooved for the extensors of the thumb and radial side of the wrist. The radial styloid process is lower and more anterior than that of the ulna. The bony margins of the groove for the extensor secundi internodii pollicis can be made out. The ulna is subcutaneous in its whole length, and its head can be plainly seen and felt projecting at the back and inner side of the wrist, especially if the hand be pronated and flexed. Its styloid process is higher and posterior to that of the radius. This allows greater adduction of the hand. The apex of the styloid process is on a level with the inferior radio- caupal joint, and the head is grooved posteriorly for the extensor caq)i ul naria. A subcutaneous bursa is often found over it, and another over the back of the radius. These, when enlarged, Irave been mistaken for effusion into the synovial sheaths of the tendon. Bony Markimjs on the Wrist and Hand.—Below the styloid process