HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 50 the tube free; then, by turning the stop-cock, a small stream of water should be allowed to flow through the body for some hom-s, after which a larger stream should be set running; but care must be taken not to employ too forcible a stream, as the pressm-e of the water would either lacerate the capillaries of certain tissues or break the ligatures on the vessels. It will be remarked after a little while that the venous blood flows from the tube in the heart. This lasts for several hours, sometimes for a whole day, and the operation should be continued until nothing but un- stained water flows fi-om the tube. Dm'ing the operation, the cellular tissue of the subject becomes infiltrated and swells, especially that of the face and extremities, and the skin becomes very white. This infiltration soon disappears, but it is well to leave the tube which was placed in the heart in situ for several hours after the flow of water through the vessels has been stopped. The artificial oedema may be got rid of by making several acupunctures, or by small incisions through the skin and cellular tissue. When the student understands the anatomy of the circulation, he will perceive that by this method the water penetrates the whole arterial system, including the left side of the heart and the pulmonary veins ; and the pressure being continued, the water passes through the capillaries and forces the blood along and through the veins to the right side of the heart, where it has been pushed by two different routes : one, by the vena cava, which receives the pressure of the water coming from all parts of the body; and the other, by the pulmonary artery, which receives the pressure of the water which has passed through the pulmonary veins and through the left auricle and ventricle. Those parts which are situated above the point where the tube has been placed are washed out by means of the collateral anastomoses. If the injection be too rapid il^ may happen that the aortic sigmoid valves will offer an invincible obstacle to the passage of the liquid, and in such a case the vessels of the lesser or 'pulmonary circulation (extending from the left amide to the right ventricle) may remaiii gorged with blood. PAllTIAL HYDROTOMY. Tf it be desired to wash out a part of the body or a viscus, the injec- ting tube must be placed in the principal artery or duct and the arterioles (in the case of injection of part of a viscus) riiust be secured so' as to prevent the escape of the water. If a limb only is being washed out the blood may be allowed to escape through the femoral or axillary veins. By these means the blood escapes through the corresponding veins, which ai-e left open, and the operation is usually a simple one. INJECTION OF BLOOD-VESSELS. To facilitate the study of the blood-vessels it is usual to inject the arterial system in order that the method of distribution and anastomoses of the smaller vessels may be made out. For this purpose different sub- stances may be used, the best of which will be given in the following formulcE.