DISSISCTIOJV OF THE UPPER LIMB. PALM OF THE HAND. » 1. Continue the incision in the mid-line to the tip of the middle linirer, and make transverse ones on the outer and inner side at the wrist and webs of the fingers, and retlect the skin of the palm and of the finger. 2. The superficial fascia is thin. Be careful of the palmaris brevis and palmar cutaneous branches of the median and ulnar nerves. 3. Dissect out the attachments of the palmar fascia, and trace its digital processes and vertical septa which divide the palm into three partitions. 4. jNIake out the superficialis voLc and ulnar arteries forming the super- ficial palmar arch, also the ulnar nerve, and at the webs of the fingers define the digital arteries, and nerves from the median and ulnar. 5. Cai-efully reflect the palmai- fascia and dissect out the tendons of the flexor sublimis and profundus and their synovial sheaths, and note their mode of insertion into the second and third phalanges, with the various processes accessory to the tendons. ,. 6. Divide the annular ligament in the middle and reflect it, raising the tendons towards the fingers so as to expose the anterior ligament of the •wrist, the lumbricales, the deep palmar arch, and the palmar interossei. 7. Dissect out the intrinsic muscles of the thumb and little finger. 8. Define the tendon of the flexor longus poUicis, the muscular branches of the median, and the collateral digital nerves. 9. Follow out the deep or palmar branch of the ulnar artery, anasto- mosing with the radial to form the deep palmar arch, and note the deep branch of the ulnar nerve accompanying the ulnar artery. 10. Define the origins of the palmar interossei. PALMAR ASPECT OF FINGERS. 1. Reflect the skin by the median incision, and in the subcutaneous fascia define the collateral palmar digital vessels, nerves, and lymphatics. 2. Reflect the superficial fascia and define the processes, arrangements, and attachments of the flexor tendons, and observe the prolongations of the palmar fascia along the tendinous sheaths. 3. Reflect the sheaths of the tendons by a median incision and lift one tendon from the other, at the same time drawing them towards the finger tip so as to display the attachments of the synovial and fibrous structm-es accessory to the tendon. 4. Observe the anterior ligaments of the phalanges and metacarpo- phalangeal joints, also their connection with the periosteum of the bones in these i)arts. 5. Trace out the branches of the deep palmar arch and their anasto- moses, and the muscular and articular branches of the median and ulnar nerves. BACK OF THE FOREARM. 1. All incision continuous with the one already existing along the back of the arm as far as the nail of the middle finger. X 2