DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. 431, Relations.—A)LterMdy with, the coccygeus muscle; 'posteriorly it is covered by the great ligament and crossed by the internal pudic vessels and nerves, and nerve to the obtm-ator internus. Its lopper border forms the lower limit of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and its lower edge forms, with the ischial spine, part of the upper border of the lesser sacro-sciatic foramen. These ligaments convert the large sacro-sciatic notch of the bony pelvis into two apertures, called the greater and lesser sacro-sciatic foramina. The Sioperior or great Sacro-Sciatic foramen is bounded above and in front by the posterior border of the innominate bone ; behind by the outer margin of the great sacro-sciatic ligament at its upper part; and below by the upper border of the lesser ligament and spine of the ischium. The pyriformis muscle passes through it, and above this, as already stated, the gluteal vessels and superior gluteal nerve leave the pelvis, the gluteal veins and lymphatics passing in. Below it emerge the sciatic vessels and nerves, the internal pudic vessels and nerves, and the nerve to the obturator internus. The inferior or small sacro-sciatic foramen is bounded in front by the upper and inner margin of the tuber ischii; above by the lower border of the lesser ligament and the ischial spine ; behind by the outer border of the lower part of the greater ligament. The obturator internus muscle passes out of the pelvis through it, and the internal pudic vessels and nerves, and the nerve to the obtmator internus, pass in towards the peri- neum through it. THE POPLITEAL SPACE. Directions.—This space should be dissected before the back of the thigh, so that its \ipper muscular and tendinous boundaries may be more evident. The limb being in the same position as in the dissection of the buttock, an incision of six inches in length must be made behind the knee, and this should extend fom* inches below the joint. At each ex- tremity of this vertical cut make a transverse incision, and raise the skin, turning one flap in and the other out. After reflecting the skin the student must seek some slender cutane- ous nerves and blood-vessels, which have the following positions:—In the middle line some small branches of the sciatic artery and nerve will be found perforating the deep fascia at the lower j)art of the space; some offsets of the internal cutaneous nerve will be found towards the inner side. The dissector must clean and observe the arrangement of the fascia lata. He will note that this structure is here strengthened by fibiies run- ning in various directions, especially transversely, and is stronger on the outer side. It is connected laterally with the tendons bounding the space. The short or external saphenous vein perforates it usually at the lotoer part of the space, but occasionally higher up. Dissection.—The fascia lata is to be removed without disturbing the positions of the small sciatic nerve and accom])anyiiig artery, and the short saphenous vein, which lie beneath it. The fat contained in the