HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 038 canal for the fences, the rectum. In the female there is a third passage between these ; it is the uterine inlet and outlet, and is called the vagina. Practical Surgery.—Pass the oiled finger into the vagina, and feel the OS and cervix uteri. The urethra and part of the lower portion of the bladder may be felt through the anterior wall, and the rectum through the posterior. The student should introduce the uterine speculum, following the curve of the sacrum, and get a good view of the os uteri; he should also introduce the uterine sound. Boundaries.—The dissector should have by him a pelvis with the ligaments preserved, so as to compare the deep boundaries where covered by the soft parts, with the same structures in the prepared or dry state. This should be placed in the same position as that of the subject, and it will be seen that this region corresponds with the outlet of the pelvis, which is larger in the female, but individual differences in the size of the aperture between the tubera ischii and the rami of the pubes will be found in both sexes ; and diseases like rickets and moUities ossium may consider- ably contract the pelvic outlet, so as to render the extraction of a foetus or of a large calculus a matter of great risk and difficulty. In front, the perinseum (this is the collective term for the whole space, but in strictness the jperinceum proper only extends from the anus to the back of the scrotum in the male, and in the female between the anus and the posterior fourchette of the vulva) is bounded by the sym- physis pubis and subpubic ligament; laterally, by the descending rami of pubes, covered by the c?'its and erector penis, and by the tubera ischii. These are the boundaries of the anterior triangle, which is nearly equi- lateral, and its sides are from three to three and a half inches long. The posterior portion is smaller, and is bounded behind by the coccyx and at the sides by the inferior borders of the great gluteal muscles and the great sacro-ischiatic ligaments, which are under cover and a little external to the gluteal margins. The floor is formed by the recto-vesical portion of the pelvic fascia, which cannot yet be made out as it is at the pelvic outlet, but the student should feel the other structures enume- rated. The perinaBum measm-es about four and a half inches from before back, and three inches between the ischial tuberosities, and is about an inch deep near the pubes and about three inches at either side of the anus, but these measurements are subject to individual variations, and are of course much less in children. Directions.—Before reflecting the skin, chalk out on the sm'face the position and course of the vessels and nerves, and the situations of the penile bulb and triangular ligament, following the figures of the structures given later on. The following parts, which can be made out in a moderately thin subject, should also be felt. Midway between the centre of the anus and the back of the scrotum, or about two inches in front of the anus, is placed the so-called central tendon^ of the perinaeum, where the perineeal muscles meet. A little above this is always placed the penile bulb, and the artery to it; therefore the incision in lateral lithotomy should never be begun above it. In fat people the bulb cannot be made out from the sm-face. When holding the staff during the operation of perinceal lithotomy, the penis