482 HUMAN MOliPIlOLOGY. The Posterior Tibial Nerve is a continuation of the internal popliteal, commencing at the lower border of the popliteus and passing down with the artery to the space between the internal malleolus and the heel. It divides beneath the internal annular ligament, or sometimes a little higher, into the internal and external plantar nerves. Its relations are the same as those of the artery, but at first for about a couple of inches it lies to the inner side of the vessel, and then crosses to its outer side as far as its division. It is parallel with the inner border of the tendo-Achillis in the lower third of the leg. Its hrcinches are muscular and plantar cutaneous. The muscitlar branches either arise separately, or are given off by a common trunk from the upper part of the nerve. They supply the tibialis j)Osticus (this is the largest branch), the flexor longus digitorum, and the flexor longus pollicis. The branch to this muscle usually lies on the peroneal artery. The Plantar Cutaneous branches pierce the internal annular ligament in two or tkree offsets, and supply the skin of the inner and under parts of the heel and sole of the foot. The Internal Annular Ligament is triangular, and extends from the inner malleolus to the inner margin of the os calcis. It converts the bony grooves into osseo-fibrous canals for the passage of the flexor muscles and vessels into the sole. Its upper border is continuous with the deep fascia of the leg, and its lower with the inner piece of the plantar fascia, and with the origin of the abductor pollicis. It is pierced by the plantar cutaneous nerve and some of the internal calcanean vessels. Beneath it the tendons of the three deep muscles pass into the foot, each being covered by a separate synovial membrane. The innermost sheath con- tains the tibialis posticus, immediately behind it is the flexor longus digi- torum, and about three-quarters of an inch nearer the heel is the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis. The posterior tibial vessels and nerve run through a broad space beneath the ligament, being placed between the tendons of the flexors digitorum and hallucis, the nerve being to the outer side. SOLJE OF THE FOOT. Directions.—The foot is to be placed with the sole towards the dissec- tor. The toes should be separated and fixed to the table or block, near their extremities, by small nails, and the skin made tight by passing hooks through it over the heel prominence. An incision from the centre } and back of the heel to the end of the middle toe; and another across the roots of the toes must be made. On reflecting the skin the following cutaneous vessels and nerves will be seen in the subcutaneous fat. Near the heel, on its inner side, the plantar cutaneous branch of the posterior tibial nerve will be seen. On the inner and outer sides will be noticed branches of the external and internal plantar nerves and vessels. The digital vessels and nerves on the sides of the toes will also come into view. The subcutaneous fat of the sole is plentiful, and forms a thick layer over the os calcis and the metatarso-phalangeal articulations, the parts that are most exposed to pressure. Fibrous or fibx'o-museular processes