653 DISSECTION OF THTi FERINyEUM. the first given off, is placed at the back of the space and supplies the skin in front of the anus, accompanying the anterior to the scrotiun and joining the inferior hjBmorrhoidal and inferior pudendal nerves. The anteHor is found at the fore part of the fossa accompanying the superficial perin.tial artery ; it is under the sicperficial transverse muscle, and supplies the skin at the forepai-t of the scrotum and that on the under surface of the penis. The levator ani and external sphincter receive twigs from this branch. The inferior or long pudendal branch of the small sciatic accompanies these nerves to the scrotum, and joins the posterior perinseal. In the female these nerves supply the skin of the labia majora. The S'phincteric or hcemorrhoidal branch of the fourth sacral is seen near the coccyx, and supplies the external sphincter and skin between the anus and coccyx. It reaches its destination by piercing either the levator ani or coccygeus, or by passing between them. The branches of the small sciatic nerve seen in this dissection are the int&imal cutaneous and infenor pudendal. The fonner are for the supply of the thigh and but- tock, and turn over the inferior edge of the gluteus maximus to the skin of these parts, and are found at the posterior and external part of the fossa. The latter will be dissected presently. THE GENITO-URINARY TRIANGLE. Dissection.—Eaise the skin carefully from the underlying superficial fascia, following the directions as to the incisions which were given in the preceding section. The dissector should see if some muscular fibres, generally scattered, but occasionally well developed and concentrated, are present. If so, they may pass from the fat over the tuber ischii to the raphe, external sphincter and levator ani. This arrangement is rare, and depends apparently on the development of the superficial trans- verse muscle. It is more common to see muscular fibres passing from the ischio-rectal fat either in or outwards, to blend with the superficial fascia. Should this muscle be present there will be three transverse muscles; the cutaneous, the superficial or middle, and the deep. It has been named the subcutaneous transverse. The superficial perinaeal fascia is now exposed, and is composed of two layers, between which seek the continuations of the cutaneous vessels and nerves, partly described in the last section, and trace them back to their origins. Then cut thi'ough the superficial layer of the peri/nwal fascia midway between the raphe and rami of pubes and reflect it, and note that it is not adherent to the lateral bony boundaries, and that it, like the subcutaneous cellulo-fatty layer or superficial fascia in the groin, buttock, abdomen, and upper part of the thigh, with which it is continuous, varies in the amount of fat cont<ained in its meshes with the condition of the body generally as to obesity. Insert the fine end of a blow-pipe beneath the posterior part of the deep layer of this fascia at one side, and observe its membranous structure, also the median partition, which is incomplete at the anterior part of the space, allowing the air to cross the median line. If the infla- tion be forcible enough, the air will be projected along the scrotum and penis on to the abdomen, but not usually on to tlie thighs because this