HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. ivards. It can also adduct the leg, crossing one over the other. Acting from below, it flexes tlie pelvis on the thigh, and one muscle acting alone assists in rotating the pelvis. It is also a tensor of the deep fascia of the thigh and leg, and supports the pelvis on the femoral head in standing. Nerve.—Anterior crural. Varieties.—It is frequently divided into two parts which have a similar attachment, or the lower muscle may be inserted into the femur or into the tendon of the femoral muscle. Its insertion tendon may end in the fascia lata or the inner side of the knee capsule, which may be entirely absent. It is extremely rarely double, and it may have a tendinous inter- section which may be closely adherent to the fascia lata. Dissection.—To expose the superficial and deep femoral vessels and their branches, the sartorius should be divided about the junction of its upper and middle third and reflected. The structm-es enumerated in the following paragraph must be cleaned. Position of Parts.—Beneath the sartorius will be found an aponeurosis which is thin above and which separates the extensors from the adductors. Fig. 273.—Diagram of transverse section through left Hunter's canal. The femoral artery and veiu are seen in their sheath, and the long saphenous nerve is In the canal but outside the sheath. The internal saphenous nerve is beneath it. The nerve to the vastus in- ternus sending an oflf-set to the knee, lying on the surface of the muscle, will be found parallel to the upper and outer part of the saphenous nerve. The femoral or mid-femoral plexus on the inner side of the thigh will also be exposed. The anastomotica magna branch of the superficial femoral should be traced through the fibres of the internal vastus in front of the tendon of the adductor magnus as far as the knee, also a twig from it accompanying the long saphenous nerve. These will be found in the lower third of the thigh. The A'poneurotic Sheath for the femoral vessels {Hunter''s Canal) only exists where the vessels are overlaid by the sartorius. It consists of a strong fibrous band passing transversely between the vastus interuus and the tendons of the adductors longus and magnus. It is thin above, but