ANATOMICAL TECHNICS. 71 muscular fibres should not be seized with the forceps, as there are usually some fibres of cellular tissue around it which may be caught hold of and the muscle thus rendered tense. To dissect the deeper muscles the superficial ones should be removed or displaced. They can be displaced by relaxing the muscles and by fixing them out of the way with the dissection hooks; and they may be removed in three different ways:— 1. By dividing them at their middle, so that on replacing the divided parts their relations can be studied. 2. By dividing them near one of their attachments, so as to preserve their form and relations. 3. By removing with a fine saw that portion of the bone to which the muscle is attached. By this method the superficial and deep muscles can be replaced, and if desired be fixed with tin tacks, small screws, or glue, and the parts will assume their previous relations. These different methods are each applicable in certain regions ; and in the various sections of this work the best steps for reflecting the muscles will be given. When the superficial muscles have been reflected their deep surfaces must be studied, and all vessels and nerves entering them should if possible be preserved. In studying the muscles the student should become familiar with their attachments, actions, relations, vascular and nerve supply ; and in dissecting the fasciae he should make out their attachments, the parts which they enclose and separate, and also the fascise with which they are continuous. Dissection of Blood-Vessels.—As with the muscles, one should avoid catching hold of their coats with the forceps, as this will either tear them, or by breaking the contained injection spoil the look of the dissection. The back of the scalpel should be applied to the vessel, and the connective tissue should be seized by the forceps and carefully removed. In his second year the student should dissect uuinjected bodies, to render himself familiar with the normal size of the vessels as found in operating, and also to prepare him for the aspect and relations of the uu- injected preparation on which he will be examined for his diploma.^ The lymphatics may be exposed either by carefully removing the skiii and a part of the subcutaneous cellular fatty tissue, and leaving the lym- phatics applied to the deep fascia ; or one may remove the skin and sub- cutaneous tissue from the aponeurosis and reflect it, leaving the lymphatics adherent to the deep sm-face of the skin. This latter method is best, to see the cutaneous networks. If tlie lym- phatic vessels have been injected with mercury and the preparation dried, there is little need to cleanse the connective tissue from them, as this has become transparent by desiccation, and the mercury can be seen through it. The vessels must not be wounded, as the mercury will escape through the puncture ; and the dissection should be made from the radicles towards the larger trunks, and in a direction parallel with them. After the preparation has been injected and dried, it shoidd be pre- served in a vertical position. In studying the blood-vessels, the student must lenrn their oi-igin, course, branches, anastomoses and relations. ' At the Colle{<o of Surgeons students are novvadai's examined on tlie injected subject.