110 HUMAN MOBVIIOL 0 G Y. common to it and the acromio-tlioracic. It runs inwards along the upper border of the pectoralis minor and passes to the side of the chest between it and the major, supplying them and anastomosing with the intercostal and internal mammary arteries. This vessel is so commonly a branch of the acromio-thoracic that it has been described as the ordinary condition, the common trunk being called the thoracic axis. The Acromio-thoracic is a short trunk from the front of the vessel, and is seen at the upper border of the pectoralis minor, and between the pectoralis major and deltoid. It divides into three sets of branches, which pass respectively imvards, ttpwards, and outwards. It has been called the thoracic axis. The inner or thoracic set are two or three, and supply the serratus magnus and pectorals, and anastomose with the anterior intercostal branches of the internal mammary and the other thoracic vessels. The outer or acromial set are mainly destined for the deltoid. Fig. 4'!.—Beakches of the eight axillaey and beachial auteeies 1. Axillary. 2. Acromio-tlioracic. 3. Acromial branch of 2. 4. A muscular branch of 2. 6. Thoracic brancli of 2. 6'. Alar or posterior thoracic. Long thoracic. 6'. Anterior perforating of internal mammary. 7. Subscapular. 8. Dorsalls acapuIiE. 9. Coutiuiiation of subscapulars. 10 and 11. Muscularsof subscapular. 12. Posterior circumflex. 13. Anterior circumflex. 14. Brachial. 16. Superior profunda. IG, 17, 18. Muscular. 19. Inferior profunda. 20. Anastomotica magna. 21. Median nerve cut. The pectorals, biceps, coraco-brachialis, and latissimus dorsl are cut and reflected. One small vessel accompanies the cephalic vein for a short distance be- tween the pectoralis major and deltoid, supplying them, and another, called the i^iferior acromial, pierces the deltoid and anastomoses on the acromion with the supra-sctipular and posterior circumflex arteries. One or two small vessels pass up to the subclavius and deltoid muscles. The Alar Thoracic is a small and inconstant vessel which supplies the glands and cellular tissue of the axilla. It is frequently substituted by branches from the other thoracic vessels, or from the subscapular. The Long Thoracic passes along the lower border of the pectoralis minor to near the sixth intercostal space, sup])lyiug the serratus magnus, the pectorals and mamma, and sending branches across the axilla to the