112 HUMAN MORrnOLOGY. trapezius. Its inner surface is in contact with tlie margin of the inter- articular fibro-cartilage and with the synovial membrane. The Inferior Acromio-Clavicular Ligament is thinner than the Superior, and is on the imder-surface of the joint, being attached to the adjoining surfaces of the clavicle and the acromion. Its upper surface is in contact with the fibro-cartilage (if it be present) and the synovial mem- brane ; its under-sm-face with the tendon of the supra-spinatus. The superior and inferior ligaments are tendinous in front and behind the joint, and really form a complete capsule to it. The Inter-Articular Fihro-Cartilage is often present between the bones at the upper part of the joint; occasionally it completely separates the joint into two cavities. In the latter case there are two synovial membranes. In two old people I have seen the acromion and clavicle united by fibro-cartilage. This may have been normal to them, or pos- sibly the result of arthritis. When present the fibro-cartilage is wedge- shaped and its base is attached to the upper ligament. Movements.—These are of two kinds, a gliding of the clavicle on the acromion to and fro and up and down, and a rotation of the scapula 1. Scapula. 2. Humerus. 3. Clavicle. 4. Margin of acromion. 6 and G. Bands of tbe cap- sular ligament. 7. Coraco-ncromial ligament. 8. Conoid. 9. Trapezoid ligament. 10. Long head of triceps, Fig. 71. -Eight acromio-clavicular and coraco-aceomial ligaments. backwards and forwards on the clavicle. In this latter movement the acromion moves from above down at the fore part of the joint, and from below up at the back; but if the acromion be elevated the surfaces move in the opposite direction. The extent of rotation is limited by the two portions (trapezoid and conoid) of the coraco-clavicular ligament. Vessels and Nerves.—These come from the supra-scapular artery and nerve and the acromio-thoracic artery. The clavicle is also connected to the scapula by a strong ligament, the coraco-clavicular. This ligament consists of two parts, the trapezoid and conoid, having different directions. The Anterior and External fascicidus, the trapezoid ligament, is larger than the conoid, and is broad, thin, and quadrilateral, and passes obliquely from the coracoid process to the clavicle. It is attached below to the upper surface and inner border of the coracoid process along the hinder half; and above to the oblique line on the under-surface of the clavicle, which passes outwards from its tubercle. Its anterior border is free, but its posterior border is joined to the conoid. The Conoid Ligament is the internal and posterior fasciculus, and is a strong conical band having its base upwards. Below, it is attached by its apex to a rough depression at the posterior and inner part of the base of