DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. 685 inforced by oblique fibres, and forms the two parts of the anterior annular ligament. At the upper part this fascia is also attached to the heads of the tibia and fibula. The fascia on the dorsal aspect of the foot is a very thin membranous layer and is lost at the heads of the metatarsal bones, blending on the outer and inner sides of the foot with the lateral pieces of the plantar fascia. It is continuous with the lower margin of the anterior ligament, and forms the sheaths for the tendons placed on the dorsum of the foot. This should now be removed to expose the muscles and tendons in this region. Another thin layer of fiiscia will be found over the extensor brevis digitorum, and beneath it and above the interossei is a third layer of fascia which will subsequently be seen. Dissection.—Eemove the deep fascia, leaving the anterior annular and external annular ligaments. The fascia will be best removed from the muscles by dissecting from below upwards. The peronei muscles on the outer side should also have the fascia removed from them. In doing this the strong intermuscular septa must be noted. Trace up the anterior tibial vessels and nerve and the muscido-cutaneous nerve from the dorsum of the foot to their origin ; and on the dorsum of the foot clean the dorsal vessels and nerve and trace the tendons of the long and short extensors to the ends of the toes. The Anterioi\ A nnular Ligament is comjiosed of two portions, upper and lower; and binds down the extensor tendons to the front of the tibia and fibula, and to the tarsus. The ujpjper or oblique part is above the level of the ankle joint, and is attached internally to the tibia and inner malleolus, and externally to the outer margin of the fibula. It is con- tinuous above with the fascia of the leg, and contains, usually, only one sheath and synovial membrane, which is for the tibialis anticus ; but some- times there are two, the outer one being for the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius. The tendons of the extensor proprius pollicis, and the anterior tibial vessels and nerve, pass beneath it without any distinct sheath. The lower horizontal part is placed opposite the bend of the ankle and in front of the upper tarsal bones. It has the appearance of a capital letter k< , placed thus, being single in its outer half, and commonly divided into two limbs internally. The outer j^art is composed of a strong loop of fibres arising from the upper surface and fore part of the os calcis, deeply in the hollow between that band and the astragalus, and in front of the interosseous ligament. Internally it is thin and widens, and the arrangement of the two bands is somewhat irregular. The most constant and stronger band is superficial to the extensor pollicis, and on the deep surface of the tibialis anticus, only a few fibres being superficial to the latter. This band is attached to the inner malleolus and inner part of the plantar fascia. The lower band crosses the tibialis anticus and extensor pollicis, and is inserted into the lower side of the foot in front of the ankle. In this part of the ligament there are three sheaths, the innermost for the tibialis anticus, the middle for the extensor pollicis, and the outer for the extensor longus digitorum and pei'oneus tertius. The anterior tibial vessels and nerve lie beneath it. Each tendinous sheath has a separate synovial membrane. The External Annular Ligavieyit is triangular and attached by its apex