DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. 475 areolar tissue. Its deep sxtrface is in relation to the peroneal vessels, the tibia, and fibula, the lower part of the interosseous membrane, and the back of the ankle joint. On its inner aide are the posterior tibial vessels and nerve, the tibialis posticus, and flexor longus digitorum ; and on its outer side are the peronei, separated by the intermuscular septum. Actions.—It bends the distal phalanx of the great toe and then ex- tends the ankle. It assists the flexor longus digitorum and gastrocnemius and soleus in extending the foot in walking or standing on the toes. If the foot be on the ground it will aid the flexor longus digitorum in raising the heel in walking, and will assist them mostly in moving back the bones of the leg when rising from a stooping posture; it also helps to steady the tibia and fibula on the ankle joint. Nei've.—The posterior tibial. Varieties.—Its peculiarities aue few, but the manner of its imion with the tendon of the longus digitorum is very variable, so that Professor Turner thinks that no two subjects are alike in this respect. In nearly all cases the slip of junction comes from the flexor hallucis, but in one-sixth of the subjects the digitorum sends a slip to the pollicis. The slip from Fig. 352.—DiAGEAM of the sy>;ovial sheaths of the tendoks on the inner SIDE of eight foot. the hallucis generally is inserted into the second and third toes, but it may go to all four toes, or to the second only. Macali&ter has described a small peroneo-calcaneus internus as being probably homotypical with the pronator quadratus. It arises be- hind the external malleolus from an oblique line on the back of the fibula, and passes over the sustentaculum tali in the same groove with the flexor hallucis, to be inserted into a tubercle of the os calcis (Macalister, ' Mus- cular Anomalies,'p. 125). The Tibialis Posticus is the most deeply placed of these muscles, and lies between them. It arises by two pointed processes between which the anterior tibial artery passes to the front of the leg. Its origin differs from the other two nmscles, as it arises from both bones. Its tibial origin is from the posterior surface of the shaft, external to the flexor digitorum, and between the upper part of the oblique line and the middle of the external border of the bone. Its fibular attachment is from the upper two-thirds of the inner surface of the shaft of the fibula. It also arises from nearly the whole of the posterior surface of interosseous membrane, except