HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 500 surface of the os calcis in front of its outer tubei'cle, and from the long plantar ligament. These two heads join at an acute angle, and are inserted by aponeurotic bands into the outer margin and upper and under sm-faces of the flexor longus digitorum, forming a sort of groove in which the tendon lodges. Slips from this muscle pass to the second, third, and fourth tendons of the flexor longus. Relations.—Above it are the muscles of the superficial layer, separated by the external plantar vessels and nerves. Beneath and between it is the long calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. Action.—From its position behind and to the outer side of the long flexor it opposes the directly inward action of that muscle, and assists it and the flexor brevis in flexing the toes directly backwards. The teadon of the flexor longus pollicis is placed deeper in the sole than that of the digitorum. It is joined by a strong tendinous process of Flex, access. Tendon of peroii. long. Tendon of flex. long, liall. Tendon of flex. long. dig. Fig. .376.—Relations of the flexor tendons to e.vch other. Left foot. the flexor longus digitorum, and passes forwards between the two heads of the flexor brevis pollicis, and is inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the great toe. Between the os calcis and inner malleolus it lies in a groove in the astragalus and below the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis, being sheathed by a synovial membrane. A tendinous process from the flexor longus pollicis to the flexor longus digitorum is joined by bands from the flexor accessorius, and passes to the tendons of the long flexor which go to the second and third toes, consequently it may bend these two digits and the great toe. Dissection.—Divide the accessorius and the tendons of the long flexors near the os calcis, and throw them forward ; remove the connective tissue from the third layer of muscles, being careful of two nervous filaments from the external plantar to the two outer lumbricales. The deep parts of the external plantar nerve and artery should also be cleaned. Third Layer of Muscles.—There are four muscles in this layer belong-