HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 58 into the veins on the dorsum of the foot, as already described, and the external iliac vein must be either tied or compressed against the ilio- pectineal line. If it be wished to inject the veins of the lower or upper limb after separation from the trunk, it will suffice to rub and press the limb forcibly from below upwards, so as to express the blood from the veins. To inject the detached lower limb introduce the cannula into the main vessel, securing any collateral branches. The lower limb will requii-e a pound, or perhaps more, of injection fluid. Injection of the Trunk.—The vsiins and arteries of the contained viscera and of the trunk walls can only be thoroughly injected by a general injection. If it be desired to inject the trunk alone, the axillary, femoral, carotids and vertebrals must be tied. Most of the veins of the trunk may be injected by the veins of the neck, as they are for the most part devoid of valves. The axillary and femoral veins should be tied and the cannula introduced into one of the jugulars, the internal being the better one to select. The opposite jugulars should be tied unless one wishes to inject the head and trunk at the same time, this being perfectly easy to be done if necessary; but for this simultaneous injection of the head and neck to succeed, a ligature must be placed above the point where the cannula has been introduced into the internal jugular so as to prevent the reflux exit of the injecting matter through the veins of the opposite side, as the venous anastomoses are free and often well developed in old people. Injection of the Veins of the Head, Neck, and Spine.—It is impossible to inject the veins of the head and neck without at the same time injecting those of the spine in consequence of the free anastomoses between them. The steps of the operation are: 1, opening of the thorax and abdomen in the mid-line; 2, ligaturing of the two subclavian veins in the subclavian triangle ; 3, ligaturing of the internal mammary veins; 4, ligaturing of the roots of the lungs, to prevent the injection passing into the bronchial veins; 5, ligaturing of the inferior vena cava between the heart and diaphragm; 6, ligcituring of both common iliac veins; and 7, introduction of a large cannula upwards into the superior vena cava just above its entrance into the right auricle. The com'se taken by the injection is along the jugular to the sinuses of the dura mater, to the cerebral veins and the ophthalmic vein. It cannot pass into the upper limbs but goes along the superior intercostal veins and into the rachidian veins of the upper part of the spinal column. From the superior vena cava the injection passes into the azygos major, and secondly through the lower intercostals into the inferior rachidian veins, and as all the veins of the spine communicate largely, and are devoid of valves, the injection will distend them. The spinal veins communicate in the lumbar region with the lumbar veins which empty into the inferior vena cava. The injection passes into the inferior cava, which it fills, but in consequence of the common iliac veins and the inferior vena cava having been i)reviously tied, it cannot extend in these directions, but the suprarenal and spermatic veins are injected. If it be wished to inject the right side of the heart at the same time, the inferior vena cava should not be tied.