ANATOMIC.'LL TECHNICS. 45 4. Water . . 8000 parts Sulphate of iron 1000 „ Mix and make a solution. Q. Ilyposulpliite of soda ..... q.s. i to make a satu- AVater q.s.' rated solution 6. A saturated solution of carbolic acid or thymol, or one of less strength, is also very serviceable. The hyjiosulphite solution has the advantage of perfectly preserving the subjects without putrefaction for two or three months, and also dries the parts while preserving them; but it has the disadvantage, like all sulphites, of causing a free crystallisation of the salt on the surface of the preparations, and of blunting the scalpel. 7. White arsenic 1000 parts Water or methylated spirit .... 10000 „ (Franchina) This solution is dear, and may cause local or general arsenical poisoning. The solution of creasote has also been employed, but some object to its odour, especially as it has no great advantage over others already mentioned. .... 8. Oommercial glycerine 1000 parts Crystallised carholic acid ^ » Dissolve the crystals in the glycerine in a water bath, and preserve in well stoppered bottles. This carbolised glycerine has the advantage of giving suppleness to the organs, but it does not preserve the parts for so long a time as the hyposulphate of soda solution. It does not affect the scalpel, but its odom- is disagreeable to many people.' 9. Hydrate of chloral ...... 600 grammes Distilled water ....... 2^ litres Glycerine „ Mix. The anti-fermentiscible properties of chloral render it one of the best conservative agents of the tissues. It acts either by combining with the albuminoid materials or simply by the action of contact. Chloral alone, in a solution of 10 per cent., acts powerfully upon the muscles, which it hardens and dries almost to pulverisation, but if glycerine be added, as in the above formula, the tissues become more supple ; but if, after injection with this solution, the tissues are exposed to the air, they dry gradually, and in a few months become mummified. 10. Tincture of myrrh or powdered myrrh or aloes . 10 per cent. Flour or milk of sulphur . . . . . 30 „ Boracic acid, crystallised . ... GO „ [ to make a fluid Water q.s. ] that will run or i How well This injection is, I believe, new, at any rate to modern anatomists, but has the inconvenience to some extent of interfering with the subsequent injection of solidifiable matter. ' Terebene and Sanitas, the new preparations, have also good preservative qualities, and may be tried either alone or mixed with glycerine and water.