DISSECTION OF THE UIWEPc LI MIL ]37 the subscapuliiris, at the lower border of wliich it passes back and out, and before dividing into its two branches gives off an tiHicular filament to the under part of the shoulder joint. The U'p'per branch winds round the humeral neck with the posterior circumflex vessels under the deltoid to its anterior border. It supplies this muscle, and gives off" cutaneous filaments, which pierce it to sujoply the skin. The loxoer branch at its origin gives filaments to the back of the deltoid and to the teres minor. The branch to the latter muscle usually has a reddish gangliform enlargement. The nerve then pierces the deep fascia, and supplies the skin over the lower two-thirds of the back of the deltoid and over the long head of the triceps. Variety.—Turner has twi(;e noticed a branch from the circumflex to the teres major. Directions.—Before removing the fascia from the back of the scapula, the attachments of the infra-spinous aponeiurosis must be made out. It is a strong fibrous membrane investing the infra-spinous muscle, and attached to the margin of the infra-spinous fossa. By its inner surface it gives origin to some fibres of that muscle, and also fm'nishes intermuscular septa which separate the infra-spinatus from the teres minor and the latter from the teres major. It is continuous externally with the deep fascia of the arm. Remove this aponeurosis to expose the infra-spinatus and teres major and minor muscles. The Infra-spinatus muscle occupies the greater part of the infra-spinous fossa, and is triangular with its apex at the humerus. It arises by fleshy fibres from the inner two-thirds of the infra-spinous fossa, and by tendinous laminte from the ridges on its smface ; also from the infra-spinous aponeu- rosis. The neck, lower angle and inferior border of the scapula do not give origin to the infra-spinatus, but some of its fibres arise from the lower surface of the scapular sjjine and overlap its tendon, which glides over the external border of the spine of the scapula, crosses the upper and back part of the shoulder capsule, and is inserted into the middle facet on the greater tuberosity of the humerus, joining the tendons of the supra- spinatus and teres minor. There is sometimes a bursa between this muscle and the outer border of the spine of the scapula which communi- cates with the shoulder joint. Relations.—Posteriorly, with the deltoid, trapezius, latissimus dorsi and skin. Anteriorly, with the scapula, from which it is separated by the aupra-scapular and dorsahs scapulte muscles, and with the shoulder joint. Its upper border is in contact with the scapular spine, and its loioer border with the teres minor, being sometimes blended with it and Avith the teres major. Action.—The arm being pendent, it is an external rotator, and when the arm is raised it helps to keep it in that position and with the hinder portion of the deltoid to carry it backwards. Nerve.—The supra-scapular. Varieties.—It is sometimes part of or intimately connected with the teres minor. The Teres Minor is a longish narrow muscle along the inferior costa of the scapula. It arises from a narrow oblique groove on the posterior sui- face of the axillary border of the scapula, and from the intermuscular septa