63 ANATOMICAL TECHNICS. divisibility easily penetrates into the thinnest vessels. The mercury must be carefully purified by filtering it through chamois leather. The thoracic duct may be injected with coloured tallow, limited injec- tions of the subcutaneous lymphatics may be made by throwing in a solution of alkannet by means of a hypodermic syringe. Apparatits.—This is composed of: 1, a glass tube about a yard long ; 2, a small glass funnel through which the mercmy is poured into the glass tube; 3, a thick india-rubber tube fitted to the naiTow end of the funnel; 4, a stopcock tube which fits the india-rubber tube; 5, a small glass tube of which one end fits the stopcock tube and the other is drawn out to a capillary point: 4 and 5 must be fitted to each other by sur- rounding the large end of the glass tube by waxed silk, and sufficient tm-ns must be made so that the end of the tube must be a little larger than that of the opening of the stopcock tube. Sappey recommends that the interior of the stopcock tube should have a screw traversing it, as this more firmly fixes the glass tube. The tube is introduced into the stop- cock apparatus by rotation, and the operator must make sure that it is firmly fixed, aud allows of no escape. The apparatus is then vertically suspended, so that the capillary end of the little tube is below the level of the subject, and the flexibility of the india-rubber will permit the glass tube to be put in any direction. The long glass tube is then filled with mercury through the funnel, the column of which must vary in height, and consequently in pressure, according to the results one wishes to obtain. Great pressm-e is often advantageous and necessary, but sometimes it ruptures the vessels. To inject the Lymphatic Vessels a lymphatic trunk must be sought where anatomy teaches they may be met with, but the proceeding may be facilitated by pressing with the finger or the back of the scalpel, from below upwards, in the course of the lymph stream. The skin is to be carefully divided, and with a little patience lymj^hatic trunks may be found in the subcutaneous cellular tissue. The capillary end of the tube must be introduced-into one of them (this is not always easy, as the vessels yield before the pressure), and the stopcock being turned, the mercury rapidly enters as far as the first ganglion. It sometimes happens that the vessel is missed and the tube is introduced into the cellular tissue. This is generally easily recognised, and the mistake must be put right before l)roceeding with the injection. The tube being in a lymphatic trunk, should the mercury cease to flow, its progress may be assisted by gentle frictions with the handle of the scalpel. When t:he mercury has reached a lymphatic gland, it often happens that it will not flow through it. A similar pressure with the handle of the scalpel will often assist it to run through into the efferent vessels ; but very often this will not succeed, and it is then necessary to expose the efferent vessel or vessels and to directly inject them. The long glass tube should be graduated so as to enable the injector to assure himself as to how the injeciion is succeeding. This may be done with a narrow ])iece of paper marked out in subdivisions of inches. The shape of the u])pcr suiface of the mercury will often indicate if the injection be progressing or not. If it be concave, the injection is ]n-o- cecding; but if it be convex, the process lias become stopjjcd for some or other reason. Should the mercury pass too rapidly along the tube.