DISSECTION OF THE UPPEIi LIMB. 306 2. The branches of the internal cutaneous and musculo-cutaneous must be dehned. 3. The insertion of the biceps and its expansion to the deep fascia of the forearm must be made out. 4. The origins of the supinators and extensors on the outer side, and the pronators and flexors on the inner, should be made evident. 5. The median nerve on the inner side of the brachial artery and the biceps tendon on the outer should be dissected out as well as the anasto- moses between the profunda, anastomotica magna, and recurrent branches of the radial and ulnar. The musculo-spiral nerve and its branches at the outer side of the space between the brachialis anticus and supinator longus must be dissected out. 6. Observe the division of the brachial into the radial and ulnar, and the recurrent branches of this latter. 7. Make out the insertion of the brachialis anticus, and dissect out the origins of the flexors and supinators, and pronators and extensors. SCAPULAR REGION. 1. Make an incision along the lower border of the scajDula from the spine to the insertion of the deltoid, and another along the spine of the scapula, then reflect the skin above and below. 2. In the subcutaneous superficial fascia define the acromial branches of the cervical plexus and the cutaneous filaments of the circumflex. 3. Define the aponeurosis of the deltoid and trapezius. 4. Reflect these, and make out the attachments of the muscles to the neighboming bones. 5. Define the aponeurosis of the supra- and infra-spinatus, and teres major and minor. 6. Reflect the deltoid and dissect out the nerves to it, the posterior circumflex artery and branches, and the accompanying vein. 7. Make out the insertions of the supra- and infra-spinatus and teres minor, defining the triangular and quadrangular spaces between the triceps and teres muscles. 8. Make out the origins of the triceps, then divide the scapulo-humeral muscles, noting any bursjE between them and the shoulder joint or any pro- longations from them to strengthen the shoulder capsule. 9. Dissect out the ligaments of the shoulder and the vessels and nerves to the joint, noting its relations; open the joint and observe its articular facets and the synovial sheath of the biceps and the bursas beneath the subscapularis. H 10. Dissect out the acromio-clavicular articulations. W 11' Define the supra-scapular artery and nerve, their branches, and the anastomoses of the artery with the other scapular arteries. BACK OF THE ARM. 1. An incision along the back of the arm about two inches below the elbow joint; transverse incisions if necessary on the outer and inner side of this; and reflect the skin. X