HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 60 finitely, and may be handled without fear. The surest and easiest method to get rid of the epidermis is by maceration ; the injection will then become quite easy. The ' seat of election' is in the centre of the palm and of the sole. A previous hydrotomy for some hours will produce a slight oedema and distend the lymphatic vessels, which will then be more easily recognised ; and if the subject be placed for some hours in water, the lymphatics will also become well distended by imbibition. ANATOMICAL LABORATORY, OR DISSECTING ROOM AND ITS APPLIANCES. The dissecting room should be large and airy, and situated in a part in which free ventilation is permitted, and should of course be so looked after as to prevent creating a nuisance in the neighbourhood. It should be lofty and lighted from the top, but side lights are also serviceable in some dissections. Its door and walls should consist of some impermeable material which can be easily cleaned, and which is not very absorbent. If the walls be of slate, diagrams or drawings may be made upon them for demonstration purposes. The floor should be strewed with pine sawdust, which gives off a pleasant odom-, and which to some extent acts as a dis- infectant ; it also will help to keep the students' feet warm by preventing immediate contact with the cold floor. The dissecting tables should be about six feet long, of a convenient height, steady, and not too broad, i.e. about 30 inches in breadth. The stools should be of different heights, to suit different dissectors. Boai'ds, blocks, and ropes are necessary appliances in the dissecting-room. It is better that all the wooden materials should be varnished, so as to prevent absorption of the decomposing juices of the subject, and the tables should be covered with a layer of sheet zinc. The walls of the dissecting room should be hirag with good illustrations of dissections, and there should be two or three articulated skeletons suspended in different parts of the dissecting laboratory for purposes of reference, and the student should bring with him the bones of the part he is dissecting. A well furnished dissecting laboratory should be provided with dissected preparations placed in a convenient position for study around the room. The Anatomical Museum should be provided with good dissections, sections, and models, to which the student can refer and examine for him- self, and in the library of the college the various English and foreign standard anatomical works should be at the service of the worker. Ormsliy's cranium holder (see fig. 18), which facilitates the removing of the cal- varium, should also be at the service of the student in the dissecting room. Private Laboroiory.—An extra unfurnished room can readily be obtained nowadays at a small sum, and if two students be living together, the cost of this and the requisite furniture will be very small. Foetuses, parts of limbs removed by amputation, and some of the viscera, such as the brain, larynx, tongue, &c., and the smaller animals, may, I believe, without offending the law, be dissected in a private laboratory. Common sense and decency will tell the student that these parts must be carefully preserved in spirit so as to prevent their decomposition, and they must be