222 HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. Varieties.—It may be absent in one or botli arms, or there may be an extra muscle, named by Wood the Flexor Ccurpi radicdis brevis or pro- fundus. This is present about six times in seventy subjects. It is placed beneath the flexor carpi radialis, and arises usually from the outer side of the radius above the pronator quadratus, and below the flexor pollicis, and is inserted into the base of the middle metacarpal bone and os magnum, but many varieties have been described both with respect to its origin and insertion. Its origin may be connected by an additional slip with the coronoid process of the ulna, or with the tendon of the biceps or semilunar fascia, and its insertion may be into the trapezium, or into the third or fourth metacarpal bone, as well as into the second. The coronoid slip of the pronator teres may be connected with it. The Palmaris Longus, the smallest muscle of this group, is a slender fusiform muscle arising from the inner condyle by the common tendon and from the intermuscular septa, and ends in a long slender flattened tendon, which is inserted into the palmar fascia near the middle of the wrist, and sometimes joins the short muscles of the thumb by a tendinous slip. Its tendon pierces the deep fascia of the forearm, and passes over the anterior annular ligament, to which it is connected. Relations.—Superjicially, with the deep fascia; internally, with the flexor carpi ulnaris, and the median nerve is close to the inner and posterior side of the tendon just above the wi'ist; externally, with the flexor carpi radialis. Action.—It is a tensor of the palmar fascia, and can also flex the wrist and elbow, assisting the other muscles having similar actions. Nerve.—The median. Varieties.—It is a very variable muscle, and is absent in about ten per cent, of subjects. Its fleshy belly is sometimes very long, or it may occupy the middle of the muscle, its extremity being tendinous, or it may be muscular at its lower end, its upper portion being tendinous. Occa- sionally there is a second palmai'is longus placed on the inner side of the preceding, one muscle having the ordinary shape, while the other has one of the forms just described. The second palmaris ends belbw usually in the annular ligament, deep fascia, or partly in the small muscles of the little finger. The origin of the ordinary palmaris may pass up to the triceps muscle. The Flexor Carpi Ulnaris.—The innermost muscle of this group arises by two heads connected by a tendinous arch, between which the ulnar nerve passes down and the posterior ulnar recmTent artery runs up. One head arises from the inner condyle of the humerus by the common tendon; the other from the inner margin of the olecranon and by an aponeurosis from the upper two-thirds of the posterior border of the ulna (this aponeu- rosis is intimately connected with the deep fascia of the limb), and from the intermuscular septum. The fibres end in a shortish tendon on tlie anterior part of the lower half of the muscle, and is inserted into the pisiform bone, and is prolonged by tendinous or ligamentous bands to the anterior annular ligament, to the base of the fifth metacarpal and unciform bones, and to the muscles of the little finger. There is sometimes a small bursa between it and the pisiform. Relations.—Superficially, with the deep fascia, with which it is closely connected; deepjly, with the flexor sublimis and profundus, the pronator