DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. 473 arise from the intennusciilai- septum, and from the ajioneiirosis over the tibialis posticus. The tleshy hbres end in a strong tendon which occupies nearly the whole length of the posterior aspect of the muscle. This t t'ndon passes behind the internal malleolus in a groove on the posterior aspect of the tibia which is common to it and the tibialis posticus, but is separated from the latter muscle by a septum, the tendon of each being lodged in a special sheath and lined by a distinct synovial membrane. Beneath the internal annidar ligament, and in the groove, its tendon is superficial to that of the tibialis, but in the lower fourth of the leg this muscle crosses in front of it. The tendon, then passes forwards and out- wards, beneath the os calcis into the sole, where it crosses beneath the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis, being connected to it by a strong ten- dinous slip. It then expands, and is joined on its outer side by the flexor accessorius about the middle of the sole. It finally divides into four tendons which are inserted into the bases of the last phalanges of the four outer or lesser toes on their plantar aspect. Each tendon passing through a slit in the corresponding tendon of the flexor brevis digitorum opposite the middle of the first phalanges. The lumbricales muscles arise from and are accessory to them in the sole. The insertion of this muscle cannot now be seen. Relations.—Superficially with the soleus, the deep fascia, and the posterior tibial vessels and nerves. Deeply with the tibia and tibialis pos- ticus. Its relations in the sole of the foot will be seen when that is dis- sected. Actions.—It flexes the distal phalangeal joints of the four lesser toes, and then extends the foot, and assists the gastrocnemius and soleus in extending the foot in walking, or in standing on the toes. Were it not for the insertion of the flexor accessorius into the outer side of its tendon in the sole, it would in consequence of its oblique direction draw the toes inwards; but acting with' the flexor accessorius, it draws the toes to the mid-line of the foot. Acting from below it steadies the tibia and fibula upon the ankle. It also helps to raise the heel in walking, and its tendon can, jointly with this and the other two muscles, strengthen the tarsal arch on its inner and under aspects. Nerve.—The posterior tibial. Varieties.—A second head of origin is not infrequent, and this may come from the outer tuberosity of the tibia, from the fibula, or from the deep fascia, and Otto has seen this extra piece joining and even replacing the flexor accessorius in the sole. A slip from the posterior aspect of the tibia {flexor digiti secundi proprius) may pass to the second toe, and there may be an additional slip from the tibialis anticus to join the flexor digitorum at the ankle. A small supernumerary muscle arising from the inferior part of the back of the tibia and running in the sheath of the long flexor of the toes to the posterior or inner ligament of the ankle {tensor capsuli tibio-iarsalis), may exist. (Gies, ' Archiv fiir Anatie.,' 1868). The Flexor Longus Hallucis, or Pollicis Pedis, is placed on the fibular side of the leg, and is the largest, strongest, and most superficial of these muscles. It arises below the soleus from about the lower two-thirds of the posterior and internal surface of the shaft of the fibula to within an inch of its lower end, from the intermuscular septum between it and the peronei, from the fascia over the tibialis posticus, and from the lower part