HUMAN MORrnOLOGY. 490 Relations.—By its deep surface with the flexor brevis pollicis, flexor accessorius, the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis, the innermost tendon of flexor longus digitorum, the tendons of the tibialis anticus and pos- ticus, and the plantar vessels and nerves. It is in relation by its super- ficial surface with the plantar fascia. Actions.—It is chiefly a flexor of the metatarso-phalangeal joint of the great toe, and a slight abductor. Nerve.—The internal plantar. Varieties.—It sometimes sends a slip to tlie base of the first phalanx of the second toe, and occasionally another to the skin of the ball of the great toe. The Flexor Brevis Digitorum, or flexor perforatus, lies beneath (in the erect position, the muscle would of course be above the fascia) the middle piece of the plantar fascia, with which it is firmly united. It arises by a narrow tendon from the inner part of the inner tubercle of the os calcis, from the centre piece of the plantar fascia, and from the lateral inter- muscular septa. Near the centre of the foot it divides into four small tendons which pass over (in this position of the foot) the tendons of the long flexor, and opposite the middle of the first phalanges of the four outer or lesser toes, each tendon has a longitudinal slit for the passage of the corresponding tendon of the flexor longus digitorum. The two pieces into which each tendon splits form a groove for the tendons of the long flexor; it then reunites and again divides into i^wo processes which are in- serted into the sides of the second phalanges. The student, if he have dissected the hand, will note the resemblance between these tendons and the flexor tendons of the hand. Relations.—Superficially, with the plantar fascia; deeply, with the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum, the flexor accessorius and lumbri- cales, and the external plantar vessels and nerves, from which it is sepa- rated by a thin transverse layer of fascia. Actions.—It flexes the first interphalangeal joint of the four smaller toes, and at the same time brings the toes together. The short and long flexors having bent the interphalangeal joints, will then flex the meta- tarso-phalangeal articulations. Nerve.—The internal plantar. Varieties.—It may have only three tendons, that for the little toe being absent; or it may have five, two going to the second toe. There may be a supernumerary fasciculus arising from the tendon of the long flexor and going to the tendons of the fourth and fifth toes. Frequently the tendon for the little toe comes from a small spindle-shaped belly, which arises from the side of the long flexor tendon or from the flexor accessorius; or it may arise by two heads, one from the long flexor, and another from the inner tubercle of the os calcis. The Abductor minimi digiti arises by a broad piece from the outer tubercle to the os calcis, and from the anterior part of the inner tubercle, and slightly from the under surface of the calcaneum in front of the tubercles, also from the upper surface of the inner piece of the plantar fascia, and from the intermuscular septum. Its tendon glides over a smooth facet on the under smface of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone to which it is sometimes attached, and is inserted with the flexor