337 DISSUCriON OF THE LOWER LIMB. femoral or some of its branches. The superficial branch of the anastomotica magna of the femoral accompanies the internal saphenous nerve near the knee. The Cutaneous nerves, which are more numerous on the inner side, come from the lumbar plexus. They are the internal saphenous, internal and niiddle cutaneous from the anterior crural; the ilio-inguinal and genito-erural from the first lumbar, and the external cutaneous from the second lumbar nerve. Their relative position is shown in the accompany- ing figure. Some twigs also from the anterior crural pierce and cross the anterior layer of the femoral sheath and go to the skin on the upper and inner side of the thigh, after passing through the saphenous opening. The Ilio-Inguinal Nerve comes from the first lumbar; it is small, and its lower part runs with the spermatic cord in the inguinal canal, which it leaves tlii'ough the external abdominal aperture, to supply the scrotum or labium, and upper and inner part of the thigh internal to the saphenous vein. It is sometimes small, and then the ilio-hypogastric furnishes a branch with a similar distribution. In rare cases it is entirely absent. It joins the inferior pudendal nerve of the small sciatic from the sacral plexus. The Genito-Crural Nerve is a branch of the second lumbar, and has a few fibres from the loop between it and the first. The branch now to be dissected is the external or crural branch which passes beneath Poupart's ligament and pierces the fascia lata a little external to the femoral artery, and is distributed to the skin of the upper part and front of the thigh about half-way down. It joins the outer branch of the middle cutaneous either before or after it has become cutaneous. Under Poupart's ligament it gives some filaments which are prolonged on the femoral artery and which must be sought when that vessel is dissected. Sometimes this branch is larger than usual, and then it replaces the external cutaneous nerve. The Middle Cutaneous Nerve comes from the anterior crural, and runs down the centre of the thigh between the nerves just described. It pierces the fascia lata, and sometimes the sartorius, from three to four inches below the ilio-pubic band, i.e. Poupart's ligament, either as one trunk which soon separates into two branches, or as two branches which have separated before piercing the fascia. These branches run side by side down the thigh as far as the inner side and front of the patella, supplying the skin of these parts by numerous branches. Either before or after it becomes superficial its oxiter branch communicates with the genito-crural. Its inner branch joins the anterior branch of the internal cutaneous, and also the internal saphenous nerve near the skin. The sartorius is sup- plied by this or by the internal cutaneous nerve. Sometimes this nerve arises from the anterior crural high in the abdomen. The External Cutaneous Nerve, or External Mttsculo-cutaneous, comes from the second lumbar, or from the loojj between it and the third, and passes under Poupart's ligament beneath the anterior superior iliac spine in a ridge of the fascia lata. It divides into two nearly equal-sized branches, viz. anterior and posterior. The Anterior Branch, the continuation of the nerve, pierces the deej) fjiPcia about four inches below Poupart's ligament, and runs as far as the