lIOMOLOGlEii OF THE LIMBS. 611 superficial position and freedom of motion of the shoulder girdle, but the muscles of tlie pelvic girdle are not differentiated to the same extent. The superficial layer of the muscles of the anterior extremity, which may be termed the axio-appendicular group, divides at the shoulder girdle into three chief masses. In front are the pectorales, behind and above are the sterno-mastoid and trapezius, the latter passing as the deltoid to the humerus, and below and behind is the latissimus dorsi. On the deep surface of this last muscle are its occasional scapular attachment and the teres major and minor, and beneath the trapezius are the rhomboids. The muscles forming this layer are often found united as regular structures in some of the lower animals, and as varieties in man, but the mnjority of these latter seem to be reversions to a fundamental type. The fre- quently found axillary arches or muscular loops seem to indicate an imperfect segmentation. The pectoralis major in a few of the lower animals is entirely continuous with the external oblique, but in man it is only imited to its superficial fibres. In animals which either have no clavicle or a very rudimentary one, the sterno-mastoid coalesces with the anterior part of the trapezius and runs into the deltoid, forming a mastoido- humeral muscle. In man it is in close relation with the clavicular portion of the pectoralis major, being separated from it only by the clavicle. The deep layer of the axio-appendicular muscles is much less complete than the superficial, and is attached to the thoracic girdle in two divisions in front and behind the glenoid cavity. In the former position, and attached to the coracoid process, is the costo-coracoid which represents the subclavius; and in the latter are the costo-scapular group, including the serratus magnus, the levator anguli scapuk^, and the omo-hyoid, which are attached to the scapula. In the lower extremity those muscles only which pass beyond the girdle to the limb are found distinct, and the axio- appendicular muscles are mainly represented by the abdominal oblique muscles. The pectoralis corresponds with the gracilis; the trapezio- deltoid with the anterior part of the external oblique and pectiueus; the latissimus dorsi with the gluteus maximus, both of which are inserted into the post-axial border of their corresponding limb. The pectineus and gracilis are inserted into the pre-axial border, but the former seems to consist of two parts, of which the outer may correspond with the pectoralis major and deltoid, and the inner with the subclavius. The muscles already described belong to the extrinsic group. The intrinsic muscles include aU the others pertaining to the limbs, and are placed in groups in relation to its several segments, and coiTespond homologically with each other. They are situated mainly on the dorsal and ventral aspects of the limbs, are on the pre- and post-axial borders of these members, and are flexors and extensors or pro- and retractors. Much difficulty exists in the determination of the muscular homologies of the thoracic and pelvic limbs, more especially in their proximal seg- ments, but in the distal segments, the muscles, although more numerous, become shorter and more regular in their arrangement, and consequently the homologous muscles of the hand and foot are more easily m:ule out. In the proximal segments the flexor surface of the upper limb hiis been twisted forwards, and in the lower limb it has been turned backwards, and this increases the difficulty of homological determinations, and the additional fiict of the preponderance of the pre-axial tibia over the post- B a 2