DISSECTION OF THE UTPER LIMB. 209 j^ction.—It extends the second phalanx, and then the metacarpal bone and wrist joint. Ner-ve.—The posterior interosseus. Variety.—It may have the extensor primi internodii more or less united with it. The Extensor Indicis, or Indicator, is a long narrow muscle on the inner side of, and parallel with, the preceding. Its origin is from the posterior surface of the ulna for three or four inches, usually below the middle, and internal to the preceding muscles, also from the interosseous membrane. Its tendon accompanies the extensor communis in the same compartment of the annular ligament, and joins on its ulnar side the tendon of the Lommon extensor, which goes to the index finger, opposite the lower end of the con-esponding metacarpal bone. It is inserted into the second and third ])halanges of the index finger, in the manner mentioned when describing the extensor communis digitorum. Relations.—In front is the interosseous membrane, behind is the deep fascia, inside is the ulna, and outside the extensor secundi internodii. It ei-osses the radial artery at the outer side of the wrist, also its branches to I he thumb. Nerve.—The posterior interosseous. Ext. prim, intnod. poll. Fig. 129.—The muscles on the back and outer side of the eight foeeaem. The insertions of the long and short extensors of the carpus are shown beneath the tendon of tlie secmidi. Action.—It can extend the forefinger even when the others are bent. It assists the common extensor in drawing the hand backwards. Varieties.—An extra short extensor is sometimes present. It is most often connected with the index finger, and Albinus named it the extensor brevis indicis. Its origin varies much, and may come from the radius or from a carpal or metacaqial bone, and its insertion may be into one or more of the digits, making an extensor brevis digitorum. Dissection.—Detach the anconeus from its origin, and divide and reflect the supinator longus and radial extensors. The supinator brevis will then be exposed and must be cleaned. The Supinator Radii Brevis is a broad, hollow, cylindrical muscle, sun-ounding the upper third of the radius. It arises from the external condyle of the humerus, from the external lateral ligament of the elbow, from the orbicular ligament of the radius, from the ridge on the ulna which passes obliquely down from the back of the lesser sigmoid cavity, from the triangidar depression in front of it, and from a tendinous expansion which covers the muscle. The fibres pass obliquely dowTQ, the upper forming a sling around the radial neck above the tuberosity, and are attached to the back of its inner surface; the middle fibres are attached to the outer P