153 niSSIICTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. behind the iirtei-y ; both superficial and deep veins have valves, these being more numerous in the deep than in the superficial. The Lymphatic Vessels and Glands of the upper extremity are, like the veins, ai'ranged into superficial and deep sets. The superficial lymphatics of the arm lie mostly along the basilic vein and empty into the axillary glands. Some outer lymphatics accompany the cephalic vein, and empty mostly into the subclavian lymphatic glands. A few, however, cross the upper part of the biceps, and end in the anterior axillary glands. The Sivperficial Lymphatic Glands of the arm are very few and of small size. One, two, or three may be found in front of the elbow, and one or two rather more than an inch above the inner humeral condyle near the basilic vein. The Deep Lym,phatics of the arm communicate at intervals with the superficial, and pass through the deep lymphatic glands which run up along the brachial artery. They enter the axillary and subclavian glands, and on the right side end in the right lymphatic duct, on the left in the thoracic duct. Cutaneous Nerves.—All the superficial nerves of this region, with one exception (the intercosto-humeral), come from the brachial plexus either as distinct branches or are given off from the nerves into which it divides. On the outer side are filaments of the external cutaneous and musculo- spii'al, and on the inner are a large and small internal cutaneous (from the plexus), an internal cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral, and the inter- costo-humeral from the second intercostal nerve. Internal Cutaneous Nerves.—The Internal Cutaneous Nerve is the inner smallest branch of the brachial plexus. It is given off from the inner cord with the inner head of median and ulnar, and is on the inner side of the brachial artery. It pierces the deep fascia near the basilic vein, and becoming cutaneous divides into two branches, anterior and posterior. Near the axilla it gives off a cutaneous filament which lies a little external to the nerve from which it comes, pierces the fascia, and innervates the skin over the biceps almost as far as the elbow. The Anterior Branch is the larger, and is usually in front of the median basilic vein, but is sometimes behind it. It will be traced in the forearm in a subsequent dissection. The Posterior Branch runs obliquely down on the inner side of the basilic vein over the inner humeral condyle to the back of the forearm, where it will be dissected with that region. Above the elbow it joins the nerve of Wrisberg. The I^esser Internal Cuta.neous Nerve (or nerve of Wrisberg) supplies the skin on the inner side of the arm. It is the smallest branch of the plexus, and is given off from the inner cord usually with the internal cutaneous and ulnar nerves. In the axilla it is at first behind, and then on the inner side of the axillary vein, where it joins the intercosto-hiu-neral. In the arm it is on the inner side of the brachial artery, and it pierces the deep fascia about its middle, and inclining backwards supplies the skin of the back and lower third of the arm as far as the elbow. Some filaments are given off from it between f^he olecranon and the inner condyle to the hack of the former process, and others supply the skin in front of the innejr condyle. It joins the inner branch of the internal cutaneous nerve.