HUMAN MORl'IlOLOGV. 670 There is one between the scaphoid and cuboid; another between the in- ternal and middle cuneiform ; a third between the middle and external ; and a fourth between the external cuneiform and cuboid. Where the scaphoid and cuboid are in contact, there is a small cartilaginous articular facet which is lined either by a se-parate synovial membrane or by a process frqm the great tarsal synovial membrane; and where the external cunei- form touches the cuboid there is also a small cartilaginous articular facet. Articulations of the two rows with each other.—There are three of these joints. That between the astragalus and scaphoid; that between the os calcis and scaphoid; and that between the os calcis and cuboid. The joint between the astragalus and scaphoid, tlte astragalo-scajjltoid, is an arthrodial one. There is usually only one ligament, the superior astragalo-scaphoid, which is a broad band passing obliquely from the neck of the astragalus to the upper smface of the scaphoid. It is thin and weak, and covered by the extensor tendons. The inferior calcaneo-scaphoid takes the place of an inferior ligament. The external ligament of this joint when present may be seen on the dorsum, between the scaphoid and os calcis. If the tibialis posticus tendon be removed and some fibro-cartilaginous material cleaned away from it, the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament will be seen in the sole of the foot. The synovial membrane is part of that for the anterior calcaneo-astra- galoid articulation. There is much mobility in this joint, but it is suffi- ciently feeble to allow of occasional dislocation of the astragalus. Dissection.—Divide the superior astragalo-scaphoid ligament, and ob- serve that the astragalus has two articular facets, a large one transversely elongated, and larger externally, for the scaphoid, and a smaller one below, for the OS calcis. The scaphoid is hollow posteriorly, and is widest exter- nally. Movements.—The scaphoid moves down and in over the head of the astragalus, or in the opposite dii'ection. When the scaphoid is pushed .down, the external and upper ligaments are made tense, and when it is moved in the opposite direction the strong inferior calcaneo-scaphoid liga- ment is stretched. Joint letween the Os Calcis and Scaphoid.—The ligaments connecting these are two, viz. superior and inferior calcaneo-scaphoid. The sujperior or external calcaneo-scaphoid is situated at the upper and outer side of the head of the astragalus, and acts as a lateral ligament to the astragalo-scaphoid articulation. It is narrower in the centre and is about three quarters of an inch deep, and arises with the internal calcaneo-cuboid or interosseous ligament, from the deep groove between the astragalus and the os calcis ; and passes from the inner side of the antei'ior end of the os calcis to the outer side of the scaphoid. These two ligaments resemble the capital letter Y, being joined behind, but separate in front. The inferior or calcaneo-scaphoid ligament is much the larger and stronger. It is a thick broad band, passing forwards and inwards from the anterior inferior extremity of the sustentaculum to a dep ression on the under surface of the scaphoid. It supports the head of the astragalus,