199 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. Varieties.—Its origin is sometimes connected to some of the snrround- ino- muscles, and its tendon may be divided into two or three slips, which are inserted togetlier or at some distance from each other. The Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior is beneath the preceding, and iU'ises from the lower third of the external condyloid ridge, and from the iuterniuscidar sej)tvira. Its fibres end about the middle of the forearm in a flat tendon, which accompanies that of the extensor cai-]3i brevior beneath the posterior annular ligament in a groove on the back of the radins which is common to the two muscles, and is inserted into +he radial side of the base of the second metacarpal bone on its dorsal aspect. There is usually a small bursa between the tendon and the bone near its insertion. Relations.—Swperficially, with the supinator longus and deep fascia ; deeply, ^it\\t^e. elbow joint, the extensor carpi brevior, posterior branch of the radial nerve and posterior ligament of the wrist. Its tendon is crossed obliquely by the extensor tendons of the thumb. Action.—It first extends the wrist joint, and then flexes the elbow. With the arm raised, as in climbing, it will assist the long supinator in its action on the humerus. Nerve.—The musculo-spiral. Varieties.—Its tendon may be divided into two or three or more, and may be attached to the bases of the second or third metacarpal bones. Mr. Wood has described an additional muscle, an extensor carpi radialis accessoriiis, and I have several times seen it. It usually comes from the radius below the extensor longior, and runs along the same groove behind the radius on the outer side of the tendon of the longior, and is most com- monly inserted into or near the base of the metacai-pal bone of the thumb, but sometimes into the first dorsal interosseous muscle, abductor pollicis, or other part of the dorsum of the hand. The Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevior is beneath the former muscle, and is thicker and shorter than it. It arises from the external condyle of the humerus by a tendon common to it and the extensors communis digitorum minimi digiti and carpi uluaris, from the external lateral ligament of the elbow, from the intermuscular septum, and from a strong tendinous expan- sion on its sm-face. The fibres end about the middle of the arm in a flat tendon, which is closely connected to that of the extensor carpi longior, and passes with it beneath the posterior annular ligament in the same groove on the back of the radius, but on its inner side, and separating a little from its fellow, is inserted into the radial side of the base of the metacarpal lx)ne of the middle finger on its dorsal aspect. There are usually two burScE connected with this muscle, one at its upper part between it and the supinator brevis, and a smaller one below, between the bone and the tendon of insertion. The tendons of the two radial carpal extensors of the wrist pass through the same compartment of the posterior annular ligament, have but one f'ynovial membrane, and are separated by a small vertical bony ridge in the groove of the radius in which they lie. Relations.—Sii,perficially, with the extensor carpi longior and thumb extensors, which latter cross over it; deeply, with the supinator brevis, tendon of pronator teres, radius, and wrist joint. On its ulnar border is the extensor communis digitorum and the extensor secundi internodii tendon at the back of tlie wrist.