DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. 895 neath the ailcliictor lougus, the tendon of which is to be carefully separated from that of the adductor uiagnus beneath it, in order that the branches of the deep.femoral artery may be exposed. If these directions be followed, the adductor brevis will coine into view, and on it will be found a branch of the obturator nerve to the femoi'al artery; also an offset to the femoral plexus. The adductor brevis should be separated from the magnus, and the lower branch of the obturator nerve and artery will be seen to issue between them. Nem- this point a slender branch of the obturator nerve to the knee joint will be found descending on, or in, the fibres of the adductor magnus. The deep pail of the ob- turator nerve will be subsequently seen beneath the adductor brevis. The Accessory Obturator Nerve, when present, arises from the obturator near its upper end, or sepiu'ately, from the third and fourth lumbar nerves. It descends along the inner border of the psoas over the pubes to beneath the pectineus, where it divides into several branches, one of which joins the anterior or superficial branch of the obturator nerve. Another pierces 1. Obtui-ator membrane. 2. Attachment of pectineus, and beneath it the obt. art. and nerve. 3. Eamus of pubes. 4. Eamus of ischium. 6. Gracilis. 6. Add. brevis. 7. Obt. ext. 8. Add. mag. and tuber ischii. . Deep femoral ring. 10. Ext. abd. ring. 11. Int. pillar of ring. 12. Ext. piUar of ring. 13. Gimbernat's ligt. ^ 14. Ilio-pcctineal band separating the iho-psoas from the vessels. Fig. 286.—External view of right side op pelvis with muscular attachments. the pectineus on its under surface, and a thhd accompanies the articular artery to the hip-joint. Varieties.—It is often absent. Schmidt, its discoverer, found it only four or five times in nine or ten bodies. When present it may be smaller than usual, and may end in the hip joint; and when it is absent the hip receives compensating branches from the obturator nerves. The Adductor Brevis is placed immediately behind the pectineus and adductor longus, and is thick above and broad below. It is triangular, and arises by an origin partly fleshy, and in part aponeurotic, which is two inches in depth, from the outer surface of the body and descending ramus of the pubes, between the gracilis and obturator externus. It passes down, out, and back, and is inserted by a flat tendon or aponeurosis into the vrbole of the oblique line leading from the linea aspera, to the small trf)cha,nter, immediately behind the pectineus and upper part of the adductor longus. Acetabulum