DISSECTION OF THE 1!P1'E1{ LlMTi. VARIETIES OF THE BONES OF THE THORACIC GIRDLE. Clavicle.—In about 4 per cent, of cases a deltoid tubercle is present on the upper surface between its outer and middle third. This bone is some- times perforated by the clavicular branch of the descending cervical plexus. Sometimes there is a prominent ridge at the upper part of the sternal end due to overgrowth of this epiphysis. Scapula.—A sphm teretis majons may be present at the lower part of the axillai-y border, and a siupra-coracoid tubercle, or rough surface, may exist at the origin of the long head of the biceps. Occasionally, an infra- glenoid tubercle at the seat of the origin of the long head of the triceps exists. Sometimes the acromion is united to the spine by a synchrondrosis, or by a joint, the articulatio acromialis. This peculiarity should be re- membered so as to distinguish it from a fractiu'e or separation of epiphysis. Occasionally the transverse ligaments become cartilaginous or ossified, and convert the suprascapular notch into a foramen scapulce. The venter sometimes remains cartilaginous, or may be perforated. Htimfierus.—At the insertion of the coraco-humeral ligament, just above and to the inner side of the lesser tuberosity, there is often a rounded flat impression or a shallow groove called the fovea capitis humeri. Occasionally the twist or torsion of the shaft is much pronounced, and the rausculo-spiral groove is deeper than usual. In a recent number of the ' Revue d'Anthropologie' there is the last memoir of Broca on torsion of the humerus and on the tropometer, an instrument for measuring the torsion of bones. This paper includes tables drawn up by Broca and Manouvrier of measurements of the angle of torsion in man and other animals, fi'om which the following conclusions are drawn ; viz. that torsion of the humerus attains its maximum in the human species ; that the negro is intermediate in this respect as in many others between the superior races of man and the anthropoids, some races of Oceania being, indeed, inferior to the negro in this respect; that the transition from man to the greater anthropoids is insensible—the smallest angle observed in the human species descending even below the smallest angle measured in sixteen humerus bones of the gorilla; that the angle is greater in the gorilla than in the other large anthropoids, and greater in them than in the small monkeys ; that the transition from these latter to the carnivora is again almost insensible ; that the angle is very large in the ostrich; and that it is almost universally greater in the left humerus than in the right. The coronoid depression is sometimes perforated. Above the internal condyle in about 3 per cent, of individuals a supra- condyloid process exists. This may be completed into a foramen by a fibrous band, or the boundaries of the foramen may be completely ossified. An accessory head of the pronator teres often arises from this process when present, and the brachial artery and median nerve frequently pass through