ANATOMICAL TECHNICS. 79 pretty dissection unless the preparation is intended to be preserved. He should bear in mind that his object is to 'understand anatomy for prac- tical purposes, and his aim should therefore be to know all about the parts he is dissecting: where they come from, where they go to, their relations, distribution, &c.; as this is the knowledge which he will have to apply hereafter, and which will be of great service to him. Another useful ob- ject in dissecting is that the practice should give him the command of his fingers, and prepare him for the use of the knife and forceps for surgical purposes. Dratving, if the student possess the power, will be of great use to him in anatomy, histology, and subsequently in the wards and post- mortem room; and should he know enough of photography, modelling, and making casts, such knowledge may prove very serviceable in his anatomical studies, and in his clinical career.'. In his second, thiixl, and later years of study the diligent student should be in a position to do some original work, and should he show an aptitude and desire for such undertakings, he will find that an interested and competent teacher will encourage him in his endeavours. Dming this period of his curriculum he should pay frequent visits to the dissecting room and museum, so as to refresh and add to his anato- mical knowledge. Applied Anatomy should now be diligently studied, and the examina- tion of frozen sections through various parts of the body, in adults of both sexes, at various ages, will teach much to an earnest student. Nowadays every good museum is supplied with such sections. In the wards and out-patient rooms the learner will have ample oppor- tunity for studying the varying relations of the viscera to the surface in different positions and states (of motion, locomotion, respiration, &c.), in health and disease. This branch of anatomical study is too often much neglected. Its great practical importance should stimulate the would-be practical man to master it as soon as possible. FROZEN SECTION'S. Much information regarding the anatomical relations of organs and structures in the body has been obtained from studying sections made in various planes and through different parts of the subject. Sections through the f(jetal trunk can be made simply by first hardening it in spirit or chromic acid, &c., then dividing it with a knife in the direction desired. In the adult body, however, this cannot be done on account of its size and the nature of the tissues to be divided, except in the case of the extremities, sections of which may be made by hardening the soft parts in spirit and then dividing them with a knife, the bone being after- wards cut through with a saw. The method of hardening the adult body which suggests itself as being the simplest and most practicable is that of freezing. This process was first employed by Edward M''eber in 183(),''^ and ' Dr. Tripier, a surgeon of Lyons, has devised a mode of drawing on glass which is excellent, for teaehing purposes. His pjiper is in the /yi/oii. .Urt/wii/c. for August 18S1. - Serrits appc^ars 1o have really been the first lo use lliis ineliiod in his Itrcharrliix .tiir Ir cermiK, lS/!(), and I'irogolT was the lirst. to us(^ it on ii liii-ge scale in liis A ni/nr/uu/ff! Aniitumw d. Mciincldichan KdrprvH, IS^iH-'K), and Anatomm Topmiraphicii, 1853. Jarjavay also used it/ in 185G in his Etude du canal dis I'urHra.