435 DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. The perineal portion of the artery lias been dissected with that region. A small branch passes over the back of the sacrum and inosculates with the branches of the gluteal and sciatic vessels, and a twig from it accompanies the nerve to the obturator internus. The veins accompanying the pudic and sciatic arteries receive branches corresponding to those of the artery, and pass into the pelvis through the foramen heloxo the pyriformis and empty into the internal iliac vein. Lymphatic vessels accompany these veins. Nei'ves.—The sciatic and pudic nerves leave the pelvis below and in front of the pyi'iformis, the former supplying the lower limb mainly beyond the gluteal region ; the latter being destined for the perineum and outer genital organs. The Sntall Sciatic Nerve comes from the anterior primary branches of the third and fourth sacral nerves. It accompanies the sciatic artery to the lower border of the gluteus maximus, where it gives several cutaneous branches up and down, which have already been dissected. It then passes along the back of the thigh beneath the fascia lata, and becoming smaller, it pierces the deep fascia at the lower part of the popliteal region, and becoming cutaneous accompanies the external saphenous vein to below the middle of the leg, where it communicates with the external saphenous nerve. Its branches are cutaneous, and two or three muscular to the gluteus maximus. The Inferior OliUeal are its muscular branches. They are large, and are distributed to the under sm'face of the gluteus maximus in its lower two-thirds. The Gtttaneous Branches are internal, ascending, and descending. The Interned Cutaneous Branches supply the skin at the upper and inner side of the thigh at its posterior aspect. One branch longer than the rest, called the inferior ^pudendal, curves forward below the tuber ischii, ])ierces the fascia lata on the outer side of the ischiatic ramus, and sup- plies the skin of the scrotum or labium, joining the superficial perineal nerve. The Ascending set, two or three in number, supply the skin and fascia over the lower-third of the great gluteus. The Descending filaments cross along the outer side of the thigh, and ^'upply the integument as far as its middle. The Great Sciatic is the largest nervous trunk in the body, measuring about three quarters of an inch in breadth. It is the continuation of the lower part of the sacral plexus, and is formed by the anterior primary branches of the fom- first sacral nerves. It leaves the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, in front of, and then below, the pyriformis. It passes between the great trocha,nter and tuber ischii, along the back of the thigh, resting on the obtm-ator and two gemelli, quadratus femoris, and abductor magnus, external to the small sciatic nerve and the sciatic artery, and under the long head of the biceps, and at the lower third of the femur divides into its two large terminal branches, viz.. the inter^ial and external popliteal nerves. It may divide at any point between the sacral plexus and the lower third of the thigh. When it divides high up the two nerves run side by side, or at their commencement they may be separated by the pyrifornn's, or one of them may pierce it. It su]iplies the nuiscles of the back of the thigh and those of the leg and foot, and nearly