DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. 327 Poupart's ligament, and the thumb behind and ratlier above the great trochanter, the head of the femur can be felt rotfiting. At the knee, the patella may be seen and felt in front of the joint, with a depression on either side of it. These become distended and the patella floated up when there is fluid in the knee-joint. In the flexed position this bone is flxed, but when the knee is extended it is easily moved as the triceps is relaxed. The projections of the inner and outer condyles of the femur and their tuberosities can also readily be felt, the former being the larger. At the back of the thigh, at its upper part, the fold of the buttock is noticeable. This is not usually so well marked in men as in women, there being more subcutaneous fat which renders the skin more pendulous. Above, and to the inner side of this fold, the tuber ischii is to be felt. At the bach of the knee is a slight hollow corresponding to the popliteal space, and at its sides may be felt the tendons of the leg flexors, which help to form its boundaries. Between the upper and lower parts extend the ham- string muscles. At the upper and inner part of the thigh may be seen and felt the crest, spine, and rami of the pubis, and the tendon of the adductor longus; while at the upper and outer part, the origins of the sartorius, rectus, and tensor fascia; femoris may be made out in moderately thin subjects. On the outer side of the thigh at its upper part there is a depression about four inches below and behind the anterior superior iliac spine ; and here the great trochanter can be easily felt, especially if the thigh be rotated. Between the bone and the skin is the fascial insertion of the gluteus maximus, with a bursa underneath it and another superficial to it. The spines of the pubis and ilium, the tuber ischii, and the great trochanter are valuable surgical landmarks, as they can usually readily be made out. The position of the trochanter n^ajor having already been indicated, it remains to consider the relations of it to the bony parts just named, and its differences of relation in the chief movements of the thigh. The top of the trochanter corresponds to a line (called Nelaton's line) drawn from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the most prominent part of the tuber ischii, and is nearly level with the spine of the pubes, and about three-quarters of an inch, lower than the top of the head of the femur. The line from the trochanter to the tuber ischii runs throuo-h the centre of the acetabulum. This is most true when the femur is flexed nearly to a right angle and slightly adducted. The acetabulum is placed, with respect to the surface, in the centre of these three bony projections ; viz. the anterior superior iliac spine, the pubic spine, and the tuberosity of the ischium. In fractures of the neck of the femur, or in dislocations of its head, this line is of great value in distinguishing the kind of injury. It is also a guide in subcutaneous division of the neck of the bone. The length of the lower limb is usually measured from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the tip of the inner malleolus, but the pubic spine may also form the starting-point. Plrm pressure or jei-king percus- sion with the balls of the thumbs on the iliac spines will aid us in examin- ing for fracture of the pelvis, or in sacro-iliac disease. In muscular subjects, in whom there is little subcutaneous fat, the ilio-tibial band on the outer side in the fascia lata may be made out, and also the depressions on the