HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 192 along the back of the radial side of the forearm to the wrist, supplying the skill and anastomosing with the posterior branch of the external cutaneous nerve. The Superficial Parts of the Radial and Ulnar Nerves will be seen piercing the deep fascia on the outer and inner sides of the limb, below the nerves just mentioned, the radial perforating the fascia higher than the ulnar, and about three inches above the wrist it divides into two branches, outer and inner. The External Branch is the smaller, and supi)lies the skin on the radial side of the forearm and over the back and ball of the thumb, joining the posterior branch of the external cutaneous. The Internal Branch joias above the wrist some filaments of the ex- ternal cutaneous, and on the back of the hand, about its root, forms an arch with the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. It then divides into four digital nerves : the first supplies the inner side of the thumb ; the second, the radial side of the index finger; the third, the contiguous sides of-the Fig. lU.—Nekves on the dorsum op the left hand and fingers. The loops and twigs iit the eiiil of the digitals are sliown. index and middle fingers; and the fomth,the adjacent sides of the middle |, and ring fingers. The last of these anastomoses Avith filaments from the | dorsal branch of the ulnar. These dorsal digital nerves communicate on the sides of the fingers with the palmar digitals from the median and ulnar, and sometimes the contiguous sides of the middle and ring fingers are entirely su})plied by the radial, and at other times, by the ulnar nerve. Varieties.—The dorsal branch of the radial nerve occasionally supplies the whole of the back of the hand and fingers, and sometimes the dorsum is equally divided between it and the ulna. The Dorsal Cutaneous Branch of the ulnar nerve is given off about two inches above the Avrist, and after perforating the dee]) fascia runs along the inner side of the wrist and hand, and divides into two branches,