358 HUMAN MORVIIOLOGY. ing, and that their state varies with the position of the limb, for if the thigh be flexed, adducted, and rotated in, these boundaries, i.e. the super- ficial and deep femoral arches, and Grimbernat's ligament, and the margins of the saphenous opening will be relaxed. The Obturator Artery is usually a branch of the anterior division of the internal iliac, but arises in the projDortion of once in 3^ subjects from the epigastric branch of the external iliac. About once in seventy-two subjects it arises by two roots, one from the epigastric and one from the 1. Ext. lliao artery. 2. „ Teiu. 3. Common tnink of epi- gastric and obturator. 4. Epigastric artery. 6. Obtiu-ator artery, i 0. Gimberuat's lig. 7. Int. abdom. ring and sptc. vessels cut. 8. Clrf. Iliac, out. Fig. 258.—Abnormal obturator artery. Inner view of right side The common trunk of the epigastric and obturator is short, and the latter d^cends close to the vein on the outer side of the deep ring. internal iliac, and it is given off in about the same proportion from the external iliac. In the majority of cases these anomalies exist on only one side of the body. In such cases it may have different relations to the internal femoral ring, one of which is of great practical importance. The more common and less important arrangement is for the abnormal obtura- tor to arise from near the root of the epigastric and to lie on the inner side of the iliac vein, and to pass vertically down to the obturator foramen. In this course it is placed on the outer side of the ring, and is not in 1. Ext. iliac artery. 2. „ vein. 3. Common trunk of e]ii- giistricaud obturator. 4. Epigastric artery. 6. Obturator artery. C. Gimbernat's lig. 7. Int. abdom. ring auj s]3tc. vessels cut. 8. Clrf. iliac, cut. Fig. 2.50.—Abnormal obturator passing on gimbernat's ligament internal to the deep ring. In this case the common trunk of epigtc. and obtr. Is long. danger of being wounded, as incisions are never made in this direction. But about once in seventy-five subjects the artery is given off from the epigastric higher up, and runs along the outer free margin of Grimbernat's ligament, and is in close relation with the inner side of the neck of a femoral hernia, and would be in great danger of being wounded if the deep incisions were free. I have seen this abnormal vessel on the inner side of the ring, and yet not in danger of being Avounded, if, in dividing Grimbernat's ligament, its edge were carefully nicked instead of being too