DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. descends doion and m, and the greater part of its articular surface projects beyond the acetabuhiui. Tliis movement is produced by the gluteus medius and minimus and tensor fascite femoris, and is limited by the inner and lower parts of the capsule, and by the meeting of the great trochanter and the outer part of the acetabular rim. In adduction the head gradually rises into its socket, and when the limb reaches the straight position is placed on the deepest part of the cavity, but if this movement be continued the head will descend down and oui, and the outer part of the capsule and iiio-iroc/icmieHc band will be tightened. Extreme adduc- tion is limited by the meeting of the under surface of the femoral neck with the inner margin of the brim of the acetabulum. The adductors, gracilis, and pectineus produce this movement. If either abduction or adduction be extreme and sudden, dislocation is likely to take place and will be assisted by the margin of the cotyloid cavity acting as a fulcrum, through which the force applied to the femoral shaft will lift the head of the femur out of the acetabulum. After reduc- ing a dislocation at the hip, the knees should be fastened together, as then the head of the femur is securely placed in the deepest part of the aceta- bulum. Gircumdiiction consists in the combination of the fom- angular motions, viz. flexion, extension, abduction, and adduction. The limb then describes a cone whose apex is at the junction of the neck and shaft of the femm-, and whose hase is at its periphery. In the shoulder it is, as has been seen, much more free than in the hip, partly because of the greater laxity of its capsule, but mainly because of the very slight angle between the neck and shaft. Rotation may be either internal or external. In the former the big toe is turned in ; and in the latter, which is the more extensive of the two, it is everted. In external rotation the femoral head turns forward and outward, and the trochanter major is brought nearer the tuber ischii. The shaft of the femur moves round a line on its inner side which passes from the hip to the inner condyle, the anterior part of the capsule is tightened and the hinder loosened. The external rotators are the pjnriformis, obturator internus and gemelli, quadratus femoris, gluteus maximus, posterior fibres of gluteus minimus, and the psoas and iliacus, which, in flexing the thigh, rotate it outwards also. In internal rotation, the femoral head glides horizontally backwards, the great trochanter passing forwards, the shaft of the bone revolving round a line on its inner side. The posterior part of the capsule is stretched and the anterior relaxed. If the neck of the femur be fractured rotatory movements are lost. The amount of rotation is directly propor- tional to the length of the femoral neck. The internal rotators are the gluteus medius and anterior fibres of the minimus. The angle formed by the neck of the femur with its shaft serves to give gi-eater security to the joint in its various movements, as by this arrangement the gi-eater part of the femoral head is kept in its socket. It also allows of greater contact between the head of the femur and the ace- tabulum during progression, and gives room for the big bony process, the trochanter major, by means of which greater length of leverage is