HUMAN morpiiologt: 184- tendon of the biceps. Reflect the capsule-up and down, note its bony attachments, and the bifurcated insertions and relations of the long tendons of the biceps to the synovial membrane. This tendon is rounded and acts as a ligament, restraining motion upwards and outwards. Divide this liga- ment and separate the articular surfaces ; the glenoid ligament will then be exposed. The Glenoid Ligament is a tibro-cartilaginous band about two lines thick. It is attached round the margin of the glenoid cavity of the scapula, serving to deepen it for the reception of the head of the humerus. It is connected above with the tendon of the biceps, which bifurcates intn two fasciculi at the upper part of the glenoid fossa within the capsule, and encu'cles the margin of the cavity and reunites at its lower part. The biceps tendon assists the glenoid ligament in deepening the fossa and in protecting the edges of the bone. The fibres of the glenoid ligament 1. Scapula, 2. Spine of samo. 3. Acromial end of clavicle cut, and to its ontei- side the acromion cut. •}. Glenoid lig. 5. Humerus. G. Capsule. 7. Acroniio-clav. lig. 8. Long teudon of biceps attached to upijer edge of glenoid cavity, ■wliicb, with the head of humerus, is sawu through. The synovial cavity and articular cartilages are showuk Fig. 107.—Vertical longitudinal section through left shoulder, the humerus partly abducted. anterior view, one-half. interlace, and it is triangular on section, the apex surrounding the head of the humerus and the base being attached to the bony margin of the glenoid cavity. The Synovial Membrane lines the margin of the glenoid cavity, and is reflected over the inner surface of the capsule, covers the sides and lower part of the humeral neck, passing for a short distance over the cartilage covering the head of the bone, surrounds the long tendon of the biceps by a tubular sheath from the synovial cavity of the joint, and communicates with the bursa beneath the subscapularis tendon by an opening at the inner side of the capsule, and occasionally at its outer and l)ack part M'ith another bursa beneath the tendon of the infra-spinatus. The .synovial sheath investing the long head of the biceps is continued down beyond the capsule into the bicipital groove, and is thence reflected up on it to its origin, where it is again continuous with the general synovial membrane of the capsule. The process of synovial membrane under the subscapularis may communicate with the subscapularis bursa, when present, or may take its place, forming a large pouch on the \'enter of the scapula.