DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. 471 Dissection.—Separate the soleus from the bones of the leg, divide the vessels and nerves entering it, and be careful of the thin transverse layer of fascia separating the supei'ficial from the deep muscles. Keflect or re- move the superficial muscles, and examine the bursa in front of the tendo-Achillis at its insertion into the os calcis. Clean the internal annu- lai' ligament, looking for the plantar cutaneous nerve vphich pierces it. The Deep Intermuscular Fascia or Septum.—This layer is attached to the posterior margins of the tibia and fibula, and binds down the deep muscular layer. Over the popliteus it is thick, and receives an expansion from the semimembranosus, but beneath the soleus it is indistinct and thin. Near the inner malleolus where it covers the tendons and vessels, it is much stronger and has some transverse fibres. Between the heel and inner ankle it blends with the internal annular ligament. Dissection.—Eeflect this fascia by a longitudinal incision, clean the pos- terior tibial vessels and nerve and the three deep muscles, and after having made out the attachments of the latter, throw outwards and partly divide the flexor longus pollicis to trace the peroneal artery in its substance and to follow out its branches. Deep Muscles.—These are the popliteus, crossing the bones close to the knee joint, the flexor longus digitorum on the tibial side, and on the fibular the flexor longus poUicis. The tibialis posticus is partially con- cealed by an aponeurosis which gives origin to the two flexors. It lies between the other two on the interosseous membrane. The three last- named muscles pass into the sole, and are there tendinous, as also are they beneath the malleolus. The Popliteus is a triangular, flat, thin muscle, covered by a tendinous expansion from the semimembranosus. It arises within the capsule of the knee by a strong flat tendon an inch long from the anterior part of a deepish depression on the outer side of the external condyle, and outside the capsule some fleshy fibres arise from the posterior ligament of the knee. The tendon pierces the capsule and ends in the fleshy part of the muscle, which i?, inserted into the inner two-thirds of the triangular surface above the oblique line on the posterior aspect of the tibial shaft, and into the expansion covering the muscle. Relations.—Superficial to it are the popliteal vessels and internal popli- teal nerve, gastrocnemius, and plantaris. Its deep surface is in relation with the back of the upper part of the tibia and the superior tibio-fibular joint. Along its itpper border are the internal inferior articular vessels and nerves, and its loiuer border is contiguous to the tibial and fibular origins of the soleus. In dissecting the knee its tendon of origin will be seen, and it will be noticed that it is in relation externally with the external lateral ligament and tendon of the biceps, and internally with the outer surface of the ex- ternal semilunar cartilage, and is surrounded by the synovial membrane of the knee. Action.—It assists in flexing the knee, and if the leg be flexed it can rotate the tibia inwards; the latter being fixed it will support and strengt.hen the knee on its outer side, and may slightly rotate the femur out. Theile thinks it retracts the external semilunar fibro-cartilage. Nerve.—The internal popliteal nerve. Varieties.—An accessory popliteus has, though very rarely, been ob- served.