412 HUMAN MORPHOL 0O Y. the ilium. The pudic artery will lie beneath the spot at which the middle joins the lower thu'd of this line. It then passes over the spine of the ischium (where it may be compressed in case of need) into the lesser sacro-sciatic foramen. From the respective positions of the vessels and nerves it will be ob- served, that when sitting upright the nerves are not liable to pressure, but become pressed upon when we sit sideways. When seated on firm and even seats the bones sustain the pressure, but when resting on soft supports the pressure reaches the blood-vessels through the soft structures and hampers the arterial flow down to the limbs and the venous reflux into the pelvis, and thus predisjioses to piles, and uterine disorders in the female. Directions.—Make an incision along the iliac crest, continuing along the middle of the sacrum to the end of the coccyx. From this point make another, following the gluteal fold down and outwards to six inches below the great trochanter. Reflect the skin, and note that it is coarse and thick, being much exposed to pressure and friction. Seek the cutaneous vessels and nerves which will be found along the iliac crest and at the sides of the sacrum and coccyx. Cutaneous Nei'ves.—Piercing the deep fascia, near the iliac crest and over the aponeurosis covering the gluteus medius, will be found, most anteriorly, offsets of the lumbar nerves, posteriorly branches from the last dorsal, and between the two, the iliac branch of the ilio-hypogastric nerve, and curving backwards below the anterior iliac spine and the gi'eat trochanter, will be found the posterior branches of the external cutaneous nerve, if these, have not been removed in the dissection of the front of the thigh. Piercing the origin of the gluteus maximus will be found branches of the sacral nerves. The cutaneous nerves are accompanied by cutaneous arteries which come from the sacral, lumbar, sujjerficial circumflex, iliac, gluteal, and external circumflex arteries ; and also by cutaneous veins. At the outer border of the erector si^inae two or three filaments of the posterior branches of the lumbar nerves will also be seen. In the ftit over the lower border of the gluteus maximus the student must find branches from the small sciatic. Some of these cm-ve up over its lower border, and others pass inwards to the perineum (long pudendal), and inner side of the thigh, • and some course up and down. These branches of the small sciatic nerve are accomj^anied by cutaneous branches of the sciatic artery. Dissection.—The thin fascia covering the gluteus maximus must be removed, and after reflecting the cutaneous vessels and nerves the thigh must be adducted and rotated inwards to render tense the fibres of the muscle. Eemove the fat and fascia and clean the muscle either from above, down, or vice versa. The Fascia of the gluteal region is continuous with that enveloping the thigh, and is attached to the posterior margin of the iliac crest, and to the sides of the sacrum and coccyx. It is much thicker over the gluteus medius to which it gives partial origin, and is called the gluteal aponeurosis. At the upper border of the gluteus maximus it divides into three thin layers. The Superficial Layer covers the gluteus maximus, and is united to the skin by fibrous tracts, and from its deep surface are given off" celhiliu- septa, which subdivide the fibres of the muscle into distinct bundles. The