45G HUMAN MORniOLOGY. seiiiieul ly tends to prevent dislocation forwards and outwards. Mr. Savory, in the Lancet of May 23, 1874, says that the ligainentuin teres is always tense when standing upright, and is further tightened in standing on one leg, and consequently is of opinion that its main function is to support and distribute the body weight over the whole surface of the acetabulum and head of the femur. Some anatomists say that the ligament is lax when the limb is extended, as then the innominate and femoral attach- ments are near each other. If the femur be adducted the ischial portion becomes tense because the femoral head is raised. If the joint be flexed the ligament becomes tense, as then the femoral insertion is removed from the acetabular; and the ligament will be most stretched if, in the flexed condition, the femur be adducted ox rotated out. Dissection.—Divide the ligamentum teres so that the cavity of the acetabulum and the cotyloid and transverse ligaments may be studied. The Cotyloid ligament is a narrow fibro-cartilaginous band, which is attached by-its base to the acetabular margin, the inequalities of which it fills up, and is prolonged across the notch on its inner and lower side (the ischio-pubic notch), and forms the superficial part of the transverse ligament. It is thinner at its free margin or apex, where it embraces the head of the femur. Its outer surface is in contact with the capsular ligament, and its inner surface is inclined inwards and narrows and deepens the acetabulum. It is much thicker above than behind, and beloiu than in front, and its filires are close and compact, and interlace in various directions. The iiiner part of the capsular ligament often blends with the outer part of the cotyloid. The Transverse ligament is a strongish narrow band of fibres which crosses the notch at the lower part of the acetabulum (ischio-pubic), and converts it into a foramen. It is continuous at the margins of the notch with the cotyloid, and its superficial part, which is mostly distinct, is a continuation of the cotyloid over the notch. The deeper fibres are special to the ligament. Beneath it the nutrient vessels of the joint pass in and out. The fatty tissue in the joint communicates beneath this ligament with the areolar tissue outside the joint, so that pus formed within the joint may pass down and inwards to the thigh and vice versa. The Joint Surfaces.—It will now be clear that the hip joint is an enarthrodial, or ball-and-socket joint, being the largest and most perfect of its kind in the human body. It is formed by the head of the femur fitting into the cavity of the acetabulum. The Acetabulum is coated with cartilage over the greater part of its surface excepting where the interarticular mass of fat is lodged (the so- called gland of Havers), and opposite the ischio-pubic notch. The articu- lar surface of the acetabulum is deep above, but narrows towards the notch. The head of the femur, or rather the cartilage covering its head, is in contact with the acetabular cartilage and the interarticular adipose mass. A depression a little behind and below its centre will be noticed on the head of the femur, to this the round ligament is attached; on that part of the acetabulum uncovered by cartilage is a mass of vascular fatty tissue which is thicker near the margin of the cartilage than near the transverse ligament, and which acts as a buffer preventing concussion of the head of the femur against the thin roof of the acetabulum. This is the so-called gland of Havers.