384 HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. anterior crural, and saphenous nerves; 'posteriorly, with the femur, sub-. crui-eus, and synovial membrane of the knee. On its outer surface is the vastus externus, and along its imier border are the psoas, iliacus, and the femoral artery and vein, and it is closely connected with the adductors along the linea aspera, being firmly united to the adductor magnus by the aponeurosis which forms Hunter's canal. Variety.—It may be bi-laminar. Nerve.—The anterior crural. Dissection.—To expose the tendon of this extensor, a thin aponeurotic layer which is continuous with the lower fleshy fibres of the muscle, and which covers the anterior and lateral aspects of the knee joint, must be divided along the middle line as far as the tubercle of the tibia. If a transverse cut be made at the latter situation and this aponeurosis be re- flected outwards and inwards the tendon will be apparent. The Tendon of these Extensors of the leg is common to all these muscles, and is formed by the union at the lower part of the thigh, of the tendons from the different portions of the muscle. It passes in front of the knee, acting as an anterior ligament to the joint. The tendinous expansions from these difi'erent muscles are partly inserted into the upper part and sides of the patella, but beyond it they form a thickish flat tendon which is really inserted into the tubercle of the tibia, the patella being a sesamoid bone developed in the tendon of the triceps femoralis. This tendon is wide above where the muscular fibres end. Over the joint it narrows, and below is inserted into the lower part of the tubercle of the tibia and into the tibia itself an inch below it. A bursa is intei-posed between the upper part of the tibial tuberosity and the tendon. From the tendons of the vasti a superficial aponeurotic expansion is derived which is united with the fascia lata which forms a capsule protecting the knee joint, and which is attached below to the heads of the tibia and fibula. From these expansions a few scattered aponeurotic fibres cover the anterior surface of the patella, but there are none on its articular aspect. The fibrous prolongation fi-om the vastus internus is the strongest, and the fibrous capsule of the knee is strengthened on the outer side by the fascia lata. The direction of this tendon is rather obliquely down and out to the tibial tubercle. If the student have previously dissected the arm he will be struck with the analogy that exists between the triceps brachialis and the triceps femorahs. The latter has three divisions or heads like the former, an outer and inner head, and a middle, or long head, which is attached to the pehac girdle, similar to the long head of the arm muscle which is attached to a part of the shoulder girdle. The Sub-Crureus is a small muscular layer of pale fibres which is usually distinct from the crureus, but may be blended with it and the vastus internus. Some consider it to be a part of the inner vastus, separated from the rest by areolar tissue. It arises from the anterior surface of the lower part of the femoral shaft, often by an outer and inner slip, and is inserted by scattered aponeurotic fibres into the upper part of the supra-patellar pouch of the synovial membrane of the knee. Varieties.—It is often double, or may consist of two separate muscuhir bundles. Nerve.—The anterior crural.