SUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 664 layer is adherent to the pubic rami. Pus or urine extravasated under this layer generally follows this course and does not jpass hacJnvard, because this deep layer of the superficial perinaeal fascia is continuous around the posterior border of the superficial transverse muscle with the anterior layer of the middle perinceal fascia, which latter is also called the triangular ligament. Observe that at the sides this deep layer of the superficial perinjEal fascia, which is called by some the fascia of Colles, is attached to the anterior lip of the margin of the rami of pubes and ischium, external to the crus and erector penis, and as far back as the tuber ischii. Anteriorly it is unattached, and is continuous with the dartos of the scrotum and the fascia of the penis as far as the base of the glans. From the deep surface of this layer is given off a vertical septum which is attached to the m'ethral bulb in the mid-line, but is incomplete in front towards the scrotum. This septum imperfectly divides the pouch included between this layer and the anterior layer of the triangular ligament into two lateral halves, and between these layers are contained the three superficial muscles of this region, viz. the bulbo-cavernosus over the m-ethral bulb, the ischio-cavemosus over the crus penis, and the superficial transversus perincei; also the superficial perineal vessels and nerves. In con- sequence of this arrangement of the fascia this pouch is completely sepa- rated from the ischio-rectal region, so that rectal fistulse are almost always situated behind the inter-ischiatic line, which con-esponds very nearly to the line of junction of these fasciae, and urethral fistulse are placed, ordinarily, in front of it. From ten years' experience as a teacher of anatomy, I know well that students generally have much difficulty in comprehending cleai'ly the arrangement of these fasciae. Having just given the arrangement usually described, I will add a statement which has forced itself on me through repeated dissections and from sm-gical and pathological observations. I am quite aware that it differs fi'om the majority of authors, but I am sm'e that the dissector will observe it to prevail in the large majority of subjects, and I think he will find it easy of comprehension. Anatomists have differed much in the description and nomenclature of the fasciae, and students have been bewildered, but the matter is sufficiently simple, and I trust that the following brief description will render it more easy to be understood by the reader. The fasciae of the perinaeum are three, the superficial, the middle and the deep, and these envelope the muscles which close the pelvic outlet, forming their sheaths or apomyoses.^ In the perinaeum there are three layers of muscles, the superficial, middle, and deep ; the two former will presently be dissected, and the deep form the pelvic diaphragm already alluded to in the IDrevious section. They are, from before backwards, the levator ani, ischio- coccygeus, coccygeus, and pyrifonnis. These three layers of muscles have each (on both sm-faces, of course) their special sheaths, which ai-e con- tinuous with each other, and thus form the vai'ious fasciae of this region, so that these three j)lanes of muscles are enclosed between four layers of fascia, thus ; the superficial muscles, between the two layers, formed, as will be presently described, of the middle perinaeal fascia; the middle muscles, between the deep layer of the middle perinreal fascia and the deep perinaeal ' This term is more correct than aponeurosis.