HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 216 The Second and Third Dorsal Interossei are inserted, the former into the outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the middle finger, and the latter into its inner side. The fom-th muscle is inserted into the inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the ring. They all have similar tendinous expansions to that of the first muscle. These are connected with the respective outer or inner sides of the corresponding tendon of the common extensor. Actions,—They are a&ductors of the fingers, from a line drawn longi- tudinally through the centre of the middle finger. They assist the extensors of the digits, but when the fingers are slightly bent they assist in completing this action. John Hunter, and more recently Cleland, have said that these muscles flex the first phalanges and extend the two distal ones, whereas Quain and Thomson say that the interossei, assisted by the lumbricales, flex the first phalanges, and at the same time, by their union with the common extensor tendon, extend the other phalanges. Duchenne states that the interossei extend the second and third phalanges, and partly flex the first. He also thinks that the extensor communis acts almost entirely on the first phalanges. The student will note that the thumb and little finger have no dorsal interosseous muscle having sppciai abductors, and not therefore requiring an interosseous abductor. Variations,—The Interossei are sometimes double in one or more of the spaces. THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM, Disssction,-^'Pla,ce the limb with the palm uppermost, and make an. incision along the middle of the front of the forearm to just beyond the wrist, and at the lower end of this incision make a transverse one, and reflect the skin inwards and outwards, being careful of the many cutane- ous vessels and nerves beneath it. The skin should be reflected from one of the fingers in order to be able to follow the description that will be given of the flexor tendons. The superficial fascia of the forearm is continuous above with that of the arm, and below gets much thinner, and is continuous with that of the hand. Between its layers are the cutaneous vessels and nerves, and superficial lymphatics, and in its meshes there is a varying quantity of fat. It is most distinct opposite the bend of the elbow, where the veins are numerous and large. Position of the Cutaneous Vessels and iV^e?"f es.—Most of these have already been seen in part. The continuation of the internal cutaneous nerve will be found near the anterior ulnar vein on the inner side, and on the outer, accompanying the radial vein, is the superficial part of the musculo- cutaneous nerve. Near the wrist, in the mid-line of the forearm, is the slender palmar cutaneous branch of the median. It is to the inner side of the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, and the palmar cutaneous branch, of the ulna lies over the ulnar artery, close outside the pisiform bone. The ulnar has usually another cutaneous branch, which is given off" just above the wrist. Cutaneous Veins,—The superficial veins in this region are the radial, median and ulnar. They commence chiefly from an arch on the back of the hand, which receives the posterior or superficial digital veins. The