G72 HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. triangular ligament, which it pierces near the pubes, and is continued on the dorsum of the penis with the dorsal branch of the pudic artery. Its termination will be described with the external genitals. The Coiyus 8'ponriiosum and Deep Perinceal Mitscles are supplied by the perinajal branch of the pudic nerve. Muscular offsets are given off near the base of the triangular ligament, and pass beneath the transversalis muscle, piercing the triangular ligament to supply the muscles between its layers. The nerve of the bulb is a slender long branch supplying the corpus spongiosum. Some of its filaments pass for some distance on the fibrous sheath of the corpus spongiosum before penetrating it to reach the vascular structure in its interior. Surgical Applications.—The student should replace the triangular ligament and draw the rectum forwards so as to occupy its natural posi- tion. The position of the various parts in regard to the incision required in the lateral operation of cutting for stone should now be studied. This operation is generally executed on the left side of the perinseum, this being more convenient for a right-handed operator, but the structures divided will be similar should the operation be done on the right side. A grooved staff having been previously introduced into the bladder, and the stone struck, the patient is tied in the lithotomy position, i.e. in the position the subject was placed in for the dissection of the perinseum. The first incision should begin midway between the back of the scrotum and the anus, about an inch and a half in front of the latter and slightly to the left of the raphe. It is carried obliquely back and out to midway between the anus and ischial tuberosity. This cut divides the skin and superficial fascia, the inferior hemorrhoidal vessels and nerves, and the superficial and transverse perinseal vessels may also be divided. In the deeper incision the knife is introduced into the anterior portion of the wound and the base of the triangular ligament, the deep transverse perinseal muscle, the pos- terior fibres of the accelerator urinse, the anterior part of the levator ani, the constrictor urethrse, and involuntary circular fibres and mucous lining of the urethra will be divided before the knife can enter the groove of the staff. As the knife is pushed along the staff into the bladder, it divides the membranous portion of the urethra, and about an inch of the left lobe of the prostate gland with the anterior venules of the prostatic plexus of veins. The knife is then withdrawn in a direction down and out from the urethra, and partly through the left lobe of the prostate above the level of the ejaculatory duct. In this operation the following parts must not he wounded, and may usually be avoided by attending to the following instructions. The first incision should not be made too near the mid-line, lest the bulb of the corpus spongiosum or the rectmn be wounded; nor should it extend too far externally, lest the pudic artery should be injured. If the deep inci- sion be too far forward the artery to the bulb may be divided, and if it extend too far backwards the whole length of the prostate and neck of the bladder may be cut through, and this would allow the urine to infiltrate into the loose cellular tissue between the bladder and rectum and behind the pelvic fascia, instead of permitting its free external escape. From the unhealthy nature of the urine, due to the inflammation of the mucous lining of the bladder set up by the presence of the calculus, diffused