177 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMP. (he accessory triceps or clorsi epilrochlearis. This niuscle exists in several ,if the lower mauunalia, and is common among the quadriimanu. A :.inull muscle, usiially a part of the triceps, arising from behind the inner iDudyle, and being inserted into the inner side of the olecranon, has been ,il)served by W. Gruber and Wood, and has been named the epitrochleo- <i iiconeus. Dhsi'ction.—The middle head of tlie triceps should be divided about its middle, and the fatty tissue removed from the superior profunda vessels and the musculo-spiral nerve ; and these should be traced between the outer and inner heads of the muscle, and through the external inter- muscular septum to their situation between the supinator longus and brachialis anticus. The outer and innex" intermuscular septa should be Fig. 101.—Branches op the right axillary aud brachial arteries. 1. .\.\illiiry. 2. Acrnmio-tliomcic. 3. Acromial brjinch of 2. 4. A muscular branch of 2. fl. Thoracic briiiidi of 2. 6'. Alar or posterior thorncic. 6. Long tlioracic. 6'. Antmor perforating of internal nianmiary. 7. Siibscainilar. 8. Dorsalis scapultc. !). Continnation of siibscapnlar.'!. HI anil 11. Mnsciilarsof subscapnlar. 12. Posterior circumflex. 13. Anterior circumflex. 14. Brachial. 15. Fnperiov profnmla. 16. 17, 18. Muscular. 19. Inferior profunda. 20. Ana-stoniotica nuipna. 21. Jleilian nerve cut. The prntorals, biceps, coraco-bracliialis, and latissinius dorsi are cut and rifleeted. defined, and piercing the inner, the ulnar nerve and inferior profunda artery must be made out. Then the triceps should be separated along the line of junction of the outer and middle heads, so as to trace out the branches of the superior profunda artery and musculo-spiral nerve which descend to the anconetis muscle and olecranon. The intermuscular se[)ta have been described with the deep fascia of the ivrm. They separate the muscles on the front from those on the back of the arm, and their attachments to the external and internal condyloid hutneral ridges should he made out. The Superior Profunda branch of the brachial artery supplies the triceps, and accompanying the nuisculo-spiral nerve winds in the musculo-spiral groove to the back and outer side of the humerus between the inner and outer heads of the trice])a. It gives branches to tJie deltoid, coraco- brachiulis, and triceps muscles, and while in the groove between the N