524 HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. In Flexion the tibia and its fibro-cartilages pass backwards on the femur. This movement is checked by the meeting of the calf with the back of the thigh, and also "by the quadriceps extensor. In the first part of this motion the tibia moves down and in, on the oblique curvature of the internal condyle, causing internal rotation of the leg. In the posterior two-thirds of this movement the tibia moves directly backwards over the condyles. The ligamentum patellae is rendered tense, and at the end of flexion both crucials are put on the stretch. The extra-articular ligaments are all relaxed in flexion. In Extension the tibia passes forwards until it is in a line with the femur, hyper-extension being checked by. the posterior ligament, the tendons of the hamstring muscles, and the anterior crucial. During the anterior third of extension the tibia passes up and out over the oblique curvature of the internal condyle, and is also rotated out. In the posterior two-thirds of this motion the tibia passes directly forwards over the con- dyles. The extra-articular ligaments, with the exception of the anterior, are stretched, and both crucials, esj)ecially the anterior, prohibit extreme extension. In rotation, it is necessary that the knee be semiflexed, so that the extra-articular ligaments "and the anterior crucial may relax. The foot must also not be fixed. In this movement the big toe is turned either in or out, and the tibia with its fibro-cartilages rotates around an axis vertical to the bone. In Internal Rotation the inner articular surface of the tibia passes back, touching the inner femoral condyle, and the external articular surface passes forwards, being slightly separated from the external condyle. The anterior crucial is by degrees rendered tense, and finally checks the motion. The lateral ligaments are relaxed. In External Rotation the opposite condition to that just described takes place, the great toe being pointed outwards. The crucials ai-e un- affected, but the internal latei-al ligament is rendered tense and tends to check the motion. Movements of the Patella.—In the passage from flexion to extension the patella passes obliquely from the external to the internal side, and touches different parts of the femoral condyles in succession. In passing from flexion to extension the superior pair of facets, and subsequently the inferior pair on the square surface of the patella, touch the femur in suc- cession. The trochlear, or pulley-like surface of the femur near the joint is completely extended. The patella is drawn up by the extensors, and its two inferior facets come in contact with the upper and inner party of the femoral siuface. It is then very prominent, and the ligamentum patellae, and patellar apex, are directed towards the tibia downwards and outwards. Only the lower transverse facet of the patella is in contact with the upper edge and trochlear surface of the patella in this movement. In semiflexion only the middle facets of the patella are in contact with the femur. In complete flexion the patella lies on the external side below the femur, being fixed in this position and scarcely perceptible. It then touches the semilunar surface of the inner condyle by its vertical facet, and the inferior part of the external condyle by the suj^erior and external facet on its square surface. It will thus be seen that each part of the femoral articular surface