73 ANATOMICAL TECHNICS. accounts of the avclutect.nral structure of the cancellous tissue, as then, the animal matters being removed, the contours of the earthy parts of the bone which are left will be much plainer. Where it is necessary to follow nerves or vessels through the bones, the latter, after being placed for two or three days in spirit, should be put into nitric or hydrochloric acid, diUited with about one-third of water, so as to soften the bony tissue and enable the nerves, &c., to be traced through the bone. The student should practise holding the scalpel, and dissecting with the left hand ; he will thus acquire ambidexterity, which may prove service- able to him as an operator; and when he has done dissecting for the day, he should cover his part, bringing the skin together over it, and wrapping it in a bandage which has been dipped in saturated salt solution or in carbolic acid lotion. Parts which are intended to be preserved should be dissected under spirit and water, as the connective tissues are floated up and can be more readily seen and removed. Small parts or organs may need the use of the dissecting microscope, the directions for the use of which will be found in Carpenter's work on the Microscope, in Beale's work on the same subject, or in Frey's ' Microscopic Technology.' METHODS TO PRESERVE ANATOMICAL DISSECTIONS, ETC. There is no work to which one can refer for instructions in these matters. There are a few articles on isolated parts of the subject which are excellent so far as they go; and to these and personal experience I am indebted for the following incomplete description. It is presumed that the subject has been hydrotomised, that the venous and arterial systems, &c., have been injected either generally or partially, and that after injection the subject has been naturally or artificially cooled and exposed to the air, so as to become desiccated. Preparation.—The parts having been dissected, and the organs sufficiently isolated^ if thought requisite, the deep fascia should have a longitudinal cut made in it on the surface which will not be exposed when the dissection is mounted or imbedded, and it should be exposed to a current of cool air till it is sufficiently dry to be painted, varnished, and mounted, if necessary. # Preparation of Bones.—-If it be desired to prepare single bones, or the bones and joints of a limb, or part of the entire skeleton, the proceeding must differ in some points. All the soft parts, including the periosteum^ must be removed from the bones, which must be brushed or gently scraped clean.' This process will be considerably facilitated by previous maceration in running water. The fatty parts in the interior of bones should be re- moved before the preparation is exposed to the drying method, which, by the way, can be accelerated in a hot air chamber. To remove the medulla, &c., contained in the cancellous tissue and medullary canal, several holes should be pierced by means of a drill, and these should communicate with the medullary canal or with the spongy substance at the end of long bones. At the lower end of the femur five or six holes will be necessary, and it is better to make them at a part which ' Maceration in running water is one of tlic best modes of getting rid o£ the soft covci'- ings of bones.