50G HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. plantar artery lies deeply between the bases of the metatarsal bones, in contact with the interossei, and beneath the adductor pollicis. It gives several branches to these muscles. Branches.—The posterior perforating are three small branches which are given off from the upper part of the arch and ascend through the back of the three outer metatarsal spaces to the dorsum of the foot between the heads of the dorsal interossei to anastomose with the dorsal interosseous branches of the metatarsal artery. Varieties.—These perforating arteries are occasionally enlarged, and then give off the interosseous arteries of the dorsum of the foot; in this event, the metatarsal artery, from which the dorsal interossei generally come, is very small. The digital Branches are four, and are given off from the front or convexity of the arch, aujd supply both sides of the three outer toes, and half a. Tuberosity of os calcis. 6. Scaphoid and end of cal- caneo-scaphoid lig. a to c. Calo.-cuboid lig. <l. Its deep part. c. Scapho-.cuneiform. /, A sesamoid of great toe. li, 7, 8, 9 rest on the ant'. transverse metatarsal ligt». 1. Post. tib'. 2, 2'. Ext. plant. 2". Plant, arch joining dorsalis jiedis. 3, 3'. Int. plant. 3". Its anast'. with inf. dig. 4, Branches of int. plantar. 5, 5'. First or ext. dig. 0,7,8,9, and 10. Digitals. The posf. perftK. from the ill toss, arteries are partly shown near the plantar arch. The anterior perte. are situated near 6', 7', and 8. 11 and 12. Calcanean branches of plantar and post''. Iieroneal. Fio. 384.—Eight plantar arch and branches and ligaments of sole. of the second toe. The branch to the outer side of the little toe is single and is given off from the outer side of the plantar arch, passing beneath the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti. The others run beneath the transversus pedis and over the interossei of the three outer metatai'sal spaces, and on reaching the interdigital clefts divide into collateral branches which supply the adjoining sides of the three outer toes and the outer side of the second. They supply the transversalis pedis, interossei, and outer lumbricales, and at the point of bifurcation send small commu- nicating branches, the anterior perforating, to join the digital branches of the dorsal interossei from the metatarsal artery. The last two digitals anastomose with branches of the internal plantar at the roots of the toes. The dissector will, observe the resemblance of these vessels to those in