361 DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. upwards, and may elongate transversely over Poupart's ligament. It does not usually pass downwards, either in the canal or when it has become subcutaneous, because in the former situation the femoral sheath is closely adherent to the pi-oper sheath of the femoral vessels near the lower part of the saphenous opening ; and in the latter position the connection of the layers of the superficial fascia between themselves is firmer than towards the groin, where they are separated by the lymphatic glands and superfi- cial vessels, and also because of the firm attachment of the cribriform fascia and anterior layer of the femoral sheath to the lower part of the margin of the saphenous opening. Coverings.—The intestine or omentum carries before it a pouch of the peritoneum which is called the sac of the hernia ; the sub-serous cellular tissue, the septum femorale, the cribriform fascia which covers the saphe- nous opening, the superficial fascia and fat, and the skin, these are the Skin of supfl. fascia. Ext. obliq.- Int. obliq. anil trnnsls Trnngls. fascia ■ Tei-iserous cellular tissue L,11 Poritoneum. Fascia iliaca Pnbic ramus cut Septum femorale Pubic part of fascia lata Ponpart's ligt. Falciform process cut Cribriform fascia Postr. layer of 1 \ i femoral sheath'"H I Antr. layer of I_ I femoral sheath" Fascia lata | Fig. 262.—DiAGEAM of a long-ittjdinal antero-posterior sectiok through the LEFT FEMORAL CANAL, SEEN FROM THE BIGHT SIDE. The arrow shows the course of a complete femoral liemia. The connection between tlie deep layer of aupfl. fascia and Poupart's ligt. is represented. coverings of the com.plete form of femoral hernia. The difference between the coverings of this and the incomplete form is explained by the fact that the latter does not leave the canal, and consequently, has in front of it, instead of the cribriform fascia, the anterior layer of the femoral canal which is formed by the fascia transversalis. Coverings of Femoral Hernia, Complete form. Peritoneum. Subserous cellulo-fatty tissue. Septum femorale. Cribriform fascia. Superficial fascia. Skin. In the incomplete form, substitute fascia transversalis for cribriform fnscia.