281 DISSECTION OF THE UTTER LIMB. The Synovial Membrane is continuoTis with that of the elbow, and projects below between the lower margin of the annular ligament and the neck of the radius. Movements.—These are limited to rotation of the head of the radius upon the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulnar, within the annular ligament. Forwai"d rotation is called pronation, and rotation backwards is termed swpination. These movements will be more fully described when the other radial articulations have been studied. Middle Eadio-TJlnar Ligaments.—Two ligaments connect the shafts of the radius and ulna; they are the interosseous and oblique. The Oblique or Round Ligament, or ligament of Weitbricht, is a slender roundish band above the interosseous membrane, and passes down and out, having an opposite direction to that of the interosseous membrane, and is attached above to the tubercle of the ulna at the base of the coronoid ])rocess, and inferiorly to the radius just below the bicipital tuberosity. It divides the space above the interosseous membrane into two parts, and appeal's to be a substitute for it in this position; but it is sometimes absent. As just stated, it passes from the ulna to the radius, while the interosseous ligament passes from the radius to the ulna. The posterior interosseous artery passes to the back between the oblique ligament and the ujiper border of the interosseous membrane. The Interosseous Ligament or Membrane is a broad, thin, aponem'otic layer, which passes obliquely down and in from the interosseous ridge of the radius to that of the ulna. It forms an incomplete septum between the muscles of the front and back of the forearm. It is deficient above at its superior border, which is about an inch below the radial tubercle. This space (hiatus interosseus) transmits the posterior interosseous vessels. At its middle it is broader than at either end, and it has an. oval aperture just above its lower margin through which the anterior interosseous artery passes to the back of the forearm. There are also smaller apertures in it for the passage of blood-vessels. This ligament connects the bones and gives origin to the deep flexors and extensors. On its posterior surface are two or three fibrous bands which pass obliquely from the ulna towards the radius, having a direction opposite to those of the other fibres of this membrane, and similar to that of the oblique ligament. Relations.—In front, at its ujjper three-fourths, with the flexor profundus digitorum, on the inner side the flexor longus pollicis, on the outer and between them the anterior interosseous vessels and nerve. At its lower fourth with the pronator quadratus. Behind it are, from above downwards, parts of the supinator brevis, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, ])rimi and secundi internodii pollicis and extensor indicis, and near the wrist are the anterior interosseous artery and posterior interosseous nerve. Directions.—The annular ligaments and tendons must be removed from both surfiices of this and the wrist joint, and the ligaments cleaned. The student should first dissect the wrist joint, and when that is done he will be able to more thoroughly examine the lower radio-ulnar articula- tion. The Radio-Carpal or Wrist Joint is an arthrodia, but has some of the characteristics of an enarthrodial joint. It is formed by the lower end of the radius and under-siuface of the triangular fibro-cartilage above, and