84 HUMAN MORrilOLOGY. part of the body through which the upper surface of each passes in relation to some well-known and fixed points be noted. If it be desired to make the intermuscular spaces very evident, a thick section should be placed for a month to six weeks in a concentrated solu- tion of potassium nitrate-saltpetre, which causes a shrinking of the muscular tissue. I can recommend the following plan for making sections of foetuses. Make quickly a mixture of 2 parts of snow or finely powdered ice, and 1 part of salt. A layer of this mixture, about three inches thick, is placed in a wooden box of suitable size and shape, the bottom of which is pierced by numerous small holes to allow the water to run off. The foetus is placed in this ice-bed and gradually covered with a thick layer of the freezing mixtuje. To avoid altering the form of the thoracic and abdominal cavities, it is advisable only to place a thin layer of ice over these parts; this will not deform these cavities, and will be sufficient to freeze the skin and subcutaneous tissues. The box is then surrounded with flannel and placed in an airy position for six or seven hours, when the foetus will be thoroughly frozen. It is then quickly but carefully removed from the box and placed on a small rectangular table which has a groove at its middle along its length. At one end of this groove is firmly fixed an upright piece of wood with a narrow slit which reaches nearly to its point of junction with the table. Another similar vertical piece of wood slides in the groove opposite to the one just described, so that the slits of each correspond. The frozen foetus is placed between these uprights in the required direction—longitudinally or transversely—the movable upright is kept steady by a screw, clamp, or strong string, and if necessary this small table may be clamped to a larger one to render it steady dming the process of sawing. A fine saw is then passed into the slits of both uprights and the section made. This is usually very satisfactory, and the blood on it can easily be removed by a stream of cold water. To get a good tracing of the section, a thin sheet of glass with a per- fectly even smface should be at hand; also some sheets of white blotting or tracing paper which has been varnished on one side to make it more transparent. Moisten one svirface of the glass and apply to it the non- varnished side of the paper. The moisture makes this side of the paper also transparent, and fixes it to the glass. Now place this papered glass on the surface of the section and take an outline of the parts forming it. This can be easily and rapidly done. Of course only the glass and not the papered surface must be applied to the section. An accurate sketch is thus obtained, which can be transferred by tracing, after removal from the glass, to an ordinary sheet of drawing paper, and the details filled in.