631 VARIETIES OF BONES OF THE PELVIC GIRDLE. stretching of the internal lateral ligament, or it may be an ordinary exostosis. The process is only present in a comparatively small propor- tion of rickety knock-knees; sometimes only on one side, but often on both. Fibula.—On the lateral surface of the head there is often a small tubercle which gives origin to the peroneus longus, and about the middle of its posterior sm-face is another from which the soleus partly arises. Sometimes the ridge on the posterior part of the lower end is unusually raised. Its anterior surface has frequently a prominent transverse ridge called the tuberosity of the fibula. This divides it into an upper, smaller, lower, and much larger division. The facets on its articular sm-faces have been described in giving the anatomy of the knee and ankle joints. Tarsal Bones.—Astragalus. The anterior facet is often divided into two by an elevated ridge, but in 50 per cent, of the cases the ridge is absent and the two coalesce. This facet may be entu-ely absent in about 7 per cent.; and when present, as is usual, there may, in about 16 per cent, of the cases, be an additional groove which has been termed the accessory interarticular sulcus. Its lateral tubercle may be enlarged, forming a processus trochlearis, and in 2 per cent, this tubercle is separate, forming an eighth tarsal bone or secondary astragalus. Earely, a similar process is found on the inner side of the neck bone. Os calcis.—On the outer surface, under the lateral edge of the postero- lateral articular sm-face, there is found, in 39 per cent., an oblique ridge called the calcanean, or infra-malleolar process. Beneath this runs the tendon of the peroneus longus. The articular surfaces corresjDond to those of the astragalus, just described, and may coalesce or be absent, as in the former bone. The interosseous sulcus, when present in the calcis, has been termed the accessory interarticular sulcus of the calcaneum. It forms, with the similarly named groove of the astragalus, a canal which runs forwards and inwards to the sinus tarsi. In one instance, recorded by Stieda, a small secondary calcaneus was present. Scaphoid.—Rarely, at the posterior end of the dorsal sm-face of this bone there exists a trochlear process, beneath which the tendon of the extensor hallucis passes. The scaphoid tuberosity has in about 10 per cent, of the cases at its posterior part a process of the navicular tuberosity^ and very seldom does this become isolated to articulate as an accessory navicular with the tuberosity. The passage of the lower into the lateral surface of this bone occurs in about 76 per cent, of the cases, and takes place at an angle termed the navicular angle, which may form a pro- jection or point called the navicular spine. ■ Internal Cuneiform.—This is in rare instances doubled, forming a dorsal and plantar cuneiform. Cuboid Bone.—A more or less pronounced prominence on the inner angle of the posterior surface sometimes exists, and has been called the styloid process of the cuboid. It may be doubled according to Blandin. Supei-numeraiy and Sesamoid Bones.—Sometimes these are found on the dorsal surface between the tarsal and metatarsal bones. The most common occurrence is to find an ossiculum intermetatarsium in the joint capsule between the internal cuneiform and first metatarsal, on their ex- ternal aspects. It is often- cartilaginous. There are usually four sesamoid bones, which are contained in synovial capsules or enclosed in bur8a3; the