HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. IGG alis, accompanies the ulnar nerve, and piercing tlie internal intermuscular septum descends on the inner head of the triceps to the space between the olecranon and the inner condyle, and ends by anastomosing with the anas- tomotica magna and posterior ulnar recurreiit, and hy a branch over tlie front of the inner condyle joins the anterior ulnar recurrent. It supplies the inner part of the triceps, and may arise in common with the superior profunda. . Varieties.—This vessel is occasionally absent, and for this reason some anatomists do not recognise it as a regular branch of the brachial. The Anastomotica Magna is given oflf about an inch and a half to two inches above the elbow, and crosses transversely inwards over the brachialis anticus to pierce the inner intermuscular septum, and passes back between the humerus and the triceps to the space between the oleci'anon and the Fig. 92.—Branches of the right axillary akd buacuial arteries. 1. Axillary. 2. Acromio-thoracic. 3. Acromial branch of 2. 4. A muscular branch of 2. C. Tlioracic branch of 2. 6'. Alar or posterior thoracic. G. Long thoracic. 6'. Anteriorperforatingof internal mammary. 7. Subscapular. 8. Dorsalis scapuljB. !t. Continuation of subscapulars. 10 and 11. Mnscularsof subscapular. 12. Posterior circumflex. 13. Anterior circumflex. 14. Brachial. Ifl. Superior profunda. IG, 17, 18. Muscular, in. Inferior profunda. 20. Ana-stomotica magna. 21. Median nerve cut. The pectorals, biceps, ooraco-braohiaUs, and latissiiuus dorsi are cut and reflected. inner condyle. It forms an arch above the olecranon fossa with the j30S- terior articular bi-anch of the superior profunda, and gives off an offset between the olecranon and inner condyle, which joins the inferior profunda and posterior ulnar recurrent arteries, and some twigs pass in front of the inner condyle to inosculate with the anterior ulnar recurrent, while others ascend to join the inferior profunda. It gives branches to the triceps and pronator teres muscle. Varieties.—This artery is sometimes very small, and in such z. case the inferior profunda takes its place behind the humerus. The Muscular branches are three or four large vessels which sujiply the eoraco-brachialis, biceps and brachialis anticus. The Brachial Veins are the vena3 comites of the brachial artery, and ai"e