4(54 HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. nnd with the posterior tibial by branches which pierce the tibial origin of the soleus. The External Saphenous vein commences in an arch at the outer side of the dorsum of the foot, and passes below and behind the external malleolus and along the outer border of the leg. It then runs along the back of the leg to the tendo-Achillis, which it crosses at a right angle, to gain the mid-line of the posterior part of the leg, and in the lower part of the popliteal space it pierces the deep fascia to end in the popliteal vein. Be- tween the heads of the gastrocnemius it receives numerous large branches, also some about the heel, and others on the back of the leg. It is joined by the internal saphenous vein, and communicates with the deep veins on the dorsum of the foot, and with those behind the outer malleolus. It has usually only two valves, of which one is constant, and is near its termina- tion in the popliteal vein. Cutaneous arteries from muscular branches of the posterior tibial, and peroneal, accompany the superficial veins and nerves. The swperficial lymphatics commence in plexuses from the toes, sole, heel, and sides of the foot, and join lymphatic trunks which run parallel with the external saphena vein. The outer and inner ones course along the thigh to the inguinal glands, but several of the middle set pierce the deep fascia to empty themselves into the popliteal glands. Cutaneous Nerves.—-These are continuations of branches which have partly been examined, viz. the small sciatic branches of the internal and external cutaneous, filaments of the anterior crural, the internal and ex- ternal saphenous nerves, and cutaneous filaments of the external popliteal. The internal or long saphenous nerve accompanies the internal saphe- nous vein, passing behind the inner border of the tibia, and at the lower third of the leg it divides into two branches, the posterior of which runs along the tibial margin ending at the inner ankle. The anterior branch passes in front to the ankle and supplies the skin along the inner side of the foot as far as below the great toe. Lateral cutaneous offsets axe given off from this nerve in the leg, the outer of which pass to the anterior aspect of the tibia and join the internal cutaneous. The external or short saphenous nerve is usually a branch of the in- ternal popliteal, and descends between the heads of the gastrocnemius along the back of the leg, and pierces the deep fascia about its middle. It accompanies the external saphenous vein behind and below the external malleolus, supplying the outer side of the foot and of the little toe. Just after piercing the deep fascia it receives a communicating branch {com- municans peronei vel fihularis) from the external popliteal. At the outer side of the tendo-Achillis, near the heel, it gives long and large filaments to the integuments and is joined to the small sciatic, and on the dorsum of the foot it communicates with the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Cutaneous Branches of the External Popliteal.—These are usually two or three, and supply the skin of the back and outer side of the leg to a little below its middle. One branch, larger than the others (the com- municating peroneal), is given off near the head of the fibula, crosses the external head of the gastrocnemius, and joins the external saphenous just after that nerve pierces the deep fascia. Occasionally this nerve is sepa- rate as far as the heel. One or two filaments of the external popliteal supply the skin of the front and outer side of the leg in its upper half.