679 DISSECTION OF THE PERIN/EUM. SUMMARY OF DISSECTIONS. MALE PEEIN^UM. ANAL REGION. 1. After reflecting the skin and noting the corrugator cutis, the venous plexus round the anus, and the external sphincter and its attachments, the ischio-rectal fat should be carefully removed from the fossa, but the inferior hsemon-hoidal and posterior perinseal vessels and nerves should be pre- served. 2. Define the boundaries of the fossa, which are the gluteus maximus behind, the obtm-ator internus covered by its fascia on the outer side, and the levator ani above and within. GENITAL REGION. 1. A median incision from the back of the scrotum around the anus to the tip of the coccyx. 2. Transverse ones on the outer and inner side above and below. 2. In the superficial fascia notice the cutaneous vessels and venous plexus around the anus and the superficial perinseal nerves. Dissect out the corrugator cutis and external sphincter. Follow out the dartos and trace the inferior hsemorrhoidal vessels and nerves. 3. Make out the attachments of the deeper layer of this fascia, which will be found to pass below the transversus perintei and to be continuous with the anterior layer of the triangular ligament. Reflect it to expose the superficial muscles. 4. These are the bulbo-cavernosus in the mid-line, the ischio-cavernosus at the side, and the transversus perina3i, forming the base of the triangle. The vessels and nerves are the superficial perinseal, the long pudendal of small sciatic, and the inferior htemorrhoidal artery and nerve. Make out the fascia forming the floor of this space and define the corpora cavernosa, the bulb, and spongy part of the tu-ethra. 5. Make out the attachments of the triangular ligament and the structures piercing and in relation with it. Reflect its anterior layer and note the structures between it and the deep layer. 6. The internal pudic artery and nerve and branches, the deep trans- verse muscle, and Cowper's glands must be dissected. 7. Define the attachments of the posterior layer of the triangular liga- ment and notice its connection with the pelvic fascia. The levator ani, Wilson's and Gruthrie's muscles, and the membranous. portion of the lu-ethra, must be defined. 8. The prostate and its venous plexus, and the vesicula3 seminales and vas deferens must be made out, also the recto-vesical layer of the pelvic fascia.