DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. 573 surface of the cuboid bone behind the peroneal groove, and internal to the ridge. A separate synovial membrane is found in tliis articulation. Articular Sttrfaces.—At the inner side the os calcis is hollowed from above down, aird the cuboid is convex ; but both bones are flat towards the outer part of the articulation. Movements.—The cuboid moves in all directions, obliquely down and in, or up and out. The internal lateral and the upper ligaments are rendered tense in the downward movement. Transverse Tarsal Articulation.—The joints of the astragalus and scaphoid, and os calcis with the cuboid, form a transverse articulation in which the movements of inversion and eversion occur. In eversion the inner border of the foot descends and lengthens, and the outer is raised, the great toe being abducted. The cuneiforms pass dowTi, and the cuboid moves up and out on the os calcis ; and the scaphoid moves in a similar direction over the head of the astragalus. n. Os calcis. b. Sn&teiitaculiim tali. c. Cuboid. Tnby. of fifth motars'. e. Cniieiforin. /. Base of first metars'. 1. Long, cnlc.-ouboid. 2. Transverse calc.-ciiUoid. 3. Scaplio-metatarsal. 4. Astragalo-metatarsal. •5. Calc-scapboid. (i. Transverse calc.-cuboid. 7. Cuneo-metatarsal. 8. Tarso- „ 9. Intej'- ',, Fig. 452 —Plantar ligaments of posterior part of right foot. The plantar ligaments of both joints prevent excessive motion in this direction. In inversion the inner border of the foot is shortened and raised from the ground, and the sole looks inwards; while the outer border is depressed and the great toe adducted. The scaphoid moves down and in over the astragalus, coming nearer to the internal malleolus ; and the cuboid moves in a similar direction on the os calcis. The cuneiforins are at the same time raised and assist in the movement. Dissection.—The student should examine the articulation of the head of the astragalus with the scaphoid, and .of the os calcis with the cuboid ; and then divide the ligaments to examine articulations of the cuneiform bones. Besides the dorsal and plantar bands, which have already been menr tioned, he must note some interosseous ligaments between the contiguous surfaces of the bones, and also some offsets of tlie common synovial