228 IIUMA^ MORniOLOGY. septum. The second head arises from the inner side of the coronoid pro- <jesti of the ulnar, above the ulnar origin of the pronator teres. The tliird head takes origin by a thin flat portion from the oblique line of the radius and from the anterior border, extending from the tubercle to the insertion of the pronator teres. The fibres pass down vertically and divide about the middle of the forearm into four tendons, which pass beneath the anterior annular ligament in pairs, the anterior pair consisting of the tendons for the middle and ring fingers, and the 'posterior of those for the index and middle fingers. The tendon for the little finger is smaller than the rest. It is inserted into the sides of the second phalanges after piercing the profundus digitorum ; its arrangement will be completed in the dissection of the hand. Relations.—In the forearm, superficially^ with the superficial muscles and deep fascia ; posieriorly,with. the flexor profundus, flexor longus pollicis, median nerve and ulnar vessels and nerve. It is crossed near its radial origin by the radial artery. Actions.—It bends the second phalaTiges and can then bring the first phalanges towards the palm, as it is bound to them by the flexor sheaiths. It can also flex the wrist and elbow joints. Nerve.—The median. Varieties.—Its radial origin is occasionally absent, and the body of the muscle may be subdivided so that there is a distinct fleshy belly for each tendon. This occurs most frequently with the portion on the radial and little finger sides. The little finger tendon may be absent, and there may be a small extra tendon to the index finger. It may be connected to the flexor profundus or flexor longus pollicis by a muscular slip. An additional small muscle, the radio-carpalis, arising from the outer border of the radius, generally above the pronator quadratus, and being inserted variably into the trapezium, os magnum, or some other carpal bone, or into one of the metacarpals, has been observed. The Ulnar Artery is the larger of the two branches of the brachial, and passes along the fi'ont of the inner side of the forearm, across the anterior annular ligament on the outer side of the pisiform bone, into the palm, and forms the superficial palmar arch, being sometimes joined by a branch from the radial. It crosses obliquely inwards ^and is deep at the upper part, but superficial in its lower half. Relations in the Forearm.—It is deep in its upper half, and describes a slight curve, the convexity of which is directed outwards. In front of it are the superficial flexors, excepting the carpi ulnaris. It is crossed by the median nerve, and in its outer half has only the superficial and deep fasciae in front of it. Behind are the brachialis anticus and flexor profundus digitorum. On its inner side are the flexor carpi ulnaris, the ulnar nerve in its lower two-thirds, and the median for about an inch near the bend of the elbow. On its outer side are the flexor sublirais and the median nerve. Two venae comites are placed on the sides of the vessel and joined by transverse branches in front and behind it. The ulnar nerve and its palmar branch accompany the vessel over the anterior annular ligament, but the trunk of the nerve is on the inner side and rather pos- terior to the vessel. A small twig of the ulnar nerve descends on the artery to the palm of the hand, sending filaments around the vessel. It is continued down to the flexor profundus by a thin layer of membrane.