ANATOMICAL TECHNICS. 65' subjects and in cool weather the zinc chloride may be diluted to tlie pro- poition of two-thirds zinc to one of distilled water. The injection should be commenced by throwing in a weaker solution so as to prevent the nar- rowing of the vessels which would interfere with the injection passing into the smaller vessels. This should be followed by a sti'onger solution. A mixtm-e of alcohol of about 90°, and one-fifth its weight of carbolic acid, is also a good j)reservative mixture, but the quantity required equals one- half the body weight, and consequently, alcohol being dear, this would be an expensive material to use. The limbs should be freely flexed and extended, so that the fluid may flow easily into their vessels. A successful injection may be recognised by the distention of the superficial veins of the chest and arms, and by the escape of a darkish fluid from the nostrils and perhaps from the mouth. This is due to oozing of the fluid through the vessels of the mucous membrane. The steps of the operation and the instruments required are the same as those already described. Results of the Operation.—As the vessels are filled the abdomen will gradually swell, the chest will become more full, the eyelids and face will become puffy, and the superficial veins will be full and dark from the blood in them. After a few hours the skin becomes very pale and parch- ment-like, and this is a certain evidence of the success of the operation. The puffed aspect of the face and the other signs just mentioned will have disappeared in a few days, but after several weeks the tip of the nose, ears, and ends of the fingers begin to dry, shrivel up, and become brownish. This is probably due to the small size of the vessels of these regions, and the injection consequently not having thoroughly penetrated them. The student will note that no evisceration is required in this method, the body being injected by the carotids or femoral. Brunetti's method for preserving viscera or pathological specimens consists of the following: 1, the washing of the preparation ; 2, the removal of all fatty matters ; 3, the tanning ; and 4, the desiccation. Step 1 consists in an hydrotomy of the blood-vessels and excretory canals, and a subsequent removal of the water by a stream of alcohol. Stejp 2 consists in following up the alcohol injection with an injection of ether for some hours. The ether penetrates the interstices of the tissues and dissolves the fat. At this stage the preparation may be pre- served for any length of time, but before proceeding to the final steps it should be |)lunged in ether. Step 3 consists in the injection of tannin dissolved in boiling water, after the blood-vessels have been washed with sether, and after the asther has been removed by the injection of distilled water. Brunetti accom^ilishas Step 4 by |)lacing the prejiaration in a vase of suitable size, which is filled with boiling water, so that waim, dry air may penetrate the preparation. He uses a reservoir in which air is compressed to about two atmospheres, and which cominvmicates by a stopcock and tubes with a vase containing chloride of calcium, and with another which is heated. It is then put in connection with the vessels and ducts of the l)reparation, so that a gaseous current permeates the preparation, and in a. little time expels all the fluids. The ojuM-alion is now coniplelo, and the part or organ remains light, su])ple, retaining its size and relations, and solid elements, there being no longer any fluid in it. It will last inde- F