HUMAN MORVJIOLOGY. ]60 The CLitaneous branches of this nerve are the two external and one internal. The tivo external cutaneous branches pierce the outer head of the triceps at its humeral attachment. They are superior and inferior: the former runs down by the side of the cephalic vein to the front of the elbow, and supplies the skin of the lower half of the arm on its anterior aspect; the latter pierces the deep fascia below the deltoid insertion, and runs along the external surface of the arm and elbow to the back of the radial side of ihe forearm, where it will be subsequently seen. The Internal Cutaneous branch is small, and arises with the internal muscular branch in the axilla. It passes across the posterior wall of tlic axilla to the inner side of the Eirm, where it becomes subcutaneous, and supplies the skin on the posterior aspect of the arm nearly to the olecranon. The Radial and Posterior Interosseous nerves are distributed to th ■ forearm, and will be dissected with it. The Sub-Anconeus is a small muscle beneath the triceps, near the elbow, and is distinct from it, and will be seen on removing the trice[)> from the lower part of the humerus. It consists of an outer and inner slender fasciculus, which arise from the humerus just above the olecranon fossa, and are inserted into tlie upper part of the posterior ligament of the elbow joint. It corresponds to the s'ah-crarccus in the lower part of the front of the thigh. Nerve.—Musculo-spiral. Action.—It raises the posterior ligament, and with it the synovial membrane, when the joint is extended. Dissection.—The shoulder joint should now be examined, and to do this the tendons of the muscles passing across it from the scapula to thi:* humerus must be separated from the capsule with care, as some of them are intimately blended with it. Before opening the capsule the dissector should move the humerus in various directions,-to ascertain what pai-ts are rendered tense or lax in the many motions of the joint. He may also distend the capsule with air or water, or warm tallow, so as to observe any processes of the synovial membrane. Movements.—This articulation is susceptible of gi'eat motion in every direction, but superiorly and posteriorly motion is rather limited by tin- margin of the acromion. Abduction, adduction, fonvard and backwurd motion, circumduction and rotation, are permitted. In the to-and-fro or antero-posterior and swinging movement, the head of the humerus rests on the deepest part of the glenoid fossa, and turns forwards and backwaixl.- on a line through the axes of the head and neck, and will not be displaced by the speed or degree of the movement. The anterior movement iV termed flexion and is less limited than the posterior, which is extension. In extreme flexion the scapula follows the movement of the humerus, and rotates on its axis so as to keep the centre of the glenoid fossa applied t > < the humeral head. In this extreme movement the scapula doea not follow the luimerus, so that dislocation downwards is likely to occur. In flexion the posterior and inferior parts of tlie capsule are rendered tense, andal.-«' the posterior muscles; and the reverse occurs in extension, the muscle- having more power than the loose cnpsule in controlling these motions. Abduction and Adduction.—The former consists in raising the humerus laterally from the thorax, and the latter in drawing it toward;: