617 HOMOLOGIES OF THE LIMBS. Dr. D. J. Cunuingham, in the October number of the * Journal of Anatomy and Physiology,' in an article o\\ The Relation of Nei've-supply to Muscle-homology, while agreeing in the main with Ruge's views as to the importance of nerve-supply in determining muscle homologies, differs from him as to its infallibility, and says ' that the doctrine of the invari- able relation between-nerve supply and muscle homology is an erroneous one and contrary to existing fact. The value of this feature, however, in the determination of the history of a muscle cannot be overrated. Indeed, it is equalled in importance only by the " insertion." I am tempted to bring forward, from human anatomy, an illustration to show its importance, and how, if attention had been paid to it, a more consistent nomenclature might have been employed. I refer to the short muscles of the thumb. In our text-books these are described as consisting of an abductor, a flexor brevis (composed of a superficial and a deep head), an opponens, and an adductor. The opponens may be left out of count, seeing that it is a derivative from the outer head of the flexor brevis.^ These muscles are supplied by the median and ulnar nerves. The median gives branches to the abductor and the outer head of the flexor brevis. The ulnar su.pplies the adductor and deep head of the flexor brevis. ' If we now turn to the foot, we find that both heads of the flexor brevis and the adductor of the great toe are supplied by the internal plantar, which is the median of the pes, whilst the adductor and trans- versalis pedis are furnished with twigs from the external plantar or ulnar of the foot. Here there is a marked discrepancy, but it is only an apparent one. The truth is, that the adductor pollicis is the serial homo- logue of the transversus pedis, and the deep head of the flexor brevis pollicis the serial homologue of the adductor hallucis. The abductor and outer head of the flexor brevis pollicis correspond with the abductor and inner head of the flexor brevis hallucis. But where is the true inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis ? This is a muscular slip, which is almost in- variably present, but owing to the great development of the adductors it has been thrust deeply into the palm. It is in the interosseus primus volaris of Henle. ' I^astly, it is not at all unlikely—indeed, that it is highly probable—• that the som-ces in the brain or spinal cord from which the nerve fibres destined for the supply of a certain muscle are derived, are invariably the same. Of this, however, we have little proof. It is a matter of certainty, as we have seen, that these fibres may adopt different nerve strands in order to reach the muscle. Even in the human body great numbers of examples of this may be quoted. Thus the long buccal nerve has been observed by Professor Turner to proceed from the superior maxillary division of the fifth; again, every demonstrator of anatomy has observed the descendens noni taking its origin from the vagus instead of the ninth nerve; and the frequency of the accessory obturator and the accessory phrenic nerves is a fact of common knowledge.' Professor Rolleston^ was one of the first to recognise the importance of nerve supply as more important than the position, attachments, and relations in determining the homologies of muscles; and Bischof?", ten ' Rngo, jVorpJt. JaJirb., 1878, p. 137, ^ ' On the Homologies of certain o£ the Atusclcs conncctecl with the Slioulder-girdlc.'— fransactwjis of LiniKcan Society, vol. xxvi,