127 BISSECTIOX OF THE UPPER LIMB. placed between the pleura and internal intercostals, and then between the outer and inner intercostal muscles. The Perforating Arteries are one or two for the five or six upper spaces. They pierce the internal intercostals and pectorals which they supply, and are finally distributed to the skin with the anterior cutaneous nerves. The arteries of the first three spaces supply the mamma and are enlarged daring lactation. The Miiscido-Phrenic Branch passes down and out behind the carti- lages of the seventh and of the false ribs, and pierces the diaphragm at the eighth or ninth rib, ending, much reduced in size, opposite the last inter- costal space. It furnishes anterior intercostal branches to the lower spaces and diminishes in size, being distributed similarly to the anterior inter- costals of the internal mammary. Its branches to the diaphragm and abdominal muscles will be seen in a subsequent dissection. Two veins accompany this aitery and unite into a single trunk, which ends in the in- nominate vein. The Superior Epigastric is a continuation of the internal mammary, and passes down behind the rectus, then pierces its sheath, and divides into branches that supply it and anastomose with the epigastric from the external iliac. A small branch passes inwards in front of the ensiform cartilage, and joins its fellow of the opposite side. A few twigs pierce the sheath of the rectus and supply the muscles of the abdomen and skin. The Intercostal Nerves.—The anterior portions of these nerves are now seen. They are the anterior primary branches of the dorsal spinal nerves and supply the thoracic wall. They accompany the intercostal vessels and pass between the outer and inner intercostals supplying them, and about midway between the spine and sternum each gives off a cutaneous nerve; then much diminished in size they pass forwards in the fibres of the in- ternal intercostals as far as the costal cartilages, where they are beneath the internal intercostals and in contact with the pleura. Near the steraum they cross the internal mammary artery and the triangularis sterni, supply- ing it. These nerves end, after piercing the internal intercostals and the pectoralis major, in the skin of the breast, and are called the anterior cutaneous thoracic nerves. The Intercostal Arteries accompany the nerves between the intercostal muscles. They die nearer the upper than the lower rib, and are branches of the thoracic aorta. About midway between the spine and sternum each vessel divides, one branch following the upper riband the other the lower, and both inosculate in front with the intercostal branches of the internal mammary. They supply the intercostftl muscles and give off small cuta- neous twigs, which are distributed with the lateral cutaneous thoracic nerves. Directions.—When the body is tiu-ned the possessor of the arm must dissect the superficial muscles of the back ; and when this is done, he must remove the limb from the trunk by sawing through the clavicle at its middle and cutting through the muscles fixing the scapula to the trunk.