91 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. The cutaneous nerves of this region come from the cervical plexus, or from the intercostal nerves. Cervical Cutaneous Thoracic Nerves.—Tlie sujpra-davicidar branches of the cervical plexus, which come from the third and fourth cervical nerve, emerge beneath the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, and descend between it and the trapezius, to divide into sternal, clavicular and acromial branches, which supply the skin of the corresponding regions. The inner or sternal branch passes obliquely inwards over the clavi- cular and sternal attachments of the sterno-mastoid, and supplies the skin as far as the midline, anastomosing with its fellow. It passes but a short distance down. The middle or clavicular filaments, two or three in number, and of larger size, cross the centre of the clavicle and supply the skin over the deltoid and pectoral muscles to near the lower border of the latter, and communicate with cutaneous branches of the upper anterior intercostal nerves. Sometimes a clavicular branch passes through a foramen in the clavicle at the junction of the middle and outer thirds of the bone, and may join the anterior cutaneous branch of the second intercostal nerve. The external or acromial branch will only now be seen in part. It crosses the outer sm-face of the trapezius and acromion, and goes to the skin of the upper and back part of the shoulder, anastomosing with the ckcumflex and supra-scapular nerves. Cutaneous Intercostal Thoracic Nerves.—These are given off between the ribs from the trunks of the intercostal nerves, which latter are the anterior branches of the dorsal nerves. There are two sets of these cutaneous nerves. One set, the lateral cutaneous nerves of the thorax, arises from the intercostal trunks about midway between the spine and sternum; the other, the anterior set of thoracic cutaneous nerves, are the endings of the same intercostal trunks near the body midline. The intercostal nerves and their branches are distributed to the parietes and skin of the thorax, and upper part of the abdomen, without being joined in a plexus, differing in this important respect fi-om other spinal nerves. Each nerve joins the sympathetic by one or two filaments, and they are divisible into an upper and lower set. The six upper, the first being excepted, supply the thoracic parietes ; the six lower supply the lower part of the chest, and upper part of the abdomen. The Anterior Cutaneous Branches of the intercostals pierce the pec- torals and supply the skin at the side and forepart of the chest and that, covering the mamma, and the upper digitations of the external oblique. The anterior cutaneous of the second intercostal joins the clavicular branch of the cervical plexus, and the others supply the mammary gland. Cutaneous branches of the internal mammary artery accompany these nerves, which latter increase in size as they pass downwai'ds. The cutaneous twig of the second intercostal commonly lacks the anterior offset. Lateral Cutaneous Nerves.—These pierce the external intercostals and sen-atus magnus midway between the vertebras and sternum, accompanied by cutaneous vessels, and divide into two branches, anterior and posterior. The first intercostal nerve has not usually a lateral cutaneous branch. The anterior branches pass over the jjectoral muscles to the mamma and skin and increase in size downwards the lower supplying the upper digita-