477 DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. articulation, and expands to be inserted into the tuberosity of the scaphoid and internal cuneiform bones. A sesamoid bone is found near its inser- tion, and its tendon gives off expansions, the posterior of which is inserted into the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis, the external into the middle and external cuneiform bones and cuboid, and the anterior to the bases of the second, third, and fom-th of the metatarsal bones; in fact, to all the tarsal bones except the astragalus and scaphoid. Relations.—Swperjicially, the posterior tibial vessels and nerves, and the peroneal vessels, from which it is separated by the deep fascia; the soleus and flexor digitorum are also above it. Deejply it is in relation with the interosseous ligament, tibia, fibula, and ankle joint; and at the back of the malleolus it is between the tibia and the long flexor of the toes. Actions.—It extends the ankle joint and acting with the anticus it turns the toes inwards, antagonising the peronei which turn it out. It shortens the inner border of the foot by drawing the scaphoid down and in, and assists the calf muscles in raising the heel in walking. In rising from stooping it assists the soleus in drawing back the bones of the leg. Its tibial origin is higher than the fibular. Nerve.—The posterior tibial. The Ajponeurosis over the tibialis posticus has, inferiorly, a defined border, and is attached laterally to the leg bones. Its superficial surface gives origin to the flexors, and its deep surface to the tibialis posticus. The Posterior tibial artery is large, and passes obliquely down from its origin from the popliteal, at the lower border of the popliteus muscle. It runs to the inner side of the leg, and passing in the mid-line between the heel and the inner malleolus, it divides beneath the origin of the abductor pollicis at the lower part of the internal annular ligament, into the external and internal plantar arteries. A line from the middle and lower part of the popliteal sj)ace to midway between the inner malleolus and the tuberosity of the os calcis will indicate its position. Relations.—Anterior to it are the tibialis posticus, flexor digitorum, tibia, and the back part of the ankle. Behind it are the deep fasciae, sepa- rating it from the gastrocnemius and soleus. In the lower third it is more superficial, and runs parallel with the inner edge of the tendo-Achillis, being covered only by the skin, superficial and deep fasciae. Its venai comites closely surround it, and the posterior tibial nerve is internal to it at its upper third,' but at its lower two-thirds, it becomes external. Between the malleolus and the os calcis it has the following relations. On the inner side are the tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor digitorum ; on either side of it is a vein, the nerve being to its outer side, and half an inch nearer the heel is the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. Eelations op the Posterior TiBiiL Artery. In front are the tibialis posticus, flexor longus digitorum, tibia, and ankle joint. Outside.—Post. 1;ibial nerve lower two-thirds, flexor long, hallucis at the aukle, and vein. Behind are the intermuscular fascia, gastrocnemius, soleus, fascite, and skin. Imide.—Post, tibial nei-ve at upper third. Vein.