44 HUMAN MORrilOLOGY. tlirough tlie aorta. For ordinary pixrposes a large syringe is sufficient, but should a greater pressure be required, one of the various apparatuses figured in text-books of practical histology may be used. In injecting the arteries and veins, a cannula (see fig. 14) is introduced into the artery which has been previously cut down upon and exposed. A suitable thread is applied around the vessel and the nozzle of the cannula to keep the latter in its place. The syringe is filled to the exclusion of air by the injecting fluid, and is then fitted to the cannula; the piston is then to be steadily and firnily depressed, and jerking to be avoided. This process is repeated until the injection has succeeded; i.e. when the feeling of resistance shows that no more of the injection mass can be introduced. The previous injection of the disinfecting and preservative fluid will have cleansed the arterial system so as to render it more pervious to the injecting material, and the success of the injection will be known by see- ing that the subcutaneous arteries, especially the temporal or frontal, are distended by the liquid and give to the finger the sensation of a vein full of blood; and if a small incision be made into the skin of any pai-t of the body, some of the injecting mass will exude. After some hours the vessels appear to have emptied themselves, and the skin smface presents a peculiar colour which is known to the experienced. Two or three days after, one sees on the surface of the skin little saline crystals which are due to the crystallisation of the salt which almost always is contained in the injection. The formation of these crystals is indicative of a good injection, and gives promise of the subject being preserved for a long time, and this crystallisation shows itself primarily on the trunk. These saline crystals form more slowly on dissected parts of the body, and only show in proportion as the parts become dry. The muscles and other organs become covered with a thick saline layer at the same time that they become harder. These observations have special reference to the saline conserva- tive injections. As already stated, a clot may interfere with the injection, or atheroma, which is a diseased condition of the coats of the vessels, may give rise to extravasation of the injected fluid in consequence of the rupture of the vessels, which is due to their inability to withstand the pressm-e applied in the course of the injection. rRESERVATlVE INJECTION MASSES. 1. White su^jar ]000 parts Salt 2000 „ Nitrate of potasli 500 „ Water 7500 „ Mix and make a solution. This injection preserves the colour of the muscles and gives excellent results when the arterial system has been previously flushed with water. 2. Water 10000 parts Alum 500 „ Salt 250 „ Mix and make a solution. 3. Water . _ 8000 parts Chloride of ziuc 1000 Mix and make a solution.