HISTORICAL SKETCH. 13 thpi following passage : ' In animals we see that the veins carry the ali- ment to the heart, as the workshop of the imi)lantecl heat, and after the aliment has acquired its highest perfection, the arteries distribute it through the whole body by means of the spirit which has been produced in the heart from the same aliment.^ Graspar Asellio (Asellins), Professor of Anatomy at Pavia, born about 1581 at Cremona (died 1626), rediscovered the chyliferous vessels in a dog, in the year 1622. In 1628 they were seen by Nicolas Pairese in the autopsy of a convict who had been well fed before his execution. Jean Pecquet, a student at Montpellier, discovered in 1647 the common trunk of the lacteals and lymphatics in some domestic animals. Jahn van Hoorne, born at Amsterdam in 1621 (died in 1670), described the thoracic duct in the human body, ' Novus ductus chyliferus,' &c., Lugd. Balav. 1652, Thomas Bartholinus, born at Copenhagen in 1616 (died 1702), perhaps the most learned physician of his age ; Olaus Eudbeck, professor at Upsala, born in 1630 (died 1702); Greorge Jolytfe, and many others, were all occupied in tracing the distinction between the lacteals and the lymphatics. There is no doubt that Rudbeck traced the lymphatics of the laro-e intestines to the thoracic duct, and this latter to the subclavian vein. This he demonstrated in the presence of Queen Christina in 1652, The quarrels of the respective authors touching the priority of dis- coveries iij the anatomy of the lymphatic system cannot be easily decided, owing to the almost simultaneous publication of their works on this subject. Aselli (in 1622), Pecquet (in 1649), and Eudbeck (in 1651) published their researches, but Eudbeck gene^'alised their existence. Many anatomists have studied the lymphatic system: Bartholin, Gr. Jolyffe, Glisson, Fohmann, Hunter, JSTewson, Magendie, Mascagni, Meckel, Nuck, Euysch, among the older ones ; and Sappey, His, Eecklinghausen, Waldeyer, Schweigger-Seidel, Toldt, Frey, Axel Key and Eetzius and Klein, among modern ones. Thomas Wharton, born 1610 (died 1673), investigated carefully the structure of the glands (' Adenographia,' &c., London, 1656), and gave his name to the ductus salivcdis inferior (Wharton's duct). Francis Glisson, born in 1597 at Eampisham, Dorset, made himself known by a most minute description of the liver (' Anatomia Hepatis,' &c., London, 1654). But the chief anatomical work of this period was un- questionably the ' Cerebri Anatome,'&c. by T/io7no,s Willis, luomlon, 1664. This work on the brain and the nervous system abounds in new informa- tion. The description is minute and generally accurate, so that the order in which he numbered the cranial nerves is still followed by modern anatomists. Willis acknowledges his great obligations to his intimate friend Eichard Lqwer. Nicolas Steno, born at Copenhagen 1638 (died 1686), accurately describes ('Observationes Anatomic^',' &c., Leyden, 1662) the lacrymal gland and passages, and the parotid duct, wliich bears his name. ' • In animalihiis vidomiis alitnont.iim per von;i,s duci ad cnr, fiuiquain ad ollicinnm cnloris insiti, el arlrpta, inibi ultima p(;rl'(!Cli()rn', per arloriMs in iinivcrsmn corpus dislrihui, au'cnte spirit!!, fiui ex (modernalimoiilo in corde f^iiriiitiir ' {l)r I'laiiiix, lili. i. c. 2). In nnntl!er pas- sa'^e {Qiirrnf. Med. ii. 17), lio points oiil the svv(!llinj^ oC (In; veins Iji'iieaili a ligature as a proof of the return of the blood by the veins.