374 HUMAN MORrilOLOGY. but it soon passes beneath it, and at the upper border of the adductor longus is placed to its outer side, and continues in this position until it becomes the popliteal vein. It receives the deep femoral and internal saphenous veins, and the inferior external pudic vein. The vein is sometimes placed internal to the artery in its entire length, or it may be double. The anomalies of this vein will be given subsequently. DEEP PARTS ON THE FRONT OF THE THIGH. Dissection.—An incision is to be carried along the middle of the front of the thigh, if this have not previously been done, and the skin, superficial and deep fasciae must also be divided and reflected. The incision should reach to the tubercle of the tibia. The dissector must observe the attach- ment of the fascia lata to the sides of the patella fonning its alae or wings, and also its junction with the prolongations from the tendon of the quad- riceps extensor muscle. The sartorius crossing the thigh from without inwards, and the tensor fasciae latse at the upper and outer part of the muscles which combine in the quadriceps or triceps extensor should be dissected, also some of the branches of the profunda artery and of the anterior crural nerve. In dissecting the sartorius, the nerves in contact with its surfaces, and especially a plexus beneath it at the middle of the thigh which may be called the mid-femoral -plexus, should be preserved. A branch of the internal cutaneous, and of the anterior crural crossing over it below its middle, and another along the inner edge of the muscles below its middle, should be dissected, and the trunk of the great saphenous nerve issuing from beneath it near the knee, also its patellar branch piercing the muscle rather higher up must be taken care of. The nerves to the mid- femoral plexus, from the internal saphenous, internal cutaneous and ob- turator, should be traced out beneath the sartorius. The anterior sm-face of the adductors will be found internal to the sartorius, and the triceps extensor external to it. The knee should be bent in dissecting the sar- torius, and an expansion from it to the fascia lata, and to the inner side of the knee, is to be preserved. The Tensor Fascice Latce at the upper and outer part of the thigh, with a strip of the fascia lata of the same width as the muscle, should be cleaned and left on the outer side of the thigh. One or two transverse incisions should be made through the remains of the fascia lata on the outer side, and the attachments of this fascia to the femur should be made out. The Sartorius is the longest muscle in the body, and passes from the pelvis over the hip and knee joints to the tibia. It is a flat muscle ansing by tendinous fibres from the anterior superior iliac spine and upper half of the notch below it. It lies in a hollow between the extensors on the outer and the adductors on the inner side, and obliquely crosses the upper and anterior part of the thigh from the outer to the inner side, then descends vertically as far as the inner side of the knee, passes behind the internal femoral condyle, and ends in a thin tendon below the knee which curves obliquely forwards and expands into a broad aponeurosis, which is inserted into the upper part of the inner surfiice of the shaft of the tibia nearly as far forwards as the crest, and also by its upper edge as far back as the