APFENDIX. 712 HOW TO DISSECT THE BREAST. The mamma may either be dissected in situ or after its removal from the body, and if the breast of a young married woman having borne children can be procured, or that of one having died in childbed or during lactation, its seci'eting structure being more fully developed will exhibit its compo- sition better, and also be more easy to dissect. At the larger hospitals op- portunities often occur in which the entire organ has to be removed for a comparatively small tumour, and as the parts are in a fresh condition they may be studied with advantage not only as to their coarser anatomy, but they will also permit of microscopic sections of the fresh tissue being made, stained, and mounted. An incision should encircle the margin of the areola, and radiating cuts should be made from this to the base of the gland, and the skin reflected. The thinness of the skin near the areola and also any processes of the deep fascia passing through the front to the under surface of the cutis will be observed. If the gland have been removed from the body it should be fastened at its margins to the table by means of strong pins or slender nails, and the subcutaneous cellulo-fatty layer removed, care being taken as the neighbourhood of the areola is reached. Occasionally one or more small subcutaneous bursce will be noticed, especially if the organ have been subjected to much pressure through the occupation or by badly fitting stays, and there is, not infrequently, a submammary bursa, which may be observed as the organ is being removed. The gland structure will be recognised by its rosy-white aspect (if fresh) and by its harder textm-e. Sometimes bristles may be passed along one or two of the larger nipple ducts, or they may even be injected by means of the apparatus described in the chapter on Anatomical Technics. This gland is more difficult to inject than any other organ in the body, and before attempting it the mamma should be well squeezed and manipulated, in order to press out any secretion or changed epithelium from the tubes. The lobules ai"e more readily dissected under water on a black background. The student should then carefully remove the skin covering the areola and nipple, and proceed to identify the various structures described on the pages relating to the mamma, and afterwards a section should be made through the nipple, areola, and whole organ, so as to gain a better idea of the deeper arrangement of the lobes and lobules.