BISSECriON OF THE LOWER LIMB. 420 adductor magnus. It arises from tlie outer edge of the tuber ischii, by the side of the origins of the semi-membranosus and adductor magnus, and is inserted into the upper part of the linea quadrati on the posterior surface of the great trochanter, and for about two inches along the upper end of the femur above the attachment of the great trochanter. There is often a bursa between it and the trochanter. Relations.—Behind it the gluteus maximus and sciatic vessels and nerves ; in front the obturator externus, the trochanter minor (from which it is separated by a small bursa), the hip capsule, the internal cir- cumflex vessels, and the nerves and vessels supplying it. Above is the gemellus inferior, and between its lower border and the upper edge of the adductor magnus is found one of the terminal branches of the internal circumflex artery. Its xvpper border is close to the inferior gemellus. xictions.—It is a feeble external rotator if the femur be pendant, and it may abduct when the hip is bent. Acting from its femoral attachment' it will tm-n the face to the oj)posite side, and will support the pelvis on the fenmr. Nerve.—A special branch from the sacral plexus. Varieties.—When the inferior gemellus is large this muscle may be absent, the former muscle supplying its place. Directions.—Divide the gemelli and the quadratus about their middle and seek the small vessels and nerves which go to them. The termina- tion of the internal circumflex artery and the obturator externus must be dissected. The internal circumflex branch of the profunda is smaller than the external, and is given ofi" from the inner and back part of the main trunk. It has been described in the dissection of Scarpa's triangle, and was shown there to divide into three branches. Two of these may be now seen : one which ascends beneath the quadratus to the digital fossa of the trochanter, where it anastomoses with the gluteal and sciatic arteries, and supplies the bone; the other may be found between the quadratus and abductor magnus, where it joins the superior perforating from the profunda and supplies the upper part of the hamstring muscles. The Obturator Externus is a triangular flat muscle which has been dissected with the deep parts of the front of the thigh. In this dissection the tendinous part of the muscle is exposed, and will be seen passing below the hip and ascending to its insertion at the upper part of the digital fossa of the trochanter. Relations.—In front are the psoas, iliacus, pectineus, gracilis, adductor longus, and brevis, and more externally its tendon is in contact with the posterior part of the capsule of the hip and femoral neck. Its topper border is in contact with the inferior gemellus. Its posterior suiface is covered by the quadratus, except near the femur, and it is in contact with the obturator membrane from which it arises, and its lower border is in contact with the inferior gemellus. Actions.—It is an external rotator when the femur is hanging, and it has a similar action when the hip is bent, thus differing from the other external rotators. It also supports the back of the hi}) joint. In the sitting posture it assists in flexing the hip instead of extending it. This muscle and the pyriformis help to draw forward the pelvis and to steady it on the femoral head.