IIUMAN MOJRPIIOL 0 G Y. 108 the internal mammary and intercostals. If the ligature be below the sub- scapular, the anastomoses between the posterior circumflex and the acromio-thoracic and su})rascapular, and those between the subscapular a,nd superior profunda, will aid in restoring the circulation, which is, how- ever, less free through these channels. Dissection.—After tracing out the branches of the axillary vessels, which should now be done, the pectoralis minor must be divided near its insertion and reflected, notiug the nerves which pierce and supply it. Then the axillary vessels must be cut just below the second rib and thrown aside, and the strong fascia investing the nerves must be carefully removed, so that the branches of the brachial plexus may be made out. Branches of the Axillary Artery.- These are distributed to the thoracic wall and shoulder. Four- of them are nained thoracic (superior. Fig. 42.—Braxcues of the right axillary and brachial arteries. 1. A.xillarv. 2. Acromio-tliomcic. 3. Acro-iiial branch of 2. 4. A muscular branch of 2. 5. Thoracic brnn'Oi of 2. 6'. Alar nr postprior thoracic. C. Long thoracic. 6'. Anterior perforating of internal mammary. 7. Subscapular. 8. Dorsalis scapulse. !). Continuation of suhscapnlarR. 10 anil 11. Jluscularsof subscapular. 12. Tosterior circumflex. 13. Anterior circumflex. 14. Brachial. 1.5. Superior jirofunila. 16, 17, 18. Muscular. 19. Inferior profunda. 20. Anastomotica niaprna. 21. Median nerve cut. The pectorals, biceps, coraco-brachialis, and latissimus dorsi are cut and rrflectcd. acromial, long and alar thoracic). The superior and acromial thoracic are given off from the front of the vessel above the pectoralis minor. The alar thoracic is given off beneath it, and the long thoracic at the lower border. The three branches to the shoulder are subscapular and two cir- cumflex, and in the female there is often an external mammary artery and vein near the middle of the axilla. When present it supplies the axillary lymphatic glands and ends in the thoracic wall below the long thoracic. The branches are usually given off thus : two from the first part, the superior and acromio-thoracic; two from the second portion, the alar and long thoracic ; and three from the third, the subscapular and anterior and posterior circumflex. The Superior thoracic is the highest and smallest ofiset, and is given ofT opposite the first intercostal space, either separately or by a trunk