DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. closed between these lateral septa and the central piece of the plantar foscia. The oxiter septum passes up between the flexor brevis digitorum and abductor minimi digiti, and the digital vessels and nerves for the outer side of the little toe pierce it; the inner septum passes between the flexor brevis and the abductor pollicis ; the flexor longus pollicis and the internal plantar nerve and vessels perforate it. Between the layers of skin forming the interdigital webs the student must seek the superficial transverse ligament. This consists of transverse fibres, and is connected with the sheaths of the flexor tendons over which it passes, forming a series of arches. It is attached on the outer and inner sides to the sheaths of the tendons of the four lesser toes. Beneath it are the digital vessels and nerves. The sheaths of the flexor tendons resemble those of the hand, but are less distinct. They are weaker ojoposite the interphalangeal articulations, but strong opposite the middle of the proximal and middle phalanges. Tendon Tendons of flex. long, dig Fig. 363.—Superficial muscles op the bight sole. Each contains a tendon of the long and short flexor covered by a synovial membrane wliich forms synovial sheaths for them. Dissection.—Remove the plantar fascia, being careful of the digital vessels and nerves which are superficial to the flexor brevis digitorum near the toes. Lay open the sheaths along one or two of the toes, so that the arrangement of the short and long flexor tendons may be studied. There are four layers of muscles in the foot which will be exposed in the various stages of the dissection. First Layer.—All the pieces of the plantar fascia having been re- flected, this layer will be exposed. There are three muscles forming it, viz. the flexor brevis digitorum or perforatus in the middle, the abductor pollicis on the inner side, and the abductor minimi digiti on the outer. The muscles of the foot may, like those of the hand, be divided into three groups, viz. those of the internal plantar regions connected with Hie great toe, corresponding with those of the thumb; those of the