25 INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS. general principles with regard to the construction of the human body and that of the lower animals. To attain to the laws of morphology, it is necessary to combine an extensive and accurate knowledge of the anatomy of man and animals with the study of development and evolution. In the physiological method, the materials relating to the structm-e, of .the various parts are fui'uished by anatomy, and an explanation of the func- tions or uses of these parts or organs is soiight by the experimental and practical physiologist. Another most important branch of the subject, which, although in its veriest infancy, has made great strides dm-ing the last decennium, is Phylogenesis, JEtiology, or Evolution, which deals with the origin of the lower animals from yet lower forms, and of man from some inferior prede- cessor. Phylogenesis studies the geneological pedigree of large groups of the animal and vegetable kingdoms or of the entire kingdoms, while Ontology or Ontogenesis pays regard to the evolution of the individual. Anthropology is another most important branch of the subject, or, more correctly speaking, Human Anatomy is a branch of the science of Anthropology, which deals with the structure, distribution, habits, &c., of the various races of mankind in the present as well as in the past. If Fossil Anatomy, that is, the study of what is found in the earth of the hard parts of man and animals, be the subject of consideration, it is called Palceontological Anatomy. Veterinary Anatomy is that portion of Zoology and Comparative Anatomy which deals with the structure of domestic animals. Ethnology is a branch of Anthropology, and deals with racial differ- ences. As, in connection with a work like the present on practical ana- tomy, the student must study some systematic works, he must refer to them for considerations as to plans of organisation, for the various divi- sions of descrijDtive anatomy, for an explanation of the descriptive terms, and for classification and nomenclature.^ THE HUMAN BODY IN GENERAL. ■ The student before proceeding to dissection must have a general idea of the external conformation of the body, as it will help him in the study of its various regions, and it will aid in the comprehension of the position and relations of the various contents of these regions when he is jiroceed- ing with their dissection. The human body is externally composed of two nearly symmetrical portions, there being a slight predominance in the majority of cases on the right side. It is naturally divisible into the head, neck, trunk, and limbs, and each of these segments is again divisible into a certain number of secondary regions, which are more or less limited, and each of which pre- sents a peculiar conformation. The study of these regions forms what is called external anatom^y, or the anatomy of the form, and this, with the study of muscular action, constituies the essentials of A7'tistic Anatomy. The jjopular conception of human moi-j)hology divides the body into, ' It will suffice to state that in myopinion the syslematic divisions should be Osteology for a description of the bones; Artlirology for the joinl- surfaces; iSyndcsmology for tlie ligaments; Myology for the muscles; Angciology for the blood and lymph vessels; Neu- rology for the nervous system ; Sjilanchnology for the viscera: ilistiiosiology for the organ? of special sense ; and Kmbryology for the dev'elo|)nient of the foetus. 1 think that the leriu Sarcology would be much preferable to Myology.