DISSECTION OF THE FERINJEUM. 637 or raphe is found on the anterior and posterior surfaces of the body, and represents the junction of the two lateral portions of the embryo. This central raphe divides this area longitudinally, and is, as Mr. Holden says, 'the line of safety' in making incisions to let out matter or eflFused urine, or to divide a stricture of the urethra from without. Directions.—The student should handle the testes and spermatic cords, so as to become familiar with their feel. These parts are less firm than in the living. He should also pass his little finger along the cords into the inguinal canals, and should observe the wrinkled condition of the scrotum due to the muscular fibres of the clartos. In the posterior portion of this space, observe the aperture of the rectum called the antes, in the middle line, and note the wrinkled condition at its margin, due in the living, to the contraction of the external sjphincter and corrngator otitis muscles. These radiating folds are generally obliter- ated on the subject which is being dissected by the position of the body and the distension of the rectum. Observe, Avith a hand magnifier, the openings of the sebaceous folUcles and sudoriparous glands around the Fig. -leO.-rOUTLET OP PELVIS SHOWING DIVISIONS OF THE PERINEAL REGION. anal margin. These sometimes inflame and suppurate, and may be mis- taken by the inexperienced for the openings of rectal fistulas. A few dilated veins may perhaps be seen at the rectal aperture forming external piles. If the finger be firmly pressed on each side of the rectum it will sink into the ischio-rectal fossae. The Perinseal region ' is artificially divided into two so-called triangles, by an imaginary line passing from the front of one tiiher ischii to the othci. The anterior one is the genito-urinary space, or urethral triangle of some authors; the posterior is the anal triangle, or more properly the ana-rectal space, as it contains the lower part of the rectum, its vessels and nerves, and the muscles which act on the anus. These names suffi- ciently indicate the contents of the respective spaces, and the student will note that here are situated the two gi-eat excretory outlets of the body; in the anterior is the urinary passage, the urethra; in the posterior is the ' Certain well-defined parts of the body are termed regions, but the student must bear in mind that as the various structures of tlic body arc more or less continuous, the name is to a large extent an arbitrary one.