Supra and transverse Supra-scapular Subclavian Axillary glands bbscap., teres m aj., f ad their Vascular and Nervous Supply. Antttgonfsts 321 ,ati8S. dorai, teres aiajor rrapezius, lev. scap. iutercostuls fternoiiiastoid, tra- jiezius ihomboids or inter- costals anconeus, Weeps, and the two pro- nators Deltoid, teres major, and lat. doi-si 'riceps, anconeus, and pronators ^'ect. maj., teres maj., cor.-brach., lat. dors. lat. dors. lubscap., teres maj., lat. dors. lubscap., teres maj lat dors. fupra- and infra- spinatus, teres minor ect. maj., coraco- brach. |upra- and infra- spin., ter. maj. iiceps and bracli. lant. jupinator brevis Ixtensors carpi uln. irad. long, and Vjrev. ixtennors carpi uln., irad.loug. and brev. ixtensors carpi uln., irad. long, andbrev. ixtensor com. dijr. ixtenaor long. poll. ipbator brevis riceps, anconeus, •ind pronator.? Arteries ooiue fi'oui Ext. mam., inter- costals, and per- forating Ext. mam., inter- costals, and per- forating Superior and acro- thoracic Long thoracic, sub- scapular, intercos- tals Muscular of brachial Muscular, ant. cir- flex. Muscular and inf. profunda Acrom.-tlior., and ant. and post. circfx. scapular Scapular; dorsalis scap. Scapular; dorsalis scap. Posterior scap. and dors, scapulae Lumbar intercostal; subscap. Subscapular Subscapular, sup. and inf. profunda Muscular of ulnar and radial ]Muscidar of ulnar and radial Muscular of ulnar and radial Muscular of ulnar and radial Muscular of ulnar and radial .\nt. in toss. Intoss., raed., and muscular of ulnar .\nt. and post, in- teroSi^eous Sup. prof, and radial Velus go to Ext. mam., inter- costals, and per- forating Ext. mam.,inter- costals, and per- forating Ext. mam., inter- costals, and per- forating Long thoracic, subscapular, and axillary Brachial AxiUar}' Brachial Axillary Axillary Correspondingly named vein Axillary Brachial Venae comites Brachial Jiracliial through radial Ulnar and inter- osseous Radial and bra- chial Nerves Ext. and int. ant. thoracic Int. ant. thoracic Branch from fifth and.sixth of bra- chial plexus Post, thoracic Musculo - cutane- ous Musculo - cutane- ous Musculo - cutane- ous and spiral Circumflex tj Circumflex Subscapular Long subscapular Subscapular Musculo-spiral Median t) Ulnar Median Ant. interosseous Ant. intoss. aYid ulnar Ant. intoss. Musculo-spiral Lyiiipliatios go to Sternal, cervical, and axillary glands Sternal, cervical, and axillary glands Cervical glands Axillary glands Axillary and cervical glands