668 HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. artery to the bidb. Between the deep perincml and pelvic fascia3 are the anterior fibres of the levator ani and Wilso7i'8 rmiscle. The student will note that the superficial fascia has practically two layers (although more may artificially be made) ; the middle has two layers, and the deep only one. Dissection.—The superficial vessels and nerves may be prepared on the side on which the fascia has been reflected. The vessels are the transverse and superficial perinoial. Two superficial perinseal nerves accompany the vessels, and the inferior pudendal, which pierces the fascia lata one inch in front of the tuber ischii and the same distance from the ischial ramus, should be traced to the scrotum, and its junction with the inferior hsemorrhoidal behind and perinseal in front should be made out. Some of the fatty tissue on the inner side of the thigh must be removed to trace out the inferior pudendal nerve. Contents.—In the anterior half of the perinseal space are the bulb, the membranous portion of the urethra and muscles surrounding it, and part of the corpora cavernosa with their vessels and nerves. On the outer side course the larger vessels and nerves. The ischio-urethral triangle is exposed when the superficial layer of the middle fascia is reflected. It is bounded externally by the crus penis Fig. 479 —Diagram of pelvic and perineal fascia of right side, 1. Lateral vesical true ligament. 2. Sheath of rectum. Seen from the front. covered by the ischio-cavemosus muscle, in the mid-line by the bulb covered by the bulbo-cavernosus, and behind by the superficial transversus perina?i. Its floor is formed by the deep layer of the middle perinseal fascia, and it is covered by the superficial layer of the middle fascia, by the two layers of the superficial fascia, and by the skin. It contains parts of the pudic artery and nerve, and of their superficial perinseal branches. 1h.e central perinceal i-aphe, tendon, or point is now seen. It is a white fibrous spot in the mid-line, about half an inch in front of the anus. The urethral and rectal muscles join in it, and it is a point d'appui between the anterior and posterior spaces. Three long cutaneous nerves to the scrotum and external labium, the long pudendal, and the superficial perinseal, will be found in this space. Nerves.—The inferior or long pudendal nerve comes from the small sciatic, turns forward below the ischial tuberosity, and pierces the fascia lata about an inch in front of the tuber ischii and nearly the same distance on the outer side of the ramus of the ischium, and passes forwards beneath the superficial fascia, with the perinseal nerves, to supply the skin at the fore and outer part of the scrotum in the male, and the labia majora in the