616 HUMAN MORFIIOLOOY. triangular. In this trigonum cubitale are found the termination of the brachial artery and the median nerve, whereas the jiopliteal artery and nerves are found in the popliteal region. The pronator teres coiTesponds in its origin, course, and action with the popliteus, and this homology is occasionally rendered more striking through the occurrence of a sesamoid bone in the tendons of both muscles. The lower end of the brachial artery lies on the dorsal or extensor side of the pronator teres, but the popliteal lies behind and on the flexor side of the popliteus, which makes it more probable that only the ulnar head of the pronator teres is homolo- gous with the popliteus. The peroneus brevis has some similarity in its insertion to the extensor carpi ulnaris, but the difference between their origins will only permit of an homology if one assume that the origin of the peroneus brevis originally extended proximally to the external femoral condyle. Some varieties of both muscles lend support to this view. The palmaris longus and plantaris appear to be homologous, but require further consideration. In the hare the plantaris is a strong muscle, but this animal does not possess a flexor sublimis digitorum; however, the palmaris may be conceived as a separate muscular band of the flexor digitorum sublimis, so that the flexor sublimis digitorum, palmaris, and plantaris may be considered together as being homologous with the flexor brevis digitorum. The similarity between the small special muscles of the hand and foot is obvious. The ab- and adductors may be considered as specially developed interosseous muscles. The short flexors of the fingers and toes lie comparatively deep, and have no relation to the flexor brevis digitorum. The opponens pollicis of the hand appears to be absent in the foot, but this is really not the case, as it is represented through a bundle of fibres of the abductor hallucis. The interosseous muscles of the hand and foot are homologous with the exception that the first palmar interosseous is attached to the ulnar side of the second finger, whereas the first plantar interosseous is fixed on the tibial side of the third toe; conversely, the second dorsal interosseous of the hand is inserted on the radial side of the third finger, but the second dorsal interosseous of the foot is attached to the fibular side of the second toe. These dififerences have been explained by supposing that the long axis of the hand passes through the phalanges of the middle finger, but in the foot through those of the second toe ; these variations indicate gaps in our present knowledge of the corresponding muscles of the upper and lower limbs. Nerve distribution would probably give the simplest explanation of these^ different relations between the interossei of the hand and foot, especially if the thumb and great toe be considered not to be homologous with each other. In this view the hallux would represent the thumb and index finger together, the little finger would correspond to the fourth toe, and the fifth toe would represent a sixth ray. Originally there were six digits in the hand and foot, the sixth persists in the foot and disappears entirely in the hand. The first and second are represented in the upper limb by the thumb and index finger, and below by the gi'eat toe. This view is supported by phylogenetic facts, so that in apes the phalanges of the third foot-digit is that one which possesses two dorsal interossei, instead of the second one, as in mari,