622 HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. HOMOLOGIES OF THE LIMB NERVES. Homologous muscular aucl skin regions are supplied by homologous nerves, but if nerve plexuses be traced through their nerve fibres and bundles to theii- nerve trunks and towards the spinal cord, important differences will be found, because the arrangement of these fibres and bundles is different in the two limbs. It is easy to homologise the smaller and peripheral branches, but the larger trunks requu-e some explanation. The median and internal plantar are homologous, as they correspond in the hand, and the forearm and arm portions of the median are represented in the leg and thigh by the posterior tibial and sciatic. The musculo- spiral is partly homologous with the anterior crural, as they supply, respec- tively, the extensors of the arm and thigh. On the other hand, the sensitive fibres of the nerve of the leg, which is homologous to those of the ulna, i.e. the posterior tibial, distribute themselves through the posterior tibial and peroneal, and although the latter has a similar relation to the head of the fibula that the ulnar has to the olecranon, yet their further course is quite different, as the peroneal joins the sciatic and the ulnar remains distinct along the whole of the arm. The fibres which are homologous to the palmar branches of the ulnar nerve are represented in the posterior tibial and external plantar.' Table of Homologous (?) Limb Nerves. Thoracic limb. I'elvic liinh. Supra-scapular. Superior gluteal. Internal cutaneous. Internal cutaneous and obturator ? Musculo-cutaneous, in arm. Sciatic to muscular branches in arm. in forearm. Internal saphenous. Cii'cumflex. Inferior gluteal. Median in arm. Sciatic. ,, in forearm. Posterior tibial. „ in hand. Internal plantar. ( ^^^^ tibial Ulnar, in hand. I External ,, i ^ * " Middle cutaneous, j Ext. popliteal. Musculo-spiral. _ Anterior crural. Radial, in hand. Musculo-cutaneous, in foot. Anterior interosseous. A nterior tibial. The above condensed account of the limb-homologies represents what is at present held by most anatomists on the subject, but great gaps have yet to be filled in. We are indebted chiefly to the researches of Gregenbaur for laying the foundation of this interesting subject, and after him to Fiirbringer ^ and others in Grermany; to Huxley, Flower, Humphry, Rolleston, Allen Thomson, Owen, Parker, Groodsir, Turner, Struthers, Cleland, and Macalister in this country; and to Broca, Milne-Edwards, Alix, and Verneau in France. The American anatomists, Agassiz, Coues, Wyman, and Wilder, who have also done good work in this subject, do not agree with some of the views which have been given.^ ' For further details sec Eage, MorjMogisohPS JahrbucJi, vol. iv., 1878 ; also Cunning- ham's paper quoted in the text. JuiiaiscluiZdtsahrift, 1874 (?) Fiirbringer's papers have been since saparatelj'published. 3 la this connection a recent paper by aadoArin. Gegenbaur's M,»-ph. Jtihrhush, 1832, is well worthy of perusal, and doubtless Gegcnbaur's forthcoming work on Hu-naa .\ait)m .- w'll contain much valuable information on this and cognate subjects.