2JISSSCTI0N OF THE PURINE UM. 646 Nei'ves,—Inferior ha3morrhoidal and a branch from the fourth sacral. Varieties.—These are not of practical importance, but it may be men- tioned that there are frequently two layers, a superficial and deep, and that the latter not only surrounds the anus but blends with the lower por- tion of the rectal walls. Luschka* describes a small bursa placed between the coccygeal attachment of this muscle and the fomth coccygeal verte- bral body. The Sphincter Internus.—To expose this muscle the mucous mem- brane at the lower part of the rectum must be made tense by inserting a hook into it, and another to the buttock or table. The incision should correspond to the whitish line before mentioned, at which the skin and mucous membrane join. This line indicates the boundary between the two sphincters, and the mucous membrane is to be carefully dissected from it upwards. This muscle sm-rounds the last half-inch of the rectum, and is higher or more deeply placed than the external sphincter, from which it is separate. Its fibres are fine and pale, and consist of the lowest unstri/ped and involuntary circular fibres of the rectum. Action.—It assists the external sphincter in closing the anus. Relations.—The mucous membrane and submucous tissue internally and externally, the external sphincter, levator ani, and inferior hsemor- rhoidal vessels and nerves. Nerves.—From hypogastric plexus of sympathetic. The Levator Ani.—To get a good view of the insertion of this muscle, detach the coccygeal origin of the external sphincter and reflect it to on^ side. This muscle is placed between the interior of the true pelvis, along its brim, and the outer part of the lower end of the rectum. Its origin cannot be seen till the pelvis is dissected, but it may be followed on the dry pelvis. It arises in front, by fleshy fibres from the posterior surface of the pubes, midway between its upper and lower edges, and from the back of the triangular ligament; behind from the internal and inferior surfaces of the ischiatic spine, and between these parts by tendinous points from a whitish line on the under surface of the pelvic fascia, as this gives off the obturator fascia. Some of the fibres extend in the fascia to above the level of the obturator internus, and they are often separated by cellular intervals. The white line, or aponeurotic ai'ch, is concave superiorly. From this origin it passes down and in, the fibres converging to be inserted in the following manner. The anterior fibres, which are the fewest and longest, pass between the bladder, prostate, and rectum, and along their sides (forming the comjpressor jprostatcB of some authors), they then join the muscle of the opposite side in the central perinseal point, and blend with the external sphincter and deep transverse muscle; ^ the "posterior fasciculi are attached to the side of the lower end of the coccyx, and those just in front of the coccyx join in a median raphe with its fellow of the opposite side, as far forwards as the anus; the middle part of this muscle is the largest, and passes on the side of the rectum, blend- ' Bie fascia pclvina, Wien, 1859, p. 13. * By reflecting the superficial transverse muscle of one side, the fibres of insertion to the bulb (ano-bulbar), wliich are below the bulbo-cavernosus, will be exposed, and by detacliing the deep transverse muscle, the insertion into the membranous urethra will be exposed. These may be seen in a muscular subject during the dissection of the anterior space, -