DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. 403 hinder surfaces of the femoral neck, to be inserted into the digital or trochanteric fossa below the obturator internus and gemelli. Relations.—Ante7norly, with the pectineus, ilio-psoas, gracilis, and adductors brevis and magnus, and more externally with the capsule cover- ing the back of the hip joint. Posteriorly, with the obturator membrane, quadratus femoris, and deep part of the obturator nerve which pierces it. The obturator vessels and nerves pass over its upper border, and its tendon is in contact with the lower and posterior parts of the hip capsule while it is in the groove beneath the acetabulum. Action.—It is an external rotator of the thigh, and also a flexor and adductor, as when we sit with the knees crossed ; it also supports the hip joint below and behind. Nerve.-—The obturator. Dissection.—Carefully remove some of the fibres of the obturator externus, to bring into view the branches of the obturator artery and nerve; or this dissection may be left until after the limb has been re- moved. The Obturator Artery is usually a branch of the anterior division of the 6, Dotted outline of obt. tendon. Fig. 290.—Eight obtueatob exteknus akd its tendon passing behind the neck op femur. internal iUac, and passes along the side of the pelvis to reach the groove at the upper part of the thyroid foramen, where it divides into two branches which encircle the obturator membrane beneath the muscle. Beneath the pubes it lies in an oblique canal with its accompanying vein and nerve. This canal is formed partly by a groove in the bone, and partly by fibrous tissue. Its two terminal branches are exteroial or lower and internal or upper. The Extemxd branch curves around the outer margin of the thyroid foramen, supplies the obturator muscles and the upper attachments of the hamstrings, gives off small branches to the hip, and passes along the round ligament to the head of the femur, supplying it and the synovial fatty tissue. . It anastomoses with the internal branch, with the upper branch of the internal circumflex, and near the tuber ischii with the sciatic. The IntervMl branch has a similar arrangement near the inner margin D D 2