HOMOLOGIES OF THE LIMBS. GOl and the external femoral to the internal humeral condyle. The patella may- be regarded as an independent olecranon, but it looks forward while the olecranon looks out and backward. This view is not contradicted by the fixct that the radius, the homologous bone to the tiliia is moveable on the ulna while the tibia is fixed; this is due to differences in function and does not interfere with their true homologies. The head and neck of the femur and humerus correspond, although for functional purposes the neck of the former is considerably prolonged. The trochanter major is homologous with the great tuberosity of the humerus, although in this position of the body the latter is turned inwards and the former outwards. The modifications of the general plan in which the three inferior corresponding sections of the upper and lower limbs in the animal series have been produced are in a large measure due to difference of function; to the action of external surroundings; to the influence of heredity in continuing serviceable variations, and to the power inherent in the fitting and survived individuals to perfect and continue the modifi- cations which have proved of most service. In other words, evolution, phylogenesis, and ontogenesis, assisted by the other causes enumerated, have played the chief part in producing the structures of man and other animals as we see them at the present day. In the upper limb the clavicle is interposed, giving greater breadth and soUdity to the shoulders. The humerus is rotated out, and the elbow joint is flexed, with its angle backwards. Pronation and supination are provided for by the joint arrangements between the radius and ulna, which permit rotation of the radius and hand upon it, and the power of opposing the thumb to the other digits is also provided for. It is evident that all these adaptations are suitable to man's erect position, and have reference to the manifold and delicate uses to which his upper limb is subservient. In the lower limb, which is used as an organ of support and locomotion, the arched form of the pelvic girdle, its being firmly fixed to the vertebras; the greater strength of its bones ; the limited mobility of the thigh at the hip as compared with that of the humerus at the shoulder joint; the turning in of the femur; the forward flexure of the knee; the non- mobility of the two leg bones on each other; the separate position and mobility of the patella; the arched form of the foot; and the non-opposi- bility of the great- toe, hiive all special reference to the function of this member. The lower one descends in the animal scale the greater modifi- cations are observed, which are manifestly adapted to the different func- tions which each organism has to perform. Comparison of shoulder and pelvic girdles.—These offer several homo- logical difficulties, but their analogies are plain as they attach their respec- tive limbs to the trunk. The blade of the scapula corresponds to the ilium, but the latter is firmly united to the lateral mass of the sacrum, whereas the scapula is not articulated with the vertebral column. The coracoid process, which is originally a separate ossification, and which assists in the formation of the glenoid cavity, is represented in the pelvic girdle by the ischium. The scapula and ilium form the dorsal parts of their respective girdles, and the ventral part is completed in the upper limb liy the articulation of the clavicle with the sternum ; but in the pelvic girdle there is no very clear homology to the ventral section of the shoulder girdle ; in other words, there is in man no bony completion of