48 HUMAN MORFHOLOGY. The following mixture hag recently been found useful at the West- minster Hospital: Common white arsenic, 1 pound, dissolved in a quart of water with a^ piece of common washing soda the size of a walnut. Add half a gallon of brown glycerine and 1 pound of saltpetre to preserve the colour of the muscles. Inject through the aorta while the fluid is warm, and keep the syringe in motion. 19. Carl)olic acid 1 POund Arsenious acid . . • • • • • ^ » Acetate of potash 2 „ Glyceriae 1 » Methylated spirit 1 gallon This formula is used at the London College of Surgeons, and if diluted with sufficient spirit will be ample to inject three bodies and to preserve them for a very long time. Fumigation of the body with some preservative material, combined with fumigation of the blood-vessels, i.e. the forcing into them of medi- cated vapom-s, has not yet had a sufficient trial, or even—so far as I am aware—any trial at all. METHOD OF PREVENTING ANATOMICAL PREPARATIONS FROM DRYING OR PUTREFYING DURING DISSECTION. It often happens that the parts being dissected either diy rapidly, putrefy, or become covered with the salt of the injecting material which becomes crystallised. This can be to some extent prevented by keeping the parts covered and wrapped, or bandaged with material which has been dipped in a strong salt solution, or in some preservative liquid such as carbolic acid, &c. But the solution of glycerine and carbolic acid has the property of impeding putrefaction, of diminishing the formation of crystals, and of preventing the drying of the dissected parts; and if the glycerine be of good quality the smell of the solution is less disagreeable. Commercial glycerine . . . 1000 gi-ammes Crystallised cartolic acid . . 4 ,, Dissolve the crystals in the glycerine in a water bath, and preserve in well stoppered bottles. A clean brush should be used to spread this liquid every day over the preparation, and in two or three days it will be observed that the muscles retain their colour and suppleness, that the tendons are more supple than in the fresh condition and become nearly transparent, and that the injected vessels are soft, and the material injected into them does not break even in a very cold winter. This liquid has, however, the disadvantage of blackening the muscles after a certain time. The following solution has similar properties to the cai-bolised glycerine:— Hydrate of chloral ... 1 part Glycerine ,^ ^ Distilled water . . . .10,',