624 HUMAN MORPirOLOGY. 3. Reflect the fascia lata, preserving the intei-nal saphenous vein and nerve, and make out its attachments, expansions, and muscular sheaths. 4. Trace out the insertions of the sartorius, rectus, adductor longus, vasti, and tensor fascite. 5. Follow out the muscular and cutaneous branches of the anterior crural; define Hunter's canal, and observe the relations of the femoral artery, vein, and internal saphena nerve within it. Trace out the branches and anastomoses of the superficial femoral and the branch from the obturator nerve to the knee, also the mid-femoral plexus and nerves. 6. Dissect out the course, branches, and relations of the profunda artery and its vense comites. 7. Reflect the adductor brevis and note the deep branch of the obtui-a- tor nerve and the muscles it supplies. Trace out the insertions of the pectineus, psoas, and iliacxis, and the origins of the crureus and vasti, and insertions of the adductor magnus. Reflect the crureus by a transverse incision about fom' inches above the patella, so as to carefully expose the subcrureus, then make out the reflected tendon of the rectus. Observe the insertion of the subcrureus into the synovial membrane. GLUTEAL REGION. 1. Make an incision from the tip of the coccyx along the sacral spines and iliac crest to the anterior su.perior spine, and one from the coccyx along the gluteal fold to the great trochanter. Reflect the skin outwai'ds. 2. In the superficial cellulo-fatty layer, find branches fi'om the lumbar nerves along the iliac crest, and branches from the sacral plexus and from the small sciatic at the inner and lower parts. 3. Reflect this layer by similar incisions, and expose the gluteus maximus and medius invested by their fasciae. Note the aponeurosis of the gluteus maximus, and that of the medius which is much stronger. These are formed by the deep fascia, the attachments of which have been given in the text. Reflect the deep fascia. 4. Make out the attachments and action of the gluteus maximus and reflect it, being careful of the vessels and nerves which supply it and of the others beneath it. 5. .Note the structures covered by the gluteus maximus and dissect them out, namely, the sciatic vessels and nerves, the internal pudic vessels and nerve, and nerve to the obtiirator intemus and pyriformis. Observe also the great sacro-sciatic ligament and the perinseal branch of the small sciatic nerve, also the origins of the hamstring muscles fr-om the tuber ischii. A bursa will be found between the tuber and the hamstrings, between the insertions of the gluteus maximus and the great trochanter, and sometimes another between it and the origin of the vastus externus. 6. Dissect out the structures leaving the pelvis above and below the pyriformis, and define the attachments of the gluteus medius and minimus and insertions of the pyriformis. 7. The insertion of the obturator internus and the attachments of the gemelli and quadratus femoris should be made out. 8. Define the tendon of the obtm-ator externus, and observe a branch of the internal circumflex coming up towards the back of the thigh.