G05 HOMOLOGIES OF THE LIMBS. into its proper position. Through this rotation the great toe, or tibial digit, is on the inner side. In most of the lower animals the fore and hijid limbs are permanently placed downwards, whereas in man both limbs are extended in a line parallel to the axis of the body. Martins regards the humerus as being virtually twisted upon itself to the extent of 90° at the neck, and another 90° from that downwards, in all to the extent of 180° in its length. He accounts by this torsion for the alteration of the position of the external humeral condyle from the typical condition, which, according to him, remains in the femur. He says that if the humerus were untwisted there would be an exact correspondence between the borders and sm-faces of the humerus and femur. This appears so probable that Gregenbaur has adopted and illustrated it by additional facts. However, embryology teaches that the external disposition of the lower humeral end does not exceed 90°. The same ingenious anatomist has advanced the view, that in order to discover the homologies of the leg with the forearm it is necessary to regard the upper part of the tibia— which corresponds in the main to the radius—as either including or having had transfeiTed to it the upper part of the ulna and olecranon, and thus he explains the attachment of the quadriceps extensor crm'is through the patella to the tibia, instead of to the fibula. According to him the patella corresponds to the olecranon, and although embryology furnishes great objections to these views, yet they cannot be entirely rejected in the present position of the question, although they cannot be considered as forming thoroughly satisfactory explanation of limb homologies. The homologies between the bones of the forearm and leg offer diffi- culties which, however, seem to have been solved. But it will be observed that the tibia, which is homologous to the radius, has acquired a greater proportionate growth, while both bones of the forearm have grown in almost equal proportions. This change in the tibia is the resultant of the body weight falling more towards the centre of gravity or mid-hne of the body, but the upper ends of the humerus and femm- offer somewhat greater difficulties. The femoral neck is, as has been said, homologous to the humeral. Both bones possess a depression at their head, but it is excep- tional and occurs only as a variety in man, and its position differs from that on the femur, being much nearer the neck of the bone. In the supposed position the head of the humerus looks downwards, while that of the femur looks upwards; therefore the great humeral tuberosity looks upwards and the trochanter major downwards. For a similar reason the lesser tuberosity looks downwards and the trochanter minor upwai-ds. The fact that the former (in the normal position of the arm) is on the inner or median side of the great tuberosity, and that the trochanter minor is external (in the usual upright position in the leg) to the trochanter major, is accounted for through the strong action of the muscles attached to them in the lower limb, and need not be taken into serious account in the deter- mination of the homologies of the limbs. The difference between the upper and lower extremities consists in the fact that the former has experienced a strong internal rotation at the shoulder joint, to which must be added the torsion of the lower part of the humerus. In the upper extremity the s})iral course of the musculo-spiral nerve (represented by the musculo-spiral groove) indicates the torsion the humerus has undergone, whilst the homologous anterior crm'al nerve