HUMAN MOEFHOLOGY. 584 Muscles, Joints, &c. of Pelvic Girdle, and tl Name Ext. brev. dig. Peron. long-. „ brev. Flex. brev. dig. Abd. liaU. „ mill. dig. Flex, access. Lutnbricales (four) Flex. brev. hall. Add. haU. Flexor brev. miii. dig. Transversus pedis Plantar interossei (three) Dorsal interossei (four) Origin Os Calais, calcaneo-astr ag. lig. and aim. lig. Fibula, head aud outer third; fascia and septa Fibida, outer and lower third, and septa Tuberosity os calcis Calcaueau tuberosity and first cuneiform. Int. ami. lig. and fascia Outer tuberosity of os calcis, plantar fascia and septum, and tu- bercle of fifth meta- tarsal By two heads from os calcis and from long plantar lig. Tendons of flex. long, dig. Calcis, cuboid, and ext. cuneiform from tendon of tib. post. Second and third cunei- form, second, third, and fourtli metatarsals and peroneal sheath Base of fifth metatarsal Transverse metatarsal lig. Between sides of third, fourth, and fifth meta- tarsals Adjacent sides of meta- tarsals lusertion First phalanges of four inner toes Base of plantar aspect of first metatarsal and iirst cuneifornr Tubercle of fifth meta- tarsal Tendon of flex. long. dig. First phalanx of four smaller toes through expansion to extensors Base of first phalanx of great toe and outer aud inner sesamoids Outer side of base of first phalanx of great toe and ext. sesamoid Base of first phalanx of little toe Outer side of base of first phalanx of great toe Base of first phalanges of third, fourth, and fifth toes Base of fii'st phalanges of second, third, and fourth toes Action Extends the fii-st p' langes of these toe Extends and abdut the foot, turning t sole outwards Extends and abduci the foot, turning t sole outwards Flexes these toes Draws the great 1 inwards from t second Draws the little t away from the fo Separates flex, lov dig. and bends t fii'st phalanx of t fom* smaller toes Flexes the first p langes Bends the firstpbalai Adducta the gi'eat < to the second Flexes tu-st phalaim little toe Adducts this toe . the second Draw these toes 1 wards the second Separate the toes Phmtar fascia and septa. Base of second pha- langes of four lesser toes Base of first phalanx of great toe and int. sesa- moid Base of first phalanx of little toe on outer side