75 ANATOMICAL TECHNICS. connecting movable bones, the method employed should always have regard to their natural motions. Desiccation.—The bones luiving been prepared as indicated, the dissected piece should be dried. This is effected by placing the part on wooden frames and carefully separating the various structures from each I ither by means of fine threads, or horse hair, pieces of cork, wood, or glass, ;ind exposing them in a room with the windows open, so that the air may l irculate freely between its various parts. If the weather be moderately warm, desiccation will be complete in three weeks or a month. The l>rocess may be hurried by having a fire in the room, but the preparation sliould never be exposed to the heat of the sun, because the fat will ooze out and soil the pre])aration. Examination of the Preparation.—When the preparation is dry it should be carefully examined, and the parts put in their normal position and relations. If any nerve filaments have been torn, they should be I leUeately joined with thread, which can subsequently be coloured white. Many museum preparations have coloured threads representing the in- jm'ed nerves. Mounting.—These dry preparations should subsequently be mounted on boards or blocks, and be kept in place by steel or copper hooks placed in convenient positions. They should then, after being painted and varnished, be placed in a glass cabinet, and be dusted occasionally. Most of these dry preparations in time become much shrunken, so as to be of little anatomical value in the study of their respective relations. Painting. —The preparation being mounted, the arteries, veins, nerves, and excretory canals should be colom-ed : the veins blue, the arteries red, the ducts yellow or green, muscles reddish brown, and the nerves white. Two or three fine brushes and some good oil paint are all that is necessary. It is best to paint first those parts of which the colour will predominate in the preparation. These are generally the muscles, and their tendinous ends should be tinted a pale yellow-white. The finer vessels and nerves should be coloured with small brushes, and one should be careful to con- fine the colour to the organ for which it is intended. The best way to do this is to place a sheet of paper or thin cardboard under the part being painted. If a neighbouring part has been soiled, it should be allowed to dry and then covered with the colour proper to it, or the paint may be removed by rubbing it with a brush dipped in essence of turpentine. Vaimishing.—When the preparation is painted it should be again submitted to desiccation for several days in a room in which the windows and doors are open. In about a week the paint will not come off on the fingers, and then is the time to varnish the preparation. The object of varnishing is not only to give a brighter aspect to the preparation, but also to avoid the action of moisture and of insects on it, to give a certain transparency to the parts, and to allow of dust, &c. being siibsetiuently easily wiped off. There are two chief kinds of varnish which are employed, each of which is better in certain parts: alcohol varnish, which dries ra])idly, and gives a bright aspect to the pi-eparation, but is not good in flexible parts, nor if it be desired to use the preparation often. The layer which it forms 3s brittle, and it should only be used for voluminous organs, lor llie bones, and lor corrosion preparations.