HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. the tensor fasciiB femoris. A strong process passes up between it and the vastus externus, and is attached superiorly to the ilium just above the origin of the posterior head of the rectus. This strong process, called the ilio-tihicd hand or ligament, passes down to be attached around the knee to the condyles of the femur, tuberosities of the tibia, and head of the fibula. It relieves the extensor muscles of the knee in standing. Around the knee the fascia lata is strong and receives expansions from the flexor and extensor muscles of the knee. Attached to the sides of the patella are two transverse bands of fibres ; the retinacida or alee of the patelia, of which the outer is stronger than the inner. The former joins the inser- tion of the vastus externus, and externally, the ilio-tibial band. It pulls the patella outwards in flexion. The inner is fixed to the patella at a lower level, and joins the insertion of the vastus internus. These bands support the patella and strengthen and protect the joint. This fascia is perforated in numerous places by cutaneous vessels and nerves. Its posterior part will be described in the dissection of the buttock and back of the thigh. To ex^Dlain the formation of the saphenous opening, and to facilitate the description, this fascia has been artificially divided into an outer, iliac or sttper/Lcial portion, and an inner, picbic or deep part. The former is external to the saphena vein and the latter internal to it. They will be described in the next sections. If fluid be effused beneath the fascia lata, it can only reach the surface through the apertures in the saphenous opening, or along the cutaneous vessels and nerves, or by ulcerating through the fascia itself. Fluid can pass down as far as the knee and around the thigh, being limited by the intermuscular septa. It may pass into the pelvis along the sheath of the femoral vessels, and vice versa, fluid may pass into the thigh from the cellular tissue of the abdomen and pelvis. The adhesions of the inner and outer parts of the fascia lata to the back and front of the femoral sheath would tend to j)revent this, but it does occur occasionally. ANATOMY OF FEMORAL HERNIA. Dissection.—To prevent the parts drying, bring together the skin over the front of the thigh, and study the formation of the saphenous opening. The Saphenous opening, or External Femoral Ring or aperture, is the lower weak point through which a complete femoral hernia protrudes. Before entering into a descrijition of the structures concerned in this hernia, a few explanatory words will render the subject more interesting and intelligent to the student. A hernia, commonly called a ruptm-e, is the protrusion of a viscus, or part of it, from its natural cavity; thus, we see hernia cerebri, hernia of the iris, ovary, &c. But the most common form of hernia is protrusion of intestine or of omentum, and this may occur in the inguinal, femoral, or umbilical regions, through the obturator foramen or through the sciatic notch ' There may also occur the rare lumbar hernia, i.e. protrusion in the > Lumbar, vaginal, and retro- or post-peritoneal hernise are rare forms. The first pro- trudes at the weak part of the loin external to the quadratus Inniborum, tlie second into the vagina, and the third behind the peritoneum. A perinatal hernia may also occur.