HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 398 of the femur, passing between the femoral attachments of the adductors longus and mngnus, and at the lower third of the thigh ends in a branch which pierces the adductor magnus, to be distributed to the muscles on the back, and outer part of the thigh, anastomosing with branches of the popli- teal and inferior perforating arteries. On the inner side of the femur it is parallel to the superficial femoral artery, though deeper than it. Relations.—Behind it are the iliacus, })ectineus, adductor magnus and brevis muscles. In front, it is sepai-ated from the femoral artery by the femoral and profunda veins; and below, by the adductor longus. On its outer side is the origin of the vastus internus, and on its inner side is the superficial femoral artery. Delations op the Profunda Aeteet. In front.—The femoral and profunda veins and the adductor longus. Outside.—Origin of the vastus iuternus. Behind.—The pectineus, iliacus, and adductors brevis and magnus. Branches.—Its branches {muscular^ to the muscles on the front and back of the thigh are numerous, and anastomose freely with other vessels of the thigh, leg, and pelvis. Of course, by these free communications, the blood is brought to the lower part of the limb when the passage of the main vessel is obstructed, either by disease or by a ligature. The named branches of the profunda are, the external circumjlex, inteimal circumfiex, and jperforating. The first has already been described. The Internal Circumflex Artery is smaller than the external, and ai-ises close to that branch from the inner and hinder part of the profunda, and })asses backwards around the inner side of the femur, between the pectineus and psoas muscles, but above the adductors brevis and magnus. Opposite the small trochanter, and near the tendon of the obturator externus, along which the artery passes to the back of the thigh, it divides into two principal branches, ascending and transverse. The Ascending Branch is distributed to the adductors, gracilis, and partly to the obtmator externus, anastomosing with the obturator artery. Another larger muscular twig descends with the deep piece of the obtm'ator nerve beneath the adductor brevis, supplying it and the magnus, while the continuation of the internal circumflex passes back as the transverse branch, above the small trochanter, between the quadratus femoris and upper border of the adductor magnus, to the back of the limb, where it supplies the hamstring muscles and anastomoses with the sciatic, superior perforating, and external circumflex arteries. An Articular vessel is given off from the transverse branch opposite the hip joint, which it enters through the acetabular notch beneath the transverse ligament, and after supplying the fatty tissue and synovial membrane, passes along the round ligament to the head of the femur. Inside.—The superficial femoral artery.