HOMOLOGIES OF THE LIMBS. 619 TniBD Category.—Muscles connecting uiie skcond Limb Segment to the Gieble. Shouldev (jirdlc. Felvic yirdle. Short head of biceps. Gracilis. Loiifi: „ triceps. Loug bead of triceps. (Rectus. Sartorius. " " ^ ' I Seraitondinosus. I Seniiuionibranosus. Fourth Category.—Muscles connecting the must and second Limh segments. Vastus externus bracbialis. Inner bead of vasti. „ iuteriuis „ Outer ,, BracbiaUs anticus. Short head of biceps. 0. In man; the radial part of the Popliteus. anterior brachial iu other mammals. HOMOLOGIES OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. Only a general correspondence can be established between tlie blood- ves.sels of the upper and lower limbs. This is partly due to the want of more exact knowledge of their development. In early foetal life there are no distinct large vessels, the parts being nourished through vascular net- works, and it is by the enlargement of one or more of these that the main arterial and venous trunks of the limbs are develoi^ed, and this takes place in a different direction in the thoracic and pelvic members, wlaich causes the somewhat different appearance of these structures in the adult. The analogy between the brachial and femoral arteries is clear, but they are not homologous. The brachial is represented in the lower limb by the small ischial branch of the sciatic artery. At first this branch anastomoses with the popliteal through the superior articular, and thus the popliteal is homologous with the lower parts of the brachial as well. In the forearm and leg the vessels appear to be homologous, but they are in reality rather analogous than homologous, the radial representing the anterior tibial, the ulnar the posterior tibial, and the common interos- seous the peroneal. Physiologically, these vessels correspond in fulfilling a similar function, which is to supply certain sections of their respective limbs with blood, but their positions and relations are different. The anterior and posterior circumflex in the arm are analogoirs to the external and internal circumflex in the thigh, but not homologous. The brachial artery divides into the radial and ulnar; the latter corresponds to the archipterygium, the former to the first secondary ray, radius, radiale, trapezium, and bones of the thumb. The common interosseous belongs to the second secondary ray, i.e. to the intermedium, trapezoid, and index finger. The third and fourth secondary rays and their corresponding fingers are nourished chiefly through the third and fourth palmar digitals. In the lower limb the anterior tibial, up to the point where the malleoli are given off, represents the radial. The common and iDosterior peroneal and lower part of the posterior tibial represent the ulnar. The anterior peroneal corresponds to the anterior interosseous, but the posterior interosseous of the foreai-m is represented by the anterior tibial. The posterior tibial may be considered as a vessel which has gradually received