8(! HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. clavicle, and the anterior concavity of its acromial part. Place the finger on the sterno-clavicular joint, and observe the ridge on the sternal end of the clavicle, which must not be mistaken for a bony or cartilaginous growth. Move the arm in various directions, and observe the great mobi- lity of this articulation. The joint between the acromial end of the clavicle and the acromion process of the scapular spine forms usually an even plane, but occasionally there is a small bony projection on the clavi- cular part of the joint, or a thickening of the intei-articular fibro-cartilage, which may be mistaken for a fracture or partial dislocation of the joint. This condition may exist on the opposite shoulder, a reference to which will help to settle the doubt; but should it not be present on the opposite side, the remembrance of the fact that the condition just described may occur unsymmetrically should make the surgeon cautious before expressing the opinion that there is either a fracture or dislocation, even supposing the deformity to have been noticed subsequent to an injury. It must be borne in mind that these growths may have been the result of injury. The spine of the scapula can be made out in its whole length, and also its acromion process. The angle formed by the meeting of the spine with the acromion is a very good place from which to measure the com- parative lengths of the arms. The measurement may extend on the outer side over the deltoid to the external humeral condyle, or across the front and inner side of the arm to the internal condyle. In dislocation at the elbow, which is difficult to be made out, whether backwards or forwards, out or in, measm-ements from the acromion to the tip of the olecranon will be of considerable value. In some scapulae there is a natural failure of union between the spine and the acromion, which is developed by two independent centres, the union being effected by fibrous tissue or by an imperfect articulation. In rare cases there may be two symphyses and two acromial bones, one symphysis being between the two ossicles forming the acromion, and the other be- tween the spine of the scapula and the acromion. The student must remember these facts, as these conditions have been, and may again be, mis- taken for fractm'es of the acromion, and have been described as such with ligamentous union. Flex the forearm and grasp the elbow; place the thumb of the opposite hand over the head of the humerus, pressing deeply; rotate the arm, and notice the movements of the humeral tuberosities and head. The greater tuberosity, which is external, and the lesser, which is in front covered by the deltoid, form the convexity of the shoulder. In rotation, whether in or out, it is the tuberosities which are usually felt, the head of the bone being much more difficult to make out. If the arm be raised, a portion of the head of the bone can be felt in the axilla, and at the same time the convexity of the shoulder is much diminished. In the various dislocations at the shoulder, the absence of the tuberal prominences, the projection of the acromion, and the presence of a bony prominence below the coracoid process in the axilla, or beneath the scapular spine, will indicate the nature of the dislocation of the humerus. Should fracture coexist with dislocation a bony crepitus will be present, and if there be much swelling the diagnosis becomes difficult. In thin or moderately stout subjects the neck of the scapula may be felt by placing the thumbs high up in the axilla, and the fingers in front