DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 289 The Dorsal Ligaments axe also transverse, passing across the backs of these bones. The Interosseous Ligaments connect the semilunar with the scaphoid and cuneiform, and ai-e two narrow bundles of fibrous tissue on a level with the upper surface of these bones, and complete the lower wall of the radio-carpal joint. Their upper surfaces are smooth and lined by the synovial membrane of the wrist. The Pisiform is joined to the front of the cuneiform by a capsular ligament and separate synovial membrane. It has, besides, two strong ligamentous bands, which connect it below with the unciform and fifth metacarpal bones. Occasionally it is connected with other metacarpal bones. The tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris is partly inserted into it, and sometimes its synovial cavity communicates with the radio-carpal joint. Joints of the Second Row.—These likewise are arthrodia, and are con- nected by three dorsal, three palmar, and three interosseous ligaments. Ulnn Plsi-cuuif. synovial Common synovial cavity Badius Eadio cai'i). synovial - Trapezio-metacarpal synovial Fig. 214.—Vertical transverse section through the joints about the left WRIST. To show the SYNOVIAL CAVITIES. PALMAR ASPECT. The Palmar Bands pass transversely between the trapezium and trapezoid, the trapezoid and os magnum, and the magnum and unciform. The Three Dorsal have a similar arrangement on the dorsal aspect. The Interosseous Ligaments are usually three, but sometimes only two. They are much thicker than those of the first row, passing between the contiguous rough surfaces of the ossicles. There is a strong one between the magnum and unciform, another one between the trapezium and trapezoid, and a slender one between the magnum and trapezoid. Sometimes there is a small one between the magnum and scaphoid. This junction of the first to the second row of carpal bones by means of an interosseous band is rare. It may subdivide the large intercaipal syno- vial membrane, or it may be perforated by it. u