DISSECTION OF THE PERINAWM. G71 penis tind tibrous sheath of the corpus cavernosum, anastomosing with the deep arteries. It will be dissected with the external organs of generation. Variety.—Tiedemann gives a drawing of a case in which this vessel arose from the deep femoral artery, and passed obliquely up and in to reach the root of the penis. 1 have seen one instance of this which occurred only on the left side. VaHetiea of the Pttdic Artery.—It is sometimes small or defective in one or more of its usual branches, in which case an accessory pudic is the supplementary vessel which remedies the defect. The Accessory Pudic may be given off from the anterior division of the internal iliac, or more commonly from the pudic itself, before the latter leaves the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen. It pierces the triangular ligament after having run along the lower part of the bladder and upper part of the prostate, and runs forwards above the membranous urethra to the peri- UcEum, where it gives off the branches usually derived from the pudic, viz. the artei-y of the bulb, that of the corpus cavernosum, and the dorsal artery of the penis. The accessory pudic sometimes arises from other branches of the internal iliac, and not uncommonly from the prostatic or some other branch of the inferior vesical artery, and a vessel having a similar distri- bution may come from the external iliac through the epigastric or through an irregular obtmator. The most common deficiency is that in which the internal pudic ends Fig. 4'J2.—Subpubic venous sinus and pubo-peostatic plexus, in which the DOHSAL vein OF TUB PENIS ENDS. as the artery of the bulb. In this case the arteries of the corpus caver- nosum and dorsum of the penis are derived from the accessory pudic. But all three arteries to the penis may be supplied by the accessory pudic, the pudic trunk itself ending as the superficial perinseal. Both cavernosus vessels have been given off by a single accessory pudic, whilst the pudic of the right side furnished both dorsal arteries. On the other hand only a single branch has been seen to come from the accessory vessel, that either takes the place of an ordinary branch of the pudic trunk, which may be wanting, or to supplement one of the branches which may be very small. Two Pudic veins accompany, and have the same relations as the artery, and receive similar branches, except that the dorsal vein of the penis does not join them, but pierces the triangular ligament and divides into two branches which enter the prostatic plexus. The Padic Nerve,—The posterior portion of this nerve was dissected with the ischio-rectal fossa. Its anterior part passes along the anterior half of the perinceum, much diminished in size, and between the layers of the