HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 340 supplies the skin of the inner side of the leg as far as its middle, where it joins the internal saphenous nerve again. Beneath the fascia in the lower third of the thigh, and at the lower border of the Adductor longus, this branch joins in a plexiform network—the femoral plexus—with branches of the long saphenous and anterior or superficial branch of the obturator nerve. If this branch of the obturator be large and continued to the skin of the leg, the inner branch of the internal cutaneous is small, and either ends at the plexus, cr sometimes also gives off a few cutaneous filaments. It will be noted that the internal cutaneous nerve enters into two plexuses; by its anterior branch with the prse-patellar plexus, and by its internal branch with the femoral plexus. Sometimes one cr both of these branches pierce and supply the sartorius. The Internal or Long Saphenous Nerve is the largest branch of the anterior crural and is sub-fascial as far as the knee. It runs close to the outer side of the femoral vessels, and, in Hunter's canal, crosses in front of them to the inner side as far as the adductor opening, where it quits the vessels and passes beneath the sartorius to the inner side of the knee. Here it gives off, near the inner condyle, a branch to the skin over the patella and becomes subcutaneous by perforating the fascia between the tendons of the sartorius and gracilis. It then accompanies the long saphena vein to the inside of the leg and foot, and joins the internal cutaneous in the thigh and leg. The Communicating Branch of this nerve is given off about the middle of the thigh; this joins the anterior branch of the internal cutaneous and anterior of obturator in the femoral plexus. Its Patellar Branch is large when present, and pierces the sartorius and fascia lata and passes over the front of the patella to join the inner branch of the middle cutaneous and the anterior branch of the external cutaneous to form the plexus patellae. The internal saphenous is some- times given off from one of the muscular branches of the anterior crural, and in some subjects it again joins the obtm-ator and internal cutaneous after it has left Hunter's canal. Dissection.—The dissector should now trace the larger cutaneous veins of the front of the thigh and follow them to the long saphenous. He must then clear away the superficial fascia, fat, and inguinal glands, and reflect the cutaneous nerves which will subsequently be traced to the anterior crural. Veins of the Lower Limb.—These, like those of the upper limb, are divisible into a superficial and deep set. The deep set run in pafrs below the knee, and are named the vence comites of the arteries they accompany. All the veins have valves, and they are more numerous than in the upper limb. The valves are more numerous in the deep than in the superficial veins—ten or twelve being found between the heel and knee. The deep will be described further on. The Stiperficial Veins commence in a network, which forms an arch on the dorsum of the foot that receives the venules from the toes. From the inner side of this arch issues the internal saphena, and from the outer the external saphena veins. The long saphena vein passes up in front of the internal malleolus along the inner side of the leg, then behind the inner femoral condyle and along the inner side and front of the thigh through the saphenous opening of the fascia lata, and enters the