626 HUMAN MORPIIOLOGY. inner side accompanying the vein, and of the external popliteal on the outer side. The snbcutaneous bursa over the insertion of the ligamentum patellse should be made out. The insertions of the inner hamstrings and the inferior articular arteries must be defined. 3. Eeflect this layer and expose the deep fascia, and note its attach- ments, observing the musculo-cutaneous nerve piercing it at the lower part, which must be preserved. The two portions of the anterior annular liga- ment must be defined and preserved. 4. Eeflect the deep fascia, noting its processes and preserving the an- terior annular ligament. Some of the muscles will be found to arise from the deep surface of the fascia at the upper part of the leg. 5. Make out the origins of the tibialis anticus, extensor proprius pollicis, extensor communis digitorum, peroneus tertius, and peroneus longus and brevis, and follow out the musculo-cutaneous nerve to its origin. 6. Trace out the anterior tibial artery and peroneal vessels, the an- terior tibial nerve, and at the upper part the recurrent nerve to the knee joint. 7. Note the attachment of the interosseous membrane, and its relations to the tibia and fibula. DORSUM OF THE FOOT. 1. Continue the median incision to the nail of the little toe, and make transverse cuts on either side at the webs of the toes, and reflect the skin. 2. In the very thin superficial fascia observe the veins forming an irregular arch, from which on the inner side the internal and on the outer the external saphena veins arise. Trace the branches of the musculo-cuta- neous and internal and external saphenous nerves to their respective toes. 3. Observe the relations of the tendons passing beneath the anterior annular ligament, and note their synovial sheaths. The tendons of the peronei, the Kgament binding them down, and their synovial sheaths, should also be observed. 4. The anterior tibial vessels and nerves passing beneath the annular ligament, and their relative positions with their outer and inner malleolar branches, must be made out, and the dorsalis pedis and its branches traced after reflecting the deeper fascia which also invests the dorsal interossei. 5. After tracing out the tarsal, metatarsal, interosseous, and digital arteries, and the origins and insertions of the extensor brevis digitorum, they may be reflected and the attachments of the dorsal interossei made out. 6. The skin should be reflected from the other toes, and the mode of insertion of the tendons of the extensors and their processes should be clearly defined. This may be facilitated by dividing the tendons above the annular ligament and pulling them downwards. 7. Define the dorsal ligaments of the ankle, foot, and phalanges. BACK OF THE LEG. 1. Continue the median incision to the bottom of the heel, making transverse ones at its lower exitremity. Eeflect the skin in and out. 2. In the subcutaneous fascia make out the external saphena vein and