IIUMAN MORPIIOLOG Y. 208 Action.—It moves the thumb back from the jJiilm by extendinjr ils metacarpal bone. It can then extend the wrist on the radial side. This and the other two extensors of the thumb can, Avhen the thumb has been drawn in towards the palm, assist in supinating the forearm in conse- quence of the oblique direction of their tendons. Nerve.—Posterior interosseous. Varieties.—This muscle is subject to much variation, which consists in the splitting up of it or its tendon into separate parts. It may be inserted either doubly into the first metacarjial bone or partly into the trapezium, or into the abductor or opponens poUicis muscles. Sometimes the extensor primi internodii is fused with it. I have seen it muscular or fleshy at tlie metacarpal bone of the thumb. The Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis is the smallest muscle of this set. It arises from the posterior surface of the shaft of the radius for about an inch, and from a corresponding portion of the back of the interosseous membrane. Its fibres end in a tendon which passes through the same groove on the outer side of the styloid process of the radius with the pre- ceding muscle, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the thmnb on its dorsal aspect. Relations.—It lies between the extensor ossis on the outer and the extensor secundi on the inner side. In front is the interosseous membrane, and behind is the deep fascia. Its tendon crosses the radial artery at the wrist, also its dorsalis and princeps pollicis branches. The posterior cutaneous branches of the radial nerve cross the extensors of the thumb and index finger. The end of the posterior interosseous artery and the jDOsterior or perforating branch of the anterior are in cwi^erio?'relation with this and the two following muscles. Action.—It extends the proximal phalanx of the thumb, and then the wrist joint. Varieties.—This muscle is sometimes absent, being fused with the extensor ossis metacarpi. In other instances it is more or less joined with the extensor secundi internodii. A common variety is the interposition of an additional extensor between the secundi internodii and the indicis. With the double tendon of insertion into both thumb and index finger, this resembles a muscle which normally is present in the dog and many carnivora (^extensor ioidico-pollicis). Nerve.—Posterior interosseous. The Extensor Secundi Internodii Pollicis is much larger than the primi, and partly covers its origin. It arises from the posterior surface of the idnar shaft for two or three inches below the extensor ossis and anconeus, and from the back of the interosseous membrane below for about, an inch. Its tendon occupies a deep oblique narrow groove in the middle and pos- terior surface of the lower end of the radius, and is contained in a separate partition beneath the posterior annular ligament. It then obliquely crosses the radial extensors of the carpus, being separated by a triangular interval from the other thumb extensors, in which is the radial artery, and is inserted into the base of the terminal phalanx of the thumb. Relations.—Sujpeyficially, with the same parts as the other thumb extensors, and deeply, with the ulnar, radius, interosseous membrane, posterior ligament of wrist, radial vessels, metacarpal bone of thumb, and back of the finger joints.