CIUPTER 11. IN TROD UCTOEY OBSEE VA TIONS. The Science of Morphology {fiop^ri=form or structure, and Xcr^os^ discourse), or Anatomy [dva = apart, and rsfMvco = I cut), is a division of that branch of natural science which deals with the organisation of living beings (and is therefore properly called Biology, fiiovs —living, and Xo7os = . discourse), and is natui-ally divisible into various departments, such as that of Human Anatomy, with which the present work deals ; Compara-, tive Anatomy, which undertakes the study of the structure of different animals, comparing and contrasting them; Vegetable Anatomy, which comprehends the examination of plant structure ; and Mineral Anatomy, if I may be allowed the expression, which deals with the structure and composition of the inorganic kingdom. Recent researches have shown that there is a definite plan of structure, subject to various modifications^^ even in the so-called inorganised, third, or lowest kingdom of nature. Human Anatomy forms a part of the larger science of Anthropology or. Anthropography, and has various subdivisions. Macroscopic Anatomy deals with the naked eye appearances of the various systems, apparatuses and organs, and is called Descriptive or Special Anatomy ; whereas Microscopic Anatomy or Histology (from i(TTQs=aweb or tissue) deals with the minute structure of the various systems and organs, and this branch of the subject has been called General Anatomy. Histogenesis is that branch of minute anatomy which studies the origin and mode of formation of the elements and tissues. General Anatomy may have its special departments, as Special Anatorny may have its general sections, e.g. the general part of general anatomy would deal with the description of elements which are common to many parts or organs; whereas the special jiart of general anatomy would deal, with the minute structure of elements which ore peculiar to certain tissues. The general part of special anatomy would deal with parts which are common to various portions of the body, and the special part of special anatorny has for its object the study of the special structures which are peculiar to certain organs, apparatuses, or regions. Special or Descriptive Anatomy may be treated of in tkree ways : 1, the Analytical, obtained by dissection, and called Anthr'opotomy; 2, Synthetical or Systematic, in which the study is begun with the bones and continued with the ligaments, muscles, vessels and nerves, &c., as in ordinary handbooks of anatomy ; and ,3, Topographical or Regional Ana- tomy, in which method certain parts or regions of the body lu-e studied in their entirety, and cognisance is taken of the relations nnd contents of eacli part. This last dey)artmcnt of anatomy has both a scientific and an im- portant practical bearing, and has been divided into Surgical, Medical, and