74 HUMAN MORFTIOLOGY. will be hidden wlien the preparation is finally put up. The holes being made, a metal cannula is fitted into one of them, and water is forced through by a strong pressui-e. This stream washes out tlie mediillaiy tissue, and should be continued and repeated for several days, according to the size of the bone. If, as in the vertebrte, and carpal and tarsal bones, there be no medullary canal, the bones should be pierced from above downwards, so as to form an artificial canal, and may then be washed out. Afterwards, the hole may be closed with putty or plaster of Paris. The tarsal bones may be pierced from behind forwards by making two canals with the drill; one through the OS calcis and cuboid, another through the astragalus, scaphoid and first cuneiform. Three transverse canals should be drilled; one through the cuboid and three cuneiforms, another through the bases of the metatarsals, and the third through their exterior extremities. The size of these artificial canals must vary with the size of the bones operated on; and when the bone is dried, these artificial orifices may be closed with plaster of Paris, putty, or gum and chalk. Another way of removing the fatty matter of bones is by boiling or by macerating them for several days in a solution of sublimate of mercury in spirit and water; but this maceration may be obviated if one paint the bone, after it is desiccated, with several layers of the alcoholic solution of mercury. In cold weather the maceration must be conducted in a warm room, else the cold will arrest the putrefactive process, which will be too slow, and aclipocire will be formedw If the bones come from a subject that has been injected with zinc chloride, they cannot be successfully macerated, as the zinc exerts a sort of tanning influence on the tissues. Such bones can only be cleaned hj boiling or by long burial. Finally, bones may be cleansed and all grease removed subsequent to maceration by exposure to the sun, by frequent washing in soda or chlorine water, or by immersion for a few days in sulphuric SBther, which will dissolve out all the grease. They should then be washed and hung up to dry in the sun for a few days in the summer, but in cold weather they should be exposed to the action of hot dry air. If the bones be buried for some time, and especially if they be placed in an ant heap, the soft and oily parts will be removed, and they will be, to some extent, bleached; but this will depend upon the nature of the soil in which they have been placed, and upon the amount of the sun's rays to which they have been exposed. Aqueous solutions of soda or of chloride of lime are good artificial bleachers and cleansers. To articulate Bones.—Holes having been drilled, as already indicated, or in any required direction, the bones are to be connected by catgut or pieces of strong waxed twine and knots, placed at intervals to prevent the bones becoming displaced. The femiu- may be articulated to the aceta- bulum by a screw and clamp, or by a strong piece of india rubber around the margin of the acetabulum and head and neck of the femur. The humerus may be joined to the glenoid cavity of the scapula by a thick india-rubber band, or by letting in a screw or thin piece of metal between the two; but these latter modes interfere with some of the movements of which the joint is capable. The examination of some well articulated skeletons will teach the student more than any written description. The lower jaw is usually attached to the temporal bone by a spiral spring. In