HISTORICAL SKETCH. 9 THIED PEEIOD. FROM VESALIUS TO THE PRESENT TIME.—THE REFORMATION OF ANATOMY. A man now appeared on the anatomical stage whose works marked the beginning of a new era in the history of this science. Andreas Vesahus was born at Brussels in 1514* The name of his family was originally Witting, who, emigrating to the Netherlands, changed their name to Weselej from Wesel in the duchy of Cleve, their native town. Vesalius first frequented the University of Louvain, where he studied under Winter of Andernach, then went to Montpellier, and thence to Paris, where he had for instructors his old teacher Winter, and Sylvius and Vidius. From 1536-1543 we find him lecturing on anatomy in Padua, Bologna, and Pisa. Dm-ing this period he prepared his grand work, ' De Corporis Humani Fabrica Libri Septem,' which he published at Basle in 1543, and which Boerhave called ojpus incomparabile, and Haller immortale opus. The splendid anatomical illustrations of this work, drawn by eminent artists, chiefly by Johann von Kalker, a pupil of Titian, if not by Titian himself, have Been copied in almost all the anatomical works of the six- teenth century. Yesalius was not merely the first author of a compre- hensive and systematic work on anatomy, but the foremost anatomist of his time who tried to shake off the yoke of Galen; and he thus became, if not the founder, at all events the great reformer of anatomy. He proved to demonstration that the anatomy of Galen was not the anatomy of man, but that of the apes and of the lower animals. The boldness with which he attacked the long-reverenced opinions of Galen and other ancient authors, and the irrefutable evidence with which he supported his own de- scriptions, raised him a host of enemies among his contemporaries. Among his bitterest opponents was his teacher Sylvius, who wrote a pamphlet against him, ' Sylvius VesAni Calumnias depulsandus.' Even his great colleagues, P]ustachius and Falloi)ius, opposed him, though with much less virulence. Aboutl544 the Emperor Charles V.appointed him his physician ; and on his abdication he became physician in ordinary to Phili}) II. of S[)ain. The constant attacks on Vesalius induced Charles V. to ask the theological faculty of Salamanca whether ifc be lawful for Catholics to dissect the human body after death. For a wonder the faculty r(;[)lied in the affirmative. Still, the opposition he met with so embittered his life that he burnt a considerable portion of his manuscripts. About the latter end of 1563, Vesalius left Madrid and went on a pilgrimage to Jerusalem. The story coinmonly received, lint l)y no means authenticated, is that, on removing the licart from the liody of a Spanish grandee, it quivered in his hand, and that he was permitted to expiate his error by a pilgrimage to the TToly T^and. Be this as it may, its end was melancholy in the extreme. On his retui-n voyage to Padua, where he was to take the vacant 2>rofessor- ship of anatomy on the death of l*'allopius, his vessel was wrecked on the isle of Zante, where Vesalius died, according to some accounts, of starvation, but more probably from fatigue and exposure. A benevolent goldsmith