DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 175 an inch wide from a ron<i-liis]i ti-iang-ular sarfaco just below the gk-noid cavity of the scapula, being blended with the capsular and glenoid liga- ments. Its muscular fibres pass vertically down to between the outer and inner heads, and join the common tendon of insertion with them. The inner head is wide and muscular, and arises from the posterior aspect of the humeral shaft heloiv the musculo-spiral groove. Its origin is narrow and pointed, and is attached just below the insertion of the teres major, and extends, reaching hiterally to the inner intermuscular septum, to within an inch of the lower articular surface of the humerus. It is also attached to the internal border of the humerus. The fibres of this head pass, some to the common tendon of insertion, and others down to the olecranon. The external head is narrow, and arises from the posterior sm^face of the humerus above the musculo-spiral groove, and between the latter and the insertion of the teres minor. It is also attached to the outer border of the humerus, and to the external intermuscular septum. The fibres conversfe towards its tendon of insertion. The common tendon of insertion of the triceps begins about the middle of the posterior part of the muscle, and consists of two tendinous laminse, one being subcutaneous and covering the posterior aspect of the muscle for its lower half, the other being more deeply placed in the sub- stance of the muscle, and, after receiving its muscular fibres, both tendons join above the elbow to be inserted into the back and tip of the olecranon process, giving an exjmnsion to the deep fascia of the forearm. A small bm-sa, sometimes multilocidar, is commonly situated between the bone and the tendon, and there is a subcutaneous one between the skin and bone. Relations.—Posteriorly, above is the deltoid, and it is subcutaneous in its remaining part; anteriorly, ■with the humerus superior profunda vessels, musculo-spiral nerve and posterior ligament of the elbov;^. Its long head is in relation m front with the subscapularis, teres major, and latissi- mus dorsi, and behind with the deltoid and teres minor. The dissector will recollect that the long head passes between the teres major and minor, dividing the triangular interval between these two muscles and the humerus into two smaller spaces, one of which is near the humerus, and is quadrangular, and the other is near the scapula, and is triangular. The quadranr/idar space is bound above by the lower border of the teres minor, below by the upper borders of the latissimus dorsi and teres major, outside by the humerus, and inside by the outer border of the scapular head of the tricejjs. It ti-ansmits the ])osterior circumflex vessels and circumflex nerve and its branch to the teres minor. The triangidar ■s\YAi:.e transmits the dorsalis scapulne vessels, and is bounded above by the lower border of the teres minor, beUno by the u]")per boi-der of the teres major, oatside by the inner Ijorder of the long head of the triceps. The lower portion of the outer head of the triceps is usually continuous with the anconeus muscle. Actions.—The triceps is the ma,in extensor of the forearm, and dinx'tly antagonises the biceps and brachialis anticus, which are its flexors. If the ai-m be extended, the long head may aid the latissimus dorsi and teres major to draw the humei'us backwards. The long head can depress (he raised humerus, adduct it, and tend to prevent dislocation downwards.