620 HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. its blood from three different sources : first, from the peroneal, secondly from a saphena artery, which, as comparative anatomy teaches, is, in the foot of many mammals, the direct continuation of a vessel running superfi- cially and accompanying the saphena vein. This vessel has no homo- logue in the hand, unless an occasionally occurring branch which accom- panies the cephalic vein (a superficial radial), and either joins the radial proper or is continued into the hand, be considered as such. Thirdly, the saphena artery having disappeared, and the peroneal and posterior malleolar having diminished in size, the lower part of the posterior tibial derives its blood directly from the upper part of the same vessel, which part is homologous to the radial. Thus is explained the coirespondence in size between the homologous posterior interosseous of the forearm and the anterior tibial, whilst the dorsal artery of the foot corresponds to the termination of the radial; but, as already said, the upper part of the poste- rior tibial is homologous to the radial. Comparative anatomy, as well as the positions and relations of the vessels in man, and the homologies between the bones and muscles of the two limbs, tends to confirm the above views of the arterial homologies, and the study of varieties strengthens this explanation. For instances not a few are known in which the sciatic is directly continued into the popliteal (a posterior femoral), whilst the femoral was undeveloped, the main artery of the lower limb coursing in its original normal position with the sciatic nerve, which latter is homologous with the median and ulnar nerves. (In birds the femoral is a continuation of the sciatic.) According to this, the femoral corresponds to the superior profunda which runs with the musculo- spiral nerve, and which is homologous to the anterior crural nerve. As illustrative of the varieties of the arteries of the leg, may be men- tioned the fact that when the posterior tibial is diminished, a large peroneal takes its place. If the posterior tibial be absent, the peroneal not only gives off branches which come usually from the posterior tibifil, but even in its course and distribution takes the place of the missing artery. Should the anterior tibial be small and terminate in the leg, its resemblance to the dorsal or posterior interosseous of the forearm is more striking. The common and anterior interosseous are not represented in the lower limb. The anastomoses around the elbow and knee joints are homologous and analogous, as are those around the wrist and ankle. The palmar and dorsal interossei of the hand and foot correspond, as, do the carpal and tarsal dorsal arches, but there is no superficial plantar arch corresponding to the superficial palmar, although the deep palmar and plantar arches correspond. The peroneal artery, which is homologous with the ulnar, bends at a right angle towards the tibia, then passes downwards also at a right angle and returns, in the sole, in an arched manner, so as to end in the commencement of the plantar arch. In this way the commencement of this arch is placed in the direction of the course of the artery. The superficial palmar arch is sometimes represented in the foot by a variety known as the superficial plantar arch. Nonnally, this is absent, because the homologue of the superficiales volas is much diminished or absent in the foot (probably as a consequence of the growth of the os calcis), and this vessel is only represented in the foot by the termination of the posterior peroneal.