BISSHCTION OF THE PBRINALVM. 663 muscle of the opposite side in the central perinasal point. At this latter spot it also joins the accelerator urina3 in front and the sphincter ani be- hind. Around the 'posterior border of this muscle the deep layer of the superficial fascia joins the anterior layer of the triangular ligament. Action.—The two acting together Avill draw back and fix the central point of the perinjeum, and so help to steady it previous to the contraction of the ejaculator. This backward movement of the central point will help to relax the sphincter ani. Relations.—Superficially^ the superficial fascia ; deeply, the triangular ligament, the transverse artery, the artery to the bulb, and anterior super- ficial perinseal nerve. The posterior superficial perineal nerve and artery run above it at its outer side. Variety.—There is occasionally a second muscular slip in front of or behind it which is inserted into the ejaculator. It has been called the transversalis alter. It may be absent. Fig. 484.—Diagram of a vertical longitudinal section through pelvis at PUBIC arch to show the two perinveal compartments and their contents. Altered ft-om Cunniiigbam. Nerve.—The perinseal. These three muscles bound a triangular space which is covered in by the deep layer of the superficial fascia, and the floor of which is formed by the anterior layer of the triangular ligament. It contains the superficial perinaeal vessels and nerves which run forwards in it, and the transverse peringeal artery which runs inwards along its base. Dissection.—On. one side, say the left, remove the ejaculator from the front of the triangular ligament and the erector from the crus penis. Carefully divide the crus near its attachment to the bone so as not to injure the triangular ligament or the terminal branches of the pudic artery and nerve. The deep branches of the perinatal vessels and nerves should be de- fined on the right side benenth the transversalis muscle. The Triangular Ligament of the Urethra, or Deep Perineeal Fascia, is a strong membranous layer which supports the urethra and closes the an- terior part of the pelvic outlet. It is triangular, and about an inch and a M