613 DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. ai-e the anterior or external crucial, the posterior or internal crucial, the semilunar fibro-cartilages, the transverse, the coronary, the ligamentum mucosuni, and ligameuta alaria, which latter are processes of the synovial membrane. The anterior ligament (ligamentum patellae) is the lower part of the tendon of insertion of the extensor muscles of the thigh. It is from two to three inches long, and is fixed above to the apex of the patella and to a rough depression on the posterior surface of the apex. Below it is inserted into the lower part of the tibial tuberosity and to an inch of the bone below it. It passes obliquely down and out to its insertion. It is strong, flat, and ligamentous, and its superficial fibres pass over the front of the patella to be continuous with those of the quadriceps extensor aponeurosis. There is a synovial bm-sa between the patella and the skin, and another between the upper part of the tuberosity of the tibia and the back of the ligament. Its lateral margins are continuous with the capsular ligament, and with the aponeuroses of the vasti. The posterior aspect of this liga- 1. Femur. 2. E.xternal condyle. 3. Epicoudyle or ext. tuberty. 4. Patella. 5. Tibial crest. 6. Fibular head. a. Quadriceps tendon. b. Lig. patellae. 0 cl. Expansion of quadriceps tendon on lateral xiatellar lig. e. Edge o£ ext. semiluuar meniscus. /. Part of ilio-tibial baud of fascia lata. g. Short, ext. lat. lig. h. Biceps tendon. i. Capsular lig. of sup. tib.-fib. joint. Fie. 391.—Eight knee joint. Antero-external view. One-third. ment is in relation with a mass of peri-articular fat which being below the patella is called the ' infra-patellar mass.' It is the larger of the two peri- articular fatty cushions, and fills the interval between the head of the tibia and the anterior ligament, which it separates at its upper part from the knee joint. This infra-patellar fatty mass is the lai'gest, and gives origin to the folds of the synovial membrane, and from it a narrow piece passes on either side round the patella. The piece on the inner margin is the larger, and overhangs the perpendicular inner facet. In extension of the knee this pad is applied to, and lubricates, the condyles. The supra-patellar pad of fat will have been noticed in reflecting the quadriceps extensor. It is placed between the femiu' and that muscle and around the upper part of the supra-patellar })rocess of synovial membrane. It is larger on the outer than the inner side. There is also some fat around the crucial ligaments in the interior of the joint. L L