130 HUMAN MORrjIOLOGY. dorsi and teres major, and note if the tendon pierce the capsule. Dissect out the anastomoses on the venter of the scapular between the infra- scapular branches of the dorsalis scapulae and branches of the supra and posterior scapular arteries; then place the scapula on its ventral surface, and put a block between the humerus and the axillary border of the bone, so as to render the shoulder prominent. Now remove the skin from the shoulder, beginning at the anterior border of the deltoid. Seek in the fat the cutaneous nerves of this region. CiUaneous Nerves.—The acromial branches from the descending branches of the cervical plexus ramify over the acromion, and are called super- or supra-acromial. They pass obliquely over the acromion, and outer surface of the triceps, and supply the skin over the upper and back part of the shoulder, and join the cutaneous fdaments of the circumflex and supra-scapular nerves. The cutaneous filaments of the circumflex will be found about half- way along the posterior border of the deltoid, and another near the anterior part of its insertion. They come from the upper and lower branches into which the circumflex divides, and supply the skin in their respective regions joining the acromial branches of the superficial cervical plexus. Dissection.—Make the fibres of the deltoid tense by using hooks, and remove the fat, and after having observed the attachments of the deltoid fascia, it also must be reflected. The Deltoid Fascia or Aponeurosis is thick and strong; it covers the outer surface of the muscle and sends many processes between its fibres. Internally it is continuous with the fascia over the pectoralis major ; above it is attached to the margins of the clavicle, acromion and spine of the scapula; and behind it is continuous with the fascia over the infra-spinatus and back of the arm. Dissection.—Remove this fascia, beginning at the anterior edge of the deltoid, and as the posterior border is neared, some cutaneous branches of the circumflex artery and nerve will be observed coming round it. The Deltoid is a triangular thick and strong muscle with its base, which is concave above, and its ajDex at the humerus. It arises fi"om the outer half or third of the anterior border and upper surface of the clavicle, from the anterior and outer margins and upper surface of the acromion, and from nearly the whole length of the lower border of the spine of the scapula. It surrounds the shoulder joint on its outer side, and in front and' behind. The fibres converge to foi'm a thick tendon, the anterior fibres passing obliquely backwards, the middle vertically downwards, and the posterior obliquely forwards. It is inserted into a triangular smface two or three inches long and an inch wide at its base, just above the middle of the outer side of the humeral shaft. This coarse muscle is intersected by three or four tendinous laminae, which are fixed at intervals to the acromion and clavicle, and passing into the substance of the muscle, give origin to numerous fleshy fibres. The largest of these lamina3 is attached to the summit of the acromion. Relations.—Superficially with the skin, superficial fascia, deltoid fascia, platysma, and supra-acromial nerves. Deeply (parts covered by deltoid), it covers the head of the humerus, a large multilocular bursa intervening. It also covers the coracoid process, coraco-acormial ligament, insertions of pectoralis minor, infra-rspinutus, supra-spinatus, subscapu-