324 mm AN MORPHOLOGY. Anastomoses of Up2)ei' Limh. Region Anastomosint; arteries Thorax About shoulder joint Scapula Arm Around elbow joint Around wrist joint Metacarpus Phalanges The perforating of internal mammary from subclavian with long thoracic of axillary. Muscular and long thoracic with first to twelfth inter- costals from thoracic aorta. Superior and acromio-thoracic with first intercostal The acromio-thoracic of axillary with acromial branch of suprascapular from subclavian. Suprascapular of subclavian with transverse cer- vical from same som'ce Subscapular of axillary with posterior scapular from subclavian and dorsalis scapulie of subscapular with posterior scapular. Long thoracic with subscapular Acromio-thoracic of axiUary with anterior circumflex of brachial. Anterior and posterior circumflex of brachial with subscapular of axillary, and muscular with each other Supei'ior profunda of brachial with the recurrent of radial, inferior profunda of brachial with anterior ulnar recurrent. Anastomotica magna with ant. and post, ulnar recurrent and posterior interosseous recurrent Anterior and posterior carpal of radial and ulnar with each other and with ant. and post, interosseous of ulnar above, and carpal arch below Superficialis volae of radial with ulnar, and deep branch of ulnar with radial. The palmar interossei of the deep arch with dorsal inter- ossei from the metacarpal of radial The palmar digitals from the superficial arch with the dorsal digitals from the metacarpal or dorsal interossei of radial Synovial Sheaths of Tendons and Muscular BurscB of Upper Limh. Arouitd Shoulder and in Arm. 1. Under tendon of subscapularis.' '2. „ ,, infra-spinatus.' 8. Beneath deltoid (multilocular bui'sa). 4. Around tendon of long head of biceps.' 5. Between „ latissimus dorsi and teres major. At Elbow. 1. Beneath tendon of triceps. 2. „ „ biceps. Around Wrist. 1. Around tendon of palmaris lougus. 2. „ tendons of flexors sublimis and profundus." 3. tendon of flexor longus pollicis, 4. „ ,, „ carpi radialis. u ,> „ „ uluaris. 6. „ tendons of the three extensors of thumb. n n „ two „ carpi radialis, 8. „ „ of extensor communis and indicis.* 9. „ tendon of „ minimi digiti. ' These usually communicate witli the joint. That for tlic infra-spinatus is inconstant. ■■' These may, tliongli extremely rarely, communicate with the wrist joint.