DISSECTION OF THE UFPER LIMB. 295 carpo-phalangeal joints should be opened to study the articuhir surfaces. The intei'phalanf/eal joints must be ju-epared in the same way. Metacarpo-Phalangeal Articulations.—These are condyloid joints with hinge movements, and are formed by the roimded heads of the metacarpal bones being received into the shallow glenoid cavities in the bases of the first phalanges. The bones are kept in contact by the ligaments, which are ante/fior and lateral, and by the flexor and extensor tendons. The Anterior Ligaments are five, one to each finger, and are thick, strong, longitudinal fibro-cartilaginous bands, on the palmar surface of the Jletacarpal 1st phalanx 2nd phalanx 3rd phalanx Fig. 219.—Lateral ligaments of a eight finger in extension. 11' 1". Tubercles to which the lat. ligs. are attached. 2 2' 2". Post, parts of lat. ligaments relaxed. 3 3'3". Anterior ligs. 4 4'4". Anterior parts of lateral ligaments. 5 5'5". Dotted line showing limit of bone. joint in the space between the lateral ligaments, to which they are united. They are loosely connected to the heads of the metacarpal bones around their articular surfaces, but firmly to the bases of the first phalanges. Their anterior surface is closely adherent to the transverse ligament, and forms a groove for the flexor tendons, the sheath of which is connected to each margin of the groove. Their deep surface forms part of the articular surface for the head of the metacarpal bone, and is covered by a simple synovial membrane. The dorsal aspect of these joints is covered by the extensor tendon, which acts as a posterior ligament and sends down ex- pansions on each side, serving as a capsule for the joint. Cruveilhier named these the glenoid ligaments. In the metacarpo-phalangeal joint Fig. 219a.—Ligaments of the middle f:nger. One half. Palmar aspect. 1. Metacarpal bone. 4. Third phalanx. 8. Head of first phalanx. 2. First jjlialanx. 5, 7. Lateral ligt". 9. Base of second plia- 3. Second ,, G, 10. Anterior ligt". lanx. of the thumb, two sesamoid bones are connected with the anterior ligament, and receive most of the fibres of the lateral ligaments. The Lateral Ligaments are strong, round cords at either side of the joint, and are triangular. Their apices are fixed to the tubercle on the side of the head of the metacarpal bone, and, passing forwards and down- wards, their bases are inserted into the sides of the bases of the phalanges, and into the anterior ligament. Movements.—These are flexion, extension, abduction,adduction,rotation, and circumduction.