HUMAN MOliFIIOLOGF. 362 Pathological conditions, or individual variations, may produce certain changes in the normal coverings of a hernia; thus the anterior layer of the canal may form one of its coverings, or it may break through the anterior layer and be constricted by it. In old hernise the septum femorale may be united with the anterior layer of the canal forming the fascia propria of Sir Astley Cooper. This may be immediately external to the sac, bnt is often separated from it by adipose tissue. It is important to remember that this condition may be occasionally present so as to prevent mistaking the fascia for the hernial sac, and the fat within it for omentum. Sometimes this fascia is formed by the subperitoneal cellular tissue which by the pressure of the truss is rendered thick and membranous. Fig. 263.—Dissection to shoav the relation of a small eemokal hernia e to THE EEMOliAL VESSELS. Tlie anterior crural ncrvo is seen between the psoas and ilinoiis, and the obturator foramen and fascia, uncovered by muscles, are below the hernia. In operating, the surgeon does not heed, or expect to meet with, the different layers as found in dissection, but cuts down at once, carefully, upon the narrow part or neck of the sac where it is constricted, and finds the peritoneum, which is usually recognised by its bluish white, glistening aspect if it be not diseased. The constricting bands are divided outside the sac, and the bowel is endeavoured to be returned. Should this not succeed, the sac must be opened, any stricture within must be divided, and the bowel or omentum returned or not, according to its condition. Varieties of Femoral Hernia.—These have been mentioned in passing, but it would be well to say a few more words concerning them. A com- plete femoral hernia enters the femoral canal through the internal femoral ring, passes along the canal, leaves it through the tipper part of the saphe- nous opening, and gets under or between the layers of the superficial fascia and beneath the skin, having behind it the falciform process of the fascia lata and the lower portion of the tendon of the external oblique