DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. 500 6. Muscular to Tabular Summary or Synopsis of the Nerves of the Lower Limb. 1. External cutan- eous from second and third divides into .Anterior and posterior brandies, which suj^ply outer side of hip and thigli. Accessory from obturator or third and fourth, an d gives off To anterior division of obturator. •To pectineus. Articuhir to hip. 2. Obturator from third and fourth divides into Superficial di- vision gives off 3. Anterior crural from second, j tliird, and fourth, and divides into {Muscular i Gracilis, supply 1 Adductor longus To mid-femoral i^lcxns. (Adductors brevis and luaguus. Articular to knee. To obturator externus. To hip. / Muscular / Sartorius. supplies 1 Pectineus. Superficial part-] Middle cutaneous. Internal cii taneous Deep part I Anterior and internal branches. Eectus. Vastus externus and knee. Vastus internus, crureus, and knee. To patellar plexus, and to leg and foot. Muscular, supply Internal sa- p h e n o u s gives o ff branches 4. Crural branch ^ frora fir«!t andl'^*^ upper part of thigh joining the middle cutaneous L second J 1. Small sciatic^ Inferior gluteal to gluteus maximus. from third and \ Inferior pudendal to skin of perineum, scrotum, &c. fourth, gives off] Cutaneous to gluteal region, thigh, and leg. 'Art icular to hip. To hamstring muscles. rArticular to knee. Cutaneous. Communicans peronei, Eecurrent articular to knee. External or musculo- cutaneous 2. Great sciatic is continuation of the plexus and' gives off External popli- teal or peroneal, and gives oil To peronei. Cutaneous to foot and toes. Internal popli teal, which ■ , gives off 1Muscular to front of leg. Articular to ankle. Cutaneous to adjoining sides of great and second toes. •Articular to knee. Muscular. Short saphenous. Muscular to flexors. , , , f Cutaneous to sole. Internal plantar which gives off P o s t o r i o tibial Muscular. Four digital. Communicating. Articular to toes. ^luscular. External /Superficial plantar J Si^««°^^(Doep Two digital. Articular. ' Muscular. \ Articular. 3. To gluteus maximus. 4. To quadratus fcmoris and pcmelli, whicli give ofT articular to hip. 5. Superior gluteal, which supplies the gluteus mcdius and minimus and tensor fascia; lata;, and comes from lunibo-sacral cord. (Pyriformis gemelli. I Obturator intornus and levator ani,