viii rREFACE. preparing for the higlier examinations ; but the recent ' Manual of Dissections ' by Dr. Carrington will, in great measure, make up for this enforced deficiency on my part. My primary wish was to produce a treatise which should be serviceable alike to the student of human anatomy whose goal is private practice, and also to the student of comparative anatomy ; and my scheme was to deal first thoroughly with the human subject, then to compare it with other vertebrates, giving direc- tions as to the dissection of the chosen types. The sections on the arm and leg, according to this plan, had been prepared ; but I soon found that to do the work ui anything Hke a satisfactory manner, even from a student's point of view, would involve so much time, space, and expense for additional illustrations, that I had better relinquish my first idea and leave its execution to more competent hands. It is much to be desired that such a work as that just indicated should be undertaken by several co-workers, and be amply illustrated, although I confess there is much to be discovered before the work could be thorough.^ Anatomical nomenclature and classification generally, but especially the terms at present in use in myology, are ver}^ unsatisfactory, and I had attempted a revision in this department. However, I soon found that before this can be satisfactorily done the subject of comparative myology must be much more thoroughly worked out, a task requiring much time and many labourers. Dr. Gadow has recently added an able monograph to this mter- estmg subject in Gegenbaur's ' Morphologisches Jahrbuch.' Those interested in the history of anatomical nomenclature and in the exposition of its absurdities, should consult Hyrtl's ' Onamato- logia ' recently published. The reproach—formerly perhaps valid—that scientific anatomy was neglected in this country cannot now be upheld, seeing that our anatomical professoriate can boast of such justly honoured names as those of Owen, Huxley, Flower, Humphry, Parker, ' Professor Gegenbauer has, I have recently heard, been for some time engaged at a work on Human Anatomy on the lines I have just indicated. To me its publication will be most welcome.