252 IWMAN MORl'JIOLOGY. The Ulnar Nerve in the Palm.—This nerve divides on or near the annular ligament into a siipei-ticial and deej) branch. The superficial palmar branch supplies the palmaris brevis and the skin on the inner side of the hand, and ends in two digital branches, the inner of which supplies the ulnar side of the little finger, and the outer innervates the adjoining sides of the little and ring fingers and communicates with the median.' The Deep Palvzar Branch accompanies the deep branch of the ulnar artery and will be subsequently dissected. It can now be seen to pass between the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti, and to give twigs to the muscles of the little finger. At the sides of the fingers the digital branches of the ulnar nerve have a similar arrangement to those of the median. Lymphatics accompany the digital vessels and nerves. Dissection.—Divide the ulnar artery just below the origin of its deep branch, and sever it from its connection with the superficialis volse, or radialis indicis, and reflect the superficial palmar arch towards the fingers. Divide the median and ulnar nerves just below the annular ligament and Fid. 164.—DiAUEAMS OF THE COMMONEST ARRANGEMENTS OF THE PALMAR SYNOVIAL SHEATHS. No. 2 appeai'8 to be the more usual form. throw them forwards. Make a longitudinal incision through the centre of the anterior annular ligament, preserving the origins of the muscles of the thumb and little finger, and reflect it. The arrangement of the flexor tendons can now be followed out. Flexor Tendons.— Beneath the anterior annular ligament the tendons of the superficial and deep flexors are surrounded by a loose and large common synovial membrane, which projects above the ligament into the forearm, and downwards into the palm, sending an offset into the digital sheaths of the thumb and little fingers. The Synovial Sheaths.—There are considerable variations in the arrangement, extent, and communications of the sheaths of the long flexors in the palm. The description about to be given, and Avhich is diagrammatically represented in the accompanying woodcut, is about the most common, but the student may, by carefully inserting the blowpipe, ' Sometimes the ulnar supplies two and u half lingers, and tlie median the other two and a halt'.