DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LI MB. 577 Articular Surfaces.—These are undulating, the tarsal bones being uneven to correspond to the wavy surfaces of the metatarsals. Movements.—This is simply an up and down gliding, and is greatest in the little toe and the toe next it. The little toe has also an ab- and adduetory motion, which to a very small extent exists in the fourth toe. Metatarso-Phalangeal Joint.—In these articulations the head of the metatcU-sal bone is received into the hollow of the phalangeal cavity, form- ing ball-and-socket or condyloid joints. There are two lateral and an inferior ligament resembling those in the hand, the posterior ligament being formed by the expansion from the extensor tendons. A sepai'ate synovial membrane lines each joint. In the great toe joint there are two sesamoid bones which are connected with the lateral and inferior liga- ments. These strirctures are more distinct in the hand, where their arrangement has been fully described. Joint Surfaces.—The heads of the metatarsal bones are covered with cartilage, and are longest from above down, and reach further on the plantar surface. The base of the phalanx is provided with a cup-shaped cavity covered with cartilage. Actions.—Movement in four dii-ections with circumduction takes place in these joints. In flexion, which is more limited than in the hand, the phalanx passes under the head of the metatarsal bones, motion being limited by the contact of the bones, and by the extensor tendons and by Fig. 436.—Ligaments op the toes. One-half. a. Jtetiicarpal bone. e. Second phalanx. 1, 3, 3. Lateral ligt». b. First phalanx. d. Third phalanx. 2. Fibro-oartilage. the anterior and lateral ligaments. In extension, which is less limited than in the hand, the phalanx can be moved back beyond a straight line, the movement being limited by the inferior ligament, the flexor tendons, and the posterior parts of the lateral ligaments. Lateral movement, in which the phalanx passes from side to side on the head of its corresponding meta- tarsal, is limited by the lateral ligament of the side from which it is moved. Circumduction is not as unimpeded in the foot as in the hand, but is more free in the great toe joint. Interphalanr/eal Articulation.—Each toe has two phalangeal joints, the first excepted. There are two lateral ligaments and an inferior or plantar. The joints between the last two phalanges are less well marked, and often the bones are anchylosed. A separate synovial membrane is present in each articulation. They resemble the corresponding ligaments in the hand. Movements.—Flexion and extension only ai-e permitted in these joints. In the former, which is more limited than in the hand, the distal phalanx passes under the proximal, and in extension, which is more pronounced than in the fingers, the two are brought into or beyond a straight line. Flexion is limited by the extensor tendon and the lateral ligament; and extension is checked by the flexor tendons and the plantar ligament. The first phalanges axe flexed by the interossei, lumbricales, flexor com- P P