614 RUMAN MORPHOLOGY. The 'posterior ligament (ligamentum posticuin Winslowii) is wide and fibrous, and is formed partly by a process of the tendon of the semi- laembranosus. It consists of a central and two lateral parts. The central portion is composed of fasciculi which obliquely intercross, and are pierced by the posterior articular vessels and nerves. The strongest of these fasciculi passes opposite the intercondyloid notch, and is formed from that part of the tendon of the semimembranosus which passes from the back of the inner tuberosity of the tibia obliquely up and out to the back of the outer condyle. The lateral portions are formed mainly of vertical fibres which pass from the upper parts of the condyles to the back of the articular surfaces of the head of the tibia. They are closely united with the tendons of the gastrocnemius, popliteus, and plantaris. This ligament forms part of the floor of the popliteal space, the popliteal artery resting on it. The Internal Lateral Ligament is a strongish, broad, flat fibrous band, thicker behind than in front, and placed nearer the back than the front of Fig. 392.—Critcial and e.xternal lateral ligaments op left knee. the joint. It is fixed to the inner tuberosity of the femur above, where it blends with the capsule, and below to the inner margin of the internal tuberosity of the tibia and inner surface of the shaft for nearly two inches. It is inserted below the level of the anterior ligament where it becomes thicker. Tendinous expansions from the sartorius, gi-acilis, and semi- membranosus pass over the ligament, being separated from it by a synovial bursa. Passing beneath it are the inferior articular vessels and nerves, the anterior portion of the tendon of the semimembranosus and the syno- vial membrane. It is closely adherent to the convex border of the in- ternal semilunar fibro-cartilage. Its posterior edge is strengthened by some fibres of the semimembranosus, and opposite the tibial head it is separated from the capsule. Directions.—The dissector shoidd partly divide this ligament to trace