DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 2-21 and arises from the inner margin of the coronoid process of the ulna, below the coronoid origin of the flexor sublimis digitorum, and joins the larger slip at an acute angle. Between these two slips the median, nerve enters the forearm. The fleshy belly formed by the union of the heads passes obliquely down and out across the foreai'm, and ends in a flat tendon which tm-ns over the outer margin of the radius, and is inserted into a rougli surface, an inch in length, at the middle of the outer surface of the radial shaft. Relations.—Anteriorly are the deep ftiscia, the supinator longus, and the radial vessels and nerve; 'posteriorly are the brachialis anticus, liexor sublimis digitorum, the ulnar artery and median nerve; the small head of origin of the muscle being placed between the vessel and nerve. Its inner border is in contact with the flexor carpi radialis, and its outer harder forms the inner boundary of the triangular hollow at the elbow-bend, and is in close relation with the median nerve. Actions.-^It assists in bringing the radius forwards over the ulna, and thus pronating the hand; but if the radius be fixed^ it brings that bone towards the humerus and flexes the elbow. In climbing it may assist to bring the humerus towards the foreai-m, thus helping to raise the body. Nerve,—The median. Varieties.—Its coronoid head may be absent, or it may very rarely exist as a separate muscle, inserted into the front of the radius higher up than the rest of the usual muscle. Sometimes a slip arises from the intermuscular septum above the inner condyle, or from the supra-condyloid process when that is present; and this peculiarity may be associated with the deviation of the brachial artery, accompanied by the median nerve beneath the bony process. It may have a third head of origin from the biceps or from the brachialis anticus. The coronoid head may, instead of joining the other head of the pronator teres, be connected with, the flexor carpi radialis or palmaris longus. The Flexor Carpi Radialis arises from the inner condyle by the common tendon, from the intermuscular septa and from the deep fascia. It is aponeurotic and slender at its commencement, but increases as it descends, and ends about the middle of the forearm in a flat tendon, which forms the lower two-thirds of the mxiscle. This passes beneath, the anterior annular ligament in a special compartment at its outer side, runs through a groove on the palmar aspect of the trapezium (which is converted into a canal by a fibrouf; sheath and lined by a synovial membrane), and is inserted into the base of the metacaq^al bone of the index finger on its palmar and outer aspects, and frequently by a slip into the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. Relations.—Supeo'ficially, with the skin and deep fascia; deeply, w'lih the flexors sublimis and longus pollicis and wrist joint. Its inner border is in relation with the palmaris longus above, and the median nerve beloiv, and its outer border with the pronator radii teres above, and radial vessels belovj. Action.—It flexes the wrist on the radial side and inclines the hand outwards, and continuing to contract it flexes the elbow. It may assist the ])ronator teres in climbing. A'erue.—The median.