HUMAN MORrilOLOGY. 390 deep fascia it gives otf two bvanclies, a communicating, and a patellar branch. Its Communicating Branch is given oflf about the middle of the thigh, and passes inwards beneath the sartorius to join the internal cutaneous and obturator in the femoral plexus, or it may join the internal cutaneous nearer the knee. This offset is frequently absent. The Patellar Branch arises from the nerve near the inner side of the knee, and piercing the sartorius and fascia lata, joins in the prtE-patellar plexus and supplies the skin over the inner side and front of the knee. The Deep, or Muscular Division of the anterior crural nerve supplies all the muscles in the front of the thigh, and also the pectineus; but the pectineal branch sometimes arises from the superficial division of the nerve. The tensor fasciae femoris is not supplied by the anterior crural, but, as before stated, by the superior gluteal nerve. Muscular Branches.—The branch to the pectineus is a slender filament which passes to the anterior aspect of the muscle beneath the femoral artery. There may be two twigs to the muscle. The Sartorius receives three or four twigs from the middle or internal cutaneous which supply mostly its upper part. The student will note that this muscle is supplied from the division of the nerve which is mainly cutaneous. The Rectus has a separate branch which enters, by several filaments, the upper part of its anterior aspect. The Vastits Externus has a branch of considerable size which accom- panies the external circumflex artery to the lower part of the muscle. It divides into two or more branches as it enters the muscle, from one of which a long slender articular filament passes down to the knee, piercing its fibrous capsule on the anterior aspect. The Nerve to the Vastus Internus is nearly as large as the internal saphenous, in common with which it often ai'ises, and divides into two sets of branches which enter the vastus internus and crureus about the middle of these muscles. The nerve to the inner vastus gives filaments which enter the upper part and middle of the muscle, but before pene- trating the muscular fasciculi gives a small branch to the knee. The Articular Branch to the knee from the nerve to the inner vastus, passes on or in the muscle along the internal intermuscular septum with the deep branch of the anastomotica magna artery, resting on the tendon of the adductor magnus as far as the inner side of the knee where it pierces the capsular ligament a,nd passes outwards on the synovial mem- brane beneath the ligamentum patellae. The Nerve to the Tensor Fascice Femoris comes from the superior gluteal, and after entering the under surface of the muscle extends nearly to its lower end. The student must now proceed with the dissection of the parts on the inner side of the thigh, but before doing so he should thoroughly recapitulate the substance of the present section.