333 DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. panies the extei-nal cutaneous nerve. One or two veins, bearing the same names, accompany each artery, and end in the internal saphena vein, except the inferior external pudic vein, which usually directly joins the femoral vein. The Lym-phatic Olanda and Vessels.—The glands with a few connecting lymphatic vessels are readily dissected, but the lymph vessels of any part of the body—the thoracic duct excepted—are very difficult to trace unless previously injected, and even then they require extremely careful dissec- tion. After describing the glands it will be well to give a resume of the lymphatic vessels of the lower lim.b, and the student should try and make out the lai'ger ones. The Sivperjicicd Glands vary much in number and size. There are generally from eight to fifteen, and often the longitudinal set along the saphena vein are united. They are situated just imder the skin in the superficial cellulo-fatty fascia, in a triangular manner, the base being above and the apex below. They may be divided into fom- groups accord- ing to their position: 1, the snjpero-internal group runs parallel with Poupart's ligament, and receives the lymphatics of the anus, perineum and skin of the penis, scrotum and labium; 2, the supero-external group also is parallel with the fold of the groin—it receives the lymph vessels of the buttock; 3, the inferior group runs parallel with the saphena vein and receives the greater number of the lymphatics of the surface of the lower limb—these are generally larger than the upper groups; 4, the median group is placed in the middle of the triangle—it receives the lymphatics of the abdominal wall which accompany the cutaneous veins. These glands become enlarged or inflamed in affections of the parts from which they return the lymph. The efferent vessels of the siu-perticial glands perforate the cribriform fascia and the fascia lata, join the deep lym- phatics, pass into the abdomen by the side of the femoral vessels, and joining a set along the external iliac artery, end in the lumbar glands. The upper groups are called inguinal; the lower, the femoral glands. The deep glands are small, are under the fascia lata, and surround the femoral vessels. The student will observe them when dissecting out these latter. The Lymphatic Vessels of the lower limb are arranged in a superficial and deep set and into an inner and outer group.' They are provided with valves, which occur more frequently than in the veins. The super- ficial internal vessels arise from the dorsum, inner side, and sole of the foot, forming an arch on the dorsum with the outer set, which arch receives the lymphatics of the toes. They then pass before and behind the internal malleolus, running up in the coiu-se of the internal saphenous vein, along the inner side of the leg, then behind the internal condyle, up the inside and front of the thigh and end in the femoral glands. The superficial external vessels arise from the outer side of the dorsum and sole of the foot, ascend in front of the outer malleolus and leg, and cross obliquely just below the ' For extensive and minute information on the subject of lymphatics g;eiierally, consult the magnificent recent works of Sappsy and of Key and llctziua. Dr. Klein's work is also very good, but it docs not deal witli the human subject, and is largely pathologiciil. Mascagni, Cruikshank, Tcichmann, His, and llecklinghausen are also great authorities. IJr. and Mrs. Dr. Hoggan have recently written on the lymphatics of muscle and skin in the Prnwediiiffn nf tlw Il.nyal Siicictij, and Dr. Curnow has lately given some good lectures at the College of Physicians on the lymi^hatics and their diseases.