DISSECTION OF THE TJVVER 11MB. £68 of the unciform bone and contiguous part of the annular ligament, and its fibres pass down and in, to be inserted along the ulnar margin of the metacarjjal bone of the little finger along its whole length. Relations.—It is beneath the preceding muscles, and its deep surface is in relation with the interossei of the fourth metactu'pal space; with the fifth metacarpal bone, the flexor tendons of the little finger; the deep branches of the ulnar artery and nerve also pass beneath it. Nerve.—The ulnar. Action.—It raises the fifth metacarpal bone, and draws it towards the others, deepening the j^alm of the hand. Varieties.—These are similar to those of the opponens pollicis. Dissection.—Cut through the origins of the flexor brevis pollicis, and reflect it to expose the deep palmar arch and the deep branch of the 3. 0pp. poll. 4. Pie.t. brev. poll. r>. Add. poll. G. Abd. iiulicis or first dorsal iiitoss. 7. 0i)p. min. dig; 8 8. Palmar iutoss. !). Division of subls. tendou. 10. Flex, subls; teildou. Fig. 179.—The vlexor tendons cut, showing deepee musCles. a, b, c, d, e,f, as iu previous figure. 1. Aut. aim. lig. 2. Insertion of palm. iDhg; Eight hand. ulnar nerve which accompanies it, and trace out their offsets. Note the connection of the fascia or aponeurosis covering the paltnar interossei with the transverse lif/ament joining the heads of the metacarpal bones. The Radial Artery in the Hand.—This vessel enters the palm between the first two metacarpals at the first interosseous space, passing between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle, or abductor indicis. It then tran.sversely crosses the palm, to reach the base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger, where it joins the communicating branch from the ulnar artery to form the deep palmar arch. It is accompanied by vente comites. The Deep Palmar Arch extends from the Upper end of the first inter- osseous space to the base of the fifth metacarpal bone. Its convexity is