HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 62 excess of varnish may be carefully removed with a brush, and if it be desired to deepen or alter the colouring, one or two coats of oil paint may be applied before the varnish is put on. MACERATION INJECTIONS These are little employed. Molten metals or mixtures, or alloys of them, are used. They have been chiefly employed to inject the bronchi or lymphatics. Bismuth ..... 8 parts Tin ...... 4 „ Lead 4 „ If a small quantity of quicksilver be added it will bring this mixture to a lower melting point. Hyrtl recommends a mixtm-e of: Bismuth ..... 2 parts Lead . . . . . 1 „ Tiu 1 „ Another preparation is : Bismuth . . . . . 40 „ Jjsad ..... 45 „ Tin 15 „ These molten metals are poured into the vessels through funnels, and the formation of air bladders carefully guarded against. The injected parts should be exposed to the air in open vessels and in the direct sun- light for a varying time—one, two, or three months—tmtil the soft parts have been destroyed by putrefaction. They are then washed away and the metallic cast preserved. INJECTION OF THE LYMPHATICS. These are more easily injected in a thin body and one which is oedema- tous, but if it be desired to inject the cutaneous lymphatics, it is better to select a subject in which putrefaction has commenced, and in which the epidermis can be separated from the dermis. Mascagni's method consisted in injecting the blood-vessels with coloured gelatine, which in time partly exuded from them and was taken up by the lymphatics, which thus became coloured. Fohmann and Panizza injected mercury by penetrating the skin and subcutaneous tissues with a fine cannula. The more modern method was introdticed, or at any rate ex- tended, by Recklinghausen, and consists in staining the tissues with nitrate of silver, and subsequently exposing them to the light luitil they are of a brownish hue. This method is largely used in histology. Sappey's recent method aims at colouring the contents rather than the walls of the lymphatic vessels. He has succeeded in producing a dark colour some- times approaching to black, but he does not state in his magnificent work on ' L'Anatomie, Physiologic et Pathologic des Vaissaux lymphatiques ' what injection materials he used. I have tried a ^ per cent, solution of nitrate of silver with good result.= . The lymphatics are usually injected with mercury, which by its gi-eat