I DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. d their Vascular and Nervous Supply. Aiitngouiats 581 latfl I'he pyril'oriuis, ge- ;melii, obturators, ;aud quadratus I'e- imoris which are external rotators liceps Jiceps, semiteud., semimemb., soleus, and gastroc. Jiceps, semitend., semimemb., soleus, and gastroc. Jiceps, semitend., semimemb., soleus, and gastroc. liceps, semitend., semimemb., soleus, and gastroc. Jiceps, semitend., semimemb., soleus, and gastroc. Jiceps and gluteus medius Huteus medius 'ensor fascise and ant. part of glut, med. 'he psoas and ilia- CU8 fensor fascire and ant. part of gluteus medius Arteries come from Lumbar, ilio-hnnbar and circumflex Lumbar, ilio-lnmbar, circumflex, and cirflx. iliac Gluteal, sciatic, and external circumflex Muscular of femoral, circumflex, and popliteal Muscular of femoral, circumflex, and popliteal Muscular of femoral, circumflex, and popliteal Muscular of femoral, circumflex, and popliteal Muscular of femoral, circiunflex, and popliteal Muscidar of femoral, circumflex, and popliteal Muscular of femoral and popliteal Circumflex and ob- turator Muscidar of femoral, int. circumflx., ob- turator Muscular of femoral, int. circumflx., ob- turator Muscular of femoral, int. cii'cumf., ob- turator Obturator, int. cir- cumf., sciatic and int. pudic Sciatic and gluteal Gluteal, sciatic, and int. pudic Veins go to VenfB comite.s Femoral, popliteal, and profunda Femoral, popliteal, and profunda Femoral, popliteal, and profunda Femoral, popliteal, and profunda Femoral, popliteal, and profunda Femoral, popliteal, and profunda Int. circumf., ob- turator femoral, and saphenous Venae comites and ext. circumf. Vence com ites and ext. circumf. Vena5 comites and ext. circumf. Venro comites NerVoB Lumbar plexus Superior gluteal Anterior crural Obturator Ant. crural Obturator Inferior gluteal Sup. gluteal Sacral plexus Lympliatics go to Lumbar glands Inguinal and hypogastric glands Inguinal and hypogastric glands Inguinal Liguinal glands Hypogastric glands Hypogastric glands Hypogastric glands Hypogastric glands Hypogastric glands