HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 606 descends in a straight course. In the thigh this difference of position is perhaps explained by the fact that the femoral artery also courses in a straight line, and also gradually passes to the back of the femur, becoming the popliteal, because the upper part of the femur has also undergone a spiral-like torsion on itself. The course of the artery and nerve betoken the original median or flexor position of the lower extremity. With reference to the homologies of the forearm and leg, it has already been stated that the patella does not appertain to the tibia as the oleci-anon does to the ulna,- but is simply a large sesamoid bone. The olecranon on the other hand represents the upper epiphysis of the ulna, and arises from three ossific nuclei of which the uppermost and larger was compared by Meckel to the patella. In rare instances the olecranon does not ossify to the ulna but is connected to it by a fibrous tissue, and in this event, provided it be not developed from the upper end of the ulna, may represent the patella; but it is more probable that the sesamoid bone occasionally found in the tendon of the triceps is the true homologue of the patella. The student must be on his guard against mistaking fracture of the olecranon with subsequent fibrous union for a normal structure. Hand and Foot.—There is no difficulty in determining the homologies of the metacarpal and metatarsal bones and phalanges, which in their form number and relations so well correspond. The opposibility of the thumb, and the greater length and mobility of the digits (which conditions are characteristic of man) constitute the chief differences between the hand and foot. In comparing the carpal and tarsal bones a general similarity as regards number and position will be obvious, especially in the distal row; but the determination of the homologies of the proximal series offers some difficul- ties. Of the second carpal row the trapezium, trapezoid, and magnum correspond with the internal middle and external cuneiform of the second tarsal row, and the unciform with the cuboid. In some amphibia and reptiles, especially in Chelonia, the second row of the carpal and tarsal bones consists of five each, through the division of the unciform and cuboid re- spectively, so that each metacarpal or metatarsal bone has a separate and corresponding carpal and tarsal bone to articulate with it. In the determination of the homologies of the second series we are much indebted to the researches of Gregenbaur, as indeed are we for much that has been worked out as to the homologies of other portions of the limbs. According to him the most constant, simple, and typical arrangement is that there are three bones, a radial, an ulnar, and an inter- medium, which correspond to the scaphoid, unciform, and semilunar bones of human anatomy. The pisiforme he excludes, regarding it as a sesamoid bone in the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris. The tarsal, scaphoid, or navicular has no homologue in the hand unless we include the exception- ally occurring os centrale of which I dissected a specimen in the anatomical laboratory of the London Hospital JNIedical College. It would appear that this bone corresponds to the os centrale together with the detached part of the scaphoid in amphibia, reptiles, and in some mammals, as in Simise and Eodents. This central bone is interposed between those of the first and second row, and, more directly, between the scaphoid and lunar and the trapezium and trapezoid. Many circumstances lead to the belief that it is rather a part of one of the proximal bones than really an independent