HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 402 is in relation with the obturator extemus and quadratus femoris muscles and internal circumflex vessels. Action.—It is a powerful adductor of the thigh, and projects the femur forwards in walking or running. The glutei muscles, which are the opponents of the adductors, assist them in walking. Acting from below, it is a powerful factor in maintaining the pelvis erect on the femur, and will also help in bringing the pelvis forwards. Varieties.—It varies in the degree of its segmentation. The upper transverse part is so often separated from the rest by the profunda artery, that some anatomists have described it as a special muscle called the Adductor minimus. Its condylar portion has been seen to be quite distinct from the rest of the muscle, but on the other hand the muscle has been found undivided, and its upper part completely united to the quadratus femoris. I perfectly recollect one well-marked instance of this arrangement. Nerves.—The obturator and great sciatic. The Psoas and Iliacus, or Ilio-Psoas, have separate origins from the lumbar vertebrae and innominate bone, but are joined in the thigh. The conjoined part of these muscles passes beneath Poupart's ligament, and the tendon of the psoas is inserted into the small trochanter. Its tendon, which is at first within the substance of the muscle, is afterwards at its outer side where it receives the fibres of the iliacus. The fleshy iliacus is partly inserted with the tendon of the psoas, and partly by fleshy fibres into a special triangular impression on the upper part of the femur in front of, and below, the lesser trochanter. Variety.—There is sometimes a small detached piece of the iliacus called the ilio-capsularis, or iliacus minor; it arises from the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium and is inserted into the anterior inter-trochanteric line, and is closely united to the front of the hip cap- sule. Relations.—Beneath Poupart's ligament the muscles fill the interval between the anterior superior iliac spine and the ileo-pectineal eminence. In front of the iliacus is the anterior crural nerve, and behind it is the hip' capsule and a small bursa. At its outer border are the origins of the rectus and sartorius, and at its inner edge is the psoas. In front of the psoas is the femoral artery, behind it is a large bursa separating it from the hip capsule. This bursa sometimes communicates with the joint. At its outer margin are the rectus, vastus internus, sar- torius and anterior crural nerve, and its inner margin is separated fi'om the pectineus by the internal circumflex vessels. Action.—These muscles flex the hip joint and rotate the femur outwards ; their further use will be given with the dissection of the abdo- men. The Obturator Externus is a flat triangular muscle which covers the outer surface of the anterior pelvic wall. Its apex is at the femur, and its base at the pelvis. It arises from the outer siu-face of the anterior two- thirds of the obturator membrane, from the outer surface of the body and ramus of the ischium, and also from a tendinous arch which completes the canal for the passage of the obturator vessels and nerves. Its fibres con- verge to a tendon which passes horizontally out and back along the groove between the acetabulum and tuber ischii, in contact with the under and