DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. 397 brandies of the third and Ibnrth luniharnevves, and leaves the pelvis above the obtm-ator vessels, through the upper part of the obturator or thyroid foramen, through which it passes into the thigh, and at once divides into an anterior or mperficial and 'posterior or deep branch, which are sepa- rated from each other by the adductor brevis. It supplies the adductors, the obturator externus, the hip and knee joints, and sometimes the skin of the inner part of the thigh and leg. The anterior or superjicial part of the nerve descends in front of the adductor brevis, and beneath the pectineus and adductor longus to the lower border of the latter, where it communicates with the inner branch of the internal cutaneous, and with the internal saphenous nerves in the femoral plexus. It then is distributed along the femoral artery. Branches.—A commttnicating branch which joins the accessory obtu- rator nerve. An articular branch is given off near the obturator foramen, which accompanies an artery to the hip joint. MiLseidar branches to the gracilis, adductor magnus. and sometimes to the adductor brevis, and pectineus. These and the communicating branch are given off beneath the pectineus. The termination of the nerve turns outwards upon the femoral artery, and breaks up into filaments that surround the vessel. Varieties.—In some subjects the communicating branch is larger than usual, and emerges from the lower border of the adductor longus, and descends along the posterior margin of the sartorius to the inner side of the knee, where it pierces the deep fascia, joins the long saphenous nerve, and passes down to supply the skin of the inner side of the leg, as low as its middle. When this branch is small, its place is taken by an inner branch of the internal cutaneous nerve, and vice versa; when this nerve is present, the branch of the internal cutaneous of the anterior crural is small, the size of the two nerves bearing an inverse proportion to each othei'. When large, it sends branches to the femoral plexus. The Posterior or Deep Branch of the obturator nerve perforates the obtm-ator externus, and passes behind the adductor brevis to the front of the adductor magnus, where it divides into many muscxdar branches, which supply the obtm'ator externus, the adductor magnus, and occasionally the adductor brevis, i.e. if this muscle receives no branch fi-om the anterior division of the nerve. - The Articular branch for the knee is long and' slender, and rests at first on the adductor magnus, but pierces its lower fibres to reach the upper part of the popliteal space. It then descends uj^on the popliteal artery to the back of the knee, and after sending filaments around, the vessel enters the joint through the posterior ligament. Directions.—The veins and the fatty tissue must be removed from the perforating branches of the profunda, and the internal circumflex should be traced to its origin, above the upper border of the adductor brevis. The Profunda Femoris, or Deep Pemoral Artery, nearly equals the super- ficial femoral in size, and is given off from the outer and back part of the common femoral, about an inch and a half to two inches beloAv Poupart's ligament. It is the principal nutrient vessel of the muscles and soft parts of the thigh. At its commencement it ])asses out in front of the iliacus, and then runs down and back behind the femoral vessels to the inner side