85 ANATOMICAL TECHNICS. The friction of the saw generates a certain amount of heat which causes the fotty tissues to soften on the surface of the section ; the fat mixing with the sawdust forms a hxyer over the section, giving it an appearance as if it had been buttered. After the sections have been made, they require to be washed in ice-cold water to remove this layer of greasy debris. This having been done, the various structures will be distinctly displayed, and their relations to one another seen. If it is desired to make drawings of the sections, they should be replaced in the box separately and exposed to the action of the salt and ice for two or three hom-s, in order to freeze the water on the surface, and thus obtain a dry, smooth, transparent siu-face. The surface being frozen, it may be covered with transparent tracing-paper and an exact tracing made.^ If drawings are not required, the sections, after having been washed, should be placed on separate slabs or sheets of glass so that they do not touch one another, and immersed in equal parts of methylated spiiit and water. The thawing process now begins rapidly, and in a few hours the sections become quite soft and iiaccid. At this stage they must not be handled, as the structm-es are easily displaced. After remaining a week in this dilute spirit, each section should be removed on its own slab of glass and placed in fresh spirit of the strength of two parts of spirit to one of water. Another sheet of glass may be placed on the upper sm-face, and the section turned over, so that the spirit may get more freely at the sm-face which was next the glass in the first instance, it being uppermost on this occasion. In this second spirit solution the preparations may remain for about ten days or a fortnight; at the end of that time they may be taken out and placed in pm-e spirit, where they should lie for about three weeks before they are handled. By that time they will have become permanently hardened by the spirit. The object of using weak spirit in the first instance is to prevent shrinking of the tissues taking place, which always occurs if pure spirit is used from the beginning. If dilute sj^irit is used at first, it will be found that the sections do not shrink to any perceptible extent afterwards. In proof of this it maybe mentioned that there are some longitudinal sections through the head, in the museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England, made three years ago, in which the brain section still fills the bony circle of the skull completely. After the specimens have become hard they may be taken out of the spirit to have their surfaces smoothed and dressed with a sharp amputating knife or razor; care must be taken, however, not to keep them out of the spirit too long, and they should on no account be permitted to get dry. They are then ready for permanent mounting. To display them to the best advantage they should be mounted in flat jjorcelain dishes or trays, with ground edges and glass covers cemeiited down with a composition of four parts of asphalt to five of old gutta percha melted together and applied when fluid. As the mounting is expensive from the cost of the porcelain trays, it is often preferable to keep the sections unmounted in spirit. In this condition they are even better available for minute examination than when mounted. Their value for reference will be greatly enhanced if at the time they are cut, the exact ' A speedy though rough plan is to take a rvbh'iif/ by placing- paper over the frozen prc- panition nnrl nibbing cobbler's wax over it. An exael reproduction is thus obtained in less than a minute.