661 DISSECTION OF THE rEIilN/EUM. dinous expansion which is spread over the under surface of the crus, and is inserted into the outer and under surface of the forepart of the crus. Action.—It compresses the crus against the bone, and assists in produc- ing or in maintaining erection of the penis by preventing the escape of blood from the distended veins. Nerve.—The perina3al. Relations.—It lies on the crus and root of the penis, and on the bone, and has the superficial fascia above it (in this position) and forms the outer boundary of the triangle already mentioned. Varieties.—Two slips of muscle, apparently belonging to the erectores penis, but separated by a slight interval from them, have been described by Houston and named by him compressores vence dorsalis penis. They arise from the pubic arch above the attachments of the crura and erectors, and passing up and forwards, join each other in the mid-line, where they are above the dorsal vein. They are inconstant in man, but are well developed in the dog and several other animals. The Ejaculator TJrinse, or Bulbo-cavernosus, or accelerator urinae, is com- FiG. 482.—Dissection of the muscles at the root of the penis. Eight side. posed of two symmetrical halves united in the mid-line by a tendinous raphe. It may be considered as a single muscle which arises from this median tendon and from the central point of the perinaeum. Its fibres diverge and form a thin layer, the most posterior of which are inserted on the anterior surface of the triangular ligament. The middle fibres encircle the bulb and neighbouring part of the coq^us spongiosum urethrae, as far forwards as the union of the corpora cavernosa, and join the fibres of the opposite muscle in a strong aponeurosis on the upper part of the corpus spongiosum. The anterior fibres are the most distinct and the longest; they spread out on the sides of the corpora cavernosa, and are inserted, partly into their outer parts anterior to the insertion of the erector penis, and partly by a tendinous expansion over the dorsal vessels of the penis. Actions.—The two lateral portions, acting as one muscle, compress the bulb and neighbouring part of the corpus spongiosum, so as forcibly to eject any fluid which may be in the canal. It is relaxed during micturi- tion, but can be voluntarily contracted towards the end of that process ;but in seminal emission it acts involuntai'ily. The anterior fibres being in-