y94 HUMAN MOHPIIOLOGY. one from the trapezium, which is above the sheath of the tendon of tlie V flexor carpi radialis; a middle one from the magnum; and an inner one j) from the unciform. The Interosseous Ligaments are short, thick fibres limited to one por- tion of this articulation. They connect the inferior angles of the magnum and unciform with the adjacent surfaces of the third and fourth meta- carpals. Sometimes they isolate the joints of the last two metacarpals with the unciform from the rest of the carpal and metacarpal joints; but \ it is oftener divided into two, and does not form a complete separation. j Dissection.—These interosseous bands may be exposed by dividing the transverse ligament joining the third and fourth metacarpals, and by open- ing the joint between the unciform and the last two metacarpals. The Synovial Membrane is a continuation of that between the two rows of carpal bones, but sometimes the joint between the unciform and fourth and fifth metacarpals has a separate one. Movements.—This is limited to a slight antero-posterior gliding of the articular sm-faces on each other. The fifth metacarpal is more movable than the fom'th, and the second and third have scarcely any appreciable motion. The metacarpals of the ring and little fingers are capable of very slight ab- and adduction. Union of the Metacarpal Bones with each other.—The metacarpal bones are joined at their carpal and plialangeal extremities, the joints at theu- bases being covered with cartilage and connected by dorsal, palmar, and interosseous ligaments. The Dorsal and Palmar are usually three in number, and pass trans- versely from one bone to the other on the dorsal and palmar surfaces. The Interosseous ligaments pass between the rough contiguous sm-faces just beneath their lateral articular facets. The Synovial Membrane lining the lateral facets is part of that be- tween the two rows of carpal bones. The Digital ends of the four inner metacarjDals are joined by a narrow fibrous transverse band which passes across their anterior surface and is blended with the metacarpo-phalangeal ligaments. It is the deep trans- verse ligament which was seen in the dissection of the hand, and its pos- terior smface blends with the ligaments just named, but its anterior has four grooves for the passage of the flexor tendons. Dissection.—Divide the ligaments which remain uncut on the pos- terior aspect of these articulations, and separate the ai-ticular surfaces. Joint Surfaces.—The metacarpal of the index finger has, at its base, a hollow articular surface to receive the prominence of the traj)ezoid, and it articulates laterally with the trapezium and magnum. The metacarpal of the middle finger articulates with the magnum, and that of the ring finger with the magniun and unciform. The little finger metacarpal articulates with the unciform. Synovial Membranes.—They are usually two, between the carpal and metacarpal bones : a separate one for the thumb, and prolongations of the common carpal synovial membrane for the others. As already stated, there may be a separate synovial sac for the joint between the unciform and two inner metacarpals. Dissection. —Remove the tendons from both surfiices and the tendinous expansions, and clean the anterior and lateral ligaments. One of the meta-