DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. 405 The sacro-iliac synchondrosis extends between the first and third sacral spines. The dissector should feel the depression between the last rib and the iliac crest, and should measure the distance between the anterior and the posterior superior spinous processes of the ilium, because half an inch posterior to the half-distance between these points is the spot which cor- responds with the outer border of the quadratus lumborum. An oblique incision midway between the last rib and crest of the ilium, the centre of which corresponds to the outer border of the quadratus lumborum, is the best one to adopt in the operation for opening the descending colon in left lumbar colotomy. This portion of large intestine is usually devoid of peritoneum on its posterior aspect, and is frequently opened in obstruc- tions of the rectum. The other bony points are the tuber ischii, and the great trochanter of the femm-. Stretching between the sacrum and the tuber ischii beneath the gluteus maximus the student may feel the great sacro-sciatic ligament by passing his finger upwards beneath the lower border of the muscle. His finger will sink into the ischio-rectal fossa. Between the tuber ischii and the great trochanter run the greater and lesser sciatic nerves, and the 4 I Fig. 2!)2.—Diagram op position of body and incisions fob dissecting the back of the body. sciatic artery. The nerves are a little nearer the tuber than the great trochanter. The Trochanter 'ma^or is an important surgical landmark, and the surgeon has frequent opportunity to examine its relations, in cases of fracture, dislocation, or disease of the hip joint or its neighbourhood. A line passing from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to the middle of the tuber ischii is, in most subjects, on a level with the upper margin of the great trochanter. This line also runs over the. centre of the acetabulum. In fractures of the neck of the femur, or when the head of the bone is comy)letely, or even partially displaced from the acetabulum, the upper pait of the great trochanter will either be above or below this line according to the nature of the injury or disease. The gluteal fold which is formed hy the lower margin of the gluteus maximus, and the subcutaneous fat, is also a beacon which will assist the sm'geon in diagno- sing disease or injury in this region. Let the student sink his fingers between the tuber ischii and the great trochanter, and also above the great trochanter, and if he now rotate