HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 604 The conception of each extremity as an appendicular arch, homologous to the pharyngeal or visceral arches, making "the os hyoides analogous to the OS coxarura or its parts, are not so paradoxical as would at first sight appear; because in an early stage of development the upper extremity lies close to the neck, and the lower to the trunk; and Gegenbaur has shown ('Moqihologisches Jahrbuch,' 1876, Bd. 3, p. 396) that downward growth- extensions occm- in the neighbourhood of the vertebral column at the sites of the future limb girdles ; and has also pointed out the occurrence of these in nearly allied species, such as geese and swans for the upper limb, and in the chimpanzee aud orang-outang for the lower. Each upper and lower member is connected with the spinal cord by means of its nerves, which pass to and from it in corresponding inter- vertebral foramina. This idea, that each extremity is an arch from which the archipterygium is the chief segmented radius, and from which on one, but seldom on two sides, four and rarely five secondary radii proceed, seems to be well founded in embryology and comparative anatomy, and is independent of the hypo- thesis which compares it to a visceral arch. The archipterygium or primary limb ray, is represented in the upper extremity of man by the humerus, ulna, cuneiform, inner half of the unci- form, and the fifth finger. The first, or most proximal, secooidai'y ray, which is the strongest, is represented by the radius, scaphoid, trapezium, and thumb. To the second secondary ray belong (for this it appears probable is originally independent), the os intermedium, the radial part of the OS centrale, the trapezoid, and the index finger. To the third ray belong the tilnar part of the os cai-pi centrale, the magnum, and the third finger. The fourth secondary ray ends in the fourth finger. The pisi- form is not morphologically a carpal bone, but is a sesamoid bone developed in the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and physiologically this view is the correct one. It appears not improbable that the pisiforme is a sixth rudimentary ray, of which traces are found in some Urodeles, and even in a sixth finger which is an occasional malformation in man, and in the supernumerary toes of man or other mammals. This sixth ray is directed towards the ulna, and it may be that originally the archipterygium was biserial and provided with rays in two directions, as is the case in the fish Ceratodits. The rudiment of fibular ray of the biserial archipterygium is probably represented in man by the sesamoid fibro-cartilage or bone in the tendon of the peroneus longus, or this latter may represent the rudiment of the sixth toe. It differs, however, ft-om its probable homologue, the pisi- form, in that it is more distally placed. In man and the higher animals developmental changes proceed and soon produce the permanent form in which the humerus is everted and its radial condyle situated outwards ; the femur becomes inverted so that its internal condyle is placed inwards. In man the radius is semi-prone, and no further change takes place in its position, so that the thumb hangs naturally forward, but in those lower animals which have to bear part of their body weight upon the palm, the palmar aspect of the hand and fingers acquires this position through the radius being brought forward upon the humerus and its lower end carried inwards so that the thumb or radial digit is inwards. As the femur has already undergone internal rotation in this upper part, no further change is necessary to bring the foot