3 HISTORICAL SKETCH. there was nothing certain upon the subject, and that we must judge by the resembhmce which they ought to have to those of other animals. It thus appears clear that the anatomy of Aristotle was not founded upon the dissection of the human body. Tlie Aristotelian anatomy is in fact contained in his 'History of Animals.' Correcting the statements of some of his i^redecessors, who taught that the blood-vessels arose from the brain, he traced them to two large vessels placed on the right and left before the spinal column, one of which, he remarks, is sometimes called the aorta. He describes both these vessels to arise from the heart. But while his description of the distribution of the aorta is sufficiently correct, he is at fault as regards the vena cava and the pulmonary artery, which he confounds. He distin- guishes the trachea from the oesophagus. He had some, though not very clear, notions of the larynx and epiglottis, and was well acquainted with the alimentary canal of animals. While, therefore, Aristotle has rendered great services to comparative anatomy, he has not contributed much to human anatomy. THE SCHOOL OF ALEXANDRIA (320 B.C.). About the beginning of the third century before Christ, Ptolemseus the First founded a school at Alexandria, which in a comparatively short time became a scientific centre for the most distinguished men of that period. The cultivation of human anatomy then became a reality, for, as Pliny informs us, the Egyptian rulers not merely furnished the anato- mists with human bodies, but that they themselves dissected, in order to show the people that there was nothing dishonourable in doing so. As the first anatomist of this school must be mentioned Herophilus, who lived under Ptolomseus Soter (about 344 B.C.). There can be no doubt that he dissected human bodies, and became thus to a certain extent the founder of human anatomy. If we are to believe Celsus, he even dissected animals alive; hence Tertullian called him lanius (executioner). The works of Herophilus are lost, and all that we know of his anatomical researches must be gleaned from the notices of Galen, Oribasius and others, Herophilus describes the pulmonary artery, which, however, he calls the venous artery, and he, as well as his rival Erasistratus, seems to have known the chyle vessels of the alimentary canal, as acknowledged even by thatmodern discoverer Caspar AselU. He gave the name of ' twelve-inch gut-duodenum' to that portion of the alimentary canal next to the stomach. He studied attentively the encephalon, some ])aTts of which, such as the straight venous sinus, still bear his name {Torcular Jlcrophili). The calamus scriptoriiis, at the bottom of the fourth ventricle, is also said to be indebted to him for its name. ERASISTRATUS. After Hero])hikis must be mentioned liis distingiiislied contempornry, Erasistratus, born, according to SirMho, in the iwie of Ceos or Cea,and not at Cos, as some have asserted. He was of the family of Aristotle. Galen u 2