nissmcrioy of the lower limb. . branches beneath the biceps muscle to all the hauistmigs, and a small branch to the adductor magnus. Dissection.—Divide the hamstring muscles about three inches from their origin and reflect them, noting the branches from the sciatic nerve and the perforating aiieries to them. Trace the perforating and muscular ai'teries to where they pierce the adductor magnus, and clean the postei ior surface of that muscle. The Adductor Magnus Muscle.—The attachments and anterior surface i)t' this muscle have been dissected with the deep parts on the front of the thigh. Its posterior aspect, its attachment to the linea aspera, and its deep tendinous process to the tubercle above the inner condyle, must now be made plain. It will be noted that this tendon of insertion is strong, and rather more than a quarter of an inch deep, and that it forms a deep boun- dary of the popliteal sjDace above the joint on the inner side. This muscle is altogether fleshy on its posterior surface; even at its adductor opening for the femoral artery; and the fibres going from the pubic arch seem to be distinct from those connected with the ischial tuberosity. The great sciatic nerve, the perforating arteries, and the hamstring muscles are in relation with this surface of the muscle. Termination of the Perforating Arteries.—There are visually four per- forating arteries. The first appears opposite the lower border of the pectineus and perforates the adductors magnus and brevis. The second is given off about the middle of the adductor brevis, perforates the same muscle, and gives a nutrient branch to the femoral shaft. The third is given off from the profunda below the adductor brevis a-nd pierces the- magnus. The fourth or termination of the profunda pierces the magnus near the adductor opening. They come through the great adductor close to the inner side of the femur and pass out through the external inter- muscular sejitum and through the short head of the biceps to the vasti, in which they anastomose together, and with the descending branches of the external circumflex artery, with the lower perforating and termination of profunda, and also with the superior articular vessels from the popliteal. The first perforating, being given off above the attachment of the femoral head of the biceps, does not pierce it, but perforates the femoral insertion of the gluteus maximus. The perforating vessels give muscular branches to the hamstrings and cutaneous filaments on the back and outer part of the thig-h. The Profunda femoris also gives off miiscular branches which pierce the great adductor internal to the perforating vessels at some little distance from the femur. There are usually four or five; the highest appearing about five inches from the pelvis, and the others about two inches apart, pierce the adductor magnus in a line with it. They supply more especially the inner hamstrings, particularly the semimembranosus, and anasto- mose with the superior muscular and inner articular branches of the popliteal. The Hip Joint. Dissection.—This joint should now be dissected, the muscles and any fat and cellular tissue should be removed from the back of the capsular ligament, the attachments of which must be clearly made out. The other dissectors may allow the body to be turned over for ten or fifteen minutes, so that the anterior part of the capsule may be cleaned and its processes defined. G G