157 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. the inner humeral condyle, and the extensors and supinators from the outer. The Coraco-brachialis is the smallest of these muscles, and is placed at the upper and inner part of the arm. It is roundish, and arises by fleshy fibres from the middle facet on the apex of the coracoid process, and from the tendinous short head of the biceps, which is immediately external to it; also from the intermuscular septum between them. Its fibres pass back, down, and out, and are inserted by a flat tendon into a rough ridge at the middle of the inner side of the humei-al shaft, below the level of the deltoid, and between the inner origins of the triceps and brachialis anticus. An aponeurotic process passes up to the neck of the humerus from its insertion, and is joined by fleshy fibres. This process forms a sling over the latissimus dorsi tendon. The coraco-brachialis is pierced by the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Relations.—Anteriorly, with the pectoralis major and deltoid above, and at its insertion with the brachial vessels and median nerve, which cross it. Posteriorly, with the tendons of the subscapularis, teres major and latissimus dorsi, the short head of the triceps, the humerus and the anterior circumflex vessels, hiternally, with the median and musculo- cutaneous nerves and the brachial artery, to which its inner border is a guide for the upper part of the vessel. Externally, with the short head of the biceps and brachialis anticus. Actioiis.—It adducts and draws forwards the arm, and if the humerus be fixed it will draw the scapula down' and assist in keeping the shoulder- joint surfaces in contact. Nerve.—The musculo-cutaneous. Varieties.—It is subject to much variation, and Wood thinks that it consists typically of three parts: 1, an upper short one, arising from or near the coracoid process, and passing over the capsular ligament to be inserted just below the small humeral tuberosity; 2, a second portion, corresponding very nearly to the muscle as usually described; and 3, a third, which is the most superficial and the longest, and passes to or near the inner condyle, and in many cases is inserted into the supra-condyloid jn-ocess when this is present. The second or middle division is, in man, the most constant, but is usually accompanied by a portion of the third, the external cutaneous nerve passing between them. All three slips are foimd in varying forms and degrees of development in lower vertebrates ; but the first and third are the most marked peculiarities in man. Struthers has described a fibrous band connected with the inferior portion of this muscle, and hn^ named it the Internal Brachial Ligament. The Biceps is a long spindle-shaped muscle, wider in the middle tlian at the ends, and occupies the whole of the front surface of the arm, forming the prominence noticeable in front of it. It is divided into two tendinous ])ortions or heads, of different lengths, whence its name. These both arise from the scapula. The short head takes origin by a thick flattened tendon from the middle facet near the a,pex of the coracoid process in common with the coraco-brachialis ; and the long head arises by a long rounded bifurcated tendon, which is continuous with the upper margin of the glenoid cavity. This tendon ynerces the capsular ligament, but is outside the synovial cavity of the joint, and arches over the head of the humerus, being enclosed in a reflection of the synovial membrane of the shoulder,