HUMAN MORPnOLOGY. covers it, and its deep surface is in contact witli tlie fibula and outer side of the OS calcis. Actions.—It extends the ankle and turns the foot u]) and out in ever- sion. Its other actions resemble those of the longus, which it assists in drawing back the fibula in the act of rising from stooping. Nei've.—The musculo-cutaneous. Varieties.—The i:)eroneu3 brevis may send a fibrous expansion to the fourth dorsal interosseous muscle, or a muscular fasciculus to the tendons of the common extensor of the toes. There maybe a. peroneus accessorius arising from the fibula, between the longus and brevis, and joining the tendon of tlie brevis in the sole. A peroneus qxdnti digiti may exist arising from the lower fourth of the fibula under the brevis, or from the Fig. 440.—Eight os calcis seen on its outer aspect to show the peronei tendons in their sheaths. 1. Peroneus brevis. 2. Peroneus longiis. tendon of the brevis, and inserted into the expansion on the dorsum of the little toe. A peroneus quartus arising between the flexor hallucis and peroneus brevis on the back of the fibula, and inserting into a tubercle on the OS calcis behind the ordinary peronei. tendons, may be present. A peroneus quintus may be given off from the brevis and be inserted close behind the quartus. A muscular fasciculus, which has been named the tensor membrance synovialis tarsi, may be given off from the lower part of the brevis, and be inserted into the under part of the retinacida or sheath of the peronei tendons. Directions.—The student should now proceed with the dissection of the ligaments of the leg and foot. TIBIO-FIBULAR ARTICULATIONS. Dissection.—Remove the muscles on both sm'faces of the interosseous membrane, and from the front and back of the upper and lower ends of the tibia and fibula, where they articulate. The tibio-peroneal articulations are the superior and inferiorl In the middle, between the bones is the interosseous ligament, and the upper and lower ligaments are fibrous bands at the extremity of the bones. Superior Tibio-fibular Joint.—This articulation is an arthrodial one, and resembles the lower in being almost immovable. Its ligaments are anterior and posterior. The superior anterior ligament consists of two or three broadish flat bands, which run across the joint from the outer tuberosity of the tibia to the head of the fibula.