HUMAN MORPIIOLOGY. The Extensor Brevis Digitorum is ;i short muscle extending from the outer to the inner side of the foot. It arises from the outer side of the OS calcis in front of the groove for the peroneus brevis, from the horizontal hand of the anterior annular ligament and from the external calcaneo- astrao-aloid ligament. The four fleshy bellies of this muscle end in four tendons, the innermost belly and tendon being the largest, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, crossing the dorsalis pedis artery. The other three tendons are joined to the outer sides of the long extensor tendons for the second, third, and fourth toes. Relations.—Above it are the skin and fascia of the dorsum of the foot and the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum and proprius poUicis. Beneath it are the tarsal and metatarsal bones, and the dorsal interossei, and its innermost tendon crosses aliove the dorsalis pedis artery. Nerve.—The anterior tibial. Fig. 420.—Dissection of ri&ht jj^oox and toks to show the attachments op the tendons of the ext. long. dig. and prop. hall. to the first phalanges. The bauds are strong and short, and are covered by longer and thinner expansions, which pass to the sides of the first phalanges. External view. C. E.-ct. brev. dig. The ant. and ext. ann. ligs., abd. min. dig., and part of flex. brev. dig. are shown. Actions.—It extends the four inner toes, and slightly separates them from each other. Its inner tendons act only on the first phalanx of the great toe. Being attached obliquely to the tendons of the long extensor it counteracts the oblique movement of the latter, so that both muscles acting in unison the toes are evenly extended. Varieties.—It is occasionally bicipital, one head arising from the third metatarsal, the other from the calcis. One of its fleshy bellies may be absent, or one of its tendons, commonly that for the second toe, may be divided into two ; sometimes there is a fifth tendon for the little toe. Rarely, a thin accessory muscle, the indicator -pedis, is present between its two inner tendons. This extends the second toe. Dissection.—Divide the extensor brevis towards its front and reflect it.