ANA TOMICAL TECHNICS. 09 their hands, and use india-rubber gloves, which are made for the purpose of protecting the hands ; but these are unnecessary if the body have been properly injected with a preservative material, and if precaution be taken to protect any hangnails or cuts with collodion or with good adhesive plaster and a coating of carbolised oil; but should the student wound himself, he should squeeze the injured part so as to encourage bleeding, then suck it well, so as to extract more blood, and with it the infecting Fig. 18.—Cranium holder (Ormsbt's). material, and then either cauterise with nitrate of silver, or protect it with collodion or with styptic colloid. There is more risk in dissecting subjects dead from blood-poisoning, as erysipelas, pyaemia or puerperal fever, than in recent subjects. The student should study cleanliness, i.e. he should keep his part clean, his instruments in order, and his hands well washed and disinfected after dissection. Waterproof sleeves and apron are very useful to prevent soihng of the clothes. ■METHODS OF DISSECTING, IJTC. The Shin.—The various cutaneous iticisions will be given and repre- sented with the various parts to be dissected. To reflect the skin, one of the angles of the incisions should be seized with the forceps held in the left hand, and traction should be made on it while the scalpel separates it from the subcutaneoiis tissue. The skin may be raised by three methods : 1, dissection, in which it is carefully cut from the subcutaneous parts ; 2, by scraping; and 3, by transfixion. The latter method is rarely used in dissection. The subcutaneous tissues may be dissected separately in a similar manner, or may be raised with the skin by cutting down at once upon the deep fascia; but it is better to remove the skin first, as the cutaneous vessels and nerves have to be dissected out of the subcutaneous cellular tissue. If a large flap of skin is to be reflected, it is better to take hold of it with the hand, as a greater and more uniform traction-force is thus obtained. In certain parts of the body the skin is more difficult to remove, as, for instance, at the back of the neck, where the trapezium is closely united to the under surface of it; and in the scalp, where the skin is firmly adherent to the epicranial aponeurosis. Further instructions will be given with the dissection of the various regions.