1 1 DISSECTIOX OF THE UPPER LIMB. 123 traced through the external muscle, and the intercostal trunk should be traced forwards to the sternum and surface of the chest. Only the anterior parts of these nmscles can now be dissected. The Internal Intercostals are deeper than the preceding, are also eleven in number, and are attached above to the inner margins of the grooves, and below to the upper margins of the ribs and theii- cartilages. Beginning at the anterior ends of the costal cartilages they pass back to near the costal angles. The fibres pass down and back, crossing those of the external, but are shorter and less oblique. They do not end behind at the same distance from the spine, for the middle are further removed from the spinal column than the upper and lower, and in the two lowest spaces anteriorly these muscles are continuous with the fibres of the internal oblique. 1. Clavicle. 2. Humerus. 3. Sternum. 4. Subscapularis. 5. Upper fibres of serratus niagnns. G and 7. Lower fibres of serratus niagnus. 8. Antorior ends of external inter- costals. 9. Anterior end of internal inter* costals. The -n-hito line separates the insertion of the serratus niagnus fi-om the origin of the subsoapularls. FxG. 55.~Lateral view op thorax and intercostals on the right side, THE SCAPULA THROWN BACKWARDS. Relations.—Internally with the pleura, triangularis sterni., and dia- phragm ; and externally with the intercostal vessels and nerve^ which separate them from the external intercostals. Actions.—The external muscles are elevators of the ribs, and con- sequently muscles of inspiration. They also evert the lower edges of the ribs and enlarge the antero-postorior and transverse diameters of the thorax. The internal intercostals are also rib elevators, but some anatomists are inclined to the view that that portion of them which is between the bony parts of the ribs depresses and inverts those bones, diminishing the capacity of the thorax, and that they are thus expiratory, while the inter- cartilaginous portion raises the ribs and is inspiratory. The view that both muscles are elevators and inspiratory muscles is strengthened by many physiological exjiorimonts and ])atholngic'al facts. The crossing of f ile two sets of muscles, the three layers of fascia^, and the length and i)rc- doininance of the tendinous fibres in these muscles give great strength to tlie intercostal spaces. A