600 HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. CHAPTER. VI. HOMOLOGIES OF THE LIMBS, THE LIMB BONES. The student, having now dissected the upper and lower limbs, should be in a position to understand the homologous parts of the respective thoracic and abdominal or pelvic members, and at the same time to compare and contrast them. The number of bones in the skeleton varies at different ages of life; some bones, which are originally made up of two, three, or more parts, becoming united as ossification proceeds ; but in the adult, aged from 25 to 30, there are thirty-two bones in each upper limb, making sixty-four for the two; each lower limb has one less, making sixty-two for both lower extremities, and this is due to there being no bony structure to correspond exactly with the clavicle. In the upper limb there is nothing corresponding in function to the patella, which is a sesamoid bone developed in the tendon of the quadriceps extensor. The four sections of the extremities are perfectly homologous with each other. Thus, the shoulder=the hip, the arm = the thigh, the fore-arm = the leg, and the hand = the foot; but many difficulties arise on going deeper into the question. For the better comprehension of the subject the student should place an adult skeleton on all-fours, the position which was most probably normal to our progenitors; he will then observe that the palm of the hand resting on the ground corresponds with the sole of the foot, the thumb with the great toe, the phalanges metacarpal and carpal bones with the phalanges metatarsal and tarsal bones, the malleoli with the styloid processes of the radius and ulna, the tibia with the radius, the fibula with the ulna, the patella with the olecranon, the femur with the humerus, and the scapula with the ilium. He will notice that in this position of the skeleton the relative position of the bones, as described in handbooks of human anatomy, is much altered. For instance, the radius instead of being external becomes internal; the humerus is rotated in, so that its external condyle becomes internal, and its great tuberosity instead of pointing outwards is directed inwards ; and he will see that no knowledge, however extensive and minute of human anatomy only, can understand or explain these homologies. It is to the study of comparative anatomy, embryology, and that department of the evolution theory which is termed Phylogenesis, that we are indebted for what is at present known upon this very interesting subject. In tliis position of the skeleton the external humeral condyle (of ordi- nary human anatomical descriptions) corresponds to the internal femoral,