DISSECTION OF THE PERIN/EUM. 667 bulb to the prostate. This layer is a part of the large involuntary sphincter muscle surrounding the commencement of the urethra, of which the prostate is the major part. Vanety.—An unstriped band of fibres, called pubo-vesical, has been described by Luschka as passing from the back of the symphysis to the upper part and sides of the neck of the bladder. Action.—It aids in expelling the contents of the urethra. Wilson's Muscle, or the pubo-urethral, is variable and inconstant. Some anatomists regard it as formed by the anterior fibres of the levator ani, and others as only the posterior part of the deep transverse, but Wilson's muscle is situated above the latter, has a different direction, and is sepa- rated from it by a delicate fibrous layer. It corresponds to the posterior part of the membranous urethra. It arises on either side from the under Fit}. 487.—Dissection op anterior part 01- levator ani and other perineal MUSCLES. The external sphincter surrounds the anus, and its superficial fibres are cut on the right of the figure, but its deep fibres are sliown on the left passing to the front of the rectum. The ano-urethral and adductor or com- pressor prostatiE are parts of the lev. ani, and the ano-bulbar fibres may come from the lev. ani or from the deep part of the ext. sphincter, smface of the symphysis, and is inserted into the suburethral raphe, form- ing a loop which embraces the posterior part of the urethi-a. Its middle fibres pass directly from the triangular ligament to the upper part of the urethra., and form a layer between the pubo-prostatic plexus above, the urethra below, the prostate behind, and the angle of union of the corpora cavernosa in front. It is separated on each side from the anterior fibres of the levator ani by the lateral apomyosis of the prostate. Actions.—It raises the urethra towards the symphysis, and aids in the expulsion of the urine and semen, and can compress the pubo-prostatic plexus. Nerve.—The internal pudic. Gowper''s Glands are placed immediately below the membranous urethra, just behind the bulb and below the artery to that structure. If the transverse muscle be carefully divided and reflected, it will be fully exposed.