626 SUMMAJiY OF DISSECTION OF LOWER LIMB. 9. Trace out the internal pudic artery and some of its branches, and define the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament. 10. Dissect the ligaments of the hip joint, noting its motions and rela- tions, and observe if the psoas bursa communicate with it; open the joint and study its bony and cartilaginous formation. BACK OF THE THIGH. 1. Make an incision along the middle of the thigh to just below the popliteal space, and transverse ones at either end of this on the outer and inner sides, and reflect the skin. 2. In the superficial fascia notice the branches of the cutaneous nerves of the sciatics and posterior of crural, trace out any of the larger veins adjoining the internal saphenous, and follow the external saphenous vein through the deep fascia. 3. Eeflect this fascia by similar incisions so as to expose the fascia lata, of which observe its expansion over the popliteal space. 4. Reflect the deep fascia, noting its muscular sheaths and outer and inner intermuscular septa. 5. Trace out the boundaries and contents of the popKteal space and follow the hamstrings to their insertions. 6. Trace out the sciatic nerves and their branches, and the division of the greater into the internal and external popliteal, 7. Follow out the perforating branches of the profunda, and note their distribution and anastomoses. 8. Define the insertion of the adductor magnus, noting the way in which the femoral vessels pierce it, and make clear the short head of the biceps. POPLITEAL REGION. 1. Trace out the branches of distribution and anastomoses of the popliteal artery, and its relation to the popliteal vein and nerves. 2. Note the external saphenous vein and other veins which empty into the popliteal vein. 3. Define the boundairies of the space which are above the joint; on the inner side, semitendinosus, semimembranosus, adductor magnus, and gracilis ; above the joint on the outer side the biceps ; below the joint on the inner side the inner head of the gastrocnemius; on the outer side below the joint is the outer head of the gastrocnemius and plantaris. 4. Trace out the muscular, articular, and cutaneous branches of the popliteal nerves, and define the posterior ligament of the knee, noting the expansions of the semimembranosus. 5. Dissect out the anastomoses of the articular arteries. THE FRONT OF THE LEG. 1. Continue the median incision to just below the ankle joint, making transverse cuts above and below on either side, and reflect the skin. 2. In the superficial layer observe the patellar plexus of nerves, the pre- patellar bursa, and the branches of the internal saphenous nerve on the S S