10 HUMAN MORPHOLOCn'. recognised his body and had him decently bmied in a chapel of Our Lady, where his gravestone bears the inscription: Andrew Vesalii Bruxellensis Tumulus Eustachii. Bartolomeo Eustachio or Eustachius, the contemporary of Vesalius, bom in the early part of the sixteenth century at San Severino, was another of the distinguished Italian anatomists to whom the advancement of anatomy is due. Eustachius held the chair of medicine in the Collegio della Sapienza ; but as he never had any lucrative practice, he died in great poverty about 1574. His treatises are nearly all collected in his ' Opuscvda Ana- tomica,'published in 4to at Venice, 1564, and again by Boerhaave, Leyden, 1707, in 8vo. His principal work ' On the Disputed Points of Anatomy,' announced in the ' Opuscula,' was, probably from want of means, not pub- lished, and lost. Nevertheless, thnty-nine coj)per-plates, intended for the illustration of tliat work, were found in 1712 at Urbino, and published in 1714 by Lancisi, with the aid of other anatomists. Several editions of them have since appeared. The plates abundantly show that many im- portant anatomical facts which gave lustre to his successors must have been known to him. The tube leading from the tympanum to the throat and the valve of the vena cava bear his name. Realdus Columbus of Cremona, Professor of Anatomy at Padua, born in 1544, was a pupil of Vesalius, and a skilfid anatomist. In his principal work, ' De Re Anatomica,' 1. xv. Venet. 1559 fob, he rectifies the anatomy of the bones, and gives a good description of the brain, the internal ear, and the ventricles of the larynx. Jean Philip Ingrassias, another pupil of Vesalius, born in 1510 at Eagalbuto in Sicily, studied at Padua. In his commentary on the osteo- logy of Gralen, published in 1603, by his grandson, he corrected many errors and gave a correct accoimt of the conformation of the ethmoid and sphenoid bones, hence the name parvce alee Ingrassite. He also first described the third bone of the tympanum, called stapes, a description equally claimed by Eustachius and Fallopius. Grabriello Fallopio (Fallopius) was born at Modena about 1523 ; died at Padua in 1562. Fallopius was both the pupil and the successor of Vesa- lius at Padua. Although he at first took the part of Galen against his master, he tried to reconcile their teachings. His chief work (eximium opus, Haller), ' Observationes Anatomicte,' which was published at Venice in 1561, just a year before his death, formed an epoch in the science of human anatomy. He rectified the description of many parts which Vesa- lius had left incomplete. He gave a more accurate account of the auditory apparatus than had hitherto been published, by describing the vestibule, the semicircular canals, the fenestrjE, the aqueduct which bears his name, &c. In his researches on the organs of generation in both sexes, he dis- covered, or at all events first desci-ibed, the utero-peritoneal canals (tubae Fallopiae). Julius Ctcsar Aranzi (Arantius), born at Bologna about the year 1530 (died 1589), was also among the most eminent of the pupils of Vesalius. His work ' De Humano Foetu Opusculum,' Venet. 1571, gives the first correct account of the anatomy of the fa'tus. In his descri])tion of the anatomy of the bi'ain, Aranzi was the first properly to describe the inferior