HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 118 The Extemial Anterior Thoracic Nerves are two, outer and inner ; tlie former is the more superficial and runs inwards over the axillary artery to supply the pectoralis major. Ou the inner side of the artery it joins the internal thoracic nerve. The Interior Anterior Thoracic passes forwards between the artery and vein, receives the branch from the external thoracic, supplies the pectoralis minor and some of its filaments and pierces this muscle to enter the pectoralis major. It has a plexiform arrangement beneath the pectoralis minor. The Subscapular Nerves come from the posterior cord, and are the short, middle, and long subscapular. The shortest and highest of these enters the upper part of the subscapulavis. The middle subscapular gives a branch to the lower part of the subscapularis and ends in the teres major. Sometimes there is a separate nerve for the last-named muscle. Fig. 51.—Diagram of eight brachial plexus, resembling the first desckipxion in the text. The long subscapular, the largest of the three, accompanies the subscapular artery and enters the latissimus dorsi near its outer end. • , ^ The Posterior Thoracic, or External Respiratory Nerve of Bell, is given off from the brachial plexus above the clavicle, but passes into the axilla behind the axillary vessels and lies on the axillary surface of the serratus magnus. The Latissimus Dorsi. The insertion of this muscle may now be ex- amined. Its origin from the spinal column will be subsequently dissected. Its fibres cross the inferior angle of the scapula and sometimes receive a few fibres from it, and then curve round the lower border of the teres major and twist upon themselves so that the sujyerior fibres are at first posterior and then inferior, and the lotoer fibres are at first anterior and then superior. Its tendon is about three inches long, and two and a half inches in width, and quadrilateral, and passes in front of that of the teres major to be inserted into the inner lip and bottom of the bicipital groove.