285 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. beneath the head of the uhaa, and fixing it to the radius. It is attached by its base, which is thin, to a ridge sepai-ating the sigmoid cavity of the radius from its carpal articuhiting siu-face, and by its apex to a depression at the root of the styloid process of the ulna and to the side of that process.' This depression separates the head of the ulna from the styloid process. It is thicker at its margins than in its centre, which is occasionally perfor- ated. Its borders are united to the antei-ior and posterior ligaments. Its upper surface is smooth and concave, and looks towards the ulna. Its lower Fig. 209.—Vertical transverse section through radio-carpal and inferior radio-ulnar joints. surface is also smooth and concave, and faces towards the cuneiform bone, forming part of the socket for the carpal bones. Both surfaces are lined by a synovial membrane. The lower one by the synovial membrane of the wrist, and the upper by one which is peculiar to the radio-ulnar articulation. The student will observe that this cartilage enters into the wrist and lower radio-ulnar joints. It also separates the carpal from the ulnar articulating surface of the radius, and prevents the lower end of the ulnar entering into the wrist joint, except in those cases in which it is perforated. The Synovial Membrane of tlxis joint is very loose, and is called the membrana sacciformis. It extends upwards between the radius and ulna, and horizontally inwards between the fibro-cartilage and ulna, and is very loose at the point where it is reflected from the ulna to the radius. It usually contains a large amount of synovia. If the fibro-cartilage be per- forated, this membrane is continuous with that of the wrist. Movements of the Radius.—In the upper radio-ulnar articulation, the ' It is sometimes connected to the apex and .sides of the ulnar pit by a ligament called the liyameiituvi snbcruciitum because vessels pa.s.s along it. See fig. 210. A. Ulnar. B. Radius. 1. Ulnar styloid process. 2. Outer facet of radius. 3. Inner ,, „ 4. Triangular flbro-cartilago. u. Ligamentum subcrueutum. C. Ant. and post. ligs. (cut). Fi3. 210.—Radio-carpal JorNT-suEPACES. Left side.