HUMAN MORTHOL O G Y. 282 the upper surface of the scaphoid, semilunai-, and cuneiform bones below. There are four ligaments uniting the osseous siirfaces, which are coated by a thin layer of cartilage. The ligaments are, anterior, posterior, and tivo lateral. The joisiform bone has nothing to do with this joint, and the ulna is excluded from it by the triangular fibro-cartilage. The Anterior Ligament is a broad fibrous band consisting of three fasciculi. Some of its fibres have a nearly transverse direction, and others diverge as they descend. It is attached above to the anterior margin of the lower end of the radius, to its styloid process, to the fibro-cartilage and to the ulna; and its fibres pass obliquely down, and in and out, to be in- serted into the palmar surfaces of the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones, partly blending with the palmar carpal ligaments. It is perforated by many vessels, and is in contact, in front, with the tendons of the flexor profundus and longus pollicis, and behind, with the synovial membrane. The Posterior Ligament is also membranous, but not so thick and Fig. 206.—Ligaments op right wrist, carpus, and metacarpus. Back view, left hand. I to 5 are the metacarpal bones. strong as the anterior. It is attached to the posterior border of the lower end of the radius and fibro-cartilage, and its fibres pass down and in, to be inserted on the dorsal surface of the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones, being continuous with the dorsal carpal ligaments. It is in relation, in front, with the synovial membrane, and behind, with the extensor tendons. The External Lateral Ligament ("Radio-carpal) is a short, strong band passing from the apex of the styloid , j^rocess of the radius to a rough surface on the outer side of the scaphoid, some of its fibres going to the trapezium and anterior annular ligament. The Lnternal Lateral Ligament is round, but longer and smaller than the external. It extends from the end of the styloid process of the ulnar, and divides into two fasciculi, one of which is attached to the rough tipper and inner part of the cuneiform ; the other to the pisiform bone and