HUMAN MOIiPHOLOQY. 040 The skin around the anus must be carefully removed to avoid injuring the corrugator and external sphincter, which are immediately beneath it. In doing this it will be observed that the skin is very thin and merges gradually into the mucous membrane of the rectum. This portion of the skin is well sujiplied with minute sebaceous glands, called the anal glands. The subcutaneous tissue or fascia of this region is continuous with that of the buttocks, thighs, and scrotum, and contains fat, except over the corrugator and external sjDhincter. The quantity of this fat varies in individuals, and if in abundance, it increases the depth of the perinaeum, and of course that of the incision in lithotomy. It also, as Professor Quekett pointed out, contains anal glands and some involuntary muscular fibres. Some cutaneous vessels and some filaments of nerves from the internal pudic and small sciatic perforate this layer and supply it and the skin. The fat in the deeper layers is continuous with that in the ischio- Obt. int. cut Peritoneum Section of ilium f and iscliium 5 & The two layers of tbe midille perineeal fascia 3 Fig. 462.—Diagram of vertical transverse section through the pelvis passing across the bladder and prostate. rectal fossae, as will be seen in cleaning these spaces, which should now be done. The Cutaneous Vessels and Nerves of both spaces come from branches of the internal pudic artery and nerve, and from the inferior or long pudendal nerve. Directions.—To define the boundaries of the ischio-rectal fossa, the dissector should begin at the outer margin of the external sphincter, and proceed outwards. On one side he should seek the vessels and nerves, but on the other he must disregard them, so as completely to expose the muscles which limit it. As he removes the coarse granular fat, he will note that it is enclosed between layers of fascia, and that it thoroughly fills the spaces on each side of the lower part of the rectum. Its use is to support and protect the rectum and its vessels and nerves, which other- wise would hang free, also to allow of its distension without injmy. The elasticity of the tissue in which the fat is contained permits of its retiu-n- ing to its original condition after the rectum has been distended, and thus