DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 87 and behind the anterior and posterior axillary folds. It is, however, rarely fractui'ed. In every position of the humerus in the normal state the great tubero« sity and external condyle look in the same direction, and the head of the humerus fiices very much in the direction of the inner condyle. These facts are of service in diagnosing obscm^e injuries about the shoulder. About an inch to the inner side of the humerus, and just below the clavicle in the groove between the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles, the cora- coid process of the scapula can be distinctly felt. The arm being pendent with the palm forwards, the bicipital groove which looks anteriorly can be felt by pressing deeply, and the shaft of the humerus is best felt by pressing the fingers deeply along its inner and outer surfaces, and between the projection of the biceps and triceps. The student should now make himself familiar with the various bony prominences about the elbow, and should go over them again when commencing the dissection of the forearm. The internal condyle is more prominent than the external, and on a slightly higher plane. The olecranon process of the ulnar is always plainly to be felt, and is rather nearer the inner than the outer condyle. The head of the radius can be plainly felt in the integumentous pit on the outer side of the ole- cranon and just below the outer condyle. This is an important guide, as by its means we can ascertain if the head of the radius be dislocated or not. The dissector should ascertain the relative positions of the condyles to the olecranon in the different movements of the elbow, and should place the thufnb on one condyle, the forefinger on the other, and the middle finger on the olecranon. The elbow being at right angles, the tip of the olecranon is immediately below the line joining the condyles. In extreme flexion the tip of the olecranon is in front of this line, and in complete extension the highest point of the olecranon is immediately on a level with this line. In a dislocation of the ulna at the elbow, all these rela- tive positions would -be changed; but it is not usually so in a fracture of the lower end of the humerus or through the condyles, unless there be unusual displacements. Occasionally there is a ring or hooklike process of bone above the inner condyle, the swpra-condyloid process. When present it may be felt. It is a hook or ring of bone, through which pass the brachial or ulnar artery and median nerve in many mammals. The borders and upper and lower angles of the scapula can be dis- tinctly made out, and should be manipulated by the student. Muscular Prominences.—Passing from the chest and scapula to the humerus on the back and front of the thorax are the pectoralis major and minor, forming the anterior wall of the axilla, both of which may be felt; and also the subscapularis covering the venter of the scapula, and form- ing with the latissimus dorsi the greater part of its posterior boundary. The deltoid which caps over the shoulder joint can usually be plainly de- fined, and on the humerus the swell of the biceps in front, and that of the tricejis behind, are generally very distinct. Axilla.—Between the chest and the arm is the hollow of the armpit, in which are placed the axillary vessels and brachial plexus of nerves. The skin covering it is in the adult provided with hairs, and large sudori-