436 HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. joins the external saphenous branch of the internal popliteal about the middle of the leg and soon perforates the fascia, giving offsets to the back and outer part of the leg in the lower half. Directions.—The student after having dissected out the relations of the popliteal lymphatic vessels and glands to the artery, should define the articular branch of the obturator nerve which pierces the abductor mag- nus, and accompanies the popliteal artery to the back of the knee joint. The Popliteal Artery is the continuation of the superficial femoral, and extends from the adductor opening to the lower border of the popliteus muscle, where it bifurcates into its two terminal branches, the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. It is comparatively superficial at its upper part, but at its lower lies deeply between the heads of the gastrocnemius. It passes obliquely from the inner side of the femur to the inter-condylar interval, and then occupies the middle of the space behind the knee joint. Relations.—In front of it are the anterior limits of the popliteal space. Behind it are the popliteal veins in close contact with it; then the internal pophteal nerve, and at the lower part the external saphenous vein and the small sciatic nerve; to the outer and inner sides are the respective outer and inner boundaries of the space, and the external pop- liteal nerve is in external relation to it. Relations of the Popliteal Aetery. In front are the femur, post, lipfament of the knee, and the popliteus. Inside is the semimembra- nosus, pop. vein, and int. pop. nerve. Outside are the Weeps, the pop. vein, and int. and ext. pop. nerve. Behind are the pop. vein, internal popliteal nerve, branch from obturator nen'e to the knee, part of the ext. saphenous vein, semimembranosus above, and gastrocnemius and soleus below, fascia and skin. Varieties.—These are infrequent. It sometimes divides prematurely into its terminal branches, and this takes place most frequently opposite the bend of the knee joint. Its branches may be unusual; thus it may divide into the anterior tibial and peroneal, the posterior tibial being very small or absent. In one case the popliteal artery is divided at once into three terminal branches, viz. the anterior and posterior tibial and peroneal. Sometimes there are several small middle articular branches. The azygos articular often arises from one of the other articular branches, and especially from th^ superior external articular. Dissection.—Divide the inner head of the gastrocnemius, clear away the connective tissue, and seek the inferior articular branches of the pop- liteal artery and nerve, and the accompanying veins. The inferior inner 'articular artery will be found below the head of the tibia, with the arti- cular nerve, and the inferior outer higher up between the tibia and fibula. Note that the vein and nerve change their position with respect