HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 290 Joints of the Two Rows with each other.—The ligaments connecting these are anterior or yahnar, posterior or dorsal, and external and internal lateral. The Anterior Ligaments consist of strong, short, irregular fibres, . which pass obliquely between the two rows on the palmar surface (the : pisiform being excepted) : they converge towards the magnum. The Posterior Ligaments are longer and looser fibres passing obliquely between the bones. The Lateral Ligaments are very short. The external is the stronger and more distinct, and passes between the scaphoid and trapezium. The internal connects the cuneiform and unciform. They are continuous with the lateral ligaments of the wrist joint. Dissection.—Divide the lateral and posterior ligaments, connecting the two rows so as to open the joint from behind ; separate the articular surfaces, so that they and the synovial membrane may be studied. The Common Synovial Membrane of the carpus is complicated and extensive. It lines the under sm-faces of the tbree bones of the first row, sending two processes upwards between their adjacent surfaces. It then passes over the upj)er surfaces of the second row, and sends downwards three prolongations between them. These line their adjoining surfaces and cover the carpal ends of the four inner metacarpal bones. The joint between the pisiform and cuneiform has usually a separate synovial mem- brane. Pig. 214a.—Tkansversb skction through the bones of the forearm to show THE attachments OF THE INTEROSSEOUS LIGAMENTS AND THE SURFACES AND BORDERS OP THE RADIUS AND ULNA. The four lines radiating from 1 go to the anterior surfaces and borders of both bones, and those from 2 to their posterior surfaces and borders. 3. External surface of radius. 4. Internal surface of ulna. 6. External border of ulna. 6. Internal border of radius. Articular Surfaces.—There is a joint in the middle formed by the head of the os magnum being received into a cavity formed by the sca- phoid and semilunar bones. This is a condyloid joint. There are two other joints ; one on the outer side of this, formed by the projection of the scaphoid being received into the hollow formed by the trapezium and trapezoid. This is also of the condyloid variety. The joint on the inner side is formed by the unciform being received into a hollow of the cunei- form. This is more of the natiu-e of an arthrodia A thin layer of carti- lage covers the joint surfaces. The student must observe that the outermost bone of the first row forms a projection which is received into a hollow formed by the two outer bones of the second row, and this hollow is much below the level of the other bones of this row. The two inner bones of the first row, and part of the outer, form a hollow to receive the condyloid projection of the os magnum and unciform. There is thus a sort of compensatory arrange- ment, a mutual giving and receiving, as what one row takes from another by means of its projection, it to some extent gives back by means of its corresponding hollow.