DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. dcvelopiaeiit of Wrisberg's nerve, iuul the inner cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral. External Gittaneous Nerves.—The cutaneous portion of the musculo- cutaneous nerve pierces the deep fascia a httle above the front of the elbow on the outer side of the biceps tendon. It runs beneath the median cephahc vein, and divides into the anterior and posterior branch, which will be dissected with the forearm. There are two external cutaneous branches of the musculo-spiral. The upper smaller one accompanies the cephalic vein to the front of the elbow, supplying the skin on the lower half of the anterior aspect of the arm ; the lo'wer larger branch pierces the deep fascia below the insertion of the deltoid, and passes down along the outer side of the arm and elbow to the radial side of the fore irm, where it will be subsequently traced. The Deep Fascia or Aponeurosis of the arm is a whitish glistening structm-e, which is continuous with that covering the deltoid and pectoral muscles. It is a thin, loose, membranous investment to the arm muscles, and from its deep surface sends processes and septa between them. It is composed of circular and sph'al fibres, which are connected by vertical ones. It varies in thickness in different parts, and receives accessory fibres fi"om the tendons of the pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi and deltoid which lie beneath it. Over the biceps it is thin, but thicker over the triceps and humeral condyles. Above it is attached to the outer part of the clavicle, the acromion, and the scapular spine ; and below it is con- tinuous with the deep fascia of the forearm, and is attached to the bony prominences about the elbow, and especially to the humeral condyloid ridges. Two processes, more strongly marked than the rest, separate the muscles of the anterior from those of the posterior brachial regions. The outer of these is the external intermuscular septum, and extends along the external condyloid ridge from the lower part of the anterior bicipital ridge to the outer condyle. The tendon of the deltoid blends with it, and the outer portion of the brachialis anticus, supinator longus, and extensor carpi radiahs longior, partly arise from it in front, and the outer head of the triceps partly has origin from its posterior surface. It is pierced by the superior profunda artery and musculo-spiral nerve. The internal intermuscular septum is thicker than the external, and is attached along the inner con- dyloid ridge from the lower part of the posterior bicipital lip below the teres major, to the inner condyle. The tendon of the coraco-brachialis blends with it, the inner portion of the brachialis anticus partly arises from it in front, and the inner head of the triceps is attached to it pos- teriorly. It is perforated by the inferior profunda and anastomotica magna vessels and the ulnar nerve. Directions.—Tie together, in their natural position, the vessels and nerves at the upper part of the limb, and attach them to the coracoid process. Raise the scapula, and render tense the muscles by fixing them in a suitable position. Dissection.—Remove the deep fascia or aponeurosis by incisions similar to those through the skin, and reflect it out and in. Anterior Humeral Muscles.—There are three muscles on the front of the arm—that in the centre being the biceps, that in the inner side the coriico-brachialis, and thjit beneath the lower part of the biceps the bra- t;lu;i,li.s anticus. The flexor and pronator muscles of the forearm arise from