6 HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. remarkably complete. He describes the ventricles, the corpus callosum, the fornix, the pineal and pituitary glands, the corpora striata, the optic thalami, the tubercula quadiigemina, the pes hippocampi, the aqueduct (now called the aqueduct of Sylvius), the choroid plexus, and the medulla oblongata. The angiology of Galen is, owing to his physiological ideas, necessarily defective. Following Erasistratus, Gralen distinguishes the veins from the arteries; but, in opposition to his predecessors, he maintains that the arteries contain, in the living animal, blood and not air. He represents all the arteries to arise from the left ventricle of the heart by two trunks—the one is distributed to the lungs (pulmonary veins); the other divides into an ascending and descending branch. The veins originate, according to Gralen, in the liver ; he recognises two main trunks, the vena portfe, and the vena cava. The ascending portion of the vena cava sends a volumin- ous branch to the right ventricle, which then is distributed to the lungs (pulmonary arteries). The intimate knowledge which Galen possessed of the structure of the heart and its valves, of the semilunar or sigmoid valves of the aorta, and of the pulmonary artery and their action, shows how very near Galen approached the solution of the question of the circulation of the blood. Some authors, indeed—Hecker, for instance '—assert that the honour of having first discovered the circulation of the blood belongs to Galen, but that his remarks on this subject are so scattered, that he did not perceive its physiological importance and practical application ; hence it was soon forgotten. This short and necessarily incomplete sketch of the merits of Galen sufficiently shows how much anatomy is indebted to him. Of Galen as a physiologist and a physician it is not our object to treat here. The unbounded influence which the authority of Galen exercised during many centuries over the minds of his medical successors can only be compared to that of Aristotle over the scholastic world. In one respect the deference paid to his authority contributed rather to retard the progress of medical science, by discouraging independent research ; for it was little short of heresy to doubt the dicta of the master. After the death of Galen, we find but few names deserving mention in the history of anatomy. To Soranus of Ephesus, who lived under Trajan, is attributed a treatise on the female organs of generation, which testifies to the considerable anatomical knowledge of the author. Orebasius of Pergamos, said to have been the physician of Julian the Apostate, was more of a compiler than an anatomist; while Aetius and Paulus ^gineta were rather celebrated as surgeons and physicians than as anatomists. The period was now fast approaching when the cultivation of science and art was rendered almost impossible. Hordes of barbarians from the North overran the Roman Empire, extinguishing the torch of civilisation and introducing their barbarian laws. Thus, during the whole of the period called ' the dark ages,' science found no resting place in Europe, except in the countries conquered by the Arabs. ' Die Lehre vom Kreidavfnm Tlao-^-ey, Berlin, 1831. Tlie chief pa-ssagps relative to the circulation are to be found in the treatise I)c Us-u Partiiim, lib. iv. vi. vii. kc.