76 HUM A N MORTHOL 0 G Y. There are several commercial varnishes which are more supple, but some of these dry more slowly, and on account of this inconvenience are not better for most purposes than the alcohol varnish. Co'pal Varnish is the best; it is supple and lasts a long time, it dries slowly, and is very serviceable for flexible organs which have to be moved about. It has the inconvenience of rendering somewhat brown the various parts to which it is applied, but this is not of great consequence provided the nerves be not coated with it. To varnish a preparation a layer must be passed over it; this must be allowed to dry completely, and then a second, third, fomth, &c. put on; the coatings should be applied according to the amount of polish that one wishes to give to the prepara- tion. If the alcohol varnish be employed, the preparation must not be breathed upon, because water precipitates the resin of the varnish, and tarnishes the preparation. The brush should always be passed in the same direction and with a free hand, avoiding dabbling, as by this method air bubbles are prevented from forming and spoiling the preparation. Jallefs Method for drying Preparations. \st Step. —If the prepara- tion contain fatty injection matters, it should not be plunged into the warm solution, which will be presently given, but should be placed in a cold solution of the same material for at least four minutes. This solu- tion should be renewed three or four times during that interval. If the preparation have not been injected, or if the injected matter contains no fatty material, the preparation should be plunged five different times, for three minutes dming each time, in a satm-ated boiling solution of alum, being careful to let it cool between each dipping. Aftetwards when the saturated alum solution has completely cooled, the preparation is to be placed in it for three minutes or less. This method has the advantage of allowing the alum to penetrate in considerable quantities into the muscles. 27id Step.—For the hollow viscera, a mixture of fine sand, which has been sifted and washed, and water is introduced into the vessels when it is of the consistence of a soft paste. This may be done with the syringe or with a funnel apparatus. When the preparation is dry the sand may be emptied fi'om it by thorough shaking. If it be desired to make sections of the hollow viscera, their interior should be oiled and then filled with a mixture of fine plaster and water. The sections can then be made and the plaster removed. 3rd Step.—To remove the fat from a preparation which is being desiccated, the fatty parts should be covered with a thick paste made of starch and water. The preparation should be exposed to the sun, which causes the water to evaporate. The starch absorbs the fat while the water evaporates. This process should be repeated until all the fat is removed, when the starch is to be taken off with a brush. This paste is best applied when cold. Jallet paints all the organs with a coat of white before putting on the colom" natm"al to the part. Wet Preparations.—These are much more commonly employed now- a-days. It is only necessary to make a good clean dissection, to embed the parts in plaster of Paris, which may be coloured, and to place them in strong glass or varnished earthenware receptacles of various shapes and sizes. They are then covered with a solution of spirit and water, and