ANATOMICAL TECHNICS. 81 separating the structures without displacing them till the vena cava is reached; this should be opened on its anterior surfoce, the injection tubes inserted, and the injection made both upwards and downwards. If this manipulation is done carefully the parts will be very little disturbed. An injection mass of plaster of Paris and size is not satisfactory for frozen sections, from being hard, ridged, and consequently brittle when set. The blood-vessels having been injected while the body is still in hot water, the latter is now to be plunged into cold water, and allowed to remain there for a short time till the injection has solidified. The injection-tubes may then be removed, and after the subject has been thoroughly dried with a towel it can be placed in the fi-eezing box, which should be made of sheet ii'on perfectly water-tight and only large enough to hold a body, with a water-tight lid fitting like that of a tin biscuit-box. The extremities and other parts should be arranged in their natural positions. In order to prevent flattening of the back, which always occm-s unless measures are taken to prevent it, the subject may be raised slightly on two narrow bars placed under the most prominent parts of the sacrum and back. The bars will cause a depression of com'se where they have rested, but this is better than having the whole back flattened. Another plan is to place a quantity of soft sawdust in the bottom of the box so as to distribute the weight of the subject equally over the whole surface of the back. The lid may now be placed on the box and the subject closed in. It is now ready for fi-eez- ing, which may either be done in a yard or a large sink. The box should be raised fom- or five inches off the ground or base of the sink by means of fom- bricks, the space under it being filled up with ice. A wooden frame, thirty centimetres larger than the box and seventy centimetres in depth, should now be placed round it. A metal tube, about seventy-five centimetres long and about six centimetres in diameter, should be secured peipendicularly to the side or end of the box. Into this tube a thermo- meter is suspended by means of a string, so that it can be taken out from time to time dming the freezing process; the upper end of the tube should be closed with cotton wool to prevent communication with the outer air. The object of the tube and thermometer is to provide a means of ascertaining approximately the temperatiu-e within the box, and so of observing the activity of the freezing mixture. The ice and salt have now to be mixed. Six hundredweight of ice will be required to surround the box properly. The ice should be broken up into small pieces and rapidly mixed with two hundredweight of coarse salt. The mixture is then to be placed roimd and over the top of the box till it is surrounded to the depth of about thirty centimetres, that is, till the space between the sides of the box and frame has been completely filled and there is a thick layer over the lid of the box. The whole should finally be covered over with two or three layers of blankets and with straw, so as to keep the melting mass from the air, and, so to speak, compel the ice to abstract the heat it requires to absorb for its conversion into water from the interior of the box. If the thermometer be examined in two or three hours afterwards, it will probably be found to stand at about —15° Cent., or even lower. After about eight hours the tem])erature will have risen afuwdegres; if to higher than —10°, the mixture is not acting rapidly enough from having got caked together ;■ it should therefore be thoroughly stirred up with a furnace raker or long poker. When this has been