HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 648 will be found to be connected with the posterior surface of the ligament. It is a triangular, short and flat muscle, with fleshy and tendinous fibres, and arises by its apex from the upper part of the ischial spine and lesser sciatic ligament, and is inserted by its base to the side and part of the anterior smface of the coccyx and last piece of the sacrum. Actions.—It raises the coccyx after it has been pushed back during defsecation, and supports it during parturition. Relations.—Its pelvic surface is in contact with the rectum on the left side, its external or lower surface rests on the front of the small sacro- sciatic ligament and gluteus maximus, its anterior or inferior edge is parallel with the posterior border of the levator ani, and its posterior or superior border is separated from the pyriformis by some vessels and nerves; the sacro-seiatic ligaments are also partly above it. It completes the pelvic or genito-rectal diaphragm posteriorly.' Nerves.—The fourth and fifth sacral, and coccygeal. Va7^eties.—It occasionally has two heads of origin, and is sometimes Pelvic fascia Deep perineal fascia Deep layer of triangnlar lig. Int. piidic art. and n. Sup. layer of triang. lig. Deep layer of Bupt. fascia Section of ischio- pubic ramus Sup. layer of supf. fascia Fig. 470.—Diagram op vertical transverse section op the perineum. attached to the sacrum instead of the coccyx. MacaUster, in his paper on Muscular Anatomy,' p. 66, mentions that Von Behr and other anatomists have described some fibres passing from the lower end of the sacrum to the iront and back of the coccyx, and have named the anterior set curvator, and the posterior, extensor coccygis. I will describe them separately. i-tie f^acro-coccygeusposterior, or extensor coccygis of Theile, consists of a few slips ansmg from the lower part of the back of the sacrum, or from tricll^™S''muscll^n^^^^ anatomists, Meyer among the latter, consider the symme- o g, <iuu justly so, thej^ehw m- gemto-unnary dxaplvra^m.