IGO HUMAN MOHrilOLOGF. and by the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Its inner border is in relation with the coraco-brachialis, the median nerve, and the brachial vessels, and is also the guide to the brachial artery below the middle of the humerus, but above that point the coraco-brachialis is between them. Its outer border is in contact with the deltoid above and supinator longus below. Actions.—It is a flexor of the forearm bending the elbow joint. It is also a supinator of the radius and a tensor of the deep fascia of the fore- arm, because of its aponeurotic expansion to that fascia. If the forearm be fixed it will flex the arm upon it, and if the arm be hanging and the radius fixed, the long head will help to remove the limb from the thorax,, and when abduction is complete, the short head will aid in restoring the limb to its original position. Nerve.—The external or musculo-cutaneous. Varieties.—This is one of the most variable muscles in the human body. Its coracoid and glenoid portions may be separated a long way down or may even only meet at the tendon of insertion; but a more common peculiarity is perhaps the increase in the number of its heads of origin. According to Theile, a third head is found once in eight or nine subjects, arising at the upper and inner part of the brachialis anticus, being continuous with its fibres, or from the insertion of the coraco- brachialis, and being inserted into the under-surfece of the bicipital fascia so as to form a tensor of that fascia, and also into the inner side of the biceps tendon. This additional head lies usually on the outer side of the brachial artery, but sometimes behind it and occasionally in front of it. In some instances a third head consists of two slips, one passing in front and the other behind the artery, concealing it in the lower half of the arm. A muscular fasciculus passing from the biceps over the brachial artery to the inner intermuscular septum has also been seen. Gruber has described a third head passing from the outer side of the humerus and sometimes from the bicipital groove or 'great tubei'osity to the radius (bradiio-radicdis). Sometimes the long head does not reach the glenoid jirocess of the scapula, but stops in the bicipital groove. I have seen this in old subjects; and in one instance I felt sure it had been the result of disease, as there were indications of chronic arthritis in the shoulder joint. On one side of a subject in the London Hospital dissecting room there was a fourth diminutive head. The Brachial Artery is the continuation of the axillary, and commences at the lower margin of the tendon of the teres major, and passing down the inner and anterior aspect of the arm, ends opposite the neck of the radius in the radial and ulnar arteries. It gi'adually inclines from the inner to the fore part of the arm, lying in the groove along the inner border of the coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles, and its direction may be indicated by a line drawn from near the outer side of the axilla to midway between the humeral condyles. In the upper part of its course it is superficial and lies internal to the humerus, but below, at the elbow, it lies in front of that bone and is more deeply placed. Relations.—In front are the skin, superficial and deep fasci?e, and at the elbow the bicipital fascia, which separates it from the median basilic vein. The basilic vein lies along the course of the artery on its inner side, separated from it by the deep fascia in the lower half, and the median nerve crosses usually in front of, but sometimes behind it at its middle.