DISSECTIOK OF THE LOWER LIMB. 6G3 o o 2 reception of the astragalus. It is continuous above with the interosseous membrane. The transverse ligament ia a longish, narrow band continuous with the posterior inferior ligament, and passes transversely over the posterior aspect of the joint, from the posterior border of the external malleolus to the outer margin of the tibia, near its malleolar process. This ligament pro- jects below the margin of the bones, and is said by some to be only a part of the inferior interosseous ligament. The synovial membrane is an extension from that of the ankle joint. Joint Sttrfaces.—The lower ends of the tibia and fibula are in contact by surfaces which are mainly rough and connected by ligament, but near their lower borders are smooth and covered by cartilage. The fibular surface is convex, and the tibial concave; the lower edges of both being straight. Movements.—The tibio-fibular articulations permit of little movement, as the main use of the fibula is to give attachment to the leg and foot mus- cles, and to support the ankle joint externally. In the upper articulation only slight antero-posterior gliding can take place. In the lotoer the liga- ment and the elasticity of the fibula allow slight yielding to the pressure of the astragalus when the body weight is thrown on the inner side of the foot. If the force acting in this direction be too great, the lower third or fourth of the fibula will fracture rather than the ligament yield ; and in falls upon the feet, the astragalus may be driven up between the two bones. This accident is extremely rare; I have seen but one case, which occuired at the Middlesex Hospital some years ago in the practice of Mr. Nunn. THE ANKLE JOINT. This, like the knee, is a ginglymus or hinge joint. The tibia and its malleolus, and the external malleolus of the fibula, form an arch which receives the upper convex surface of the astragalus and its two lateral facets. There are four ligaments, viz. anterior, posterior, internal and external lateral. Dissection.—Eemove the muscles, vessels, and fibrous tissue from the front and back of the joint, and to define the lateral ligaments, the leg must be placed first on one and then on the other side. The tibialis pos- ticus and the peronei muscles, with the remains of the annular ligaments, must be taken away. The student should study the action of these liga- ments in the various movements of the joint, and must refer to the para- graph a little further on which deals with that subject. The Anterior or Tihio-astragaloid is a broad thin membrane which is attached above, close to the articular edge of the tibia, and below, to the upper margin of the astragalus in front of its tibio-articular surface. It is pierced by vessels, and is continuous at the sides with the lateral liga- ments. In front, it is in relation with the extensor tendon of the toes, the tibialis anticus, peroneus tertius, and anterior tibial vessels and nerve. Behind, it is in contact with the synovial membrane. The Posterior Ligament, when present, is thicker externally than in- ternally, and has similar connections to the leg bones as the anterior, but