32 HUMAN MOJIPHOLOGY. five regions : 1, tlie frontal or sinciput; 2, the occiput; 3, the temporal; 4, the vertex; and 5, the auricular or mastoid region. The frontal region is prominent, straight, or retreating, and more or less high in different individuals. At the middle line it presents a vertical depression, which ends below in a prominence above the root of the nose, called the glabella ; and above, it ends in the median frontal eminence, when it exists. At its sides are the lateral frontal eminences, which are separated by a transverse groove from the supra-orbital ridges. The Occiput is rounded, passing laterally into the auricular^regions, and at the middle line below is a prominence, which is the occipital 'pro- tuberance, whose size varies in different individuals and is well covered with hairs. The Temporal or temporo-parietal region corresponds to the temporal fossa and temporal muscle. It is slightly compressed below and in front, where it is clearly defined from the frontal region. It is convex in the rest of its extent, and is continuous above with the opposite temporal, and behind with the am-icular region. The Vertex.—This prominence corresponds with the meeting of the occipital and parietal bones. It is more promineiit in some individuals than in others, and in common with the temporal and occipital regions is covered with hairs. The Auricular or Mastoid region is situated behind the external ear, is prominent, and corresponds to the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. It is continuous in front with the temporal region, and behind with the occipital, and is devoid of hair. The skull contains the cerebrum and cerebellum, and the cranial nerves pass through its foramina. The Face comprehends, laterally, the auricular region, the cheeks or malar regions, and the parotid regions ; and, in the middle line, the nasal, buccal, and mental regions, which will be described in the dissec- tion of the head and neck. In the face are situated the organs of special sense—i.e. the eye, ear, nose, tongue—and also the mouth. The Neck.—This is divisible into, 1, anterior region ; 2, posterior or nuchal region ; and 3, two lateral regions ; and its length in the upright position of the head measures, from the chin to the middle of the inter- clavicular notch, about a quarter of the length of the trunk. It may be long as when the shoulders and upper ribs are sloping, or it may be short and iiupacted, as it were, between the shoulders. Its circumference and volume are variable, and in women it may increase in size dming menstrua- tion and pregnancy, in consequence of the greater size of the thyroid body at those periods. In man it has the form of a triangle whose angles are rounded in consequence of the prominence of the thyroid cartilage and of the sterno-mastoid muscles, but in women it is nearly cylindrical and more slender, and in the sub-hyoid origin often has a transverse fold called the Collar of Venus. The various sub-regions ^vill be given with the surface markings in the dissection of the neck. In the neck c^re situated the windpipe, or larynx, the oesophagus, or gullet, the thyroid body, the carotid arteries, jugular veins and lymphatics; and at its upper part, beneath the lower jaw, are the submaxillary salivary glands. The cervical spinal nerves and the pneumogastric and sympathetic run through the neck. The Trunk is composed of three parts—the thorax, abdomen, and pelvis.