284 HUMAN MOEPHOLOGY. The internal lateral ligament is rendered tense, and the motion is' checked by the meeting of the styloid process of the radius with the scaphoid. In Adduction the hand is moved towards the ulnar side and the carpal bones pass transversely outwards. This motion is freer than abduction, and is limited by the external lateral ligament. Joint Surfaces.—The triangTilar articular surface of the radius is divided by an antero-posterior line into an outer, triangular and an inner square- shaped surface, and these with the triangular fibro-cartilage form an arch which receives the upper convex ends of the first row of carpal bones. The scaphoid is received into the outer radial facet, the semilunar into the square-shaped facet, and triangular fibro-cartilage, while the cuneiform is in contact with the ligaments ; but sometimes the fibro-cartilage is divided between the semilunar and cuneiform, the smaller part of it being for the latter bone, which is also in contact with the ligaments. Circumduction.—In this movement the hand describes a cone whose base is at the fingers and apex at the wrist, and this being a combination of the four other movements, it necessarily moves most freely in the directions in which movement is freest; viz. in extension and adduction. Flexion of the hand is produced by the flexor carjDi radialis, palmaris longus, flexor carpi ulnaris, supinator longus, flexors sublimis and profundus, flexor longus pollicis and extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. 1. Riidiua. 2. Its surface for scaphoid. 3. Surface for semilunar. 4. Styloid of ulna. 5. Triang. lig. G. Aijerture in fibro-cartilage. Fig. 208.—Left eadio-caepal articular surfaces, been from below. Extension is brought about by the extensors carpi radialis longior and brevior, extensor communis digitorurn, extensor minimi digiti, extensor carpi ulnaris, extensor indicis, and extensor primi and secundi internodii pollicis. Abduction by the flexor carpi radialis, extensor carpi radialis longior and brevier, extensor ossis metacarpi, and extensors primi and secundi in- ternodii pollicis. Adduction by the flexor and extensor carpi ulnaris. Inferior Radio-TJlnar Joint.—The lower semilunar end of the radius, which is concave, and the head of the ulna, which is convex to fit into it, and a fibro-cartilage and synovial membrane, are the structures which enter into the composition of this joint. It will be noticed that this ar- rangement is the opposite of that between the upper ends of the bones. The articular surfaces are covered by a thin layer of cartilage, and connected by scattered ligamentous fibres, forming a sort of capsule, which are named according to their position. This joint is a lateral ginglymus. The Anterior Radio-Ulnm' Ligament is a narrow band, extending from the anterior border of the sigmoid cavity of the radius to the anterior surface of the head of the ulna. The Posterior Radio-Ulnar Ligament passes between similar spots at the back of the joint. The Trianrjular Fibro-Cart'dage is a thickish plate passing transversely