656 DISSECTION OF THE PERINA^UM. fascia; and the deep muscles, between the deep perinseal and pelvic fascias. By thus assimilating the deeper fasciae in this region to that of similar structures in other parts of the body, and considering them as apomyoses, as they undoubtedly are, their comprehension and description is much facilitated. It will now be clear that there are four planes of fasciae enclosing three groups of muscles, viz. the superficial, the middle, and the deep perinceal fasciae, the fourth layer being part of the true fasciae of the pelvis, separating the deepest part of the perinaeum from the pelvic cavity, limit- ing the pelvic outlet, and being only separated from the peritoneum by loose cellulo-fatty tissue. Although these fasciae cannot now all be seen, it will assist the student to understand them if a succinct account be at once given. The Superficial Perinseal Fascia, or subcutaneous cellulo-fatty layer, may Int. pudic art. Corp. cav. BlUbo-cav. Adductors of thigh Sup. fascia deep layer Aperture for sup. perin. vessels Ano-perinaea fascia Glut. max. Middle periujeal fascia Bamus of pubea Root of corp. cav. Falciform edge of gt. ^ sacro-sciatic lig. '-^^ Anusandext.sphinct. Tuber ischii Auo-perinseal fascia post, part Grt. sacro-soiatio lig. Coccyx Fig. 475.—Perinceal aponeuroses of the male. be dissected into two layers, and is continuous with that of suiTounding parts, and passes into the thighs, into the ischio-rectal fossa, and around the anus to the buttocks, and is attached to the sides of the coccyx. In front, it loses its fat and runs into the dartos, or more correctly forms an extremely thin and firm band of union between the daHos and skin of the scrotum, and passes on to the penis and abdomen. Between this and the middle perinceal fascia are the cutaneous vessels and nerves which pierce and supply the superficial fascia to reach the skin. Directions.—To demonstrate the attachment of the middle fascia, cut through it on one side, midway between the pubic arch and the mid-line, and reflect it, removing any fat, and define the septum in the middle. The Middle Perinseal Fascia, or ajjomyosis, is a thin membranous