381 BISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. fully preserving the branches of vessels and nerves beneath it. Some descending vessels and nerves will indicate the point of separation between the extei'nal vastus and the crureus and vastus internus. The separation of these muscular masses at the mid-part of the outer aspect of the thigh,- is indicated by the long vertical fibres of the external vastus passing to theii" tendon, crossing over the deeper fibres which pass obliquely inwards, and are a pai't of the internal vastus. The Vastus Externus arises by an extensive aponeurosis from the base of the great trochanter in front, from the tubercle and anterior border of the same bony process, from the horizontal ridge on its outer surface, and from a rough line passing between the linea aspera and great trochanters, also from the whole length of the outer lip of the linea aspera. This aponem'osis covers tlie upper three-fourths of the muscle and gives origin to many muscular fibres. A few fibres also arise from the external inter- muscular septum, between the vastus externus 'and short head of the biceps, also from the tendon of the gluteus maximus. Its origin from the femm* is narrow as compared with its thickness and si^e. Its fibres form a rhomboidal mass, which is attached to a strong aponeurosis on the under sm-face and lower part of the muscle, and which descends obliquely inwards and forwards, on the outer surface of the vastus internus, and be- comes thickened and contracted into a flat tendon which joins the outer border of the tendon of the rectus, and is attached to the outer border of the patella, giving an expansion over the outer side of the knee joint. It is pointed above, but broad and thick below, forming the prominence on the outer side of the thigh. Relations.—Superficially, with the rectus, tensor fasciee femoris, gluteus maximus, from which it is sejDarated by a bursa and fascia lata. Deeply, with the crureus, being separated from it by the descending branches of the external circumflex artery, and anterior crural nerve. i\'^e?"ye.—The anterior crural. Variety.—It may be bi-laminar, as in birds. Vastus Internus.—The vastus internus and crureus are inseparably united and form the deep or inner head, and smallest portion of the triceps extensor. The anterior part covered by the rectus is called the crureus. The inner portion which is beneath the fascia lata' is the vastus internus. The fibres of this portion may be easily separated into a superficial and deep set. The former is a continuous lamina over the front and both sides of the femur, completely enclosing the deeper fibres, and it descends in different directions. The anterior or middle fibres arch forwards almost parallel to the femur, and the lateral fibres, both inner and outer, are more oblique, and at the lower part of the muscle they are almost hori- zontal. The anterior fibres arise from the middle of the anterior inter- trochanteric line, and the inner lateral fibres come from a line passing from the anterior inter-trochanteric line in front of the small trochanter, to the inner line leading to the linea aspera, from the lower half of that line, from the inner lip of the linea aspera, and from the inner intermus- cular septum. The outer lateral fibres arise from the anterior inter- trochanteric line and from the outer surface of the shaft of the femur immediately in front of it, being closely connected with the origin of the external vastus. The lower external lateral fibres reach some distance beyond the lower border of the vastus externus and ai'ise from the outer