HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 666 structure, which is unattached in front and is continuous with the scrotal dartos, but is attached laterally to the anterior lip of the descending rami of the i^ubes and ascending rami of the ischium, in front of the crus and erector penis and as far back as the tuber ischii. It passes round the lower border of the sujperficial transverse muscle to reach its deep surface, and is attached laterally to the posterior margins of the same bones behind the crus and erector, and superiorly to the inferior margin of the symphysis pubis. By this reflection, recurvation, or folding of itself round the transverse muscle, two layers are formed, a sujperficial^ called Colles' fascia, and a deejp} These are really continuous, and form parts of one and the same fascia, the deeper layer being the stronger. Between the two layers of this fascia are the supei-ficial perinteal muscles, viz. the erector penis, accelerator urina^, and stiperficial transverse, with parts of the transverse vessels and superficial perinseal.vessels and nerves. Practical Applications.—Matter or urine extravasated between the SYMPH. Fig, 476.—Dissection of the male pelvis seen from above and within to SHOW the triangular ligament. The dissection has been carried deeper on the right side of the subject. 1. Deep layer of triangular ligament con- tinuous with that part of the recto-vcsical fascia which forms a sheath for the prostate. 2. Recto-vesical fascia cut to show the anterior layer of the triangular lig. On the left side the anterior fibres of the lev. ani have been removed to expose the deep layer of the triangular lig. The iliac portion of the pelvic fascia is seen passing over the iliacus and psoas to become continuous with the recto-vesical fascia, and forming the deep layer of the triangular lig. The urethra has been divided and the bladder and peritoneum stretched backwards. superficial fascia and the anterior layer of the middle may pass in all direc- tions, but if confined between the two layers of the middle fascia, it cannot pass back, because of the reflection round the transverse muscles, and it cannot pass on to the thighs because of the attachments to the rami of pubes and ischium, but it can and does pass foi-wards to the scrotum, penis, and abdomen, because here it is not bound down. This is the rule, but I have seen two or three exceptions to it, which were due in one case, as proved at the ^osi mortem, to ulceration through these attachments, and perfora- tion of the superficial layer of this fascia, and exit of the urine and pus into the thighs and into the ischio-rectal fosste and buttocks. In other cases there may be natural gaps in the fasciae or in their- attachments, and judging » This deep layer is, according to most anatomists, a separate membrane forming the ant. or mf, layer of the ti-iangtiUr ligament of Carcassonne. It has also been called the siibjfubic fascia and the transverse ligament of the perinajum. In fact its names are much too nmnerous and have caused great confusion.