BISSECriON OF THE UPPER LIMB. 10:3 The Pectoralis Minor is triangular, with its apex at the coracoid process, and base at the thorax. It })asses obliquely up and out, crossing diagonally beneath the Pectoralis major. It arises by three tendinous digitations from the upper margins and outer sm-faces of the third, fourth, and fifth ribs external to their cartilages, and from the aponeurosis covering the corresponding irtercostals. The fibres pass up and out to a flat tendon which is inserted into the anterior border and anterior half of the ujiper smface of the coracoid process of the scapxila, blending with the short head of the biceps and coraco-brachialis. Relations.—In front of it are the pectoralis ma-jor and the superior thoracic vessels and nerves; behind it are the third,, fomth, and fifth ribs, and corresponding intercostals, some digitations of the serratus mag- nus, the axilla, and the axillary vessels and nerves. Its u'p'per border is separated fi-om the clavicle by a triangular space (infra-clavicular space or triangle), the base of which is internal and the apex at the coracoid pro- cess. The lotuer border near the thorax projects beyond the pectoralis major, and the long thoracic artery runs along it. Fig. 88.—ANTERO-POSTfeUIOR SUCTION OF THE CLAVICLE, PECTORALS, AND COSTO- COEACOID MEMBRANE, SEEN FROM THE SlDE (DIAGRAMMATIC). Above is the clavicle with the a'ubclavius beneath it; to the right is the pectoralis major and fascia covering; it; to tlic left is the pectoralis minor and costo-coracoid ligament tiboVe it; and belov/ is the skin and fascia of the axilla. Action.—It draws the scapula forwards, downwards, and inwards, and the scapula being fixed, it raises the third, fourth, and fifth ribs. Nerve.—Internal anterior thoracic. The Costo-coracoid Membrane or Ligament is a strong piece of fascia, which is thicker externally at its coracoid attachment, but thinner inter- nally, where it is connected with the lower border of the clavicle as far as the sternal end of the first rib. Beloio it is continuous with the fiiscia inclosing the pectoralis minor; externally it covers the axillary vessels and nerves, blending with the sheath of the vessels beneath the pectoralis minor, and then joins the deep fascia of the arm. It is attach(>d above, between the rib and the coracoid process, to the lower border of the clavicle inclosing the subclavius. Internally it is of less extent than externally, as in the former position it passes but a short distance on the axillary vein. It is pierced by the ce[)halic vein, the acromio- and superior tho- racic arteries and vein, and the external and internal anterior thoracic nerves. /Ji.s.seciion. —Carefully cut through the costo-coracoid uieinbiane near