HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. C02 the pelvic girdle on its ventral aspect which corresijonds to the clavicle. At first sight the fact that the ossa pubis meet at the symphysis seems to offer a similarity to the union of the clavicle with the sternum, and some anatomists look upon them as homologous, but the more accurate study of development and the increasing knowledge in comparative anatomy have led to the rejection of this view, and to the adoption of the idea that the pubes represents the epicoracoid of monotremes and reptiles, and that the coracoid is, as before stated, the representative of the ischium. The OS pubis and the clavicle cannot, at present, be said to have their homologies in their corresponding upper and loAver extremities. The clavicle, phylogenetically, represents a part of the dermal or eax)-skeleton, and has developed after the manner of the cranial roof-bones. In the pelvic girdle, in which it is not represented, there is a double instead of a single ventral branch (rami of pubes and ischium), which probably corre- sponds morphologically to the coracoid and epi-coracoid of reptiles and monotremata. Some anatomists have regarded Poupart's ligament as re- presenting the clavicle, and have referred to the position of the subclavian artery passing beneath the clavicle, as indicating its homology with Poupart's ligament, under which pass the femoral artery and vein in a corresponding position; but it has yet to be shown that the subclavian and femoral arteries are homologous to each other, which at present is very doubtful. The marsupial bone of the pouched mammalia has been regarded by some anatomists as representing the clavicle, but its position does not correspond to that structure, as it lies in the median, or superior pillar, of the external inguinal opening. Kosenberg (Gegenbaur's ' Morphologisches Jahrbuch,' 1876, Bd. 2, p. 238) states, that in man the os pubis is developed independently of the rest of the pelvic girdle. Its homology may perhaps be found in a ^^^'O- coracoid bone which occurs in some of the lower vertebrates (frogs, tortoises, &c.), and which is situated above and to the proximal side of the coracoid, being ossified from the scapula. The olecranon may represent an occasional isolated bone, the os acromiale, yet this is not homologous to the pro-coracoid, but may be only an independent epiphysis of the scapular spine. The individual parts of the scapula and ilium offer greater difiiculty in their homological determination. In man the dorsum of the ilium appears to correspond to the dorsum of the scapula, and the sub-scapular fossa with the iliac fossa; but if these bones be studied through the vertebrate series a different explanation is compelled from us. Prof. Flower supports the view that the scapula and ilium have become rotated wdth reference to the axis of their limbs, the former backwards and the latter forwards, in such a way that the pre-scapular fossa (supra-spinous of human anatomy) corresponds to the sacral surface of the ilium ; the post-sacral fossa (infra- spiuous of man) to the iliac fossa; and the sub-scapular fossa to the gluteal. Prof. Humphry supports the other view, which is that the pre- scapular and iliac fosste are homologous, and that the post-scapular fossa corresponds with the dorsum ilii or gluteal surface ; the sub-scapular being represented by the true pelvic and sacral surfaces of the ilium. If the simpler forms of the scapula and ilium which occur in the animal series be taken as types instead of the more highly developed, the view maintained by Flower seems to be the more probable. In these simpler forms these