DISSUCTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. the insertion of the semimembranosus beneath it, noting a bursa between the tendon and the bone. He must define the oblique process of this tendon to the posterior ligament, the membranous prolongation from its lower border over the popliteus, and the fibres from it to the posterior edge of the internal lateral ligament. The Long External Lateral Ligament is a strong rounded fibrous structure, placed like the internal lateral and crucial ligaments, nearer the back than the front of the joint. Above it is attached to the outer tuber- osity of the femur; below to the outer head of the gastrocnemius, and it descends vertically between the division of the biceps tendon to a depres- sion on the outer part of the head of the fibula. The biceps tendon is in relation to its outer surface, and the tendon of the popliteus and the in- ferior external articular vessels and nerve pass beneath it on its inner side. The Short External Lateral Ligament is sometimes to be found, and when present is accessory to the long ligament. It is posterior to and parallel with the long ligament, and is sometimes attached above to the Pio. 3D3.—Posterior aspect of left knee joint. lower part of the external tiiberosity of the femur, but is frequently not connected with that bone, but with the outer tendon of the gastrocnemius. It is inserted into the tip of the styloid process of the fibula. It is closely connected with the capsular ligament, and passing beneath it is the tendon of the popliteus and the inferior external articular vessels and nerve. Directions.—The student should define the two pieces into which the biceps tendon divides, and note a prolongation from the anterior of these to the outer tuberosity of the tibia. He should then study the attach- ments of the capsular ligament, and this being done, must divide it to follow out the tendon of the popliteus. The Capsular Ligameoit is very thin, but is a strong, partly fibrous and partly ligamentous membrane, which fills in the spaces between the I)receding ligaments and encloses the synovial membrane. It is fixed to I, L 2