566 11UMAN MORPIIOL OGY. from the apex of the malleolus down and back to the middle of the outer surface of the os calcis. The tendons of the peroneus longus and brevis rest on it. The 'posterior fasciculus is the most deeply placed, and the strongest. It is almost horizontal, and passes from the depression at the inner and back part of the outer malleolus to the astragalus behind its upper arti- cular sm'face and that for the external malleolus. The peronei tendons lie on this fasciculus also. This portion of the ligament helps to deepen the cavity for the astragalus. Dissection.—Divide the ligaments and separate the bones, to see the synovial membrane and the articular surfaces. The synovial membrane covers the inner surface of the ligament, and sends a fold upwards between the lower ends of the tibia and tibula. The middle part of the external lateral ligament is only slightly in contact above with the synovial membrane. Articular Surfaces.—On the lower end of the tibia there are two car- tilaginous articular facets, one for the shaft and the other for the malleo- lus. The inner surface of the fibular malleolus is covered with cartilage for articulation with the astragalus. This malleolus is longer dnd placed further back than tlie inner. Fis. 4i7.—The articular suefacks oj? the left tibia and fibula. The astragalus has three cartilaginous facets for the ankle articula- tion, an upper and two lateral. The upper or central articular smface is, like the lower surface of the tibia, broader in front than behind, and trochlear-shaped. The outer facet is the larger of the lateral facets. Movements.—The motions of this joint are, like those of other joints, mainly determined by the shape of the articular smfaces. Flexion and extension are the chief movements permitted in this joint. In extension the toes point to the ground, and in flexion they are raised towards the front of the leg. In extension the astragalus moves forwards and projects anteriorly. This movement is stopped by the meeting of the astragalus with the tibia behind, and by the tension of the anterior ligament. The anterior por- tion of the external and the anterior and middle parts of the internal lateral ligaments are rendered tense. In complete extension, a certain aniount of lateral motion is possible, because the naiTow part of the astragalus is brought into the widest portion of the space between the malleoli; but if the extension be forced, the astragaloid portions of the lateral ligaments will prevent lateral motion in consequence of being rendered tense. Extension of the joint is accompanied with a slight in-