4(5!) DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. Nerve.—It is supplied by the internal popliteal. Varieties.—This muscle is sometimes joined by a band of muscular hbres, which takes origin separately from the femur above one of the condyles—this has been seen to pass in some cases between the artery and vein. Dissection.—Divide the gastrocnemius near its origin, and the vessels and nerves to it; reflect it, and clean the following muscles. The Plantaris is very small, is placed between the gastrocnemius and soleus, and is noteworthy in having the longest tendon in the body. If this be stretched laterally, it assumes the appearance of a ribbon. It has a fusiform belly about two inches in length and three quarters of an inch wide, and arises from the lower part of the outer bifurcation of the linea aspera and from the ligamentum posticum Winslowii. Its slender tendon passes obliquely between the two calf muscles to the inner border of the tendo-Achillis, and is inserted with it into the posterior part of the os calcis, or into the fascia of the leg, or into the internal annular ligament. Varieties.—It is often absent, and occasionally is double. In man it is rudimentary, but in some of the lower animals it exists as a large muscle and is inserted into the plantar fascia, of which it is a tensor, or passes forward deeply in the sole as a part of the toe flexors. It may be imbedded in the tendo-Achillis. Action.—It assists the gastrocnemius to extend the foot if it be not lixed, and to flex the knee'if the foot be fixed. N&'ve.—The internal popliteal. Soleus.—The Soleus is a large flat muscle, and has been named from its supposed resemblance' to a sole fish. It arises by tendinous fibres from the back of the head of the fibula, and the upper half or third of the posterior and internal surfaces of its shaft; from the oblique line of the tibia and from the middle third of its internal border. Some fibres also come fi'om the tendinous arch which passes between the tibial and fibular origins of the muscle, and beneath this the posterior tibial vessels and nerves pass. The fibres pass back to an aponem'osis on the posterior surface of the muscle, and this becoming thicker ard naiTower, joins the tendon of the gasti'ocnemius to form the tendo-Achillis. The tibial origin of this muscle is pierced by veins from the posterior tibial passing to the internal saphenous. Relations.—S'tiperjicially vfith the gastrocnemius and plantaris, cZe^^p^?/ with the deep muscular layer and posterior tibial vessels and nerve, from which it is separated by the deep intermuscular fascia of the leg. The Tendo-Achillis is the common tendon of the gastrocnemius and soleus, and is the strongest and tjiickest tendon in the body. It is about six inches long and'about three wide at its upper part. It begins about the middle of the leg, being formed by the union of the aponeuroses of the two preceding muscles. It receives fleshy fibres on its anterior surface nearly to the lower end. It is narrowest about an inch and a half above its insertion and exjiands a little before it is inserted into the lower half of the posterior tuberosity of the os calcis, having a bursa between it and the upi)er part of the tuberosity. Relations.—Swperfi.cial to the tendon are the skin and fascisB, deeply, it is separated from the tendons of the deeper muscles and vessels by a considerable interval, which contains vascular,, areolar, and fatty tissue.