401 DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. 'I'he Profunda Vein is formed by the union of branches corresponding with the offsets of the profunda artery. It closely accompanies the artery lying superficial to it, and ends in the femoral vein about an inch and a half below Poupart's ligament. Dissection.—Cut through the adductor brevis near its orign and reflect it, and remove the fat and fascia from the obturator externus, adductor magnus, and psoas and iliacus nuiscles, which will be exposed. After learning the adductor magnus, some of its upper fibres may be removed so as thoroughly to examine the attachments of the obturator externus. The Adductor Maguus is a large triangular muscle which forms a fleshy septum between the muscles on the inner and those on the back of the thigh. Its base is at the femur and its apex at the pelvis. Its upper and inner borders ai-e free and it arises from the lower part of the pubic body, from the rami of pubes and ischium, and from the outer margin and under surface of the ischial tuberosity. The fibres diverge from their origin like the ribs of a fan, those which arise from the pubic ramus are shorter than the rest, pass horizontally outwards and are inserted into the lower part of the linea quadrati, and into the rough line prolonged from the linea aspera to the gi"eat trochanter, internal to the gluteus maximus ; those fibres which arise from the ramus of the ischium pass with increasing obliquity down and out to be inserted by a broad aponeurosis into the whole length of the linea aspera, and into the upper part of its inner bifurcation. These two portions constitute the anterior part of the muscle. The posterior or internal portion of the muscle consists mainly of the fibres which arise from the ischial tuberosity and which descend almost vertically, forming the inner border of the muscle, and end in a narrow roimded tendon, which is inserted into the tubercle above the inner con- dyle of the femur, being connected by a fibrous expansion to the line leading from the linea aspera to the femoral tubercle. Between the two portions of the muscle there is an angular interval which is tendinous in front and fleshy behind, and is for the passage of the femoral vessels into the popli- teal space. This interval is situated below the level of the inner condyloid ridge of the linea aspera, between the tendinous and fleshy insertions of the muscle. The outer or anterior portion of the muscle is interi'upted along its femoral attachment by three or more tendinous arches through which perforating arteries pass. This muscle gives off an aponeurosis which consists of transverse fibres passing from the surface of the vastus internus to the adductors magnus and longus. It is thinner at its upper part and encloses a three-sided passage which was described by Hunter and is called Hunter's canal. He was the first to ligature the superficial femoral in this situation. Relations.—Anteriorly, with the pectineous, adductors brevis and longus, vastus interaus, femoral vessels, profunda artery, and obtui'ator nerve. Behind, with the great sciatic nerve, the hamstring muscles, and the gluteus maximus. Internally, with the gracilis, sartorius, and fascia lata. Externally, it is attached to the femur behind the adductors brevis and longus which separate it from the inner vastus, and is in front of the gluteus maximus and short head of the biceps, which se])arate it from the outer vastus. It is ])ierced by the femoral and perforating nrteries, and by the branch of the obturator nerves to the knee joint. Its upper border D D