HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 146 ing them and part of the latissimus dorsi, trapezius and scapula. It anastomoses with the supra-, sub- and infra-scapular arteries, and with the posterior branches of some of the upper intercostals. The Dorsalis Scapulae Branch, of the subscapular artery runs back below the axillary border of the scapula in the triangular space between it and the teres muscles. It enters the infra-spinous fossa beneath the teres minor, supplying it and the infra-spinatus, and anastomosing with the supra-scapular artery. Its infra-spinous branch runs between the teres muscles to the inferior angle of the bone, and anastomoses with the posterior scapular. THE FRONT OF THE ARM. Directions.—The limb should lie with the palm of the hand and biceps uppermost. Dissection.—Kaise the skin by making an incision in continuation with the previous one as far as two inches below the elbow, at the end of which another incision transverse to it is to be made across the forearm. Eeflect the skin out and in, and observe the subcutaneous bursa between it and the olecranon. In the superficial fatty fascia seek the cutaneous vessels and nerves. The superficial fascia with fat between its layers is thicker in front of the elbow, where it encloses the superficial vessels, nerves and lymphatics, than in other parts of the arm. Position of Cutaneous Nerves.—Two external cutaneous branches of the musculo-spiral will be found about the middle of the outer side of the arm, and just below the elbow, external to the biceps tendon, is the cuta- neous portion of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. The inner cutaneous nerves are more numerous, the internal cutaneous being by the side of the basilic vein about the middle of the arm, and a small offset from it to the skin pierces the fascia higher up, somewhat external to this nerve. In the lower third of the arm will be found the nerve of Wrisberg, and in the upper third are the intercosto-humeral, and the intei'ual cutaneous from the musculo-spiral. It forms an investment for the arm, and is continuous with the superficial fascia of the shoulder, thorax, and forearm. Position of the Cutaneous Veins.—Just below the bend of the elbow there are several cutaneous veins. The median vein is in the centre of the forearm, and bifurcates somewhat below the elbow bend. On its inner side are the anterior and posterior ulnar veins, which unite into one, and on its outer side is the small radial vein. The outer branch of the median joins the radial vein to form the cephalic vein (median cephalic), which runs along the outer side of the bicisps. The vein resulting from the union of the two ulnar veins is joined by the inner branch of the median (median basilic), which is longer than the median cephalic, to form the basilic vein. The Median Cephalic Vein passes obliquely out in the hollow between the biceps and the extensors and supinators of the forearm. Some small cutaneous twigs of the musculo-cutaneous pass over it, and the trunk of the nerve runs beneath it. It is generally smaller than the median basilic, and is quite away from the brachial artery. It has not generally