326 CHAPTER V. THE LOWER LIMB. DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. THE FRONT AND INNER SIDE OF THIGH AND FEMORAL HERNIA. Instructions.—The body being on its back, with a block under the loins, and the buttocks having been brought to the edge of the table, the student should rotate the leg out, and support it in a semiflexed position by resting the foot on a stool. External Markings and Boundaries.—The thigh is shaped like a truncated cone, with its base above at the hip, which forms the root of the lower limb, and its apex below at the knee. It is rounded, with a slight flattening at the outer side, and a depression at the uj^per and inner part. It is limited in front and above by the ligament of Poupart or Fallopius, which extends from the spine and crest of the pubis to the anterior superior iliac spine, and forms the fold of the groin ; on the outer side and behind by the iliac crest, and sacrum, and coccyx; on the inner side by the rami of pubis and ischium. Below the limit of the thigh is the inter-articular line of the knee. On the upper and inner aspect of the thigh is a slight hollow, which corresponds with Scarpa's triangle, and along the middle of this the femoral artery runs obliquely to the inner side of the limb. A line from a little internal to the centre of Poupart's ligament, to the internal condyle of the femur, marks the position of the artery. The common femoral artery can be compressed sufficiently by directing the pressure up and backwards, and the sujperficial femoral is controlled by pressing outwai'ds against the femur. With the thigh slightly flexed, besides the groove forming the bend of the groin, there is a second one below it, which begins at the angle between the scrotum or labium and thigh, and passing outwards, is gradually lost between the top of the great trochanter, and the anterior superior iliac spine. This groove is practically important, as it runs across the hip-joint capsule, is obliterated by effiision into the joint, is tender on deep pressure at its outer part in hip mischief, and is the line along which the knife should be introduced, from without inwards, in antero-posterior flap dis- articulation by transfixion at the hip. Along these folds the inguinal and femoral lymphatic glands may be felt, the former following the line of Poupart's ligament, the femoral, that of the saphena vein, and lying over the saphenous opening and around the femoral vessels. In a thin body, if the fingers be pressed deeply in the hollow, below and at the middle of