636 DISSHCTIOK OF THE PERINMUM. and is deficient in the normal mucous secretion of the part, and also because of the rigor mortis affecting the muscular fibres surrounding the urethra. If some time, varying generally speaking from two to five days, have elapsed since the time of death, this condition will have passed off. Should one or more strictiires of the urethra be present, it will be very difficult and perhaps impossible to get the instrument in. Enlarged pro- state also increases the difficulty of passing an instrument with the ordinary curve, and a prostatic catheter, which has a much larger cui've, has to be used. As many dissecting-room subjects ai-e old men, this con- dition may be present in the body being dissected. In the female the vuethra is only about three-quarters of an inch long, a female catheter can easily be passed, and if necessary the m-ethi-a dilated and the bladder ex- plored by inserting the little finger guided on a probe which is previously introduced. Subsequently an instrument called the cysto-uretkroscope, which I have devised, can be introduced, and the ui-etkra and bladder explored. The index finger introduced into the bladder may afford valuable information in the diagnosis of tumours of the womb, ovaries, &c. Directions.—Inject with a syringe a pint and a half of water through the catheter into the bladder, and put a plug into the outer end of the instrument. Hotu to examine the rectum.—Put some soap, lard, or tallow under and around the nail to prevent its retaining any faeces, oil the finger, and pass it into the rectum. The catheter will be felt in the middle line. About an inch up, the circular internal sphincter muscle may be felt, and in the living subject it forms a tight ring. On the anterior wall, about three inches ujp, is a transverse fold of mucous membrane which is constant, and forms the first impediment to the passage of a bougie or enema tube. This fold corresponds to the upper border of the 'prostate and lower end of the trigone vesicate. It is here that the bladder is tapped 'per rectum in cases of retention of urine from any cause. While the finger is on this spot, with the other hand press the lower part of the abdomen, and recog- nise the condition and feel of the moderately distended bladder. When it is much distended it imparts a tense semi-elastic feel. The base or upper border of the 'prostate gland, which is three-quarters of an inch broad, cor- responds to the transverse fold just mentioned, and an inch and a quarter nearer the anus is its apex. In front of this is the membranous portion of the urethra, which is about three-quarters of an inch long, and just in front of this the hulh of the corpus spongiosum may perhaps be felt. In children the prostate gland is small, and the membranous urethra relatively long. Its walls are very thin, and it is more curved because the bladder is in them more in the abdomen than in the pelvis. Now pass the finger agciiu upwards and make out the apex, lateral lobes, and base of the pro- state, j ast above the latter is the apex of the trigone vesicate, immedi- ately behind which the trocar is introduced in tapping the bladder per recturni The recto-vesical fold of the peritoneum is usually four inches from the anus, and cannot be reached unless the finger be long. This fold is said to descend lower in children and negroes. Through the posterior wall the lower part of the anterior surface of the sacrum and the whole of the coccyx may be felt, and laterally the soft structures of the ischio" rectal fossce may be recognised. It must be borne in mind that the walls of the rectum are, in a state of rest, in contact like those of other mucous