ANATOMICAL TECHNICS. The cinnabar powder, the indigo, the prussian blue, the yellow powders and the black and white injection powders should be mixed and added in the manner just described; but if carmine Ije used for the red injection, it is necessary to crush it beforehand with a little alcohol, and make a tine paste to which a little oil, and subsequently the injection mass, should be added.' If the green injection No. 1 be employed, one must be careful not to put it in the hot mixture, as the injection materials will not mix with, it but will float above it. The oil colours in tubes of Rowney & Co., of Oxford Street, or Winsor and Newton, of Rathbone Place, mix well with the injection masses, and form good colouring materials. Chinese vermilion makes a good red in- jection. Orange-crome yellow makes a gocd yellow injection. Emerald green and verdigris are good for green injections. Nottingham or Crem- nitz white is good for white injections, and a good blue can be made by mixing the Cremnitz white with prussian blue. Injections may be made into the hollow membranous viscera or into bony cavities, so as to take casts of them. These are best taken with white wax, gelatine or paraffine. Plaster of Paris may also be used for this pm-pose. The student may have opportunities of making warm injections in limbs or parts which have been removed in the operating theatre, and he will find instructions for executing them in his jnanuals of practical histology. Injection of the Arteries.—This may be done by the aorta, the carotids, axillary or femoral arteries. In most dissecting rooms the femoral artery is the one selected for injecting the body. For ordinary dissecting-room purposes it is not necessary to hydrotomise the subject before throwing in the coloured injecting mass, but if it be desired to trace the minutest ramifications of the vessels, it is necessary that hydrotomy should previ- ously be performed. Choice of Subjects.—The best subjects are the bodies of thinnish people up to forty or forty-five years of age. Those that have succumbed to a chronic wasting malady are very favourable subjects, but stout bodies and the cadavers of old people are unfavourable, because the former decompose rapidly, and in the latter the arterial coats are degenerated, and having lost their elasticity, are apt to rupture under the pressure of the injection force. Method of Injecting.—This may be done by the methods described in the section on hydrotomy or by the use of an injecting syringe. The cannula is introduced into the artery, tied into it, and the syringe being filled, its nozzle fits into the broad part of the cannula; the stopcock is tm-ned so as to be in a line with the nozzle of the syringe, and the injec- tion steadily pushed out. The cannulce are of various sizes, and at the end which is put into the artery thei-e is a groove, into which the ligature fixing the artery to the nozzle should fit. In introducing the cannula care must be taken not to penetrate be- tween the middle and external coats of the artery, and after it has been introduced, three threads should be passed beneath the vessel: one is to ])revent the return of the injection, another is the middle one, and should be tightened directly after the cannula is fixed into the artery; its object is