94 HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. layer of areolar tissue, which is continuous with the deep fascia. On its surface and passing between its lobes is a considerable quantity of fat, which gives the smooth round or oval form to the gland. This fat is of a bright yellow, and of firm consistence, and subdivided into lobules by septa of connective tissue. The nipple and areola are devoid of fat, as also is the finer structure of the gland. Structure.—The mammae resemble those glands which are constituted by the fascicular terminations of branched ducts. They consist of many distinct lobes and lobules held together by strong intervening connective and fatty tissue penetrating between them. Each lobe has an excretory or lactiferous duct and is subdivided into smaller lobes, and these again into smaller and smaller lobules, which are connected by areolar tissue, blood-vessels, lymphatics, and ducts. The lobules are of a pale red creamy colour and are composed mainly of the vascular dilatations of the lactiferous ducts, which look like clusters of minute round vesicles about the size of a pin-hole, and having a diameter The Jarge trunks to the left ipargin end with axillary glands. from ten to thirty times as large as the closest capillary network which surrounds them. A number of the vesicles around theu" duct form the glandule or lobule, which may vary in size from a pin's head to a small oat seed. The lobes are formed by the union of the lobules, and ai-e about twenty in number, each having a distinct galactophorous duct. These latter are from fifteen to twenty in number and converge to the ai-eola, beneath which they have oblong dilatations (or reservoirs, ampullce, sinuses, or sacculi) from one-sixth to one-third of an inch in width. At the base of the nipple these become reduced in size, ajiproximate each other, the central ones being the largest, and then pass side by side, surrounded by connective tissue and vessels, through the nipple to its summit, nearly parallel with each other and without inter-communication, and, narrowing, gradually open on the apex of the nipple by separate orifices of the