(34 HUMAN MOBPIIOLOGY. it indicates a rupture of the vessel and an extravasation in the celhilar tissue. The injection must be stopped and the ruptured vessel carefully dissected out and tied, and the injection must be recommenced. Some- times it is necessary to increase the pressure, but the amount of this which is necessary to a successful injection will be best learned by ex- perience. The injection of the lymphatic net-works is a part of practical histo- logical study, and is usually accomplished by means of the puncture method, and the student must refer to the various works on histological technics for instruction on this subject. The best places in which to inject the lymphatics of the skin have been given by Sappey, and named ' places of election.' 1. On the skull, the situation where the lymphatics can be best in- jected is placed between the lambdoid and parietal sutures. The ear can be well injected by puncturing the auricle either at its outer or inner sm-face. One puncture is sufficient to inject one surface of the auricle. 2. On the face the median line is the best place for the injection of the lymphatic capillaries. The root and the alfe of the nose and the com- missures of the lips are the spots in which the punctures should be made. 3. In the limbs the superficial lymphatics can be injected by punctur- ing the fingers and toes on their two lateral aspects ; and the palm of the hand and sole of the foot may be injected by puncturing in various points of their surfaces. To obtain the fullest possible injection it is best to make ten punctures, i.e. to inject each of the lateral surfaces of the five fingers or toes. The palm of the hand and the sole of the foot are very difficult to inject while they are covered by their epidermis, as this mem- brane, being thicker in these situations, the tube becomes blocked and prevents the flow of the injection. It is necessary therefore to scrape away as much as possible of the epidermis. EMBALMING, This, one of the ' lost arts,' was well understood by the ancient Egyptians, but the processes which they employed were, as far as can be ascertained, somewhat complicated. Modern nations have for a long time past practised evisceration in conjunction with the use of various preserva- tive materials. Within the last twenty years several processes have been successfully employed, such as those of Segato, Abbate, &c.; but the materials used and the methods employed have been kept strictly secret. As it may be desirable to embalm bodies or foetuses, or to prepare the viscera for anatomical purposes, a brief account of the best known methods will here be given.^ A previous hydrotomy will render the subsequent operations more successful; but as this is a somewhat inconvenient and lengthy operation, it may be dispensed with. A strong solution of chloride of zinc or carbolic acid is to be injected, and as much of it thrown in as the vessels will hold. In hot weather, and if the body be large, or if the cause of death be from any blood poisoning, a larger quantity and a greater strength will be re- quired to obviate the tendency to rapid putrefaction. In young, thin ' A good account of embalming, as far as known at its date of publication, will be found in J. Magnus'ti Das Binhalsamiroti d. Linchcii in alter u. ncucr Zeit, 183!).