HUMAN MOliPIIOLOGY. 518 anterior part of the capsule should be thrown down, and the synovial folds will become evident. The Synovial Membrane of this joint is the most extensive in the body. It is attached to the margins of the cartilage covering the con- dyles, and has a large pouch beneath the extensor tendons. This cul-de- sac runs higher up on the inner than on the outer side, it then passes down to the upper border and sides of the patella, passing beneath the capsular ligament, and is separated from the anterior ligament below the patella by a large quantity of fat. At this spot it sends off a triangular process, which contains a few ligamentous fibres, to the front of the inter- condylar interval. This is the so-called ligamentum mucoaum. Below and on each side of the patella are two fringe-like folds which pass from the sides of the ligamentum mucosum up, in, and out to the sides of the patella. The inner is more prolonged than the outer. The synovial membrane covers the semilunar cartilages on both surfaces, and at the Fig. 397.—Crltcial ligaments op iiight knee. Anterior aspect. back of the external one forms a pouch between the tendon of the popli- teus and the groove on its outer surface. It is continued over the arti- cular surface of the tibia, surrounds the crucial ligaments and the internal surface of the extra-articular ligaments, and passing upwards forms two pouches on the backs of the outer and inner condyles. Into the supra- patdlar pouch is inserted the subcrureus muscle which draws the pouch up in extension of the joint. Directions.—The student should note the masses of fat above and below the patella, and some around the crucial ligaments. He must also "blear away the infra-patellar mass of fat, being careful of the transverse ligament passing between the interarticular fibro-cartilages in front. The remains of the synovial membrane must be removed from the crucial liga- ments and interarticular cartilages. The posterior ligament should be turned towards the dissector and