TABULAR SUMMARY. Tabular Summary or Synopsis of the Origin and Distribution of the Nerves of the Upper Limb. Anterior thoracic, | which gives oil ' Subscapular comes from 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, and gives oflE Circumflex comes | from 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, and divides into I Nerve of Wrisberg from Internal cutaneous, | comes from 8th and J 1st D., and gives off External or musculo- cutaneous, comes from 5th, 6th, and 7th, and gives oft Median, which has no branches in the arm, comes from 5th, 6th, ^' 7th, 8th, and 1st D., and gives off External from 5tli, 6th, 7th, and supplies pect. major. Internal from 8th, and supplies pect. major and minor. Upper, supplies subscapularis. Middle „ „ and teres major. Long „ latissimus dorsi. Upper branch, supplies deltoid and skin. Lower „ „ teres minor, and skin over shoulder, and has gangliform enlargement. Articular to shoulder. 8th and 1st D., and is cutaneous to lower half of arm. Cutaneous to arm. Anterior to forearm, and joins branch of ulnar. Posterior „ „ nerve of Wrisberg and ulnar above and below elbow. In arm. Muscular to biceps, coraco-brachialis and brachialis anticus. Articular to elbow and to humerus. Tn forearm. Anterior to forearm, (cutaneous and joins radial. Posterior „ j „ „ „ and ext. cuts. ( of mus.-spiral. ^Articular to wrist. I- In the forearm. Muscular, to all the muscles in the front of the forearm except the flexor carpi ulnaris and ulnar half of the flexor profund. digitorum. Anterior interosseous, which supplies the deep muscles. Palmar cutaneous. In the hand. Ulnar, which comes from 8th and 1st D.,. or 7th, 8th, and 1st D., has usually no branches in the arm, and gives off Muscular to abductor, opponens and outer head of flexor brevis pollicis. Five digitals to the three and a half outer fingers on their L palmar aspect. In the forearm. Articular to elbow and wrist. Muscular to flexor carpi ulnaris and ulnar half of flexor pro- fundus digitorum. Cutaneous to forearm and palm. Dorsal cutaneous of hand, which supplies both sides of little, and ulnar side of ring finger on the dorsum. I/i the hand. Musculo-spiral, which comes from 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, and gives off Superficial palmar, which supplies the palmaris brevis, skin of palm, both sides of little, and ulnar side of ring finger on the.palmar aspect. Deep palmar, which is muscular, and supplies the muscles of little finger, the palmar and dorsal interossei, the two inner lumbricales, adductor pollicis, and inner head of flexor brevis . pollicis. (-Internal cutaneous. External „ (upper and lower). Muscular to triceps, anconeus, subanconeus, supinator lougus, extensor carpi longior, and often the brachialis anticus. Ulnar collateral to triceps. Radial, which gives off Posterior in- terosseous External (cutaneous). Internal, which divides into four digitaU for the three and a half outer lingers on the dorsum. / Muscular to supinators and extensors of wrist J and fingers, excepting sup. long, and ext. carp, longior. Articular to wrist; has gangliform enlargement.