DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. 525 appertains either to one or other of the three joint surfaces peculiar to the knee, and that each part is quite distinct from the otliers. Tliis joint may be considered as comprised of three articulations conjoined, viz. one between each femoral condyle and tibia, and one between the femur and patella. In most mammals these surfaces are either completely or nearly completely separated, and in man the ligamentum mucosum is the remnant of the original separation of the synovial membranes of the outer and inner joints, the crucial ligaments being regarded as the outer and inner lateral ligaments of these respective joints. The joint between each condyle and the corresponding tibial surface is very like, though not exactly, a hinge joint, and the motions of extension and flexion are a combination of rotation, gliding, and rolling. Relations.—In front the knee joint is subcutaneous, being covered only by the skin, subcutaneous tissue, and expansions of the fascia lata. The pre-patellar bursa is found in the tissue between the skin and patella, and there are two burs-e at the insertion of the ligamentum patellae: one 1 and 2. Branches of int. sup', nrtio. 3. Branches of ext. Eup''. artic. 4. „ int. mP. „ •5. „ e,xt. „ C. Auf. tibial recurrent. a. lutercondyloid groove. b. Posf. surface of patella. c. Head of fibula. Fig. 401.—Deep anastomoses around lept knee. Antemoh view. is subcutaneous and the other between the tendon and the tibia. Behind are the popliteus and the popliteal vessels and nerves in the mid-line, and the two heads of the gastrocnemius and the plantaris on either side. Inside are the tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, semitendinosus. and semi- membranosus, and the bursse in connection with them. Outside are the tendon of biceps, the external popliteal nerve, and the expansion of the tensor fasciae femoris. Blood-vessels.—The arteries are the articular from the popliteal and articular branches of the anastomotica magna and recurrent tibial, and form a rich network around the joint. The vente comites join the popliteal and femoral veins, and the lymphatics of the joint communicate with those of the cancellous tissue of the bones forming the articulation, and join the popliteal glands. The Nerves come from the anterior crural, obturator, and external and