HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 304 to the clavicle. The first part of the axillary artery aud its superior and acromio-thoracic branches and accompanying veins will be exposed. The cephalic vein will have been noticed piercing the costo-coracoid membrane, and the anterior thoracic nerves will be found piercing it. The supra- clavicular branches from the cervical plexus are in the subcutaneous tissue. 2. Dissect out the axillary vein, the cephalic emptying into it, and the branches corresponding to the artery, also the nerves accompanying the first part of the artery. 3. Eeflect the pectoralis minor and dissect out the second part of the axillary artery and its branches, which are usually the long thoracic and the alar thoracic, also the accompanying veins and nerves, which latter are partly on the outer and partly on the inner side. 4. The external intercostal fascia and vessels should be dissected and their attachments observed, also the lateral cutaneous nerves of the inter- costals which pierce the muscles and fascia. THE AXILLARY REGION. 1. The third part of the axillary artery and its branches, which are the subscapular and anterior and posterior circumflex, the accompanying veins, also the axillary vein and the median, ulnar, musculo-spiral, circumflex, and cutaneous nerves, all surrounding the vessels, should be dissected out. 2. The insertions of the pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, teres major, as well as the origins of the biceps, coraco-brachialis, and long head of the triceps, should be defined. 3. The axillary lymphatic vessels and glands should also be cleaned and defined. ANTERIOR BRACHIAL REGION. 1. Make an incision along the middle of the arm to just below the bend of the elbow. 2, Transverse ones on the outer and inner side at the outer ends of these incisions. 3. Eeflect the skin. 2. In the subcutaneous superficial cellulo-fatty tissue find the cutaneous branches from the musculo-spiral, internal cutaneous, and lesser internal cutaneous. The basilic vein is on the inner side, and the cephalic on the outer. 3. Reflect this layer after dissecting out the structures enumerated so as to expose the deep fascia, then make out its processes and attachments. 4. Eeflect the deep fascia or aponeurosis of the arm, and identify the following structures. 5. The biceps, coraco-brachialis, and origin of brachialis anticus. 6. The axillary artery and vense comites, the median, the musculo- cutaneous, ulnar, internal cutaneous, and intercosto-humeral nerves. BEND OF THE ELBOW. 1. The superficial veins in this region, namely, the termination of the median, the median-cephalic, the median-basilic, the origins of the cephalic, and the basilic, must be dissected out.