HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 422 minate bone and capsular ligament. Its -posterior surface is in relation with the gluteus maximus. Its upper border with the gluteus medius and minimus, being separated from it by the gluteal vessels and superior gluteal nerve. By its Lower border it is in relation with the gemellus superior; the sciatic vessels and nerves, the internal pudic vessels and nerve, and the nerve of the obturator internus, passing out and into the pelvis between the muscles. At its insertion it is covered by the gluteus medius, and is separated from the hip joint by the gluteus minimus. Action.—It is an external rotator when the femtu is pendant, and if the hip be bent it abducts the limb. It also draws the pelvis forward if it have been inclined backwards. When both limbs are fixed these muscles balance the pelvis and steady it on the femoral head. In standing on one leg it can rotate the trunk to the opposite side. Nerves.—Special branches from the sacral plexus. Varieties.—It may be absent. It is often pierced by the great sciatic nerve or by its outer branch, when it divides high up and is thus more or less completely divided into two portions. It may be blended with the gluteus medius or minimus, obturator internus or superior gemellus, and may have only one or two attachments to the sacrum, and be inserted into the back of the hip capsule. Dissection.—Cut through the pyriformis at its middle and reflect it. Then trace the sciatic and pudic vessels and nerves to their source and termination, as far as the present position of parts will allow. Some small nerves to the hip joint, to the obturator internus, gemellus superior and inferior, and quadratus, will be seen by raising the great sciatic nerve. Blood Vessels.—^The Sciatic Artery is the larger of the two terminal branches of the anterior division of the internal iliac, and supplies the gluteal region at its lower pai-t, the gluteal artei'y supplying the upper. It leaves the pelvis through the lower part of the great sacro-sciatic fora- mina behind and external to the internal pudic, and passes between the pyriformis and coccygeus, and accompanies the small sciatic nerve between the trochanter major and tuber ischii, passing over the gemelli and obtu- rator muscles to the lower border of the gluteus maximus. Here it gives off several branches which accompany the superficial offsets of its com- panion nerve, and after supplying the deep muscles it is much reduced in size, and is continued along the back of the thigh. External to the pelvis its branches are the coccygeal, inferior gluteal, covies nervi ischiatici, muscular and articular. The Coccygeal Branch is given off close to the foramen; it pierces the great sacro-sciatic ligament, and the gluteus maximus which it supplies, and passes to the skin and cellular tissue at the back of the coccyx and lower part of the sacrum, and anastomoses with its fellow. The Inferior Gluteal Branches are three or four, and supply the gluteus maximus. The Comes Nervi Ischiatici, or companion to the great sciatic nerve, is a long, slender, and somewhat tortuous branch which pierces or enters the nerve near the pelvis and runs in its substance to the lower pcut of the thigh. The Muscula,r Branches enter the obturator internus, gemelli, and quadratus. The branch to the latter, accompanied by the nerve to that muscle, passes beneath the gemelli and obturator internus, giving branche.-^