69 ANATOMICAL TECHNICS. FINE INJECTIONS. These are mostly used for histological purposes and may be opaque or transparent, and ai-e generally used when both the body and the liquid are warm. Sometimes, when one wishes to inject the capillaries of a particular part or viscus, one follows up the fine by an ordinary injection, so as to force the fine injection towards the capillaries. The student will find formulae and instructions in his books on practical histology, so that it is only necessary here to say a few words about them. These injections are ordinarily used for anatomical purposes when they are of the consistence of cream. They do not remain liquid long, and after a short exposure to the air, or immersion for a short time in alcohol or ice, the parts may be divided without the injection escaping:— 1. White of egg diluted with half its weight of water to which a fine colouring matter has been added. 2. Spanish wax dissolved and coloured, and pure alcohol saturated with it. This should be preserved in a well stoppered bottle. 3. The finer oil colours used by painters, diluted in a little essence of turpentine. Place the injected parts for three or four hours in alcohol to coagulate the injecting material. If it be desired to inject the arteries, veins, lymphatics and ducts of a viscus, injections of different colours should be used: blue for the arteries ; red for the portal, hepatic, or renal veins; white for the hepatic duct, m-eter, or the ducts of other glands; and yellow for the veins, because if the ordinary blue be thrown into the veins, which are much more dilatable than arteries, the blue colom- will mask the arterioles, which are very slender. The lymphatics may be injected with alkanna, quicksilver, fused metals, or with nitrate of silver. Varnish and ink; should not be used, as the former renders the preparation sticky, and the latter transudes through the coats of the vessels, imless these have been previously injected with a solution of tannin, or iron alum, or with chloral hydrate. Coloured gelatine is largely used and is very serviceable, but it has some inconveniences, as it either breaks, or sometimes becomes too tough in drying, and if it be too liquid at the time of injection it transudes the vessel walls. Other vehicles are gum, paraffine, isinglass, glue (?), and some of the cements, but the majority of these are only serviceable for coarse injections. These injections are best clone by water pressure as described at p. 56. COIiROSlON INJECTIONS. The vessels or canals of an organ or part may be injected by a material which is proof against certain liquids, and subsequently the injected part is placed in these liquids, which destroy by con-osion all the parts except' the injected matter, which remains as a cast of the vessels and ducts. The brain, lungs, liver, placenta, spleen, kidney, and salivary glands are usually thus injected. If desired, the arteries, veins, and canals of an organ may be injected by corrosion injections of different colours.