HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 42G the whole of the skin of the leg. It does not usually give any branch to the buttock, but one or two articular filaments to the hip may come from it and pierce the back of the capsule. These and the muscular branches are given off before the nerve divides into the popliteals, the muscular being given off beneath the biceps and supplying the biceps, semitendi- nosus, semimembranosus, and part of the adductor magnus. The Pudic Nerve comes usually from the third and fourth anterior primary branches of the sacral plexus, and leaves the pelvis in the same way as the sciatic nerves, crossing the ischiatic spine in company with the artery, and passing to the perineum through the lesser sacro-sciatic fora- men. It does not give off' any branch to the buttock, and it is generally internal to the artery. Mitscidar Branches are given off from the sacral plexus to the upper part of the gluteus maximus and the external rotators, excepting the ob- turator externus. The nerve to the obturator intemus accompanies the pudic nerve over the ischial spine and through the lesser notch to the inner surface of the muscle. The nerve to the superior gemellus is small and enters its superficial surface at its inner end. The nerve to the quad- ratus and inferior gemellus is very small, and is accompanied by an artery, and passes beneath the gemelli and obturator intemus to end in these vessels. It gives articular filaments to the hip. This nerve sometimes comes fi'om the upper part of the great sciatic. Some articular filaments are given off from the plexus and pierce the back of the capsular ligament. Dissection.—Hook aside the sciatic nerves, and, if necessary, reflect the sciatic artery and its branches ; rotate the limb inwards, and clean the obturator and gemelli. Separate the quadratus femoris from the upper border of the adductor magnus, and between them define the tendon of the obturator externus, being careful of the ascending branch of the external circumflex artery, which passes up along the upper border of the adductor magnus. The Gemellus Superior.—The Gremelli are two small muscular bundles accessory to the tendon of the obturator internus, which is received in a groove between them. The superior is the higher and smaller of the two, and arises from the outer and lower part of the ischial spine, and is inseiled into the upper part of the obturator tendon. It is often absent. Relations.—The sciatic vessels and nerves rest on it, and its deep surface is in contact with the upper part of the hip capsule. Nerve.—From the sacral plexus. The Gemellus inferior is more constant and larger than the superior. It arises from the upper part of the hinder border of the tuberosity of the ischium and blends with the lower part of the obturator tendon. It, with the superior, accompany this tendon to the upper border of the great trochanter. It is not so frequently absent as the superior. Relations.—On its posterior surface are the sciatic vessels and nerves, its anterior sm-face is in contact with the back of the capsular ligament of the hip, and its lower border is in contact with the tendon of the obtm-ator externus and with the quadratus femoris. Actions.—They assist the obturator internus. Nerve.—From the saci-al plexus. The Obturator internus arises inside the pelvis. Its origin cannot now be seen. Its fibres pass back and down, and end in four or five tendinous