mssEcrioN of the terinawm. 639 should be pulled well up on the instrument, so as to drag the bulb up and out of the way. Passing back and up from this point is the membranous part of the lu-ethra, just in front of the prostate, and 1^ inch further on is the neck of the bladder, which is generally between three and four inches from the surface. The lower or posterior border of the deep perinaeal fascia or triangular ligament can be felt just behind the bulb. By drawing the anal margins apart, a whitish line, marking the junction of skin and mucous mem- brane, and corresponding to the separation of the external sphincter from the lower border of the internal sphincter, can be seen. THE ISCHIO- OR ANO-RECTAL SPACE. Dissection.—The incisions for the dissection of the perinseum may vary. The usual mode is the following, but the figure represents another plan which is described below. Make three transverse incisions through the skin, one just in fi-ont of the anus, joining the ischial tuberosities, one above it, at the root of the scrotum, and the third just behind the tip of the coccyx. These should extend the same distance laterally. The in- cision at the root of the scrotum need not be made till this region is finished. These transverse incisions are to be joined by a vertical one, extending from the root of the scrotum to beyond the coccyx, and skirting the anal margins. Fig, 461.—Diagram op incisions fob dissecting the perineum. Tlie Instrument for keeping the legs apart is In position. Another method is to make the incisions correspond to the perinaeal boundaries, viz. just outside the rami of pubes and ischium, and beyond the margins of the great glutei. The angles should be rounded and the scrotal portion truncated. If the former plan be adopted, the skin is to be reflected from the middle line outwards, but in the second case from without inwards or from above downwards, and then removed. In the second method, the two divisions of the perinseum may be dis- sected separately—as in the former—by making a transverse incision in front of the anus to meet the lateral ones.