HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 186 is very shallow, and is neither large nor deep enough to embrace the humeral head. Surgical Applications.—The upper end of the humerus may be dis- located forwards, downwards, or backwm-ds. A partial upward dislocation has been spoken of. A complete upper one woidd be impossible without fracture of the acromial process. After these dislocations have been reduced, the arm must be fixed to the side, because anatomy teaches that in that position the muscles and ligaments are at rest. The humerus may also be broken high, up, either within the capsule at its anatomical neck, which is rare, or, more commonly, at its surgical neck, which is common. In the latter accident displacement is considerable, and may resemble luxation of the humerus unto the axilla. The upper frag- ment is somewhat drawn up under the coraco-acromial ligament by the subscapularis, supra- and infra-spinatus and teres minor, and the lower fragment is drawn in, and slightly down, by the pectoralis, teres major and latissimus dorsi; the distal portion of the broken bone is drawn obliquely out by the deltoid, but spmetimes projects near the coracoid 1. Glenoid fossa. 2. Coracoid process. 3. Acromion. 3-. Scapular spine. 4. Arched outer border of same. 5. Axillary border of scapula. 0. Glenoid lijj. 7. Coraco- acromial lig. 8. Long head of biceps. Above are cut. Fig. 109.--Showing the glenoid cavity and ligaments process, being pulled up and in by the clavicular portion of the pectoralis major. If the shaft of the humerus be broken below the insertion of the pectoralis and teres major and latissimus dorsi, and above the insertion of the deltoid, there is also much deformity. If the fracture be an oblique one, then the upper fragment is drawn in by the muscles just mentioned, as attached in or to the margins of the bicipital grooves, and the lower fragment is drawn up and out by the deltoid. The limb is shortened, and a projection is formed at the seat of fracture by the riding of the broken ends upon each other. In transverse fractures just below the deltoid insertion the displace- ment is slight, the upper fragment being drawn a little forwards by the inner head of the brachialis anticus ; but if oblique, the action of the biceps and brachialis anticus in front and the triceps behind draws up the lower fragment, gliding it either backwards or forwards over the superior frag- ment, according to the direction of the fracture. If this be obliquely