100 HUMAN MOUrilOLOGY. humerus. The tendon is bilaminate, one lamina being in front of the other, and these are usually blended below. The anterior lamina is the thicker, and receives the clavicular and upper half of the sternal part of the muscle. The posterior lamina receives the lower half of the sternal portion. From this disposition it occurs that the fibres of the upper and middle portions are inserted into the lower part of the bicipital ridge, while those of the lower portion are attached to its upper part. At its insertion this tendon is connected with that of the deltoid, and it sends up an expansion along the bicipital groove towards the head of the humerus, which often blends with and strengthens the capsule of the shoulder joint. Another expansion passes down and back, lining the bicipital groove, and yet another is given off to the deep fascia of the arm. Actions.—It is an adductor and internal rotator of the arm, and can move the limb forwards until the elbow is in front of the trunk. The clavicular fibres will assist in raising as well as adducting the arm. The middle horizontal fibres will simply adduct, and the lower sternal and costal fibres will adduct and depress. If the arm have been raised, the pectoralis major, acting with the latissimus dorsi and teres major, will bring it down. Taking its fixed point from the humerus, it will act as an extraordinary muscle of inspiration raising the ribs, as may be seen in persons suffering from dyspnoea. Nerves.—External and internal anterior thoracic and filaments from the intercostals. Varieties.—These consist usually, in a less or greater extent, of its attachments in muscular subjects. The origins of the two muscles are separated by a narrow interval, but in ill-developed bodies there is a large interspace. The clavicular part may be absent or completely blended with the deltoid. In rare instances the whole sternal portion is wanting. Sometimes additional muscular slips pass from the aponeurosis of the external oblique to the lower margin of the pectoralis. Sometimes muscular slips connect it with the biceps or with the latissimus dorsi (muscular arches). Occasionally a slender slip, parallel with the outer margin of the sternum and overlapping its origin, is present. It is attached above to the upper part of the sternum near the sternal origin of the sterno-mastoid, and below it is connected to the sheath of the rectus. This slip is named the Rectus sternalis. A muscular band passing from a fascial origin from some of the lower true and upper false ribs to a vari- able aponem-otic or tendinous insertion, somewhere along the inner border of the arm, or even as low as the inner humeral condyle, is sometimes found, and is called the Chondro- or Costo-Epitrochlearis. There may also be a great gap between the clavicular and sternal portions. Earely a supernumerary fasciculus from the fascia covering the serratus passes to the lower border of the muscle, and equally rare is a deep supernumerary fasciculus which passes from the second or third costal cartilage or neigh- boming part of the sternum to the deep layer of the deltoid sheath. Occasionally its tendon receives a small muscular fiisciculus fi'om the internal intermuscular aponeiirosis, and sometimes fasciculi are given off from its inferior border which pass with the pectoralis minor to be attached to the coracoid process, or pass down to the flexor muscles of the arm. Its tendon sometimes gives a separate expansion to the lesser tuberosity. Dissection, and Relations of the Pectoralis Major.—Divide the