HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 478 Branches.—These are the peroneal, which is its largest branch, muscular, nutrient to the tibial, communicating, internal calcanean, articular, and cutaneous. The Muscular branches supply the deep muscles and the soleus. An offset from the branch to the last-named muscle pierces its tibial attach- ment and supplies the knee. The Nutr'ient artery to the tibia generally arises from the upper part of the posterior tibial; it gives a few muscular offsets and enters the nutrient canal on the posterior siurface of the bone obliquely from above downwards. It is the largest nutrient artery of bone in the body, and rami- fies in the interior of the tibia. The Communicating artery to the peroneal passes transversely across the tibia about two inches from its lower end, and courses down and out beneath the flexor hallucis, to join a corresponding branch from the peroneal. The Calcanean or internal calcanean are largish vessels which are given off from the posterior tibial just before it divides. They supply the Fig. 354.—Dissection of inner side or kight ankle. skin and fat about the heel and under the tendo-Achillis. One large branch accompanies the plantar cutaneous nerve to the sole of the foot and pierces the internal annular ligament. They anastomose with the internal malleolar and peroneal arteries. Cutaneous twigs pierce the fascia in the lower half of the leg, and articular branches enter the ankle joint on its inner and posterior side. The Peroneal Artery is given off usually about an inch and a half below the lower border of the popliteus. It is often as lai-ge and sometimes larger than the posterior tibial itself, and passes obliquely outwards piercing the flexor longus pollicis, accompanied by the nerve of that muscle, and running close to the fibula along its inner border and in the substance of the muscle to the lower third of the leg, where it gives off the anterior peroneal. It then crosses the back of the inferior tibio-fibular articulations to the outer side of the heel, where it ends in branches which supply the skin, cellular tissue, and neighbouring muscles, and anastomoses