DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 283 annular ligament, and is continuous with the inteinal lateral ligament of the carpus. Dissection.—To expose the synovial membrane and joint surfaces, cut through the posterior ligament near the carpus and separate the bones, after having studied the movements of the wrist. The Synovial Membrane passes from the radius and triangular fibro- cartilage to the inner surface of the ligaments, and after lining these, passes to the margins of the opposite surfaces of the carpal bones above their interosseous ligaments. This joint sometimes communicates with the inferior radio-ulnai- ai'ticulation through an aperture in the triangular fibro-cartilage which sepai^ates the two. Relations.—In front, the flexor, and behind the extensor tendons. At its outer and back part is the radial artery, and the ulnar artery is near to its lower and inner part, in front. The anterior and posterior carpal arteries and posterior interosseous nerve are also in contact with it. Nerves.—The ulnar and posterior interosseous. Fig. 207.—Ligaments op right whist, carpus, and metacaepus. Front view, left hand. 1 to 5 are the metacarpal bones. The Arteries are the anterior and posterior carpal and the radial and ulnar, ascending branches from the deep palmar arch, and anterior and posterior interosseous. Movements.—The wrist has most of the properties of a condyloid articulation, and is capable of flexion, extension, abduction, adduction, and circumduction, but is quite incapable of the rotation movements which are characteristic of true enarthrodial joints. In Flexion the hand passes forwards and inwards, and the first row of carpal bones glides from before back on the radius and projects behind, stretching the posterior ligament. In Extension the hand is carried back and out, and the first row of caq)al bones moves in the opposite direction and renders the anterior ligament tense. This movement is freer than flexion. In Abduction the outer border of the hand is drawn away from the middle line of the limb, and the carjjal bones move transversely inwards.