DISSECTION OF THE LTPER LIMB. 255 annular lisrament the tendons of the sublimis are superficial to those of the profundus, and instead of being arranged in pairs, as in the forearm, all four ai'B netu'ly on the same level. As they pass onwards they diverge, and opposite the middle of the first phalanges each tendon divides, leaving a iissured space, between which one of the tendons of the flexor profundus passes. Then the tendons of both sublime and deep flexors enter the osseo-aponem-otic digital sheath, the tendon of the profundus being concealed by that of the sublimis. The tendons of the sublimis having transmitted those of the profundus, expand a little to form a grooved channel for the accompanying deep flexor tendon, and are re-united by their margins behind it. The two divisions then unite, and divide a second time, to be inserted by two processes into the sides and forepart of the second phalanges, abovit their middle. Directions.—Cut through the tendons of the flexor sublimis just above the wrist, and throw them towards the fingers. Eemove the con- nective tissue from the tendons of the deep flexor, and from the lumbri- cales muscles between its tendons. The Tendons of the Flexor Profundus Digitorum.—It will be recollected that in the forearm the tendon of this muscle for the index finger was dis- tinct, but at the lower border of the annular ligament there are four distinct tendons which diverge, and pass through the slips in the tendons of the flexor sublimis to be inserted into the bases of the last phalanges, where they are a little expanded. Between the tendons of the deep flexor the lirmbricales muscles arise. Between the tendons of both flexors and the phalanges are the small ligamenta brevia, which have already been described. There is one for each tendon to connect it with the capsule of the inter- phalangeal joint, and with the anterior part of the phalanx just behind the bone into which it is inserted. The ligament fixing the profundus is anterior to but smaller than that for the sublimis. The Lumbricales Muscles are four small fleshy fasciculi, accessory to the flexor profundus. They arise by fleshy fibres from the tendon of the profundus near the annular ligament. The first and second take origin from the radial side and palmar surface of the tendons for the middle and index fingers ; the thi7'd from the contiguous sides of the tendons of the middle and ring fingers ; and the fourth from the adjoining sides of the tendon of the ring and middle fingers. They pass to the radial sides of the corresponding digits, and opposite the metacarpo-phalangeal joint each tendon ends in a broad aponeurosis, which is inserted into the tendinous expansion of the extensor communis digitorum, in front of the corresponding interosseous muscle. This expansion covers the dorsal aspect of the first or metacarpal phalanx. Relations.—They are subcutaneous between the processes of the palmar fascia, but in the middle of the palm .they are covered by the various structures which have already been reflected in this dissection. Beneath them are the deep arch and interosseous vessels and muscles, and deei) branches of the ulnar nerve. It will be noticed that the outer two arise from single tendons, but the inner two are connected each with two tendons. Actions.—They flex the first phalanges, and acting with the flexors of the fingers they can bend the metacarpo-phalangeal joints, when the two last joints of the digits are kept straight by the extensor. Hunter,