RUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 144 end to the base of the coracoid process and at the other to the inner end of the upper border behind the notch. It converts the supra-scapular notch into a foramen, through which the supi-a-scapular nerve passes, the supra-scapular vessels going above it. I have seen the vein passing be- neath the ligament when the artery went above. Sometimes all these structures pass beneath, and occasionally they change places.' Dissection.—Saw through the acromion process and pull it and the outer end of the clavicle aside, and after making out the attachments of the supra-spinous aponeurosis, this may be removed to study the supra- spinatus muscle. The Swpra-Spinatus Aponeurosis or Fascia is a thick and strong layer completing the osseo-tibrous case which encloses the supra-spinatus. It is thick internally, but under the coraco-acromial ligament it is thinner, and is attached to the margins of the supra-spinous fossa. The Supra-Spinatus Muscle is triangular, and its base arises from the inner two-thirds of the supra-spinous fossa and from the deep surface of the supra-spinatus aponeurosis. It passes beneath the acromion and is inserted at its apex by a tendon which crosses the upper part of the shoulder capsule, with which it is intimately blended, into the highest facet on the great tviberosity of the humerus, being connected with the tendon of the infra-spinatus. Relations.—Siiperiorly^ with the clavicle, acromion, coraco-acromial ligament, trapezius and deltoid. Inferiorly, with the scapula, upper part of the shoulder joint and supra-scapular vessels and nerve. Action.—It assists the deltoid in raising the arm from the side, and it supports the head of the humerus in the glenoid cavity. It tends to pre- vent displacement of the humeral head upwards- Nerve.—Supra-scapular. Dissection.—Detach the supra- and infra-spinatus muscles near the base of the scapula, and carefully throw them outwards, so as to preserve the supra-scapular vessels and nerve, and their branches, which ai-e to be traced beneath the acromion to the infra-spinous fossa. Beneath the teres minor will be found the dorsalis scapulas and the anastomoses between it, the supra-, infra-, and posterior scapular arteries must be traced out. The Supra-Scapular Artery is given off from the thyroid axis of the sub- clavian. It cro'^ses the root of the neck obliquely from within outwards, and passes over the transverse ligament of the scapula to the supra- spinous fossa, ramifying between it and the supra-spinatus, which it sup- plies, giving off a branch which crosses the scapular neck to reach the infra-spinous fossa and anastomose with the dorsalis scapulae. It gives off a supra-acromial branch, which pierces the trapezius, supplies the skin over the acromion, and anastomoses with the acromio-thoracic. Beneath the supra-spinatus a supra-spinal branch from it supplies the muscle, the supra-spinous fossa, and the upper part of the shoulder joint; and as tlie vessel crosses the transverse ligament, a branch enters the subscapular fossa beneath the subscapularis, and anastomoses with the subscapular • There is Eroqueiitly a sk'ong ligamentous band extending from the outer part of the curved edge of the sjiine of the scajiula to tlie upper part of the glenoid margin, where it blends with the capsular ligament. This is the xpino-i/hmoid ligament. The coraco-f/Jciioid, extending from the coracoid process to the capsular ligament, is often present. It arises with the coraco-humeral (^Macalistcr).