HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 72 Dissections of Nerves.—The rules given for the arteries are good for the nerves. In fcetuses the nerves are easily dissected, and good pre- parations of the nerve plexuses can be made on them. The points to make out in nerve dissection are, their origin, the formation of the plexuses, the course, relations, anastomoses, and distribution of them. The following method, devised by A. Paulin, and named by him ' chemical dissection,' is valuable in the macroscopic and microscopic anatomy of the brain and cord. The hrain and spinal cord are to be macerated in 50 parts of water to 1 of potass bichromate and 2 of sulphate of copper. In eight or ten days they become of a yellowish green ; they are then put for two or three days in a 100 per cent, solution of sulphuric, or better, of hydrochloric acid. In two or three days the greenish colour disappears ; but hydrochloric acid often causes the parts to assume a soapy consistence. This disappears after about twelve hours' maceration in a 1 per cent, solution of chloral. If now there be difficulty in separating the parts they should be put for some hours in equal parts of glycerine and water, and then in pure water until the next day. It will then be found that the pia mater can easily be separated ; that the white substance can be divided in its entire length into cords or strands; that the white and grey substances can be separated without destroying the commissm-es; that the posterior cornua may be isolated ; and that the central canal can be divided in its whole length.' VISCERA. The holloio viscera, such as the stomach, intestine, and bladder, may be distended with air or with warm tallow. This will render the dissection of the muscular fibres more easy. To examine the interior of these organs the injected matter must be removed, the mucous surface washed, and the aspect of the interior of the organ regarded through the magnifying lens. Permanent preparations of the stomach, intestines, bladder, &c., may be made by distending them with air and hanging them up to diy. When dry they should be varnished, and, if necessary, windows may be cut out of them to show the structure of the interior. The junction of the ilium and csecum, and of the gall bladder and duct, &c., make instructive pre- parations. Joints.—Before cutting into the ligaments the actions of the joints should be studied so as to observe what ligaments are rendered tense, and what relaxed, in the various motions of which the joint is capable. The connective tissue should be carefully removed from around the joint, and its interior may be injected with air, water, or warm tallow, so as to make out any hernial pouches of the synovial membrane; and when the joint is laid open the injection material should be washed away, in order to study the joint surfaces. Bones.—After removing the periosteum in parts, to notice its varying thickness, the bones should be sawn in situ, or separately, longitudinally and transversely, so as to make out their structure. A prolonged maceration followed by subsequent dx-ying will enable the student to follow the 1 The modern methods of preparing and prpserving: the brain and s|:)inal cord will be given with the cliapters in wliich their dissection and anatomy are described.