HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 128 DISSECTION OF SCAFULO-HUMF.RAL REGION. Directions.—Place the separated limb so that the subscapularis looks uppermost, and leave about two inches of the muscles which pass from the trunk to the arm attached to the humerus. Position of Parts.—The posterior belly of the omo-hyoid will be found attached at the upper margin of the scapula near the notch. Many muscles are attached along the base of the bone. The levator anguli scapulae is between the spine and the superior angle ; and opposite the spine is the insertion of the rhomboideus minor. Between the spine and the inferior angle the rhomboideus major is inserted. The serratus magnus is inserted along the base of the scapula, beneath or anterior to these muscles. The long head of the triceps arises from the lower margin or costa, where also is part of the origin of the teres major. On the outer surface of the inferior angle is another part of the origin of the teres major, and on the anterior aspect of the superior and inferior angles are the upper and lower fibres of the serratus magnus. The muscles attached to the coracoid process are, from within out- wards, the pectoralis minor, which is inserted at its innermost facet, and the coraco-brachialis and short head of the biceps, which arise conjointly from it. Dissection.—Reflect the serratus towards its attachment to the scapular base, and define the connections of the thin fascia covering the subscapu- laris. The subscapular fascia or aponeurosis is thin, and is attached to the eu-cumference of the subscapular fossa, and gives origin to some of the fibres of the subscapularis. Between the scapular attachments of the serratus magnus and rhom- boideus major the posterior scapular artery and vein will be found, and their branches and communications must be subsequently traced. Dissection.—Remove this fascia, and the subscapularis will be exposed. The Subscapularis Muscle is large and triangular, and occupies the subscapular fossa arising from its inner two thirds, except from the neck and angles, and a naiTow margin along the posterior border. Some fibres take origin from the tendinous laminae which intersect it, and are united to the ridges on the venter of the scapula, and others take origin from the subscapular fascia and from an aponem'osis which separates the sub- scapularis from the teres major and long head of the triceps. It is inserted by a tendon into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus, and the fibres which arise from the axillary costa of the scapula are inserted into the humeral neck for about an inch below the tuberosity. The tendon of this muscle is intimately blended with the shoulder capsule, and in some instances it pierces it. Relations.—Anteriorly with the serratus magnus, coraco-brachialis, short head of biceps, and axillary vessels and nerves. Posteriorly with the scapula, subscapular vessels and nerves, and the capsular ligament of the shoulder. Between its tendon and the base of the coracoid process is a large bursa which communicates with the synovial cavity of the joint. Frequently this bursa is a prolongation of the synovial membrane of the