675 DISSECTION OF Till! LOWER LIMB. differing in this respect from the transverse ligament in the hand. The metatarsal bone of the great toe resembles that of the thumb in not being joined to the otliers at its base by any connecting band. Sometimes a ligamentiim basium oss. metatarsi plantare lungum extends between the bases of the first and fifth toes, and contributes to the support of the pedal arch in a transverse direction. Actions.—The movement in the tarsal ends of the metatarsal bones is only a slight gliding one, but considerable motion is allowed in their digi- tal extremities. Tarso-Metatarsal Joints.—These are arthrodial joints and resemble the similai- parts in the hand, there being a separate joint for the gi-eat toe, and a common one for the four outer toes. The bones forming them are the cuboid, and the internal, middle, and external cuneiforms, which ai'ticulate with the five metatarsal bones. Articulation of the Great Toe.—The first metatarsal is connected with the internal cuneiform by a dorsal and plantar longitudinal band, the latter being placed between a process of the tibialis anticus, and one from the peroneus longus. These ligaments are more or less continuous, forming a kind of capsule. A synovial membrane lines the joint. The articular sm'faces are oval from above down, constricted in the middle and ciu-ved inwards. That of the great toe is hollow, and the other is convex. Movements.—The metatarsal bone moves obliquely down and in, or up and out, resembling the motion of the external cuneiform with the sca- phoid. This will help somewhat in eversion and inversion of the foot. There is also slight abduction and adduction at this joint. Articulations of the Four outer Metatarsals.—The four outer meta- tarsals correspond to the three outer tarsal bones ; the second metatarsal being wedged between the internal and external cuneiform and resting against the middle, which is the most strongly joined of all the metatarsal bones. The third metatarsal articulates with the external cuneiform; the fourth with the cuboid and external cuneiform; and the fifth with the cuboid. The joint surfaces are covered with, cartilage and have a synovial membrane, and are attached to the bones with which they articulate by dorsal, plantar, and interosseous ligaments. The dorsal lir/aments are moderately strong flat fibrous bands, having a longitudinal direction from the tarsal to the metatarsal bones. Except- ing the second toe, which has three, each metatarsal possesses one liga- ment. The third metatarsal has a ligament from the external cuneiform, and the fourth and fifth have one each from the cuboid. The three bands to the second come from all the cuneiforms,—one from each. Plantar Licjaments.—These consist of oblique and longitudinal fibi'es disposed less regularly than on this dorsal surface. Those for the first and second metatarsal are most strongly mai'ked. The second and third have strong bands which obliquely pass to them fi'om the inner cuneiform; but the fourth and fifth liave but a few fibres from the cuboid. The lateral ligaments are longitudinal, deeply placed between the bones, and are placed between the second and third metatarsals. To see them the transverse bands must be cut. The metatarsal of the third toe has a lateral slip on its outer side attached above to the external cuneiform; that of the second toe has two bands, one on each side, the inner being