HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 370 Behind it, from above downwards, are the nerve from the anterior crural to the pectineus, the psoas, which separates it from the pelvic margin and from the hip capsule, the profunda vessels and femoral vein separating it from the pectineus, the adductor longus, and the tendon of the adductor magnus separated from it by the femoral vein. To its inner side are the femoral vein above, and adductor longus and sartorius below. At its outer side and lower part are the vastus internus and femoral vein. The internal saphenous nerve is also on the outer side of the artery in Hunter's canal, but is external to the proper sheath of the vessels. Kelations op the Femoral Artery. In front.—-Skin, superficial fascia, crural branch of genito-crural and brandies of anterior crural, sartorius, long siphenous nerve and vein, aponeurosis of Huntei-'s canal. Inside. — Femoral vein at upper part, adductor longus, sartorius. Behind.—Psoas, pectineus and nerve to it, profunda vessels, adduct or longus, femoral vein, adductor magnus. The Femoral Vein has three relations to the artery. Commencing below, where the popliteal ends, the vein is first on the outer side, then ascends behind, and near Poupart's ligament is close to the inner side of and on the same plane with the artery, being separated from it by a thin fibrous jmrtition. Frequently a large su2:)prficial vein ascends for some distance directly over the artery to empty either into the internal saphenous or into the femoral vein itself. That part of the artery which is about an inch and a half to two inches long from Poupart's ligament to its division, is called the common femoral, and its two terminal branches are respectively, the superficial and deep femorals. The Common femoral gives off some small superficial branches to the fascia, skin, and glands of the groin. These are the superior, and in- ferior, or superficial, and deep external pudic, the superficial epigastric and the superficial circumflex iliac. The profunda femoris and superficial femoral are its large terminal divisions. The branches of the superficial femoral are several muscular offsets and the anastomotica magna ; and the branches of the profunda are the external and internal circumflex and perforating. These will be subse- quently dissected. The cutaneous offsets have been seen in the superficial dissection of this region with the exception of the inferior external pudic which is at first placed beneath the fascia lata. The Inferior External Pudic is the most deeply placed of the cutane- ous branches of the common femoral (it may be given off from the super- ficial femoral), and passes inwards on the pectineus muscle to pierce the fascia lata and supply the skin of the inner border of the thigh and the Outside. — Vastus internus, long saphenous nerve and femoral vein at lower part.