ooG HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. to the tip of the external malleolus, and below, to the outer surface of the calcaneum, being connected to the sheaths of the peronei muscles. The peroneus longus and brevis are contained beneath it in one compartment and are sm-rounded by one common synovial membrane which sends offsets down along the sheaths of these muscles nearly to their insertion. The muscles on the front of the leg are placed between the tibia and fibula, and are four in number, viz. the tibialis anticus, extensor proprius pollicis, extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius; and on the dorsum of the foot there is but one muscle, the extensor brevis digitorum. The Tibialis anticus is placed next the outer side of the tibia, is thick and fleshy above and tendincMis below, and arises from the external tubero- a. Tibia. b. Fibula, ext. iiuUleolus. c. Scaphoid. cl. Int. cuneiform. 1 1. Tib. ant. 2 2 . Ext. prop. ball. 3. Ext. dig. com. 3 3'. Its insertions. 4. Peron. tert. 4. Its insertion. 5. Soleus. C. Peron. brev. 7. Ext. brevis dig., its innermost tendon joining the onter side of fle.x. prop. hall. 7' 7'. Tendons of ext. brev. join- ing those of longus. 8 0. The two pieces of ant. aun. lig. 10 11. Transverse piece of dorsal pedal fascia at bases of toes, keeping tendons in place. Fig. 414.—Superficial muscles and tendons on dorsum of right foot. One-third. sity and upper two-thirds of the tibia, from a part of the adjoining inter- osseous ligament, from the intermuscular septum between it and the extensor longus digitorum, and from the deep fascia of the leg. Its fibres pass vertically down and end in a tendon on its anterior sm-face just below the middle of the leg. It then passes through the innermost compart- ment of the anterior annular ligament, and is inserted into the inner and lower part of the internal cuneiform bone and base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. It divides slightly into two slips as it descends. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the deep ftiscia and the annular ligament; by its posterior with the interosseous membrane, the end of the tibia, the anterior ligament of the ankle joint, and the inner