HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 52 7. Tallow . Yellow wax Oil Oinnabar Essence of tur fiOO parts '2>^0 „ 100 „ ]00 „ 30 ., rpentiiie This mass is less brittle and makes prettier injections if carmine be substituted for the cinnabar, but it is dear. (Auffret.) These substances may be used by themselves or may be coloured by the addition of different colouring materials. A red is ordinarily used for the arteries, blue for the veins, and green for the canals or ducts. They are mostly powders, and ought not to be mixed with the injection mass until after the fusion and mixture of the substances which compose them. Red Injections. 1. Cinnabar finely powdered . . .40 parts 2. Carmine j> Blue Injections. 1. Prussian blue ^5 „ 2. Indigo 30 „ Yellow Injections. 1. Orpiment 45 ,> 2. Gum 30 „ Mix. Green Injections. (Verdigris 7o „ Carbonate of lead . . . . . 24 ,, Gum . . . . . . . 15 ,, 2 ( Orpiment. ■ I Prusiiau blue. A sufficient quantity of each to make a green powder. Black Injection. Ivory black 15 „ White Injection. Carbonate of lead 80 ,, The various aniline dyes may also be used either in powders, crj'stals, or in a liquid condition, also madder or cochineal. The proportions given above are those which should be used for every 500 parts of the injection mass. The colouring matter is mixed in the mortar with a little oil, so as to form a thick paste, and when the mixture has become homogeneous a little more oil should be added. This coloured cream should be added by degrees to the injection mass. When the latter is melted and stirred briskly, before adding the colouring matter, the vessel containing the melted injection mass should be removed from the fire or bath, and the colouring matter immediately added.' ' For partial injections carmine is excellent, and should be mixed in a mortar with a little alcohol till a fine paste is formed, to wliich a little oil s'lould be added, and then this mixtnre should be added to the injection mass. For large injections carmine and wax are too expensive.