HUMAN MOJiPHOLOGY. (10 The desiderata for a coiTOsion mass are that it should be proof against the liquid which destroys the substauce of the organ, it should not be fragile, and it should be sufficiently strong and coherent to last as a durable preparation. It should contain little wax and no fat. 1. Resin . 200 parts Venetian turpentine . . • • Dissolve in a moderate heat. 2. Boiled Venetian turpentine . . . 240 parts Yellow wax . . . . • • » Dissolve in a moderate heat. The boiled turpentine is as resistant as the resin mass. 3. Resin 90 parts White wax 30 „ Venetian turpentine . . . . 30 „ Speimaceti 1^ » Dissolve in a moderate heat. HYRrrS INJECTION MASS. 4. Wax and mastic varnish in the proportion of one of the latter to six of the former, mixed with some colouring material such as cinnabar, cobalt, chrome yellow, Cremnitz white, green, &c. 4«. White waxl Equal parts (?) with some colouring Turpentine > matter added. See HyrtVs Cor- Copaiba J rosionsanatomie. HOYEKS CORROSION MASS. 5. A quantity of best shellac is placed in a wide-mouthed thin- bottomed flask and is just covered with alcohol of 80 per cent. After 24 hours, place the flask in a warm water bath to dissolve the shellac. When cool, add alcohol until the mixture is of the consistence of a thin syrup, then strain it through thick muslin. Add to a one-third of this mixture a concentrated and filtered alcoholic solution of Berlin blue, or aniline blue; to another one-third add a similar solution of cinnabar, and to the remaining one-third a similar solution of yellow sulphate of arsenic. A mixtm-e of Berlin blue and sulphate of arsenic gives a beautiful green, and a permanent yellow may be obtained by adding freshly precipitated sulphate of cadmium. Any of the aniline dyes such as aniline red or violet, mauve, magenta or coralline, may be used instead of the above. G. Virginia wax 1 part Canada halsam ..... I „ Cinnabar .... J. 4 'J Instead of the cinnabar, a \ part of chrome yellow may be added to another bottle of the mixture, so as to have two coloured preparations. Hoyer, to lessen the brittleness of this mass, adds a 5 per cent, alcoholic solution of Venetian turpentine which has been filtered through muslin or paper, and to harden the parts injected with this mass, he employs either pure chromic acid solution or a mixture of chromic or hydrochloric acids,