2 HUMAN MORrilOLOGT. father of medicine ' by ancient and some comparatively modem authors, such as Riolan and Barthoiinus, is evidently exaggerated. Of the many works ascribed to him only four or five are considered as genuine ; the rest have been written by his disciples and successors. It is not probable that Hippocrates ever dissected a human body, as some authors, even Haller, believed. Grruner in a v,ery learned treatise ' An Hippocrates cadavera humana secuerit,' has apparently set this ques- tion at rest. Haller endeavours also to show that Hippocrates possessed a fair knowledge of neurology; but there can, strictly speaking, be no question of the nem-ology of Hippocrates, inasmuch as he does not distin- guish between nerves, tendons, and ligaments. The brain he describes as a large gland secreting a viscid fluid, the lungs as spongy bodies which communicate with the heart, and their chief use is to cool the body by the inspired air. All the veins proceed from the heart; in the veins the blood is formed ; the arteries contain the vital spirits : but he confounds both under the general name of veins, nor does he allude to their differ- ence of structure. The strength of the anatomy of Hippocrates lies in his osteology, for he has well described the relations of the bones to each other—their arti- culations and movements—and applies this knowledge to the diagnosis and treatment of fractures and dislocations. It is stated that he consecrated a skeleton of bronze to Apollo in the temple at Del})hi, in order to teach to his disciples the importance of studying the human frame. Among the most distinguished disciples of Hippocrates must be named Polybus, the son-in-law of the father of medicine ; for it is to Polybus (about 370 B.C.) that the authorship of the books, ' On the Nature of Man' and ' On the Nature of the Child,' has been ascribed. PLATO AND ARISTOTLE (384 B.C.). Plato's notions of anatomy and physiology are scattei-ed in his various works incidentally. It is especially in his ' Timseus' that we meet with them, but they will scarcely bear extraction, Aristotle, born 384 B.C., at Stagyra, was descended from a family which traced its origin to ^sculapius. Nicomachus, the father of Aristotle, was a physician, who is said to have left some works on Natural History and Medicine. Aristotle was about forty years of age when he undertook the education of Alexander the Great. The expeditions of his pupil in Asia furnished him with the most ample materials for the extension of his knowledge of the structure of all sorts of animals. His zootomical know- ledge became thus not only extensive, but more accurate than before, and he may therefore justly be considered as the founder of comparative ana- tomy, which necessarily preceded human anatomy. Although Aristotle refers everything to man, it yet nowhere appears in his writings that he had ever dissected a human body. His descriptions are sufficiently accu- rate when applied to the external parts of the human body, but when he describes the internal parts they become erroneous. In fact, he says himself (' Hist. Anim.' lib. i. c. 16 '), the internal piu'ts are unknown, that, ' 'De interioribus vera contrarinm obtinel. Ignotre enimsunt imprimis liumann;, qnam- oorom ad roliquonim partus animantiiim rulatas, (piibiiscum liabeut oaturiu similitmlinem, eas contemplari debemus.'