HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 380 Action.—It abducts the thigh and renders tense the fascia lata. It assists in internal rotation of the femur. Acting fi'om below it will support the pelvis on the femoral head and assist in balancing it in walking. Nerve.—The superior gluteal, which enters its under surface. Dissection.-^D'widie the artery and vein below the origin of the pro- funda femoris, and throw them downwards. Eemove the veins and fatty tissue from the anterior crural nerve and from the branches of the pro- funda. The process of the fascia lata extending from the tensor to the knee should be cut, and separated from the neighbouring muscles. This dissection will enable the upper part of the inner vastus and the head of the rectus to be traced out. The Triceps Extensor Cruris, or ftuadriceps of some authors, consists of three parts, one of which, the rectus femoris, is distinct, and descends from the hip bone, while the two others are distinguished by the aiTange- ment of their fibres and cover the whole of the anterior and lateral surfaces of the femur, from which they arise. The three parts or heads composing this muscle are the outer, formed by the vastus externus, the middle, formed by the rectus, and the antero-internal, formed by the crureus and vastus internus. Inferiorly these muscles unite into a single tendon which is attached to the tibia. They envelope the femoral shaft from the condyles to the trochanters. The rectus femoris, or middle head of the triceps extensor, forms a fleshy prominence on the front of the thigh, is fusiform, and arises by two tendons or heads, an anterior or short head, and a posterior or long head. The anterior arises from the anterior in- ferior iliac spine, and the posterior (which will be subsequently dissected) from a depression above the;brim of the acetabulum. The long or reflected head joins the straight tendon at an acute angle about an inch from its origin, and separates into an aponeurosis from which the muscular fibres arise in a penniform manner. These turn outwards and backwards as they descend, and are inserted in a similar manner into the inferior tendon, which is prolonged on the posterior surface of the muscle, while the superior tendon is prolonged on its anterior aspect. The inferior tendon becoming narrow and flattened, is inserted into the upper border of the patella and through the ligamentum patellae into the tubercle of the tibia. The lower tendon occupies the inferior two-thirds of the pos- terior surface of the muscle, and sends a strong prolongation to the upper and anterior part of the great trochanter. It is connected with the ilio- trochanteric band of the hip capsule, and is rendered tense in external rotation of the femur. Relations.—Superficially, with the anterior fibres of the gluteus minimus, the tensor fasciae femoris, sartorius, outer borders of psoas and iliacus, and with the fascia lata. Posteriorly, with the hip-capsule, the external circumflex vessels, branches of anterior crural nerve, the vasti, and crureus. Some authors have described the vasti and crureus under the name of triceps extensor, but the description akeady given will be adhered to as the more natural one. Nerve.—The anterior crural. Variety.—It may have an external origin from the anterior superior spine, or its acetabular head may be absent. Dissection.—Divide the rectus near its lower end and reflect it, care-