596 HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. Anastomoses of Lowee Limb, Eegiou Gluteal Thii^li. Inos- culations about the hip joint. In thigh proper Around knee joint Leo About ankle Metatarsals Phalanges Aiinstomosing Arteries The posterior branches of fourth and fifth lumbar from abdominal aorta and posterior branches of lateral sacral of internal iliac with external circumflex from profunda femoris and witli gluteal from internal iliac. The sciatic from internal iliac with internal circumtiex from profunda. The gluteal with circumflex iliac of external iliac and external circumflex from profunda. The superficial epigastric of femoral, with the deep from external iliac and with internal mammary of subclavian. The superficial circum- flex iliac of femoral with the deep from external iliac, and with the gluteal from internal iliac, alsD with external circumflex of profunda. Superficial external pudic of femoral with perinisal branches from in- ternal pudic and the deep external pudic joins smaller branches of the last-named artery. The external circumflex by its ascending branches joins the gluteal of internal iliac and circumflex iliac from the external. The transverse branches of profunda unite with the internal circumflex and superior perforating from the same source and with the sciatic from internal iliac. The descending branches of the profunda anastomose with the superior articular of popliteal. The internal circumflex of profunda anastomoses with the obturator from internal iliac and with the external circumflex and superior perforating of profunda, and with the sciatic from internal iliac. The perforating of profunda are three, of which the first joins the second and internal circumflex, also the sciatic. The second unites -vvith the first and third perforating. The third unites with the second and with the terminal branches of tlie profunda. The anastomotica magna of femoral joins with the superior internal and external arti- cidar of popliteal and recurrent of anterior tibial. The superior articular of the popliteal anastomoses with the inferior perforating and terminal of profunda. The superior internal articidar anastomoses with the anastomotica magna and inferior internal arti- cular and superior external articular. The superior external articular anastomoses with the anastomotica magna and descending branch of external circumflex. The inferior internal articular anastomoses with the tibial recurrent, inferior external articidar and superior external articular. The inferior external articular j oins the inferior internal and superior external articular and recurrent tibial. The reciu'rent of anterior tibial anastomoses with the inferior articular of popliteal, and the muscular branches of the same vessel join branches of the posterior tibial and peroneal. The peroneal anasto- moses with the external malleolar, tarsal, external plantar, and internal calcanean. The anterior peroneal inosculates with the ex- ternal malleolar and tarsal. The communicating of posterior tibial joins the peroneal. The calcanean unites with the peroneal and internal malleolar. The external plantar joins the communicating from the dorsalis pedis, and by its posterior perforating branches anastomoses with the interosseous from the metatarsal. The digital branches of the plantar arch anastomose with the dorsal digitals from the interosseous arteries. The internal malleolar unites with the posterior tibial, dorsnlis pedis, and internal plantar, the external anastomoses with the anterior pero- neal and tarsal. The tarsal of dorsalis pedis joins the peroneal, external malleolar, ex- ternal plantar, and metatarsal. The metatarsal unites with the tarsal, external plantar, posterior perforating from plantar arch, and anterior perforating from the digital. The communicating joins the external plantar to form the plantar arch. The dorsal digital branches of the interosseous anastomose with each other and with the plantar digitals.