DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMP. 03 largish quantity of ftxt, and j)resent two rounded prominences on each side of the front of the thorax. They lU'e hemispherical, and more pronunent at the inner and lower aspects, and extend from the third to the sixth or seventh rib, and from a little external to the sternum to the anterior axillary fold. Slightly below the centre of each breast, and on the level of the fourth rib, projects the oiipple or mammilla, which is directed up and outwards. The surface of the nipple is darkish, and there is a co- loin-ed circle or areola around it, and the skin within this latter is of a darkish tinge. In the virgin these parts are pink, differing in depth of colour according to the individual's complexion; but in pregnant women or those who have borne children, or are menstruating, they are always darker. After lactation the dai'k colour subsides, but never completely vanishes. The nipple is about half an inch or more in length, and pre-^ sents a shallow depression near its centre, where it is redder. The skin of the nipple and areola is marked with wrinkles and covered with papillfe and lubricating glands. The nipple is perforated at its sur- face by numerous foramina, which are the openings of the galactophorous Fir,. 29.—Vertical section ov the breast through the nipple to near ITS BASE. an. The lactiferous ducts with their dilatatioua and branched lobules between. ducts ; and on its surface are small tubercles, which are caused by the pro- jections of minute glands having branched ducts, four or live of which open on each elevation. The tissue of the nipple is highly vascular, and contains unstriped muscular fibre, and its papilla are very sensitive, iiTita- tion of it causing contraction of the muscular fibres which surround tlie base, and of some radiating fibres which run from the base to the apex of the nipple, and induce it to become firmer and project. The ba.se of the mamma is oval, slightly concave and flattened, and extends longitudinally from the third to the sixth or seventh rib, and transversely from the side of the sternum to the axilla. Its longest diameter is directed up and out towards the axilla. It is about an inch and half thick, its thickest part being near the centre o])))osite the nipple It weighs from six to eiglit oimces. Its width, if not enlarged by suckling, is usually about four inches. It is embedded in connective tissue and fat, and rests on the pcctoralis major, from wliich it is separated by a strong