HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 82 done it will rapidly fall again. This process requires to be repeated about every two hours till about the end of thirty-six hours, when the mixture will need to be renewed. This should be done as rapidly as possible and the same quantity of ice and salt used as before. After a few hours the mixture will again require to be stirred up every two or three hours. At the end of seventy to eighty hours from the time the process was first begun, if the temperature has been kept at an average of about — 12° to —14° Cent., the subject should be completely frozen, so as to resemble a piece of metal in hardness and ready for cutting into sections. It must now be rapidly taken out of the box, and if transverse sections are to be made, placed upon a table or bench of a convenient height, or if it is to be divided longitudinally, upon planks of wood placed side by side on trussels, so that the saw can be worked vertically, the end as it protrudes with each stroke beyond the posterior surface of the body passing between the planks carrying with it the sawdust, which falls into the pit below. Before the sections are cut they must be marked oflF in the direction and of the thickness they are to be made. This can easily be done by scoring the surface with the point of a knife guided along a ruler, in the same way that paper is ruled. The thickness of the sections depends upon their size and the nature of the structures through which they pass. As a rule longitudinal sections through the whole trunk should be five centimetres thick; transverse sections can be thinner, but should not be much under 3*5 centimetres; sections through the extremities may be much thinner, indeed they seldom requue to be over 1'5 centimetre, except those through the upper part of the thigh, which axe better to be about 2*5 centimetres thick. The sections are cut .with a fine-toothed broad saw about sixty-six centimetres long. A narrow bow saw has an advantage over the broad saw in woi'king with less friction on the surface of the sections, but from being more difficult to guide and easily twisted, the surface it leaves is not so smooth and regular as when a broad saw is used. The saw should be held quite loosely and lightly in the hand and allowed to follow in its own groove, being merely pushed on and drawn back with a light swinging movement of the arm; whenever it is forced or twisted in its course, as it almost invariabl}"^ is by amatem's, it sticks and does not work smoothly. Anyone who is not well accustomed to using a saw would learn much valuable experience in sawing by pro- curing a log of wood thirty centimetres in diameter and practising making transverse sections of it before attempting to cut sections through a body. The experience gained will amply repay the trouble, and perhaps prevent a valuable section of the body being spoiled. As little time as possible should be lost after the body has been taken out of the box before the sections are made, and if the number required cannot be cut in an hom- and a half, or at longest two hours, it is better to replace the body in the box and continue the freezing process till next day, when the remaining sections can be made. When thoroughly frozen the subject should saw like a log of wood, giving off" sawdust during the process, and almost no perceptible difference should be felt in regard to the hardness of the structure when the saw is passing through muscular tissue or when bone is being divided; unless this is the case the body is not sufficiently frozen, and the freezing process requires to be continued for a longer period,