623 SUMMARY OF DISSECTION OF LOWER LIMB. ING UINO-CR URAL REGION. 1. Make an incision along Poupavt's ligament. 2. One from the inner end of this to about half-way down the inner side of the thigh. 3. Reflect the skin. 2. In the superficial fascia find the superficial epigastric, superficial external pudic, and superficial circumflex iliac vessels, and the cutaneous branches of the anterior crm'al in the mid-line, the ilio-inguinal and genito-crural on the inner side, and the external cutaneous on the outer, and observe the cutaneous veins which empty into the long saphenous. The femoral and inguinal lymphatic glands and vessels must be dissected out. 3. Reflect this layer of fascia, preserving the saphena vein, and note its attachment around the margin of the saphenous opening. 4. Make out the attachments and reflections of the fascia lata as far as exposed and define the structm-es piercing the cribriform fascia, then reflect the fascia lata by corresponding incisions. 5. Scarpa's triangle will now be exposed ; define its boundaries and con- tents, which are Poupart's ligament above, adductor longus on the inner side, sartorius on the outer. The femoral vessels in their sheath will be in the middle of the space and the femoral canal on the inner side of the sheath. 6. Open the femoral sheath, and make out the boundaries of the femoral canal, pass the finger up it to feel Grimbernat's ligament on the inner side, and define the fascia transversalis in front and fascia iliaca behind it. Study the branches, anastomoses, and relations of the femoral artery. 7. Trace out the insertions and aponeurosis of the psoas, iliacus, and pectineus, and observe the psoas biu-sa and the origin of the rectus. 8. Dissect out the branches of the anterior crural and make out the superficial and deep branches of the obturator nerve above and below the adductor brevis. FRONT OF THE THIGIL 1. Fi'orn the junction of the outer and inner incisions of tlie previous dissection make a cut down towards the middle line as far as the tubercle of the i)atel]a, and at this point and above, make two transverse cuts on either side and reflect the skin. 2. In the superficial fascia trace out the continuation of the cutaneous nerves, and the internal saphenous nerve and vein, and the radicles of the latter.