DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 235 The Superficial pierces the deep fascia near the wrist, supplies the akin and joins a branch of the internal cutaneous nerve. This branch is fre- quently absent. The deep branch lies on the ulnar artery and twining around the vessel ends in the skin of the pahn, anastomosing with lllaments of the median and ulnar nerves. Varieties.—Usually the ulnar nerve gives off no branches in the arm, but sometimes small branches have been seen to supply the inner head of the triceps. Gruber has noticed the nerve passing in front of the inner condyle in three cases. And Turner has recorded an instance in which this nerve gave two branches to the flexor sublimis digitorum. Henle says, that the usual anastomosis between the median and ulnar digitals may be wanting. I have seen cases in which the junction between these digital nerves has been sparse. The Median Nerve passes into the forearm between the two heads of the pronator teres and sepai-ates it from the ulnar artery by the deep head of that muscle, and courses down the front of the forearm between the sublime and deep flexors. Near the wrist it is superficial, lying beneath the fascia, between the tendons of the flexor sublimis and flexor carpi radialis, to the inner side of the palmaris tendon. It enters the palm beneath the anterior annular ligament resting on the flexor tendons. It is here somewhat enlarged and of a reddish colour, and divides into two nearly equal branches which are external and internal. Branches.—In the forearm these are muscular, anterior interosseous, and palmar cutaneous» The Muscular branches are given off near the elbow, but that to the pronator teres often arises above the joint. They supply all the superficial muscles except the flexor lUnaris, and, indirectly, the median by its anterior interosseous branch, supplies the deep layer, except the inner two divisions of the flexor profundus. The Anterior Interosseous nerve is the longest branch of the median, is given off at' the upper part of the forearm, and accompanies the anterior interosseous artery on the interosseous membrane, supplying the deep muscles, namely, the flexor carpi ulnaris, the flexor longus pollicis, pronator quadratus, and the outer half of the profundus digitorum. It lies between the flexor longus pollicis and profundus digitorum, and ends in the pronator quadratus. The Palmar Cutaneous Branch arises at the lower part of the forearm, pierces the deep fascia just above the annular ligament, and crossing the ligament, supplies the skin about the middle of the palm, then divides into two branches, the outer of which supplies the skin over the ball of the thumb, and joins the external cutaneous nerve or radial. The inner branch supplies the skin of the palm, anastomosing with the palmar cutaneous of the ulnar. i The Radial Nerve is the smaller of the two terminal branches of the musculo-apiral, and it is given off in front of the external condyle, beneath the supinator longus and a little external to the radial artery. In the middle third of the arm it is in close relation with the outer side of the artery beneath the supinator longus, and about three inches above the wrist it passes beneath the posterior border of the tendon of the long supinator, pierces the deep fascia, and divides into an external and int.ernal branch. No branches are given from the radial while it is sub-aponeurotic.