DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. separate and enclose the various muscles. Like that of the arm, it is composed principally of circular fibres strengthened by longitudinal and oblique ones, which descend from the humeral condyles, from the olecranon, and from the semilunar or bicipital fascia. The anterior part of this aponeurosis (^the part now being dissected) is much weaker than the posterior, and is continued below into the anterior annular ligament of the wrist. Near the elbow it is stronger than in the middle of the forearm, and receives fibrous expansions from the biceps and brachialis anticus. In the hollow just below the elbow-bend there is a small oval aperture, which transmits a short conmiunicating branch be- tween the superficial and deep veins of the forearm. A little above the Avrist it forms a sheath for the tendon of the palmaris longus, which pierces it, passing over the annular ligament to the palmar fascia. Longi- tudinal white lines indicate the position of the intermuscular septa, and separating the superficial from the deep flexors is a horizontal process which is gi\-en off from this fascia: this is stronger below than above, where it usually consists of thin connective tissue. It is pierced close to the outer side of the pisiform bone by the ulnar vessels and nerve. The Anterior Annular Ligament is a deep thickened portion of this deep fascia, in front of the wTist. It is a strong fibrous band arching over the front of the carpus, and completing the deep groove on the front of the carpal bones into a canal, beneath which the flexor tendons pass. Its attachments will be subsequently dissected. Its upper margin is con- tinuous with the deep fascia of the forearm, and receives fibres from the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris; and its lower margin is connected with the palmar fascia. Position of Parts.—In front of the elbow is a depression which has already been partly dissected. In this space, from within outwards, the student must define the ulnar rectirrent artery, median nerve, the brachial artery giving off the radial and ulnar, the tendon of the biceps, and the musculo-spiral nerve. On the outer side will be found the supinator longus, and in the lower half of the forearm, between it and the flexor carpi radialis, is the radial artery. On the inner side will be found the super- ficial flexors and pronators, and at the lower part of the forearm, between the flexor carpi ulnaris and the flexor sublimis digitorum, will be seen the ulnar artery and nerve. These pass over the anterior annular ligament. Holloiu in Front of the Elboio. Boundaries.—This space corresponds to the popliteal hollow at the back of the knee. It is a triangular interval with the base above, which corresponds to a transverse line just above the condyles. Its outer side is formed by the supinator longus, and its inner by the pronator radii teres. It is covered in by the skin and superficial and deep fescite, and its floor is formed by parts of the brachialis anticus and supinator brevis. Contents.—This hollow contains the brachial artery and its vena? comites, and radial and ulnar branches, the median and musculo-spiral nerves, recurrent radial and anterior ulnar recurrent arteries, the tendon of the biceps, some fot, and one or two lymphatic glands. Position of Parts.—In the midline is the brachial artery, which divides opposite the coronoid process of the ulna into the radial and ulnnr. The median nerve is on the inner side of the artery, but distant from it belov) about half an inch. The biceps tendon is on the outer side going