HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. As to tlie work itself, every page shows that Mundinus is a follower of Galen. Still his descriptions of some parts are much more complete than those of Galen. Thus Mundinus distinguishes the alimentary canal into duodenum jejunum, ileum, colon and rectum, commencing by the rectum. On the other hand, the Latin is corrupted by the introduction of the nomenclature of Arabian authors, so that he calls the abdomen myrach, the peritoneum syphac, and the omentum zirbus. Amidst much that is fanciful, he nevertheless states facts founded on experiments. Thus he Says, when the recurrent nerves are divided, the animal loses the voice. His anatomy of the heart is singularly correct, as well as the description of the pulmonary arteries and veins, so much so that he has also be^n claimed as one of the discoverers of the circulation of the blood. With much greater reason may Mundinus be designated as the precm'sor of Gall with regard to the localisation of the functions of the brain, which he divides into different compartments, or cells, each containing an intellectual faculty. Mundinus died about 1325. In connection with Mundinus must be mentioned his pupil and com- mentator, Alexand. Achellini, who is known as having first described two of the tympanal bones, the malleus and the incus. He, moreover, coiTected some of the errors of his predecessors as regards the disposition of some of the intestines. Mathiew de Gradibus, or Gradi, so called from his birthplace, Grado, near Milan, was professor at Pavia, where he died in 1480. Gradi is chiefly known by having given a better description of the ovaries than any of his predecessors. Gabriel Zerbi, or De Zerbis, professor at Bologna, Eome, and Padua, had the reputation of being one of the most learned physicians of his time. He and his son were murdered in Turkey in 1505. He published his ' Anatomicae Corporis Humani,' &c., Venetiis, 1502, fol. Hundt (1449-1519, Magnus Canis), born at Magdeburg, rector of the University of Leipzig, is chiefly known by his ' Anthropologium de Hominis Natura,' &c., published at Leipzig in 1501. This work is one, if not the first, of the anatomical works illustrated by woodcuts. Very eminent in the history of anatomy is the name of Berengario de Carpi, professor at Pavia and Bologna between 1502 to 1527. His first de- monstrations were on animals, but subsequently he dissected, according to his own declaration, above one hundred human bodies. Many discoveries made by his predecessors are erroneously attributed to him ; but it is undeniable that he first described the vermiform process of the caecum. His account of the brain, its ventricles, and the cerebral nerves, is excellent for his time, rectifying the mistakes of Galen, Mundinus, and others. He published a compendium of treatises under the name ' Isagogre Breves in Anatomiam Corporis Humani,* Bononia3, 1522. In this work Bereugai'ius gives a systematic survey of the various textures in the human body. It may be mentioned, by the way, that Berengarius was one of the first who employed mercury for the cure of syphilis.