I)ISSi:CTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. u07 versiitn of the toes, because the outer border of the superior articular siufiice of the astragalus is curved and longer than the inner. Tlie muscles producing extension are the gastrocnemius, soleus, i)lan- taris, peroueua longiis and brevis, flexor communis digitorum, tibialis posticus, and flexor longus hallucis. Inflexion the astragalus moves back and projects at the posterior part of the joint. Fm-ther motion in this direction is checked by the astra- galus meeting the anterior edge of the tibia. The posterior ligament is stretched by the projecting body of the astragalus, and the posterior piece of the external lateral and middle and posterior fasciculi of the internal lateral ligaments are rendered tense. In complete flexion the broad part of the astragaloid surface is thrust back into the naiTowest part of the intermalleolar space, and the inferior fibular extremity is pressed on, so as to render tense the inferior tibio-fibular ligaments. Lateral move- ment is thus prevented, but at the same time a certain amount of elas- ticity is gained. Fig. 448.—Vertical transverse section through hinder part of left ankle AND foot, seen FROM BEHIND. ONE HALF. TO SHOW THE SYNOVIAL CAVITIES. Fleximi is produced by the tibialis anticus, extensor proprius hallucis, peroneus tertius, and extensor communis digitorum. Ahdaction is brought about by the peroneus longus, brevis, tertius, and extensor communis digitorum. Adckiction is due to the action of the tibialis anticus and posticus, extensor proprius hallucis, and the triceps of the leg, i.e. the gastrocne- mius, soleus, and plantaris. Use of the Ligaments.— The internal lateral, or deltoid, is very strong, and will withstand a force which would break the internal malleolus. Its middle fasciculus, with that of the external lateral ligament, connects the leg bones strongly to the os calcis, and resists displacement in all direc- tions. The anterior and posterior fasciculi of the deltoid ligament check extension and flexion of the foot, respectively; and the anterior fibres also limit abduction. The posterior portion of the external lateral liga- ment aids the middle in opposing dislocation of the foot backwards, and it also deepens the cavity for the astragalus. Its anterior fasciculus checks dislocation of the fogt forwards, and limits extension and adduction.