203 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. distal phalanges when the proximal is bent. It assists the other extensors of the wrist and elbow if the fingers have been extended. Some writers say that it only extends the first phidanx. Nerve.—The posterior interosseus. Varieties.—T\\ese consist in a deficiency or excess of its tendons of insertion and of its muscnlar substance. Sometimes there are two tendons to each finger, and sometimes even three to each, but more commonly the increase is limited to the index and little fingers, or only to one of them. The Extensor Minimi Digiti is the smallest muscle on the back of the forearm. It is on the innerside of the extensor communis, with which it is generally connected, and appears to be but a portion of it. It arises by a thin tendinous slip from the common tendon, and from the inter- muscular septa. Its tendon, which begins in the lower quarter of the arm, runs through a separate compartment beneath the posterior annular liga- ment behind the inferior radio-ulnar joint, between the two bones of the forearm, and divides into two on the back of the fourth metacarpal bone, and at the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation joins the tendon of the com- Fio. 12i.—Dissection of outer border of right wrist and hand. mon extensor, which goes to the little finger, being at first on its ulnar side and rather superficial to it. The tendons of the two muscles spread into a broad aponeurosis, which is inserted into the second and third phalanges of the little finger, similarly to the common extensor tendons of the other fingers. Relations.—Stvperficicdly, with the skin and extensors communis digitorum and cai-pi ulnaris ; and deeply, with the supinator brevis, extensors of the thumb, posterior ligaments of the wrist and of the phalangeal joints. To its inner border is the extensor carpi ulnaris, and to its oitter the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum. Action.—It extends the little finger and then the wrist and elbow, and in consequence of the tendon being split, the inner piece can straighten the little finger in spite of the junction of the outer piece with the common extensor. Nerve.—The posterior interosseus. Varieties.—It may be entirely absent or may resemble the extensor communis, or the indicis, in an increase of its tendons of insertion. Frequently an additional tendon is inserted into the ring-finger.