DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. 623 they are flattened on the tibial head, and in the latter they recede a little from the anterior part of the joint. The external cartilage, having its ends nearer together and being much less attached to the capsule, moves more than the internal. This is the more likely fibro-cartilage to be dis- placed, although cases are recorded in which the inner one has been dis- located. The fasciculi of the external fibro-cartilage serve to keep it (being the more movable) more firmly fixed. Its anterior fasciculus or the transverse ligament helps to keep the cartilage forwards in flexio:- and the posterior fasciculi tend to prevent displacement of the back of the cai'tilage in rotation. In this latter motion these cartilages follow the movement of the tibia, but the external is more dislodged than the internal. The transverse ligament is a fibrous band passing from the front margin of the external fibro-cartilage to the anterior end of the internal meniscus. Its strength varies in different subjects. The coronary ligaments are short fibrous bands which join the con- vex borders of the fibro-cartilages with the circumference of the head of the tibia, and with the other extra-articular ligaments. Joint Sarfaces.^On the articular surface of the femur are facets for the tibia and the patella. The patellar facet is above the others in the mid- 1. Lig. patelliB. 5. Aiit'. crucial 2. Int. fibro-cartg=. f ^^i^^^^uSS' ^- Post'. „ attaclied 3. Ext. „ IWK il IB to ext. fibro-cartilage. 4. Transverse. ^^^^^llGfli^^mmiyJll ^- Tibia. T Fig. 403.—The fibro-cautilages of the left knee resting on the tibia. line, and is hollowed in the centre with a rounded sloping sm-face on each side, the outer being the larger. The inner femoral condyle is curved at its anterior third, the concavity of the curve pointing outwards. This is called the oblique curvature. Very near to this curve is a semilunar surface which comes in contact with the per[5endicular facet of the patella in extreme flexion. The portions of the condyles which come in contact with the tibia are separated from the patellar surface by an oblique curve on each side. On the centre of the end of each condyle is a flat portion which comes in contact with the tibia in standing. This is the Pressure Facet. At the posterior third of the condyles is a more convex part which comes in contact with the tibia in rotation. The head of the tibia has two articular hollows which are deepened by the fibro-cartilages, the inner being the larger and deeper. The cartilaginous surface of the patella has tlie following impressions. At its inner edge is a vertical narrow facet, and near the lower border is a transverse marking. The rest of the surface is occuj)ied by a squareish surface which is divided by a vertical and a transverse line into two parts, ui)per and lower. Joint Movements.—ihe knee being mainly a hinge joint, its usual motions are flexion and extension, but in addition there is rotation of the leg when the joint is semiflexed.