HOMOLOGIES OF THE LIMBS. 603 bones are chiefly three-sided prismatic rods, in which two external surfaces are separated from an internal surface by an anterior and posterior ridge; and the two outer surfaces are divided by an extenial ridge which passes from the dorsal portion of these bones to the glenoid and acetabular cavities. This external ridge, which is glenoid in the scapular and cotyloid or acetabular in the ilium, is probably the key to the homologies of these bones. The great extensor of the limb, the triceps in the upper, and the quadriceps in the lower, is attached to it. To fully imderstand the homologies of a limb, or part, it is necessary to study and compare not only the bones but the ligaments, muscles, blood- vessels, and nerves, as these often assist materially in furnishing a clue to parts otherwise difficult to homologise. After considering the skeleton I will therefore point out the main points which have been determined in regard to the soft parts. The student should refer to the accompanying figures, and should also place the skeleton on its face with the arms and legs placed at right angles to the body, with the hand and foot extended and the palm and sole directed towards the ground. Bones of the Limbs.—In a very early stage of embryonic life, in which the embryo occupies the prone position in the blastoderm, the rudiments of the limbs appear as lateral flat semilunar buds or flaps, which have an upper or dorsal, and a lower or ventral surface. In a later stage the limbs become folded in the ventral direction of the body, but preserve their original relation to the trunk. Their axes now lie perpendicularly to the transverse plane of the vertebral axis, and their position is such that one border looks towards the head and another towards the tail. Profs. Huxley and Flower have named these borders the jjre and post-axial, as indicating their positions anterior and posterior to the limb axis. Compara- tive anatomy teaches that these limb-buds are formed originally from part of a cartilaginous arch, the limb girdle (shoulder or pelvic), respectively; and tlus radiating arcJdpteryyium is likewise developed from this cartilaginous girdle. This archipterygium is attached in a radiating manner to the limb girdle, and at first ends in a point or truncated cone, and its simply divided cartilaginous pieces develop later into the several bones of the respective limbs. Later on, secondary radii are developed from the archipterygium. At a yet subsequent stage of development, when the quinquefid division of the digits becomes apparent, the thumb and radius correspond in position to the great toe and tibia, and occupy the cephalic or pre-axial position. These facts enable us to determine the correspondences of the remaining portions of the limbs with each other ; thus, the ulna and fibula correspond, the external condyle of the humerus and the internal tuberosity of the tibia are cephalic or pre-axial in position; while the external tuberosity of the tibia and the internal condyle of the humerus are caudal or post-axial; the ulna and little finger are in a like position. The upper proximal segments of the corresponding limbs have similar relations: thus, the great tuberosity of the humerus is pre-axial, and the lesser post-axial. The lesser trochanter, internal condyle, tibia, and great toe are cephalic; while the great trochanter, external condyle,fibula,and little toe are caudal. The dorsal or extensor surface of the limbs is external, and the flexor or ventral surface is internal,