X PREFACE. Saj)pey, Criweilbier, J. A. Fort, Hirsclifeld and Leveille, Beaimis and Bouchard, B. Anger, Ricliet, Tillanx, Jamain, C. E, Hoffmann, Heitzmann, and Henle, and will be familiar to anatomists. A few are from English sources, and are acknowledged in the text. The reader will observe that the number of figures in this volume, which only deals with a part of my subject, nearly equals the whole number in similar works which embrace the entire subject, and include histology. I have purposely omitted all illustrations and detailed descrip ^ tion of minute anatomy, because there can be no question but that the proper way and place to learn histology is practically.^ in the microscopic laboratory ; but where the subject seemed to demand it I have given as much information as may be verified by a good hand lens. I hope that the brief historical sketch, the glossarial index, which has been prepared by Dr. J. Gr. Garson, and the summary of dissections will be of some service to students, and that the bibliography and chapter on anatomical technics may be useful to lecturers, demonstrators, and curators. The Appendix, which consists of illustrations of several sec- tions of the limbs and of some of the more common arterial devia- tions, will, I trust, be found of use to the operating surgeon and advanced student. I have much pleasure in expressing my great obligations to Dr. Garson, Anatomical Assistant at the Royal College of Surgeons, for the excellent account of the method of j^reparing frozen sec- tions. I have added a few paragraphs to it which may prove of use. The present volume is as much as the first year student can manage ; the second volume, dealmg with the thorax, abdomen, pelvis, and dissection of the back and spmal cord, will be ready next year ; and the third, which will be occupied with the anatomy of the head and neck, brain, organs of special sense, and anatomy of the foetus, will shortly follow it. I echo and heartily emphasize Marjolin's advice to students : ' The study of anatomy presents numerous difficulties to those who engage in it with method, and still more, perhaps, to those