HUMAN MORPHOLOGY. 386 head, and maintaining the body weight in walking or standing. The rectus can assist the psoas and iliacus in flexing the pelvis on the femur, or in supporting it on the femoral head. The sub-crureus contracts when the knee is extended and pulls the synovial membrane up out of the way of the joint surfaces. The Inter-Muscular Septa have already been described, but the student should now make himself familiar with their attachments. As already stated they separate the muscles in the front from those at the back of the thigh, and are attached to the outer and inner lips of the linea aspera, and to the lines leading from it to the femoral condyles, and bind the fascia lata to the femur in the lower part of the thigh. The Internal Septum is much thinner than the external, and is attached to the femur between the adductors and the vastus internus. It is very thin along the border of the internal vastus, and between the linea aspera and inner condyle it is strengthened or supplanted by the tendon of the adductor magnus. The superior internal articular vessels pass through it to the front of the knee, and the deep branch of the anastomotica magna, accompanied by the branch to the knee from the nerve to the inner vastus, passes down on the septum. The External Septum is the stronger, and is inserted into the linea aspera from the outer condyle to the lower border of the tendon of the gluteus maximus between the short head of the biceps and the vastus externus and internus. It is pierced near the condyle by the superior external articular vessels and nerve, and gives origin to the short head of the biceps. The External Circumflex Artery is larger than the internal, and supplies the muscles in front of the thigh. It is given off from the outer side of the profunda near its origin, and passes transversely outwards beneath the sartorius and rectus muscles, and through the divisions of the anterior crural nerve to the outer part of the thigh, where it divides into three sets of branches; ascending, transverse, and descending. The Ascending Branches pass up beneath the sartorius, rectus, and tensor fasciae femoris, to the outer side and back of the hip, and anastomoses with the terminal branches of the gluteal and with some of the extenial descending branches of the circumflex iliac artery. The Transverse Branches are the smallest and least numerous; they pass out over the crureus, pierce the outer vastus, so as to get between it and the femur, just below the back of the great trochanter, and at the back of the thigh anastomose with the internal circumflex and superior perforating branches of the deep femoral, and with the gluteal and sciatic branches of the internal iliac artery. The Descending Branches, three or four in number, pass down and out on the extensors, but behind the rectus. Some of them are large and supply the muscles on the fore-j^art of the thigh, but one or two pass beneath the vastus externus as far as the knee to anastomose with the superior external articular branch of the i^opliteal. A small branch runs over this muscle with the nerve to the knee, which is given off by the nerve to the vastus externus. Varieties.—The external circumflex sometimes arises directly from the femoral, or there may be two branches, one from the deep femoral and the other fi-om the femoral itself. Both branches may arise from the