r"' 'ri,!' P'. .'i '!■ I' ' I ; IKING’S College LONDON laexAii Library i ^JC' ^'//L ^ t in\ 201173612 2 KINGS COLLEGE LONDON/THE SURGICAL ANATOMY OF INGUINAL HERNIA, THE TESTIS AND ITS COVERINGS. BY THOMAS MORTON, ONE OF THE DEMONSTRATORS OF ANATOMY IN UNIV'ERSITY COLLEGE, LONDON ; AND FORMERLY HOUSE SURGEON TO THE HOSPITAL OF THE SAME COLLEGE. ILLUSTRATED WITH LITHOGRAPHIC PLATES AND WOOD ENGRAVINGS. LONDON: PRINTED FOR TAYLOR AND WALTON, BOOKSELLERS AND PUBLISHERS TO UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, 28, UPPER GOWER STREET. 184i.; A /) ' c • ■ ^- V ■. V TONDON : I'RINTED IlY SAMUEL BENTLEY, IJaiiyor House, Shoe Lunc.ADVERTISEMENT. 'I’liE plates illustrating tins division of the work on Surgical Anatomy have been carefully engraved from original drawings, made from my own dissections of the parts represented, with the exception of No. V, which is taken from an engraving in Scarpa’s 'frcatise on Hern ice. I have much pleasure in again acknowledging the kindness of Sir Astley Cooper, who has pennittcd me to copy the engraving representing the seminiferous ducts of the Testis, from his work on the Anatomv and Diseases of that Orijan. The other wood-engravings are from original drawings, with the exceptions of Nos. 4, 5, 9, 2, and 6, which are taken—the first three from Hesselbach, the others from Cloquet and Camper. Umver.sity College, Nov. 30, 1840. THOMAS MORTON.Digitized by the Internet Archive >2015 . ’ I I r . * https://archive.org/details/b21307283THE SURGICAL ANATOMY OF INGUINAL HERNIA. CHAPTER I. SURGICAL DISSECTION OF THE STRUCTURES CONNECTED WITH THE ANATOJIY OF INGUINAL HERNI.E. As inguinal liernise are of much more frequent occurrence in men than in women, it is desirable that a male subject should be procured for this dissection ; and, where a choice can be made, a body whicli is rather thin is to be preferred to one that is corpulent, provided that the muscular system be equally well developed. Position of the subject. — The subject should be laid upon its back, and a large-sized block of wood placed underneath the loins ; and, in order that the abdominal parietes may be rendered as tense as possible, the inferior extremities should be rotated outwards, and the knees bent, so that the legs and feet shall rest upon their external surface. Not unfrcquently, how- ever, it happens that the muscular walls of the abdominal cavity are so flaccid that these measures prove inadequate to produce the degree of tension requisite for their easy dissection, and then it will be found very advantageous to distend the peritomcal sac; inflating it by means of a coarse blow-pipe passed through a small puncture made in the upper part of the linea alba. The air which is in this manner introduced, is to be prevented from escaping by closing the aperture with the twisted suture at the same time that r210 SURGICAL DISSECTION OF THE INGUINAL REGION. tlie blowpipe is withdrawn. This method of proceeding will also be found very useful when a hernial sac is present in the subject which has been selected for making the dissection. The penis, together with the scrotum and testicle of the side upon which it is proposed to commence the dissection, should be drawn ob- liquely downwards and across the upper part of the opposite thigh, in which position they should be fixed by hooks, so that the skin covering them may be held upon the stretch.* The dissection may now be commenced by an incision which is to be carried across from the crest of the ilium, at a short distance beyond the anterior superior spinous process of that bone, to the linea alba, where it should terminate a little below the umbilicus ; from the termination of this cut let another be made downwards, in the course of the linea alba, as far as to the root of the penis. These incisions should divide the skin only. If the last-mentioned incision be prolonged a little way along the dorsum of the penis, and then turned down over the side of the scrotum, the future steps of the dissection will be greatly fa- cilitated. (See Plate I.) The triangular flap of skin which is thus marked out, should, in the next place, be dissected up, com- mencing at the angle nearest to the umbilicus, and carefully de- taching it from the subjacent layer of cellular and adipose tissue (the superjlcial fascia) by successive strokes of the scalpel, until opposite the crural arch ; or, if it should be considered desirable, the dissection of the skin may be continued for a little distance upon the upper part of the thigh. While detaching this flap, the dissector should be careful to observe the white appearance of the internal surface of the skin, as he will thus be insured from cutting too deeply, and injuring the next layer, or the external lamella of the superficial fascia of the abdominal parietes. The skin covering the penis and scrotum, will be found to be much thinner than elsewhere ; and, upon the latter, its inner surface is rendered very uneven by the numerous sebaceous glands which abound in this situation, and appear as so many granular bodies, of a whitish colour. Small superficial abscesses frequently form in this situation, • It is recommended to those who are commencing their dissections of this region to dissect only on one side at a time, so that the other may be reserved for a repetition of the dissection, which will thus be executed with greater precision and exactness.THE SUTEUFICIAL FASCIA. 211 deriving their origin from some inflammatory affection of one of tliesc glands. These abscesses, although small, frequently cause, during their formation, considerable pain and uneasiness ; but they are quickly cured by making, as soon as suppuration has been fairly established, a simple incision, of sufficient extent to afford a free exit to the contents of the swelling. The flap of sk in which has thus been raised, may be re- flected downwards upon the thigh, where, if necessary, it is to be fixed by means of a pin. (See Plate I. fig. t, and Wood- cut No. 1, fig. A.-.) The supevjicial fascia covering the lower part of the abdo- minal parietes, consists of two distinct layers, between which the superficial vessels and some small lymphatic glands are placed. The external layer (immediately subjacent to the skin) consists chiefly of a loose reticulated cellular tissue, with more or less of adipose substance deposited in its cellules, accordingly as the in- dividual is corpulent or otherwise. The thickest portion of this layer is over the body of the os pubis, where a large mass or cushion of adipose tissue is deposited in it, the granules of which are much smaller than elsewhere; it is this mass of adipose sub- stance which constitutes, in the female, the mons Veneris. The quantity of this fiitty substance diminishes near the bend of the thigh, beyond which line the external layer of the superficial fas- cia is traversed at numerous points by several bands of condensed cellular tissue, which are disposed in a transverse direction.* The external layer of the superficial fascia may be readily shown to pass over the crest of the ilium and Poupart’s liga- ment, without being adherent to these structures, and after- wards to become continuous with the outer lamella of the super- ficial fascia of the groin ; for, on drawing upon any part of the inguinal portion, we are also able to exercise a certain degree of traction upon the femoral division of the membrane. The superficial vessels.-^-—If the subject be much emaciated, some small arteries and veins will be observed to run, in various directions, underneath the external layer of the superficial fascia ; those which are situated near the centre of the space between * Vide The Surgical Anatomy of the Groin and Femoral Hernia, p. 95. t For a description of these vessels, see the Surgical Anatomy of the Groin, &c. p. 99, and also Plates I. and III. of the same work. n O i /VTHE SUPERFICIAL VESSELS. 212 tlie anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and the sym- physis pubis, are named ihe superficial epigastric artery and vein; the first is a branch sent off from the common femoral artery, at a short distance below the crural arch ; and, after escap- ing through a small opening in the iliac portion of the fascia lata, ascends, in an oblique direction, upwards and inwards, towards the umbilicus, giving branches to the integuments on either side of its course, some of which anastomose with the branches of the deep or internal epigastric artery which pierce the muscular and tendinous structures forming this portion of the abdominal parietes ; the vein takes the same course as the artery after which it is named, and empties itself into the great saphena vein, as the latter is about to pass through the saphenous aperture of the fascia lata, in its course to reach the common femoral vein.* The other vessels, Avhich are seen crossing over the spermatic cord, where it emerges from the external abdominal ring, are the external or superficial pudic arteries and veins, also branches of the common femoral ar- tery and the great saphena vein; they issue from the sa- phenous opening of the fascia lata, and, after passing obliquely inwards and upwards, are distributed to the superficial invest- ments of the cord and testicle, and to the integuments of the hypogastric region. (For a representation of the course and distribution of these vessels, see Plates I. and III. of the Surgi- cal Anatomy of the Groin, &c.) The external pudic artery is generally divided in the first incisions which are’made in the operation for strangulated ingui- nal hernia, and, sometimes, the vessel will bleed so smartly as to require the application of a ligature for the suppression of the hemorrhage. If the subject should be very corpulent, the superficial vessels will not at first be apparent; and, then, in such cases, it will be necessary to dissect up the external layer of the superficial fascia, which, lying upon the vessels, conceals them from our view. This is best done by carefully cutting down upon the * In cases oflong-continued distention of the abdomen, as, for example, in some instances of ascites, ovarian tumours, &c., the superficial epigastric vein is frequently greatly enlarged in its size and varicose. In a case of as- cites I have seen it as large as the little finger.THE SUPERFICIAL LYMPHATIC VESSELS. 213 vessels at a little distance above tlic crural arch, and then fol- lowing them downwards in their course towards the saphenous opening of the fascia lata. As the external pudic vessels arc very tortuous in their course, some caution is requisite during this dissection, in order that they may not be cut across un- expectedly ; an accident which may be avoided by drawing the superficial fascia upwards and inwards, so as to efface the nume- rous curves which the vessels make as they arc mounting over the spermatic cord. Some branches of the external circumflexa ilii artery and vein will be noticed near the crest of the ilium. The superjictal li/mphatic vessels. — Three or four small absorbent glands will be found lying between the two laminas of the superficial fascia, parallel with, and immediately above Poupart’s ligament. Numerous delicate lymphatic vessels may be shown, by a little careful dissection, to enter into these glands in their way from the hip, the hypogastric and umbilical regions, and external organs of generation, to the cavity of the abdomen, and hence it is that they frequently become swollen and inflamed in consequence of any disease in these parts; af- fections which are, in many instances, wholly unconnected with any venereal taint. In persons of a strumous habit these glands arc sometimes enlarged, without any very obvious cause, to an extraordinary degree, and at length, after suppurating imperfectly at several points, form a succession of troublesome abscesess, which, if neglected by the patient or his surgeon, frequently degenerate into numerous deep and irregular sinuses or fistulse, which gene- rally prove exceedingly difficult of cure. When the superficial vessels and glands have been thus exposed, the dissector should next proceed to raise up the deep layer of the superficial fascia, together with the other structures which rest upon it; he may commence at the angle nearest to the umbilicus, and then, holding the fascia tightly up from the tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, he must divide, by successive strokes of the scalpel, the delicate cellular tissue which connects its internal surface to the tendon under- neath. This cellular tissue should be divided close to the surface of the aponeurosis, the knife being carried in the same direction as the fibres of the external oblique muscle, that is to say, obliquely downwards and inwards. Great care isTHE SUl’ERFICIAL FASCIA. 2U required on approaching near to the situation of the external abdominal ring, lest the thin membrane which passes off from the margins of that opening downwards upon the spermatic cord (the external spermatic fascia) should be cut, and removed along with the superficial fascia.* To avoid this error an assistant should be instructed to hold the spermatic cord tense, by drawing the testicle obliquely dowmwards and to the opposite side. While raising the deep layer of the supeidicial fascia from the tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, it Avill be observed that it is particularly adherent, in the mesial line, to the linea alba, and, laterally, to the anterior or cutaneous sur- face of the ligament of Poupart and iliac portion of the fascia lata. The connection of the deep layer of the superficial fascia to Poupart’s ligament, is much more intimate along the outer or iliac half of that structure than nearer to the spine or tuberosity of the os pubis, where it is rather attached to the pubic portion of the fascia lata, in front of Gimbernat'’s ligament. When the deep layer of the superficial fascia is traced below the crural arch, it will be found to rest upon the fascia lata of the thigh, and to be spread over the saphenous opening, to the margins of which it is closely adherent. The difference which exists in the structure of the two layers of the superficial fascia of the abdomen, is deserving of particular notice ;—the external lamella is formed of a loose cellular tissue, and is always more or less loaded with adipose substance, which is deposited in its cellules, whilst the internal lamella is, on the contrary, very strong and elastic, and pre- sents a smooth, compact, and glistening appearance, especially upon its internal surface, so that it may be said to be always membranous, and, occasionally, even aponeurotic, in its pro- pcrties.*f" The dartos.—The superficial fascia of the abdominal parietes changes its appearance in a remarkable manner as it descends over the spermatic cord to reach the scrotum, suddenly losing its adipose, cellular character, and assuming a fibrous structure, of • The spermatic fascia is represented in Plate III. of the Surgical Anato- my of the Groin, fig. x. t By many the deep lamella of the superficial fascia is known under the name of Scarpa’s Fascia. Scarpa himself described it as an aponeurosis derived from the fascia lata of the thigh.— Trait6 des llernies, p. 22.THE DARTOS. 210 a light brown or roseate hue. It is upon the dartos that the verniieular movements and gradual contractions of the scrotum, which occur so frequently when these parts arc exposed to the influence of cold, are dependent. From these circumstances it has been regarded by some authorities as being muscular in its structure and properties, although no muscular fibre has ever been satisfactorily shown to exist in its composition. The dartos is continuous, superiorly, with the superficial fascia of the abdomen ; inferiorly, and posteriorly with the superficial fascia of the perinoeum : its external surface is closely adherent to the skin of the scrotum ; and, by its internal aspect, it is loosely connected by cellular tissue with the fibrous sheath which invests the spermatic cord and testicle. There is pro- longed from it an imperfect septum of a fibro-cellular nature (the septum scroti), which separates the testicles from one an- other, and is capable of permitting fluids to pass without much difficulty fi;om one compartment of the scrotum into the other. It is underneath this structure, and into the lax cellular tissue which connects it to the fibrous sheath of the spermatic cord, that the serous fluid is deposited, in those cases of simple anasarcous swelling of the scrotum and penis, so frequently observed in patients who are affected with general dropsy from diseases of the heart and liver. Blood is frequently largely extravasated underneath the dartos, in consequence of blows and falls upon this part, and upon the perinseum.* Occasionally it happens that the irritating fluids, employed for the cure of hy- drocele of the tunica vaginalis, are, owing to the accidental slip- ping of the trocar from its proper situation, forcibly injected un- derneath it, producing high irritative fever, and extensive slough- ing of the parts, if not speedily evacuated by a free incision. Acute anasarca of the scrotum, as it has been well termed by Mr. Liston, is another disease which, also, has its scat in the loose cellular tissue which is subjacent to the structure of the dartos.'I’ Not unfrequently urine is effused underneath the dartos, as happens in those cases of extravasation of urine fol- lowing a rupture of the urethra in the situation of the bulb, or * Vide The Surgical Anatomy of the Perina:um, p. C9. ■)■ See Remarks on the acute form of auasarcous tumour of the scrotum, by R. Liston, Esq. in the Med. Chir. Trans. London, 1839, p. 288.21 G THE EXTERNAL ORLIQUE MUSCLE. any portion of the canal which may be anterior to the deep peri- nseal fascia or triangular ligament.* The aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle.—The tendon of the external oblique muscle, which has been exposed by the dis- section of the skin and superficial fascia, may next be examined. It will be observed, that, in the hypogastric and iliac regions, the external oblique muscle is altogether tendinous; but it does not present a perfectly continuous and unbroken surface throughout its entire extent, as, at several points, there are formed nume- rous apertures in it which serve for the transmission of the smaller branches of the deep epigastric artery Avhich anastomose with the ramifications of the superficial vessels; several filaments of the loAver dorsal and upper lumbar nerves also issue through these openings, in their course to be distributed to the cutaneous coverings of the lower part of the belly. The distribution of these nerves sufficiently explains the sensation of being ^’■tightly girdeeV^ Avhich is so commonly complained of by those patients who labour under disease and curvature of the middle portions of the vertebral column. The apertures in the tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, are sometimes found to be very much enlarged in their dimensions, and to be filled with a small mass of adi- pose substance which is frequently connected Avith the outer surface of the peritoneum, Avhich is itself noAv and then pro- truded in the form of a small pouch or sacculus. When any of the contents of the abdominal cavity escape by these openings, the name of ventral hernia is given to the disorder. The external oblique muscle arises, on each side, from the outer surface of the eight inferior ribs by as many fleshy pro- cesses, which correspond Avith, and indigitate Avith some of the costal attachments of the serratus magnus and latissimus dorsi muscles : — the posterior fibres of the muscle, Avhich are fleshy in their structure, descend, in nearly a perpendicular direction, from the false ribs, and are inserted into the anterior half of the outer labium of the crest of the ilium, Avhile the flbres from the superior ribs incline doAvnAvards and inAvards, toAvards the mesial line, and tenninatc at the outer edge of the rectus mus- * Vide The Surgical Anatomy of the Perinaeum, p. 12 and p. 69.THE EXTEllN’AL ORI.IQUE MUSCLE. 217 clc, in a broad aponeurosis, which, after passing in front of the rectus, unites at the linca alba, with the tendon of the same muscle of the opposite side. In front of the upper and middle portions of the rectus muscle the tendon of the external oblique is very thin and de- licate, and is, moreover, intimately blended with the aponeurosis of the internal oblique, which lies underneath it; but, nearer to the pubes, it becomes much thicker and stronger, and is, also, much more easily separated by the knife from the sheath of the rectus. On tracing the tendinous fibres of the external oblique mus- cle, as they pass downwards and inwards from opposite the ante- rior superior spinous process of the ilium towards their inser- tion into the inferior third of the linea alba and body of the os pubis, it will be found that, as they approach the crista of the os pubis, they separate from one another, so as to be divided into two distinct fasciculi, of which the innermost and superior is the broadest and weakest, while the external and inferior, though much narrower than the first, is, nevertheless, much thicker and stronger. The first of these fasciculi is inserted into the body and symphysis of the os pubis, where it also decussates with the corresponding portion of the tendon of the opposite muscle. (See the w'oodcut No. 1, at p. 220, fig. d.) The second or stronger fasciculus is fixed into the tuberosity or spinous pro- cess of the os pubis, and the adjacent portion of the ileo-pec- tineal line, where it mainly contributes towards the formation of Gimbernat’s ligament, presenting there a free and sharp mar- gin, somewhat concave in its outline, and directed towards the common femoral vein. (See fig. b, c, of the woodcut. No. 1.*) There is frequently a very great difference in many subjects as to the precise distance from the symphysis pubis at which the above mentioned divergence of the fibres of the tendon of the external oblique muscle commences; — in the greater number of instances it is about one inch and a half from the symphysis pubis, while in some it is much nearer than this; in other cases again it is still farther distant, so that it is situated almost opposite the anterior superior spinous pro- * Vide The Surgical Anatomy of the Groin and Femoral Hernia, page 84, and the wood-engraving at page 85 of the same work, fig. ni. n.218 THE EXTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. ccss of tlic ilium. Occasionally another split is to be found in the tendon of the external oblique, which is situated above and to the inner side of that which forms the external abdominal ring, and through it the fleshy fibres of the internal oblique muscle may be clearly distinguished, as they are only covered by some of the fibres of the intercolumnar fascia. EXPLANATION OF PLATE I. Exhibits the first stage of the "dissection of the anatomy of the structures concerned in inguinal hernias. Tlie skin and superficial fascia have been reflected down- wards upon the thigh, in order to show the tendinous aponeu- rosis of the external oblique muscle, the external abdominal ring, spermatic cord, and testicle, &c. a. The anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. b. The spinous process or tuberosity of the os pubis. c. Poupart’s ligament, which is extended between these two processes of bone. d. The tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle. e. The fleshy fibres of the same muscle. f. The aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, where it passes in front of the rectus muscle to be attached to, g. The linea alba. h. The linea semilunaris, which is situated at the outer edge of the rectus muscle. i. The inferior and outer pillar of the external abdominal ring, which is formed by the pubal extremity of Poupart’s ligament; it is thicker and stronger, though narrower than k. The superior and inner pillar of the same opening. l. The intercolumnar fibres, which serve to bind the two pillars of the external abdominal ring more strongly together. m. The spermatic cord, after it has emerged through the external abdominal ring ;—some of the fibres of the cremaster muscle are seen upon its outer side. n. The testicle, concealed by the tunica vaginalis reflexa. ’ 0. The iliac portion of the fascia lata of the thigh, which is attached to the lower edge of Poupart’s ligament, p. The pubic portion of the fascia lata, covering the pecti- neus and adductor longus muscles. q. The falciform process of the iliac portion of the fascia lata, where it bends inwards, underneath Gimbernat’s liga- ment, and arches over the upper part of the crural canal. r. The deep layer of the superficial fascia of the abdomen reflected, along with the skin, upon the upper part of the thigh.I 4THE EXTF.llNAE AUDOMINAE UINU. 21.0 s. Tlte external circiinirtexa ilii artery. t. The superficial epigastric artery. u. The external pudic artery. V. The umbilicus. w. The suspensory ligument of the penis. X. The fascia lata covering the gluta-us medius muscle. The external abdominal rins;* — lliis name has been civen to the aperture in the tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, ■which is formed by the divergence of the ten- dinous fasciculi as they approach the crista of the os pubis. In the healthy condition of the parts, the external abdominal ring is an opening of a triangular figure, the base of the triangle being formed by the crista of the os pubis, and its sides, which are of unequal length, by the two bundles of tendinous fibres, which have been denominated the columns, or pillars, of the ring ; of these, one is superior and internal, and descends, as has been already stated, to become inserted into the body and symphysis of the pubis ; the other forms the inferior and outer pillar of the ring, and consists chiefly of the pubal extremity of Poupart’s ligament, where it is about to be inserted into the spinous process or tuberosity of the os pubis. The external is the narrower but stronger of the two pillars of the ring, and supports the sper- matic cord, in the male, and the round ligament of the uterus in the female, as they severally emerge from the lower part of the inguinal canal, or oblique passage in the abdominal parietes, by which these structures issue from the interior of the belly to reach their connections with the external organs of genera- tion. The apex of the triangle is the part at which the pillars commence to separate from each other; here it is rounded off by the lowermost of the transverse flbres, which connect the two columns together. The direction of the external abdominal ring is oblique, stretching upwards and outwards from the crista of the os pubis. The term of ring which has been given to this open- ing in the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, is obvi- ously ill-adapted to convey the idea of its flgure in the healthy and natural state of the parts ; but it should be recollected that, Avhen a hernial sac has been protruded through it, it assumes a • Also called the ring of the external oblique, inguinal ring, lower or external aperture of the inguinal canal; unneau inguinal, anneau du grand oblique ; annulus iuguinalis anterior.220 TIIK EXTKRXAI- ARDOMINAE lUXG. circular form, and lias always been thus described by surgical writers. Thus, then, the external abdominal ring is the opening which is formed by the divergence of the tendinous fasciculi of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, and is situated immediately above the spinous process and crista of the os pu- bis, which circumstance it is of considerable importance to bear in mind when establishing a diagnosis between some obscure forms of inguinal and femoral hernia.^' No. 1. The wood-engraving represents the figure and situation of the external abdominal ring, as it appears in the male subject. The skin and super- ficial fascia have been dissected from the aponeurosis of the external oblique * See the Surgical Anatomy of the Groin and Femoral Hernia, p. 137.THE INTERCOLUMNAIl FASCIA. 221 muscle, and turned down upon the thigh ; the spermatic cord was cut across as it escaped through the opening, and reflected downwards upon tlie scrotum. a. The anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. i.The spinous pro- cess or tuberosity of the os pubis, into which the ligament of Poupart is in- serted. c. c. Poupart’s ligament, or lower edge of the tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, which is extended between these points of bone, and constitutes the principal part of the crural arch. Between the letters b and c Poupart’s ligament forms the outer and inferiorpillar of the external ab- dominal ring. d. The superior and internal pillar of the ring; it is broader, but thinner than the inferior pillar. The curved white lines represent the intercolumnar fascia, which consists of a series of tendinous threads, whicli take their origin from the crural arch, spread upwards, diverging as they pro- ceed, and are lost in the linea alba; tliey serve to bind more strongly toge- ther the oblique fibres of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, and to connect the two columns of the external abdominal ring. e. The fleshy fibres of the external oblique muscle opposite the crista of the ilium. J'.J\ The aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, the fibres of which are intersected nearly at right angles by the filaments of the intercolumnar fascia. g. g. The linea alba, where the tendinous fibres of the external oblique muscles decussate with one another, h. The spermatic cord which has been cut across as it emerged from the external abdominal ring, and reflect- ed downwards upon the scrotum, i. The external abdominal ring; the let- ' ter is placed upon that part of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal, situ- ated behind the external abdominal ring, which is formed by the conjoined tendons of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, k. The skin and superficial fascia of the abdominal parietes dissected from the aponeurosis of the external oblique musele and reflected downwards upon the upper part of the thigh. The size of the external abdominal ring is considerably larger in men than in women ; for a smaller opening suffices for the transmission of the round ligament of the uterus in the female, than that which is required for the passage of the spermatic cord and testicle in the male.* This obviously accounts for the greater frequency of inguinal hernia in the latter than in the former. The intercolumnar fascia. — It will be recollected that the fibres wdiich compose the aponeurosis of the external oblique mus- cle have been described as being arranged parallel with each other, and descending obliquely, downwards and inw'ards, to their at- * The comparative size of the external abdominal ring in the male and fe- male, is well represented in tlie wood-engravings, No. 4. and 5. p. 102 and 104 of the Surgical Anatomy of the Groin, &c.^^22 THE INTEKCOLUMNAR FASCIA. tachments to the os pubis—a disposition of parts which alone could afford but a feeble resistance to the protrusion through the external ring, of the loose and floating viscera of the abdomen, when compressed by any unusual contraction of the muscular parietes of that cavity. On a closer inspection, however, a regular series of strong tendinous fibres will be observed to lie closely upon the outer surface of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, crossing, nearly at right angles, the proper fibres of the ten- don, adhering very intimately to each, and thus materially serving to bind them more firmly together. As these fibres extend over from one pillar of the ring to the other, they have been named the intercolumnar fascia. The fibres of the in- tercolumnar fascia take their origin, in a great measure, from the anterior edge of Poupart’s ligament, in the whole of the space between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the root of the spinous process of the os pubis ; near the last-mentioned point of bone some of them appear to spring from the pubic portion of the fascia lata binding down the pec- tineus muscle, immediately anterior to the ligament of Gimber- nat; they thence ascend, in a curvilinear direction, tow^ards the lower part of the linea alba, into which they are finally inserted. The convexity of the curve, Avhich these fibres make in their course, is, for the most part, directed downwards towards the external abdominal ring, but near the apex of that o|3ening they are disposed in the contrary direction. (See the woodcut No. 1. page 220, where the fibres of the intercolumnar fascia arc repre- sented by numerous white lines, upon the aponeurosis of the ex- ternal oblique muscle.) Near the anterior superior spinous pro- cess of the ilium, these fibres are weak and scattered ; but as they approach the outer extremity of the external abdominal ring they become much more numerous, and, at the same time, greatly increased in thickness and strength, and arc thus well calculated to prevent the further divergence from one another of the pillars of the ring. When the external abdominal ring is distended by the protru- sion through it of the sac of an inguinal hernia, the intercolumnar fascia limits the excessive enlargement of the opening, and com- municates the circular form to it, whence it has derived its name; and it is owing to the circumstance of the most inferiorTHE SPERMATIC FASCIA. fibres of tlic intercolumnar fascia being more elosely aggregated together in such a case, that the constricted appearance usually observed towards the upper part of a large scrotal hernia is pro- duced, an appearance Avhich designs, with precision, the situation of the external abdominal ring. The fibres of the intercolumnar fascia arc commonly found to be more strongly developed in men than in women, and in some rare instances they may exist on both the surfaces of the aponeu- rosis of the external oblique muscle. They are, on the other hand, in some subjects so thin and delicate as to be demonstrated with great difficulty ; and occasionally may even be absent alto- gether. The arrangement of the fibres of the intercolumnar fascia is well deserving of particular attention; since their principal func- tion must be the prevention of the farther separation from each other of the pillars of the external abdominal ring, and thus to oppose the formation of inguinal hernim, since the tendency of the viscera to protrude through the inguinal canal will be in a great degree proportionate to the imperfect or weakly develope- ment of this structure. (The intercolumnar fascia is also repre- sented in Plate I. fig. 1.) The spermatic fascia. — The margins of the external abdo- minal ring are not naturally so clearly defined as they have been represented in the first plate of this work, since they are somewhat obscured by the existence of a thin and delicate fascia, through which the fibres of the cremaster muscle may be distinguished. This membrane is the spermatic fascia., and descends from the circumference of the external abdominal ring upon the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament of the uterus in the female, as they emerge from the inguinal canal.* In the male subject the fascia descends upon the outer surface of the cremas- ter muscle, to which it is connected by loose cellular membrane; and externally it is in relation with the sub-dartoic cellular tissue. The spermatic fascia descends to the lower part of the testicle, completely surrounding both it and the cord. Some anatomists * The spermatic fascia is well represented in Plate III. of the Surgical Anatomy of the Groin, fig. x. It has received various names from differ- ent authors :—tunica aponeurotica, fascia cremasterica; by Scarpa it is called the aponeurotic web of the fascia lata; tunica vaginalis communis, tunique fibreuse du cordon spermatique, &c. &c.GENERAL AND SURGICAL REMARKS. 224 have rcffarded this membrane as derived from tlie intercolumnar faseia, which has already been described as lying upon the apo- neurosis of the external oblique muscle, while others,—more correctly, I believe, — consider it as a separate and distinct structure, having its origin from the margins of the external abdominal ring. By drawing the cord and testicle in various directions, it is easily shown that the spermatic fascia adheres very firmly to the circumference of the external abdominal ring, and that it de- scends thence upon the spermatic cord, gradually becoming narrower until it approaches the testicle, when it expands so as to cover the whole of that gland. In some subjects the spermatic fascia is sufficiently thick and strong to admit of being easily dissected throughout its entire extent; but, in the greater number of instances, it becomes so extremely thin and delicate in its structure, as it descends upon the cord, as to render the proceeding very difficult and frequently unsatisfactory. In the female subject the spermatic fascia is neither so strong nor so extensive as in the male; for it is soon blended with the cellular and adipose substance which covers the crista of the os pubis, and in which the round ligament of the uterus is inserted. The use of this fascia is, according to Sir Astley Cooper, to furnish additional support to the testicle and its coverings; and, by its loose connections Avith it and the cord, to allow of the free motion of the gland, enabling it more easily to elude the con- sequences of pressure and violence.* In cases of old and large scrotal hernia the spermatic fascia is commonly found to be much increased in its thickness and density. General and surgical remarks. — It may prove useful, be- fore proceeding any further in the dissection of this region, to replace the structures which have already been exposed, and to review them as they noAv appear. Underneath the skin is placed the superficial fascia, which, as has been shown, consists of two lamellm; of Avhich the deeper one is the stronger and more membraniform in its structure, • See Sir Astley Cooper’s work on the Anatomy and Diseases of the Testis, 4to. p. 83.GENERAL AND SURGICAL REMARKS. 225 and adheres closely to the anterior and inferior edge of Pou- part’s ligament, and to the iliac portion of the fascia lata, in the interspace between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the spinous process or tuberosity of the os pubis; the superficial lamella is, on the other hand, of a much more loose and cellular texture, at the same time that its thickness is liable to frequent variations, which are dependent upon the quantity of adipose substance that may be deposited in its tissue. The superficial pudic and epigastric vessels, with three or four small absorbent glands, have also been seen as they lie betwixt the two lamellae of the fascia, opposite the crural arch. The superficial fascia is more closely connected to the tendon of the external oblique muscle in the course of the linea alba than elsewhere, while opposite the crista of the os pubis it descends into the scrotum, covering the spermatic cord after its emergence from the external abdominal ring, and finally becomes continu- ous with the membrane of the dartos. The delicate cellular tissue which connects the internal sur- face of the superficial fascia to the tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle should not be overlooked, as it is by the destruction of it that those dangerous extravasations of urine into the perinseal region, which occasionally supervene upon a rupture of the urethra from inveterate strictures si- tuated in front of the triangular ligament, &c. are enabled to make their way with such alarming and frightful rapidity upwards upon the hypogastric region ; a course which is the very opposite of that which would be indicated by the common law of gra- vitation of fluids, but which is satisfactorily explained by re- ference to the connexions and relations of the superficial fascia of the perinseum, the dartos, and superficial fascia of the ab- dominal parietes.* It is, also, in this structure that the diffused inflammation and extensive suppuration which not unfrequently follow injuries inflicted, and surgical operations performed upon this region, are commonly found to have their scat. The mode of formation of the external abdominal ring, by the divergence from each other of the fibres of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle as they approach the crista of the os pubis, is deserving of particular attention ; as are, like- • Vide the Surgical Anatomy of the Perinseuin, pp. ll and 12, and Sur- gical Observations by Sir Charles Bell, p. 90. 8vo. Lond. 1816. Q226 GENERAL AND SURGICAL REMARKS. Avise, the fibres of the intercoluranar fascia, Avhich, resting on the outer surface of the aponeurosis, cross its fibres at right angles, and by adhering to each as they pass over them, tend to prevent their unnatural separation, and so diminish the fre- quency of hernial protrusions in this region. The exact situation of the external abdominal ring must not be forgotten, since it forms a principal point in establishing a correct diagnosis in all difficult and obscure cases of inguinal and femoral herniee : the ring is situated immediately above the crista and spinous process of the os pubis ; its longest diameter is directed upwards and outwards, towards the an- terior superior spinous process of the ilium ; the size of the opening being limited by the inferior fibres of the intercolumnar fascia.* Through the opening projects the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament of the uterus in the female ; both of Avhich structures receive, as they emerge, a perfect tubular inA'estment from the thin membrane or fiiscia Avhich springs from the margin of the ring, and is called the spermatic fascia. The influence Avhich is exercised by the position of the in- ferior limbs upon the condition of the lower portion of the abdominal parietes, but principally upon the tendon of the ex- ternal oblique muscle, should also be examined. The iliac portion of the fascia lata of the thigh is firmly attached, in the interval betAveen the anterior superior spinous process of the' ilium and the root of the tuberosity of the os pubis, to the inferior edge of Pouparfs ligament and its reflected portion, denominated the ligament of Gimbernat; and consequently, Avhen the loAver extremity is extended and rotated outAvards, the tendon of the external oblique muscle is rendered quite tense and unyielding, and the pillars of the external abdominal ring are brought more tightly together, so that it is with some difficulty that the extremity of the finger can be insinuated into the opening; but if the thigh should be raised and bent upon the pelvis, at the same time that the knee is rotated inwards and towards the opposite side, all the tenseness of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle Avill be removed, and the columns of the external abdominal ring so much relaxed as to admit of the introduction of the finger with the greatest facility. • Tlie Surgical Anatomy of the Groin, &c. p. 137.227 THE DISSECTION OF THE INGUINAL CANAL. It is with the view of producing a similar relaxation of the pillars of the external abdominal ring, and of the several struc- tures which enter into the composition of the parietes of the inguinal canal, that surgeons are in the constant habit, pre- viously to endeavouring to reduce the contents of a strangulated inguinal hernia by the taxis, of first taking the precaution of placing the lower limbs in such a position as shall most com- pletely relax this portion of the abdominal walls. The dissection of the inguinal canal.—The lower part of the tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblii]^ue muscle may now be raised, in order that the external abdominal ring may be examined from its inner surface, as well as the subjacent structures which are connected wdth the anatomy of the inguinal canal. For this purpose let an incision be made through the fleshy fibres of the external oblique muscle, about one inch be- yond the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, so as to expose the cellular interspace which separates its fibres from those of the internal oblique muscle; this incision should be prolonged in an oblique direction as far as the linea alba, and thence dowmwards to the symphysis of the pubes; observ- ing, at the same time, to render the subjacent muscles tense, by drawing the linea alba towards the opposite side, and the cord and testicle downwards and across the right thigh. (See Plate II.) The tendinous and fleshy flap, thus marked out, is to be carefully dissected from the fleshy fibres of the internal oblique and cremaster muscles, and the sheath of the rectus. Near the umbilicus it will be found rather difficult to separate the tendon of the external oblique from the sheath of the rectus muscle; but, as we approach the crista of the os pubis, the con- nexion between these structures becomes much less intimate, in consequence of the presence of some loose cellular tissue which is interposed between them. The internal and superior pillar of the external abdominal ring should not yet be cut across, but may be allowed to remain entire in its attachments to the body and symphysis of the ossa pubis. Oil raising the tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, two nerves will be noticed lying between it and the fleshy fibres of the internal oblique (the musculo-cutaneotis and ilio-scrotal branches of the lumbar plexus) ; they descend, after having successively traversed the transvcrsalis and internal O V Q 2228 TIFE DISSECTION OF THE INGUINAL CANAL. oblique muscles, to the external abdominal ring, through which they emerge to be finally distributed to the superficial coverings of the spermatic cord and testicle. These nerves frequently adhere pretty closely to the inner surface of the tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, and are therefore liable to be cut across when it is raised up to expose the internal oblique and cremaster muscles. If the tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle be now taken up in one hand, and the forefinger of the other introduced through the external abdominal ring from its inner aspect, it will be clearly shown how the spermatic fascia passes off from the margins of the opening, and, descending upon the cord, invests both it and the testicle in a perfect tubular sheath. By the same proceeding it will also be readily understood that when the sac of an inguinal hernia protrudes through the ex- ternal abdominal ring, it will necessarily receive a covering from this membrane. While it is thus distended by the finger, the external abdo- minal ring will be observed to lose its natural triangular form, and to assume a circular appearance, which it constantly presents after a hernial sac has descended through it; and hence is de- rived the appellation of rmg, which has been given to the open- ing. (See woodcut, No. 5, figs. e,f.) If the dissector should choose to do so, he may now define the margins of the external abdominal ring by cutting with his scalpel lightly round the spermatic cord, as it emerges from the lower opening of the inguinal canal. The spermatic cord, after passing through the external abdominal ring, descends in a vertical direction to the testicle ; so that the portion of the cord which lies within the inguinal canal is placed almost at a right angle with that part of it which is included between the ring and the testicle. It may also be here observed, that the spermatic cord, where it passes through the lower opening of the inguinal canal, is partly supported by the inferior pillar of the ring, as it is inserted into the spinous process or tuberosity of the os pubis, and partly by that process of bone itself. The internal and superior pillar of the external abdominal ring may now be cut away from its insertion, and the aponeu- rosis of the external oblique muscle reflected downwards upon the thigh as before, so that the dissection of the lower portionITHE DISSECTION OF THE INGUINAL CANAL. 229 of the internal oblique and cremaster muscles may be pro- ceeded with, as represented in Plate II. EXPLANATION OF PLATE II. This plate represents the second stage of the dissection of the inguinal region, in which the tendon of the external ob- lique muscle has been raised and reflected downwards upon the thigh, in order to display the lower part of the internal oblique muscle, with the fibres of the cremaster covering the front and sides of the spermatic cord and testicle. a. The anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. h. The situation of the spinous process, or tuberosity of the os pubis. c. The curved line of Poupart’s ligament, which is extended between these points of bone. d. The lower part of the tendinous aponeurosis of the ex- ternal oblique muscle, raised from its connexions and re- flected upon the upper part of the thigh. e. The fleshy portion of the external oblique muscle above the crista of the ilium. f. A part of the tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, where it covers the sheath of the rectus abdominis muscle. g. The linea alba. h. The situation of the linea semilunaris, where the fleshy fibres of the internal oblique muscle cease and become tendinous. i. The superior and internal pillar of the external abdominal ring reflected upon the thigh. k. k. The fleshy fibres of the internal oblique muscle as they arise from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the iliac half of Poupart’s ligament. 1. A part of the tendon of the internal oblique muscle, where it strengthens and supports the lower portion of the pos- terior wall of the inguinal canal, behind the external abdo- minal ring. m. The tendon of the internal oblique muscle, where it forms the sheath of the rectus abdominis muscle. n. The external head of the cremaster muscle, arising from the middle of Poupart’s ligament. o. The loops or inverted arches which the fibres of the cre- master muscle form in front of the cord and testicle. p. The internal or pubic portion of the cremaster inserted into the lower part of the sheath of the rectus. r. The posterior wall of the inguinal canal, where it is formed by the inner or pubic portion of the fascia transversalis.230 THE INTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. s. The skin and superficial fascia of the inguinal region reflected upon the upper part of the thigh. The external epigastric and pudic arteries are seen as they ramify in the deep lamella of the superficial fascia. t. The symphysis of the ossa pubis. u. The suspensory ligament of the penis. V. The corpus cavernosum penis of the left side. w. The corpus spongiosum penis. X. The umbilicus. The internal ohlujue muscle. — This muscle is attached, superiorly, to the lower margin of the four inferior or false ribs ; inferiorly, it is inserted into the anterior two-thirds of the crista ilii, and into the iliac two-thirds of Poupart’s ligament; poste- riorly, it is prolonged, by a tendinous aponeurosis (part of the fascia lumborum), to the spinous processes of the lumbar verte- brse ; and anteriorly, it is inserted into the linea alba, the crista of the os pubis, and the inner part of the ilio-pectineal line. The direction of the superior fibres of the muscle is obliquely up- wards and forwards; the central portion is directed transversely inwards to the mesial line; whilst the inferior set incline very obliquely downwards and inwards. At the linea semilunaris the tendon of the internal oblique muscle splits into two layers, one of which passes in front of, and the other behind the rectus muscle, reuniting at its internal edge, where it enters into the composition of the linea alba. In this manner is con- stituted the sheath of the rectus muscle. This division into two lamellce of the tendon of the internal oblique muscle exists, however, only from the ensiform cartilage to about midway between the umbilicus and the symphysis pubis ; below which point the whole of the tendon passes in front of the rectus, leaving that muscle only separated from the peritonaeum by the fascia transversalis and subserous cellular tissue. The structure of the muscle is fieshy, except anteriorly and posteriorly, where it is aponeurotic and tendinous. Relations—superficially, with the external oblique muscle; by its internal surface, with the transversalis, rectus, and pyramidalis muscles; at its posterior part it is in relation with the latissimus dorsi and long muscles of the back. Its lowermost fibres contribute, in the greater num- ber of instances, to the formation of the cremaster muscle. '['he most inferior of the fleshy fasciculi of the internal231 THE CREMASTER MUSCLE. oblique muscle arise from the iliac two-thirds of Poupart’s ligament; and, after arching over the spermatic cord as it lies in the upper part of the inguinal canal (see Plate II. fig. k, /), end in tendinous fibres opposite the lower part of the outer edge of the rectus muscle, in front of which they pass to reach the linea alba and crista of the os pubis, into which they are im- planted. The tendinous aponeuroses of the muscles of each side are united with one another throughout the entire extent of the linea alba. The portion of the internal oblique muscle which has its origin from the iliac portion of Poupart’s ligament should, in the next place, be examined with particular care and attention. In this situation the fleshy fibres of the muscle pass obliquely downwards and inwards, almost parallel with Poupart’s liga- ment, from which they spring ; and opposite the outer border of the lower part of the rectus muscle end in a tendinous aponeu- rosis, which passes in front of it and the pyramidalis towards the linea alba, where it is joined with the tendon of the muscle of the opposite side. Some of the most inferior of the fibres pur- sue, however, a rather different course from those which are situated just above them; for they become very much curved as they pass over the spermatic cord in the upper part of the inguinal canal, and, becoming tendinous, descend behind the cord where it is contained in the lower part of the canal, and the external abdominal ring, to be finally inserted, along with similar fibres of the transversalis muscle, into that portion of the pectinated line of the os pubis which is situated behind the ligament of Gimbernat. The cremaster muscle.—The principal fibres of the cremaster muscle spring from the middle portion of Poupart’s ligament, between the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, and from this point nearly to the external abdominal ring. (See Plate II. fig. n.) Some of these fibres, thinner and paler than the rest, pass directly inwards in front of the upper part of the spermatic cord, and are implanted upon the tendinous aponeuroses of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, forming the sheath of the rectus muscle (see Plate II. fig. p) ; but by far the greater number of the fibres of the cremaster descend along with the spermatic cord through the external abdominal ring, being at first closely aggregated together on the outer surface of the cord, soonTHE CREMASTER MUSCEE. afterAvards, however, separating from each other, and being spread out over tlie front and lateral aspects of it and the tunica vaginalis reflexa ; after which, having ascended along the inner side of the cord, they terminate by being inserted into the crista of the os pubis and lower part of the sheath of the rectus muscle. (See Plate II. figs, n, o, and p.) In this manner the fibres of the cremaster muscle form a successive series of curves, the convexity of which is directed downwards towards the testis : the shortest of these curves consist of the superior fibres of the muscle, simply passing across the upper part of the sper- matic cord as it lies beneath the external abdominal ring; Avhilst the inferior set are much longer, extending over the testis and lower part of the cord. In this country the cremaster muscle is generally regarded as being derived from the internal oblique, since the disposition and appearance of many of its fibres greatly resemble those of the last-named muscle. The upper edge of the cremaster is, however, frequently separated from the inferior border of the internal oblique muscle by a considerable interval, Avhieh is occupied by common cellular tissue, in which sometimes a large mass of adipose substance is deposited. (Vide Plate II.) In some cases, Avhich are however very rare, the fibres of the eremaster are also found upon the posterior aspect of the spermatic cord; a disposition which, it Avould appear, depends upon the cord piercing the fibres of the internal oblique muscle, instead of merely emerging from beneath its lower edge.* This condition of these structures I have never seen. M. Jules Cloquet, a distinguished anatomist and surgeon, has devoted considerable attention to the mode of formation of the cremaster muscle in the male subject, and has been led, in con- sequence of his researches, to the eonsideration that the cre- master does not exist in the foetus previously to the descent of the testicle into the scrotum ; but that it is produced by the gubernaculum testis, and testis itself, contracting adhesions, as they descend through the inguinal canal into the scrotum, to the middle portion of the muscular fibres forming the lower edge of the internal oblique muscle ; and that, by thus dragging these fibres along Avith them in their descent, (their origin and insertions remaining fixed,) a series of inverted loops or * See Reclierches Anatomiques sur les Hernies, p. 14—18.DISSECTION OF THE TRANS VERS ALIS MUSCLE. 233 arches are produced by tlie gradual displacement and elongation of their intermediate and more moveable portion.* The cremaster muscle is supplied with blood by the cremas- teric branch of the epigastric artery, and the principal division of the external spermatic nerve is distributed to its fibres. In the female subject the cremaster muscle cannot*generally be said to exist; yet, in some instances, the most inferior of the fibres of the internal oblique muscle are observed suddenly to become much paler than the rest, and also to be loosely scattered, as it were, over the round ligament of the uterus where it lies in the lower part of the inguinal canal. When an oblique inguinal hernia is formed in the female subject, .the front surface of the hernial sac derives a partial muscular investment from the lowermost fibres of the internal oblique, which are displaced and dragged downwards by the sac as the hernia is gradually protruded through the inguinal canal —very closely imitating, in fact, the mode of formation of the cremaster muscle by the descent of the testis in the male.*f* Some individuals are possessed of a considerable voluntary power over the contractions of the cremaster muscle, and are en- abled to retract the testes as high as the external abdominal ring, and in some instances even to withdraw them into the lower part of the inguinal canal. Persons endowed with the faculty of thus controlling at will the action of the cremaster muscles have been known to deceive medical officers appointed to examine the recruits of the army ; pretending that they were affected with inguinal hernia, and, in consequence, unfitted for military service.:}: Dissection of the lower edge of the transversalis muscle.— The lower portion of the internal oblique muscle may now be detached from its connexions to the crista of the ilium and Poupart’s ligament, and reflected upwards on the sheath of the rectus, as is represented in Plate III. fig. h. This proceed- ing will be most easily effected if the fibres of the muscle be first divided opposite the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, as in this situation the muscle is separated from the * Vide Recherches Anatomiques sur les Hernies de I’Abdomen; par Jules Cloquet: 4to. Paris, 1817, p. 15. t Cloquet, p. 21 (1). I The Cyclopedia of Pract. Medicine, vol. ii. p. 144, art. Feigned Diseases.234 THE TRANSVERSALIS MUSCLE. transvcrsalis by some cellular tissue and branches of the internal circumflexa ilii artery. In this stage of the dissection it will be found very useful to render the fibres of the transvcrsalis as tense as possible, by drawing the linea alba towards the opposite side, and removing, at the same time that the in- ternal oblique is raised up, the layer of condensed cellular tis- sue which invests the outer surface of the muscle. When the separation of the internal oblique from the transvcrsalis has been correctly made,—which in many subjects is by no means of easy execution, as these muscles are frequently blended with each other towards their inferior margin,—the fleshy fibres of the latter will, in general, be found to cease to arise from the iliac portion of the ligament of Poupart at the distance of about an inch and a half from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. In this situation the muscle terminates by a very clear and distinct edge, which is much curved in its outline, and is partly fleshy and partly tendinous in its structure. (See Plate III. figs, m, w, r.) Since the fleshy fibres of the internal oblique muscle continue their attachment to Poupart’s ligament for an inch, or an inch and a half, nearer to the spinous process of the os pubis than the point where the lower margin of the transversalis muscle is situated, it follows, as a neeessary consequence, that the internal abdominal ring or upper aperture of the inguinal canal, by which the spermatic cord issues from the cavity of the abdomen in its oblique descent to the scrotum and testicle, is supported by it; which circumstance must frequently prove an additional source of prevention against the formation of an oblique or external in- guinal hernia. The transversalis muscle arises from the iliac half of Poii- part’s ligament, and from the inner margin of the crest of the ilium for three-fourths of its extent: it is inserted posteriorly, by a tendinous aponeurosis, -which incloses the quadratus lumborum muscle between its laminse, to the base and apex of the trans- verse processes of the lumbar vertebrae ; anteriorly, the fleshy fibres end, at the outer edge of the rectus muscle, in a tendon, which, after passing conjointly Avith the posterior division of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique behind that muscle in the space included betAveen the ensiform cartilage and a point situ- ated about midway between the umbilicus and symphysis pubis,\o <v Ph nally, with tlie fascia transversalis, which is intei-posed between it and the peritonaeum. Structure — muscular at the sides, and aponeurotic anteriorlj'^ and posteriorly. In addition to the attachments of the transversalis muscle which have just been described, it should be particularly noticed rCi -+J PJ .a ci o rJP CO > o 0> o P-9 C p3: pj fcJO D _cg Ph o P-9 O C o o a o a a to CQ C.) CO o O ^ c a ’-S o c5 CO CO P3 C3 bjo c y=i o -4—> ' ^ CO C3 o o a CO O q; - k <D a ^ o . a b r§ D rO is D cS -rj P o o3 a !h aj a r£i is <D a ^ rtj ..a P-’ w H 1-1 CL, O O IS h-I s w 1 i S a> 3 .H S 3 G CT- oj (D O) W pG sh Dp ■S) a -a ,p 9 O O I—t Pjh 'T ^ a 3 3 «o O q; c 'S ■ D-< 'T3 ^ to -3 pG CO ^ H3 ^ § -S Dp 9 1) pQ Dp D- « <T3 pG p2 g ^ _c O *i3 Dp ^ a H I—> CS G <V a p3 o> D- P-. d o C a I 9 bo y= ccJ <u CO _I2 &p a a p o 3 .a «D H3 TJ O) 0> > pG ® a a a fp •si ® q; ^ CD O .c CO pirf (p rt pQ ITHE TRANSVERSALIS MUSCLE. 236 h. The lowermost fibres of the internal oblique muscle, cut away from their origins from the iliac half of Poupart s li- gament and the anterior superior spinous process and part of the crest of the ilium ; they have been reflected upwards upon the sheath of the rectus muscle, for the purpose of ex- posing the lower margin of the transversalis muscle, and also the internal abdominal ring and posterior wall of the ingui- nal canal. i. A part of the internal oblique muscle, where it forms a por- tion of the lateral parietes of the abdomen. k. The fibres of the lower portion of the internal oblique mus- cle, where they spring from the iliac portion of Poupart’s ligament. L The lower part of the sheath of the rectus muscle, formed by the united tendons of the internal oblique and transver- salis muscles. m. The fleshy fibres of the transversalis muscle, which are not attached so far downwards to Poupart’s ligament as the fibres of the internal oblique. n. n. A part of the tendinous aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle. 0. A large branch of the internal circumflexa ilii artery, which runs in the cellular substance separating the fibres of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles. p. The internal abdominal ring, or superior aperture of the inguinal canal, by which the spermatic cord issues from the cavity of the abdomen. The letter is placed upon the fascia transversalis where it parts from the circumference of the ring to furnish the fun- nel-shaped sheath of the spermatic cord. The boundaries of the internal abdominal ring are, supe- riorly, the lower fleshy and tendinous margin of the trans- versalis muscle; internally, the epigastric artery ; and in- feriorly, the ligament of Poupart. q. The pubic portion of the fascia ti-ansversalis, where it forms the upper part of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal. r. s. The conjoined tendons of the internal oblique and trans- versalis muscles, forming the lower part of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal, and which they greatly strengthen where it otherwise would be weakest, viz. behind the ex- ternal abdominal ring. The letter r is placed on the tendon of the transversalis, which extends a little farther outwards towards the epigas- tric artery than the tendon of the internal oblique muscle, which is marked by the letter s.237 TIIK CONJOINED TENDONS. t. Tlie spermatic cord, invested by the funnel-shaped sheath of the fascia transversalis. The cord is held aside by a hook at the point where it emerges from the internal abdo- minal ring, for the purpose of more clearly exposing to view the structures which form the posterior wall of the inguinal canal. u. The testicle of the left side, withdrawn from the lower part of the scrotum. V. The corpus cavernosum penis on the left side. w. The corpus spongiosum penis. X. The umbilicus. r/. The linea alba. z. The skin and superficial fascia of the inguinal region, re- flected downwards upon the upper part of the thigh. 1. The trunk of the epigastric artery, where it runs along the inner margin of the internal abdominal ring. The fascia transversalis has been cut open in the direction of the course of the vessel so as to expose it fully to view. To- wards the umbilicus the artery is obscurely seen, as it lies underneath the tendon of the transversalis muscle. 2. The external pudic artery. 3 and 4. Branches of the external epigastric artery. The posterior wall of the inguinal canal is formed by the fascia transversalis {q), and the conjoined tendons of the transversalis (r) and internal oblique (s) muscles: behind the first of these structures runs the epigastric artery (1), and more posteriorly are found the subserous cellular tissue and the peritonaeum, with the ligamentous remains of the umbilical artery. For the explanation of Fig. 2, the reader is referred to that part of this work which treats of the anatomy of the testicle. The conjoined tendons of the internal ohlujue and transversalis muscles.—When the inferior flesliy fibres of the internal oblique muscle have been raised and reflected inwards towards the mesial line, as is represented in Plate III, they will be found to ter- minate, in front of the outer portion of the rectus muscle, in a thin but strong aponeurosis which soon becomes intimately blended with the tendon of the transversalis ; a connexion which is so close, that it is absolutely impossible to separate them satisfactorily from one another with the knife. On this account it is usual to describe them together, under the name of the con- joined tendons of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles. The conjoined tendons are partly situated in front of the pyrainidalis and lower portion of the rectus muscle, being in-238 THE CONJOINED TENDONS, sorted into tlic linca alba and crista of tlie os pubis. But, in addition to these attachments, the most inferior fibres of the conjoined tendons are reflected, somewhat in a spiral manner, downwards and outwards, to be inserted, behind the ligament of Gimbernat, into the inner part of the ilio-pcctineal line of the os pubis, passing behind the spermatic cord as it lies in the lower part of the inguinal canal. (See Plate III. figs, r, s.) It is in this manner that the conjoined tendinous fibres of the in- ternal oblique and transversalis muscles close up a considerable portion of the space which is included between the epigastric artery and the outer edge of the rectus muscle ; thus constitut- ing a principal part of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal. (See Plate III. fig. r, s.) The mode in which the conjoined tendons of the internal ob- lique and transversalis muscles form the lower part of the poste- rior wall of the inguinal canal may be very clearly demonstrated in the following manner : —Let the tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle be reflected, together with the spermatic cord, upon the upper part of the thigh, so that the entire of the triangular space which is included between the epigastric artery and the lower portion of the rectus muscle shall lie fairly ex- posed to view. (See Plate III.) The index finger of the left hand may now be placed upon this space a little above and parallel with Poupart’s ligament, whilst with the other hand traction is made alternately upon the lower fleshy fibres of the internal ob- lique and transversalis muscles, which, for this purpose, should be separately detached from their respective connexions to the crista of the ilium and ligament of Poupart. When these in- structions arc observed, the finger which rests upon the posterior wall of the inguinal canal will be elevated, at every movement of the muscular fibres held in the right hand, by the tension of tendinous fibres belonging to each. It will be perceived, at the same time, that the tendinous fibres belonging to the trans- versalis muscle are more curved in their direction, and extend further outwards from the border of the rectus, than those appertaining to the internal oblique muscle. (See Plate III. fig. r.) By a tedious dissection we may, in some subjects, suc- ceed in separating the tendinous fibres which are proper to each muscle from one another, and both of these from the fascia trans- versalis, which lies behind them : in many instances, however.239 THE INTERNAL ABDOiVUNAL RING. this is rendered impracticable, from the intricate manner in which the whole of these structures are interwoven with each other. In some subjects the conjoined tendons of the internal ob- lique and transvcrsalis muscles arc by no means so clearly de- veloped or so extensive as they have been described in the pre- ceding pages ; and in some instances, indeed, they would appear to be altogether absent from that portion of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal which they ordinarily strengthen and sup- port. Under such circumstances, however, the ftiscia transver- salis is generally much stronger in its texture than usual. The conjoined tendons, being situated behind the external abdominal ring, form the principal obstacle to the direct protru- sion of the viscera of the abdomen through this portion of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal ; or, in other words, tend greatly to prevent the frequent formation of a direct or internal inguinal hernia. The internal abdominal ring*— The circumscribed space underneath the lower margin of the transversalis muscle (see Plate III. fig. p) has been named by Sir Astley Cooper the internal abdominal ring, to distinguish it from the opening in the tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, which has already been described as the external abdominal ring, or lower opening of the inguinal canal. In the healthy condition of the parts, no aperture with clearly defined margins, sueh as the name which has been given to it might lead us to expect, Avill be found to exist in the situation of the internal abdominal ring ; since the term by which it is customarily denominated has been applied to it, not so much from a consideration of the na- tural figure of the part, as on account of the form which it pre- sents when a hernial protrusion has taken place througli it. (See the wood engraving No. 4, fig. o.) The internal abdo- minal ring is situated in the fibrous membrane which lines the inner surface of the transversalis muscle, and named by Sir Astley Cooper the fascia transversalis. The exact position of the internal abdominal ring is midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior spinous • Also called the annulus inguinalis posterior (Hesselbach) ; upper ingui- nal or abdominal aperture (Monro); inner opening or end of the inguinal canal (Langenbeck and Scarpa); I'ouverture supe'rieure et externe du canal inguinal (J. Cloquet); V orifice poster icur du canal iwgwuuz/(Velpeau).THE FASCIA TR ANSVEIISALIS, 240 process of the ilium, being there placed about a finger’s breadth above the ligament of Poupart. Its distance from the external abdominal ring is not always the same in different subjects ; as it varies between an inch and a half to two inches in extent, ac- cording to the length of the inguinal canal, and the magnitude of its openings. (See the woodcut No. 3, fig. o.) At the internal abdominal ring the fascia transversalis is not covered by the fibres of the transversalis muscle, as it is here that the spermatic cord in the male subject, and the round liga- ment of the uterus in the female, commence their oblique de- scent through the parietes of the inguinal region; receiving, as they emerge, a funnel-shaped investment from the fascia. (See the wood engraving No. 2, at p. 243, figs, i, k.') The internal abdominal ring is bounded superiorly by the fleshy and tendinous margin of the transversalis muscle ; in- feriorly, by the grooved surface of Poupart’s ligament ; and internally, by the epigastric artery and its accompanying veins. (See Plate III. fig. p.) As the epigastric artery, in this part of its course, runs along underneath the fascia transversalis, the dissector must either un- cover it by an incision with the point of his scalpel, — as was done in the dissection from which the drawing was taken—or,— what is more advisable,—he may satisfy himself of its position and course by lightly pressing his fore-finger upon the inner edge of the ring, when, if the vessel has been injected, it will be clearly distinguished as it rolls underneath the tip of the finger. It is through the internal abdominal ring that oblique or ex- ternal inguinal hernise, in all their various forms, commence to be protruded; and it is from the relation which the several struc- tures here situated bear to the neck of the sac, and consequently to the surgical treatment of these diseases, that so much care and attention are demanded from the student in his dissections of this region. (See the woodcut No. 3, at p. 246, fig. o.) The fascia transversalis. —The cellulo-fibrous membrane which lines the internal surface of the abdominal parietes has been thus named in that portion of its extent where it covers the interior of the transversalis muscle. This membrane has received different names in separate parts of its extent; thus, for example, it is called the fascia iliaca, where it covers the psoas and iliacus muscles, and the fascia pelvica where it241 THE FASCIA TU ANSVERS ALTS. desceiuls into the cavity of the pelvis, upon the inner surface of tlie levator ani muscles to reach the sides of the bladder and rectum and base of the prostate gland.* A small portion of the fascia transversalis is now exposed to view (See Plate HI. fig. between the loAver margin of the transversalis muscle and Poupart’s ligament, whicli will be observed, on a closer inspection, to furnish a funnel-shaped sheath or investment to the spermatic cord and round ligament of the uterus as they are passing through the internal abdo- minal ring. (See the woodcut No. 2, p. 243, fig. i, k.) The testis and spermatic cord receive, as they descend from the abdomen into the scrotum, a complete covering from the fascia transversalis ; and, although it may not always be possible for the dissector to exhibit this prolongation of the membrane upon the lower part of the cord as a distinct fascia, in conse- quence of its degeneration into a loose cellular tissue, it can, nevertheless, be always distinctly seen to invest the upper part of the cord and the round ligament of the uterus while they are as yet within tlie inguinal canal. The sheath which is thus fur- nished by the fascia transversalis to the spermatic cord, is rather wider and more loose above, where it parts from the circumference of the internal abdominal ring, than lower down, where it gra- dually contracts to the dimensions of the structures which it in- vests. From this arrangement, the tubular sheatli which the spermatic cord and testis receive from the fascia transversalis, has been denominated the infundibulij'orm, or funnel-shaped pro- cess of the membrane. Underneath the funnel-shaped process of the fascia transver- salis, and in more immediate contact with the vessels which enter into the composition of the spermatic cord, is placed a similarly shaped process from the subscrous cellular tissue of the abdo- minal parietes, but which is much more loose in its texture, and generally contains more of adipose substance than it. These structures, comprised under one term, constitute what has been called i\iQ fascia propria of oblique inguinal hcrnim. It is sometimes recommended to carry the scalpel lightly round the spermatic cord as it is held upon the stretch by draw- ing downwards the testis, and in this manner to divide, close to the inferior border of the transversalis muscle, the funnel- * VideThe Surgical Anatomy of the Perinaeum, p. 29—30. RTHE FASCIA TRANSVEB.SALIS. 242 shaped sheath which it derives from the fascia transversalis, and tlms to define what have been termed the margins of the inter- nal abdominal ring. When this has been done, the circular form of the superior aperture of the inguinal canal becomes, on relaxing the traction upon the spermatic cord, more distinctly apparent. There is, however, another plan of proceeding which is much more preferable, in several respects, than that which has just been mentioned, which consists in making a small cut in the fascia transversalis opposite the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, — the lowermost fleshy fibres of the transversalis muscle having previously been detached from their attachments to Poupart’s ligament and the crista of the ilium, and reflected inwards, as has been already directed to be done with the corre- sponding portion of the internal oblique muscle, — and then, gently to insinuate the handle of the scalpel between the mem- brane and the subserous cellular tissue. In this manner the handle of the scalpel may be passed downwards for a consider- able distance upon the front of the spermatic cord. At the first view the fascia transversalis appears of a yellow tint; but this depends only upon its translucent nature, which permits the proper colour of the subserous cellular tissue, a structure which is always more or less loaded with adipose sub- stance, to be seen through it. The fibres of which the fascia transversalis is composed are arranged, for the most part, in an oblique direction, downwards and outwards from the edge of the rectus muscle ; but these are, however, crossed in various directions by numerous others, which give to the membrane a reticular appearance. Not un- frequently the fascia transversalis consists of two laminm, which are united with each other opposite the posterior edge of the ligament of Poupart. The anterior of these laminae arises from the ligament itself, while the posterior is but the continuation of the fascia iliaca, which quits the iliacus internus muscle to bo reflected upon the lateral and anterior parietes of the abdomen. On the outer side of the internal abdominal ring it is not difficult to separate these laminae from one another, but, around the margins of that opening, and between it and the edge of the rectus muscle, they are so closely blended together that it is almost impossible to disunite them. When this division of theTHE FASCIA TUANSVERSAL1S. 243 fascia transversalis exists, the posterior lamina M'ill be found to extend, behind the rectus muscle, to the linea alba, whilst the an- terior is implanted into the outer edge of the same muscle. The epigastric artery sometimes runs behind, and sometimes in front of these laminse, but not unfrequently it is found betwixt them. 1 he sheath which is furnished from the fascia transversalis to the spermatic cord in the male, and round ligament of the uterus in the female, is rather wider and looser above where it parts from the margin of the internal abdominal ring, than lower down, where it gradually contracts to the dimensions of the structures The wood-cut represents the funnel-shaped sheath of the fascia transver- salis laid open upon its front aspect, so as to show the manner in wliich it encloses the structures which constitute by their union the spermatic cord. a. The rectus abdominis muscle of the left side dissected. b. The pyramidalis muscle. c. c. The tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, dissected from its attachments, and reflected downwards upon the upper part of the thigh.244 THE FASCIA TRANSVERSALIS. d. The internal and superior pillar of the external abdominal ring, cut from its connections with the body of tlie os pubis, and reflected downwards with the rest of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, of which it forms a part. e. The corresponding portion of the internal and superior pillar of the external abdominal ring, occupying its natural position in front of the body of the os pubis. /. The outer border of the tendon of the rectus muscle, where it is con- tinuous with the inner or pubic portion of the fascia transversalis {<)). g. g, g. The fascia transversalis where it lines the inguinal region. h. The fascia transversalis blended with the posterior edge of Poupart’s ligament, so as to form with it the floor of the inguinal canal. The fibres of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles have been dissected from their attachments to the iliac portion of the crural arch and wholly removed. i. The funnel-shaped sheath of the fascia transversalis, laid open in front to display the component structures of the spermatic cord, which it encloses. k. The funnel-shaped sheath of the fascia transversalis, where it invests the spermatic cord, between the external abdominal ring and the testis; behind this portion of the cord are observed some oblique fibres, which constitute the triangular ligament of the inguinal canal. l. A portion of the great sac of the peritonaeum. m. A tubular process of the peritonaeum, which is frequently to be found as a fibro-cellular band in front of the rest of the structures composing the spermatic cord; it consists of the obliterated portion of the original processus vaginalis peritonsei. n. The epigastric artery, as it passes deeply in the subserous cellular tissue, betwixt the fascia transversalis and the peritonaeum, and along the pubal side of the internal abdominal ring. 0. Dotted lines, which serve to indicate the course of the epigastric artery, as it ascends in an oblique direction behind the fascia transversalis in its way towards the umbilicus. p. The spermatic veins. q. The spermatic artery. r. The vas deferens. s. The triangular ligament of the inguinal canal. The fascia transversalis is stronger and more fibrous in its structure around the circumference of the internal abdominal ring than elsewhere, and it is more especially so on the inner edge of that opening, between it and the epigastric vessels : in this situation, indeed, the fascia transversalis frequently pre- sents the appearance of terminating by a well-defined edge, over which the spermatic cord turns, to descend from the interior of the belly into the inguinal canal. This sharp margin only exists, how- ever, in consequence of the angular reflexion of this portion of the fascia transversalis, as it doubles upon itself in order to contri-THE FASCIA TKAKSVERSALIS. 245 bute towards tlie formation of the funnel-sliaped slieath of the cord. When the membrane is extended upon the handle of the scalpel, this angular appearance of it is effiiced, and the whole is thus shown to constitute one continuous and uniform surface.* It is principally owing to the presence of the fascia transver- salis at the superior aperture of the inguinal canal, supported as it is there by the lower fleshy fibres of the internal oblique mus- cle, that the oblique form of inguinal hernia is not of more frequent occurrence ; for, as we have already seen, neither the spermatic cord, nor the round ligament of the uterus, completely fill up the space included within the circumference of the internal abdominal ring. In persons of an originally weak and sickly habit of body, and even in individuals of a contrary disposition, but in whom the muscular system has been temporarily enfeebled by acute and wasting diseases, such as fevers. Sec. it will be frequently observed, on making an examination of the inguinal regions, that the abdominal parietes yield in a very perceptible manner, and become prominent opposite the situation of the internal abdominal ring, whenever they cough violently, or make any other similar exertion tending to excite a forcible contraction of the muscles bounding the abdominal cavity ; and if, under these circumstances, the hand should be applied against this region, the impulse which is communicated to the viscera within will be very sensibly distinguished. In this manner inguinal hernise may be frequently detected in the earliest stages of their forma- tion, long before the patient is himself aware of the existence of the disease. The fascia transversalis is not always of the same strength and thickness in different individuals ; in some persons it is scarcely stronger than a layer of simple cellular tissue, while in some others, generally men, it is perfectly aponeurotic in its structure and properties. Around the circumference of the internal abdominal ring, the * As the fascia transversalis is very thin and delicate in its structure opposite the internal abdominal ring, it is not always acknowledged that the spermatic cord receives an investing sheath from it, as the latter passes through the opening: on the contrary, the spermatic cord has been described as emerging from the cavity of the abdomen betwixt two portions of the fascia, the free margins of which are described as the external and internal pillars of the internal abdominal ring.—See Lawrence on Ruptures, 5th edit, p. 189.246 THE FASCIA TRANSVERSALIS. fascia transversalis adheres very closely to the inferior margin of the transversalis muscle, and is so intimately blended with the posterior surface of its tendon, that it is with much diffi- culty they can be separated from each other with the scalpel. The fascia transversalis is connected to the outer margin of the rectus muscle, and is regarded by some anatomists as ceasing here ; but, with a little care, it may be traced behind it as far as the linea alba, where it is continuous with the membrane of the opposite side. No. 3. The wood-engraving represents the posterior wall of the inguinal canal. The superficial fascia and the aponeurosis of the e.xternal oblique muscle have been reflected downwards upon the upper part of the thigh ; the lower portion of the internal oblique muscle has also been detached from its connec- tions to the ligament of Poupart, and thrown upon the sheath of the rectus abdominis muscle. The spermatic cord and funnel-shaped sheath of the fascia transversalis have also been removed from the inguinal canal.THE INGUINAL CANAL. O47 «. Tlie anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. 6. The insertion of Poupart’s ligament, or inferior pillar of the external abdominal ring, into the spinous process or tuberosity of the os pubis, c. The ligament of Pou- part, stretched between the spinous process of the os pubis and the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, d. The tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, dissected up from its connections, and thrown down upon the upper part of the thigh, e. A portion of the fleshy fibres of the same muscle, detached from the rest. J\ The superior or internal pillar of the external abdominal ring reflected with the rest of the aponeurosis, g. The lower portion of the internal oblique muscle, cut away from its connections to Poupart’s ligament and the crista of the ilium, and thrown upwards upon the sheath of the rectus muscle, h. The fleshy fibres of the transversalis muscle, in their natural situation, t. The tendon of the same muscle, as it is about to become blended with the tendon of the internal oblique mus- cle, and so form part of the conjoined tendons, where they constitute a por- tion of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal, strengthening it behind the external abdominal ring. k. The sheath of the rectus abdominis muscle, formed by the tendons of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles. 1. The outer or iliac portion of the fascia transversalis, forming what has been termed the external pillar of the internal abdominal ring. m. The inner or pubic portion of the same membrane, the outer edge of which constitutes the internal pillar of the ring ; it contributes also to the formation of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal, n. The triangular ligament, or diagonal brace of the inguinal canal, formed by some of the fibres of the tendon of the external oblique muscle of the opposite side. 0. The internal abdominal ring, or superior aperture of the inguinal canal. The epigastric artery is seen as it runs deeply along the internal or pubic margin of the ring. It is by the dilatation of this opening that the various forms of external or oblique in- guinal hemiae commence their descent from the abdomen, p. The skin and superficial fascia dissected, and thrown down upon the upper part of the thigh. The posterior wall of the inguinal canal is formed, in its upper part, by the peritonaeum, the subserous cellular tissue, and the fascia transversalis; and, in the lower part ofits extent, by these structures additionally strength- ened and supported by the conjoined tendons of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, and the triangular ligament of the inguinal canal. The inguinal canal. — Tliis ncame lias been given to the oblique passage through the iliae region of the abdominal parietes, by which the spermatic cord in the male, and the round litrament of the uterus in the female, descend from the interior of the belly to reach the structures with which they are connected externally. The length of the inguinal canal varies between one inch and a-half to two inches in extent; being usually a little longerTHE INGUINAL CANAL. 248 and narrower in women than in men. The greater width of the inguinal canal in the male subject,—joined with the larger size of its apertures, the internal and external abdominal rings, — are eircumstances fully adequate to account for the more frequent occurrence of inguinal liernise in the male sex. The direction of the inguinal canal is very oblique, passing downwards, inwards, and forwards ; a disposition which, as it fortunately permits of the opposite walls of the passage be- coming more elosely approximated together under the ordinary pressure of the visceral contents of the abdomen, must tend greatly to prevent the formation of oblique inguinal hernim during every unusual muscular exertion. The inlet, or superior orifice of the inguinal eanal, is the in- ternal abdominal ring, the situation of which, opposite the centre of the space between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the spinous process of the os pubis, and just above the ligament of Poupart, has been already described (see the woodcut No. 3, at page 246, fig. o). The external abdominal ring, placed immediately above the spinous process of the os pubis, constitutes the inferior aperture or outlet of the canal. (See the wood-engraving No. 1, at page 220, fig. i.) The anterior wall of the inguinal canal is formed by the ten- dinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, which is strengthened by the fibres of the intercolumnar fascia, and is covered by the skin and superficial fascia. (See Plate I. figs. b, d, and r.) The posterior Avail—or that which is next the cavity of the abdomen—is formed, in the upper third of its extent, by the fascia transversal is, the subserous cellular tissue, and the peritonaeum ; but, in the lower or pubal two-thirds, by these several structures greatly fortified by the fibres of the con- joined tendons of the internal oblique and transA'ersalis muscles, and the triangular ligament, as they descend tOAvards their insertions into the inner part of the ilio-pectineal line of the os pubis, behind the ligament of Gimbernat. (See Plate III. fig. </, r, and s.) The triangular ligament of the inguinal canal.—When the inner and superior pillar of the external abdominal ring is raised and reflected, as in Plates II and III. a thin layer of oblique ten- dinous fibres may be observed to fill up the angular space Avhich is included between the outer edge of the tendon of the rectus249 THE INGUINAL CANAL. muscle and tlie pubal extremity of Poupart’s ligament. These fibres belong to the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the opposite side ; and, after decussating with the correspond- ing fibres of the opposite muscle, are inserted into the crista and spinous process of the os pubis, and, also, into the inner third of the ilio-pectineal line of the same bone, behind the ligament of Gimbcrnat. By some anatomists this triangular fascia has been supposed to exert a considerable influence in preventing the formation of a direct inguinal hernia ; but after a close inspection of its situation and extent, this opinion, I believe, can hardly be maintained.* These fibres are sometimes so very thin and indistinct, that it is with great difficulty that their existence can be demonstrated. The inferior wall, or flooring of the inguinal canal, is consti- tuted by the grooved surface which results from the union of the posterior borderof Poupart’s ligament with the fascia transversalis. The inguinal canal contains, besides the lower edge of the obliquus internus in tlie male subject, the spermatic cord and upper portion of the cremaster muscle ; and, in the female, the round ligament of the uterus. The subserous cellular tissue.— Betwixt the inner surface of the fascia transversalis and the peritonseum exists a layer of loose cellular substance, which is frequently of considerable thickness, especially in corpulent persons, in whom it is so much loaded with adipose matter as to resemble, in a remark- able degree, the omentum, for which it has been not unfre- quently mistaken during operations for strangulated inguinal and femoral hcrnise.'l' Opposite the posterior wall of the in- guinal canal, the subserous cellular tissue is frequently found to be nearly half an inch in thickness. In cases of phlebitis originating in the veins of the lower ex- * Dr. Quain considers that these fibres not only tend to support the con- joined tendons of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, upon which they are laid ; but that they also serve to connect the lower part of the linea alba and Poupart’s ligament, on the principle of a diagonal brace, and by means of their elasticity tend to weaken the force of any pressure made upon the part, by diffusing it over a greater extent of surface. — Elements of Anatomy, 4th edit. p. 467. t On this subject, see Sir Astley Cooper on Hernia, 2d edit. Part I, note at bottom of p. 14; and also Part II. p. 11 and 12. Also Scarpa on Hernia, translated by Wishart, 8vo. p. 269.250 THE SPERMATIC COED. tremity and of the cavity of the pelvis, the subseroiis cellular tissue, lining the iliac fossa, is sometimes affected with diffuse inflammation, ending in extensive suppuration. Previous to their entrance into the inguinal canal, the sper- matic cord and round ligament of the uterus receive each an investment from the subserous cellular tissue, which accompa- nies them as far as their opposite extremities. It is into the sheath which the subserous cellular tissue fur- nishes to the spermatic cord, that the sac of an oblique inguinal hernia descends, and it is to the great laxity and distensibility of this membrane that the disgregation of the component struc- tures of the spermatic cord—so commonly observed in cases of large scrotal hernise of long standing—is mainly attributable. Steatomatous tumours, which are liable to be mistaken for examples of incomplete inguinal herniee, are occasionally develop- ed in that part of this structure which serves to invest the sper- matic cord. Considerable collections of serous fluid are some- times met with, which are either contained in one cavity or cyst, as in some forms of the encysted hydrocele of the cord, or diffused throughout the whole extent of the membrane, as in that form of the disease (of rare occurrence) which has been denominated by Mr. Pott hydrocele of the cells of the tunica communis.* The spermatic cord. — The spermatic artery and accom- panying veins descend from the lumbar region, where they are placed in front of the psoas and iliacus muscles, to reach the internal abdominal ring, or superior opening of the inguinal canal (see Plate IV. figs. 5 and 6). At this point they join at an acute angle with the vas deferens, which here dips down into the cavity of the pelvis in its way from the testicle to reach the side and base of the bladder, to which it is closely applied, as it runs along to its termination in the prostatic portion of the urethra, where it opens upon the anterior and lateral surface of the veru-montanum. (See the Surgical Anatomy of the Peri- nseum, Plate IV. fig. p, and page 34.) In the inguinal canal, and between the external abdominal ring and the testicle, the * For an excellent and interesting account of the various forms of Hy- drocele, the student is refeiTed to Mr. Pott’s Treatise on that disease. Mr. Pott operated upon one case of diffused hydrocele of the spermatic cord, and drew off eleven pints of water.—See Pott's Works, 2d edit. vol. ii. p. 270.251 THE SPERMATIC CORD. vas deferens is situated to the inner and posterior side of the rest of the vessels composing the spermatic cord. Tlie spermatic arteries spring from the sides of the aorta, at a little distance below the origin of the renal arteries. The artery of the left side passes in front of the vena cava, and both pass obliquely in front of the ureters, lying betwixt them and the peritonaeum. In their course from their origin to the supe- rior aperture of the inguinal canal, the spermatic arteries furnish several delicate branches to the cellular tissue, investing the ureters and outer surface of the peritonaeum. For the manner of their distribution to the glandular structure of the testicle, the reader is referred to the description of the anatomy of that organ, as given in a future part of this work. In the female the spermatic arteries are distributed to the ovaries and fallopian tubes. The spermatic vein^ on the right side, ordinarily opens into the vena cava, a little below the junction of the renal vein with that vessel: on the left side, the spermatic vein usually empties its contents into the great trunk of the renal vein of the same side. The vascular plexuses which are formed upon the lower part of the spermatic cord, by the subdivision of these veins into seve- ral branches, which freely communicate with one another by frequent anastomoses, have been named by anatomists the corpus pampiniforme. These veins are, particularly on the left side, frequently greatly dilated and varicose ; a condition which con- stitutes the complaint well-known under the denomination of varicocele or cirsocele. The lymphatics of the testicle and spermatic cord are very numerous, and form, by their junction with each other, several trunks of considerable size, which ascend upon the spermatic veins, and terminate in the absorbent glands, which lie on each side of the aorta, in front of the lumbar vertebra?. The disposition of the absorbent vessels of the testicle, ren- ders necessary the precaution of previously examining with great care into the state of the lymphatic glands of the iliac and lum- bar regions, before deciding upon the extirpation of the organ when affected by malignant and cancerous diseases, as, for example, fungus hsematodes and schirrus. The nerves which are situated among the structures compo- sing the spermatic cord, arc very numerous, consisting,—besidesTHE SPERMATIC CORD. 252 the musculo-cutaneous and genito-crural branches of the lumbar plexus,—of numerous filaments from the mesenteric, renal and hypogastric plexuses of the grand sympathetic, and are sufficient to explain the sympathies which are well-known to exist under many circumstances between the stomach and testicle ; as in orchitis, blows upon the testicle, &c. At its entrance into the inguinal canal, the spermatic cord forms an acute angle with those portions of it which are situated within the cavity of the abdomen, and, after bending over the epigastric artery, follows the oblique direction downwards and forwards of the canal, passing successively underneath the lower margins of the obliquus internus and transversalis muscles. In the lower part of the inguinal canal the spermatic cord is covered anteriorly and upon the sides by the cremaster muscle, and then — continuing its descent towards the testicle — after emerging through the external abdominal ring, it again changes its direction, by making a second curve, the concavity of which is turned towards the outer pillar of the ring and spinous process of the os pubis. The vessels and nerves which compose the spermatic cord, are enclosed, as has been already described, in sheaths derived from the subserous cellular tissue and the fascia transversalis; they are partially covered also by the cremaster muscle, and again com- pletely by the external spermatic fascia, which is derived from the margins of the external abdominal ring. Where the vessels of the spermatic cord enter the superior aperture of the inguinal canal, the peritonseum always presents a well-marked depression on its inner surface, the depth of which varies, however, in different subjects. This fossula, or depres- sion of the peritoneum, is frequently prolonged externally, in front of the cord, under the form of a shallow funnel-like tube, which soon terminates in a delicate white fibro-cellular cord, that may be traced downwards until it expands into the tunica vaginalis of the testicle. (See the wood-engraving No. 2, at p. 243, fig. m.) d his fibro-cellular band consists of the ligamentous remains of the processus vaginalis peritonsei, which is generally obliterated at, or soon after, the period of birth. The epigastric artery.—Th\s vessel usually arises from the inner side of the external iliac artery, about three or four lines above the inner margin of the crural arch. The epigastric artery253 THE EPIGASTRIC ARTERY. inclines at first a little downwards and inwards, so as to get under eover of the posterior surface of Poupart’s ligament, after whicli it suddenly changes the direction of its course, and mounts obliquely upwards towards the umbilicus, passing, at the same time, un- derneath the commencement of the spermatic cord and along the inferior and inner margin of the internal abdominal ring. In the first part of its course the artery lies embedded in the subserous cellular tissue, between the fascia transversalis and the peritonaeum ; but about midway between the umbilicus and the symphysis pubis, it pierces the tendinous sheath of the rectus muscle (to which it is finally distributed), frequently anasto- mosing in the remainder of its passage with the terminal branches of the internal mammary, lumbar, and superficial epi- gastric arteries. (See Plate IV. fig. 3.) The epigastric vein follows the same course as the artery, upon the inner side of which it runs. Occasionally two veins accompany the epigastric artery. (See Plate V. fig. I, 2.) Near its origin the epigastric artery furnishes three branches, of which the largest turns into the inguinal canal along with the spermatic cord, and, being distributed to the cremaster muscle, has been named the cremasteric artery ; its branches anastomose with those of the spermatic and external pudic arteries. The second branch is much smaller than the preceding, and runs along the posterior surface of Poupart’s ligament, to reach the symphysis pubis, behind which it inosculates with the corres- ponding vessel of the opposite side. The third branch descends behind the horizontal branch of the os pubis, and joins wdth some of the branches of the obturatrix artery. As it ascends towards the umbilicus, the epigastric artery gives off, on each side of its course, several other small branches, which are distributed to the inner surface of the transversalis and rectus muscles. Varieties.— The epigastric artery sometimes arises high up from the external iliac, in some instances at least an inch and a half distant from the crural arch. It sometimes arises from the internal circumflex of the thigh, as well as from the femoral artery below the crural arch ; it has also been found arising from the profunda femoris. Hesselbach states having seen it deriving its origin from the obturatrix artery; and in that in- stance it ran along the inner edge of the neck of the sac of anTHE EPIGASTRIC ARTERY. 254 internal inguinal hernia.* * * § The epigastric artery frequently gives off the ohturatrix artery, the relations borne by which, under various circumstances, to the neck of the sac of a femoral hernia have been already fully noticed in a former part of this work.j" It is important to bear in mind that the epigastric artery lies along the inner or pubic edge of the internal abdominal ring; for, as will be afterwards described, the two principal varieties of inguinal hernia that are of most frequent occurrence com- mence, either upon the outer, or the inner side of this vessel; circumstances which require that a certain direction should be given to the edge of the knife, while removing the stricture at the neck of the sac in the operation for strangulated inguinal hernise, otherwise the artery may be wounded, and so give rise to a very troublesome and even fatal hemorrhage.| The great laxity of the subserous cellular tissue which con- nects the epigastric artery, in the first part of its course, to the adjacent structures, renders it very easy to alter the position of the vessel by any considerable pressure exerted on either side; and thus it is that we so frequently find the artery displaced inwards as far as the outer edge of the rectus muscle, in cases of large and long standing external inguinal hernise. The epigastric artery and its branches have been frequently wounded in the old operation of tapping for ascites, in which it was the custom to enter the trocar at a point midway between the umbilicus and the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium.§ The epigastric artery may also be wounded in the operation of placing a ligature upon the external iliac artery, if the inter- nal extremity of the incision, which is requisite for exposing * Dictionary of Practical Surgery, by S. Cooper, 7th edit. p. 718. t Vide Surgical Anatomy of the Groin, &c. p. 114; and the wood en- graving, No. 6. at p. 115; also, Plate V. fig. 4, 5, 6. I For cases where this accident occurred, see Sir Astley Cooper on Hernia, 2d edit. p. 54, and Mr. Cooper’s Dictionary of Surgery, 7th edit, p. 741 ; also the works of Scarpa, Bertrandi, Lawrence, &c. § Vide Medical Communications, vol. ii, p. 482; a Paper by Dr. Car- michael Smith ; also, Mr. Cooper’s Dictionary of Practical Surgery, 7th edit. p. 1081.255 THE INTERNAL CIRCUMFLEXA ILII. that vessel, should be prolonged too much inwards, towards the edge of the rectus muscle.* The internal circumjlexa ilii takes its origin from the outer side of the external iliac artery, at first lying in the subserous cellular tissue (see Plate IV. fig. 4) : it soon, however, pierces the fascia iliaca; and taking the same direction as Poupart’s ligament, runs along its posterior aspect as far as the ante- rior superior spinous process of the ilium, near Avhich point it traverses the fibres of the transversalis muscle, and so gets between it and the internal oblique. Its branches are distri- buted to the muscles which form the lateral parietes of the abdomen, and anastomose with the branches of the lumbar and epigastric arteries. The epigastric and internal circumflexa ilii arteries are of considerable importance in carrying on the collateral circulation, after the ligature of the common femoral and external iliac arteries. *f* * Vide the Surgical Anatomy of the Groin, &c. p. 170. f Ibid. p. 171.256 CHAPTER II. DISSECTION TO EXPOSE, BY AN INTERNAL VIEW, THE STRUC- TURE AND RELATIONS OF THE POSTERIOR WALL OF THE INGUINAL CANAL. The cavity of the abdomen should now be exposed, by making an incision through its parietes from the crest of the ilium, a little distance beyond the anterior superior spinous process, to the linea alba, near the umbilicus ; and thence in a vertical direction to the symphysis pubis, as is repre- sented in Plate IV. The small intestines should likewise be removed from the cavity of the pelvis. When these direc- tions have been executed, on holding upwards and forwards the triangular-shaped flap that has been marked out, the perito- naeum which lines the interior of the abdominal parietes of the inguinal regions, will be found to present, on each side of the mesial line, three remarkable and distinct depressions, which may be denominated the inguinal pouches ox foss(C of the peri- toneum. The deepest of these fossae is the most external of the three, and is situated on the outer or iliac side of the epigas- tric artery, and coiTesponds with the upper aperture or inlet of the inguinal canal. It is underneath this point that the sper- matic vessels and the vas deferens join with each other, as they bend over the trunk of the epigastric artery, previously to their entrance into the inguinal canal, where they constitute the sper- matic cord. If the finger be pressed pretty firmly upon the pe- ritonaeum at this situation, the membrane will readily yield under the influence of the pressure thus exerted, and may easily be protruded, in the form of a small pouch or sacculus, for some little distance upon the anterior surface of the spermatic cord, as it is resting in the upper part of the inguinal canal. In some subjects a probe or other blunt-pointed instrument will be found, if introduced into the bottom of this depression of the perito- naeum, to pass, without the slightest impediment, for a consi-257 OF THE INGUINAL CANAL. dcrablc distance downwards and forwards in front of tlic sper- matic cord, or round ligament of the uterus; which circumstance is owing to the imperfect obliteration, in this situation, of the original processus vaguialis of the peritomeum. In the adult female subject a long process of a similar nature is occasionally found to exist, in front of the round ligament of the uterus, and is very well known to anatomists under the name of the canal of Niick. In some few instances, the probe may be passed, in front of the spermatic cord, through a very narrow canal, or passage, as far as the testicle ; and, in such cases, the sac of the tunica vaginalis testis still retains its primitive con- nection with the cavity of the great bag of the peritonseum; the processus vaginalis peritonsei not having been obliterated as usual, but only contracted in its original dimensions.| Situated opposite the internal abdominal ring, the external inguinal fossa of the peritonseum is — in men at least — un- doubtedly the weakest point of the abdominal parietes ; and thus it happens, that cases of the common and congenital forms of inguinal hernise are almost universally observed in individuals of the male sex. If the processus vaginalis peritonsei should remain pervious during life, the intestines may, at any time, be forced down into its cavity, so as to constitute that form of external or oblique in- guinal hernia, which has been named congenital^ from the general belief which was formerly entertained, that it could only happen at or immediately after birth, before the obliteration of this process from the serous membrane lining the abdomen, which was presumed always to take place, had been effected. ^Vhen, under such circumstances, any considerable quantity of serous fluid is collected within its cavity, a congenital hydro- cele is then said to be formed. Sometimes the processus vaginalis peritomei is not wholly obliterated, but only at several points of its extent between the testicle and the internal abdominal ring; and, then, — serous fluid collecting in the sacculi which intervene between each point where the obliteration has been effected,—a scries of small encysted hydroceles of the spermatic cord may be pro- duced. f In many of the lower animals, as, for example, the dog, the processus vaginalis peritouad remains permanently open. SDISSECTION OE THE TOSTERIOR WALL 258 The second, or middle fossa of the peritono’um, is not so deep as the preceding ; it is situated on the inner or pubal side of the epigastric vessels, betwixt them and the ligamentous cord, which is formed by the obliteration of the umbilical artery of the foetus. If a hernial sac should commence to be protruded into the inguinal canal in this situation, it would at first be only covered by the subscrous cellular tissue and fascia transvcrsalis ; since, at this point, these structures alone form the posterior wall of the inguinal canal. The hernia would also belong to that division of inguinal hernioe usually denominated direct or in- ternal. The third, or most internal of the inguinal fossee of the peritonaum, is situated on the pubal side of the ligamentous cord, which results from the obliteration of the umbilical artery, between it and the outer edge of the rectus muscle. It is placed directly behind the external abdominal ring, and corre- sponds with the strongest portion of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal, where it is formed by — besides the subserous cellular tissue and fascia transversalis — the conjoined tendons of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles.')' A direct or internal inguinal hernia may also be formed by the protrusion of a hernial sac through this portion of the pos- terior wall of the inguinal canal; which would then be covered not only by the subserous cellular tissue and the fascia transver- salis, as in the preceding instance, but also, in all probability, more or less completely, by the conjoined tendons of the inter- nal oblique and transversalis muscles. The peritonaeum, and subserous cellular tissue, should now be detached from the inner surface of the inguinal region and iliac fossa, so as to expose to view the vas deferens and sper- t The three inguinal pouches of the peritonaeum have been distinguished by M. Velpeau under the names ot fossette inguinale externe, fossette in- guinule interne, and fossette vesico-inguinale. Vide Traite complet d’Ana- tomie chirurgicale. 3d edit. vol. ii. p. 72. I Vide Sir Astley Cooper’s work on Hernia, 2d edit. Plate X. in which six hernial sacs are shown. Two of the sacs on each side were protruded through that portion of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal which is comprised between the epigastric and umbilical arteries (figs./r, i, I, and k); and one on each side, between the remains of the umbilical artery and tlie outer edge of the rectus muscle (figs.j, »0.i ll4259 OF THE INGUINAL CANAL. matic vessels, as they converge towards each other, in their course to the internal abdominal ring : — the same dissection will suffice, also, for the examination of the internal and exter- nal iliac arteries, and the origins of their principal branches. (See Plate IV.) EXPLANATION OF PLATE IV. This plate represents a view of the internal surface of the abdominal parietes, in the left inguinal region of the male subject; the peritonaeum and subserous cellular tissue having been removed, so as to expose the other structures which are immediately external to them. a. The crista of the ilium. The letter is placed about the dis- tance of an inch outwards from the anterior superior spi- nous process of the bone. b. The situation of the symphysis pubis. c. The spinous process, or tuberosity of the os pubis. d. d. The ligament of Poupart obscurely seen through the fasciae iliaca and transversalis, which join with one another along its posterior margin. e. Gimbernat’s ligament; it is partially concealed from view by the fascia transversalis, and, also, by the conjoined tendons of the transversalis and internal oblique muscles, which here curve downwards to reach their insertions into the inner part of the horizontal branch of the os pubis. f. The horizontal branch of the os pubis, forming a part of the ileo-pectineal line. £[.The inner surface of the rectus muscle, where its tendinous sheath is defective posteriorly. h. The inner surface of the transversalis muscle, from which the fascia transversalis has been dissected, so that its mus- cular structure might be more clearly displayed. i. The iliacus internus muscle, partially stripped of its cover- ing from the fascia iliaca. k.The fascia iliaca, which binds down the iliacus internus and psoas muscles. /. The fascia transversalis, lining the inner surface of the transversalis muscle. m. The cut edges of the muscles forming the lateral walls of the abdomen. n. The lower part of the tendinous sheath of the rectus mus- cle, which ceases about midway between the umbilicus and symphysis pubis. 0. 0. The linea alba.POSTERIOR WALL OF THE INGUINAL CANAL. 2 GO p. A liook, inserted a little below the situation of the umbi- licus, to suspend the triangular-shaped flap of the parietes of the inguinal region. g.The internal wall of the inguinal canal, where it is formed by the fascia transversalis. r. The internal abdominal ring, or funnel-shaped aperture in the fascia transversalis, by which the vas deferens and sper- matic vessels in the male, and the round ligameni; of the uterus in the female, issue from the abdominal cavity, in their descent to reach the external organs of generation. The opening is situated just above Poupart’s ligament. Tlie spermatic vessels are seen to unite with the vas deferens, as they bend over the first portion of the epigastric artery, just before their entrance into the inguinal canal. s. The crural ring, or aperture by the inner side of the femo- ral vein, by which a femoral hernia commences to descend from the cavity of the abdomen. It is below Poupart’s ligament. t. The external cutaneous nerve — a branch from the lumbar plexus — lying behind the fascia iliaca. 1. The trunk of the external iliac artery, as it runs along the inner edge of the psoas muscle, resting upon the fascia iliaca. 2. The external iliac vein, which runs along the internal bor- der of the artery. 3. The epigastric artery, as it ascends from its origin behind Poupart’s ligament, to pass along the inner edge of the internal abdominal ring. 4. Tlie internal circumflexa ilii artery, after its origin from the external iliac artery, and before it pierces the fascia iliaca. 5. The spermatic artery; on each side of the artery runs an accompanying vein. 6. The vas deferens. 7. The internal circumflexa ilii vein, which crosses over the external iliac artery, in its way to open into the external iliac vein. 8. 8. 8. The convolutions of the small intestines, which have been removed from the cavity of the pelvis, and thrown over to the right side. 9. The parietes of the inguinal region of the right side, re- flected upon the upper part of the corresponding limb.CHAPTER HI. Section I. OF INGUINAL HERNI.E. After having made ourselves familiar Avith the natural form and relative position of the several structures which compose the inguinal portion of the abdominal parictes, it should be our next object to determine Avhat are the changes from their healthy condition which are liable to be produced in them by the formation of inguinal hernise. There are two principal and leading varieties of this dis- order, the distinguishing characteristics of which are derived from a consideration of the course which the hernial tumour pursues, as it is protruded forth from the cavity of the abdo- men, and of the position which the neck or internal orifice of the sac bears relatively to the epigastric artery ; points ivliich are of considerable practical importance, since they are essen- tially different in each of the varieties alluded to. 1, External or oblique inguinal hernia.—The kind of inguinal hernia ivliich is the most frequent in its occurrence, is that form of the complaint ivhich has been named, in consequence of the hernial tumour puLsuing the same course through the inguinal canal as the spermatic cord or the round ligament of the uterus, the oblique inguinal hernia ; by some surgeons it is, also, named external, because the neck of the sac is situated upon the outer or iliac side of the epigastric artery. (Sec the Avoodcut No. 4, at page 263, figs, o, vi.) Of this form of inguinal hernia there are three different kinds, viz. the common scrotal hernia, the congenital hernia, and the encysted or infantile hernia. 2. Internal or direct inguinal hernia.—The second princi- pal variety is that in Avhich the hernial sac, instead of descend- ing through the oblique course of the inguinal canal, is pro-262 OF EXTERNAL OR traded tlirougli some part of tlic posterior wall of that passage, on the inner or pubal side of the epigastric artery. (See the woodcut No. 9, figs, r, p.) This is named the Direct or In- ternal inguhial hernia. Section II. OF EXTERNAL OR OBLIOUE INGUINAL HERNIA. It has already been observed, whilst making the dissection necessary to expose, by an internal view, the structure and relations of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal, that the external inguinal pouch, or fossa of the peritonmum, is situated directly opposite the internal abdominal ring, or superior aper- ture of the inguinal canal, and that, consequently, it is (at least in the male sex) the weakest point of the fasciso which line the interior of this portion of the abdominal parietes, and, therefore, not unfrequently gives Avay under the pressure which is exerted against it by the viscera, when they are forcibly compressed by the contraction of the muscles which bound the abdominal cavity, as constantly happens during any violent or active exertion, such as, for example, leaping, running, &c. The in- testines, on being thus propelled, as it were, into the external inguinal pouch of the peritonseum, carry that membrane before them, enlarging the little cul-de-sac, Avhich it usually forms upon the front of the cord or round ligament of the uterus, where they occupy the upper part of the inguinal canal. (See the woodcut No, 2, at page 243, figs, /, ??i.) As the hernial tumour descends into the inguinal canal, it derives investments from the subserous cellular tissue and the fascia transversalis, which, taken together, constitute that cover- ing of the sac which has been termed the fascia propria of inguinal hernise. The lowermost fleshy and tendinous fibres of the transversalis muscle are, at the same time, displaced a little upwards, and moulded more completely into the form of a semi-circular bor- der, which arches over the neck of the sac, and is thus capable, under certain conditions, of forming the seat of the stricture in some cases of strangulated oblique inguinal hernise.OULKiUE IXGUINAI, IIEKNIA. 2G3 No. 4. This woodcut represents, by an internal view, the circular dilatation of the internal abdominal ring, which is caused by the protrusion through it of the sac of an external or oblique inguinal hernia. The peritonaeum and the subserous cellular tissue have been removed from the iliac fossa, so as to expose more clearly the relation which tlie epigastric artery bears to the neck of the sac of an external inguinal hernia. a. The crest of the ilium, near the anterior superior spinous process of the same bone. b. The spinous process, or tuberosity of tlie os pubis, c. The inner surface of Poupart’s ligament, or the crural arch. d. The symphysis pubis. e. The posterior surface of Gimbernat’s ligament, a part of the crural arch. ,/. The inner surface of the transversalis muscle, where it springs from the iliac portion of Poupart’s ligament, g. The tendinous portion of the transversalis muscle, h. The inner or pubic portion of the fascia transver- salis, where it forms the principal part of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal, i The fascia iliaca covering the iliacus internus and psoas muscles, and which descends over the brim of the pelvis, to become continuous with the pelvic fascia, k. The trunk of the external iliac artery. /. The trunk264 INCOMPLETE EXTERNAL OR of the external iliac vein. in. The epigastric artery, as it runs along the under and inner margin of the neck of the sac of an external inguinal hernia, n. The vas deferens, where it descends, after its exit from the ingui- nal canal, in its course to the side of the bladder, o. The internal abdominal ring dilated by the protrusion through it of tlie sac of an external or oblique inguinal hernia. The aperture so produced generally limits what is termed the neck of the hernial sac. p. The internal surface of the lower part of the rectus abdominis muscle. By contrasting this wood-engraving with No. 9, the reader will at once clearly understand the distinction which is made between external and in- ternal inguinal hernise. In proportion as the hernial tumour increases, it descends fartlier into the inguinal canal, and soon passes underneath the inferior margin of the internal oblique muscle, the muscular fibres of which are displaced in a similar manner to those of the transversalis muscle already mentioned ; and, becoming more closely aggregated together, form a thick and strong muscular fasciculus, which sweeps over the front and sides of the sac, nearly opposite the middle of the space which is included be- tween the superior and inferior apertures of the canal. When the hernial sac has descended beyond the lower mar- gin of the internal oblique muscle, the fibres of the cremaster are spread over its front and lateral surfaces. Incomplete external inguinal hernia.'\—So long as the her- nial sac does not emerge from the lower aperture of the in- guinal canal, it is denominated an incomplete external bubono- cele^ which, it should be remembered, is a very common form of the complaint, and is extremely likely to prove much more dangerous to those who are the subjects of it than the complete form of the disorder, inasmuch as its existence is frequently overlooked both by the patient and his medical attendant; so that it not unfrequently happens that much valuable time is lost, and the means which would be most suited to effect its cure, or, at all events, to prevent its further increase, permitted to remain unemployed, when—were the nature of the affec- tion recognised — they might be had recourse to with the hap- piest results. The works of medical and surgical writers teem t Boyer calls this form of inguinal hernia intra-parietale, and other French writers name it “ hernie inguino-interstitiellel’ By Sir Astley Cooper it is described under the head of mall inguinal hernia.Oni-KIUK INOIHNAL IIEUNTA. 26;> Avitli the histories of eases in which the unfortunate sufferers liavc lost their lives, from the strangulation of a very small knuckle of intestine in the neck of the sac of an incomplete external inguinal hernia having been allowed to continue unno- ticed, until it had become too late to attempt to interfere with the most remote chance of success by any operative proceeding.*f* In these, and many similar instances,:}; the rational symptoms of the disorder arc only taken into account, whilst the physical signs of it are neglected (a tumour in the region of the in- guinal canal, painful, tender under pressure, and resisting the taxis ^), and are regarded only as indications of an attack of peritonitis, or some obscure form of inflammation of the bowels; and the patients arc treated during many days in the same manner as persons who actually labour under such complaints ; —how ineffectually it must be easy for any one, who is capable of considering the subject, to conceive. j| Whilst it remains within the inguinal canal, the hernial sac is supported — accordingly as it happens to occur in a male or female subject — by the upper part of the spermatic cord, or the round ligament of the uterus, which intervene betwixt it and the floor of the canal; — anteriorly, it is covered by the skin, the superficial fascia, the intercolumnar fibres, and the tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, the lower fibres of the internal oblique, and upper part of the cremaster, underneath which are placed the several investments which it receives from f Vide Sir Astley Cooper on Hernia, 2d edit. Part I. p. 65 and p. 83. Liston’s Elements of Surgery, 2d edit. p. 586. Lawrence on Ruptures, 5th edit. p. 223 ; also, Nouveaux E16mens de Medecine Operatoire, par M. Velpeau, 2d edit. vol. iv. p. 177. + Vide the Surgical Anatomy of the Groin, p. 130. § Vide a Paper, by the Author, in the Medical Gazette of 23d Dec. 1837, p. 506, “ On the Symptoms of strangulated Intestine.” II See also Sir Astley Cooper on Hernia, 2d edit. chap. xiv. p. 65. Of small inguinal hernia. Sir Astley Cooper says, “that this tumour occurs much more commonly than is usually supposed, for I have frequently found it in the dissection of the bodies of persons who have never been suspected of labouring under the disease, nor have ever worn a truss when strangulated. These cases more commonly fall under the care of the physician than the surgeon; for, as the patient himself is not conscious of having a tumour at the groin, the symptoms of strangulation are ascribed to inflammation of the bowels, and the patient dies, as is supposed, of idiopathic peritonitis.”COMPLETE EXTERNAL OR 266 the funnel-shaped sheath of the fascia transversalis and the cellular substance of the cord (the subserous cellidar tissue) ; —posteriorly, it is separated from the great bag of the perito- naeum by the several structures that compose the posterior wall of the inguinal canal. (See the wood-engraving No. S, at p- 246, figs, i and m.) Complete external inguinal hernia.—When the hernial tu- mour emerges through the external abdominal ring, or lower aperture of the inguinal canal, it is denominated a complete in- guinal hernia or oscheocele. Under these circumstances, the outlet of the canal is more or less enlarged, and loses its natural triangular appearance. (See Plate V. figs, h and c, and also the Avood-engraving No. 6, fig. e.) After passing through the ex- ternal abdominal ring, the hernial sac descends in front of the spermatic cord until it rests just above the testis, and is noAv additionally covered by the spermatic fascia, the dartos, and the common integuments of the scrotum. (See the Avoodcut No. 6, figs./, §•, /i,and f.) EXPLANATION OF PLATE V. This plate represents the coverings of the sac of an oblique or external inguinal hernia on the left side. It also shows that the obliquity of the inguinal canal is destroyed hy the yielding of its posterior wall, under the long-continued pres- sure of the protruded viscera. It will likewise be observed, that the epigastric artery has, from the influence of the same causes, been removed from its natural course, and driven inwards as far as the outer edge of the rectus muscle, where it must almost inevitably be wounded, should the surgeon, while operating upon an individual affected with a stran- gulated inguinal hernia, in which those changes have taken place (a case by no means of unfrequent occurrence), direct the edge of his knife inwards, towards the linea alba, when enlarging the constricted neck of the sac. «. The anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. b. The inferior pillar of the external abdominal ring, somewhat displaced from its natural position, by the protrusion of the hernial sac through the inferior aperture of the inguinal canal. c. The superior pillar of the external abdominal ring. Between the letters b and c the lowermost of the inter-rondnrt, Tn.'ilor Wahnn . Lp^rr SirreZ/.OBLIQUE INGUINAL HERNIA. 2G7 columnar fibres are seen aggregated togetlier, so as to form a strong and dense fasciculus, which constricts the hernial sac opposite this point, and gives the circular form to the external abdominal ring, which is so much insisted upon by surgical writers. d. The ligament of Poupart. e. e. The aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, divided and turned back, so as to expose J\ the fleshy fibres of the lower part of the obliquus interims muscle. g. The tendinous sheath of the rectus muscle of the left side, opened and turned back. h. The rectus muscle of the left side, lifted up from its na- tural position and turned over, towards the mesial line of the body. i. The fascia transversal is, where it lines the posterior surface of the rectus muscle, above the pubes. k. The great trunk of the femoral artery. l. The femoral vein. 7w. A portion of the great bag of the peritonaeum, which, after removing the iliac portion of the fascia lata, and raising Poupart’s ligament, appeared externally, under the left crural arch. n. The great crural nerve. o. The saphena major vein, near its termination in the com- mon femoral vein. p. The sartorius muscle. q. The iliacus internes muscle. r. The adductor longus muscle. s. The gracilis muscle. t. The rectus femoris muscle. u. The tensor vaginae femoris muscle. V. Part of the glutaeus medius muscle. ui. The vastus externus muscle. y. The umbilicus. 1. The epigastric artery, near to its origin from the external iliac artery. 2. The epigastric artery, behind the outer border of the rectus muscle, into which situation it has been brought by the long-continued pressure of a large and old-standing oblique inguinal hernia. The artery would most certainly be cut were the surgeon, when enlarging the neck of the sac in the operation for the removal of the stricture, to turn the edge of his bistoury inwards, in the direction of the linea alba. The epigastric veins are observed as they accompany the artery, the course of which they follow.COMPLETE EXTERNAL OR 2G8 3. The internal circumflexa ilii artery; it springs from the ex- ternal iliac artery opposite the origin of the epigastric. 4. Tlie scrotum of the left side. 5. 5. The external spermatic fascia, cremaster muscle, and fun- nel-shaped sheath of the fascia transversalis, blended toge- ther by the pressure of the hernia, and constituting one of the principal investments of the hernial sac. 6. 6. The subserous cellular tissue, which is interposed between the sheath of the cremaster muscle and the proper hernial sac. 7. 7. The hernial sac, formed by the peritonaeum. 8. A portion of the omentum contained in the sac, and lying in front of 9. A knuckle of the small intestine. The fascia transversalis is, in tjie majority of cases of inguinal herniae, but little altered from its usual healthy condition, excepting that the internal abdominal ring (see the woodcut No. 4, at page 263, fig. o) is greatly enlarged — principally towards the mesial line — by the protrusion through it of the hernial sac. Occasionally it presents, over the situation of the neck of the sac, the appearance of a narrow, circumscribed, and unyielding band of condensed cellulo-fibrous tissue, of the thick- ness of fine packing-twine. In the operation for strangulated inguinal hernim, this co- vering is not unfrequently mistaken for the peritoneal sac, in consequence of its uniform and delicate appearance and texture. The subserous cellular tissue has been found, in several in- stances, to be a little increased in thickness, but unequally so, from the presence of a number of very small bundles of adipose substance that are deposited here and there in its texture. It frequently appears very vascular where it covers the neck of the sac. This investment of the hernial sac has been frequently mistaken in the operation for the omentum—au error whicli has, in some instances, caused the death of the patients, from the hernial sac being reduced, along with its contents, into the cavity of the abdomen, the strangulation of the bowel still re- maining unrelieved. The transversalis muscle undergoes little or no alteration in its form and appearance, by the protrusion of the hernial sac through the internal abdominal ring. In some instances, however, of large and old oblique inguinal hernioc, it is cn-OHLiaUE INGUINAL HERNIA. 269 croacliccl upon by the hernial tumour, and its lower edge becomes in consequence rather more arched than ordinary, and the conjoined tendons of the two muscles (the internal oblique and transversalis),—where they descend together to be inserted into the inner extremity of the ileo-pcctincal line of the os pubis, and form the inner part of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal,'j'—arc displaced more or less inwards, nearer to the outer edge of the rectus muscle ; so that instead of extend- ing an inch, and even more than this, from the edge of that muscle, they do not reach more than a quarter of an inch, and frequently even a less distance from it than this. In the healthy condition of these parts, the conjoined tendons consti- tute a thin and flat band of fibres; but, when an oblique inguinal hernia has existed for a considerable period, and, at the same time, forms a large protrusion, they are no longer able to resist the tendency which the weight of the contents of the hernial sac has to drag inwards that portion of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal, which is composed of the fascia transversalis and the conjoined tendons, and hence they give way, and are pushed aside in the direction of the mesial line of the body, and so change their extended form for that of a thick, naiTOw, and strong band. (See Plate V, figs. 1 and 2, and woodcut No. 5, figs, f, m.) Such of the fibres of the internal oblique muscle as take their origin from the middle portion of Poupart’s ligament are more or less displaced by the hernial sac as it descends through the inguinal canal; so that they no longer run, in an oblique direc- tion, downwards and inwards to their attachment to the os pubis, but are forced upwards by the rounded anterior surface of the sac, as it protrudes between the lower edge of the muscle and the spermatic cord, and are so made to form a thick mus- cular arch, the concavity of which embraces about two-thirds of the circumference of the tumour as it lies within the inguinal canal. The cremaster muscle is frequently found very much altered from its natural and healthy condition, particularly if the hernia should be large and of long duration. The fibres of this muscle may be enlarged to three or four times their ordinary thickness, losing, at the same time, much of their muscular character, and ‘ t Vide Plate III. fig. r, and woodcut No. 3, at page 246, figs, i, g.270 COMPLETE EXTERNAL OR becoming pale and semi-transparent. Towards the fundus or inferior extremity of the hernial sac, the fibres of the cremaster are so much displaced as to present the appearance of an irre- gular network, the meshes of which are of very unequal size and figure. (See Plate V. fig. 5, 5.) The spermatic fascia, springing from the circumference of the external abdominal ring, is, in many cases of scrotal hemise, considerably increased in its thickness and density. In some cases I have seen it twice and even three times thicker than it is naturally; nevertheless, in some cases of large scrotal hernise, this investment of the sac undergoes very little alteration, and remains very thin and delicate. The external abdominal ring is frequently distended to the magnitude of half-a-crown, but it rarely exceeds this size. At the same time the aperture loses the triangular figure which it naturally possesses. (See Plate V. figs, i, c, and the wood- engraving No. 6, fig. e.) The intercolumnar fibres, or bands, which serve to connect together the pillars of the external abdominal ring, are pushed upwards and outwards by the hernial sac as it protrudes from the inguinal canal, and are thrust together in such a manner as to form, by their close approximation to each other, a broad and very strong fillet, which limits the farther distension of the ring, and thus communicates a circular form to the aperture when distended by the protrusion through it of an hernial tu- mour. The intercolumnar fibres become, at the same time that they are displaced upwards and outwards, very much in- creased in thickness and strength ; and to this circumstance is owing that sudden constriction in the bulk of the hernial tu- mour, which, in every case of large scrotal hernia, serves to define with precision the situation of the external abdominal ring. (See Plate V. figs, i, c, and the woodcut No. 6, fig. e.) The superficial fascia presents, in the majority of instances of oblique inguinal hernise, its ordinary appearance ; being sepa- rable only into two lamellse, between which are situated the cutaneous vessels which supply the superficial coverings of the inguinal region. In other instances, again, it is very much thickened and greatly increased in density, admitting of being readily divided into three or four laminse. The external pudic artery lies over the middle of the tumour formed by the hernia.OBLIQUE INGUINAL HERNIA. 271 immediately after it lias emerged from the external abdominal ring, or lower aperture of the inguinal eanal, and hence must always be divided by the first incisions in exposing the sac of a complete bubonocele. The superficial epigastric artery usually runs a little farther towards the anterior superior spinous pro- cess of the ilium than the commencement of the neck of the sac, and, therefore, it is very rarely injured by the knife in an operation for strangulated inguinal hernia, excepting when per- formed in cases of recent incomplete bubonocele. The peritonseum, which forms the proper sac of an inguinal hernia, is seldom found altered from its healthy structure and appearance, excepting at the neck or internal aperture of the sac. In this situation the peritomeum frequently forms a sharp angular fold, the free border of Avhich projects towards the cen- tral axis of the sac. The increased action which is induced in the vessels which nourish this portion of the peritomeum, and the adjacent subserous cellular tissue, and that part of the fascia transversalis which is immediately external to it, by the excite- ment kept up by the presence of the hernial descent, and fre- quently, also, by the means employed to maintain it reduced, is followed, after the lapse of a longer or shorter period, by the deposition of new matter around the neck of the sac, which, probably, in the first instance, is closely allied in its nature and properties to coagulable lymph, but which eventually assumes the character of condensed cellulo-fibrous tissue. The neck of the peritoneal sac is also liable to become greatly thickened, from the changes which occur in it when a hernia has been maintained reduced for a considerable period, as, for example, by the appli- cation of a well-adjusted bandage or truss ; for, in such cases, the peritonseum, where it passes through the narrow aperture of the internal ring, being no longer distended by the descent of the intestine forming the hernia, falls into loose folds, which pre- sent the appearance of the mouth of a purse, the strings of which have been drawn rather closely together. These folds of the peritonmum soon cohere to each other by their opposing sur- faces, and in this manner the neck of the sac is increased in its thickness and density, in the same ratio as the diameter of the aperture is diminished. It is by the co-operation of these several causes, that, in carefully dissecting hernia) of old standing, we so regularly meet272 oF OBLIQUE INGUINAL HERNIA. ivitli a remarkable tliiekeneJ and contracted condition of the neck of the sac ; Avliich, so far from presenting its ordinary delicate structure, forms an unyielding band of a dense cellulo- fibrous or even a semi-cartilaginous nature, that very frequently becomes, independently of the surrounding muscles, the seat of the stricture in numerous cases of strangulated hernise. This deposition of new matter around the neck of the hernial sac is always followed by a diminution of the calibre of the mouth of the sac; and this circumstance may be satisfactorily explained by reference to the strong and firm structures which are situated around the circumference of the internal abdominal ring, and prevent its developement eccentrically, and, also, to the fact that there seems to exist in tissues of a similar nature and origin, an inherent tendency to contract the diameter of the circle, the limits of which they bound. That this morbid alteration of the peritonaeum forming the neck of the sac is of very frequent occurrence, my own obser- vation permits me to state ; and it is this condition of the parts which must ever prevent the attempt to relieve the stricture without opening the sac, in operations for strangulated inguinal and femoral herniae, from being very generally prac- ticable or successful. The thickened and constricted condition of the hernial sac, just now described, will occasionally be found to exist at va- rious other points of its extent, besides that portion of it which is included within the embrace of the internal abdominal ring, and, sometimes, they are situated even exterior to the lower apertures of the inguinal canal. These changes in the struc- ture and appearance of the peritoneal sac are chiefly dependent upon the farther protrusion of an old hernial sac, consequent uprtn the descent of an additional quantity of the visceral con- tents of the abdominal cavity.j* Of the changes which are produced in the course of the epigastric artery^ and in the extent of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal, by large old-stajiding external inguinal hernice.—The epigastric artery is frequently observed to be very much displaced from its customary course, by large and old-standing oblique, or external inguinal herniae. In such cases, this vessel no longer runs in an oblique course from t Vide Sir Aslley Cooper on Hernia, 2d edit. Plate figs. 1 and 3.OF ODLKiUE OR EXTERNAL INGUINAL HERNIA. 27S about the centre of tlie erural arch, up towards tlie umbilicus ; but, on the eontrary, is carried so far inwards towards tlie mesial line, that it aseends, after running along the posterior surftice of the pubie portion of Poupart’s ligament, behind the outer edge of the lower part of the reetus muscle; and thus the obli(j[uity of the inguinal canal is destroyed, and an instance is afforded of the external or oblique inguinal hernia becoming apparently direct (but not internal) by the obliteration of its posterior wall; a circumstance which, if overlooked, might lead a surgeon into considerable difficulty, were he,—mistaking the true nature of the case, and regarding it as one in which the hernia is protruded through the posterior wall of the inguinal canal, on the inner side of the epigastric artery—in an operation for a strangulated inguinal hernia, Avhcrc this change in the relative position of the external and internal rings had been effected, to direct (as is taught to be done by some authorities in cases of direct internal hernia), Avhile enlarging the stricture existing at the neck or internal orifice of the sac, the cutting edge of the knife towards the linea alba.*|* Py referring to Plate IV. fig. 3, or to the Avoodcut No. 4, at page 203, fig. tr, and comparing them Avith the Avood-engraving at page 274, the alteration Avhich is produced in the course of this vessel, by the continued pressure against it of an old and large external inguinal hernia, Avill be at once easily compre- hended. The transposition of the epigastric artery from its natural course, and the corresponding alteration in the situation of the internal abdominal ring, are subjects of considerable interest to the practical surgeon, since it greatly tends to render the esta- blishment of an accurate diagnosis betAveen external oblique in- guinal hernim of long standing and direct or internal inguinal hernim, previous to the operation, extremely difficult, and, in- deed, in very many cases, totally impossible. t For a case in wliicli this accident occurred, and where the patient very narrowly escaped losing his life from the hemorrhage which ensued upon the division of the stricture inwards towards the linea alba, See Sir Astley Cooper’s work on Hernia, 2d edit. Part i. pages 09 and 79. Vide also Scarpa on Hernia, translated by V\ ishurt, p. 125. T'The wood-engraving represents the cliange of position to vvliich the epigas- tric artery is subject, in the greater number of instances of large and old- standing external or oblique inguinal hernia. The posterior wall of the inguinal canal is almost completely obliterated by the constant pressure which is exercised upon the several structures, of which it is composed, by the contents of the hernial sac ; from the same cause the internal abdominal ring has been dragged inwards, until at length it is situated immediately behind the external aperture, or outlet of the canal. a. The inner surface of the crest of the ilium, a little distance beyond the anterior superior spinous process of the same bone. b. The spinous process or tuberosity of the os pubis, c. The posterior surface of Poupart’s liga- ment. d. The inner surface of the lower portion of the rectus muscle of tlie left side, where its tendinous sheath is deficient, c. The inner surface of the transversalis muscle; the letter is placed where the fleshy fibres of the muscle terminate in its tendon, f. A part of the posterior division of the tendinous sheath of the rectus muscle, which terminates by a free border about midway between the umbilicus and the symphysis pubis, g. The symphysis pubis, h. The cut surface of the iliacus and psoas muscles, which275 OF THE El'IGASTlUC ARTERY. are covered by the fascia iliaca. i. The internal abdominal ring displaced from its natural situation by the continual weight of the hernia, and dragged downwards and inwards, as far as the outer edge of the rectus muscle, in such a manner as to destroy the obliquity of the inguinal canal, by the gradual obliteration of its posterior wall. k. The trunk of the external iliac artery. /. The external iliac vein. These vessels lie upon the fascia iliaca, which separates them from the fibres of the psoas muscle, m. The epigastric artery displaced inwards from its usual course by the continual pressure exercised against it by an old and large external inguinal hernia. This vessel is ob- served to make a considerable bend in its course instead of at once mount- ing, in an oblique direction, towards the umbilicus; and, after running along the posterior surface of the pubic division of Poupart’s ligament, to ascend along the outer edge of the rectus muscle, in order to reach its ultimate destination, n. The posterior surface of Gimbernat’s ligament, a part of the crural arch. o. The vas deferens, cut across as it is descending into the pelvis, in its course from the inguinal canal to the side of the bladder. Of the changes which are sometimes observed in the situa- tion of the vessels of the spermatic cord, in large and old scrotal hernice.—It has been already mentioned tliat the sper- matic cord commonly lies behind the hernial sac, in cases of oblique or external inguinal hernise a statement which will, on examination, be found to apply strictly only to the majority of instances of this form of the disorder, and more especially so, when they are as yet small, and of recent formation ; but it should be known, also, that some important deviations from this general rule arc not unfrcquently met with in the dissection of large and old scrotal hernia). In such cases, the component structures of the spermatic cord are oftentimes much loosened from the inti- mate connections which they naturally have with each other ; and, instead of lying, as is usual, in close apposition with each other, at the back part of the hernial sac, are found widely separated from one another for a considerable distance, and in such a manner as to be situated rather upon the sides, or even in front of the swelling. The displacement and separation from each other of the vessels of the spermatic cord now de- scribed, are commonly most marked towards the lower part or fundus of the hernial sac, and diminish in the vicinity of the external abdominal ring, while within the inguinal canal the t Vide the description of complete external inguinal hernia, at p. 266. T 2CHANCES IN THE COURSE 27() wliolc of tlic cord is almost invariably found lying behind the sac.-j* d'liis decomposition and separation of the vessels which com- pose the spermatic cord have been particularly investigated by Scarpa, who has shown in a very clear and satisfactory manner, that they are dependent upon the forcible distension of the common cellular sheath of the cord produced by the increased size of the hernial tumour. J Mr. Hey, of Leeds, has related the history of a case, in which he unexpectedly divided the vas deferens, while laying bare the sac of a large strangulated scrotal hernia ; and it is well known that the same accident has several times happened in the practice of other surgeons.^ For this reason, among others, it is always advisable in the operation for strangulated scrotal hernia, more especially when the rupture is large and of long standing, not to extend the in- cisions quite to the lower part of the tumour ; since, if any variety in the course of the spermatic vessels should exist, it is t That even a small liernial sac may, however, sometimes insinuate itself between the component parts of the spermatic cord, and cause their separation from one another, is shown by the history of the following case which occur- red in the practice of Sir Astley Cooper:—“ I was desired to see a boy, a patient of Mr. Clarke, surgeon in the Borough, who had a tumour which extended from the upper part of the scrotum, through the abdominal ring- along the cord to the abdomen. The lad’s father was anxious for the re- moval of the disease, but on examination it did not project sufficiently to enable me to judge whether there was either fluctuation or transparency. However, as it interfered with the boy’s usual occupation, I resolved to cut down upon it with extreme caution. When I had reached by incision the surface of the cyst I found the spermatic vessels running upon it, and was obliged to open the cyst by its side to avoid these vessels. The cyst con- tained a portion of the small intestine, everywhere adhering to its inner surface, which had prevented the return of the bowel into the abdomen. The vas deferens could be discovered behind the sac, so that there was a hernia, the sac of which had insinuated itself between the spermatic blood- vessels and the vas deferens.”— Vide Sir Astley Cooper on Hernia ; 2d edit. Parti, p. 16. J Vide Scarpa on Hernia, translated by Wishart, p. 70. § Vide Practical Observations in Surgery by Mr. Hey, 2d edit. p. 140. Sir Astley Cooper on Hernia, 2d edit. Part I, p. 15. Nouveaux Elemens de MddecineOperatoire, par M. A. L. M. Velpeau, 2d edit. tom. iv. p. 209. Lawrence on Ruptures, 5th edit. p. 214.OK THE SI’EUMATir VKSSKT.S. 277 most likely to be met witli, ns lias been already ex])lained, to- wards tlie fmidns of tlie sac. No. 6. The wood-engraving represents, by a very clear and distinct view, the separation and displacement of the vessels of the spermatic cord, whicii frequently occur in large and old scrotal hernite. The cremaster muscle and the other more superficial investments of tlie hernial sac have been dis- sected, and turned aside, so as to display more exactly the sac itself, and the relative position which it bears to the testicle and vessels of the sper- matic cord. The drawing also serves to show the circular form which is assumed by the lower aperture of the inguinal canal, or external abdominal ring, when distended by the protrusion through it of the sac of a complete external inguinal hernia. «. That part of the ligament of Poupart, which forms the lower and outer pillar of the external abdominal ring. b. The superior and internal pillar of the ring. c. Part of the tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, covering the rectus muscle, d. The linea alba, e. The strong andCONGENITAL INGUINAL HERNIA. 278 (iense band whicli is formed by the lowermost of the fibres of the interco- lumnar fascia being more closely aggregated together by the pressure of the sac of a large scrotal hernia. It constricts tlie hernial sac in this situation. /. The hernial sac, formed of the peritonseum, distended with air. g. The spermatic vessels separated from the vas deferens (A), and displaced to the outer side of the tumour, where they are situated not very far from its front surface, h. The vas deferens separated from the spermatic artery and vein, and forced to the inner side of the hernial tumour, i. The body of the testicle which, in the common form of scrotal rupture, lies underneath the fundus of the hernial sac. k. k. The skin and superficial fascia laid open and thrown aside. 1. 1. The cremaster muscle dissected from the front of the hernial tumour, and reflected to either side. m. The femoral vein. n. The common femoral artery, o. p. The abdominal parietes of the inguinal region of the right side laid open, and turned down upon the upper part of the thigh, q. The urinary bladder, partially covered superiorly by the peritonaeum. 1. The trunk of the external iliac artery just below the crural arch. 2. The epigastric artery. 3. The internal circumflexa ilii artery. Section II. OF THE VARIETIES OF OBLIQUE OR EXTERNAL INGUINAL HERNIA. I. OF CONGENITAL HERNIA. CASE IN WHICH THE HER- NIA DESCENDS INTO THE CAVITY OF THE TUNICA VA- GINALIS TESTIS. In the most common form of external or oblique inguinal hernia, the sac which contains the protruded intestines is a morbid production from the peritoiueum lining the general cavity of the abdomen, and is usually situated in front of the spennatic cord; its fundus lying above, and being distinctly separated from the body of the testicle and its serous invest- ment, the tunica vaginalis (see the woodcut No. 6, fig. jT, ^) ; but, in the congenital form of inguinal hernia the viscera, which are the subject of the disorder, descend into the natural cavitv of the tunica vaginalis testis, the communication of which with the great bag of the peritoneum has never been obliterated ; and, consequently, are permitted to come into close contact with the body of the testicle, to which they are sometimes ad- herent.CONCENITAI, INGUINAL IIEUNIA. 279 The appellation of congenital hernia was first given to this form of the complaint by Haller; who believed that it could not happen, except at or near the time of the birth of the indi- vidual, who became the subject of the affection ; and previously to the usual period at which the process, by which the oblite- ration of the connection which originally exists between the cavity of the tunica vaginalis and that of the abdomen is ordi- narily commenced.j- This opinion of Haller has, however, been clearly proved, by later observers, not to be of such strict and universal application as he was inclined to consider it, and many examples arc now satisfactorily established, in which this variety of external or oblique inguinal hernia could not have been formed until many years had elapsed since the birth of the patients; and even in some instances, indeed, not until the middle period of life had been arrived at.J There arc sufficient grounds, however, for the belief that the majority of cases of inguinal herniae which happen during early infancy, are likely to prove of the nature of congenital hernia; and, indeed, it is pos- sible, also, that a congenital external inguinal hernia may occa- sionally be formed in the female subject, when the canal of N uck remains unobliterated. It will be recollected that in the foetus the testes are at first situated within the cavity of the abdomen, in front of the psoas muscles, and at a short distance below the kidneys ; and, also, that here they lie behind the peritonseum, which firmly adheres f In sixteen out of seventeen newly born children, who were examined by Camper, the tunica vaginalis was not obliterated, as is usual, at its upper part, but its cavity remained continuous with the greater bag of the perito- nteum. Ilesselbach has seen the processus vaginalis peritonsei remaining open on both sides in the body of a man, aged thirty-eight years; but in whom no protrusion of the abdominal viscera had taken place.— Vide also Recherches sur les Ilemies, par M. J. Cloquet, pages 40, 41, and Plate iv. of the same work. I M. Velpeau has seen the congenital form of inguinal hernia occur for the first time in the persons of three young men, all of whom were above twenty years of age, and in whom tlie testes liad descended at the ordinary period. The operation for strangulated hernia was performed by him in two of these instances: — one was cured, but the otlier died from an attack of peritonitis.— Fit/e Nouveaux El^'mens de Medecine Operatoire, par Alf. A. L. M. Velpeau, 2d edit. tom. iv. pages 182 and 183.—For similar cases see Lawrence on Ruptures, 2d edit, pages 284 and 574.rONGENITAI, INGUINAL TIKIINIA. 280 to their anterior and lateral surhices, leaving the ]iosterior aspect of tlicse glands ivliolly uncovered, except by the loose cellular tissue, through which the spermatic vessels run, in their way to reach their final distribution.*f* I^'roni this situation the testes slowly descend, passing through the inguinal canal, into the bottom of the scrotum, where they usually arrive about the eighth month ; in this descent they bring along with them the same partial covering from the peritonamm which they had when situated just below the kidneys ; which, with the production from the peritoncuum already formed in the scrotum for their reception, constitutes the tunica vaginalis testis.j; '.riie formation of a congenital hernia would seem to be greatly promoted by the testicle not descending at the usual period, as in this case the communication between the cavity of the abdomen and the tunica vaginalis,—which always exists pre- viously to the passage of the testis through the inguinal canal, —remains much longer open than ordinarily, and so a greater opportunity is constantly afforded for the escape of some portion of the intestines into it. It is by no means an unfrequent occurrence, to find in the dissection of congenital hernim that the descent of the testicle has been but very imperfectly effected, the gland remaining fixed, either within the inguinal canal, or, even still higher up, in the iliac fossa ; and, under these circumstances, it will, also, generally be found that the developement of the organ is so in- complete, that reasonable doubts may be fairly entertained of its capability to execute its peculiar functions. In other instances, again, a congenital hernia is produced by some portion of the intestines becoming adherent to the front surface of the body of the testicle, as it lies within the cavity of the abdomen, previously to its passage through the inguinal canal, and, in consequence of this unnatural connection, being dragged down along with the gland throughout its descent into the scrotum.^ It must not, however, be understood, from t Vide a description of tlie situation of tlie testis in the foetus, with its descent into the scrotum, by John Hunter, Plate . fig. r. I Op. Cit. Plate III, fig. u and v. § Vide Nouveaux Elemens de Medecine Op4ratoire, 2d edit. tom. iv. p. 184.— Lawrence on Ruptures, 5th edit, pages 567 and 568.— Pott’s works, new edit. 1779, vol. ii. p. 162.rONOKNTTAl, lyctri^TAl. irilUXIA. 281 what lias just been said, that all the adhesions which arc so commonly observed between the portion of bowel which is pro- truded, and the body of the testicle, in eases of conorcnital her- nia, have taken place prior to the descent of the testes into the scrotum, for they arc frcijuently formed very long after this change in their position has been completed. No. 7. Tlie wood-engraving represents the manner in which tlie prolapsed intes- tine, in a congenital hernia, is contained within the cavity of the tunica vaginalis testis. A comparison of this drawing with those represented in Plate V. at p. 266, and in the wood-engraving No. 6, at p. 277, will clearly demonstrate the ciiaracteristic differences which distinguisli the common scrotal rupture from the congenital form of inguinal hernia. a. The body of the left testicle, covered in front and upon its sides by the tunica vaginalis testis. b,b. The tunica vaginalis testis, which is a process from the great bag of the peritonaeum, and, remaining open at its upper ex- tremity, forms the sac in a congenital inguinal hernia, c. The intercolumnar fibres which bind together the pillars of the external abdominal ring. d. TheCONGENITAL INGUINAL HERNIA. 282 superior or internal pillar of the ring. e. The inferior or external pillar of the ring. f.f. The superficial coverings of tlie hernial sac in the scrotum. g. A fold of small intestine whicli, in the congenital inguinal hernia, descends into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis testis, where it frequently lies in appo- sition with, or is adherent to, the body of the testicle. Tlic superficial coverings of tlie sac of a congenital hernia arc of the same nature as those of the ordinary scrotal hernia (see page 262), from Avhieh it only differs in the circumstance of the hernial sac not being formed, as in the latter case, by a morbid protrusion of a portion of the great bag of the peritonaeum, but is constituted by the natural cavity of the tunica vaginalis testis, the superior extremity of which has never been closed. They consist of the skin, the superficial fascia and dartos, the external spermatic fascia, the cremaster muscle, and the funnel- shaped processes of the fascia transversalis and subserous cellular tissue {i\\Q fascia j^rojjria); within these structures is found the tunica vaginalis testis distended by the hernia. In consequence, no doubt, of the constant disposition with which the processus vaginalis peritonsei is naturally endow'cd, of contracting itself towards its superior extremity, the seat of the stricture in those cases of strangulated congenital hemim which have either been examined by dissection, or in which the opera- tion has been performed, has very commonly been found in the neck of the sac, and in the immediate vicinity of the internal ab- dominal ring. It has, also, been remarked, when strangulation of the contents of the sac of a congenital hernia does occur, that the stricture upon the bowel is much more close than usually happens in the other forms of oblique or external inguinal hernia. In cases of congenital hernia there is no such distinct line of demarcation or furrow observable between the fundus of the hernial sac and the upper part of the testicle, as is noticed in the ordinary form of scrotal hernia. When the canal of Nuck still exists in the adult female it is quite possible that a hernia might be formed, which would bear the same relation to the round ligament of the uterus as the congenital hernia does to the spermatic cord in the male ; but, the distinction of this from the common form of inguinal her- nia of females can be of no practical importance, and, therefore, need not be insisted on.OF KNCVSTEl) OR INFANTILE HERNIA. Section III. TI. HERNIA INFANTILIS. ENCYSTED HERNIA OF THE TUNICA VAGINALIS. CASE IN WHICH THE HERNIAL SAC IS PROTRUDED INTO THE SHEATH OF THE SPER- MATIC CORD, REHIND THE TUNICA VAGINALIS TESTIS. In this variety of the external or oblique form of inguinal hernia, the sae is protruded into the cellular sheath of the sper- matic cord, and descends behind the tunica vaginalis of the tes- ticle, instead of passing in front of it, as is the case in the com- mon kind of scrotal hernia. In this manner the hernial tumour projects forwards against the upper part of the tunica vaginalis, the posterior layer of which invests, more or less completely, the lower and anterior surface of the sac, from which it is only separated by some loose cellular tissue. This affection is most likely to occur when only the abdominal aperture of the pro- cessus vaginalis peritonsei has been closed, and Avhen, from some cause or other, the obliteration of that portion of it which lies within the ingninal canal, in front of the spermatic cord, and between the external abdominal ring and the upper extremity of the testicle, has not been so effectually completed as is ordi- narily the case. The wood-engraving represents, by a side view, the condition of the parts as they have been found upon dissection in cases of infantile hernia. The cavity of the tunica vaginalis of the left side has been laid open, and the hernial sac, with its contents, is seen as it projects behind the posterior layer of that membrane. a. Tlie body of the testicle, which is covered anteriorly and laterally by the tunica vaginalis testis, h. b. b. The tunica vaginalis, the cavity of which is much more extensive than is ordinarily the case ;—a free incision has been made into it, so as to show more clearly the relative position of the hernial sac and testicle to one another; and, also, the mode in which the posterior layer of it is projected forwards by the hernial tumour, which is situated immediately behind it. c. A portion of the cellular substance, which sepa- rates the hernial sac (d) from the posterior layer of the tunica vaginalis (*). d. The proper hernial sac, which is a fresh production from the great bag of the peritoneum, e. A knuckle of small intestine, contained within the hernial sac. ./. The intercolumnar fibres which bind togetlrer the pillars of the ex-KXf'YRTED TIKIJNIA OF No. 8. ternal abdominal ring. g. The superior and inner pillar of the ring. Ii. The inferior and external pillar of the ring. i. i. The superficial investments of the hernia, where it lies in the scrotum. The late Mr. Hey, of Leeds, was the first to describe this species of inguinal hernia, which he proposed to distinguish by the term hernia infantilis, as he considered that it was not likely to be formed at any other time than that of early in- fancy. It was his opinion, that the intestine, in all such cases, is protruded soon after the aperture by which the tunica vagina- lis originally communicates with the abdominal cavity has been closed, and, therefore, that the peritonaeum is carried down along with the intestine, and forms the hernial sac. He be- lieved, also, that the hernia must be produced while the origi- nal tunica vaginalis remains in the form of a baff as hisfh as the abdominal ring, and is thus able to receive the hernial sac withTHE TUNICA VAGINALIS. 285 its included intestine, and so allow it to come into contact with the testicle. Mr. Todd, who has recorded two instances in which he had an opportunity of dissecting large herniee of this description, differs from Mr. Hey in his opinions as to its natm-e, and considers that it is by no means peculiar to infancy ; but, on the contrary, that it may be formed at any period of life,:]; and, also, that it does occur more frequently than surgeons are aware of. His idea of this species of rupture is, that in it the hernial sac is protruded completely within the cellular sheath of the cord ; and, that Avhen it descends near to the point of insertion of the spermatic vessels into the testicle, its fundus comes in contact with the upper part of the tunica vaginalis testis, and receives from it, on its lower surhice, a serous covering proportioned to the magni- tude of the tumour, or the degree of distension of the sac. Mr. Liston, whose views of the nature of this disorder accord with those entertained by Mr. Todd, operated upon a patient admit- ted under bis care into the hospital of University College some years since, for an inguinal hernia of this kind, the contents of which had become strangulated, and could not be reduced by the taxis. This man did not become the subject of rupture until he had attained the twenty-first year of his age.^ 'I’he coverings of the hernial sac in this species of rupture are of the same kind as those which arc met with in the com- mon scrotal hernia, Avith the exception, however, that the upper part of the tunica vaginalis is interposed in front of the tumour, underneath the fascia propria, and hitherto has always been opened by the knife of the surgeon in those instances in which the operation has been performed. || f yide Practical Observations in Surgery, by W. Iley, F.R.S. Second Edition, 8vo. London, 1810, p. 226. t I'ide Observations on IJernTa, by Charles H. Todd, in tlie Dublin Hos- pital Reports, vol. i. p. 237. Mr. Todd relates the case of a man affected with a scrotal hernia of this nature, in which the disease did not occur until the thirty-seventh year of his age. ^ Vide A Clinical Lecture on Hernia, by Mr. Liston, in the Lancet of March 21, 1835, page 885. Also Mr. Liston’s Operative Surgery. Second Edition, p. 468. II Upon this subject see Mr. Liston’s 0[)erative Surgery. Second Edi- tion, p. 468, and Sir Astley Cooper on Hernia. Second Edition. Part I. page 79—83.OF INTERNAL OR DIRECT 28 G Section IV, OF INTERNAL OR DIRECT INGUINAL HERNIA. VENTRO- INGUINAL HERNIA. In this form of inguinal hernia the sac is protruded directly through some part of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal, and upon the inner or pubal side of the epigastric artery. (Sec the wood engraving, No. 9, at p. 287, fig- r. p.) It has already been explained that the peritonaeum naturally presents, in the triangular space included between the epigastric artery and the outer edge of the rectus muscle, two deep depres- sions, or fossae,"I* which are separated from one another by the umbilical ligament, and that a direct or internal inguinal hernia may be protruded through the posterior wall of the inguinal canal at either of these points. In most persons the conjoined tendons of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles do not extend farther outwards from the margin of the rectus muscle than the umbilical ligament, so that the portion of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal, which is situated opposite the middle fossa of the peritonmum, consists only of the fascia transversalis; if, then, an internal in- guinal hernia should commence here,—as is not unfrequently the case,— it will force before it the peritonseum, the subscrous cellular tissue, and the fascia transversalis, and, after emenrimr through the external abdominal ring, will receive additional in- vestments from the external spermatic fascia, the superficial fascia, and skin. On the other hand, if the hernia commence its descent by being protruded through the third or most internal of the in- guinal pouches or fossae of the peritonaeum, the sac—besides being covered by the subserous cellular tissue and the fascia trans- vcrsalis, as in the foregoing instance—must either break through the conjoined tendons of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, or it must gradually distend them before it, and so derive an investment from them. In the latter ease the hernial t Vide the dissection of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal, at p. 258.287 INGUIXAL IIKIINIA. sac will be covered by the skin, the superficial fascia, tlic ex- ternal spermatic or intcrcolumnar fascia, the conjoined tendons of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, the fascia trans- vcrsalis, and the subscrous cellular tissue : but, in the former, there will be no covering to the sac from tlie conjoined tendons, whilst the other investments of it remain the same. No. 9. The wood-engraving represents a view, from within, of the neck of the sac of a direct or internal inguinal hernia. It will be observed, that the epigastric artery is situated upon the outer or iliac side of the opening in tlie posterior wall of the inguinal canal by which the hernia protruded. a. The cut edge of the symphysis pubis, h. b. The ilium sawn across at a little distance from the sacro-iliac symphysis, c. The situation of the ante- rior superior spinous process of the ilium, d. The spinous process, or tuberosity of the os pubis, e. The posterior surface of the ligament of288 INTERNAL OK DIRECT INGUINAL HERNIA. Poupart, where the fasciae iliaca and transversalis unite with each other. f. Ginibernal’s ligament, whicli is implanted into the inner part of the ilio- pectineal line of the os pubis, g. The inner surface of the transversalis muscle, partially concealed from view by the fascia transversalis. h. A part of die tendon of the transversalis muscle, which forms the posterior division of the sheath of the rectus muscle, i. The fascia iliaca, which binds down the iliacus internus and psoas muscles, k. The fascia pelvica which is continuous along the brim of the pelvis with the fascia iliaca. 1. The internal surface of the lower part of the rectus muscle, where the posterior lamina of its tendinous sheath is deficient, m. The internal abdominal ring, or upper aperture of the inguinal canal, by which an external or oblique inguinal hernia commences to protrude (see the wood-engraving No. 4, at page 263, fig. o). n. The trunk of the external iliac artery, o. The exter- nal iliac vein. p. The epigastric artery, which runs along the outer or iliac side of the neck of the sac of an internal or direct inguinal hernia, q. The vas deferens, cut across as it is descending from the inguinal canal towards the side of the bladder, r. The internal orifice or mouth of the sac of an internal or direct inguinal hernia, s. The line which leads downwards from this letter, marks the proper direction to be given to the incision of the neck of the sac in the operation for a strangulated internal inguinal hernia. The name of Internal inguinal hernia has been given to this form of rupture by Hcsselbach, with the view of indicating the situation which is held by the internal orifice of the hernial sac relatively to the course of the epigastric artery ; which vessel, as is seen in the wood-engraving, runs along its outer or iliac side. By Sir Astley Cooper this affection is named Direct in- guinal hernia, because, instead of following the same oblique course as the external form of the complaint, it passes at once through the posterior wall of the inguinal canal, immediately behind the external abdominal ring.^ Professor Scarpa consi- ders that it should be regarded as a combination of the venlral and inguinal forms of hernia ; for it approximates itself to the nature of the first, inasmuch as the hernial sac is protruded through the conjoined tendons of the internal oblique and trans- vcrsalis muscles, opposite the external abdominal ring; and, on the other hand, resembles the more common form of inguinal hernia, in passing in the same manner through the external ab- dominal ring, along with the spermatic cord.j] Incomplete internal or direct inguinal hernia.— It some- times hajipcns that the hernial sac of an internal or direct in- t I'idc 8ir AsUcy Coo[)er on llornia, 2d edit. Pan i. p. 67. 1 I'ulc Scaij)a on Hernia, Iranslalod by VVisliart, 8vo. p. 82.INCOMPLETE INTERNAL OR DIRECT RlIBONOCELE. 28.*) guinal hernia, instead of protruding at once through the exter- nal abdominal ring, passes into the inguinal canal, where it is closely bound down and compressed by the firm aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle. In this situation the tumour, formed by the hernia, is often exceedingly indistinct externally, especially in corpulent subjects ; and is not likely to be recog- nized, unless a very minute and careful examination be made of the lower part of the abdominal parietes. Under these circumstances, the existence of a strangulated hernia of this kind has been, on numerous occasions, over- looked ; most frequently, however, in females, whose natural modesty induces them to conceal from their medical attendants their knowledge of the fact of there being any swelling or tender- ness in the neighbourhood of the groin. So frequently, indeed, has the strangulation of a small knuckle of intestine in this situa- tion passed unnoticed, or only been detected when it had become too late to prevent a fatal termination to the disorder, that it is an established rule of practice with all experienced surgeons, never to undertake the treatment of any case in which there are present any of the rational symptoms which are common to a strangulated hernia, and the several varieties of abdominal inflammation—such as vomiting, constipation, pain and tender- ness of the belly, &c.—except they are permitted to institute a strict manual examination of all those regions in which hernim are most likely to occur, j- Situation of the spermatic cord.—In most instances of direct or internal inguinal hernia the spermatic cord is situated along the external and posterior side of the sac, instead of being placed directly behind it, as is the case in the external or oblique form of inguinal hernia. A very remarkable exception, however, to this rule was ob- served by the late Mr. Todd, of Dublin ; in which he found, upon making a dissection of the parts, the spermatic cord ex- tended, in an undivided state, across in front of the upper part of the sac to its pubal side, and then descending on that side to the posterior surface of the sac where the testicle was situated. In this case the hernia, in place of passing anterior to the cord, t For cases where strangulated hernice of this kind passed unnoticed until after the death of the patient, see Sir Astley Cooper on Hernia, 2d edit. Part I. p. 73.—Lawrence on Hernia, 5lh edit. p. 228. uINCOMPLETE INTERNAL 290 liad protruded between it and the inferior pillar of the ring, in such a manner that the cord formed a sort of arch, embracing the neck of the sac for nearly two-thirds of its circumference, close to the external abdominal ring.-|* It has been very generally stated by surgical writers, that, inasmuch as the sac of a direct or internal inguinal hernia does not follow, in its descent through the inguinal canal, the same course as the spermatic cord, it is not covered by any of the fibres of the cremaster muscle. This statement, however, is not invariably connect, for in several examples of this species of rup- ture, which have been met wdth in the dissecting rooms of University College during the last four winters, it was noticed that the hernial sac derived a partial investment from the cre- master muscle. J That direct or internal inguinal hernia are of much less frequent occurrence than the oblique or external form of rup- ture, has been remarked by all those who have attentively examined the subject; and, if we adopt the opinion of M. Jules Cloquet, their comparative frequency may be estimated as I to 5. There is no doubt, also, that direct inguinal hernia is much less frequently met with among women than men; indeed. Sir Astley Cooper mentions that he has never witnessed any example of it in a female.^ Professor Cooper, however, once attended a patient, a female, who was the subject of a hernia of this de- scription, the contents of which had been strangulated for three or four days previously: under these circumstances he performed the operation at once, without trying any other means but the taxis, and, in a very short time, the woman perfectly recovered. |j This rarity of the occurrence of direct or internal inguinal hernia amongst females is, in a great measure, attributable to the small size of the external abdominal ring, and to the very limited t Vide Observations on Hernia, by Charles II. Todd, in the Dublin Hos- pital Reports and Communications, vol. i. p. 231. I Similar cases have been obsei-ved by M. Jules Cloquet (Recherches Ana- tomiques sur les Hernies de I’Abdomen, p.83. Proposition xxxviii.), and by Mr.Todd (Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. i. pp. 230-31). § Sir Astley Cooper on Hernia, 2d edit. Part I. p. 73. II Vide The First Lines of the Theory and Practice of Surgery, by Samuel Cooper, 7th edit. p. 560.291 OR DIRECT BUBONOCELE. dimensions of the inguinal canal in them, as well as to the greater degree of resistance which the several structures com- posing its posterior wall are capable of affording to the protrusion of the abdominal viscera at any other point than the internal abdominal ring; while, on the other hand, the large size of the crural ring, and the greater laxity of the parts connected with it, necessarily predispose them to become rather the subjects of femoral hernia. From the observations which have been made by Sir Astley Cooper, it would appear that a direct or internal inguinal hernia is very frequently occasioned in men by the inordinate muscular efforts Avhich are requisite to effeet the expulsion of the contents of the urinary bladder, in consequenee of old and tight strictures of the urethra. *[• The epigastric artery has been observed, in one case, the dissection of which was made by Hesselbach, to run along the inner or pubal side of the neck of the sac of a direct inguinal hernia, instead of taking its usual course along its external or iliae edge. In the subject, a female, in whom this variety in the eourse of the epigastrie artery was noticed, the vessel took its origin from the obturator artery, in place of arising, as is usual, from the trunk of the external iliac artery; and ascended, in a perpendicular direction, upon the inner surface of the abdo- minal parietes. In such a position the epigastric artery could hardly escape from being wounded, should the operation be performed, and the stricture divided, as has been advised by many, inwards, in the direction of the linea alba. Since the investments of the sac of an internal or direct in- guinal hernia are, in general, rather thinner than those which cover an external or oblique inguinal hernia, a greater degree of caution is required to be observed by the surgeon during the operation, lest the contents of the sac should be exposed unawares, and injured by the edge of his knife. t FiJe Sir Astley Cooper on Hernia, 2d edit. Part II. p. 67, and plate x. of the same work.INGUnvTAT- lIERNI.t: CONTAINING THE C.ECUM, oqo Section V. Inguinal hernia’, containing the cacum, the sigmoid Jlexure of the colon, or the urinary bladder. — An inguinal hernia is sometimes formed by the gradual deseent of the more fixed por- tions of the large intestine; as, for example, on the right side, of the emeum, and, on the left side, of the sigmoid flexure of the colon. The urinary bladder has, also, been observed to descend through the inguinal canal into the scrotum.f These cases are, however, comparatively of rare occurrence. In these instances the protruded viscus is only partially covered by a peritonmal sac, usually upon its anterior aspect, but now and then only upon one side, generally the inner one ; for, in descending from its natural situation, the bowel does not lose the relations which it previously held with the serous membrane, which lines the cavity of the abdomen. These changes are permitted to take place by the lax and extensible property of the cellular substance which is so abundant in the iliac fossse, and it is owing to the same cause that their progress is so very gradual. Hernias of this kind do not admit of being replaced so readily as the more frequent forms of inguinal ruptures, and much caution is required, when they are the subject of strangu- lation, in the performance of the operation, lest the intestine should be laid open by the surgeon, who is apt to proceed too carelessly in the dissection of the parts as they present themselves under his knife, thinking himself secure because he has not arrived at a sac, which in reality does not exist. It has just now been stated, that a partial investment from the peritonaeum usually covers these herniae upon their anterior and inner aspects; but it sometimes happens that there is no peritonaeal sac at all; as when only the lower and posterior part of the caecum forms the protrusion, and in some exam- ples of herniae of the bladder. Ilerniae of this nature are sometimes complicated by the t Mr. Pott removed a calculus from the bladder of a boy, the subject of this disorder, by cutting into it as it lay in the groin. Pott’s Chir. Works, vol. iii. pp. 322—328.THE SIGMOID FLEXURE OF THE COLON, ETC. 293 presence of a portion of omentum, or of the small intestine, which renders the case still more difficult. ^Vhen it is necessary to operate in order to relieve a ru])turc of this kind from strangulation, the surgeon must content himself with cutting down upon the seat of the stricture, and having enlarged this, he is, in many instances, obliged to leave the bowel where he finds it; from whence, however, it is some- times withdi-awn by slow degrees' into the belly again by the simple efforts of nature.294 CHAPTER IV. OF THE DIAGNOSIS OF INGUINAL HERNI/E FROM SOME OF THE DISEASES WITH WHICH THEY ARE LIKELY TO BE CONFOUNDED. The diseases with which inguinal hernise are most liable to be confounded, are hydrocele, either of the tunica vaginalis, or of the spermatic cord; luematocele; varicocele; chronic abscess, having its seat in the iliac fossa; enlargement of the testicle from various causes; a suppurating inguinal gland ; and steato- matous growths upon the spennatic cord within the inguinal canal. In the female, a femoral hernia is occasionally mistaken for a rupture of the inguinal species. Hydrocele.—It occasionally occurs in practice that consider- able difficulty is experienced, even by very distinguished sur- geons, in determining the nature of the tumour of a hydro- cele ; for, when the collection of fluid in the tunica vaginalis is so large as to extend for some way upwards into the inguinal canal, the swelling may have the same form as a scrotal hernia, and, like it, may be very tense and elastic, and receive an im- pulse whenever the patient is made to cough. If the contents of such an hydrocele should be opaque, then an additional source of doubt is created, and the difficulty of coming to a decisive conclusion greatly increased. But the sense of fluctuation which may generally be per- ceived on handling the tumour, its transparency when examined in the usual way with a lighted candle in a darkened room, its light weight as compared with that of a hernia, and the history of its progress, which shows that its first commencement was below, and that it gradually increased in size upwards,—-joined with the possibility of feeling a portion of the spermatic cord free, betwixt the summit of the swelling and the abdominal rings,—are signs which, when taken collectively, are quite suffi- cient, at least in the cases of hydrocele which are ordinarily metDIAGNOSIS OF INGUINAL UERNl.E. 295 gery, 7th edit. p. 596. with, to serve as the basis upon whicli a correct diagnosis may be safely established. When a hydrocele is combined with a hernia, the former is most commonly situated in front of and below the latter. By a careless observer a congenital hydrocele, which is most likely to be met with in children, may be mistaken for an in- guinal hernia, as the swelling can be easily made to disajipcar into the abdomen by pressure, but returns again whenever the patient coughs, or assumes the erect position ; but its trans- parency and fluctuation clearly denote its true nature. The diagnosis, however, of some cases of congenital hernia, where the intestine is adherent to and strangulated by the neck of the sac, may be rendered extremely difficult and obscure, on account of the presence of a large quantity of flnid in the lower part of the sac, which distends it and gives to it all the characters of a hydrocele.-j- Hydrocele of the spermatic cord.—When an encysted hydro- cele of the spermatic cord is situated below the external abdo- minal ring, it is easily recognized by its transparency when viewed against the light, by the sense of fluctuation which may be perceived on compressing it between the fingers, and by its mobility upon the cord; but the case is far different when the swelling is placed within the inguinal canal, as it is then concealed from sight, nor can we always distinguish a portion of the cord to be free betwixt it and the internal abdominal ring. I well remember a young man being sent into University Col- lege Hospital on account of a swelling of this nature in the ingui- nal canal, wdiich w^as said to be a small inguinal hernia, and for which he had been recommended to wear a truss. Mr. Cooper, under whose care the youth was admitted, cut down upon it, and removed a portion of the front of the cyst, after which the lad was quickly discharged cured of his complaint. | But the round or ovoid form of the swelling, its constant unvarying size, which is commonly that of a chesnut, and rarely exceeding that of an egg, the ease with which it may be moved upon the cord, and its great tenseness and elasticity, to which t For the details of two cases in whicli this difficulty was experienced, see Fott’s Works, vol. ii. p. 415, Cases xxxiv and xxxv. J This case is mentioned by Professor Cooper, in his First Lines of Sur-29G DIAGNOSIS OF INGUINAL IIERNI.E. signs may be atldcd the absence of any disturbance or interrup- tion of tlie functions of the alimentary canal, will be generally found sufficient to prove that the tumour cannot be an inguinal hernia.'l' Hamatoede.—This disease, which consists in a collection of blood either in the tunica vaginalis testis, within the tunica albuginea, or in the cellular tissue of the scrotum, is distin- guished from inguinal hernia by many of the same signs as hydrocele, from which it chiefly differs in not being transparent, nor of so light a weight; while, on the other hand, it may present the same form, the same volume, and be of the same indolent character, accompanied, however, with a more obscure sense of fluctuation. I have, notwithstanding, known a heema- tocele mistaken for a strangulated inguinal hernia, and the ope- ration proposed for its relief, in the case of an elderly person, who, it was afterwards found out, had long laboured under hydro- cele of the tunica vaginalis. In this person the complaint was suddenly induced by a violent blow over the region of the ingui- nal canal, and was quickly followed by pain and tension of the part, accompanied by urgent sickness and vomiting, and con- stipation of the bowels. The patient was sent into the hospital, to have the operation performed, when a more strict investigation into the history of the case was made, and the conclusion arrived at that it was not a hernia, but a hsematocele, suddenly super- vening upon an old hydrocele; an opinion which was fully con- firmed by the subsequent history of the case. Varicocele.—There are few diseases, perhaps, which have been more frequently mistaken for an inguinal hernia than a vari- cose enlargement of the veins of the spermatic cord; and yet, to a close observer, it would seem hardly possible to confound the two complaints with one another. This disease more frequently affects the veins of the cord of the left side than those on the right. It presents itself under the form of a soft, indolent, and inelastic swelling, which is, for the most part, situated just above the body of the testicle, but sometimes extends as high as the external abdominal ring; its surface is unequal, and nodulated; it easily yields under the pressure f For an interesting case where the presence of a small strangulated ingui- nal hernia was masked by a hydrocele of the cord, and the operation per- formed, see Liston’s Operative Surgery, 3rd edit. p. 538.297 DIAGNOSIS OF INGUINAL HEIINI.E. of the liaml, and, when examined attentively, communicates to tlie touch the sensation — as it has been very aptly desig- nated — of grasping a bundle of earth-worms. In large vari- coceles an impulse may be communicated to the tumour upon coughing; but the essential distinction between this complaint and an inguinal hernia, is drawn from the circumstance, that while the latter, when it has once been reduced, cannot rede- scend so long as the inguinal canal is maintained closed by pressure made upon it by the fingers, the former reappears even still more quickly than before; and this happens also, notwithstanding the patient keeps the recumbent position, and avoids the slightest exertion. Chronic abscess of the iliac fossa, j^soas abscess, ^c.—Some- times large deposits of pus are collected in the loose cellular tissue which abounds in the iliac fossse, and, descending through the inguinal canal, form a prominent tumour in the situation of the external abdominal ring, presenting many of the characters of an oblique inguinal hernia ; for example, such as a sudden dis- appearance of the swelling under pressure, or when the patient lays himself down in the recumbent position, and as quickly reappearing Avhen he raises himself erect, and being always accompanied by a distinct impulse upon coughing. Psoas abscesses occasionally follow the same course, and may cause the same difficulty in establishing a correct diagnosis. Pro- fessor Cooper had the kindness to show me a case of this kind, Avhich had been brought to him for his opinion, in which a truss had been previously worn by the patient for a consider- able time, under the impression that he laboured under an inguinal hernia. A careful examination into the whole history of the case, and a strict investigation of all the symptoms, will, however, rarely fail to enable us to steer clear of the error of mistaking either of these complaints for an inguinal hernia. Enlarged testicle.—If the mistake had not actually occurred, some persons might feel inclined to ridicule the idea of the possi- bility of any enlargement of the testis being ever mistaken for an inguinal hernia; but several cases of this kind have been re- corded by various writers on surgery, in which considerable difficulty was experienced in arriving at a correct diagnosis. Sir Charles Bell mentions one instance in which he saw the298 DIAGNOSIS OF INGUINAL HERNI.L. operation for bubonocele performed where there was only a tumour of the testicle.’f* These mistakes have usually occurred where the testicle has not descended completely into the scro- tum, but remains within some part of the inguinal canal, and, becoming attacked by inflammation, induces a series of symp- toms liable to be confounded with those accompanying a stran- gulated congenital hernia. An extremely interesting case came under the notice of Professor Cooper, in which the symptoms which accompanied an attack of acute inflammation of the tes- ticle were such as very strongly resembled those usually regard- ed as pathognomonic of strangulated intestine, and, as Sir Astley Cooper has rightly observed, might have induced a less expe- rienced surgeon to regard the case as one of strangulated hernia, j “ I once attended,” says Mr. Cooper, “ a soldier, with acute inflammation of the testicle, in the Military Hospital of Canter- bury, who experienced so much pain in the abdomen on the fifth day of the attack, accompanied by vast swelling of the cord, almost incessant vomiting, complete and obstinate stop- page of the stools, and severe constitutional disturbance, that a suspicion of hernia was raised. The absence of tension in the abdomen, the limitation of the pain to one side of the belly, the inability of feeling any thing like the testicle of its ordinary size below the tumour, as in a bubonocele, and the history which made it impossible that the case could be a congenital hernia, were circumstances which prevented an erroneous view of the complaint from being adopted.”§ Several instances of a similar nature are related by the justly celebrated Mr. Pott in his ex- cellent treatise upon Hydrocele. || The solidity and peculiar form of the swelling, and the cha- racteristic pain which is excited by pressure upon the part, added to the previous history of the case, will generally be sufficient to enable us to arrive at a correct diagnosis. iSupjmrating inguinal gland.—It sometimes happens that f Vide a System of Operative Surgery, founded on the basis of Anatomy, by Charles Bell, vol. i. 8vo. Lond. 1807, p. 258. t Vide Observations on the Structure and Diseases of the Testis, by Sir Astley Cooper, Part II. p. 13. § Vide a Dictionary of Practical Surgery, by Samuel Cooper, 7th edit, p. 1215. 11 Vide the Chirurgical Works of Percivall Pott, F.R.S. 2d edit. vol. ii. pp. 223—31.299 DIAGNOSIS OF INGUINAL HERNIiE. a combination of symptoms, such as are commonly looked upon as indicating strangulation of a portion of bowel, accompany the formation of an abscess seated in one of the glands of the inguinal region, and have led hasty and careless observers to form an erroneous opinion as to the nature of the swelling, which is-mistaken for a strangulated hernia, requiring the ope- ration to be performed for its relief. Much judgment and dis- crimination is often required to be exercised in determining the nature of such cases. On the other hand, the tumour formed by a small hernia, the contents of which are really strangulated, has been mis- taken for an abscess, and much valuable time lost in the appli- cation of remedies which arc incapable of affording the slightest relief. Sir Charles Bell tells us that he has seen four surgeons unanimously of opinion that a bubonocele was a suppurating gland.-j* It is not very many years since I was shown a woman, a patient in a very large hospital, who soon afterwards died in consequence of this error in diagnosis having been committed by one of the dressers of the institution, who laid open a stran- gulated hernia under the impression that it was a simple abscess in the groin. Steatomatous tumours upon the spermatic cord.—Large masses of adipose substance are not unfrequently formed in the inguinal canal, upon the spermatic cord and round ligament of the uterus, and form a tumour possessing many of the cha- racters of an inguinal hernia. These steatomatous tumours arc occasionally accompanied by a small protrusion of the membrane of the peritonseum, constituting a small hernial sac. Femoral hernia.—If close attention were always paid to the situation which is occupied by the neck of the tumour, it would be next to impossible to mistake a femoral for an inguinal hernia; for in the latter it is placed above the ligament of Poupart, while in the former it lies below it. The mistake is most liable to occur in the female, for the round ligament of the uterus does not alford us the same assistance in making a diagnosis, as the spermatic cord in the male.ij; f Vide a System of Operative Surgery, vol. i. p. 259. Also Sir Asllcy Cooper on Hernia, 2d edit. Note at foot of page 71. t Vide Sir Astley Cooper on Hernia, 2d edit. Part I. p. 71.300 DIAGNOSIS OF INGUINAL HERNIA. Whenever a tumour in the groin is accompanied by obstinate constipation, and otlier symptoms resembling tliose of strangu- lated hernia, which are not clearly referrible to other causes, it is to be considered an established rule of practiee to cut down upon the swelling, and thus ascertain its precise nature; for many instances have occurred where this rule has been neglected, and the patients permitted to die unrelieved from a small knuckle of intestine being strangulated behind swellings of the nature just described.*f" t Tlie reader will find several imj)oilant cases, illustrating forcibly the propriety of this rule of practice, mentioned in the Surgical Anatomy of Fe- moral Hernia, pp. 138, 139.301 CHAPTER V. OF THE REDUCTION OF INGUINAL HERNI.E BY THE TAXIS. On many occasions the reduction of an inguinal hernia by the taxis is a very easy and safe proceeding, and one which may be undertaken by even the most ignorant persons without any risk being incurred by the patient; as, for example, when the constriction which confines the hernia is of so slight a nature as to yield readily to a very moderate and gentle compression of the tumour. Rut when the hernia is very tightly girded by the stricture, and has been so for a considerable time, then the na- ture of the case is very much altered, and it becomes a matter of the greatest importance that the eflforts employed to return the contents of the sac by the taxis should be directed by superior judgment and skill. There can be no doubt that much of the danger which so frequently attends upon the operation for stran- gulated hernia is the result of the force—too often misapplied for an improper length of time—which it is thought requisite to employ before having recourse to the use of the knife. The details of numerous dissections have been recorded by different writers, which satisfactorily prove that the fatal termination of a great number of the cases in which the operation has been per- formed without success, may be fairly attributed to the exten- sive bruisinff and even laceration of the coats of the tender and O inflamed intestines, which is caused by the rude force with which they had been compressed against the sharp, resisting edges of the openings through which they had been protruded, j" It is, nevertheless, on many occasions, and more particularly so in hospital practice, exceedingly difficult to decide whether the taxis should be tried any longer; for many examples con- t Vide a very interesting case of strangulated inguinal hernia, in which the bowel was ruptured by the patient in his efforts to return it; with observations, by Benjamin Travers, F.R.S. in 23d vol. of Med. Chir. Trans. Lond. 1840, p. 1.REDUCTION OF INGUINAL HERNI/E 302 tinually occur in which an experienced surgeon is able to relieve the patient quickly and safely from a state of imminent danger, even after the most violent and long-continued attempts to effect the same object have been made in vain by others who preceded him in the treatment of the case. But it is, also, equally certain, that the chances of success from the operation which must eventually be had recourse to in all those cases where the taxis—no matter how carefully and skilfully it has been employed—hxils to achieve the return of the strangulated parts-, are greatly diminished in consequence of the violence which necessarily attends its use. Indeed, many excellent and expe- rienced surgeons have denounced, in very strong terms, the in- discriminate employment of the taxis in all cases of strangu- lated hernia; and have not hesitated to affirm that it has, upon the whole, been productive of more harm than good, and that the operation is most likely to succeed when no attempts to reduce the hernia have previously been made.*j* The principal question to be decided before proceeding to the employment of the taxis is, in the first place, to determine the exact nature of the hernia; whether it is really an inguinal rupture : and, secondly, whether it is of the external and oblique form, or of the internal and direct kind,—for in the former of these varieties the direction of the force which it is necessary to employ is essentially different from that required by the latter. The other points of importance, which remain to be con- sidered, are,—what is the period of time that has elapsed since the descent of the hernia, and the commencement of the urgent symptoms of strangulated intestine;—the degi-ee of pain and tenderness under pressure of the tumour, but more espe- cially of the belly generally;—and, also, what attempts to re- duce the hernia have been made by other surgeons, taking particularly into account their duration, and the amount of force that has been employed, and how far it is probable that these attempts were directed by so much of surgical and ana- tomical knowledge as would render any further trial of the taxis not only unnecessary, but likely rather to be hurtful than beneficial towards securing the safety of the patient. In the practice of all large hospitals, the correctness of the t See the works of Pott, Richter, Petit, Velpeau, Cooper.RY THE TAXrS. SOS foregoing remarks is very strongly illustrated by tlic history of the cases of strangulated hernim which are continually admitted into these institutions; for it Avill be found, upon making the inquiry, that in most of them the patients have undergone, previously to their admission, several long-continued, and, fre- quently, very violent attempts to reduce the hernia by the taxis, but which have not, however, been followed by success, on account of ignorance or forgetfulness in the operator of the principles by which he should be directed in his endeavours to attain the object sought for. Before, then, proceeding to employ the taxis, care should be taken to place the patient in such a position in his bed, that all the structures connected with the formation of the inguinal canal may be relaxed to the utmost degree possible. Thus, for example, the thigh of the affected side should be raised and bent upon the pelvis, and, at the same time, rotated inwards, in order that all tension of the lower part of the abdominal parietes, depending upon the connexion between the iliac portion of the fascia lata, and the lower edge of Poupart’s liga- ment, may be completely removed. Some additional benefit, in this respect, is frequently obtained by placing the opposite limb in a similar position. The shoulders and head of the patient should also be elevated as much as possible, by means of pillows introduced underneath them ; and he himself should be held engaged in conversation, with the double object of diverting his attention from the operator, whose good inten- tions he is very likely to frustrate by opposing all his efforts; and of preventing him thereby from diminishing the space of the abdominal cavity by the contraction of the diaphragm, which is necessarily attendant upon the holding of the breath. The surgeon ought, also, to be very careful to obliterate at the first, by drawing the contents of the hernial sac slightly down- wards, the angle which is formed by that part of the strangulated bowel which is immediately external to the seat of the stric- ture, with the portion of it which is embraced within its grasp; for if he should overlook this preliminary step, he is very liable to be foiled altogether in his attempt to reduce the hernia, and, on the other hand, is much more likely to injure the coats of the intestine, by rudely squeezing it against the firm resisting margins of the stricture.304 REDUCTION OF INGUINAL HERNIA Besides the risk of contusing and lacerating tlie coats of the prolapsed intestine, which is constantly attendant upon the violent and unskilful performance of the taxis, there is also another danger to be avoided, that of forcing back into the abdominal cavity the hernial sac along with its contents, still closely girt by the stricture, which in these cases commonly depends upon the altered and thickened state of the peritonmum, forming its neck or internal orifice. This reduction of the hernial tumour in a mass, which has been well described by the French writers upon surgery, under the term of reduction en bloc, has been frequently observed to happen in the hands of ill- educated practitioners, who arc not generally made aware of their error, until the speedy death of the patient affords an opportunity for inspecting the parts, when the sac, with its contents still strangulated, is found rolled up in the loose cel- lular tissue which lies between the muscular parietes of the iliac fossa and the peritonajum. The direction of the force which it is necessary to employ for the reduction of an incarcerated inguinal hernia by the taxis, must be varied according to the form of the rupture, whether it be of the oblique external or direct internal kind. In the first case the pressure upon the tumour should be made in the same line as the direction of the inguinal canal; that is to say, obliquely upwards and outwards, towards the centre of the space included between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the symphysis pubis ; whilst, in the latter, it should be made more directly backwards, in the course of an imaginary line drawn from the external abdominal ring towards the promontory of the sacrum. The surgeon, grasping the tumour with one hand, fixes the parts in the vicinity of the neck of the sac with the other, and seeks to return, by a gentle and moderately increasing pressure, that portion of the strangulated intestine which descended the last. Any portion of the bowel that may be thus returned is to be prevented from again descending by making compres- sion of the u})per part of the sac with one hand, while with the other a fresh hold is taken of that which still remains down. If it be thought advisable, the efforts of the surgeon to re- duce the hernia by the taxis may be assisted by general bleed- ing, the use of the hot-bath, and all such other remedies as areMV THE TAXIS, 305 known to possess a powerful influence in diminishing muscular tone and vascular action. When a judicious trial of the taxis fails to effect the return of the hernia, and there exist no good and sufficient grounds for believing that any benefit is likely to accrue from waiting to make any further attempt, it can be of no use to lose time in the employment of any of those local applications which are too frequently recommended to be tried in such cases; but it will be better for the interests of the patient if the operation be at once proceeded with. It not unfrequently happens, after the reduction of a stran- gulated hernia by the taxis, that a certain degree of obscure tumefaction still remains about the parts in the inguinal canal, as well as in the scrotum, and excites a doubt in the operator s mind whether the whole of the protrusion has been effectually returned; but, it should be remembered, that this appearance is very deceptive, and very probably is owing to a serous infiltration of the cellular sheath of the cord, or to an effusion of serum into the interior of the hernial sac; in either case there is no just ground for alarm or anxiety. It may not be altogether out of place to mention here, that it is only by the knowledge derived from practice, and not from descriptions, however carefully they may be given, that we are taught to estimate correctly’the exact amount of force that may be safely used in employing the taxis in different cases of strangulated hernia, and to acquire that tact which is absolutely necessary to make an adroit use of those manoeuvres which very frequently prove of essential service in our endea- vours to secure a successful result. x306 CHAPTER VI. OF THE OPERATION FOR STRANGULATED INGUINAL HERNI.E. The patient should be placed upon the table, or on the edge of his bed, in the recumbent position; his shoulders being well supported by pillows, with the view of relaxing, as com- pletely as possible, the abdominal muscles. The hair should be previously removed by shaving the parts. The first incision — which should comprise in its depth the skin and subjacent adipose layer — ought to be commenced well over the neck of the tumour; at the distance, perhaps, of an inch and a half from the outer angle of the external abdo- minal ring: the object, in so doing, being to render more easy of execution the future steps of the operation, and, more parti- cularly, the safe division of the stricture, which is most fre- quently seated near the superior aperture of the inguinal canal. The incisions necessary to expose the contents of the hernial sac should be made upon the centre of the front of the tumour, or rather more towards its inner than its outer side, so as more effectually to avoid the danger of injuring any of the component structures of the spermatic cord, should they hap- pen to be separated from one another in the manner described at pages 276, 277. (See also the wood-engraving No. 6.) In cases of large scrotal hernise it is unnecessary to prolong the incisions quite to the fundus of the swelling ; as, besides the greater risk which exists in such cases of injuring some of the elements of the spermatic cord, its great length could prove of no advantage to the surgeon ; and, on the other hand, would be very likely to expose the patient to the unpleasant circum- stances attendant upon making an opening into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis testis. In small hernise, however, and especially in incomplete bu- bonoceles, the external incisions should be carried over theOPERATION FOR STRANGULATED INGUINAL HERNIA. 307 whole extent of the tumour ; for, unless this were done, sutR- cient space would not be obtained for the secure and easy com- pletion of the operation. The first incision may be made, according to the choice of the operator, in one of three ways; viz. by simply sweeping the knife over the convex surface of the tumour, in the direction of its long diameter ; or by raising the integuments covering the swelling into a thick transverse fold, one half of which is held by an assistant, while the surgeon takes the other in his left hand and cuts it through, either from its surface to its base; or in the opposite direction, first transfixing it below with the bistoury, the back of which is turned towards the sac, and then cutting outwards. The first of these modes of proceeding is to be preferred when the external investments of the hernia are unusually tense, whilst the other two are more applicable when they are very lax. In the division of the integuments the external pudic artery is cut across, and, occasionally, also the superficial epigastric artery. If either of these vessels should bleed freely, it is best to secure it immediately with a ligature, before proceeding any further in the operation ; since, if this be omitted, secondary hemorrhage is very likely to occur after the wound has been closed and the dressings applied, and so to give rise to consider- able disturbance of the parts. The several coverings which the hernial sac derives from the intercolumnar fascia, the cremaster muscle, the fascia trans- versalis, and the subserous cellular tissue, are, in the next place, to be divided either with the knife and dissecting forceps, or by cutting them layer by layer, a director being previously intro- duced underneath them. It should, however, be clearly under- stood, that such great variety is continually met with in the ap- pearance, number, and thickness of the several investments of the hernial sac, that it is frequently impossible to recognize them separately in the operation. It may be of some use to mention here, that the subserous cellular tissue is sometimes very thick, and resembles so closely the omentum, that it may for a moment deceive the surgeon in the operation, especially in cases of direct or internal inguinal hernise, and lead him to conclude that the sac has been opened before it has been actually exposed. X 2308 OF THE OPERATION FOR The hernial sac having been in this manner brought into view, it is to be opened at first upon its lower and anterior part. For this purpose, a small portion of it should be taken up be- tween the blades of the forceps, and an opening carefully made into it, the edge of the knife being directed horizontally. Some surgeons prefer pinching up a small piece of the sac between the finger and thumb of the left hand, and after rubbing it between them, in order to ascertain whether any of the intestine is in- cluded, which being decided in the negative, they proceed to open it as before. The aperture which is thus made is to be enlarged to the same extent as the external incisions, by dividing the sac upwards and downwards with the probe-pointed bistoury, guided upon the fore-finger or the director. The next step in the operation is to seek for the seat of the stricture, by carrying the fore-finger of the left hand upwards, between the sac and the protruded viscera. In the greater num- ber of cases the stricture will be found at the margin of the in- ternal abdominal ring, or in the neck of the sac. Sometimes— but this occurs very rarely—the stricture is situated at the ex- ternal abdominal ring, or, perhaps, about midway between it and the internal ring, being there produced by the lower edge of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles. It may, on the other hand, exist in a very few instances in some other part of the sac below the inguinal canal. The sensation which the condensed band of cellulo-fibrous tissue, which commonly forms the stricture, communicates to the finger, strongly resembles Avhat might be supposed would be produced if a piece of strong packthread were drawn so closely around the neck of the sac as to make a defined circular in- dentation in it, the free border of which projects towards its centre. In a direct or internal inguinal hernia the stricture is fre- quently seated in the margins of the lacerated opening in the conjoined fibres of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, through which the hernial sac has protruded. The extremity of the common probe-pointed bistoury — guided upon the fore-finger of the left hand, which forms the best director—is now to be cautiously introduced underneath the stricture; which is then to be divided by turning forwards the edge of the instrument, and gently elevating its handle, at theSTRANGULATED INGUINAL HEUNI.E. 309 same time that its point remains steadily fixed in its position within the neck of the sac. The direction of tlie incision necessary to divide the stricture should be, in all cases of inguinal hernim, vertically upwards, parallel to the linea alba; since by so doing there can be no chance of doing any injury to the epigastric artery. A very slight cut, not exceeding, perhaps, the eighth part of an inch, will be generally found sufficient to liberate the strangulated bowel. It is of the utmost importance, during the division of the stricture, that the prolapsed intestines should be completely protected from injury by the knife; which may be done either by the fingers of the operator’s left hand being spread over them in such a manner as to prevent them from rising over the edge of the instrument; or, should he be otherwise engaged, then the same object may be fulfilled by the hand of an attentive and intelligent assistant. It is also very necessary, while endeavouring to reduce the contents of the hernia into the belly, that the sac should be firmly held by its margins ; since it has happened, in conse- <]uence of neglecting this very advisable precaution, that both it and its contents have been rudely thrust back into the abdomen together in a mass, the bowel remaining still girt by the stricture. The stricture having been divided, the contents of the hernia must be reduced with great care and gentleness ; and, if it should happen that both omentum and intestine have descended, the latter should be replaced before the former. It will facili- tate the return of the parts, if the thigh be raised and rotated inwards, as has been already recommended while treating of the taxis.*!• The operation being concluded, and the parts safely returned into the abdomen, which is to be ascertained by gently intro- ducing the point of the finger into the mouth of the hernial sac, the edges of the wound should be brought together by a few points of the interrupted suture, and the dressings supported by a thick compress and spica bandage. A copious enema may now be administered by means of the patent syringe; and if this t Vide page 300.810 OPERATION FOR STRANGULATED INGUINAL HERNIA.. fail, 'whicli it seldom does, to produce the desired effects, its action may be promoted by some mild laxative mixture given by the mouth.I Division of the stricture without opening the hernial sac.— Some very excellent surgeons have strongly recommended the stricture to be divided without opening the hernial sac, and there is no doubt but that this method should be practised whenever it is possible to do so; yet, at the same time that we acknoAvledge its superior advantages, we should not forget that it is only applicable to a very small proportion of the cases in which it is requisite to have recourse to the use of the knife. It is done by slipping the director underneath the fascia pro- pria in the vicinity of the lower margin of the transversalis muscle, and dividing both of these structures, with any other tendinous band which may oppose the easy reduction of the contents of the hernia. This plan may also be employed with advantage when the stricture is situated at the external abdominal ring. Notwithstanding that I have seen this mode of operating tried in a great number of cases, I never saw it once succeed. t For further observations upon the treatment after the operation, and the appearances which are found after death, when a patient dies from a stran- gulated hernia, the reader is referred to the Surgical Anatomy of Femoral Hernia, pp. 149—152.THE SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE TESTIS AND ITS COVERINGS. An intimate and accurate acquaintance with the anatomy of the several structures which compose the coverings of the tes- ticle is a subject that demands, in the highest degree, the close attention of all those who arb desirous of qualifying themselves to enter upon, with credit and satisfaction to themselves, and with safety to the patients who may be submitted to their care and superintendence, the consideration of the many difficult questions which constantly present themselves for solution by the practitioner, when engaged in the treatment of the numerous and varied diseases to which these organs are liable. Were the anatomy, natural as well as morbid, of this portion of the human frame more diligently studied, we should cease to find those errors in diagnosis so frequently committed by persons who ought to know better; by which an extravasation of urine underneath the dartos is mistaken for an inflammatory swelling of the testicle, haematocele for malignant disease of the same organ, and hydrocele and varicocele confounded with scrotal hernise ; with many other serious blunders of a similar nature. 1. The scrotum.—The cutaneous investment of the testicle is chiefly remarkable for the thinness of its texture, its deep brown hue, and the numerous rugm by which its surface is Avrinkled. It is partially furnished with some scattered hairs. The scrotum is divided symmetrically by an elevated line or raj)he, which extends from the under surface of the penis, as far back as the anterior margin of the anus, and corresponds with the mesial line of the body. In hot weather, and in312 THE DARTOS. debilitated persons, the skin of the scrotum becomes very long and lax ; wliile, on the contrary, it is very short and corrugated in persons enjoying robust health, or under the influence of a cold temperature. A large number of small sebaceous follicles are situated underneath the skin of the scrotum; the secretion from which, under some circumstances, acquires an extraordinary degree of acrimony, and excoriates the neighbouring surfaces in such a manner as to produce great distress to the patient. A strict attention to cleanliness by frequent ablutidn of the af- fected parts, and the use of Goulard’s lotion, are generally sufficient to effect a speedy cure of the complaint. The extreme facility with which the skin of the scrotum admits of being extended to an extraordinary degree, is well exemplified in those immense enlargements of this part Avhich are so frequently met with among the inhabitants of eastern climates; and, in this country, is daily Avitnessed among those who are the subjects of large hernim, hydroceles, or malignant disease of the testicle. The extensible quality of the skin of the scrotum allows the surgeon to be less chary of removing large portions of it whenever he conceives it advisable to do so in any of the operations practised upon this part; as, for example, castration, the excision of tumours, fungoid growths, &c. 2. The dartos.—This covering of the testis was formerly considered to be of a muscular nature, but at the present day it is looked upon as a transition structure, intermediate betwixt muscular fibre and condensed cellular tissue, and, in many respects, possessing the properties of each. It is composed of numerous reddish-looking fibres, which are disposed lon- gitudinally, following the same direction Avith each other, being continuous posteriorly Avith the superficial fascia of the peri- nseum, and anteriorly Avith the superficial fascia covering the body of the penis and lower part of the abdominal parietes. The dartos is divided into tAvo separate cavities or compart- ments, by a process Avhich is sent off from its inner surface, and separates the testicles from one another. This process or mem- branous partition {septum scroti) is not so complete, but that it readily alloAvs of fluids, Avhich may be effused underneath the dartos upon one side, to pass across to the other.THE SUBDAUTOIC CELLULAR TISSUE. 313 3. The subdartoic cellular tissue. —A large quantity of lax cellular tissue, containing in its cellules more or less adi- pose substance, is situated underneatli the dartos, betwixt it and the external spermatic fascia. It is largely supplied with blood from the branches of the superficial perinaeal vessels, which freely ramify in its thickness. This covering of the testicles is deserving of especial notice, since it is into its structure that the copious effusion of serum, which constitutes the common form of anasarcous swelling of the scrotum, so frequently met with in patients the sub- jects of general dropsy, takes place. This structure is also the seat of that insidious and destructive form of diffuse in- flammation, which has been denominated by Mr. Liston acute anasarca of the scrotum, as well also as of those devastating extra- vasations of urine which are liable to occur after any rupture of the urethra in front of the triangular ligament. Large effu- sions of blood also take place into it in consequence of any con- tusion of the scrotum, by which some of the branches of the superficial perinseal or pudic vessels are ruptured, or when they have been accidentally punctured in the operation of tapping for the cure of hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis ; and the same kind of swelling is sometimes observed to happen after the operation of lithotomy. Violent inflammation of this tissue, followed by sloughing of the greater part of the scrotum, has been frequently occasioned by some of the irri- tating fluids usually made use of to inject the tunica vaginalis for the cure of hydrocele being permitted to escape into it, either through the awkwardness or carelessness of the surgeon, or some sudden and unforeseen movement of the patient, whereby the end of the cannula is not maintained in its proper position. It is a question that is sometimes asked in the wards of an hospital, how it happens, while the whole thickness of the scrotum is destroyed by gangrene produced by some of the injuries and diseases just now described, that we see the tes- ticles remain in the midst of the sloughing tissues wholly unaffected by the mischief which is going on around them ? I'he explanation readily suggests itself, when it is recollected that these organs derive their nervous and vascular supply from a distant part of the body, which is far removed fromTUNICA VAGINALIS COMMUNIS. 314. the influence of those deleterious agents which liave caused the destruction of the scrotum. 4*. The external spermatic fascia.—This covering of the testicle has already been fully described at p. 223 ; it is the same as the intercolumnar fascia of some writers. Commen- cing superiorly at the margins of the external abdominal ring, it is prolonged downwards upon the spermatic cord and testis, both of which structures it completely surrounds. It is occasionally found greatly thickened in large and old scrotal hemiee.'j' 5. The cremaster muscle.—As a full description of the cremaster has been given at p. 231, it is wholly unnecessary to repeat it here ; suffice it to say, that it is formed by the dis- placement of the lowermost fibres of the internal oblique mus- cle, which are drawn downwards by the testicle in its descent through the inguinal canal into the scrotum. The changes which it undergoes in cases of hernise are mentioned at p. 269. 6. The funnel-shaped sheath of the fascia transversalis.— This is the investment which the testis derives from the fascia transversalis, when it descends through the internal abdominal ring. In the natural state of the parts it is extremely thin and delicate. It has been fully described at p. 24.1, and at p. 268. 7. The tunica vaginalis communis or cellular sheath of the spermatic cord.—This is formed by a prolongation from the subserous cellular tissue of the lumbar region, and is capable of being largely distended, as happens in diffused hydrocele of the spermatic cord. It is also frequently the seat of copious extravasations of blood, when secondary hemorrhage takes place from any of the spermatic vessels after the operation of castration, particularly if the upper extremity of the cord has been permitted to be retracted far within the inguinal canal. The blood which is thus effused is liable to cause diffuse in- flammation, followed by extensive abscess of the iliac fossa. | That part of the tunica communis which invests the spermatic cord is sometimes the seat of large masses of fat, which may form a tumour resembling, in many respects, an irreducible epi- plocele. Again, serous fluid may be collected in some of its cellules, and, gradually increasing in quantity, form a species of encysted hydrocele of the spermatic cord. t Vide p. 228 and p. 270. J Vide also pp. 241 and 2o0.TUNICA VAGINALIS TESTIS. 315 8. The tunica vaginalis testis propria.—This is a small sac of serous membrane, originally a process from the peritonocal lining of the abdomen, but from any connexion with which, in the normal state of the subject, it is separated by the obliter- ation of that portion of it which intervenes between the internal abdominal ring and the lower part of the spermatic cord, and which is to be found on dissection lying in front of the sper- matic vessels, as a delicate elongated band of condensed fibro- cellular tissue. (See the wood-cut at p. 243, fig. w.) Previous to the descent of the testicle, the tunica vaginalis already exists as a small narrow pouch of the figure of the finger of a glove. The tunica vaginalis testis is composed of two parts; one which covers the anterior and lateral surfaces of the testicle and epidi- dymis and lower part of the spermatic cord, whilst the other lines the internal surface of the scrotum. Its internal aspect is smooth, polished, and glistening, being moistened by the serosity which constitutes its natural secretion. Upon the testicle its external surface is intimately adherent to the tunica albuginea, while elsewhere it is in apposition with the fibrous sheath common to the gland and spermatic cord. In some subjects the tunica vaginalis testis still retains its original connexion with the cavity of the great bag of the peritonaeum; and when the communication between them is very free, the intestines readily descend into it, forming a con- genital hernia; but sometimes, although the connexion between the two serous membranes still remains open, yet it is through the medium of a very narrow tubular canal, the orifice of which may be suddenly dilated under the influence of any violent muscular effort, by which a portion of intestine is forced down into it, giving rise to a similar kind of hernia as the last, but occurring perhaps at a very late period of life, as happened in the cases observed by M. Velpeau, the details of which will be found in his valuable treatise on Operative Surgery.-f It is occasionally observed, that the portion of the tunica vaginalis, which lies in front of the cord, between the testis and the upper aperture of the inguinal canal, is not obliterated throughout its whole extent, but only at several distinct points, t Vide Nouveaux Elements de Medecine Operaloire, par A. L. M. Velpeau, 2d edit, tom, iv. p. 182.316 THE TUNICA ALBUGINEA. and thus forms a series of small isolated sacs of serous mem- brane, Avhich may become distended with fluid, and constitute another of the varieties of encysted hydroeele of the cord. Small cartilaginous bodies are occasionally found in the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, either loose and unattached, or connected to the body of the testicle by a delicate pedicle. They are pro- duced by inflammation of a chronic nature. EXPLANATION OF FIG. 2, PLATE III, opposite p. 237. The investments of the cord and testicle have been removed, and the cavity of the tunica vaginalis freely exposed by an incision on its anterior surface. 1. The spermatic cord divested of all its coverings, excepting that which it derives from the subserous cellular tissue, and named the tunica vaginalis communis. 2. The body of the testicle exposed to view. It is covered ante- riorly and laterally by the tunica vaginalis testis propria. 3. The upper part of the epididymis, or, as it is termed, the g/o6«-5 major, or caput. 4. The globus minor, or cauda epididymis. 5. 5. That portion of the tunica vaginalis reflexa which lines the inner surface of the superficial investments of the testicle. It has been laid open by a free incision upon its anterior surface, and the edges of the opening turned aside. 6. The lower part of the cord, covered by the tunica vaginalis testis, which ascends for a short way upon it in the form of a wide cul-de-sac. 9. The tunica albuginea.—This, which is the proper coat of the testicle, and serves to give it its peculiar form, is a strong thick fibrous membrane, which resembles, in many respects, the sclerotic coat of the eye. It invests the whole of the body of the testicle ; is of a Avhite colour, opaque, and possesses, moreover, an extremely firm and resisting texture. It, nevertheless, is capable of great distensibility, as is well seen in those sudden and excessive enlargements of the testicle which depend upon an attack of acute inflammation of the gland; but, the causes of its distension being removed, it quickly regains its original dimensions. Externally it is in- vested upon its anterior and lateral aspects by the tunica vaginalis testis propria, which is very closely united with it; but posteriorly and infcriorly it is pierced by the spermatic vessels317 TUNICA VASCUI.OSA. t Sir Astley Cooper on the Anatomy of the Testis, p. 16. as they enter into the body of the testis, and superiorly by the seminiferous tubes as they emerge to reach the epididymis. Corpus Highmorianum.—The cavity of the tunica albuginea is divided unequally by a process which is furnished from its inner surface towards its upper and back part; this has been named the corpus Hig/mioriamim, or mediastinum testis. It is situated nearer the posterior than the anterior surface of the gland. Numerous membranous bands are extended at different points from the front of the corpus Highmorianum to the inner sur- face of the tunica albuginea. These processes, which are named sepimenta testis, serve to separate and support the several masses into wTich the lobular structure of the gland is divided, and also to preserve the shape of the organ. 10. The tunica vasculosa.—This has been described by Sir Astley Cooper as the inner coat or layer of the tunica albu- ginea; the internal surface of which it not only lines, but it is also extended over the fibrous processes which connect the tunica albuginea with the corpus Highmorianum. It is formed of delicate cellular tissue, in which ramify the ultimate branches of the spermatic artery and vein. According to Sir Astley Cooper, the outer layer of the tunica vaginalis bears a strong resemblance to the dura mater of the brain—like it, being tendinous and inelastic, and, like it, forming processes internally; whilst the inner membrane of it resembles the pia mater, being reflected inwards upon the lobes of the testis, and forming a bed, on which the branches of the spermatic artery ramify, and supply with vessels the membranes Avhich envelope the tubuli.'j' Structure of the testicle.—The glandular structure of the testicle, which is of a yellowish colour, slightly reddened by the vessels of the tunica vasculosa, is chiefly composed of a soft, pulpy, filamentous tissue, formed by the numerous convo- lutions of the delicate vessels which serve to receive and trans- mit the seminal secretion. The tubuli seminiferi. — The seminiferous ducts of the testis are aggregated together into small pyramidal masses or 1 obules (lobuli testis), which are closely invested by the tunica vasculosa or pia mater. They are separated from one another by the membranous processes which have been already described318 SEMINIFEROUS STRUCTURE as connecting the anterior surface of the corpus Highmoranium or mediastinum testis with the interior of the tunica albuginea. The number of the seminiferous tubes is very great, being estimated at three hundred; and each of these is not less than sixteen feet in length, and about Torth part of an inch in dia- meter. The extent of the whole, when added together, is said to be near 5000 feet."!* Vasa recta—rete testis. — The seminiferous tubes termi- nate, after passing through the anterior layer of the mediastinum testis, in another set of vessels, less numerous but larger than themselves, which are named, from the straightness of their course, vasa recta. These ascend vertically towards the upper part of the gland, where they emerge to join the epididymis. The portion of the testicle which they occupy is situated at the upper and back part of the gland, and is named the rete testis. Vasa efferentia—coni vasculosi. — The vasa recta empty themselves by twelve or fifteen tubes, into the convoluted ves- sel, of which the epididymis is composed. These are at first straight, but soon assume a very tortuous course, (see the wood-cut No. 10, b and c,) and thus present a conical figure, whence is derived the name of coni vasculosi, which is some- times given to them. These vessels form the globus major of the epididymis. The epididymis.—The epididymis is an oblong, worm-like body, somewhat bent in upon itself at its extremities, which is loosely fixed to the upper and back part of the testicle. (See Plate IV. Fig, 2. s and 4i.) The superior extremity of the epididymis is larger and more rounded that the inferior, and is named the globus major. (Plate III. Fig. 2. ©.) It lies upon the upper part of the testicle, and receives, as has been already described, the vasa efferentia. The middle por- tion of the epididymis has been named the corptis; it is but loosely connected to the body of the testicle by the reflexions of the tunica vaginalis testis. The lower extremity of the epididymis, also termed globus minor, or cauda, is elongated, and tapering in its figure, and gradually terminates in the vas deferens. The epididymis is formed by the frequent con- volutions of the tube, which results from the union of the vasa efferentia; the curves which it forms are pretty firmly fixed t Manuel d’Anatomie, par I. F. Meckel, tom. iii. p. 627. Paris, 1825.319 OF THE TESTICLE. f l^ide Sir Astley Cooper on the Anatomy of the Testis, p. 27. together by small bands of condensed cellular tissue. Professor Monro has calculated the length of the vessel which forms the epididymis at thirty-two feet. The epididymis is covered in the greater part of its extent by the tunica vaginalis propria testis. The epididymis frequently remains hard and indurated after attacks of acute inflammation of the testicle; but the affec- tion, although not easily removed, is of no serious consequence. Vas aherrans. — Not unfrequently a long delicate vessel, terminating in a cul-de-sac, is found to extend from the epidi- dymis for a considerable distance upon the cord, and has been named the vas aherrans. Sir Astley Cooper possesses a pre- paration in which is seen three of these tubes in the same tes- ticle, each terminating in a blind extremity.•}* No. 10. The wood-engraving displays the whole of the seminiferous structure of the testicle, as it is seen when injected with mercury and partially unravelled. a. a. The tubuli seminiferi, which compose the lobules of the testicle; theS20 STRUCTURE OF THE TESTICLE. basis of the cone, which they form, is directed towards the front of the gland, the apex towards the corpus Ilighmorianum. b. The rete testis, consisting of the vasa recta, which are eighteen or twenty in number: they connect the tubuli seminiferi with the vasa efferentia. c. c. The globm major or caput epididymis, which is chiefly formed by the vascular cones of the vasa effe- rentia. d. The corpus or body of the epididymis, e. The lower extremity (^globus minor) or cauda of the epididymis, f. g. The vas deferens: at /’, which is the commencement of the tube, it is observed to be larger and more convoluted than higher up, as atg. The. vas deferens.—The vas deferens, or excretory duct of the testicle, extends from the lower part of the epididymis—of which it is the continuation—to the prostatic portion of the urethra. Very tortuous, and larger in size at its commence- ment and termination, the vas deferens follows a straight course in the remaining parts of its extent. It ascends, with the rest of the structures that compose the spermatic cord, as far as the internal abdominal ring, where it separates at an acute angle from the spermatic artery and veins; and then, bending over the epigastric artery, dips down into the pelvis, and becomes closely applied against the side and base of the bladder, as far as the base of the prostate gland. At this point it joins with the duct of the vesicula seminalis. The vessel which results from their junction {ductus ejaculatorius communis^ traverses the substance of the prostate gland in an oblique direction upwards, forwards, and inwards; and finally opens into the prostatic portion of the urethra, upon the anterior surface of the veru-montanum. In its course along the side and base of the bladder, the vas deferens lies in the ano-le • ^ O formed by the reflection of the peritomeum from the posterior and lateral surfaces of that viscus to the side of the pelvis. It also lies on the inner side of the ureter and vesicula seminalis. The interior of the duct,—which, excepting near its extremities, is of very narrow calibre,—is lined by a mucous membrane, which is continuous with that of the urethra. Its external coat is fibrous, very thick, and almost as dense and hard as cartilage. It is accompanied by a small artery, a branch from one of the vesical arteries. The vas deferens may be distin- guished from the rest of the constituents of the spermatic cord by its hard wiry feel, and by its position, for it lies behind and to the inner side of the spermatic artery and vein.-f* t Vide The Surgical Anatomy of the Perinaeum, pp. .34-5.321 THE SPERMATIC CORD. The sperviattc cord.—The structures wliich compose tlic spermatic cord have bccu already sufficiently noticed in detail in the preceding pages. They consist of the vas deferens, and the small artery that accompanies it, a branch from the vesical artery; the spermatic artery and veins, Avith several filaments from the renal plexus of the great sympathetic nerve -which accompany these vessels in their course from the loins to the testicle; and the ligamentous cord which remains after the obli- teration of the tubular process of the tunica vaginalis in the interspace betAveen the testis and the internal abdominal ring. All these are closely invested by sheaths, derived from the sub- serous cellular tissue, and the fascia transvcrsalis, opposite the internal abdominal ring. ToAvards the loAA'er part of the inguinal canal, the cremaster muscle furnishes a partial investment to the spermatic cord, covering its anterior and lateral surfaces. This muscle is sup- plied by the cremasteric branch of the epigastric artery, and by the oblique branch of the external pudic or genito-crural nerve. As the cord emerges through the external abdominal ring, it receives another covering from the external spermatic or inter- columnar fascia; and lastly, from the dartos and integuments of the scrotum, d’hese are freely supplied with blood from the external pudic and superficial perinseal vessels. A'CHAPTER II. OF SOME OF THE MOKE FREQUENT DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND ITS COVERINGS. Anasarca of the scrotum.—This affection, when chronic, is usually dependent upon a dropsical habit, and is generally accompanied by other signs of organic disease ; as, for example, swelling of the feet and legs, ascites, &c. It is distinguished by its indolent character, and, generally, by the absence of any inflammatory action in the parts affected: the tumour is soft and doughy, readily pitting under the pressure of the finger : its surface is regular, having a pale, glistening, and semi-trans- parent appearance. In aggravated eases, however, the shin of the scrotum is sometimes affected with an erythematous inflam- mation. The complaint usually disappears under the use of such remedies as arc generally beneficial in the treatment of the primary affection; but if much uneasiness should be expe- rienced by the patient from the excessive distension of the part, considerable relief may be procured by puncturing the swell- ing at several points with a fine needle, by which the serosity is permitted to drain off; but, under these circumstances, it is by no means a safe plan to make incisions into the scro- tum or to scarify it, as has been recommended by some, for such proceedings are apt to induce gangrene of the part, and even cause the death of the patient. Acute anasarca—dj'lf'use infammatioti.—Sometimes the scro- tum is the seat of an acute inflammation of an erysipelatous character, which is attended with excessive redness, swelling, and tension of the part. This disorder is frequently met with in persons whose constitutions have been impaired by habits of intemperance, and in these it may occasionally seem to arise without any obvious cause. On other occasions it would appear to be excited by exposure to wet and cold, or by the irritationDISK ASKS OF THE SCUOTUM. 823 consequent upon tlie lodgment among tlic riigm of tlic scrotum of some acrimouious fluid, sueli as tlie uriue, ichorous pus, &c. A similar kind of swelling, though perhaps not quite so acute or violent in its nature, frequently attends upon the spreading of erysipelas to the scrotum from the adjacent surfaces. Acute anasarca of the scrotum should be treated, in its early stages, by tlie removal of any exciting causes of a local nature,— should these still exist;—by the application of hot fomentations to the swollen part, which should be well elevated upon a pil- low of sufficient size, introduced between the thighs of the pa- tient, If these means, aided by such general treatment as is suited to the character of the complaint, do not succeed in diminishing the inflammation and tension, then free incisions should be practised without delay, if we would prevent the sloughing of the whole of the affected structures. O C Sarco7nato^ls tumour.—Enormous enlargements of the scro- tum have been frequently observed, but more particularly among the natives of hot climates. These growths are of an innocent character, but may attain an extraordinary magnitude. The only mode of cure which they admit of, is their removal by the knife; nor can this always be done without injury to the penis and testicles."f Cancer of the scrotum.—This disease, which is frequent among chimney-siveepers, commences by the formation of hard, warty excrescences upon the skin of the scrotum, which soon break out into foul ulcers, presenting a very malignant appear- ance ; and, except it is removed at a very early period of its existence, either by the knife or some powerful caustic, such as the chloride of zinc. See, is very apt to involve the testicle itself, and spread along the spermatic cord to the absorbent glands of the lumbar and inguinal regions. When these arc once af- fected, there remains very little prospect of any permanent benefit being derived from an operation. f Dictionary of Practical Surgery, by S. Cooper, 7th edit. p. 1135. Lis- ton’s Practical Surgery, 3d edit. pp. 340-1. Titley on Diseases of the Ge- nital Organs, pp. 299—325. + Vide the Chirurgical Works of Percivall Pott, F.ll.S. Loud. 1779, vol, iii. pp. 225-9. First Lines of the Practice of Surgery, hy Samuel Cooper, 6tli edit. p. GOl. Cases of Diseased Prepuce and Scrotum, hy William Wadd, 4to. Land. 1817, p. 23.HYDROCELE OF THE 824 Hydrocele.—The form of this disease, which consists of an accumulation of serous fluid in the cavity of the tunica vagi- nalis, {hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis,) is of the most fre- quent occurrence. The complaint ordinarily commences with- out any very obvious cause, though it is highly probable that it is frequently connected with a state approaching to a chronic No. 11. The wood-engraving exhibits the cavity of a hydrocele of the tunica vagi- nalis exposed to view by an incision upon its anterior surface. a. The body of the testicle, somewhat flattened by the pressure of the effused fluid, and situated at the back part of the swelling, about two- thirds of the way downwards. Small bands of lymph, of old standing, con- nect it to the sides of the sac. b. A portion of the spermatic cord, free be- twixt the upper part of the swelling and the external abdominal ring. c. d. /I The membiane of the tunica vaginalis, forming tlie parietes of the sac.TUNICA VAUINAHS. 325 inflammation of the membrane of the tunica vaginalis. Tlie swelling is usually of a j)yriform shape, and of a very light weight in comparison with its magnitude; it is also free from pain, except when, from its large size, it gives rise to a dragging sensation in the course of the cord towards the lumbar region. The principal diagnostic sign of the disorder is, however, the transparency of the tumour when viewed against tbe light of a candle in a darkened room ; but 1 have seen many fail in their attempt to observe this sign, because they neglected the neces- sary precaution of rendering the skin of the scrotum quite tense, by firmly grasping it from behind. 'I'he tumour is unaffected, except in very rare instances, by coughing or any other muscular effort on the part of the patient. The growth of the swelling increases gradually from below upAvards, and, generally, a portion of the cord may be felt to be free above, between it and the external abdominal ring. Sometimes the testicle is situated in front of an hydrocele, instead of lying behind it, as is most usually the case. I have witnessed this variety in three instances, which, upon making a dissection of the parts, seemed to depend upon an original transposition of the gland, by Avhicli that part of it Avliich is lined by tire tunica vaginalis, was turned towards the jjosterior aspect of the scrotum. Other cases have also been observed, in which this unusual condition of the parts might have been pro- duced by a morbid adhesion of the anterior surface of the tes- ticle to the front of the sac."!" Occasionally it happens that an hydrocele is not transparent when examined Avith a candle, which circumstance may depend upon the opaque nature of the fluid which it contains, or the great thickness of the tunics of the scrotum, more particularly of the external spermatic fascia and cremaster muscle. t Sir Astley Cooper mentions the following case in his work on the Ana- tomy and Diseases of the Testis, which shows the necessity of being ac- quainted with the possibility of the testicle varying from its usual situation in hydrocele: “ A gentleman consulted a surgeon for a swelling in his scro- tum, which he pronounced to be hydrocele. He put a trocar into it, no water followed, and he said, “ I am mistaken; this is a solid enlargement of the testis, and it must be removed.” The patient, excessively alarmed at so severe a sentence, said he should require time to think of it; and another surgeon was consulted, by whom it was injected from the side instead of the fore-part, and the patient perfectly recovered.” O]). cit. p. 168.326 HYDllOCELE OF THE TUNICA VAOTNALIS. Sometimes an hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis is divided into several compartments, by numerous membranous septa, which spring from the inner surface of the sac. In many cases these cells or sacculi communicate freely with each other, while in others they form separate and distinct cavities. An hydrocele may attain an immense size. iMr. Gibbon, the celebrated historian, laboured under this complaint, and was tapped for it by Mr. Cline, who drew off six quarts of fluid."|* AV^ien an hydrocele is very large, it is not advisable to inject it at once, for the irritation of so extensive a surface might be produc- tive of very dangerous consequences; on the contrary, it would be much better to tap it repeatedly, and at short intervals ; and when it has been reduced by this means to a moderate size, then the cure of it by injection may be safely undertaken. Effusion of urine.—Extravasation of urine into the cellular tissue of the scrotum is a frequent consequence of injuries done - to the urethra by rude and awkward attempts to introduce a catheter or bougie in cases of retention from stricture : it may, also, ensue upon the bursting of the urethra behind a tight and old strieturc, for in this situation the canal is not only greatly dilated, but its coats are weakened by inflammation and ulcer- ation ; or it may take place when the urethra has been torn by falls or blows upon the perinseum. In all these cases the urine generally makes its way from the perineeum into the scrotum with destructive rapidity, being directed in this eourse by the connections of the superficial fascia with the arch of the pubes and the triangular ligament. The scrotum may be distended to the size of a child’s head; it is of a dusky red colour, pits and crepitates on pressure with the finger, and these symptoms are usually accompanied with a burning pain in the affected parts ; which soon fall into gan- grene if relief be not speedily afforded by incisions of sufficient length and depth. In neglected cases the urine ascends upon the front and sides of the belly, and may even reach as high as the scapula*, diffusing itself through the delicate cellular tissue which con- nects the superficial fascia of the abdomen to the outer surface of the external oblique muscle. In this situation it is usually 1 Sir Astley Cooper’s Lectures on Surgery, by F. Tyrrell, vol. ii. p. 92.327 KXTIIAVASATION OF URINE. prevented from extending upon the tliighs by the connection between tlie superficial fascia and the lower edge of Poupart’s ligament; but, in one instance, which fell under my notice in the Hotel Dieu of Paris, it had broken through this barrier, and spread its ravages as far downwards as the knees : the pa- tient, I need hardly add, died exhausted by the excessive discharge attendant upon the separation of the sloughs ; which, as will be readily imagined, were of extraordinary extent. The extravasation of a fluid, possessed of such acrimonious (pialitics as the urine, is necessarily accompanied by constitutional dis- turbance of a very serious and alarming character, such as frequent rigors — cold clammy perspirations — feeble rapid pulse—dry brown tongue—anxious and haggard countenance— with, frequently, a peculiar dirty yellow hue of the surface of the body. I have been made acquainted with several instances in which this disorder was mistaken for inflammation of the testicle, and treated as such during several days—a blunder which was fol- lowed by the total destruction of the coverings of the scrotum, j" t Tlie subjoined case may serve to exemplify the preceding remarks: T. C. aet. 52, a tinworker, was admitted into University College Hospital in the month of November 1838, on account of extravasation of urine into the scrotum. This man states, that three days since he perceived the right side of the scrotum to swell suddenly while endeavouring to pass his water; to effec which he is obliged to strain considerably, as he has long been the subject of an old inveterate stricture. The part was very red and painful. The next day he was visited by the surgeon of his parish, who said that the swelling of the scrotum was an inflamed testicle, depending upon irritation about the neck of the bladder, for which he prescribed him to take small doses of blue pill and opium at night. As matters, however, got worse, he was brought to the hospital late in the evening of the fourth day. On ad- mission, the right side of the scrotum was tense, shining, and of a dark colour, painful, and crepitating when handled, with evident fluctuation. The house surgeon immediately laid the swelling freely open by an extensive incision, and gave exit to a large quantity of thin, fetid, dirty-coloured pus, mixed with urine. No. 4 catheter was introduced into the bladder with considerable difliculty, and retained there for two days; when it was withdrawn, and changed for No. 7, whici), as it passed easily, was not kept in as before. This mail had laboured under stricture of the urethra for the last fifteen years, during which period he has twice sufl’ered from effusion of urine into the scrotum and perinaeum; the first time was about six years ago, and the. lI.EMATOCELK, 328 'I’lie treatment wliich is proper to be pursued in tliese cases consists chiefly in making free incisions through the integuments and fasciae wliich confine the effused fluid ; taking care after- wards that too much blood is not lost from any of the vessels that may chance to be divided. If the bladder should be dis- tended, a catheter ought to be introduced, but this is not neces- sary when the urine flows freely through the -wound, until the reparative process is commenced. Hannalocele. — Two varieties of this affection are usually recognised in the schools; in one of which the blood, that is effused, escapes into the loose cellular tissue of the scrotum, giving rise to a general and diffused swelling of the part, accompanied by an evident ecchymosis ; whilst in the other, — Avhich is the only form of the disease recognised by some surgeons,—the blood is collected in one mass within the cavity of the tunica vaginalis of the testicle. The treatment of the first case does not differ in any essential respect from that which is adopted in ecchymoses of other parts of the body, for it usually disappears by degrees when the parts are kept at rest, combined with the use of purgative medicines, and the local application of discutient lotions. If, however, in an aggravated case of this nature inflammation should occur in spite of these means, and be followed by suppuration, then a free incision should be made to permit the easy escape of any matter or sloughs that may be formed.*f* The second case, or that in Avhich the blood is contained within the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, is not unfrequently the consequence of hydrocele, upon which it may supervene with- second about a year after the first. On each occasion the complaint was at first treated as an inflammation of the testicle, by leeches and purgative me- dicine ; and his life only saved by going into the hospital, where he was re- lieved by free incisions, the cicatrices of which are still to be observed upon the scrotum and perinaeum. On account of the thickened and condensed state of the parts consequent upon the destruction of the tissues of the scrotum at the time of the former attacks, the present effusion was neither so rapid or so extensive as it other- wise would have been; but, as it was, the man was restored to health with great difficulty. For a strange misapprehension in case of rupture of the urethra, see Sur- gical Observations, by Sir Charles Bell, Part V. p. 25. t Vide the Surgical Anatomy of the Pennaeuni, p. 69.SCROFULOUS FUNGUS OF THE TESTICLE. 339 out any very apparent existing- cause—perhaps, from the rup- ture of some of the vessels of the tunica vaginalis, -whieli, be- coming varicose, burst and pour their contents into the sac. It is, also, frequently produced by ivounding one of the vessels of the scrotum or testicle with the point of the lancet or trocar used in tapping a hydrocele ; or it may follow a blow upon the scrotum, especially when it is distended by a collection of water in the tunica vaginalis. Tn this way hydrocele is fre- quently complicated with hmmatoecle ; a combination of the two diseases that may render it necessary to lay open freely the tunica vaginalis by incision for its cure. It is sometimes exceedingly difficult to determine with cor- rectness the nature of the swelling of a hseniatocele, and to distinguish it from disease of the testicle itself; for the tu- mour in either case possesses the same figure, opacity, and Aveight ; but it Avould be right, in all cases, Avhere any doubt exists upon this point, to make an opening into the tunica vaginalis before proceeding to perform the operation of castra- tion. Hannatocele, depending upon extravasation of blood into the tunica vaginalis, rarely admits of being cured by any milder means than a free incision into the part, by which the coagu- lated blood may be removed ; after which the wound heals by the second intention. Scrofulous fungus of the testicle.—A peculiar granular pro- trusion frequently takes place after the bursting of a scrofulous abscess of the testicle, and has often been mistaken for a malignant disease of the gland, requiring its extirpation ; but the nature of the aflfection is quite simple, and is dependent upon much the same causes as a hernia cerebri, which it re- sembles in the disposition to form an exuberant growth ; — the resistance afforded by the containing membranes of the organ affected being impaired at one point by a wound or ulceration. The fungus may be removed by the application of strong caustics ; but the readiest method of curing it consists in slicing it off upon a level with the opening in the tunica albuginea, and then bringing the edges of the wound together by a slip of adhesive plaister, or, if the condition of the integument admit of it, by a few sutures.SCROFULOUS FUNGUS OF THE TESTICLE. 330 No doubt, some cases do now and then occur wlierc the swell- ing is so large, and the testis so completely involved in it, that it would prove the best practice to remove both.'|' f This disease is very accurately and beautifully represented in Plate I. figs. 2 and 3, and Plate II. fig. 1, of Sir Astley Cooper’s work on the Ana- tomy and Diseases of the Testicle, Part II. THE END. LONDON: PRINTED BY SAMUEL BENTLEY, Bangor House, Shoe Lane.i\rORTON’S SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE PRINCIPAL REGIONS OF THE HUMAN BODY. I. THE SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE PER1N7EUM; with Four I.itliographic Plates and Tliree Wood-engravings. Royal 8vo. 6s. plain, 7s. 6d. coloured. “ We most cordially recommend Mr. Morton’s treatise, as a satisfactory guide in the dissection of the perinasum and pelvis.”—British and Foreign Medical Review, July, 18.39, p. 2-14. “ Of the plates and wood-cuts which illustrate the work, it is sufficient to say that they are anatomically correct, clear, and beautifully executed. We have no hesitation in recommending this publication as iikely to prove useful to students actually engaged in the schools, and to those who, having entered into practice, may find occasion to keep up or refresh their recol- lections of the anatomy of the perinatum.”—Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, 1839, p. 553. “ Mr. Morton’s book is a good one. It comprises the recent information, and is likely to be very serviceable to young surgeons.”—Med. Chir. Journ. Land. Jan. 1839, p. 175. “A treatise which contains a variety of useful and solid information.”—Lancel, Feb. 2, 1839, p. 699. “ To give the student the best information and directions as to his proceedings in the dissec- tion of this region—the most accurate description in the simplest language—the detail in ana- tomy, as inseparably connected with the/jrac/ice in surgery; the latter giving importance to the former, and the former decision and safety to the latter, is all that can be looked for, and all to be found here. “ The plates illustrating the letter-press are well drawn, and carefully engraved, and show with great distinctness the parts to be represented; that exhibiting the side view of the pelvis is, we think, clearer and more to the matter than any we have seen before. We can conscien- tiously recommend the work, and are glad to find that other equally important regions are about to be treated of by Mr. Morton—we hope in the same simple and useful manner.”— Medical Gazelle, Mag 25, 1839. II. THE SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE GROIN, THE FEMO- RAL AND POPLITEAL REGIONS. Eight Lithograpliic Plates and Eleven Wood-engravings. Royal 8vo. 13^. coloured, 9s. plain. “ The production is altogether one which we can conscientiously recommend to the working student • « • The work will constitute a complete and elaborate treatise, that cannot fail to be highly useful to surgeons in general.”—British and Foreign Medical Review, Oct, 1839, p. 542. “ The volume does Mr. Morton great credit. We cordially wish his book every success.”— Medical Gazelle, Aug. 10, 1839, p. 728. “ We may say with regard to the present production, that it sustains the good character * which we awarded to its predecessor on ‘ the Pcrinaeum.’ Like that volume, as it is equally well and correctly written, it necessarily contains a variety of solid and useful information. The engravings, by Mr. Bagg, afford additional proof of the perfect competency of that artist to represent human anatomy with fidelity on paper.”—Lancet, Aug. 17, 1839, p. 760. “ The execution of this work is highly creditable to Mr. Morton. So far as we have dipped into them, his descriptions of the anatomy of herniaj are exceedingly correct. The work is well adapted for students, and is calculated to supply them with information of a very valuable character. The plates are extremely well executed. • • • -yyg fggon,. mend the work strongly.”—Medico-Chirurgical Journal, Jan. 1, 1840, p. 167. “ The present part of the work forms a good system of surgical anatomy so far as it goes, and will be highly useful to the surgical student. We trust the author will, in like manner, illustrate the anatomical relations of the neck and its parts.”—Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, Jan. 1, 1840, p. 235. III. THE SURGICAL ANATOMY OF INGUINAL HERNI7E, THE TESTIS, AND ITS COVERINGS. Five Plates and Eleven Wood-en- gravings. IV. THE SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE HEAD AND NECK, THE AXILLA, AND REND OF TIIF ELROW. {rrepanug.)Upper Gower Street, December, 1840. NEW AND IMPORTANT WORKS, PRINTED FOR TAYLOR & WALTON. MU. QUAIN’S WORK ON THE ARTERIES. In Imperial Folio, with an 8vo. Volume of Letterpress, THE ANATOMY OF THE ARTERIES, WITH ITS APPLICATIONS TO PATHOLOGY AND OPERATIVE SURGERY, IN LITHOGRAPHIC DRAWINGS, THE SIZE OF NATURE, WITH PRACTICAL COMMENTARIES. BY RICHARD QUAIN, Professor of Anaotmy in University College, and Surgeon to University College Hospital. Parts I. to III. each containing Five Plates, 27 by 21i Inches, and Letterpress. Price 12s. each Part. The object of this Publication is to lay before the Student and Practitioner, by means of accurate delineations and a record of the peculiarities observed in numerous cases, a correct history of the Blood-vessels, arranged especially with a view to its bearing on Practical Surgery. PLAN OF THE WORK. 1st. In the Drawings the Arteries are, in the first place, represented according to their most frequent arrangement, without the accompanying veins and nerves. 2dly. They are shown in connexion with the larger veins and nerves. 3dly. The deviations from that which has been taken as the standard condition of the arteries are illustrated in a series of sketches. 4thly. Such peculiarities of the veins, and occasionally of the nerves and muscles, as appeared likely to be of importance in surgical operations are represented on a reduced scale. 5thly. Illustrations of the state of the Arteries after the Operations for Aneurism will be given at the end of the publication. The letter-press, besides an explanation of, and remarks on the Drawings, will contain— A Series of Tables showing, in a short space, tlie condition of eacli of the larger aneries in about 290 bodies. And some Practical Commentaries, which will consist for the most part of inferences from the fact.s previously set forth, and their application in the performance of the operations of Surgery. PLAN OF PUBLICATION. The Work will be comprised in about 13 Parts, Imperial Folio, and an Octavo Volume of Letterpress. A Part containing Five Plates with its accompanying Letterpress will appear on tlie 1st of every Month. Price 12s. Or packed in a box to send into the country, 13s. One thick Volume, post 8vo. price \2s. DEMONSTRATIONS OF ANATOMY, BEING A GUIDE TO THE DISSECTION OF THE HUxMAN BODY. BY GEORGE VINER ELLIS, One of the Demonstrators of Anatomy in University College. Fourth Edition, revised and enlarged. Illustrated by 140 Engravings on Wood, and four Steel Plates. 1 thick Vol. 8vo. \l. 2s. ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY, FOR THE USE OF STUDENTS, BY .TONES QUAIN, M.D. Member of the Senate of the University of London.January, 1849. PRINTED FOR TAYLOR, WALTON, k MABERLY, 28, Upper Gower Street, & 27, Ivy Lane, Paternoster Row. Dictionary of Greek and Roman Biography and Mythology. By various Writers. Edited by Dr. William Smith. Complete in three volumes medium 8vo, £5 15s. Gd. cloth lettered. (Just Published.) *»* Subsmbers are requested immediately to eomplete their Sets. Dictionary of Greek and Roman Antiquities. By various Writers. Edited by Dr. William Smith. Second Edition. Revised throughout, with very numerous Additions and Alterations. One thick volume 8vo,with several hundred Engravings on Wood. £2. 2s. Published.) Sharpey—Quain. Dr. Quain’s Anatomy. Fifth Edition. Edited by Dr. Sharpey and Mr. Quain, Professors of Anatomy and Physiology in University College, London. Complete in 2 vols. 8VO. Illustrated by four hundred Engravmgs on Wood. Price £2 cloth lettered. (/ast Published.) *«• The Work may also be had for a short time in Three Parts. Part I., 13s. | Part II., 14s. | Part III., 13s. Mohr—Redwood. Practical Pharmacy. Comprising the Arrangements, Apparatus, and Manipulations of the Pharmaceutical Shop and Laboratory. By Francis Mohr, Ph.D., Assessor Pharmacise of the Royal Prussian College of Medicine, Coblentz, and Theophilus Redwood, Professor of Pharmacy to the Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain. One volume, 8vo, illustrated by four hundred Engravings on Wood. 12s. 6(7. cloth lettered. (Just Published.) [Bradbury & Evane, Printers, Wbitefriars.]WORKS PRINTED FOR TAYLOR, WALTON, & MABERLY, o Woodcroft. A Sketch of the Origin and Pro- gress of Steam Navigation, from Authentic Documents. By Bennet Woodcroft, Professor of Machinery in University College, | London. With seventeen Lithograpliic Plates and Woodcuts. Fcap. 4to. 12s. cloth. (Jmt published.) \ Ellis, Demonstrations of Anatomy ; A Guide to the knowledge of the Human Body by Dissection. By George | ViNER Ellis, Junior Professor of Anatomy in University College, London. ^ Second Edition, re-witten. Small 8vo. Pai’t I., 12s. 6cZ. {Just published.) \ *,* The purchaser of Part I. will he entitled to receive Part n. on publication, free of tother | payment. Part II., completing the work, is to be ready by October. [ Series of Works by the Rev. Gorham D. Abbott. {Brother of the Author of The Young Christian.) THE NEW ENGLISH SPELLING-BOOK. Designed to teach Ortho- graphy and Orthoepy : with a Critical Analysis of the Language, and a Classification of its Elements. On a New Plan. By the Rev. Gorham D. j Abbott. Second Edition. 12mo, Is. 6d. cloth. FIRST ENGLISH READER. Edited hy the Rev. Gorham D. Abbott, i Illustrated by Engravings on Wood. 12mo, 2s. 6d. cloth. j SECOND ENGLISH READER. Edited by the Rev.Gorham D. Abbott. 12mo, 3s. 6d. cloth. 'I Iiiebig—Gregory. Researches into the Motion of the Juices in the Animal Body. | By Justus Liebig, M. D., Professor of Chemistry in the University of i Giessen. Edited by William Gregory, M.D., Professor of Chemistry in ' the University of Edinburgh. 8vo. 5s. This work contains in connection with the Author’s remarks on the effects of evaporation } in plants, his opinion as to the origin of the potato disease; also, a very ingenious plan by a German, for the protection of the potato plant from disease. De Morgan. Formal Logic ; Or, the Calculus of Inference, Necessary and Probable. By Augustus De ; Morgan, Professor of Mathematics in University College, London. 8vo. 12s. | I Liebig—Gregory. Turner^s Chemistry. Eighth Edition. Edited by Justus Liebig, M.D., Professor of Chemistry in the University of Giessen, and William Gregory, M.D., Professor of Chemistry in the University of Edinburgh. Complete in 1 volume, 8vo. D. 10s. The Work may also be had in Two Parts. Part I—INORGANIC CHEMISTRY. 15s. cloth. II.—ORGANIC CHEMISTRY. 15s. cloth. “ The present is, in short, tlie most complete and the most luminous system of Chemistrv m the Enghsh language; Md we know no one in France or Germany that comes near it Edmourgh Medical and Surgical Journal, Jan. 1, 1847.28, UrPER GOWER STREET, AND 27, IVY LANE. 8 Kirkes—Paget. A Hand-Book of Physiology. By William Senhouse Kirkes, M.D. ; assisted by James Paget, Lec- turer on General Anatomy and Physiology at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital. 12mo, 12s. 6(7. cloth. {Just Published.) With Illustrations on Steel and Wood. Guesses at Truth.—By Two Brothers. First Series. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. Cs. cloth. Second Series. Second Edition, with lai’gc additions. Fcp. 8vo. 7s. cloth. Latham on the English Language. Second Edition. Revised, with large Additions. 8vo. 15s. “Let him, though ho know no characters but those of his mother tongue, read through the book as well as he can, and we will answer that he will, at the close, find himself in the possession of much larger and clearer notions of general grammar, and especially of comparative etymology, than he w'ould have supposed possible at the outset. He will find here an historical and analytical view, comprising the general ethnographical relations of the English Language, and that, too, in a much more readable form than he may imagine. At all events it will set him thinking, and, in whatever nook or eorner'of the kingdom or of the world his lot may be ciist, observing too; for the very dialect of the province will acquire a new interest, and help him in his studies.” English Journal of Education. Schmitz. Cheap Edition of Niebuhr’s Lectures on the History of Rome from the Earliest Times to the Death of Constantine. Edited by Dr. L. Schmitz, Rector of the High School of Edinburgh. Complete in 3 volumes, 8vo. 20s. *,* Vol. I., 8s. (sold separately); Vols. II. and III., Gs. each. “ It is this real utility of structure and treatment which renders the Lectures under review more popular, and to tyros in Niebuhr’s theories more useful, than his history, to which they form a fitting introduction or companion.”—Sjjcctator. Linwood. Lexicon to Alschylus. Containing a Critical Explanation of the more difficult Passages in the Seven Tragedies. By the Rev. W. Lixwood, A.M., M.R.A.S. Second Edition, revised throughout. 8vo. 12s. “ We have much pleasure in recommending the work to the notice of students, who will derive verj’ great assistance from it in the study of iEschylus.” Classical Museum, No. I. Schmitz. A History of Rome, From the Earliest Times to the Death of Commodus, a.d. 192. By Dr. L. Schmitz, Rector of the High School of Edinburgh, Editor of Niebuhr’s Lectures. One thick volume, 12mo, 7s. 6(7. cloth, or 8s. 6d. sti’ongly bound in leather. This work presents, in a popular form, the results of the investigations of the most distinguished scholars, especially those of Niebuhr, Arnold, Goettling, Rubino, and Becker. The whole is based upon a careful examination of the original sources. “It will undoubtedly take the place of every other Text-Book of the kind in eur Schools and Colleges.”—Bibliotheca Sacra (American), Aug. 1847.4 WORKS PRINTED FOR TAYLOR, WALTON, & MABERLY, i Liebig—Playfair and Gregory. Chemistry in its Applications to Agriculture and Physiology. By Justus Lieuig, M.D., Ph.D., F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry in the University of Giessen. Edited from tlie Manuscript of the Author, by Lyon Playfair, Ph.D., and William Gregory, M.D. Fourth Edition, revised, five, 10.S-. Gd. cloth. “ It is not too much to say, that the publication of Professor Liebitr’s Organic Che- mistry of Agriculture constitutes an era of great importance in the history of Agricul- tural Science. Its acceptance ns a standard h ufiaroidnhle; for fnllmvinr/ closehj in the siraipht path of inductive Philosophy, the conclusions which are drawn from its data are incontrovertihle. We c.an truly say, that ■we have never risen from the perusal of a book with a more thorough conrretiGn of tire profound knowledge, extensive reading, and practical research of its author, and of the invincible power and importance of its reasonings and conclusions, than we have gained from the present volume.”—-Sf/ZiMiunV Journal. Liebig—Gregory. Animal Chemistry 5 Or, Chemistry in its Applications to Physiology and Pathology. By Justus Liebig, M.D., Ph.D., Professor of Chemistry in the University of Giessen. Edited, from the Author’s Manuscript, by William Gregory, M.D., Professor of Chemistry in the University of Edinbnrgh. Third Edition, almost wholly re-wTitten. 8vo. Part I. {the first half of the work) 6s. 6d. cloth, just published. “ Under the heads of animal heat; of the nutrition of the carnivora and herbivora; of the origin and use of the bile; of the relation between the change of matter and the consumption of oxygen ; of the origin and use of the non-nitrogenised elements of food, and particularly of fat, and their relative value as sources of heat; of the effects of alcohol and fermented liquors; of the effects produced on the volume of the inspired air by the different articles of food; and la.stly, of the true functions of the intestinal canal, and the origin, nature, and composition of the faeces, v ith their relation to the food, and to the supply of oxygen;—under all these heads, the reader will find such an amount of new and interesting matter as must satisfy him that we have entered on the true path of discovery, and that the industry of modem chemists has been most profitably employed during the period which has elapsed since the first edition of this work appeared.”—From the Editor's Advertisement. Part II., completing the Work, will be ready very soon. It has been delayed I for the results of important investigations. Latham. An English Grammar for the Use of Schools. By R. G. Latham, A.M., Pellow of King’s College, Cambridge. Second Edition. P2mo, 4s. Gd. cloth. “A work in which Grammar, no longer an assemblage of conventional rules of speech, becomes a philosophical analysis of our language, and an elementary intellectual exercise adapted to the highest purposes of instruction.”—Minutes of Council of Education (St. Mark’s College), Yol. I. 1845. The Classical Museum; A Journal of Philology and of Ancient History and Literature. 8vo. Vol. II., 12s. Gd. cloth. Vols. III. to VI., each 14s. (icL cloth. The work is continued Quarterly. Price of each Part, 3s. Gd. Part XXII. is just published. Sub Rege Sacerdos. Comments on Bishop Hampden’s Case, With an Epitomised Report of the Proceedings. By E. S. Creasy, M.A., of Lincoln’s Inn, Barrister-at-Law ; Professor of History in University College London. 8vo, 3s. ^ o j5 28, UPPER GOWER STREET, AND 27, IVY LANE. Classstcal glntiqmtics, JiJtosvapljg, Jinstotg, DICTIONARY OR GREEK AND ROMAN ANTIQUITIES. Edited by Die William Smith. New Edition. One thick vol. 8vo. £2. 2s., cloth lettered. (See page 1.) DICTIONARY OF GREEK AND ROMAN BIOGRAPHY AND MYTHOLOGY. Edited by William Smith, LL.D. Medium 8vo. Illustrated by numerous Engravings on Wood, Complete m Three Volumes. Vol. I. (1100 pages), IL 16s. cloth lettex'ed. II. (1200 pages), IL 16s. ditto. III. Completing the Work, £2 3s. 6rf. {Jitsl published.) *** Subscriber are requested immediately to complete their copies. “ There is no need of pronouncins any formal culogium on this new Classical Dic- tionary, for in fact it is the only one with any pretensions to the name in our language; and as such it must form part of the library of every student who desires to become acquainted with the mind of imtiquity.”—Athenceum. NIEBUHR’S HISTORY OF ROME, FROM THE EARLIEST TIMES TO THE DEATH OF CONSTANTINE. 5 vols. 8vo,3L 2s. Gd. Vols. I. and II., Tx’anslated by Bishop Tiiirlwall and Archdeacon Hare. 16s. each. Vol. III. Translated by Dr. Smith and Dr. Schmitz. 18s. Gd. Vols. IV. and V. Lectures. Edited by Dr. Schmitz. 2 vols. 12s. NIEBUHR’S LECTURES ON THE HISTORY OF ROME, FROM THE EARLIEST TIMES TO THE DEATH OF CONSTAN- TINE. Edited by Dr. L. Schmitz, Rector of the High School of Edinburgh. Cheap Edition. 3 vols. 8vo. 20s. cloth. I. Earliest History to the First Punic War. 1vol. 8vo, 8s. (See p. 3.) II. First Punic War to the Death of Constantine. 2 vols. 8vo, 12s. “They maybe used as an introduction to, or as a running commentary on, Niebuhr’s great work Even those who by a careful study have acquired a thorough familiarity with the three volumes of the Roman History, will find in these Lectures much that is new and striking.”—Preface. SCHMITZ’S HISTORY OF ROME, FROM THE EARLIEST TIMES TO THE DEATH OF COMMODUS. 1 vol. 12mo. 7s. Gd. cloth, or 8s. Gd. strongly bound in leather. (See page 3.) ROBSON’S QUESTIONS ON DR. SCHMITZ’S HISTORY OF ROME. 12mo, 2s. AKERMAN’S (J. Y.) NUMISMATIC MANUAL; or. Guide TO THE Collection and Study of Greek, Roman, and English Coins. 8VO, with numerous Engravings, IL Is. A SCHOOL DICTIONARY OF ANTIQUITIES ; selected and abridged from the “Dictionary of Greek and Roman Antiquities.” By William Smith, LL.D. One small volume. Two Hundred Woodcuts. I Os. Gd. KEATS’ (JOHN) POETICAL WORKS. In one vol. leap., with a Portrait from a Drawing by Hilton. Price Bs. cloth. “ As it is, there is not a poet living who could surpass the material of ‘ Endymion,’ a poem, with all its faults, far more full of beauties.”—/UtWw’s 1‘cncillirujs by the JPay. EXERCISES IN LOGIC; designed for the Use of Students in Colleges. By J. T. Gray, Ph.D. 12rao. Price .3s. 6c7. cloth.WORKS PRINTED FOR TAYLOR, WALTON, & MABERLY, 6 ;! POTTER’S ELEMENTARY TREATISE ON MECHANICS, 11 for the use of the Junior University Students. By Richard Potter, A.M., 11 late Fellow of Queen’s College, Cambridge, Professor of Natural Philosophy j in University College, London. Second Edition, revised, 8vo, with numerous Diagrams. 8s. 6d. cloth. j POTTER’S ELEMENTARY TREATISE ON OPTICS. 8vo, with numerous Diagrams. 9s. 6d. cloth. I This volume contains all the requisite propositions carried to first approximations; and the construction of Reflecting and Refracting Telescopes and Microscopes, the Solar, i Oxyhydrogen and Lucernal Microscopes ; the Magic and Phantasmagoria Lantern; I: the Daguerreotype; Camera Obscura; Hadley’s Sextant and Reflecting Circles ; the p Optical Square; the Screw Micrometer; the Goniometer, &c. i! YOUNG’S LECTURES ON NATURAL PHILOSOPHY AND i THE MECHANICAL ARTS. A New Edition, with References and Notes, by the Rev. P. Kelland, M.A., F.R S. London and Edinburgh, late Fellow of j: Queen’s College, Cambridge, Professor of Mathematics, &c. in the University of Edinburgh. 2 vols. 8vo, with 43 Copper Plates. IL 4s. cloth. i| “ All who seek information should know that Young is not merely a popular writer, I but by far the most popular of those whose acciuacy ctin be relied on in a vast range of subjects, and who have actually written through that range.”—Athenceum. TWELVE PLANISPHERES, forming a Guide to the Stars for j, every Night in the Year, with an Introduction. 8vo. 6s. 6rf. cloth. I UE MORGAN’S ELEMENTS of ARITHMETIC. By Augustus De Morgan, Professor of Mathematics in University College, London. Fifth Edition, with Eleven new Appendixes. Royal 12mo. 5s. cloth. “ At the time when this work was first published, the importance of establishing arithmetic in the young mind, upon reason and demonstration, was not admitted by many. The case is now altered: schools exist in which rational arithmetic is taught, and mere rules are made to do no more than their proper duty. There is no necessity to advocate a change which is actually in progress, as the works which are published every day sufficiently show. And my principal reason for alluding to the subject here is merely to warn those who want nothing but routine, that this is not the book for their purpose.”—Author’s Preface. DE MORGAN’S ARITHMETICAL BOOKS AND AUTHORS. From the invention of Printing to the present time ; being Brief Notices of a large number of Works drawn up from actual inspection. Royal 12mo. 6s. “ A great number of persons are employed in teaching arithmetic in the United Kingdom. In publishing this work, I have the hope of placing before many of them more material for the prevention of inacem-ate knowledge of the literature of their science than they have hitherto been able to command, without both expense and research.”—Preface. DE MORGAN’S ELEMENTS OF ALGEBRA, preliminary to the Differential Calculus. Second Edition. Royal 12mo. 9s. cloth. DE MORGAN’S ELEMENTS OF TRIGONOMETRY AND ! TRIGONOMETRICAL ANALYSIS, preUminary to the Differential Calculus. I Royal 12mo. 9s. cloth. ! TABLES OF LOGARITHMS, COMMON AND TRIGONO- I METRICAL, TO FIVE PLACES. Under the Swperintcndence of the Society for the Biffitsion of Useful Knowledge. Foolscap 8vo. 3s. sewed. REINER’S LESSONS ON FORM; or. An Introduction to j Geometry, as given in a Pestalozzian School, Cheam, Sun-ey. 12mo, with j numerous Diagr<ams. 3s. 6rf. cloth. I “ It has been foimd in the actual use of these lessons, for a considerable period, that a j larger average number of pupils are brought to study the Mathematics with decided I success, and that all pursue them in a superior manner.”—ifey. I>r. Mayo.7 •2!i, UPPER GOWER STREET, AND 27, IVY LANE. REINER’S LESSONS ON NUMBER, as given at a Pestaloz- ziaii School, at Cheaiu, Surrey. Second Edition. Consisting of THE MASTER’S MANUAL. P2mo. 4s. U. cloth. THE SCHOLAR’S PRAXIS. 12mo. 2s. bound. RITCHIE’S PRINCIPLES OF GEOMETRY, familiarly Illus- trated, and applied to a variety of useful purposes. Designed for the Instruc- tion of Young Persons. Second Edition, revised and enlarged. 12mo, with 150 Woodcuts. 3s. 6rf. cloth. RITCHIE’S PRINCIPLES OF THE DIFFERENTIAL AND INTEGRAL CALCULUS, familiarly Illustrated and applied to a variety of useful purposes. Second Edition. Revised by J. A. Spencer, B.A., Assistant Mathematical Master in University College School. 12mo, with Diagrams. 4s. Qd. cloth. “ Dr. Ritchie was a man of clear head, apt at illustration and fond of elements. We have heal’d that he wrote this work when, late in life, he began to learn the subject. We believe our readers would find it a useful first book.”—Atheuwum. BARLOW’S TABLES OF SQUARES, CUBES, SQUARE ROOTS, CUBE ROOTS, and RECIPROCALS, up to 10,000. Stereotype Edition, examined and corrected. Under the Superintendence of the Society for the Diffusion of Usef ul Knowledge. Royal 12mo. 8s. “ They will be foimd useful to the more scientific class of Engineers and Surveyors, for immediately obtaining results which are now usually got by logarithmic calculation, or the sliding rule; to actuaries (in the table of reciprocals); to schoolmasters, for ob- taining examples of the ordinary rules of Arithmetic; to all, in fact, who are calculators by choice or necessity, though of course to some more than to others.”—Preface. 3t\erent $ntiTituu:tor|) iCerturesJ* PROFESSOR SCOTT ON THE ACADEMICAL STUDY OF A VERNACULAR LITERATURE. 8vo. Is. PROFESSOR NEWMAN ON THE RELATIONS OF FREE KNOWLEDGE TO MORAL SENTIMENT. 8vo. Is. PROFESSOR RAMSAY. PASSAGES IN THE HISTORY OF GEOLOGY. 8vo. Is. ©lan'esi anli Slournalig^ THE LITERARY DIARY, or Complete Common-Place Book. Post 4to, ruled throughout and half-bound. 12s. A POCKET COMMON-PLACE BOOK. With Locke’s Index. Post 8vo, half-bound. 8s. 6d. THE STUDENT’S JOURNAL. Arranged, Printed, and Ruled for receiving an Account of every Day’s Employment for the space of One Year. Post 8vo, half-bound. 4s. 6c^. THE PRIVATE DIARY, formed on the Plan of “ The Student’s Journal,” for general Use. Post 8vo, half-bound. 4s. 6d. OUTLINE MAPS: — Mercatoe — Europe — British Isles. Three Maps, folio, stitched in cover. Is.; single Maps, id. each. GEOGRAPHICAL PROJECTIONS :—Mercator—Europe— British Isles. Three Maps, folio, stitched in cover. Is.; single Maps, 4rf. each. TEACHING MAPS :—England, Wales, and Part of Scotland, I. Rivers, Mountains, &c. Piice 6d. II. Towns. Price 6d.8 WORKS PRINTED FOR TAYLOR, WALTON, & MABERLY, 11 CREEK. Liuwood’s Lexicon to ^scliylus. ' New Edition, revised. 8vo. 12«. (See page 2). Allen’s New Greek Delectus; being Sentences for Translation from Greek 1 into English, and English into Greek; arranged in a systematic progression. By Da. llAPHAKi, KUhnbk. Translated and ' Edited from the German. Second Edition, i revised. 12mo. 4j. cloth. * “ It is an analytical and synthetical praxis on I the forms of the Greek language, communicating, I by the way, considerable knowledge of the syntax, and information on points connected with the I Greek writers.”—Preface. |i Allen’s Constructive Greek Ex- I ercises, for teaching Greek from the begin- ning by writing. Second Edition, revised and enlarged. 12mo. S«. cloth. The pupil, on beginning Greek, needs no book besides this. He has here Grammar, Vocabulary, and Exercise Book. Hardy’s Anabasis of Cyrus, Book I., Chapters 1 to 6. Bitei'a! and Inter- linear Translation of the First Chapter, and a Lexicon to the whole, 12rao. .3«. 6d. cloth. London Greek Grammar; de- signed to exhibit, in small compass, the Elements of the Greek Language. Edited by a Graduatb of the University of Oxford. Fifth Edition. 12mo. 3s. 6d. cloth. Plato: tlie Apology of Socrates, I the Crito, and Part of the Phfedo; with I Notes (translated into English) from Stall- ! BAUM and Schleibrmachkr’sIntroductions. Edited by Dr. Wm. Smith. 12mo. is. 6d. cl. Life of Socrates. By Dr. G. WiGGERS. Translated from the German, with Notes. 12mo. 3s. 3d. Co.vTENTs :—Life of Socrates, by Wiggers— Life of Socrates, by Diogenes Laertius— Schleiermacher on the Worth of Socrates as a Philosopher. Tayler’s (Rev. Charles) Intro- duction to the Art of Composing Greek lambics, in Imitation of the Greek Trage- dians, designed for the Use of Schools. 12mo. 2s. 3d. Greek Authors, selected for the use of Schools; containing portions of Lucian’s Dialogues, Anacreon, Homer’s Iliad, Xenophon’s Memorabilia, and Hero- dotus. 12mo, 3s. 3d. cloth. Taylor’s What is the Power of the Greek Article ? 8vo, 3s. 3d. \ Four Gospels in Greek, for the j use of Schools. Fcap. 8vo, 3s. 3d. cloth. EATinr. ; Allen’s New Latin Delectus: I being Sentences for Ti'ansljition from Latin into English, and English into Latin; ar- ranged in a systematic progression, on the Plan of the Greek Delectus. Second Edition, revised. 12mo, 4^. cloth. Robson’s ConstiTictive Latin Exercises, for teaching the Elements of the Language on a system of Analysis and Syn- thesis, with Copious Vocabularies. By J. Kobson, B.A., Assistant Master in Uni- versity College Sehool. 12mo, 3s. 3d. Allen’s Etymological Analysis of Latin Verbs. Fcap. 8vo, bs. Allen’s Eclogse Ciceronianse; containing Narrations, Maxims, Descrip- tions, Characters, Philosophical Pieces, and Letters. Selected from the Works of Cicero. 12mo, 2^. 3d. cloth. Caesar for Beginners. Latin and English ; with the original Text at the end. ' I2mo, 3s. (id. cloth. Hall’s Principal Roots of the * Latin Language, simplified by a display of their incorporation into the English Tongue; with copious Notes. Fifth Edition. 12mo, 4s. 3d. cloth. Hodgson’s (Provost of Eton) Mythology for Versification ; or a Brief Sketch of the Fables of the Ancients, pre- pared to be rendered into Latin Verse. Fourth Edition. 12mo, 3s. cloth. Key to ditto. 8vo, 7s. cloth. I Hodgson’s (Provost of Eton) . Select Portions of Sacred History, conveyed | in sense for Latin Verses. Third Edition. 12mo, 3s. 3d. cloth. Key to ditto. Royal 8vo, 10s. 6d. cloth. Hodgson’s (Provost of Eton) Sacred Lyrics; or. Extracts from the Pro- phetical and other Scriptures of the Old Testament; adapted to Latin Versification in the prineipal Metres of Horace. 12mo, 6s. 3d. cloth. Caesar’s Helvetic War. In Latin and English, Interlinear, with the original Text at the end. 12mo, 2s. cloth. Latin Authors, selected for the use of Schools; containing portions of Phaidrus, Ovid’s Metamorphoses, Virgil’s iEneid, Casar, and Tacitus. 12mo, 3s. 3d. cloth.9 28, UPPER GOWER STREET, AND 27, IVY LANE. j London Latin Oraniniar; in- : eluding the Eton Syntax and Prosody in English, accompanied with Notes. Edited j by a CJraduate of the University of Oxford. ! Twelfth Edition. 12mo, '2s. (W. cloth. ' New Latin Heading Book ; con- 1 sisting of short Sentences, easy Narrations, and Descriptions, selected from C®sar’s Gallic War ; arranged in systematic pro- gression. With a Dictionary, l^mo. 3s. G(/. cloth. “The i)lan of this work differs in one important point from other works of a similar kind. The sentences have been selected exclusively from Cresar’s Commentary on the Gallic War, instead of being taken from different authors, as has I usually been the ctise. There is an obvious advantage in this plan; the same words are con- tinually repeated by the same author in a simple narrative; and the pupil thus becomes accus- tomed to his style, and finds the work of transla- tion grow easier every day, which cannot be the c.ase when the extracts are taken from in;my dif- ferent authors, whose style must of course vary exceedingly.”—Pn/ace. Tacitus. Germauia, Agricola, and First Book of the Annals. With Notes translated into English, from Uuperti, Piissow, Walch, and Bdtticher’s remarks on the style of Tacitus. 12mo. os. cloth. Virgil’s iEueid. The First Six Books, with an interpaged translation, line for line, and numerous Notes. Second Edition. 12mo. 6i. 6cl. Cicero. — Pro Lege Manilia. 12mo, sewed, U. ElTGIiISH. Latham’s English Language. Second Edition revised. I vol. 8vo. 15s. (See page 3.) ! Latham’s First Outlines of Lo- i gic, applied to Grammar and Etymology. 12mo, Is. Gii. cloth. Latham’s Elementary English Grammar. For the Use of Schools. Second Edition. 12mo. 4s. Gd. cloth. “ llis comparison of the old Saxon forms with the modem English, his classification of verbs under the heads of weak and strong forms, and his remarks on the derivation and construction of English words, afford evidence of laborious inves- tigiition and research, ;md are a valuable contribu- tion towards reducing our language within its proper limits.”—Classical Museum. Green’s Questions on the above, with an Index of Keference. 12mo. cloth, 1 l.v. Gd. m ^ - ITAX.IAN'. Panizzi’s Extracts from Italian ' I’rose Writers. One thick volume, 12mo. 10s. Gil. boards. | Panizzi’s Elementary Italian Grammar. 12mo. 3s. bound. ! i FREirCH. Complete Course of the French Language. By P. F. Merlet, Professor of French in University College, London. Merlet’s French Grammar, divided into Three Parts ; the Pronuncia- tion, the Accidence, and the Syntax. New Edition. 12mo. 5s. 6d. bound. Meiiet’s Key to the French !■ Grammar. 12mo. 3s. Gil. bound. jj Merlet’s Le Traducteur; or. His- i torical. Dramatic, and Miscellaneous ^ Selections from the best French tVliters; | accompanied by Explanatory Notes; a i selection of Idioms, &c. New Edition. |i 12mo. 5s. (id. bound. |j . . . I Merlet’s Petit Tableau Litteraire j de la France; containing an Essay on ! French Literature, with Specimens of the \ best Authors, from the earliest period ' to the present time ; a sequel to “ Le Tra- 1 ducteur.” 12mo. (is. bound. Merlet’s Dictionary of Difficul- ties; Appendix to the French Grammar. Second Edition. 12mo. 4s. bound. Con- taining an explanation of the peculiarities of the French Language—Complete List of Adjectives, showing why they are placed before or after the Substantive—Compre- hensive List of Idioms, and Proverbs now in use — List of Synonymes — Slercantile Expressions, Phrases, and Letters, &c. Sec. HEBREW. Ilurwitz’s Grammar of the He- brew Language. 8vo. I3s. cloth. Or in Two Parts, sold separately: Elements. 8vo. Cloth, 4s. 6d. Etymology and Syn- tax. 8vo. Cloth, 9.?. “ Mr. Ilurwitz’s Grammar is the best ele- mentary work of its kind extant in the English lan- guage.”—Journal of Education, No. 9. Greenfield’s Book of Genesis in English Hebrew, accompanied by an Inter- linear Translation, substontially the same as the authorised English version ; Philo- logical Notes, and a Grammatical Introduc- tion. Fourth Edition. 8vo. 8s. cloth. With the original Text in Hebrew characters at the end. 8vo. 10s. fid. cloth.WORKS PRINTED FOR TAYLOR, WALTON, & MABERLY, 10 INTERLINEAR TRANSLATIONS. LOCKERS SYSTEM OF CLASSICAL INSTRUCTION, Restoring the Method of Teaching formerly practised in all Public Schools. The Series consists of the following Interlinear Translations ; with the Original Text, in which the quantity of the doubtful Vowels is denoted ; Critical and Explanatory Notes, &c. By means of these Works, that excellent System of Tuition is effectually restored whieh was established by Dean Colet, Erasmus, and Lilly, at the foundation of St. Paul’s School, and was then enjoined by authority of the State,’to bo adopted in all other Public Semi- naries of Learning throughout the kingdom. Each volume 2s. 6d. Latin. 1. PnjiDRUs’s Fables of .<Esop. 2. Ovid’s Metamorphoses. Book I. 3. Virgil’s .(Eneid. Book I. 4. Parsing Lessons to Virgil. 5. Cajsar’s Invasion of Britain. 6. Tacitus’s Life of Agricola. Part I. Greek. 1. Lucian’s Dialogues. Selections. 2. The Odes of Anacreon. 3. Homer’s Iliad. Book I. 4. Parsing Lessons to Homer. 5. Xenophon’s Memorabilia. Book I. 6. Herodotus’s Histories. Selections. I I Italian. Stories from Italian Writers ;—Al- FIERI, BaRETTI, CaSTIGLIONE, &C. French. SiSMONDI ; THE BaTTLES OF CrESSY AND Poictiers, Gcrma/n,. Stories from German Writers. An Essay, explanatory of the System. 12mo. . . .Os. 6cZ. Also, to accompany the Latin and Greek Series. The London Latin Grammar. 12mo 2s. 6d. The London Greek Grammar. 12mo 3s. 6d. SINGING. The Singing Master. Sixth Edition {one half the original price). 8vo. 6s. cloth lettered, gilt edges. No. I. FIRST LESSONS IN SINGING AND THE NOTATION OP MUSIC. Price U. No. IL RUDIMENTS OF THE SCIENCE OP HARMONY, OR THOROUGH BASS. Price Is. No. III. THE FIRST CLASS TUNE-BOOK. Thirty Simple and Pleasing Airs, ar- ranged, with Suitable Words, for Young Children. Price Is. No. IV. THE SECOND CLASS TUNE- BOOK. Price Is. 6d. No. V. THE HYMN TUNE-BOOK. Price Is. 6d. The Vocal Exercises, Moral Songs and Hymns, with the Music, may also be had, printed on 87 Cards. Price 2d. each Card, or Twenty-five for 3s. The Words without the Music may be had in Three SmaU Books. Moral Songs from the First Class Tune- Book, Id. Second Class Tune- Book, Id. Hymns from the Hymn Tune-Book, IJd. Helen S. HerschelFs Fireside Harmony; or Domestic Recreation in Part Singing. A Selection of favourite old Glees, Rounds, and Canons; arranged to words suitable for Families and Schools. Second Edition. Demy 8vo. (oblong) 2s.6d.11 •28, UPPER GOWER STREET, AND 27, IVY LANE DRAWING. Lineal Drawing Copies for the Earliest Instruction. Comprising 200 Sub- jects on 24 slieets, mounted on 12 pieces of thick pasteboard. By the Author of “ Drawing for Young Children.” In a Port- folio, 5^. 6(i. Drawing Copies for Elementary Instruction. By the Author of “ Drawing for Young Children.” 2 Sets, each consist- ing of 12 Subjects, mounted on thick paste- board. 3s. Od. each Set, in a Portfolio. Deacon’s Elements of Perspec- tive Drawing, or the Science of Deline- ating Real Objects. Being a Manual of Directions for using a Set of Models, com- posing a variety of Picturesque Forms. Suitable for the Practice of Beginners. Illustrated with Eight Plates, 8vo. 4*-. Drawing Models, consisting of Forms for constructing various Buildings, Gateways, Castles, Bridges, &o. The Build- ings will be found suflRciently large to be drawn from by a numerous Class at the same time. In a Box, with a smalt Trea- tise on Drawing and Perspective. Price 21. 10*. Length of the Box, 18J inches ; breadth, 13 inches ; height, 8J inches. Traclisell’s Drawing Models, consisting of Rectilinear Figures, Polygonal and Mixtilinear Models, Jlodels chiefly for Shading, and Models for application and further practice. Price of the complete set 1(W. Any Figure may be purchased separately. The whole Collection, with the exception of the houses, is painted white, to resemble plaster. A complete Collection on a larger scale, such as that used in the Mechanics’Institu- tion, Liverpool, 15L A detailed Prospectus may be had on application. Drawing Materials. A Quarto Copy Book of 24 leaves, common paper, 6d. Ditto . . ditto paper of superior quality, 1#. 3d. Pencils with very thick lead, B.B.B. 2s. per half dozen. Ditto .... ditto . . F. at U. (id. ditto. Drawing Chalk, 9d. per dozen sticks, in a Box. Port-crayons for holding the Chalk, 4d. each. EDUCATIONAL MODELS FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS, MECHANICS’ INSTITUTIONS, AND FOR PRIVATE INSTRUCTION. A Set of Apparatus for Hydro- statics, Hydraulics, and Pneumatics; with a I’amphlet containing full Descriptions and Directions for Performing many Ex- periments. Price 61. 6i. in a box. Apparatus for Cohesion, Capil- lary Attraction, Electric and Magnetic Attraction, Impenetrability and Inertia; with Descriptions and Diagrams. Price 2U. in a box. A Machine for Illustrating Cen- trifugal Motion; including a representa- | tion of the Governor of a Steam Engine. 1 In a box, 1 Of. Attwood’s Machine for Explain- j ing the Laws of Falling Bodies: with ' Apparatus attached for Illustrating the i Theory of the Pendulum. Price of Att- wood's Machine, with a “ Companion,” 21. 2s. ; additional Apparatus, for the Pen- dulum, U. Is. Sets of Mechanical Powers; containing the Lever—Wlieel and Axle— A Series of Pulleys—The Inclined Plane— Wedge—Screw; with Examples of the Parallelogram of Forces—Centre of Gravity —Friction—Collision of Elastic Bodies— Compound Lever. £ s. d. 1. For large Lecture-rooms (size of the frame : height 3 feet 1 inch; width, 3 feet) 8 8 0 2. For Schools and smaller Lecture- rooms (height of the frame, 2 feet 6 inches; width 2 feet 3 inches) 5 5 0 3. A Smaller Set, omitting the Pa- rallelogram of Forces and Col- lision of Elastic Bodies (height of the frame, 2 feet 1 inch; width, 1 foot llj inches) . . 2 12 (i 4. A Commoner Set (height of the frame, 2 feet; width, 1!) inches) 1 C 3 The Bent Lever. Convertihle into a Bent Lever or Toggle Joint Press. With weights, and a description. Price 10^.12 WORKS PRINTED FOR TAYLOR, WALTON, & MABERLY, EBUCilTION’ii.Ii MOBEIiS—continued. Apparatus for Magnetism. Price Geometrical Solids 18i. inabox. i A Train of Spur Wheels, ! mounted on a mahogany stand, with weights. Price 2U. in a box. j A Double Inclined Plane, with ; an Application of the Composition and \ Resolution of Forces. In a box, 10^. A Portable Hydrostatic Bellows; with Description and Diagi'am, including a weight. Price 2U. in a box. A Sectional Model of the Steam Engine; by which the motions of the several parts, its internal structure, and the high and low pressure principles, can be easily explained. Price 21. 2s. in a box. A Pyrometer, for Showing the Expansion of Metals. Price in Wood, to Illus- trate Dr. Lardner’s Euclid. Solid Geo- metry, Book I. Price "is. 6d. MINASrS MECHANICAL DIAGRAMS. For the Use of Lecturers, and Schools. Complete in Five Numbers, each containing Three Sheets of Diagrams, price3s. each Number, coloured, illustrating the following subjects:— 1 & 2. Composition of Forces.—3. Equilibrium i Sc 5. Levers.—fi. Steelyard, Brady Ba- lance, and Danish Balance 7- Wheel and Axle.—8. Inclined plane.—9, 10,11, Pulleys.— 12. Hunter’s Screw.—13 & 14. Toothed Wheels.—15. Combination of the Mechanical Powers. The Diagrams are printed on large sheets of paper, measuring 2 feet 11 inches by 2 feet. This size will be found suited for large lecture rooms. Diagrams The Five Regular Solids —1. Tetrahedron ; 2. Octa- hedron ; 3. Icosahedron; 4. Hexahe- dron; 5. Pentagonal Dodecahedron; 6- Rhomboidal Dodecahedron; 7. Bipyra- midal Dodecahedron; 8. Trapezohedron. Pyramids.—9. Triangular; 19. Quadri- lateral; 11. Hexagonal; 12. Octagonal. Prisms.—13. Triangular; 14. Quadri- lateral; 15. Hexagonal; 16. Octagonal.— 17. Sphere; 18. Cylinder; 19. Cone. The Set in a box, 9^. Another Set, containing the Conic Sections. Price 16s. A Larger Set. Price 11. II^. Qd. An Instrument for Teaching Geometry ; convertible into a Theodolite, Spirit Level, Hadley’s Sextant, and Wollas- ton’s Goniometer. Price 21. 12s. 6d. in a box. A Pair of Large Dividers, for making Diagrams on a black board. Price 4s. CHEMISTRY. TURNER^S ELEMENTS OF CHEMISTRY. Eighth Edition. Edited by Justus Liebig, M.D., Professor of Chemistry in the University of Giessen, and William Gregory, M.D., Professor of Chemistry in the University of Edinbiu’gh. 1 vol. 8vo. U. iOs. (See page 2.) Also, in Two Parts. Part I.—INORGANIC CHEMISTRY. 15s. II.—ORGANIC CHEMISTRY. 15s. “ 'I’he present is, in short, the most complete and the most luminous system of Chemistry in the English language; and we know no one in ITance or Germany that comes near it.”—Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, Jan. 1, 1847. GREGORY’S OUTLINES OF CHEMISTRY, for the use of Students. By William Gregory, M.D., Professor of Chemistry in the Uni- versity of Edinburgh. Second Edition, revised and enlarged. Complete in 1 vol. foolscap 8vo, 12s. cloth. Part I.—(Inorganic Cuemistry), 5s. cloth. Part II.—(Organic Chemistry), 7s. cloth. ‘ ‘ This is beyond comparison the best introduction to Chemistry which has yet appeared. The directions lor preparing substances are usually confined to the best method, so that brevity and selcctness arc combined. The size and price of this little work, as well as its intrinsic merits, commend it to every student of Chemistry.”—Lancet.13 28, UPPER GOWER STREET, AND 27, IVY PANE WILL’S OUTLINES OF THE COURSE OF QUALITATIVE ANALYSIS FOLLOWED IN THE GIESSEN LABORATORY. By IIknuy Will, Ph.D., Professor Extraordinary of Chemistry in tlie Univei'sity of Giessen. With a Preface, by Baron Liebig, 8vo, 6s. ; or with the Tables mounted on linen, 7s. “ The present work contains an accurate description of the course I liave followed in my laboratory, with great advantage, for twenty-live years.”—Bauon Likmg. PARNELL’S ELEMENTS OF CHEMICAL ANALYSIS, QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE. By Edward Andrew Parnell, Author of “ Applied Chemistry ; in Arts, Manufactures, and Domestic Economy.” Second Edition, x’evised throughout, and enlarged by the addition of 200 pages 8vo, 14s. cloth. PARNELL’S APPLIED CHEMISTRY; IN MANUFAC- TURES, ARTS, AND DOMESTIC ECONOMY. With numerous Wood Engx-avings and Illustrations. Vol. /., 13s. cloth lettered, contains:— Preliminary Observations—Gas Illumination—Preservation of Wood— Dyeing and Calico Printing. Vol. II., 13s., cloth lettered, contains:— Glass—Starch—Tanning—Caoutchouc—Borax and the Boracic Lagoons —Soap—Sulphur and Sulphuric Acid, and Soda. PETZHOLDT’S LECTURES TO FARMERS ON AGRICUL- TURAL CHEMISTRY. People’s Edition. 1 vol. small 8vo., 4s. 6d. sewed ; 5s. cloth. “The author does not overload his subject with needless details, which is the vice of some such books, but he confines the reader to those points only which he ought to be well acquainted with, and these he explains in a clear and simple way.”—Gardeners’ Chronicle. LIEBIG’S RESEARCHES INTO THE MOTION OF THE JUICES IN THE ANIMAL BODY. 8vo. 5s. (See page 2.) LIEBIG’S FAMILIAR LETTERS ON CHEMISTRY, AND ITS RELATIONS TO COMMERCE, PHYSIOLOGY, AND AGRICUL- TURE. Third Edition. Foolscap 8vo, 4s. 6d. LIEBIG’S FAMILIAR LETTERS ON CHEMISTRY, Second Series. THE PHILOSOPHICAL PRINCIPLES AND GENERAL LAWS ! OF THE SCIENCE. Foolscap 8vo, 5s. “ The plan of the Letters is as simple and intelligible as their style. The author sets out with a general consideration of Chemistry ; and of the rank to which it is entitled among the other sciences; treats shortly of chemical affinity and chemical equivalents, illustrating the symbols and formulae by which these affinities are expressed; explains the atomic theoir; considers the relation of heat, light, electricity, and gravity to chemical force, and shows wherein these forces differ from what has been called the vital principle; and lastly discusses the transformations—fermentation, putrefaction, and decay—which take place in organic bodies when removed from the influence of vitality.”—Chambers’ Journal. Notice of Second Series. LIEBIG’S ANIMAL CHEMISTRY; or, CHEMISTRY IN ITS APPLICATIONS TO PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY. Thix-d Edition, almost wholly re-written. Part I., 6s. 6d. cloth. (See page 4.) LIEBIG’S CHEMISTRY IN ITS APPLICATIONS TO AGRI- CULTURE AND PHYSIOLOGY. Fourth Edition, x'evised. 8vo, lO.s. 6d. cloth. (See page 4.) PORTRAIT OF PROFESSOR LIEBIG. 7s. M.WORKS PRINTED FOR TAYLOR, WALTON, & MABERLY, 14 CHEMISTRV—continued. PLATTNER ON THE USE OF THE BLOWPIPE IN THE EXAMINATION OF MINERALS, ORES, FURNACE PRODUCTS, AND OTHER METALLIC COMBINATIONS. Translated, with Notes, by Du. J. S. Muspratt. With a Preface by Professor Liebig. Illustrated by numerous Wood Engravings. 1 vol. 8vo, 10s. Gd. FRESENIUS AND WILL’S NEW METHODS OF ALKA- LIMETRY, AND OF DETERMINING THE COMMERCIAL VaLUE OF AciDS, AND Manganese. I2mo, 4s. cloth. “ This little work will prove of the highest imiyjrtance to Calico Printers, Bleachers, Dyers, Manufacturers of Soap, Paper, and Prussiate of Potash; also to Chemists, and to dealers in Alkalies, Acids, INSTRUCTIONS FOR MAKING- UNFERMENTED BREAD; with Observations on its Properties, Medicinal and Economic. By a Physi- cian. Fifteenth Edition, containing the New Formulae. 8vo, Zd.; or, Postage free, 5d. “The author, by directing attention to a subject of the highest importance in a social and economical, as well as a medical point of view, has rendered a great service to the public.”—Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal. “ We recommend this Pamphlet to the serious attention of the public.”—Times. SURGICAL ANATOMY. « MORTON’S SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE PRINCIPAL REGIONS. Royal 8vo. Plates and Woodcuts. PERIN.^EUM. Four Plates and Three Woodcuts. 6s. plain, 7s. 6d. coloured. GROIN, FEMORAL AND POPLITEAL REGIONS. Eight Plates and Eleven Wood Engravings. 9s. plain, 13s. coloured. INGUINAL HERNIA, TESTIS AND ITS COVERINGS. Five Plates and Eleven Woodcuts. 12s. coloured, 9s. plain. EIGHT PLATES OF THE HEAD AND NECK, THE AXILLA, AND BEND OF THE ELBOW. 13s. coloured, 7s. 6d. plain. “ The production (volume on the Groin) is altogether one which we can conscientiously recommend to the working student The work will constitute a complete and elaborate treatise, that cannot fail to be highly useful to surgeons in general.”—Erifish and Foreign Medical Eevieio. “ The present work (Inguinal Hernia) is a worthy successor to those on the Groin and Perinaeum, and will prove, we do not doubt, as great a favourite with students.”— Med.-Chir. Rev., April, 1841. CUTLER’S SURGEON’S PRACTICAL GUIDE IN DRESS- ING AND IN THE METHODIC APPLICATION OF BANDAGES. Second Edition. 100 Engravings on Wood. Foolscap 8vo, 6s. 6d. “This appears to be a valuable little treatise. The author seems to have spared no pains in procuring correct descriptions of aU the surgical apparatus at present employed in bandaging and dressing, both at home and abroad. He has given numerous iUusti-a- tions in the form of well-executed Woodcuts, and has altogether produced what we conceive to be a very useful, and by no means an expensive pubheation.”—Medical Gazette, Nov. 10, 1834. HIND’S TWENTY PLATES OF FRACTURES OF THE EXTREMITIES. Second Edition. Folio, 17. 4s. clotli. PORTRAIT OF ROBERT LISTON, ESQ. 2s. 6t/.28, UPPER GOWER STREET, AND 27, IVY LANE. 15 ANATOMICAL PLATES. I CHEAP ISSUE (ONE-TIIIRD LESS THAN THE ORIGINAL PRICE). j Now Ready. I Complete in \ Z Monthly Parts, each 10s. Qd. plain, 20s. coloured, of I A SERIES OF ANATOMICAL PLATES, IN LITHO- GRAPHY : With Refeuencks and Physiological Comments, illustrating the Structure of the different Parts of the llunian Body. Edited by Jones Quain, M.D., and Erasmus Wilson, F.R.S. Each Part will conhiin sixteen plates and thirty-two pafres of letterpress royal folio; or when a Part contauis only fifteen plates, the deficiency will be made up by an extra quantity of letterpress. The total nmnber of plates will be 200, besides a frontispiece after Michael Angelo. THE WORK MAY ALSO BE HAD IN SEPARATE PORTIONS, BOUND IN CLOTH, AS FOLLOWS : Former Price. Present Price. Former Price. Present Price. Plain. Plain. Coloured. Coloure d. £. S. d. £,. s. d. £. s. d. £. s. d. MUSCLES, 51 Plates . . .2 16 0 1 18 0 5 5 0 3 12 0 VESSELS, 50 Plates . . . . 2 14 0 1 18 0 3 18 0 3 3 0 NERVES, 38 Plates. . . .24 0 1 10 0 4 2 0 2 16 0 VISCERA, 32 Plates . . ..118 0 1 5 0 3 10 0 2 8 0 BONES & LIGAMENTS, 30 Plates 2 0 0 1 5 0 2 15 0 1 11 6 Also complete in 2 vols. royal folio, half-bound morocco, gilt tops, price 8L 8s. plain, 14Z. coloured. ANATOMY. DR. QUAIN’S ANATOMY. Fifth Edition. Edited by Dr. Sharpey and Mr. Quain. Illustrated by several hundi’ed Engravings on Wood. 2 vols. 8vo, 2^. cloth lettered. (See page 1.) Also (for a short time) in Three Parts. Part I., 13s. | Part II., 14s. | Part III., 13s. ELLIS’S DEMONSTRATIONS OF ANATOMY. A Guide to the Dissection of the Human Body. Second Edition. Small 8vo. (Just published.) MACLISE’S MORPHOLOGICAL STUDIES IN SEARCH OF THE ARCHETYPE SKELETON OF VERTEBRATED ANIMALS. Illustrated in 54 Plates. One volume, small folio, 21. 12s. 6d. “ The present volume is a most grateful and refreshing sight, exhibiting in every page evidence of accurate investigation, of profound reasoning and extended Imowledge, both general and professional.”—Lancet. MATERIA MEDICA AND PHARMACY. MOHR AND REDWOOD’S PRACTICAL PHARMACY. The Arrangements, Apparatus, and Manipulations 6f the Pharmaceutical Shop and Laboratory. 8vo, with 400 Engravings on wood. 12s. 6(L cloth lettered. BALLARD AND GARROD’S ELEMENTS OF MATERIA MEDICA AND THERAPEUTICS. One volume 8vo, with Diagrams on Wood. 12s. cloth. “ As a manual for students, it is the best that has yet appeared, and will be found to contain much matter well worthy of perusal by the practitioner.”—Ranking's Report.WORKS PRINTED FOR TAYLOR, WALTON, & MABERLY IG 1 I I I PHYSIOLOGY. HAND-BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY. By W. S. Kirkes, M.D, Medical Registrar and Demonstrator of Morbid Anatomy at St. Bartliolomew’s Hospital ; assisted by James Paget, Lecturer on General Anatomy and Phy- siology at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital. With Illustrations on Steel and Wood. 12mo, 123. 6t/. cloth. MULLEB^S ELEMENTS OF PHYSIOLOGY. Translated, with Notes, by William Baly, M.D. Steel Plates and very numerous En- gravings on Wood. 2 thick vols. 8vo. 20s. each. IIECENT ADVANCES IN THE PHYSIOLOGY OF MO- TION, THE SENSES, GENERATION AND DEVELOPMENT. By William Baly, M.D., F.R S., Physician to Milbank Prison, and W. S. Kirkes, M.D.; being a Supplement to the Second Volume of Professor Muller’s Elements of Physiology. With numerous lUusti’ations. 8vo, 5s. 6d. “ To those who po.ssess MUller’.s Elements, it is indispensable—to others who have not this useful work it ■Nvill be found most serviceable in paving them at a small expense an insight into the recent progress of Physiology.”—Medical Gazette. MULLER’S EMBRYOLOGY, WITH THE PHYSIOLOGY OF GENERATION. Translated, with Notes, by Dr. Baly (from Muller’s Elements of Physiology and Supplement). 8vo, ivith numerous Illustrations, Is. Qd. cloth. MULLER’S PHYSIOLOGY OF THE SENSES, VOICE, AND MUSCULAR MOTION, WITH THE MENTAL FACULTIES. Translated, with Notes, by Dr. Baly (from Muller’s Elements of Physiology and Supplement). 8vo. 7s. 6d. cloth. MEDICINE. MURPHY’S (PROFESSOR) LECTURES ON NATURAL AND DIFFICULT PARTURITION. One volume 8vo, with numerous Engravings on Wood. 9s. cloth. “ The whole of these Leeture.s, which refer to difficult and laborious labours, and to the application of instruments, will be found of the very greatest value.”—Lancet. CHLOROFORM IN THE PRACTICE OF MIDWIFERY. By Edward W. Murphy', A.M., M.D., Professor of Midwifery in Univer- sity College, London. 8vo. Is. (Free by post. Is. 4rf.) DR. DAVID D. DAVIS’S ELEMENTS OF OBSTETRIC ME- DICINE. Second Edition. With a 4to Volume containing all the Plates of the original 4to Edition. H. 7.s. Gd. cloth. WALSHE ON THE NATURE AND TREATMENT OF CANCER. One vol. 8vo, with Illustrations. 16s. “ The chapter upon this most important subject (Treatment) is very full and com- plete. Dr. Walshe has taken gi-eat pains to examine the alleged virtues of ahnost every remedy and of every plan of medication that has been proposed.”—Med.-Chir. lievimv. WALSHE ON THE PHYSICAL DIAGNOSIS OF DISEASES OF THE LUNGS. Foolscap 8vo. 6s. 6d. cloth. “ The treatise is one of extraordinary merit. Indeed we do not hesitate to say, that there exists in no language any work on the Physical Diagnosis of the Diseases of the Lungs, suited for students, so clear and precise, and at the same time so comprehensive and practical, as this.”—British and Foreign Medical Review. DR. BENCE JONES’S APPLICATION OF LIEBIG’S PHY- SIOLOGY TO THE PREVENTION AND CURE OF GRAVEL, CAL- CULUS, AND GOUT. 8vo. 6s. RRADTUIRY AND EVANS, PRINTERS, -WTIITEFRIARS.% 4 Pt .. «« s i 4 .1 1 ► 1 - i'I I > 7 t i; 1ft 4 % 4 jl.; ■V t t v‘ f V W.