BOILED PUDDINGS. 451 CHAP. XVII.] a. glass of good brandy ; pour it gently, and by degrees, into the mould, and steam or boil the pudding very gently for an hour. Serve it with well-made wine-sauce. Never omit a buttered paper over any sort of custard-mixture ; and remember that quick-boiling will destroy the good appearance of this kind of pudding. The liquid should be quite cold before it is added to the cakes, or the butter on the mould would melt off, and the decorations with it: preserved ginger, and candied citron in slices, may be- used to vary these, and the syrup of the former may be added to give flavour to the other ingredients. Dried cherries, 3 to 4 ozs.; sponge-biscuits, \ lb. ; ratifias, 4 ozs.; thin cream, or cream and milk, f pint; sugar, 3 ozs. ; vanilla, ^ pod (or thin rind of ^ lemon and 6 bitter almonds bruised) ; yolks of 6 eggs, whites of 2; brandy, 1 wineglassful (preserved ginger and candied citron at choice): steamed, or gently boiled, 1 hour. miss bremer’s pudding. Blanch, dry, and beat to the smoothest possible paste, half a pound of fresh Jordan almonds and five or six bitter ones, and moisten them as they are done with a * few drops of water, or a little white of egg, to prevent their oiling. Add to them in very small portions at first, or they will be lumpy, the yolks of seven fresh eggs, and the whites of two well beaten; then throw in gradually four ounces of pounded and sifted sugar, and whisk the mixture thoroughly till it looks very light ; next, strew in, continuing the whisking, four ounces of fine bread-crumbs, and the grated rind of a lemon ; and last of all, add four ounces of just-liquid butter, which must, by no. means, be heated more than enough to dissolve it, and which must be poured in by slow degrees, and beaten thoroughly to the other ingre- dients, till there is no appearance of it left. Butter thickly a pint and a half mould, shake fine bread-crumbs thickly and equally over it, half fill it very gently with the pudding-mixture, and place lightly upon this a