MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. XVIII. 474 rice, which has been cleared of the discoloured grains, and washed and drained; when it is tolerably tender, add to it three ounces of fresh butter, and five of sugar roughly powdered, a few grains of salt, and the lightly grated rind of a fine lemon, and simmer the whole until the rice is swollen to the utmost; then take it from the fire, let it cool a little, and stir to it quickly, and by degrees, the well-beaten yolks of six full-sized eggs. Pour into a small copper stewpan * a couple of ounces of clarified butter, and incline it in such a manner that it may receive an equal coating in every part; then turn it upside down for an instant, to drain off the superfluous butter; next throw in some exceedingly fine light crumbs of stale bread, and shake them entirely over it, turn out those which do not adhere, and with a small brush or feather, sprinkle more clarified butter slightly on those which line the pan. Whisk quickly the whites of the eggs to snow, stir them gently to the rice, and pour the mixture softly into the stewpan, that the bread- crumbs may not be displaced; put it immediately into a moderate oven, and let it remain in a full hour. It will then, if properly baked, turn out from the mould or pan well browned, quite firm, and having the appear- ance of a cake ; but a fierce heat will cause it to break, and present an altogether unsightly appearance. In a very slack oven a longer time must be allowed ^or it. New milk, or milk and cream, 1 quart; Carolina rice, 7 ozs. : f hour. Fresh butter, 3 ozs.; sugar, in lumps, 5 ozs.; rind 1 large lemon: j to 1J hour. Eggs, 6 : baked in a moderate oven, 1 hour. Obs.—An admirable variety of this Gateau is made with cocoa-nut flavoured milk, or cream, (see Chapter XX.), or with either of these poured boiling on six ounces of Jordan almonds, finely pounded, and mixed with a dozen of bitter ones, then expressed from them * One which holds about five pints is well adapted to the pur- pose. When this is not at hand, a copper cake-mould may be substituted for it. The stewpan must not be covered while the g&teau is baking.