CHAP. IV.] SAUCES. 133 steeping them for an hour or more in a pint of cold water after they are minced. SALAD DRESSING. For a salad of moderate size pound very smoothly the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs with a small teaspoonful of unmade mustard, half as much sugar in fine powder, and a saltspoonful of salt. Mix gradually with these a small cup of cream, or the same quantity of very pure oil, and two tablespoonsful of vinegar. More salt and acid can be added at pleasure; but the latter usually predo- minates too much in English salads. A few drops of Chili or of cayenne vinegar will improve this receipt. Hard yolks of eggs, 2; unmade mustard, 1 small teaspoonful; sugar, half as much ; salt, 1 saltspoonful ; cream or oil, small cupful; vinegar, 2 tablespoonsful. Ohs.—To some tastes a teaspoonful or more of escha- lot vinegar would be an acceptable addition to this sauce, which may be otherwise varied in numberless ways. Cucumber, or tarragon-vinegar may be substituted for other, and small quantities of soy, cavice, essence of anchovies, or catsup may in turn be used to flavour the compound. The salad-bowl too may be rubbed with a cut clove of garlic, to give the whole composition a very slight flavour of it.* The eggs should be boiled fifteen minutes, and allowed to become quite cold always before tliejr are pounded, or the mixture will not be smooth : .if it should curdle, which it will sometimes do, if not carefully made, add to it the yolk of a very fresh unboiled egg. * As we have before had occasion to remark, garlic, when very sparingly and judiciously used, imparts a remarkably fine savour to a sauce or gravy, and neither a strong nor a coarse one, as it does when used in larger quantities. The veriest morsel (or, as the French call it, a mere soupgon) of the root, is sufficient to give this agreeable piquancy, but unless the proportion be ex- tremely small, the effect will be quite different. The Italians dress their salads upon a round of delicately toasted bread, which is rubbed with garlic, saturated with oil, and sprinkled with cayenne, before it is laid into the bowl : they also eat the bread thus prepared, but with less of oil, and untoasted often, before their meals, as a digestor.