420 MODERN COOKERY. [[CHAP, XVI. reduced quickly to the proper consistency for the vol- au- vent. Skin and divide the apricots, and quarter the peaches, unless they should be very small. ENGLISH OYSTER PATTIES. Line some small patty-pans with fine puff-paste, rolled thin, and to preserve their form when baked, put a bit of bread into each ; lay on the covers, pinch and trim the edges, and send the patties to a brisk oven. Plump and beard from two to three dozens of small oysters; mix very smoothly a teaspoonful of flour with an ounce of butter, put them into a clean saucepan, shake them round over a gentle fire, and let them simmer for two or three minutes ; throw in a little salt, pounded mace, and cayenne, then add, by slow degrees, two or three spoonsful of rich cream, give these a boil, and pour in the strained liquor of the oysters; next, lay in the fish, and keep them at the point of boiling for a couple of minutes. Raise the covers from the patties, take out the bread, fill them with the oysters and their sauce, and replace the covers. We have found it an improvement to stew the beards of the fish with a strip or two of lemon-peel, in a little good veal-stock for a quarter of an hour, then to strain and add it to the sauce. The oysters, unless very small, should be once or twice divided. EXCELLENT MEAT ROLLS. Pound, as for potting (see page 356), and with the same proportion of butter and of seasonings, some half- roasted veal, chicken, or turkey. Make some forcemeat by the receipt No. 1, Chapter VI., and form it into small rolls, not larger than a finger; wrap twice or thrice as much of the pounded meat equally round each of these, first moistening it with a teaspoonful of water; fold them in good puff-paste, and bake them from twelve * These patties should be made small, with a thin crust, and be well-filled with the oysters and their sauce. The substitution of fried crumbs for the covers will vary them very agreeably. For lobster patties, prepare the fish as for a vol-au-vent, but cut it smaller.