458 MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. XVII. of paste, the better to guard against its bursting through, but there is no danger of this if the edges of the crust be well closed. When suet is objected to, seven ounces of butter may be substituted for it. The currants are occasionally omitted. Flour, 1 lb.; suet, 6 ozs.; currants, f lb.; salt, small pinch; ball of butter, 6 ozs. : 2-L hours. ROLLED PUDDING. Roll out thin a bit of light puff-paste, or a good suet crust, and spread equally over it to within an inch of the edge, any kind of fruit jam. Orange marmalade, and mincemeat make excellent varieties of this pudding ; and a deep layer of fine brown sugar, flavoured with the grated rind and strained juice of one very large, or of two small, lemons, answers for it extremely well. Roll it up carefully, pinch the paste together at the ends, fold a cloth round, secure it well at the ends, and boil the pudding from one to two hours, according to its size and the nature of the ingredients.* BREAD PUDDING. Sweeten a pint of new milk with three ounces of fine sugar, throw in a few grains of salt, and pour it boiling on half a pound of fine, and lightly-grated bread-crumbs, add an ounce of fresh butter, and cover them with a plate, let them remain for half an hour or more, stir to them four large well whisked eggs, and a flavouring of nutmeg, or lemon-rind; pour the mixture into a thickly- buttered mould or basin, which holds a pint and a half, and which ought to be quite full; tie a paper and cloth tightly over, and boil the pudding exactly an hour and ten minutes. This is quite a plain receipt, but by omitting two ounces of the bread, and adding more butter, one egg, a small glass of brandy, the grated rind of a lemon, and as much sugar as will sweeten the whole richly, a very excellent pudding will be obtained; candid orange-peel also has a good effect when sliced * Half a pound of flour made into a paste with suet or butter, and covered with preserve, will be sufficiently boiled in an hour and a quarter.