CATALOGUE OF NEW WORKS 22 sn. MAUNDER.—THE TREASURY OF HISTORY5 Comprising' a General Introductory Outline of Universal History, Ancient and Modern, and a Series of separate Histories of every principal Nation that exists ; developing their Rise, Progress, and Present Condition, the Moral and Social Character of their respective Inhabitants, their Religion, Manners, and Customs, etc. etc. By Samuel Maunder. 1 thick vol. fcap. 8vo. 10s. cloth; bound in roan, 12s. “ In the 4 Treasury of History ’ we see the same utility of purpose, the same, diligence and painstaking with the materials, the same shill and talent in putting them together, and, in fine, the same general excellence which have marked all Mr. Maunder’s productions. The arrangement is most clear and judicious, and the information furnished at once so concise and ample, that within this small volume we find a very complete and satisfactory epitome of the history of the world from ancient to modern times.1'’—Literary Gazette. MAUNDER.—THE TREASURY OF KNOWLEDGE, And LIBRARY of REFERENCE: containing a new and enlarged Dictionary of the English Language, preceded by a Compendious Grammar, Verbal Distinctions, etc.; a new Universal Gazetteer; a Compendious Classical Dictionary; a Chronological Analysis of General History; a Dictionary of Law Terms, etc. etc. By Samuel Maunder. 14th Edition. 1 thick vol. foolscap 8vo., with two engraved Frontispieces, 8s. 6d. cloth ; bound in roan, 10s Cd. MAUNDER.—THE SCIENTIFIC AND LITERARY TREASURY : A New and Popular Encyclopaedia of Science and the Belles Lettres; including all Branches of Science, and every Subject connected with Literature and Art. The whole written in a familiar style, adapted to the comprehension of all persons desirous of aequiringinformation on the subjects comprised in the work, and also adapted for a Manual of convenient Refer- ence to the more instructed. By Samuel Maunder. 3d Edition. 1 thick vol.fcap.8vo. with an engraved Frontispiece, 10s. cloth; bound in roan, 12s. MAUNDER.-THE BIOGRAPHICAL TREASURY: Consisting of Memoirs, Sketches, and brief Notices of above 12,000 Eminent Persons of all Ages and Nations, from the Earliest Period of History; forming a new and.complete Dic- tionary of Universal Biograph v. 5th Edition, revised throughout, and containing a copious Supplement, brought down to December 1844, Foolscap 8vo. with engraved Frontispiece, 10s. cloth; bound in roan, 12s. MAUNDER.—THE UNIVERSAL CLASS-BOOK: A new Series of Reading Lessons (original and selected) for Every Day in the Year; each Lesson recording some important Event in General History, Biography, etc., which happened on the day of the month under which it is placed, or detailing, in familiar language, interest- ing facts in Science ; also a variety of Descriptive and Narrative Pieces, interspersed with Poetical Gleanings: Questions for Examination being appended to each day’s Lesson, and the whole carefully adapted to Practical Tuition. By Samuel Maunder, author of "The Treasury of Knowledge.” 2d Edition, revised. 12mo. 5s. bound. MONTGOMERY’S (JAMES) POETICAL WORKS. New and only complete Edition. With some additional Poems and Autobiographical Prefaces. Collected and edited by Mr. Montgomery. 4 vols. foolscap 8vo. with Portrait, and 7 other beautifully engraved Plates, 20s. cloth; or bound in morocco, If. 16s. MOORE’S POETICAL WORKS; Containing the Author’s recent Introduction and Notes. Complete in one volume, uniform with Lord Byron’s Poems. With a New Portrait, by George Richmond, engraved in the line manner, and a View of Sloperton Cottage, the Residence of the Poet, by Thomas Creswick, A It.A. Medium 8vo. 1/. Is. cloth; or 42s. bound in morocco, in the best manner, by Hayday. *„* Also, an Edition in 10 vols. foolscap 8vo. with Portrait, and 19 Plates, 21. 10s. cloth; morocco, 41.10s. ■ j MOORE’S LALLA ROQKH. ) Twentieth Edition. Medium 8vo. illustrated with 13 Engravings, finished in the highest style of art, 21s. cloth; morocco, 35s.; or 42s. with India Proof Plates, cloth. j MOORE’S LALLA ROOKH. Twenty-first Edition. Foolscap 8vo. with 4 Engravings, from Paintings by Westall, 10s. 6rf. cloth; or 14s. bound in morocco. MOORE’S IRISH MELODIES. New Edition, imp. 8vo. illustrated with 154 Designs by D. Maclise, R.A. etched on Steel. In the press. %* The Poetry and Designs will both be engraved, and each page surrounded with an Ornamental Border. MOORE’S IRISH MELODIES. Fifteenth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. with Engraved Title and Vignette, 10s. cloth; or 13s. 6d. bound in morocco. MOORE.-THE HISTORY OF IRELAND. By Thomas Moore, Esq. Vols. 1 to 3, with Vignette Titles, 18s. cloth. [To be completed in one more volume. “ Mr. Moore fortunately brings to his labours not only extensive learning in the rarely- trodden paths of Irish history, but strict impartiality, rendered still more clear and. uncom- promising by an ennobling love of liberty. Every page of his work contains evidence of research; and innumerable passages might be cited, in proof of the independent and truth- seeking spirit of the author.’ — Atheuaaum.