291 CHAP. XI.] PORK. -not lie too long. Change the flitches, put that at bottom which was first on the top. Do this a couple of times. This mode will cost you a great deal more in salt, than the sopping mode ; but without it your bacon will not be so sweet and fine, nor keep so well. As to the time required for making the flitches sufficiently salt, it depends on circumstances; the thickness of the flitch, the state of the weather, the place wherein the salting is going on. It takes a. longer time for a thick than for a thin flitch; it takes longer in dry than in damp weather, it takes longer in a dry than a damp place. But for the flitches of a hog of five score, in weather not very dry. or very damp, about six weeks may do; and as yours is to be fat, which receives little injury from over-salting, give time enough ; for you are to have bacon till Christmas comes again. The place for salting should, like a dairy, always be cool, but always admit of a free circulation of air; confined air, though cool, will taint meat sooner than the mid- day sun accompanied with a breeze. With regard to smoking the bacon, two precautions are necessary: first to hang the flitches where no rain comes down upon them, and next, that the smoke must proceed from wood, not peat turf nor coal. As to the time that it requires to smoke a flitch, it must depend a good deal upon whether there be a constant fire beneath, and whether the fire be large or small. A month will do if the fire be pretty constant and sucli as a farm house fire usually is. But over-smoking, or rather, too long hanging in the air, makes the bacon rust. Great atten- tion should, therefore, be paid to this matter. The flitch ought not to be dried up to the hardness of a board, and yet it ought to be perfectly dry. Before you hang it up, lay it on the floor, scatter the flesh-side pretty thickly over with bran or with some fine saw- dust, not of deal or fir. Rub it on the flesh or pat it well down upon it. This keeps the smoke from getting into the little openings, and makes a sort of crust to be dried on.