CHAP. XIV.] CURRIES, POTTED MEATS, &C. 351 or gravy, and stew them slowly until they are reduced to pulp; mix smoothly a small cup of thick cream with two teaspoonsful of wheaten or of rice-flour, stir them to the currie, and simmer the whole till the raw taste of the thickening is gone. Cut the eggs into half-inch slices, heat them quite through in the sauce without boiling them, and serve them as hot as possible. CURRIED SWEETBREADS. Wash and soak them as usual, then throw them into boiling water with a little salt in it, and a whole onion, and let them simmer for ten minutes; or, if at hand, substitute weak veal-broth for the water. Lift them out, place them on a drainer, and leave them until they are perfectly cold ; then cut them into half-inch slices, and either flour and fry them lightly in butter, or put them, without this, into as much curried gravy as will just cover them; stew them in it very gently, from twenty to thirty minutes; add as much lemon-juice or Chili vinegar as will acidulate the sauce agreeably,* and serve the currie very hot. As we have already stated in two or three previous receipts, an ounce or more of sweet freshly-grated cocoa nut, stewed tender in the gravy, and strained from it, before the sweetbreads are added, will give a peculiarly pleasant flavour to all curries. Blanched 10 minutes; sliced (fried or not); stewed 20 to 30 minutes. CURRIED OYSTERS. “ Let a hundred of large sea-oysters be opened into a basin, without losing one drop of their liquor. Put a lump of fresh butter into a good-sized saucepan, and when it boils, add a large onion, cut into thin slices, and let it fry in the uncovered stewpan until it is of a rich brown; now add a bit more butter, and two or three tablespoonsful of currie-pow’der. When these ingre- dients are well mixed over the fire with a wooden spoon, add gradually either hot water, or broth from the stock- pot; cover the stewpan, and let the whole boil up. * A small portion of Indian pickled mango, or of its liquor, is an agreeable addition to a currie.