[CHAP. I. 26 MODERN COOKERY. water to the five pounds of meat; when it has been quite cleared from scum, add to it an ounce and a half of salt, two ounces and a half of onions, twenty corns of white pepper, and two or three blades of mace, with a little cayenne pepper. When the soup is reduced one third by slow simmering, strain it off, and set it by till cold ; then free it carefully from the fat and sedi- ment, and heat it again in a very clean stewpan. Mix with it when it boils, a pint of thick cream smoothly blended with an ounce of good arrow-root, two ounces of very fresh vermicelli previously boiled tender in wTater slightly salted and well drained from it, and an ounce and a half of almonds blanched, and cut in strips;* give it one minute’s simmer, and serve it immediately, with a French roll in the tureen. Yeal, 5 lbs.; water, 3 quarts; \\ oz. salt; onions, 2| ozs.; 20 corns white pepper ; 2 large blades of mace: 5 hours or more. Cream, 1 pint; almonds, 1^ oz. ; vermicelli, 1 oz. : 1 minute. Little thickening if needed. Obs.-~-Cream should always be boiled for a few minutes before it is added to any soup. The yolks of two or three very fresh eggs beaten well, and mixed with half a pint of the boiling soup, may be stirred into the whole, after it is taken from the fire. Some per- sons put the eggs into the tureen, and add the soup to them by degrees ; but this is not so well. If a superior white soup to this be wanted, put three quarts of water to seven pounds of veal, and half a pound of the lean part of a ham; or instead of water, use very clear, weak veal broth. Grated Parmesan cheese should be handed round the table when white or maccaroni soup is served. * We have given this receipt without any variation from the original, as the soup made exactly by it was much approved by the guests of the hospitable country gentleman, at whose elegant table it was served often for many years ; but we would rather recommend that the almonds should be pounded, or merely blanched, cut in spikes, stuck into the crumb of a French roll, and put into the tureen, simply to give flavour to the soup.