CHAP. III.] 97 GRAVIES. tions in which they are made, their quality should be particularly attended to, and they should be well adapted in flavour to the dishes they are to accom- pany. For some, a high degree of savour is desirable ; but for fricassees, and other preparations of delicate white meats, this should be avoided, and a soft, smooth sauce of refined flavour be used in preference to any of more piquant relish. Instead of frying the ingredients for brown gravies, which is usually done in common English kitchens, French cooks pour to them at first a small quantity of liquid, which is reduced by rapid boiling to what is technically called glaze; which means very strong, I thick jelly, of a high amber-colour, or of a deep red brown. This process requires great care, as the liquid must be almost entirely evaporated, and yet every precaution taken to prevent its burning. When the glaze has acquired the proper colour, boiling broth should be added in small portions, and well shaken round the stewpan to detach it entirely; the meat may then be stewed gently for three or four hours with a few mush- rooms, should they be at hand, a bunch of parsley, and some green onions, or with a Portugal onion instead. A thick slice or two of an unboiled ham, is an almost indispensable addition to rich soup or gravy; and to supply it in the most economical manner, a large, highly- cured one, or more, not over fatted, should be kept for the purpose, and cut as required. The bones of un- dressed meat will supply almost, or quite as good gravy stock as the meat itself, if well boiled down, particularly those of the loin, or neck of veal; and as the flesh of these may be dressed in many ways advantageously without them, the whole joint may be turned to excel- lent account by so dividing it. The necks of poultry, with the feet properly skinned, a few herbs, a morsel or two of ham or lean bacon, and such slight flavourings besides as the spice-box can supply, with a few drops of good mushroom catsup, will of themselves, if well managed, produce sufficient gravy H