BEEF, CHAP. VIII.] 231 They should be simmered until they are extremely tender, when the skin will peel from them easily. A highly-dried tongue will usually require from three and a half to four hours, boiling; an unsmoked one about an hour less; and for ‘ one that has not been salted at all a shorter time will suffice. BORDYKE RECEIPT FOR STEWING A TONGUE. After the tongue has been soaked, trimmed, and washed with extreme nicety, lay it into a vessel of fitting size, and place round it three or four pounds of the neck, or of any other lean cuttings of beef, with some bones of undressed veal, and pour in sufficient cold water to keep it covered until it is done ; or, instead of this, use strong unseasoned beef broth made wdth the shin, and any odd bits or bones of veal that may be at hand. Let the tongue be brought to boil very gradu- ally, that it may be plump and tender. Remove the scum when it first rises, and when it is quite cleared off add a large faggot of parsley, thyme, and winter savory, three carrots, a small onion, and one mild turnip. After three hours and a half of gentle simmering, probe the tongue, and if sufficiently done peel off the skin and serve it quickly. If not wanted hot for table, lay it on a very clean board or trencher, and fasten it down to it by passing a carving fork through the root, and a smaller one through the tip, drawing the tongue straight with the latter before it is fixed in the board: let it remain thus till quite cold. It is much the fashion at present to glaze hams and tongues, but this should never be attempted by a cook not well acquainted with the man- ner of doing it, and the proper flavour and appearance of the glaze. For directions to make it, see page 111. Where expense is not regarded, three or four pounds of veal may be added to the beef in this receipt, or the tongue may be stewed in a prepared gravy made with equal parts of beef and veal, and vegetables as above, but without salt: this may afterwards be converted into excellent soup. A fresh or an unsmoked tongue may