213 BEEF. CHAP. VIII.] or small onions, 24; young turnips, 6; small lump of sugar; white pepper, nearly \ teaspoonful; salt, twice as much : 1J to \\ hour. A GOOD ENGLISH STEW. On three pounds of tender rump of beef, freed from skin and fat, and cut down into about two-inch squares, pour rather more than a quart of cold broth or gravy. When it boils add salt if required, and a little cayenne, and keep it just simmering for a couple of hours; then put to it the grated rind of a large lemon, or of two small ones, and half an hour after, stir to it a table- spoonful of rice-flour, smoothly mixed with a wineglass- ; ful of mushroom-catsup, a dessertspoonful of lemon-juice, and a teaspoonful of soy : in fifteen minutes after it will be ready to serve. A glass and a half of port, or of white wine, will greatly improve this stew, which may likewise be flavoured wdth the store-sauce of page 160, or with another, which we find excellent for the pur- pose, made with half a pint of port-wine, the same of mushroom-catsup, a quarter pint of walnut-pickle, a tablespoonful of the best soy, and a dessertspoonful of cayenne-vinegar, all well shaken together and poured into a bottle containing the thin rind of a lemon and two fine mellow anchovies, of moderate size. A few delicate fried forcemeat balls may be slipped into it after it is dished. Ohs.—The limits of our work will not permit us to devote a further space to this class of dishes, but an in- telligent cook will find it easy to vary them in number- less ways. Mushrooms, celery, carrots, sweet herbs, parboiled new potatoes, green peas, rice, and currie- powder may be advantageously used for that purpose. Oxtails, just blanched and cut into joints, will be found excellent substitutes for the beef: mutton and veal may also be dressed in the same way. The meat and vege- tables can be browned before broth or water is poured to them ; but though perhaps more savoury, the stew wdil then be much less delicate. Each kind of vegetable