MODERN COOKERY. 214 [chap. VIIT. should be allowed something more than sufficient time to render it perfectly tender, but not so much as would reduce it to pulp. TO STEW SHIN OF BEEF. Wash, and set it on to stew in sufficient cold water to keep it just covered until it is done. When it boils, take off the scum, and put an ounce and a quarter of salt to the gallon of water. It is usual to add a few cloves, and some black pepper slightly bruised and tied up loosely in a fold of muslin; two or more onions, a root of celery, a bunch of savoury herbs, four or five carrots, and as many turnips, either whole or sliced: if to be served with the meat, these two last will require little more than the ordinary time of boiling, but otherwise they may be simmered with the meat from the begin- ning. Give the beef from four to five hours’ gentle stewing; and serve it with part of its own liquor thick- ened and flavoured, or quite plain. An excellent dish for a family may be made by stewing the thick fleshy part of the shin or leg, in stock made of the knuckle, with^a few bits of lean ham or a slice of hung beef, from which the smoked edges have been carefully pared away, and some spice, salt, and vegetables: by frying these last before they are thrown into the soup-pot the savour of the stew will be greatly heightened; and a tureen of good soup may be made of its remains, after it has been served at table. Ox-cheek, after having been soaked for four or five hours, and washed with great nicety, may be dressed like the shin; but as it has little flavour, the gravy should be strained, and quite cleared from fat, then put into a clean saucepan, and thickened as soon as it boils, with the following mixture:—three dessertspoonsful of rice-flour, nearly a wine-glassful of catsup, a teaspoon- ful of currie-powder, or a little powdered ginger and cayenne. When these have stewed ten minutes, dish the head, pour the sauce over, and serve it. Shin of beef, 4 to 5 hours. Ox-cheek, 2 to 3 hours.