MODERN COOKERY. 208 [chap. yiii. should be thin, and not very close together. When they are thoroughly heated, without being sufficiently burning to scorch the meat, wipe and rub them with fresh mutton suet; next pepper the steaks slightly, but never season them with salt before they are dressed ; lay them on the gridiron, and when done on one side, turn them on the other, being careful to catch, in the dish in which they are to be sent to table, any gravy that may threaten to drain from them when they are moved. Let them be served the instant they are taken from the fire; and have ready at the moment, dish, cover, and plates, as hot as they can be. From eight to ten minutes will be sufficient to broil steaks for the generality of eaters, and more than enough for those who like them but partially done. Genuine amateurs seldom take prepared sauce or gravy with their steaks, as they consider the natural juices of the meat sufficient. When any accompaniment to them is desired, a small quantity of choice mushroom catsup may be warmed in the dish that is heated to receive them; and which, when the flavour is approved, may previously be rubbed with a raw eschalot, of which the large end has been taken off. A thin slice or two of fresh butter is sometimes laid under the steaks, where it soon melts and mingles with the gravy that flows from them. The appropriate tureen sauces for broiled beef steaks are onion, tomata, oyster, eschalot, hot horse- radish, and brown cucumber, or mushroom sauce. Obs. 1.—We have departed a little in this receipt from our previous instructions for broiling, by recom- mending that the steaks should be turned but once, instead of “often,” as all great authorities on the sub- ject direct. By trying each method, our readers will be able to decide for themselves upon the preferable one : we can only say, that wTe have never eaten steaks so excellent as those which have been dressed exactly in accordance with the receipt we have just given, and we have taken infinite pains to ascertain the really best mode of preparing this very favourite English dish,