MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. IX 256 boiling water, brotli, or gravy. Add as much salt and pepper as it requires. Give it a minute’s simmer, and pour it over the meat, shaking it well round the pan as this is done. Let the veal stew gently from three quarters of an hour to an hour. A bunch of green onions cut small may be added to the other vegetables if approved ; and the veal will eat better if slightly seasoned with salt and pepper before it is floured; a portion of fat can be left on it if preferred. Yeal, 2Ibs. ; cucumbers, 2 ; lettuce, 1; green goose- berries, 24; water or broth, J pint or more; j to l hour. BREZOLLES. Cut from the loin or fillet, three pounds of veal, in the thinnest possible slices, and let them be free from fat and skin. Slice also, very thin, a pound of striped bacon, and trim away the rind. Mix thoroughly a dessert- spoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pounded mace, as much of nutmeg, one and a half of white pepper, and the minced or grated rinds of two lemons, and with these season the veal equally; butter thickly a deep earthen pan, and lay the meat in smoothly in alternate layers, beginning with the bacon; press the whole closely down, put a round of buttered paper over it, tie on the cover of the pan, set it into a large saucepan of warm water, and let it simmer for two hours and a half from the time of its beginning to boil. If to be served hot, merely heap the meat upon a dish, skim the fat from the gravy, and pour it over; but if to be eaten cold, which it more usually is, put a plate with a weight upon it on the top of the brezolles, pour all the gravy from them, and leave them in the pan for four-and-twenty hours, when they will turn out in a solid mass or cake, and remain good many days if kept in a cool place: the gravy, strained, and reduced to jelly, may be placed round them as a garnish. The brezolles may, if more convenient, be baked in a gentle oven, but they will then require rather less time. In France, they are commonly stewed as