8 catalogue of new works BUTLER.—SKETCH OF ANCIENT AND MODERN CEOCRAPHY. By Samuel Butler, D.D., late Lord Bishop of Lichfield and Coventry; and formerly Head Master of Shrewsbury School. New Edition, revised by his Son, 8vo. 9s. boards. The present edition has been carefully revised by the author's son, and such alterations introduced as continually progressive discoveries and the latest information rendered neces- sary. Recent Travels have been constantly consulted where any doubt or difficulty seemed to require it; and some additional matter has been added, both in the ancient and modern part. BUTLER.—ATLAS OF MODERN CEOCRAPHY. By the late Dr. Butler. New Edition; consisting- of Twenty-three coloured Maps, from a New Set of Plates; with an Index of all the Names ofkPlaces, referring to the Latitudes and Longitudes. 8vo. 12s. half-bound. BUTLER. - ATLAS OF ANCIENT CEOCRAPHY. By the late Dr. Butler. Consisting of Twenty-three coloured Maps : with an Index of all the Names of Places, referring to the Latitudes and Longitudes. New Edition. 8vo. 12s. half-bound, *»* The above two Atlases may be had, in One Volume, Ato. 24s. half-bound. CALLCOTT.-A SCRIPTURE HERBAL: With upwards of 120 Wood Engravings. By Lady Callcott. Square crown 8vo. 1/. 5s. cloth. My chief object and aim in writing this little book,' commences the amiable and noble authoress, ‘ has been to induce those who read and love God’s written Word, to read and love the great unwritten book which he has everywhere spread abroad for our learning.’ The ‘ chief object and aim' of this pious and gifted woman cannot fail in its object. Indeed, we may almost to a certainty pronounce for this labour of her devotional love a success which her most Christian sanguine wishes could not have anticipated for it. The authoress has termed it a small book, and may have at first intended it as such; it is gratifying that it is otherwise, for a single page could not be spared, so redolent is each with the best of material. It is remarked in the preface that the work was written while the body was in a state of ill health—what a contrast must the spirit have presentedl May it long direct the head and hand to add thus to our useful literature. —Standard. CATLOW.- POPULAR CONCHOLOCY; Or, the Shell Cabinet Arranged: being an Introductionto the modern System of Conchology; with a sketch of the Natural History of the Animals, an account of the Formation of the Shells, and d complete Descriptive List of the Families and Genera. By Agnes Catlow. Foolscap. 8vo. with 312 Woodcuts, 10s. 6d. cloth. “ This admirable little work is designed to facilitate the study of natural history, daily becoming more attractive, nut only from its intrinsic interest, but also from its multiplied relations with geology. It will furnish the young entomologist with an elementary manual, which, though scientific in its form, is, by the simplicity of its method, and the familiarity of its style, calculated effectually to assist him in the early steps of his progress in this fascinating pursuit.”—St. James’s Chronicle. CHALENOR. —POETICAL REMAINS OF MARY CHALENOR. Fcp. 8vo. 4s. cloth. CHALENOR.-WALTER CRAY, A Ballad, and other Poems ; including the Poetical Remains of Mary Chalenor. 2d Edition, with Additions, fcp. 8vo. 6s. cloth. “ As the simple and spontaneous effusions of a mind apparently filled with feelings which render the fireside happy, and untinctured with affectation or verbiage, they may with benefit be received into the ‘ happy homes of England,' and offered as a gift to the youthful of both sexes."—Chambers’ Edinburgh Journal. CLAVERS.—FOREST LIFE. By Mary Clavers, an Actual Settler; author of “ A New Home, Who’ll Follow?” 2vols. fcap. 8vo. 12s. cloth. THE COLLEGIAN’S GUIDE; Or, Recollections of College Days ; setting forth the Advantages and Temptations of a University Education. By **** ******, M.A., College, Oxford. Post 8vo. 10s. 6d. cloth. A volume of this kind has long been wanted. It traces amusingly the course of the student, from the first discussion that arises in his family on his going to college till his preparation for a first-class man. It details the first steps that should be taken, gives the characters of the several colleges, prescribes modes of life and courses of study, establishes intelligible beacons against the shoals and quicksands of idleness and dissipation and debt, and draws the beau-ideal of a first-rate collegian. This knowledge is thrown into the form of actual occurrence, being the result of the writer's own experience and observation. The spirit of the book is excellent; and the book itself cannot fail to be useful. All the chapters on college life are admirably written— lively, without exaggeration ; practically useful, yet very amusing; discursive and various, yet all tending to the object of elevating the collegian's character; keeping him from discreditable practices, and fitting him, by a judicious course of study, for the highest pursuits of life."—Britannia. COLTON.—LACON; OR, MANY THINGS IN FEW WORDS. By the Rev. C. C. Colton. New Edition, 8vo. 12s. cloth. to' ■ " ■ - ■ . ."=,JH