G 48 MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. XXVII. diminished at will. To make French breakfast-coffee, pour only a third as much of water on the powder, fill the cups two thirds with good new boiling milk, then add the coffee, which should be very strong. For the cafe noir served after dinner in all French families put less water still (this is the very essence of coffee, of which, however, not more than a small cup about two-thirds filled, and highly sweetened with sugar in lumps, is generally taken by each person), and serve it without cream or milk, or any accompaniment, except white sugar-candy im powder, or highly refined sugar in lumps. This is drank immediately after the dinner, in families of moderate rank, generally before they leave the table ; in more refined life, it is served in the draw- ing-room the instant dinner is ended ; sometimes with liqueurs after it, but not invariably. To boil coffee and refine it: put the necessary quan- tity of water into a pot which it will not fill by some inches; when it boils stir in the coffee ; for unless this is at once moistened, it remains on the top and is liable to fly over. Give it one or two strong boils, then raise it from the fire, and simmer it for ten mi- nutes only ; pour out a large cupful twice, hold it high over the coffee pot and pour it in again, then set it on the hob for ten minutes longer. It will be perfectly clear, unless mismanaged, without any other fining. Should more, however, be deemed necessary, a very small pinch of isinglass, or a clean egg-shell, with a little of the white adhering to it, is the best that can be used. (We cannot recommend the skin of any fish.) If tried, with the same proportions by both the methods we have given, the reader will easily ascertain that which answers best. Never use mustard to fine coffee with. It is a barbarous custom of which we have heard foreigners who have been in England vehemently com- plain ! Coffee, 2 ozs.; water, 1 quart. Filtered ; or boiled 10 minutes ; left to clear 10 minutes.