312 MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. XII. 1 lb. of bread-crumbs, and the other ingredients in pro- portion.) Sausage-meat, 2 to 3 lbs. : roasted 1| hour. Obs.-—When a common spit is u$ed for the turkey, it must be fastened to, and not put on it. Bread-sauce can be served with the bird, or not, at pleasure. It will be found an improvement to moisten the sausage-meat with one or two spoonsful of water: it should be finely minced, well spiced, and mixed with herbs, when the common forcemeat is not used in addition. In preparing it, a pound and a quarter of fat should be mixed with each pound of the lean. To give the turkey a very good appearance, the breast may be larded by the directions of page 200. TURKEY A LA FLAMANDE ; OR, DINDE POUDREE. Prepare as for boiling a fine well-kept hen-turkey; wipe the inside thoroughly with a dry cloth, but do not wash it; throw in a little salt to draw out the blood, let it remain a couple of hours or more, then drain and wipe it again ; next, rub the outside in every part with about four ounces of fine dry salt, mixed with a large table- spoonful of pounded sugar ; rub the turkey well with these, and turn it every day for four days, then fill it entirely with equal parts of choice sausage-meat, and the crumb of bread soaked in boiling milk or cream, and wrung dry in a cloth; season these with the grated rind of a large lemon, a small nutmeg, some mace, cayenne, and fine herbs, in the same proportion as for veal-force- meat (No. 1, page 170). Sew the turkey up very securely, and when trussed, roll it in a cloth, tie it closely at both ends, and boil it very gently between three and four hours. When taken up, sprinkle it thickly with fine crumbs of bread, mixed with plenty of parsley, shred extremely small. Serve it cold, with a sauce made of the strained juice and grated rind of two lemons, a teaspoonful of made mustard, and one of pounded sugar, with as much oil as will prevent its being more than pleasantly acid, and a little salt, if needed;