262 [CHAP. IX. MODERN COOKERY. lean of an unboiled ham, knuckle of bacon, hung beef, or the end of a dried tongue, at the bottom of the pan, before the other ingredients are added; or, when none of these are at hand, by supplying the defi- ciency with a few bits of stewing-beef or veal: the feet being of themselves insipid, will be much more palatable with one or the other of these additions. Throw in from half to three quarters of a teaspoonful of salt, when they begin to boil, and, after the scum has been all cleared off, add a few branches of parsley, a little celery, one small onion or more, stuck with half a dozen cloves, a carrot or two, a large blade of mace, and twenty corns of whole pepper; stew them softly until the flesh will part entirely from the bones ; take it from them ; strain part of the gravy, and skim off all the fat, flavour it with catsup, or any other store-sauce, and thicken it, when it boils, with arrow-root, or flour and butter; put in the flesh of the feet, and serve the dish as soon as the whole is very hot. A glass of wine, a little lemon-juice, and a few forcemeat balls will convert this into a very superior stew. A handful of mushroom-buttons sim- mered in it for half an hour before it is dished, will vary it agreeably. Calf’s feet (large), 2; water, 3 pints; salt, J to J teaspoonful; onions, 1 to 3 ; cloves, 6 ; peppercorns, 20 ; mace, large blade ; little celery and parsley; carrots, 1 or 2 : stewed softly, 2^ to 3^ hours. Mushroom catsup, 1 tablespoonful; flour, or arrow-root, 1 large teaspoonful; butter, 1 to 2 ozs. Cayenne, to taste. calf’s liver fried. To render the liver firm when dressed, lay it into a deep dish, and pour over it half a pint of vinegar; turn it often in this, arid let it lie for four and twenty hours, or longer even, if more convenient. Sliced onions, or eschalots, and branches of parsley, may be steeped with it in the vinegar, when their flavour is relished; but, in general, they would not, we think, be considered an improvement. Wash and wipe the liver very dry, slice