PINE PASTRY. 419 CHAP. XVI.] indicate in their proper places, and send it immediately to table. The vol-au-vent, as the reader will perceive, is but the case, or crust, in which various kinds of deli- cate ragouts are served in an elegant form. As these are most frequently composed of fish, or of meats which have been already dressed, it is an economical as well as an excellent mode of employing such remains. The sauces in which they are heated must be quite thick, for they would otherwise soften, or even run through the crust. This, we ought to observe, should be exa- mined before it is filled, and should any part appear too thin, fasten on it, with a little egg, a portion of the crumb which has been taken out, and then egg the whole of the inside lightly in order to make the loose parts of the vol-au-vent stick well together. This method is recommended by an admirable and highly experienced cook, but it need only be resorted to when the crust is not solid enough to hold the contents securely. For moderate-sized vol-au-vent, flour, \ lb.; butter, \ lb.; salt, small saltspoonful; yolk, 1 egg; little water. Larger vol-au-vent, f lb. flour ; other ingredients in proportion : baked 20 to 30 minutes. Obs.—When the vol-au-vent is cut out with the fluted cutter, a second, some sizes smaller, after being just dipped into hot water, should be pressed nearly half through the paste, to mark the cover. The border ought to be from three-quarters of an inch to an inch and a half wide. A VOL-AU-YENT OF FRUIT. After the crust has been made and baked as above, fill it at the moment of serving with peaches, apricots, mogul, or any other richly flavoured plums, which have been stewed tender in syrup; lift them from this, and keep them hot while it is boiled rapidly almost to jelly; then arrange the fruit in the vol-au-vent, and pour the syrup over it. For the manner of preparing it, see compotes of fruit, Chapter XX; but increase the proportion of sugar nearly half, that the juice may be