CHAP. I.] SOUPS. 35 sure. The wine and forcemeat-balls may be omitted, and the other seasonings of the soup a little heightened. As much salt as may be required should be added to the stock when the head first begins to boil in it: the cook must regulate also by the taste the exact proportion of cayenne, mace, and catsup, which will flavour the soup agreeably. The fragments of the head, with the bones and the residue of the beef used for stock, if stewed down together with some water and a few fresh vege- tables, will afford some excellent broth, such as would be highly acceptable, especially if well thickened with rice, to many a poor family during the winter months. Stock: shin of beef, 6 to 7 lbs. ; water, 5 quarts : stewed down (with vegetables, &c») till reduced nearly half. Boned half-head with skin on, stewed in stock, one hour and a half. Soup : stock, 5 pints; tongue, skin of head and part of flesh : 15 to 40 minutes, or more if not quite tender. Rice-flour, 6 to 8 ozs.; cayenne, quarter-teaspoonful; mace, twice as much ; mushroom catsup, half a wineglassful: 10 minutes. Sherry, 2 wineglassesful; forcemeat-balls, 20 to 30. POTAGE A LA HEINE. Should there be no strong veal-broth, nor any white stock in readiness, stew four pounds of the scrag or knuckle of veal, with a thick slice or two of lean ham, a faggot of sweet herbs, two moderate-sized carrots, and the same of onions, a large blade of mace and a half-teaspoonful of white pepper-corns, in four quarts of water until reduced to about five pints; then strain the liquor and set it by till the fat can be taken entirely from it. Skin, and wash thoroughly, a couple of fine fowls, or three young pullets, and take awTay the dark spongy substance that adheres to the insides ; pour the veal-broth to them, and boil them gently from three- quarters of an hour to an hour; then lift them out, take off all the wflite flesh, mince it small, pound it to the finest paste, and cover it with a basin till wanted for use. In the mean time let the bodies of the fowls be