MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. X. 40 with cayenne, and serve it when at the point of boiling : if not sufficiently thick, add to it a tablespoonful of arrow- root, moistened with a little cold broth, and let the soup simmer for an instant afterwards. Two or three glasses of port-wine, and two dozens of small forcemeat balls, are sometimes added to this soup with very good effect. Beef, 2 lbs.; hare, one; water, one gallon; salt, 1^ oz.; onions, two ; celery, one head; carrots, 3 ; bunch savoury herbs; pepper - corns, one tea- spoonful ; cloves, 6: three hours, or more. Bread, 2 ozs.; cayenne; arrow-root (if needed), one table- spoonful. PHEASANT SOUP. Half roast a brace of well-kept pheasants, and flour them rather thickly -when they are first laid to the fire. Let them cool; then take all the flesh from the breasts, put it aside, and keep it covered from the air; carve down the remainder of the birds into joints ; bruise the bodies thoroughly, and stew the whole gently from two to three hours in five pints of strong beef-broth; then strain off the soup, and press as much of it as possible from the pheasants. Let it cool, and in the mean time strip the skin from the breasts, mince them small, and pound them to the finest paste, with half as much fresh butter, and half of dry crumbs of bread; season these well with cayenne, sufficiently with salt, and moderately with pounded mace, and grated nutmeg, and add, when their flavour is liked, three or four eschalots, previously boiled tender in a little of the soup, left till cold, and minced before they are put into the mortar; moisten the mixture wdth the yolks of two or three eggs, roll it into small balls of equal size, dust a little flour upon them, skim all the fat from the soup, heat it in a clean stewpan, and when it boils throw them in and poach them from ten to twelve minutes, but first ascertain that the soup is properly seasoned with salt and cayenne. Minced savoury herbs, and even grated lemon-rind, would perhaps to English