CHAP. IX.] 239 VEAL. head should be well washed, and if it cannot be cooked the same day it must be wiped extremely dry before it is hung up ; and when it has not been divided it should be left whole until the time approaches for dressing it. The brain must then be taken out, and both that and the head well soaked and washed with the greatest nicety. When the half-head only is scalded, the brain should first be removed. Calves’ feet are freed from the hair easily in the same manner; indeed, we find it a better mode of having it cleared from them than the one we have given in Chapter XX., though' that is the one prac- tised by many good butchers. BOILED calf’s HEA.D. When the head is dressed with the skin on, which many persons prefer, the ear must be cut off quite close to it; it will require three-quarters of an hour, or upwards, of additional boiling, and should be served covered with fried crumbs : the more usual mode, how- ever, is to boil it without the skin. In either case, first remove the brain, wash the head delicately clean, and soak it for a quarter of an hour; cover it plentifully with cold water, remove the scum as it rises with great care, throw in a little salt, and boil the head gently until it is perfectly tender. In the mean time, wash and soak the brains first in cold and then in warm water, remove the skin or film, boil them in a small saucepan, from fourteen to sixteen minutes, according to their size, and w7hen they are done, chop and mix them with eight or ten sage leaves boiled tender, and finely minced, or, if preferred, with parsley boiled, instead ; warm them in a spoonful or two of melted butter, or white sauce ; skin the tongue, trim off the root, and serve it in a small dish with the brains laid round it. Send the head to table very hot with parsley and butter poured over it, and some more in a tureen. A cheek of bacon, or very delicate pickled pork, and greens, are the usual accom- paniments to boiled calf’s head. We have given here the common English mode of