241 CHAP. IX.] YEAL. may easily render herself expert. Next wash the head and dry it in a clean cloth; sprinkle over the inside a little pounded mace and cayenne, or white pepper; roll it up tightly, and bind it round with tape or twine. Lay into a small stewpot three or four pounds of neck of veal or beef, twice or thrice divided, and place the head upon it with the bones well broken ; pour in half a gallon of cold wafer, or as much as will suffice to keep the head covered until it is done, and simmer it very gently from an hour and a quarter to an hour and three quarters. When it is extremely tender, lift it out, and if wanted for table, remove the binding, and serve it very hot, with currie-sauce, rich oyster-sauce, or egg- sauce and brown gravy; but should the remains, or the whole of it be required for the following receipts, pour no gravy over it: in the latter case do not take off the tape for several hours. The tongue may be stewed with the head, but will require rather less time. We do not think it needful to repeat in every receipt our directions for adding salt to, and removing carefully the scum from, meats that are stewed or boiled, but the cook must not neglect either. When the trouble of boning is objected to, it can be dispensed with for some of the dishes which follow, but not for all. After the head is taken out, boil the gravy until it is well reduced, and rich : it should be strongly jellied when cold. A bone of ham, or a slice of hung-beef will much improve its flavour ; but vegetables must be avoided if it be wanted to keep : a little spice and a faggot of parsley may be added to it, and a calf’s foot will be sure to give it the requisite degree of firmness. This receipt is for a head without the skin. BURLINGTON WHIMSEY. ft * Set aside until quite cold half a calf’s head dressed by the preceding receipt. If on cutting it, the gelatinous part should not appear perfectly tender, pare it off closely from the head, weigh and mince it; put it into a pint of good gravy, and stew it gently from ten to R