MODERN COOKERY. 132 [CHAP. IV. of well-refined, pounded, and -•sifted sugar; mix them thoroughly, then pour in a tablespoonful of the strained juice of a fresh lemon, two of Harvey’s sauce, a tea- spoonful of the very best mushroom catsup (or of cavice), and three tablespoonsful, or a small wineglassful, of port wine. Heat the sauce by placing the basin in a sauce- pan of boiling water; or turn it into a jar, and place this in the water. Serve it directly it is ready with geese or ducks, tame or wild; roast pork, venison, fawn, a grilled blade-bone, or any other broil. A slight flavour of garlic or eschalot vinegar may be given to it at plea- sure. Many persons use it with fish. It is good cold ; and, if bottled directly it is made, may be stored for several days. It is the better for being mixed some hours before it is served. The proportion of cayenne may be doubled when a eery pungent sauce is desired. Good cayenne pepper in fine powder, 1 heaped salt- spoonful ; salt, half as much; pounded sugar, 1 small dessertspoonful; strained lemon-juice, 1 tablespoonful; Harvey’s sauce, 2 tablespoonsful; best mushroom catsup (or cavice), 1 teaspoonful; port wine, 3 table- spoonsful, or small wineglassful. (Little eschalot, or garlic-vinegar at pleasure.) Obs.—This sauce is exceedingly good when mixed with the brown-gravy of a hash or stew, or with that which is served with game or other dishes. POOR MANS sauce. (Served with Turkey Poults.') Mix with four tablespoonsful of minced eschalots, half a teaspoonful of salt, nearly as much pepper, two table- spoonsful of water, and three of good sharp vinegar. Boil the sauce for a few minutes, and serve it hot; or send it to table cold, when it is liked so. Vinegar may entirely supply the place of the water in this case, and a spoonful or two of oil be mixed with it. A small des- sertspoonful of minced parsley, tarragon, or chervil, is likewise sometimes mixed with the eschalots. Their strong flavour may be in some measure -weakened by