CHAP. XVI.] FINE PASTRY. 425 butter have been dissolved. When these have boiled quickly for a minute or two, during which time they must be stirred to prevent their knotting, add a small pinch of salt and six ounces of sugar, on which the rinds of two lemons have been rasped ; place the sauce- pan over a clear and very gentle fire, and when the mixture has simmered from thirty to forty minutes take it off, stir briskly in the yolks of six eggs, and pour it out upon a delicately clean baking-tin that has been slightly rubbed in every part with butter; level the nouilles with a knife to something less than a quarter- inch of thickness, and let them be very evenly spread; put them into a moderate oven, and bake them of a fine equal brown : should any air-bladders appear, pierce them with the point of a knife. On taking the paste from the oven, divide it into two equal parts; turn one of these, the under-side uppermost, on to a clean tin or large dish, and spread quickly over it ajar of fine apricot- jam, place the other half upon it, the brown side out- wards, and leave the paste to become cold ; then stamp it out with a round or diamond-shaped cutter, and ar- range the genoises tastily in a dish. This pastry will be found delicious the day it is baked, but its excellence is destroyed by keeping. Peach, green-gage, or magnum bonum jam, will serve in lieu of apricot, when more con- venient. We strongly recommend to our readers the above preparation, baked in patty-pans, and served hot; or the whole quantity made into a pudding. From the smaller ones a little may be taken out with a teaspoon, and replaced with some preserve just before they are sent to table; or they may thus be eaten cold. Nouilles of 4 eggs; cream or milk, 1^ pint ; buttei^ 6 ozs.; sugar, 6 ozs.; rasped rinds of lemons, 2 ; grain of salt : 80 to 40 minutes. Yolks of eggs, 6 : baked from 15 to 25 minutes. ALMOND PASTE. For a single dish of pastry, blanch seven ounces of fine Jordan almonds and one of bitter ;* throw them into * When these are objected to, use half a pound of the sweet almonds.