216 ' MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. VIII. half as much mace or nutmeg, and a moderate quantity of pepper or cayenne. Roll and bind the meat firmly, lay it into a stewpan or thick iron saucepan nearly of its size, and add the bones and as much good beef broth as will nearly cover the joint. Should this not be at hand, put a few slices of lean ham or bacon under the beef, and lay round it three pounds of neck or knuckle of veal, or of stewing-beef, divided into several parts, then pour to it cold water instead of broth. In either case, so soon as it has boiled a few minutes and been well cleaned from scum, throw in a large faggot of savoury herbs, three or four carrots, as many leeks, or a large onion, stuck with a dozen cloves, and, an hour later, two blades of mace, and half a teaspoonful of pepper- corns. Stew the beef very gently indeed from four to five hours, and longer, should the joint be large : serve it with a good Espagnole, sauce-piquante, or brown caper sauce. Add what salt may be needed before the vege- tables are thrown in; and, after the meat is lifted out, boil down to soup or gravy the liquor in which it has been stewed. To many tastes it would be an improve- ment to flour and brown the outside of the beef in butter before the broth or water is poured to it: it may also be stewed (but somewhat longer) half-covered with rich gravy, and turned when partially done. Minced eschalots may be strewed over the inside before it is rolled, when their strong savour is relished, or veal force- meat may supply their place. TO STEW A RUMP OF BEEF. This joint is more easily carved, and is of better appearance when the bones are removed before it is dressed. Roll and bind it firmly, cover it with strong cold beef-broth or gravy, and stew it very gently indeed from six hours to between seven and eight ; add to it after the scum has been well cleared off, one large or two moderate-sized onions stuck with thirty cloves, a head of celery, two carrots, two turnips, and a large faggot of savoury herbs. When the beef is perfectly