MODERN COOKERY. 188 [[chap. VII. in a sort of frame-work, instead of passing through it, may be often very advantageously used instead of an ordinary one, as the perforation of the meat by this last must always occasion some escape of the juices; and it is, moreover, particularly to be objected to in roasting joints or poultry, which have been boned, and filled with forcemeat. The cradle spit* is much better suited to these, as well as to a sucking pig, sturgeon, salmon, and other large fish ; but it is not very commonly to be found in our kitchens, many of which exhibit a singular scantiness of the conveniences which facilitate the la- b ours of the cook. For heavy and substantial joints a quarter of an hour is generally allowed for every pound of meat; and with a sound fire and frequent basting, will be found suffi- cient when the process is conducted in the usual man- ner ; but by the slow method, as we shall designate it, almost double the time will be required. Pork, veal, and lamb, should always be well roasted; but many eaters prefer mutton and beef rather under-dressed, though some persons have a strong objection to the sight even of any meat that is not thoroughly cooked. Joints which are thin in proportion to their weight, require less of the fire than thick and solid ones: ribs of beef for example, will be sooner ready to serve than an equal weight of the rump, round, or sirloin; and the neck or shoulder of mutton, or spare rib of pork, than the leg. When to preserve the succulence of the meat is more an object than to economize fuel, beef and mutton should be laid at twice the usual distance from the fire and allowed to remain so until they are perfectly heated through; the roasting, so managed, will of course be stoic; and from three hours and a half to four hours will be necessary to cook by this method a leg of mutton of ordinary size, for which two hours would amply suf- fice in a common way; but the flesh will be remarkably tender, and the flow of gravy from it most abundant. * For which see Chapter XII.