[[chap. XIII. 340 MODERN COOKERY. would strongly recommend tlie toast to be laid in it under the birds, as it will afford a superior relish even to the birds themselves. A SALMI OF MOOR-FOWL, PHEASANTS, OR PARTRIDGES. This is an elegant mode of serving the remains of roasted game, but when a superlative salmi is desired, the birds must be scarcely more than half roasted for it. In either case, carve them very neatly, and strip every particle of skin and fat from the legs, wings, and breasts; bruise the bodies well, and put them, with the skin, and other trimmings, into a very clean stewpan. If for a simple and inexpensive dinner, merely add to them two or three sliced eschalots, a bay-leaf, a small blade of mace, and a few peppercorns; then pour in a pint, or rather more, of good veal gravy, or strong broth, and boil it briskly till reduced nearly half; strain the gravy, pressing the bones well, to obtain all the flavour, skim off the fat, add a little cayenne and lemon-juice, heat the game very gradually, in it, but do not, on any account, allow it to boil; place sippets of fried bread round a dish, arrange the birds in good form in the centre, give the sauce a boil, and pour it on them. This is but a homely sort of salmi, though of excellent flavour if well made; it may require, perhaps, the addition of a little thickening, and two or three glasses of dry white wine poured to the bodies of the birds, with the broth, would bring it nearer to the French salmi in flavour. As the spongy substance in the inside of moor-fowl and black- game is apt to be extremely bitter, when they have been long kept, care should be taken to remove such parts as would endanger the preparation. FRENCH SALMI ; OR HASH OF GAME. Prepare undressed, or half-roasted game by the direc- tions we have already given, and after having stripped the skin from the thighs, wings, and breasts, arrange the joints evenly in a clean stewpan, and keep them covered from the air and dust till wanted. Cut down into dice