CHAP. I.] 31 SOUPS. 2 ozs. : 5 minutes. Stock, full five pints ; flesh of head and tongue, If lbs. to 2 lbs. : .f of an hour to 1 hour (salt, if needed, to be added in interim). Good sherry, or Madeira, 2 wineglassesful; lemon juice, 1 to 2 dessert- spoonsful ; forcemeat balls, 24. Obs■, 1 .■—The beef, veal, bones of the head, and vege- tables may be stewed down together when more con- venient : it is only necessary that a really good, well- flavoured, and rather deeply-coloured stock should be prepared. A calf’s foot is always an advantageous addition to it, and the skin of another calf’s head* a better one still. Obs. 2. — A couple of dozen mushroom buttons, cleaned with salt and flannel, then wiped very dry, and sliced, and added to the ham and herbs, when they have been simmered together about half an hour, will be found a great improvement to the soup ; but when they are not procurable, a pleasant flavour may be imparted to it by substituting two or three fresh bay-leaves. Obs. 3.—Claret is sometimes added to this soup instead of sherry or Madeira, but we do not think it would in general suit English taste so well. From two to three tablespoonsful of Harvey’s sauce can be stirred in with the wine when it is liked, or when the colour requires deepening. OLD-FASHIONED MOCK TURTLE. After having taken out the brain and washed and soaked the head well, pour to it nine quarts of cold water, bring it gently to boil, skim it very clean, boil it, if large, an hour and an half, lift it out, and put into the liquor eight pounds of neck of beef, lightly * Country butchers in preparing calf’s head for sale in the ordinary way take off the skin (or scalp), considered so essential to the excellence of this soup, and frequently throw it away; it may, therefore, often be procured from them at very slight cost, and is the best possible addition to the mock turtle. It is cleared from the head in detached portions with the hair on, but this may easily be removed after a few minutes’ scalding as from the head itself, or the feet, by the direction given in Chap. IX.