41 SOUPS. CHAP. I.] taste improve the forcemeat, as well as a small portion of lean barn, a thick slice of which might be stewed in the soup for the purpose. We have recommended that the birds should be partially roasted before they are put into the soup-pot, because their flavour is much finer when this is done than when they are simply stewed; they should be placed rather near to a brisk fire that they be quickly browned on the surface, without losing any of their juices, and the basting should be constant. A slight thickening of rice-flower or arrow-root can be added to the soup at pleasure, and the forcemeat-balls may be fried and slipped into the tureen when they are preferred so. Half a dozen eschalots lightly browned in butter, and a small head of celery may also be thrown in after the birds begin to stew, but nothing should be allowed to prevail over the natural flavour of the game itself, and this should be observed equally witli other kinds, as partridges, grouse, and venison. Pheasants, 2; roasted 20 to 30 minutes. Strong beef broth, or stock, 5 pints : 2 to 3 hours. Forcemeat- balls ; breasts of pheasants, half as much of dry bread crumbs and of butter, salt, mace, cayenne; yolks of 2 or 3 eggs (and at choice 3 or 4 boiled eschalots). Obs.—The stock may be made of six pounds of shin of beef, and four quarts of water reduced to within a pint and a half. An onion, a large carrot, a bunch of savoury herbs, and some salt and spice should be added to it: one pound of neck of veal or of beef will improve it. ANOTHER PHEASANT SOUP. Boil down the half-roasted birds as directed in the foregoing receipt, and add to the soup, after it is strained and re-heated, the breasts pounded to the finest paste with nearly as much bread soaked in a little of the stock and pressed very dry; for the proper manner of mixing them, see Potage a la Peine, page 35. Half a pint of small mushrooms cleaned as for pickling, then sliced rather thickly, and stew^ed from ten to fifteen minutes, without browning, in an ounce or twTo of fresh butter, with a