[CHAP. IX. 258 MODERN COOKERY. having trimmed them into proper shape, heat them with a paste roller until the fibre of the meat is thoroughly- broken ; flour them well to prevent the escape of the gravy, and fry them from twelve to fifteen minutes over a fire that is not sufficiently fierce to burn them before they are quite cooked through : they should be of a fine amber brown, and perfectly done. Lift them into a hot dish, pour the fat from the pan, throw in a slice of fresh butter, and when it is melted, stir or dredge in a des- sertspoonful of flour; keep these shaken until they are well-coloured, then pour gradually to them a cup of gravy or boiling water ; add pepper, salt, a little lemon- pickle or juice, give the whole a boil, and pour it over the cutlets: a few forcemeat balls, fried, and served with them, is usually a very acceptable addition to this dish, even when it is garnished or accompanied with rashers of ham or bacon. A morsel of glaze, or of the jelly of roast meat, should, when at hand, be added to the sauce, which a little mushroom powder would fur- ther improve: mushroom sauce, indeed, is considered by many epicures, as indispensable with veal cutlets. We have recommended, in this one instance, that the meat should be thoroughly beaten, because we find that the veal is wonderfully improved by the process, which, however, we still deprecate for Other meats, unless in- deed we except pork chops. 12 to 15 minutes. VEAL CUTLETS A L*INDIENNE, OR INDIAN FASHION. Mix well together four ounces of very fine stale bread- crumbs, a teaspoonful of salt, and a tablespoonful of the best currie powder. Cut down into small well-shaped cutlets or collops, two pounds of veal free from fat, skin, or bone; beat the slices flat, and dip them into the seasoned crumbs; moisten them again with egg, and pass them a second time through the bread-crumbs. When all are ready, fry them in three or four ounces of but- ter over a moderate fire, from twelve to fourteen minutes. For sauce, mix smoothly with a knife, a teaspoonful of