618 MODERN COOKERY. [[CHAP. XXIII. powder, and knead them into a stiff paste, with new milk. Boll it thin, cut out the biscuits with a cutter, and bake them in a slow oven until they are crisp quite through, but keep them of a pale colour. A couple of eggs are sometimes mixed with the milk for them, but are no material improvement; an additional ounce of sugar may be used when a sweeter biscuit is liked. To make good ginger cakes, increase the butter to six ounces, and the sugar to eight, for each pound of flour, and wet the ingredients into a paste with eggs : a little lemon-grate will give it an agreeable flavour. Biscuits: flour, 2 lbs.; butter, 3 ozs. ; pounded sugar, 3 ozs.; ginger, 2 ozs. Cakes: flour, 1 lb.; butter, 6 ozs.; sugar, 8 ozs.; ginger, 1 oz.; 3 to 4 eggs ; rind of lemon. ISLE OF WIGHT DOUGH-NUTS. Work smoothly together with the fingers four ounces of good lard, and four pounds of flour, add half a pound of fine brown sugar, twTo tablespoonsful of allspice, one drachm of pounded cinnamon, half as much of cloves, two large blades of mace, beaten to powder, two table- spoonsful of fresh yeast which has been watered for one night, and which should be solid, and as much new milk as will make the whole into a rather firm dough; let this stand from an hour to an hour and a half near the fire, then knead it well, and make it into balls about the size of a small apple, hollow them with the thumb, and enclose a few currants in the middle, gather the paste well over them, and thro wt the dough-nuts into a saucepan half filled with boiling lard ; when they are equally coloured to a fine brown, lift them out and dry them before the fire on the back of a sieve. When made in large quantities, as they are at certain seasons in the island, they are drained upon very clean straw. The lard should boil only just before they are dropped into it, or the outsides will be scorched before the insides are sufficiently done. Flour, 4 lbs.; lard, 4 ozs.; sugar, i lb.; allspice, 2