272 [CHAP. X. MODERN COOKERY. a very slow fire from four and a half to five-hours, turning it several times, that it may be equally done. Give it no seasoning beyond pepper and salt. Should the gravy be too much reduced, add two spoonsful of boiling water, or of mutton-gravy. Send the meat to table in its own juices, with currant-jelly, or sharp venison- sauce apart. We owe this receipt entirely to accident; for, wishing to have proof of the anti-putrescent qualities of the pyroligneous acid, we had it applied to a leg of mutton which had been too long kept, and which was dressed in the way we have described. When brought to table, its resemblance to venison, both in appearance and flavour, was remarkable ; and several persons partook of it hashed on the following day, and were all perfectly unconscious that they were not really eating venison ; in the latter instance, it was served in rich gravy made in part of hare; a glass of port wine, a little compound catsup, and a thickening of rice-flour were added. The meat, of course, was only heated through, and not allowed to boil. On a second trial we found it an improvement to touch the mutton in every part with a feather dipped in the acid, as soon as it gave evidence of having been suffi- ciently kept, and then to let it hang three or four days longer : it was again washed with the acid, and after- wards with cold water before it was dressed. TO BOIL A LEG OP MUTTON. {An excellent Receipt.) Trim into handsome form a well-kept, but perfectly sweet leg of mutton, of middling weight; wash, but do not soak it; lay it into a vessel as nearly of its size as con- venient, and pour in rather more than sufficient cold water to cover it; set it over a good fire, and when it begins to boil, take off the scum, and continue to do so until no more appears; throw in a tablespoonful of salt, (after the first skimming,), which will assist to bring it to the surface, and as soon as the liquor is clear, add two moderate-sized onions, stuck with a dozen cloves, a large faggot of parsley, thyme, and savoury, and four or five