SOUPS. 9 CHAP. I.] corns, and a bunch of savoury herbs. Let the whole stew very softly, without ceasing, from four hours and a half to six hours, according to the quantity : the beef in that time will be extremely tender, but not overdone. It will be excellent eating, if properly managed, and might often, we think, be substituted with great advan- tage for the hard, half-boiled, salted beef so often seen at an English table. It should be served with a couple of cabbages, which have been first boiled in the usual way, then pressed very dry, and stewed for about ten minutes in a little of the broth, and seasoned with pepper and salt. The other vegetables from the bouillon may be laid round it or not, at choice. The soup, if served on the same day, must be strained, w^ell cleared from fat, and sent to table with fried or toasted bread, unless the continental mode of putting slices or crusts of untoasted bread into the tureen, and soaking them for ten minutes in a ladleful or two of the bouillon, be, from custom, pre- ferred. Beef, 8 to 9 lbs.; water, 6 quarts; salt, 3 ozs. (more if needed) ; carrots, 4 to 6 ; turnips, 4 or 5 ; celery, one small head; leeks, 4 to 6; one onion, stuck with 6 cloves; pepper-corns, one small teaspoonful: large bunch of savoury herbs : (calf’s foot if convenient) to simmer five to six hours. Obs. 1.—This broth forms in France the foundation of all richer soups and gravies. Poured on fresh meat, (a portion of which should be veal,) instead of water, it makes at once an excellent consommee, or strong jellied stock. If properly managed, it is very clear and pale; and with an additional weight of beef, and some spoons- ful of glaze, might easily be converted into an amber- coloured gravy-soup, suited to modern taste. Ohs. 2. — It is a common practice abroad to boil poultry, pigeons, and even game in the pot-au-feu, or soup-pot. They should be properly trussed, stewed in the broth just long enough to render them tender, and served immediately, when ready, with a good sauce. A small ham, if well soaked, washed exceedingly