28 MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. I. MOCK TURTLE SOUP. To make a single tureen of this favourite English soup in the most economical manner, when there is no stock at hand, stew gently down in a gallon of water four pounds of the fleshy part of the shin of beef, or of the neck, if more convenient, with two or three carrots, one onion, a small head of celery, a bunch cf savoury herbs, a blade of mace, a half teaspoonful of pepper-corns, and an ounce of salt. When the meat is quite in frag- ments, strain off the broth, and pour it when cold upon three pounds of the knuckle, or of the neck of veal; sim- mer this until the flesh has quite fallen from the bones, but be careful to stew it as softly as possible, or the quantity of stock will be so much reduced as to be insufficient for the soup. Next, take the half of a fine calf’s head with the skin on, remove the brains, and then bone it* entirely, or let the butcher be requested to do this, and to return the bones with it s these, when there is time, may be stewed with the veal, to enrich the stock, or boiled after- wards with the head and tongue. Strain the soup through a hair sieve into a clean pan, and let it drain closely from the meat. When it is nearly or quite cold, clear off all the fat from it; roll the head lightly round, leaving the tongue inside, or taking it out, as is most convenient, secure it with tape or twine, pour the soup over, and bring it gently to boil upon a moderate fire; keep it well skimmed, and simmer it from an hour to an hour and a quarter; then lift the head into a deep pan or tureen, add the soup to it, and let it remain in until two parts cold, as this will prevent the edges from becoming dark. Cut into quarter-inch slices, and then divide into dice from six to eight ounces of the lean of an undressed ham, and if possible, one of good flavour; * This is so simple and easy a process, that the cookmay readily accomplish it with very little attention. Let her only work the knife close to the bone always, so as to take the flesh clean from it, instead of leaving- large fragments on. The jaw-bone may first be removed, and the flesh turned back from the edge of the other.