CHAP. XIV.] CURRIES, POTTED MEATS, &C. 347 powder mixed with a teaspoonful of flour and one of salt as can be made to adhere to them : this will be from two to three tablespoonsful. Dissolve a good slice of butter in a deep well-tinned stewpan or saucepan, and shake it over a brisk fire for four or five minutes, or until it begins to take colour, then put in the meat, and brown it well and equally without allowing a morsel to be scorched. The pan should be shaken vigorously every minute or two, and the meat turned in it fre- quently. When this is done, lift it out and throw into the stewpan two or three large onions finely minced, and four or five eschalots when these last are liked, add a morsel of butter, if needful, and fry them till they begin to soften; then add a quarter-pint of gravy, broth, or boiling water, and a large acid apple, or two moderate sized ones, of a good boiling kind, with the hearts of two or three lettuces, or of one hard cabbage, shred quite small (tomatas or cucumbers freed from their seeds can be substituted for these, when in season). Stew the whole slowly until it resembles a thick pulp, and add to it any additional liquid that may be required, should it become too dry; put in the meat, and simmer the whole very softly until this is done, which will be in from three quarters of an hour to an hour.* A COMMON INDIAN CURRIE. For eacli pound of meat, whether veal, mutton, or beef, take a heaped tablespoonful of good currie-powder, a small teaspoonful of salt, and one of flour; mix these well together, and after having cut down the meat into thick small cutlets, or squares, rub half of the mixed powder equally over it. Next, fry gently from one to four or five large onions sliced, with or without the addition of a small clove of garlic, or half a dozen escha- lots, according to the taste; and when they are of a fine golden brown, lift them out with a slice and lay them upon a sieve to drain; throw a little more butter into the pan and fry the meat lightly in it; drain it well * Prawns, shrimps, or the flesh of boiled lobsters may be slowly heated through, and served in this currie-sauce with good effect.