modern COOKERY. [chap. XX. 536- by spoonsful only, to eight ounces of the finest apricot jam, mix them very smoothly, and stir the whole until it is nearly cold that the jam may not sink to the bottom of the mould: a tablespoonful of lemon juice will improve the flavour. When cream is scarce, use milk instead, with an additional quarter-ounce of isinglass, and enrich it by pouring it boiling on the same proportion of almonds as for the second quince blamange (see page 535). Cream can in all cases, be substituted entirely for the milk, when a very rich preparation is desired. Peach-jam will answer admirably for this receipt; but none of any kind should be used for it which has not been passed through a sieve when made. Isinglass, 1 oz. ; new milk, I pint; cream, \ pint; sugar, 3 ozs,; apricot-jam, lb.; lemon-juice, 1 table- spoonful. Or : peach-jam, \ lb.; cream, \\ pint. BLAMANGE RUBANE ; OR, STRIPED BLAMANGE. Make, in the ordinary way, but a little firmer, one quart or two of blamange, according to the number of moulds that are to be filled ; divide it into three or four equal portions ; add to one, sufficient prepared spinage juice (see page 508), to colour it a full or a pale green ; to another, some liquid cochineal or carmine;* to a third, should further variety be desired, a few drops of a strong infusion of saffron, or if its peculiar flavour be objected to, stir quickly some of the blamange quite boiling, to the well beaten yolks of three or four fresh eggs, and thicken it a little over a gentle fire with an additional spoonful or two of milk, for unless the whole be nearly of the same consistency, it will be liable to separate in the unmoulding. Chocolate, first boiled very smooth in a small quantity of water, will give an additional colour; and some firm, clear isinglass, or calf’s-foot-jelly, may be used for an occasional stripe, where great variety is desired. The different kinds of * This may be purchased at the chemists, when the trouble of preparing it is objected to.