MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. XYIII. 482 Stir them well together, and place them near the fire that the rice may swell very gradually ; then let it simmer as gently as possible for about half an hour, or until it begins to be quite tender ; mix witli it then two ounces of fresh butter, and two and a half of pounded sugar, and let it continue to simmer softly until it is dry and perfectly tender.* Before it is taken from the fire scrape into it the out- side of some sugar which has been rubbed upon the rind of a fresh lemon. Have ready a tin mould of pretty form, well buttered in every part; press the rice into it while it is still hot, smooth the surface, and let it remain till cold. Should the mould be one which opens at the ends, like that shewn in the plate at page 401, the pudding will come out easily; but if it should be in a plain common one, just dip it into hot water to loosen it; turn out the rice, and then again reverse it on to a tin or dish; and with the point of a knife mark round the top a rim of about an inch wide; then brush some clarified butter over the whole pudding, and set it into a brisk oven. When it is of an equal light golden brown draw it out, raise the cover carefully where it is marked, scoop out the rice from the inside, leaving only a crust of about an inch thick in every part, and pour into it some preserved fruit warmed in its own syrup, or fill it with a compote of plums or peaches (see Chapter XX); or with some good apples boiled with fine sugar to a smooth rich marmalade. This is a very good as well as an elegant dish : it may be enriched with more butter, and by sub- stituting cream for the milk, in part, or entirely, but it is excellent without either. Rice, \ lb. ; new milk, 1 quart : \ hour. Fresh butter, 2 ozs.; pounded sugar, 2J ozs. ; rasped rind, 1 lemon : \ hour or more. /■ Ohs.—The precise time of baking the pudding can- not well be specified : it only requires colour. * Unless the rice be boiled slowly, and very dry, it will not an- swer for the casserole.