MODERN COOKERY. 360 [CHAP. XV. TO BOIL POTATOES. (A genuine Irish Receipt.) Potatoes, to boil well together, should be all of the same sort, and as nearly equal in size as may be. Wash off the mould, and scrub them very clean with a hard brush, but neither scoop nor apply a knife to them in any way, even to clear the eyes.* Rinse them well, and arrange them compactly in a saucepan, so that they may not lie loose in the wTater, and that a small quantity may suffice to cover them. Pour this in cold, and when it boils, throw in about a large teaspoonful of salt to the quart, and simmer the potatoes till they are nearly done, but for the last two or three minutes, let them boil rapidly. When they are tender quite through, which may be known by probing them with a fork, pour all the water from them immediately, lift the lid of the saucepan to allow the steam to escape, and place them on a trevet, high over the fire, or by the side of it, until the moisture has entirely evaporated; then peel, and send them to table as quickly as possible, either in a hot napkin, or in a dish, of which the cover is so placed, that the steam can pass off. There should be no delay in serving them after they are once taken from the fire. Irish families usually prefer them served in their skins. Some kinds will be done in twenty minutes, others in little less than three quarters of an hour. We are informed that “ the best potatoes are those which average from five to six to the pound, with few eyes, but those pretty deep, and equally distributed over the surface.” We cannot ourselves vouch for the correctness of the assertion, but we think it may be relied on. 20 minutes to j hour, or more. Obs.—The water in whicli they are boiled, should barely cover the potatoes. * “ Because/’ in the words of our clever Irish correspondent, “• the water through these parts is then admitted into the very heart of the vegetable ; and the latent heat, after cooking, is not sufficient to throw it off: this renders the potatoes very unwholesome.’ ’