472 MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. XVIII. lina ;* let it boil over a gentle fire for ten minutes, then add four ounces of sugar roughly powdered, three of fresh butter, and less than a small quarter-teaspoonful of salt; boil the mixture for two or three additional minutes, keeping it stirred without intermission ; take it from the fire, let it cool a little, and stir to it briskly, and by degrees, the yolks of six eggs and of four whites well beaten together, and strained or prepared for use (as directed at page 435) ; four or five bitter almonds, pounded with a little sugar, will heighten the flavour pleasantly to many tastes. When the pudding is nearly cold pour it gently into a stewpan or mould, prepared as for the Gateau de Riz of page 474, and bake it in a very gentle oven from an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half. SUTHERLAND OR CASTLE PUDDINGS. Take an equal weight of eggs in the shell, of good butter, of fine dry flour, and of sifted sugar. First, whisk the eggs for ten minutes, or until they appear extremely light; then throw in the sugar by degrees, and continue the whisking for four or five minutes; next, strew in the flour, also gradually, and when it appears smoothly blended with the other ingredients, pour the butter to them in small portions, each of which should be beaten in until there is no appearance of it left. It should previously be just liquified with the least possible degree of heat; this may be effected by putting it into a w7ell-warmed saucepan, and shaking it round until it is dissolved. A grain or two of salt should be thrown in with the flour; and the rind of half a fine lemon rasped on sugar, or grated, if more convenient; or some pounded mace, or the store-flavour- ing of page 16G, can be added at choice. Pour the mix- * We have never in England, and rarely even in France, ob- tained any approaching in quality to some, which, in conjunction with a packet of vermicelli, equally good, was procured for us by a country chemist, from Mr. Barron, 18, Pall Mall, whose successor, Mr. A. Cobbett, supplies excellent articles of the same kind.