424 [CHAP. XVI. MODERN COOKERY. moisten the edges of the paste, press them together care- fully, and trim them off close to the dish; spread equally over the top, to within rather more than an inch of the edge all round, the whites of three fresh eggs beaten to a quite solid froth, and mixed quickly at the moment of using them, with three tablespoonsful of dry sifted sugar. Put the tart into a moderately brisk oven, and when the crust has risen well, and the icing is set, either lay a sheet of writing-paper lightly over it, or draw it to a part of the oven where it will not take too much colour. This is now a fashionable mode of icing tarts, and greatly improves their appearance. Bake half an hour. BARBERRY.TART. Barberries, with half their weight of fine brown sugar, when they are thoroughly ripe, and with two ounces more when they are not quite so, make an admirable tart. For one of moderate size, put into a dish rimmed with paste, three-quarters of a pound of the picked fruit, and six ounces of sugar in alternate layers; pour over them three tablespoonsful of water, put on the cover, and bake the tart half an hour. Another way of making it is, to line a shallow tin pan with very thin crust, to mix the fruit and sugar well together with a spoon, before they are laid in, and to put bars of paste across instead of a cover; or it may be baked without either.* GENOISES A LA REINE, OR, HER MAJESTY’S PASTRY. Make some nouilles (see page 6) with the yolks of four fresh eggs, and when they are all cut, as directed, drop them lightly into a pint and a half of boiling cream (new milk will answer quite as well, or a por- tion of each may be used), in* which six ounces of fresh * The French make all their fruit-tarts thus, in large shallow pans. Plums, split and stoned (or if of small kinds, left entire), cherries and currants stripped from the stalks, and various other fruits, all rolled in plenty of sugar, are baked in the uncovered crust; or this is baked by itself, and then filled afterwards with fruit previously stewed tender.