[CHAP. XIX. MODERN COOKERY. 504 precaution, it is better to boil the cream before the cheese is melted in it; rich white sauce, or bechamel, made not very thick, with an additional ounce or two of butter, may be used to vary and enrich this prepara- tion. If Parmesan cheese* be used for it, it must of course be grated. Half the quantity may be served. Maccaroni, | lb.; cheese, 10 ozs. ; good cream, j pint (or rich white sauce); butter, 2 ozs. (or more) ; little saltjy'me cayenne, and mace. POLENTA, AN ITALIAN DISH. (GOOD.) Throw into a quart of milk, when it is fast boiling, half a teaspoonful of salt, and then shake lightly into it five ounces of the best semoulina; stir the milk as this is added, and continue to do so from eight to ten minutes, letting the mixture boil gently during the time. It should be very thick, and great care must be taken to prevent its sticking to the saucepan, which should be placed over a clear fire on a bar or trevet, but not upon the coals. Pour the semoulina, when it is done, into a basin, which it will not fill by an inch or two, and let it remain some hours in a cool place, that it may become perfectly cold; it will then turn out quite solid, and like a pudding in appearance. Cut it wTith a large, sharp carving-knife, or a bit of thin wire, into half-inch slices; wash the basin into which it was poured at first, and butter it well; grate from six to eight ounces of good cheese (Parmesan, or any other), and mix with it a half teaspoonful of cayenne, and twice as much pounded mace; clarify from two to three ounces of fresh butter, and put a small quantity into the basin, strew in a little of the cheese, and then lay in the first slice of the semoulina, on this put a thick layer of the cheese, moisten it with some drops of butter, and place the second slice upon it, then more cheese and butter, and continue thus until all the semoulina is replaced in the basin, put plenty of cheese upon the top, * The Parmesan being apt to gather into lumps, instead of min- gling smoothly with the liquid, had perhaps better be avoided for this dish.