432 MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. XVI. of four small, or of three large lemons, and afterwards, by very slow degrees, the strained juice of all. When these ingredients are perfectly blended, pour to them in small portions, four ounces of just liquified butter (six of clarified if exceedingly rich cheese-cakes are wished for), and again whisk the mixture lightly for several minutes; thicken it over the fire like boiled custard, and either put it into small pans or jars for storing,* or fill with it, one-third full, some patty-pans lined with the finest paste; place lightly on it a layer of apricot, orange, or lemon-marmalade, and on this pour as much more of the mixture. Bake the cheese-cakes from fif- teen to twenty minutes in a moderate oven. They are very good without the layer of preserve. Jordan almonds, 4 ozs.; eggs, 6; sugar, 12 ozs.; rinds and strained juice of 4 small, or of 3 quite large lemons; butter, 4 ozs. (6 for rich cheese-cakes); layers of preserve. Baked 15 to 20 minutes, moderate oven. NORFOLK CHEESE-CAKES. Beat well together until they are perfectly smooth, three-quarters of a pound of cheese-curd and five ounces of butter ; add to them two ounces of almonds, of which, five or six should be bitter ones, four ounces of sifted sugar, four eggs, leaving but two of the whites, three spoonsful of cream, two of brandy, a little mace or nutmeg, and if candied peel and currants are approved, one ounce and a half of the first, and three of the latter. Finish and bake the cheese-cakes as the preceding ones. Curd, f lb.; butter, 5 ozs.; sugar, 4 ozs.; almonds, 2 ozs.; eggs, 4 yolks, 2 whites; cream, three table- spoonsful ; brandy 2 ; little mace or nutmeg; currants (if added), 3 ozs.; candied orange or lemon-rind, H oz.: 20 minutes. FANCHONNETTES. Boll out very thin and square, fine puff paste, lay it on a tin or copper oven-leaf, and cover it equally * This preparation will make excellent fanchonettes, or pastry- sandwiches. It will not curdle if gently boiled for two or three minutes fand stirred without ceasing), and it may be long kept afterwards.