254 MODERN COOKERY. ^CHAP. IX. if the under side be dry. The bacon should be weighed after the rind, and any rust it may exhibit, have been trimmed from it: that cured by the East Farleigh receipt, (see Chapter XI) is best for the purpose. This cake is excellent cold, better indeed than the preceding one; but if preferred hot, slices of either may be warmed through in a Dutch oven, or on the gridiron, or in a few spoonsful of gravy. The same ingredients made into small cakes, floured well, fried slowly from twelve to fifteen minutes, then served with gravy, made in the pan as for cutlets, will be found extremely good. Yeal, lg lb.; striped bacon,'18 ozs.: salt and mace, l teaspoonful each ; rind of lemon, 1 ; third of 1 nut- meg ; cayenne, 4 grains. FRICANDEAU OF VEAL. French cooks always prefer for this dish, which is a common one in their own country, that part of the fillet to which the fat or udder is attached ;* but the flesh of the finer part of the neck, or loin, raised clear from the bones, may be made to answer the purpose nearly, or quite as well, and often much more con- veniently, as the meat with us is not divided for sale as in France; and to purchase the entire fillet, for the sake of the fricandeau, would render it exceedingly expensive. Lay the veal flat upon a table, or dresser, with the skin uppermost, and endeavour, with one stroke of an exceedingly sharp knife to clear this off, and leave the surface of the meat extremely smooth ; next lard it thickly with small lardoons, as directed for a pheasant (page 200), and make one or two incisions in the underside with the point of a knife, that it may the better imbibe the flavour of the seasonings. Take a stewpan, of sufficient size to hold the fricandeau, and the proper quantity of vegetables compactly arranged, without much room being left round the meat. Put into it a couple of large carrots, cut in thick slices, two onions of moderate size, two or three roots of parsley, * Called by them the noix.