FISH. CHAP. II.] 65 SALMON A LA ST. MARCEL. Separate some cold boiled salmon into flakes, and free them entirely from the skin ; break the bones, and boil them in a pint of water for half an hour. Strain off the liquor, put it into a clean saucepan and stir into it by degrees when it begins to boil quickly, two ounces of butter mixed with a large teaspoonful of flour, and when the whole has boiled for two or three minutes add a tablespoonful of essence of anchovies, one of good mushroom catsup, half as much lemon-juice or Chili vinegar, a half-saltspoonful of pounded mace, some cayenne, and a very little salt. Shell from half to a whole pint of shrimps, add them to the salmon, and heat the fish very slowly in the sauce by the side of the fire, but do not allow it to boil. When it is very hot, dish, and send it quickly to table. French cooks, when they re-dress fish or meats of any kind, prepare the flesh with great nicety, and then put it into a stewpan, and pour the sauce upon it; which is, we think, better than the more usual English mode of laying it into the boiling sauce. The cold salmon may also be re-heated in the cream sauce of Chapter IY. or in the Maitre dTIotel sauce which follows it; and will be found excel- lent with either. This receipt is for a moderate-sized dish. TO BOIL COD FISH. When this fish is large the head and shoulders are sufficient for a handsome dish, and they contain all the choicer portion of it, though not so much substantial eating, as the middle of the body, which, inconsequence, is generally preferred to them by the frugal housekeeper. Wash the fish, and cleanse the inside, and the back- bone in particular, with the most scrupulous care; lay it into the fish-kettle and cover it well witli cold water mixed with five ounces of salt to the gallon, and about a quarter ounce of saltpetre to the whole. Place it over a moderate fire, clear off the scum perfectly, and let the fish boil gently until it is done. Drain it well* * This should be done by setting the fish-plate across the kettle lor a minute or two. F