CHAP. XIV.] CURRIES, POTTED MEATS, &C. 345 Let the seeds be of the finest quality. Dry them well, pound, and sift them separately through a lawn sieve, then weigh, and mix them in the above propor- tions. This is an exceedingly agreeable and aromatic powder, when all the ingredients are perfectly fresh and good, hut the preparing it is rather a .troublesome pro- cess. Mr. Arnott recommends that when it is considered so, a “high-caste” chemist should be applied to for it. The Messieurs Corbyn and Co., 300, High Holborn, are so justly celebrated for the superior quality and genuineness of every thing supplied by them to the public, that we can scarcely do better than name them to such of our readers as may be unacquainted with their house : their drugs are allowed to be quite equal in quality to those which are procured at Apothecaries’ Hall. MR. ARNOTT’s CURRIE. 44 Take the heart of a cabbage, and nothing but the heart, that is to say, pull away all the outside leaves till it is about the size of an egg; chop it fine, add to it a couple of apples sliced thin, the juice of one lemon, half a teaspoonful of black pepper, with one large table- spoonful of my currie-powder, and mix the whole well together. Now take six onions that have been chopped fine and fried brown, a garlic head, the size of a nutmeg, also minced fine, two ounces of fresh butter, two table- spoonsful of flour, and one pint of strong mutton or beef gravy ; and when these articles are boiling, add the former ingredients, and let the whole be well stewed up together : if not hot enough, add cayenne pepper. Next, put in a fowl that has been roasted and nicely cut up ; or a rabbit; or some lean chops of pork or mutton ; or a lobster; or the remains of yesterday’s calf’s head; or any thing else you may fancy; and you will have an excellent currie, fit for kings to partake of.” 44 Well! now for the rice ! It should be put into water which should be frequently changed, and should remain in for half an hour at least; this both clears and soaks it. Have your saucepan full of water (the larger the better),