MODERN COOKERY. [chap. XYI. 422 A SEFTON, OR, VEAL CUSTARD. Pour boiling, a pint of rich, clear, pale veal-gravy on six fresh eggs, which have been well beaten and strained; sprinkle in directly the grated rind of a fine lemon, a little cayenne, some salt if needed, and a quarter tea- spoonful of mace. Put a paste border round a dish, pour in first two ounces of clarified butter, and then the other ingredients; bake the sefton in a very slow oven from twenty-five to thirty minutes, or until it is quite firm in the middle, and send it to table with a little good gravy. Very highly flavoured game-stock, in which a few mushrooms have been stewed, may be used for this dish with great advantage in lieu of veal-gravy; and a sauce made of the smallest mushroom-buttons, may be served with it in either case. The mixture can be baked in a whole paste, if preferred so; or in well- buttered cups, then turned out and covered with the sauce before it is sent to table. Rich veal or game-stock, 1 pint; fresh eggs, 6 ; rind, 1 lemon; little salt and cayenne; pounded mace, J teaspoonful; butter, 2 ozs.: baked 25 to 30 minutes, sloiu oven. APPLE CAKE, OR GERMAN TART. Work together with the fingers, ten ounces of butter and a pound of flour, until they resemble fine crumbs of bread; throw in a small pinch of salt, and make them into a firm smooth paste with the yolks of two eggs and a spoonful or two of water. Butter thickly, a plain tin cake or pie-mould (those which open at the sides, see plate, page 401, are best adapted to the purpose) ; roll out the paste thin, place the mould upon it, trim a bit to its exact size, cover the bottom of the mould with this, then cut a band the height of the sides, and press it smoothly round them, joining the edge, which must be moistened with egg or water, to the bottom crust; then stick upon them, to prevent their separation, a narrow and thin band of paste, also moistened. Next, fill the mould nearly to the brim with the following marmalade, which must be quite cold when it is put in. Boil