551 SWEET DISHES. CHAP. XX.] spoonsful of syrup; rub them through a fine sieve, and mix them in a basin with a pint of syrup (made with a pound of sugar clarified and highly-flavoured with a pod of vanilla), a pint of rich cream, and the yolks of twelve eggs; thicken the mixture like a boiled custard ; when it is cold put it into a freezing pot, adding a glass of maraschino, and make it set as an iced cream; then add an ounce of preserved citron cut in dice, two ounces of currants, and as many fine raisins stoned and divided (all of which should be soaked from the day before in some maraschino with a little sugar); the whole thus mingled, add a plateful of whipped cream, and the whites of three eggs prepared as for Italian meringue. When the pudding is perfectly frozen, mould it in a pewter mould of the form of a pine-apple, and place it again in the ice till wanted to serve. Preserved cherries may be substituted for the raisins and currants. Chestnuts, 40 ; syrup, 1 pint some spoonsful; vanilla, 1 pod ; cream 1 pint; yolks of eggs, 12 ; maraschino, 1 glass; citron, 1 oz.; currants, 2 ozs.; raisins, 2 ozs.; whipped cream, 1 plateful; whites of eggs beaten to snow, 3. Obs.—As Monsieur Careme directs the eggs for his Italian meringues to be prepared as follows, he probably intends that they should be mixed with the syrup before they are added to the pudding. Boil together half a pound of the finest sugar, and half a pint of water, until they begin to be very thick, then with a wooden spoon, work the sugar against the side of the pan till it whitens; leave it to cool a little, work it again, and then with a whisk mingle with it the eggs whipped to very firm froth, which ought to produce a preparation very white, smooth, and brilliant. STRENGTHENING BLAMANGE. Dissolve in a pint of new milk, half an ounce of isinglass, strain it through muslin, or a fine silk sieve, put it again on the fire with the rind of half a small lemon pared very thin, and two ounces of sugar broken