CHAP. I.] SOUPS. 17 pint to a pint and a half of cold water to each pound of meat; and after the liquor has been well skimmed on its beginning to boil, throw in an ounce and a half of salt to the gallon, two small heads of celery, three mild, middling-sized onions, three well-flavoured turnips, as many carrots, a faggot of thyme and parsley, half a teaspoonful of white pepper-corns, twelve cloves, and a large blade of mace. Draw the soup-pot to the side of the fire, and boil the stock as gently as possible for about six hours ; then strain, and set it by for use. Be particularly careful to clear it entirely from fat before it is prepared for table. One third of beef or veal, with two of mutton, will make very good soup ; or mutton only will answer the purpose quite well upon occasion. Beef, 4 lbs.; mutton, 4 lbs.; (or, beef or veal from 2 to 3 lbs.; mutton, from 5 to 6 lbs. ;) water, 1 gallon to 1 J; salt, 1J oz.; mild turnips, 1 lb.; onions,. 6 ozs.; carrots, f- lb.; celery, 6 to 8 ozs.; 1 bunch of herbs ; pepper-corns, J teaspoonful; cloves, 12 ; mace, 1 large blade : six hours. Obs.—Salt should be used sparingly at first for stock in which any portion of ham is boiled; allowance should also be made for its reduction, in case of its being required for gravy. THE LORD MAYOR’S SOUP. Wash thoroughly two sets of moderate-sized pigs’ ears and feet, from which the hair has been carefully removed; add to them five quarts of cold water, and stew them very gently, with a faggot of savoury herbs, and one large onion stuck with a dozen cloves, for nearly four hours, when the ears may be lifted out; stew the feet for another hour, then take them up, strain the soup, and set it in a cool place that it may become cold enough for the fat to be quite cleared from it. Next, bone the ears and feet, cut the flesh down into dice, throw a clean folded cloth over it, and leave it so till the soup requires to be prepared for table; then strew upon it two tablespoonsful of savoury herbs minced c