CHAP. XXII.] PICKLES. 597 but unless the pickles be quite covered with their liquor, and well protected from the air and from the influence of damp, which is more than anything destructive of them, the purity of the vinegar wdll not preserve them eatable. We can confidently recommend to the reader the rather limited number of receipts which follow, and which might easily be multiplied did the size of our volume permit. Pickling is so easy a process, however, that when in any degree properly acquired, it may be extended to almost every kind of fruit and vegetable successfully. A few of the choicer kinds will neverthe- less be found generally more acceptable than a greater variety of inferior preparations. Mushrooms, gherkins, walnuts, lemons, eschalots, and peaches, for all of which we have given minute directions, will furnish as much choice as is commonly required. Very excellent Indian mangoes too may be purchased at the Italian warehouses, and to many tastes will be more acceptable than any English pickle. We have had them very good from Mr. Cobbett, 18, Pall Mall, whose house we have already had occasion to name. TO PICKLE CHERRIES. Leave about an inch of their stalks on some fine, sound, Kentish or Flemish cherries, that are not over- ripe; put them into a jar, cover them with cold vinegar, and let them stand three weeks; pour off two-thirds of the liquor and replace it with fresh vinegar; then, after having drained it from the fruit, boil the whole with an ounce of coriander seed, a small blade of mace; a few grains of cayenne, or a teaspoonful of white peppercorns, and four bruised cochineals to every quart, all tied loosely in a fold of muslin.. Let the pickle become quite cold before it is added to the cherries : in a month they will be fit for use. The vinegar that is poured from the fruit makes a good syrup of itself when boiled with a pound of sugar to the pint, but it is im- proved by having some fresh raspberries, cherries, or currants, infused in it previously for three or four days.