CHAP. XVI.] PASTRY. 411 CASSEROLE OF RICE. Proceed exactly as for Gabrielle’s pudding (see Chapter XYIIL), but substitute good veal-broth or stock for the milk, and add a couple of ounces more of butter. Fill the casserole when it is emptied, with a rich mince or fricassee, or with stewed oysters in a bechamel-sauce. French cooks make a very trouble- some and elaborate affair of this dish, putting to the rice to make it 46 mellow,” a great deal of pot-top fat, slices of fat ham, &c., which must afterwards be well drained off, or picked out from it. As, however, we have given the receipt, it will be found an excellent dish, and of very elegant appearance, if moulded in a tasteful shape. It must have a quick oven to colour without too much drying it. For a large casserole a pound of rice and a quart of gravy will be required : a bit of bread is sometimes used in filling the mould, cut to the shape, and occupying nearly half the inside, but always so as to leave a thick and compact crust in every part. A GOOD COMMON ENGLISH GAME PIE. Raise the flesh entire from the upper side of the best end of a well-kept neck of venison, trim it to the length of the dish in which the pie is to be served, and rub it with a mixture of salt, cayenne, pounded mace, and nutmeg. Cut down into joints a fine young hare which has hung from eight to fourteen days, bone the back and thighs, and fill them with forcemeat No. 1, (page 170), but put into it a double portion of butter, and a small quantity of minced eschalots, should their flavour be liked, and the raw liver of the hare, chopped small. Line the dish with a rich short crust (see page 405), lay the venison in the centre, and the hare closely round and on it; fill the vacant spaces with more forcemeat, add a few spoonsful of well-jellied gravy, fasten on the cover securely, ornament it or not, at pleasure, and bake the pie two hours in a well heated oven. The remnants and bones of the hare and venison may be stewed down into a small quantity of excellent soup, or with a less