[CHAP. I. 50 MODERN COOKERY. cayenne: 50 to 60 minutes. Young peas, half to three quarters of a pint. Ohs.—We' must repeat that the peas for these soups should not be old, as when they are so, their fine sweet flavour is entirely lost, and the dried ones would have almost as good an effect: nor should they be of inferior kinds. Freshly-gathered marrowfats, taken at nearly, or quite their full growth, will give the best quality of soup. We are credibly informed, but cannot assert it on our own authority, that it is often made for expensive tables in early spring, with the young, tender plants or halms of the peas, when they are about a foot in height. They are cut off close to the ground, like small salad, then boiled and pressed through a strainer, and mixed with the stock. The flavour is affirmed to be excellent. A CHEAP GREEN PEAS SOUP. Wash very clean, and throve into an equal quantity of boiling water, salted as for peas, three quarts of the shells, and in from twenty to thirty minutes, when they will be quite tender, turn the whole into a large strainer, and press the pods strongly with a wooden spoon. Measure the liquor, put two quarts of it into a clean,, deep saucepan, and when it boils, add to it a quart of full grown peas, two, or even three large cucumbers, as many moderate-sized lettuces stripped of the coarser leaves, and cut small, one large onion (or more if liked), sliced extremely thin and stewed for half an hour in a morsel of butter before it is added to the soup, or gently fried without being allowed to brown ; a branch or two of parsley, and, when the flavour is liked, a dozen leaves of mint. Stew these softly for an hour, with the addition of a small teaspoonful, or a larger quantity if required, of salt, and a good seasoning of fine white pepper, or of cayenne; then press the whole of the vegetables with the soup through a hair sieve, heat it afresh, and send it to table with a dish of small fried sippets. The colour will not be so bright as that of the more expensive soups which precede it, but it will be excellent in flavour.