310 MODERN COOKERY. [chap, xir: with the forcemeat No. 1 or 2 of Chapter VI., or with the oyster, chestnut, or French forcemeat, of which the receipts are given in the same Chapter. In trussing- it draw the legs into the body, break the breast-bone, and give the turkey as round and plump an appearance as can be. Put it into plenty of icarm water, clear off the scum with the greatest care as it is thrown to the surface, and boil the bird very gently from an hour and a half to two hours and a quarter. A very large turkey would require a longer time, but it is unsuited to this mode of cooking. When the oyster-forcemeat is used, a large tureen of rich oyster-sauce should accom- pany the dish ; but celery-sauce, or good white sauce, may otherwise be sent to table with it; and a boiled tongue or a small ham is usually served in addition. For a plain family dinner, parsley and butter, and a delicate cheek of bacon, are sometimes substituted for either of these, and parsley and butter for a more expen- sive sauce. Fast boiling will cause the skin of the bird to break, and must therefore be especially avoided : it should hang for some days before it is dressed, for if quite freshly killed it will not be tender, but it must be perfectly sweet to be fit for table. Moderate-sized turkey, 1-J- to 2 hours ; large turkey, longer; very small one, less time. TURKEY BONED AND FORCED. {An excellent dish.) Take a small, well-kept, but quite sw~eet hen-turkey, of from seven to eight pounds weight, and remove, by the receipt for a fowl (page 306), all the bones, except those of the pinions, without opening the bird ; draw it into shape, and fill it entirely with exceedingly fine sausage-meat, beginning with the legs and wings; plump the breast well in preparing it, and when its original form is quite restored, tie it securely at both ends, and at the extremities of the legs; pass a slight iron skewer through these and the body, and another through the wings and body; then lay a twine over the