318 MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. XII. seasoned bread-crumbs, plentifully sprinkled with clari- fied butter, dipped again into the crumbs, and broiled over a clear and gentle fire from half to three-quarters of an hour. It should be served very hot, with mush- room-sauce, or with a little good plain gravy, which may be thickened and flavoured with a teaspoonful of mushroom-powder (should it be at hand), mixed with half as much flour and a little butter; or with some Es- pagnole. It should be opened at the back, and evenly divided quite through; the legs should be trussed like those of a boiled fowl; the breast-bone, or that of the back may be removed at pleasure, and both sides of the bird should be made as flat as they can, that the fire may penetrate every part equally; the inside should be first laid towards it. The neck, feet, and gizzard may be boiled down with a small quantity of onion and carrot previously browned in a morsel of butter, to make the gravy; and the liver, after having been simmered with them for five or six minutes, may be used to thicken it after it is strained. A teaspoonful of lemon- juice, some cayenne, and minced parsley should be added to it, and a little arrow-root, or flour and butter. I to | hour. FRICASSEED FOWLS OR CHICKENS. To make a fricassee of good appearance without great expense, prepare, with exceeding nicety, a couple of plump chickens, strip off the skin, and carve them very neatly. Reserve the wings, breasts, merry-thoughts, and thighs; and stew down the inferior joints with a couple of blades of mace, a small bunch of savoury herbs, a few white peppercorns, a pint and a half of water, and a small half-teaspoonful of salt. When something more than a third part reduced, strain the gravy, let it cool, and skim off every particle of fat. Arrange the joints which are to be fricasseed in one layer, if it can be done conveniently, and pour to them as much of the gravy as will nearly cover them ; add the very thin rind of half a fine fresh lemon, and simmer the fowls gently from half to three-quarters of an hour;