CHAP. XVIII.] BAKED PUDDINGS. 469 to become cold), or any other sweet pudding-mixture as will fill the dish almost to the brim ; cover the top with thin slices of the plum-pudding, and bake it in a slow oven from thirty minutes to a full hour, according to the quantity and quality of the contents. One pint of new milk poured boiling on an ounce and a half of tons Us mois, smoothly mixed with a quarter-pint of cold milk, makes with the addition of four ounces of sugar, four small eggs, a little lemon-grate, and two or three bitter almonds, or a few drops of ratifia, an excel- lent pudding of this kind : it should be baked nearly three-quarters of an hour in a quite slack oven. Two ounces and a half of arrow-root may be used in lieu of the tons les mois, when this last is not procurable. We would especially recommend for trial the ingredients of the lemon-pudding of page 466,* with the plum-pud- ding crust, as likely to make a very superior variety of this dish : we have not had it tested, but think it could scarcely fail. It must be well, though slowly baked. RICH BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. Give a good flavour of lemon-rind and bitter almonds, or of cinnamon, if preferred, to a pint of new milk, and when it has simmered a sufficient time for this, strain and mix it with a quarter-pint of rich cream ; sweeten it with four ounces of sugar in lumps, and stir it while still hot to five well-beaten eggs ; throw in a few grains of salt, and move the mixture briskly with a spoon as a glass of brandy is added to it. Have ready in a thickly buttered dish three layers of thin bread and butter cut from a half-quartern loaf, with four ounces of currants, and one and a half of finely-shred candied peel, strewed between and over them ; pour the eggs and milk on them by degrees, letting the bread absorb one portion before another is added: it should soak for a couple of hours before the pudding is taken to the oven, which should be a moderate one. Half an hour will bake it. It is very good when made with * Second receipt.