30 fCHAP. I. MODERN COOKERY. without being allowed to break. Cayenne, if needed, should be thrown into the stock before it is strained; salt should be used sparingly, on account of the ham, until the whole of the other ingredients have been mixed together, when a sufficient quantity must be stirred into the soup to season it properly. A couple of glasses of good sherry or Madeira, with a dessertspoonful of strained lemon juice are usually added two or three minutes only before the soup is dished, that the spirit and flavour of the wine may not have time to evaporate; but it is sometimes preferred mellowed down by longer boiling. The proportion of lemon juice may be doubled at will, but much acid is not generally liked. We can assure the reader of the excellence of the soup made by this receipt: it is equally palatable and delicate, and not heavy or cloying to the stomach, like many of the elaborate compositions which bear its name. The fat, through the whole process, should be carefully skimmed off. The ham gives far more savour, when used as we have directed, than when even in much larger propor- tions it is boiled down in the stock. Two dozens of forcemeat balls, prepared by the receipt No. 11, Chap. VI., should be slipped into the soup when it is ready for table. It is no longer customary to serve egg-balls in it. First broth :—shin, or neck of beef, 4 lbs.; water, 4 quarts; carrots, 2 or 3; onion, 1 large mild; celery, small head; bunch savoury herbs ; mace, 1 large blade ; pepper-corns, | teaspoonful; cloves, 6; salt, l oz. : 5 hours or more, very gently. For stock: the broth and 3 lbs. neck or knuckle of veal (bones of head if ready) : 4 to 5 hours. Boned half-head with skin on and tongue, 1 hour to 1J. Lean of undressed ham, 6 to 8 ozs. (6 if very salt) ; shalots, 4, or onion, 1; fresh butter, 4 ozs.; cloves, 6 ; middling sized blades of mace, 2 ; pepper-corns, ^ teaspoonful; small sprigs of thyme, 3 or 4 ; minced parsley, 3 large teaspoonsful; minced savoury and lemon-thyme mixed, 1 small teaspoonful (thin rind J small lemon when liked) : 1 hour. Flour,