[CHAP. H. MODERN COOKERY. 58 lie from twenty-four to forty-eight hours before it is dressed. It is sometimes served crimp like salmon, and must then be sliced as soon as it is dead, or within the shortest possible time afterwards. Herrings, mackerel, and whitings, loose their freshness so rapidly, that unless newly caught they are quite uneatable. The herring may, it is said, be deprived of the strong rank smell which it emits when broiled or fried, by stripping off the skin, under which lies the oil that causes the disagreeable odour. The whiting is a peculiarly pure-flavoured and delicate Ash, and accept- able generally to invalids from being very light of digestion. Eels should be alive and brisk in movement when they are purchased, but the 44 horrid barbarity” as it is truly designated, of skinning and dividing them while they are so, is without excuse, as they are easily destroyed 44 by piercing the spinal marrow close to the back part of the skull with a sharp pointed knife, or skewTer. If this be done in the right place all motion will instantly cease.” We quote Doctor Kitchener’s assertion on this subject; but we know that the mode of destruction which he recommends is commonly practised by the London fishmongers. Boiling water also will immediately cause vitality to cease, and is perhaps the more humane and ready method of destroy- ing the fish. Lobsters, prawns, and shrimps are very stiff when freshly-boiled, and the tails turn strongly inwards; when these relax, and the fish are soft and watery, they are stale; and the smell will detect their being so instantly even if no other symptoms of it be remarked. If bought alive, lobsters should be chosen by their weight and 44 liveliness. ” The hen-lobster is preferred for sauce and soups, on account of the coral; but the flesh of the male is generally considered of finer flavour for eating. The vivacity of their leaps will show when prawns and shrimps are fresh from the sea. Oysters should close forcibly on the knife when they