CHAP. VIII.] BEEF. 205 warm or damp weather; and scrape off with a knife, or wipe away with a dry cloth, any moisture that may ap- pear on the surface: when this has been done, dust some powdered ginger (pepper, or flour if more conve- nient,) over it. Unless the joint should be very large, its appearance will be improved by taking off the ends of the bones, which may then be laid in salt for a few days, and afterwards boiled. Spit the beef firmly; keep it far back from the fire for a considerable time, ! that is to say, until it is well heated through ; baste it constantly; and proceed as directed in the general rules for roasting (see page 187). Persons who object to meat being frothed for table, have it dredged with flower when ' it is first placed at the fire, and sprinkled with fine salt when it is nearly done. It is not necessary to paper the fat of beef, as many cooks direct, if proper attention be given to it while roasting. As a general rule, it may be observed, that when the steam from the meat draws strongly towards the fire, it is nearly or quite ready to serve. The time required to j roast it will depend on the state of the weather,45- the size and strength of the fire, the thickness of the joint, the use or non-use of a meat-screen or reflector, the general temperature of the kitchen, and other contingen- cies. A quarter of a hour for each pound of meat is commonly allowed for solid, heavy joints, and, if the directions we have given be attended to, this will not be found too much even for persons who prefer beef somewhat rere: it must be left longer at the fire if o wished very thoroughly roasted, and quite double the usual time when the plan we have noticed at page 188, is adopted. When likely to be sent to table hashed, minced, or dressed a second time in any way, the juices of the meat should be dried up as little as possible when it is first cooked. * The meat will be much sooner done in hot weather than in cold. If frozen, it must be thawed very gradually before it is put to the fire, as no length of time will roast it: this will be effected better by laying it into cold or just tepid water for some hours before it is wanted, than by any other means.