MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. 1. 36 put again into the stock, and stewed gently for an hour and a half; add as much salt and cayenne as will season the soup properly, strain it off when sufficiently boiled, and let it cool; skim off every particle of fat; steep, in a small portion of it, which should be boiling, four ounces of the crumb of light stale bread, sliced thin, and when it has simmered a few minutes, drain or wring the moisture from it in a clean cloth, add it to the flesh of the chickens, and pound them together until they are perfectly blended ; then pour the stock to them in very small quantities at first, and mix them smoothly with it; pass the whole through a sieve or tammy, heat it in a clean stewpan, stir to it from a pint to a pint and a half of boiling cream, and add, should it not be suf- ficiently thick, an ounce and a half of arrow-root, quite free from lumps, and moistened with a few spoonsful of cold milk or stock. For stock : veal, 4 lbs.; ham, 6 ozs.; water, 4 quarts; bunch of herbs ; carrots, 2; onions, 2 ; mace, large blade ; pepper-corns, J teaspoonful; salt: 5 hours. Fowls, 2, or pullets, 3 ; j hour to 1 hour; stewed afterwards 1 to \\ hour. Crumb of bread, 4 ozs.; cream, 1 to 1~ pint; arrow-root (if needed), li oz. Ohs.—Some cooks pound with the bread and chickens the yolks of three or four hard-boiled eggs, but these improve neither the colour nor the flavour of the soup. WHITE OYSTER SOUP; OR, Oyster Soup a la Heine. When the oysters are small, from two to three dozens for each pint of soup should be prepared, but this num- ber can, of course, be diminished or increased at pleasure. Let the fish (which should be finely-conditioned natives) be opened carefully; pour the liquor from them, and strain it; rinse them in it well, and beard them ; strain the liquor a second time through a lawn-sieve or folded muslin, and pour it again over the oysters. Take a portion from two quarts of the palest veal-stock, and simmer the beards in it from twenty to thirty minutes.