CHAP. XVI.] FINE PASTRY. 431 a half, or two; add, by degrees, the well beaten yolks of twelve, and the whites of eight, eggs, with half a pound of butter dissolved in five tablespoonsful of rich cream ; thicken the mixture over a gentle fire; set it by until it is nearly cold; half-fill with it small tin moulds lined with the finest paste, and bake the cheese- cakes thirty minutes in a rather quick oven. Sugar, 8 ozs.; rinds of 2 large, or 3 moderate sized, lemons; juice of lj or 2|, if not large; yolks of 12, whites of 8, eggs; butter, \ lb.; cream, 5 tablespoons- ful : bake ^ hour. COMMON LEMON TARTLETS. Beat four eggs till they are exceedingly light, add to them gradually four ounces of pounded sugar, and whisk these together for five minutes ; strew lightly in, if it be at hand, a dessertspoonful of potatoe-flour, if not, of common flour well dried and sifted ;* then throw into the mixture by slow degrees, three ounces of good butter, which should be dissolved, but only just luke-warm; beat the whole wTell, then stir briskly in, the strained juice and the grated rind of one lemon and a half. Line some patty-pans with fine puff paste rolled very thin, fill them two-thirds full, and bake the tartlets about twenty minutes, in a moderate oven. Eggs, 4; sugar, 4 ozs.; potatoe-flour, or common flour, 1 dessertspoonful; butter, 3 ozs.; juice and rind of \\ full-sized lemon : baked 15 to 20 minutes. madame werner’s rosenyik cheese-cakes. Blanch and pound to the finest possible paste, four ounces of fine fresh Jordan almonds, with a few drops of lemon-juice or water, then mix with them, very gradually indeed, six fresh, and thoroughly well- whisked eggs ; throw in by degrees twelve ounces of pounded sugar, and beat the mixture without inter- mission all the time; add then, the finely grated rinds * A few ratifias, or three or four macaroons rolled to powder, or a stale sponge or naples biscuit or two, reduced to the finest crumbs, may be substituted for either of these : more lemon, too, can be added to the taste.