[CHAP. II. MODERN COOKERY. 60 TO SWEETEN TAINTED FISH. The application of the pyroligneous acid will effect this when the taint is but slight. A wineglassful, mixed with two of water, may be poured over the fish, and rubbed upon the parts more particularly requiring it; it must then be left for some minutes untouched, and afterwards washed in several waters, and soaked until the smell of the acid is no longer perceptible. The chloride of soda,* from its powerful anti-putrescent properties, will have more effect when the fish is in a worse state. It should be applied in the same manner, and will not at all injure the flavour of the fish, which is not fit for food when it cannot be perfectly purified by either of these means. The chloride may be diluted more or less, as occasion may require. BRINE FOR BOILING FISH. Fish is exceedingly insipid if sufficient salt be not mixed with the water in which it is boiled, but the precise quantity required for it will depend, in some measure, upon the kind of salt which is used. Fine common salt is that for which our directions are given; but when the Maldon salt, which is very superior in strength, as well as in its other qualities, is substituted for it, a smaller quantity must be allowed. About four ounces to the gallon of water will be sufficient for small fish in general; an additional ounce, or rather more, will not be too much for cod fish, lobsters, crabs, praw ns and shrimps; and salmon will require eight ounces, as the brine for this fish should be strong: the water should alwaj^s be perfectly well skimmed from the moment the scum begins to form upon the surface. Mackerel, whiting, and other small fish, 4 ozs. of salt * The reader will be sure to obtain the best preparation of the chloride of soda, by ordering Beaufoy's, which, with the directions for its use, may be procured a t any Druggist’s, in sealed q uartbottles, at three and sixpence each. It is better adapted to delicate pur- poses than the chloride of lime. We would also recommend the use of Beaufoy’s pyroligneous acid.