53 CHAP. I.] SOUPS. vinegar can be added when liked : a larger proportion of vegetables also may be boiled down with the peas at pleasure. Weak broth, or the liquor in which a joint has been boiled, can, when at hand, be substituted for the water, but the soup is very palatable as we have given the receipt for it. Some persons like it flavoured with a little mushroom catsup. Split peas, 1 pint; water, 5 pints : 2 hours or more. Onions, 2 ; carrots, 2; large turnip, 1 ; pepper, half teaspoonful; salt, 1 teaspoonful and a half: 1 hour to lij. Celery, 1 head : 20 minutes. OX-TAIL SOUP. An inexpensive and very nutritious soup may be made of ox-tails, but it will be insipid in flavour with- out the addition of a little ham, knuckle of bacon, or a pound or two of other meat. Yfash and soak three tails, pour on them a gallon of cold water, let them be brought gradually to boil, throw in an ounce and a half of salt, and clear off the scum carefully as soon as it forms upon the surface ; when it ceases to rise, add four moderate-sized carrots, from two to four onions, according to the taste, a large faggot of savoury herbs, a head of celery, a couple of turnips, six or eight cloves^ and a half-teaspoonful of pepper-corns. Stew thesu gently from three hours to three and a half, if the tails be very large; lift them out, strain the liquor, and skim off all the fat; cut the meat from the tails (or serve them, if preferred, divided into joints), and put it into a couple of quarts or rather more of the stock ; stir in, when these begin to boil, a thickening of arrow root or of rice-flour, (see page 4) mixed with as much cayenne and salt as may be required to flavour the soup well, and serve it very hot. If stewed down until the flesh falls away from the bones, the ox-tails will make stock which will be quite a firm jelly when cold; and this, strained, thickened, and well flavoured with spices, catsup, or a little wine, would, to many tastes, be a superior soup to the above. A richer one