POULTRY. 321 CHAP. XII.] with a paste roller, pour to them a pint of water, and boil them for an hour and a half to two hours, with the addition of a little pepper and salt only, or with a small quantity of onion, carrot, and herbs. Strain, and skim the fat from the gravy, put it into a clean saucepan, and, should it require thickening, stir to it, when it boils, half a teaspoonful of flour, smoothly mixed with a small bit of butter; add a little mushroom catsup, or store- sauce, with a slight seasoning of mace or nutmeg. Lay in the fowl, and keep it near the fire until it is heated quite through, and is at the point of boiling: serve it with fried sippets round the dish. For a hash of higher relish, add to the bones, when they are first stewed down, a large onion, minced and browned in butter, and before the fowl is dished, add some cayenne, and the juice of half a lemon. MINCED FOWL. (French Receipt.) Raise from the bones all the more delicate parts of the flesh of either cold roast, or cold boiled fowls, clear it. from the skin, and keep it covered from the air, till wanted for use. Boil the bones, well bruised, and the skin; with three-quarters or a pint of water, until reduced quite half, then strain the gravy and let it cool; next, having first skimmed off the fat, put it into a clean sauce- pan, with a quarter-pint of cream, an ounce and a half of butter, well mixed with a dessertspoonful of flour, a little pounded mace, and grated lemon-rind; keep these stirred until they boil, then put in the fowl,finely minced, with three or four hard-boiled eggs, chopped small, and sufficient salt, and white pepper, or cayenne, to season it properly. Shake the mince over the fire till it is just ready to boil, stir to it quickly a squeeze of lemon- juice, dish it with pale sippets of fried bread, and serve it immediately. When cream cannot easily be obtained, use milk, with a double quantity of butter and flour. The eggs may be omitted; the mince may be warmed in good white sauce, and a border formed round it of Y