OF THE SKELETON. 108 tion ; on which account it has been esteemed by some (a) a part of the ethmoid bone. The middle cartilage of the nose fills up what remains of the fossa at its fore-part. The posterior edge of the vomer, which appears above the back part of the palate bones, is broader above; but as it descends forwards, becomes thinner, though it is still solid and firm. The lower edge of this bone, which rests on the nasal spine of the palate and maxillary bones, has a little furrow on each side of a small middle ridge, answering to the spines of the bones of different sides, and the interstice between them. This edge and the upper one meet in the pointed fore-end of this bone. The body of the vomer has a smooth surface, and solid, but thin substance; and towards its sides, where it is thickest, some cancelli may be observed, when the bone is broken. It is joined above to the sphenoid and ethmoid bones, and to the middle cartilage of the nose, by schyndy- lesis;—below, to the maxillary and palate bones, by the spinous suture. The vomer divides the nostrils, enlarges the organ, of smelling by allowing place for expanding the mem- brane of the nose on its sides, and sustains the palate- plates of the maxillary and palate bones, which other- wise might be in hazard of being pressed into the nostrils ; while the vomer is secured from shuffling to one side or other by the double schyndelesis, by which it is joined to the bones above and below. These then are all the bones which compose the upper jaw, except the teeth, which are so much a-kin to those of the lower jaw, that I chuse to make one description serve for both, in which the differences ob- servable in them shall be remarked, after the second part of the face, the lower jaw, is examined ; because the structure of the teeth cannot be well understood, until the case in which they are set is explained, inferior Maxilla Inferior*, the lower jaw consists only of Maxilla. one moveable bone, and sixteen teeth incased into it. (a) Lieutaud. Essais anatomiques 1 sect. Pos ethmoide. bula, facies. Maxilla basilaris. Bare*. Muse. Mot. p. 167. E.