OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. 246 in such cases where the injuring cause could be renew- ed from the origin of the nerves, the morbid symp- toms observed in the parts to which these nerves were distributed, went off upon the removal of that cause. From which it. is thought reasonable to conclude, that the nerves must not only have a communication with their origin, but that the influence they have upon the parts they are distributed to depends on the influence which they derive from the medulla encephali and spinalis. 28. Though the spina/ marrow has its own vessels and ciner tious substance which assists to form its me- dulla ; yet a "very large share of the medullary sub- stance within the spine is derived from the encephalon, whose medulla oblongata descends from the head, and. the influence of the spinal marrow on its nerves de- pends in a great measure on this medulla obbfigata of the head. Hence an injury done to any part of the spinal marrow, immediately affects all the parts whose nerves have their origin below where the in- juring cause is applied. A luxation of a vertebra in the loins soon makes the lower extremities paralytic ; a transverse section of the medulla at the first verte- bra of the neck, soon puts aa end to life. -Supposed 29. If such causes produce constantly such effects exceptions. (§26, 27, 28.) in us and other creatures living in near- ly the same circumstances as we do, the conclusions already made must be good, notwithstanding exam- ples of children and other creatures being born without brains or spinal marrow ; or notwithstanding that the brains of adult creatures can be much changed in their texture by diseases; and that tortoises,and some other animals, continue to move a considerable time after their heads are cut off. We may be ignorant of the particular circumstances requisite or necessary to the beino- or well-being of this or that particular creature, and°we may be unable to account for a great many vhamomena; but we must believe our eyes m the ex- amination of facts ; and if we see constantly such con- sequences from such actions, we cannot but conclude the one to be the cause and the other the effect, it.