OF THE SKELETON. part. 3. cap. 2. tount, having less pressure, their substance is softer —The cartilages of these false ribs are shorter as the libs descend. To all these five ribs the circular edg< of the diaphragm is connected ; and its fibres, instcain of being stretched immediately transversely, and «t>i running perpendicular to the ribs, are pressed so as tu be often, especially in expiration, parallel to the plant* in which the ribs lie: Nay, one may judge by thi.i attachments which these fibres have so frequently tfli the sides of the thorax, a considerable way abovn where their extremities are inserted Into the ribs, aniu by the situation of the viscera, always to be observe! in a dead subject laid supine, that there is constantl; a large concavity formed on each side by the dia phragm within these bastard ribs, in which the sto roach, liver, spleen, &.c. are contained ; which, beiDj i reckoned only among the viscera ?iatt(ralia,.h&ve occa* eioned the name of bastard cuslodes to these bones, Hence in simple fractures of the false ribs, withou fever, the stomach ought to he kept moderately fillet < with food, lest the pendulous ribs falling inwards- should thereby increase the pain, cough, &c. (a).— Hence likewise we may learn how to judge better oo the seat of several diseases, and to do the operation the empyema, and some others, with more safety thai; we can do, if we follow the' eommon directions. The eight upper ribs, were formerly (b) classed intiti pairs, with particular names to each two, to wit, tin crooked, the solid, the pectoral, the twisted: But thesd names are of so little use, that they are now general 1; neglected. .First Rib. The first rib of each side is so situated, that the fla. sides are above and below, while one edge is placec< inwards, and the other outwards, or nearly so there* fore sufficient space is left above it for the subclavian vessels and muscle; and the broad concave surface 1)1 opposed to the lungs: But then, in consequence o: (a") Hippocrat. de articulo, $ 51—Pare, lib. 15. cap 11. (b) Laurent. Hist. anat. lib. 2. cap. 29. Taaw, de ossiboss