OF THE SKELETON. 190 allow an easy and secure extension of the fore-arm tc I almost a straight line with the arm, and flexion to a J very acute angle*, hut, hy the slanting position of the* pully, the lower part of the fore-arm is turned out- wards in the extension, and inwards in the flexion (a) and a very small kind of rotation is likewise allowed inn all positions, especially when the ligaments are mosH relaxed hy the fore-arm being in a middie degree ol>t flexion. The ulna is also articulated with the radiui and carpics, in a maimer to be related afterwards. Radius. Radius *, so called from its imagined resemblance to a spoke of a wheel, or -to a weaver's beam, is the Upper end. hone placed at the inside of the fore-arm. ] Its uppei end is formed into a circular little head, which is hol- lowed for an articulation with the tubercle at the side of the pully of the os humeri; and the half of the rounc I circumference of the head next to the ulna is smooth.. and covered with a cartilage, in order to be receivedd into the semilunated cavity of that bone. -Below the< head, the radius is much smaller; therefore this part: is named its cervix, which is made round by the action i of the supinator' radii brevis. At the external t rooi t of this neck, a tuberous process rises ; into the outer! part of which the biceps flexor cubitiis inserted. From this a ridge runs downwards and inwards, where the - supinator radii brevis is inserted j and a little below-', and behind this ridge, there is a rough scabrous sut« face, A'v'here the pronator radii teres is fixed. Body. r£ke hody of the radius is not straight, but convex on its internal % and posterior surfaces ; where it is also, made round by the equal pressure of the circumjacent^ muscles, particularly of the extensors of the thumbs but the surfaces next to the ulna are flatted and rough for the origin of the muscles of the hand ; and botr terminate in a common sharp spine, to which the strong i (a) Winslow, Memoircs de l'acad. des sciences, 1722. * Ks{£*f, trKictirrix"*i ^minus, canna minor, arundi. ■dr. i". t Radial. E. i Ulnar. E.