276 OF THIS PARTICULAR. NERVES. nerves serves. The distension of a consilient We branch of tho carotii!, which passes over tin's nerve near its origin on each side, may possibly be the reason of the heaviness in the eye-lids and eyes, after drinking hard, or eating much (c). Fourth The Fourth Pair, which are the smallest nerves of **a*r' any, derive their origin from the back-part of the base of the testes* ; and then making a long course on the side of the annular protuberance, enter the dura muter a little farther back, and more externally than the third pair, to run also along the receptacula, to pass out at the formina lacera, and to be entirely spent on the musculi troc/ilcares, or superior oblique muscles of the eyes. These muscles being employed in performing the rotatory motions, and the advancement of the eve- halls forward, by which several of our passions are ex- pressed, the nerves that serve them have got the name of Pathettci. Why these small nerves should be brought so far to this muscle, when it could have been supplied easily by the motor oculi, I know not t. Fifth. Pair. The Fifth Pair J are large nerves, rising from the annular process where the medullary processes of the cerebellum join in the formation of that tuber, to enter the dura mater near the point of the petrous process of the temporal bones •, and then sinking close by the re- ceptacula at the sides of the sella turcica, each becomes in appearance thicker, and goes out of the skull in three great branches. Opthalmic The first branch of the fifth is~the Opthalmic, nerve. which runs through the foramen lacerum to the orbit, having in its passage thither a connexion with the sixth pair. It is afterwards distributed to the ball of the eye with the third •, to the nose along with the ol- factory, which the branch of the fifth that passes through i\\efora??ien orbitarium internum joins, as was (a) See Zinn Desciipt. Anatom. Oeul. Human, cap. 9. § Tab. iv. fig. 1. E. * Corpora quailiigemina. E. f See Zinn, cap. ix. 5 5. Tab. vi. fig. 1. E. \ Tiigemini, trHaciwles. Spurzheim traces these nerves tc £hc upper part of the corpora olivaria. - E.