120 OP THE SKELETON. (6) Fauchard. Chiiurgien dentiste, p. 1, teeth of both jaws is very uncertain; sometimes they are more, sometimes fewer; frequently several roots I are joined together; at other times they are all dis-.j tinct. The disposition of such as are«distinct is also | various ; for in some the roots stand out straight, in il others they separate, and in others again they are?j crooked inwards. When the roots are united, we can | still distinguish them, by remarking the number of 1 small holes at their points, which determine thenum--! 1 ber of roots each tooth ought to be reckoned to ha-. e.\| At the time of birth, only two denies molares intJ each jaw have begun to ossify, and that at little more^ than the base, which has several sharp points standing I out from it.—The temporaneous grinders are placeddl more directly upon the internal set than the other two I classes are; sometimes there is a piece of the bone of i the jaws between the two sets; in other children, the I two sets have no bone interposed between them (c). From what has been said, the answers to the fol- lowing queries may be given. Phenomena Why are children subject to salivation, fever, con- explained, vulsion, vomiting, purging, &c. when their teeth are< breeding or cutting the gums. Why in children do the denies mcisores first cut. the gums, the canitri next, and molares last* ? Why do children shed their teeth ? Wherefore have these temporaneous teeth general- ly no roots or very small ones ? Why have these first teeth sometimes roots, anc that more frequently teeth pulled by art than mi those which are shed by nature (b) ? Why do these roots frequently come outward: through the gums ? Whence come batter or buck teeth ? (a\ For the latest information on the Teeth, see Blake's Essa j on the structure and formation of the Teeth, and two works e- The Nat Hist, of the Human Teeth by Hunter and box. • We believe the order here described is not fully warranto fcv general observation. Most late writers describe the fir- molares, or UeusjAies, as appearing before tlx canmu E.