2G8 OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. to tlie veins, yot the arteries are distended by the syg* tde of the heart, or any other cause increasing the mo- mentum of the blood. 4. It has been also objected to J 1. that, if it was true, the volume of the muscle in contraction necessa- rily would be considerably increased by so much li- quor poured into its fibrils ; whereas it does not ap-- pear, by any experiment, that the volume of a muscle is increased by its being put into action. 5. To this it has been answered, 1. That when the axes of muscular fibres are shortened, and their trans? verse diameters are enlarged, the capacities of their fibres, and consequently their volume, may not be changed, the diminution one way balancing the increase iri the other. 2. That the spaces between the muscu- lar fibres are sufficient to lodge these fibres when they swell, during the contraction of a muscle, without any addition to its bulk ; and that it plainly appears that these spaces between the fibrils are thus occupied, by the compression which the larger vessels of muscles,, which run in those spaces, suffer during the action of; the muscle *, it is so great as to drive the blood in the veins with a remarkable accelerated velocity. 6. Another objection to the action of muscles being owing to tbe influx of a fluid into their fibrils is, That; muscular fibres are distractile, or capable of being; stretched ; aid therefore, when a fluid is poured into tbeir hollow fibrils, they would be stretched longitu- dinally, as well as have their transverse diameters in- creased j that is, a muscle would become longer, as well as thicker, when it is put into action ; whereas it is certainly known that-a muscle Is shortened while it 7. In answer to this, it has been remarked, That though muscular fibrils are distractile, yet they will not yield to, or be stretched by eveiy force, however small, that might be applied to them. A cord that; can be stretched in length bv the weight of a pound or two, would not yield in the least to an ounce or two and it must likewise be observed, that gradually as any bodv is stretched, its resistance to the stretch-