68 OF THE SKELETON. * Mcsiad. E. Temporal OSS A TEMPORUM* so named, say authors, Houcs. from the hairs first becoming gray on the temples, and thus discovering people's ages, are each of them equal and smooth above, with a very thin semicir- cular edge; which, from the manner of its connexion with the neigbouring bones, is distinguished by the name of os squamosum.—Behind this, the upper part of the temporal bone is thicker, and more unequal, and is sometimes described as a distinct part, under the name of pars mammillaris (a).—Towards the base of the skull, the temporal bone appears very irregular and unequal; and this part, instead of being broad,, and placed perpendicularly* as the others are, is con- tracted into an oblong very hard substance, extended horizontally forwards and inwards*, which in its pro- gress becomes smaller, and is commonly called os pe- trositm. External Three external processes of each temporal bone are Processes, generally described.—The first placed at the lower and hind part of the bone, from its resemblance to a nipple, is called masloides, or mammillaris. It is not solid, but within is composed of cancelli, or small cells, which have a communication with the large cavity of the ear, the drum ; and therefore sounds, being multiplied in this vaulted labyrinth, are in- creased, before they are applied to the immediate organ c-f hearing. Into the mastoid process, the ster* nomastoidcus muscle is inserted; and to its back part, where the surface is rough, the Irachelomastoideas, and part of the splenitis are fixed.—About an inch farther forward, the second process begins to rise out from the bone; and having its origin continued obliquely downwards and forwards for some way, it becomes smaller, and is stretched forwards to join with the os malce; they together forming the bony jtigum, under tvhich the temporal muscle passes. Hence this pro- * KgorscQuii Ki^toit. xe^sm, XiviltiiSti, *a\u(i$>i> kiStsiStt, tem- poralia, iapidosa, inenika.i, Uura, arcualia, tymp&rum, aruia- lia, saxea, parietalia. (<i) Albin. ile ossib. § 26.