OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. 249 as they are in a great measure, if not wholly, deprived of their strong coats before they come to the part of the muscle on which they are immediately to act (§ 22).—The nerves being found to have little or no elasticity to shorten themselves (§ 14.), shews them altogether unfit for such an office as this of contracting muscles in the way proposed of their acting by elasti-. city; and when a nerve is viewed with a microscope while the muscles it serves are in action, no contrac- tion or motion is observed in it.—Nay, if they were elastic, they would equally exert their power of con- tracting muscles nearer to their origin as well as far- ther from it, when they were put into contraction or vibration, by irritation of any part of them. The former however does not happen. 34. As a further objection against either motion or sensation being owing to the elasticity of the nerves, it is said, that if this doctrine were true, the sensations would be more acute, and the contractions of muscles would be greater and stronger, when the parts become firmer and more rigid by age; for then their elasticity is increased: WhereaSi on the eontrary, it appears (§ 23.) that then the sensations are blunted, and muscular contraction becomes less and weaker. 35. If the nerves were granted to be elastic, and to communicate a springy force to all the parts to which they are distributed, they might appear neces- sary in this view to assist the application of the nu- tritious particles of the fluids to the sides of the ves- sels which these particles were to repair; and so far might well enough account for the share which nerves are thought to have in nutrition: But if we cannot make use of elasticity in the other two functions, sen- sation and motion, we must also endeavour to find out some other way for the nerves to act in nutrition ; which will be done afterwards*. 36. Having thus stated the reasons for and against Hypotnesii the nerves acting as solid strings, let us likewise relate of a ner- " On this subject, see Ludwig. Script. Neurolog. T. II. p. 369. III. 211. and IV. p. 195. Haller, Elem. Physiol, lib. x. xi. Dumas, Prjnc, de Physiol. Tom. II, p. 380. E.