OF THE SKELETON. 104 The nasal lamella of this bone is extremely thin find brittle, and rises upwards from the upper side of the external edge of the square bone, and from the narrow extremity of the pterygoid process ; where it is so weak, and, at the same time, so firmly fixed to the maxillary bone, as to be very liable to be broken in separating the bones.—From the part where the plate rises, it runs up broad on the inside of the tube- ■ rosily of the maxillary bone, to form a considerable share of the sides of the maxillary sinus, and to close up the space between the sphenoid and the great: bulge of the maxillary bone, where there would other— wise be a large slit opening into the nostrils (a). From the middle internal side of this thin plate, a cross ridge placed on such another of the maxillary bone is ex— tended ; on it, the back-part of the os spongiosum in-- ferius rests. Along the outside of this plate, the per- ■ pendicular fossa made by the palate nerve is observ— able. At the upper part of this nasal plate, the pala;e bone divides into two processes, which I already named orbitar ; between which and the body of the: sphenoid bone, that hole is formed, which I mentioned: as the last of the holes common to the sphenoid bone.. Sometimes this hole is wholly formed in the os palati, by a cross plate going from the one orbitar process- to the other. A nerve, artery, and vein belonging toi the nostrils pass here. The anterior of the two orbi- tar processes is the larger, and has its fore-part conti- guous to the back part of the maxillary sinus, and its- upper surface appears in the bottom * of the orbit, be- hind the back-part of the os maxillare and planum.-*— It has cells behind resembling those of the ethmoid bone, to which it is contiguous; it is placed on the aperture of the sinus sphenoidalis, so as to leave only a round hole at its upper fore-part. The other part of: the orbitar process is extended along the internal side ©f the upper back-part of the maxillary tuberosity, to («) Albin. tie ossib. § 88. " Inial anil Basilar part. E.