OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. 28 Why callus appears to be rather the continued sub- stance of the periosteum than of the bone, while it re- mains soft and flexible; but seems continued with the bone after it ossifies (a). Why callus is sensible, while it is soft, but becomes insensible when it hardens. What occasions sometimes such difficulty in curing fractured bones ; or why they never reunite, though they are reduced, and all proper means towards a cure are used (6).—Are the bones of women with child more tedious in reuniting than those of other people (c)? Why calluses, after fractures, are sometimes very thick and protuberant. What difference there ought to be in the applica- tion of bandages to fractures of the bones of old and of young patients. How bones, remaining long unreduced after a luxa- tion, may have their form so changed as to make their reduction very difficult, if not impossible (d). Whoever is desirous to know, in what time and or- der each bone and its several parts begin to assume a bony nature, let him consult Kerkringius (e), who gives us the delineations of abortions from three days after conception, and traces the ossification of the bones from three weeks, and a month, till the time of the birth : To whom should be added Coilerus(f) and Eyssonius (g). An account of this subject might also be collected out of Ruysch's works, where some of the mistakes committed by the former authors are corrected: and several "more particulars, to make the (a) Mem. de 1'acad. 1741. (6) Meckren Observ. medico-chirurg. obs. 71. Ruysch. Ad- vers. dec. 2. § 2. observ. anat. chir. obs. 4.—Van Swieten in Boerhaave Aphor. § 354. (c) Hi'.dau. centaur. 5. obs. 87. et cent. 6. obs. 68.—Philos. Transact. No. 494. § 21. (d) Saltzman. Obs. decur. obs. 6.—Memoires de I'acad. de chirurgie. torn. 2. p. 155 —Boehmer Inst.it. osteolog. § 596. (e) Anthropograph. ichuograph, etosteogenea foetuuin. (/) De ossibus foetus abortivi. {#) De ossibus infant, coguoscendt et curand. _ •. > J