tfF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 2?9 muscles situated between the os tiyoides and jaw : AH the salivary glands, the amygdalae, and the external ear, have branches from it : it has a large branch lofet in the tongue, and sends another through the canal in the substance of the lower jaw to serve all the teeth there, and to come out at the hole in the fore-part of the jaw, to be lost in the chin and under-lip (a).— Hence a convulsive contraction of the muscles of the lower-jaw, of the mouth's being involuntarily shut, a great flow of spittal or salivation, a pain in the ear, espe- cially iii deglutition, and a-swelling all about the throat,, are natural consequences-of a violent hritation of the nerves of the lewer teeth in the tooth-ach y and pain in the teeth and ear, is as natural a consequence of an angina. Hence alternate pressure on the chin may sometimes relieve the violence of a tooth-ach. Hence destroying the nerves of a tooth by actual or potentiat cauteries, or pulling a carious tooth, so often removes • immediately all these symptoms. Hence no cure is to be found for some ulcers in the upper or lower jaw, but by drawing a tooth. Hence in cancers of the upper lip, the salivary glands are in danger of being affected, or the disease may be occasioned in the lip by its beginning in the glands. Perhaps the sympathy of the organs of tasting and smelling may in some mea- sure depend on their both receiving nerves from the fifth pair. The Sixth Pair *, which is the smallest except tlic sixth paif. fourth, rises from, the fore-part of the corpora pyrami- dalia t; and each entering the dura maier some way behind the posterior clinoid process of the sphenoid, bone, has a long course below that membrane, and within the receptacitlum at the side of the sella turcica, where it is immersed in the blood of the receptacle , hut for what purpose I am ignorant. It goes after- wards out at the foramen laccrum into the orbit, to serve the abductor muscle of the eye. A defect in (a) Monro's Nerv. Syst. p. 14.9. Tab xxv. E. * Abductor nerve. E -(• From a small band between tlie corpora pyramidalia aad. tlivaria according to Spurzheim. E.