OF THE SKELETON. 231 Os metatarsi of the fourth toe, is nearly as long as the Fourth toe. former, with a triangular slanting base joined to the os citboides, and made round at its external angle, having one hollow smooth surfaee on the outside, where it is pressed upon by the following Lone, and two on the internal side, correspending to the former bone ; be- hind which is a long narrow surface impressed by the * os cuneiforme externum. , Os metatarsiof the little toe, is the shortest, situated Little oe. with its two flat sides above and below, and with the, ridges laterally. The base of it, part of which rests on the os citboides, is very large, tuberous, and pro- duced into a long-pointed process externally, where part of the abductor minimi digiti is fixed j% and into its upper part the peronceus seemidus * is inserted. Its inside has -a flat conoidal surface, where it is contigu- ous to the preceding bone. When we stand, the fore-ends of these metatarsal bones, and the os calcis, are our only supporters ; and therefore it is necessary they should be strong, and should have a confined motion. The hones of the Toes are much a-kin to those of Phalanges* the thumb and fingers-, particularly the two of the °^ u toess great toe are precisely formed as the two last of the thumb \ only their position, in respect of the other toes, is not oblique j and they are proportionally much stronger, because they are subjected to a greater force.; for they sustain the force with-which our bodies are pushed forwards by the foot behind at every-step Ave make ; and on them principally the weightof the is supported, when we are raised on our tiptoes. The three hones in each of the other four toes, com- pared to those of the fingers, differ from them in these particulars: They are less, and smaller in proportion _ to their lengths : Their bases are much larger than their anterior ends : Their bodies are more narrow above than below, and flatter on the sides. The first phalanx is proportionally much longer than the bones oi the second and third, which are very short. * Pcroneus brcvis, Alb. E. body