\ 48 OF THE SKELETON. occiput, Dutch and English by their oblong shapes, &c. (a). Two advantages are reaped from this flat- ness of the sides of the cranium, viz. the enlargement of our sphere of vision, and more advantageous si- tuation of our ears, for receiving a greater quantity of sound, and for being less exposed to injuries. Surfaces. The external surface of the upper* part of the cranium is very smooth and equal, being covered only i with the periosteum, (common to all the bones ; but in the skull, distinguished by the name of pericranium), the th\n frontal and occipital muscles, their tend]nous aponeurosis, and with the common teguments of the body ; while the external surface of its lower T part has numerous risings, depressions, and holes, which afford convenient origin and insertion to the muscles that are connected to it, and allow safe passage for the vessels and nerves that run through and near it. The internal % surface of the upper part of the skull is commonly smooth, except where the vessels of the. dura mater have made furrows in it, while the bones were soft. Surgeons should be cautious when they trepan here, lest, in sawing or raising the bone where such furrows are, they wound the^e vessels. In the upper part of the internal surface of several skulls, there are likewise pits of different magnitudes and figures, which seem to be formed by some parts of the brain being more luxuriant and prominent than others. Where these pits are, the skull is so much thinner than any where else, that it is often rendered diaphanous, the two tables being closely compacted i without a diploe; the want of which is supplied by vessels po'iik* from the dura mater into a great many small holes observable in the pits. These vessels are lareer, and much more conspicuous than any others- that are sent from the dura mater to the skull; as evi~ Vesal. lib. 1. c. 5. See also Blumenbach Collect. Crac. (a) divers, gent [p^hcraf surfaces of the coronal, glabellar, and inial * parts! (B.) E f Basilar part. E. \ Central surface. E.