•P THE SKELETON. The first of the proper holes, called foramen magnum irom its size, is immediately behind the wedge-lik process, and allows a passage to the medulla oblongaU vcrvi acccssorii, to the vertebral arteries, and some times to the vertebral veins.—At each side of thi great hole, near its fore-part, and immediately abov the condyles, we always find a hole, sometimes twc which soon unite again into one that opens externally* through these the ninth pair of nerves go out of th skull.—The fourth and fifth holes pierce from behiw the condyle of each side into xhefossce of the latera sinuses ; they serve for the passage of the cervica veins to these sinuses. Often one of these holes i wanting, sometimes both, when the veins pass througl. the great foramen.—-Besides these five, we frequently jffirst with other holes near the edges of this bene, fo. the transmission of vcin-j ; but their liumbei- and dia. meter are very uncertain. The two common fora> miiia are the large irregular holes, one on each side, bd tween the sides of the cuneiform process, and the edge* of the petrous bones. In a recent subject, a strong membrane runs across from one-side to the other on each of these holes ; in some heads I have seen thii: membrane ossified, or a bony partition dividing each hole; and, in the greater number of adult skulls, ther< is a small sharp-pointed process stands out from tho os pelrosum, and a more obtuse rising in the occipita; bone, between which the partition is stretched. Be-, hind this partition, where, the largest space is left, the lateral sinus has its passage; and before it the eighth pair of nerves and accessorius make their exit out oi the skull ; and some authors say, an artery passe* through this hole, to be bestowed on the dura mater. Substanc . The occipital bone is among the thickest of th* cranium, though unequally so; for it is stronger above*' where it has no other defence than the common tegn* ments, than it is below, where being pressed by the lobes of the brain and cerebellum on one side, and by the action of the muscles on the other, it is so very * Hachitit'is, Medulte spinalis.