OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL 26? eves, or of sound on their ears ; and we are frequently exposed to so much light and sound as to make us un- fit to see or hear for a considerable time. I would ex- plain this by a ligature put round the tender branch of an herb. This ligature, drawn to a certain degree, may weaken the canals so as to be unfit for the circu- lation of tlie juices a good while, till they are gradually explicated and made firm by these juices : A stricter ligature would disorder the structure of the fibres so much, that the liquors could not recover them. The analogy is so plain, tbat it needs no commentary. Thus the influence of a nerve tied with an artery in the ope- ration of an aneurism may cease for some time, but"be afterwards recovered *. 67. 1. In applying the fluid of the nerves to the Muscular action of muscles, it was said, that the natural or invo- motion. Iuntary contraction of muscles was the nisus which the nervous fluid flowing constantly into the muscular fibres makes to distend these fibrils, by enlarging their trans- verse diameters and shortening their axis; and that voluntary contraction was owing to a greater quantity of that nervous liquor determined towards the muscle to be put in action, and poured with greater momentum into the muscular fibrils, by the power of the mind wil- ling to make such a muscle act, or obliged to do it by ' an irritating pain-giving cause (ยง GG. ยฃ.) 2. Some object to this account of muscular motion, Objections that if there is no outlet for the liquor supposed to be poured into muscular fibres, muscles would always be m a state of contraction, which they are not; and if there is a passage from the fibrils, the liquor would flow out as fast as it was thrown in ; and therefore no distension of the fibres or contraction of the muscles could be made. 3. In answer to this objection, it is observed, that Answered, notwithstanding the evident outlet from the arteries in- * On the Physiology of Sensation, See Dumas Prin. de Physiol T. II. Cuvier Lec. d'Anat. Comp. T. II. and Bichat Anat. Gener. Disc, prelimin. JC.