69 OF THE SKELETON. eess has been named zygomatic*'. Its upper edge has the strong aponeurosis of the temporal muscle fixed into it; and its lower part gives rise to a share of the masseler.—The fore-part of the base of this process is an oblong tubercle, which in a recent subject is covered with a smooth polished cartilage, continued from that which lines the cavity immediately be- hind this tubercle—from the under craggy part of the -os temporum, the third process stands out obliquely forwards. The shape of it is generally said to re- semble the ancient stylus scriplorius ; and therefore it is called the styloid processf. Some authors (a) however contend, that it ought to be named steloid, from its being more like to a pillar. Several muscles have their origin frcm this process, and borrow one half of their name from it; as stylo-glossus, stylo- hyoideus, stxjlo-pharyngeus ; to it a ligament of the os hyoides is sometimes fixed; and another is extended from it to the inside of the angle of the lower jaw. This process is often even in adults not entirely ossi- fied, but is ligamentous at its root, and sometimes is composed of two or three distinct pieces.—-Round the root of it, especially at the fore-part, there is a re- markable rising of the os petrosum, which some have esteemed a process; and, from the appearance it makes with the styliform, have named it vaginalis.— Others again have, under the name of auditory pro- cess, reckoned among the external processes that se- micircular ridge, which, running between the root of the mastoid and zygomatic processes, forms the un- der-part of the external meatus auditorius. The sinuosities or depressions on the external sur- Depres- face of each os temporum are these:-—A \ox\g fossa at sions. the inner and back part of the root of the mammary proccess, where the posterior head of the diga tric% * Kxyxgts, paris, ansae ossiuui temporum, ossa arcualia, pa- ria, jugana, ronjn^alia. ■f T£tt,i<pnt&r\, &iX»vtt3», vXnKrgM, os calaminum, sagittale, clavali-, aouale, calcar capitis. . (a) Galen, de usu part. lib. 2. cap. 4.—'Fallop. Observ. ana- tbm. % Bivcnter maxillre. Alb. E;