64i OF THE SKELETON. these cavities, and a little up on their internal sides, these orbitar processes are connected to the sphenoidal bone by that same suture.—In some few skulls, how- ever, a discontinuation of these two bones appears at the upper part of the long slit, near the bottom of the orbit.—On the inside of each orbit, the orbitar process is indented between the cribriform part of the ethmoid bone, and the os planum and unguis.—The transverse suture afterwards joins the frontal bone to the superior nasal processes of the ossa maxillaria snperiora, and to the nasal bones. And, lastly, its nasal process is connected to the nasal lamella of the ethmoid bone. Uses. The ronial bone serves to defend and support the anterior lobes of the brain. It forms a considerable part of the cavities that contain the globes of the eyes, helps to make up the septum narium, organ of smelling, &c. From the description of the several parts, the other uses of this bone are evident. State at In a ripe child, the frontal bone is divided through Birth. the middle ; the superciliary holes are not formed ;. often a small round piece of each orbitar process, behind the superciliary ridge, is not ossified, and there is no 'sinus to be seen within its substance. Parietal Each of the two ossa parietalia *, or bones serv- Buues. ing as walls to the encephalon, is an irregular square; , its upper f and fore sides being longer than the one behind || or below IT. The inferior side is a concave arch ; the middle part receiving the upper round part of the temporal bone.— The angle formed by this upper side, and the fore one is so extended, as to have the appearance of a process. External The external surface of each os parielale is convex. Surface. Upon it, somewhat below the middle height of the bone, there is a transverse arched ridge, generally of a whiter colour than any other part of the bone; from * Kofvfvs, paria, sineipitis, verticis, arcualia, nervalia, c»- gitaii..in» rationis, bregmatis, medefactionis. f Mesial. E. % Glabellar. E. || Irvad. E. % Basilad. .. I "