OF THE SKELETON. 148 guard the nerves proceeding from tlie end of the spinal marrow, to defend the back-part of the pelvis, and to aftbrd sufficient origin to the muscles which move the trunk and thigh. State at The bones that compose the os sacrum of infants, Birth. nave their bodies separated from each other by a ! thick cartilage j and, in the same manner as the true.l vertebrae, each of them consists of a body and two la- teral plates, connected together by cartilages ; the ends* of the plates seldom being contiguous behind. Os Cocci/- ()s CoccYGis *, or rump bone, is that triangular | sis' chain of hones depending from the os sacrum; each I hone becoming smaller as they descend, till the last- ends almost in a point. The os coccygis is convex be- hind, and concave before j from which crooked pyrami- dal figure, which was thought to resemble a cuckoo's —beak, it has got its name. , , . This bone consists of four pieces m people of middle -acre :—In children, very near the whole of it is carti- lage • In old subjects all the bones are united, and be- come frequently one continued bone with the os sa- cram. ' . . , , -.i I The hio-hest of the four bones is the largest, with shoulders extended farther to each side than the endi of the os sacrum;- which enlargement should, in nM opinion, serve as a distinguishing mark to fix the J* its of either bone , and therefore should take away all dispute about reckoning the number of bones, oi. Which one or ether of these two parts ^'f^™* tebrce is composed > which dispute must still .he k pt ub so long as the numbering five or six bones in the Vs sacrumdepends upon the unceitain accident ef thu broad shouldered little bone heingunited to or sepa- v-red from it. The upper surface of this bone is 85 hollow. From the back of that bulbous pa* •ailed its shoulders, a process often rises up on eajH 1e to join with the bifurcated spine of the four Jfl fifth bones of the os sacrum, to form the boo) )Tnle mentioned in the description of the os sacrum * ow*n>» «*»caudx os' sP°nd>UuaJ'cs cueulh c si an(