OF THE SKELETON. 217 of their course. This reasoning seems to be" still en- forced, by observing, that this passage is always near- er the upper than the lower ends of those bones*. The lower end of the fibula is extended into a Distaj End spongy oblong head, on the inside of which is a con- vex, irregular, and frequently a scabrous surface, that is received by the external hollow of the tibia, and so firmly joined to it by a very thin intermediate car- tilage and strong ligaments, that it can scarcely move. —Below this, the fibula is stretched out into a coro- noid process, that is smooth, covered with cartilage on its internal side, and is there contiguous to the outside of the first bone of the foot, the astragalus, to secure the articulation. This process, named malleolus ex- iernusi, being situated farther back than the internal malleolus, and in an oblique direction, obliges us na- turally to turn the fore-part of the foot outwards (o). At the lower internal part of this process, a spongy cavity for mucilaginous glands may he remarked j from its point ligaments are extended to the astrvigalus, os calcis, and os naviculare, bones of the foot; and from its inside short strong ones go out to the astraga- lus. On the back-part of it a sinuosity is made by the tendons of the peroncei muscles.—When the liga- ment extended over these tendons from the one side of the depression to the other is broken, stretched too much, or made weak by a sprain, the , tendons fre- quently start forwards to the outside of ihe fibula. The conjunction of the upper end of the fibula withconne the tibia is by plain surfaces tipped with cartilaee, * From the joint observations of Charles Stephans, Havers anil Monro, respecting- the direction of the canal for the medul- lary arteries of long bones, we may deduce the following ge- neral rule: That m those bones which are commonly in The epend.ng position, as the humerus, the tibia, and the fibula bese arteries run from the proximal or superior end of the bone to its distal or inferior; while in those which are usually ^frequently m the horizontal; (or other than a depending) po- rtion as \hcjemur. the radius, and the ulna, they run from he listal to the pn.ximal end of the bone. E. t Fibular ankle. E. O) Window, Memoires de l'acad. des sciences, 1722. ixion.