58 or THE SKELETON. each external angular process, which they call tempo- ral processes ; but these are inconsiderable.—From the under part of the superciliary ridges, the frontal bone runs a great way backwards ; which parts may justly enough be called orbitar processes. These, contrary to the rest of this bone, are concave exter- nally, for receiving the globes of the eyes, with their muscles, fat, &c. In each of the orbitar processes, behind the middle of the superciliary ridges, a considerable sinuosity is observed, where the glandula innominata Galeni, or la- chrymalis, is lodged^ Behind each internal angular process, a small pit may be remarked, where the car- tilaginous pully of the mwculus obliquus major* of the eye is fixed. Betwixt the two orbitar processes, there xculr.mu ul^is a largeMiscontinuation of the bone, into which the cribriform part of the os ethmotdes is incased. Ine frontal bone frequently has little caverns formed in it here, where it is joined to the ethmoid bone.—Behind each external angular process, the surface of the fron- tal bone is considerably depressed where part of the temporal muscle is placed. Foramlnc. The foramina, or holes, observable on the external surface of the frontal bone, are three m each side.— One in each superciliary ridge, a little removed from its middle towards the nose ; through which a twig ot the ophthalmic branch of the fifth pair of nerves pas- ses out of the orbit, with a small artery from the in- ternal carotid, to be distributed to the teguments and muscles of the forehead.—These vessels in some skulls make furrows in the osfronlis, especially in the bones of children, as has also been observed of another con- siderable vessel of this bone near its middle («) ; and therefore we ought to beware of transverse incisions on either side of the os frontis, which might either open these vessels or hurt the nerves, while they are vet in part within the bone; for, when vessels are thus wounded, it is difficult to stop the haemorrhagy, be- * Obliquus superior oculi. Alb- E. W ftwch. Mus. anat. theca D. repos,t. 4. No. 3.