105 OF THE SKELETON. the base of the sphenoid bone, between the root of the processus azygos and the pterygoid process. The palate square part of this palate bone, and its Substance, pterygoid process, are firm and strong, with some can* celli; but the nasal plate and orbitar processes are very thin and brittle. The pajate bones are joined to the maxillary, by the Connexion, fore-edge of the palate square bone, by the transverse- palate suture : By their thin nasal plates, and part of their orbitar processes, to the same bones, by the pa- lato-maxillares sutures : By their pterygoid processes, and back-part of the nasal^plales, to the afae vesperti- lionum, by the sphenoid suture : By the transverse ridges of the nasal plates, to the ossa spongiosa infe- riora, by contact; hence frequently there is an inti- mate union of the substance of these bones in old skulls :—By the orbitar processes, to the ossa plana and celhdae ethmoideae, by the ethmoid suture : To the body of the sphenoid bone, by the sphenoid su- ture : By the internal edge of the square bones, to each other, by the longitudinal palate suture; and by their nasal spines, to the vomer by the spinous suture. The palate-bones form part of the palate, nostrils, Use?, orbits, and fossae pterygoideae, and they cover part of the sinus maxillares, sphenoidales, and ethmoidei. These bones are very complete in a new-born in- State at fant, the nasal plates being then thicker and stronger 5irtb- than in adults; but the orbitar processes have not the cells which appear in the bones of adults. When we are acquainted with the history of these bones, the reason is evident, why the eyes are so much affected in ulcers of the palate, as to be often attend- ed with blindness, which frequently happens in an ill- managed lues venerea ; or why, on the other hand, the palate suffers from an aegylops (a). Ossa Turbinata, or spongiosa inferiora, resemble Inferior the superior ossa spongiosa in shape and substance, spongy . but have their anterior and upper edges contiguous to Bones> (a) Hoffman, in Ephemerid. German, cent. 1. and 2. observ. 135.