OP THE NERVES IN GENERAL. 241 side opposite to where the lesion of the brain was, there are also others, where the injury done to the brain and the palsy were both on the same side. 9. The nerves are composed of a great many Fibrous threads lying parallel to each other, or nearly so, at "xture of *i. • ■: e u j 11 * the Nerves* their exit irom the medulla . This fibrous texture is evident at the origin of most of the nerves within the skull; and in the cauda equina of the spinal marrow, we can divide them into such small threads, that a very good eye can scarcely perceive them ; but these threads, when looked at with a microscope, appear each to be composed of a great number of smaller threads. 10. How small one of these fibrils of the nerves is, Their ex- we know not; but when we consider that every, even -;ne te" the most minute part of the body is sensible, and that 'iaitv*. this must depend on the nerves (which all conjoined, would not make a cord of an inch diameter) being di- vided into branches or filaments to be dispersed through all these minute parts, we must be convinced that the nervous fibrils are very small. From the examination of the minimum visibile, it is demqnstra- ted, that each fibre in the retina of the eye, or ex- panded optic nerve, cannot exceed the size of the 32,400 part of a hair. 11. The medullary substance, of which the nervous Coats, fibrils are composed, is very tender, and would not be able to resist such forces as the nerves are exposed to within the bones, nor even the common force of the circulating fluids, were not the pa mater and tunica arachnoides continued upon them ; the former giving them firmness and strength, and the latter furnishing a cellular coat to connect the threads of the nerves, to let them lie soft and moist, and to support the vessels which go with them f. * Monro 2dus has shewn, that these fibres are disposed in spini lines. See Nervous System, p .'38. E. •f* Rei! has given the name ot wurilema to the very delicate eellular coat which invests the nervous fibrils. E. M