OT THE SKELETON. 167 this situation, the channel for the intercostal vessels is not to be found, and the edges are differently formed from all the others except the second ; the lower one being rounded, and the other sharp. The head of this rib is not divided into two plain surfaces by a middle ridge, because it is articulated only with the first ver- tebra of the thcrax. Its cartilage is ossified in adults, and is united to the sternum at right angles. Fre- quently this first rib has a ridge rising near the middle of its posterior edge, where one of the heads of the scalenus muscle rises. Farther forward it is flatted or sometimes depressed by the clavicle. The fifth, sixth, and seventh, or rather the sixth, 5ih—lOtk. seventh, eighth, and sometimes the fifth, sixth seventh, eighth, ninth ribs, have their cartilages at least contiguous : and frequently they are joined to each other by cross cartilages ; and most commonly the cartilages of the eighth, ninth, tenth, are connect- ed to the former and to each other by firm ligaments. lhe eleventh, and sometimes the tenth rib, hasnoHth. tubercle for its articulation with the transverse process of the vertebra, to which it is only loosely fixed by hgaments._The>s« in its lower edge is not so deep is in the upper ribs, because the vessels run more to- wards the interstice between the ribs—Its fore-end is smaller than its body, and its short small cartilage is 3ut loosely connected to the-cartilage of the rib above. Ine twelfth rib is the shortest and straightest.—Its Wtk lead is articulated only with the last vertebra, of the horax; tnerefore ,s not divided into two surfaces — S ,nb 18 n(? J°,netl t0 t,le transverse process of the Wtebra, and therefore has no tubercle, being often rolled necessarily inwards by the diaphragm, which in articulation with the transverse process "would not We allowed.-rhe/c^ is not found at Jts und kclge, because the vessels run below it. The fore lilva v 1? Smallrtha» ^s middle, and has nly a very small-pointed cartilage fixed to it. To to whole mternal side the diaphragm is connected. A he motions and uses of the ribs shall be more