250 OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. vous fluid the arguments for nerves being pipes, and theobjec- exani'med. tions to this doctrine. A great argument of those who think the nerves to be tube? conveying liquors, is the strong analogy of the brain and nerves to other glands of the body and their excretories, where a manifest secretion of liquor is made in the glands, to be conveyed by the excre- tories to the proper places in which it ought to be de- posited : They think that the vascular texture of the " cortex of the encephalon and spinal marrow (§ 2.), the continuation of the cortex in forming the medullary substance (§ 3, 4.), the fibrous texture (§ 6.), and succulent state of this medulla (§ 5.), and its being wholly employed to form the nerves (§ 7.), where the fibrous texture is evident (§ §.) ; all these things, say they, conspire to shew such a strong analogy between these parts and the other glands of the body, as car- ries a conviction that there is a liquor secreted in the encephalon and spinal marrow, to be sent out by the nerves to the different parts of the body. Objc-c- 37. The following objections are raised to this ar- • i on~. gument in favour of liquor conveyed in the nerves, from the analogy of the glands. 1*/, Other glands, it is said, have their excretories collected into a few large pipes, and not continued in such a great num- ber of separate pipes, as far as the places where the i liquors are deposited ; which last must be the case, if' the nerves are the excretories of the glandular brain. 2r%, We see the cavities, and can examine the li- • quqrs in the excretories of other glands much smaller than the brain ; which cannot be done in the nerves. Sdly, If the nerves were pipes, they would be so small, that the attraction of the liquors to their sides, would prevent that celerity in the motion of the liquors, which is requisite to sensations and motions. Mhly, If the nerves were pipes, they would be cylindrical ones, and! consequently not subjeet to diseases ; or at least we could have no comprehension of the diseases in them. Answered. 38. The answer to the 1st of these objections is,, That there are other glands where there is a manifest secretion, and in which the disposition of the excre-