OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. 245 M 3 cause has been applied, have their sensations, motions, l aps of and nourishment weakened or lost, while no such ef- motion, fects are seen in the parts nearer to the origin of those nerves; and in such experiments where the cause impeding the nerves to exert themselves could be re- moved, and the structure of the nerves not injured ; as for example, when a ligature made upon a nerve and stopping its influence has been taken away, the motion and sensation of the parts were soon restored. From which it would appear, that the nerves are prin- cipal instruments in our sensations, motions, and nourishment*; and that this influence of the nerves is not inherent in them, without the communication between these cords and their origin is preserved. This conclusion is just, notwithstanding that some- Objections times, upon cutting a nerve, the effects above men- answered, tioned have been felt for a short time ; but afterwards the person was sensible of no numbness or immobili- ty ; for wherever this is said to have happened, the cut nerve was only one of several which were sent to the member ; the want of whose influence was felt no longer, than till the habit was acquired of performing the functions easily by the other nerves. Nor is it of greater weight as an objection, that sometimes when a ligature is drawn very hard upon a nerve, and then is taken away, the nerve never again recovers its influence upon the parts it is dis- tributed to beyond the ligature, but is of as little ef- fect as if it had been cut through; which is to say, that its texture has been altered beyond recovery. The same thing is to be seen by tying a thread tight round a tender twig of any vegetable ; it decays. 27. Experiments and observations shew too, that Morbid when parts of the encephalon or spinal marrow have symptoms been irritated, compressed, or destroyed, the parts of from injury the body, whose nerves had their origin from such af- of Nerves* fected parts of the encephalon or spinal marrow, be- come convulsed, paralytic, insensible, or wasted ; and " It seems now fully proved that the nerves are not immediate- ly concerned m nutrition. See Monro's Nerv. Syst. p. 73. E.