of the nerves in general. 259 55. Seeing also that we can observe no large reser- voir, where the liquor secerned in the cortical substance is deposited, to have its finer parts taken off, we have reason to think, that it goes forward into the nerves in the same condition in which it is secerned. 56. By fine or subtile animal liquors, is meant no more than those which are very fluid, and which seem to consist of a large proportion of watery particles, and a lesser one of the oily, saline, and earthy parti- cles. Some of the liquors which we can have in suf- ficient quantity to make experiments with, are so fluid, and have so little viscidity or cohesion of parts, that when laid upon a piece of clean mirror, they eva- porate without leaving a stain ; such is the liquor oozing out from the surface of the pleura, the lymph, and several others. If then these liquors, which are subject to our examination, the secerning vessels of which are so large that we can see them, have such a small cohe- sion of parts, it might not be unreasonable to say, that the liquor of the nerves is as much more fine and fluid than lymph, as the vessels separating it are smaller; and therefore that the fluid of the nerves is a defecated water, with a very small proportion of the other principles extremely subtilized. 57. Two experiments are said to contradict this Object! opinion of the liquor of the nerves being so fluid and answen subtile. One is, that upon cutting the cauda equina of a living animal, a liquor as viscid as the white of an egg drops out: The other is, that a wounded nerve yields a glairy sanies. But these do not appear to be the proper fluid of the nerves; since it is evident, that what is discharged in both these cases, comes out of the cellular substance involving the nervous fibrils. 58. Considering how many experiments make it evident, that there is a constant uninterrupted stream of liquors flowing through all the canals of animals, 'which, convey liquors composed of particles smaller than the diameter of their canal, which is always the case of the nerves in a natural state; it is surprising how it ever could be thought that the liquid of the