200 OF THE SKELETON- Metacar- pus. State at birth. Connexion On account of the many tendons that pass upon the lower end of the fore arm and the carpus, and of the numerous ligaments of these tendons and of the bone9r- wliic'h have lubricating liquors supplied to them, the pain of sprains here is acute, the parts take long time' to recover their tone, and their swellings are very ob-j stinate. Metacarpus* consists of four bones which sustain the fingers. Each bone is long and round, with its ends larger than its body. The upper t end, which some call the base, is flat and-oblong, without any con- siderable head or. cavity; but it is however somewhat hollowed, for the articulation with the tar pus: It is made flat and smooth on the sides wheiv, these bones are" contiguous to each other. Their bodies- are flatted on their back-part by the tendons of the extensors of the fingers. The anterior surface of these bodies is a little concave, especially in their middle; along which a sharp ridge stands out, which separates the muxculi interosseiplaced on each side of these bones which are there made flat and plain by these muscles. Their lower % ends are raised into large oblong- smooth heads, whose greatest extent is forwards from the axis of the bone. At the fore-part of each side of the root of each of these heads, one or two tubercles stand out, for fixing the ligaments that go from one; metacarpal bone to another, to preserve them fnmvi feeing drawn asunder".—Round the heads a rough ring-; may be remarked, for the capsular ligaments of the? first joints of the fingers to be fixed to ; and both sides* of these heads are flat, by pressing on each other. The substance of the metacarpal bones is the same* with that of all long bones. At the time of birth, these bones are cartilaginous at both ends, which afterwards become epiphyses. The metacarpal bones are joined above to the ossai carpi and to each other by nearly plain surfaces-. * K«/f/fc{**«e*"y> '~3>s> &yl"iw> Poslbraehia,c> tns, pnlma, pectcn. \ Proximal. E. \ JDiscal. E.