OV THE SKELETON. 61 ed by the sagittal suture, never have a ridge in this place. Immediately at the root of this ridge or furrow, there is a smafl hole, which sometimes pierces through the first table, and, in other skulls, opens into the su- perior sinus of the ethmoid bone within the nose. In it a little process of the falx is lodged, and a small ar- tery, and sometimes a vein, runs (a) ; and the supe- rior longitudinal sinus begins here.—This hole, how- ever, is often not entirely proper to the os • rontis ; for in several skulls, the lower part of it is formed in the upper part of the base of the crista galli, which is a process of the ethmoid bone b). The os frontis is composed of two tables, and an Composi- intermediate diploe, as the other bones of the cranium uon« are, and, in a middle degree of thickness between the os occipilis and the parietal bones ; is pretty equally dense all through, except at the orbitar processes, where, by the action of the eye on one side, and pressure of the lobes of the brain on the other, it is made extremery thin and diaphanous, and the medi- tullium is entirely obliterated. Since in this place there is so weak a defence for the brain, the reason ap- pears why fencers esteem a push in the eye mortal (c). The diploe is also exhausted in that part above the Sinuses? eye-brows, were the two tables of the bone separate, by the external being protruded outwards, to form two large cavities, called sinus front ales. These are di- vided by a middle perpendicular bony partition. Tlicir capacities in the same subject are seldom equal; in some the right, in others the left is largest.—And in different bones their size is as inconstant; nay, I have examined some, where they were entirely want- ing: which oftener happens in such as have a flat forehead, and whose sagittal suture is continued down ('/) Morgagu, Adversar. 6. animad. 31. C) lugrass. Comment, in" Galeu. <Je ossib. cap. 1. com- ment. 8. ■ (. ) Rt.vsch. Observ. anat. dim observ. 54. Diemeibroeck. Anat. lib. 3. cap. 10. Bonet. Sepu'.cb. anat. lib. 4. 8 3. ob- •erv. 17.