51 ©F THE SKELETON. lit an angle down from that on each side, where the : indentations are less conspicuous than in the upper part of the suture, they called additamentum suturce lambdoidis*. This suture is sometimes very irregular, being made up of a great many small sutures, which sur- round so many little bones that are generally larger l and more conspicuous on the external surface of the skull, than internally. These bones are generally called triquetra or Wormiana ; but some other name ought to be given them, for they are not always of a triangular figure'; and older anatomists (a) than Olaus Wormius (b) have described them.—The specific vir- tue which these bones were once thought to have in the cure of the epilepsy (c) is not now ascribed to them ; and anatomists generally agree, that their for- mation is owing to a greater number of points than ordinary of ossification in the skull, or to the ordinary bones of the cranium not extending their ossification far enough or soon enough ; in which case, the un- ossified interstice between such bones begins a separate ossification in one or more points : from which the ossification is extended to form as many distinct bones as there were points that are indented into the large ordinary bones, and into each other.—Probably those children who have a large opening in this place at their birth, will have the largest ossa triquelra. To confirm this account of the formation of these lit- tle bones, we may remark, that such bones are some- times seen in othersutures, as well asin thelambdoid(d), * Lambdoides harmonialis, lambdoides inferior, occipitis corona. (a) Eustaeh. Ossium examen.—Bauhin, Theat. Auat. lib. 3. cap. 5. Paaw in Hippociat. de vulner. cap. p. 56. (6) Musaeum, lib. 3. cap. 26. (c) Bauhin, et Paaw, ibid—Bartholin. Anat. reform, lib. 4. cap. 5. Hildan. Epistol. 65. (d) See examples in Vesal, lib. 1. cap. 6. fig. 4. Paaw in Hippociat. de cap. vuln.—Bartholin. Hist. Anat. cent. I. hist 51.—Ruysch. Mus. Anat—Sue Trad, d'osteolog. p. 47. D 2