OF THE SKELETON. .102 transverse suture;—at the sides of these processes to the ossa unguis, by the lacrymal sutures ;—to the na- sal bones, by the lateral nasal sutures ;—by their or- bitar processes, to the cheek bones, by the external or- bitar sutures ;—by the internal sides of the internal orbitar processes, to the ossa plana, by part of the ethmoidal suture ;—by the back part of the tuberosi- I ties to the palate bones, by the sulurae palato max- I illares ,-~by the posterior edges of their palatine lamellae, to the ossa palati, by the transverse palate suture; —by their nasal spines, to the vomer, by the spinous suture;—by their sockets, to the teeth by gomphosis ;—by the internal edge of the palate-plate, to each other, by the longtitudinal palate-suture; on the upper and fore-part of which a furrow is left for receiving the cartilage whieri forms the partition of the nostrils ; between the fore-part of the nostrils and mouth, to each other, by the mystachial suture; sometimes they are connected to the ossa spongiosa inferiora, by a plain concretion or union of substance. "Uses. These bones form the greater part of the nose and of the roof of the mouth, and a considerable share of; the orbit. They contain sixteen teeth, give rise to muscles, transmission to nerves, &c. as mentioned mi the description of their several parts. State at In each of the maxillary bones of a new-born child, Birth. the external orbitar process is hollow with remarkable: holes in it;—there are five sockets for the teeth, of: which the two posterior are very large, and when di-' vided by a second cross partition, make the number of sockets six (a). The palate-plate is cribriform about the middle. The great tuberosity is not form- ed;—instead of the antrum, there is only an oblong, depression at the side of the nostrils.. Palate ObS\ PALATI are commonly described as two small': Bones! square bones, at the back-part of the palate or roof oft' the mouth, though they are of much greater extent, being continued up the back-part of the nostrils too («) Albin. Osteogen, tab. 5. fig. 45. Ungebav. de dent it. secund.jnn. § !.