03T THE NERVES IN GENERAL. 271 The loss of the power of acting when the arteries or herves are tied while the muscle is in the body, is de- Lied by some who made the trial, and it might he ex- pected that the motion of a muscle, would be morn conspicuous where there is no resistance to it, as is the base when it is cut away from all the parts it is con- nected with, than when its connection remains with, harts resisting its contractile efforts. | 17. After the heart, or any other muscle cut away from an animal, has ceased to contract, its contract ion may again be restored, by breathing upon it, or prick- ing' it with any sharp instrument. That heat or prick- ing should, by their stimulus, (§ 56. /?.) occasion con- traction in a living creature, may be understood ; but how they should have the same effect in a muscle se- parated from an animal, I know not *. 6S. Some have thought the ganglions of nerves .(Ganglions. (§ 18, 19, 20.) to be glandular, and that they perform a secretion. Others, from their firm texture, suppose them to be muscular, and that they serve to accelerate the motion of the liquor in the nerves which proceed from them ; but as no proof is offered of either of these opinions, they cannot be maintained. Others would make them serve, 1. To divide a small nerve into many nerves, and by these means to increase the number ot nervous branches. % To make nerves come convenient- ly by different directions to the parts to which-they-be- long. 5. To re-unite several small nervous fibres Into one large nerve. Since no proof is brought that these three things cannot he done without the interposition of a ganglion, but on the contrary, we see them per- formed where there are no ganglions, we must conti- nue to acknowledge ignorance concerning the uses of these knots, the ganglionsT. * On tlie dependence or independence of muscular irritabi- lity on nervous power, see- Whytt's Physiofog. Essays; Monro's Nerv. Syst. p. 9.0; Dumas Piincipes de Physiol. Tom. HI. and the Croonian Lectures on Muscular Motion in the Philos. Transac. E. t On the nerves in general, see Monro's Nerv. Syst. • Soemmering De Basi Enceph ; Prochaska De structur, Nervor. Scarpa Annotat. Academ.; Ludwig Scriplor. Ncurolog, and lh«- Works of Gall and Spurzhcim. E.