OF THE SKELETON. 201. that are fixed on each side to the angle at th<* edge of tins flat surface; The lower end of this second kmc has two lateral round protuberances, and a middle cavity, whose greatest extent of smooth surface is for- wards. The articulation and motion of the upper end of this second hone id as singular as that of the former. For its cavity being joined to the round head of the Bra hone, it would seem at first view to enjoy motion in. all directions ; yet, because of the strength of its lateral' ligaments, oblong figure of the joint itself, and mobili- ty of the firs.t joint, it allows only flexion and extension j and these are generally most confined. The third bone * of the thumb is the smallest, with a large base, whose greatest extent is from one side to the other. This base is formed into two cavities and a middle protuberance, to be adapted to the pulley of the former bone. Its body is rounded behind ; but is flat- ter than in the former hone, for sustaining the naiL It is flat and rough before, hy the insertion of the flexor tertti' internodii. This bone becomes gradually smaller, till near the lower end, where it is a little en- larged, and has an oval scabrous edge. The motion of this third bone is confined to flexion and extension. Phalanges The orderly disposition of the bones of the fingers ot the fin- jnto tj)ree rfnvs, has made them generally obtain the *erS' name of three phalanges f. All of them have half round convex surfaces, covered with an aponeurosis, formed hy the tendons of the extensors, himbrieales, and interossei, and placed directly backwards %, for their greater strength, and their flat concave part js for- wards \, for taking hold more surely, and for lodging the tendons of flexor muscles. The ligaments foc- keeping down these tendons are fixed to the angles that, are between the convex and concave sides. * Terlium internodium, distal phalanx. E. tSeytalidse, intenicdia, scuticula, a^mina, aeies, condyll arti- i Anconad. E. } Tiiciiad. £.