OF THE SKELETON. (b) Ephemerid. Gcimanic. dec. 1. auu. 4. et5. observ. S3. yield, and allow to the head a change of shape, ac- commodated to the passage in which it is engaged. Whence, in hard labour of childbed, the bones of the eranium, instead of being only brought into contact, are sometimes made to mount one upon the other. 3. It is alleged, that, through the sutures, there is a transpiration of steams from the brain, which was the old doctrine ; or some communication of the vessels without, and of those within the skull, larger here than in any other part of the cranium, according to some moderns ; and therefore cvcuphce, fomentations, cata- plasms, cephalic plasters, blisters, are applied, and issues are eroded, or cut in the head, at those places where the sutures are longest in forming, and where the connection of the bones is afterwards loosest, for the cu re of a phrcnitis, mania, inveterate fteacl-ach, epilepsy, apoplexy, and other diseases of the head. The favour- ers of the doctrine of transpiration, or communications of vessels at the sutures, endeavour to support it by observations of persons subject to head-aehs which caused death, from the sutures being too closely un- ited (a). 4. That the dura mater may be more firm* ly suspended by its processes, which insinuate them- selves into this conjunction of the bones ; for doing this equally, and where the greatest necessity of ad- hesion is, the sutures are disposed at nearly equal dis- tances, and the large reservoirs of blood, the sinuses, are under or near them. 5. That fractures might be prevented from reaching so far as they would in a con- tinued bony substance. 6. That the connection at the sutures being capable of yielding, the bones might be allowed to separate; which has given great relief to patients from the violent symptoms which they had before this separation happened (6). And it seems reasonable to believe, that the opening of the sutures was of great benefit to several others who were rather (rt)Columb. de re anat. lib. 1. < ap. 5.—Verduc. nouvelle osteologie, ihap. 14 - Dion.., Anat. 3. demoustr. des o*.