OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 297 part of the thigh j while its principal branch joins with the other nerves, to form the crural nerve. The Second Lumbar nerve passes through the psoas Second an.l muscle, and is distributed nearly in the same way as th"d. the former : as is also the Third. Branches of the second, third, and fourth, make up obturator. one trunk, which runs along the fore part of the pelvis; and passing in the notch at the fore-part of the great hole common to the os pubis and ischium, is spent on the adductor muscles, and on the teguments on the in- side of the thigh. This nerve is called Obturator or Posterior Crural Nerve. . By united branches from the first, second, third, and *™*™r fourth lumbar nerves, a nerve is formed that runs along cluld ' 'the psoas muscle, to escape with the external iliac ves- sels out of the abdomen, below the tendinous arcade of the external oblique muscle. This nerve, which is named the Anterior Crural, is distributed princi- pally to the muscles and teguments on the fore-part of the thigh. A branch, however, of this nerve runs down the inside of the leg to the upper part of the foot, keeping near to the vena saphcena; in opening of which ■with a lancet at the ancle, the nerve is sometimes hurt, aud occasions sharp pain at the time of the operation, and numbness afterwards. The remainder of the fourth lumbar and the fifth join in composing the largest nerve in the body; which is soon to be described. Whoever attends to the course of these lumbar nerves, and of the spermatic vessels and nerves upon the psoas muscle, with the oblique passage of the ureter over that muscle, will not be surprised, that when a stone is passing in this canal, or even when it is in- flamed, the trunk of the body cannot be raised erect, without great pain ; or that the skin of the thigh be- comes less sensible, and the thigh is drawn forward, and that the testicle often swells and is drawn convul- sively towards the ring of the abdominal muscles. The Six Pairs of the false Vertebra consist Six pairs of each of small posterior branches sent to the hips, and false verie- of large anterior branches. *iae*