OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. 17 of these different circumstances. But these being obvious to every person that looks on bones, I shall mention only one of them ; which comprehends very nearly the whole bones of the body ; and at the same time leads us to examine the most considerable va- riety that is to be found in- the disposition of their constituted parts, and in their uses. It is this, that some bones are broad and flat, while others are long and round. The broad bones have thin sides, by the plates Broad being soon and equally sent off to form the lattice- Bones- work ; which therefore is thicker, and nearly of an equal form all through. By this structure, they are well adapted to their uses, of affording a large enough surface for the muscles to rise from, and move upon, and of defending sufficiently the parts which they inclose. The round bones have thick strong walls in the Round middle, and become very thin towards their ends, oneSk which is owing to very few plates separating at their middle; where, on that account, the cancelli are so fine and small that they are not taken notice of: But such bones are said to have a large reservoir of oil in this place. Towards their ends the lattice- work becomes very thick, and rather more com- plete than in the other sort of bones.—These round bones having strong forces naturally applied to them, and being otherwise exposed to violent injuries, have Advantage need of a cylindrical figure to resist external pres? Jf this sure, and of a considerable quantity of oil to pre- orm* serve them from becoming too brittle. Besides which, they are advantageously provided with thick sides towards their middle, where the greatest forces are applied to injure them ; while, their hollowness in- creases their diameter, and consequently, their strength to resist forces applied to break them transversely (a), Thus, for instance, in estimating the proportional resistance of two cylindrical bones of unequal dia* (a) Galilei Mechanic, dialog. 2»