88 OP THE SKELETON. * Lateral. E. till the cuneiform bone is separated from all the other -: I bones of the cranium ; for one end of it is hid by a i small protuberance of the internal plate of the ptery- goid process, and by the point of the processuspetro- ■ sus of the temporal bone. Its canal is extended above the inner plate of the pterygoid process; and where it \ opens into the cavity of the nose, it is concealed by the thin laminous part of the palate bone. Through it a considerable branch of the second branch of the Jifth pair of nerves is reflected. Often in the middle of the sella Turcica a small hole or two pierce as far as the cellular substance of the bone; and sometimes at the sides of this sella, one or more small holes penetrate into the sphenoidal sinuses. These observations af- forded some anatomists (a) an argument of weight in their days in defence of Galen (b), who asserted the descent of the piluita that way into the sinuses below. Thefirst of the common holes is that unequal fissureejF at the side of the sella Turcica, between the extreme point of the os petrosum and the spinous process of the cuneiform bone. This hole appears only after the bones are boiled; for in a recent subject its back-part is covered by a thin bony plate that lies over the in--|' ternal carotid artery, and further forward it is filled with a cartilaginous ligament, under which the carti- laginous part of the Eustachian tube is placed : It was by this passage that the antients believed the slimy matter was conveyed from the emunctory of the brain, the glandula pituilaria, to the fauces. The se- cond common hole is the large discontinuation of the external * side of the orbit, left between the orbitar: processes of the cuneiform bone, the os maxillare, ma-- he, and palati. In this large hole the fat for lubricating the globe of the eye and temporal muscle is lodged, and branches of the superior maxillary nerve, with small arteries from the carotid and veins pass. The (a) Jac. Sylv. Calumniae secundae amolitio. Laurent. Hist, anat. lib. 2. quajst. 11. (6) Galen. De usu part. lib. 9. cap. 1.