OF THE SKELETON. 8(3 of its body, become smaller as they arc extended ob- «i liquely backwards. The third standing on a long, transverse base, near the back-part of the body ol this bone, rises nearly erect, and of an equal breadthJ terminating often in a little knob on each side. Then three are called clinoid, from some resemblance whichhl they were thought to have to the supporters of a bedi, Sometimes one or both the anterior clinoid processes^ are joined to the sides of the posterior one, or the bodyj of the bone itself.—From the roots of the anteriow clinoid processes the bone is extended on each sidee outwards and forwards, till it ends in a sharp point;, which may have the name of the transverse spinouu processes. Between, but a little farther back thanu the two anterior clinoid processes, we see a protube— ranee considerably smaller than the posterior clinoi&A process, but of its shape. Another process from be*' tween the transverse processes, often forces itself for- wards into the os elhmoidcs. Within the skull, there are two sinuosities in thee internal part of each wing of the sphenoid bone, for re- ceiving the middle part of the brain. One between, the transverse spinous processes, for lodging the part: of the brain where the crura medulla; oblongata; are*. Immediately before the third or middle clinoid pro- cess, a single pit may generally be remarked, frorai which a fossa goes out on each side to the holes* through which the optic nerves pass. The pit is> formed by the conjoined optic nerves; and in the fos- sa; these nerves are lodged, as they run divided within: the skull. Between that third protuberance and the.1 posterior clinoid process, the larger pit for the glandu— 4 la piluitaria may be remarked. This cavity, becausee y of its resemblance to a Turkish saddle, is always de- scribed under the name of sella Turcica or ephippium., On the sides of the posterior clinoid process a fossa * may be remarked, that stretches upwards, then is con— j, tinued forwards along the sides of the sella Turcica, near to the anterior clinoid processes, where a pit on i 1 each side is made. These fossae point out the course j, of the two internal carotid arteries, after they have en- ■ (. tered the skull.—Besides all these, several other fossae