30 OF THE BONES IN GENE1UL. of such disjoined pieces of a bone, might be thought a fracture.—The protrusion of one piece, or its over- Japping any other, could bo mistaken for an excres- cence or exostosis.—Such errors about the nature of a disease would give one very different indications of cure, from what he would have, if he really under- stood his patient's case. And very often the know- ledge of the different inequalities on the surfaces of bones, must direct us in the execution of what is pro- per to be done to cure several of their diseases. Artioula- Having thus considered the bones when single, uons. ^ye ought next to shew the different manner of their conjunctions *. To express these, anatomists have contrived a great number of technical terms ; about the meaning, propriety, and classing of which, there has unluckily been variety of opinions. Some of these terms it is necessary to retain, since they serve to express the various circumstances of the articula- tions, and to understand the writers on this subject. The Articulations are most commonly divided into three classes, viz, symphysis, synarthrosis, and diarikrosis. Symphysis. .Symphysis, which properly signifies the concretion or growing together of parts, when used to express the articulations of bones, does not seem to compre- hend, under the meaning generally given to it, any thing relating to the form or motion of the conjoined bones ; but by it most authors only denote the bones to be connected by some other substance; and as there are different substances which serve this pur- pose, therefore they divide it into the three follow- ing species : Smchon l» Synchondrosis f, when a cartilage is the con- drosis.'' necting substance : Thus the ribs are joined to the sternum; thus the bodies of the vertebrae are connect- ed to each other ; as are likewise the ossa pubis. * Ivvralu, evvS-tfi;, <fVf/Ao\n, iftiXm, compositio, connexio, artitulauo' conjunctio, nodus, commissura, structure, com- pages. f Amphiarthrosis.