OF THE SKELETON". tons cartilage tbat connects it to its fellow of the other side: The process which goes down from that to the os ischium is broad and rough before, where the gracilis and upper heads of the triceps, or rather quadriceps adductor femoris have their origin. The substance of the os pubis is the same a&of other Substance, broad bones. Only a part of the large end of this bone is ossified, State at and the whole leg is cartilaginous, in a child born at But li- the full time. ' Betwixt the os ischium and pubis a very large Thyroid irregular hole is left, which, from its resemblance to allol<i- door or shield, has been called thyroides. This hole is all, except the niche for the posterior crural nerve, filled up in a recent subject with a strong ligamentous mem- brane, that adheres very firmly to it3 circumference. From this membrane chiefly the two obturator muscles, external and internal, take their rise. The great de- sign of this hole, besides rendering the hone lighter, is to allow a strong enough origin to the obturator mus- cles, and sufficient space foi lodging their bellies, that there may be no.danger of disturbing the functions of the contained viscera of the pelvis by the actions of the internal, nor of the external being bruised by the thigh bone, especially by its lesser trochanter, in the motions of the thigh inwards : Both which inconveniences must have happened, had the ossa innominata been com- plete here, and of sufficient thickness and strength to serve as the fixed point of these muscles. The bowels sometimes make their way through the niche for the vessels, at the upper part of this thyroid hole, and this causes a hernia in this place (a). In the external * surface of the ossa innominata, Acclaim near the outside of the great hole, a large deep cavity turn. is formed by all the three bones conjunctly : For the os pubis constitutes about one fifth j the os ilium makes something less than two fifths, and the os ischium as much more than two fifths. The brims of this cavity (ri) Memoires de l'acad, de chirurgie, torn. 1. p. 709, * Lateral £.