OP THE NEUVES IN GENERAL. %63 hose : Sapid substances, that are scarcely sufficient to give us an idea of their taste by their own weight, arc assisted by the pressure of the tongue upon the palate: The rays of light collected drive light bodies before them: Sound communicates a vibration to all bodies in harmonic proportion with it. The impulse made thus by any of these objects on the soft pulpy nerves (ยง '21.), which are full of (iquor, presses their sides or extremities, and their liquor is hindered from flowing so freely as it did. The canals being all full (is 58.) this resistance must instantaneous- ly affect the whole column of fluids in the canals that are pressed, and their origins, and have the samerffect as if the impulse had been made upon the origin itself. To illustrate this by a gross comparison: Let any one push water out of a syringe, through a long flexible , pipe fixed to the syringe, and he is sensible of resist- ance or a push backwards, the moment any one stops the orifice of the pipe, or closes the sides of it with his fingers. This impulse made on the nerves, and thus communicated to their origin, varies according to the strength or weakness, the quickness or slowness, the continuance or speedy removal, the uniformity or ir- regularity, the constancy or alternation, &c. with which objects are applied to the nerves. 6. Whenever any object is regularly applied with due force to a nerve, rightly disposed to be impressed by it, and is communicated, as just now explained, to the sensorium, it gives a true and just idea of the object to the mind. c. The various kinds.of impulses which the differ- ent classes of objects make, occasion in animals, which ought to have accurate perceptions of each object, a necessity of having the different organs of the senses variously modified, so that the several impulses may be regularly applied to the nerves in e-ich organ; or, - in other words, we must have different organs of tke senses fitted to the different clas ses of objects. d. As the objects have one common property of impulse, so ail the organs have most of the properties of the organ of touching in common with the pajrilloc