OF THE SKELETON. T13 hey are yawning, is reasonable.—In chewing there is i succession of the motions above described (a). Here a general remark may be made. That where- ;ver moveable cartilages are found in joints, either the n ticulated bones are of such a figure, or so joined and ixed by their ligaments, that little motion would be dlowed without such cartilages; or else some motions ire necessary to the right use of the member, which he form of the articulation would not otherwise allow. This will more fully appear after the other joints with such cartilages are described. In a child born at the full time, the lower jaw is State at composed of two bones, connected by a thin cartilage Birtn« nthe middle of the chin, which gradually ossifies, and ,he two bones intimately unite.—In each of these bones ;here are five or six sockets for teeth, as in the upper aw. After I have thus described theincasement of the Uses* :eeth, the insertion of so many muscles of the tongue, ind of the os hyoides, the connexion of the membrane )f the tongue to the maxillary bone, and the motions )f this bone; it is easy to see, that the lower jaw must )e a principal instrument in manducation, deglutition, md speech. The Teeth are the hard white bodies placed in the Teeth, sockets of both jaws. Their number is generally six- teen above, and as many below ; though some people lave more, others have fewer. The broad thick part of each tooth which appears Parts, without the socket, is thebase or body*.—The smaller processes sunk into the maxillce, are the root-; or fangs which become gradually smaller towards the end far- thest from the base, or are nearly conical, by which the surface of their sides divides the pressure made on the bases, to prevent the soft parts, which are at the (a) For a more full account of this articulation, vid. Edin- burgh Medical Essays and observ. vol. I. art. 11. and vol. III. • art. 13.—Memoires de 1'acad. des sciences, 1744.—St v also Monro's Works, 4to. p. 231, and Barclay on Musts Mot. p. 482. E. * Corona.