OF THE SKELETON. ]g9 ' lat we observe a smooth concavity, where the begin- mg of the flexor digitorum profundus sprouts out The body of the ulna is triangular. The internal * Body angle is very sharp where the ligament that connects the two bones is fixed : The sides, which make this angle, are flat and rough, by the action and adhesion or the many muscles which are situated here. It the distance ot one-third of the length of the ulna from the top, in its fore-part, the passage of the medullary ves- sels is to be remarked slanting upwards f. The exter- nal side of this bone is smooth, somewhat convex' and he angles at each edge of it are blunted by the pres- ure of the muscles equally disposed about them. As this bone descends, it becomes gradually smaller • r „ o that its lower end terminates in a little he{d™Zl2 °™ ™* lg on a small neck Towards the fore, but outer part t which last, an obhque ridge runs, that gives rise to ie pronatar radii-quadratus. The head is round nooth,.and covered with a cartilage on its internal de, to be received into the semilunar cavity of the idzus i VtMe a styloid process % rises from its outside ft which is fixed a strong ligament that is extended to ie os ctmaforme ^dpisiforme of the wrist. Between e back part of that internal smooth side and this ocess a sinuosity is left for the tendon of the extensor rpi ulnaris On the fore-part of the root of the ocess, such another depression may be remarked r the passage of the ulnar artery and nerve. The d of the bone is smooth, and covered with a carti- ?e. Between it and the bones of the wrist, a doubly- ncave moveable cartilage is interposed ; which is "a tmuation of the cartilage that covers the lower end tke radjus, and is connected loosely to the root of ■ styloid process, and to the rough cavity there j in .ch mucilagmous glands are lodged. Ihe ulna is articulated above with the lower end of r os humzrL where these hnn« U„ 1 • Connection , wuere mese bones liave depressions and tuberances corresponding to each other, so as to * Radial. E. t Proxitnad. E. } rj«p,<,ty malfeolus externus.