247 OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. would be as unjust to deny the conclusions made in the three preceding articles, because of the seemingly preternatural phsenomena mentioned at the beginning of this, as it would be to deny the necessity of the circulation of the blood in us and most quadrupeds, because a frog can jump abouc, or a tortoise can walk long after all the bowels of its thorax and abdomen are taken out, or because the different parts of a worm crawl after it has been cut in*i a great many pieces *. It is therefore almost universally allowed that the nerves are principal instruments in our sen- sations, motion, and nourishment; and that the in- fluence which they have is communicated from their origin, the encephalon and medulla spinalis. But au- thors are far from agreeing about the manner-in which this influence is communicated, or in what way nerves act to produce these effects. 30. Some allege, that the nervous Jibres are all so- Cause of lid cords acting by elasticity or vibration ; others main- "ervous tain, that those Jibres are small pipes conveying liquors, 5J* by means of which their effects are produced. 31. The gentlemen, who think the nervous fibres Vibration solid, raise several^objections to the other doctrine ; considered, which I shall consider afterwards^ and endeavour to shew the fitness of their own doctrine to account for the effects commonly observed to be produced by the nerves. The objects of the senses plainly (say they) make impulses on the nerves of the proper organs, which must shake the nervous fibrils: and this vibration must be propagated along the whole cord to its other extremity or origin, as happens in other tense strings ; and these vibrations being differently modified, ac- cording to the difference of the object, and its differ- ent application, produce the different ideas we have of objects. * Tn the treatise on Physiology, drawn up by Dr. Kirby for the 4th edition of the. Encyclopaedia Britannica, (No. 55.) these phenomena are attributed to the more general irritability or greater diffusion of the vital principle in such animals. They Kem not to depend on nervous energy. E.