OF THE SKELETON. relaxation iu very ftw of the bodies which they exa- mined (a).. Considering what great weight is supported in our erect posture* by the articulation of the ossa innominate i with the os sacrum, there is great reason to think that; if the conglutinated surfaces of these bones were once separated, (without which, the ossa pubis cannot; shuffle on each other,) the ligaments would be violently, stretched, if not torn ; whence many disorders would arise (&)• Uses. Each os iminminatuni affords a socket (the acetalu- lum) for the thigh bones to move in, and the trunk of the body rolls here so much on the heads of the thigh- bones, as to allow the most conspicuous motions of tbe trunk, which are commonly thought to be performed ' by the bones of the spine. This articulation is to be more fully described after the ossa femoris are exa- - mined. The pelvis then has a large opening above where it is continued with tbe abdomen, is strongly fenced by* bones on the sides, back, and fore-part, and appears- with a wide opening below, in the skeleton ; but, in; the recent subject, a considerable part of the opening, is filled by the sacrosciatic ligaments, pyriform, inter** nal obturator, levatores ani, gemini, and cocci/gwi muscles, which support and protect the contained parts better than bones could have done; so that space is left only at the lowest part of it, for the large excretories, the vesica urinaria, intcsliimm rectum, and in females, the itterus, to discharge them.-elves. Thorax. ■ The Thorax,* or chest, which is the only part of the trunk of the body which we have not yet described, reaches from below the neck to the belly ; and, by means of the bones that guard it, is formed into a large cavity-, the figure of which is somewhat conoidal; but its upper smaller end is not finished, heing left (a) Hildan. Epist. cent. obs. 4G.—Dionis Sixieme demons*. £es os.—Morgagn. Advers. 5. animad. 15. (b) Ludov, in JLpheni. German, dec. 1. ann. 5. obs. 85% * rectus, cassiun.