187 OF THE SKELETON, motion with its head. Though the motions of the arm seem to be very extensive, yet the larger share of them depends on the motion of the scapula. 1 he lower end of the os humeri}a articulated with the bones of the fore-arm, and carries them with it in all its mo- tions, but serves as a base on which they perform the motions peculiar to themselves; as shall be described afterwards *. Both the ends of this bone are cartilaginous in a State at" newrborn infant, and the large head with the two tu- Birth, bercles, and the trochlea with the two condyles, become epyphyses before they are united to the body of the hone. - The Fore-ARM t consists of two long hones, the Fore-Arm.-; ulna and radius ; whose situation, in respect of each other, is oblique in the least straining or most natural posture*, that is, the ulna is not directly behind, nor on the outside of the radius, but in a middle situation between these two, and the radius crosses it. The si- tuation however of these two bones, and of all the other bones of the superior extremity that are not yet described, is frequently altered ; and therefore, to shun repetitions,! I desire it may he now remarked, that, in the remaining account of the superior extremity, I un- derstand by the term of posterior that part which is in the same direction with the back of the hand ; by anterior, that answering to the palm •, by internal, that on the same side with the thumb ; by external, the side nearest to the little finger ; supposing the hand always to he in a middle position between pronation and supination. Ulna %, so named from its being used as a measure, Ulna. is the longest of the two hones of the fore-arm, and si- tuated On the outside of the radius. At the upper end of the ulna are two processes.— Upper cn»> ,i The posterior \ is the largest, and formed like a hook, * See Barcl. Muscul.Mot. p. 581. \ Cubitus, wn^vs w\h>i, vuyaiv. ulna, Ijyjei'tUS. \ Cubitus, •jenx"( ir^iixi>'>^ focile majus, carina vel anui'l* major, et inferior biachii. j Ancoaal . E..