OF THE SKELETON. 100 Antrum Higlimo- rianurn. sometimes more holes ; some of which open into each nostril. Through them small arteries and veins, and a twig of the second branch of the fifth pair of nerves pass, and make a communication between, or join the lining coats of the nose and mouth.—In some sub- jects, Sleno'st&nct may be traced some way .on the side of these passages next to the nose, and small orifices may be observed opening into the mouth. The first common hole is that which appears at the inner side of the back part of the tuberosity and of the sockets of the teeth, and is formed by a fossa in this bone, and a corresponding one in the os paluii; through it a nerve, which is a branch of the second branch of the fifth pair, runs to the palate.—1 he other common hole is the great slit in the outside of the orbit described already, as.the second common hole of the sphenoid bone. On the nasal process holes may be often observed for the passage of vessels to the substance of the bones ; and, at the back-part of each tuberosity, se- veral foramina are placed, for the transmission of nerves to the cavity within ; but these are uncertain. <\11 the body of the maxillary bone is hollow, and leaves a large sinus a-kin to the frontal and sphenoid, which is commonly, but unjustly, called antrum High- ■ morianum*. When the os maxillare is single or scpa- • rated from all the other bones of a skeleton, its antrum I appears to have a large aperture into the nostrils ;; but, in a recent subject, it is so covered at its back-- uart, by the palate bone; in the middle, by the os- Lon&iosum ivferius ; before, by a strong membrane; that only one or sometimes two holes, scarcely larger than a crow-quill, are left at the upper part; which after a short winding progress, open into the nostrils- between the two ossa spongiosa.—At the bottom of. this cavity, we may often observe some protuberances, in wnich tne small points of the roots of the teeth are contained (fl)—This cavern and the sockets of thee Gonae, tti) Highmore, Disquis. Anat. lib. 3. part 2. cap. 1.