OF THE SKELETON. 109 This bone, which is somewhat of the figure of the Greek letter v, is situated at the lower part of the face, so that its convex middle part is forwards, and its legs are stretched back. It is commonly divided into the chin, sides, and processes.—The chin is the middle fore-part, the extent of which to each side is marked on the external surface by the holes observable there, and internally by the beginning of an oblique ridge. -—Beyond these the sides appear, and are continued till the bone, by bending upwards, begins to form the pro- cesses. On the fore part of the chin, a transverse ridge ap- pears in the middle, on each side of which the musculi quadrati, or depressores labii inferioris, and the leva- tores labii inferioris*, depress the bone: And below these prints, a small rising may be observed, where the depressores commence.—On the back-part of the chin, sometimes three, always two, small protuberances appear in the middle.—To the uppermost, when it is seen, thefraenumof the tongue is connected. From the middle one, the musculige?iioglossi rise; and from the lowest, the geniohyoidei have their origin. Below the ]ast, we see two rough sinuosities formed by the digas- tric muscles. At the lower and fore-part of the external surface Sides, of each side of the lower jaw, a small eminence may be observed, where the depressor labiorum communis f vises. Near the upper edge of the side a ridge runs length-ways, to which the under part of the musculus buccinator is connected.—Internally, towards the upper edge of each side, another ridge appears, from which the mylohyoidei have their origin, and to which the in- ternal membrane of the gums adheres. In the upper edge of both chin ancLsides are a great Aheo\\. many deep pits or sockets, for receiving the roots of the teeth. The number and magnitude of these sock- ets are various, because of the different number, as well of the teeth themselves, as of their roots, in differ- " Levatores menti. Alb. E. -t Depressor anguli oris. Alb. E.