Of THE SKELETON. 81 nose (a).-—Immediately before the highest part of this process, is the blind hole of the frontal bone, which, as was formerly remarked, is often in a good measure formed by a notch in the fore-part of the root of the crista. From the middle of the outer surface of the cribri- Nasal form lamella,a thin solid plate is extended downwards Pi:ite- and forwards, having the same common base with the crista ga/li. Generally it is not exactly perpendicu- lar, but is inclined to one side or other, and therefore divides the cavity of the nose unequally. Its inclina- tion to one side, and flexure in the middle, is some- times so great, that it fills up a large share of one of the nostrils, and has been mistaken for a polypus there. —It is thin at its rise, and rather still thinner in its middle ; yet afterwards, towards its lower edge, it becomes thicker, that its conjunction with the bones and middle cartilage of the nose might be firmer. At a little distance from each side of this external Celhte. process, a cellular and spongy bony substance de- pends from the cribriform plate. The number and / figure of the cells in this irregular process of each side, are very uncertain, and not to be represented in words ; only the cells open into each other, and into the cavity of the nose: The uppermost, which are below the aperture of the frontal sinuses, are formed like funnels.—The outer surface of these cells is 0«a Plana* smooth and plain, where this bone assists in compos- ing the orbit; at which place, on each side, it has got the name of os planum: on the upper edge of which, a small notch or two may sometimes be ob- served which go to the formation of the internal or- bitar holes; as was remarked in the description of tne Irontal bone. Below the cells of each side, a thin plate is extended Superior inwards, and then bending down, it becomes thick andI of a spongy texture.-This spongy part is trian- B°"es- gu ar.with a straight upper edge placed horizontally, m anterior one slanting from above, downwards and m Palfyn, Anat. chir. tr. 4. chap. 15.