X 282 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. ance in the eyes of dogs, whose intercostal nerves were cut, might be owing to this sympathy. Seventh The SEVENTH Pair* comes out from the lateral part p*ir. of the annular process, behind where the medullary proce sses of the cerebellum are joined to that tuber; and each being accompanied with a larger artery than most other nerves, enters the internal meatus audito- rius, where the two large bundles of fibres, of which it appeared to consist within the skull, soon separate from each other one of them entering by several small' holes into the vestibule, cochlea, and se?nicircular canals, is stretched on this inner camera of the ear in a very soft pulpy substance ; and being never seen in the form of a firm cord, such as the other parcel of this and most other nerves become,, is called Portio Mollis t of the auditory nerve (o). The other part of this seventh pair passes through Galenas foramen caecum, or Fa Hopius^s aqueduct, in its crooked passage by the side of the tympanum ; in which Dassaee. a nerve sent from the lingual branch of the- inferior naxillary nerve, along the outside of tlie tuba Eustachiana, and cross the cavity of the tympanumt where it has the name of chorda tympani, is commonly said to be joined, to it. The very acute angle which this nerve makes with the fifth, or the sudden violent inflection it would suffer on the supposition of its coming from the fifth to the seventh, appears unusual ; whereas, if we suppose that it comes from the seventh to the fifth, its course would be more in the ordinary way, and the chorda tympani would be esteemed a branch of the seventh pair going to join the fifth, the size of which is increased by this acquisition. This smaller bundle of the seventh gives branches to the * Some modern anatomists regard llie two nerves which have generally been called branches of the seventh pair as distinct jierves having different origins. Spurzheim derives the facinl nerve From the an^le formed between the pons varolii and cor- nu* rctiforme, while he places the origin of the auditory nerve ill the medullary streaks on the surface of the fourth ventricle. ¥.. f Acoustic or auditory nerve. E. fa-) See an admirable representation of the distribution of the portio mollis, in Scarpa De Auditu et Olfactu. E,