OF THE SKELETON. 107 the lower and back parts of the partition of the nose (a). The figure of this bone is an irregular rhomboid.— Its sides are flat and smooth. Its posterior edge ap- pears in an oblique direction at the backjiart of the nostrils. The upper one is firmly united to the base of the sphenoid bone, and to the nasal plate of the ethmoid; and, when it can be got separated, is hol- low, for receiving the processus azygos of the sphenoid. The anterior edge has a long furrow in it, where the middle cartilage of the nose enters. The lower edge is firmly united to the nasal spines of the maxillary and palate bones. These edges of this bone are much thicker than its middle, which is as thin as the finest paper; by which, and the firm union or connexion this bone has above and below, it can very seldom be separated entire in adults ; but, in a child, it is much more easily separated entire, and its structure is more distinctly seen ; wherefore I shall examine all its parts of such a subject. Its situation is not always perpendicu'ar, but often inclined and bended to one side, as well as the nasal plate of the ethmoid bone. The vomer is convex at its upper part, and then is straight, as it is extended downwards and forwards where it is composed of two plates; the edges of which have a great number of small processes, dis- posed somewhat like the teeth-of a saw, but more ir- regularly, and several of them are reflected back. Between these plates a deepfossa is left, which, as far as the top of the curvature, is wide, and has strong sides for receiving the processus azygos of the sphenoid bone. Beyond the arch forwards, the fossa is nar- rower and shallower gradually to the point of the bone, receiving for some way the nasal lamella ethmoi- dea ; which, after the ossification is complete, is so closely united to the vomer by the little processes piercing into its substance, as to prevent any separa-. (a) Columb. de re anat. hb. 1. cap. 3.—Failop. Observat, anatom.