OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. 26 have been much thicker in adults, had not this for- cible cause been applied, which has not had such ef- fects in children, whose muscles have not been much exercised.—Besides, if we allow that all the parts of a bone are equally increased by the constant supply of new particles, each fibre, and every particle of a fibre, endeavours to make way for its own growth, by pushing the one next to it; and consequently by far the greatest pressure is on the middle, to make the particles firm, and therefore to begin their ossification there. Lastly, the pulsation of the medullary ar- teries, which enter the bones near to this middle part, may, as authors have alleged, contribute perhaps somewhat to this induration. From the effects of pressure only it is, that we can account for the bones of old people having their sides much thinner, yet more dense and solid, while the cavities are much larger than in those of young peo- ple ; and for the prints of muscles, vessels, &c. being so much more strongly marked on the surfaces of the former than of the latter, if they belong to people of nearly the same condition in life.—Pressure must likewise be the cause, which, in people of equal ages, makes these prints stronger in the bones of those who had much labour and exercise, than they are in peo- ple who have led an indolent inactive life. Perhaps both the causes of ossification above men- tioned, mav be assisted by the nature of the climate in which people live, and the food they use. Whence, in hot countries, the inhabitants sooner come to their height of stature than in the northerly cold regions: And thence seems to have arisen the common prac- tice among the ladies, of making puppies drink brandy or spirit of wine, and of bathing them in these liquors, to prevent their growing big. Nay, it has been ob- served, that much use of such spirits has occasioned parts, naturally soft, to petrify in some, and to ossify in other people of no great age (a). (a) Littre, Histoire de l'acad. des sciences, 1706.—Geoffroy, ^lemoircs de l'acad. des sciences, 1706.