OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. 41 ed, as on thespine of the os ilium, base of the scapula, &c. serve to prevent the bony fibres from growing out too far.—Cartilages sometimes serve as ligaments, either to fasten together bones that are immoveably joined, such are the cartilages between the os sacrum and ossa ilium, the ossa pubis, Sec or to connect bones that en- joy manifest motion, as those do which are placed be- tween the bodies of the true verlebrce, &c. Cartilages very often do the office of bones to greater advantage than these last could, as in the cartilages of the ribs, those which supply brims to cavities, &c. Too great thickness or thinness, length or shortness, hardness or suppleness of cartilages, may therefore cause great disorders in the body. The liquor, which principally serves to moisten the Synovial ligaments and cartilages of the articulations, is sup- apparatus, plied by glands, which are commonly situated in the joint, after such a manner as to be gently pressed, but not destroyed by its motion. By this means, when there is the greatest necessity for this liquor, that is, when the most frequent motions are performed, the greatest quantity of it must be separated. These glands are soft and pappy, but not friable : In some of the large joints, they are of the conglomerate kind, or a great number of small glandules are wrapt up in one s common membrane. Their excretory ducts are long, and hang loose, like so many fringes, within the ar- ticulation ; which, by its motion and pressure, pre- vents obstructions in the body of the gland or its ex- cretories, and promotes the return of this liquor, when fit to be taken up by the absorbent vessels, which must be in the joints, as well as in the other cavities of the body ; and, at the same time, the pressure on the excretory ducts hinders a superfluous unnecessary secretion, while the fimbriated disposition of these ex- cretories does not, allow any of the secreted liquor to be pushed back again by these canals towards the glands (a.) Very often these fountains of slimy liquor appear only as a network of vessels.—Frequently they are (a) Cowper, Anatorr. explicat. tab. 79. lit. E»