290 OF THE PAMTICULAR NERVES. twelve between those of the Zw./r, five between those of the loins, and six from the false'vertebrae. First cervi- The First Cervical pair of nerves comes out be- cal. tween the first and second vertebrae of the neck ; and having given branches to join with the tenth pair of the head, the second cervical and intercostal, and to serve the muscles that bend the neck, it sends its lar- gest branches backwards to the extensor musics of the liead and neck ; some of which piercing through these muscles, run up on the occiput to be lost in the tegu- ments here j and many fibres of it advance •so far for- ward as to be connected with the fibrils of the first branch of the fifth pair of the head, and of tbepwtio dura of the auditory nerve.—Hence possibly it is that a clavus hystericus changes suddenly sometimes from the forehead to a violent pain and spasm in the back- part of the head and neck. The Second Cervical is soon joined by some Sccondcev branches to the ninth-of the head and intercostal, and to the first and third of the neck,; then has a hu e branch that comes out at the exterior edge of the sta m- mastoideus muscle, where k joins with the accessornis of the eighth pair 5 and is afterwards distributed to the plafysma myoides * teguments of the side of the neck and head, parotid gland, and external ear, being con- nected to the portin dura of the auditory nerve, and to the first cervical. The remainder of this second cervical is spent on the levator scapulce and the exten- sors of the neck ami head. Generally-a large branch is here sent off to join the accessorius of the eighth pair, near the superior angle of the scapula. To th- irritation of the branches of this nerve it probably is owing, that, in an inflammation of the par- jflM gbmd, the neck is pained so far down as Lie cla- vicle the head is drawn towards the shoulder of the ar- • fecte'd side and the chin is turned to the other sme- lt! opening the external jugular vein, no operator can promise not to touch some of the cutaneous branches of this nerve with the lancet j which occasions a sharp * LatissimiiB colli. Alb. E;