87 OF THE SKELETON, may be observed, leading to tbe several holes, and im- printed by the nerves and blood-vessels. The holes on each side of the os sphenoides are six poraml proper, and three common.—The Jirst is the round one immediately below the anterior clinoid processes, for the passage of the optic nerve, and of the branch of the internal carotid artery that is sent to the eye.—- The second is the foramen lacerum, or large slit be- tween the transverse spinous and orbitar processes: The interior* end of which slit is large ; and, as it is extended outwards t, it becomes narrower. The outer end of it is formed in the os frontis; and, therefore this might be reckoned among the common foramina.— Through it the third, fourth, the first branch of the fifth, and the greater share of the sixth pair of nerves, and an artery from the internal carotid, go into the orbit. Sometimes a small branch of the external caro- tid enters near its end, to be distributed to the dura mater (a), and a vein, some call it the venous duct, or Nuck's aquaeduct, returns through it to the cavernous sinus.—The third hole, situated a little below the one just now described, is called rotundum, from its shape. It allows passage to the second branch of the fifth pair of nerves, or superior maxillary nerve, into the bottom of the orbit. The fourth is the foramen ovale, about half an inch behind the round hole. Through it the third branch of the fifth pair, or inferior maxil- lary nerve, goes out; and sometimes a vein from the dura mater passes out here (&).—Very near the point of the spinous process is the fifth hole of this bone. It is small and round, for a passage to the largest artery of the dura mater, which is often accompanied with a vein.—The sixth proper hole (c) cannot be well seen, • Mesial. E. ^ Laterad. E. («) Winslow, Exposition anatomiqne du corps bumain, traite des arteries, § 60. et de la tete, § 26. (!>) Jngrass. Commentar. in Galen. «ie ossib. lib. 1. com- ment. 8. <c) Vesal. Anat. lib. 1. cap. 12. Eustach. tab. 46. fig. 13. *,16: „ v'«lus Vidius, Anat. lib. 2. cap. 2. cxplicat. tab. 5. & tab. 5. fig. 8, 9, 10. lit. 0.