11 OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. longitudinal canals are largest near the cancelli, and their transverse sections appear to me of a flat oval figure, which may be owing to the different momentum of the fluids conveyed in them. The situation of the larger longitudinal canals, and of the passages of the larger vessels, makes a bone appear more dense and compact in the middle of its solid sides, than towards its outer and inner surfaces, where it is spongy. We see marrow contained in the larger transverse and longitudinal canals just now described, and thence judge that it passes also into the smaller ones. The drops of ©il which we discover with a micro- scope every where on the surface of a recent bone fractured transversely, and the oozing of oil through the most solid bones of a skeleton, which renders them greasy and yellow, are a confirmation of the use of these canals. Of what advantage this distri- bution of the marrow through the substance of bones is, will be mentioned when the nature and use of this animal oil is inquired into. Most bones have one or more large oblique canals formed through their sides for the passage of the medullary vessels, which are to be described after- wards. Bones exposed to a strong fire in chemical vessels, are resolved, in the same manner as the other parts of animals, into phlegm, spirit, volatile salt, fetid oil, and a black caput mortuum. But the proportion of these principles varies according to the age, solidities, and other circumstances of bones. Young bones yield the largest proportion of phlegm ; spongy bones afford most oil, and solid ones give most salt and black residuum. Though this residuum can scarcely be changed by the force of fire while it is in close ves- sels ; yet, when it is burnt in an open fire, the tena- cious oil to which it owes its black colour, is forced away, and a white earth is left that has little or no fixed salt in it. This earth seems to be the proper constituent solid part of bones, and the other princi- b6