280 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. this nerve may therefore he one cause of a strabismus. Jti the passage of this nerve below the dwa mater, it lies very contiguous to the internal carotid artery, and to the opthalmic branch of the fifth pair of nerves (a). At the place where the sixth pair is contiguous to the carotid, a nerve either goes from each of them in an uncommon way, to wit, with the angle beyond where it rises obtuse, to descend with the artery, a/nd to form the beginning of the intercostal nerve, according to the common description ; or, according to other au- thors, this nerve comes up from the great ganglion of the intercostal, to be joined to the sixth here. The arguments for this latter opinion are, That, according, to the common doctrine, this beginning of the intercostal nerve, as it is called, would rise in a manner not so ordinary in nerves. In the next place, it is observed, that the sixth pair is larger nearer to the orbit, than it is before it comes to the place where this nerve is said to go off; and therefore it is more probable, that it receiites an addition there, rather than gives oft" a branch. Lastly, It is found, that upon cut-/ ting the intercostal nerves of living animals, the eyes plainly were affected ; they lost their bright water ; the gum, or gore, as we call it, was separated in greater quantity j the pupil was more contracted ; the carti- laginous membrane, at the internal canthus, came more over the eye ; and the eye-ball itself was dimi- nished. To this it is answered, in defence of the more common doctrine, 1st, That other branches of nerves go oft* in a reflected way, as well as this does, supposing it to be the beginning of the intercostal ; and that the re- flexion would rather be greater, if it. is thought to come up from the intercostal to the sixth.— l2dlt/, It is denied that this nerve is in general thicker at its fore than its back-part; and if it was supposed to be thickest nearer to the orbit, the con- clusion made above could not be drawn from this ap- pearance, because other nerves enlarge sometimes (a) Zinn. de Ooul. human, cap. 9. § 6. E.