OF THE SKELETON. 332 Of the four, the toe next to tlie great one, has the largest hones in all dimensions, and more externally the toes are less; The little toe, and frequently that next to it, have the second and third bones intimately •united into one-, which may be owing to their little motion, and the great pressure they are subjected to. The toes are of good use to us in walking; for, when the sole is raised, they brir g our body, with its centre of gravity, perpendicular to the advanced foot. £iate at The bones of the metatarsus and toes, are in the Cutli. same condition in children as those of the metacarpus and lingers. The only bones now remaining to complete the de- scription of the skeleton, are the small ones, which are found at the joints of the fingers and toes, and in some other parts, called Sesamoid OsSA Sesamoidea, which are of very different JJjues. figures and sizes, though they are generally said to lesemble the seed of the iemmum. They seem to me nothing else than the ligaments of the articulations or the firm tendons of strong muscles, or both, become bony, by the compression which they suffer. Thus, the sesamoid bones at the beginning of the gastroc/ic* mil muscles, are evidently composed of the tendinous, fibres only. Those, at the first joint of the great toe, are as plainly the same continued substance with the ligaments and the tendons of the adductor, flexor bre- vis, and abductor. That which is sometimes double at the second joint of that toe, is part of the capsular ligament; and if we enumerate the other sesamoid bones that are at any time found, we may observe aU of them formed in this manner. Their number, figure, situation, and magnitude, are so uncertain, that •it were in vain to insist en the differences of each ; and therefore I shall only in general remark, 1. That wherever the tendons and ligaments are firmest, the actions of the muscles strongest, and the compression greatest, there such bones are most comT roonly found. 2. That, cceteris paribus, the older the subject is in winch they are sought, their number is greater, and their size is larger.