OF THE SKELETON. 6.7 In a child born at the full time, none of the sides of this bone are completed ; and there never is a hole in the ossified part of it near to the sagittal suture. The large unossified ligamentous part of the cm- 1 nium observable between the parietal bones, and the middle of the divided osfrontis of new-born children, called by the vulgar, the open of the head, was ima- gined by the antients to serve for the evacuation of the superfluous moisture of the brain ; and therefore they named it bregma*, or the fountain; sometimes adding the epithet pulsatilis, or beating, on account of the pulsation of the brain felt through this flexible hgamento-cartilaginous substance. Hence very fre- quently the parietal bones are called ossa bregmahs. The upper middle part of the head of a child, in a natural birth, being what presents itself first at the os uteri (a), an accoucheur may reach the bregma with his finger, when the os uteri is a little opened. If the bregma is stretched, and the pulsation of the brain is felt through it, the child is certainly alive : But if it is shrivelled and flaccid, without any ob- servable pulsation in it, there is some reason to sus- pect the child to be very weak, or dead. Those who practice midwifery should therefore examine the state of the bregma accurately. All the bregma is generally ossified before seven- years of age. Several authors (6) say, they have observed it unossified in adults ; and physicians, who order the application of medicines at the meet- ing of the coronal and sagittal sutures, seem yet to tlnnk that a derivation of noxious humours from the enccphalon is more easily procured at this part than any other of the skull; and that medicines have a greater effect here, than elsewhere, in the internal disorders of the head. * Palpitans vertex, foliolum, folium, triangularis lacuna. (a) Burton's Midwifery, § 51.—Smellie's Midwifery, book I. chap. 1. § 5. (J) Bartholin. Anat. reform, lib. 4. cap. 6.—Diemerbroeck Anat. lib. 9. cap. 6.—Kerkring. Osteogen, cap. 2.