OF THE SKELETON". 77 E 3 I mil the head backwards, than those arc which bend ; forward ; and how much greater force the former cquire by the long lever they act with, than the lat- er which are inserted so near the condyles. This reat force in the extensor muscles fs altogether nc- essary, that they might not only keep the head from tiling forward in an erect posture, but that they light support it when we bow forward in the most ecessary offices of social life, when the weight of the ead comes to act at right angles on the vertebras of ~ie neck, and obtains a long lever to act with. On the inner surface of the os occipilis we'see two futemal idges ; one standing perpendicular, the other run- Surface* ing horizontally across the first. The upper part f the perpendicular limb of the cross, to which the ilx is fixed, is hollowed in the middle, or often on ne side, for the reception of the superior longitudinal- Inus, and the lower part of it has the small or third rocess of the dura mater fastened to it, and is somes mes hoi 1 owed by the occipital sinus. Each side of ie horizontal limb is made hollow by the lateral sin- ses inclosed in the transverse process of the dura later ; the fossa in the right side being generally a mtinuation of the one made by the longitudinal sinus 1 the perpendicular limb, and therefore is larger than le left one («.)—Hound the middle of the cross there re four large depressions separated by its limbs ; the vo upper ones being formed by the back part of the rain, and the two lower ones by the cerebellum.— "arther forward than the last mentioned depressions, } the lower part of the fossa for the lateral sinus on ach side.—The inner surface of the cuneiform apo- hyse is made concave for the reception of the medulla bloiigala, and of the basilar artery.—A furrow is lade on each side, near the edges of this process, by sinus of the dura mater, which empties itself into he lateral sinus (6). The holes of this bone are commonly five proper, p nd two common to it and. to the temporal bones °m"m (a) Mors>a^n. Advers. anat 6. animad. 1. (b) Alb in. de ossib. § 05.