OF THE SKELETON. 142 and cava, and of the viscera. Hie epiphyses on tlieir edges are larger, and therefore the upper and lower surfaces of their hodies are more concave than in the vertebrae of the back. 2. The cartilages between those vertebrae are much the thickest of any, and ren- der the spine convex within the abdomen, by their greatest thickness being at their fore-part. 5. The oblique processes are strong and deep j those in oppo- site sides being placed almost in parallel planes j the superior, which are concave, facing inwards, and the convex inferior ones facing outwards*, and therefore each of these vertebrae receives the one above it, and is received by the one below ; which is not so evident in the other two classes already described. 4. Their transverse processes are small, long, and almost erect, for allowing large motion to each bone, and sufficient insertion to muscles, and for supporting and defending the internal parts. 5. Betwixt the roots of the supe- rior oblique and transverse processes, a small protu- berance maybe observed, where some of-the muscles that raise the trunk of the body are inserted. 6. Their spinal processes are strong, straight, and horizontal, with broad flat sides, and a narrow edge above and below *, this last being depressed on each side by muscles. And at the root of these edges, we see rough surfaces for fixing the ligaments. 7. The ca- ■ nal for the numerous cords, called eauda equina, into •which the spinal marrow divides, is rather larger in i these bones than what contains that marrow in the vertebrae of the back. 8. The holes for the passage of the nerves are more equally formed out of both the | contiguous vertebrae than in the other classes ; the up- per one furnishes however the larger share of eachi hole. The thick cartilages between these lumbar vertebrae, their deep oblique processes, and their erect spinal processes, are all fit for allowing large motion ; though- it is not so great as what is performed in the neck which appears from comparing the arches which the. head describes when moving on the neck, or the loins- only.