25 OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. size as others of the same brood who are longer kept from labour. That the ossifying of bones greatly depends on pressure, seems to be evinced from the frequent ex- amples we meet with of other parts turning bony when long exposed to the pressing force of the sur- rounding parts, or when they are subjected to the like circumstances by their own frequent and violent contraction. Witness, the bones found frequently near the base of the heart in some old men (a), and in several other creatures. Nay, the muscular substance of the heart has been ossified in such (6), and the arteries of old men often become bony. The cartilages of the larynx are generally ossified in adults. —-In beasts of burden, the cartilages between the vertebrae of the back very often change into complete bones ; and, being intimately united with the verte- brae, the whole appears one continued bone :—Nor is the periosteum exempted from such an induration (c). To confirm this argument still farther, we may ob- serve, that bones begin their ossification at the places where' they are most exposed to these causes, viz. in the cylindrical bones from a middle ring, and in the broad bones, at or near their centre, from one or more distinct points. The reason of which is, That these parts are contiguous to the bellies of the muscles an- nexed to the bones, where the swelling of these mov- ing powers is greatest. What the effects of this may be, let any judge, who view some of the bones, as the scapula, and ossa ilium, which are covered with mus- cles on each side ; how compact and thin they are in adults, where the bellies of the muscles were lodged; whereas in children they are thicker. But this be- ing the middle part of these bones, where the great- est number of fibres is, this particular place would (a) Riolan. Comment, de ossib. cap. 32.—Bartholin. Hist, medic, cent. I. hist. 50 Ibid. cent. 2. hist. 45. {&) Cheselden, Anatomy, book 1. introd. —Garengeot, Hist, de I'acad. des sciences, 1726. * (c) Peyer. Ephemerid. German, decur. 2. ann. 7. obscrv 205. c \