101 OF THE SKELETON. F o teeth ate often divided by the interposition only of a very thin bony plate, which is liable to be eroded by acrid matter collected in the antrum, or to be broken in drawing a tooth (a). The symptoms of a collec- tion of matter here naturally lead us to the practice of pulling out the teeth, and piercing through this plate into the antrum, to procure an evacuation of the collected matter; by which considerable service is frequently done (6). , The maxillary sinuses have the same uses as the frontal and sphenoidal ; and the situation of the si- nuses is such, that the liquor trickling from them, from the cells of the ethmoid and palate bones, and from the lacrymal ducts, may always moisten all the parts of the membrane of the nares in the different situa- tions in which the head is placed. Though the membranes which line the frontal, JJǪbran* sphenoidal, and maxillary sinuses, are continuations sjnuses. of the one which covers the bones within the nose ; yet they are much thinner than it is, and have so much smaller vessels, that the injection which makes the membrane of the nose red all over, fills only some few vessels of the maxillary sinuses, and is scarcely observed in the f rontal and sphenoidal. Are not the*,, larger vessels intended for a more plentiful secretion of a viscid liquor lo defend the membrane from the effects of the perjlatus, which is constantly through the nose ? Are not the membranes which have the smallest vessels, ceteris paribus, the most sensible ? Are not many phenomena of smelling, inflammations of* these parts, megrim, polypi, &c. depending on this structure of these membranes ? The substance of the ossa maxillaria is compact Substance, and firm, except at the inferior processes, in which the teeth are lodged, where, it is very spongy. The maxillary bones are joined above by the upper Connexion, ends of their nasal processes to the os frontis, by the (a) Highmore, ibid. (b) Cooper in Drake s anthropol. book 3. cl.ap. 10. Medical Essays and obs. vol. 5. art. 30.