OF THE SKELETON. muscles, ligaments, and spinal marrow are indeed | stretched j but this marrow must he compressed, or j entirely destroyed, when the body of the vertebra is -I removed out of its place. False Ver- The False Vertebr/e compose the under pyramid jj ttbra. 0f t]le spine. They are distinguished from the bones I already described justly enough by this epithet of false; M because though each bone into which they can be di-.-l vided in young people, resembles the true vertebrae innl figure, yet none of them contribute to the motion of :l the trunk of the body ; they being intimately uniteddl to each other in adults, except at their lower part, J where they are moveable ; whence they are commonly | divided into two hones, os sacrum and coccygis. OsSacrum. Os Sacrum *, is so called, from being offered ina sacrifice by the ancients, or rather because of its- largeness in respect of the other vertebrae.—This bone is of an irregular triangular shape, broad above, nar- row below, convex behind, for the advantageous oiigino of the muscles that move the spine and thigh back-.- wards and concave before, for enlarging the cavity oi I the pelvis.—Four transverse lines of a colour different! from the rest of the hone which are seen on its fore-- part, are the marks of division of the five different! bones of which it consists in young persons. SurFaces. The fore-part of the os sacrum, analogous to the^ bodies of the true vertebrae, is smooth and flat, to allow a larger space for the contained bowels, without anyj danger of hurting them ; or this flat figure may bee owing to the equal pressure of these bowels, particu- • larly^f the last gut. The back part of it is almost i straight, without so large a cavity as the vertebrae have ; because the spinal marrow, now separated into' the cauda equina, is small. The bridges between the-- bodies and processes of this bone, are much thicker; and in proportion shorter, than in the former class oi' hones. The strength of these cross bridges is very remarkable in the three upper bones, and is well pro- * *U(it, «*t&»Xtt fuy*t H'ppocrat. iwr*v>3iA«i>, Oribas.* *\xrv, latum, os clunium, clavium.