i3G OF THE SKELETON. vature of a larger artery. This is the third remarkable instance of it we have seen. The first was the pas- sage of the carotids through the temporal-hones ; and the second was that lately described in the vertebral arteries, turning round the oblique processes of the first vertebra^ to-come at the great hole of the occipital bone. The spinal process of this vertebra dentata is thick, strong, and short, to give sufficient origin to the mus- evM. recti majores, and oblique inferiores, and to pre- vent the contusion of these and other muscles in pul- ling the head back. This second vertebra consists, at the birth, of four bonv pieces : For, besides the three which I already mentioned as common to all the vertebrae, the tooth- like process of this bone is begun at this time to be ossified in its middle, and is joined as an appendix to the body of the bone.-—Lest this appendix be bended or displaced, nurses ought to keep the heads of new- born children from falling too far backwards by stay- bands, or some such means, till the muscles attain strength sufficient to prevent that dangerous motion. Motions of When we arc acquainted with the structure and ar- ihc Head ticulations of the first and second vertebrae, and know and Atlas. exactiy t}je strength and connection of their ligaments, there is no difficulty in understanding the motions that are performed upon or by the first; though this sub- ject was formerly matter of hot dispute among same of the greatest anatomists (a): It is none of my pur- pose at present to enter into a detail of the reasons ad- vanced by either party •, but to explain the fact, as any one may see it, who will remove the muscles,- which in a recent subject, hinder the view of these two joints, and then will turn the head into all the dif- ferent positions of which it is capable. The head may. then be seen to move forwards and backwards on the first vertebra, as was alway said, while the atlas per- forms the circumgijratio upon the second vertebra; the inferior oblique processes of the first vertebra slrafl {a) See Eustach. <le motu capitis