OF THE SKELEfotf. Tl fa) De aure l.umana, cap. 2. §. 22. et tab. 7. fig. 1. small holes go off towards the cavity of the ear called i tympanum: through these Valsalva{a) affirms the pro- per artery or arteries of that cavity are sent.—On the , anterior edge of this bone, near the former, a fourth i hole is observable, being the orifice of a canal which runs outwards and backwards, in a horizontal direc- tion, till it terminates in the tympanum. This, in the i recent subject, is continued forward and inward, from the parts which I mentioned just now as its orifice in ! the skeleton, to the side of the nostrils; being partly cartilaginous, and part'y ligamentous. The whole canal is named, Iter a palato ad aurem, or Eustachian tube.—On the external side of the bony part of this canal, and above the chink in the cavity that re- ceives the condyle of the lower jaw, is the course of the little nerve said commonly to be reflected from the lingual branch of the fifth 'pair, till it enters the tympanum, to run across this cavity, and to have the name of chorda iympani.—The fifth hole is very un- certain, appearing sometimes behind the mastoid pro- cess ; sometimes it is common to the temporal and oc- cipital bones; and in several skulls there is no such hole. The use of it, when found, is for the transmis- sion of a vein from the external teguments to the lateral sinus: But, in some subjects, a branch of the occipital artery passes through this hole, to serve the back-part of the dura mater; in others, I have seen two or three such holes : But they are oftener wanting than found. And we may, once for all, in general remark, That the largeness, number, situation, and existence of all such holes, that for the most part al- low only a passage for veins from without to the in- terna! receptacles, are very uncertain. The internal surface of the ossa temporum is un- Internal equal; the upper circular edge of the squamous part Surface having numerous small ridges and furrows for its con- junction with the parietal bones ; and the rest of it is irregularly marked with the convolutions of the mid-