OF THE NERVES IN 6'NEHAC '258 nomy ; and it is as difficult to conceive how they should be retained or conducted in a long nervous cord. These are difficulties not to be surmounted*. Compared ' 53. The surest way of judging what kind of liquor " v vt^r t'lis °^ nerves must uc>is t0 examine the liquors of fluids." similar parts of the body. All the glands separate li- quors from the blood much thinner than the compound mass itself; such is the liquor poured into the cavity ohhe abdomen, thorax, ventricles of the brain, the sali- va, pancreatic juice, lymph, &c. ' Wherever there is occasion for secreted liquors being thick and viscid, in order to answer better the uses they are intended for, nature has provided reservoirs for them to stagnate in, where their thinner parts may be carried off by the numerous absorbent veins dispersed on the sides of those cavities; or they may exhale where the}' are ex- posed to the open air. The mucus of the nose becomes viscid by stagnation ; for, when it is immediately se- creted, it is thin and watery ; as appears from the ap- plication of sternutatories, &c. The cerumen of the ears is of a watery consistence, when just squeezing out. The mucus of the alimentary canal grows thick in the lacunae The bile in the hepatic duct has little more consistence than lymph ; that in the gall-blad- der is viscid and strong. The urine is much more wa- tery as it flows from the kidneys, than when it is ex- creted from the bladder. The semen is thin as it comes from the testicles, and is concocted in the vesiculae se- viinales, &c. An ex- Hence (§ 53.) we may safely conclude, that a tremely thin liquet- is secreted in the cortex encephali and spi- Uiin liquor, nal marrow ; and seeing the thinness of secreted li- quors is generally, as the divisions of the vessels, into small subtile branches, and that the ramifications within the skull are almost infinitely subtile, the li- quor secreted in the encephalon may be determined t« be among the finest or thinnest fluids. * See Monro Nerv. Syst. p. 74. The identity of the nervous fluid with the electric or galvanic power, has been lately revived by the chemical philosophers of the present day. Jours, de Vhys. Germinal, an. xi.