OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. pies give it firmness and tenacity: For the quan- tity of the earth is so great, that after all the other principles are separated from a bone, its former shape and size remain (a) ; but it is very brittle till it is moistened with water or oil, when it recovers some tenacity. The increase of the proportion of earth in old people's bones, is one reason of their being more brittle than those of young people are*. Lest any imagine the salts and oils of bones, while in a natural state, to be of the same acrid kind with those obtained from them by the chemical analysis, it is to be observed, that these principles may be ex-« tracted from bones in the form of a very mild jelly, by boiling them in water. Uses of The bones sustain and defend the other parts of Bones. the body. Internal Bones are lined within, as well as covered exter- Periosteum. nally, with a membrane ; which is therefore com- monly called Periosteum Internum. The i?itei nal periosteum is an extremely fine mem- brane ; nay frequently it has a loose reticular tex- ture ; and therefore is compared by some to the ar- achnoid coat of the spinal marrow: so that we can- not expect, to divide it into layers as we can divide the external periosteum. We can however observe its processes entering into the transverse pores of the bones, where probably they are continued to form the immediate canals for the marrow distributed through the substance of the bones; and along with them vessels are sent, as from the external periosteum, into (a) Havers Osteolog. nov. disc. 1. p. 32. " Such is the chemical analysis of bones by fire, as given in the former editions ; but the analysis of animal substances by modern chemists, has superseded the statements of the ear- lier experimenters. Bones are now found to ,'be composed of gelatine, animal oil, and earthy salts, which are chiefly phos- phate and carlonate of lime. In 100 parts of dried human adult bones, there are about 24 of gelatine, 64 ofphosphuie of lime, and 2 of carlonate of liim> E.