202 OF THE SKELETON. * Radialis externus. Alb. E» have the appearance of a process. The internal side ot this hase is made plain in the same way as the ex-, ternal side of the former bone, while its external side has two hollow circular surfaces, for joining the third metacarpal bone, and between these surfaces there is a rough fossa,, for the adhesion of a ligament, and lodg- ing mucilaginous glands. The shorter head of tl;e bicornis* is inserted into the back-part of this base. , The two sides of this bone are almost equally flatted \ only the ridge on the fore-part of the body inclines outwards. The tubercles at the fore-part of the root of the head are equal. The motion of this bone is very little more than the first metacarpal one has ; and therefore these two firmly resist bodies pressed against, them by the thumb, or fingers, or both. Os metacarpi digiti annularis is shorter than the second metacarpal bone. Its base is semicircular and l convex, for its conjunction with the os unciformc. Oai its internal side are two smooth convexities, and ai middle fossa, adapted to the second metacarpal bone.. The external side has a triangular smooth concave sur- face to join it with the fourth one. The anterior ridge? of its body is situated more to the out, than to the in- side. The tubercles near the head are equal. The? motion of this third metacarpal bone is greater than 1 the motion of the second. Os metacarpi minimi'digit/'is the smallest and sharp- est. Its base is irregularly convex, and rises slanting.; outward. Its internal side is exactly adapted to the. third metacarpal bone. The external has no smooth! surface, because it is not contiguous to any other bone j but it is prominent where the-extensor carpi uhiaris is inserted. As this metacarpal bone is furnished with « proper moving muscle, has the plainest articulation, hs> most loosely connected and least confined, it not only* enjoys a much larger motion than any of the rest, but draws the third bone with it, when the palm ot the hand is to be made hollow by its advancement forwards, and by the prominence of the thumb opposite to it.