OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 283 muscles of the malleus, and to the thira mater, while it passes through the bony crooked canal, and at last comes out in a firm chord named Portio Dura *, at the end of this canal, hetween the styloid and mastoid processes of the temporal bone, giving immediately filaments to the little oblique muscles of the head and to those that rise from the styloid process. It then pierces through the parotid gland, and divides into a great many branches, which are dispersed in the muscles and teguments that cover all the side of the upper part of the neck, the whole face and cranium * as far back as the temples, including a considerable part of the external ear. Its branches having thus a considerable connexion with all the three branches of the fifth pair, and with the second cervical, occasion a considerable sympathy of these nerves with it. Hence, in the tootbach, the pain is sometimes very little in the affected tooth, compared to what it is all along the side of the head and in the ear. Hence probably the relief of the toothach from blisters applied behind or before the ear. or by » brtf; iron touching the ontiheliv of the ear. By this communication or connexion possibly too it is, that a vibrating string held between one's teeth, gives a strong idea of sound to the person who holds it, which no body else can perceive. Peihaps too the distribution of this nerve occasions the head to be so quickly turned upon the impression of sound on our ears. The Eighth Pair f of nejvrs rise from the lateral Eighth bases of the corpora, olivaria in disgregated fibres; andP*11, as they are entering the anterior internal part of the holes common to the os occ/piiis a>ul tcmporum, each is joined by a nerve which ascends within the dura mater from the tenth of the head, the first, second and inferior cervical nerves : This every body knows has the name of the Nervus Acct.ssoRlus. \'Vhen.the two get out of the skull, the accessoriusseparates fkom the eighth, and, descending obliquely outwards, passes through the * "Fftci sympatheticus rmnar. E. | far vagum, Putuaio-gHstricus. 1"..