162 OF THE SKELETON, being all of nearly equal force, and equally stretched in the interstices of the ribs, prevent the broken ends ol these bones in a fracture from being removed far. out of their natural place, to interrupt the motion oU the vital organs. The upper edge of the ribs is mod obtuse and rounder than the lower, which is depressed^ on its internal side by a longfossa, for lodging the in^ tercostal vessels and nerves; on each side of wbichi there is a ridge, to which the intercostal muscles arei fixed. The Jbs'sa is not observable however at either end of the ribs ; for at the posterior or root, the ves-* sels have not yet reached the ribs ; and, at the fore-- end, they are split away into branches, to serve the* parts between the ribs ; which plainly teaches sur* geons one reason of the greater safety of performing; the operation of the empyema towards the sides of the i thorax, than eitht< near the back or the breast; At the posterior end * of each rib, a little head i; formed, which is divided by a middle ridge into tweo plainer hollow surfaces; the lowest of which is thee broadest and deepest in most of them. The two plains; are joined to the bodies of two different verteb>ae^ and the ridge forces itself into the intervening carti-ii lage. A little way from this head, we find, on th« external surface, a small cavity, where mucilaginous glands are lodged ; and round the head, the bone apo- pears spongy, where the capsular ligament of the arti»it dilation is fixed. Immediately beyond this, a flatted tubercle rises, with a small cavity at, and roughness about its root, for the articulation of the rib with thii transverse process of the lowest of the two vertebrae' with the bodies of which the head of the rib is joinetM Advancing further on this external surface, we oM* serve in most of the ribs another smaller tubercle, intf > which ligaments which connect the ribs to each others and to the transverse processes of the vertebrae and portions of the loftgissimus dorsi, are inserted. Be- yond this the vibs are made flat by the sacro-hrmbali muscle, which is inserted into the part of this flat* * K*xnv, rcmulus. Dorsal end. E.