OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. 25.3.' velocity, when pressed backwards' We see it happen, in the stalks of tender succulent plants. 2. It is said, that muscles cease to act when their veins are tied, as well as when their arteries or nerves, are tied or cut, but that muscles continue to act when their veins are cut; by which it would appear, that the overloading of the vessels is an impediment to the action of muscles, and therefore the ceasing of their action when their arteries or nerves are tied or cut, may also be owing to the liquor in the branches of these pipes of muscles stagnating when it is not pro- pelled by the flow of more liquor from their trunks, and not to any influence or moving power, which now ceases to be conveyed to them. It is to be observed, in making the experiments just now mentioned, that the contraction of the muscles ceases soonest when the nerves, and latest when the veins are tied. That when veins are tied, not only are the vessels overloaded, but all the cellular substance of the muscles is filled with coagulated'blood ; whereas when the arteries and nerves are tied, the reverse is seen, the muscles are lax and of less bulk. So that in these cases the ceasing of the contraction of the mus- cles seems to depend on very different causes, to wit, a deprivation of necessary liquors in the one, and a redundancy of superfluous blood in the other. An elastic stick may be deprived of its elasticity by be- ing made either too dry or too wet. 45. Some gentlemen, convinced of the reasonable- Two kinds, ness of the secretion of a liquor in the brain to be sent of nerve* out by the nerves, but not comprehending how a fluid oy^^L could have such a rapid retrograde motion as they ima- gined was necessary for, conveying the impressions of objects made on the extremities of nerves to the senso- rium, supposed two sorts of nerves ; one that convey- ed a liquor for muscular motion and nutrition ; the other composed of solid nerves, that were to serve for organs of the senses, to convey the vibrations com- municated from objects to the sensorium. 46. To this opinion (ยง45.) the objections against Objections the sensatory nerves acting by vibration (ยง 32.) may \