OF THE SKELETON. 65 which, in bones that have strong prints of muscles, we see a great many converging furrows, like so many radii drawn from a circumference towards a i centre. From this ridge of each bone the temporal muscle rises ; and, by the pressure of its fibres, oc- S easions the furrows just now mentioned.—Below these, we observe, near the semicircular edges, a great I many risings and depressions, which are joined to like i inequalities on the inside of the temporal bone, to form the squamous suture. The temporal bone may there- fore serve here as a buttress, to prevent the lower j side of the parietal from starting outwards when its upper part is pressed or struck (a). Near the upper sides of these bones, towards the Foiamcu. hind part, is a small hole in each, through which a ^vcin passes from the teguments of the head to the longitudinal sinus: Sometimes I have seen a branch of the temporal artery pass through this hole, to be distributed to the upper part of the falx, and to the dura mater at-its sides, where it had frequent anasto- moses with the branches of the arteries derived from the external carotids, which commonly have the name of the arteries of the dura mater, and with the branches of the internal carotids which serve the falx. In several skulls, one of the ossa parielalia has not this hole; in others, there are two in one bone; and in some not one in either. Most frequently this hole is through both tables ; at other times the external table only is perforated.—The knowledge of the course of these vessels, may be of use to surgeons, when they make any incision near this part of the head, lest, if the vessels are rashly cut near the hole, they shrink within the substance of the bone, and so cause an obstinate ha?morrhagy, which neither ligatures nor medicines can stop. On the inner concave surface of the parietal bones, Internal we see a great man}' deep furrows, disposed somewhat Surface like the branches of trees : The furrows are largest and deepest at the lower edge of each os parietale, es- (a) Hunauld in Mem. de l'acad. des sciences, 1730.