OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. 35 be chiefly confined to two directions, as hinges of doors are The first species of this is the trochoides, when one bone turns on another, as a wheel does on its axis : Thus the first vertebra of the neck moves on the tooth- like process of the second. This is the most proper kind of ginglimus. The second species should be esteemed that articu- lation where several prominent and hollow surfaces of two bones move on each other, within the same com- mon ligament; as in the knee, elbow, &c. The&third sort of ginglimus is, when two bones are articulated to each other at different parts, with a dis- tinct apparatus of the motory machines at each ; such is the articulation of the o's occipitis with the first J)ff. iebra of the neck ; of any two contiguous vertebra;, by their oblique processes; of the ribs with the bodies and transverse processes of the vertebra;; of the radius with the' ulna, tibia with the fibula, astra- galus with the calcaneum, &c. I would entirely throw out what is commonly called the third kind of ginglimus: For, in examin- ing the conjunction of a bone with two others, as in the common example of a vertebra joined with the one above and below, the connection of the middle one with each of the other two ought to be considered separately; otherwise we might with the same pro- priety esteem the articulations that the long bones, the femur, tibia, humerus, Sec. have at their different ends, as one articulation ; which is absurd. If the moveable bones are not connected and kept firm by some strong substance, they would be luxated at every motion of the joints : and if their hard rough unequal surfaces were to play on each other, their motion would not only be difficult, but the loss of sub- stance from attrition would be great. Therefore ligaments are made to obviate the first, and cartilages to prevent the other inconveniency. But because ligaments and cartilages turn rigid, inflexible, and rough, unless they are kept moist, a sufficient quantity of proper liquors is supplied for their lubrication, and