OF THE SKELETON. (•) Weitbrecht, Syndesmolog. fig. 10, 11. 192 Interosse- ous liga- ment. State at birth. Articular 1 ion. .g dis- by a remarkable process * of the radius, from which a ligament goes out to the wrist, as the styloid process of the ulna with its ligament guards it on the oatside. The ends of both the bones of the fore-arm bein thicker than the middle, there is a considerable tance between the bodies of these bones ; in the larger part of which a strong tendinous, but thin ligament, is extended, to give a large enough surface for the origin of the numerous fibres of the muscles situated here, that are so much sunk between the bones^ as to be protected from injuries, to which they would otherwise be exposed. But this ligament is wanting near the upper end of the fore-arm, where the supinator radii hrevis, and flexor digitorum profundus,-axe immediate- ly connected («). Both ends of the bones of the fore-arm are first car- tilages, and then epiphyses in children. As the head of the radius receives the tubercle of the os humeri, it is not only bended and extended along with the ulna, but may be moved round its axis in any position, and that this motion round its axis may be sufficiently large, the ligament of the articu- lation is extended farther down than ordinary on the neck of this bone, before it is connected to it j and it is very thin at its upper and lower part, but makes a firm ring in the. middle. This bone is also joined to the ulna by a double articulation ; for above,' a tuber- cle of the radius plays in a socket of the ulna; whilst below, the radius gives the socket, and the ulna the tubercle : But then the motion performed in these two is venr different; for at the upper end, the radius does no more than turn round its axis ; while at the lower end, it moves in a sort of cycloid upon the round part of the ulna ; and as the hand is articulated and firmlv connected here with the radius, they must move together. When the palm is turned uppermost, the radius is said to perform the supination ; when the back of the hand is above, it is said to be prone. But * Malleolus internus. processus styloides.