OF THE SKELETON: 134- liquc processes, is the fossa, or deep open channel, in which the vertebral arteries make the circular turn, as they are about to enter the great foramen of the occi- pital bone, and where the tenth pair of nerves goes | out.—In several bodies, 1 have seen this fossa covered I with bone.—The inferior oblique processes extending ; from within outwards and downwards, are large, con- cave, and circular. So that this vertebra, contrary to the other six, receives the bones with which it is arti- culated both above and below. The transverse processes here are not much hol- lowed or forked, but are longer and larger than those j of any other vertebra of the neck, for the -origin and insertion of several muscles ; of which those that serve • to move this vertebra on the second have a consider- able lever to act with, because of the distance of their insertion from the axis of revolution. The hole for the spinal marrow is larger in this than i in any other vertebra, not only on account of the mar- ■ row being largest here, but also to prevent its being hurt by the motions of this vertebra on the second one.. This large hole, and the long transverse processes,. make this the broadest vertebra of the neck. The condyles of the os occipitis move forwards and hackwards in the superior oblique processes of this vertebra; but from the figure of the bones forming these joints, it appears, that very little motion can here be allowed on either side ; and there must be still less circular motion. In new-born children this vertebra has only the two lateral pieces ossified ; the arch, which it has at its fore-part instead of a body, being cartilaginous. Teriebra The second vertebra colli is called den tat a, from the Dentata. tooth-like process on the upper part of its body. Some authors call it epistrnphea, but improperly* since this designation is applicable only to the first, which moves on this as on an axis. The body of this vertebra is somewhat of a pyra* • iritdal figure, being large, and produced downward^ especially at its fore-side, to enter into a hollow of the vertebra below ■> while the upper part has a square-