76 OF THE SKELETON. ral parts of which the occipital muscles have their rise to its middle the trapezii are attached ; and half wa between this and the great hole, a lesser arch is ei tended.—In the hollows between the middle of thet arches the complexi are inserted; and in the deprei sions more external and further forward than these the splenii are inserted.—Between the middle of th lesser arch and the great hole, the little hollow mart of the recti minores * appear; and on each side ( these the fleshly insertions of the obliqui superiort and recti majores f make depressions.—Through th middle of the two arches a small sharp spine is placet which serves as some sort of partition between th muscles of different sides, or rather is owing to th action of the muscles depressing the bone on eac side of it, while this part is free from their compret sion. These prints of the muscles on this bone ai very strong and plain in some subjects, but are nc so distinct in others.—All round the great forame the edges are unequal, for the firmer adhesion of th strong circular'ligament which goes thence to the firs vertebra.— One end of each lateral or moderator ligs ment of the head, is fixed to a rough surface at th fore-part of each condyle, and the perpendicular od is connected to a rough part of the edge of the gra hole between the two condyles.—Immediately befoi the condyles, two little depressions are made in th external1 suface of the cuneiform process, for the ir sertion of the recti anleriores minores % muscles, whic are unjustly ascribed -to Cotvper i and still furtl forward, near the sphenoid bone, are two other sue depressions, for the reception of the recti antcrion majores ||.—When we consider the size of the pruj of muscles on the occipital bone, before, and belia its condyles, and at the same time, compare the distances from these centres of motion of the head, w must see how much stronger the muscles are whio • Reoti capitis postici minores. Alb. E. + Recti capitis postici majores. Alb. E. X Recti capitis intemi minores. Aib. E. |j Recti capitis interni majores. Alb. E.