OF THE SKELETON. —0 litis has its origin. On the external side of this same surface, there is a round knob, covered with cartilage j immediately before which a smooth fossa mt.y be ob- served, in which the tendon of the femnceus-primus.*' runs obliquely cross the foot ; and on the knob, the thin flat cartilage proper to tiiis muscle plays ; m place of which sometimes a bone is found : More ex- ternally than the knob, a rough hollow is made, for the strong ligaments stretched betwixt this bone and the as caicis. Before, the surface of the os cuboides is •flat, smooth, and slightly divided into two planes, for sustaining the os metatarsi of the little toe, and of the toe next to it. The form of the back-part of the os cuboides, and the ligaments connecting the joint there with the os caicis, both concur in allowing little motion in this part. The ossification of this bone is scarcely begun at the birth. Os cuneiforme e,vterm/mi,ii we regard its situation External or medium by its bulk, is much of the shape of a wedge, or r'!nillir being broad and flat above, aviUi long' sides running noue< obliquely downwards, and terminating in a sharp edge. The upper surface of this bone is an oblong square. The one behind is nearly a triangle, but not com- plete at the inferior angle, and is joined to the os nctvi- culare. Tbe external side is an oblong square divided as it were by. a diagonal j the upper half of .it is smooth, for its conjunction with the os cuboides : The other is a scabrous hollow, and in its superior anterior angle a. small smooth impression is made by tbe os metatarsi of the coe next to the little one. The internal side of this bone is also quadrangular, with the fore-part of its edge made flat and smooth by the os me.tata.rsi of the toe next to the .great one, and the hack-part is also flat and smooth where the os cuneiforme medium is conti- guous to it. The fore-part of this bone is an oblong triangle, for sustaining tbe os metatarsi of the middle toe. * Pernncus longits, Alb. E, j- Chiilcoideum cxlciuum..