OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 2/,.' V wlrere they split into a great number of small fila- ments, to pass through the little holes in that bone j and being joined by a branch of the fifth pair of nerves, are spread on the membrane of the nose. The contrivance of defending these long soft nerves from being too-much depressed by the anterior lobes of the brain under which they lie, is singular ; be- cause they have not only the prominent orbitar pro- cesses of the frontal bone to support the brain on each side, with the veins going into the longitudinal sinus, and other attachments bearing it up, but there is a., groove formed in each lobe of the brain itself for them to lodge in. Their splitting into so many small branches before they enter the bones of the skull, is likewise peculiar to them; for generally the nerves come from the brain in disgregated filaments, and unite into cords, as they are going out at the holes of the bones. This contrivance is the best for answering the purpose 'they are designed for, of being the organ of smelling; for had they been expanded upon the membrane of the nose into a medullary web, such as the optic nerve forms, it would have been too sensible to bear the impressions of such objects as are applied to the nose ; and a distribution in the more common way, of a cord sending off branches, would not have been equal enough for such an organ of sensation*. The second pair of nerves, the Optic, rising, from Optic the ihalami nervorum opticorumi, make a large curve Nerrcs- outwards, and then run obliquely inwards and for- wards, till they unite at the fore-part of the sella turci- ca ; then soon divide, and each runs obliquely for- wards and outwards to go out at its proper hole in the sphenoid bone, accompanied with the ocular artery, to be extended to the globe of the eye, within which each is expanded into a very fine cup-like web, that * See Hunter on some parts of the Animal Economy, p. 215,. and Monro Nerv. Syst. p. 14G. Tab. xxiv. E. T Gall and Spurzheim deny this, and think that these nerves arise from the corpora quadrigemina. That this is the case in some quadrupeds they seem to have demonstrated, but they have Bot proved a similar origin in man, E.