90 OF THE SKELETON. part of its body and spinous processes, to the fronti and ethmoid bones ; by its back-part, beliind the tw sinuses, to the occipital, where it looks like a bone wit the epiphyses taken off, and, as was formerly observe in the description of the occipital bone, it cannot t separated without violence in adults;—to the palm bones, by the ends of the pterygoid processes, and sti more by the fore-part of the internal plates of thep/tc rygoid processes, and of the siimses;—to the maxu lary bones, by the fore-part of the external pterygoi plates ; to the vomer and nasal plate of the os eihmo, des, by the processus azygos. All these conjunctionni except the last, which is a schindylesis, are said to 1. by the suture proper to this bone ; though it is £ J: first sight evident, that several other sutures, as th j:: transverse, ethmoidal, &c. are confounded with it. We see now how this bone is joined to all the bone I of the cranium, and to most of the upper jaw; an.Ii therefore obtained the name of the wedge-like-bone. The uses are so blended with the description, as ttJj: leave nothing new to be added concerning them. State at The sphenoidal bone is almost complete in a fceiwmi birth. of nine months ; only the great ate separate after mailt ceration from the body of the bone.—The processuAi azygos is very large and hollow ;—the thin triangu I lar processes are not ossified;—the internal surfac A J: of the body is unequal and porous ;—the sinuses d not appear. Whoever is acquainted with each bone of the era. nium, can, without difficulty, examine them as the* stand united, so as to know the shapes, sizes, distances &c. of their several parts, and the forms, capacities &c. of the cavities formed by them, which is of grean use towards understanding the anatomy of the part contiguous to, contained within, or connected to thenm Such a review is necessary, after considering eacl class of bones. Thus the orbits, nostrils, mouth, face head, spine, thorax, pelvis, trunk, extremities, ant skeleton, ought likewise to be examined. Face. The Face is the irregular pile of bones, composing the fore and under part of the head, which is divided by authors, into the upper and lower maxilla or jaws