260 OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. nerves should be obliged to flow from the brain to each muscle the moment we will; or that this liquor should flow back with the like swiftness from the ex- tremity of each nerve, to which an object of sensation is applied. The nerves, as well as the other excre- tories of the glands, are always full of liquor; the de- gree of distension of the canals not being at all times alike even in a sound state. But this happens without inconvenience, as the sides of the canals have a power of accommodating themselves to the present quantity, unless it is very much above or below the natural standard ; in both which eases diseases ensue. Plows with 59. The motion of the fluid in the nerves is there- a constant fore not only constant, but it is also equal, or nearly motion." S°: F°F' thouSh the blood in the larger arteries is moved unequally by the unequal forces, the contrac- tion of the ventricle of the heart, and the weaker power, the systole of the arteries ; yet the difference between these two moving powers comes to be less and less perceptible, as the arteries divide into smaller branches; because of the numerous resistances which the liquors meet with, and because the canals they move in become larger, till in the very small arterious branches, there is no sensible difference in the velocity of the li quors from the effect of the heart or arteries. The motion of the fluids must still be more equal in the exeretories of glands, and particularly in those where the vessels have divided into very minute branches, and the liquors have no other propelling force, but the heart and arteries, (see § 1); therefore the nervous fluid moves constantly, equally, and slow- ly, unless when its course is altered by the influence of the mind, or by the pressure of some neighbouring active organ. 60. As there is neither proof nor probability of the valves supposed by some in nerves, we are not to as- sume them in accounting for any phenomena. Action of ^e nave 110t' anc* PeinaPs cannot have any the Nerves, idea of the manner in which mind and body act upon each other; but if we allow that the one is affected by the other, which none deny, and that the fluid of