146 OF THE SKELETON. though generally it is bifurcated, without the two legs | meeting into a spine ; in which condition also the first | is often to be seen ; and sometimes none of them meet,. but leave a sinus, or rather fossa, instead of a canal (a). The musculus latissimus and longissimus dorst, sairo- \ lumbalis, and glutaeus maximus, have part of their ori-. gins from these spinal processes. Canal. The canal between the bodies and processes of tin's bone, for the cauda equina, is triangular \ and becomes smaller as it descends, as the cauda also does. Below-t the third bone, this passage is no more a complete bony, canal, but is open behind ; and is only there defended: by a strong ligamentous membrane stretched over it. which, with the muscles that cover it, and are verji prominent -on each side, is a sufficient defence for the* bundle of nerves within. Foramina. At the root of each oblique process of this bone the notch is conspicuous, by which, and such anothei in the last vertebm of the loins, a passage is left for th« twenty-fourth spinal nerve; and, in viewing the o.-< sacrum, either before or behind, four large holes app pear in each side, in much the same height, as whero the marks of the union of its several bones remain Some of the largest nerves of the body pass througi the anterior holes ; and superficial grooves running outwards from them in different directions, shew thn< course of these nerves. From the intervals of tlics grooves, the pyriformis muscle chiefly rises. Tw holes in the back-part of the bone are covered bj membranes which allow small nerves to pass througi them. The two uppermost of these holes, especiall on the fore-side, are the largest; and as the bone de scends, the holes turn smaller. Sometimes a note:] only is formed at the lower part in each side of thi bone j and in other subjects there is a hole comma to it and the os coccygis, through which the twentj ninth pair of spinal nerves passes-, and frequently bony bridge is formed on the back-part ofcachsid (a-) Verbcycu, Anat. tract. 5. cap. 9—Sue Trad, d'ostccr P. 127.