OP THE SKELETON. of the occipital artery, is seen about the middle (of the large/os«r for that sinus ; and the orifice of the canal of the carotid artery is evident at the under part of the point of the petrous process. Besides these proper holes of the temporal bones which appear on their external and internal surfaces, there are two others in each side that are common to this bone and to the occipital and sphenoidal bones; which shall be mentioned afterwards in the descrip- tion of these bones. The upper round part of the squamous bones is thin, but equal; while the low petrous part is thick and strong, but irregular and unequal, having the dis- tinction of tables and diploe confounded, with several cavities, processes, and bones within its substance, which are parts of the organ of hearing. That a clear idea may be had of this beautiful, but intricate organ, anatomists generally chuse to demonstrate all its parts together. I think the method good ; and there- fore, since it would be improper to insert a complete treatise on the ear here, shall omit the description of the parts contained within the os petrosum of the skeleton*. The temporal bones are joined above to the parietal Connexion, bones by the squamous sutures, and their posterior additamenta: Before, to the sphenoid bone by the suture of that name'; to the cheek-bones by the zygomatic sutures: Behind, to the occipital bone, by the lambdoid suture and its additamenta; and they are articulated with the lower jaw in the manner which shall be described when this bone is examined. The purposes which these two bones serve, are Uses, easily collected, from the general use of the cranium, and from what has been said in the description of their several parts. In an infant, a small fissure is to be observed be- State at tween the thin upper part, and the lower craggy part Birtn' of each of these bones ; which points out the recent union of these parts.—Neither mastoid nor styloid * See Alb'.ni Annotat. Academ. vol. 1. E. E