OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. 36 to preserve them in a flexible state. Seeing then these parts are so necessary to the articulations, I shall next consider their structure, situation, and uses, so far as they are subservient to the bones, and their motions. Ligaments * are white flexible bodies, thicker and firmer than membranes, and not so hard or firm as cartilages, without any remarkable cavity in their sub- stance, not easily stretched, and with little elasticity; serving to connect one part to another, or to prevent the parts to which they are fixed from being removed out of that situation which is useful and safe. After maceration in water, the ligaments can easily be divided ; and each ligamentous layer appears com- posed of fibres, the largest of which are disposed in a longitudinal direction. The arteries of ligaments are very conspicuous after a tolerable injection, and the larger trunks of their veins are sometimes to be seen full of blood. Such ligaments as form the sides of cavities, have numerous orifices of their arteries opening upon their internal surface, which keep it always moist: If we rub off that moisture, and then press the ligament, we can see the liquor oozing out from small pores; and we can force thin liquors injected by the arteries into the cavities formed by ligaments. These exhalent arteries must have corresponding absorbents, otherwise the cavities would soon be too full of liquor. Ligaments then must be subject to the diseases common to other parts, where there is a circulation of fluids, allowance always being made for the size of vessels, nature of the fluids, and firmness of the tex- ture of each part. Authors generally say, that ligaments are insensi- ble ; and consequently it may be inferred, that they have no nerves bestowed on them. But the violent racking pain felt on the least motion of a joint labour- ing under a rheumatism, the seat of which disease seems often to be in the ligaments, and the insufferable * 2i*h*(*u, »"f«, copula*, vincula.