OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. 34 Fuller ex- I would call diarlhrosis that conjunction of bones, of^iar" wnere^y they are fitted for motion, being each co- ihrosis ' vered with a smooth cartilage, connected by one or more common ligaments, and lubricated with liquor at the conjoined parts. In which definition, I have no regard to the quantity of motion which they really do perform ; the motion being often confined or en- larged by some other cause net immediately depend- ing on the frame of the two surfaces of the bones forming the particular joint which then is considered. The first species of the diarlhrosis, viz. the enar- ihrosis or ball and socket, I would define more ge- nerally than above ; that articulation where a round head of one bone is received into a cavity of another, and consequently, without some foreign impediment, is capable of motion to all sides. Examples of this kind are to be seen in the articulation of the thigh- bone and ossa innominata ; arm-bone and scapula ; ■' astragalus and os naviculare; magnum of the wrist, with the scaphoidcs and lunare; first bone of the thumb with the second, &c. The second sort, or the arthrodia, differing from the enarthrosis, in the preceding account, only in the cavity's being more superficial, which makes no es- sential difference, especially that, in the recent sub- ject, cartilages or ligaments supply the deficiency of bone, ought, in my opinion, to be called with Vesalius (a), that articulation of two bones adapted for motion, where it is not at first sight obvious which of the two has the head or cavity, or where they are joined by plain surfaces, or nearly so ; such is the conjunction of the clavicle with the scapula; ossq cuneiformia with the os naviculare ; metatarsal bones with the ossa cuneiformia, &c. From the nature of this sort of joint, it is" plain, that very great motion cannot be al- lowed, without the bones going farther out of their natural situation, than is convenient or safe. Ginglhnus, 1 would reckon that articulation by the form of which the motion of the joined bones must (a) De corp. human, fabriea, lib. I. cap. 4.