284 OF THE. PARTICULAR NERVES. stemo-mastoideus muscle, to which it gives branches, and afterwards terminates in the trapezius and rhom- boid muscles of the scapula. In this course it is ge- nerally more or less joined by the second cervical nerve. Why this nerv«, and several others which are distributed to muscles, are made to pierce through muscles, which they might Have only passed near to, 1 do not know. piSv°»"»eal Ti,elarSe eighth pair, soon after its exit, gives nti-vcJ* nerves * to the tongue, larynx, pharynx, and ganglion -of the intercostal nerve, and being disjoined from the ninth and intercostal, to which it adheres closelv some way, runs straight down the neck behind the internal jugular vein, and at the external side of the carotid ar- tery. As it is about to enter the thorax, a large nerve goes off from the eighth of each side: This branch of the right-side turns round from the fore to the back part of the subclavian artery, while the branch of the left-side tuijns round the great curve of the aorta, and both of them mounting up again -at-^he .side of the oesophagus, to which they give branr.bfts, are lost at Recu rrent Jasj jn the larynx. These are called the RECURRENT nerves, which we are desired to shun in the operation of bronchotomy, though their deep situation protects them sufficiently. The muscles of the larynx being in a good measure supplied with nerves from the re- currents, it is to be expected, that the cutting of them will greatly weaken the. voice, though it will not be entirely lost, so long as the superior branches of the eighth pair are entire. Why the recurrent nerves rise so low from the eighth pair to go round a large ar- tery, and to have such a long course upwards, I know not. The eighth pair, above, and at or near the place where the recurrent nerves go off from it, or frequently the recurrents themselves, send off small nerves to th pericardium, and to join with the branches of the in lercostal that are distributed to the heart ; but thei size and situation are uncertain. * Glosso pliaryngei. E.