OF THE SKELETON'. t>0 great hole, "and of those for the ninth pair of nerves, and of the condyles: betwixt it and the sphenoid bone- a cartilage is interposed. Of the eight bones which belong to the cranium,. there are only two which are not yet described, viz.. the ethmoid and sphenoid. These we already men-- tioned, in complaisance to the generality of writers on this subject, as bones common to the cranium andi face, because they enter into the composition 6f both : but the same reason might equally be used for calling: the frontal bone a common one too. I shall, however, pass by any idle dispute about the propriety of rang-- ing them, and proceed to examine the structure of; the bones themselves. Ethmoid Os Ethmoides *, or the sieve-like bone, has got Hon\ j{S J)ame from the great number of small holes withi which that part of it first taken notice of is pierced.. When this bone is entire, the figure of it is not easily described ; but, by a detail of its several parts, some? idea may be afforded of the whole; and therefore II shall distinguish it into the cribriform lamella with its I process, the nasal jamella, cellulce, and ossa spo?igiosa.. Cribriform The thin horizontal lamella, is all (except its back-- 1 late. part) .pierced obliquely by a great number of small I holes, through which the filaments of the olfactory nerves pass. In a recent subject, these holes are so i closely lined by the dura mater, that they are mucin CivtaGalii. ]ess conspicuous than in the skeleton.—From the mid- ■ die of the internal f side of this place, a thick process I rises upwards, and, being highest at the fore-part,, gradually becomes lower, as it is extended backwards. From some resemblance which this process was ima- • gined to have to a cock's comb, it has been called crista galli J. The falx is connected to its ridge, and to the imperforated part of the cribriform plate.—>| When the crista is broken, its base is sometimes' found to be hollow, with its cavity opening into the; * Cribriforme, axtvyoulyis, spon^iforme, crista;urn. •f Coronal. E. X Verruca praedura, septem ossis spongiosi.