OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. of animals, does not change the colour of cartilages, as it does that of bones (a). The granulated flesh which rises from the ends of metacarpal or metatarsal bones, when the cartilage ex- foliates, after a finger or toe has been taken off at the first joint, is very sensible, from which the. existence of nerves in cartilages may be inferred. While cartilages are in a natural state, it is to be remarked, first, That they have no cavity in their middle for marrow. Secondly, That'tbeir outer sur- face is softest, which renders them more flexible. Thirdly, That they do not appear to change their tex- ture nearly so much by acids as bones do ; and, lastly, That as the specific gravity of cartilages is nearly a third less than that of bones ; so the cohesion of their several plates is not so strong as in bones ; whence cartilages laid bare in wounds or ulcers, are not only more liable to corrupt, but exfoliate much sooner than bones do. Cartilages seem to be principally kept from ossify- ing, either by being subjected to alternate motions of flexion and extension, the effects of which are very different from any kind of simple pressure, or by be- ing constantly moistened (6) : Thus, the cartilages on the articulated ends of the great bones of the limbs, and the moveable ones placed between the moving bones in some articulations, which are obliged to suf- fer many and different flexions, and are plentifully moistened, scarcely ever change into' bone; while those of the ribs and larynx are often ossified.-—The middle angular part of the cartilages of the ribs, which is constantly in an alternate state of flexion and exten- sion, by being moved in respiration, is always the last to become bony.—In the larynx, the epiglottis, which is oftener bended and more moistened than the other four cartilages, is seldom ossified, while the others as seldom escape it in adult's. (a) Philos. Transact. No. 442. art. 8. No. 443. art. 2. No. 457. art. 4. Mem. de l'acad. des sciences 1739 et 1742.—Deht- lcef de rssium callo. (Jj) Havers Osteolosj. nov.