228 OF THE SKELETON. 1 Middle cu- Os cuHeiforme medium, or minimum, is still more Bone"" exact,y t,,e *naPe of a wedge than the former. Its upper-part is square j—its internal side has a flat smooth surface above and behind, for its conjunction, with the following bone : with a small rough fossa be- low j and a considerable share of it is rough and hol- low. The external side is smooth and a little hollow- ed, where it is contiguous to the last described bone. Behind, this bone is triangular, where it is articulated with the os naviculare ; and it is also triangular at its fore-part, where it is contiguous to the os metatarsi o£ the toe next to the great one. Internal or Os cuneiformt maximum or internum, differs from iieiforCU" *"W0 f°rmer'in i*s situation, which is more oblique Bone. than theirs. Besides, its broad thick part is placed below, and the small thin point is above, and outwards ; while its under broad surface is concave, for allowing a safe passage to the flexors of the great toe. The surface of this os cinu iforme behind, where it is joined to the os naviculare, is hollow, smooth, and of a circular figure below, but pointed above. The external side* consists of two smooth and flat surfaces, whose direc- tion is nearly at right angles with each other. With the posterior, that runs obliquely from below forwards and upwards, the os cuneiforme minimum is joined \ and with the anterior, whose direction is longitudinal, the os metatarsi of the toe next to the great one is con- nected. The fore-part of this bone is semilunar, but ilat and smooth, for sustaining the os metatarsi of the great toe. The internal side is scabrous, with two re- markable tubercles below, from which the muscu/us ab- ductor pallia's rises, and the tibialis anticus is inserted into its upper part. The three cuneiform bones are all so secured by ligaments, that very little motion is allowed in any of them, and they arc cartilaginous in a foetus of nine months. Figure ana These seven bones of the tarsus, when joined, are uses of the convex above, and leave a concavity below, for lod- Tarsus. 'g safe]y the several muscles, tendons, vessels, and nerves that Jie in the sole of the foot. In the recent