302 OF THE LACTEAL SAC AND DUCT. descending or superior cava; after which the duct passes obliquely over to the leftside behind the assopka- gt/s, aorta descendens, and the great curvature of the aorta, until it reaches the left cartoid artery ; behind which, on the left side of the (esophagus, it runs to the interstice of the first and second vertebra of the thorax, where it begins to separate from the carotid, stretching farther towards the left internal jugular vein by a cir- cular turn, whose convex part is uppermost. Ac the top of this arch it splits into two for a line and a half j the superior branch receiving into it a large lympha- tic vessel from the cervical glands. This lymphatic appears, by blowing air and injecting liquors into it, to liaye few valves. When the two branches are again united, the duct continues its course towards the inter- nal jugular vein, behind which it descends, and, im- mediately at the left side of the insertion of this vein, enters the superior posterior part of the left subclavian vein, whose interna! membrane duplicated, forms a semilunar valve that is convex externally, and covers two-thirds of the orifice of the duct ; immediately be- low this orifice, a cervical vein from the muscali sca- le/;/' enters the subclavian. The coats of the sac and duct are thin transparent membranes ; from the inside of which, in the duct, small semilunar valves are produced, most commonly in pairs ;.which are so situated as to allow the passage of liquors upwards, but oppose their return in an op- posite course. The number of these is generally ten or twelve. This is the most simple and common course, situa- tion, and structure of the receptoculttm chyli and thora- cic duct; but having had occasion to observe a variety in these parts, of different subjects, I shall set down the most remarkable of them. The sac is sometimes situated lower down than in the former description ; is not always of the same di- mensions ; is not composed of the same number of ducts ; and frequently appears to consist of several small cells or ducts, instead of being one simple cavil\.