OF THE SKELETON. ITS people are sitting or standing in a state of inactivity! and allowing the members to remain in the most na- tural easy posture. The inferior angle of the scapula is very acute j the upper one is near to a right angle j and what is called the anterior, does not deserve the name, for the two sides do not meet to form an angle. The body of this bone is concave towards the ribs, and convex behind, where it has the name of dorsum *r Three processes are generally reckoned- to proceed from the scapula. The first is the large spine that- rises from its convex surface behind, and divides it unequally. The second process stands out from the fore-part of the upper side ; and, from its imaginai y resemblance to a crow's beak, is named coracoides The third process is the whole thick bulbous fore-part of the bone. After thus naming the several constituent parts of - the scapula, the particular description will be more easily understood. Base. The base, which is tipped with cartilage in a young subject, is not all straight : For above the spine, it runs obliquely forwards to the superior angle ; that: here it might not be too protuberant backwards, and so bruise the muscles and teguments : Into the ob- lique space the musculus patientiae % is inserted. At the root of the spine, on the back-part of the base, a triangular plain surface is formed, by the pressure of the lower fibres of the trapezius. Below this the edge of the scapula is scabrous and rough, for the insertion of the scrratus major anticus and rhomboid muscles. Inferior ^he back-part of the inferior angle is made smooth Cotta. ^ the tdiis'simus dorsi passing over it. This muscle also alters the direction of the inferior costa some way forwards from this angle : and so far it is flatted be- Jiind by the origin of the teres major. As the inferior eosta advances forwards, it is of considerable thickness, is sliohtly hollowed and made smooth behind by the I Anchoioidcs, sigmoides, digitalis, ancistroides.. \ Levator scapula?, Alb. E.