OF THE SKELETON". ■cartilage, that, by two or three small ridges, points out the interstices of the fibres in the tendon of this muscle. —The outer surface of the bone at the root of this spinous process is made hollow by the piriformis or iliacus externals muscle. Below the sinuosity for the obturator muscle is the great knob or tuberosity, covered with cartilage or tendon (o). The upper part of the tuberosity gives rise to the inferior gemellus muscle. To a i idge at the in- side of this, the external or posterior sacrosciatic liga- ment is so fixed, that between it, the internal ligament, and the sinuosity of the os ischium, a passage is left for the internal obturator muscle. The upper thick smooth, part of the tuber, called by some its dorsum, has two oblique impressions on it. The inner one gives origin to the long head of the biceps flexor tibia * and seminer- vosus f muscles, and the sendmembranosus rises from the exterior one, which reaches higher and nearer the acetabulum than the other. The lower, thinner, more scabrous part of the knob which bends forwards, is also marked with two flat surfaces, whereof the internal is what we lean upon in sitting, and the external gives rise to the largest head of the triceps adductor femo- rist- Between the external margin of the tuberosity and the great hole of the os innominatum, there is fre- quently an obtuse ridge extended down from the ace- tabulum, which gives origin to the quadratus femoris. As the tuber advances forwards, it becomes smaller, and is rough, for the origin of the musculus tramver- salis j| and erector penis. The small leg of it, which mounts upwards to join the 0,9 pubis, is rough and prominent at its edge, where the two lower heads of the triceps or quadriceps adductor femoris \ take their rise. The upper and back part of the os ischium is broad Substance •and thick 5 but its lower and fore-part, is narrower and (a) Winslow, Exposit. anat. des os fraiis, i 96. * Biceps cruris Alb. E. •f Semitendinosus Alb. E. % Adductor magnus femoris Alb. E. || Trans versus pcrincei Alb. E. \ Adductor longus and A. brevis femoris Alb. JEs