til OF THE SKELETON. plied one to another, have scarcely any rough sur- face, to obstruct or hurt the muscle in its contraction; which is still further provided for, by the manner of laying these edges on each other : for, in viewing their outside, we see the temporal bones covering the sphenoidal and parietal, and this last supporting the sphenoidal, while both mount on the frontal: from which disposition, it is evident, that while the tem- poral muscle is contracting, which is the only time it- presses strongly in its motion on the bones, its fibres slide easily over the external edges. Another advan- tage still in this is, that all this bony part is made stronger by the bones thus supporting each other. Common The bones of the skull are joined to those of the sutures. face> by schgnde!esis and sutures.—The schyndelesis is in the partition of the nose.—The Sutures said to be common to the cranium and face are five, viz. the ethmoidal, sphenoidal, transverse, and two zygomatic. Parts however of these sutures are at the junction of only the bones of the skull. The ethmoidal and sphenoidal sutures surround the bones of these names ; and in some places help to make up other sutures, particularly the squamous and transverse, and in other parts there is but one suture common to these two bones. Transverse. The transverse suture is extended quite cross the face, from the external * canthus of one orbit to the same place of the other, by sinking from the canthus down the outside of the orbit to its bottom; then mourning upon its inside, it is continued by the root of the nose down the internal f part of the othei\orbit, and rises up again on its outside to the other canthus. It may be here remarked, that there are some inter- ruptions of this suture in the course I have described; for the bones are not contiguous every where, but are separated to leave holes and apertures, to be mentioned hereafter. Zygomatic The zygomatic sutures are one on each side, being Zygomatic. ^ J» siantbg ^ aboye ob]ique]y downward£. * Lateral, E. •f Mesial. E.