OF THE SKELETON. 151. ments are extended to the os sacrum, to secure more firmly the conjunction of these bones. The passages of the medullary vessels are very con- spicuous, both in the dorsum and casta of many ossa ilium ; but in others they are'inconsiderable. Substance. The posterior and lower parts- of these bones are ' thick but they are generally exceedingly thin and ,„ tmA compact at their middle, where they are exposed to the actions of the musculi glutaei and iliacus internus, and to the pressure of the bowels contained in the belly. The substance of the ossa ilium is mostly cellular, ex- cept a thin external table. State a$ 1" a riPe child, the spine of the os ilium is cartila- Birth. ginous, and is afterwards joined to the bane in form of an epiphyse.—The large lower end of this bone is not completely ossified. Qslschium. Os Ischium * or hip bone, is of a middle bulk be- tween the two other parts of the as mnominatum, is situated lowest of the three, and is of a very irregular figure.—Its extent might be marked by an horizontal line drawn nearly through the middle of the acetabulum ; for the upper bulbous part of this bone forms somewhat less than the lower half of that great cavity, and the small leg of it rises to much the same height on the: other side of the great hole common to this bone and the os pubis. Processes. From, the upper thick part of the os ischium, a sharp- 'process, called by some spinous, stands out backwards^ from which chiefly the musculus coccygaeus and supe- rior gemellus, and part.of the levator ani, rise ; and the anterior or internal sacrosciatic ligament is fixed to it. — Between the upper part of this ligament and the bones it was formerly observed that the pyriform muscle, the posterior crural vessels, and the sciatic nerve, pass-out of the pelvis.—Immediately below thifll process, a sinuosity is formed for the tendon of the musculus obturator interims.—In. a recent subject, this- part of the bone, which serves'as a pully on which the etlarator muscle plays, is covered with a ligamentous * Coxrc, coxecdicis, pixisi