OF THE SKELETON. are very high, and are still much more enlarged by f|fc ligamentous cartilage, with which they are tipped in a | recent subject. From this form of the cavity it ha been called acetabulum ; and for a distinguUhipag character, the name of the hone that constitutes tbw largest share of it is added ; therefore acetabulum osstu ischii * is the name this cavity commonly hears.— Round the base of the superciliaytbe bone is rough anoJ unequal, where the capsular ligament of the articula-il tion is fixed. The brims at the upper and back parlrj of the acetabulum are much larger and higher .than anjn where else j which is very necessary to prevent th« head of the femur from slipping out of its cavity a.t this place, where the whole weight of the body beanr upon it, and consequently would otherwise be con stantly in clanger of thrusting it out. As these brims • are extended downwards and forwards, they becomes less } and at their internal lower part a breach is madri in them j from the one side of which to the other, ; ligament is placed in the recent subject; under wbiefe is left a large hole, which contains a fatty cellular substance and vessels. The reason of this appear ance has afforded matter of debate. To me it seem evidently contrived for allowing a larger motion ti the thigh inwards : For if the bony brims had beei here continued, the neck of the thigh "bone must hav. struck upon them when the thighs were brough across each other ; which, in a large strong motioi this way, would have endangered the netk of the oit hone, or brim of the other. Then the vessels wbicl are distributed to the joint may safely enter at thru sinuosity in the bottom of the breach j which be in* however larger than is necessary for that purposes allows the large mucilaginous gland of the joint to escape below the ligament, when the head of the thig bone is in hazard of pressing too much upon it in tbfi motions of the thigh outwards (o). Besides this dijt ference in the height of the brims, the acetabulum ii * Coxae, coxendicis. (a) Petit, Memoires dc 1'aced. des sciences, 172&