OF THE SKELETON. 19(5 WiMfds into the palm ; having the tendon of the flexor carpi ut1 nan's, and a ligament from the styloid proceed of the ulna, fixed to its upper part •, the tramverA ligament of the wrist is connected to its internal side; ligaments extended to the unciform bone, and to the as metacarpi of the little finger, are attached to its lower part; the abductor minimi digiti lias its origin from its fore-part •, and, at the internal side of it, a small depression is formed, tor the passage of the ulnar nerve. ( , ... Trapezium Trapezium * has four unequal sides and angles in its back-part, from which it has got its name. Above, its surface is smooth, slightly bollowed, and semicir- cular, for its conjunction with the os scaplioidcs. Its external side is an oblong concave square, for receiv-.' ii3g the following bone, the inferior surface is formed into a pulley'; the two protuberant sides of which are external and internal. On this pulley the first bone of the thumb is moved. At the external side of the external protuberance,, a small oblong smooth surface is formed by the os mttacarpi indicis. The fore part of the t?vpv%ium is prominent in the palm, and, near to the external side, has a sinuosity in it, where the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis is lodged j on the ligamentous sheath of which the tendon of the Jiexcr tcrtii intcrnodiipollicis plays : And still more exter- nally the bone is scabrous, where the transverse UgiJ ment of the wrist is connected, the abductor andI flexor primi intcrnodii pollicis have their origin, and liga- ments go out to the first bone of the thumb. 0s Tra'pe- Os trapexoides t, so called from the irregular quad- £U» ramrular figure of its back-part, is Oje smallest hong of the wrist, except the pisifamc. The figure of it I an irregular cube. It has a small hollow surface above, by which it joins the scaphoides ; a long con| vex one internally, where it is contiguous to the tra- pezium; a small external one, for Us conjunction u h the os magnum ; and an inferior convex surface, the * Os cuhiforme, trapezoids, multanguhim majus. ^ Trapezium, mirilaiiguluro oubus.