01' THE SKELETON. 152 fche sartori'iis and fascia/is * muscles have their rise, and the outer end of the doubled tendon of the ex- ternal oblique muscle of the abdomen, commonly called Fullopius^s or Pouparfs ligament, is fixed to it. —The inside of the posterior spinal process, and of part of the spine forward from that, is made flat and . rough where the sacrolumbalis and longissim's dorsi rise -7 and to its outside are fixed ligaments, ;xtend- ed to the os sacrum and transverse processes of the fifth and fourth vertebrae of the loins (a). Below the an- • tevior spinal process another protuberance stands out,. which, by its situation, may be distinguished from the former, by adding the epithet of inferior, where the musculus rectus tibiae t has its origin (A). Betwixt' these two anterior processes the bone is hollowed where the beginning of the sartori'iis muscle is lodged. Be- low the posterior spinal process, a second protuberance of the edge of this bone is in like manner observable.- which is closely applied to the os sacrum. Under this ■ last process a considerable large niche is observable in i the os ilium ; between the sides of which and the strong: ligament that is stretched over from the os sacrum to the sharp pointed process of the os ischium of the re- cent subject, a large hole is formed, through which the, ■musculus-pyriformis, the great sciatic nerve, and the posterior crural vessels pass, and are protected fronv. compression. The external broad side or dorsum of the os ilium is> a little hollow towards the fore-part farther back it isa as much raised j then is considerably concave ; andj lastly, it is convex. These inequalities are occasioned: by the actions of the muscles that are situated on thi*i surface. From behind the uppermost of the two an- terior spinal processes, in such bones as are strongly marked by the muscles, a semicircular ridge is ex- tended to the hollow passage of the sciatic nerve. Be- * Tensor vaginae femoris. Alb. E. ^ (a) Weitbrecht, Syndcsmolog. sect. 4*. § 59, 10, *G,.^. f Rectus cruris Alb. E. (&) Baker, Curs, osteolog. dewoustr. 3.