4 OP THE BONES IN GENERAL. crease, and to check their overgrowth. 4. To strengthen tlie conjunction of the hones with their epiphyses, ligaments, and cartilages, which are easi- ly separated in young creatures, when this mem- brane is taken away. 5. To afford convenient ori- gin and insertion to several muscles which are fixed to this membrane. And, lastly, to warn us when any injury is offered to the parts it covers; which, being insensible, might otherwise be destroyed with- out our knowledge, or endeavouring to procure a re- medy. When the cellular substance connecting the pe- riosteum to the surrounding parts is destroyed, these parts are fixed to that membrane, and lose the slid., ing motion they had upon it; as we see daily in is*, sues, or any other tedious suppurations near a bone. When the vessels which go from the periosteum tc the bones are broken or eroded, a collection of liquoi; is made between them, which produces a sordid ulce | ©r rotten bone. This is often the case after fracture; of bones, and inflammations of the periosteum, o. after small-pox, measles, spotted fevers, and erysipa las. Do not the disorders of the periosteum cominj rather along with or soon after the cutaneous thai other diseases, indicate some similarity of structur in the periosteum and skin ? Boues The Bones are the most hard and solid parts c the body, and, as all other parts where large vessel do not enter, are generally of a white colour; onl in a living creature they are blueish, which is owm to the blood in the small vessels under their surfaci The less therefore and fewer the vessels are, an the thicker and firmer the bony surface covering tl vessels is, the bones are whiter. Hence the bon« of adults are whiter than those of children ; and, i both young and old, the white colour of differei bones, or of the several parts of the same bone, always in proportion to their vessels and solidities circumstances which ought to be regarded by su geons, when they are to judge of the condition bones laid bare.