©F THE SKELETON. 219 when the leg is fully extended, the mtula rises higher in its upper part, than-the pulley of the thigh-bone. The plain smooth surface is surrounded by a rouo-h prominent edge, to which the capsular ligament ad- heres :—Below, the point of the bone is scabrous, where the strong tendinous ligament from the tubercle of the tibia is fixed. The upper horizontal part of this bone is flatted and unequal, where the tendons of the extensors of the leg are inserted. The substance of the roiula is cellular, with very bin external firm plates : But then these cells are so Jdaall, and such a quantity of bone is employed in jfeeir format in, that scarcely any bone of its bulk'is >o strong. Besides, it is covered all over with a thick igament, (as it was observed, that this sort of bones generally is,) to connect its substance, and is move- ible to one side or other; therefore is sufficiently trong to resist the ordinary actions of the large mus- ses that are inserted into it, or any common external orce applied to it; while a fixed process, such as the olecranon, -would not have been sufficient to bear the vhole weight of our bodies, which frequently falls on t, and would have hindered the rotatory motion of the ig. Notwithstanding these precautions to preserve lis bone from such injuries, yet ] have seen a trans- erse fracture in it, when, by the report of the pa- ent, and of the people about him, and by the want f swelling, discolouring, or other mark of bruise or tmtusion, it was plain the bone was broken by the iolent straining effort of the muscles (c). Though ly patient recovered the use of the joint of the knee, et I think it reasonable to believe, that this sort of acture is commonly attended with difficulty of mo- on, after the broken parts of the rotula are reunited; ;cause the callous matter probably extends itself into' le cavity of the joint, where it either grows to some the parts, or makes such an inequality on the sur- («) See RoysclL Observ. Anat. oldrnra obj. 5.