OF THE SKELETON. 52 and they are sometimes in one table of the skull, and not in the other (a). Sagittal. . The sagittal suture* is placed longitudinally, in ! the middle of the upper part of the skull, and com- monly terminates at the middle of the coronal, and of the lambdoid sutures ; between which it is said to be placed, as an arrow is between the string and bow.— However, this suture is frequently continued through ' the middle of the osfronlis, down to the root of the nose; which, some (b) say, oftener happens in wo- men than men ; but others (c) allege, that it is to be met with more frequently in male skulls than in fe- male : Among the skulls; which I have seen thus di- vided, the female are the most numerous. Several (d) have delineated and described the sagittal suture, sometimes dividing the occipital bone as far down as the great hole through which the medulla spinalis passes. This I never saw. In some old skulls that are in my possession, there is scarcely a vestige of any of the three sutures which I have now descrihed. In other heads, one or two of the sutures only disappear; but I never could dis- cover any reason for thinking them disposed in such different manners in skulls of different shapes, as some antients allege they are (<?). Squamous. The squamous, agglutinations, or false sutures f, are one on each side, a little above the ear, of a semicir- cular figure, formed by the overlapping (like one scale upon another) of the upper part of the temporal (n) Hunaivlcl. in Mem. de Tacad. des sciences, 1730. » 'PccficuVns, ofrXaix., ixiXioyiunci, instar v;rgae, nervalis, nstar tel., iiwtar eru, secundum capitis, longitudinem prore- pens,conjungens, columualis, recta, acualis. _ j (b) Riolan. Comment, deossib. cap. 8. (C) Ve^al, lib. 1. cap. 6. et in epitome. id) Vesal, lib. t. cap. 5. fig. 3. 4. et in text. cap. 6.-P.«aw inCels.de re medic cap. 1— Laurent. Hist. Anat. lib. K "(eyHippocrat. de vulner. capitis, § l.-Galen. de ossib. et fie usu part lib. 9. cap. IT. + Awhth, vWKoXXtn*™, *!>,™<p>cu, temporales, cm- ' ticales,'meadow, uarmoniales, commissure in umjuern.