223. OF THE SKELETON. being turned afr all inwards ; but it could not hinder- it from turning outwards almost round, were not that motion confined by the lateral ligaments of this join:, which can yield little. This rotation of the leg out- wards is of good advantage to us in crossing our legs, and turning our feet outwards, on several necessary occasions; though it is altogether fit this motion should not he, very large, to prevent frequent luxations here. While all these motions are performing, the part of the tibia that moves immediately on the con- dyles is only so much as is within the cartilaginous rings, which, by the thickness on their outsides, make the^ cavities of the tibia more horizontal, by raising their external side where the surface of the tibia slants downwards. By this means the motions of this joint are more equal and steady than otherwise they would have been. The cartilages being capable of changing a little their situation, are fit for doing this good office in the different motions and postures of the member, and likewise contribute to make the motions larger aud quicker *. On account of the very large surface of the bones Disease*, forming the joint of the knee, and the many strong igaments connecting them, luxations seldom happen iere. But these very ligaments, the aponeurosis pass- ing over tills joint, the quantity of fat and mucila- ginous glands necessary for lubricating it, make it nore subject to white-swellings, d?opsies, and such >ther disorders, than any other joint of the body. The Foot* as well as the hand, is divided into three Foot jarts,viz. tarsus, metatarsus,, and toes: Tn the de- fcription of which, the several surfaces shall be named, tCGording to their natural situation, viz. the broad of the foot, shall be called superior •, the sole, inferior ; the side on which the great toe is, internal > that where he little toe is, external. The tursw t consists of seven spongy hones •, to TanUt. wit, the astragalus, os calcis, naviculare, a/la'des, * See Bare). Muscul. Mot. p. 4£3. E. f Ilassclta.