OF THE SKELETON". i Radialis interims. Alb. 22. These connections are not fit for large motions. The articulation of their round heads at the lower ends with the cavities of the first bones of the fingers, is to be t;tken notice of hereafter. The' concavity on the fore-part of these metacarpal hones, and the placing their bases on the arched carpus, cause them to form a hollow in the palm of the hand, which is often useful to us. The spaces between them lodge muscles, and their small motion makes them fit supporteis for the fingers to play on. Though the ossa metacarpi. so far agree, yet they DifFereu- may be distinguished from each other by the following ces- marks. The os metacarpi indicts is generally the longest.— Its base, which is articulated with the os trapezm'dcs, is hollow in the middle. The small ridge on the in* ternal side of this oblong cavity is smaller than the one opposite to it, and is made flat on the side by the trapezium. The exterior ridge is also smooth, and fiat on the outside, for its conjunction with the os magnum ; immediately below which a semicircular smooth flat surface shews the articulation of this to the second me- tacarpal bone. The back-part of this base is flatted, where the long head of the extensor carpi radialis * is inserted •, and its fore-part is prominent, where the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis f is fixed. The ex- ternal side of the body of this hone is more hollowed by the action of muscles, than the internal. The tu- bercle at the internal root of its head is larger than the external. Its base is so firmly fixed to the bone it is. connected with, that it has no motion. Os metacarpi medii digiti is generally the second In length ; but often it is as long as the former ; some- times it is longer 5 and frequently it appears to equal the first only by the os magnum being further advanced downwards than any other bone of the wrist. Its base is a broad superficial cavity, slanting outwards ; the in- icrnal posterior angle of which is so prominent, as to * Radialis extcrnus. Alb. E.