OF THE SKELETON. 183 ■round smooth head, whose middle point is not hi a straight ■line with the axis of the bone, but stands obliquely (backwards from it.. The extent of the head is distill- Iguished by a circular fossa surrounding its base, where ■the head is united to the bone, and the capsular Hga- Iment of the joint is fixed. Below the fore-part of its Ibase two tubercles stand out : The smallest one, which lis-situated most to the inside *, has the tendon of the msubscapularis muscle inserted into it. The larger more external t protuberance is divided, at its upper part, into three smooth plain surfaces \ into the anterior of Vfhich, the musculus supra-spinat us ; into the raiddls or largest, the infraspinatus ; into the one behind, the teres minor, is inserted. Between these two tubercles., _ exactly in the fore-part X of the bone, a deep long fossa is formed, for lodging the tendinous bead of the biceps flexor cubitr-; which, after passing, in a manner peculiar to itself, through the cavity of the articula- tion, is tied down by a tendinous sheath extended across the fossa; in which, and in the neighbouring tubercles, are several remarkable holes, which are pe- netrated by the tendinous and ligamentous fibres, and by vessels. On each side of this fossa, as it descends in the os hvmeri, a,rough ridge, gently flatted in the middle, runs from the roots of the tubercles. The tendon of the pectoral muscle is fixed into the interior of these ridges, and the latissimus dorsi, and teres ma- jor, are inserted into the internal one. A little behind the lower end of this last, another rough ridge may be observed, where the coraco-braelrialis is inserted.—- From the back-part of the root of the largest tubercle a ridge also is continued, from which the brevis exten- * Most ulflad. In the description here given of the hume- rus, the limb is supposed to be viewed in the supine position, or pendulous with the palm of the hand directed forwards. In this position those parts that look towards the radius are external; those towards the ulna internal; those towards the palm ante' rior , and those towards the elbow posterior. E. f Most radial. E. % Tlicnal side. E.