172 OF THE SKELETON. - the lower end is ossified, and is too much turned out- wards or inwards (a), or when the conjunction of this appendix with the second bone is too weak {b). Connexion. The sternum is joined by cartilages to the seven < upper ribs, unless when the first coalesces with it in am intimate union of substance \ and its unequal cavity on each side of its upper end iy lilted for the ends of\ the clavicles. Slate at The sternum most frequently has four round small Birth. hones, surrounded with cartilage, in children bom at^ the full time j the uppermost of these, which is the. first hone, being the largest. Two or three other very small bony points, are likewise to be seen in several! children. The number of bones increases for some years, and then diminishes, but uncertainly, till they are at last united into those above described of am adult. Uses. The uses of this bone are, to afford origin and in- sertion to several muscles j to sustain the mediastinum, to defend the vital organs, the heart and lungs, at the fore-part j and, lastly, by serving as a moveable ful- crum of the ribs, to assist considerably in respiration: Which action, so far as it depends on the motion of the hones*, we-are-now at liberty to explain. Motions of W hen the ribs that are connected by their car- ihe Ribs tilages to the sternum, or to the cartilages of the true and Ster. are acte(j n k tjje intercostal muscles, they ***'*" n i "i* ■ * L*I_ must all be pulled from the oblique position wnicui their cartilages kept them in, nearer to right anglesI with the vertebrae and sternum, because the first or uppermost rib is by much the most fixed of any ; and the cartilages making a great resistance to raising the anterior ends of the ribs, their large arched middle parts turn outwards as well as upwards. The sterz rMm, pressed strongly on both sides by the cartilages I (a) Rolfinc. Divert. Anat. lib. 2. cap. 41.—Pnaw, de ossib. j»tf. 1. cap. 3. and part. 3. cap. 3— Codronchi de prolapsu car* I tiladn mucronat (b) Paavv ibid.—Bonich. act. Hafn. t01. 5. ob. ,9—Bonct. Semdch.et. anat. torn. 2. lib. 3. $ 5. Append, ad obs. 8. ct ibid. § 7. obg. 19. rxim