OK THE BONES IN GENERAL. 40 The cartilages subervient to bones, are sometimes found on the ends of bones which are joined to no other ; but are never wanting on the ends, and in the cavities of such bones as are designed for motion (a). Cartilages also are interposed between such other car- tilages as cover the heads and cavities of articulated bones; nay, they are also placed between immove- able bones. Their ures. The uses of cartilages, so far as they regard bones, are, to allow, by their smoothness, such bones as are designed for motion, to slide easily without detrition, while, by their flexibility, they accommodate them- selves to the several figures necessary in different motions, and, by their elasticity, they recover their natural position and shape as soon as the pressure is removed.—This springy force may also render the motion of the joint more expeditious, and may dimi- nish shocks in running, jumping, &c. To these car- tilages we chiefly owe the security of the moveable articulations: For without them the bony fibres would sprout out, and intimately coalesce with the adjoining bone ; whence a true anchylosis must necessarily fol- low ; which never fails to happen when the cartilages are eroded by acrid matter, or ossified from want of motion or defect of liquor, as we see often happens after wounds of the joints, paidarlhrocace, scrophula, and spina veniosa, or from old age, and long immo- bility of joints (6).—Hence we may know what the annihilation is which is said to be made of the head of a bone, and of the cavity for lodging it, after an unreduced fracture (c.) The moveable cartilages in- terposed in joints serve to make the motions both freer and more safe than they would otherwise be. Those placed on the ends ofbones that are not articulat- (o) Cels. de re medic, lib. 8„ c»p. I. (6) Columb. de re anat. lib. 15. Deslandes Hist, de l'acad. des sciences 1116.—Phil, transact. No. 215. Ibid. No. 461. ' § 16- (c) Hildan. de ichor, et melicer. acri Celsi, cap. 5. Ruyscb. Thes. 8. No, 103. Saltzman in act. Petropolit. Tom. 3. p. 275.