OP THE NERVES IN GENERAL. 257 stop their fluid, so that it could not go forward to the brain; and therefore, according to this doctrine, we should be sensible of no objects except those whose application to the organs of the senses was momenu ry. 49. Let us now suppose it probable, that the ence- Supposed phalon and spinal marrow secern a liquor from the nature of blood which is sent into all the nerves, and that by the ^■nervous' means of this liquor, the nerves perform the offices 1 commonly assigned to them; it is next necessary to inquire what kind of liquor this is, and how it moves, in order to determine how well its nature and motion are fitted for performing what is expected from it. 50. The liquor of the nerves has been fancied by Not acid or some to be of a very strong acid or alkaline nature : alkaline. But since none of our juices appear to be of this sort, and since such liquors irritate and destroy the parts of the body to which they are applied, we cannot con- ceive how the brain can separate, or the nerves could bear any thing of such an acrid nature. This ten- derness and sensibility of these organs must hinder us absolutely from supposing that the liquor of the nerves can be acrid or pungent, or of the nature of spirit of wine, hartshorn, &c. . 51. Some have imagined the liquor of the nerves to Not a very be capable of vast explosion like gun-powder, or of elastic violent sudden rarefaction like air, or of strong ebulli- fluic3, tion like boiling water, or the mixture of acids with alkaline liquors. But as the mass of blood from which this fluid is derived, is not possessed of any such pro- perties, we cannot suppose the bipod to furnish ^vhat it has not in itself. Besides, all these operations are too violent for the brain or nerves to bear; and when j .once they are begun, they are not so quickly con- trouled or restrained, as experience teaches us the nerves can be made to cease from acting*. 52. We are not sufficiently acquainted with the properties of an ceihcr or electrical effluvia pervading every thing, to apply them justly in the animal eco- * For arguments in favour of the elastic nature of the ner* vous fluid, see Pair's New Medic. Diction, vol. I. p. 398. fi.