202 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. of the nerves any other way may do the same thing : Or the hiccough may also he sometimes cured, hy drawing up into the nose the smoak of burning paper or other acrid fumes, swallowing pungent or aromatic medicines, and by a surprize, or any other strong ap- plication of the mind in thinking, or in distinguishing objects : Or, when all these have failed, it has been put away by the brisk stimulus of a blistering platster applied to the baek. Fourth The Fou rth Cervical nerve, after sending off that cervical. l,ranch. which joins with the third to form the phrenic, and bestowing twigs on the muscles and glands of the neck, runs to the arm-pit, where it meets with the Fifth, Sixth, and Seventh ccrvicals, and First Dor- sal, that escape in the interstices of the musculi scalcni, to come at the arm-pit, where they join, separate, and rejoin, in a way scarcely to be rightly expressed in words; and, after giving several considerable nerves- to the muscles and teguments which cover the thorax,, they divide into several branches, to be distributed to i all the parts of the superior extremity. Seven of; these branches, I shall describe under particular names. Scapt:lar. 1. Scapularis runs straight to the cavitas semilu-- nata of the upper casta of the scapula, which is a hole in the recent subject by a ligament being extended! from one angle of the bone to the other, giving nerves- in its way to the muscles of the scapula. W hen it has- passed this bole, it supplies the supra-spinatus muscle;, and then descending at the anterior root of the spine of the scapula, it is lost in the other muscles that lie on the dorsum of that bone. Articular. 2. Articularis sinks downwards at the a-xilla, to get below the neck of the head of the os humeri, and to mount again at the back-part of it; so that it al - most surrounds the articulation, and is distributed to the muscles that draw the arm back, and to those that raise it up. Cutaneous. o. Cutaneus runs down the fore-part of the arm near the skin to Avhich it gives off branches ; and then divides on the inside of the fore-arm into several