OF THE SKELETON. 1/1 Terse line, which has made authors divide this bone into two.—When the cartilage between this and the first bone is not ossified, a manifest motion of this upon the first may be observed in respiration or in raising the sternum, by pulling the ribs upwards or distending the lungs with air in a recent subject. The third bone is much less than the other two, and Ensiform has only one half of the pit for the seventh rib formed Cartilage. in it ; wherefore it might be reckoned only an ap- pendix of the sternum. In young subjects it is always cartilaginous, and is better known by the name of cartilago xiphoides or enstformis,* than any other \ though the ancients often called the whole sternum ensifbrme, comparing the two first bones to the handle and this appendix to the blade of a sword.—This third bone is seldom of the same figure, magnitude, or situation in any two subjects 5 for sometimes it is a, plain triangular bone, with one of the angles below, and perpendicular to the middle of the upper side, by which it is connected to the second bone.—In other people the point is turned to one side, or obliquely forwards or backwards. Frequently it is all nearly of an equal breadth, and in several subjects it is bifur- cated ; whence some writers give it the name of Jur- ctlli or furcula inferior ; or else it is unossified, in the middle. In the greatest number of adults it is ossified and tipped with a cartilage ; in some, one half of it is cartilaginous, and in others it is all in a cartilaginous state.—Generally several oblique ligaments fixed at one end to the cartilages of the ribs, and by the other to the outer surface of the xiphoid bone, connect it firmly to those cartilages (o). So many different ways this small bone may be formed, without any inconvenience : But then some or these positions may be so directed, as to bring on a great tram of ill consequences ; particularly^when * Clypealis, gladialh, mucronata, malum, granatum, sta- turn stomach,, ep.glotahs cultvalis, medium furcul* inferioris, scmitormis, ensiculata. («) YYcitbrecht, Syndesmolog. p 121.