OF THE SKELETON. 176 « round, but soon after becomes broad and thin • which shape it retains to its external end. Alon* the external* concavity, a rough sinuosity runs, fn* which some part of the deltoid muscle takes its rise ■ --Opposite to this, on the convex edge, a scabrous- xidgc gives insertion to a share of the cucullaris mus, cle. 1 he upper surface of the clavicle here is flat • ■ but the lower is hollow, for lodging the beginning 0£ | the musculus subclavius ; and towards its back-part a I tubercle rises, to which, and a roughness near it, the • strong short thick ligament connecting this bone to the coracoid process of the scapula is fixed. The external end f of this bone is horizontally oh^ long, smooth, sloping at the posterior side, and tipped-, in a recent subject with a cartilage, for its articulation . With the acromion scapulce. Round this the bone is sPongy» f°r the firmer connection of the ligaments. Foramina. The medullary arteries, having their direction ob- liquely outwards, enter the clavicles by one or more- small passages in the middle of their back-part. Substance. The substance of this .bone is the same as of the other round long bones» Connexion. The triangular unequal interior end of each clcA vide, has the cartilage above described interposed be-,-* twixt it and the irregulaivcavity of the sternum. The ligaments, which surround this articulation to secure . it, are so short and strong, that little motion can be.] allowed any way ; and the strong ligament that isi stretched across the upper furcula of the sternum, from the posterior prominent angle of the one clavicle, to the same place of the other clavicle, serves to keep each of these bones more firmly in their place. By the assistance, however, of the moveable intervening cartilage, the clavicle can, at this joint, be raised or depressed, and moved backwards and forwards sol much, as that the external end, which is at a great distance from that axis, enjoys very conspicuous mo- tions. The articulation of the exterior end of the * Sterno-kteral. E.