OF THE SKELETON. F 2 away, the sockets fill up with an osseous net-work, which becomes solid afterwards. 6. The lacrymal fossa in the nasal process, which assists the os unguis to form a passage for the lacrtjmal duct. This part of the bone forming this fossa is so firm and stiong, that a surgeon can scarcely perforate it with the ordinary instruments for the fistula lacrymalis, and therefore ought to avoid it in doing this operation.—Immediate- ly on the outside of this, there is a small depression, from which the inferior ox lesser oblique muscle of the eye has its origin (q). 7. The canal on the upper part of the great tuberosity within the orbit, which is al- most a complete hole: in this a branch of the superior maxillary nerve passes—Besides these, the superior surface of the great bulge is concave, to receive the under part of the eye.—Immediately above the trans- verse ridge in the nasal process, a small hollow is formed by the os spongiosum.—In some subjects, the nasal process has a small round pit above the lacrymal duct, where the little tendon or ligament of the orbi- eular muscle of the eye-lids is inserted. It is this tendon, and not the tendon of the larger oblique mus- cle of the eye, which there is some hazard of cut- ting in the operation of the Jistula lacrymalis. The holes of this bone are two proper and two com- p mon, which are always to be . found, besides several " others, whose magnitude, numbers, &c. are uncer- tain.—The first of the proper is the external orbitar, immediately below the orbit, by which the infra-or- bitar branch of the second branch of the fifth pair of nerves, and a small artery, come out, after havino- passed in the canal, at the bottom of the orbit de- scribed numb. 7. of the depressions.—This hole is often double, and that when the nerve has happened to split before it has escaped from the bone.—The second is the foramen inciswum, just behind the fore-teeth S'8tI'ts UndZ Part>is one ^regular hole common to both the maxillary bones when they are joined • but, as it ascends, soon divides into two, three, or ia) Winslow, Exposition Anatomique des os sees, $ 276