186 OF THE SKELETON. tuherance and condyle, a sinuosity may be remarked, where the ulnar nerve passes. The substance and the internal structure of the on humeri is the same, and'disposed in the same way, as* in other long bones. Connexion. The round head at the upper end of this bone is ar- ticulated with the glenoid cavity of the scapula y, which being superficial, and having long ligaments,, allows the arm a free and extensive motion. These li- gaments are however considerably strong; for, be- sides the common capsular one, the tendons of the muscles perform the office, and have been described; uuder the name of ligaments. Then the acromion and:; coracoid process, with the strong broad ligaments* stretched betwixt them, secure the articulation above,t where the greatest and most frequent force is applied^ to thrust the head of the bone out of its place. It is trr.e that there is not nearly so strong a defence at thee lower part of the articulation-, but in the ordinaryv postures of the arm, that is, so long as it is at an acute, angle with the trunk of the body, there cannot be any^ force applied at this place to occasion a luxation, since* the joint is protected so well above. Motions. The motions which the arm enjoys by this articula- tion, are to every side ; and by the succession of theses: different motions, a circle may be described. Besides which, the bone performs a small rotation round its own axis.- But- though this can be performed with the round head in all positions ; yet as these vary, thee effects upon the body of the bone are very different :. For, if the middle of the head is the centre of rotation, , as it is when the arm hangs down bvthe side, the body of the bone is moved only forwards and backwards ; because the axis of motion of the head is nearly att right angles with the length of the bone (c) ; where- as; when the arm is raised to right angles with the. trnnk of the body, the centre of motion, and the axis- of the bone, come to be in the same straight line ; and therefore the body of the os humeri performs the same (a) Hippocrat. de articul. \ 1;