OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. 270 11. If too great a quantity of the liquor of the nerved is determined to a mnsele or muscles, bv any cause which the mind cannot command, such muscle or mus- cles will be convulsed. 12. If the motion of the liquid of the nerves is not uniform, but by disease becomes irregular, an alternate relaxation and contraction of muscles may be the con. sequence. Hence trembling palsies, chorea Sanrti viti, ckc. Hence also the convulsive tremors which animals have when they lose much blood. 15. Though the nerves may not furnish so much li-j quor as may be sufficient to make muscles contract with strength enough to overcome the resistances to their actions, yet there may be a sufficient quantity of liquor in the nerves to allow the impressions of objects to be conveyed to the sensorium. This may be one cause of a member's being sometimes sensible alter it cannot be moved. 14. Unless the liquor of the nerves acquires soma energy in the brain, which we have no reason to think the circulation of the fluids in the vessels can give it,i or unless it has other properties than what we can (lis-; cover in it, or unless there be an agent regulating its 'momentum and course to different parts which we are not conscious of j if some of these, t say, do not obtain, the action of the heart continuing.of equal force to pro- pel our liquors, notwithstanding all the resistances that are opposed to it, is not to be explained. 15. All muscles, but especially the heart, continue to contract in an irregular way, after they are cut away from the animal to which they belonged ; which may he owing to the liquors continuing to flow in die small vessels, and being poured irregularly into.the muscular fibrillae. lb*. It is said that a muscle cutout of the body coir4 tinues some time to be capable of contraction ; where-1 as-by tying its arteries or nerves, while it is otherwise entire in the body, it loses its contracting power, which therefore does not depend on these organs, the arteries or nerves-.