OF THE SKELETON. 203 and rough, for the insertion of the glulceus minimus ; the superior one is smooth, and lias thegluta-us median inserted into it; and the one behind* is made flat and smooth by the tendon of the glutaeus maximus passing over it. The upper edge of this process is sharp and pointed at its back-part, where the glutatus medius is fixed •, but forwards it is more obtuse, and has two superficial pits formed in it: Into the superior of these the pyriformis is implanted ; and the obtvrutov inter~ nus and gemini are fixed into the lower one.—From the backmost prominent part of this great trochanter, a rough ridge runs backwards and downwards v, into which the quadratus is inserted. In the deep hollow, at the internal upper side of this ridge, the obturator exlernus is implanted. More internally, a conoid pro- cess, called trochanter minor %, rises for the insertion of the mitscu/us psoas, and iliacus inlernus ; and the pectineus is implanted into a rough hollow below its internal root. The muscles inserted into these two processes being the principal instruments of the rota- tory motion of the thigh, have occasioned the name of trochanter's to the processes. The tendons that are fixed into, or pass over the great trochanter, cause hruiscs by falls on this part to be attended with great pain and weakness of the limb, which generally re- main long. The hody of the os femoris is convex on the fore- part ||, and made hollow behind §, by the action of the muscles that move it and the leg, and for the con- veniency of sitting, without bearing too much on these muscles ; and probably the weight of the legs depend- in^ from the thighs in that posture contributes to this curvature. The fore-part of the thigh-bone is a little flatted above hy the beginning of the cruraeus muscle, as it is also below by the same muscle and the rectus. Its external surface is likewise made flat below by- * Poplitead. E \ ro|>lituad and distad. E. % Rotator minor. || Rotulad. E. § Toplitcad. E. ^ Fibular. E.