OF THE SKELETON. 57 judged to have been hurt by it (a): for we must think, that the consequences of such a force acting up- on the brain, as was capable of thrusting the bones asunder, must have been fatal, unless it had been thus yielded to. Having gone through the general structure of the Particular cranium, I npw proceed to examine each bone of which B ,nes* that brain-case consists, in the order, in which 1 first named them. The Os Frontis t has its name from its being the Fronta only bone of that part of the face we call the forehead, Bone, though it reaches a good deal further. It has some resemblance in shape to the shell of the concha (rival- vis, commonly called the cockle ; for the greatest part of it is convex externally, and concave internally, with a serrated circular edge; while the smaller part has processes and depressions, which make it of an irregular figure. The external surface of the os froniis is smooth at Processes, its upper convex part; but several processes and ca- vities are observable below: for, at each angle of each < orbit, the bone juts out, to form four processes, two in-*//.- n ■-■> ~< ternal*, and as many external ! ; which, from this.si- ~ . ' ** 1 tuation, may well enough be named angular. Be- tween the internal and external angular processes of each side, an arched ridge is extended, on which the eyebrows are placed. Very little above the internal end of each of these superciliary ridges, a protuberance may be remarked, in most skulls, where there are large cavities, called sinuses, within the bone; of which hereafter.—Betwixt the internal angular pro- cesses, a small process rises, which forms some share of the nose, and thence is named Hasal.£-Some observe * t*UL a protuberant part on the edge of the bone behind (a) Ephemerid. Germ, dec, 2. arm. 9. obs. 230. Ibid. cent. 10. obs. 31. V.-i rider Linden Medicin. phys. cap. 8. art. 4. § 16. Hil.lan. Ohserv. cent. 1. obi. 1. cent. 2. obs. 7. Buuliin. Theat. anat. ,.ftp. r. pecn| n. Observ. lib. 2. observ. 39. -f Hirutrou, B^tyfiK, coronale, iuverecundum, puppis, sensus communis, siricipitw. 'Mesial. E. + Lateral. E.