170 OF THE SKELETON. count, it is composed in adults, are each to be ex- amined. *Jppe* The first, all agree, is somewhat of the figure of <a heart, as it is commonly painted •> only it does not terminate in a sharp point. This is the uppermost thickest part of the sternum. The upper middle-part of this first bone, where it ia thickest, is hollowed, to make place for the trachea arteria ; though this cavity* is formed principally by the bone being raised on each side of it, partly by tlit clavicles thrusting it inwards, and partly by-the sttmo- mastoidei muscles pulling it upwards. On the ont- side of each tubercle, there is an oblong cavity, that in viewing-it transversely from before backwards, ap- pears a little convex : Into these glence the ends of tin* clavicles are received! Immediately below these, thai , sides of this bone begin to turn thinner; and in eacIT a superficial cavity or a rough surface is to be seen where the first ribs are received or joined to the start num. In the side of the under end of this first bonet the half of the pit for the second rib on each side ii formed. The upper part of the surface behind i i covered with a strong ligament, which secures the cla.> vicles ; and is afterwards to be-more particularly take, notice of. _,.,The,second or middle division of this bone, is muc Part lono-er, narrower, and thinner than the first j but, exs cepting that it is a little narrower above than beloTjj it is nearly equal all over in its dimensions of breadt : or thickness. In the sides of it are complete pits fi the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth ribs, and an halt c the pits for the second and seventh ; the lines, whic •xre marks of the former division of this bone, bein extended from the middle of the pits of one side to th middle of the corresponding pits of the other side- Near its middle an unossified part of the bone is somi times found, which, freed of the ligamentous membra* or cartilage that fills it, is described as a hole j and I this place", for the most part, we may observe a trans * 2f *r>, j"S"lum, furcula superior