OF THE SKELETON. The lower surface of the astragalus is divided by an irregular deep rough fossa; which at its internal end is narrow, but gradually widens, as it stretches obliquely outwards and forwards. The smooth sur- face *, covered with cartilage, behind this fossa, is large, oblong, extended in the same oblique situation with the fossa, and concave, for its conjunction with the ay calcis. The back-part of the edge of this ca- vity is produced into two sharp-pointed rough processes, between which is a depression made by the tendon of the flexor pollicis longus. The lower surface before the fossa is convex, and composed of three distinct smooth planes. The long one behind, and the exterior oi* shortest, are articulated with the heel-bone ; while tlie interna!) which is the most convex of the three, rests and moves upon a cartilaginous ligament, tbati* continued from the * cakane'utn to the as seap hoick s.-~- Without which ligament, the astragalus could not be sustained, but would he pressed out of its place by the great weight it supports, and the other bones of the tarsus would he separated. Nor would a bone he lit here, because it must have boon thicker than could conveniently be allowed j otherwise it would break, and would not prove such an easy bending base, to lessen the shock which is given to the body in leaping, running, &c. The fore-part f of this bone is formed into a convex oblong smooth head, called by some its process, which is received by the ay naviculars Hound the root of this .head, especially on the upper surface, a rough. fossa may be remarked. The astragalus is articulated above to the tibia and Oonnesip* fibula, which together form one cavity. Though, in this articulation, the hones have prominences and cavities so small, as might allow motions in all direc- tions 5 yet the flexion and extension are the most con- siderable, the other motions being confined by the- mallcoli, and by the strong ligaments which go-oui * Proximal side. E. f Distal side. E.