66 OF THE SKELETON. pecially near its anterior angle, where sometimes a full canal is formed. They afterwards divide into small furrows, in their progress upwards.—In some skulls a large furrow begins at the hole near the up- " per edge, and divides into branches, which join with those which come upwards, shewing the communica- tions of the upper and lower vessels of the dura mater. —In these furrows we frequently see passages into the diploe; and sometimes I have observed canals going off, which allowed a small probe to pass some inches into the bony substance. Some (a) tell us,' that they have observed these canals piercing the bone towards the occiput.—On the inside of the upper edge of the ossa parictalia, there is a large sinuosity, frequently larger in the bone of one side than of the other, where the upper part of the falx is fastened, and the superior longitudinal sinus is lodged.—Gene- rally part of the lateral sinuses makes a depression near the angle, formed by the lower and posterior sides of these bones ; and the pits made by the pro- minent parts of the brain are to be seen in no part of the skull more frequent, or more considerable, than in the internal surface of the parietal bones. Substance. The ossa parictalia are among the thinnest bones of the cranium ; but enjoy the general structure of two tables and diploe the completest, a.nd are the most equal and smooth. Connexion. These bones are joined at their fore-side to the o*. froutis by the coronal suture; at their long inferior angles, to the sphenoid bone, by part of the s,uture of this name ; at their lower edge, to the ossa iemporunty by the squamous suture, and its posterior additamen- tum; behind, to the os occipitis, or ossa triquelra, by the lambdoid suture ; and above, to one another, by the sagittal suture. ITsegt They have no particular uses besides those men- tioned in the description of their several parts, except what are included in the account of the general struc- ture of the cranium.. Or) Cowper, Anatom. explic. of 90. tab. fig. 2>