OF THE SKELETON. 21Q ance. The > fore-part of this division, on which the rotula moves, is formed like a pulley, the external side of which is highest. Behind, there are two ohlong large heads, whose greatest extent is backwards, for the motion of the tibia; and from the rough cav ity between them, but near to the base of the internal condyle, the strong ligament commonly culled the cross one, has its rise. A little above which a rough protuberance gives insertion to the tendon of the tri- ceps. The condyles, both on the outer and inner side of the knee, are made flat by the muscles passing along them. On the back-part of the internal, a slight depression is made by the tendons of the graci- lis and sartorius; and on the external such another is formed by the biceps flexor cruris; behind which a deep fossa is to ba observed, where the poplitaeus muscle has its origin. From the tubercle immediately before this cavity, a strong round ligament goes out to the upper end of the fibula. Round this lower end of the thigh-bone, large holes are found, into which the ligaments for the security of the joint are fixed, and blood-vessels pass to the internal substance of the bone. State at ' All the processes of the femur are cartilaginous in. Birth. new-born children, and afterwards become small apo- physes, with large epiphyses. Gouue'xion. The thigh-bone being articulated above with the acetabulum of the ossa innomitiata, which affords its round head a secure and extensive play, can be moved to every side j but is restrained in its motion outward-, by the high brims of the cavity, and by the round li- gament ; for otherwise the head of. the bone would have been frequently thrust cut at the breach of the brims on the inside, which allows the thigh to move considerably .inwards. The body of this bone enjoys Motion. little or no rotatory motion, though the head most commonly moves round its own axis ; because the oblique progress of the neck and head from the bone <s such, that the rotatory motion of the head can bring the bodv of the bone only forwards and backwards : Nor h this head, as in the arm, ever capabhrof being