OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 281 ■where there is no addition made to them as in the in- stance already mentioned of the trunk of the fifth pair -while below the dura mater. 3dly, The experiments on living animals shew indeed, that the eyes are af- fected upon cutting the intercostal nerve, hut not hi the way which might have been expected, it the in- tercostal hzd furnished such a share of the nerve that goes to the abductor muscle of the eye ; for it might have been thought, that this muscle would have been so much weakened immediately upon cutting the in- tercostal, that its antagonist the udilvclbr would have, greatly prevailed over it, -and have turned the eye strongly in towards the nose ; which is not said to be a consequence of this experiment. So that the Argu- ments are still equivocal; and more observations and experiments must be made, before it can be determined with certainty, whether the sixth pair gives or receives a branch here. In the mean time, I shall continue to speak about the origin of the intercostal with the ge- nerality of anatomists. At this place where the intercostal begins, the fifth Jgwjnff pair is contiguous and adherent to the sixth ; and it ^ tercpsfal~ generally said, that the ophthalmic branch of the fifth nerve> gives a branch or two to the beginning of the inter- costal, or receives such from it. Others deny any such communication between them and those who U&xm the communication confess, that in some sub-, jects they could not see it. After examining the nerves here in a great many subjects, I cannot deter- mine whether or not there are nervous filaments going from the one to the other. Sometimes I have thought that I traced them evidently; at other times I observed that what I dissected for nervous filaments, was col- lapsed cellular substance ; and in all the subjects where I had pushed an injection successively into the very small arteries, I could observe only ,a plexus of vessels connecting the one to the other. In any of these ways, however, there is as much connexion as, we are as- sured from many experiments and observations on other nerves, is sufficient to make a very great sym- pathy among the nerves here. PomtMv the appear-