OP THE SKELETON. Bones on the lower part of the parietal, where, in both i bones, there are a great many small risings and fur- i rows, which are indented into each other: though i these inequalities do not appear till the bones are se- parated. In some skulls indeed, the indentations Ihere are as conspicuous externally as in other sutures ( («) ; and what is commonly called the posterior part of this squamous suture, always has the evident ser- j rated form; and therefore is reckoned by some (6), I a distinct suture, under the name of additamentum poslerius suturw squajnosce.—I have seen two squa- mous sutures on the same temple, with a semicircular piece of bone between them (c). We ought here to remark, that the true squamous sort of suture is not confined to the conjunction of the temporal and parietal boneSj but is made use of to join all the edges of the bones on which each tem- poral muscle is placed (d) : For the two parts of the , sphenoidal suture which are continued from the ante-, rior end of the common squamous suture just now de- ■ scribed, of which one runs perpendicularly downwards, and the other horizontally forwards, and also the lower part of the coronal suture already taken notice of, may all be justly said to pertain to the squamous su- ture.—The manner how I imagine this sort of suture is formed at these places, is, That by the action of the strong temporal muscles on one side, and by the pressure of the brain on the other, the bones are made so thin, that they have not large enough sur- faces opposed to each other to stop the extension of their fibres in length, and thus to cause the common serrated appearance of sutures explained in p. 31, but the narrow edge of the one bone slides over the other. The squamous form is also more convenient here ; be- cause such thin edges of bones, when accurately ap- («) Columb. de re anat. lib, 1. cap. 4.—Dionis. Anat. 3. de- monst. des us. (A) Albin. de ossib. § 54. (c) Sue Trad, d'osteolop. p. 48. (rf) Vesal. Anat. lib. l.'cap. 6—Winslow, Mem. de l'acad. <es sciences, 1720. B 3