OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 279 O) Sec Zijin, Tab. vi. fig. 1. jE. already mentioned in the description of the first pair. This opthalmic branch likewise supplies the parts at the internal canthus of the orbit, the glandula lacrijmu- lis, fat, membranes, muscles, and teguments of.the eye-lids ; its longest farthest extended branch passing through the foramen superciliare of the os frontis, to be distributed to the forehead (a). The small fibres which this first branch of the fifth and the third pair of nerves send to the eye-ball, being situated on the optic nerve, and, after piercing the sclerotic coat, running along the choroid coat on the outside of the retina in their course to the uvea or ins, may be a cause of the sympathy between the optic nerve and the uvea; by which we more reaoiiy acquire the habit of contracting the iris, and there- by lessen the pupil, when too strong light is ex- cluded and, on the contrary, enlarge the pupil, when the light is too faint. /This, with the sympathy which must arise from some of the nerves of the membrane of the nostrils, being derived from this first branch of the fifth pair of nerves, may also be the cause, why an irritation of the retina, by too strong light, may produce sneezing, as if a stimulus had been applied to the membrane of the nose itself j—why pressing the internal canthus of the orbit, sometimes stops sneezing j why irritation of the nose or of the eye causes the eye- lids to shut convulsively, and makes the tears to flow plentifully ; and why medicines put into the nose, do often great service in diseases of the eyes. In the me- grim all the branches of the nerve discover themselves to be affected : for the fore-hpad is racked with pain, the eye-ball is pained, and feels as if it was squeezed, the eye-lids shut convulsively, the tears trickle down, and an uneasy heat is felt in the nose. Hence we can understand where external medicines will have the best effect, when applied to remove this disease, to wit, to the membrane of the nose, and to the forehead —why alternate pressure near the superciliary hole of the frontal bone, or sneezing, sometimes gives immediate