2GG OF THE NERVES IN" GENERAL. or tlic injuring cause is endeavoured to be forced from the body, as a. tenesmus excites the contraction which publics acrid faces out of the rectum. In both these operations, a convulsive contraction is immediately made in the injured part, or in the neighbourhood of it ; and if the irritation is very strong or permanent, the greater part of .the nervous system becomes affected in that spasmodic or convulsive way. Is it this neces- sity which obliges the mind to exert herself in respira- tion, or in the action of the heart, when the lung-; or heart are sorted with blood ? or the iris to-contract the pupil, when the eye is exposed, to strong light? or snee^isg to be performed when the nose is tickled? tScc. Will not a stimulus of any nerve more readily affect those with which it is any where connected than, the other nerves of the body ? May not this sympa- thy serve as a monitor of the mind rather to employ the organs furnished with nerves thus connected, to •Assist in freeing her of any uneasy sensation, than to make use of any -other organs ? Will not this in some measure account for many salutary operations perform- ed in the body before experience Jias taught us the func- tions of the organs performing them ? This nisusvt -the mind to free the body of what is in danger of being hurtful, may serve to explain the phenomena l a great many diseases, when we are ac- quainted with the distribution of the particular nerves j arid from this we can understand the operation of me- dicines that stimulate •, and may learn how, by exciting a sharp, but momentary pain, we may free the body of another pain that would be more durable ; and that, by having itthus in our power to determine a flow of the liquor, ofthe nerves to any particular part, for the be- nefit of that part, or the relief of any other diseased part, we can do considerable service by a right appli- cation of the proper medicines. /. If a pain-giving cause be very violent or long con- tinued, it destroys the organs either irrecoverably, or puts them so much out of order that they only gra- dually recover. Peopit- have been blind or deaf for ■A\ their lives after a >i.^nt effect of light on their