203 OF THE SKELETON. The Thumb and four Fingers aie each composed of three long hones. The Thumb * is situated obliquely in respect of the Thumb, fingers, neither directly' opposite to them, nor iu the same plane with them. All its hones are much thicker and stronger in proportion to their length, than the. hones of the fingers are : Which was extremely neces- sary, since the thumb counteracts all the fingers. The first bone f of the thumb has its base adapted to the double pulley of the trapezium : For, in view- ing it from one side to the other, it appears convex in the middle ; but when considered from behind forwards, it is concave there. The edge at the fore-part of this base is produced farther than any other part; and round the back part of the base a rough fossa may be seen, for the connexion of the ligaments of this joint. The body and head of this boue are of the same shape as the ossa metacarpi ; only that the body is shorter, and the head flatter, with the tubercles at the fore-part of its root larger. The articulation of the upper end of this bone is un- common : for though it has protuberances and depres- sions adapted to the double pulley of the trapezium } yet it enjoys a circular motion, as the joints do where a round head of one bone plays in the orbicular socket of another ; only it is somewhat more confined and less, expeditious, but stronger and more secure, than such joint- generally are. This bone in children is in the same state with the metacarpal bones. The second bone % of the thumb has a large base formed into an oblong cavity, whose greatest length is from one side to the other. Bound it several tubercles may be remarked, for the insertion of ligaments. Its body is convex, or a half-round behind j but flat be- fore, for lodging the tendon of the long flexor of the thumb, which is tied down by ligamentous sheaths * AiTiv ij tiKcvlv'os, magnus digitus, promanus, t Ptimum intcrnodium, or metacarpal bone of the thumb, AXiov. E. J Secundum inteinodium, proximal phalanx. E,