OP THE SKELETON. 70 H Mesiad. E- muscle lias its origin.—Immediately before the root of the zygomatic process, a considerable hollow is left, for lodging the crotaphite* muscle.—Between the zygomatic, auditory, and vaginal processes, a large cavity is formed ; through the middle of which, from top to bottom, a fissure is observable, into which part of the ligament that secures the articulation of the lower jaw with this bone is fixed. The fore-part of the cavity being lined with the same cartilage which covers the tubercle before it, receives the condyle of the jaw ; and in the back-part a small share of the parotid gland, and a cellular fatty substance, are lodged.—At the inside of the root of the styloid apo- pkyse, there is a thimble-like cavity, where the begin- ning of the internal jugular vein, or end of the lateral sinus is lodged.—And as the sinuses of the two sides are frequently of unequal size; so one of these cavi- ties is as often larger than the other (a).—Round the external meatus audiiorius, several sinuosities are formed for. receiving the cartilages and ligaments of the ear, and for their firm adhesion. Foramina. The holes that commonly appear on the outside of each of these bones, and are proper to each of them, are five.—The Jirst, situated between the zygomatic and mastoid processes, is the orifice of a large funnel- like canal, which leads to the organ of hearing ; there- fore is called meatus auditorius exterhusi.—The second gives passage to the portio dura of the seventh pair of nerves, and from its situation between the mastoid and styloid processes, is called foramen stylo-mastoi- deum%.—Some way before, and to the inside || of the styloid process, is the third hole; the canal from which runs first upwards, then forwards, and receives into it the internal carotid artery, and the beginning of the intercostal nerve; where this canal is about to make the turn forwards, one, or sometimes two very » Temporal muscle. E. (a)"Hi nauld. in Mem. de. I'acad. des sciences, 1 <JU. f TLiffts rut fenestra auriuro. + Aquaeductus Fallopii.