213 OF THE SKELETON. and sartofiius, arc fixed. The lowest part of this sur- face is therefore the place where the tibia-ought to be sawed through in an amputation, so as not to have too long and troublesome a stump, and, at the same time, to preserve its motions, by saving the proper muscles. Below the external edge of the upper end of the tibia, there is a circular flat surface, covered in a recent sub- ject with cartilage, for the articulation of the fibula; between which and the anterior knob, there is a rough- hollow from which the tibialis anttcus, and extensor (Hgitorum* langus, take their origin. From the smooth flat surface, a ridge runs obliquely downwards and inwards, to give rise to part of the solaeus tibia- lis, posticus, zm\fltxor digitprimlangus, and insertion to the aponeurosis, of the semimembranosus which co- vers the popli.acus, and to some of the external fibres of this last named muscle. At the inside of this ridge an oblique plain surface is left, where the greatest part of the jnusculuspoplitaeus is inserted. The remaining body of the tibia is triangular. The anterior angle is very sharp, and is commonly called the spine or s/u'jif. This ridge is not straight but turns fust inwards, then outwards, and lastly inwards again. The plain internal side is smooth and equal, being lit- tle subjected to the actions of muscles ; but the external J side is hollowed above by the tibialis an- ticus, and below by the extensor cligitorum Imgus and extensor pallia's langus. The two angles behind these sides are rounded by the action of the muscles*, —the posterior side comprehended between them is not so broad as those already mentioned, but is more oblique and flatted by the action of the tibialis posticus and flexor cligitorum longus.—Some way above the middle of the bone, the internal angle terminates, and the bone is made round by the pressure of the muscu- * It is scarcely necessary to lemark, that here, and in all succeeding passages where the jlcxors and cxte?isors of the toes are mentioned, the word pedis is understood. E. f A*».».%, spina, crca, linca puma tibia?, angulus acutus, \ Fibular. E.