©F THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 285 After these branches are sent ofF, the par tfagum on each side descends behind the great branch of the tra- chea, and gives numerous filaments to the lungs, and some to* the heart in going to the oesophagus. The one of the left-side running on the fore-part of the oesopha- gus, communicates by several branches with the right one in its descent to be distributed to the stoniach : The right one gets behind the oesophagus, where it splits and rejoins several times before it arrives at the stomach, to which it sends nerves ; and then being joined by one or more branches from the left trunk, they run towards the celiac artery, there to join into the great semilunar ganglion formed by. the two inter- costals (o). From the distribution of this par vagum, we may learn how tickling the fauces with a feather or any such substance, excites a nausea and inclination to vomit;—why coughing occasions vomiting, or vomit- ing raises a cough. Hence we see how the nervous. asthma and the tussis convulsiva, or chincough, are at- tended with a straitening of the glottis;—why food difficult to digest occasions the asthma to weakly- people ; and why emetics have frequently cured the asthma very speedily ;—why an attempt' to vomit is sometimes in danger of suffocating asthmatic people ; —why the superior orifice of the stomach is so sen- sible, as to be looked on as the seat of the soul by some —why people subject to distension's of the stomach, have so often the sensation of balls 411 their breasts and throats j—why the globus hystericus is so often attended with a violent strangulation at the glottis, Sfc. The Ninth Pair * of nerves comes from the in- Niitth ferior part of the corpora pyramidalia, to go out of the skull at their proper holes of the occipital bone. After their egress they adhere for some way firmly to the eighth and intercostal ; and then sending a branch, that in many subjects is joined with branches of the («") Sec Walter Tab. nervor. Thorac. et Alxlomin. E. * Hjj-wglossi, linguales. E.