OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 289 ed with those that are sent to the inferior extremi- ties (a). The almost universal connexion and communication which this nerve has with the other nerves of the bod)', may lead us to understand the following, and a great many more phccnomena :—Why tickling the nose causes sneezing.—Why the too great quantity of bile in the cholera occasions vomiting as well as purging.— Why people vomit in colics, in inflammations, or other irritations of the liver, or of the ducts going from it and the gall bladder.—Why a stone in the kindneys, or ure- ters, or any other cause irritating those organs, should so much more frequently bring on vomiting and other disorders of the stomach, than the stone, or any other stimulating cause in the bladder does.—Why vomiting is a symptom of danger after child-birth, lithotomy, and other operations on the parts in the pelvis.—Why the obstructions of the mc?iscs are capable of occasion- ing strangulations, belchings, colics, stomach-aches, and even convulsions in the extremities. Why vesica- tories, applied from the ears to the clavicles of children labouring under the tussis convt/lsiva *, are frequently of great service. Why worms in the stomach or guts excite an itching in the nose, or grinding of the teeth. Why irritations in the bowels or the belly occasions sometimes universal convulsions of the body. The spinal nerves rise generally by a number ofSpinal disgregated fibres from both the fore and hack-part 0fuerves' the medulla spinalltSj and soon after form a little knot or ganglion, where they acquire strong coats, and are extended into firm cords. They are distinguished by numbers, according to the vertebra from between which they come out ; the superior of the two hones forming the hole through which they pass, being the one from which the number is applied to each nerve. There are generally said to be thirty pairs of them : seven of which come out between the vertebra of the neck, (a) Sec Girardi <lc nervo intercostali in Ludwig. T. Hi. p. 78, Wiisberg de nervis viscer. abdomin in J,udwig. T. iv. p. 50 and Monro Ncrv. Syst. p. 141. Tab. xxi. E. * Pertussis or liooping-cougbi E. O