OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. 13 the bone (a). These processes being of a very de- licate texture, the adhesion of this membrane to the bone is so small, that it separates commonly more easily from the bone than from the marrow which-it contains : Wherefore, one might call it the common membrane of the marrow, rather than by the name it now has. But whether the one or the other de- signation ought to be given it,, is not worth a dis- pute. From the internal surface of the internal perios* teum, a great number of thin membranes is produced ; which, passing across the cavity, unite with others of the same kind, and form so many distinct bags, which communicate with each other; and these again are Subdivided into communicating vesicular cells, in which the marrow is contained. Hence it is that the marrow, when hardened, and viewed with a microscope, appears like a cluster of small pearls ; and that the hardened marrow of bones buried long under ground, or laid some time in water, and then dried, is granulous (b). This texture is much the same with what obtains in the other cellular parts of the body, where fat is collected ; only that the cells containing the marrow are smaller than those of the tunica adiposa, or cellulosa elsewhere, which is probably owing to their being inclosed in the bones, where they are not so much stretched or extended as in other parts. The Marrow is the oily part of the blood, separ- Marro% ated by small arteries, and deposited in these cells. Its colour and consistence may therefore vary accord- ing to the state of the vessels, and their distribution on the membranes of the cells. The marrow, as well as the other fat of the body, chemically analyzed, yields, besides oil and water, a considerable proportion of an acid liquor, but no alkali (c). This may be the reason of its being less (a) Winslow Exposition anat. des os frais, ยง 82, 83. (5) Ruysch Thesaur. 9. num. 2. et Advers. dec. 111. obs. 9. (c) Grutzmaker Dissert, de ossium medulla. Haller Ele- ment, phytiolog. lib. 4. sect. 4.