OF THE SKELETON. (ft) Wiuslow Memoircs dc l'acad. des sciences, 1720. 1G4 Articuk- The ribs then are articulated at each end, of which! turn. the one behind is doubly joined to the vertebrae ; foi I the head is received into the cavities of two bodies ol the vertebrae, and the larger tubercle is received intc j the depression in tiie transverse process of the loweei vertebra.—When one examines the double articular tion, he must immediately see, that no other motionti can here be allowed than upwards and downwards; J since the transverse process hinders the rib from being thrust back, j the resistance on the other side of the sternum prevents the ribs coming forward j and eacfcl of the two joints, with the other parts attached, oppose* its turning round. But then it is likewise as evident! that even the motion upwards and downwards can bex but small in any one rib at the articulation itself. Bui: as the ribs advance forwards, the distance from theiiii centre of motion increasing, the motion must b« larger j and it would be very conspicuous at their am terior ends, were they not resisted there by the carti-i lages, which yield 90 little, that the principal motiow is performed by the middle part of the ribs, whictt turns outwards and upwards, and occasions the twisi-i remarkable in the long ribs at the place near tbehi fore-end where they are most resisted («). Varieties Hitherto t have laid down the structure and con* nexion which most of the ribs enjoy, as belonging tc all of them ; but must now' consider the specialties wherein any of them differ from the general desenpf tion given, or from each other. In viewing the ribs from above downwards, then* figure is still straighter-, the uppermost being the mosW crooked of any. Their obliquity in respect of the spine increases as they descend y so that though theiw distance from.each other is very little different at thea back part, yet at their fore ends the distances betweers the lower ones must increase... In consequence, too. of this increased obliquity of the lower ribs, each ol- their cartilages makes a greater curve in its progress- from the rib towards the sternum ; and the tubercles -