84. OF THE SKELETON. inside, somewhat lower than the temporal apophyses, and is smooth and hollowed, where it makes up part of the orbit, is thence named orbilar process. Behind the edge, separating these two processes, there is often a small groove, made by a branch of the superior maxillary nerve, in its passage to the temporal muscle. The lowest and back-part of each wing, which runs out sharp to meet the ossa pelrosa, has been styled the spinotis process : From near the point of which a sharp pointed process is frequently produced down- wards, which some call styliform, that affords origin to the plery-staphylinus cxternus muscle. From this styloid process a very small groove is, extended along the edge of the bone to the hollow at the root of the internal plate of the following processes, which forms part of the Eustachian tube (a).—The second pair of external processes of the cuneiform bone is the two which stand out almost perpendicular to the base of the skull. Each of them has two plates, and a middle fossa facing backwards, and should, to carry on our comparison, be likened to the bat's legs, but are com- monly said to resemble the wings of that creature ; and^ therefore are named pterygoid or aliform* pro- cesses. The external f plates are broadest, and the internal + are longest. From each side of the ex- ternal plates, the pterygoid muscles take their rise. At the root of each internal plate, a small hollow may be remarked, where the muscidis ptery-staphylinus in- ternus, or circumflexus palati rises, and some share of the cartilaginous end of the Eustachian tube rests ; and, at the lower end of the same plate,'is a hook-like rising or process, round which the tendon of the last named muscle plays, as on a pulley. From the edge of the external plates some small sharp spikes stand out; but their number and bulk are uncertain.—To these another pair may be added, to wit, the little triangular thin process, which comes from each side (a) Winshw, Exposition anatomique du corps liumain, trnite ties os sees, §' 233, * Naviculures. -f Lateral. E. {Mesial. E.