119 OF THE SKELETON. them bear a large share of the great pressure they suffer, and hinder it from acting on their points (a). The base of the first grinder has an edge pointed in :he middle, on its outside, resembling the canini, from ,vhich it slopes inwards till it rises again into a point, [t has generally but one root, which is sometimes long md crooked at its point. The second dens molaris has two points on its base, •ising nearly equally on its out and inside. It has two •oots, either separate or run together, but shorter than he root of the first. These two anterior grinders are nuch smaller than the three that are placed farther >ack in the mouth. The third and fourth are very broad in their bases, pith four or five points standing out; and they have hree or more roots. The fifth, called commonly dens sapientice*, from Dzntes Sa- ls coming through the gums later than the other ptentim. jrinders, has four points on its base, which is not so arge as the base of the third and fourth, and its roots re less numerous. The incisores of the upper jaw, being broader than hose of the lower jaw, make the superior grinders be ilaced so much farther back than the lower ones, that /hen they are brought together, by shutting the nouth, the points of the grinders of the one jaw enter ito the depressions of the opposite grinders, and they re all equally applied to each other, notwithstanding be inequality of their surface. The numerous roots of the denies molares prevent heir loosening by the lateral pressure they suffer in rinding; and as the sockets in the upper jaw are lore spongy, and the teeth are more liable, by their ituation to fall out (6), the grinders there have more umcrous and more separated roots than in the lower uv, (c). The number however of the roots of the (a) Lottie sur l'osteologie; * "Zuifftvitnps. xgamjgi;, o^iytm, sensns, intellectus, seroti? i, cetatem compleutes, genuini, moderatores. (1) Galen, de ossib. cap. 5. (c) Fauchard. Chirurg. dent. chap. 1.