108 T)F THE SKELETON. particularly treated of, after t he description of tlit I sLvrintm. State at The heads and tubercles of the rihs of a new-bom Birth. child have cartilages on them part of which bccom< j afterwards thin ' epiphyses. The bodies of the ribt encroach gradually after birth upon the cartilages so that th* latter are proportionally shorter, when compared to the ribs, in adults, than in children. Ilere I cannot help remarking the wise providence of our Creator, in preserving us from perishing an soon as we come into the world. The ends of th™ bones of the limbs remain in a cartilaginous statu after birth, and are many years before they are enn tirely united to the main body of their several bones whereas the condyles of the occipital bone, and o( thii lower jaw, are true original processes, and ossified bee fore birth, and the heads and tubercles of the ribs ar.n nearly in the same condition ; and therefore the weigbi of the large head is firmly supported j the actions oo sucking, swallowing, respiration, &c. which are indis- pensably necessary for us as soon asl we come into tht' world, are performed without danger of separating th parts of the bones that are most pressed on in.tbes- motions : Whereas, had these processes of the heaci jaw, and ribs, been epiphyses at birth, children mus have been exposed to danger of dying by such a set paration-, the immediate consequences of which woul be the compression of ihe beginning of the spinal man vow, or want of food, or a stop put to respiration. Sternum. The Sternum"*, or breast-bom, is the broad flat bone, or pile of bones, at the fore-part of the thora.\ The number of bones which this should be divide I into, has occasioned debates among anatomists, wbki have considered it in subjects of different ages. Ill adults of a middle age, it is composed of three bone. | which easily separate after the cartilages connecting them are destroyed. Frequently the two lower boo« are found intimately united ; and very often in ol \ Trr'Su?, os pectoris, ensiforroe, scutum cordis.