OF THE SKELETON. 72 die part of the brain, and with furrows made by the branches of the arteries of the dura maler. Petrous From the imder-part of this internal surface, a Portion. larger transverse hard craggy protuberance runs hori- zontally inwards and forwards, with a sharp edge above, and two flat sides, one facing obliquely for- wards and outwards*, and the other as much back- wards and inwards t. To the ridge between these two sides, the large lateral process of the dura maler is fixed. Sometimes a small bone, a-kin to the sesamoid, is found between the small end of this petrous process and the sphenoid bone (a) Towards the back-part of the inside of the os iem- porum, a large deep fossa is conspicuous, where the lateral sinus lies ; and frequently on the top of the petrous ridge, a furrow may be observed, where a small sinus is situated. Foramina. The internal proper foramina of each of these bones are, first, the internal meatus auditorius in the posterior plain side of the petrous process. This hole soon divides into two ; one of which is the beginning of the aquceduct ofFallopiusi the other ends in several very small canals (b), that allow a passage to the branches of the portio mollis of the seventh pair of nerves, into the veslibide and cochlea. Through it also an artery is sent, to be distributed to the organ of s hearing.—The second hole, which is on the anterior plain side of the craggy process, gives passage to a re- flected branch of the second branch of the fifth pair of nerves, which joins the portio dura of the auditory nerve, while it is in the aquceduct (c), small branches of blood vessels accompanying the nerves or passing through smaller holes near this one.—The passage of the cutaneous vein into the lateral sinus, or of a branch * Glabellad and lateracl. E. -J- jtniad and mesind. E. ((/) Riolan. Comment, de ossib. cap. 32.—Winslow, Exposi- tion anatomiqm de corps humain, trait, dps os sees. §. 2GC. (&) Valsalv. De anie humana, cap. 3. § 11. (••) Valsalv. De arm?, cVp. 3. § It'.