16 OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. tell whether they have travelled far or little before they were slaughtered. When the marrow, after having served the uses mentioned, is reassumed into the mass of blood, (as it is continually, in common with all other secreted liquors that have not passages formed for conveying them nut. of the hnrly). it Corrects the too great acri- mony communicated to the saline particles of our fluids by their circulation and heat; in the same manner as lixivial salts are blunted by oil in making soap. Hence, in acute diseases, the marrow, as well as the other fat of the body, is quickly wasted, but must be immediately supplied by liquors from the vessels ; seeing the cells within the bones, which have no assistance to their contraction from the pressure of the atmosphere, cannot collapse, as the tela cetlidaris under the skin does, when the liquor in its cells is absorbed; the bones therefore are al- ways full. Morbid ap- Since it is the nature of all oil to become thin and pearances rancid when exposed long to heat, and bones have explained. mucn 6il in their firm hard substance, we may know why an ungrateful smell, and dark coloured thin ichor, proceed more from corrupted bones than from other parts of the body ; and we can understand the reason of the changes of colour which bones under- go, '_according to their different degrees of mortifica- tion. Hence likewise we may learn the cause of a spina ventosa, and of the difficulty of curing all caries of bones proceeding from an obstruction, and con- sequent putrefaction of the marrow ; and of the quick pulse, thirst, and hectic paroxysms, so often attend- ing these diseases. These phenomena also teach us the reason of the fatal prognosis taken from black fetid urine in fevers. Varieties of Though bones so far agree in their structure and Bonea. annexed parts, yet we may observe a considerable difference among them in their magnitude, figure, situation, substance, connexion, uses, &c. From which authors have taken occasion to distinguish them into as many classes as they could enumerate