OF THE SKELETON. 74- processes are yet to be seen.—Instead of a bony fun- nel-like external meatus audilorius, there is only a smooth bony ring, within which the membrane of the drum is fastened.—At the entry of the Eustachian tube, the side of the tympanum is not completed. A little more outward than the internal auditory canal, there is a deep pit, over the upper part of whose ori- fice the interior semicircular canal of the ear is stretch- ed ; and some way below this, the posterior semicir- cular canal also appears manifestly. Occipital Os Occipitis *, so called from its situation, is con- vex on the outside, and concave internally. Its figure is an irregular square, or rather rhomboid; of which the angle above is generally a little rounded • the two lateral angles are more finished, but obtuse; and the lower is stretched forward in form of a wedge, and thence is called by some the cuneiform process.— If one would, however, be very nice in observing the several turns which the edges of the os occipitis make, five or seven sides and as many angles of this bone might be described. External The external surface is convex, except at the cu- Surface. neiform apophyse, where it is flatted. At the base of this triangular process, on each side of the great hole, but more advanced forwards than the middle of it, appear the large oblong protuberances, named the condyles, to serve for the articulation of this bone with Condyles, the first vertebra of the neck. The smooth surface of each of these condyloid processes is longest from behind forwards, where, by their oblique situation, they come much nearer to each other than they are at their back part. Their inner | sides are lower than the external %, by which they are prevented from slid- ing to either side out of the cavities of the first ver- tebra (a). In some subjects each of these plain smooth surfaces seems to be divided by a small rising in ita * Iwav; basilare, prone, memoriae, pixidis, fibrosum, nervo* ■ sum, lambde. + Mesial. E. % Lateral. E. (a) Galeu. de usu part. lib. 12. cap. 7.