OF THE SKELETON. 106* the transverse ridges of the maxillary and palate bones. From their upper straight edge, two small processes stand out: the posterior, which is the broadest, de- scends to cover some of the antrum Highmorianum ; the anterior rises up to join the os unguis, and to make part of the lacrymal duct. Below the spongy bones already mentioned, there are sometimes two others, one in each nostril, which seem to be a production of the sides of the maxillary sinus turned downwards (a). When this third sort of spongy bone is found, the middle one of the three in each nostril is the largest, and the lowest is the small- est.—Besides all these, there are often several other small bones standing out into the nostrils, that, from their shape, might also deserve the name of turbinata, but are uncertain in their bulk, situation, and num- ber (6). The names of these bones sufficiently declare their spongy substance, which has no firm external plate i covering it. They are joined to the ossa maxillaria, palati, and tinguis in old subjects, by a firm union of substance ;; ancl as this happens also frequently in'people of no great age, some (c) are of opinion, that they should! be esteemed part of the palate-bones; others (d) think,, that since their upper-edge is continued by a plate: to a part of the os ethmoides, they ought to be esteem-- ed to be a part of this bone. Their use is, to straiten the nostrils, to afford a large surface for extending the organ of smelling, to cover, part of the antra maxillaria, and to assist in forming; the under part of the lacrymal ducts, the orifices of:' which into the nose are concealed by these bones. The ossa turbinata are nearly complete in a new born infant. . Vomer, or bone resembling a plough-share, is ther thirteenth of the upper jaw, without a fellow, forming: (a) Cowpcr in Drake's Anthropolog. book. 31 chap. 10. (6) eantorin. Obsei vat. anatomic, cap. 5. § 9. (c) Id. ibid. cap. 5. § 7. (tf) Hunauld. in Meinoires de l'acad. des sciences, 17^0.