OF THE SKELETON-. l$% The atlas, contrary to all the other vertebrae of the spine, has no body 5 but, instead of it, there is a bony arch. In the convex fore-part of which, a small rising appears, where the miesculi longi colli are in- serted } and, on each side of this protuberance, a small cavity may be observed, where the recti intend mino- res take their rise. The upper and lower parts of the arch are rough and unequal, where the ligaments that connect this vertebra to the os-occipitis, and to the se- cond vertebra are fixed. The back-part of the arch is concave, smooth, and covered with a cartilage, in. a recent subject, to receive the tooth-like process of the second vertebra. In a first vertebra from which the second has been separated, this hollow makca the pas- sage for the spinal marrow seem much larger than it really is : On each side of it a small rough sinuositv may be remarked, where the ligaments going to the sides of the tooth-like process of the following vertebra are fastened ; and on each side, a small rough protu- berance and depression is observable, where the trans- verse ligament, which secures the tooth-like process in the sinuosity, is fixed, and hinders that process from injuring the medulla spinalis in the flexions of the head. • The ailas has as little spinal process as body ; but instead of it, there is a large bony arch, that the musl cles which pass over this vertebra at that place might not be hurt m extending the head. On the back and upper part of this arch there are two depressions, where the recti postici minores take their rise ; and at the lower part are two other sinuosities, into which the ligaments which connect this bone to the following one are fixed. 8 The superior oblique processes of this atlas arc large, oblong, hollow, and more horizontal than in any other vcrtebra.-Thej rise more in their external* than internal f brim J by which their articulations with the condyloid processes of the as occipitis are firmer—Under the external edge of each of these ob- *La,craL r" f Mesial. E*