211 OF THE SKELETON. brought to a straight direction with its body j so far however as the head can move within the cavity backwards and forwards, the rest of the bone may have a partial rotation. When the thigh-bone resists the actions of its muscles more than the trunk of the body can then do, as in standing, these muscles have their effect on the trunk, causing it to bend forward, raisin" it up, inclining it to the one or the other side, twisting it obliquely, &c. for which the rolling of the acetabula of the ossa hinominata on the round heads of the thigh-bones is well fitted. The osfemoris is ar- ticulated below to the tibia and rotula in the manner afterwards to be described *.. ^ " The nearness of the small neck to the round head ot the thigh-bone, and its upper end being covered with very thick muscles, make greater difficulty in distin- guishing between a luxation and fracture here, than in any other part of the body. The Leg t is composed, according to the common Leg. account, of two hones,, tibia and fibula, though it seems to have a very good title to a third, the rotuia ; which hears a strong analogy to the olecranon of the ulna, and muves always with the other two. Tibia J, so called from its resemblance to an old musical pipe or flute, is the long thick triangular bone, situated at the internal part of the leg, and continued in almost a straight line from the thigh-bone. The upper end of the tibia is large, bulbous and Upper spongy, and is divided into two cavities, by a rough emj> irregular protuberance ||, which is hollow at its most prominent part, as well as before and behind. The anterior of the two ligaments that compose the great cross *me, is inserted into the middle cavity, and the depression behind receives the posterior ligament. The two broad cavities at the sides of this protuber- * See Barcl. Muscul. Mot. p. 42G. E; f Kvr>yi*x. cms, tibia. } U^Kv/iftwv, ovrmvYiuwv, focile majus, arundo major, camva major carina domcstica cruris. | Atxfvirif, nuPt^ty^Sins, tuber, tuberculum,