114 OF THE SKELETON. small points of the sockets, from being hurt by such pressure.—At the place where the base ends, and the roots begin, there is generally a small circular depres- sion, which some call the neck or collar. Without the gums the teeth are covered with no j membrane, and they arc said to have no proper pc- ■ | riostenm within the sockets, but that is supplied byl the reflected membrane of the gums ; which, after a good injection, may be evidently seen in a young sub- • | ject, with the vessels from it penetrating into the sub- -1 stance of the teeth; and it may be discovered in any,| tooth recently puiled, by macerating it in water (a). | The adhesion of this membrane to these roots is;| strengthened by the small furrows observable onil them. Composi- Each tooth is composed of its cortex, or enamel, and tion an internal bony substance. The cortex has no J cavity or place for marrow; and is so solid and hard, I that saws or files can with difficulty make impression;! on it. It is thickest upon the base, and gradually, assl the roots turn smaller, becomes thinner, but not pro- portionally to the difference of the size of the base andil ■ roots.—The fibres of this enamel are all perpendicular to the internal substance, and are straight on the base, ,! but at the sides are arched with a convex part towards J the roots (6); which makes the teeth resist the com--| pression of any hard body between the jaws, with less?! danger of breaking these fibres, than if they had been j situated transversely. The spongy sockets in whichhl the teeth are placed likewise serve better to prevent:! such an injury, than a more solid base would have j done. Notwithstanding the great hardness of tlnVl cortex, it is wasted by manducation. Hence the j sharp edges of some teeth are blunted, and made :l broad, while the rough surfaces of others are madecj smooth and flat, as people advance in life. The bony part of the teeth has its fib es runningd straight, according to the length of the teeth. When:| (a) Cowper, Anat. Explicat. tab. 92; fig. 7. lit. El {&) Havers Osteolosj. nov. disc. t.