209 OF THE SKELETON. the vastus externus., -where it is separated from the for- mer bv an obtuse ridge. The vastus internus depresses a little the lower part of the internal * surface. The posterior concave surface has a ridge, rising- in ita- middle commonly called lined aspera, into which the fyiccps is inserted, and the short head of the bicps flexor tibiae rises from it. At the upper part of it the me- dullary, vessels enter by a small hole that runs obliquely upwards t. A little above which there is a rough fossa or two, where the tendon of the glutceus masimus is fixed. The lower end of the 'tinea aspera divides into two, which descend towards each side. The two vasti muscles have part of their origin from these ridges j and the long tendon of the triceps is fixed to the internal, by means of part of the fascia Gponeuro- tica of the thigh. Near the beginning of the internal ridge, there is a discontinuation of the ridge, where the. crural artery passes through the apor.eiirosis. Be- tween these two rough lines, the hone is made flat by the large blood-vessels and nerves which pass upon it j and near the end of each of these ridges, a small smooth protuberance may often be remarked, where the two heads of the external gastrocnemius muscle take their rise, and where sesamoid bones are sometimes found \a)\ and from the fore-part of the internal tubercle, a strong ligament is extended to the inside of the tibia. The lower end of the os femoris is larger than any Lower or other part of it, and is formed into a great protuber-dislal end ance on each side, called its condyles ; between which a considerable cavity is found, especially at the back- part, in which the crural vessels and nerves lie im- mersed in fat. The internal condyle is longer than the external, which must happen from the oblique posi- tion of this bone, to give less obliquity to the leg. Each of those processes seems to be divided in its plain smooth surface. The mark of division on the exter- nal { is a notch, and on the internal || a small prolubcv- * Tilmil. E. f Proximad. E. (a) Vesal. lib. 1. cap. 28. & 30. % Fibular. E. || Tibial. E.