216 OF THE SKELETON. ■Remarks I have; taken particular notice of the entry anil direct on the <li- {ion 0f the medullary vessels of the large hones of the lection ot , •,• r \ i • ii- -i the medul- extremities {") > because, in several elmurgical cases, lary ves- * surgeon, who is ignorant of this, may do mischief to sels. his patient. Thus, for example, if these vessels are • opened very near to their entry into the hone, or while they are in the oblique passage through it, an ohstinate hsemorrhagy may ensue : For the arteries being con- nected to the bony passage, styptics, and other like corrugators, are vainly applied ; compressing instru- ■ ments can do no service, and ligatures cannot be em-- ployed. There seems to he a particular design in the contrivance of these canals ; those in the 08 kvmerM tibia, and fibula, running obliquely downwards iron their external entry ', whereas, in the radius, ulna, and I os femon's, they slant upwards, whereby the arteries andi nerves which are sent into these three last bones must suf-- fer a considerable reflection before they come at the con-- celli. The reason of this diversity may perhaps be, that the; arteries which are so small within the bones as to have; no strong contractile propelling force in their coat?, audi where they are not assisted by the action of any mov- ing neighbouring organ, should have, at least in their, passage through the bone, a favourable descent forr their liquids : Which, it is evident, they have in the descending oblique passages formed for them in the first class of bones, viz. the os humeri, tibia, and fibula,. which are generally depending *, and they also mostt frequently acquire the like advantage in the radius,, ulna, and os femoris, because the hand, in the mostt natural posture, is higher than the elbow •, and when we sit or lie, the lower end of the thigh bone comes to^ be at least as-high raised as the upper. " In standing: and walking, or when the arms are moved, the blood i must indeed ascend as it passes through the bones of: the fore-arm and thigh ; but the pressure of the mus- cles then in action, on the vessels, before# they enter- the bones, is sufficient to compensate the disadvantage (a) Havers, Osteolog, nov. disc. 1. p. 59. t