OP THE SKELETON. HI Bmall sharp process frequently jutts out backwards from the edge at the fore-part of this hole, to which a ligament extended from the temporal bone is fixed (a), which saves the nerve and vessels from being too much pressed by the pterygoid muscles.—From the lower side of this hole, either a small superficial canal or a furrow descends, where a branch of the nerve is lodged, in its way to the mylo-hyoidetis muscle and sublingual gland (b).—The other hole is external, at the confines of the chin, where branches of the nerve and vessels comeout.—The canal betwixtthese two holes is formed in the middle of the substance of the bone, and is pierced by a great number of small holes, by which the nerves and blood vessels of the cancelli and teeth pass. This canal is continued a little further than the external hole at the chin.—On account of the vessels and nerves in the lower jaw, fractures of it may be at- tended with dangerous symptoms. The surface of the lower jaw is hard and firm, ex- Substance cept at the spongy sockets, where however it is stronger than the upper jaw.— Its internal substance is cellular without any solid partition between the cancelli in its middle.—At the base, especially of the chin, where this bone is most exposed to injuries, the solid sides of it are thick, compact, and hard. The lower jaw generally receives the roots of six- Connexion, teen teeth into its sockets, by gomphosis ; and its con- dyloid processes, covered with cartilage, are articulated with the temporal bones, in a manner that is not com- monly described aright: For, as was already mentioned in the description of the temporal bones, not only the fore part of the cavity between the zygomatic, auditory, and vaginal processes, but also the adjoining tubercle at the root of the zygomatic process of each os tempo- rum is covered with a smooth cartilage, for this articu- lation.—Here also an intermediate moveable cartilage is placed, which being thin in the middle, and thick at the edges, is concave on both sides; and is connected (a) Weitbrecht. Syndesmolo?. fig. 32. 1, (6) Palfyn. Ahat. chirur. traite 5. chap. 6.