243 OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. M 2 there suffer-the vibrating force of arteries, or the pres- sure of the contracting fibres of muscles. 1.6. The larger cords of the nerves divide into Ramificsf branches as they go off to the different parts ; the w>u. branches being smaller than the trunk from which they come, and making generally an acute angle where they separate. 17. In several places, different nerves unite into one cord, which is commonly larger than any of the nerves which form it,. 18. Several nerves, particularly those which are Ganglions; distributed to the bowels, after such union, (§ 17-)> suddenly form a hard knot considerably larger than all the nerves of which it is made. These knots were called corpora olivaria, and are now generally named ganglions. 19. The ganglions have thicker coats, more nu- merous and larger blood-vessels than the nerves ; so that they appear more red and muscular. On dissect- ing the ganglions, fibres are seen running longitudi- nally in their axes, and other fibres are derived from their sides in an oblique direction to the longitudinal ones. 20. Commonly numerous small nerves, which con- junctly are not equal to the size of the ganglion, are sent out from it, but with a structure no way differ- ent from that of other nerves *. 21. The nerves sent to the organs of the senses, Pulpy con- lose there their firm coats, and terminate in a pulpy science of substance. The optic nerves are expanded into the ;xtreme soft tender webs, the retina. The auditory nerve has tlbrlls* scarcely the consistence of mucus in the veslibulum, cochlea, and semicircular canals of each ear. The papilla: of the nose, tongue, and skin, are very soft. 22. The nerves of muscles can likewise be traced till they seem to lose their coats by becoming very soft; from which, and what we observed of the sen- * On the structure of the &ar>£lions, See Monro, Nerv. Syst. p. 50 Bichat. Anat. Gener. Part. I. and Haase De GangL N\rvor. in Ludwig. Script. N> u,.>i. vol. i. p. 61. E.