49 OF THE SKELETON. dently appears from the drops of blood they pour out, when the skull is raised from the dura mater in a re- cent subject; and therefore they may furnish a suf- ficient quantity of liquors necessary to prevent the brittleness of this thin part, The knowledge of these pits should teach surgeons to saw cautiously and slowly through the external table of the skull, when they are performing the operation of the trepan; since, in a patient whose cranium has these pits, the dura mater and brain may be injured, before the in- strument has pierced near the ordinary thickness of a table of the skull.—The internal base of the skull is extremely unequal, for lodging the several parts and appendices of the brain and cerebellum, and al- lowing passage and defence to the vessels and nerves that go into, or come out from these parts. The bones of the cranium are composed of two Tables tables, and intermediate cancelli, commonly called Diploe. their diploe*. The external table is thickest; the inner, from its thinness and consequent brittleness, has got the name of vilrea. Whence we may see the reason of those mischievous consequences which so often attend a collection of matter in the diploe, either from an external or internal cause, before any sign of such a collection appears in the teguments that cover the part of the skull where it is lodged (a). The diploe has much the same texture and uses in the skull, as the cancelli have in other bones. The diploe of several old subjects is so obliterated, that scarcely any vestige of it can be seen ; neither is it observable in some of the hard craggy bones at the base of the skull. Hence a useful caution to surgeons who trust to the bleeding, want of resistance, and change of sound, as certain marks in the operation of the trepan, for knowing when their instrument has sawed through the first table, and reached the N diploe (b). In other people, the diploe becomes of a " Meditullium, commiss.ura. (a) Bonet. Sepulchret. Anat. lib. 1. § 1. obi. 95.—1-03.- (f>) Bartholin. Anat. reform, lib. 4. cap. A: D