175 OF THE SKELETON. I/filch, as a clavis or beam, it bears off from the trunk f f the body. The clavicle, as well as other long round bones, is ttrger at its two ends, than in the middle. The end ext to the sternum * is triangular : The angle be- ind is considerably produced, to form a sharp ridge, > which the transverse ligament extended from one lavicle to the other is fixed (o). The side opposite •p this is somewhat rounded. The middle of this pro- iberant end is as irregularly hollowed, as the cavity 1 the sternum for receiving it is raised ; but in a re- ent subject, the irregular concavities of both are sup- plied by a moveable cartilage, which is not only uuch more closely connected every where by liga- tents to the circumference of the articulation, than mose of the lower jaw are , but it grows to the two pnes at both its internal f and external % end ; its sub- jiancc at the internal end being soft, but very strong, pid resembling the intervertebral cartilages (h). From this internal end, the clavicle, for about two . fths of its length, is bended obliquely forwards and own wards. On the upper and fore-part of this cur- ature a small ridge is seen, with a plain rough sur- ice before it whence the musciilus sterno-hyoideuz nd surno-mastoideus have in part their origin. Near ie lower angle a small plain surface is often to be :marked, where the first rib and this bone are con- guous (r), and are connected by a firm ligament (d). 'rom this a rough plain surface is extended out- ards, where the pectoral muscle has part of its origin, iiehind, the bone is made flat and rough by the in- jrtion of the larger share of the subclavian muscle, ifter the clavicle begins to be bended backwards, it. ' * Tltt(><]t<Tt{)a.yif. (a) Riolati Encheirid. Anat. lib. 6. cap. 13.—Whislow, ixpos. Anat. des os fVais, § 248.—Weitbrecht. Act. Petropolit. »m. iv. p. 255. et Syndesniolog, sect. 2 I. § 5. ! f Mesial. E. f Lateral. E. (ft) Weitbrecht, Syudcsmolog. sect. 2. I. § 6. (c) Dionis. Sixieme demonst. des os. (d) Weitbrecht. Syndesmolog. sect. 2. I. $ 7;