OF THE SKELETON". 83 branous sides of which the substances conveyed along with the air must strike ; to form part of the orbit of the eyes and septumnarium; while all its parts are so light as not to be in hazard of separating by their weight; and they are so thin, as to form a large sur- face, without occupying much space.—This brittle substance, however, is sufficiently protected from ex- ternal injuries by the firm bones which cover it. If this bone is seized on by any corroding matter, Diseases, we may easily conceive what destruction may ensue. Hence it is, that an ozaena is difficult to cure; and . that, in violent scurvies or in the lues venerea, the fabric of the nose, the eyes, and life itself are in danger.—The situation of the nasal plate may shew us, how dangerous a fracture of the bones of the nose may be, when made by a force applied to their mid- dle fore-part, of a person in whom this nasal plate is perpendicular. The ethmoid bone of ripe children is divided into State at two, by a perpendicular cartilage, which, when ossi- Bfosh;. fied, is the crista galli, and nasal plate r but its other parts are ossified and complete. OsSphenoides *, or wedge-like bone, so called be- Sphenoid cause of its situation in the middle of the bones of the Bune. cranium and face, is of such an irregular figure, that I know not any thing to which it may be likened, unless, perhaps, it bear some faint resemblance to a bat with its wings extended. When we view the external surface of the os sphe- External noidcs, two or three remarkable processes from each Surface, side of it may be observed, which are all of them subdivided.—The first pair form the two*arge Processes, lateral processes or wings ; the upper part of each of which is called the temporal process, because they join with the temporal bones in forming the temples, and the seat for some shareof the crotaphitef muscles. That part of the wings which juts out towards the * Cuueiforme, wtXvpotfM, niu!ti<bimr, paxi'lum, cr:b/atum * palati, eolatorii, cavilla, basilare. r f Temporal n uscles. E.