OF THE SKELETON. 165 that arc articulated to the transverse processes of the vertebrae, have their smooth suifaces gradually facing- more upwards. The ribs becoming thus more ob- lique, while the sternum advances forwards in its de- scent, makes the distance between the sternum and the anterior end of the lower ribs greater than between the sternum and the ribs above ; consequently the car- tilages of those ribs that are joined to the breast-bone are longer in the lower than in the higher ones. These cartilages are placed nearer to each other as the ribs descend, which occasions the curvature of the carti- lages to be greater, The length of the ribs increases from the first and uppermost rib, as far down as the seventh ; and from that to the 12th, as gradually diminishes. The supe- rior of the two plain, or rather hollow surfaces, by which the ribs are articulated to the bodies of the ver- tebrae, gradually increases from the first to the fourth rib, and is diminished after that in each lower rib.— flie distance of their angles from the heads always in- creases as they descend to the ninth, because of the greater breadth of the sacrohtmbalis muscles (a). The ribs are commonly divided into true mnd false, t The true* costae are the seven upper ones of each True Ribs, side, whose cartilages are all gradually longer as the ribs descend, and are joined to the breast-bone ; so [bat being pressed constantly between two bones, :bey are flatted at both ends, and are thicker, harder, md more liable to ossify, than the other cartilages :hat are not subject to so much pressure. These ribs include the heart and lungs; and therefore are the proper or true custodes of life. The five inferior ribs of each side are the false or^ahe nibs Bastard,* whose cartilages do not reach to the ster- wm; and therefore, wanting the resistance at their 'ore-part, they are there pointed; and, on this ac- (a) Winslow, Exposition anatomique des os sees, $ 645. * Tr/jimi, Germ hi) ib le«itimae. * MxxBaxai, £«ySg9$:(«?) kohSxi, arms, fiett, adulterinse, spuriue, illegitimec.