OP THE SKELETON. 63 From the description of these sinuses, it is evident, i how useless, nay, how pernicious it must he, to apply i a trepan on this part of the skull; for this instrument, instead of piercing into the cavity of the cranium, would reach no further than the sinuses; or, if the in- ner table was perforated, any extravasated blood that happened to be within the skull, would not be dis- charged outwardly, but would fall into the sinuses, there to stagnate, corrupt, and stimulate the sensible i membranes; from which also there would be such a i constant flow of glairy mucus, as would retard, if not hinder a cure, and would make the sore degenerate ! into an incurable Jistula. Besides, as it would be al- most impossible in this case to prevent the air, pass- ing through the nose, from having constant access to the dura mater, or brain ; such a corruption would be brought on these parts, as would be attended with great danger. Further, in respiration, the air rush- ing violently into these cavities of the osfrontis, and passing through the external orifice, whenever it was not well covered and defended, would not only prevent the closing up of the external orifice, but might other- wise bring on bad consequences (a).—The membrane lining these sinuses is so sensible, that inflammations of it must create violent torture (b) ; and worms, or insects crawling there, must give great uneasiness (c). The upper circular part of the os frontis, is joined Connexion to the ossa parielalia, from one temple to the other, by the coronal suture. From the termination of the coronal suture to the external angular processes, this bone is connected to the sphenoid by the sphenoidal suture. At the external canthi of the eyes, its an- gular processes are joined by the transverse suture to the ossa malarum, to which it adheres one third down the outside of the orbits ; whence to the bottom of (a) Paaw, de Ossibus, pars. 1. cap. 7.—Palfyne Anatom. chir. traite 4. chap. 15. Nouvelle osteologie, partie Q. chap. 3. (£) Fernel. Patholog. lib. 5. cap. 7.—Saltzman Decur. ob- serv. 10. (c) Fernel. Patholog. lib. 5. cap. 7.—Bartholin. Epistol. medic, cent 2. epist. 74.—Hist. d»l'acad. des sciences, 1708 & 1733.