OF THE SKELETON. " 5i 2. tween the spine and this ridge, the ghitaciis medius takes its rise. Immediately from above the lowest of the anterior spinal processes, a seGond ridge is stretch- ed to the niche. Between this and the former ridge, the glutaeiis minimus has its origin. On the outside of the posterior spinal processes, the dorsum of the os ilium is flat and rough, where part of the musctdus glu- taeiis masntmus and pyriformis rises. The iowest part of this bone is the thickest, and is formed into a large cavity with high brims, to assist in composing the great acetabidum ; which shall be considered, after all the three bones that constitute the os innominutum are des- cribed. The internal surface of the os ilium is concave in its internal, broadest fore-part, where the internal iliac muscle has Surface, its origin, and some share of the intestinum Hi and colon is lodged. From this large hollow, a small sinuo- sity is continued obliquely forwards, at the inside of the anterior inferior spinal process, where part of the psoas and iliacus muscles, with the crural vessels and nerves pass. The large concavity is bounded below by a sharp ridge, which runs from behind forwards j and, being continued with such another ridge of the os pubis, forms a line of partition between the ubdomen ■and pelvis. Into this ridge the broad tendon of the psoas parius is inserted. ; All the internal surface of the os ilium, behind this ridge, is very unequal: For the upper part is flat, but spongy, where the sacrolvmbalis and longissimus doisi rise. Lower down, there is a transverse ridge from which ligaments go out to the os sacrum. Immediate- ly' below this ridge, the rough unequal cavities and pro- minences are placed, which are exactly adapted to those described on the side of the os sacrum. In the same manner, the upper part of this rough surface is porous, for the firmer adhesion of the ligamentous cel- lular substance ; while the lower part is more-solid, and covered with a thin cartilaginous skin, for its im- moveable articulation with the os sacrum. From all the circumference of this large unequal surface, lie*,