*5G2 OF THE NERVES IN GENEUAL. Nntrition by iiK-an- of nerves Coiwiili-l - Sensation. 0'4'. But since such a superficial account would not be satisfactory, it will he expected, that the principal phenomena of these three functions should be explain- ed by the means of such a fluid as has been supposed ; and that the several objections against this doctrine should be answered : Let us attempt this ; and where we cannot extricate ourselves from difficulties which may be thrown in, let us honestly acknowledge igno- rance. 6.5. x If water, with a very small proportion of oils and salts from the earth, proves a fit nourishment for vegetables, such a liquor as the fluid of the nerves has been described ( 56) may not be unfit for re- pairing the waste in animals. p. The slow continual motion of this nervous fluid (§ 58, 59,) to the most minute parts of the body (•§ 10.), is well enough calculated to supply the par- ticles that are constantly worn off from the solids by the circulation of the liquors and necessary actions of life. y. The greater proportional size of the encephalon in young creatures than in adults, seems calculated for their greater propoitional growth: For the younger the animal is, the larger encephalon and speedier growth it has. i. A palsy and atrophy of the members generally- accompanying each other, shew, that nourishment, sensation, and motion, depend on the same cause. e. It was said fj 26.), that the nerves were prin- cipal instruments in nutrition : It was not affirmed, that they were the sole instruments; and therefore an atrophy may proceed from the compression or other lesion of an artery, without being an objection to the doctrine here laid down. 66. a. All objects of sense, when applied to their proper organs, act by impulse ; and this action is capable of being increased by increasing the impelling force. In tangible objects, that is clearly evident ; the closer they are pressed to a certain degree, the more distinct perception ensues. Odorous particles need the assistance of air moved rapidly, to affect our