214 OF THE SKELETON. lus solaeus. Near to this, the passage of the medul-- lary vessels is seen slanting obliquely downwards. Lower or The lower end of the tibia is madei_ hollow, but so > Distal'end. that a small protuberance rises in the middle. Tbe internal side of this cavity, which is smooth, and, in at recent subject, is covered with cartilage, is producedJ into a considerable process, commonly called malleo- lus interims * ; the point of which is divided by aa notch, and from its ligaments are sent out to the foot.. We ought to observe here, that this internal malleolus is situated more forwards than the internal condyle of' the upper end of this bone ; which is necessary to bet remembered in reducing a fracture of the leg («). The external side of this end of the tibia has a rouglih irregular semilunar cavity formed in it, for receivings the lower end of the fibula. The posterior t side haai two lateral grooves, and a small middle protuberance. In the internal depression, the tendons of the musculiif tibialis posticus and flexor cligitorum longus are lodged and in the externalj the tendon of the flexor longuspol-1- lids plays. From the middle protuberance, ligament- ous sheaths go out, for tying down these tendons. The articulations and motions of the tibia shall be explained, after ^all the three bones of the leg are de- scribed, State at Both the ends of the tibia are cartilages at butb. Birth. and become afterwards epiphyses. _., , Fibula. % is ^e sma1l lonS Done> placed on tlie out> side of the leg, opposite to the external angle of thet tibia; the shape of it is irregularly triangular. Proximal The head of the fibula has a superficial circular End. cavity formed on its Wide, which, in a recent subject is covered with cartilage, but so closely connected to the tibia by ligaments, as to allow only a smal motion backwards and forwards. This head is pro? * ?<p„(i». ««v, talus, clavicula, clavilla interior, clavilla do mestica —Tibial ankle. E. («) Winslow, Exposition anatomique, des os sees, sect. odj. + Popliteal. E } IUfa*vK>0v perone, focile minus, arundo minor, <anm minor cruris, sura, radius.