OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. 251 tories is in much the same way as in the encephalon: The kidneys, for example, have a reticulated cortex of vessels, from which the Eustachian or Belinian me-* ditlla, consisting of longitudinal fibres and a few blood vessels in the same direction, proceeds ; and this me« didla is collected into ten, twelve, or more papilla?, each of which is formed of numerous small separate pipes, which singly discharge the urine into the large membranous tubes ; and these united form the pelvis. Upon comparing this texture of the kidneys with that of the encephalon (§ 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9) the analogy- will be found very strong. 39. In answer to the 2d objection, in § 37- it is granted, that microscopes, injections, and all the other arts hitherto employed, have not shewn the cavities of the nervous fibrils, or the liquors contained in them; and from what was said (§ 10.) of the smallness of the nervous fibrils, it is not to be expected that they should ever be seen. But so long as such a number of little animals can every hour be brought to the ob- jectors, in which they can as little demonstrate the vessels or contained fluids, it will not be allowed to be conclusive reasoning, that, because ocular demonstra- tion cannot be given of either the tubes or their con- tents, therefore they do not exist. For if we have any notion of an animal, it is its. being an hydraulic ma- chine, which has liquors moving in it as long as it has life ; if therefore such little animals have vessels and liquors which we cannot see, why may not some of the vessels and liquors of the human body be also invisi- ble to us ? To avoid this answer to the objection, it is further urged, That though we might not see the nervous tubes or the liquors they contain, as they naturally flow; yet if such liquors really exist, they ought to discover themselves, either by a nerve's swelling when it is firmly tied ; or that, however subtile their fluids are, they might be collected in some drops, at least, when the cut end of a nerve of a living animal is kept some time in the exhausted receiver of an air-jpump. It is affirmed, that neither did the tied nerve swell between the brain and ligature, nor was there any liquor col-