OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 293 nerves, which supply the teguments there, and on the palm of the hand. In opening the basalic vein of the arm, at the ordinary place, the same symptoms are sometimes produced as in opening the external jugular Vein, and from a like cause, to wit, from hurting a branch of this cutaneous nerve with the lancet. 4. Musculo-Cutaneus, orperforans Casseri, passes Muscnlo- through the coracobrachial muscle ; and after sup- cutaneus. plying the biceps-flexor cubiti and brachiceus interims, passes behind the tendon of the biceps, and over the cephalic vein, to be bestowed on the teguments on the outside of the fore-arm and back of the hand. This nerve is sometimes hurt in opening the cephalic vein, and causes pain and numbness for a short time (a). 5. Muscularis * has a spiral course from the axilla, Muscular under the os humeri, and backward to the external part of that bone, supplying by the way of the extensor muscles of the fore-arm, to which it runs between the two brachcei muscles, and within the supinator radii longiis. At the upper part of the fore arm, it sends off a branch, which accompanies the supinator longus till it comes near the wrist, where it passes obliquely over the radius to be lost in the back of the hand and fin- gers. The principal part of this nerve pierces through the supinator radii biwis, to serve the muscles that ex- tend the hand and fingers, whose actions are not in- jured when the supinator acts (b). 6. Ulnaris is extended along the inside of the arm, Tjlnaris., to give nerves to the muscles that extend the fore-arm and to the teguments of the elbow : Towards the lower part of the arm, it slants a little backward to come at the groove behind the internal t condyle of the os hu- meri, through which it runs to the ulna: In its course along this bone, it serves the neighbouring muscle; and teguments-, and as it comes near the wrist, it de- taches a branch obliquely over the ulna to the back of the hand, to be lost in the convex part of several fiu- (a) Monro New. Syst. p 356. Tab. xvi. Ei * Spiral; Radial of Winslow. E. (b* Monro New. Syst. p. 156- Tub. xvi, E. ■f Ulnar condyle. II.