OF THE SKELETON. 182 scapula is connected to the head, os hyoides, vertebrae, J ribs, and aim-hone, by muscles, that have one end fastened to these bones, and the other to the scapula,, which can move it upwards, downwards, backwards, J or forwards ; by the quick succession of these mo- tions, its v/hole body is carried in a circle. But be-, ing also often moved as upon an axis perpendicular to J its plane, its circumference turns in a circle whoseH centre is this axis (a). Whichever of these motions-; it performs, it always carries the outer end of* the cla- vicle and the arm along with it. The glenoid cavity J of this hone receives the os humeri, which plays in it; as a ball in a socket, as will be explained more here-- after. Uses. TJje use ofthe scapula is, to serve as a fulcrum tod the arm ; and, by altering its position on differentt occasions, to allow always the head of the os humeri a J right situated socket to move in ; and thereby to as- sist and to enlarge greatly the motions of the superior' extremity, and to afford the muscles which rise from it more advantageous actions, by altering their direc- tions to the bone which they are to move. This bone* also serves to defend the back-part of the thorax, andu is often employed to sustain weights, or to resist forces,-, too great for the arm to bear. State at The base, acromion, coracoid process, and head of Birth. the scapula, are- all in a cartilaginous state at birth j, and the three first are joined as epiphyses ; while thev head, with the glenoid' cavity, is not formed into a dis- tinct separate bone, but is gradually produced by the: ossification of the body of this bone being continued, forwards. Os humeri. The Arm has only one bone, best known by the Latin name of os humeri *; which is long, round, and* nearly straight. Upper or The upper t end of this bone % is formed into a large proximal ea"' (a) See "Winslow, Mcmoires de Tacad. des sciences, 172C. * Acrocolium. -|- Proximal. E. | Ax^x'icc, <p\t»» os bracliii, ami, adjutorius. parfum bra- eliiuni, csniiii brachji.