OF THE SKELETON. teres minor, while it has a fossa formed into it below by part of the subscapularis ; and between the two a ridge with a small depression appears, where the longus extensor cubiti * has its origin. The superior casta is very thin j and near its fore- Superior part there is a similunar niche, from one end of which Costa> to the other a ligament is stretched j and sometimes the bone is continued, to form one, or sometimes two holes for the passage of the scapular blood-vessels and nerves. Immediately behind this semilunar cavity the coraco-hyoid muscle has its rise. From the niche to the termination of the fossa for the teres minor, the scapula is narrower than any where else, and supports the third process. This part has the name of cervix. The whole dorsum of the scapula is always said to Dorsum. be convex j but, by reason of the raised edges that surround it, it is divided into two cavities by the spine, which is stretched from behind forwards, much nearer to the superior than to the inferior casta. The cavity above the spine is really concave where the supra-spinatus muscle is lodged ; while the surface of this bone below the spine, on which the infra-spinal us muscle is placed, is convex, except a fossa that rsns at the side of the inferior costa. - The internal or anterior f surface of this bone is Internal hollow, except in the part above the spiue, which is Surface* convex. The subscapularis muscle is extended over this surface, where it forms several ridges and inter- mediate depressions, commonly mistaken for prints of the ribs ; they point out the interstices of the bundles nf fibres of which the subscapularis muscle is com- posed (o). The spine % rises small at the base of the scapula, Spins, and becomes higher and broader as it advances for- wards. On the sides it is unequally hollowed and crooked, by the actions of the adjacent muscles. Its * Long head of the Triceps brachii, Alb. E. \ Sternal or central. E. (a) Window, in Memoires de Pacad. des sciences, 1722, I -*Xi>> vpwt.nrw, eniinentia sctipularurea