55 OP THE SKELETON. and backwards, to join a process of the cheek-bone to one of the temporal bones, which advances towards the face; so that the two processes thus united, form a sort of bridge, or jugum, under which the temporal muscle passes ; on which account the processes, and suture joining them, have been called zygomatic. It must be observed, that the indentations of the sutures do not appear on the inside of the cranium, by much so strong as on the outside ; but the bones seem joined almost in a straight line : nay, in some skulls, the internal surface is found entire, while the sutures are manifest without; which may possibly be owing to the less extent of the concave than of the convex, surface of the cranium, whereby the fibres of the in- ternal side would be stretched farther out at the edge? of the bones, than the exterior ones, if they were not resisted. The resistances are the fibres of the oppo- site bone, the parts within the skull, and the diploe ; of which the last being the weakest, the most ad- vanced fibres or serrw run into it, and leave the con- tiguous edges equal, and more ready to unite : where- as the serrw of the external table have space enough for their admission between the fibres of the opposite bone, and therefore remain of the indented form, and are less liable to the concretion, whereby the sutures are obliterated («).—By this mechanism, there is no risk of the sharp points of the bones growing inwards, since the external serrce of each of the conjoining bones rest upon the internal smooth-edged table ofthe other; and external forces applied to these parts are strongly resisted, because the sutures cannot yield, unless the serrated edges of the one bone, and the plain internal plate of the other are broken (6). The advantages ofthe sutures ofthe cranium are Uses of Hie these: 1. That this capsula is more easily formed and sutures- extended into a spherical figure, than if it had been one continued bone. 2. That the bones which are at some distance from each other at birth, might then (a) Huuau.d. Memoires de l'acad. des sciences, 1730. Winslow, Memoires de l'acad. des sciencesy.1720^