242 OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. It is this cellular substance that is distended when air is forced through a blow pipe thrust into a nerve, and that makes a nerve appear all spongy, af- ter being distended with air till it dries ; the proper nervous fibrils shrivelling so in drying, that they can scarcely be observed. 12. These coats (§ 11.) would not make the nerves strong enough to bear the stretching and pressure they are exposed to in their course to the different parts of the body ; and therefore, where the nerves go out at the holes in the cranium and spine, the dura mater is generally wrapt closely round them, to collect their disgregated fibres into tight firm cords ; and that the tension which they may happen to be exposed to, may not injure them before they have got this addi- tional coat, it is firmly fixed to the sides of the holes in the bones through which they pass *. Nerve? ex- 13. The nervous cords thus composed of nervous tremdy fibrils, cellular coat, pia and dura mattr, have such vascular. m]merous blood-vessels, that after their arteries only are injected., the whole cord is tinged of the colour of the injected liquor ; and if the injection is pushed vio- > lently, the cellular substance of the nerves is at last distended with it. Inelastic. 14 A nervous cord, such as has been just now de- ■ scribed (§ 13.), has very little elasticity, compared! with several other parts of the body. When cut out: of the body, it does not become observably shorter,. whde the blood-vessels contract three eighths of their i length. 15. Nerves are generally lodged in a cellular on fatty substance, and have their course in the inter- stices of muscles, and ether active organs, where they are guarded from pressure ; but in several parts they are so placed, as if it was intended that they should . • Zfnu considers the outer coats of the nerves as merely con- densed cellular substance, and not proci, cL,ons of the dura ma- ter. Monro's Nei v. Sys.t,i>. 48. and Ludwig. Scriptor. Neurolog. Tom. iv. p. 106. E.