or THE SKELETON. ]9X i ligament extended betwixt the two bones of the fore- arm is fixed. A little below the beginning of the plain surface, on its fore-part, where the flexor muscle of the last joint of the thumb takes its origin, the pas- sage of the medullary vessels is seen slanting upwards. —The radius becomes broader and flatter towards the lower end, especially on its fore-part, where its prona- tor quadratu&muscle is situated. The lower end of the radius is larger than the sit* Lower end penor; though not in such a disproportion as the up- per end of the ulna is larger than its lower end. Its back-part has a flat strong ridge in the middle, and fossa; on each side. In a small groove, immediately on the outside of the ridge, the tendon of the extensor teriii internodii pollicis plays. In a large one be- yond this, the tendons of the indicator and of the com- mon extensor muscles of the fingers pass. Contiguous to the ulna, there is a small depression made by the extensor minimi digiti. On the inside of the ridge there is a broad depression, which seems again sub- divided, where the two tendons of the bicornis, or ex- tensor carpi radialis, are lodged. The internal side of this end of the radius is also hollowed by the ex- tensors of the first and second joint of the thumb ; im- mediately above which, a little rough surface shews where the supinator radii longus is inserted. The ridges at the sides of the grooves, in which the tendons play, have an annular ligament fixed to them, by which the several sheaths for the tendons are formed. —The fore-part of this end of the radius is also de- pressed, where the flexors of\the fingers and flexor carpi radialis pass. The external side is formed into a semilunated smooth cavity, lined with a cartilage for receiving the lower end of the ulna. The lowest part of the radius is formed into an oblong cavity : in the middle of which is a small transverse rising gently hollowed, for lodging mucilaginous glands ; while the rising itself is insinuated into the conjunction ot the two bones of the wrist that are received'into the cavUy. The internal side of this articulation is fenced