37 OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. torture occasioned by incisions of ligaments, and by a collection of acrid matter in a joint, or by tophi in the gout, would persuade us, that they are abundantly supplied with nerves. The ligaments which connect the moveable bones commonly rise from the conjunction of the epiphyses of the one bone, and are inserted into the same place of the other ; or where epiphyses are not, they come out from the cervix, and beyond the supercilia of the articulated bones ; and after such a manner, in both cases, as to include the articulation in a purse or bag, with this difference, depending on their different motions, that where the motion is only to be in two directions, the ligaments are, strongest on those sides towards which the bones are not moved ; and when a great variety of motions is designed to be allowed, the ligaments are weaker than in the former sort of articulations, and are nearly of the same strength all round. Part of the capsular ligaments is composed of the periosteum, continued from one bone to another, as was observed p. 2. and their internal layer is con- tinued on the parts of the bone or cartilage which the ligament includes (a.) Besides these common capsular ligaments of the joints, there are particular ones in several places, either for the firmer connection of the articulated bones, or for restraining and confining the motion to some one side ; such are the cross and lateral ligaments of the knee, the round one of the thigh, &c. From this account of the ligaments, we may con- clude, that, cceleris paribus, in whatever articulation the ligaments are few, long, and weak, the motion is more free and quick; but luxations happen frequently; And, on the contrary, where the ligaments are nume- rous, short, and strong, the motion is more confined ; but such a joint is less exposed to luxations (6). Whence we may judge how necessary it is to attend {a) Nesbit, Osteogen,—Philos. transact. No. 470. § 6. (6) Fabric, ab Aquapend. de articul. part, utilit. pars 3.