OF THE SKELETON* 151 Though the name of Ossa Innominata * contri- Ossa Tuna- Lutes nothing to the knowledge of their situation, strue- minatn- ture, or office j yet they have been so long and uni- versally known by it, that there -is no occasion for changing it. They are two large broad bones, which form the fore-part and sides of the pelvis, and the low- er part of the sides of the abdomen. In children each of these bones is evidently divided into three ; which are afterwards so intimately united, that scarcely the least mark of their former separation remain;-'. Not- withstanding this, they are described as consisting feach of three bones, to wit, the os ilium, ischium, and pubis •, which I shall first describe separately, and then shall consider what is common to any two of them, or to all the three. Os Ilium t, or haunch-bone, is situated highest oforMua* the three, and reaches as far down as one third of tho great cavity into which the head of the thigh-bone is ' received. The external side of this bone is unequally convex, External and is called its dorsum j—the internal concave surface Surface, is by some (but improperly) named its casta. The semicircular edge at the highest part of this bone, which is tipped with cartilage in the recent subject, is named the spine, into which the external or descend- ing oblique muscle of the abdomen is inserted ; and from it the internal ascending ohlique and the trans- verse muscles of the belly, with the gluteus maximuv, ftadratui himhorum, and latissuhus dorsi, have their origin. Some (a) are of opinion, that it is only the tendinous crust of all these muscles, and not a car- tilage, as commonly alleged, that covers this bony edge. The ends of the spine are more prominent than the surface of the hone below them ; therefore arc reckoned processes. From the anterior spinal process, * Sx!>J(yv, vr^offtpuiru;, sacro conjuncta. | K«.yivw, cmo.ii, scaphium, lumbare, clunium, clavium an clias ' («) Winslow Exposition anatomise da corps himiain, trait* des os frais, § 96. '