OF THE SKELETON. 177 clavicle shall be considered after the description of the scapula. The clavicles of infants are not deficient in any of State at. their parts ; nor have they any epiphyses at their ex-•Birth* tremities joined afterwards to their bodies, as most other such long bones have, -which preserves them from being bended too much, and from the danger of . any unossified parts being separated by the force which pulls the arm forwards. The uses of the clavicles are, to keep the scapulae, Uses, and consequently all the superior extremities, from tailing in and forwards upon the thorax; by which, as in most quadrupeds, the motions of the arms would- be much confined, and- the breast made too narrow. The clavicles likewise afford origin to.several muscles, and a defence to large vessels. From the situation, figure, and use of the clavicles, it is evident, that they are much exposed to fractures y J:hat their broken parts must generally go past each )ther; and that they are with difficulty kept in their dace afterwards. p Scapula, or shoulder-blade *, is the triangular bone Scapula. liituated on the out-side of the ribs, with its longest bide called its base, towards the spinal processes of the Vertebrae, and with the angle at the upper part of this lide about three inches, and the lower angle at a fcreater distance from these processes. The back-part f If the scapula has nothing but the thin ends of the ser- Yatus anticus major and subscapulars muscles between It and the ribs : But as this bone advances forwards, Its distance from the ribs increases. The upper or Ihortest side, called the superior costa of the scapula, p nearly horizontal, and parallel to the second rib. The lower side, which is named the inferior costa, is Ixtended obliquely from the third to the eighth rib. Hie situation of this bone, here described, is when, " * uftfrXarti, wnZrw, latitudo humeri, scoptulum vel sutulura pertum, spatula, a! humerus, clypcus, scutum thoraeii. f Viz. of the sternal or central surface. E. I 2