OF THE SKELETON. •ance are not equal ; for the Internal is oblong and- deep, to receive the internal condyle of the thigh-bone y while the external is more superficial and rounder, for the external condyle. In each of these two cavit ies o£ a recent subject, is placed a semi-lunar cartilage, which is thick, at its convex edge, and becomes gradu- ally thinner towards the concave or interior edge.— The middle of each of these cartilages is broad, and" the ends of them turn narrower and thinner, as they approach the middle protuberance of the tibia. The, thick convex edge of each cartilage is connected to the capsular and other ligaments of the articulation, but so near to their rise from the tibia, that the carti- lages are not allowed to change place far ; while the narrow ends of the cartilages becoming almost liga- ments, are fixed at the insertion of the strong cross li- gament into the tibia, and seem to have their substance united with it; therefore a circular hole is left be- tween each cartilage and the ligament, in which the most prominent convex part of each condyle of the- thigh bone moves. The circumference of these ca-i vities is rough and unequal for the firm connexion of the ligaments of the joint. Immediately below the edge at its back-part, two rough flatted protuberances stand out : Into the internal *, the tendon of the semi- membranosus muscle is inserted ; and a part of the cross ligament is fixed to the external t. On the out- side of this last tubercle, a smooth slightly-hollowed surface is formed by the action of the poplitccus mus- cle. Budy. Below the fore-part of the upper end of the tibia, a considerable rough protuberance J ri^es, to which the strong tendinous ligament of the rotula is fixed. On the internal side of this, there is a broad scabroua. slightly-hollowed surface, to which the internal long ligament of the joint, the aponeurosis of the vastus in- trmus, and the tendons of the seminervosus, gtacilia * Tibial. E. -) Fibylar. E. } 'i\vTiK.rifuov, anterior tuber.