OF THE SKELETON. 180 ridge* is divided into two rough flat surfaces: I^fc- the upper one, the trapezius muscle is inserted ; and the lower one has part of* the deltoid fixed to it. The end of the spine, called acromion t, or top of the shoul- der is broad and flat, and is sometimes joined to the spine only by a cartilage (a). The anterior edge of the acromion is flat, smooth, and covered with a car- tilage, for its articulation with the external end of the clavicle ; and it is hollowed below, to allow a passage to the infra and supra spinati muscles, and free mo- tion to the os humeri. Coracoid The coracoid J process is crooked, with its point process. inclining forwards j so that a hollow is left at the lower side of its root, for the passage of the infra-scapjila- ris muscle. The end of this process is marked with three plain surfaces. Into the internal, the sarcitis minor anticus is inserted : FrOm the external, one head of the biceps flexor cubiti rises and from the . lower one, the coracobrachial has its origin. At the upper part of the root of this process, immediately be- fore the semilunar cavity, a smooth tubercle appears," where a ligament from the clavicle is fixed. From all the external side of this coracoid apophyse, a broad ligament goes out, which becomes narrower where it is fixed to the acromion. The sharp pain, violent in- flammation, and tedious cure of contusions in this part,, are probably owing to these tendons and ligaments being hurt. Third pro- From the cervix scapulae the third process is pro- oess. dticed. The fore-part of this is formed into a glenoid cavity ||, which is of the shape of the longitudinal sec- • tion of an egg, being broad below, and narrow above. . "Between the brims of this hollow and the fore-part of the root of the spine, a large sinuosity is left for the transmission of the supra and infra-spinati muscles^- * Pterigium, crista. | 'E<r*/«f iyxugtiihtit, xi£&*citor>s, xaraxXwr, acromii os, stim- ulus armus, rostrum procinum. processus digitalis, (a) Sue Trad d'osteol p. 16"0. i 'AyxvpiiSiis, fiyfisiiin;, rostriformis.