OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. ,894 gers. The larger part of the nerve goes straight for- ward to the internal sine of the os pisiforme of the wrist; where it sends off a branch which sinks under the large tendons in the palm, to go cross to the other side of the wrist, serving the mvsculi iumbr kales and intirossei, and at last terminating in the short muscles of the thumb and fore-finger. What remains of the ulnar nerve, after supplying the short muscles of the little- finger, divides into three branches ; whereof two a:-c extended along the sides of the sheath of the tendons of the flexors of the little finger, to furnish the concave side of that finger; and the third branch is disposed in the same way upon the side of the ring-finger next to the little-finger. When we lean or press on the internal condyle of the os humeri, the numbness and prickling we fre- quently feel, point out the course of this nerve. 1 have seen a weakness and atrophy in the parts which I men- tioned as supplied by this nerve, after a wound in the internal lower part of the arm (a). Radial. 7. Radialis * accompanies the humeral artery to the bending of the elbow, serving the flexors of the cubit in its way; then passing through the pronator radii teres muscle, it gives nerves to the muscles on the fore-part of the fore-arm, and continues its course near to the radius, bestowing branches on the circum- jacent muscles. Near the wrist, it sometimes gives oft' a nerve which is distributed to the back of the hand, and the convex part of the thumb and several of the fingers, instead of the branch of the muscular. The larger part of this nerve, passing behind the annular ligament of the wrist, gives nerves to the short mus- cles of the thumb ; and afterwards sends a branch along each side of the sheath of the tendons of the flexors of the thumb, fore finger, mid-finger, and one branch to the side of the ring-finger, next to the middle one, to be lost on the concave side of those fingers (b). (a) Monro Ncrv. Syst. p 156. Tab. xvi. E. * Median ofTViriislow. E. . (b^> Monro Nerr. Syst. p. 138. Tub. xviii. E.