OF THE SKELETON". (b) Havers. Osteolog. nov. disc. 5. p. 281?. 16* surface farthest from the spine, where each rib makes1 a considerable curve, called by some its angle. Then the rib begins to turn broad, and continues so to its an- terior end,* which is- hollow and spongy, for the re- ception of, and firm coalition with the cartilage that runs thence to be inserted into the sternum, or to be joined with some other cartilage. In adults, generally the cavity at this end of the ribs is smooth and polish- ed on its surface j by which the articulation of the cartilage with it has the appearance of being designed for motion ; but it has none. The substance of the ribs is spongy, cellular, and Substance, covered only with a very thin external lamellatcd sur- face, which increases in thickness and strength as it approaches the vertebrae. To the fore-end of each rib a long broad and strong a i ticulat- cartilage is fixed, and reaches thence, to the sternum, oriug Caiti- is joined to the cartilage of the next rib. This course, ,a&es> however, is not in a straight line with the rib for ge- nerally the cartilages make a considerable curve, the concave part of which is upwards therefore, at their insertion into the sternum, they make an obtuse angle above, and an acute one below. These cartilages aie- of such a length as never to allow the ribs to ccme to « right angle with the spine but they keep them si- tuated so obliquely, as to make an angle very consi- derably obtuse above, till a force exceeding the elasticity of the cartilages is applied. These cartilages, as all others, are firmer and harder internally, than they are on their external surface \ and sometimes, in old peo- ple, all their middle substance becomes bony, while a thin cartilaginous lamella appears externally, (ft-) The ossification, however, begins frequently at the exter- nal .surface. The greatest alternate motions of the cartilages being made at their great curvature, that part remains frequently cartilaginous, after all the rebt . is ossified (bj. * ru«T», palmnla. Sternal end. E. (fl) Vcsal. lib. 2. cap. 19.