62 OF THE SKELETON. to the nose, than in others (a).—In some skulls, he- sides the large perpendicular septum, there are several bony pillars, or short partitions, found in each sinus; in others these are wanting. For the most part the septum is entire; at other times it is discontinued, and the two sinuses communicate. When the sinuses are seen in such skulls as have the frontal bone divided by the sagittal suture, the partition dividing these cavi- ties is evidently composed of two plates, which easily separate. Each sinus commonly opens by a roundish small hole, at the inner and lower part of the internal angular processes, into a sinus formed in the nose, at the upper and back part of the os unguis; near to which there are also some other small sinuses of this bone (6), the greater part of which open separately nearer the septum narium, and often they terminate in the same common canal with the large ones. Their uses. In a natural and sound state, these cavities are of considerable advantage ; for the organ of smelKng being thus enlarged, the effluvia of odorous bodies more difficultly escape it; and their impressions be- ing more numerous, are therefore stronger, and af- fect the organ more. That odorous particles may be applied to the membrane of the sinuses, is evident from the pain felt in this part of the forehead, when the effluvia of volatile spirits, or of strong aromatics, are drawn up into the nose by a quick inspiration. .. These and the other cavities which open into the nose, increase the sound of our voice, and render it more melodious, by serving as so many vaults to resound the notes. Hence people labouring under a coryza, ©r stoppage of the nose from any other cause, when they are by the vulgar, though falsely, said to speak through their nose, have such a dis- agreeable harsh voice. The liquor separated in the membrane of these sinuses, trickles down upon the membrane of the nose to keep it moist. (a) Fallop. Exposit. de ossibus, cap. 13. (b) Cowper in Drake's Autbiopolog. book. 3. chap. 10.