OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 296 wise glve branches backwards to the muscles that raise the trunk of the hotly, their principal trunk being ex- tendedoutwards to come at the furrow in the lower edge of each rib, in which they run towards the ante- rior part of* the thorax, between the internal and exter- nal intercostal muscles, giving off branches in their course to the muscles and teguments of the thora.v. First. _ The First dorsal, as was already observed, is par- ticular in this, that it contributes to form the brachial nerves ; and that the two branches of the intercostal, which come down to the thorax, form a considerable ganglion with it. Six Lower. ^ The Six lower dorsal nerves give branches to the diaphragm and abdominal muscles. Twelfth. The Twelfth joins with the first lumbal-, and be- stows nerves on the musculus quadratus lumborum, and iliacas intemus. May not the communications of all" these nerves be one reason, why the parts they serve act so uniformly and conjunctly in respiration, and conspire together in the convulsive motions of coughing, sneezing, &c.— The twitching spasms that happen sometimes in dif- ferent parts of the muscles of the abdomen, by an irri- tation on the branches of the lower dorsal nerves, are in danger of occasioning a mistake in practice, by their' resemblance to the colic, nephritis, &c. The commu- nications of these lower ones with the intercostals, may • • serve to explain the violent effort of the abdominal muscle in a tenesmus and in child-bearing. As the intercostal is larger in the thorax than any where else, and seems to diminish gradually as it as- cends and descends, there is cause to suspect that this is the trunk from which the superior and inferior pain:, are sent as branches. Lumbar The Five Lumbar nerves on each side commun.i- aierves. , cate with the intercostal and with each other, and give branches backwards to the loins. First. The First communicates with the last dorsal, sends branches to the abdominal muscles, to the psoas and. iliacusv and to the teguments and muscles on the fore-