OE THE SKELETON. 25& i/onnexion State at Birth. Os Pubis. Processes. thinner. Its substance is of the structure common to broad bones. The os ilium and pubis of the same side are the only bones which are contiguous to the os ischium. The part of the os ischium which forms the acetabu- lum, the spinous process, the great tuber, and the re- curved leg, are all cartilaginous at birth. The tuber, with part of the leg or process above it, becomes an epiphyse before this bone is fully formed. The Os Pubis *, or share bone, is the least of the three parts of the os innominatum, and is placed at the upper fore-part of it. The thick largest part of this bone is employed in forming the acetabulum; from which becoming much smaller, it is stretched inwards T to its fellow of the other side, where again it grows larger, and sends a small branch downwards to join the end of the small le?; of the os ischium. The upper fore-part of each os pubis is tuberous and rough where the musculus rectus and pyramidalis are inserted. From this a ridge is extended along the upprr edge of the bone, in a continued line with" such another of the os ilium, which divides the abdomen and pelvis. The ligament of Fallopius is fixed to the internal end of this ridge, and the smooth hollow below it is made by the psoas and iliacus internus muscles passing with the an- terior crural vessels and nerves behind the ligament. Some way below the former ridge, another is extended from the tuberous part of the os pubis downwards and outwards towards the acetabulum ; between these two ridges the bone is hollow and smooth, for lodging the head of the peciineus muscle. Immediately below, where the lower ridge is to take the turn downwards, a winding niche is made, which is comprehended in the great foramen of a skeleton, but is formed into a hole by a -subtended ligament in the recent subject, for the- passage of the posterior crural nerve, an artery, and a vein. The internal end of the os pubis is rough and Bnequal, for the firmer adhesion of the thick ligamen- * ?i)B»f, pectinis, penis, pudibundujn, fenestratus;, $ Mesiad.