(a) Gagliard. Anafc. ossium, cap. I. obs. 4, 5, 6, 7. a OV THE BONES IN GENERAL. ture is evident in young animals ; and some of if may be seen to remain in those of greatest age, wheat bones are cautiously opened, after they have beem kept so long as to be free of the oil they contain, or after being burnt. This spongy cavernous internal part of bones, is generally called their cancelli or Lattice-work, andl is formed in the following manner: The plates ares firmly joined about the middle of the bone; but as- they are extended towards its ends, the more inter- nal plates separate from the exterior, and stretch oufct - their fibres towards the axis of the bone, where they are interwoven with the fibres of other plates that have been sent off in the same way. Seeing the; plates are thus constantly going off, the solid sides of the bones must become thinner, and the lattice- work must be thicker and stronger towards their ends.. This is evident in many of them, where the solid, sides of their middle are very thick, and the cancelli. are scarcely observable; whereas, at the ends, where: their diameter is greatest, the solid walls or sides- are not thicker than paper, and the cancelli are nu- merous and large enough to fill up the whole space: Jeft between the sides. The twisting and windings which these cancelli make, and the interstices which they leave, differ, considerably in figure, number, and size; and there- fore form little cells, which are as different, but com- municate with each other. Some writers (a) minute-. 3y remark these different appearances of the cancelli,, after they begin to separate from the plates; and from thence distinguish them into wrinkled, perfo~ rated, and net-like. The cancelli sustain the membranous bags of the marrow which are stretched upon them, and thereby hinder these membranous parts from being torn or removed out of their proper places, in the violent mo- tions and different postures in which the bones are employed. This support which the cancelli afford