OF THE NERVES IN GENErtAL. 244 satory nerves (ยง21.), there is reason to conclude, that the muscular rierves are also pulpy at their termina- tions, which we cannot indeed prosecute hy dissection. 23. It would seem necessary that the extremities of the nerves should continue in this soft flexible state, (. 21, 22.), in order to perform their functions right: For, in proportion as parts become rigid and firm by age, or any other cause, they lose part of their sensibi- lity, and the motions are more difficultly performed. Nervous Though the fibres in a nervous cord are firm- fibrils roi ly connected, and frequently different nerves join into confound- one trunk, or into the same ganglion; yet the sensa- e(*' tion of each part of the body is so very distinct, and we have so much the power of moving the muscles separately, that, if the nerves are principal agents in these two functions, wliich I shall endeavour to prove they are, we have reason to believe that there is no union, confusion, or immediate communication of the proper nervous fibrils, but that each fibre remains distinct from its origin to its termination. Morbid 25. Changes produced any way upon the coats of changes. the nerves, cannot however miss to affect the nervous fibrils. The cellular substance may be too fuil of liquor, or may not supply enough; the liquor may not be of a due consistence, or it may be preterna- turally obstructed and collected. The pia or i.ura mater may be too tense, or too lax ; their vessels may be obstructed ; their proper nerves may be violently irritated, or lose their power of acting; and a great many other such changes may happen, which will not only occasion disorders in particular nerves, but may be a Cause of the sympathy so frequently observed among the nerves ; which is so necessary to be atten- tively regarded in a great many diseases, in order to discover their true state and nature, that, without this knowledge, very dangerous mistakes in the practice of pin sic and surgery may be committed. Nerves the 2fj! Many experiments and observations concur in instiu- proving, that, when nerves are compressed, cut, or any me,"s (,f other way destroyed, the parts served by such nerves, ana'per"' ^ther from the head or spine than where the injuring