OF THE NERVES IN GENERA^. 269 ing force increases. A rope may be stretched to a certain length by a pound weight appended to it, which would require two pounds to stretch it very little further; and therefore the general observation of ani- mal fibres being distractile, cannot he a reasonable ob- jection to the account of muscular motion above men- tioned, unless a proof is brought that the force which the liquid of the nerves must exert upon each fibre oi a muscle, in order to make it act, is capable oi dis- tracting or stretching the fibres; -which,has not yel. been attempted to be proved. It would appear from, the pain caused by too great an effort of muscles, espe- cially in weak people, that muscular fibres can bear very little distraction without danger of a solution oi\ continuity^ 8. Muscles ceasing to act when their arteries arc tied or cut, and being brought into motion by inject- ing liquors into the arteries even of a dead animal, have been mentioned as objections to the nervous influence causing their contractions. To the first of these experiments it may be answered, That the tying or cutting the nerves sooner produces the effect of making the contraction cease, than stop- ping the influx of the arterious blood does; and it will be universally allowed, that the influx of blood into muscles is necessary for performing their functions right. Whoever observes the motion which injecting wa- ter or any other liquor into the arteries of a dead ani- mal, causes in its muscles, will not compare it to what contraction, whether voluntary or excited by irritation, he may see in a living one. 9. If muscular motion depends on the influx of the nervous liquid, the instantaneous contraction of a mus- cle, when the mind wills to make it act, will be easily understood from the nerves being always full of their liquor (ยง 58, 66. a.) 10. If either the nerves of anv muscle do not fur- nish a sufficient quantity of their liquor, or if the fibres of a muscle become too easily distractile, such a muscle will be inactive or paralytic.