IFF OF THE SKELETON. (a) Jac. Syh. Isagog. anat. lib. 1. cap. 2. Baud on the upper-part of these brims we may remark' a smooth surface, where the second head of the biceps miexoi- cubiti has its origin. The root of the suptrcilict Mis rough all round, for the firmer adhesion of the cap- sular ligament of the articulation, and of the cartilage Dwhich is placed on these brims, where it is thick, but Becomes very thin as it is continued towards the middle- |)f the cavity, which it lines all over. The medullary vessels enter the scapula near the pase of the spine. The substance of the scapula, as in all other broad Substance,, tat bones, is cellular, but of an unequal thickness j or the neck and third process are thick.and strong. The inferior casta, spine, and coracoid process, are of i middle thickness ; and the body is so pressed by the nuscles, as to become thin and diaphanous. The scapula and clavicle are joined by plain sur-•Connexion, aces, tipped with cartilage * ; by which neither bone s allowed any considerable motion, being tightly tied own by the common capsular ligament, and by a ery strong one which proceeds from the coracoid pro- ess ; but divides into two before it is fixed into the lavale, with such a direction, as either can allow this ione to have a small rotation, in which its posterior dge turns more backwards, while the anterior one ises farther forwards j or it can yield to the fore-part if the scapula moving downwards, while the back-part f it is drawn upwards ; in both which cases, the cb- ong smooth articulated surfaces of the clavicle and capula are not in the same plane, but stand a little ransversely, or across each other, and thereby pre- erve this joint from luxations, to which it would be ubject, if either of the bones was to move on the other erpendicularly up and down, without any rotation, lometimes a moveable ligamentous cartilage is found r\ this joint; otherwhiles such a cartilage is interposed nly at the anterior half of it j and in some old sub- ects I have found a sesamoid bone here (a). The * Acromion, xctrm»Xu$, clausurae.