OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. 2G5 g. If the application of the impulse he regular, hut the force with which it is applied be too weak, our per- ception of the object' is too faint. One may whisper so low as not to be heard. h. If the application of objects is too violent, and there is any danger of the tender organs of our senses heing hurt or destroyed, an uneasy sensation we call pain is raised, whatever the organ thus injured is. The object of feeling affects every organ : Thus pressure, stretching, cutting, pricking, acrid salts,.pungent oils, great heat, violent cold, &c. occasion pain, wherever they are applied. Besides, every particular organ can he affected with pain by the too violent application of its own proper object. Too much light pains the eyes J very loud sound stuns the ears j very odorous bodies and too sapid objects hurt the nose and tongue. A pretty sure proof this, that the objects of our senses all act, and that the orgails are all impressed in nearly the same way. i. Since a middle impulse, neither too small nor too great, is necessary for a clear perception of objects,' we. should often be in danger of not distinguishing tbem, if we were not subjected to another law, to wit,' that numerous impulses made at once, or in a quick succession to each other, increase our perceptions of objects. Thus, such sound as would not be heard on a mountain-lop, will be distinctly heard in a wainscot- ted chamber. We feel much more clearly a tangible object, when our finger is drawn along it, than when applied with the same force, but by a single pressure, upon it. We make repeated applications of odorous and sapid objects, when we wish to smell or taste ac- curately. The end of a burning stick appears much more luminous when quickly whirled in a circle than when at rest. k. Whenever the uneasy sensation, pain, is raised hy the too strong application of objects, a sort of ne- cessity is as it were imposed upon the mind to endea- vour to get free of the injuring cause, by either with- drawing the grieved part of the body from it, as one retires his hand when his finger is pricked or burnt j N