/ 116 • OF THE SKELETON. all the canals; and frequently only one common! cavity appears within the base, in which a pulpy sul> J stance composed of nerves and vessels is lodged. Tlu J condition therefore of the nerves here bears a stroml analogy to that of the cutaneous nerves which serv< J for the sensation of touching. The entry of the canals for these vessels is a small hole placed a little to a side of the extreme point ov| each root; sometimes, especially in old people, thii | t hole is entirely closed up, and consequently the nerve; and blood-vessels are destroyed (a). Evolution. The teeth are seen for a considerable time in forn J of mucus contained in a membrane; afterwards a thii | cortical plate, and some few osseous layers appeaJ within the membrane, with a large cavity filled wit! mucus in the middle; and gradually this exterior shel I turns thicker, the cavity decreases, the quantity o f mucus is lessened, and this induration proceeds till al the body is formed; from which the roots are after I wards produced. In young subjects, different stamina or rudiment:! of teeth are to be observed. Those next the gum j ordinarily hinder the deeper-seated ones irom makinj I their way out, while these prevent the former fron sending out roots, or from entering deep into the bon; sockets of the jaws ; by which they come to be leas! fixed. Changes. Children are seldom born with teeth ; but at tw*| j'ears of age they have twenty ; and their numbe does not increase till they are about seven years old ! when the teeth that first made their way through the gums are thrust out by others that have been formec deeper in the jaw, and some more of the teeth beg'u to discover themselves farther back in the mouth About fourteen years of age, some more of the firs - crop are shed, and the number is increased.—Thii shedding of the teeth is of good use; for if the firs had remained, they would have stood at a great dis- tance one from another; because the teeth are tot («) Da la Hire Hlstorre de l'acatl. des sciences, 1699.