96 OF THE SKELETON. convex and smooth: backward, it is unequal and con« cave, for lodging part of the cralophilc muscles. The four angles of each of these bones have been reckoned processes by some.—The one at the external canlhus of the orbit, called the superior orbitar process, is the longest and thickest.—The second terminates near the middle of the lower edge of the orbit in a k sharp point, and is named the inferior orbitar process. L —The third, placed near the lower part of the cheek,. and thence called maxillary, is the shortest, and near- . est to a right angle.—The fourth, which is called I zygomatic, because it is extended backwards to the! zygoma of the temporal bone, ends in a point, and has i one side straight, and the other sloping.—Between i the two orbitar angles there is a concave arch; which i makes about a third of the external circumference of the orbit, from which a fifth process is extended back- ■ wards within the orbit, to form nearly one third of: that cavity; and hence it may be called the internal'. orbitar process.—From the lower edge of each of the? ossa malarum, which is between the maxillary and I zygomatic processes, the masseter muscle takes its s origin ; and from the exterior part of the zygomatic: process, the musculus distortor oris" rises; in bothi which places the surface of the bone is rough. On the external surface of each cheek-bone, one orr more small holes are commonly found, for the trans- mission of small nerves or blood-vessels from, and! sometimes into the orbit.—On the internal surface are. the holes for the passage of the nutritious vessels of i these bones. A notch on the outside of the internal orbitar process of each of these bones assists in forming the great slit common to this bone and to the sphenoid, maxillary, and palate bones. The substance of these bones is, in proportion tf» their bulk, thick, hard, and solid, with some canccllu Each of the ossa malarum is joined, by its superior.' and internal orbitar processes, to the osfrontis, and to the orbitar process of the sphenoid bone, by the trans- • * Zygomaticus major. Alb. E.