128 OF THE SKELETON. Advan- Hence it follows, 1. 3?batbecause the joints of which i| tages. (]1C SpJne Js composed are so numerous, the spinal mar- I row, nerves, blood-vessels, &c. are not liable to such | compression and over-stretching in the motion of the trunk of the body, as they would otherwise be, since f several vertebrce must be concerned in every motion J of the spine •, and therefore a very small curvature ig J made at the conjunction of any two vertebra- (a)..| L2. That an erect posture is the surest and firmest, be—I cause the surface of contact of the fulcra is largest,-,,! paid the weight is most perpendicular to them (&)...I 5. That the muscles which move the spine act with i| greater force in bringing the trunk to an erect posture,,! than in drawing it to any other : for in bending for--| wards, backwards, or to a side, the muscles which per--! form any of these actions-are nearer the centre of mo—! tion •, consequently the lever with which they act ist shorter, than when the centre of motion is on the partt of the vertebra, opposite to that where these muscles* are inserted ; which is the case in raising the trunk.. This is extremely necessary ; since, in the deflections of the spine from a perpendicular bearing, the weight of the body soon inclines it which way we design*,; whereas, in raising us erect this great weight must he? more than counteracted. 4. In calculating the forces exerted by the muscles which move the spine, we* should always make allowance for the action of the-? cartilages between the ver'tebrce, which, in every mor- tion from an erect posture, must be stretched on onee side, and compressed on the other, both which theyv resist-, whereas, in raising the tiunk, these cartilages* assist by their springy force (c). 5. We are bencei naturally led into the reason of our height of stature* increasing in the morning, and diminishing at night; (rf) : for the intermediate cartilages of the vertebra' (a) Galen, de nsu part. lib. 12. cap. 12, (b) Paaw de cssib. part. 2. cap. 2. ^ (c) Borelli, de motu animal, pars 1. scliol. ad propos. 5e.-; Parent. Histoire de l'acad, des sciences, 1702. (d) Wasse Philosoph. transact, numb. 583. art. 1.