OF THE BONES IN GENERAL, s B 2 :> the bone, shew themselves to be vessels entering ;, with the injected liquor in them ; and when they re broken, by tearing off the periosteum, the sur- ice of the bone is almost covered with red points. The veins corresponding to- these arteries are jmetimes to be seen in subjects that die with their essels full of blood ; though such numerous rami- cations of them, as of the arteries, can seldom be emonstrated, because few of them naturally contain. )loured liquors, and such liquors can with difficulty e injected into them. This however is sometimes )ne (a). The great sensibility of the periosteum in the deep- sated species of paronychia, in exostoses, nodi, tophi, id gummata, from a lues venerea, or whenever-this embrane is in an inflamed state, is a sufficient proof lat it is well provided with nerves, though they are jrhaps too small to be traced upon it; and there- re one cannot well determine, whether they are nt along with the arteries in the common way, or e derived from the tendinous fibres of the muscles cpanded on the periosteum (b). Vessels also pass through the periosteum to the larrow ; of which more hereafter. And frequently uscles, ligaments, or cartilages, pierce through the iriosteum, to be inserted into the bones. The chief uses of the periosteum are : 1. To al- Its w the muscles, when they contract or are stretch- 1, to move and slide easily upon the bones ; the nooth surface of this membrane preventing any ill ?ects of their friction upon each other. 2. To :ep in due order, and to support the vessels in their issage to the bones. 3. By being firmly braced i the bones, to assist in setting limits to their in« (a) Sue TraitS d'osteologie, traduit de l'Anglois de Mr. Monro, ote m page 9. (J) See the dispute about the sensibility of this and of other embranes m Z.mmerman. Dissert, de irritabilit.—Act. Got- )g. vol. 2. Haltarsur la nature sensible et irritable. Whytt's 26.,034g' CSSay IL Reimar" DiSSertt de fuDS° articulor»