OF THE SKELETON. 226 Os Navicur Os naviculare *, is somewhat circular. It is formed? tare. jnj_0 an 0blont^ concavity behind lor receiving tlie an- terior head of the astragalus. On the upper surface there is a rongh.Jbesa. Below, the os naviculare ia. very unequal and rough but hollow for the safety of' the muscles. On its inside a large knob rises out, from, which the abductor pallia's takes in part its origin, the tendon of the tibialis posticus is inserted into it, and to it two remarkable ligaments are fixed j the first is the strong one, formerly mentioned, which supports the astragalus ; the second is stretched from this hone ob- liquely cross the foot, to the metatarsal bones of the middle toe, and of the toe next to the little one. On the outside of the 0.9 naviculare there is a semicircular smooth surface, where it is joined to the os cuboides. The fore-part of this bone is all covered with cartilage, and is divided into three smooth planes, fitted to the three ossa ciineiformia. Connexion. i'ne os nuviCulare and astragalus are joined as a ball and socket, and the naviculare moves in all directions in turning the toes inwards, or in raising or depressing either side of the foot, though the motions are greatly restrained by the ligaments which connect this to the otber bones of the tarsus. A weakness of these liga- ments causes sometimes an unnatural turn of the fore- part of the foot inwards. The os naviculare is wholly cartilaginous in a new- born infant. On Cuboi- Os CuBOTDES * is a very irregular cube. Behind, des' it is formed into an oblong unequal concavity, adapted (0 the fore-part of the OS calcis. On its internal side, there is a small semicircular smooth cavity to join the os naviculare. Immediately before which, an oblong smooth plane is made by the os ciineijhrmc externum. Below this the bone is hollow and rough. On the internal side of (lie lower surface, around protuberance atid fossa are found, where the j?iusculus abductor pol- * •SzuQouV/it, os cynibse. • f TioXvftotfov, cubiforme, qiiadrn.ti'.m, grandinosum. ranum, feusafae, multiforme.