85 OP THE SKELETON. of the body of the sphenoid hone, where the pterygoid processes are rising from it, and are extended over the lower part of the aperture of the sinus as far as to join the ethmoid bone, while their body hangs down into the nares(a).— Besides these pairs of processes, there is a sharp ridge which stands out from the middle of its base: Because it wants a fellow; it may be called processus azygos. The lower part of this process, where it is received into the vomer, is thick, and often not quite perpendicular, but inclining more to one side than the other. The fore-part of this process, where it joins the nasal plate of the os cthmoides, is thin and straight. These two parts have been de- scribed as two distinct processes by some. The depressions, sinuosities, and fossae, on the ex- Depres- ternal surface of this sphenoid bone, may be reckoned sions. up to a great number, viz. two on the temporal apo- physes where the crotaphite muscles lodge. Two on the orbilar processes, to make way for the globes of the eyes.—Two between the temporal and spinous processes, for receiving the temporal bones.—Two be- tween the plates of the pterygoid processes, where the muscidipterygoidei intend andplery-staphylini interni are placed.—Two between the pterygoid and orbitar process, for forming the holes common to this and to the cheek and maxillary bones. Two on the lower ends of the aliform processes, into which the palate bones enter. Two at the roots of the temporal and pterygoid processes, where the largest share of the ex- ternal pterygoid muscles have their rise. Two at the sides of the processus azygos, for forming part of the nose, &c. What I described under the name of temporal and Internal spinous processes on the outside of the skull, are like- Surface, wise seen on its inside, where they are concave, for receiving part of the brain; and commonly only three apophyses on the internal surface of the sphenoid bone are mentioned. Two rising broad from the fore-part (a) Albiu. Tab. oss. 5. fig. 2. 6. A. A.—Bertin. Mem. de I acad. des sciences, 1744.—Sue, planche viii. fig. 2, 3, 4, 5,6.