OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 291 pricking pain in the meantime, and a numbness of the skin near the orifice for some time after. The Third Pair of the neck passes out between the Third cer- third and fourth cervical vertebrae', having immediate- vical- ly a communication with the second, and sending down a branch, which being joined by a branch from the fourth cervical, forms the Phrenic nerve. This des- Pbrenic. cending enters the thorax between the subclavian vein and artery ; and then being received into a groove formed for it in the pericardium, it has its course along this capsula of the heart, till it is lost in the middle part of the diaphragm. The right phrenic has a straight course ; but the left one is obliged to make a consider- able turn outwards to go over the prominent part of the pericardium, where the point of the heart is lodged. Hence in violent palpitations of the heart, a pungent • acute pain is felt near the left orifice of the stomach. The middle of the diaphragm could scarcely have been supplied by any other nerve which could have had ich a straight course as the phrenic has. If the sub- clavian artery and vein have any effect upon this nerve I do not know it («). The other branches of the third cervical nerve are distributed to the muscles and teguments at the lower part of the neck and top of the shoulder. No \;onder then that an inflammation of the liver or spleen, an abscess in the lungs adhering to the diaphragm, or any other cause capable of irritating the diaphragm, should be attended with a sharp pain on the top of the shoulder, as well as wounds, ulcers, &c. of this muscle itself. If the irritation of this muscle is very violent, it may occasion that convulsive contraction of the diaphragm which is called an hiccough; and therefore an hiccough in an inflammation of the liver has been justly declared to he an ill symptom. An irritation of the thoracic nerves which produces sneezing, may sometimes free the phrenic nerves from any spasm they occasion ; so that sneezing sometimes takes away the hiccough ; and a derivation of the fluid («) Sec Wrisbcrg dcnerv. pbreinc. in Ludwig, T. iv. p. 16. E.