OF THE SKELETON. 1 15 it is exposed to the air, by the breaking or falling off of the hard cortex, it soon corrupts. And thence carious teeth are often all hollow within, when a very small hole appears only externally. The teeth have canals formed in their middle, Canals; wherein their nerves and blood-vessels are lodged ; which they certainly need, being constantly wasted by the attrition to which they are subjected in man- ducation, and for their further growth, not only after they first appear, but even in adults; as is evident when a tooth is taken out: For then the opposite one becomes longer, and those on each side of the empty socket turn broader; so that when the jaws are brought together, it is scarcely observable where the tooth is wanting (a). The vessels are easily traced so long as they are in Vessels and the large canal, but can scarcely be observed in their Neives. distribution from that to the substance of the teeth of adults. Ruysch (6) however affirms, that after injec- tion he could trace the arteries into the hardest part of the teeth : And Leewenhoek (c) suspected the fibres of the cortex to be vessels. In children I have fre- quently injected the vessels of the teeth as far as their base: And in such as are not entirely ossified, one can with a lucky injection fill so'many vessels, as to make both the outside and inside of the cortical part appear perfectly red.—This plentiful supply of vessels must expose the teeth to the same disorders that attack other vascular parts ; and such teeth as have the greatest number of vessels, must have the most nu- merous chances of being seized with these diseases. Every root of each tooth has such a distinct canal, with vessels and nerves in it. These canals in the teeth with more than one root, come nearer each other, as they approach the base of the tooth ; and at last are separated only by very thin plates, which being generally incomplete, allow a communication of (a) Ingras. de tumor, cap. J. p. 24, 25, 26. (&) Thesaur. 10. num. 27. (r) Arcan, natur. continuat. cpist. p. 5,