OF THE SKELETON. 199 to allow motion to all sides, arid, by a quick succession of these motions, they may be moved in a circle. But as the joint is oblong, and therefore the two dimensions are unequal, no motion is allowed to the carpus round its axis, except what it lias in the pro- nation and supination along with the radius.—The articulation of the first three bones of the superior row, with the bones of the iuferior, is such as allows of motion, especially backwards and forwards to the security and easiness of which the reception of the os magnum into the cavity formed by the scaphoi'des and lunare contributes considerably : And the greatest number of the muscles that serve for the motion of the wrist on the radius, being inserted beyond the conjunction of the first row of bones with the second, act equally on this articulation as they do on the former j but the joint formed with the radius being the most easily moved, the first effect of these muscles is on it j and the second row of the carpus is only maved afterwards. By this means a larger motion of the wrist is allowed, than otherwise it could have had safely : For, if as large motion had been given to one joint, the angle of flexion would have been very acute, and the ligaments must have been longer than was consistent with the firmness and security of the joint. The other articulations of the bones here being by nearly plain surfaces, scarcely allow of any more motion, because" of the strong connecting ligaments, than to yield a little, and so elude the force of any external power; and to render the back of the wrist a little more flat, or the palm more hollow, on proper occasions. The articulations of the thumb and meta- carpal bones shall be examined afterwards *. The uses of the carpus are to serve as a base to tiie Uses, hand, to protect its tendons, and to afford it a free large motion. All the bones of the carpus are in a cartilaginous state at state at the time of birth. Uirth. * See Barcl. Muscul. Mot. p. ipo. F„