OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. It then the oil is conveyed from this cellular sub- stance; and if the attenuated marrow passes from the cancellioi the bones by the large pores near their ends, ! or in their cavities, and sweats through the cartilages there into the articulations; which it may, when as- sisted by the constant heat and action of the body, more easily do, than when it escapes through the compact substance of the bones in a skeleton : If, I say, this oil is sent to a joint, and is incorporated with the mucilage, and with the fine lymph that is con- stantly oozing out at the extremities of the small ar- teries distributed to the ligaments, one of the fittest liniments- imaginable must be produced; for the mucus diluted by the lymph contributes greatly to its lubri- city, and the oil preserves it from hardening. How well such a mixture serves the purpose it is designed for, Boyle (a) tells us he experienced in working his air-pump ; for the sucker could be moved with much less force after being moistened with water and oil., than when he used either one or other of these liquors: And I believe every one, at first view, will allow the diluted mucilage to be much preferable to simple wa- ter. The synovia *, as this liquor composed of oil, mucilage and lymph, is commonly now called, while in a sound state, effectually preserves all the parts con- cerned in the articulations soft and flexible, and makes themslide easily on each other, by which their mutual detrition and overheating is prevented, in the manner daily practised in coach and cart wheels, by besmear- ing them with grease and tar. After the liquor of the articulations becomes too thin and unserviceable, by being constantly rubbed between the moving bones, it is re-assumed into the mass of blood by the absorbent vessels. When the synovia is not rubbed betwixt the bones, it inspissates. And sometimes, when the head of a bone has been long out of its cavity, this liquor is said to fill up the place of the bone, and hinder its reduc- (a) Physico-mechanic. experim. • Mi/|«, mucus, axungia.