OF THE SKELETON. general remarks, with the description I am now to give of each, may teach us to distinguish them i'roin each other. Metatarsal Os metatarsi pallia's is by far the thickest and strong- greatt C&t' aS baving«iuch the.greatest weight to sustain, its oe" hase is oblong, irregularly concave, and of a semilunar figure, to he adapted to the as cuneiforme maximum. The inferior edge of this base is a little prominent and- rough, where the tendon of the peronceus primus mus- cle is inserted. On its outside an oblique circular de- pression is made by the second metatarsal bone. Its round head has generally on its fore-part a middle- ridge, and two oblong cavities, for the ossa scsamoidea ; and on the external side a depression is made by the following bone. Second toe Os metatarsi of the second-toe, is the longest of the five, with a triangular base supported by the os euuti- furm'e medium and the external side produced into a process ; the end of which is an oblique smooth plane, joined to the os cuneiforme externum. Near the inter- nal edge of the base, this bone has two small depres- sions, made by the os cuneiforme maximum, between which is a rough cavity. Farther forwards we may observe a smooth protuberance, which is joined to the foregoing bone. On the outside of the base are two oblong smooth surfaces, for its articulation with the following bone ; the superior smooth surface being ex- tended longitudinallv, and the inferior perpendicularly j between which there is a rough jWf/. Middle toe. Q.s metatarsi of the middle toe, is the second in length. Its ba^e, supported by the os cuneiforme ex- ternum, is triangular, but slanting outwards, where it ends in a sharp-pointed little process j and the angle below is not completed. The internal side of this-base is adapted to the pre- ceding bone 5 and the external side has also two smooth surfaces covered with cartilage, but of a dillerent figure •, for the upper one i* concave, and, being round behind, turns smaller as it advances forwards ; and the lower surface is little, smooth, convex, and very near, ike edge of the base.