286 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. first and second cervical nerves, to be distributed to the thyroid gland and muscles on thd fore-part of the tracltea aricria, the ninth is lost in the muscles and substance of the tongue (a). Some have thought this nerve, and others have esteemed the third branch of the fifth pair of nerves, to be the proper gustatory nerve. 1 know no observation or experiments to prove either opinion, or to assure us, that both nerves do not serve for tasting and for the motion of the tongue. May not the distribution of this nerve to the muscles below, as well as above, the os hyoides, contribute to their acting-more uniformly in depressing the lower jaw or head ? .i • The Tenth Pair * rises in separate threads from the sides ot the spinal marrow, to go out between the os occipiiis and. Jirst vertebra of the neck. After each of them has given branches to the great ganglion of the intercostal, 8th, 9th, and 1st cervical nerves, it is distributed to the straight, oblique, and some ot the extensor muscles of the head. Whether the name of the tenth of the head, or of the first vertebral, ought to be given to this pair of nerves, is of no such con- sequence as to deserve a debate, though it has some of the marks of the spinal nerves, to wit, its being formed of filaments proceeding from both the fore and back- part of the medulla, and a little ganglion being formed where these filaments meet. Intercostal In the description of the sixth pair, I followed the nerves. usual way of speaking among anatomists, and called that the beginning of the Intercostal t nerve which comes out of the skull ; and therefore shall here sub- join a cursory description of this nerve, notwithstand- ing its much larger part is composed of nerves coming («) Monro, TSTerv. Syst. p. 151. Tab. xxvi. E. * .Sub occipitales. E. f Smypatheticus major vel tris planchnicus alior. Bichat and other modern anatomists have remarked so many important dif- ferences between the branches of the sympathetic and the other nerves of the body, that they have been disposed to consider the former as a distinct part of the nervous system. In fact, it is composed of filaments from almost all the spinal, and many of the cercbrat nerves. E.