210 OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. with the naked eye, and is more distinctly seen with the assistance of a microscope. 4. In dissecting the brain and cerebellum, we see the small beginnings or the medulla proceeding from the cortex, and can trace its gradual increase by the addi- tion of more such white substance coming from the cortex. 5. Both these substances (§ 4.) are very succulent j for being exposed to the air to dry, they lose more of * their weight than most other parts of the body do. Cerebral 6. In several places, we can observe the medulla to medulla be composed of fibres laid at each others sides, fibrous. 7< The medullary substance is employed in form- ing the white fibrous cords, which have now the name of nerves appropriated to them. Within the skull we see the nerves to be the medullary substance con- tinued 5 and the spinal marrow is all employed in forming nerves. Ori in of ^' e common °pini°n concerning the rise of the the'nerves nerves, founded on a superficial inspection of those uncertain, parts, is, that the nerves are propagated from that side of the encephalon, at which they go out of the skull.. But it having been remarked, after a more strict in-, quiry, and preparing the parts by maceration in water, that the medullary fibres decussate or cross, each other in some parts of the medulla ; as for ex- ample, at the corpus annulare *, and beginning of the spinal marrow : And practical observators having re- lated several examples of people whose brain was hurt on one side, while the morbid symptom, palsy, ap- peared on the other side of the body, of which I have seen some instances ; and experiments made on brutes having confirmed these observations, it has been thought, that the nerves had their rise from that side of the encephalon, which is opposite to their egress from the skull. It may however still be said, that this last opinion is not 'fully demonstrated, because a decussation in some parts is not a proof that it obtains universally; and if there are examples of palsy of the * Tuber annulare. E.