OF THE SKELETON, 110 cnt people. These sockets in this lower jaw, as well as in the upper one, are less deep as old age comes on; when freed from the teeth by any means, they are some time after filled up with an osseous net-work, which at last becomes entirely solid, and as smooth as any other part of the bone; so that in a great many old jaws one cannot observe a vestige of the sockets: $trt then the jaw becomes less, and much narrower (a). —Hence we may know why the chin and nose of edentulous people are much nearer than before the teeth were lost; while their lips either fall in towards the mouth, or stand prominent forwards.—When new. teeth are protruded, new sockets are formed (6).— ' - The lower edge of the chin and sides is smooth and equal, and is commonly called the base of the lower jaw.—The ends of the base, where the jaw turns up-, wards, are called its angles ; the external surface of each of which has several inequalities upon it, where; the masseter muscle is inserted; as the internal surface also has, where the pterygoideus internus is inserted, and a ligament extended from the styloid process of the temporal bone is. fixed. Processes. The processes are two on each side.—The anterior; sharp thin coronoid ones have the crolaphite muscles; inserted into them.— The posterior processes or con- dyles* terminate in an oblong smooth head, supported, by a cervix. The heads whose greatest length is: transverse, and whose convexity is turned forwards, arei tipped with a cartilage, as the articulated parts of all other moved bones are.—The fore part of the root and neck of these condyloid processes are a little hollow and rough, where the external pterygoid muscles arei inserted. Foramina. The holes of the lower jaw are two on each side ; one at the root of the processes internally, where a large branch of the third branch of the fifth part of nerves enters with an artery, and a vein returns. A* («) Vcsa!. Anat. lib. 1 cap. 10. (b) Fallop. Observ. auat. • Articulatorii»