188 OF THE SKELETON. whose concave surface moves upon the pully of tfch os humeri, and is called olecranon *, or top of the cubh — I he convex , back part of it is rough and scabrodi where the Imgus, brevis, and brac/iiceus externus, an inserted. The olecranon makes it unnecessary tha the tendons of the extensor muscle should pass ove, the end of the os humeri; which would have been o< i! consequence in the great flexions of this joint, o when any considerable external force is applied to thi, part (a). The anterior t process is not so large, no does it reach so high as the one behind; but is sharpe at its end, and therefore is named coronoid. Betweei these two processes, a large semicircular or si^noit concavity is left; the surface of which, on each sid, of a middle rising, is slanting, and exactly adapted tf, the pully of the bone of the arm. Across the middln of it, there is a small sinuosity for lodging mucilarrj _ nous glands ; where, as well as in a small hollow or the internal side of it, the cartilage that lines the resK of its surface is wantiug. Round the brims of thia« concavity the bone is rough, where the capsular liga* menfc of the joint is impknted. Immediately below* the olecranon, on the back part of the ulna, a flat tri- angular spongy surface appears, on which we conn- monly lean;—At the internal side of this, there is a larger hollow surface, where the mnsclus anconeus is> lodged ; and the ridge at the inside of this gives risee to tire musculus supinator radii brevis.—Between theo top of the ridge and the coronoid process is the semiki-- nated smooth cavity, lined with cartilage, in which, and a ligament extended from the one to the other end-i of this cavity, the round head of the radius plays. Immediately below it a rough hollow gives lodging to mucilaginous glands. Below the root of the coro- noid process, this bone is scabrous and unequal, where the brac/iiceus intcrnus is inserted. On the outside of I * Aynvt, gibber cubitus, additamentum necatum. (a) Winslow, Exposition anatomiquc du corps hiimain, traitfi dcs.os sees, J 979. . f Tlicnal,. E,