OF THE SKELETON. soi> cubiti* rises. This bone is flatted on the inside*,, about its middle, by the belly of the biceps fltzor cu- biti. In the middle of this plain surface, the entry oft' the medullary artery is seen slanting obliquely down-- wards. At the fore-side of this plane the bone rises - in a sort of ridge, which is rough, and often has a great many small holes in it, where the tendon of the strong deltoid muscle is inserted; on each side of which the bone is smooth and flat, where the brac/iiceiis interims rises. Tire exterior of these two flat surfaces ■ is the largest •, behind it a superficial spiral channel,. formed by the muscular nerve and the vessels that ac- company it, runs from behind forwards and down- wards. The body of the os humeri is flatted behind ! by the extensors of the fore-arm. Near the lower end of this bone, a large sharp ridge is extended on its out- side, from which the musuclus supinator radii Iongus, ' and the longest head of the extensor carpi radialis t' rise. Opposite to this, there is another small ridge to i which the aponeurotic tendon, that gives origin to the fibres of the internal and external brachicei muscles it i fixed \ and from a little depression on the fure-side of: it, the pronator radii teres rises. Lower or The body of the os humeri becomes gradually distal end. broader towards the lower | end, where it has several processes ; at the roots of which, there is a cavity be- fore, and another behind ||. The anterior is divided . by a ridge into two; the external, which is the least, receives the end of the radius; and the internal re- ceives the cornoid process of the ulna in the flexions of the fore-arm, while the posterior deep triangular ca- vity lodges the olecranon in the extensions of that member. The bone betwixt these two cavities is pressed so thin by the processes of the ulna, as to appear diaphanous in several subjects. The sides of the pos- terior cavity are stretched out into two processes, one * Short head of the Triceps brachii. Alb. E- | Radialis extertiu* longior. Alb. E. % Distal. E. ij