OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. of the skin. In tlie nose and tongue this is evident: In some operations of the eyes we can also perceive this; as we may likewise do in some cases where matter is collected in the internal ear. e. These properties common to the different objects and organs occasion frequently uncommon effects in the application of an object to an organ proper to another object of sensation ; for sometimes we have the same idea as if the object had been applied to its own proper organ : At other times the object is as it were changed, and we have the idea as if the organ had had its own proper object applied to it. Thus, for example, light is the proper objec t to be applied to the eye, to give us any idea of colours; yet when all light is excluded from the eyes, an idea of light and colours may be excited in us by coughing, sneezing, rubbing, or striking the eye-ball. A cane vibrating, so as not to excite sound perceptible to the ear. applied to the teeth, raises a strong idea of sound ; as a little insect creeping in ihe ?netihts auditorius also does.— The fingers applied to two rough surfaces, rubbing on each other, are sensible of the sound they make; sur- geons of any practice in the cure of fractured bones can bear witness to the truth of this. The fingers dipped in acid and several other acrid liquors, have a sensation very like to tasting. Smelling and tasting, every body knows, are subservient and assisting to each other. From such examples we have further proof of one general cause of our sensations, to wit, impulse from the objects; and of* such a similarity and relation in the organs, as might give reason for imagining that any one of them would be capable of producing the effect of another, if the impulses of the different objects could be regularly applied to each.— Hence light and sound may affect insects and other animals that have not eyes or ears. f. If the impulse of an object is applied with due force, but irregularly, a confused idea of the objec t is raised. Distant objects arc confused to myopes, as very near ones are to presbytae.