44 OF THE DONES IN GENERAL. tion ; or if a joint continues long unmoved, it is also said to cement the bones, and occasion a true anchy- losis (a). If the synovia becomes too acrid, it erodes the cartilages and bones ; as frequently hap- pens to those who labour under the lues venerea, scurvy, scrophula, or spina venlosa. If this liquor is sepa- rated in too small quantity, the joint becomes stiff; and when it is moved with difficulty, a crackling noise is heard, as people advanced in years frequently ex- perience (A).—If the mucilage and lymph are depo- sited in too great quantity, and the absorbent vessels do not perform their office sufficiently, they may oc- casion a dropsy of the joints (c).—From this same cause also the ligaments are often so much relaxed, as to make the conjunction of the bones very weak: Thence arise the luxations from an internal cause, which are easily reduced, but not easily cured (d).— I Frequently, when such a superfluous quantity of this liquor is pent up, it becomes very acrid, and oc- casions a great train of bad symptoms ; such as swel- ling and pain of the joints, long sinuous ulcers and Jistula, rotten bones, immobility of the joints, marcor and atrophia of the whole body, hectic fevers, fee. (e)— From a depravity in the blood, or diseases in the organs that furnish the synovia of the joints, it may be great- ly changed from its natural state; it may be purulent after inflammation, mucous in the white swellings, gelatinous in the rheumatism, chalky from the gout, Sec; hence a great variety of disorders in th$ joints {/)*. (a) Pare, Cbirurgie, livre 15. chap. 18. etlivre 16. chap. 5. (&) Galen, de usu part. lib. 12. cap. 2. Fabric, ab Aquapend. de articul. part, utilitat. pars 3. Bartholin. Hist, medic, cent. 3. hist. 11. (c) Hildan. de ichore et melicena acn Celsi. (d) Hppocrat. de locis in hdminc, § 14. et de articul. (*•) Hildan. de ichore et meliceria acri Celsi. (/) See Reimar Disser. de fungo articulor. "On the synovial apparatus, see Monro on the Bursse mu- cosa?, and Bichat, Anat. Gener. T. A. E.