220 OF THE SKELETON. face of this bone, as docs not allow it to perform the necessary motions on the condyles of ihv femur (a). Suite at A*-tne ordinary time of birth, the rotula is entirely Birth. cartilaginous, and scarcely assumt s a bony nature so soon as most epiphyses do. Motions of The parts which constitute the joint of the knee the Knee being now described, let us examine what are its mo- Jjint. tions, and how performed. The two principal mo- tions are flexion and extension. In the former ofrl these, the leg may be brought to a very acute angle with the thigh, by the condyles of the thigh-boneBN being round and made smooth far backwards. In performing this, the rotula is pulled down by the tibia; When the leg is to be extended, the rotula is drawnr upwards, consequently the tibia forwards, by the ex* tensor muscles; which by means of the protuberant)! joint, and of this thick bone with its ligament, have« in effect the chord, with which they act, fixed to tbg tibia at a considerable angle, therefore act with ad-! vantage ; but are restrained from pulling the leg far-r ther than to a straight line with the thigh, by the pos-< terior part of the cross ligament, that the body mighli be supported by a firm perpendicular column : For aU this time the thigh and leg are as little moveable in i\ rotatory way, or to either side, as if they were one continued bone. But when the joint is a little bended." the rotula is not tightly braced, and the posterior liga ; mentis relaxed; therefore this bone may bemovec a little to either side, or with a small rotation in thl superficial cavities of the tibia ; which is done by tfa motion of the external cavity backwards and forwards the internal serving as a sort of axis Seeing the> one part of the cross ligament is situated perpendi cularly, and the posterior part is stretched obliquel from the internal condyle of the thigh outwards, tha posterior part of the cross ligament prevents the leg: (a) Pa.i. liv. 15. cap 22. (a) Winslow. Exposition anatonnque du corps numain. Iran *les cs sees, § 97(5. .