OF THE SKELETON* 129 Being pressed all day long by the weight of our body, become more compact and thin in the evening ; but when they are relieved from this pressure in the night, they again expand themselves to their former thick- ness and seeing the bulk of any part must vary ac- cording to the different distension or repletion of the vessels composing it, we may understand how we be- come taller after a plentiful meal, and decrease after fasting or evacuations (a). 6. From the different ar- ticulations of the bodies, and oblique processes of the- v&rtebrw, and the different strength of the ligaments, it is plain, that they are formed so as to allow much larger motion forwards than backwards ; this last be- ing of much less use^and might be dangerous, by overstretching the large blood-vessels that are con- tiguous to the bodies of the vertebrce {b). 7. The in- tervertebral cartilages shrivelling as they become more- solid by age, is the cause why old people generally iow forwards, and cannot raise their bodies to such an rect posture as they had in their youth. The true vertebrae serve to give us an erect posture ; Uses. :o allow sufficient and secure motion to the head, leek, and trunk of the body, and to support and de- end the bowels, and other soft parts. At the ordinary time of birth, each vertebra consists State at >f three bony pieces, connected by cartilages; toBirth' vit, the body, which is not fully ossified, and a long ;roolced bone on each side ; on which we see a small hare of the. bony bridge, the oblique processes com- pete, the beginning transverse processes, and the >blique plate, but no spinal processes, so that the te- guments are in no danger of being hurt by the sharp :nds of thess spinal processes, while a child is in its >ended posture in the womb, nor while it is squeezed n the birth. From this general mechanism of the spine, an ac- tw ount is easily deduced of all the different preternatu- ties ST" al curvatures of which the spine is capable : for ifplaiued, («) Abbe Tontcnu Histoire de l'acad. des sciences, 172?. (6) Calcn, de usu part. lib. 1. cap. 16,