OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 209 member. Why, upon tying the blood vessels in an amputation of the leg, the patients 'should sometimes complain of violent pain in their toes ;—why such patients should also be troubled with startings ;—why, for a considerable time after the amputation of the diseased limb, when the suppuration is well advanced, they should complain of pain in the sore which occa- sioned the amputation. The Fourth, which, with the two following, is Fourth, much smaller than the three superior, is soon lost in the vesica urinaria and intent'i'.num. .rectum. The Fifth comes forward between the extremity Fifth, o: the os sacrum and cocajgis, to be distributed princi- pally to the levatores ani. The Sixth, which some think to be only a produc- Sixth, tion of the dura mater, advances forward below the broad shoulders of the first bone of the os coccygis, and is lost in the sphincter ani and teguments covering it. The branches of the four last cervical nerves, and of the first dorsal, which are bestowed on the superior ex- tremities, and the two crurals, with the sciatic, which are distributed to the inferior extremities, are much larger proportionally to the parts they serve, than the nerves of the trunk of the body, and especially of the viscera, are ; and for a very good reason, that in the most common necessary actions of life, a sufficient quantity of fluid, on which the influence of nerves seems to depend, may be applied to the muscles there, which are obliged to perform more frequent and violent contractions than any other parts do. The size of the nerves of the inferior extremities seems larger proportionally than in the superior extremities; the inferior extremities having the weight of the whole bodv to sustain, and that frequently at a great disad- vantage. What the effect is of the nerves here being injured, we see daily, when-people happen, by sitting wrong, to compress the sciatic nerve, they are inca- pable, for some time after, to support themselves on, the alVected extremity-. And this is still more remark-