OF THE SKELETON-. 275 of the retina. An inflammation in those arteries of the^retina, with which several fevers and an opthalmia are generally attended, may very well account for the tenderness in the eyes, and inability to bear the light, which people have in these diseases. The over-.disterr- sion of these vessels may likewise serve to account for the black spots observed on bright-coloured bodies especially, and for that smoaky fog through which all objects are seen by people in some fevers. If these vessels lose their tone, and remain preternaturally dis- tended, no objects affect our retina, though the eye ex- ternally appears sound ; or thisnray be one cause of an amaurosis or gutta serena. From a partial disten- sion of these vessels, or paralysis of a part of the reti- na, the central part, or the circumference, or any other part of objects, may be lost to one or both eyes *.' The Third Pair t rise from the anterior part of the Third Pair. processus annularis %, and piercing the dura mater a little before, and to a side of the ends of the posterior clinoid process of the sphenoid bone, run along the rc~ ceptacula, or cavernous sinuses, at the side of the cp/rip- pium, to get out at the foramina lacera \ after which each of them divides into branches, of which one, af- ter forming a \\tt\e. ganglion, is distributed to the-globe of the eye '7 the others are sent to the musculus rectus jj of the palpebrci, and to the attolltns, adductor, depri- mens, and obliquus minor § muscles of the eye-ball. These muscles being principal instruments in the mo- tions of the eye-lid and eye-ball, this nerve has there- fore got the name of the motor oculi. I have fre- quently observed in convulsions the eye-lids widely opened, the cornea turned upward and outwards, and the eye-balls sunk in the orbit; which well described the conjunct action of the muscles which this pair of * On the termination of the retina, see Monro on the Brain, the Eye, and the Ear, p, 91; and Soemmering Icon. Ccul. Unman. E. f Motores octili, Oculo-muscular nerves. E. \ Tuber annulare. E. jj Levator palpcbrae superiors Alb. E. 3 Obliquus inferior oculi Alb. E«