OF THE SKELETON. 103 the orbit (a). Each palate bone may therefore be di- vided into four parts, the palate square bone, the pte- rygoid process, nasal lamella, and orbitar process. The square bone is unequally concave, for enlarg- Their ing both the mouth and cavity of the nose. The up- square per part of its internal* edge rises in a spine, after the Bone- same manner as the palate-plate of the maxillary bone does, to be joined with the vomer. Its anterior edge is unequally ragged, for its firmer connection with tha palate process of the os maxillare. The internal edge is thicker than the rest, and of an equal surface, for its conjunction with its fellow of the other side. Behind this bone is somewhat in form of a crescent, and thick, for the firm connection of the velum pendulum paluti; the internal point being produced backwards, to af- ford origin to the palato-staphylimis or azygos muscle. This square bone is well distinguished from the ptery- goid process by a perpendicular fossa, which, applied to such another in the maxillary bone, forms a passage for the palatine branch of the fifth pair of nerves ; and by another small hole behind this, through which a twig of the same nerve passes. The pterygoid process is somewhat triangular, hiv- Pterygoid ing a broad base, and ending smaller above. The Process, back-part of this process has three fossa; formed in it; the two lateral receive the ends of the two plates of the sphenoid bone, that are commonly compared to a bat's wing ; the middle fossa makes up a part of what is commonly called the fossa pterygoidea ; the fore- side of this palatine pterygoid process is an irregular concave, where it receives the back-part of the great tuberosity of the maxillary bone. Frequently several small holes may be observed in this triangular pro- cess, particularly one near the middle of its base, which a little above communicates with the common and proper holes of this bone already taken notice of, (a) Eustaeb. tab. 47. fig; l. 3. 6, 7, 8. Vidus Vidius, de Anat. lib. 2. cap. 2. explicat. tab. 6. figv 19. Winslow Me. moires de I'aead. des sciences, 1720. " xMesial edge. E.