393 STRUCTURE OF SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. 3. Vesicular or Bursal synovial membranes, Synovial bur see, Bursa mucosa— In these the membrane has the form of a simple sac, interposed, so as to prevent, friction, between two surfaces which move upon each other. The synovial sac in such cases is flattened and has its two opposite sides in apposition by their inner surface, which is free and lubricated with synovia, whilst the outer surface is attached by areolar tissue to the moving parts between which the sac is placed. In regard to situation, the bursae may be either deep-seated or subcutaneous. The former are for the most part placed between a muscle or its tendon and a bone or the exterior of a joint, less commonly between two muscles or tendons : certain of the bursae situated in the neighbourhood of joints not unfrequently open into them. The subcutaneous bursae lie immediately under the skin, and are found in various regions of the body interposed between the skin and some firm prominence Fig. 450.—A. Ramified connective-tissue corpuscles, from articular synovial membrane of ox. Chloride of gold preparation. 250 diameters. (E. A. S.) B. Portion of the surface of a vaginal synovial membrane, after treatment with nitrate of silver. 250 diameters. (E. A. S.) The cell-spaces of the tissue and the nuclei of the contained cells only are represented, e, epithelioid arrangement of cells ; s, ramified cells. beneath it. The large bursa situated over the patella is a well-known example of this class, but similar though smaller bursae are found also over the olecranon, the malleoli, the knuckles, and various other prominent parts. It, must, however, be observed that, among these subcutaneous bursm, some are reckoned which do not always present the characters of true synovial sacs, but look more like mere recesses in the subcutaneous areolar tissue, larger and more defined than the neighbouring areolae, but still not bounded by an evident synovial membrane. These may be looked on as examples of less developed structure, forming a transition between the areolar tissue spaces and perfect synovial cavities ; indeed it may happen that what is a well developed synovial bursa in one subject is merely an enlarged areola in another. Many of the bursae do not appear until after birth, and they are said to increase in number as age advances. Structure of synovial membranes.—The synovial membranes are composed entirely of connective tissue with the usual cells and fibres of that tissue. It was formerly stated, and is still asserted by some authors, that they are lined with an