PACINIAN CORPUSCLES. 341 Certain corpuscles which are found in the bill of some water-birds, exhibit so obviously a transition between the simple corpuscles of Ilerbst and the complex corpuscles of Pacini immediately to be described, that they may be especially mentioned here. These, which are sometimes named after the anatomists who first described them, the corpuscles of Key and Bet-his (fig-. 401), differ from the corpuscles of Ilerbst in having a capsule, composed of a large number of closely-arranged lamella!, similar to those of the inner or denser part of the Fig. 400.—Middle part op a Herbst corpuscle of the sparrow. Osmio preparation. (W. Krause.) S‘IK). h, outer longitudinal fibrous layer ; r, felt work of transverse fibres ; i, core, with two rows of nuclei; t, axis-cylinder. Fig. 401.—Kev-Retzius corpuscle in optical longitudinal section. Bichromate preparation. (W. Krause.) 4'IK). h, outer layer ; c, i, concentric lamellae of capsule ; n, terminal nerve-fibre. Pacinian corpuscle, outside which is a single strong layer of longitudinally disposed fibrous tissue. The inner lamella! are largely" composed of circular or transverse fibres, but these lack the brownish tint of the fibres of the inner lamella of the Herbst corpuscle, nor do they" exhibit the intra-lamellar fluid which is characteristic of most of the lamella! of the Pacinian corpuscle. Corpuscles of Vater or Pacinian bodies.—In dissecting the nerves of the hand and foot, certain small oval bodies like little seeds, are found attached to their branches as they pass through the subcutaneous fat on their way to the skin ; and it has been ascertained that each of these bodies receives a nervous fibre which terminates within it. The objects referred to were described and figured by Vater (1741), as attached to the digital nerves, but he did not examine into their struc- ture, and his account of them seems not to have attracted much notice. In more recent times, their existence was again pointed out by Oruveilhier and other French anatomists, as well as by Pacini of Pisa, who appears to be the first writer that gave an account of the internal structure of these curious bodies, and clearly demon- strated their essential connection with nerve-fibres. The researches of Pacini were followed up by Henle and Kolliker, who named the corpuscles after him ; and the Pacinian corpuscles have since been the subject of numerous papers, to which the