384 TERMINATION OF SENSORY NERVES. division the fibres usually become smaller ; but whilst some of the resulting small fibres may be simple, many are really bundles of fine fibrils. These pale fibres bear nuclei, which probably appertain to the prolongation of the primitive sheath ; the nuclei are common at the bifurcations of the fibres, where they are of a triangular or irregular shape. The original dark-bordered fibres which thus undergo division and change, or which may proceed singly to end in a different and special manner, are commonly provided with a tolerably strong connective tissue sheath with nuclei, which, as it stauds well apart from the dark borders of the fibre, is very conspicuous (sheath of Henle). This is derived from the perineurium which incloses the funiculi of the nerve-trunks, and, as these part into smaller collections and single fibres, undergoes a corresponding division, and finally sends sheaths along single fibres. Within the sheath of Henle fine longitudinal connective tissue fibres, with interspersed corpuscles, are seen surrounding the nerve-fibre or fibres. This tissue is a prolongation of the endoneurium. In further treating of the termination of nerves, it will be convenient to consider the sensory and motor nerves separately. TERMINATION OP SENSORY NERVES. The sensory or afferent nerves end either in cells or in free nerve-endings, which may be simple or plexiform, and may be enclosed by cells or have an independent distribution. Of the sensory nerves which terminate in cells, the best recognised are those which are found in the organs of special sense. But these nerves may perhaps be regarded as taking origin in the sense-organ rather than ending in it, for if their development is studied it would appear, at least in the case of the olfactory and visual organs, that the nerve-fibres grow from the sense-organ towards the central nervous system and not centrifugally, as is the case with most other nerve-fibres. Their mode of connexion with the cellular elements of the special sense-organs will be studied most conveniently when those organs are themselves treated of. Of the ordinary sensory nerves, including those which are devoted to the perception of tactile sensations, some end in ramifications of the axis cylinder, which resolves itself eventually into its ultimate fibrils, and thus penetrates between the epithelium-cells which cover the sensory surface, whilst others terminate in special organs, of which the best known are the tactile corpuscles, simple and compound encl-bulbs, the corpuscles of Grandry, which occur in birds, the round end-bulbs of the human conjunctiva, cylindrical end-bulbs, corpuscles of Herbst, also occurring in birds, and the corpuscles of VcUer or Pacinian bodies. A B Fig. 389.—A. Two tactile cells in the deeper part op the human epidermis. (Merkel.) B. Ending of nerves in tactile disks in the pigs snout. (Ranvier.) n, nerve-fibre ; m, terminal menisci or tactilo disks ; c, ordinary epithelium-cell ; a, altered epi- thelium cell, to which the meniscus is applied.