412 THE SKIN. contained principally in the cells of the deep layer or the rete mucosum (fig. 468), but even the superficial part possesses a certain degree of colour. In the intercellular channels of the Malpighian layer lymph-corpuscles, rounded or branched, are occasionally observed, and these, in the negro, may also contain pigment-granules. It has been supposed that these cells may act as carriers of pigment to the epidermis, since leucocytes containing pigment are also found in the negro in the superficial layers of the cutis vera. This is also the case in the bronzed skin of Addison’s disease. Development of the Epidermis.—The epidermis is derived from the cuta- neous epiblast. Up to about the second month of intra-uterine life it consists, according to Kolliker, of two layers of protoplasmic cells, of which the deeper are smaller and rounded, the more superficial larger and polygonal. The latter multiply, and in the second month are two or three cells deep ; they are clearer and more flattened out than the deep layer of cells, and stain less deeply with carmine. Fig. 469.—Section op epidermis from the occi- put op a fcbtus op 2£ months. (Bowen.) Fig. 470.—Section op epidermis from the palm op a 3 months fcetus. (Bowen.) ep, epitrichial layer. Between the second and third month there is found, according to the observations of Minot and Bowen, forming the most super- ficial layer of the epidermis, a stratum of enlarged, swollen-out cells (fig. 4(1!)). These were first noticed by Zander upon the fingers and toes of embryoes of about thirteen weeks or more, and were termed by him “ bladder ” cells. The layer increases for a time in thickness, so as to be two or three cells deep (fig. 470), or even in certain parts, e.g., over the situation of the developing nails and on the palmar surface of the hand and feet, to acquire a considerable thickness. Here the stratum seems to persist, but it disappears over the body of the nail, and also over the remainder of the surface of the skin, so that by the sixth month it is only found near the free border and root of the nail, and perhaps forming the thick horny layer of the palms and soles, which belongs to the second type of horny layer of Zander. This layer of bladder-like cells appears to correspond with an epithelial membrane which was first noticed by Welcker in a sloth-embryo, covering the surface of the body and lying over the developing hairs, hence named by him e/pitrichium. It has accordingly been termed the epitrichial layer, and has been shown to be of wide occurrence in the embryoes of mammals and birds, and also to be represented in reptiles. The cells of the foetal epidermis underneath this epitrichial layer form the Malpighian layer, and eventually the more superficial develop granules of eleidin and become keratinized, so that a stratum corneum is produced. After the throwing off of the epitrichial layer, the superficial cells of the stratum corneum also become gradually cast off, whilst others pass from the Malpighian layer to replace them. The cast-off scales, mingled with secretion of the cutaneous glands, form it with a yellowish caseous layer covering the surface of the foetus (smegma embryonum, vernix caseosa), and occurring also in flakes in the amniotic fluid. The pigmentation of the Malpighian layer in the coloured races of mankind frequently does not appear until a day or two after birth ; probably because it is concealed by the moist and therefore opaque epidermis over it. In the negro the pigment is certainly present even some weeks before term.