BLOOD-VESSELS. 372 somewhat glandular appearance, but composed almost entirely of a plexus of minute arteries, which are derived in the one case directly from the carotid, in the other from the middle sacial. The plexiform vessels are invested by one or more layers of granular polygonal cells, apparently like those found in the interstitial tissue of some other organs (testis, ovary, a p y P Fig. 430.—A SMALL ARTERY A, WITH A CORRESPONDING VEIN B, TREATED WITH ACETIC ACID, AND magnified 350 diameters (after Kolliker). a, external coat with elongated nuclei ; /3, nuclei of the transverse muscular tissue of the middle coat (when seen endwise, as at the sides of the vessel, their outline is circular) ; y, nuclei of the epithelium-cells ; 8, elastic layers of the inner coat. thyroid, suprarenal bodies). The whole is invested by connective tissue, which also penetrates between the vessels of the so-called gland, and itself contains numerous granular cells. The true nature and function of these peculiar structures is entirely unknown, but they are probably of embryological significance. DEVELOPMENT OP BLOOD-VESSELS. The first vessels which appear in the ovum are formed in the mesoblast, and the process subsequently goes on in the same layer and in its derivatives in all parts of the animal body. New vessels, also, are formed in the healing of wounds, in the restoration of lost parts, and in the production of adventitious growths. The process is in every case essentially the same. The first vessels of the embryo, both of the chick and mammal, are formed in the vascular area, and originate from some of the cells of the mesoblast in that situation (fig. 431). Vacuoles are formed within the cells, and as they increase in size run together, and a cavity filled with fluid is in this way produced in the interior of the cell. The nucleus of the cell has meanwhile become multiplied, while blood-corpuscles are formed within the cell-cavity in the manner already described in connection with the blood (p. 217). The cells, whilst these changes are going on, increase largely in size, especially in the chick, where they form vesicles (fig. 432), visible to the naked eye as minute reddish specks, which have been known since the time of Pander as “ blood-islands.” The cells are united to one another by their processes, and after a time the cavities become extended into the cell-processes, so that a network of vessels is by this means produced. The wall of these primary vessels is therefore composed at first merely of the protoplasm of the original embryonic cells with nuclei, derived by division from the