COLUMNAR EPITHELIUM. 200 lium. There is always a distinct oval nucleus which contains a network of chromato- plasm. The nucleus may cause a bulging in the part of the cell in which it is situated, and the nuclei of adjacent cells are on this account often seated in different planes. The substance of the cell usually appears granular, but on closer inspection with higher powers it may be seen that the granular appearance is caused by vacuo- 1 at ion and reticulation of the protoplasm. The cell may contain fatty globules and other substances, among which the most deserving of mention is mucin, the chief organic constituent of mucus. The mucin (or mucigen) usually takes the form of a granular deposit within the coll, especially in the part nearest the free border ; when fully formed the granules swell, and their substance escapes in the form of mucus ; the nucleus is often pressed down towards the finer extremity of the cell. Columnar epithelium cells which are thus altered by distension of the outer or free part of the cell by mucus are termed from their shape “ goblet or chalice cells ” (figs 232, 233). In typical columnar epithe- lium cells, such as those lining the mucous membrane of the small intestine, the free border differs from the rest of the cell in being more refracting and finely striated. This striated border of the cell (figs. 230 and 231, sir.) is often spoken of as the cuticular layer, and it is thereby assumed that it is composed of Fig. 234.—Isolated cells from the convoluted tubules of the rat's kidney. (Ileidenhain). Fig. 235.—Section of a racemose gland, showing the commencement of a duct in the alveoli. Magnified 425 diameters. (E. A. S.) a, one of the alveoli, several of which are in the section shown grouped around the commencement of the duct, d! ; a', an alveolus, not opened by the section ; b, basement membrane in section ; c, interstitial connective tissue of the gland ; cl, section of a duct which has passed away from its alveoli, and is now lined with characteristically-striated columnar cells ; s, semilunar group of darkly-stained cells at the periphery of an alveolus. something different from the cell-protoplasm. The border does not however, appear to offer a greater resistance than does the cell-protoplasm to the action of reagents, for those which destroy the protoplasm of the cell destroy also the striated border. After having been hardened by reagents it may be detached from the rest of the cell, and since the striated free borders of adjacent cells often adhere together, a continuous membrane may thus be obtained, marked by a mosaic of fine lines indicating the division between the cells from which this “cuticula” has become detached. The fine striae appear to be caused by the existence of fibrils or septa (perhaps spongioplasmic). The striated cuticula is not imme- diately in contact with the protoplasm of the cell, but is separated from it by a thin disk composed of a substance which refracts the light even more than the striated border. This disk (shown in fig. 230) corresponds in situation to the bright border of the ciliated epithelium cells (see below), and it is possible that the striated border is the morphological equivalent of the bunch of cilia upon those cells. Columnar cpithc-