39S MODIFICATIONS IN FORM OF THE SECRETING SURFACE. It is generally assumed that the former is the case, and that the protoplasm of the cells of a secreting gland increases in amount as the first stage in the process of formation of the secretion. But since the materials of secretion accumulate in the substance of the protoplasm, it may not be always possible to determine how much of the increase of size of the cell is due to a growth of the protoplasm itself, and how much to the accumulation of the materials of secretion, either entirely or only partially elaborated, within it. The secretory changes which have been noticed by various observers in the cells of different glands, will be more fully described when the several glands are specially treated of. Modifications in form of the secreting surface.—A secreting apparatus effectual for the purpose which it is destined to fulfil, may thus be said essentially to consist of a layer of secreting cells covering a free surface, whilst a layer of finely ramified blood vessels is generally spread out close to the attached ends of the cells, with' sometimes a basement membrane between the two. But whilst the structure may remain essentially the same, the configuration of the secreting surface presents various modifications in different secreting organs. In some cases, the secreting surface is plain, or, at least, expanded, as in various parts of the serous, synovial and mucous membranes, which may be looked on as examples of comparatively simple forms of secreting apparatus ; but, in other instances, and particularly in the special secretory organs named glands, the surface of the secreting membrane is variously involved and complicated. An obvious effect of this complication is to increase the extent of the secreting surface in a secreting organ within a given bulk, and thus augment the quantity of secretion yielded by it. No connection has been clearly shown to exist between the quality of the secretion and the particular con- figuration, either internal or external, of the organ ; on the other hand, we know that the same kind of secretion that is derived from a complex organ in one animal may be produced by an apparatus of most simple form iu another. There are two principal modes by which the surface of the membrane is so increased in extent, namely, by rising or protruding in form of a prominent fold or Fig. 455.—Plan op a secreting membrane. (Sharpey.) a, membrana propria or basement-membrane ; b, epithelium, composed of secreting cells ; c, layer of capillary blood-vessels. Fig. 456.—Plan to show augmentation °Of SURFACE BY FORMATION OF PRO- CESSES. (Sharpey.) a, b. c, as in preceding figure; d, simple and ef, branched or subdivided processes. some otherwise shaped projection (fig. 45G, d,«,/), or by retiring, in form of a recess