RECENT LITERATURE OF NERVES. 356 along the course of those which have been destroyed as a result of the section. Of the numerous fibres in the groups above described, no doubt a few only eventually assume the i unction of the fibres which they replace, but the later steps of the process of regeneration have not yet been fully followed out. Except close to the actual place of section, where they are somewhat hypertrophied, the connective-tissue sheaths of the nerves remain unaltered. In the cicatrix the new nerve-fibres do not at first run in definite sheaths, but these become subsequently developed from the connective-tissue around, so that at length the restoration of continuity of all the structures in the nerve becomes complete. Yanlair states that the outbudding of the axis-cylinders of the central end may occur as much as one or two centimeters from the point of section, and may involve at first only the peripheral fibres of a funiculus. Eanvier looks upon the regeneration of a nerve by growth from the intact central ends of the fibres as illustrating the tendency which, he believes, all nerve-fibres exhibit, to grow continuously until a hindrance is met with, and he compares the result of cutting a nerve-fibre in causing the growth of a number of new fibres in place of the original one, to that produced when the leading shoot of a plant is removed, in causing the production of a number of lateral buds. Some have thought that under favourable circumstances an immediate union between the ends of the nerve-fibres may happen after section ; but considering the impossibility of procuring exact apposition of the individual fibres, end to end, as well as the inevitable extension of the effects of the mechanical injury caused by the section along the soft contents of the primitive sheath, it seems improbable that such direct union should ever occur. The degeneration does not affect, as we have seen, the part of the nerve remaining in connection with the nervous centre, which seems to exert an Influence in maintaining the nutrition of the nerve. The ganglia, as well as the grey matter of the brain and spinal cord, are centres of this influence. It is found that, in the central portion of a divided spinal nerve, while the fibres belonging to the anterior root owe their integrity to their connection with the spinal cord (and especially with the large cells of the anterior cornu), those of the posterior root are similarly depen- dent on the ganglion ; and that if the posterior root be cut between the ganglion and the spinal cord, not only will the fibres which pass from it into the trunk of the nerve beyond the ganglion remain unchanged, but also those above the ganglion, in the portion of the root left in connection with it ; whereas the fibres of the same root which remain connected with the cord but severed from the ganglion degenerate. The degeneration of the peripheral end of a cut nerve and the breaking up of the substance of the medullary sheath were first noticed by Nasse in 1839. But the discovery by Augustus Waller in 1852 of the dependence of the process upon isolation of the nerve-fibre from its nutritive centre, and his application of this discovery to the tracing the course of nerve-fibres in peripheral parts (now known as the Wallerian method) first gave full interest and import- ance to the observation of Nasse. Stated briefly, the law may be formulated as follows:— “ Degeneration occurs along the whole extent of any nerve-fibre which is cut off from the cell which governs its nutrition,” and this, as the observations of His have shown, is in every case the cell from which the nerve-fibre has originally grown.1 RECENT LITERATURE Arnold, Julius, BemerTcungen ilber Spiralfascrn und pericellulare Fadcnnetzc an den Ganglion- zeUen des Sympathicus, Anatomiscber Anzeiger, 1890. Aronson, H., Bcitrdge zur Kenntniss dor centralen und peripheren Nervcnendigungen, Dissert., Berlin, 1886. Boveri, Th., Beitrdge zur Kenntniss der Ncrvcnfascrn, Abbandl. d. k. bayerisch. Akad. d, Wissenschaften zu Miinchen, 1885. 1 The addendum which is sometimes made to the effect that the course of the degeneration follows that of the nervous impulses which arc ordinarily conducted along the fibre is manifestly erroneous.