297 HISTORICAL. proportionately increased in breadth (fig. 342, B). Subsequently, however, recognising the existence of longitudinal elements within the muscle-prism, Krause described the fluid as passing between these and separating them more from one another during contraction (C). 1 About the same time (1868), Hensen described the stripe which bears his name. Fi". 342.—Diagrammatic representation of a muscle-case under a very high mag- nifying power. (W. Krause.) A, at rest; B, condition in contraction, former view J C, condition in contiaction, pre- sent view, an, muscle-prism, consisting of a bundle of muscle-rods ; is, fluid isotropous substance. ABC -vk si| I -an -is The next prominent writer upon the subject was Merkel (1872), who described the trans- verse membranes of Krause as being double, and who corroborated Hensen’s description of the existence of a thin line or disk in the middle of the dark stria. But the most important difference in Merkel’s account occurs in his description of the process of contraction. Accord- ing to Merkel, the anisotropous substance of the dark stria first of all becomes diffused over the whole muscle compartment, so that the fibre acquires a homogeneous appearance, and then at a later stage becomes accumulated against the transverse membranes, while the isotropous substance on the other hand is accumulated on either side of Hensen s disk, so that the position of the two substances is thus reversed. In a subsequent communication (1881) a somewhat modified view of the changes in contraction was taken by Merkel. Merkel was followed by Engelmann (1873), according to whose description, a muscular fibre consists of a succession of superimposed parts or compartments, which are partitioned off from one another by thin disks or membranes—Krause’s membranes or intermediate disks (fig. 341. a, a). Within each compartment thus marked off is a series of disks, varying in their refractive power and in their action upon polarised light, as follows :—Next to an inter- mediate disk comes a layer of isotropous clear substance, within which may be distin- guished a thin disk of dark substance (l>), having in ordinary muscles the appearance of a line of dots, the accessory disk (granule-layer of Flogel) ; then comes a broad disk of anisotropous substance (principal disk, c), occupying the greater portion of the muscle- compartment, and sometimes bisected by a narrow pale band, which lies exactly in the middle of the compartment, and is distinguished as the middle disk or disk of Hensen (not seen in the figure). Beyond the broad anisotropous disk come in inverse succession isotropous substance with accessory disk, and intermediate disk, and so on in the next compartment. ■When contraction is about to supervene in any part of a muscular fibre, the changes, which according to Engelmann may be observed, are the following :—While the intermediate disks approach one another, the successive disks within each muscle-compartment become less distinct, and the fibre loses in great measure at the part in question (that namely in which the contraction is beginning), its striated appearance. The stage in question was accordingly termed by Engelmann the homogeneous stage (fig. 341, H.). As the contraction progresses, transverse striae again make their appearance, in consequence of the gradual darkening of the accessory disks and concomitant clearing up of the principal disk, so that now each inter- mediate disk with its juxtaposed accessory disk forms a distinct dark isotropous band, these alternating with the narrowed and now bright-looking principal disks of anisotropous sub- stance (fig. 341, C.) The reversal of the striae in contracting muscle is ascribed by Engelmann to changes in refrangibility in the several substances which compose the disks of the muscle- compartment. accompanied by an increase in the volume of the principal disk at the expense of the isotropous substance. Both Merkel and Englemann attach considerable importance to the occurrence of the intermediate stage, in which the striae become indistinct; but it is probable that the homo- geneous appearance of that part of the fibre which is passing into or out of full contraction is due to a shifting of the longitudinal elements of the muscle, owing to their being unequally pulled upon by the more completely contracted part. A similar mechanical shifting of the muscle-columns, accompanied by disappearance of distinct transverse striation, is often produced in teasing the tissue. Moreover the so-called homogeneous stage is often not observed in con- tracting muscle. It must therefore be regarded as an adventitious appearance. Heitzmann (in 1873) seems to have been the first to notice the reticular appearances of muscle which had been treated with gold and acid, but these appearances were first fully described by G. Retzius in 1881, who showed that the dots or enlargements upon the longitudinal lines of the muscular substance are actually only the optical sections of the fibres of transverse networks, which Retzius regarded with great probability, as extending from and continuous with the protoplasm surrounding the nuclei of the muscle fibre. Camoy’s theory of the constitution of cell protoplasm of a contractile reticulum and enchy- lema, which was about this time beginning to rise into importance, had a marked influence