BONE OR OSSEOUS TISSUE. 278 the osteoblasts are left behind as bone-corpuscles in lacunas, whilst others remain surrounding the blood-vessels within the meshes. The question whether bone can be directly formed from cartilage by a transfor- mation of the cartilage-matrix into osseous tissue, whilst the cartilage-cells become bone-corpuscles (metaplastic ossification), is one which has been much discussed of late years and can hardly as yet be said to be definitely decided. But although the cells of a calcified cartilage in the neighbourhood of advancing ossification some- times appear stellate and simulate bone-corpuscles, and the calcified fibrous matrix i, p p Fig. 318.—Part op a transverse section op a developing long bone, rather more advanced THAN THAT REPRESENTED IN PIG. 313, AND UNDER A HIGHER MAGNIFYING POWER (E. A. S.). From a drawing by Mr. J. Lawrence. cb, endochondral bone which began as a calcification of the cartilage-matrix, parts of which still remain (c) covered over by secondary osseous deposit ; o, secondary areola;, occupied by vessels, fcetal marrow, and osteoblasts ; pb, periosteal bone deposited in the form of irregular trabeculae, prolonged externally by bony spicules passing into bunches of osteogenic fibres. These, which are everywhere covered with osteoblasts, become lost in the external fibrous layer of the periosteum, p ; bl, hi, blood- vessels variously cut. Fig. 319.—Longitudinal section through the periosteal thickening op a bone at about the same stage op development as that represented in pig. 313. From a drawing by Mr. J. Lawrence. (E. A. S.) c, cartilage with the cells in rows ; the tissue of the periosteal thickening is sharply marked off from it except near the surface ; p, outer layer of the periosteum ; i, p, inner layer of the periosteum or subperiosteal tissue, with osteogenic fibres, and osteoblasts. One or two blood-vessels are observed cut across. of the cartilage may in like manner simulate osseous tissue, there is not sufficient evidence to show that true lamellar bone is formed in any other way than through the agency of osteoblasts. The first formed bony tissue is different in its general appearance from the bony tissue of the adult, being reticular and not regularly lamellar, and, for a long while, even the shafts of the long bones are rather cancellated, than compact in their texture. The more obviously lamellated condition does not begin to appear until about the sixth month after birth, when the periosteum deposits a succession of entire lamellae around the embryonic bone. The blood-vessels which pass from