228 ELASTIC FIBRES. tissue, the elastic fibres arc exceedingly fine. In some animals elastic fibres are met with -rsVoth of an inch in thickness. In shape they are not cylindrical but angular, as is well seen in transverse section (fig. 2GG). In certain portions of the. areolar tissue, as for instance in that which lies under the serous and mucous membranes of particular regions, the yellow or elastic fibres are abundant and large, so that they cannot well be overlooked ; but in other parts and in the fibrous tissue, they are few in number, and small, and are then in a great measure hidden by the white filaments ; in such cases, however, they can generally be rendered conspicuous under the microscope by means of acetic acid, which causes the white filaments to swell up and become indistinct, whilst the elastic fibres not being affected by that re-agent, come then more clearly into view. Watery solutions of magenta and many other aniline dyes Fig. 261.—Elastic fibres from the stain elastic fibres very intensely. Elastic fibres do not yield ligamenta subflava ; magni- gelatine on boiling. They are composed of a substance fied about 200 diameters. name(| elastin, which is enclosed in a membrane or sheath (s larpey.) (Schwalbe). This membrane resists the action of digestive ferments, and also that of acids and alkalies, which break the elastin up into globules and eventually dissolve it (Pfeuffer, Mall). According to Mall this membrane is chemically similar to the reticulum of retiform tissue. Many observers have described transverse striation in elastic fibres (see fig. 265), especially in those that have been long macerated. It is not improbable that appearances of transverse [?ig. 262.—Subcutaneous areolar tissue from a young rabbit. Highly magnified. (E. A. S.) The figure shows the appearance of the tissue examined perfectly fresh in a preparation made by he demi-dessieation method and moistened only with lymph. . . , The white fibres are in wavy bundles, the elastic fibres form an open network, p, p, vacuolated ells (plasma colls); <7, granular cell ; c,c, branching lamellar cells ; c, a flattened cell of which only he nucleus and some scattered granules are visible ; /, fibrillatcd cell. Drawn under Zeiss’ 2 mm. apochromatic homogeneous-immersion objective, and ho. S compensating lyepiece.