DEGENERATION AND REGENERATION OP NERVES. 353 of the medullary sheath to the cells which compose the nucleated sheath of Schwann, and the same view has been taken by other observers; but it must nevertheless be regarded as possible that it is actually formed by the axis-cylinder, or by the proto- plasm which forms the peripheral layer of the axis-cylinder in its embryonic con- dition, and for the following reasons, viz. (1) that in the central nervous system the medullated nerve-fibres never at any time possess this nucleated sheath ; (2) that in regenerating nerve-fibres, a thin medullary sheath appears around the growing axis- cylinders before these are surrounded by their special nucleated sheath. At the same time it is possible to suppose that the cells of Schwann’s sheath may influence the deposition of myelin. The neurolemma or sheath of Schwann on the other band appears certainly to be formed by cells which have applied themselves to and have become flattened out around the preformed axis-cylinder, but whether they are to be regarded as of mesoblastic origin (Yignal, Kolliker), or whether they have passed out from the nerve-centre along with the processes of the neuroblasts, and are therefore like the latter epiblastic in nature, is a question which requires further investigation. On the whole, although we have no certain information on the subject, it is probable that the medullary sheath has an origin in common with the axis-cylinder, but that the primitive sheath is different, and not improbably mesoblastic in origin. The formation of the medullary sheath occurs, not simultaneously over the whole nervous system, but in regular order along definite tracts, and the knowledge of this in the hands of Flechsig, has proved an important means of tracing the course of certain strands of fibres in the nervous centres, as will be noticed when the subject of the continuity of the fibres in those centres is dealt -with. The fact that the nerve-segments or internodes of the peripheral nerves are con- siderably shorter in the young animal, points to the existence of an interstitial as well as a terminal growth of nerve-fibres. Besides such expansion of the internodes, Yignal has described another method of growth in length of nerve-fibres ; mesoblast cells similar to those which originally produced the nucleated sheath, applying them- selves to the axis-cylinder of the nodes, and determining first an increase in length of the nodal axis-cylinder, and then a formation of myelin upon this, so that a short segment becomes intercalated at the node. These shoi’t segments soon grow so as to attain the length of the remaining segments of the nerve-fibre. Degeneration and regeneration of nerves.—The divided ends of a nerve that has been cut across readily reunite by cicatricial tissue, but the cut ends of the fibres themselves do not thus unite. On the contrary, soon after the section, a process of degeneration begins in the peripheral or severed portion of the nerve. The nuclei become multiplied, and the protoplasm about them largely increased in amount, the segments taking on to some extent their embryonic condition. At the same time the medulla of the white fibres degenerates into a granular mass consist- ing of fatty molecules, and is then totally removed, and eventually the axial fibre also disappears (fig. 416, A, B, and C). In regeneration the new fibres grow afresh from the axial fibres of the central end of the divided nerve-trunk (often more than one from each) ; and, penetrating into the peripheral end of the trunk, grow along this as the axis-cylinders of the new nerves, becoming after a time surrounded with medullary substance ffio- 416, D). J ^ To this brief summary the following details may be added In warm-blooded animals the first changes in the peripheral part of the nerve are seen twenty-four hours after the section. The nuclei underneath the primitive sheath are everywhere found hypertrophied, the primitive sheath is distinctly visible, and protoplasm is found to have accumulated at the expense of the medullary sheath, both in the immediate neighbourhood of the nuclei, at the nodes, and also at other points in