370 BLOOD-VESSELS. and other allied textures. _ In infants and young persons, the tissues are compara- tively more vascular than in after-life. 1 The figure of the capillary network is not the same in all textures. In many cases the shape of the meshes seems accommodated to the arrangement of the elements of the tissue in which they lie. Thus in muscle, nerve, and tendon, the meshes are long and comparatively narrow, and run conformably with the fibres and fasciculi of these textures. In other parts, as in the lungs, in fat, and in secreting glaDds, the meshes are rounded or polygonal, with no one dimension greatly predominating. In the papillae of the skin and mucous membranes, the vessels of the network are often drawn out into prominent simple or ramified loops. The smallest arteries and veins pass by gradual transition into the capillary vessels, and their finest offsets approach very near to these in structure ; these may therefore be conveniently considered along with the capillary vessels. Structure of the capillaries.—The wall of the capillaries proper is formed entirely of a simple epithelial layer, composed of flattened lanceolate cells joined edge to edge, and continuous with the corresponding layer which lines the arteries Fig. 428.—Capillary vessels from the bladder of the oat, magnified (after Chrzonszczewsky). The outlines of the cells are stained by nitrate of silver. and veins. The outlines of the cells or their lines of unction one with another may be made apparent by n.trate of silver (fig. 428) ; while the nuclei, which show a well-marked network of karyoplasm, may be brought into view by logwood or carmine. Commonly there are not more than two or three such cells in the cross section of a capillary. At the points of junc- tion of the capillaries the cells are usually broader and not spindle-shaped, but radiate, with three or four pointed branches fitting in between the cells of the three or four adjoining vessels which meet at the spot (fig. 428, c, c, c'). In capillaries which have been submitted to the action of nitrate of silver, there is here and there to be seen between the cells of the capillary wall an increase in amount of the inter- cellular substance, appearing as an enlargement of the fine line of the silver deposit. To these gaps in the capillary wall, which however are closed by intercellular substance, J. Arnold has applied the term “ stigmata : ” they are analogous to the “ pseudo-stomata ” found between the epithelium-cells of a serous membrane. It is probable that the white blood corpuscles, when migrating from the blood-vessels, pass between the epithelium-cells, especially in the situation of the stigmata. Branched cells of the surrounding areolar tissue are found connected intimately with the cells forming the capillary wall. This connection occurs almost everywhere, but it is more obvious in parts which are pervaded by a supporting network of retiform connective tissue, such as the substance of the lymphatic glands, the solitary and agminated intestinal glands and adjacent mucous membrane, where the small vessels and capillaries may even obtain a continuous covering from the reticulating processes of the cells. This coating has been named jj His, adrentUia cajrillaris. Outgrowths from the capillary wall have been described by Strieker as occurring not only m the progress of development, in the manner to be afterwards detailed, but also in the fully developed capillaries of the frog ; and contraction both of the whole capillary wall and also of the individual cells of young capillary vessels has been described (Strieker, Tarchanoff), but it is not known whether the walls of the capillaries of the adult mammal possess any appreciable contractility. Structure of the small arteries and veins.—In vessels a little larger than the capillaries, there is added outside the epithelial layer, a layer of plain