GENERAL ANATOMY, OR HISTOLOGY. By E. A. SCHAFER. General Anatomy, or as it is now more commonly termed Histology, is that branch of Anatomy which treats of the structure of the textures. As has already been explained in the Introduction to this volume, the body of every one of the higher animals is made up of organs adapted for the performance of its several functions, and these organs are themselves composed of various tissues or textures. In order that the structure of any organ or part of the body should be understood, it is necessary to study, both together and separately, the several tissues of which it is composed, so as to ascertain their composition and the manner in which they are combined to constitute the organ or part in question. This is chiefly effected by minute dissociations and thin sections, which are observed with the aid of the micro- scope, and hence the terms “Minute Anatomy” and “Microscopic Anatomy” are also applied to this branch of the science. It is found that when the body is thus dissected and analysed by the aid of the microscope, that the number of distinct tissues which are met with is comparatively small, and some of these again, although at first sight to all appearance distinct, yet have so much in common in their struc- ture and origin one with another (forms of transition also being met with between them), that the number becomes still further reduced. The elementary tissues which may be thus enumerated are as follows The epithelial tissues. The connective tissues. The muscular tissues. The nervous tissues. Particles which are met with in the fluids of the body, such as the corpuscles in the blood and lymph, are also described amongst the elementary tissues. Many of the organs are formed wholly of a single one of these elementary tissues, or with a comparatively slight intermixture of others. Thus the muscles are made up almost entirely of muscular tissue, with but a small intermixture of connective tissue, blood-vessels and nerves ; whilst the cartilages are composed wholly of a variety of connective tissue. On the other hand, there are certain organs or parts of the body not in themselves distinguished by the preponderance of any special tissue, but compounded of two or more in varying proportion, the structure of which it is nevertheless convenient to describe along with the tissues, on account of their wide distribution in the body, and their uniformity of structure in different parts. Such are :— Blood-vessels. Lymphatic vessels. Lymphatic glands and bodies of like structure. Serous membranes. Synovial membranes. Secreting glands. Mucous membranes. Integument. VOL. x. N