207 THE BLOOD. THE CONNECTIVE TISSUES. Three principal modifications or varieties of connective tissue have long been recognized and separately described, viz., areolar tissue, fibrous tissue and elastic tissue. Others, however, belong unmistakeably to the same group, as the study of their structure and the history of their development in the mesoblast clearly show. Of these the most important are adipose tissue, retiform and lymphoid tissue, cartilage, bone and the elements of the blood and lymph. It will be convenient to study the last-named elements before the structure of the connective tissues proper is considered. THE BLOOD. The most striking external character of the blood is its well-known colour, which is bright red approaching to scarlet in the arteries, but of a dark purple or modena tint in the veins. It is a somewhat clammy and consistent liquid, a little heavier than water, its specific gravity being about r055 ; it has a saltish taste, a slight alkaline reaction, and a peculiar faint odour. To the naked eye the blood appears opaque and homogeneous ; but, when examined with the microscope, either while within the minute vessels, or when spread out into a thin layer upon a piece of glass, it is seen to consist of a transparent colourless fluid, named the “lymph of the blood,” “liquor sanguinis,” or “plasma,” and minute solid particles or corpuscles immersed in it. These corpuscles are of two kinds, the coloured and the colourless : the former are by far the more abundant, and have been long known as “ the red particles,” or “ globules,” of the blood ; the “ colourless,” “ white,” or “ pale corpuscles,” on the other hand, being fewer in number and less conspicuous, were later in being generally recognised. When blood is drawn from the vessels, the liquor sanguinis separates into two parts ;—into fibrin, which becomes solid and takes the form of fine interlacing filaments, and a pale yellowish liquid named serum. In a cubic millimeter of healthy human blood there are on an average 5,000,000 red corpuscles (Yierordt) and 10,000 white corpuscles. The number of white corpuscles varies much more than that of the red, and the proportion of the white to the red is variously given at from 1 :1000 to 1:250. There are said to be fewer red corpuscles in the female (4,500,000 in a cubic millimeter according to Welcker). The numeration of the blood-corpuscles is readily performed. A little blood, obtained by pricking the finger, is measured in a capillary tube, and is then mixed with a measured amount (say 100 times its volume) of dilute solution of sulphate of soda, or some other salt which will maintain its fluidity and at the same time preserve the corpuscles nearly unaltered ; the latter can then be counted in a small known quantity of the mixture. This part of the operation is effected by placing a drop of the mixture in the middle of a glass “ cell ” of a certain depth (say ~th of a millimeter), the bottom of which is ruled in squares, the sides of which are of a known dimension (say again mill.). If now a covering glass is placed over the cell so as to touch the drop, the latter will form a layer of the mixture mill, deep, and the part above each square will represent a cube of liquid the sides of which measure mill. So that by counting the number of corpuscles in ten squares, after allowing them time to subside, and multiplying the result by 10,000, the number in a cubic millimeter of the blood is obtained. The methods of Hayem and Nachet, Gowers, and Thoma are based on the above principle. The average results obtained by recent investigators agree closely with the original estimates of Vierordt and Welcker;1 1 G. Oliver (Croonian Lectures, Lancet, 1896, vol. 1) has introduced a new method of accurately estimating the number of red blood corpuscles without the labour of enumeration. Many valuable ob- servations on the conditions affecting their number will also be found here.