299 BLOOD-VESSELS. and others working under his direction, and for the details of these investigations the reader is referred to the papers on this subject which are quoted m the Bibliography at the end of this chapter. . , Mode of attachment of muscular fibres: ending of muscle in tendon. When a muscle ends in a tendon it is found that the muscular fibres either run in the same direction as the tendon-bundles or join with the tendon at an acute angle. In the former case the tendon becomes subdivided, either gradually or sudden y, into as many small bundles as there are fibres in the end of the muscle, and it often seems at first sight as if the tendon-fibres were directly continued into the muscular substance. In reality, however, the fibres of each tendon-bundle end abruptly on reaching the rounded or obliquely truncated extremity of a muscular fibre (fig. o43), Fig. 343.—Termination of a muscular fibre in tendon. (Ranviev.) m, sarcolemma ; s, the same membrane passing over the end of the fibre ; p, extremity of muscular substance, c, retracted from the lower end of the sarcolemma-tube ; t, tendon-bundle passing to be fixed to the sarcolemma. and are so intimately united to the prolongation of sarcolemma which covers the extremity, as to render the separation between the two difficult if not impos- sible (Ranvier). The muscular substance, on the other hand, may readily be caused to retract from the sarcolemma at this point. The areolar tissue which lies between the tendon-bundles, passes between the ends of the muscular fibres and is gradually lost in the interstitial connective tissue of the muscle. When the direction of the muscular fibres is oblique to that of the tendon, the connection takes place in a similar way to that above described, but the small tendon-bundles are given off laterally along the course of the tendon, which in these cases is generally pro- longed into or over the muscle. When the muscular fibres divide, each branch of the fibre is described as being directly continuous with a tendon-bundle, or connective tissue bundle, without the intervention of sarcolemma, but it is not improbable that renewed careful investigation might, in this case also, disclose the existence of a thin prolongation of sarcolemma over the divisions. Blood-vessels.—The blood-vessels of the muscular tissue are very abundant, so that, when they are successfully filled with coloured injection, the fleshy part of the muscle contrasts strongly with its tendons. The arteries, accompanied by their associate veins, enter the muscle at various points, and divide into branches : these pass along the fasciculi, crossing over them, and dividing more and more as they get between the finer divisions of the muscle ; at length, penetrating the smallest fasciculi, they end in capillary vessels, which run between the fibres. The vessels are supported in their progress by the sub-divisions of the sheath of the muscle, to which also they supply capillaries. The capillaries destined for the proper tissue of the muscle arc extremely small ; they form among the fibres a fine net-work, with narrow oblong meshes (fig. 344), which are stretched out in the direction of the fibres ; in other words, they consist of longitudinal and transverse vessels, the former running parallel with the muscular fibres, and lying in the angular intervals between them,—the latter, which are much shorter, crossing between the longitudinal ones, and passing over or under the intervening fibres. VOL. I. x