381 LYMPHATIC HEARTS. Terminations of lymphatics.—The absorbent system discharges its contents into the veins at two joints, namely, at the junction of the subclavian and internal jugular veins of the left side by the thoracic duct, and at the corresponding part of the veins of the right side by the right lymphatic trunk. The openings, as already remarked, are guarded by valves. It sometimes happens that the thoracic duct divides, near its termination, into two or three short branches, which open separately, but near each other ; more rarely, a branch opens to the vena azygos—indeed the main vessel has been seen terminating in that vein. Again it is not uncommon for larger branches, which usually join the thoracic duct, to open independently in the vicinity of the main termination ; and this is more apt to happen with the branches Fig. 439. Portion of serous membrane of diaphragm (pleural) from the rabbit, treated with NITRATE OF SILVER AFTER REMOVAL OF SUPERFICIAL EPITHELIAL LAYER. (Recklinghausen.) c, c, cell-spaces of tissue ; d, d, commencing lymphatic vessels connected at b, b, with the cell- spaces. which usually unite to form the right lymphatic trunk. By such variations the terminations in the great veins are multiplied, but still they are confined in man to the region of the neck ; in birds, reptiles, and fishes, on the other hand, communi- cations take place between the lymphatics of the pelvis, posterior extremities and tail, and the sciatic or other considerable veins of the abdomen or pelvis. Lymphatic hearts.-—J. Muller and Panizza, nearly about the same time, but indepen- dently of each other, discovered that the lymphatic system of reptiles is furnished, at its principal terminations in the venous system, with pulsatile muscular sacs, which serve to discharge the lymph into the veins. These organs, which are named lymph-hearts, have now been found in all the different orders of reptiles and amphibia, and also in birds, but not in any mammal. In frogs and toads two pairs have been discovered, a o c 2