233 AREOLAR TISSUE. or never s-imply spheroidal like the granular cells. Cells of the same nature but with larger and more conspicuous vacuoles are met with in situations where capillary blood-vessels are about to he formed (see Development of Blood-vessels). Cells are occasionally observed in areolar tissue in which nothing but a nucleus and a few scattered granules around it are visible (fig. 262, c). These are perhaps the remains of corpuscles which are in process of disintegration, but nothing is definitely known as to the removal and regeneration of the cells of connective tissue, nor as to the genetic connection, if any, existing between the several kinds of cells met with in the tissue. The three kinds of cells above described all belong to the so-called “ fixed cells ” of the connective tissue. The “ migratory cells,” which are occasionally seen in areolar tissue, are identical with the pale blood- or lymph-corpuscles. In areolar tissue all the varieties of connective tissue cells above described occur. They have no very definite arrangement. Both the cells and the spaces in which they lie may inter-communicate by their branches, and in this way it often happens where the tissue is thicker, that the system of cells and cell-processes, and of corresponding canals, may effect a communication between the superficial and deeper parts of the tissue. The cells of areolar tissue are also connected with the flattened cells which line the smaller blood-vessels and lymphatics, and by means of this connection, and the continuity of the cell-spaces of the tissue, channels are provided for the flow of blood-plasma from the blood-vessels or towards the lymphatics. In addition to this, no doubt some of the plasma or lymph may soak through the ground-sub- stance, or find its way through the lacunar interstices (are- olae) of the tissue. In fibrous tissue (tendon aud ligament), the cells, which are often called “ tendon- cells,” are all of the flattened or lamellar variety. They follow the parallel arrange- ment of the fibre-bundles, and are disposed in rows or chains (fig. 271), which may be easily seen if a very fine tendon, such as those in the tail of the mouse or rat, or a portion only of a larger one is examined under the microscope, and a little dilute acetic acid is cautiously added. A peculiar shape is impressed upon these cells by the close packing of the tendon bundles, for although they may look quad- rangular or oblong when the tendon is viewed longitudinally (figs. 271, 274), yet when it is cut across, they have a stellate appearance (figs. 264, 273), for like other flattened connective tissue cells, they send lamellar extensions into the interstices zmsmssm Fig. 271.—Tendon of mouse’s tail, stained with logwood ; SHOWING CHAINS OF CELLS BETWEEN THE TENDON-BUNDLES. 175 DIAMETERS. (E. A. S.) between the contiguous bundles, whilst the middle of each cell, containing the nucleus, lies in the angular space between three or more bundles. When the tendon- cells are viewed longitudinally, any of the lamellar extensions, which are directed either towards or away from the observer, appear as lines on the surface of the cell (fig. 274). The same appearance is often seen upon the flattened cells of the denser forms of areolar tissue, where the cells have been squeezed in between three or more bundles. Each tendon-cell consists of a delicate protoplasmic body, thicker at the centre and thinning off in the extensions, and containing a flattened, round or oval, clear nucleus, with an intranuclear network and several nucleoli. The ends of adjacent cells are in close apposition, and form, as before noticed, long chains of cells in the tendon, and the nucleus is generally so situated towards one end of the cell as to be