322 SUSTENTACULAR TISSUE OF NERVE-CENTRES. periphery, and furnishing at the same time the points of union between the medullated and non-medullated fibres. In the uni-polar cells of the ganglia upon the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, and in some other situations the single process (which may be much convoluted near the cell and soon acquires a medullary sheath) bifurcates after a longer or shorter course, and its two branches are eventually prolonged in opposite directions along the nerve (fig. 3GG). The nerve-cells in the brain and spinal cord resemble the nerve-fibres in the same parts in being destitute of any nucleated sheath, but in the ganglia each nerve-cell is enclosed in a membranous capsule, having nuclei on its inner surface and apparently continuous with the nucleated sheath of the nerve-fibre or fibres with which the cell is connected (fig. 367). Sustentacular tissue of the nerve- centres; neuroglia.—In the grey matter of the cerebro-spinal centre, the nerve- cells appear at first sight as if imbedded in a sort of matrix of granular substance, interposed between them in greater or less quantity, and traversed in all directions by nerve-fibres. But the appearance of Fig. 374.—Structure op cortex of cerebellum (Sankey), a, pia mater ; b, external layer ; c, layer of corpuscles of Purkinje ; d, inner or granule layer , e, medullary centre. Fig. 375.—From a section op cerebellum, stained by the method of goloi (Ramon y Cajal). The figure shows the basket-work of ramifications of the cells of the outer layer of grey matter, enveloping two corpuscles of Purkinje. ... , , { ,, a, axis-cylinder process of one of the corpuscles ; b, basket-worn of fibres derived fiom the as cylinder processes, c, of cells of the outer layer. granular or molecular matter results from a confused interlacement of fine fibrils and especially of the fine ramifications of nerve-cells, and of the special sustentaculai cells immediately to be described ; or from the crushing and breaking down of such fibres in the process of examination. _ . The supporting substance which is met with in the white matter of the brain and spinal cord between the nerve-fibres also looks in section like a network, although rather more open than that in the grey matter. It was supposed by