MINUTE STRUCTURE OF BONE. 1 De Penitiori Ossium Structure. Wratisl. 1834, p. 17, Fig. 6. 250 cavity. The lacunae present some variety of figure, but in such a section as that represented they for the most part appear irregularly fusiform, and lie nearly in the same direction as the lamellae between which they are situated ; or, to speak more correctly, they are flattened and extended conformably with the lamellae ; for when the bone is cut longitudinally, their sections still appear fusiform and are still more lengthened out in the direction of the lamellae. The canaliculi, on the other hand, pass across the lamellae, and they communicate with those proceeding from the next range of lacunae, so as to connect the little cavities with each other ; and thus since the canaliculi of the most central range open into the Haversian canal, a system of continuous passages is established by these minute tubes and their lacunae, along which fluids may be conducted from the Haversian canal through its seiies of sur- rounding lamellae ; indeed, it seems probable that a chief purpose of these minute passages is to allow nutrient matter to be conveyed from the vascular Haversian canals through the mass of hard bone which lies around and between them. In like manner the canaliculi open into the great medullary canal, and into the cavities of the cancellated texture ; for in the thin bony parietes of these cavities lacunae are also contained ; they exist, indeed, in all parts of the bony tissue. The canaliculi which radiate outwards from the lacunae near the periphery of the Haversian systems do not as a rule communicate with those of the neighbouring Haversian system, but bend round and are joined to one another. Cells of bone.—As first shown by Virchow, each lacuna is occupied by a flattened nucleated cell, which sends branches along the canaliculi ; and later observers (Rouget, Neuman,) have been able to detach the proper wall of the lacuna Fig. 299.—A BONE-CELL ISOLATED AND HIGHLY MAGNIFIED (after Joseph). a, proper wall of the lacuna, shown at a part where the cor- puscle has shrunk away from it. and its appertaining canaliculi after decalcification, and to obtain it separate with its included corpuscle (fig. 299). It can scarcely be doubted that the pro- toplasm of the nucleated corpuscle takes an important share in the nutritive process in bone, and very pro- bably serves both to modify the nutritive fluid supplied from the blood and to further its distribution through the lacunar and canalicular system of the bony tissue. Virchow showed that the corpuscles of bone are homo- logous with those of ordinary connective tissue : to this it may be added that the enclosing lacunae and canaliculi are to be looked upon as corresponding to the cell- spaces of that tissue. Apertures and decussating fibres of the lamellae.—With a little pains thin films may be peeled off in a longitudinal direction from a piece of bone that has been softened in acid. These for the most part consist of several lamella?, as may be seen at the edge, where the different layers are usually torn unequally, and some extend farther than others. Examined in this way, under the microscope, the lamellae are seen to be perforated with fine apertures placed at very short distances apart. These apertures were described by Deutsch1; they appear to be the transverse sections of the canaliculi already described, and their relative distance and position accord sufficiently with this explanation. According to this view, there- fore, the canaliculi might (in a certain sense) be conceived to result from the apposi- tion of a series of perforated plates, the apertures of each plate corresponding to those of the plates contiguous with it ; or they might be compared to holes bored to some