DEVELOPMENT OF CONNECTIVE TISSUE. 242 and by their fusion the membrane is formed (p). In elastic cartilage the granules first make their appearance, it is true, in the immediate neighbourhood of the cartilage-cells ; but although this renders it probable that the deposition of the granules is influenced by the cells, it does not prove that they are formed by a direct conversion of the cell-protoplasm. Indeed, the subsequent extension of the fibres into those parts of the matrix which were previously clear of them (a process which can be easily followed in the arytenoid cartilage of the calf), and in which no such direct conversion of cell protoplasm seems possible, is a strong argument in favour of the deposition hypothesis. The view which supposes that a direct conversion of the protoplasm of the connective tissue cells takes place into fibres, both white and elastic, has of late years been widely adopted, but it seems to rest largely upon a desire to interpret the facts in accordance with the conception (originally formulated by Beale and M. Schultze), according to which every part of an organised body consists either of protoplasm (formative matter), or of material which has been protoplasm (formed material) ; the idea of a deposition or change occurring outside the cells in the intercellular substance being excluded. It is, however, not difficult to show that a formation of fibres may occur in the animal organism without a direct transfor- mation of protoplasm, although the materials for such formation may be furnished by cells. Thus in those coelenterates in which a low form of connective tissue first makes its appearance, this is distinguished by a total absence of cellular elements, a ground-substance only being developed and fibres becoming formed in it. Again, the fibres of the shell-membrane of the bird’s egg are certainly not formed by the direct conversion of the protoplasm of-the cells which line the oviduct, although they are formed in matter secreted by those cells, and it is through their agency that the deposit occurs in a fibrous form. In the formation of retiform tissue the ground-substance appears to become entirely liquefied except where it enters into the composition of the reticulum, and the cells of the tissue become applied to the anastomosing fibril bundles, and by their union constitute a network of branched cells enveloping the network of fibrils. Fig. 283.—Jelly op Wharton. (Ranvier.) r, ramified cells intercommunicating by their branches ; l, a row of leucocytes or migratory cells : /, /, fibres coursing through the ground-substance. In lymphoid tissue the meshes become occupied by lymph corpuscles which may originally have come from the blood or lymphatic vessels, but afterwards multiply by cell-division. The jelly-like connective tissue of the early embryo persists in the umbilical cord until birth as the so-called jelly of Wharton (fig. 283). Elsewhere it has largely lost its jelly-like character in consequence of the development of fibres in the ground-substance, but the amount to which they are developed varies greatly in