320 NERVE-CELLS. developed nerve-cells. In the case of the bi-polar cells, especially those of a spindle- s mpe with a process from either end, both these processes are prolonged as nerve- fibres (fig. 370) : from another point of view the cell might be looked upon as a nucleated enlargement interpolated in the course of the fibre. In other bi-polar Fig. 371.—Ganglion-cell op a PROG, HIGHLY MAGNIFIED (Beale). a, a, straight fibre ; b, b, coiled fibre ; c, smaller coiled fibre join- ing it. Fig. 372. —Ramified nerye-cell FROM ANTERIOR CORNU OP SPINAL cord op man (from Gerlach). a, axis-cylinder process; b, clump of pigment granules. Above the cell is seen part of the network of fibrils mentioned in the text(p.322). Fig. 373.—Axis-cylinder process OP A NERVE-CELL (M. Schultze). x, x, Portion of nerve-cell from spinal cord of ox, with axis- cylinder process, a, coming off from it and acquiring at a' a medullary sheath. Highly magnified. cells in which the processes come off on the same side of the cell, the latter often has a pyriform shape (fig. 371), the fibres being prolonged from the stalk of the pear and the nucleus of the cell being placed in the larger end. As was shown by Beale, a peculiar arrangement of the two fibres which are thus prolonged from these pear-shaped cells is found, the one being generally coiled spirally round the other for a certain distance, after which the fibres sepa- rate and take opposite directions. The spiral fibre has been described as breaking up into an interlacement of fine fibrils upon the surface of the cell. An indication of this is represented in fig. 371. Cells of this kind are met with occasionally in the sympathetic ganglia both of the frog (where they were first discovered by Beale) and of the mammal. In multi-polar cells either one or more of the cell-processes may be prolonged into nerve-fibres. In the large ramified nerve-cells of the anterior cornu of the spinal cord only one of the many processes is prolonged into a nerve-fibre. This is known as the axis-cylinder process of Deiters (figs. 372, 373, a), and is distinguished from the other processes of the cell by being unbranched and of a somewhat clearer and more evenly fibrillated appearance than the other processes, which branch again