413 DEVELOPMENT OF THE EPIDERMIS. The growth of epidermis continues throughout life. The cells of the Malpighian layer are constantly undergoing multiplication, and the new cells thus produced push outwards those which are previously formed. The more superficial cells of the Malpighian layer are thus continually passing on to reinforce the horny layer, the cells as they proceed outwards becoming flattened and transformed into horny matter. This change seems to occur quite abruptly when the stratum lucidum is reached ; beyond this the cells again swell out somewhat, until on reaching the most superficial layers they are entirely transformed into structureless horny scales which are constantly undergoing desquamation. The cells of the stratum lucidum sometimes contain drops of a semi-fluid substance which stains similarly to the eleidin of the stratum granulosum (fig. 467, Z>). It has accordingly been inferred that the horny substance of these cells and therefore of the whole horny layer of the epidermis is due to a chemical transformation of the eleidin which is formed in the most superficial layer of the rete mucosum. But a genetic relation between eleidin and keratin is rendered improbable if the statement which has been made by some authors is correct, that in some parts of the epidermis where a large amount of keratin is produced, eleidin granules are not formed within the cells of the rete mucosum. There is reason to suppose that the regeneration of epidermis, when a portion has been removed by a blister or wound of any kind, takes place, like its growth, only from cells of the Malpighian layer. If the whole of the epidermis has been destroyed or removed over an extensive surface, the process of regeneration is very slow, since the new covering has to grow in from the epidermis at the margins of the wound. But if the deeper cells have not been wholly removed the regeneration may start from the places where any of them still remain, and the formation of the new covering is proportionately quicker. In the operation of skin-grafting so-called, the surgeon endeavours to transplant from a healthy portion of skin small pieces of the epidermis, including its deeper layers, to the denuded surface : if the operation Fig. 471.—Vertical section op the SKIN AND SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUE, FROM THE END OF THE THUMB, ACROSS THE RIDGES AND FURROWS. Magnified 20 diameters. (Kolliker.) a, horny, and b, Malpighian layer of the epidermis ; c, corium : d, panni- culus acliposus; e, papilhe on the ridges; /, fat-clusters ; g, sweat-glands; h, sweat-ducts ; i, their openings on the surface. succeed, each such graft acts as a centre from which the new formation of epidermis may spread, and in this way the raw surface may be much more speedily covered. The True Skin, Cutis Vera, Derma, or Corium, is a sentient and vascular fibrous texture. It is covered and de- fended, as already explained, by the non-vascular cuticle, and is attached to the parts beneath by a layer of areolar tissue, named “subcuta- neous,” which, excepting in a few parts, contains fat, and has therefore been called also the “panniculus adiposus ” (fig. 471, if). The connection is in many F. K 2