BLOOD-VESSELS AND LYMPHATICS OF THE SKIN. not alter as growth advances, the impression obtained from the hand of a young child being identical even in the most minute details (although of course somewhat less displayed) with that obtained from the same individual when grown up (F. Galton). Papill*.—The free service of the corium is beset with small eminences thus named, which seem chiefly to contribute to the perfection of the skin as an organ of touch, seeing that they are highly developed where the sense of touch is exquisite. They serve also to extend the surface for the production of the cuticular tissue, and hence are large-sized and numerous under the nail. The papillae are large, and in close array on the palm of the hand and palmar surface of the fingers, and on the corresponding parts of the foot. In these places they are ranged in lines forming the characteristic curvilinear ridges seen when the skin is still covered with its thick epidermis. They are of a conical figure, rounded or blunt at the top and sometimes cleft into two or more points when they are named compound papillae. They are received into corresponding pits on the under-surface of the cuticle. In Fig. 472.—Magnified view of four of the ridges of the epidermis, with short furrows or NOTCHES ACROSS THEM : ALSO THE OPENINGS OF THE SUDORIFEROUS DUCTS. (After Brescliet.) Fig. 473. —Compound papilla from the palm of the hand, magnified 60 diameters. a, basis of a papilla ; b, b, divisions or branches of the same; c. c, branches belonging to papilla of which the bases are hidden from view. (After Kblliker.) structure they resemble the rest of the superficial layer of the corium, and consist of a finely fibrillated tissue, with a few elastic fibres. The bundles of fibrils chiefly run parallel to the axis of the papilla and the fibrils appear to end near its surface, which has a somewhat corrugated aspect. On the palm, sole, and nipple, where they are mostly of the compound variety, they measure from ^woth to th of an inch (0’125 to 0-25 mm.) in height. In the ridges, the larger papillae are placed sometimes in single but more commonly in double rows, with smaller ones between them (fig. 471), that is, also on the ridges, for there are none in the intervening- grooves. These ridges are marked at short and tolerably regular intervals with notches or short transverse furrows, in each of which, about its middle, is the minute funnel-shaped orifice of the duct of a sweat-gland (fig. 472). In other parts of the skin endowed with less tactile sensibility, the papillae are broader, shorter, fewer in number, and irregularly scattered. On the face they are reduced to from -g^ to two °f an inch ; and here they at parts disappear altogether, or are replaced by slightly elevated reticular ridges. Fine blood-vessels enter most of the papillae, forming either simple capillary loops in each, or dividing into two or more capillary branches, according to the size of the papilla and its simple or composite form. Other papillae receive nerves, to be presently noticed. Blood-vessels and lymphatics.—The arteries divide in the subcutaneous tissue, and, as their branches pass from this deep expansion towards the surface of the skin, they supply offsets to the fat-clusters, sweat-glands, and hair-follicles. They divide and anastomose again near the surface, and at length, on reaching it, form a network of capillaries, with polygonal meshes. Fine looped branches pass