428 THE SKIN. has a much wider lumen (fig. 400). The duct, as it passes through the epidermis, is twisted like a corkscrew, that is, in parts where the epidermis is sufficiently thick to give room for this (fig. 4GG) ; lower down it is straight or but slightly curved. Some- times the duct is formed of two coiled-up branches which join at a short distance from the gland. The tube, both in the gland and where it forms the excretory duct, has a vascular investment of connective tissue, continuous with the corium, and reaching no higher than the surface of the true skin, and within this invest- ment consists of a thin membrana propria and an epithelial lining. The epithelium in the gland proper is formed of a single layer of cubical or columnar cells (often con- taining brownish pigment) and, in the duct, of two or more layers bounded next the Fig. 490.—Section op a sweat-gland in THE HUMAN SKIN. (E. A. S. ) a, a, secreting tube in transverse section ; It, part of secreting tube seen from above (surface focus) ; c, c, efferent tube (com- mencing duct) ; d, intertubular connective tissue with blood-vessels. In the section across the secreting tube 1 is the basement membrane ; 2, the muscular fibres cut across: 3, the secreting epithelium lining the tube. lumen by a fine cuticular lining. The epithelium of the duct is con- tinuous with the epidermis, the twisted part of the duct being merely a channel excavated between the epidermis cells. In the proper secreting portion of the gland be- tween the epithelium and the base- ment membrane, is a layer of longi- tudinally and obliquely disposed fibres which are generally described as plain muscular fibres, although the evidence of their muscular nature is not conclusive (Tartuferi). They vary in amount and are best marked in the larger glands, where they form a complete layer; in smaller glands the layer is incomplete, and in the smallest the fibres may be altogether lacking. According to Bonnet the muscular layer is least developed in those parts of the skin which are most subject to the tension produced by contrac- tion of ordinary muscles, and in those glands which yield a more fluid secretion. The fibres are absent in the duct. The latter is often coiled two or three times before leaving the gland, but its coils are distinguished from those of the gland proper by the differences above mentioned. The secreting cells of the sweat-glands show the peculiar striated structure characteristic of many gland-cells, and minute canals or clefts are said to pass from the lumen of the tube between the opposed surfaces of the cells (Ranvier). In the large glands in the axilla, at the root of the penis, on the labia majora, and in the neighbourhood of the anus, the layer of so-called muscular fibre-cells between the epithelium and basement membrane is very well marked. In the larger glands, also, the duct is rarely simple, being more usually parted by repeated dichotomous division into several branches, which before ending give off short caeca! processes ; in rare cases the branches anastomose. On carefully detaching the cuticle from the true skin, after its connection has been loosened by putrefaction, it usually happens that the cuticular linings of the sweat-ducts get separated from their interior to a certain depth, and are drawn out in form of short threads attached to the under surface of the epidermis. The coils of the gland tube are loosely held together by connective tissue (fig. 490, d), which may form a sort of