419 FORMATION AND GROWTH OF THE NAILS. arranged perpendicularly, as in the case of the epidermis. Thus the under part of the nail (fig. 477, b) corresponds in nature with the Malpighian or mucous layer of the epidermis, and the upper part (c) with the horny layer. The most superficial cells of the Malpighian layer of the nail have a granular aspect, but this is due according to Ivolliker not to the presence of actual granules, but to the spiny processes which unite them to one another. As in the case of epidermis, the hardened scales of the nails may be made to reassume their cellular character by treatment with caustic alkali, and afterwards with water : and then it is seen that they still retain their nuclei. Formation and growth of the Nails.—In the third month of intra-uterinelife, the part of the embryonic corium which becomes the matrix of the nail is marked -off by the commencing curvilinear groove, which limits it posteriorly and laterally. Fig. 478.—Longitudinal section of the terminal phalanx of the third finger of an embryo of the third month. Somewhat magnified. (After Bowen.) ep, epitrichial cells, greatly multiplied at the nail-edge cp', and forming the eponychium ep" above the nail formation, n. Fig. 479.—Longitudinal section of the great toe of an embryo of the fifth month. Some- what magnified. (After Bowen.) ep, epitrichial layer; cp', thickening of epitrichium at the nail edge; ep", remains of eponychium ; n, nail ; s.l., stratum lucidum. The epidermis on the matrix then begins to assume, in the under part of its horny layer, the characters of a nail, which may, therefore, be said to be at first embedded in the embryonic cuticle, forming a highly developed stratum lucidum. The nail rudiment, which is preceded by and apparently formed from a layer of eleidin-cells (fig. 478, n), first appears near the posterior part of the matrix, and grows forward from this over the bed and backwards into the groove. After the end of the fifth month it becomes free at the anterior border, breaking through the thick layer of epidermis (eponychium) which covers it superficially. The remains of this layer -continue throughout life partly covering the lunula. At the anterior edge of the