20:2 E PITH E LIAL ST RUCT U It E. In other mammiferous animals, as far as examined, cilia have been found in nearly the same parts. To see them in motion, a portion of epithelium may be scraped off any ciliated mucous membrane and examined in a drop of weak solution of salt (0-6 per cent.) or serum of blood. When it is now viewed with a magnifying power of 200 diameters or upwards, a very obvious agitation will be perceived at the edge of the detached piece of epithelium ; this appearance is caused by the moving cilia, with which the surface of the membrane is covered. Being set close together, and moving simultaneously or in quick succession, the cilia, when in brisk action, give rise to the appearance of a bright transparent fringe along the margin of the membrane, agitated by such a rapid and incessant motion, that the single threads which compose it cannot be perceived. The motion here meant, is that of the cilia themselves; but they also set in motion the adjoining fluid, driving it along the ciliated surface, as is indicated by the agitation of any little particles that may accidentally float in it. The fact of the conveyance of fluids and other matters along the ciliated surface, as well as the direction in which they are impelled, may also be made manifest by immersing the membrane in fluid, and dropping on it some finely- pulverised substance (such as charcoal in fine powder), which will be slowly but steadily carried along in a constant and determinate direction ; and this may be seen with the naked eye, or with the aid of a lens of low power (Sharpey). Cilia have been shown to exist in almost every class of animals, from the highest to the lowest.1 The immediate purpose which they serve is, to impel matter, generally more or less fluid, along the surfaces on which they are attached ; or, to propel through a liquid medium the ciliated bodies of minute animals, or ocher small objects which are provided with cilia ; as is the case with many infusorial animal- cules, in which the cilia serve as organs of locomotion like the fins of larger aquatic animals. In many of the lower tribes of aquatic animals, cilia acquire a high degree of importance : producing the flow of water over the surface of their organs of respiration, indispensable to the exercise of that function ; enabling the animals to seize their prey, or swallow their food, and performing various other offices of greater or less importance in their economy. In man and the warm-blooded animals, their use is apparently to impel secreted fluids or other matters along the ciliated surface, as, for example, the mucus of the wind-pipe and nasal sinuses, which they carry towards the outlet of these cavities. Structure.—The cells of a ciliated epithelium contain oval nuclei, exhibiting for the most part a distinct intra-nuclear network, and one or more bright nucleoli. Viewed with a moderate magnifying power, their protoplasm looks granular, although the free border of the cell through which the cilia pass presents a clear aspect (fig. 236). The cells have most generally an elongated form, like the particles of the columnar epithelium, which they resemble too in arrange- ment, but they are often of greater length and more pointed at their lower end ; and this is not unfrequently irregularly forked in those parts where a deeper layer of cells exists below the ciliated cells (fig. 237). The cilia are attached to their * broad or superficial end, each cell bearing a tuft of these minute hair-like processes. In some cases, the cells are shorter and cubical in figure, and when completely detached may appear spheroidal. It has been shown by Engelmann that in large ciliated cells (fig. 238) such as those which line the alimentary canal of some mollusks, e.g., the mussel and oyster, it is possible to make out that the highly refracting free border of the cell to which the cilia are attached is in reality formed of a number of small juxtaposed fusiform or cylindrical knobs (basal knobs). To each of these a ciliurn is attached on the one side, and from the other end there passes towards the end of the cell a fine, i The Arthropoda offer a singular exception, and it is remarkable that in many of them the spermatozoa are also devoid of a vibratile filament.