TERMINATION OF SENSORY NERVES. 342 reader is referred for details regarding their distribution and variations, that cannot be conveniently introduced here.1 The little bodies in question are, as already said, attached in numbers to the branches of the nerves of the hand and foot (fig. 402), and here and there one or two are found on other cutaneous nerves. They have been discovered also within the abdomen on the nerves of the solar plexus, and they are nowhere more distinctly Fig. 402.—A NERVE OP TIIE MIDDLE FINGER, WITH PACINIAN BODIES attached. Natural ciZE. (After Henle and Kdlliker.) seen or more conveniently obtained for examination, than in the mesentery of the cat, between the layers of which they exist abundautly. They have been found on the pudic nerves in the penis and clitoris, bulb of the urethra, and other parts, on the intercostal nerves, sacral plexus, cutaneous nerves of the upper arm and neck, nerves of the nipple and mammary gland, and on the infra-orbital nerve. Lastly they have been recog- nised on nerves to tendons and ligaments, and more rarely on intra-muscular nerves, on the periosteal nerves, and, in con- siderable numbers, on the nerves of the joints. In many mammals they occur in masses of from 2U to 80 corpuscles imbedded in the fat of the ball of the foot and also in the interosseous space between the radius and ulna, and between the tibia and fibula. They are found in individuals of all ages. The figure of these corpuscles is oval, somewhat like that of a grain of wheat,—regularly oval in the cat, but mostly curved or reniform in man, and sometimes a good deal distorted. Their mean size in the adult is from TVth to x\jth of an inch long, and from -^th to ^th of an inch broad. They have a whitish, opaline aspect : in the cat’s mesentery they are usually more transparent, and then a white line may be distinguished in the centre. A slender stalk or peduncle attaches the corpuscle to the branch of nerve with which it is connected. The peduncle contains a single medullated nerve-fibre ensheathed in perineurium, with connective tissue and one or more fine blood-vessels ; it joins the corpuscle at or near one end, and conducts the nerve-fibre into it. The little body itself, examined under the microscope, is found to have a distinct lamellar structure (fig. 403). It consists, in fact, of numerous concentric membranous tunics encasing each other like the coats of an onion. Surrounded by these tunics, and occupying a cylindrical space in the middle of the corpuscle, is the core, formed of transparent and seemingly homogeneous soft substance, in the midst of which the prolongation of the nerve-fibre is contained. The number of tunics is various ; from forty to sixty may be counted in large corpuscles. Those which are situated next to the central or median cavity, and comprehending about half of the entire number, are thinner and closer together than the more exterior ones, seeming to form a system by themselves, which gives rise to a white streak often distinguish- able along the middle of the corpuscles when seen on a dark ground. Outside of all, the corpuscle has a coating of ordinary connective tissue. The lamellae or tunics correspond very closely in structure to the lamellae of the 1 A complete list of papers which had appeared up to 1880 on this subject (and, indeed, not only on the Pacinian corpuscles, but on all the several kinds of terminal corpuscles and other sensory nerve- endings) will be found in a monograph by Prof. Fr. Merkel, “ Ueber die Endigungen der sensiblen Nerven in der Haut der Wirbelthiere.” Rostock, 1880. A concise resume and classification of the sensory end-organs, by Prof. W. Krause, will be found in the “ Biologisches Centralblatt, May and June, 1884.