BONE OR OSSEOUS TISSUE. 274 which are still occupied by the cartilage-cells, either singly or in elongated groups, being termed the primary areolcc (Sharpey). Simultaneously with this deposit in the cartilage-matrix, a layer of osseous substance (fig. 311, im) is becoming formed on the outside of the cartilage underneath the periosteum. This last is a vascular membrane, containing numerous osteoblasts (o), which are chiefly collected on the Fig. 313. —Longitudinal section through THE UPPER HALE OF THE DECALCIFIED HUMERUS OF A FETAL SHEEP, AS SEEN UNDER A MAGNIFYING POWER OF ABOUT 30 diameters. (Drawn by Mr. J. Lawrence.) (E.A.S.) ic, tlie part of tlie shaft which was pri- marily ossified in cartilage ; what remains of the primary bone is represented as dark, enveloped by the clear secondary deposit. The areolce of the bone are occupied by embryonic marrow with osteoblasts, and blood-vessels variously cut, represented as dark lines. One long straight vessel (bv) passes in advance of the line of ossification far into the cartilaginous head, most of the others loop round close to the cartilage. At one or two places in the older parts of the bone elongated groups of cartilage-cells (c) may still be seen which have as yet escaped absorption, im, the part of the bone that has been ossified in membrane, that is to say in the osteoblastic tissue under the periosteum. It is well marked off from the central portion, and is bounded, peripherally, by a jagged edge, the projec- tions of which are indistinctly seen to be prolonged by bunches of osteogenic fibres. A row of osteoblasts covers the superficial layer of the bone. The subperiosteal layer is prolonged above into the thickening (p), which encroaches upon the cartilage of the head of the bone, and in which are seen, amongst numerous osteoblasts and a few blood-vessels, the straight, longitudinal oste- ogenic fibres (of), and some other fibres (pf) crossing them, and perhaps representing fibres of Sharpey. The calcareous salts having been removed by an acid, the granu- lar ossific deposit passing up between the rows of cartilage-cells is not seen in this specimen. Observe the general tendency of the osseous trabecula* and the vascular channels between them to radiate from the original centre of ossification. This is found to prevail more or less in all bones when they are first formed, although the direction of the trabeculae may afterwards become modified in relation with varying physiological condi- tions, and especially as the result of pressure in different directions. inner surface next to the cartilage, ic im and it is by their agency that the bony layer on the surface of tlie cartilage is formed and becomes increased both in thickness and length. The bony layer, when viewed on the surface, shows the usual component fibies of bony lamellae, and as other layers are deposited upon it lacunae become formed between them by the inclusion of some of the osteoblasts. In this first stage of ossification, we see therefore two processes going on, a deposit of earthy