DEVELOPMENT OF BLOOD-VESSELS. original nuclei of those cells, imbedded in it here and there. Subsequently the protoplasm becomes differentiated around the nuclei into the flattened ceils which Fig. 431.—Part of the network of developing blood-vessels in the vascular area of the GUINEA-PIG. (E. A. S.) bl, blood-corpuscles becoming free in an enlarged and bollowed-out part of the network. The smaller figure on the left represents a of the larger figure, more highly magnified, showing the vacuolation of the cell; d, a nucleus within it undergoing division. compose the wall of the capillaries, and which form the lining membrane of the arteries and veins. The remaining coats of the larger vessels are developed later, Fig. 432.—Cells from middle layer of chick’s BLASTODERM UNDERGOING DEVELOPMENT INTO BLOOD-VESSELS. MAGNIFIED. (Klein.) a, cavity of cell; b, wall of cell ; /, /, cells not yet hollowed out; d, blood-corpuscles. from other cells which apply themselves to the exterior of the previously simple endothelial tubes and produce the plain muscular and other tissues of which those coats consist. Within the body of the embryo, vessels are formed in like manner from cells within the connective tissue, especially in rapidly growing vascular organs like the liver. One of the most favourable objects for the study of the develop- ment of the blood-vessels and their contained blood-corpuscles is afforded by the subcutaneous tissue of the new-born rat, especially those parts in which fat is being deposited. Here we may observe that many of the connective tissue corpuscles are much vacuolated, and that the protoplasm of some of them has a decided reddish tinge (fig. 433, h). In others the red matter has become condensed in the form of globules within the cells (h\ h", &c.), varying in size from minute specks to sphe- roids of the diameter of a blood-corpuscle, or more. At some parts the tissue is completely studded with these cells, each containing a number of such spheroids, and forming, as it were, “ nests ” of blood-corpuscles or minute “ blood-islands.” The cells become elongated and pointed at their ends, sending out processes also to unite with neighbouring cells. At the same time the vacuoles in their interior become enlarged, and coalesce to form a cavity within the cell (fig. 434, a), in which the