BONE OR OSSEOUS TISSUE. 283 bone will be liable to die and exfoliate ; conversely, if a large part or the whole of a bone be removed and the periosteum at the same time be left intact, the bone will, in a great measure, be regenerated. Osseous formation will even occur in connection with portions of periosteum which have been stripped away from the bone itself and intertwined amongst the muscles of the part, or even with portions that have been entirely removed from a bone and transplanted to a soft tissue (Ollier). It is doubtful if the marrow-tissue can assist in the regeneration of bone. Experiments which have been made to determine this point would seem to show that although in the young bone, where the osteoblasts still retain their osteogenic function, the medullary tissue may take an active part in the formation of the first-formed new bone or “ callus,” in the adult no such participation of the marrow in the regeneration of bone takes place. In the young subject even small pieces of the bone itself can be transplanted, and McEwen has succeeded in renewing the greater part of the excised humerus of a child by the introduction, at successive periods, of portions of fresh bone removed from another patient. It was long supposed that all the bones of the skeleton were preceded by and deposited in cartilage. Nesbitt, however, showed in 1736 that some of the flat bones were formed inde- pendently of cartilage, and he further maintained that the cartilage is “ entirely destroyed ; ” he therefore considered it to be a mere temporary substitute ; but the steps of the process of intracartilaginous ossification as now traced with the aid of the microscope were unknown to him, and it was not until the year 1816 that the manner of formation of bone and the extensive replacement of the primarily ossified cartilage by new bone formed in membrane was made clear by the researches of Sharpey, who published the results of his work in the fifth edition of this book. RECENT LITERATURE. Bajardi, D., TJeber die Neubildung der GelenJcenden nach der subcapsido-periostalen Resection, Moleschott’s Unters. zur Naturlekre, xiii.; TJeber die Neubildung von Knochcnsubstam in der Markhohle und innerhalb der Epiphysen und iiber die Regeneration des Knoohenmarks in den Rohrenknochen, Ibid., 1883. Bizzozero, TJeber die Atrophie der Zellen des Knochenmarkes, Arch. f. raikr. Anat., 33, 1889 ; Ncue Untersuchungen uebcr d. Bau des Knochenmarkes bei den V'dgeln, Arch. f. mikr. Anat., 35, 1890.1 Bonome, AZur Histogenese der Knochenrcgeneration, Virchow’s Archiv, Bd. 100, 1885. Brosike, G-., TJeber die sogenannten Grenzscheiden des Knochenkanalsystems nebst Bemerkungen iiber die Keratinsubstanzen, Archiv f. mikrosk. Anat., Bd. 26, 1885. Demarbaix, H., Division et deyenerescence des cellules geantes de la moeUe, La Cellule, t. v., 1889. Denys, J., Sur la structure de la moelle des os et la genese du sang chez les oiseaux, La Cellule, t. iv., 1888. Ebner, v., Sind die Fibrillen des Knochengewebes verkalkt oder nicht ? Archiv f. mikrosk. Anat., Bd. 29, 1887. Egger, Gr., Experimentelle Beitrdye zur Lehre vom interstitiellen Knoohenwachsthum, Virchow’s Archiv, Bd. 99, 1885. Fargerlund, On the development of ossification-points during the first year of life, London Medical Recorder, 1890. Geelmuyden, H. C., Das Verhalten des Knoohenmarks in Krankheiten und die physiologisclit Function desselben, Virchow’s Archiv, Bd. 105, 1886. Howell, W. H., Observations upon the occurrence, structure, and f unction of the giant-cells of the marrow, Journal of Morphology, iv., 1890. Kolliker, A., Der feinere Bau des Knochengewebes, Zeitschr. f. wissensch. Zool., Bd. xliv., 1886 ; Nachwort zu meinem Artikel “ TJeber den feineren Bau des Knochengewebes," Zeitschr. f. wiss. Zooloeie. Bd. xlv.,1887. Leser, E., Ueber histologische Vorgdnge an der Ossificationsgrenze mit besonderer Beriicksicliti- gung des Verhaltens der Knorpelzellen, Arch. f. mikrosk. Anat., 32, 1888. Lilienberg, J., Beitrage zur Histologic des Knochengewebes, Memoires de l’acad. imp. d. Sciences de St. Petersb., t. xxxiii., 1885. Petroni, Istologia della polpa del midollo osseo rosso, dec., Anat. Anzeiger, 18S9. 1 Other recent papers by Bizzozero are referred to in the literature relating to the development of blood-corpuscles. VOL. i. u