221 FIBROUS TISSUE. CONNECTIVE TISSUE PROPER. Areolar tissue. If we make a cut through the skin and proceed to raise it 10m the subjacent parts, we observe that it is loosely connected to them by a soft filamentous substance of considerable tenacity and elasticity, and having, when free liom fat, a white fleecy aspect; this is the substance known as areolar tissue. In like manner the areolar tissue is found underneath the serous and mucous membranes which are spread over various internal surfaces, and serves to attach these membranes to the parts which they line or invest ; and as under the skin it is named “ sub- cutaneous, so in the last-mentioned situations it is called “subserous” and “sub- mucous areolar tissue. But on proceeding further we find this substance lying between the muscles, the blood-vessels, and other deep-seated parts, occupying, in short, the intervals between the different organs of the body where they are not otherwise insulated, and thence named “ intermediate ; ” very generally, also, it becomes more consistent and membranous immediately around these organs, and under the name of the “ investing ” areolar tissue, affords each of them a special sheath. It thus forms inclosing sheaths for the muscles, the nerves, the blood- vessels, and other parts. Whilst the ai’eolar tissue might thus be said in some sense both to connect and to insulate entire organs, it also performs the same office in regard to the finer parts of which these organs are made up ; for this end it enters between the fibres of the muscles, uniting them into bundles ; it connects the several membranous layers of the hollow viscera, and binds together the lobes and lobules of compound glands ; it also accompanies the vessels and nerves within these organs, following their branches nearly to their finest divisions, and affording them support and protection. This portion of the areolar tissue has been named the “ pene- trating/’ “ constituent,” or “ parenchymal.” It thus appears that the areolar is one of the most general and most extensively distributed of the tissues. It is, moreover, continuous throughout the body, and from one region it may be traced without interruption into any other, however distant ; a fact not without interest in practical medicine, seeing that in this way dropsical waters, air, blood, and urine, effused into the areolar tissues, and even the matter of suppuration, when not confined in an abscess, may spread far from the spot where they were first introduced or deposited. On stretching out a portion of areolar tissue by drawing gently asunder the parts between which it lies, it presents an appearance to the naked eye of a multitude of fine, soft, and somewhat elastic threads, quite transparent and colourless, like spun glass ; these are intermixed with fine transparent films, or delicate membranous laminae, and both threads and laminae cross one another irregularly and in all imaginable directions, leaving open interstices or areolae between them. These meshes are, of course, more apparent when the tissue is thus stretched out; it is plain also that they are not closed cells, as the term “ cellular tissue ” which was formerly used to denote the areolar tissue, might seem to imply, but merely inter- spaces, which open freely into one another : many of them are occupied by the fat, which, however, does not lie loose in the areolar spaces, but is enclosed in its own vesicles. A small quantity of colour-less transparent fluid of the nature of lymph is also present in the areolar tissue, but, in health, not more than is sufficient to moisten it. On comparing the areolar tissue of different parts, it is observed in some to be more loose and open in texture, in others more dense and close, according as free movement or firm connection between parts is to be provided for. Fibrous tissue.—When the fine bundles of connective tissue are disposed for the most part in one or two directions, instead of interlacing in every direction as