312 MEDULLARY SHEATH. of the medullary sheath exudes from the cut ends of the nerve-fibres, it is found that the place of that which thus escapes is taken by the white substance from the next internode ; and this substance may be seen to flow past the constrictions of Ranvier without escaping at those points. Within the primitive sheath the inter- nodes are united by an annular disc—the “ constricting band ” of Ranvier—the nature of which is unknown, although like intercellular substance elsewhere, it becomes stained by nitrate of silver. The last-named reagent stains also the axis- cylinder in the neighbourhood of the node in the manner indicated by Frommann (see page 310), so that the fibres after this treatment appear marked with little crosses (fig. 381) ; the transverse limb of the cross being due to the ring of inter- segmental substance, the longitudinal to the axis-cylinder. Many other fluids stain the axis-cylinder at the nodes only, being prevented from reaching it elsewhere owing to the presence of the fatty matter in the surrounding medullary sheath. The division of nerve-fibres always occurs at the site of a node of Ranvier (see fig. 388, p. 333). Engelmann argues in favour of a discontinuity of the axis-cylinder (as well as of the medullary sheath) at the nodes of Ranvier, basing his argument partly on the fact that the Fig. 360.—Nodes op Ranvier prom the nerve of a pigeon, TREATED WITH OSMIC ACID. (v. Gedoelst.) The medullary sheath is stained black. The fibrils of the axis-cylinder have enlargements at the middle of the node. In A the constricting band is seen. degeneration which results above the section when a nerve-fibre is cut, stops at the first node of Ranvier. partly on appearances obtained after a certain method of treat- ment with nitrate of silver, a dark deposit characteristic of inter-cellular substance traversing, according to the account given by him, the thickness of the axis-cylinder at the nodes. He also points out that the axis-cylinders very readily become broken across at the nodes. This view has been in a measure confirmed by the researches of Gedoelst, who has shown that there is a tendency at the nodes of Ranvier for the fibrils of the axis-cylinder to develop minute swellings or nodosities which closely resemble those which are formed upon the achromatic fibres which unite the two daughter-nuclei of a dividing cell in most vegetable and some animal tissues (Zell-j)latte of Strasburger) and which indicate the plane of separa- tion between the two daughter-ceUs and of formation of the cellulose or other membrane. Such a structure is shown in the representations of a dividing ovum given by Strasburger (see fig. 218, p. 188), and is superficially very similar to that figured by Gedoelst upon the axis-cylinder at the nodes (fig. 360). But the identity of the two structures in spite of this superficial resemblance must not be taken as proved. The axis-cylinder is not an out-growth from a nucleus, nor can its segments be taken to represent nuclei. Neither do its fibrils resemble in chemical characters so far as is known the achromatic fibrils of a cell-nucleus. But in spite of these differences the correspondence between an inter-node of a nerve and an elongated cell is so direct and obvious that a view which permits of the presence of the nodes of Ranvier being explained as indicating a tendency of the fibre to become divided across into cell-segments cannot be altogether disregarded. Ranvier, Boveri, and others, have looked upon the medullary and primitive sheaths only as being thus segmented up into cells, which they regard as wrapped around the axis-cylinder. But when first developed the medullary sheath is a continuous and unsegmented layer, and appears to be laid down upon the surface of the pale fibre which is becoming medullated, by the superficial protoplasm of that fibre itself (see Development of nerves). The internodes or nerve-segments vary in length in different nerves ; in larger nerve-fibres they may perhaps, speaking roughly, average about 1 mm. In the nerves of young animals they are often much shorter than this, so that the growth