209 RED CORPUSCLES OF THE BLOOD. only when the light traverses a number of corpuscles that a distinct red colour is P1°^n consequence of the biconcave shape of the corpuscle, it looks darker in the middle than at the edge when viewed with only a moderate magnifying power, or at Fig. 240.—Human bed corpus- cles (A) AND BLOOD CORPUSCLES OF THE FROG (B) PLACED SIDE BP SIDE TO SHOW RELATIVE SIZE. 500 DIAMETERS. 1, shows their broad surface ; 2, one seen edgeways ; 3, shows the effect of dilute acetic acid; the nucleus has become distinct (from Wagner). A a distant focus ; but the middle of the corpuscle appears lighter than the periphery when a close focus or a very high magnifying power is employed. The red disks, when blood is drawn from the vessels, sink in the plasma; they have a singular tendency to run together, and to cohere by their broad surfaces, so as to form by their aggregation cylindrical columns, like piles or rouleaus of money, and the rolls or piles themselves join together into an irregular network (figs. 239 and 241). Generally the cor- puscles separate on a slight impulse, and they may then unite again. The phenomenon will take place in blood which has been in any way brought to a standstill within the living vessels as well as in blood that has stood for some hours after it has been drawn, and also when the globules are immersed in serum in place of liquor san- guinis. It has been shown by Norris that disks which float completely immersed in any fluid will, when the fluid comes to rest, tend to adhere together in the form of rouleaus provided that the surface of the disks is of a nature not to be wetted by the fluid in which they float. Thus cork disks which have been weighted so that they neither rise nor sink in water do not adhere together so long as they are freely wetted by the water, but if their surfaces are coated with a thin film of fatty substance the disks tend to run together into rouleaus. As it is probable (see below, Structure of Red Corpuscles) that the red disks do actually possess a superficial film of fatty substance, the facts pointed out by Norris appear to suggest a reasonable explanation of the rouleau-formation which occurs in blood which has been allowed to come to rest. Fig. 241. — Red corpuscles COLLECTED INTO ROLLS (after Henle). The human blood-corpuscles, as well as those of the lower animals, often present deviations from the natural shape, which are most probably due to causes acting after the blood has been drawn from the vessels, but in some instances depeud upon abnormal conditions previously existing in the blood. Thus, it is not unusual for many of them to appear shrunken and crenated, when exposed under the microscope (fig. 239, c, c ; fig. 242,/), and the number of corpuscles so altered often appears to increase during the time of observation. This is, perhaps, the most common change; it occurs whenever the density of the plasma is increased by the addition of a neutral salt, and is one of the first effects of the passage of an electric shock. The corpuscles may become distorted in various other ways, and corrugated on the surface ; not unfrequently one of their concave sides is bent out, and they acquire a cup-like figure. Gulliver made the curious discovery that the corpuscles of the Mexican deer and some allied species present very singular forms, doubtless in consequence of exposure ; the figures they assume are various, but most of them become lengthened and pointed at the ends, and then often slightly bent, not unlike caraway-seeds.