APPEARANCES OP MUSCLE UNDER POLARISED LIGHT. 296 which may be drawn regarding its structure and the changes which occur in contraction, from the appearance of stained preparations, and tends to show that the chromatic substance of the sarcostyles—the substance which forms the sarcous elements—is anisotropous, while the sub- stance or fluid of the clear intervals as well as the sarcoplasm is isotropous. In muscles which have been treated with acid and in which the sarcous elements are destroyed all appearance of double refraction is found to have disappeared. It has been shown by Ranvier that the appearance of a tissue under polarised light affords, when taken by itself, no guide to its structure. For the same tissue or part of a tissue may appear either light or dark between crossed Nichols, according to the direction and character of the “ stress ” to which it may have been exposed, in the same way that a film of indiarubber, which is normally isotropous, becomes anisotropous when stretched. Looked at however in conjunction with other facts, and especially with the results of methods of staining, the appearance under polarised light may afford important confirmation, or the reverse, of the deductions which may be drawn regarding structure by the employment of these methods : this is exhibited by the observations upon muscle which have been above detailed. Briicke has applied the theory of Bartholin (invented to explain the phenomena of double refraction in crystals of Iceland spar, and which supposes that those crystals are compounded Fig. 341.—Muscular fibre of an insect, exhibiting part of a so-called “fixed wave of contraotion.” (Engelmann.) The right half of the figure shows the effect produced by the same fibre when examined under polarised light, the rows of sarcous elements then appearing light on the dark field caused by the crossed Nichols’ prisms. R, part at rest and extended ; H, part passing into contraction ; C, contracted part, a, intermediate disk ; b, accessory disk ; c, prin- cipal disk. of minute doubly refracting particles (disdiaclasts)), to the doubly refracting substance of muscle, and has applied the same name (disdiaclasts) to the particles of which he supposes that substance to be composed, and which would appear to act upon the light like positive, uniaxial, doubly refracting crystals. Under certain circumstances, as after the action of water or salt solution, the muscular substance is apt to break down into a cloud of fine doubly refracting particles which are either themselves the disdiaclasts or represent groups of them. Historical.—Until Bowman published, in the Philosophical Transactions for 1840, his important work on the structure of muscle, the whole subject was exceedingly obscure. The view which Bowman took of the constitution of muscular substance, namely, that it is composed of a series of particles joined together closely side by side into disks, and less intimately united end to end into “ fibrils,” long occupied a dominant position in this branch of histology. Kolliker however (1851), laying stress upon the fact that the muscular substance is much more apt to break up into “ fibrils” than into disks, looked upon the appearance of the latter as altogether secondary, and regarded the “ fibrils ” as the actual elements of the muscle, the alternate dark and light portions in the course of each fibril being of essentially the same nature, although differing somewhat hi their optical properties. Afterwards (18G7), recognising that the so-called fibrils might be composed of finer elements, or ultimate fibrils, Kolliker was led to term the structures formerly known as fibrils “ muscle-columns,” the areas of Cohnheini repre- senting the transverse sections of those columns. The fibrillar con- stitution of muscle has also been consistently urged by G. Wagener. W. Krause (1868) introduced an entirely new idea into the conception of the subject, by looking upon the intermediate line in the light stripe as a continuous disk or membrane, united laterally to the sarcolemma, and thus dividing the whole fibre into a senes of flat com- partments, these being again subdivided longitudinally by partitions (seen on transverse section as the clear lines bounding Cohnheim’s areas), so that little cases {Muslwl-kastclien)meth^B formed (fig. 342, A). Each such case contains, according to Krause, a portion of the dark disk (muscle-prism) in its middle part, and portions of the light disks (fluid) at either end, and Krause supposed that in contraction this fluid changes its situation, becoming shitted to the periphery of the dark substance, and that in this way the muscle is diminished in length, an