239 RETIFORM OR RETICULAR TISSUE. omv when they are heaped together that their dark colour distinctly appears. The nucleus of the pigment-cell is not coloured, but is very often hidden from view by the black particles. , . , In the lower animals remarkable movements are often observed m the rammed pigment-cells, e.g., those of the frog’s skin. In these the dark particles of pigment Fig. 279.—A SMALL PORTION OP THE CHOROID COAT OP THE EYE ; HIGHLY MAGNIFIED. (E. A. S.) p, pigment-cells ; /, elastic fibres ; n, nuclei of epithelioid cells (the outlines of the cells are not indicated) ; l, lymphoid cells. are at one time dispersed through the whole cell and its branches, but at another time they gather into a heap in the central part, leaving the rest of the branched cell vacant, but without alteration of its figure. In the former case the skin is of a dusky hue ; in the latter, pale. The aggregation of the pigment-molecules can be excited through the nerves, both directly and also in a reflex mauner, as by the stimulus of light upon the retina. RETIFORM OR RETICULAR TISSUE. This is a distinct variety of connective tissue which is met with widely dis- tributed in various parts of the body, constituting the whole framework of some organs and entering largely into the constitution of many mucous membranes. It is composed of a very fine network or reticulum of connective-tissue fibrils, which in their behaviour to staining reagents and in their general microscopic appearance closely resemble the white fibres of areolar tissue, with which, in the lymphatic glands, they are undoubtedly continuous. In their chemical character they are, according to Mall, more nearly allied to elastic fibres, or rather with the membranes of the elastic fibres. However this may be, it is nevertheless clear from its anatomical continuity with the white fibrils of connective tissue that the retiform tissue is merely a variety of areolar tissue, being formed of very fine anastomosing bundles, with the meshes of the network occupied by fluid ; the ground substance having disappeared. In most situations the fixed cells of the tissue are applied to and are wrapped round the strands of the network, which may thus be in great measure concealed by the cells. The tissue then appears formed of a network of branching and anastomosing cells, and was for a long time so described, but if the cells are brushed away or