307 NERVOUS SYSTEM. NERVOUS SYSTEM. The nervous system consists of a central part, or rather a series of connected central organs, named the cerebrospinal axis, or cai'ebrospinal centre; and of the nerves, which have the form of cords connected by one extremity with the cerebro- spinal centre, and extending from thence through the body to the muscles, sensible parts, and other organs placed in functional relation with them. The nerves form ■the medium of communication between these distant parts and the centre. One class of nervous fibres, termed afferent or centripetal, conducts impressions towards the centre,—another, the efferent or centrifugal, carries stimuli from the centre to the periphery. Besides the cerebro-spinal centre and the nervous cords, the nervous system ■comprehends also certain bodies named ganglia, which are connected with the nerves in various situations. These bodies, though of much smaller size and less complex nature than the cerebro-spinal centre, agree, in some respects, with that ■organ in their elementary structure, and to a certain extent also in their relation to the nervous fibres with which they are connected ; and this correspondence becomes even more apparent in the nervous system of the lower members of the ■animal series. The nerves are divided into the cerebrospinal, and the sympathetic nerves. The former are distributed principally to the skin, the organs of the senses, and other parts endowed with manifest sensibility, and the muscles. They are, for the most part, attached in pairs to the cerebro-spinal axis, and like the parts which they supply are, with few exceptions, remarkably symmetrical on the two sides of the body. The sympathetic nerves, on the other hand, are destined chiefly for the ■viscera and blood-vessels, of which the movements are involuntary, and the natural sensibility is obtuse. They differ also from the cerebro-spinal nerves in having generally a greyish or reddish colour, in their less symmetrical arrangement, and especially in the circumstance that the ganglia connected with them are much more numerous and more widely distributed. Branches of communication pass from many of the spinal nerves at a short distance from their roots, to join, and in fact to form, the sympathetic, which is thus seen to be merely an offset from the cerebro- spinal centre, as indeed its mode of development (see Embryology) would also appear to show. The nervous system is made up of a substance proper and peculiar to it, with inclosing membranes, nutrient blood-vessels and supporting connective tissue. The nervous substance has been long distinguished into two kinds, obviously differ- ing from each other in colour, and therefore named the white, and the grey or ■cineritious. When subjected to the microscope, the nervous substance is seen to consist of two different structural elements, viz., fibres and cells. The fibres are found uni- versally in the nervous cords, and they also constitute the greater part of the nervous centres : the cells on the other hand are confined in a great measure to the cerebro-spinal centre and the ganglia, and do not exist generally in the nerves properly so called, although they are found at the terminations of some of the nerves of special sense, and also interposed here and there among the fibres of particular nerves ; they are contained in the grey portion of the brain and spinal ■cord, and in the ganglia.