CONSTRUCTION OF THE NERVES. 330 but generally it is only after the white fasciculi have passed through one or more ganglia that they become thoroughly blended with the grey ; and then, too, the nervous cords receive a large accession of grey fibres, while the white fibres are reduced in number. Differences are observed among the cerebro-spinal nerves in the proportionate amount of the two kinds of fibres which they respectively contain, and in the size of their white fibres. Volkmann and Bidder showed that nerves going to voluntary muscles have very few small fibres, those going to the integuments a large propor- tion of small fibres, whereas those distributed to involuntary muscles and to the viscera have many more small fibres than large. The circumstances influencing these variations were not, however, understood until it was shown by Gaskell that the very fine medullated fibres pass out from the cerebro-spinal axis in certain regions only, and are distributed exclusively to the viscera and blood-vessels, for the by Fig. 385.—Section of a white ramus communicans from the dog (Gaskell). The sectioa is drawn to the same scale as those shown in fig. 382, and the nerve-fibres are stained osmic acid. most part through the sympathetic system, but partly directly through the cerebro- spinal nerves. In the cranio-cervical region these small fibres pass out with the upper roots of the spinal accessory nerve and partly perhaps with those of the vagus, glosso-pharyngeal and facial; in the thoracico-lumbar region with the anterior roots of the nerves from the second thoracic to the secoud lumbar inclusive, and in the sacral region with the anterior roots of the second, third, and perhaps the fourth sacral nerves. These fine medullated fibres form the only true communication between the cerebro-spinal centre and the sympathetic, and, in fact, those of the dorso-lumbar outflow give origin to the main sympathetic system. Passing to the nearer ganglia of the sympathetic, many of them lose their medullary sheath on joining with the cells of those ganglia, and are continued as pale fibres: others