STRUCTURE OF CELL-PROTOPLASM. 173 of protoplasm is applied is a completely homogeneous material, which, although it might contain granules of solid matter or globules of watery fluid (vacuoles) im- bedded in it, is nevertheless itself entirely devoid of structure (fig. 201, A). It is possible that this view may still hold good for some cells both animal and vegetable, but in most cells, especially those which are “ fixed ” or non-amoeboid, it is found that a differentiation of the protoplasm has occurred in such a manner that a part of it appeal’s under high powers of the microscope in the form of a network or spongework, Fig. 201.—A, Diagram of a cell, the protoplasm of which appears structureless, but is occupied by vacuoles and granules. B, Diagram of a cell, the protoplasm of which is composed of SPONGIOPLASM AND HYALOPLASM. p, protoplasm ; n, nucleus; rtf, nucleolus. Fig. 202.—Cell from the epidermis of an embryo of salamandra, treated with 1 per cent. hydrochloric acid. (After Kolliker.) n, nucleus, with network of chromoplasm; p, protoplasm, showing a reticulum of plastin. whilst the rest of the protoplasm occupies the meshes of this network (figs. 201, B, and 202). The network is known as the reticulum or spongioplasm; while the substance which occupies its meshes may be designated the enchylema (Carnoy) or hyaloplasm. Fig. 203.—Cell with radially disposed reticulum from the intestinal epi- thelium of a worm. (Carnoy.) me, membrane of the cell ; pc, pro- toplasm of the cell; mn, membrane of the nucleus ; pn, achromatic substance of the nucleus, with the convoluted chro- matin filament, bn, contracted into the centre. The proportion which these bear to one another varies in different cells, but it may be stated that as a general rule the amount of spongioplasm becomes augmented as the development of the cell proceeds, and that the younger a cell the greater is the relative amount of hyaloplasm. The shape and size of the meshes of the reticulum also vary in different cells, and even in different parts of the protoplasm of the same cell. Thus in some cells the constituent fibrils or cords of the spongioplasm are disposed radially from the nu- cleus to the periphery (fig. 203), and the meshes are radially elongated; in others they are disposed evenly in all directions, whilst in some a concentric disposition of the fibrils can be determined. The fibrils are invariably united together (as is implied by bhe use of the term reticulum) into a network, and at the nodes of the network where