395 liECENT LITERATURE OP LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. short way upon the cartilages, forming around the margin a vascular zone, named by William Hunter “ circulus articuli vasculosus,” in which they end by loops of vessels dilated at the bent part greatly beyond the diameter of ordinary capillaries (Toynbee). In the foetus these vessels advance further upon the surface of the cartilage than in the adult. The vessels of the vaginal synovial membranes are less numerous than those of the synovial membranes of the joints. The synovial cavities do not appear to have so close a relation to the lymphatic system as is the case with the serous cavities. For although lymphatic vessels have been described by Tillmanns and others in the synovial membranes, they have not been shown to communicate with the cavities, nor do they as a rule lie near the free surface. In this respect they differ from the blood-capillaries, which may come close up to the inner surface of the membrane. Nerves.—W. Krause described the nerves of the synovial membranes (at least those of the joints) as terminating in peculiar corpuscles allied to end-bulbs (p. 338 and fig. 398). Nicoladoni has traced nerves into a plexus of pale fibrils lying close under the surface of the membrane. Pacinian corpuscles have also been noticed under the synovial membranes in many places. Development.—At the time of the formation of a joint by cleavage the tissue around it forms, in its outer part, the fibrous capsule of the joint ; in its inner part, the commencement of the synovial membrane. The cartilage cells on the surfaces of the newly formed joint are at first, like those of the embryonic cartilage generally, placed closely together without matrix or intercellular substance ; after a time this appears in fine lines between the cells, so that there is then presented, in silvered preparations, an epithelioid appearance. By a further development of intercellular substance the superficial cells become more separated from one another, and now possess an irregularly branched shape with communicating processes. Near the edge of the cartilage this condition is permanent, so that the marginal zone of the synovial membrane is formed in situ from what was originally cartilage. Nearer the centre of the articular surface, a further change takes place in the progress of development. The cells lose their processes and acquire the characters of ordinary cartilage-cells, whilst the matrix between them becomes increased, and forms also a thin layer covering their surface. In some places, e.g., the glenoid cavity of the articulation of the lower jaw, the transformation into ordinary cartilage-cells may be incomplete, so that the synovial membrane extends over a larger extent of the articular surface than usual. RECENT LITERATURE OF LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. Bayer, K., Uebcr Regeneration und Neubildung dcr Lymphdriisen, Prager Zeitschr. f Heilkunde vi., 1885. ' ’ Dog-iel, A., Uebcr die Bczichungen zwischen Blut- und Lymphgefassen, Arch. f. mikr. Anat Bd xxii., 1883. ’’ Drews, R., Zellvermehrung in dcr Tonsilla palatina beim Erwachscnen, Arch. f. mikr Anat Bd. xxiv., 1884. ' '* Flemming-, W., Studicn iiber Regeneration dcr Gewebc. 1. Die Zcllvcrmehrung in den Lymrh- driisen und verwandten Organcn und ihr Binjluss auf dcren Bau, Arcli. f. mikr. Anat., xxiv., 18S4- Schlussbemerkungcn iiber die Zellvermehrung in den lymphoiden Drilsen, Archiv f mikr Anat ' Bd. xxiv., 1884. ’ ’ Hoyer, H., Beitrag zur Kcnntniss der Lymphdriisen, Archiv f. mikroskop. Anat., Bd xxxiv 1889. M Paulsen, E., Zellvermehrung und Hire Begleitungserschcinungen in liyperplaslisclicn Lymphdriisen und Tonsillcn, Arch. f. mikr. Anat., Bd. xxiv., 1884. Stohr, Ph., Uebcr die “ peripheren Lymphdriisen," Sitzungsber. d. physik. mcd. Gresellsch. in Wurzburg, 19 Mai, 1883 ; Uebcr Mandeln und Balgdrilsen, Virchow’s Archiv, Bd. 97, 1SS4. VOL. I. n p