196 STRATIFIED EPITHELIUM. towards the surface, we find the component cells becoming more flattened and larger, whilst at the same time undergoing a change in their chemical constitution, so that at first the external part, and afterwards the whole of the protoplasm of the cell, is converted into horny substance, even the nucleus being at last involved. The conversion into horny substance is in many instances preceded by the deposit of a granular material within the cells, which is termed eleidin (Ranvier) or kercttohyalm (Waldeyer). In the epidermis and some other parts the cells which contain this granular material form an almost complete layer between the soft, still protoplasmic, deeper cells and the superficial horny stratum (fig. 224). The layer is termed stratum granulosum and was described by Langerhans. The deeper protoplasmic cells of a stratified epithelium are continually multi- plying by cell-division, and, as the new cells which are thus produced in the deeper parts increase in size, they compress and push outwards those previously formed. In this way cells which were at first deeply seated, become gradually shilled towards the surface, undergoing meanwhile the chemical change above spoken of. The older superficial cells are continually being removed by abrasion, while others rise up to supply their place. Intercellular bridges and channels.—The deeper layers of a stratified epi- thelium are not closely applied to one another by their edges, but there exists a system of intercellular channels, which are bridged across by fibres which run from one cell to the other (see figs. 222, 224). When the cells are isolated, the fibres are Fig. 223.—Epithelium-scales from the inside of the mouth ; magnified 260 diameters. (Henle.) Fig. 224.—Portion of epidermis from a section of the skin of the finger, coloured with ficrocarmine. (Ranvier.) a horny layer ; b, its deepest part (stratum lucidum) with flakes of eleidin ; c, eleidin granules m cells of stratum granulosum ; d, deeper cells of stratum mucosum with intercellular channels ; e, dentations by which the deepest cells are fixed to the surface of the cutis vera. broken through and appear as spikes or dentations on the surface and edges of the cells (fig. 225). Sometimes the intercellular channels become widened in consequence of an excess of fluid accumulating in them, but usually they are very nail cm and but little obvious. The spikes and ridges upon the deeper cells of a stratified epithelium were first noticed by Max Schultze, who was of opinion that they were for the purpose of effecting, by .indenting with those on adjoining cells, a firmer connexion between the cells of the epithelium The true relations of the structures in question, and the intercellular channels which arc biidged across by them, were discovered by Bizzozero. The researches of J. Arnold and ,'f T l, ‘l have shown that similar intercellular channels occur extensively m all varieties of epithebnm. The fibrils which bridge across the intercellular spaces are described by Kanviei as passing