RECENT LITERATURE OF SECRETING GLANDS. 403 ■with which in some cases involuntary muscular fibres, running circularly, are intro- duced, is added. In the sweat glands, the muscular fibres run longitudinally, and lie between the basement-membrane and the epithelium of the tubular alveoli. The epithelium-cells are usually flattened at the commencement of the duct, where these emerge from the alveoli, and are columnar in the rest of the duct. In some glands the columnar cells of the ducts exhibit a peculiar striated appearance (fig. 463, cl) in ihe part of the cell next to the basement-membrane, and the alveolar cells may also exhibit a similar appearance, but far less distinctly. Mechanism of the discharge of secretion from a gland.—Although no doubt dependent ultimately upon physical and chemical conditions, it is not known precisely in what way the discharge of secretion from the gland-cells, and eventually from the gland, is effected. The forces which produce the discharge are, however, considerable, and are influenced as we have seen through the nervous system. In the cutaneous glands of the frog, Strieker and Spina have noticed that irritation of the nerves is followed by swelling and enlargement of the previously flattened cells cf the gland, and that this enlargement causes a discharge of secretion from the mouth of the duct. The swelling is produced by an accumulation of fluid, derived from the plasma of the blood, within the cells, and when these come again to the condition of rest and resume the flattened form, the fluid is supposed to pass from them into the cavity of the alveolus, carrying with it the materials of secretion extracted from the cells. If the glands are again stimulated the same process is gone through, and in this way it is supposed an intermittent discharge may be caused. There is no evidence, however, to show that similar changes occur in other glands, nor is it explained how it happens that the water of the plasma should pass into the cells only under the influence of excitation. The observations of v. G-ehuchten seem to point to the vis-a-tergo of the accumu- lating secretion as the main agent in effecting the discharge of the secretion from the cells. The discharge from the ducts of a gland is no doubt partly due to the vis-a-tergo of the accumulating secretion, partly to the peristaltic contraction of the muscular tissue in the wall of the duct (where this tissue exists). RECENT LITERATURE. Biedermann, W., Ucber morphologische Veranclerungen der Zungendriisen des Frosc/ics bei Rcizung der Briisennerven, Wiener Sitzungsber., Bd. 86, 1882 ; Zur Histologic und Physiologic der Schleimsecretion, Tagebl. der 59. Versamml. d. Naturforscher u. Aerzte zu Berlin, 1886. Bizzozero, &., u. Vassale, Ucber den Verbrauch der Briisenzellen der Sdugelhicre in ■erwachsevcn Briisen, Centralblatt f. d. medic. Wissenschaften, No. 4, 1885 ; Ueber die Erzeugung und die physinlogische Regeneration der Briisenzellen bci den Saugethiercn, Archiv f. pathologische Anat., Bd. 110, 1887. Bizzozero, G., Ucber die Schlauchformigen Briisen dcs Magcndarmcanales und die Bezieliungen ihres Epithets zu dem Oberflachenepithel der SchleimhaxU, Arch. f. mikrosk. Anat., Bd. xxxiii., 1889. Chievitz, Entwiclcelungsgeschichte der Speicheldriisen, Archiv f. Anat. u. Physiol., Anat. Abth., 1885. Dewitz, Ueber das verschiedene Aussclien der gereizten und ruhenden Briisen von Zekenballen des Laubfroschcs, Biolog. Centralb., 1883. Flemming', W., Ueber Eau und Einthcilung der Briisen, Audi. f. Anat. u. Physiol., Anat. Abth., 1888. Gehucliten, A. van, Recherches histologiques s. I'appareil digestif d. 1. larve d. 1. Ptycoptera contaminata, La Cellule, t. vi., 1890 ; Be mdcanisme de la sderdtion, Anat. Anzeiger, Jan. 189L Gilson, &., Rcclierches sur les cellules sderdtantes, La Cellule, t. vi., 1890. Hofer, B., Untersuchungen iiber den Ban der Speicheldriisen unci dcs dazu gchbrenden Nerven- apparates von Blatta, Nova Acta Academies Leopoldino-Carolince, Bd. 51, 1887. Klein, E., On the Lymphatic System and the Minute Structure of the Salivary Glands and Pancreas, Quart. Journ. Mierose. Scienc., Bd. 22, 1882. Kniippel, A., Ueber Speicheldriisen von Jnsccten, Inaug. Diss., Berlin, 1887. Kowalewsky, N., Ueber das Blutgefdsssystem der Speicheldriisen, Archiv f. Anatomie und Physiologie, Anat. Abthlg., 1885. Kultschizky, N., Zur Lchre vom feincrcn Bau der Speicheldriisen, Zeitsclir. f. wissensch. Zool., Bd. xli., 1884.