<504. DEGENERATION AND REGENERATION OF NERVES. the fibre, which correspond, according to Ranvier, with the intervals between the medullary segments. Fifty hours after the section in the rabbit (but not till four days in the dog) the protoplasmic aggregations are found here and there altogether to interrupt the continuity of the medullary sheath, and they contain numerous fatty granules, and sometimes droplets of myelin (fig. 4It;, A). About the fourth day the nuclei are seen to be multiplied, but not to any great extent (C); and Fig. 416.—Degeneration and regeneration of nerve-fibres in the rabbit. (Ranvier.) A, part of a nerve-fibre in which degeneration is commencing in consequence of section (.50 hours previously) of the trunk of the nerve higher up ; my, medullary sheath becoming broken up into drops of myelin ; p, granular protoplasmic substance which is replacing the myelin ; n, nucleus, not yet multiplied ; g, primitive sheath. B, another nerve-fibre in which degeneration is proceeding, the nerve having been cut four days previously. This specimen is differently prepared from the others, so as to exhibit the axis-cylinder (cy) also partly broken up into portions of different length, enclosed in the myelin, my. C, more advanced stage of degeneration, the medullary sheath having in great measure disappeared, while several nuclei (n", n") have been formed by division of the single nucleus of the internode. D, commencing regeneration of a nerve-fibre. Several small nerve-fibres (<', t"), have sprouted out from the enlarged cut end (b) of the nerve-fibre (t) ; a, an axis-cylinder, which has not yet acquired a medullary sheath ; s, s', primitive sheath. the whole of the myelin after four or five days is broken up into drops, some larger, some smaller. The axis-cylinder is also found to be interrupted at nume- rous places, and remains only in the shape of short fibres, often curled round at their broken ends, enclosed in the large drops of myelin (B). Eventually these portions also may disappear. The myelin at length becomes almost entirely removed, partly through the agency of leucocytes or phagocytes, until nothing remains of it except a few isolated drops, which escape absorption, and all that then remains of the original fibre is the primitive sheath, which is occupied by a protoplasmic mass containing anincreased number of nuclei. During the disappearance of the myelin