201. CILIARY MOTION. There is no reason to believe that ciliated epithelium-cells are in connection either with nerve-fibres, or with the cells of the subjacent connective tissue. An anatomical connection with subjacent cells and fibres has been described in reference to the columnar ciliated epithelium of the central canal of the spinal cord and of the Sylvian aqueduct.. But this is a most difficult point to determine exactly, and even if such a connection should be proved, the cells in the situations above mentioned are entirely different in many respects from ordinary ciliated cells. They are relatively slender, and their fixed uon-ciliated ends pass into branching fibres, which lose themselves in a network which underlies the epithelium, and appears to be formed chiefly, if not entirely, by the interlacement of the ramified cell- processes. These peculiar ciliated cells closely resemble those which constitute the structures known as nerve-epithelia in some of the lower invertebrata, and which in some of those animals represent the whole central nervous system. The cilia themselves differ widely in size in different animals, nor are they of equal size in all parts of the same animal. In the human windpipe they measure vuVo^1 to asVo'th °f an in°h length ; but in many invertebrate animals they are much larger than this, and in the human epididymis are from eight to ten times longer than in the trachea. In figure they have the aspect of slender conical, or slightly flattened filaments ; broader at the base, and usually pointed or rounded at their free extremity. Their substance is transparent, soft and flexible. It is to all appearance homogeneous, and no fibres, granules, or other indications of definite internal structure, have been satisfactorily demonstrated in it. The flagellum of Noctiluca, which bears a general resemblance to a large cilium and has a similar rhythmic lashing action, is transversely striated, and the cilium or tad of a spermatozoon also shows certain indications of structure, but nothing of the kind has been observed in ordinary cilia. Nature of ciliary movement and influence of varying conditions and reagents.— If the cilia be detached from the cell they cease to move, and on this account it is thought by some, that the movement is entirely a passive one, caused by movements in the cell-protoplasm acting upon the rootlets of the cilia. But the apparently independent motion of the tails of the spermatozoa, which are comparable to long single cilia, and that of the long cilia which are protruded from many of the lower animal and plant organisms, has led other authorities to believe that the movement is due to the contraction of the cilia themselves. There is, however, a third mode of explanation of the movements which may be suggested and which would have the advantage of bringing them into close relationship with the amoeboid movements of cell-protoplasm, and, as we shall afterwards see, with the process of contraction and extension of muscle. The explanation is briefly as follows If we suppose that a cilium is a hollow curved extension of the cell, occupied by hyaloplasm, and invested by a delicate elastic membrane (perhaps an extension of the spongioplasm), then it must follow that if there be a rhythmic flowing of hyaloplasm from the body of the cell, into and out of the cilium, an alternate extension and flexion of that process would thereby be brought about. The same result would be got, supposing the cilium to be a straight and not a curved exten- sion of the cell, if the enveloping membrane were thicker (or otherwise less extensible) along one side than along the other. This last assumption would also enable one the better to account for the spiral direction of the movement of certain cilia ; for this form of movement would be produced if the line of lessened extensibility in these cilia were to pass in a cork- screw fashion along the cilium in place of straight along one side, as assumed for ordinary cilia. The cilia vibrate with a frequency of not less than ten times in a second when moving actively, but the rate of movement may be much slower than this. The movement of cilia is incessant so long as the cells remain alive, but that of spermatozoa often exhibits intervals of rest alternating with periods of rhythmic movement. The manner in which cilia move, is best seen when they are not acting very briskly. The motion of an individual cilium may be compared to that of a carter’s whip, the cilium being rapidly flexed in one direction, that of the current which they produce, and returning more slowly in the other direction. The motion does not involve the whole ciliated surface at the same moment, but is performed by the cilia in regular succession, giving rise to the appearance of a scries of waves travelling along the surface, like the waves caused by the wind in a field of corn. When they are in very rapid action the undulation is less obvious, and, as Ilenle remarks, their motion then conveys the idea of swiftly-running water. The undulating move- ment may be beautifully seen on the gills of a mussel. The undulations, with some exceptions, seem always to travel in the same direction on the same parts. The impulsion, also, which