ORIGINS Oil ROOTS OF THE NERVES. 327 medullated fibres anastomose together, nor are they observed except in rare instances to divide into branches until they approach theii termination. But the nerve-trunks themselves continually ramify, and the branches of different nerves not unfrequently join with one another. The branches are of course formed by collections of nerve-fibres, and it follows therefore that when two branches of nerves join, fibres pass from the one nerve-trunk to become associated with the other in their further progress, or the communication may be.reciprocal, so that after the junction each nerve-trunk contains fibres derived from two originally distinct sources. In other cases the branches of a nerve, or branches derived from two or from several different nerves, are connected in a more complicated manner, and form what is termed a plexus. In plexuses—of which the one named “brachial” or “ axillary,” formed by the great nerves of the arm, and the “ lumbar ” and “ sacral,” formed by those of the lower limb and pelvis, are appropriate examples—the nerves or their branches join and divide again and again, interchanging and intermixing their fibres so thoroughly that, by the time a branch leaves the plexus it may con- tain fibres from several or even from all the nerves entering the plexus. Still, as in the more simple communications already spoken of, the fibres, so far as is known, remain individually distinct throughout. In some instances of nervous conjunctions certain collections of fibres, after passing from one nerve to another, take a retrograde course in that second nerve, and, in place of being- dis- tributed peripherally with its branches, turn back to its root towards the cerebro-spinal centre. Instances of this occur, according to Volkmann, in the connection between the second and third cervical nerves of the cat, in that of the fourth cranial nerve with the first branch of the fifth, and of the cervical nerves with the spinal accessory and the descending branch of the hypoglossal. Origins or roots of the nerves.—The cerebro-spinal nerves, as already said, are connected by one extremity to the brain or to the spinal cord, and this central extremity of a nerve is, in the language of anatomy, named its origin or root. In Fig. 382.—Roots op one op the spinal NERVES ISSUING PROM THE SPINAL cord. (Allen Thomson.) A, from before ; B, from the side ; C, from above ; D, the roots separated ; 5, 5, anterior root; 6, 6, posterior root with ganglion, 6'. The full description of this figure will be found in the chapter on the cerebro-spinal nervous axis. some cases the root is single, that is, the funiculi or fibres by which the nerve arises, are all attached at one spot or along one line or tract ; in other nerves, on the contrary, they form two or more separate collections, which arise apart from each other and are connected with different parts of the nervous centre, and such nerves are accordingly said to have two or more origins or roots. In the latter case, moreover, the different roots of a nerve may differ not only in their anatomical characters and'1 connections, but also in function, as is well exemplified in the spinal nerves, each of which arises by two roots, an anterior and a posterior—the former containing the efferent fibres of the nerve, the latter the afferent*