CONSTRUCTION OF THE GANGLIA. 332 adherent covering of connective tissue : this outward covering sends processes inwards through the interior. A section carried through a ganglion in the direction of the nervous cords connected with it, discloses collections of nerve-cells, between which the nerve-fibres pass (fig. 38G). Each cell is inclosed in a transparent capsule with nuclei upon its inner surface (figs. 3G6, 3G7) ; these capsules are continuous with the primitive sheaths of the nerves (M. Schultze). Of the relation between the nerve-fibres in a ganglion and the ganglion-cells, it is probable that some fibres may pass through without being connected with the cells, but that every nerve-cell is connected with a fibre or with fibres. In the case d Fig. 386.—Longitudinal section through the middle of a ganglion on the posterior root of ONE OF THE SACRAL NERVES OF THE DOG, AS SEEN UNDER A LOW MAGNIFYING POWER. (E. A. S.) a, Nerve-root entering the ganglion ; b, fibres leaving the ganglion to join the mixed spinal nerve ; c, connective tissue coat of the ganglion ; d, principal group of nerve-cells, with fibres passing clown from amongst the cells, probably to unite with the longitudinally coursing nerve-fibres by T-shaped junctions •(see text). of multi-polar cells, such as are found in the sympathetic ganglia (fig. 367), each of the branches of the cell is in all probability continuous with a nerve-fibre, and the same is certainly the case with bipolar cells, at least those in which the two poles are prolonged from opposite extremities of the cell as in the spinal ganglia of fish (fig. 370), as well as in the pyriform cells before noticed (see p. 318) in which two processes arise from a part of the cell near one another, and are continued in Fig. 387.—Bipolar cell from spinal ganglion of a 4£ weeks’ human embryo (His). opposite directions, either at once, or after the one fibre has made two or more spiral coils around the other or straight fibre. Uni-polar cells are found in the spinal ganglia of the higher vertebrates (fig. 3G6). In them the single nerve-fibre process is observed to divide before long into two fibres (d), which traced far enough are found to pass in opposite directions toward the ends of the ganglion. Some- times the branches are of equal size, but they are often unequal, one being decidedly smaller than the other. As in all cases of a division of a medullated nerve-fibre, the bifurcation takes place at a node of Ranvier, and this may be the first node from the cell, or the nerve-fibre may pass two or three or more nodes before thus dividing. The cell-process which usually acquires its medullary sheath very soon