TRANSITIONAL EPITHELIUM. 197 through the protoplasm of the cells. According to Ramon y Cajal, they are covered by a pro- longation of cell-membrane. A similar view is taken by Ide, who describes the cell-membrane as reticulated. A radiating system of fibrils has also been shown to occur in the flattened epithelium cells which cover the posterior surface of the cornea, and in this case also the fibrils traverse the intercellular spaces, passing from one cell into another. Stratified scaly epithelium occurs in one of its simplest and most typical forms covering the anterior surface of the cornea of the eye (fig. 222). It is found also lining the mouth, the chief part of the pharynx, and the oesophagus, and in the female it lines the vagina and part of the cervix uteri, but its most extensive distri- bution is over the surface of the skin, where it forms the epidermis. In many parts of the epidermis the layers become very numerous, and their arrangement some- what complicated, as will be noticed in the description of the skin. It may be remarked that, in most of the situations where it is found, stratified scaly epithelium is of epiblastic origin, but this is by no means invariably the case and its occurrence depends much more upon the physiological conditions of the parts which it covers. Thus, wherever a surface is liable to undergo friction or abrasion, there we find a development of stratified scaly epithelium. Fig. 225.—Two “ prickle-cells ” from the DEEPER PART OF THE EPIDERMIS. (Ranvier. ) d, space around the nucleus, probably caused by shrinking of the latter. Fig. 226.—Section of the transitional epithelium lining the bladder. (E. A. S.) a, superficial; b, intermediate ; and c, deep layer of cells. Transitional epithe- lium.—Epithelium to which the term transitional may be applied, as being in a sense intermediate between those forms which consist of but a single layer of cells and the stratified which we have just described, may be classed under the three heads of columnar, ciliated, and scaly transitional, according to the lig. 227. Epithelial cells from the bladder of the rabbit. Highly magnified. (Klein.) . ®’ 1,ar?e flattened cell from the superficial layer, with two nuclei, and with strongly marked ridges and intervening depressions on its under surface ; a', one of the same cells shown in profile ; b, pear-shaped cell ot the second layer showing the manner in which it is adapted to a depression on the superficial cell. kind of cell in each which happens to be most prominent or superficial. The