33G TERMINATION OF SENSORY NERVES. form of imperfect membranous septa (figs. 302, 393 A), between which are supported the convolutions and ramifications of the nerves, and the enlargements in which the branches of the axis-cylinder eventually end (small tactile cells according to MerkelJ. These terminal enlargements, which are either pyriform or globular in shape, are always placed near the capsule, and in small tactile corpuscles may occasionally project beyond it. On entering the corpuscle the nerve-fibres for the most part lose Fig. 391. — Tactile corpuscle WITHIN A PAPILLA OF THE SKIN OF THE HAND, STAINED WITH CHLORIDE OF GOLD. Highly magnified. (Ranvier.) 7i, n, two nerve-fibres passing to the corpuscle ; a, a, terminal, varicose ramifications of the axis- cylinder within the corpuscle. Fig. 392.—Another corpuscle, treated with osmic acid, seen in longitudinal section. (Flemming, from a preparation by Fischer.) 1, entering nerve-fibre, medullated; 2, 2, the same cut variously within the corpuscle ; 3, 3, clear spaces around the fibre (perhaps homologous with the core of the cylindrical end bulbs) ; 4, 4, nuclei ot the transverse and spirally-disposed cells of the corpuscle. Fig. 393.—Tactile corpuscles from the palm of the hand, seen in section (Merkel). A, Longitudinal section showing the interior traversed by connective tissue septa derived from the capsule ; the nerve-fibres are cut across. B, transverse section at the point of entrance of a nerve-fibre, showing the axis-cylinder branching. Other nerve-fibres are cut obliquely. their medullary sheath, but some retain it for a short while, or it may reappear here and there in the course of the fibres. The axis-cylinders, which are often varicose, have, as before intimated, a convoluted course before ending in their terminal enlargements (fig. 391). The absence of a central core such as is found in the Pacinian corpuscles, and in some end-bulbs, was first pointed out by Langerhans and afterwards by Thin. The latter observer stated as the result of his observations, that tactile corpuscles could be divided into simple oi compound, according as they receive one or a greater number of nerve-fibres ; each nerve-fibre passing to one distinct corpuscle, and the larger corpuscles being compounded of two or more simple ones. On the other hand, even in the same papilla, several small corpuscles may occui near to but distinct from one another.