379 RELATION OF LYMPHATICS AND CONNECTIVE TISSUE. and there occur. A difference is found in the epithelium upon the two surfaces of the valves similar to that which has been noticed in the valves of the veins. Valves are not present in all lymphatics, but where they exist they follow one another at much shorter intervals than those of the veins, and give to the lymphatics when distended, a beaded or jointed appearance. Valves are placed at the entrance Fig. 437. — Part op a lymphatic VESSEL IN THE PLEURAL COVERING OP THE DIAPHRAGM. q°. (Rail- vier.) L, L, the lymphatic vessel with characteristic epithelium; c, cell- spaces of the connective tissue. of the lymphatic trunks into the great veins of the neck. They are generally wanting in the retioularly arranged vessels which compose the plexuses of origin already spoken of ; so that fluid in- jected into one of these vessels runs in all directions, so as to fill a greater or a less extent of the plexus, and passes along the separate vessels which issue from it. The lymphatics of fishes and amphibia are, generally speaking, destitute of valves, and may therefore be injected from the trunks ; and valves are much less numerous in the lymphatics and lacteals of reptiles and birds than in those of mainmiferous animals. Relation of the lymphatics of origin to the cells and cell-spaces of the connective tissue.—It has been already stated (p. 233) that the cells of the con- nective tissue lie in spaces in the ground-substance which they more or less com- pletely fill. These cells and cell-spaces form in many parts an intercommunicating network of varying fineness extending throughout the substance of the tissue (fig. 437, c, fig. 438, d, cl, fig. 439, c, c), whilst in other parts the cells acquire a broad flattened form, and joining edge to edge with other similar cells may in this way form an epithelioid patch in the ground substance. Not unfrequently the cells in such a patch take on the wavy border described above as met with in the lymphatics of origin (see the isolated patches in fig. 43G). Further, the flattened cells which form the walls of the lymphatics are connected here and there both with the more ramified cells of the tissue (lig. 438, e) and with those which form the epithelioid patches, and in silvered preparations they appear to be continuous with one another. The epithelioid patches look in fact like a part of the lymphatic vessels, and are often regarded as such ; it must be understood, however, that the spaces here spoken of, whether containing single cells or groups, are not true vessels, but merely vacuities in the ground-substance of the tissue containing flattened cells, which do not form a continuous vascular wall. And although the spaces present a very close relation to the lymphatic vessels, they can hardly be considered as actually opening into them by patent orifices, for the lymphatics proper have a complete wall of flattened cells united by a small amount of intercellular substance : at the same time* this thin film can offer but a very slight resistance to the passage of fluid from the tissue into the vessel, or even to the passage of leucocytes or migrating cells, which, as is well known, penetrate the at least equally closed wall of the blood-vessels. VOL i. c c /