THE SKIN. 418 The part of the corium to which the nail is attached, and by which in fact it is secreted or generated, is named the matrix. This portion of the skin is highly vascular and thickly covered with large vascular papillae. Posteriorly the matrix forms a crescentic groove or fold, deep in the middle but getting shallower at the Eig. 476.—Section across the middle of the nail of a child of 8 days. (Ranvier.) c, body of tbe nail; l, nail-bed with its papillated ridges and rete muoosum ; d, corium under nail- bed ; p, fold at edge of nail : here the homy layer is separated from the mucous layer by a well marked stratum granulosum, which is altogether lacking over the nail-bed ; a, skin of finger at side of nail. sides, which lodges the root of the nail ; the rest of the matrix, before the groove, is usually named the led of the nail. The small lighter-coloured part of the matrix nearest the groove and corresponding with the lunula of the nail, is covered with papillae having no regular arrangement, but the whole remaining surface of the Fig. 477.—Section across the nail and nail- bed. (Heitzmann). P, papilloe ; B, rete mucosum of nail-bed ; N, nail. matrix situated in front of this, and supporting the body of the nail, is marked with longitudinal ridges. These ridges are cleft at their sum- mits into rows of papillae, which are directed obliquely forwards and are better marked towards the distal end of the nail. The ridges, or lamince, as they are sometimes, and perhaps more suitably, named, fit into corresponding furrows on the under-surface of the nail-epidermis. At the posterior part • ^ of the matrix they are low, but increase in height anteriorly. The nail, like the cuticle, is made up of epithelial cells. The oldest and most superficial of these are the broadest and hardest, but at the same time very thin, and so intimately connected together that their respective limits are scarcely discernible. They form the exterior, horny part or nail proper, and cohere together in irregular layers. On the other hand, the youngest cells, which are those situated at the root and under-surface, are softer and of a polygonal shape. J lie deepest layer differs somewhat from the others, in having its cells elongated, and