187 KAR YOKES ESIS. The chromosomes now pass along the fibres of the achromatic spindle with theii apices directed towards the poles of the spindle. The convergent direction which they thus assume as they approach the pole, gives them a star-like appearance when viewed in Fig. 216.—Stages of hetakinesis. (Rabl.) A, conimeucing separation of the split chromosomes. B, the separation farther advanced. C, the separated chromosomes passing along the fibres of the achromatic spindle. the axis of the spindle, and since there are now two such converging groups in the original nucleus the stage has been termed the dyaster (fig. 211, l, on). In the next phase the chromosomes, which are thus passing to form the daughter- nuclei, tend to become convoluted and to arrange themselves in the manner typical of a resting nucleus, with their loops directed towards one pole (that of the half spindle along which they have passed), and their free ends towards the other pole (fig. 217); if much convoluted they have the appearance of a skein (fig. 211, n), but this is not so complicated as that of the mother-nucleus. Finally from the convo- / / w Af&r n remainder of* cicferomutCcs swindle* cZcar aj-cas around nucleus of dcuufhler f J at- jooZe. of nucleius nucleus Fig. 217.—Formation of chromatin net- work IN DAUGHTER-NUCLEI. (Rabl.) In the upper daughter-nucleus the chromosomes are still separate and com- paratively simple loops; in the lower one, secondary filaments are growing out from them to form a network. The cell-pro- toplasm is now completely divided luted primary loops of the daugh- ter-nuclei secondary filaments are given off (lower half of fig. 217), which anastomose with one an- other, and convert the chromo- plasm into the network of a rest- ing nucleus (fig. 211 ,p, q). The cell-protoplasm divides during or immediately after the stage of metakinesis. Sometimes a constriction is seen around the equator of the cell, and this becomes gradually more pronounced until the division of the cell is complete. In other cases—and this is especially frequent in plant cells, but is also seen in some animal cells (fig. 218, d)—points of enlargement make their appearance on the achromatic uniting filaments which connect the daughter-nuclei in the stage of metakinesis, and these points gradually increase in size until they mark a plane of separation between the two halves of the cell, which then divides along this plane. The above is the typical mode of division by karyokinesis, but there are many varieties. Sometimes, as in most plant cells and in many animal ova, the achromatic spindle is very distinct (fig. 218), and the chromatin is in very small amount, the chromosomes being in the form of short rods instead of relatively long filaments. VOL. I. o