425 DEVELOPMENT OF HAlli IN THE FCETUS. o’oins; on outside, the cells within the follicle which at first were uniform in appearance, are found to have undergone changes, having become transformed into the layers of the root-sheath and the miniature conical hair. The inner root-sheath, lying next to the hair (fig. 486, Jc), is distinguished by its translucency from the more opaque outer part that fills up the rest of the cavity. The hair and the inner root-sheath are formed from the cells which cover the top of the papilla. These appear to acquire eleidin-granules, and also, in the case of those which produce the hair, pig- Fig. 486.—Developing hair prom a human embryo op 4^ months. (Ranvier.) p, papilla ; /, hair-rudiment ; i, cells forming inner root-sheath ; k, keratinized portion of inner root- sheath, remaining uncoloured by carmine ; e, external root-sheath ; b, epithelial bed, for insertion of arrector pili ; s, sebaceous gland ; t, sebaceous matter forming independently fn the part which will become the neck of the follicle. Fig. 487.—Replacement op old hair by a newly developing one in the human scalp. (Ranvier.) p, papilla of the new hair ; i, its inner root-sheath ; e, its outer root-sheath continuous above with that of the old hair, p' ; r, epithelial projection at the level of the insertion of the arrector pili, in. ment-granules ; the eleidin-granules are stated to be most abundant in the cells which form the medulla of the hair and in those which form the inner root-sheath. As the young hair reaches in its growth the upper part of the follicle, the central cells which block the neck of the follicle undergo a kind of fatty degeneration, and disintegrate to produce a sebaceous secretion like that of the sebaceous glands (fig. 486, i). The latter in the meantime are becoming formed as extensions of the outer root-sheath of the hair laterally into the corium (s), and they soon open into the neck of the follicle. Between the soft cells of the hair-bulb in the growing hair there arc frequently seen wander-cells, which contain pigment-granules, and it is supposed that the pig-