256 BONE OB OSSEOUS TISSUE. surface, where there is a thin crust of compact substance. In the complex or mixed bones, such as the vertebrae, the two substances have the same general relation to each other ; but the relative amount of each in different parts, as well as their special arrangement in particular instances, is very various. On close inspection the cancellated texture of bone is seen to be formed of slender bars or spicula and thin lamellae, which meet together and join in a reticular manner, producing an open structure which has been compared to lattice-work (cctncelli), and hence the name usually applied to it. In this way considerable strength is attained without undue weight, and it may usually be observed that the Fig. 296.—A, Transverse section of a bone (ulna) deprived of its earth by acid (Skarpey). The openings of the Haversian canals are seen. Natural size. A small portion is shaded to indicate the part magnified in Fig. B. B, Part of the Section A, magnified 20 diameters. The lines indicating the concentric lamellae are seen, and among them the lacunce appear as little dark specks. strongest laminte run through the structure in those directions in which the bone has naturally to sustain the greatest pressure. The open spaces or areolae of the bony network communicate freely together ; in the fresh state they contain marrow and blood-vessels. Haversian canals.—The compact tissue is also full of holes; these, which are very small, are best seen by breaking across the shaft of a long bone near its middle and examining it with a common magnifying glass. Numerous little round apertures (fig. 296 a) may then be seen on the broken surface, which are the openings of short longitudinal passages running in the compact substance, and named the Haversian canals, after Clopton Havers, an English physician and writer of the seventeenth century, who more especially called attention to them. Blood-vessels run in these canals, and the widest of them also contain marrow. They are from yoWth to ■yiyth of an inch in diameter : there are some no more than TrT£nyth, but these are