367 STRUCTURE OF VEINS. fibre-cells have for the most part as in the arteries a transverse direction, although the layer which they form is not everywhere complete, being separated into bundles by the intervention of connective tissue (fig. 425, e). But in many veins some of the innermost fibres of the middle coat take a longitudinal course. This is the case with the iliac, crural, branches of the mesenteric, umbilical of the foetus, and othei veins (Eberth). , . , . „ In many of the larger veins the middle coat is less developed, especially as regards its muscular fibres, but in such cases the deficiency may be supplied by muscularity of the outer coat. The middle coat is wanting altogether in the thoracic part of the inferior vena cava, but is well marked in the hepatic part : in the part below the liver the muscularity of the middle coat is less marked. In the internal and external jugular veins there is but a slight development ol the muscular tissue. External coat (fig. 425, d).—This is often thicker than the middle coat; but the line of junction between them is not sharply marked. It consists of dense areolar tissue and longitudinal elastic fibres. In certain large veins, as was first pointed out by Remak, this coat contains a considerable amount of plain or non-striated muscular tissue. Thus the muscular elements are well marked in the whole extent of the abdominal cava, in which they form a longitudinal network, occupying the inner part of the external coat ; and they may be traced into the renal, azygos, spermatic and external iliac veins. The muscular tissue of the external coat is also well developed in the trunks of the hepatic veins and in that of the vena portae, whence it extends into the splenic and superior mesenteric. It is found also in the axillary vein. Other veins present peculiarities of structure, especially in respect of muscularity, as follows. 1. The striated muscular tissue of the auricles of the heart is prolonged for some way on the adjoining part of the venae cavae and pulmonary veins. 2. The (plain) muscular tissue is largely developed in the veins of the gravid uterus, in which, as well as in some other veins, it is described as being present in all three coats, and as having for the most part a longitudinal arrangement. 3. On the other hand, muscular tissue is wanting in the following veins, viz., a, those of the maternal part of the placenta ; i, most of the veins of the pia mater ; c, the veins of the retina ; d, the venous sinuses of the dura mater ; e, the cancellar veins of the bones ; /, the venous spaces of the corpora cavernosa. In most of these cases the veins consist merely of an epithelium (endothelium) and a layer or layers of connective tissue more or less developed ; in the corpora cavernosa the epithelium is applied to the trabecular tissue. It may be added that in the thickness of their coats the super- ficial veins surpass the deep, and the veins of the lower limbs those of the upper. The coats of the veins are supplied with nutrient vessels, vasa vasorum, in the same manner as those of the arteries. In some of the larger veins they penetrate into the middle coat and even approach the inner surface. Nerves are distributed to them in the same manner as to the arteries, but in far less abundance. Valves.—Most of the veins are provided with valves, a mechanical contrivance adapted to prevent the reflux of the blood. The valves are formed of semilunar folds of the internal coat, strengthened by included connective tissue, and projecting into the vein. Most commonly two such folds or flaps are placed opposite each other (fig. 426, a) ; the convex border of each (which, according to Haller, forms a par- abolic curve) is connected with the side of the vein ; the other edge is free, and points towards the heart, or at least in the natural direction of the current of the blood along the vessel, and the two flaps incline obliquely towards each other in this direction. Moreover the wall of the vein immediately on the cardiac side of the curved line of attachment of the valves, is dilated into a pouch or sinus (fig. 426, B), so that, when distended with blood or by artificial injection, the vessel bulges out on each side, and thus gives rise to the appearance of a knot or swelling