0HIG1N OF THE KED BLOOD-DISKS. £19 neighbouring blood-vessels or of similar cells. At the same time vacuoles form within them (fig. 255, h'), and becoming enlarged coalesce to form a cavity filled with fluid, in which the reddish globules, which are now becoming disk-shaped, float (fig. 256). Finally the cavity extends through the cell-processes into those of neigh- bouring cells, and a vascular network is produced, and this becomes eventually united°with pre-existing blood-vessels, so that the blood-corpuscles which have been formed within the cells in the manner described, get into the general circu- lation (see Development of Blood-vessels). This “ intracellular ” mode of development of red blood-corpuscles ceases in most animals before birth, although in those which, like the rat, are born very immature, it may be continued for a few days after birth. Subsequently, although new vessels are formed in the same way, blood-corpuscles are not produced within them, and it Fig. 256.—Further development of blood-corpuscles WITHIN CONNECTIVE TISSUE CELLS, AND TRANSFORMATION OF THE LATTER INTO CAPILLARY BLOOD-VESSELS (E. A. S.) a, an elongated cell with a cavity in its protoplasm occupied by fluid and by blood-corpuscles which are still globular ; b, a hollow cell the nucleus of which has multi- plied. The new nuclei are arranged around the wall of the cavity, the corpuscles in which have now become discoid ; c, shows the mode of union of an angioblast, which in this instance contains only one corpuscle, with the prolongation (bl) of a previously existing vessel, a, and c, from the new-born rat ; b, from a foetal sheep. becomes necessary to seek for some other source of origin of the red blood-discs, both during the remainder of the period of growth, and also during adult life, for it is certain that the blood- corpuscles are not exempted from the continual expenditure and fresh supply which affect all the other tissues of the body. 2. In the marrow of hones.—In the red marrow which fills the internal cavities of many bones, and particularly the ribs, corpuscles have been observed which appear to justify the inference that red blood-corpuscles are here becoming developed. These corpuscles, which have been termed erythroblasts, were long ago described by Neumann, and by Bizzozero, and have since been noticed also by many other observers, by most of whom they are stated to be formed from the leucocytic marrow-cells. The accounts are, however, somewhat different , for, according to some, the nucleus of the marrow-cell becomes coloured, and with a small amount of protoplasm persists as the red disc, while others describe the protoplasm as becoming transformed into the red corpuscle whilst the nucleus disappears. According to the account given by Bizzozero, the erythroblasts are not developed from the leucocytic marrow cells, nor from the white corpuscles of the blood, but are corpuscles sui generis, which multiply by karykinesis, and become gradually transformed, in the mammalia with disappearance of the nucleus, into the Fig. 257.—Coloured nucleated cells from the red marrow of the guinea-fiq (E. A. S.) red blood-disks. My own observations are entirely in accordance with these state- ments. The coloured cells that I have noticed have almost always been distinctly smaller than the ordinary marrow-cells, often of irregular forms, and sometimes VOL. I. y