LYMPHATIC GLANDS. 3S5 ♦ tissue (fig. 440 ; fig. 443, r), the fibres of which are for the most part covered and concealed in the natural condition by ramified cells, and is filled with fluid lymph, containing many lymph-corpuscles, which may be washed out from sections of the gland, so as to show the sinus, while the firmer gland-pulp, which the sinus surrounds, keeps its place. The proper glandular substance is also pervaded and Fig. 443.—Reticulum prom the medullary part of a lymphatic gland. (E. A. S.) tr, end of a trabecula of fibrous tissue ; r, r, open reticulum of the lymph-path, continuous with the fibrils of the trabecula ; r', denser reticulum of the medullary lymphoid cords. The cells of the tissue are not represented, the figure being taken from a preparation in which only the connective tissue fibrils and the reticulum are stained. supported by fine retiform tissue (figs. 443, r, 445, a), communicating with that of the surrounding lymph-sinus, but marked off from it by somewhat closer reticula- tion at their mutual boundary, not so close, however, as to prevent fluids, or even Fig. 444.—End op a fibrous trabecula PROM THE SAME PREPARATION, SHOWING THE CONTINUITY OP THE CONNECTIVE TISSUE FIBRILS WITH THE RETICULUM : HIGHLY MAGNIFIED. (E. A. S.) tr, trabecula; r, reticulum. corpuscles, from passing from the one to the other. The gland-pulp is otherwise made up of densely packed lymphoid cells, occupying the interstices of its supporting retiform tissue, and usually exhibit- ing, especially at its peripheral parts, abundant evidence of the process of division and multiplication by karyokinesis. This lymphoid tissue is traversed by a network of capillary blood-vessels (fig. 445,d,d), which run throughout the proper glandular pulp, both cortical and medullary, but do not pass into the surrounding lymph-sinus. The lymphoid cells of the glandular pulp are similar in their general appearance to white blood- or lymph-corpuscles, except that their nucleus is relatively larger, and their protoplasm less in amount. The ramified cells which cover the retiform tissue of the lymph-sinus, often contain a considerable number of pigment-granules, especially in the medulla of the gland. rl he trabeculae themselves have a covering of flattened cells, which on the side turned towards the lymph-channel are provided with processes to anastomose with those covering the retiform tissue. The inner surface of the capsule is also lined with flattened cells, which are continuous at the entrance and exit of the lymphatics with the endothelium of those vessels. Aiteries enter and veins leave the gland at the hilum, surrounded, in some