208 11 ED CORPUSCLES OF THE BLOOD. RED CORPUSCLES OP THE BLOOD. These are not spherical, as the name “ globules,” by which they were formerly designated, would seem to imply, but flattened or disk-shaped. Those of the human blood (fig. 239 and fig. 210, a) have a nearly circular outline, like apiece of coin, and most of them also present a shallow cup-like depression or dimple on both surfaces ; their usual figure is, therefore, that of biconcave disks. Their magnitude differs somewhat even in the same drop of blood, and it has been variously assigned by authors ; but the prevalent size may be stated at a^oth of an inch ('007 to *008 millimeter)1 in diameter, and about one-fourth of that in thickness. A .few corpuscles may usually be found which are not more than about one half this size (microcytes), and others which are rather larger (up to about aoVoth of an inch), and Fig. 239.—Human blood as seen on the warm stage. Magnified about 1000 diameters. (E. A. S.) r, r, single red corpuscles seen lying flat; ?•', r , red corpuscles on their edge and viewed in profile ; r", red corpuscles arranged in rouleaux; c, c, crenate red corpuscles ; p, a finely granular pale corpuscle ; g, a coarsely granular pale corpuscle. Both have two or three distinct vacuoles, and were undergoing changes of shape at the moment of observation ; in g, a nucleus also is visible. every gradation in size between these two extremes may be met with, but the great majority average g-sVoth of an inch under normal conditions. In some diseases, especially pernicious anaemia, the relative number of microcytes is greatly increased. In mammiferous animals generally, the red corpuscles are shaped as in man, except in the camel tribe, in which they have an elliptical outline. In birds, reptiles, amphibia, and most fishes, they are oval disks with a central elevation on both surfaces (fig. 210, b, and fig. 215, from the frog), the height and extent of which, as well as the proportionate length and breadth of the oval, vary in different instances, so that in some fishes the elliptical form is almost shortened into a circle. The size of the corpuscles differs greatly in the different classes of Vertebrata ; they are largest in the Amphibia. Thus in the frog they are about yi-th of an inch long and jd^th broad ; in Proteus anguineus, jggth of an inch long and y^th broad ; in Amphiuma tridactylum, where they are largest, the red corpuscles are one-third larger than those of the Proteus. In birds they range in length from about JT)th to j^gth of an inch. Amongst mammals the elephant has the largest red blood-corpuscles (^i_th of an inch); those of the dog average jLgth of an inch ; those of the sheep gigth of an inch ; the goat was long supposed to have the smallest (5555th of an inch), but Gulliver found them about half this size in the Meminna and Napu deer. In observations upon the blood of different races of mankind, Richardson found no constant difference, the average diameter of the red blood-corpuscle being g^jth of an inch. The corpuscles of many mammals, and notably the dog among the common domestic animals, approach so nearly in size to the human blood-corpuscles as to be indistinguishable from them. When viewed singly by transmitted light the coloured corpuscles do not appear red, but merely of a reddish-yellow tinge, or yellowish-green in venous blood. It is 1 The one-thousandth part of a millimeter is often known as a micro-millimitcr or micron, and is represented by the Greek letter g. The diameter of a red blood corpuscle is then expressed as 7—8 microns {7 g—8/a)