325 CONSTRUCTION OF THE NERVES. This common sheath has received the name of epineurium (Key and Retzius) ; it was formerly termed the “cellular sheath.” The special sheath of a funiculus, termed the perineurium1 (fig. 379, per, 380, P.), is also formed of connective tissue, but is far more distinctly of a lamellar nature, and indeed may be stripped off in the form of a tube from the little bundle of nerve-fibres of which the funiculus consists. The perineurium is not formed of a single lamella but of several, which are separated from one another by inter- En Fig. 380.—Part op a section op one op the funiculi op the sciatic nerve of man. Magnified (after Key and Retzius). P, perineurium, consisting of a number of closely arranged lamellae. En, processes from the perineurium, passing into the interior of the funiculus, and becoming continuous with the endoneurium, or delicate connective tissue between the nerve-fibres. The connective tissue fibrils of the endoneurium are seen cut across as fine points, often appearing to ensheath the nerve-fibres with a circle of minute dots (fibril-sheath of Key and Retzius). Numerous nuclei of connective tissue cells are imbedded in the endoneurium ; v, section of a blood-vessel. lamellar clefts moistened with lymph. The separation is not everywhere complete, for here and there bundles pass across, connecting the several lamellte. Moreover, the outermost lamella is joined by connective tissue bundles and laminae of the Fig. 381.—A PORTION OF A SMALL NERVE-TRUNK PROM THE THORAX OF A MOUSE, TREATED WITH NITRATE OP SILVER (Ranvier). Magnified. Cross markings are seen at the nodes, and the layer of flattened epithelioid cells which covers the surface is brought into view by the silver deposit. epineurium, and the innermost gives off flattened pro- longations (fig. 379, end.), to form imperfect septa between the groups of nerve-fibres within the funi- culus. Although the lamella? of the perineurium are very thin, each is formed of at least three strata. Thus the main substance of the lamella is composed of a connective tissue, in which both white fibres and elastic elements are found, the white fibres having for the most part a transverse disposition. The elastic elements lie in greater abundance nearer the surfaces of the lamella, and often occur in the form of patches or incomplete membranes of elastic substance (fig. 282, p. 240), as well as in the form of a fine network of fibres. On both its surfaces each lamella is entirely covered with a layer of delicate flattened endothelial cells, which thus serve also to bound the clefts between the lamellae. The outlines of the cells are brought into view by the silver treatment (fig. 381). llie funiculi of a nerve, although not all of one size, are all sufficiently large to 1 lonnerly known as the neurilemma.