CONSTRUCTION OP THE NERVES. S2G be readily seen with the naked eye, and easily dissected out from each other. In a nerve so dissected into its component funiculi, it is seen that these do not run along the nerve as parallel insulated cords, but join together obliquely at short distances as they proceed in their course, the cords resulting from such union dividing in their further progress to form junctions again with collateral cords ; so that in fact the funiculi composing a single nervous trunk have an arrangement with respect to each other similar to that which is found to hold in a plexus formed by the branches of different nerves. It must be distinctly understood, however, that in these communications the medullated nerve-fibres do not join together or coalesce. They pass off from one nervous cord to enter another, with whose fibres they become intermixed, and part of them thus intermixed may again pass off to a third funiculus, or go through a series of funiculi and undergo still further intermixture; but throughout all these successive associations the fibres remain individually distinct, like the threads in a rope. The nerve-fibres are separated from one another, and supported within the funiculus by de.mate connective tissue, the fibrils of which run for the most part longitudinally, appearing in section as fine points (fig. 380). This tissue has been distinguished as the endoneurium by Key and Ketzius. It is continuous with the septa which pass in as above mentioned from the innermost lamella of the perineurium, and it serves to support also the capillary blood-vessels which are distributed to the nerve. Lying alongside each other, the fibres of a funiculus form a little skein or bundle, which runs in a waving or serpentine manner within its sheath ; and the alternate lights and shadows caused by the successive bendings being seen through the sheath, give rise to the appearance of alternate light and dark cross stripes on the funiculi, or even on larger cords consisting of several funiculi. On stretching the nerve, the fibres are straightened and the striped appearance is lost. Both the perineurium and endoneurium accompany the nerves in all their divisions, in some cases as far as their peripheral terminations. In the finest branches the perineurium generally becomes reduced to a single connective tissue lamella, covered on both surfaces by endothelial cells. In this condition it is known as the sheath of Henle. Both the cerebro-spinal and the sympathetic nerve-trunks are constructed in the manner above described, but the fibres of the cerebro-spinal nerves are chiefly of the white or medullated kind, and contain for the most part fibres of large size, while in nerves belonging to the sympathetic system non-medullated fibres or medullated fibres of very small size greatly preponderate. But very few nerves are composed exclusively of one or the other kind of fibre. Vessels and Lymphatics.—The blood-vessels of a nerve after dividing into small branches in the epineurium and giving offsets to the groups of fat-vesicles which are there met with, pierce the layers of the perineurium obliquely, being supported by the connective tissue bundles which unite the lamellae, and conducted into the interior of the funiculus along the septa before mentioned. Here they break up into fine capillaries which for the most part run parallel with the fibres, but are connected at intervals by short transverse branches, thus forming a network with long narrow meshes. Some of the capillaries may be observed to form loops. Lymphatic vessels are found in the epineurium, but within the funiculi there are no distinct vessels for the conveyance of lymph. It is found, however, that coloured fluid which is injected by means of a fine cannula into the interior of a funiculus finds its way into the lymphatics of the sheath after passing through the clefts between the lamellae of the perineurium, so that undoubtedly a connection exists between these perineural clefts and the lymphatic system. Course of the nerve-fibres in the nerve-trunks.—Neither in their course along the nervous cords, nor in the white part of the nerve-centres, do the