298 VARIATIONS OF STRUCTURE IN DIFFERENT MUSCLES. upon the following series of researches into the structure of muscle. Various observers (Melland. G. F. Marshall, van Gehuchten and Ramon y Cajal), who during the next five or six years investigated the structure of muscle, mainly with the aid of acid and gold prepara- tions, have regarded the appearances of these preparations as proving the existence of a similar reticulum in muscle, and have concluded that the material in the meshes of the supposed reticulum, that is to say the whole of the muscle-columns, must represent the enchylema of protoplasm. The breaking up of the so-called inter-reticular substance into muscle-columns is regarded as purely artificial. Although the above view of muscle-structure obtained for a short time some adherence amongst histologists, and has not even at the present time been given up by all its original supporters, it must certainly be relinquished as being inconsistent with the known facts of muscle-structure. The researches of Rollett, which were published in 1885 and 1886, showed any such view to be untenable, and brought the matter back to the former standpoint. The results of these researches tended to demonstrate that the filaments of the so-called “ reti- culum ” of the above-mentioned authors are neither more nor less than the septa of sarcoplasm which intervenes between columns of the muscle-substance : that these columns pre-exist in muscle, and are the actual contractile elements of the muscle; and that the sarcoplasm between them is a passive material, and may represent the undifferentiated remains of the protoplasm of the original cell from which the muscular fibre has been developed. The account in the text is derived from a re-investigation of the structure of muscle, and especially of the muscles of insects, prepared by various methods and photographed with the aid of Zeiss’ 2 mm. homogeneous apochromatic objective. It differs materially from that in the last edition of this work, which was based mainly upon investigation of living muscular tissue only. The description of the actual appearances of living muscle still however stands good, and has been retained in this edition. Muscle-nuclei (muscle-corpuscles).—In connection with the cross-striated substance a number of clear oval nuclei are found in the fibres. In mammalian muscles they lie mostly upon the inner surface of the sarcolemma (figs. 320, 330, A), but in frogs they are distributed through the substance of the fibre, and in many insects they form a longitudinal series situated in the middle of the fibre. Asso- ciated with and surrounding them there is sometimes, but not always, a certain amount of granular protoplasm. In the unaltered condition the nuclei are not easily seen, but they are made conspicuous by the addition of acid. They may contain a network of chromoplasm, in which one or two nucleoli are generally visible, but frequently the chromatin of the nucleus is in the form of a spiral filament. Variations of structure in different muscles, correlated with differences of function.—In the rabbit, as especially pointed out by Ranvier and Krause, certain of the voluntary muscles present differences in appearance and mode of action from the rest. Thus while most of the voluntary muscles have a pale aspect and contract energetically when stimulated, some such as the semi- tendinosus and the soleus in the lower limb, are at once distinguished by their deeper colour as well as by their slow and prolonged contraction when stimulated. When subjected to microscopical examination it is found that in the red muscle the fibres are more distinctly striated longitudinally and the transverse striae are much more irregular than usual. The muscular fibres are generally finer (thinner) than those of the ordinary muscles, and appear to have a larger amount of sarcoplasm. The nuclei are more numerous and are not confined to the inner surface of the sarcolemma, but occur scattered in the thickness of the fibre as well. There is also a difference in the blood-supply of the two kinds of muscle, to be afterwards alluded to. A similar difference between red and pale muscles may be also seen in the rays amongst fishes. In other animals the distinction is not found as regards whole muscles although it may affect individual fibres of a muscle. This is the case, according to Klein, in the diaphragm, in which in many of the fibres there are numerous nuclei, and these are embedded in protoplasm, which forms an almost continuous layer underneath the sarcolemma. The distribution of the two kinds of fibres in different muscles has been recently more especially investigated by G-iiitzner