KARYO KINESIS. 1S9 system of fibrils, which v. Beneden terms the polar cone (fig. 219, p.e.). Besides these fibres of the spindle and its polar cones, other strife radiate from the attraction-spheres into the surrounding protoplasm, leaving a somewhat prominent equatorial zone of •cell-protoplasm free from radiations, and marked off' from the radially striated part by a distinct boundary line. After the formation of the daughter-nuclei, each pole- corpuscle, with its surrounding attraction-sphere, is described as undergoing division and remaining within the daughter-cell as a double system of spheres, ready to initiate the further division of the nuclei which have just been formed. If this be so the attraction-spheres are not to be regarded as developed only during karyolcinesis but as forming a prior constituent of the cell, merely becoming more evident at the time of cell-division, and along with the achromatic spindle, which subsequently unites them, may be regarded as initiating and directing the division of the nucleus Fig. 220.—Stages in the division of the nucleus of a living epithelium cell in the epidermis of a salamander-larva. (Flemming.) a, cell showing the nucleus transformed into a mass of contorted filaments (corresponds to b and c of fig. 211) ; b, the nuclear filaments have become fewer and more united, and begin to assume a con- verging arrangement (compare d, e, / of fig. 211) ; c, stellate form (compare g, fig. 211) ; d, e, hour- glass contraction of the nucleus which gradually passes off and the form c is resumed. This may occur more than once : eventually the filaments accumulate in a direction parallel to one another near the centre of the cell, and then gradually separate into two sets as shown in / (i, j, k in fig. 211). These as they retire towards the poles gradually resume the stellate form g (l, tig. 211). The time occupied whilst the stages above represented were passed through was about three hours. and of the cell. In the resting condition of the cell the attraction-sphere and central particle are single, but they undergo division at the commencement of karyokinesis (Boveri). Attraction-spheres and pole-corpuscles have also been described by Flemming in the white blood-corpuscle, and are probably of constant occurrence. The karyokinetic process has been watched in actual progress in all its stages by more than one observer. The time occupied varies in different animals from half an hour to three hours. Observed thus in the living cell (fig. 220) it is not possible to follow out all the details of the process, which have only been elucidated in tissues the cells of which have been fixed by appropriate hardening reagents and afterwards stained. The number of the chromatin filaments or chromosomes varies in different animal- and plant-cells from 2 (Ascaris megalocephala) to 24 (Salamandra maculosa) or more. It is probably constant, or nearly so, in the same species, but may be very different even in allied species. In the division of the spermatogenic cells of the testicle to form the spermatoblasts or young spermatozoa, the final separation of the chromosomes into the daughter-nuclei takes place without the occurrence of a corresponding longitudinal cleavage ; the result of this is that the spermatoblasts