STRUCTURE OF CAPILLARIES. oil muscular tissue, in form of the usual long contractile fibre-cells, which are directed across the length of the vessel. The elongated nuclei of _ these cells may be brought into view by means of acetic acid or by staining fluids (fig. 430). Ihis layer' corresponds with the middle coat of the larger vessels. In the smallest vessels in which it appears the muscular cells are few and apart, and a single long cell may turn spirally round the tube (Lister) ; in larger vessels, especially those of Fig. 429.— A SMALL ARTERY A, AND VEIN V, FROM THE SUB- CUTANEOUS CONNECTIVE TISSUE OF THE RAT. TREATED WITH NITRATE OF SILVER. 175 DIAMETERS. (E. A. S. ) a, a', epithelium-cells with b, 6', their nuclei; m, m, transverse markings due to staining of sub- stance between the muscular fibre- cells ; c, c, nuclei of connective tissue corpuscles attached to ex- terior of vessel. the arterial system, the mus- cular cells are more closely arranged. Outside the mus- cular coat is the areolar or connective tissue coat, con- taining fibres and connec- tive tissue corpuscles, with longitudinally placed nuclei. In vessels of gV of an inch in diameter, or even less, the elastic layers of the inner coat may be dis- covered (fig. 430, A, S), in the form generally of homo- geneous or fenestrated mem- brane, more rarely of longi- tudinal reticulating elastic fibres. The small veins differ from arteries of cor- responding size, chiefly in the inferior development of their muscular tissue; the A fW linins cells of the arteries also are very much longer and narrower than those of the veins. These differences, as well as the compara- tive size of corresponding vessels, are well shown in the accompanying figures (429 and 430). The only open communication between the arteries and the veins, is by means of capillary vessels as above described, unless in the maternal part of the placenta and in the interior of erectile organs, in which small arteries may open directly into wide venous cavities without the intervention of capillaries. Moreover, in the spleen the arterial capillaries do not at once pass into the commencements of the veins, but open into the interstices of the organ, from which the minute veins collect the blood. But it would appear that in certain parts small arteries may pass into small veins without the intervention of true capillaries (Sucquet, Hoyer). Arterial glands.—At the upper end of the common carotid (carotid gland) and in front of the apex of the coccyx (coccygeal gland, Luschka), are found small solid-looking bodies of a