NERVES OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLES. 33 U parts in gold preparations is well exhibited in figs. 411, 412. Applied to the branches of the ramification small granular nuclei (fig. 414, n) are seen at intervals ; these nuclei of the arborisation are different from the clear nuclei of the bed (n), and also from the flattened nuclei of the sheath which lie immediately under the sarcolemma covering the end-plate, and which resemble the nuclei of the sheath of Schwann of the nerve. The sarcolemma over the situation of the nerve-ending is slightly raised above the general surface (fig. 410, a). It would appear that 'in mammals each Fig. 411.—Motor end-organ op a lizard : gold preparation. (Kiilme.) n, nerve-fibre ; r, terminal ramification of axis-cylinder; m, clear substance surrounding the ramification (matrix) ; b, granular bed or sole of the end-organ. Fig. 412.—Cross-section op muscular fibre and end-organ of lizard : gold preparation. (Kiihne.) r, terminal ramification of axis-cylinder , m, matrix ; b, nucleus of bed ; t, nucleus of telolemma. Fig. 413.—Motor end-organ of human muscle : gold preparation. (Kiilme.) n, medullated nerve-fibre ; r, terminal ramification of axis-cylinder. muscular fibre has but one terminal structure, and receives consequently but one nerve-fibre. As, moreover, the fibres of a nerve undergo division, probably repeated division, before ending, it follows that one fibre in a nerve-root or -trunk may supply several muscular fibres. In reptiles the longer muscular fibres may have two or more nerve-endings. The shape and extent of the terminal ramification of the axis-cylinder within the end-organ varies greatly, not only in different classes of animals, but also in animals belonging to the same class, and there is even some variation in individuals of the same species, as is evident from the various representations of the end-organs of the green lizard, which are here given. On the whole, it may be stated that the terminal ramification is most compact in mammals and reptiles and least so in