LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 882 posterior pair, situated in the sciatic region, which pour their lymph into a branch of the- sciatic or of some other neighbouring vein, and an anterior more deeply-seated pair, placed over the transverse process of the third vertebra, and opening into a branch of the jugular vein. The parietes of these sacs are thin and transparent, but contain muscular tissue, which here and there appears obscurely striated, decussating in different layers, as in the blood-heart. In their pulsations they are quite independent of the latter organ, and are not even syn- chronous with each other. In salamanders, lizards, serpents, tortoises, and turtles, only a posterior pair have been discovered, which, however, agree in all essential points with those of the frog. In the goose, and in other species of birds belonging to different orders, Panizza discovered a pair of lymph-sacs opening into the sacral veins, and Stannius has since found that these sacs have striated muscular fibres in their parietes. Nerve-fibres, both dark-bordered, and pale, have been observed in the lymph-hearts of the frog, and also nerve-cells in those of the common tortoise (Waldeyer).1 Development of lymphatic vessels.—The development of lymphatic capillaries has been studied by Klein in the serous membranes. He finds that the process is similar to that of the development of blood-vessels. A vacuole is formed within one of the cells of the connective tissue, and becomes gradually larger, so as ultimately to produce a cavity filled with fluid, with the protoplasm of the cell thinned out to form the wall of the vesicle thus produced. From this protoplasmic wall portions are said to bud imvards into the cavity, eventually becoming detached as lymph corpuscles ; it is more probable, however, that the lymph corpuscles which are seen in the developing lymphatics have “ wandered in,” as in the case of the white corpuscles of the blood. Meanwhile the nucleus of the cell has become multiplied, and the resulting nuclei are regularly arranged in the protoplasmic wall, which now exhibits, on treatment with nitrate of silver, the well-known wavy epithelial marking characteristic of the lymphatic capillaries. To form vessels, the vesicles become connected, with one another by means of processes into which their cavities extend. The cells lining these lymphatic vesicles, which are common in the mesogastrium of the frog and toad in the winter season bear, in the female of those animals, cilia directed inwards towards the cavity of the vesicles. As the development into vessels proceeds, the cilia disappear (Klein). Remak, who first noticed these ciliated vesicles, took them for cysts in the membrane. LYMPHATIC GLANDS. Lymphatic glands, formerly named also conglobate glands, and by modern- French writers lymphatic ganglions, are small solid bodies placed in the course of the lymphatics and lacteals, through which the contents of these vessels have to pass in their progress towards the thoracic or the right lymphatic duct. These bodies are collected in numbers alongside of the great vessels of the neck, and also in the thorax and abdomen, especially in the mesentery and alongside of the aorta, vena cava inferior, and iliac vessels. A few, usually of small size, are found on the external parts of the head, and considerable groups are situated in the axilla and groin. Some three or four lie on the popliteal vessels, and usually one is placed a little below the knee, but none farther down. In the arm they are found as low as the elbow joint. The lymph of some lymphatic vessels has to traverse two, three, or even more lymphatic glands before reaching the thoracic duct, whilst, on the other hand, there are lymphatics which enter the thoracic duct without having traversed any gland in their way. The size of lymphatic glands is very various, some being not much larger than 1 Miiller’s description is to be found in the Philosophical Transactions for 1833 ; Panizza's in a special memoir on the Lymphatic System of Reptiles, published in the same year. For a more complete account of the lymphatic hearts of the frog, the reader is referred to the “ Lefons d’Anatomie Grenerale,” delivered by Prof. Ranvier in the College de France in 1877-78, and published in 1880, and to the “ Traite Technique ” of the same author, 2nd edition, published in 1889.