TERMINATION OF SENSORY NERVES. 388 nerve-fiDi-e is somewhat different, since we see that in different animals those of the one kind are replaced by those of the other kind. Large end-bulbs of a rounded oval form have been found in the synovial membrane of certain joints in man (e.g., those of the fingers), and also in the A B Fig. 395. —End-bulbs from the human conjunctiva. (Longworth.) A, Ramification of nerve-fibres in the mucous membrane, and their termination in end-bulbs, as seen with a lens ; B, an end-bulb more highly magnified ; a, nucleated capsule ; b, core, the outlines of its component cells are not seen ; c, entering fibre branching and its two divisions passing to terminate in the core at cl ; C, an end-bulb treated with osmic acid, showing the cells of the core better than B ; a, the entering nerve-fibre ; b, capsule with nuclei ; c, c, portions of the nerve-fibre within the end-bulb, the ending of the fibre is not seen ; cl, e, cells of the core. articular synovial membranes of several mammals. They are somewhat flattened, have a large granular core beset with nuclei, and receive from one to four medullated nerve-fibres, which terminate within them in fine convoluted and ramified non- medullated filaments (fig. 397). They are distinguished by the name of articular nerve-corpuscles or articular end-bulbs. What appear to be a modification of end-bulbs were discovered by W. Krause in certain parts of the external generative organs, both in the male and female (especially the glans penis and clitoridis), and were named by him genital corpuscles. These corpuscles are constructed generally like the end-bulbs, but are characteristically constricted or subdivided by connective tissue septa into from two to six knob-like portions, which gives the whole corpuscle a mulberry-like aspect. From one to four medullated fibres enter the genital corpuscle, and their axis-cylinders usually break up within it into a large number of fine pale terminal fibres. Their size varies greatly, some of them being no larger than ordinary end-bulbs, others several times as large. In the simplest of these structures the axis-cylinder of the nerve-fibre entering at one pole of the somewhat oval corpuscle (fig. 398) may either pass straight or with