384 LYxM PHATIC SYSTEM. upon by the connective tissue which enters with the larger blood-vessels at the hiluin and surrounds them, together with the lymph-vessels, in the centre of the gland’ so that in these the medullary part is reduced to a layer of no great thickness bounding inwardly the cortical part. Throughout both its cortical and medullary part the gland is pervaded by a trabecular frame-work which incloses and supports the proper glandular substance. Fig. 442.—Section of a mesenteric gland of the ox (magnified 12 diameters). After His. Tiie section includes a portion of tlie cortical part, A, in its whole depth, and a smaller portion of the adjoining medullary part, B ; c, c, outer coat or capsule sending partitions into the cortical part, eventually forming the trabeculae, t, t, which are seen mostly cut across ; d, d, the glandular substance forming nodules in the cortical part, A, and reticulating cords in the medullary part, B ; l, l, lymph- sinus or lymph-channel, left white. The trabeculae pass inwards from the capsule (fig. 440). They consist, in the ox and most animals, chiefly of plain muscular tissue ; in man, of connective tissue, sparingly intermixed with muscular fibre-cells. In the cortical part they are mostly lamellar in form, and partially divide the cortex up into separate nodules from ^ to vV of an inch in diameter, which communicate laterally with each other through openings in the imperfect partitions between them (fig. 442, A). On reaching the medullary part the trabeculae take the form of flattened bands or rounded cords, and by their conjunction and reticulation form a freely intercommunicating mesh- work throughout the interior. (In figure 442 they are represented mostly as cut across.) In the interstices of the framework which is thus formed by the capsule and trabeculae is included the proper glandular substance, which appears as a tolerably firm pulp or parenchyma, composed of lymphoid tissue. ithin the cortical part this forms rounded nodules (cortical nodules or follicles) (fig. 442, A, d); in the trabecular meshes of the medullary part it takes the shape of rounded cords {lymphoid cords) joining in a corresponding network (fig. 442, b) ; and, as the containing meshes of the framework inter-communicate, so the contained gland- pulp is continuous throughout. But both in the cortical and the medullary parts, a narrow space, left white in the figs. (fig. 440, l.s ; 442, l, l), is left all round the gland-pulp, between it and the trabeculae, such as would be left had the pulp shrunk away from the inside of a mould in which it had been cast. This space is both a receptacle and a channel of passage for the lymph that goes through the gland : it is named the lymph-sinus, or lymph-channel. It is traversed by retiform connective