MUSCULAR TISSUE. 287 either is fixed to a tendon, both extremities of the fibre terminate in the way described, so that it has a long cylindrical shape, but when provided with tapering ends it becomes somewhat spindle-shaped. In some muscles, e.g., the sartorius, fibres have been measured which are much longer than the dimension above given. Generally speaking the fibres neither divide nor anas- tomose ; but this rule is not without exception. In the tongue of the frog the muscular fibres (fig. 324) as they approach the surface divide into numerous branches, by which they are attached to the under surface of the mucous membrane (Kolliker). The same thing has also been seen in the tongue of man and various animals : and the fibres of the facial muscles of mammals divide in a similar manner where they fix themselves to the skin (Busk and Huxley). Structure of the fibres ; sarcolemma.—A mus- cular fibre may be said to consist of a soft substance enclosed in a tubular sheath. The latter is named the sarcolemma. It consists of transparent and apparently homogeneous elastic membrane, and, being comparatively tough, will sometimes remain entire when the included muscular substance is ruptured, as represented in figs. 325, 326. It is especially well seen in fish and amphibia, for in these it is thicker and stronger than in mammalian muscle, in which it is more difficult to render evident but nevertheless always exists (fig. 326). Nuclei are found on the inner surface of the sarcolemma, but these belong rather to the contractile substance than to the inclosing membrane, and will be afterwards more fully described. Muscular substance.—When viewed by transmitted light even with a comparatively low power of the microscope, the fibres, which are clear and pellucid in aspect, appear marked with parallel stripes or bands alternately light and dark passing across them with great regularity (fig. 327), and this not only at the surface but, -A BRANCHED MUS- PIBRE FROM THE TONGUE, MAGNIFIED 350 diameters. (Kolliker.) Fig. 325.—Muscular fibre of fish. Substance of fibre ruptured so as to exhibit sarcolemma. (After Bowman.) Fig. 326.—Sarcolemma of mammalian muscle, highly magnified. (E. A. S.) The fibre is represented at a place where the muscular substance has become ruptured and has shrunk away, leaving the sarcolemma (with a nucleus adhering to it) clear. The fibre had been treated with serum acidulated with acetic acid. as may be seen by altering the focus of the microscope, through- out its substance also. In a moderately extended fibre about eight or nine dark and as many light bands may be counted in the length of y^y of an inch, which would give about yy^oo inch as the breadth of each. But whilst this may be assigned as their usual breadth in human muscle, they are in different parts found to be much narrower, so that not unfrequently there are twice as many in the space mentioned. This closer approxima- tion may generally be noticed in thicker and apparently contracted parts of the fibre. The cross-striped appearance, which is very character- istic, is found in all the skeletal muscles ; but it is not altogether confined