DEVELOPMENT OF THE SWEAT-GLANDS. 420 capsule round the body of the gland. Each little sweat-gland is supplied with a dense cluster of capillary blood-vessels. Distribution.—Sweat-glands exist most numerously in regions unprovided with hairs, but they occur in all parts of the skin, and may in some cases open into hair- follicles. According to Krause, nearly 2,800 open on a square inch of the palm of the hand, and somewhat fewer on an equal extent of the sole of the foot. He assigns rather more than half this number to a square inch on the back of the hand, and not quite so many to an equal portion of surface on the forehead, and the front and sides of the neck. On the breast, abdomen, and fore-arm, he reckons about 1100 to the inch, while on the lower limbs and the back part of the neck and trunk, the number in the same space is not more than from 400 to GOO. The size of the sweat-glands also varies. According to the observer last named, the average diameter of the coil is about TV inch ; but in some parts they are larger Fig. 491.—Developing sweat-glands prom a seven A B MONTIIS FOETUS. MAGNIFIED 50 DIAMETERS. (Kolliker.) a, horny layer of the epidermis ; b, Malpighian layer; d, rudimentary gland ; e, lumen of the duct, opening at / upon the surface of the skin. than this—as, for example, in the groin, but especially in the axilla. In this last situation Krause found the greater number to measure from aV to TV inch, and some nearly J inch in diameter. The development of the sweat-glands has been carefully studied by Kolliker. Their rudiments, when first discoverable in the embryo, have much the same appearance as those of the hairs, and, in like manner, consist of processes of the mucous layer of the epidermis, which pass down and are received into corresponding recesses of the corium (fig. 491). They are formed throughout of cells collected into a solid mass of a club shape, continuous by its small end with the Malpighian layer of the epidermis, and elsewhere surrounded by homogeneous limiting membrane which is prolonged above between the corium and cuticle. The subsequent changes consist in the elongation of the rudimentary gland, the formation of a cavity along its axis—at first without an outlet—the prolongation of its canal through the epidermis to open on the surface, and, in the meantime, the coiling up of the gradually lengthening gland-tube into a compact ball, and the twisting of the excre- tory duct as it proceeds to the orifice. The plain muscular tissue of the sweat- glands is said to be developed from some of the epithelium-cells of the rudimentary gland (Ranvier). If this be so, it is the only known instance, in the higher animals, of muscular tissue being developed from the epiblast. The ceruminous glands in the auditory passage consist of a tube coiled into a ball, like the sweat-glands; and there is such a further correspondence between the two, in structure and mode of development, that the ceruminous glands may be regarded as a variety of the sudoriferous. It would thus appear that the rudiments of the hair-follicles, sweat-glands, and sebaceous glands, are all derived from the same source. They all originally appear as solid bud-like excrescences of the Malpighian layer of the epidermis, (for the outer stratum of the root-sheath must be regarded as such) ; these grow into the corium, in which recesses are formed to receive them, and which, of course, yields the material required both for the production of new cells for their further growth, and for the maintenance of their secreting function.