OSSIFICATION IN CARTILAGE. v.VZ the periosteum into the bone, pierce these circumferential lamella?, but are not at first surrounded with concentric lamella?, and do not therefore lie in true Haversian canals.1 These canals become formed later by absorption taking place around the blood-vessels for some little distance, succeeded by a re-deposition of concentric lamella? within the Haversian spaces thus formed. Immediately before the occurrence of the lamellar deposition under the periosteum, the young bone undergoes a process of absorption from the inside. The medullary canal becomes thereby enlarged, and the medullary spaces, particularly those near the medullary canal, partaking of this absorption and enlargement, the result is that at about this period there is less bony matter in a section of the shaft than there was immediately before. To the change in question Schwalbe has given the name “ osteoporosis ; ” it is followed by a re- deposition of osseous lamellae both on the wall of the medullary canal, and on the walls of the medullary spaces of the embryonic osseous tissue. Since the cartilage grows in every dimension by interstitial expansion, the bone which is invading it (endochondral bone) becomes gradually wider as the ossification advances. It is narrowest near the centre of the shaft where the process began, and widens gradually towards the ends ; it has therefore somewhat of an hour-glass shape (fig. 313, i.c.). The cylindrical form of the shaft is maintained, however, by the thick- ness of the periosteal bone being greater at the centre (where the deposition of bone first began, and has been longest proceeding) than at the ends. Hence it gradually diminishes to a thin layer immediately investing that part of the cartilage into which the calcification is extending, so that the intramembranous subperiosteal ossification on the outside, may be said to closely accompany, if it does not even precede, the calcification of the cartilage in the interior. Either this investment of periosteal bone, or the calcification of the cartilage, seems to hinder the lateral expansion of that part of the cartilage in which the calcification is proceeding ; but immediately beyond, the interstitial expansion mentioned takes place. By the time that the ossification has advanced to the extremities of the shaft, the enlarged and expanded end of the cartilage has extended itself over the subperiosteal layer, so that this, with the accompanying osteoblastic tissue, now seems to lie in a groove or notch (fig. 313, p) in the cartilaginous head of the bone (Ranvier). This groove is filled with the same tissue as that which underlies the rest of the periosteum, namely, a vascular tissue with branched cells and osteoblasts and osteogenic fibres. The latter are prolonged from the periosteal bone, and have for the most part a longitudinal direction (fig. 319). The tissue which fills this periosteal notch appears to become gradually converted by a metaplastic process into cartilage in the same way as the superficial part of a rib cartilage is formed by conversion of the deeper layers of the perichondrium (see p. 253). Thus, besides the interstitial growth and expansion of the cartilaginous end, there is a constant new formation of cartilage going on at its surface. Blood-vessels extend from the newly-formed osseous tissue beyond it into the cartilage. The vessels are lodged in excavations or branching canals in the cartilage (fig. 313), which also contain granular corpuscles (? osteoblasts). Other vascular canals enter the cartilage from its outer surface, and conduct vessels into it directly from the perichondrium. The formation of osseous tissue, having thus proceeded for some time in the shaft, at length begins in the extremities of the bone from one or more independent centres, and extends through the cartilage, leaving, however, a thick superficial layer of it unossified, which permanently covers the articular ends of the bone. The 1 Even in the adult bone it may often be noticed that the blood-vessels which pierce the superficial lamellae are not enclosed by Haversian systems (see pp. 257—8).