CILIATED EPITHELIUM. 203 varicose filament; these filaments are termed by Engelmann the rootlets of the cilia. They approach one another as they traverse the length of the cell, and may be united towards the extremity into a single thread. They are not connected with the nucleus. The cilia are attached to the basal knobs, each one by a somewhat narrowed portion or neck (intermediate segment of Engelmann). It is here that the cilia usually break off from the cell (see fig. 238). Beyond the neck the cilium swells out into a small bulbous enlargement, and from this the shaft tapers gradually to its extremity. The rootlets, as well as the cilia themselves, are said by Engelmann to be doubly refracting (anisotropous), whereas the basal knob Fig. 237.—Ciliated epithelium cells from the TRACHEA OF THE RABBIT ; HIGHLY MAGNIFIED, (E. A. S.). mx, in-, to'1, mucus-secreting cells, lying between the ciliated cells, and seen in various stages of mucin-formation. is isotropous. A similar structure, although less distinct, is also to be made out in ciliated cells from higher animals (frog and mammal). The columnar ciliated epithelium may exist as a simple layer, as in the uterus and Fallopian tubes, the finest ramifications of the bronchia, and the central canal of the spinal cord and ventricles of the brain ; but in various other parts—as the nose, pharynx, Eustachian tube, the trachea and its larger divisions—there is a layer of elongated and irregular cells beneath the superficial ciliated range, filling up the spaces between the pointed and forked extremities of the latter. These cells have been supposed to acquire cilia, and take the place of ciliated cells which are cast off; but this is doubtful, and they appear rather to be concerned with the secretion of mucus, since mucigen occurs within them in all stages of formation, and they become eventually distended by it into goblet-cells (see fig. 237, where the intermediate cells, m\ m2, and m3 show three stages of formation of mucus). Fig. 238.—A CILIATED EPITHELIUM-CELL of a mollusk. (Eugelmann.) When the ciliated epithelium is artificially removed from a portion of the inner surface of the rabbit’s trachea, the denuded surface speedily becomes again covered with epithelium which grows over it from the edge, but the cells form at first a single layer of flattened epithelium. They next acquire cilia, and afterwards become columnar, the epithelium thus assuming the character which it has normally in that situation. VOL. I. v