STRUCTURE OF THE NUCLEUS. 17'.) exhibits changes of form due to alterations of surface tension, which are comparable to the amoeboid movements of living cells. Still more recently, Biitschli has found that if oil is rubbed up into a paste with certain alkaline salts in a moist condition, and some of the paste is examined in water, the latter diffuses into the paste and converts it into a froth, which, under the microscope, has an appearance not unlike the reticular part of protoplasm. In such a froth streaming movements may be seen, lasting for a considerable time, and changes of form may occur in the mass, due partly to continued diffusion through the soap- like envelopes of the froth-bubbles or vacuoles, and partly to the bursting of these bubbles when they become enlarged and approach the edge of the mass. Upon these observations Biitschli has based a theory that all protoplasm has such a vacuolated froth-like structure, that the reticulum is only apparent, being the optical expression of the material between the vacuoles, and that the movements of protoplasm are produced by physical and chemical processes analogous to those which cause the movements within the froth of oil and salt- solution which he has employed. Whilst admitting the interest of Biitschli’s observations, it would, I think, be unwise to follow too far the deduction which he is inclined to draw from them. For amongst other important objections which might be urged, the absence of reticular appearance, and, therefore, of frothy structure from the active protoplasm of pseudopodia is in itself fatal to the theory. This difficulty Biitschli meets by assuming that such structure is really there although the thinning out of the pseudopodia has rendered it invisible. But the line of junction of the spongioplasm and hyaloplasm of an amoeboid cell is sharp (fig. 205), and shows no tendency to fade off gradually into the pseudopodia, as on Biitschli’s assumption it should unquestionably do. Nageli, on theoretical grounds, has conceived that the essential living substance must in its ultimate (ultra-microscopical) structure consist of solid particles (or systems of such particles) surrounded by material of fluid consistence. To these hypothetical particles of living matter (or to the systems which they form) he has given the name nnicellce (tagmata, Pfeiffer), and he supposes that they may, like the substances known as ferments, produce chemical changes in materials which are in contact with them without themselves undergoing any permanent or perceptible change (catalytic action). THE NUCLEUS OP THE CELL. The nucleus is a minute vesicular body, placed generally near the centre of the cell and embedded therefore in the protoplasm. In foi’m it is round or oval in most cases, but it may be elongated and folded or irregular in shape. Its size relatively to that of the cell varies much in different instances, for sometimes there is so small an amount of protoplasm that the nucleus appears to occupy nearly the whole cell. This is the case with many of the cells which are met with in lymphatic glands, and with the small nerve-cells which are found in the cerebellum and elsewhere. On the other hand, the protoplasm of the cell, whether altered as in the supeificial layexs of some sti'atified epithelia, or unaltered as in many of the white corpuscles of the blood, may much exceed the nucleus in bulk. In absolute size, the nucleus does not exhibit so considerable a variation as do the cells of the same animal. There are, howevei*, some notable exceptions ; thus the nucleus is abso- lutely much larger in the ova and in many nerve-cells than it is in other cells of the body. Structure of the nucleus.—In the typical “ resting ” condition the nucleus is always bounded by a well-defined wall, which encloses the nuclear contents. These are of two kinds, formed and amorphous. To the latter the term nuclear fluid is sometimes applied, and the former may be conveniently termed chromoylasm (nucleoplasm or karyoplasm of authors) ; this term is used to include also the su xstanee which forms the wall of the nucleus. But it is by no means certain that t ie homogeneous amorphous substance which occupies the interstices of the chromoplasm is entirely fluid, so that it is better termed nuclear matrix. It is veiy possible that this homogeneous matrix of the nucleus may be of the same na ure as the hyaloplasm of the cell-substance if indeed it is not actually continuous with it, but the chromoplasm is not the same as the spongioplasm of the cell-