289 cohnheim’s areas. disks, which are formed by the lateral cohesion of the sarcous elements of adjacent sarcostyles (fig. 329). To make up such a disk, therefore, every sarcostyle contributes a particle, which coheres with its neighbours on each side, and this with perfect regularity. From a consideration of these facts Bowman was led to conclude the sub-division of a fibre into “ fibrils ” (sarcostyles) to be merely a phenomenon of the same kind as the separa- tion into disks, only of more common occurrence, the cleavage in the latter case taking place longitudinally instead of trans- versely ; accordingly, he came to the conclusion that the “ fibrillie ” (sarcostyles) have no existence as such in the fibre, any more than the disks ; but that both the one and the other owe their origin to the regular arrangement of the particles of the fibre (sarcous elements) longitudinally and transversely, whereby, on the application of a severing force, it cleaves in the one or in the other direction. That this con- clusion was erroneous, however, is shown by the fact that a fibre can be split into longitudinal elements after death even without the action of any reagents, but never into disks ; and also by the circumstance that in certain muscular fibres (those which move the wings of many insects) a separation into longitudinal elements (sarcostyles) can be seen to pre- exist even in the living and contractile condition of the fibre. Moreover, in these muscles, in consequence of the large amount of interstitial substance between the sarcostyles, the whole of a fibre never cleaves across into disks. Fig. 329.—Muscular fibre from THE LEG OF A BEETLE, TREATED WITH DILUTE ACID, SHOWING A TENDENCY TO BREAK ACROSS INTO DISKS. (E. A. S.) The sarcoplasm is in the form of fine longitudinal lines with dot- like enlargements. The ordinary cross-stripes of the tissue are not seen. If a transverse section of a muscular fibre, or the surface of a separated disk (fig. 330 A), is examined with a high power, it appears to be marked out into small polygonal areas separated by fine lines which, in acid preparations, have the Fig. 330.—Transverse sections of muscle fibres. (E. A. S.) -A—Transverse section of a mammalian muscular fibre showing cohniieim's areas. Alcohol preparation. Three nuclei are visible under the sarcolemma. B.—An isolated disk of leg-muscle of a beetle treated with dilute acid. The disk is seen partly on the flat, partly in profile, and exhibits the net-like appearance of the sarco- plasm in the transverse section of the fibre : the meshes represent the areas of Cohnheim. —Transverse section of muscular fibre of leg of wasp, showing a radial disposition of THE SARCOPLASM. ACID PREPARATION. appearance of a network (fig. 330, B). These areas represent sections of the muscle-columns ; they are known as Cohniieim's areas, and the lines between them represent the intercolumnar substance or sarcoplasm. The network is coarser near the surfaces of such a disk, because, as will immediately be explained, the sarcoplasm is increased in amount at regular intervals, corresponding with the bright strife ; by alteration of the focus, however, a fine network can be made out through the whole thickness of the disk.