258 BONE OR OSSEOUS TISSUE. lamella), but are mere channels piercing the periosteal lamella). They are often spoken of as Volkmann’s canal. The cancellated texture has essentially the same lamellar structure. The slender bony walls of its little cavities or areolae are made up of superimposed lamellae, like those of the Haversian canals, only they have fewer lamellae in proportion to the width of the cavities which they surround ; and, indeed, the relative amount of solid matter and open space constitutes, as already said, the only difference between the two forms of bony tissue : the intimate structure of the solid substance and the manner of its disposition round the cavities being essentially the same in both. Lacunae and canaliculi.—All over the section numerous little dark specks are seen among the lamellae. These were named the “ osseous corpuscles ; ” but as it is now known that they are in reality minute cavities existing in the bony substance, the name of lacuna has since been more fittingly applied to them. To see the lacunae Fig. 298.—Transverse section of compact tissue (of humerus), magnified about 150 diameters (Sharpey). Three of the Haversian canals are seen, with their concentric rings ; also the lacunse, with the canaliculi extending from them across the direction of the lamellae. The Haversian apertures had become filled with air and debris (from the grinding), and therefore appear black in the figure, which represents the object as viewed with transmitted light. properly, however, sections of unsoftened bones must be prepared and ground very thin, and a magnifying power of from 200 to 300 must be employed. Such a section, viewed with transmitted light, has the appearance represented in fig. 298. The openings of the Haversian canals are seen with their encircling lamelke, and among these the lacunae, which are mostly ranged in a corresponding order, appear as black, opaque or nearly opaque oblong spots, with fine dark lines extend- ing from them and causing them to look not unlike little black insects. The dark appearance is due to the fact that the little cavities have become filled with air in the dry bone, and when the same section is seen against a dark ground, with the light falling on it (as we usually view an opaque object), the little bodies and lines appear quite white, like figures drawn with chalk on a slate, and the intermediate substance, being transparent, now appears dark. The lacunae, as already stated, are minute recesses in the bone, and the lines extending from them are fine pores or tubes named canaliculi, which issue from their