termination of motor nerves. modifications of these have been described but their fundamental structure appears to be the same in all vertebrates. 11 In muscles themselves little or nothing is known as to the endings of sensory nerves, although that they possess such is shown by the pain which is felt when a muscle is cut. Kerschner has described the “muscle spindles” (see p. 301) as representing such sensory nerve-endings, but this view has not been generally accepted. J TERMINATION OF MOTOR NERVES. In the involuntary muscles such as those which constitute the muscular layers of the hollow viscera, the nerves, which are for the most part non-medullated with a small intermixture of white fibres, form complicated plexuses as they near theii termination. At the junctions of the fine nervous cords which compose the plexuses groups of ganglion-cells are in many parts met with ; a well known example Fig. 409.—Nervous plexus of Auerbach from the muscular coat of the intestine. (Cadiat.) of such a gangliated plexus being the plexus myentericus of Auerbach between the longitudinal and circular layers of the muscular coat of the intestine (fig. 409). From these gangliated plexuses branches are sent off, which penetrate between the elements of the involuntary muscular tissue, coursing for the most part parallel with the muscular fibres. The pale nerve-fibres bifurcate and give off branches at acute angles at frequent intervals, and eventually become separated into fine filaments which may represent ultimate fibrilloe, but the branches which are given off only rarely, according to Lowit, become united with those from adjoining nerve-fibres, so that it can scarcely be said that an intramuscular plexus, and still less a network, really exists. The fine longitudinally coursing fibrils come into close relation with the involuntary muscle-cells, but do not appear to pass into the interior of the cells and their nuclei. They are said to end by gradually tapering or varicose extremities, but according to Elischer each nerve-fibril terminates by a slight bulbous expansion opposite the nucleus of a contractile cell. In the cardiac muscular tissue the nerves form networks with very long meshes. The nervous fibrils become closely applied to the muscular fibres, often