267 BLOOD-VESSELS OF THE MARROW. <>ranules are, however, not uncommon. There further occur in the marrow, especially in the neighbourhood of the osseous substance, large multi-nucleated protoplasmic masses (:myeloplaxes of Robin, fig. 307, a—d), which, as pointed out by Kolliker, appear to be more especially concerned with the process of absorption of bone, under which head they will subsequently be further alluded to. The myeloplaxes vary much in size, but are always larger than the proper mairow-cells. Their nucleus is not always multiple, but when single it is usually enlarged, and presents indications of division (fig. 307, a) ; it may even be so constricted as to exhibit an irregularly moniliform appearance (fig. 307, V). Blood-vessels.—The bones are well supplied with blood-vessels. A network of periosteal vessels covers their outer surface ; fine vessels run from this through all parts of the compact tissue in the Haversian canals; others penetrate to the cavities of the spongy part, in which they ramify ; and a considerable artery goes to the marrow in the central part of the bone. In the long bones this medullary artery, often, but improperly, called “the nutritious artery,” passes into the medullary canal, near the middle of the shaft, by a hole running obliquely through the compact substance. The vessel, which is accompanied by one or two veins, then sends branches upwards and downwards in the middle of the marrow ; from these branches arterial capillaries pass radially towards the periphery. The comparatively narrow arterial capillaries pass suddenly at the periphery of the marrow into the wide venous ones, which form a close network of large thin-walled vessels throughout the medullary tissue, so that the current of blood must be considerably retarded both in these and in the large thin-walled veins. The ramifications of the medullary artery anastomose with the arteries of the compact and cancellated structure ; indeed, there is a free communication between the finest branches of all the vessels which proceed to the bone, and there is no strictly defined limit between the parts supplied by each. In the thigh bone there are frequently two medullary arteries entering at different points. The veins of the cancellated texture are peculiar and deserve special notice. Their arrangement is best known in the bones of the skull, where, being lodged in the diploe or spongy texture between the outer and inner compact tables, they have received the name of the diploic veins. They are large and numerous, and run separately from the arteries in canals formed in the cancellated structure, the sides of which are constructed of a thin lamella of bone, perforated here and there for the admission of branches from the adjoining cancelli. Being thus inclosed and supported by the hard structure, the veins have exceedingly thin coats. They issue from the bone by special apertures of large size. A similar arrangement is seen in the bodies of the vertebrae, whence the veins come out by large openings on the posterior surface. In the long bones numerous apertures may be seen at the ends, near the articular surfaces ; some of these give passage to arteries, but the greater number, as well as the larger of them, are for the veins of the cancellated texture, which run separately from the arteries. According to Hoyer and Rindfleisch the venous capillaries and veins of the red marrow have incomplete walls, or rather are channels bounded only by the medullary parenchyma, so that the blood-corpuscles which are being formed from marrow-cells can readily get into the circulation. Langer, on the other hand, found the vascular system of the marrow to be a closed one. In birds, this is certainly the case according to the testimony of Bizzozero and of Denys, but in mammals it is doubtful if the vascular walls are everywhere complete. The blood coming from the marrow possesses a large number of pale corpuscles, and sometimes nucleated red corpuscles can be detected in it. Lymphatics.—In addition to the lymphatics in the periosteum (which have already been mentioned), there are others in the Haversian canals accompanying the von. i. T *