257 MINUTE STRUCTURE OF BONE. rare ; the medium size is about ^th. The widest are met with uearest the medullary cavity, and the narrower towards the circumference of the bone. They are quite short, as may be seen in a longitudinal section, oblique communications connecting them freely both longitudinally and laterally. Those which are next the circumference of the bone, open by minute pores on its external surface, and the innermost ones open widely into the medullary cavity ; so that these shoit channels collectively form a sort of irregular network of tubes running through the compact tissue, in which the vessels of that tissue are lodged, and through the medium of which these vessels communicate together, not only along the length of the bone, but from its surface to the interior through the thickness of the shaft. The canals of the compact tissue in the other classes of bones have the same general characters, and for the most part run parallel to the surface. Fig. 297.—Section of a Haversian canal, showing its contents. Highly magnified. (E. A. S.) a, small arterial capillary vessel; v, large venous capil- lary ; n, pale nerve-fibres cut across : l, cleft-like lymph- atic vessel : one of the cells forming its wall communicates by fine branches with the branches of a bone-corpuscle. The substance in which the vessels run is connective tissue with ramified cells ; its finely granular appearance is pro- bably due to the cross section of fine fibrils. Most of the Haversian canals contain two small blood-vessels, arterial and venous (fig. 297), together with a small amount of delicate con- nective tissue containing branched cells, which are flattened close to the bone, and com- municate by their branches with the ramifi- cations of corpuscles in the substance of the bone. Lamellae.—On viewing a thin transverse section of a long bone with a micro- scope of moderate power, especially after the earthy part has been removed by acid (fig. 296 B ; fig. 297), the opening of each Haversian canal appears to be surrounded by a series of concentric rings. This appearance is occasioned by the transverse sections of concentric lamellce which surround the canals. The rings are not all complete, for here and there one may be seen ending between two others. In some of the sets, the rings are nearly circular, in others oval,—differences which seem mostly to depend on the direction in which the canal happens to be cut: the aperture too, may be in the centre or more or less to one side, and in the latter case the rings are usually narrower and closer together on the side towards which the aperture deviates. Again, some of the apertures are much lengthened or angular in shape, and the lamellae surrounding them have a corresponding disposition. Besides the lamellae surrounding the Haversian canals, there are others disposed conformably with the circumference of the bone (fig. 296 B, a) ; most of these are near the surface, but others run between the Haversian sets, by which they are interrupted in many places (fig. 303). Lastly, in various parts of the section, lines are seen which indicate lamellae, differing in direction from both of the above-mentioned orders. The appearance in a longitudinal section of the bone is in harmony with the account above given : the sections of the lamellae are seen as straight and parallel lines, running in the longitudinal direction of the bone, except when the section happens to have passed directly or slantingly across a canal: for wherever this occurs there is seen, as in a transverse section, a series of rings, generally oval and much lengthened on account of the obliquity of the section. Many of the Haversian canals which pass through the circumferential or periosteal lamella; carrying blood-vessels from the periosteum into the bone, are not surrounded by concentric