273 OSSIFICATION IN CARTILAGE. the shaft when ossification is about to commence. As it grows, the cartilage acquires firmer consistence ; it represents in figure the future bone, though ot course much smaller in size, and it is surrounded with a fibrous membrane, the future periosteum. Vessels ramify in this membrane, but none are seen in the cartilage until ossification is about to begin. In a long bone the ossification Fig. 312.—Section op part op one of the LIMB BONES OF a FCETAL CAT, AT A MORE ADVANCED STAGE OP OSSIFICATION THAN IS REPRESENTED IN PIG. 311, AND SOMEWHAT MORE HIGHLY MAGNIFIED. (Drawn by Mr. J. Lawrence.) (E.A.S.) The calcification of the cartilage matrix has advanced from the centre, and is extend- ing between the groups of cartilage-cells which are now arranged in characteristic rows. The subperiosteal bony deposit (mi) has extended pari passu with the calcifica- tion of the cartilage matrix. The cartilage cells in the primary areolse are mostly shrunken and stellate, in some cases they have dropped out of the space. At ir and in two other places an irruption of the sub- periosteal tissue, composed of ramified cells with osteoblasts and growing blood-vessels, has penetrated the subperiosteal bony crust, and has begun to excavate the secondary areola; or medullary spaces ; p, fibrous layer of the periosteum ; o, layer of osteoblasts, some of them are embedded in the osseous layer as bone-corpuscles in lacunae ; bl, blood- vessels occupied by blood-corpuscles. Be- yond the line of ossific advance the perios- teum may be noticed to be distinctly in- curved. This incurvation is gradually moved on, the cartilage expanding behind it until the head of the bone is reached, when it forms the periosteal notch or groove represented in fig. 313, jp. commences in the middle and pro- ceeds towards the ends, which remain long cartilaginous, as re- presented in fig. 310. Much later, separate points of ossification appear in them, and form epiphyses, which at last are joined to the body of the bone. The manner in which the process of is as follows :— hi ossification of a cartilage bone takes place In the middle of the cartilage the cells are enlarged, and are separated from one another by a relatively larger amount of matrix than elsewhere (fig. 311). This matrix becomes hardened by calcareous deposit, assumes a granular opaque appear- ance, and has a gritty feel to the knife. Meanwhile the cartilage-cells above and below the centre of ossification become enlarged and flattened, and piled up in elongated groups or columns which radiate from the centre for a certain distance towards either end. The columns taper towards their ends, where the cartilage-cells which compose them are smaller. Into the matrix between these oblong groups the calcareous deposit extends between and around the groups of cells, so that the calcified substance encloses the columns ; the cell-spaces in the calcified matrix