293 COMPARISON OP ORDINARY AND WING-MUSCLES. of the spongioplasm ; while on the other hand, when the contraction passes off, the hyaloplasm tends to pass out from the pores or meshes of the spongioplasm, and produces in the one case extension of the muscle-fibre, in the other the throwing out of pseudopodia. In short the poriferous substance of the sarcous element corresponds with the spongioplasmic “ oecoid ” of the amoeboid cell, whilst the clear substance which flows in and out of the pores represents the hyaloplasmic “zooid ” (see p. 178). Fig. 336.—Diagram op a sarcomere in a moderately EXTENDED CONDITION A, AND IN A CONTRACTED CONDI- TION B. (E. A. S.) K,K, Membranes of Krause; H, plane of Hensen; S.E., poriferous sarcous element. S33.- Comparison of the ordinary muscles of insects and vertebrates with the wing-muscles of insects.—The differences of structure between the ordinary muscles and the muscular fibres which move the wings of insects, are of no great importance, being differences of degree only. Thus the sarcoplasm is in relatively small amount in the ordinary muscles, and generally has the regular enlargements which appear as dots or transverse networks according to the point from which they are viewed, these enlarge- ments being absent in the wing-fibres ; moreover, the sarcostyles or muscle-columns, probably on account of the smaller amount of sarcoplasm, are less easily isolated. But, like the sarcostyles of the wing-muscles, they are divided into segments or sarcomeres, at regular intervals, corresponding with the middle of the bright strife, by transverse membranes (membranes of Krause), which can be brought distinctly S.E. -IC f \—B.K Fig. 337.—Part of a muscular fibre op an insect fixed with ALCOHOL AND AFTERWARDS STAINED. (E. A. S.) The rows of sarcous elements w'hich form the dark stripes are stained (S.E.); the sarcoplasm has the usual appearance of longi- tudinal lines and dots. The lines produced by the juxtaposed membranes of Krause are just visible (K.). into view on the addition of dilute acid to the fresh or alcohol-fixed muscle (fig. 332, K). Each sarcomere con- tains a sarcous element, with hyaline substance between the sarcous element and the membrane of Krause at either end of the segment: the middle of the sarcous element when the muscular fibre is extended shows a line, as in the tving-element,—the band of Hensen. As in the wing-sarcostyles, the proportionate amounts of the sarcomere occupied respectively by the sarcous element and the clear intervals vary greatly, especially according to the condition of extension or retraction of the muscle. In retracted or contracted fibres the sarcous elements bulge out and approach the transverse membranes, and the clear intervals diminish proportionately, their fluid being imbibed by the sarcous element, while in extended fibres the sarcous elements become removed from the transverse membranes and narrowed, and the clear intervals become pari passu longer. It is said that the ends of the sarcous element may in extended fibres become detached and form accessory disks lying in the clear interval. It is certain, how- ever, that the structures which have often been described as accessory disks in these muscles are merely the sarcoplasmic enlargements which appear as dotted lines. Effect of the sarcoplasmic accumulations upon the cross-striatiou of the ordinary muscles.—An important influence upon the optical appearances of the ordinary muscular fibres is exerted by the sarcoplasmic accumulations (transverse networks). These lie, as we have seen, in the region of the bright stripe (clear