386 LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. glands, as already said, with a dense investment of connective tissue. The arterial branches go in part directly to the glandular substance, but partly run along the tiabeculap. 1 lie former end in the glandular capillary network above-mentioned, fiom which the veins begin, and tend to the hilum alongside the arteries. The branches which run along the trabecuke are partly conducted to the coat of the gland to be theie distributed ; but most of their branches pass to the glandular substance, the connective tissue of the trabeculae which ensheaths them passing gradually into the lymphoid tissue of the pulp, so that this at first appears as a Fig. 445.—Section op the medullary substance op a lymphatic gland (ox). 300 diameters. (Recklinghausen.) a, a, a, follicular or lymphoid cords; b, b, trabecula? ; c, lymph-sinus ; d, d, blood-vessels. sheath to the arterial branch (as in the spleen). The latter soon, however, breaks up into capillaries which ramify in the gland-pulp, supported by its pervading retiform tissue, which forms an additional adventitious coat around the minute vessels. As to the lymphatics of the gland, the afferent vessels, after branching out upon and in the tissue of the capsule, send their branches through it to open into the lymph-sinuses of the cortex, and the efferent lymphatics begin by fine branches leading from the lymph-sinuses of the medullary part, and forming at the hilum a dense plexus of tortuous and varicose-looking vessels, from which branches proceed to join the larger efferent trunks. The lymph-sinus, therefore, forms a path for the passage of the lymph, interposed between the afferent and efferent lymphatics, communicating with both and maintaining the continuity of the lymph-stream. The afferent and efferent vessels, where they open into the lymph-sinus, lay aside all their coats, except the epithelial lining, which is continued over the trabeculm and the interior of the capsule. The chief differences of structure which are seen in lymphatic glands depend upon the relative amount and nature of the framework. Thus whereas in some animals both the capsule and the trabecuke are strong and muscular, in others they are less developed and contain but little plain muscular tissue. In some animals