362 BLOOD-VESSELS. by the naked eye, it seems best to adhere to it a3 the basis of our description; although it will be seen, as we proceed, that some of these coats are found on microscopic examination really to consist of two or more strata differing from each other in texture, and therefore reckoned as so many distinct coats by some authorities. Internal coat (Tunica intima) (fig. 417, a, o). This may be raised from the inner surface of the arteries as a fine transparent colourless membrane, elastic but very easily broken, especially in the circular or transverse direction, so that it cannot be stripped off in large pieces. It is very commonly corrugated with fine and close longitudinal wrinkles, caused most probably by a contracted state of the artery after death. Such is the appearance presented by the internal coat to the naked eye, but by the aid of the microscope, it is found to consist of three different structures, namely :— 1. An epithelial layer (endothelium of the artery) (fig. 417, a, and fig. 418) form- ing the innermost part or lining. This is a simple layer of thin elliptical or irregularly polygonal cells, which are often lengthened into a lanceolate shape. The cells have round or oval nuclei, with nucleoli: them outlines are often indistinct in jri<r 418 —Epithelial later lining the posterior tibial artery of man. 250 diameters. ‘ (E. A. S.) Nitrate of silver preparation. Fig. 419.-Cell-spaces of sdb-epithelial layer^of artery (posterior tibial). 250 diameters. The ground substance is stained by nitrate of silver, and the cell-spaces of the tissue are thus made manifest as white patches, the contained cells not being seen. the fresh state, tat may be brought into view by means of nitrate of silver. When the vessels are empty and collapsed, the endothelium cells are less flattened and the part of each cell which contains the nucleus may project somewhat into the lumen ot the UMial layer (grated layer of Kolliker). This is composed of a finely fibrillated connective tissue with a number of branched corpuscles lying in the cell-spaces of the tissue (fig. 419). This layer is most developed m the larger arteries: it exists however as a thin stratum in the medium-sized ones. In the aorta it is very well marked and contains a large number of anastomosing cells a cell-spaces lying in a finely fibrillated ground-substance. Longitudinal networks oi