324 CONSTRUCTION OF THE NERVES AND NERVE-ROOTS. brain and cord) which here and there dip in from the surface either as septa, such as that which passes into the posterior fissure of the spinal cord, or as carriers of blood-vessels, which everywhere enter the substance of the centro-spinal centre from the vessels of the pia mater. CONSTRUCTION OF THE NERVES AND NERVE-ROOTS. The nerves are formed of the nerve-fibres already described, collected together and bound up in sheaths of connective tissue. A variable number of fibres inclosed in a tubular sheath forms a slender round cord of no determinate size, usually named a funiculus ; if a nerve is small it may consist of but one such cord, but in larger nerves several funiculi are united together into one or more bundles, which, being wrapped up in a common membranous covering, constitute the nerve (fig. 379). Accordingly, in dissecting a nerve, we first come to an outward covering, formed of connective tissue, often so strong and dense that it might well be called fibrous. From this common sheath we trace connective tissue bundles passing between the funiculi, connecting them together as well as conducting and supporting the fine Fig. 379.—Section op the internal saphenous nerve (human), made after rhino stained in OSMIC ACID AND SUBSEQUENTLY HARDENED IN ALCOHOL. DRAWN AS SEEN UNDER A VERY LOW MAGNIFYING POWER. (E. A. S.) ep, epineurium, or general sheath of the nerve, consisting of connective tissue bundles of variable size, separated by cleft-like areolce, which appear as a network of clear lines, with here and there fat- cells / /, and blood-vessels v : per, funiculus enclosed in its lamellated connective tissue sheath (perineurium); end, interior of funiculus, showing the cut ends of the medullated nerve-fibres, ■which are embedded in the connective tissue within the funiculus (endoneurium). The fat-cells aud the ner\e- fibres are darkly stained by the osmic acid, but the connective tissue of the nerve is less stained. blood-vessels which are distributed to the nerve. But, besides the interposed areolar tissue which connects these smallest cords, each funiculus has a special sheath of its own, as will be immediately noticed. The common sheath (fig. 379, ep) and its sub-divisions consist of conncetitc tissue with the usual white and elastic constituent fibres of that texture, the lattei being present in considerable proportion : frequently also a little fat is to be found.