HYALINE CARTILAGE. 244 CARTILAGE. This is the well-known substance commonly called “gristle.” The following are its more obvious characters. When in mass, it is opaque and of a pearly or bluish white colour, in some varieties yellow; but in thin slices it is translucent. Although it can be easily cut with a sharp knife, it is nevertheless of very firm consistence, but at the same time highly elastic, so that it readily yields to pressure or torsion, and immediately recovers its original shape when the constraining force is withdrawn. By reason of these mechanical properties, it serves important purposes in the con- struction of some parts of the body. In the early embryo the skeleton is, in great part, cartilaginous; but the cartilage forming its different pieces, which have the outward form of the future bones, in due time undergoes ossification or gives place to bone, in the greater part of its extent at least, and hence this variety of cartilage is named “ temporary.” Of the permanent cartilages a great many are in immediate connection with bone, and may be still said to form part of the skeleton. The chief of these are the articular and the costal cartilages ; the former cover the ends or surfaces of bones in the joints, and afford these harder parts a thick springy coating, which breaks the force of concussion and gives ease to their motions; the costal or rib-cartilages form a considerable part of the solid framework of the thorax, and impart elasticity to its walls. Other permanent cartilages enter into the formation of the external ear, the nose, the Eustachian tube, the larynx, and the windpipe. They strengthen the substance of these parts without undue rigidity; maintaining their shape, keeping open the passages through them where such exist, and giving attachment to moving muscles and connecting ligaments. Cartilages, except those of the joints, are covered externally with a moderately vascular fibrous membrane named the perichondrium. When a very thin slice of cartilage is examined with the microscope, it is seen to consist of nucleated cells, disseminated in a solid mass or matrix (fig. 285). The matrix is sometimes transparent, and to all appearance homogeneous; sometimes dim and very faintly granular, like ground glass : both these conditions occur in hyaline cartilage, which may be regarded as the most typical form of the tissue. Two varieties exist in which the matrix is pervaded to a greater or less extent by fibres. In the one, named elastic or yellow fibro-cartilage, the fibres are similar to those of elastic tissue ; in the other, named white fibro-cartilage, they are of the white kind as in ordinary ligament. HYALINE CARTILAGE. Structure.—In hyaline cartilage the matrix, as just stated, is uniform, and, when examined fresh, usually appears free from fibres. Like the ground-substance or matrix of connective tissue, it becomes stained brown by nitrate of silver and subsequent exposure to the light. The cells consist of a rounded, oval, or bluntly angular cell-body of translucent protoplasm, embedded in which are fine curvilinear interlacing filaments and minute granules (fig. 284), with a round nucleus, which is either clear with one or more nucleoli, or, more commonly, is occupied by a network of chromoplasm, which produces under a low power of the microscope a granular effect. The cell-body lies in a cavity of the matrix, which, in its natural condition, it entirely fills. This cavity is bounded and inclosed by a transparent capsule, which is seldom obvious to the eye, for it coheres intimately with the surrounding matrix, with which it agrees in nature, and cannot usually be distinguished without the aid of re-agents.