NERVES OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLES. 349 appearing to end in small bulbous extremities, but, according to Fischer, do not penetrate the muscular fibres. Motorial end-plates, such as occur in voluntary -cross-striated muscle, are not found in the heart. The nerves of voluntary muscles terminate for the most part in special expansions, to which the term motorial encl-plates has been applied. The term end-organ is however a more suitable one, for, as will immediately be explained, the termination of the nerve is rather of the nature of a flattened ramification than a continuous plate. As was mentioned in the account of the muscular tissue, the nerves in the voluntary muscles form plexuses, of which the branches grow finer and the meshes closer as they advance further into the tissue. The individual fibres, while still associated in small bundles, undergo division (fig. 388), and at length single dark- bordered fibres pass off to the muscular fibres. These nerve-fibres on approaching or reaching a muscular fibre often divide still further. The branches retain their medullary sheath until they reach the sarcolemma, when the white substance abruptly terminates, while the neurolemma becomes continuous with the sar- colemma (fig. 410, s). It would seem that the prolongation of the nucleated sheath of Henle is also continued over the end-organ, which thus receives a double covering Fig. 410.—Nerve-ending in muscular fibre of a lizard (Lacerta viridis) (Ktihne.) (Highly magnified.) a, end-organ seen edgeways; b, from the surface, s, s, sarcolemma (here sometimes termed “telolemma”) ; p, p, expansion of axis-cylinder. Beneath this is granular protoplasm containing a number of large clear nuclei and constituting the “bed” or “sole” of the end organ. In b the expansion of the axis-cylinder appears as a clear network, branching from the divisions of the medullated fibre. to which the name telolemma has been given by Kuhne. The axis-cylinder as it passes into the fibre forms a clear localised branched expansion (p p), which lies imme- diately under the sarcolemma, embedded in a layer of granular matter, the “ bed ” or “ sole ” of the end-organ, which contains a number of large clear nuclei, each having one or more distinct nucleoli. The termination of the axis-cylinder is not a continuous plate, as was thought by Rouget, but appears when viewed from the sur- face in the form of an arborescent figure (figs. 410 to 415), the branches of which do not, according to Ranvier, anastomose. According to Kuhne the branching figure which is formed by the axis-cylinder is composed of an axial part, staining darkly with gold, and a peripheral part or stroma, which remains unstained. Kuhne regards the axial part as representing the fibrils of the axis-cylinder, but it may be doubted whether the differentiation into axial part and stroma is not due to the shrinking of the axis-cylinder under the influence of the reagent. The appearance of the two A A 2