STRUCTURES IN THE MEDULLARY SHEATH. 314 shown by McCarthy that after a nerve has been hardened with chromate of ammonium (picric acid is still better adapted for the purpose) the medullary sheath appears pervaded with minute rod-like structures which pass radially between the axis-cylinder and the primitive sheath in such a manner as to give the cross-section Fig. 362.—Section across part of a nerve-trunk, showing THE SECTIONS OF THE NERVE-FIBRES (E. A. S.). (From a photograph.) The nerve was hardened in picric acid and stained with picrocarmine. The radial striation of the medullary sheath is very apparent. In one fibre the axis-cylinder is shrunken and the medullary striations are broken. The fibrils of the axis- cylinder are clear in section and suggest a tubular structure. of a nerve-fibre the appearance of a wheel. The rods stain with carmine and hoeinatoxylin, which do nob colour the fatty substance of the medullary sheath. In nerves stained with osmic acid (in which these structures were first detected by Lantermann) they are far less easily seen, in consequence of the dark colouration of the fatty substance in which they are embedded. The apparent rods are not distinct from one another, but are united, for it is not possible to isolate them as separate elements. If a nerve is first placedin strong alcohol and then subjected to the action of staining fluids, it will be found that the rod-like structures are not visible as such, but cc— -rts Fig. 363.—Nerve-fibres showing reticular appear- ances IN THE MEDULLARY SHEATH (Gedoelst). A. A nerve-fibre from the toad, showing different appearances of the network at different parts of its course. B. A nerve-fibre from the guinea-pig, showing a much coarser network, n, nucleus of fibre. the medullary sheath appears pervaded instead by a finely reticular structure, which like the rods, becomes readily stained by most dyes. The network thus obtained is considered by Kiilme and Ewald, who first drew attention to it, to be chemically of a horny nature, on account of the resistance it offers to reagents, and especially to digestive ferments, and they have accordingly designated it the horny reticulum or neurokeratin network. They further describe it as continuous with two delicate membranes of a similar nature, one immediately investing the axis-cylinder and the other lining the primitive sheath. The pre-existence of a neurokeratin network is, how- ever, at least questionable. Of the presence both in the nerves and in the white matter of the nerve-centres of the material known as neurokeratin there can be no doubt; it appears probable, however, that its reticular arrangement is a product of the reagent (alcohol) employed to demonstrate it. This at least has been the opinion of most authors who have investigated the subject (Hesse, Fertile, A\ aldstem and lUbei), whereas others, whilst admitting its variability, consider its pre-existence beyond doubt. Gedoelst, who maintains this view of the neurokeratm network, regarc s i as the reticulum of the original protoplasmic cell from which the medullary shea i of the nerve-segment has been formed. It must be admitted, onciei, ia i -