213 COLOURLESS CORPUSCLES OF THE BLOOD. Dilute alcohol may bring to view one or two nucleoli within the nucleus of the amphibian red corpuscle (Ranvier, Stirling). In other respects also this struc- ture resembles the nucleus of an ordinary cell, for it contains a network traversing its interior (fig. 24G), which is, however, very close, and produces under moderate powers of the microscope a somewhat granular effect. It is doubtful whether the nucleus of the adult corpuscle can undergo division, although in the young state the division of the nucleus, followed or accompanied by that of the corpuscle, has frequently been observed. COLOURLESS CORPUSCLES OP THE BLOOD. General characters.—The white, pale, or colourless corpuscles (leucocytes) are few in number as compared with the red, and both on this account and because of their want of colour, they are not at first easily recognised in a microscopic preparation of blood. Their form is very various, but when the blood is first drawn they are rounded or spheroidal. Measured in this condition they are found to be about Tr-Vobh of an inch (-01 mm. = 10 n) in diameter. They are specifically lighter than the red corpuscles. The white corpuscle may be taken as the type of a free animal cell. It is a minute protoplasmic structure inclosing one or more nuclei. The protoplasm, being to all appearance unaltered from its primitive condition, and unenclosed in a definite cell-wall, is capable of exhibiting in a high degree the amoeboid movements Fig. 246. — Coloured- CORPUSCLE OF SALA- MANDER, SHOWING INTRA-NUCLEAR NET- WORK (Flemming). Fig. 24/.—Three amoeboid white corpuscles of the newt, killed by instantaneous application OF STEAM. (E. A. S.) a, a coarsely granular cell ; b, c, finely granular cells, with vacuolated protoplasm. Fig. 248.—An amoeboid white corpuscle of the newt. Highly magnified, (E. A. S.) and other phenomena which depend upon the possession of contractility : these have been already sufficiently described (pp. 174 to 179). The white blood-corpuscles are apt to take into their interior minute solid particles that have been introduced into the blood (fig. 204) ; this property has served in the hands of Cohnheim and others as a means of detecting escaped white corpuscles in tissues which are wholly extra- vascular, such as the cornea. Some of the colourless corpuscles have in their protoplasm a number of comparatively coarse round granules (fig. 239, g, fig. 247, a) which are generally grouped together round the nucleus. These corpuscles are often ustinguished from the more common paler variety (fig. 239,^, fig. 247, b, c) as the coarsely granular cells (eosinophile-cells of Ehrlich), but it is not known how they aie different in nature, origin, or destination. Corpuscles, coarsely granular and finely granular, are sometimes met with, which are much smaller than the ordinary pale cells, consisting chiefly of a spheroidal