363 STRUCTURE OR ARTERIES. very flue elastic fibres, which are in continuity with the larger elastic fibres of the next layer, occur in it in the aorta. . . , 3. Elastic layer (fig. 417, b). The chief substance of the inner coat is formed by elastic tissue, which occurs as longitudinal networks of fibres (fig. 420), consist- ing of one or more layers of different degrees of closeness. Not uncommonly some oAhese (or one in particular) take on a membranous character, in which case the “ perforated ” or “ fenestrated ” membrane of Henle is formed. This consists of a thin and brittle transparent film of elastic tissue. It can be stripped off in small shreds, which have a remarkable tendency to curl in at their borders, and roll them- selves up as represented in fig. 421. The films of membrane are marked by fine lines, following principally a longitudinal direction, and joining each other obliquely in a sort of network. These lines are reticulating fibres formed upon the mem- branous layer and continuous with the reticulating elastic fibres which peivade the muscular coat on the one side and with those which extend into the subepithelial Fig. 420.—Elastic network op artery. (Toldt.) Fig. 421.—Portion op fenestrated membrane from the femoral artery, magnified 200 diameters. (Henle.) a, b, c, perforations. layer on the other. The membrane is further remarkable by being perforated with numerous round, oval, or irregularly shaped apertures of different sizes. In some parts of the arteries the perforated membrane is very thin, and therefore difficult to strip off; in other situations it is of considerable thickness, consisting of several layers ; in which case it tends in the outer layers to lose its membranous character : indeed it must be borne in mind that every transition is met with between the fene- strated membranes, and the longitudinal elastic network. The inner coat in its most developed condition may thus be said to be formed of (1) a layer of flattened epithelial cells (endothelium), (2) a layer of delicate con- nective tissue with branched cells ; and (3) of elastic tissue under two principal forms, namely, the longitudinal elastic networks and the fenestrated membrane ; and these two forms may coexist in equal amount, or one may predominate, the other diminishing or even disappearing altogether. Middle coat (Tunica media) (fig. 417, c). This consists of plain muscular tissue, in fine bundles, disposed circularly round the vessel, and consequently tearing off in a circular direction, although the individual bundles do not form complete rings. The considerable thickness of the walls of the arteries is due chiefly to this coat; in the smaller ones, it is thicker in comparison with the calibre of the vessel. In the larger vessels it is made up of many layers ; and elastic films either finely reticular, or quite similar to the fenestrated membrane of the inner coat, are found between the muscular layers and alternating with them, being also united with one VOL. I. B li