383 LYMPHATIC GLANDS. a hemuseed and others as large as an almond or a kidney bean, or even larger than this In shape, too, they present differences, but most of them are round or oral. The lymphatics or tocteals which enter a gland are named mferent or afferent vessels(wflsfl mferentia sen aficnntia), and those which issue from it efferent vessels Fig. 440.—Diagrammatic section of lymphatic gland. (Sharpey.) a.l, afferent; e.l, efferent lymphatics. C, corticai substance. M, reticulating cords of medullaiy substance, l.s, lymph-sinus ; c, fibrous coat sending trabeculae, tr, into the substance of the gland. (vcisa efferentici). The afferent vessels (fig. 440, a.l), on approaching a gland, divide into many small branches, which enter the gland ; the efferent vessels commonly leave the gland in the form of small branches, and at a little distance Fig. 441.—Section of a mesenteric gland from the ox, slightly magnified. (Kolliker.) a, liilum ; b, medullary substance ; c, cortical substance with indistinct alveoli; d, capsule. beyond it, or sometimes even before issuing from it, unite into one or more trunks (e. 1), usually larger in size but fewer in number than those of the afferent vessels. A lymphatic gland is covered externally with a coat (figs. 440, 442, c) composed of connective tissue, mixed, m certain animals, with muscular fibre-cells. This coat or capsule dips into the interior of the gland at the place where the larger blood-vessels and the efferent lymphatics pass into and out of the organ ; and this part of the gland, which often has a depression or fissure, is named the liilum (fig. 441, a). The proper substance of the gland consists of two parts, the cortical (fig. 440, C), and within this the medullary (M). The cortex occupies all the superficial part of the gland, except the liilum, and in the larger glands may attain a thickness of one or two millimeters. The medullary portion occupies the centre and extends to the surface at the hilum. It is most developed in the inwardly-seated glands, such as the lumbar and mesenteric, whilst in the subcutaneous glands it is more encroached