RECENT LITERATURE OF THE MUSCLES. 305 In certain situations, e.g., immediately beneath the lining membrane oi the ventricles, the cardiac muscular tissue shows a peculiar modification in the form of a network of clear beaded fibres, just visible to the naked eye, which were described by Purkinje, and are known by his name. When examined with the microscope they are seen to be composed of large clear quadrangular cells ; each usually contain two nuclei near the centre, with a little granular protoplasm around the nuclei. At the margin of the cells are columns of transversely striated muscle-substance, which partly surround the cells and appear to join with the muscle-columns of adjacent cells, so as to produce the aspect of an open network of muscular fibres with large cells occupying its meshes. The most probable explanation of this appearance is that these are cells of the muscular tissue the differentiation of which has been arrested at an early stage of their development, and that the cells themselves have continued to grow without any further formation of the cross-striated substance. Like the skeletal muscles the heart-muscle is richly supplied with blood-vessels. The muscular tissue differs, however, from that of ordinary skeletal muscles in the large supply of lymphatic vessels with which it is provided. The lymphatics, in fact, occupy almost all the interstices of the muscular network, so that the muscular substance is like a sponge, the meshes of which are occupied by lymph. The nerves which are supplied to the cardiac fibres are all non-medullated near their termina- tions. Their manner of ending will be afterwards considered. RECENT LITERATURE OP THE MUSCLES. Babinski, J., Des modifications que prdsentent les muscles (i la suite de la section des nerfs qui s'y rendent, Comptes rendus, t. 98, 1884. Ballowitz, E., Fibrilldre Structur und Contractilitat, Pfliiger’s Arcliiv, Bd. xlvi., 1889. Barfurth, D., Vie Riickbildung des FroscMarvenschwanzes und die sogenanntcn Sarkoplasten, Archiv f. mikrosk. Anatomie, Bd. xxix., 1887. Bremer, L., Ueber die Muskehpindeln nebst BemerJcungen uber Structur, Ncubildung und Inner- vation der quergestreiften Muskelfaser, Arch. f. mikr. Anat., Bd. xxii., 1883. Busachi, T., Ueber die Regeneration der glatten Muskeln, Medic. CentrabL, 1887. Biitschli u. Schewiakoff, Ueber den feineren Bau der quergestreiften Muskeln bei Arthropodcn, Biol. Centralbl., Feb., 1891. Ciaccio, G. V., Sur Vanatomie microscopique des muscles qui servent a mouvoir les ailcs des inscctcs, Archives ital. de biologie, t. ii., 1882 ; Dell’ anatomia minuta di quei muscoli che negl'insetti muovono le ali, Memorie della reale accad. delle scienze di Bologna, Serie IV., t. viii., 1887. Emery, Sur la structure des fibres musculaircs strides de quelques vertdbrds, Archives ital. de biol., ii., 1882. Exner, S., Ueber optische Eigenschaften lebender Muskelfasern, Pfluger's Archiv, Bd. lx., 1887. Fantino, G., Sur les alterations du myocarde apres la section des nerfs extracardiaques, Archives italiennes de biologie, x., 1888. Felix, W., Die Lange der Muskelfaser bei dem Menschen und einigen Saugethieren, Festschrift f. A. v. Kolliker, 1887 ; Theilungserscheinungen an quergestreiften Muskeln menschlicher Embryonen, Anatom. Anzeiger, 1888; Ueber Wachsthum der quergestreiften Musculatur nach Beobachtungen am Menschen, Zeitschr. f. wiss. Zool., Bd. xlviii., 1889. Franque, O. v., Beitr. z. Ilenntniss der Muskelknospen, Wurzburg Verhandl., 1890. Gage, S. P., Form, endings, and relations of striated muscular fibres in the muscles of minute animals {mouse, shrew, bat and English sparrow), The Microscope, Detroit, 1888. Gehuchten, A. van, Etude sur la structure intime de la cellule musculaire stride, La Cellule, t. ii., 1886, and t. iv., 1888 ;l Les noyaux musculaircs de la grenouille adulte, Anat. Anz. iv., 1888 ; Cellules musculaires strides ramifidcs ct anastomosdes, Anat. Anz., Suppl. Heft, 1889. Goldenburg, B., Untersuchungen uber die Grossenverhdltnisse der Muskelfasern des normalen, sowie des atrophischen und des hypertrophischen Herzens des Menschen, Dissert., Dorpat, 1885. Griitzner, P., Zur Anatomie und Physiologie der quergestreiften Muskeln, Recueil Zoologique Suisse, 1884. Haswell,W. A., A comparative study of striated muscle, Quart. Journ. of Microsc. Science, xxx.,1889. Haycraft, J. B., On the minute structure of striped muscle, with special allusion to a new method of investigation, by means of “ impressions ” stamped in collodion, Proc. Roy. Soc., vol. 49, 1891.2 1 The student is referred to these articles for the older Bibliography of the subject. 2 Haycraft has endeavoured to show that the cross-markings upon a muscle-fibro are nothing but the optical effect of varicosities of tho component fibrils, since impressions of muscle in collodion repro- duce most of the cross-striated appearances. But this fact is entirely insufficient to prove the point, for it is clear that a difference in consistence of the different parts of the muscle-element would alone lead to the reproduction by tho impression-method, and in view of the entirely different optical and chemical properties of the different parts of the muscle-element, such a position is quite untenable.