COLOURLESS CORPUSCLES OF THE BLOOD. 214 nucleus with but little surrounding protoplasm. They seem to he young forms of the more protoplasmic corpuscles, and are perhaps identical with the lymphoid cells formed in lymphatic glands and similar structures.1 Ihe corpuscles often have one or more conspicuous vacuoles in their protoplasm, but these are inconstant, and may appear and disappear in the same corpuscle] Sometimes they are filled with small vacuoles so that the cell-substance assumes a frothy aspect. This is commoner in the white blood-corpuscles of the newt and other cold-blooded animals than in those of man. By means of the amoeboid movement ol their protoplasm, the pale corpuscles, under some circumstances, possess the power of wandering or emigrating from the blood-vessels, penetrating between the elements of their coats, and in this manner they find their way into the interstices of the tissues, and hence into the commencements of the lymphatics. Cells like these which appear to be wandering independently in the tissues, and particularly in the connective tissue, are known as migratory or wander-cells. Besides the two forms of pale corpuscles above referred to, others have been described which differ from them in containing red-coloured granules in their protoplasm. According to A. Schmidt and Semmer, such cells are very numerous in the circulating blood, but on withdrawal of the blood from the vessels they become rapidly destroyed and disappear without leaving a trace. Schmidt looks upon them as transitional forms between the white and red corpuscles, but the evidence of their constant occurrence in normal blood is at present unsatisfactory. The pale corpuscles possess polar particles with well-marked attraction-spheres (Flemming), and one, two, or more nuclei, which are generally obscure in the living condition, but are sometimes clearly seen when the corpuscle becomes flattened out, and may always be brought into view by reagents. The nuclei are apt to take on peculiar shapes, caused perhaps by traction exercised upon them by the movements of the surrounding protoplasm. Thus a nucleus not unfrequently becomes elongated and either irregular in outline (fig. 249) or folded on itself, so that when the ends are turned up, the appear- ance of two nuclei is produced, where in reality there may be but one. In fact the occurrence of several nuclei in the pale corpuscle is much more rare than is generally supposed, for it will be usually found that even when there appear to be several nuclei in a corpuscle they are united together by long strands of chromoplasm (fig. 247, b, c). In other respects they have the normal structure and appearance of cell-nuclei, containing the usual network. The division of the nucleus and of the corpuscles takes place by karyokinesis in the same way as in other animal cells. It has been observed in the lymph-cells of lymphoid tissue which afterwards become the pale corpuscles of lymph and blood, and also in some instances in corpuscles within the blood itself. Action of reagents.—Water swells up and destroys the protoplasm of the white corpuscles, setting free the granules. If but little water be mixed with the drop of blood, the protoplasm may not be destroyed, but the corpuscles are swollen out (fig. 250,1), and the granules take on an active Brownian movement. Acetic acid causes a granular precipitate in the protoplasm, the granules collecting around the nucleus, which is brought very strongly into view (fig. 250, 2, 3). A clear bleb-like swelling is also generally produced from one or more sides of the corpuscle ; but this appearance is not peculiar to acids, for it is often seen as an accompani- ment of the death of the corpuscle, whether as the result of the action of reagents or from other causes. If produced by a solution of iodine, the bleb sometimes becomes coloured of a 1 For detailed accounts of the different forms of white corpuscles, based upon the characters of their granules and their behaviour to staining reagents the student may consult Sherrington, Proc. Roy. Soc. vol. 55, 1894, p. 161 ; also ICanthack and Hardy, Journal of Physiology, vol. 17, 1894, p. 81 ; and Hardy and Wesbrook, ibid. vol. 18, 1895, p. 490. Fig. 249.—A PALE CORPUSCLE OP THE SALAMANDER, SHOW- ING ELONGATED IRREGULAR NUCLEUS WITH INTRANU- CLEAR network. (Flem- ming.)