311 MEDULLARY SHEATH. of Ranvier when thus treated, the enlargement corresponding in situation to the annular con- stricting* band of the node (Ranvier). , It is not always easy to distinguish the axis-cylinder in the medullated fibres when they are examined in the fresh condition, but it can generally be made manifest by staining the nerve with carmine or hematoxylin. In a transverse section of a nerve thus stained the axis- cylinders appear in the form of round or oval areas occupying the centre of the fibres (fig. 362), but they are often much shrunken. The fibrils of the axis-cylinder have a tubular aspect m a well prepared section, which is distinctly visible in photographs under a high power. it Pin-. 359.—Portions of two nerve-fibiies stained with osmic acid (from A YOUNG RABBIT). 425 DIAMETERS (E. A. S.). r, r. Nodes of Ranvier, with axis-cylinder passing through, a, Primitive sheath of the nerve ; c, opposite the middle of the segment indicates the nucleus and protoplasm lying between the primitive sheath and the medullary sheath. In a the nodes are wider, and the intersegmental substance more apparent than in b. (From a drawing by Mr. J. E. Neale.) Medullary Sheath.—The myelin or substance of the medullary sheath (which was termed the white substance by Schwann on account of its presence being the chief cause of the whiteness of the nerves), undergoes peculiar changes on exposure of the nerve to the action of water and other fluids, so that the outline of the fibre is often rendered uneven ; round and irregular spots appear at various points, the medullary sheath acquiring eventually a confusedly curdled aspect. The thickness of this sheath varies within wide limits, and indeed this is the chief cause of the variation in size of the medullated nerve-fibres, although the axis-cylinder may also vary in diameter to a considerable extent. In some fibres, the medullary substance forms an exceedingly thin layer, so as to be scarcely distinguishable except by the darker outline which it imparts to the fibre, or it may only occur in parts, these alternating irregularly with other parts in which there is a complete absence of white substance. Such fibres, which are common in some parts of the sympathetic system (fig. 3G5, m, m), may be regarded as transitional between the white and the grey fibres. Nodes and internodes of Ranvier.—It was shown by Ranvier, that there constantly occur in the peripheral medullated nerve-fibres, breaks in the continuity of the white substance, which succeed one another at regular intervals along the course of the nerves, and give the fibres the appearance of being constricted ai; these places. These constrictions or nodes of Ranvier, as they may conveniently be termed, divide the fibre into a series of internodes of nearly equal length. The segmentation is readily made apparent by the action of a solution of osmic acid, which leaves the nodes (fig. 359, R, R ; fig. 360) almost colourless, while the medullary sheath, or white substance of Schwann, becomes stained of an inky black colour. The white substance of the medullary sheath is often found to have shrunk somewhat in the neighbourhood of a node (fig. 356, a), and it can then be seen that there is present, in addition to it, a clear or finely granular stroma, which has become evident in consequence of retraction of the fatty substance which normally pervaded it. The outer or membranous sheath of the fibre (neurolemma) appears to be continued over the nodes, for when a medullated fibre is examined in water and the substance