375 RECENT LITERATURE OF BLOOD-VESSELS. cells and cell-processes into flattened cellular elements is usually a subsequent process. The mode of extension of the vascular system in growing parts of older animals, as well as in morbid new formations, is quite similar to that here described, except that blood-corpuscles are not developed within the cells which are forming the blood-vessels. The blood-vessels may be said to increase in size and capacity in proportion to the demands made on their service. Thus, as the uterus enlarges in pregnancy, its vessels become enlarged, and when the main artery of a limb is tied, or otherwise permanently obstructed, collateral branches, originally small and insignificant, augment greatly in size, to afford passage to the increased share of blood which they are required to transmit, and by this adap- tation of them to the exigency, the circulation is restored. In such cases, an increase takes place in length, as well as in diameter, and accordingly the vessels very commonly become tortuous. RECENT LITERATURE OP BLOOD-VESSELS. Epstein, S., Ueber die Structur normaler und eJctalischer Venen, Virchow’s Archiv, Bd. 108, 1887.1 Flemming:, W., Ueber die Tlieilung der Pigmentzellen und Capillarwandzcllen, Arch. f. mikr. Anat., xxxv., 1890. Geberg, A., Ueber directe Anastomosen zivischen Arterien und Venen in der Nierenkapsel, Intemat. Monatsschr. f. Anatom, u. Histolog., ii., 1885. Jones, C. Handheld, Note concerning the endothelium of the small cerebral arteries, Journal of Anat. and Phys., vol. xxi., 1887. Koeppe, H., Muskeln u. Klappen in den Wurzeln der Pfortader, Arch. f. Anat. u. Pbysiol.,. Physiol. Abth., Suppl. Band, 1890. Kolliker, A. v., Histologische Studien an Batrachierlarven, Zeitschr. f. wissensch. Zoolorrie, Bd. xliii., 1886. Mayer, S., Studien zur Histologie und Physiologie des Blutgefdsssystems, Sitzungsber. der Wiener Akad., Bd. 93, iii. Abth., 1886. Morpurgro, B., Ueber die Bntwicklung der Arterienwand, Sitzungsber. d. Wiener Akademie, Bd. 90, iii. Abth., 1884. Plotnikow, V., Untersuchungen iiber die Vasa vasorum, Dissert., Dorpat, 1884. Relterer et Robin, Ch., Sur la distribution des fibres ilastiques dans les parois artirielles et veineuses, Journal de l’anat., etc., 1884. Spaltebolz, W., Die Vertheilung der Blutgefdsse im Muslcel, Abhandl. d. math.-phys. Kl. d. Sachs. Gesellseh. d. Wissensch., Bd. xiv., 1888. Westphalen, W., Histologische Untersuchungen iiber den Bau einiger Arterien, Dissert., Dorpat, 1886 ; Ueber die Intima der Arteria utenna, Virchow’s Archiv, Bd. 106, 1886. 1 Epstein’s paper may especially be consulted for many details regarding the differences of structure- of different veins, as well as for references to the older literature of this subject.