411 STRUCTURE OF THE CUTICLE. Waldever) staining deeply with carmine, and they are thought by some to have an intimate relation to the tarnation of the horny substance m the more superficial cells Immediately above the stratum granulosum is a clear-looking layer m which the outlines of the cells are somewhat indistinct, owing to the fact that they have ™der"onfa transformation into horny material. This layer, which ,s not always sharply marked oil' from the one superficial to it, has been termed stratum ItuMim, and may he looked upon as the commencement of the horny layei of the epidermis Superficial to it is a stratum which in some parts is of considerable t ic - ness and in which the cells are much enlarged, and the nuclei m many cases no longer visible {a) : still nearer the surface this passes into a stratum of hare flattened scales which are being thrown off by desquamation. As the cells change their form, they undergo chemical and physical changes m the nature of then contents ; for in the rete mucosum they consist of a soft, granular, protoplasmic matter, whilst the superficial ones are transparent, dry, and horny. These dry hard Fig. 467.—Section op epidermis prom the skin op the finger, coloured by picrocarmine. (Ranvier.) a. stratum comeum ; b, stratum lucidum, some of tlie cells of which are filled with flakes of eleidin ; c, stratum granulosum, full of eleidin granules or drops ; cl, spring and fibrous cells of rete mucosum ; e, dentations of deepest cells, for attachment to cutis vera. Fig. 468.—Skin op the negro, vertical section, magnified 250 diameters. (Kolliker.) a, a, cutaneous papilla; ; 6, undermost and dark-coloured layer of oblong vertical epidermis-cells; c, mucous or Malpighian layer ; d, horny layer. scales may be made to reassume their cellular form, by exposure for a few minutes to a solution of caustic potash or soda, and then to water. Under this treatment they are softened by the alkali, and distended by imbibition of water. As Zander has pointed out, there are two types of horny layers in the epidermis. The epidermis which covers the greater part of the surface of the body has a horny layer which is composed exclusively of thin flattened scales, whereas that which covers those parts of the skin which have a thicker epidermis and are not provided with hairs, is mainly composed of large swollen-out cells, with a central cavity. These cells perhaps represent the epitrichial layer which during a certain period of foetal development covers the whole surface of the body, but is thrown off elsewhere as the hairs become developed (see next page). Many of the cells of the cuticle contain pigment-granules, and in parts give the membrane more or less of a tawny colour, even in the white races of mankind ; the blackness of the skin in the negro depends entirely on the cuticle. The pigment is VOL. I. E E