323 NEUROGLIA. Ivolliker to be a form of retiform tissue ; accordingly he named it the reticulum of the nervous centres, but the term neuroglia which was proposed by Virchow has been more generally adopted. It is not, however, of the nature of connective tissue, for it contains neither the characteristic fibres nor cells of that tissue ; nor is it developed from mesoblast but from the neural epiblast. The neuroglia is, in fact, composed entirely of greatly ramified cells (glia-cells), the branches of which pass everywhere in the interstices of the proper nervous elements, and are somewhat modified in their general arrangement according to the nature of the elements which they chiefly support. Thus in the white matter of the spinal cord the branches of the neuroglia-cells can be seen bending round the medullated nerve-fibres and accommodating themselves exactly between them like packing material between parallel glass tubes (fig. 376). In the cerebral cortex, on the other hand, where the arrangement of the nervous elements is glia- such much less regular, the branches of the cells have a deuse brush-like arrangement as is shown in fig. 377. It has been shown by Ranvier that the glia- cells are fibrillated, the fibrils passing through the body of the cell from one cell-process to another. These are seen in fig. 378, which represents a glia-cell from the spinal cord isolated after maceration in dilute alcohol. In addition to these stellate neuroglia-cells a further support is afforded to the nervous matter of some parts of the central nervous system by the ramified prolongations of the ciliated epithelium-cells which line the central prolongations extend originally to the outer Fig. 376.—A NEUROGLIA-CELL PROM THE WHITE SUBSTANCE OP THE SPINAL CORD STAINED BY GOLGl’s METHOD (E. A. S.) canal (spinal cord, &c.). These surface of the spinal cord, and for a considerable period of its early development they can be traced as fine Fig. 37i. A NEUROGLIA-CELL FROM THE CEREBRAL CORTEX OP THE MONKEY, STAINED BY GOLQl’s METHOD (E. A. S.). Fig. 378.—A neuroglia-cell, isolated in 33 p. c. alcouol (Ranvier). radiating fibres to its periphery. Although these fibres become subsequently obscured by the great development of nerve-cells and fibres between them, it is probable that their remnants persist even in the fully developed condition of the nerve-centre. Lastly, a certain amount of support is furnished to the soft matter of the central ner\ ous system by the prolongations of pia mater (connective tissue sheath of the