33 7 END-BULBS. End Bulbs.—If the conjunctiva of the calf or of certain other animals is carefully spread out and examined under the microscope, many of the medullated nerves which course in different directions in the membrane may be seen to end in very small oval or elongated corpuscles, into the interior of which the axis-cylinder of the nerve-fibre passes, surrounded by a soft homogeneous core, to end near the extremity of the corpuscle, with a rounded or dilated termination. The core with its contained fibre is inclosed in a simple nucleated capsule composed of flattened cells. The medullary sheath ceases abruptly at the entrance of the nerve, whereas the primitive sheath appears to be continued over the core, and to line the capsule. These Fi„. 3iJ4.— Cylindrical end-bulbs from the conjunctiva of the calf. (Merkel.) A, in optical longitudinal section ; B, in transverse section ; n, entering nerve-fibre ; c, nucleated capsule. so-called cylindrical end-bulls were discovered by W. Krause, and they have been found not only in the conjunctiva of different mammals, but also forming the most common mode of nerve- termination in various parts of the skin and here and there in the mucous membrane of the mouth. Terminal corpuscles of this exact nature and form, have however hitherto not been observed in the conjunctiva of man nor of apes, but their place is here supplied by the small spheroidal end-bulbs of Krause (figs. 395, 396), which have also been found in man in the papillae of the skin covering the lips, in the mucous membrane of the cheeks, soft palate, tongue, epiglottis, nasal cavities, lower end of the rectum, and in that of the glans penis and clitoridis. Corpuscles which are closely allied to, if not identical with these, are also found in the epineurium of nerve trunks, where they constitute the termi- nations of the nervinervorum (Horsley). The spheroidal end-bulbs (fig. 395, B, c) are composed of a connective tissue capsule (a) in- closing a core formed of numbers of polygonal and elongated cells, which give the core a granular aspect ; amongst the cells of the core the axis-cylinder terminates. Sometimes the small medullated fibre which passes to each spheroidal end-bulb, divides into two or more branches before reaching the bulb, and the branches may be twisted around one another on their passage towards the organ (b). The capsule is continuous with the sheath of Henle of the nerve-fibre, and internally it is closely invested with a nucleated membrane, prolonged from the primitive sheath. Like the tactile cor- puscles, spheroidal end-bulbs have not been noticed in any animals below monkeys. B The cylindrical end-bulbs closely resemble the central part or core of a Pacinian body divested of all but its innermost tunic, and, to complete the resemblance, flattened concentri- cally arranged cells are described by Merkel as forming the core of the end-bulb as well as that of the Pacinian. In short, it would seem as if the little bodies in question represent the simplest of the type of terminal corpuscles of which the Pacinian corpuscles are the most com- plex examples ; the complexity having been produced in the latter by the multiplication of the tunics. In conformity with this view it maybe mentioned that corpuscles resembling the Paci- nian bodies are frequently found, especially in the lower animals, in which the tunics are few in number and the corpuscles correspondingly smaller. On the other hand, the round end-bulbs approach more nearly to some of the tactile corpuscles in structure, those, namely, of a simple kind, such as are met with in many parts of the integument, and those form a transition to the more complicated tactile corpuscles which occur in the papilla! of the human hand. At the same time it cannot be supposed that there is any fundamental difference in the two kinds of end-bulb, although the arrangement of the cells in the core and the course taken by the