270 BONE OR OSSEOUS TISSUE. fibres pari passu with their growth, and thus new bony spicules become continually formed by calcification of the groups or bundles of osteogenic fibres. The earthy deposit occasionally appears in an isolated patch here and there on some of the osteogenic fibres in advance of the main area of ossification (see fig. 309, A, a). The osteogenic fibres become comparatively indistinct as they and the substance between them calcifies ; they appear, however, to persist in the form of fine fibres, such as are seen in the lamellae of the adult bone, although in the embryonic bone their disposition is not lamellated, the bony matter having a somewhat coarsely reticular structure. In this way the first bony matter becomes formed as a perforated plate or network of osseous spicules, which, whilst becoming extended peripherally in the way above described, gradu- ally becomes thicker nearer the centre, partly by the deposit of bony matter upon its surfaces, partly by the projection from them of bony spicules which are prolonged like those at the periphery by similar systems of osteogenic Fig. 309.—Part of the developing parietal bone of a postal cat (H inch long). (From drawings by Mr. J. Lawrence.) (B. A. S.) A, a piece of tbe growing edge slightly magnified, showing the bony spicules terminated by bunches; of osteogenic fibres ; a, an isolated bony spicule united to the main part of the ossification by a bundle of osteogenic fibres. B, the part marked b of the smaller figure, highly magnified ; sp, bony spicules, with some of the osteoblasts imbedded in them, producing the lacunas ; ost, osteoblasts partly imbedded in the newly formed bone ; of, osteogenic fibres prolonging the spicules, with osteoblasts between them and applied to them ; a, granules of calcareous deposit between the osteogenic fibres ; at b the granules have become blended, and the matrix is clearer ; at c a continuity is established between the two adjacent spicules. fibres. The perforations in these first-formed bony plates correspond to the bays which were seen between the advancing spicules, and to the meshes of the bony network formed afterwards by the junction of the spicules, and as the bone thickens they become enclosed and converted into reticulating interstices (like the canals of a sponge), which are occupied by blood-vessels, and by the corpuscles above mentioned. These corpuscles also everywhere cover the osteogenic fibres, to which their flattened sides are often applied (fig. 309, B, ost). Where the osteogenic fibres diverge from one another, the intervals are occupied by the same cells. It is probable that the osteogenic substance is formed by the agency of the cells in question, hence the name “ osteoblasts ” was assigned to them by Gegenbaur.