227 ELASTIC FIBRES. The filaments just described, though transparent when seen with transmitted light under the microscope, appear white when collected in considerable quantity and seen with reflected light ; they arc doubly refracting and, therefore, appear bright when viewed between crossed Nichol’s prisms. Acetic acid causes them to swell up and become indistinct. When the tissue is boiled in water the white fibres are resolved into gelatine. They are not digested by trypsin. Elastic Fibres.—Occurring both in the areolar and fibrous tissue, and com- posing the greater part of the so-called elastic connective tissue, fibres of a different nature from those just considered are found—these are the elastic fibres. When collected in considerable quantity they have, as before stated, a yellowish colour, but when seen singly their yellow colour does not appear ; they can, however, always be recognised by the following characters. When viewed under a tolerably high magnifying power, they appear homogeneous and highly refracting, with a remarkably well-defined outline. They may run nearly straight, but may follow a somewhat bending course, with bold and wide curves, unlike the small undulations of the white connective filaments. As they proceed they divide into branches, and join or anastomose together in a reticular manner (figs. 260,262). In some parts the elastic networks are composed of fine fibres with wide meshes ; in other parts the elastic fibres are larger and broader and the intervening spaces narrower, so that the tissue may even have a lamellar character and present the appearance of a homogeneous membrane, which may be either entire, or with gaps or perforations at short intervals, in which case it constitutes the fenestrated membrane of Henle, found in the coats of the blood-vessels. A character which elastic fibres exhibit in many specimens, is a tendency to curl up at their broken ends (figs. 260, 261) ; and these ends arc not pointed, but abruptly broken across. Their size is very various ; the largest in man are nearly -^Vgth 0f an incq jn diameter, the smallest perhaps not more than TT$ygth. In some situations the larger sized fibres prevail; this is the case with the ligamenta subflava, where their general diameter is about rg*00th of an inch ; in other instances, as in the vocal cords and in many parts of the areolar Fig. 259.—Filaments of areolar tissue, in larger and SMALLER BUNDLES, AS SEEN UNDER A MAGNIFYING power of 400 diameters. (Sharpey.) Fig. 260.—Elastic fibres of connec- tive TISSUE. (From the subcutaneous tissue of the rabbit.)