271 OSSIFICATION IN CONNECTIVE TISSUE. Some of the osteoblasts are involved in the ossifying matrix, and remain as the corpuscles of the future bone, the spaces enclosing them being the lacunae. It is supposed that the canaliculi, which are at first short, are afterwards extended by absorption, so as to anastomose with those of neighboming lacunae. It is believed by many histologists that the fibrillated ground-substance of bone is formed not outside the cells in an intercellular substance, but by a direct conversion of the proto- plasm of some of the osteoblasts into bony tissue. If this were the case, there ought to be some indication in the formed osseous substance of the cell-areas of which it was made up, but nothing of the kind has been shown to exist. There should moreover often be observed osteoblasts which are only partly converted into bony substance, but this has also never been described. And if as some suppose, the peripheral part of each osteoblast becomes converted into osseous substance, while the central part and nucleus remain as the coipuscle within a lacuna, the osteoblasts would have to be originally far larger than the permanent lacunas, which is certainly not the case. The view in question is similar to that which supposes ordinary connective tissue to have a like origin, and appears to rest more upon theory than on actual observation of the stages of the developmental process. Meanwhile, the meshes of the bony network, which were occupied as we have seen by one or more blood-vessels, and by numerous osteoblasts, become diminished in extent, and the bone at the same time increased in thickness by the deposit upon the original trabeculae of irregular bony lamina; and trabeculae, some of the osteo- blasts remaining, and forming the corpuscles and lacunae as before. The interstices of the bony spongework thus becomes gradually narrowed, containing one or more blood-vessels surrounded by osteoblasts. At a later stage the increase in thickness takes place by successive depositions of bony lamellae under the periosteum, a concentric deposition occurring at the same time on the walls of the vascular channels. But since the growth in thickness of a membrane-bone takes place in exactly the same manner as that of one of the long bones, which will be fully described in a subsequent page, the reader is referred to the account of the process there given. It may be observed that the appearance of the ossifying membrane-bone in the shape of a network of trabeculae seems to be determined by the pre-existence of a vascular network in the embryonic tissue. The new bone everywhere makes its appearance in the spots which are furthest from the vessels, and the bony network everywhere alternates with the vascular network. At the edges of the advancing bone the spicules which prolong it pass between, and avoid the capillary blood- vessels, which are thus left in the bays between the spicules : the divergent bunches of osteogenic fibres which prolong the adjacent spicules complete the enclosure of the blood-vessel. After a time the membrane-bone extends so as almost to come into contact with the neighbouring bones. But as long as growth continues, there always remains in the situation occupied afterwards by the sutures a vascular connective tissue with numerous osteoblasts. This is continually on the increase, but as fast as it grows, the osteogenic fibres and the osseous spicules extend into it from the young bones on either side. At length, however, when these have attained their full dimensions, the growth of the intermediate tissue ceases, and it becomes completely invaded by the bone on either side, with the exception of the narrow and irregular line of suture, which may eventually itself become more or less obliterated. From a morphological point of view, the membrane-bones, especially those of the skull, are probably to be regarded as the modified remains of an integumental skeleton which is extensively developed in some of the lower vertebrata, and which had in all probability as its phylogenetic precursor a formation of dentinous, cutaneous spines. Even the membrane- formation in connection with the cartilage-bones may have originated in the same manner.