321 STRUCTURE OE NERVE-CELLS. and again, becoming finer as they proceed, until they are eventually lost to sight in the grey matter. The ramified cell-processes have been regarded by Golgi as representing rootlets by means of which the cells penetrate into and derive nutriment from the surrounding grey matter. With this idea he has termed them the “ protoplasmic ” processes as distinguished from the nerve-fibre process or processes. Although there does not seem to be sufficient evidence in favour of this view ; and the intimate relationship which obtains between the ramified pro- cesses of different nerve-cells may still be considered to point to these processes as a means of transmission and diffusion of nerve impulses in the grey matter, the view which was formerly entertained that the ramified processes are united with one another into a network pervading the grey matter is not substantiated by the employment of the most recent methods of research, although these methods permit of the following out of the processes of a nerve-cell to a much greater extent than any that had been previously in use. In all cases the processes appear to end after a number of branchings in free terminations : the branchings may be closely interlaced with those of neighbouring cells, but to all appearance remain anatomically distinct from them.1 The axis-cylinder process of a nerve-cell is distinguishable from the other pro- cesses not only in the fact that as a rule it does not, like those, undergo a dendritic ramification near the cell from which it takes origin, but also, as was shown by Golgi, in giving off, at right angles to its course, minute lateral fibrils at frequent intervals (fig. 369, a). These lateral fibrils lose themselves in the surrounding nervous matter; they perhaps come into relation with similar fibrils from other cells or from nerve- fibres, but both their actual mode of termination and their functional significance are at present unknown. According to Flechsig they become medullated. Ultimately even the axis-cylinder processes of the nerve-cells undergo dendritic ramification. This is seen in the terminal ramification which is the usual mode of ending of both motor and sensory nerve-fibres, and in the ramification of branches from the posterior root-fibres in the grey matter of the spinal cord (see fig. 383, p. 328). Sometimes this ramification of the axis-cylinder process occurs nearer to the body of the cell, as in the case of the cells of the outer layer of grey matter of the cerebellum, in which the axis-cylinder processes, after a longer or shorter course, break up into one or more close dendritic ramifications which envelope the cell-bodies of the corpuscles of Purkinje (fig. 375). Some multi-polar cells, many of those in the ganglia for instance, possess two, three, or more nerve-fibre processes and no protoplasmic processes (fig. 367). Sometimes these axis-cylinder processes of a nerve-cell, especially those in the sympathetic, are continued along their whole course as pale nerve-fibres. But in most cases, at a short distance from the body of the cell, they acquire a medullary sheath and become in fact medullated nerve-fibres (fig. 373, a'). In the bi-polar cells (those at least of a pyriform shape), the one fibre may be prolonged as a pale fibre, the other may be a medullated fibre. In other instances both fibres may be medullated or non-medullated. In multi-polar cells of the sympathetic ganglia one process may be continuous with one of the small medullated fibres which enter these ganglia, and the others with non-medullated fibres which pass from the ganglia to the peripheral distribution of the nerves. In this manner the cells may act as distributing centres multiplying the paths of the nervous impulses towards the 1 Waldeyer has proposed to terra each nerve-cell together with all its processes a neurone, reserving the term nerve-cell for the body of the cell only (Deutsche medicinische Wochonsehrift, 1891). Waldeycr’s proposal has been widely adopted, but is not only unnecessary but misleading, for the whole structure is the nerve-cell no matter how extensive and intricate may be its prolongations. Tho axis- cylinder process has been variously termed by different authors axon, ncur-axon, neurite, and neuron (vtvpov, a nerve), and the protoplasmic processes dendrites and dendrons. The body of most nerve- cells contains a greater or less number of elongated granules, generally arranged concentrically with the nucleus, but varying in their position, and also, it is believed, in their number, according to the physiological state of the cell. These granules, which were first noticed by Nissl, are characterised by their intense staining with methylene-blue : they are thought to possess considerable functional importance. On the subject of the structure and arrangement of nerve-cells, see a paper in “Brain,” vol. 16, 1893, p. 134.