ADIPOSE TISSUE. 286 On the other hand, there arc some parts in which fat is never found in the healthy condition of the body. Thus it does not exist in the subcutaneous areolar tissue of the eyelids and penis, nor in the lungs except near their roots, nor within the cavity of the cranium. Structure.—When subjected to the microscope, the adipose tissue is seen to consist of small vesicles, filled with an oily matter, and for the most part lodged in Fig.275.—Asmallfat-lobulk FROM THE SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUE OF THE GUINEA-PIG, MAGNIFIED ABOUT 20 DIA- METERS. (E. A. S.) a, small artery distributed to the lobule ; v, small vein ; the capillaries within the lo- bule are not visible. the meshes of the areolar tissue. The vesicles are most commonly collected into little lobular clusters (fig. 275), and these again into the little lumps of fat which we see with the naked eye, and which in some parts are aggregated into round or irregular masses of considerable magnitude. Sometimes the vesicles, though grouped together, have less of a clustered arrangc- Fig. 276. A FEW CELLS FROM THE MARGIN OF THE FAT- LOBULE REPRESENTED IN THE PRECEDING FIGURE : HIGHLY MAGNIFIED. (E. A. S.) /. g, fat globule distending fat-cell; n, nucleus ; in, membranous envelope of the fat-cell; c r, bunch of crystals within a fat-cell ; c, capillary vessel ; v, venule ; c t, con- nective tissue cell ; the fibres of the connective tissue are not represented. ment ; as when they collect alongside of the minute blood-vessels of thin membranous parts. In well - nourished bodies the vesicles or fat-cells are round or oval (fig. 276) unless where packed closely together, in which case they acquire an angular figure, and bear a striking resemblance to the cells of vegetable tissues. The greater number of them are from g-Joth to n^th of an inch in diameter, but many exceed or fall short of this measurement. Each one consists of a very delicate envelope (m), inclosing the oily matter, which, completely filling the envelope, appears as a single drop (/. cj). It often happens that a part of the fatty contents solidifies in the cell after death, forming a bunch of delicate needle-shaped crystals (fig. 276, c r). The envelope is the remains of the original protoplasm of the cell: quite transparent, and apparently homogeneous. According to some it is generally authorities it