KARYOKINESIS. 186 Waldeyer), and by the time the spindle lias reached the middle of the nucleus, these filaments, now shortened and become distinctly Y-shaped, are seen to be arranged in a star-like manner radiating from its equator. This star-like disposition is best seen when the nucleus is viewed in the direction of the axis of the spindle ; the stage is known as that of the aster or monaster (fig. 215). By the time that this stage is ccntraZ particle. Polar /ndiattorv (Oylctaier) cilttvcclion, spherec chrom-cilin, cloft- /UiuZUialhp clear area of nucleus centred, particle. Fig. 214.—Dividing nucleus, showing spindle op achromatic fibres, with the chromosomes ARRANGED ASTRALLY AT THE EQUATOR OF THE SPINDLE. (Rabl.) arrived at, and sometimes even while the chromatic filaments still form a convoluted skein, a remarkable change, first noticed by Flemming, is found to have occurred in them, each chromosome having become split along its length into two exactly similar but finer filaments, which remain adherent to one another for a while (fig. 211, q. and figs. 213, 214, and 215). There can be little doubt that this cleavage of the chro- txc/trorrwUic spindle widccentral polarpa-rliclc o-oitlirte- of nz&cZeus ednomet-tin- loops Fig. 215.—Dividing nucleus at “ aster ” stage, seen from one of the poles. The achromatic SPINDLE IS REPRESENTED FORESHORTENED. (Rabl.) mosomes is one of the most important of the karyokinetic changes of the nucleus, for the result is that the chromatin is thereby divided into two precisely equal amounts, which pass as the subsequent phases show to the respective daughter- nuclei. The next stage in the process of karyokinesis has been termed “ metakinesis ” and consists in the separation of the chromosomes which have resulted from the longitu- dinal division above described (fig. 211, i,j, If). The separation usually begins at the apices of the Y-shaped loops which as they separate become turned towards the poles of the spindle, while the limbs often remain adherent for a time at the equator of the spindle (fig. 210, A and B), and even after separation remain con- nected across the equator by delicate achromatic uniting filaments (fig. 216, C).1 1 It is now agreed by most observers that these “uniting filaments ” are not, as was formerly sup- posed, parts of tlie achromatic spindle, but that they are probably spun out from the chromosomes as these pass towards the poles of that spindle. It is assumed that the spindle-fibres shorten, and that this shortening or contraction tends to draw the chromosomes towards each pole. According to v. Beneden and Rabl, the spindle-fibres are very numerous, and Rabl believes them to be attached to the chromatin granules of Pfitzner, of which the chromosomes are made up, the spindle being thus formed of two distinct cones of achromatic fibres.