198 COLUMNAR EPITHELIUM. columnar and ciliated transitional cpithclia differ, however, so very slightly from the corresponding simple cpithclia—viz., merely in the presence between the fixed ends of the columnar and ciliated cells of smaller and probably younger epithelium cells irregularly disposed—that they do not seem to merit any special description. But the scaly transitional epithelium which is met with lining the urinary bladder and ureters presents several peculiarities. It consists of three or four layers of cells, of which the inner or most superficial are large flattened scales when examined from the distended bladder (fig. 227, a) ; almost cubical in shape when taken from the collapsed organ ; smooth over their free surface, but pitted on the opposite side, beiug moulded over the rounded ends of the cells which form the next layer. These are pyriform, and the smaller end of the pear is set upon the subjacent connective tissue, whilst the larger end has the position just mentioned (fig. 227). Filling up the intervals between these tapering cells are the smaller irregular cells of the third layer (fig. 22G, c). All these cells have distinct nuclei, and in the flattened superficial cells two nuclei may often be seen in the cell. If this is an indication that the cell is about to divide, the mode of growth of this kind of epithelium must be different from that of the stratified scaly variety, in which the multiplication of the cells appears to take place exclusively in the deeper layers. Fig. 228.—Pavement epithelium, scraped from a serous membrane. a, cell-body; b. nucleus ; c, nucleoli. (Henle.) Fig. 229.—Pavement epithelium (endothelium) from the omentum of the rabbit. Nitrate op silver staining. (E. A. S.) Pavement epithelium.—In this the cells form polygonal plates or scales, which fit together by their edges like the tiles of a mosaic pavement. The lines of junction of the cells may be straight, or they may be more or less jagged or sinuous. The flattened mesoblastic epithelia (endothelia), such as the epithelium of serous membranes and of the vessels and that lining the anterior chamber of the eye belong to this variety, but it includes also the epithelium lining the alveoli of the lungs which is of hypoblastic origin; that covering the outer surface of the membrana tympani, and that lining the mammary ducts, both of which are epiblastic. Columnar epithelium.—A second variety ol simple epithelium is the columiuiT,