21-3 RED CORPUSCLES OF THE LOWER VERTEBRATA. crystallization. The crystals present various forms in different animals, but almost all (the hexagonal plates of the squirrel being- alone excepted) belong to the rhombic system. From human blood and that of most mammals, the crystals are elongated prisms (fig. 243, 1), but they are tetrahedrons in the guinea-pig (2), and short rhombohedrons in the hamster (4). They are most readily obtained for microscopical examination from the blood of the rat, where they appear merely on adding a little water, and afterwards evaporating. All haemoglobin crystals contain a certain amount of water of crystallization. They are doubly refracting (anisotropous). The spectrum of haemoglobin, whether in substance or in solution, may be always readily recognized by the double or single absorption bands, which are produced according as it is present in the oxidated or deoxidated condition. Other coloured crystals, which may be obtained from blood, are the so-called -‘haemin crystals” of Teichmann. They are formed when haemoglobin is warmed with a little salt and glacial acetic acid. On cooling, the haemin crystallizes out in minute reddish brown acicular prisms (fig. 244), the demonstration of which affords a positive proof of the presence of blood- colouring matter. They may readily be obtained from dried blood without the addition of salt, merely by warming it with glacial acetic acid. The amount of haemoglobin in each corpuscle, which is liable to variation, may be approxi- mately arrived at by determining both the number of corpuscles and the amount of haemoglobin in a given volume of blood. The amount of haemoglobin is estimated bv diluting a sample of blood with a known amount of water, and comparing the tint of the solution so obtained with that of a solution of haemoglobin of known strength. A very convenient means of quickly obtaining an idea of the amount of haemoglobin in a sample of blood is afforded by the “ haemoglobinometer ” of Gowers, which is arranged on the above principle. Structure of the nucleated red corpuscles of the lower vertebrata.— The large corpuscles of the frog (fig. 245) and newt differ from the mammalian Fig. 245.—Frog’s blood (Ranvier). a, red corpuscle seen on the flat; v, vacuole in a corpuscle ; 6, c, red corpuscles in profile ; n, pale corpuscle at rest; m, pale corpuscle, exhibiting amoeboid movements; p, colourless fusiform corpuscle. corpuscles in the possession of a nucleus. It is rather more than one-third the length of the corpuscle, but in the natural unaltered condition is risible with difficulty ; this is probably owing to the fact that it possesses very nearly the same index of refraction as the rest of the corpuscle. For it may be ren- dered visible, even under such circum- stances, by the combined action of watery vapour and carbonic acid upon the blood ; a precipitate (of serum-globulin ?) is thus produced upon the nucleus, and its outline comes into view: on readmission of air the precipitate is re-dissolved, and the nucleus again becomes faint or disappears (Strieker). The effect of most reagents is similar to that produced on human blood. Water causes both corpuscle and nucleus to swell up by imbibition, the coloured part being then extracted. A dilute solution of acetic acid in an indifferent fluid also removes the colouring matter, but the nucleus presents a markedly granular appearance (fig. 240, 3) ; if strong acetic acid be employed, the nucleus often acquires a reddish tint. Alkalies, on the other hand, even when very dilute, rapidly destroy both corpuscle and nucleus. Various reagents added to newt’s blood cause the coloured part of the corpuscles to become partly withdrawn from the envelope, and collected around the nucleus ; this is especially the case with a solution of boracic acid, the coloured matter and nucleus (“zooid” of Briicke) may subsequently be alto- gether extruded from the envelope or stroma of the corpuscle (“ oecoid ”).