HAIRS. 42 J wanting in very dark hairs. Viewed by transmitted light they are dark, but brilliantly white by reflected light. When a white hair has been boiled in water, ether, or oil of turpentine, these cavities become filled with fluid, and are then quite pellucid ; but when a hair which has been thus treated is dried, the hair quickly finds its way again into the lacunas, and they resume their original aspect. The medulla or pith, as already remarked, does not exist in all hairs. It is want- ing in the fine hairs over the general surface of the body, and is not commonly met with in those of the head, nor in the hairs of children under five years. When present Fig. 4S1.—Hair-follicle, in longitudinal section. Mode- rately' magnified. (Biesiadecki.) a, mouth of the liair-follicle ; b, its neck ; c, lower bulbous enlargement; d, e, dermic coat (outer and inner layers, the innermost or hyaline layer is not shown) ; /, ff, epidermic coat (outer and inner root-sheath); h, fibrous substance of the hair; jfc, medulla ; l, hair-knob ; m, fat in the subcutaneous tissue ; n, arrector pili; o, papilla of the cutis ; p, papilla of the hair-knob ; s, Malpighian layer of the epidermis ; ep, horny layer, incorrectly represented in the figure as continuous with the inner root-sheath ; t, sebaceous gland. it occupies the centre of the shaft and ceases towards the point. It is composed of rows of cells, differing in shape, but generally angular, and in many animals exhibiting regular patterns. When viewed by trans- mitted light, it is black ; by reflected light, on the other hand, it is white, its colour being chiefly due to the contained air-particles which lie in spaces between the cells, but in the hairs of a few animals are within the cells. They are produced by the drying of the originally soft cells of the medulla, on the exposure of the growing hair to the atmosphere. The medulla may be interrupted at parts for a greater or less extent. In the latter case, the axis of the stem at the interruptions is fibrous like the surrounding parts. The root of the hair is lighter in colour and softer than the stem ; in young and growing hairs it -swells out at its lower end into a bulbous enlarge- ment or knob (figs. 481, 483), but in older hairs which have ceased to grow and are in process of being shed, the termination of the root is not bulbous (fig. 488). The root of the hair is received into a recess of the skin named the hair-follicle, which, when the hair is of considerable size, reaches down into the subcutaneous fat. The substance of the hair, of epidermic nature, is, like the epidennis itself, quite extra-vascular, but like that structure also, it is organised and subject to internal organic changes. Thus, in the progress of its growth, m the cells change their figure, and acquire greater con- sistency In consequence of their elongation, the hair, bulbous at the commencement become ? om°S m and cylindrical above. But it cannot be said to XtpSe dSanc fiom the root organic changes may extend. Some have imagined that the hairs are slowl- permeated by a fluid from the root to the point, but this has not been moved The ch»„g„ of the clou., of the hah- from .lark to gre,-, which eometimefh^ ha " ‘ver heS