BLOOD-VESSELS. 364- another by clastic fibres passing across the muscular bundles. In most arteries this elastic tissue of the middle coat is but slightly developed, but in the aorta (fig. 424) and carotid arteries and in some of the branches of the latter, it attains a consider- able development, and since in them also elastic fibres are seen extending into the subepithelial layer of the inner coat, the distinction between the inner and middle coats as shown in section is far less marked than it is in ordinary arteries. There is also a not inconsiderable amount of connective tissue in the middle coat of the aorta. The muscular fibre-cells of the middle coat of the arteries (fig. 422 and fig. 423) are seldom more than from ^ to ^ of an inch long and frequently, especially in Fig. 422.-—Muscular fibre-cells from human arteries. Magnified 350 diameters. 1. From the popliteal artery ; a, natural; b, treated with acetic acid. 2. From a small branch of the posterior tibial (from Kolliker). Fig. 423.—Muscular fibre-cells from superior thyroid artery (man). 340 diameters. (E. A. S.) those arteries in which the elastic tissue of the middle coat is most developed, present a very irregular shape with jagged extremities (fig. 423). Their nuclei are distinctly rod-shaped and are often slightly curved. Bundles of white connective-tissue fibrils may also occur in small quantity in the middle coat, the proportion increasing with the size of the artery. It is important to note that the muscular tissue of the middle coat is more pure in the smaller arteries, and that the admixture of other tissues increases in the larger-sized vessels ; in these, moreover, the muscular cells are smaller. Accordingly, the contractility of the arteries, which depends on the muscular tissue of the middle coat, is little marked in those of large size, but becomes much more conspicuous in the smaller branches. External coat (Tunica adventitia) (fig. 417, d). This is composed mainly of fine and closely-felted bundles of white connective tissue, together with a variable amount of longitudinally disposed elastic tissue between the bundles (in the figure the elastic fibres are seen cut across). The elastic tissue is much more abundant towards the inner part, next the muscular coat, and is frequently described as con- stituting here a distinct elastic layer : it is most marked in arteries of medium calibre, becoming thinner, and at length gradually disappearing in those of small size. In large and middle-sized arteries the bundles of white connective tissue chiefly run diagonally or obliquely round the vessel, and their interlacement becomes much