SEROUS MEMBRANES. 589 branes are perfectly closed sacs, inasmuch as it has two openings by which the Fallopian tubes communicate with its cavity. A serous membrane sometimes lines a fibrous membrane, as where the serous- layer of the pericardium adheres to its outer or fibrous part. Such a combination is often named a ftbro-serous membrane. The inner surface of a serous membrane is free, smooth, and polished ; and, as would occur with an empty bladder, the inner surface of one part of the sac is applied to the corresponding surface of some other part ; a small quantity of fluid, usually not more than merely moistens the contiguous surfaces, being interposed. The parts situated in a cavity lined by serous membrane, being themselves also covered by it, can thus glide easily against its parietes or upon each other, and their motion is rendered smoother by the lubricating fluid. The outer surface most commonly adheres to the parts which it lines or covers,, the connection being effected by means of areolar tissue, named therefore “subserous,,T which, when the membrane is detached, gives to its outer and previously adherent surface a flocculent aspect. The degree of firmness of the connection is very various : in some parts the membrane can scarcely be separated ; in others its attachment is so lax as to permit easy displacement. Structure and properties.—Serous membranes are thin and transparent, so that the colour of subjacent parts shines through them. They are tolerably strong. Fig. 44/.—Endothelial later of omentum of rabbit. Nitrate of silver preparation. (E. A. S.) with a moderate degree of extensibility and elasticity. They are lined on the inner surface by a simple epithelial layer of flattened cells (endothelium, fig. 447), each of which contains a round or oval nucleus with one or two nucleoli, and an intranuclear network. The cells have, according to Klein, a comparatively coarse network of minute fibrils embedded in the otherwise clear cell-substance. The outlines of the cells may readily be brought into view by treatment with nitrate of silver. The lines of junction of the cells which are thus made evident, may be straight and even, but are most commonly slightly jagged or sinuous. Here and there between the cells apertures are to be seen, which are of two kinds. The smaller, which are also the more numerous, are occupied either by an accumulation of the intercellular