HYALINE CARTILAGE. 24-6 intensely blue colour) to mix with the circulating blood of animals, which after a time are killed and the cartilages examined. Proceeding in this way, Gerlach was unable to see any blue channels m the cartilage-matrix, while Arnold, on the other hand, obtained results from which he was led to infer the existence of minute cleft-like spaces throughout the matrix connected by fine radiating canaliculi on the one hand with the lymphatics in the perichon- drium, and on the other hand with the cell-spaces of the cartilage. Such is the structure of hyaline cartilage in general, but it is more or less modi- fied in different situations. In articular cartilage, the matrix in a thin section appears dim, like ground glass, having sometimes an almost granular aspect. The cells and cell-groups are smaller and more dispersed, as a rule, than in rib-cartilage. As is the case also with the cartilage of the ribs, the groups are flattened at and near to the surface, and lie Fig. 286.—Vertical section of articular cartilage covering the lower end of the tibia (human). Magnified about 30 diameters. (E. A. S.) ft, cells, and cell-groups flattened conformably with the surface ; b. cell-groups irregularly arranged ; c, cell-groups disposed perpendicularly to the surface ; d, layer of calcified cartilage ; e, bone. parallel with it (fig. 286, a) ; deeper and nearer the bone, on the other hand, they are narrow and oblong, like short irregular strings of beads, and are mostly directed vertically (fig. 286, c). It is well known that articular cartilages readily break in a direction perpendicular to their surface, and the surface of the fracture appears to the naked eye to be striated in the same direction, as if they had a columnar structure ; this may be due to the vertical arrangement of the rows of cells, or to the substance of the matrix being disposed in a fibrous or columnar manner (Leidy). -it was formerly held that the free surface of articular cartilage is covered with epithelioid cells, but no such covering really exists. It is easy, no doubt, to peel off a thin film from the surface of the cartilage of the head of the humerus or femur ; but this superficial layer is really part of the cartilage, and its broad patches of cells with the intermediate matrix are not to be mistaken (fig. 287). Near the margin of the articular cartilages connective tissue is prolonged a certain way into them from the periosteum and synovial membrane, and the cartilage- cells acquire processes and present transitions to the connective-tissue corpuscles of that membrane (fig. 288). There is no sharp demarcation between the two tissues, which here pass continuously into one another. Except at this transitional zone the matrix of articular cartilage rarely