346 ENDINGS OF SENSORY NERVES. these terminations of the nerves are destined to fulfil. It is very probable, however that the senes of concentric endothelial membranes with interposed fluid is an arrangement for con verting the effect of mechanical traction into fluid pressure upon the nerve, so that tension and traction of the tissue in whioh the corpuscle is placed, may affect the axis-cylinder in the same manner as ordinary pressure. c Little also is known as to their development, except that when first visible they appear in the form of smaU agglomerations of cells amongst which the termination of a nerve-fibre becomes lost to view. ore Other modes of ending of sensory nerves.—Instead of ending in the special terminal coipuscles of different kinds which have been described in the preceding pages, many sensory nerves, as before stated, terminate in the form of fine ramifica- Fig. 407.—Distribution- op nerves in a portion op the cornea of the rabbit. (Ranvier.) The nerves are stained with chloride of gold, p, larger plexus of non-medullated fibres, made up of numerous fine fibrils ;a, smaller fibres derived from them, and themselves giving oil' still smaller branches ; h, varicose fibrils ; t, junctional branches of the larger plexus. tions of the axis-cylinder, which pass between the elements of the tissue to which the nerves are distributed, and may either simply come in contact with them, or, it is believed, may in some cases form an actual connection with the cells. As they approach their termination the sensory nerve-fibres, which are generally medullated, divide dichotomously again and again, retaining after all the earlier divisions both the medullary sheath and the primitive sheath, and being accompanied by a prolongation of the sheath of Henle. Lower down this last-named sheath becomes lost, and a short distance further on the medullary sheath also dis- appears, the nerves being continued as pale fibres enclosed only by the nucleated sheath of Schwann. Within this it can distinctly be seen in preparations stained with chloride of gold, that the axis-cylinder is made up of fine varicose fibrils (fig. 407). At every division of the nerve some of these fibrils pass into each branch, and where, as often happens, the branches unite with one another so as to form a subterminal plexus, some of the fibrils pass across from one branch to another. By the time the terminal ramification is reached many of the branches may consist of only one or two ultimate fibrils (h). It is generally found that the sheath of Schwann has ceased long before this condition is arrived at, although nuclei apparently like those of that sheath may often be still seen here and there upon the branches, especially at the points of bifurcation. Finally the branches of the nerve, thus reduced to the condition of ultimate fibrils, often varicose, pass between the tissue elements, and may there form an actual network by joining one