DEGENERATION AND REGENERATION OF NERVES. OJJ from the nerve-fibres the cells of the connective tissue in the neighbourhood of the fibres become charged with fatty granules, which may have become formed from ■the dissolved fatty substances of the medullary sheath. These degenerative changes seem to occur simultaneously along the whole length of the nerve. In the nerves to voluntary muscles the end-plate is said to be the part first affected. In the immediate neighbourhood of the section the appearances are somewhat modified by the escape of the myelin from the cut ends of the nerve-fibre, and the infiltration of blood and lymph into the interior of the ends thus emptied of their •contents. This change must of course occur both in the central stump of the nerve ns well as in the peripheral cut end : it does not often extend beyond the first node. Apart from such traumatic modification, true degenerative changes do not occur in the end of the nerve which is still in connection with the centre, although prolifera- tion of the nucleus in the first and second internodes near the cut may take place. The central cut end of the axis-cylinder does not become altered ; except that it undergoes a slight swelling, preparatory in all probability to the renewed growth by which the regeneration of the fibre is effected. Regeneration proceeds but slowly. Up to the twenty-eighth day after the section, or even later than this, there is still no trace of the new nerve-fibres in the peripheral part of the nerve. With the exception of a few fibres which for some reason not well understood (probably because they are derived from some other nerve which has not been cut, and are taking a recurrent course in the cut nerve), have not undergone degeneration, nothing is to be seen in a section of the nerve at this period, except the primitive sheaths of the old fibres, filled with clear or finely granular substance. If, however, a transverse section be made of a nerve considerably later than this (sixty or seventy days after the original section) it is found that within the tubes formed by the old primitive sheaths, according to Vanlair between them, small single fibres or groups of fibres, either pale or provided with a medullary sheath, are to be seen, besides here and there those drops of myelin which have remained unabsorbed from the medullary sheaths of the original fibres. On cuttiug out the central end of the nerve, together with the cicatrix, and separating its fibres, it is seen that the groups of small fibres noticed in the transverse section are continuous with the central ends of the axis-cylinders of the original nerve (fig. 416, D). Either a bunch of small fibres may grow directly from the axis-cylinder of one fibre, or two only may emerge from this ; but these soon bifurcate, and, repeating this process again and again, may eventually form a considerable group. It would appear therefore that the regeneration of a cut nerve is effected by a growth of new fibres from the axis-cylinders of the central cut end, and that many more such fibres are formed in the first instance than the old ones which have undergone degeneration. The growth from the old axis-cylinders always occurs in the situation of a node —either the one nearest to the section or one somewhat higher up. The new fibres are at first pale but subsequently acquire a medullary sheath, still later a primitive sheath, with constrictions of Ranvier, which, as in young nerves, are placed at much more frequent intervals than in the old fibres, so that the intervals are much shorter. The fibres which grow thus in groups from the old axis-cylinders are often very irregular in their course, twisting around one another, and even looping back in some places for a considerable distance. In the cicatrix especially is this irregularity and obliquity of disposition noticeable, probably on account of the absence here of the guide formed by the sheaths of the original fibres. Restoration of function in the nerve may not occur for several months, during which time it may be presumed the new nerve-fibres are slowly finding their way