APPEARANCES OF MUSCLE UNDER POLARISED LIGHT. 295 is accumulated opposite the transverse membranes where the sarcostyles are relatively contracted. , _ .. . In the living muscle also this change in the position of the sarcoplasm during contraction can, with care, be observed to take place (fig- 339). In this case, also, as in the wing-sarcostyles, the moniliform shape of the muscle-columns tends to cause the constricted parts to appear dark, the bulged parts light in comparison, so- that the effect of reversal of the strife is obtained. But in the ordinary muscles this effect is materially increased, and the contrast between the dark and light strife of the contracted muscle is greatly enhanced by the effect of the sarcoplasmic accumulations opposite the constrictions. For in the first place these themselves tend to produce the appearance of dark lines or planes passing across the fibre, and, besides this, the light-reflexions from their surfaces cause the muscular substance between these planes to appear much brighter than would otherwise be the case. In alcohol-preparations (both of the wing-muscles and of the ordinary muscles)- in which the sarcous elements have been subsequently stained, there is no appear- ance of reversal of striation ; the darkly coloured sarcous element always occupies the central or bulged part of the sarcomere, and the unstained substance of the clear intervals the constricted parts of the sarcostyles. Appearances of muscle under polarised light.—It was noticed by Boeck that, like some of the other tissues, muscle is doubly refracting- (anisotropous): Briicke however was the first to point out that the fibre is not composed entirely of anisotropous substance, but that there is in addition a certain amount of singly refracting or isotropous material. Since the important researches of the last-named author form the basis of our knowledge of this subject, a short account will be given of them here. In the first place Briicke distinguishes between the appearances presented by living muscle examined in its own plasma and those of dead and hardened muscle examined in glycerine or Canada balsam. Under the latter conditions, although a considerable variation is noticeable in the relative amount of anisotropous substance, nevertheless the two substances invariably take the form of alternating bands, dark and light, crossing the fibre and apparently corresponding in position with the light and dark stripes of the fibre as seen under ordinary light. It is quite otherwise with living muscle. In this almost the whole of the fibre may look doubly refractile, the isotropous substance occurring only as fine transverse lines, or as rows of rhomboidal dots which are united to one another across the aniso- tropous substance by fine longitudinal lines. This account is illustrated by fig. 340, which is copied from Briicke. If this figure be compared with fig. 331, or with the parts marked I of fig. 339, which represent the living muscle of a water-beetle under ordinary light, it is obvious that the rhomboid points and longitudinal lines of the one correspond to the sarcoplasmic lines and transverse networks of the other. The sarcoplasm there- fore is singly refracting, whereas the substance of the muscle- columns or sarcostyles is, in great part at least, doubly refracting. Briicke’s account of the appearance of living muscle under polarised light seems to have been chiefly founded upon fibres which are not extended, and in which therefore the sarcous elements occupy by far the larger part of the sarcomere. In extended fibres or parts of fibres, especially those which have been fixed by alcohol and mounted in Canada balsam, the fibre appears when examined between crossed Nichol’s prisms to be marked by alternating broad bars of light (anisotropous) and dark (isotropous) substance, the former corresponding in position to the sarcous elements, the latter to the clear intervals of the sarcostyles. In the wing-muscles also the sarcous elements appear bright and the clear intervals, including Krause’s membrane, are dark with crossed Nichols. In less extended parts of the fibre, the dark or isotropous bands become relatively narrower until in the contracted parts they are reduced to comparatively narrow bands, with relatively broad bright (anisotropous) intervals (fig. 341). There is however no reversal of the bands, a fact of some significance as indicating that the reversal which appears to occur when the fibre is examined by ordinary light is really, as has been already explained, merely an optical effect, and i3 not caused by any actual change in the relative position within the sarcomere of the substance of the sarcous elements and the clear intervals (see below, Theory of Merkel). The result there- fore of the examination of muscle under polarised light is confirmatory of the deductions Fig. 340.—Living muscle of a WATER-BEETLE EXAMINED IN POLARIZED LIGHT WITH. crossed Nichol’s prisms. (Briicke.)