211 STRUCTURE OF THE COLOURED BLOOD CORPUSCLES. light on the nature of this membrane. For it is not easy to understand why they should produce their particular effect unless the membrane were capable of being partly Or entirely dissolved by them, and this would indicate that it is largely of a fatty nature. Whether it is a pellicle of true fatty substance, or, as is more probable, a fat-like material into the composition of which the lecithin, cholesterin and proteid, which are described as composing the so-called stroma, enter, cannot here be discussed. Various other phenomena which have been noticed in connection with the action of reagents and varying external conditions upon the red corpuscles point to the same conclusion, viz. that the external envelope of the red corpuscle is composed of a material having the physical characters of fats. A heat of 52° C. causes the coloured corpuscles to extrude globular pro- cesses and beaded filaments which may attain a rela- tively considerable length, and which eventually break off from the main substance of the corpuscle and form coloured globules in the fluid. A further increase of temperature to 60° C. sets free the haemoglobin, and produces the complete disappearance of the corpuscles. Here we may suppose the fatty pellicle to become softened and eventually completely melted under the action of the increased temperature, thus permitting of the partial and eventually of the com- plete flowing out of its contents. Almost any fluid which has a slight solvent action upon fats also causes an extrusion of the haemoglobin often with disappearance of all sign of the stroma or membrane ; this is the case with solutions of the bile salts. Dilute alcohol in the form of sherry wine has been noticed to produce at first the extrusion of filaments like those caused by heat (Addison); and this may be supposed also to be due to the softening or incomplete solution of a fatty pellicle. The envelopes of the corpuscles (“ stromata”) after complete decolorization with water or dilute acids, stain faintly, but charac- teristically of the_ presence of fatty substance, when treated with osmic acid. Finally, the presence of a fatty pellicle would of itself, as above pointed out (p. 209), furnish a sufficient explanation of the other- wise obscure phenomenon of rouleau-formation. It has often been urged against the existence of a membranous envelope to the corpuscles that such an envelope when mechanically ruptured, as by pressure upon the corpuscles, should show signs of the gap through which the contents have escaped. This is by no means necessary, however, for in the case of a thin fatty pellicle such as that the existence of which is here assumed, the tom edges would immediately tend to come together again after rupture, and would then show no indication of the breach of continuity. A simi- lar explanation may be given of the fact that a cor- puscle may sometimes -be cut into two, as when a needle is drawn sharply across a preparation of newt’s blood upon a glass slide, without the coloured contents escaping from the two separated parts ; in this case the pressure of the needle-point has at the same time that it severed the corpuscle brought together the oppo- site edges of the cut pellicle, and thus prevented the escape of the contents. Blood in which the hamioglobin has been dissolved out from the corpuscles has lost its opaque appearance, and has acquired a transparent laky tint; the change depends upon the fact that the colouring matter when dissolved in the serum and forming a homogeneous layer, interferes less with the transmission of light than when occurring in scattered particles. 6 Haemoglobin after being thus separated from the blood-corpuscles is prone to undergo Fig. 243.—Blood-crystals, magnified. 1, from human blood ; 2, from the guinea-pig; 3, squirrel; 4, hamster. 1/ t\ 4* — v & K \ -fo \ v* * / * ivvAN /,\f\ t / I L v */JT ',K Fig. 244.—H.EMIN CRYSTALS, MAGNIFIED (from Preyer).