390 LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. substance or by processes which are sent up to the surface of the membrane from more deeply lying cells (pseudostomata of Klein and Burdon-Sanderson): the larger ones, on the other hand, are true apertures {stomata), which are surrounded by a ling of small cubical cells (fig. 449, s, s'), and open into a subjacent lymphatic vessel, either directly or by the medium of a short canal lined with similar cells. The surface cells of the serous membrane are not everywhere uniform in size, but patches are here and there met with in which they are smaller and more granular in appearance and it is in these parts that the stomata and pseudo-stomata are more frequently seen (figs. 448, 449). The epithelium-cells of the membrane often Fig. 418.—Portion of endothelium of peritoneum from the under surface of the rabbit’s diaphragm. (Klein.) a, larger cells ; b, smaller ones, with here and there a psendostoma between. present a somewhat radiated aspect near the stomata, the silver lines converging towards the orifice. According to Klein, it is not unfrequent to find evidences of proliferation, especially in the neighbourhood of the stomata and pseudo-stomata, cells being met with containing two or even many nuclei, and others which are being budded off from the cells of the membrane. Since, however, these statements depend on observations which were made before the importance of the karyokinetic figures as a guide to cell-multiplication was recognised, it is important that they should be repeated. The stomata were discovered in the peritoneal covering of the central tendon of the dia- phragm by Kecklinghausen, who found that milk-globules could be made to pass through them into the lymphatics. Similar apertures were found by Ludwig and Dybkowsky in the pleura of mammals, and by Schweigger-Seidel and Dogiel in the septum between the peritoneal cavity of the frog and the great lymph-sac (cisterna magna) behind it. They have since been discovered on the omentum by Klein, and have also been recognised in the pericardium. The substance of the membrane underneath the endothelium is composed of a connective tissue ground-substance in which is a variable amount of fibres, both white and elastic ; the latter in many serous membranes, as remarked by Henle, are principally collected into a reticular layer near the surface. The bundles of white fibres are also arranged in a reticular manner, frequently uniting with one another, and the meshes of the reticulation which they form are occupied by the ground- substance of the membrane, and bridged over by the flattened cells of the general