DEVELOPMENT OF NERVES. 352 termination is in the form of a ramification of the axis-cylinder on the surface of the- fibre within the sarcolemma.1 The termination of motor nerves in special granular expansions within the sarcolemma was first noticed by Doy6re in insect-muscles. The aborescent termination of the axis-cylinder was discovered in the frog by Kiihne in 1S62. In the same year the end-plates were recognised by Rouget in the lizard, and in 1863 by W. Krause in mammals. The last named observer was the first to describe the termination of the axis-cylinder as a ramified expansion imbedded in granular substance, but maintained that the whole structure lay outside the sarcolemma. In this opinion Krause is supported by Kolliker, but by far the majority of observers regard the- whole end-organ as hypolemmal in position. Engelmann and Foettinger have been led from observations upon insect-muscles to the conclusion that the expansion of the nerve-fibre comes into actual continuity with the isotropous substance, i.e., with the sarcoplasm, of the muscular fibre. But the effect of section of a motor nerve in the living animal—the resulting degen- eration extending no further into the muscular fibre than the end-plate itself—is a strong argument against the existence of any such anatomical continuity. DEVELOPMENT OF THE NERVES. ".'he embryonic development of the nerves has already been treated of in the par, of this work devoted to Embryology. It was there shown that all nerve-fibres and nerve-cells, whether belonging to the central nervous system or to the peripheral and sympathetic nerves, are originally derived from the neural or neuro-sensory epiblast, and that in the case of the afferent nerve-fibres, such as those of the posterior roots, the axis-cylinders grow from the cells of origin (neuroblasts of the spinal ganglia), both centripetally into the nerve-centre, and centrifugally towards the peripheral sensory parts, while in the case of the efferent nerve-fibres, those namely of the anterior roots, the axis-cylinders grow only centrifugally from their cells of origin, which here lie within the nerve-centre (neuroblasts of the nerve- centres), and thence eventually pass to and unite with the muscular fibres. So far as is known, this is the only mode of development of nerve-fibres, viz., as out-growths from nerve-cells or neuroblasts, and they always, whether in the nerve-centres or in the nerve-trunks, at first appear as pale fibres, destitute both of primitive and of medullated sheath. It appears somewhat doubtful whether the pale fibres which are thus first formed are single axis-cylinders or bundles of such. However this may be, they early become surrounded by cells from the adjacent mesoblast, which penetrate also between them, and eventually produce the connective tissue of the nerve-sheath (epineurium, perineurium, endoneurium). In the nerve-centres very little connective- tissue passes between the nerve-fibres, which are there supported by the spongio- blasts (see Embryology, p. 58). These are cells which have a common (epiblastic) origin with the neuroblasts, although their function, according to His, is early differentiated.2 From the spongioblasts, neuroglia cells appear ulti- mately to be produced, and these, within the central nervous system, take on much the same supporting function which is elsewhere fulfilled mainly by connective tissue. The medullary sheath does not make its appearance until a comparatively late period of embryonic life, and there is much doubt as to its mode of formation. It first appears as a thin layer of myelin, not unfrequently interrupted, which closely ensheaths the axis-cylinder, and is itself ensheathed by the nucleated neurolemma or sheath of Schwann which has been previously formed. Yignal refers the formation 1 For an account of the variations which are met with in different animals, illustrated by a large number of drawings, and for a discussion of many disputed points regarding the details of structure of these organs, the reader is referred to a paper by Prof. W. Kiihne in the “Zeitsehrift f. Biologie,” Bd. 23, 1886. 2 Ramon y Cajal, however, states that many of the neuroblasts are directly derived from cells which are identical with the spongioblasts of His.