190 KARYOKINESIS. contain only half the usual number of chromosomes; consequently the male pro- nucleus, which is formed from the nucleus of the spermatoblast (head of the spermatozoon), also is formed by one half the usual number. The same is ti e case with the female pronucleus which has parted with one half its total number of chromosomes in extruding the second directive corpuscle, so that the blending of the male and female pronuclei restores to the ovum its full number of chro- mosomes, and since in the division of this and in all subsequent processes of division, the chromosomes split and pass half into the one and half into the other daughter- nucleus, the number of chromosomes is constant for all the resulting cells of the organism. The two daughter-cells are each at first smaller than the mother-cell, but they soon grow, and the process may recommence and be repeated in them, and in this way cell-multiplication may be exceedingly rapid. The cells, as is most generally the case, may become entirely separated, but in some cases they remain in partial Fig. 221.—Multinucleated cells from the harrow. Highly magnified. (E.A.S.) a, a large cell the nucleus of which appears to be partly divided into three by constrictions; b, a cell the enlarged nucleus of which shows an appearance of being constricted into a number of smaller nuclei ; c, a so-called giant-cell with many nuclei; cl, a smaller cell with three nuclei; e—i, other cells of the marrow. conjunction, united by filaments of protoplasm which vary in number, length, and thickness. Sometimes, a multiplication of nuclei within a cell occurs without immediate separation into new cells, as in the large cells which are found in the medullary cavities of bone (fig. 221). Instances have been observed out of the body in which the amoeboid movements of the protoplasm seem to have produced cell-division (Klein, Ranvier), but this occurrence is seldom, and most likely abnormal; indeed, it is found, as a general rule, that whilst cell-division is proceeding, the external manifestations of activity of cell-protoplasm cease almost entirely. The following are the more important phases of change of the chromoplasmic filaments put in tabular form :— Network or Reticulum Skein or Spirem Cleavage Star or Monaster Divergence or Metakinesis 1. Resting condition of mother-nucleus. 2. Close skein of line convoluted filaments. 3. Open skein of thicker filaments. Achromatic spindle seen within nucleus. 4. Movement towards middle of nucleus, and cleavage of filaments (which are usually V-shaped). 5. Stellate arrangement of V-filaments in equator of spindle. 0. Separation of cleft filaments, and movement along fibres of spindle. Conveyance of V-filaments towards poles of spindle. Double Star or Dyaster... 7.