303 DEVELOPMENT. contracted, so that an indistinct appearance of striation may thus be produced. The cells are united by a small amount of intercellular cementing substance which .becomes stained by nitrate of silver. In some parts intercellular spaces may occur, bridged across as in epithelia by fine denticulations of the cells. They are generally collected into larger and smaller fasciculi, which in many cases cross one another and interlace. The fasciculi are attached at theii ends by connective tissue to the membranous and firmer parts where they occur. In some cases the attachment of the plain muscular cells takes place by means of elastic fibres which bifurcate at the end of the muscular cell. The two branches extend along either side of this and are firmly attached to it. In other cases again, accord- ing to Watney, the attachment may take place through the medium of connective tissue corpuscles, the branches of which embrace the muscular cell in like manner. Distribution.—The plain muscular tissue is for the most part disposed in the coats of the membranous viscera. It is met with in the lower half of the gullet, the Fig. 348.—Muscular fibre-cells from the uterus three weeks after delivery, ° TREATED WITH ACETIC ACID, MAGNIFIED 350 DIAMETERS. (Kolliker.) a, nuclei; y, fat-granules. stomach, and the whole intestinal canal; that is, both in the muscular coat of the alimentary canal, and also as a layer in the tissue of the mucous membrane, and in the villi; in the trachea and bronchial tubes, in the bladder and ureters, and the ducts of the larger glands generally, in the uterus and its appendages, in the corpora cavernosa of both sexes, in the prostate gland, in the spleen, in the muscle of Muller at the back of the orbit, and in the ciliary muscle and iris. The middle coat of the arteries, the coats of many veins and those of the larger lymphatics contain plain muscular tissue. In the skin it is present in the tubules of the sweat glands, in the form of minute muscles attached to the hair-follicles, and in the dartos or subcutaneous tissue of the scrotum. Numerous nerves, chiefly of the pale variety, are supplied to this tissue ; before their ultimate distribution they frequently come into connection with microscopic ganglia. The tissue receives blood-vessels, but these are far fewer in proportion than those of voluntary muscle. In some situations, as in the wall of the stomach and intestine, abundant lymphatic plexuses are found in close relation to the muscular layers. Development.—The elements of the plain or unstriped muscular tissue are •derived from embryonic nucleated cells, consisting of the usual granular-looking protoplasm. These cells become lengthened out, pointed at the ends, and flattened with elongation of the nucleus, whilst their substance becomes longitudinally fibril- lated and anisotropous, and acquires its permanent condition and characteristic properties. The great increase in the muscular tissue of the uterus during gestation takes place both by elongation and thickening of the pre-existing fibre-cells of which that non-striated tissue consists, and it is said also by the development of new muscular fibre-cells from small nucleated, granular cells lyiug in the tissue. In the shrinking of the uterus after parturition the fibre-cells diminish to their previous size ; many of them become filled with fat granules (fig. 348), and eventually many are doubtless removed by absorption. Regeneration of plain muscle after artificially-produced lesions has been seen to be accompanied by karyokinetic multiplication of the muscle-cells adjacent to the lesion (in the newt by Stilling and Pfitzner).