STRUCTURE OF MUCOUS MEMBRANES. 407 or retiform tissue. It is usually bounded next to the epithelium by a basement, membrane (fig. 465, ini'), and next to the submucous tissue by a thin layci of noil- striated muscular tissue termed the miscularis mucosa (mm). The iasement membrane is not everywhere demonstrable, but where it is well) marked it appears in section as a thin line immediately underlying the epithelium. Viewed on the flat and with the superjacent epithelium removed, the membrane in question seems at first sight homogeneous ; but treatment with nitrate of silver brings to view the outlines of the flattened cells of which it is in reality composed.. Fig. 465. —Section of mucous membrane from THE STOMACH OF THE KANGAROO. MAGNI- FIED ABOUT 260 DIAMETERS. (E. A. S. ) e, columnar epithelium of the surface, con- tinued into the neck, n, of the simple tubular glands, (jl ; but becoming at first cubical, and then polyhedral towards the base, b, of the glands ; It, lymphoid tissue; brn, basement membrane, bounding the corium superficially ; vim, muscularis mucosas, bounding the mucous membrane at its attached surface, and sending small bundles of plain muscular tissue between the glands. The commencement of a lymphatic vessel is shown between two of the glands. It is not always a complete membrane, for in some parts the cells composing it, instead of adhering closely by their edges, intercommunicate by branching processes so as to form a network instead of a continuous membrane. The basement membrane follows all the eminences and depressions of the surface of the mucous membrane, dip- ping down to take part in the forma- tion of the wall of the glands, and passing over the raised villi and other mm prominences. The muscularis mucosa forms the deepest part of a mucous membrane, but it is not everywhere present. It is best developed in the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal, in some parts of which it may consist of two layers, in the one of which the fibres are longitudinal, in the other circular in direction. From its inner surface muscular bundles bend inwards into the thickness of the mucous membrane, passing between the glands contained within it, and even into its prominences, so as in many cases to reach and become attached to the basement-membrane covering them (as in the villi of the small intestine). The muscularis mucosae is a part therefore of the mucous membrane, and is not to be confounded with the muscular coat proper, which forms a separate layer in most of the hollow viscera. The connective tissue taper or corium proper varies much in structure in different parts. In some situations, as in the gullet, bladder, and vagina, the filamentous connective tissue is abundant, and extends throughout its whole thickness, forming a continuous and tolerably compact web, and rendering the mucous membrane of those parts comparatively stout and tough. In the stomach and intestines, on the other hand, where the membrane is pervaded by tubular glands, the tissue between these is chiefly retiform or lymphoid tissue (fig. 465, It) with but few white and elastic fibres, and hence in these situations the membrane, although thicker, is far less firm and tough than in parts where much of the white connective tissue is