268 BONE OR OSSEOUS TISSUE. vessels (fig. 297, l), and often partially or wholly enclosing them (perivascular). The lymph or plasma of the blood is enabled to penetrate the hard bony substance by means of the lacunae and communicating canaliculi, which appear to bear the same i elation to the lymphatics as do the cell-spaces of ordinary connective tissue to the lymphatics of that tissue. The fine nerves which may be seen entering the bones along with the arteries are probably chiefly destined for those vessels ; it is not known whether any end in the bony tissue itself. As far as can be judged from observations on man and experiments on the lower animals, the bones, as well as their investing periosteum, are scarcely if at all sensible in the healthy condition, although they are painfully so when inflamed. FORMATION AND GROWTH OF BONE. The foundation of the skeleton is laid at a very early period ; for, among the parts that appear soonest in the embryo, we distinguish the rudiments of the vertebrae and base of the skull, which afterwards form the great median column to which the other parts of the bony fabric are appended. But it is by their outward form and situation only, that the parts representing the future bones are then to be recognised; for at that early period they do not differ materially in substance from the other structures of the embryo, being made up of mesoblastic cells, with a small amount of intercellular substance. Yery soon, however, they become cartilaginous, and ossification in due time beginning in the cartilage and continuing to spread from one or from several points, the bony tissue becomes gradually formed. But, while it is true with respect to the bones generally that their ossification commences in cartilage, it is not so in every instance. The tabular bones forming the roof of the skull may be adduced as a decided example to the contrary ; in these the ossification goes on in connective tissue altogether unconnected with any carti- lage ; and even in the long bones, in which ossification undoubtedly commences and to a certain extent proceeds in cartilage, it will be afterwards shown that there is much less of the increment of the bone really owing to that mode of ossification than was at one time generally believed. It is necessary, therefore, to distinguish two species or modes of ossification, which for the sake of brevity may be called the intramembranous and the intracartilaginous. INTRAMEMBRANOUS OSSIFICATION: OSSIFICATION IN CONNECTIVE TISSUE. The tabular bones of the cranium, as already said, afford an example of this mode of ossification. The base of the skull in the embryo is cartilaginous ; but in the roof, that is to say, the part comprehending the parietal, the frontal, and a certain portion of the occipital bones, we find (except where there happen to be commencing muscular fibres) only the integuments, the dura mater, and an intermediate layer, in which the ossification proceeds. The commencing ossification of the parietal bone, which may be selected as an example, appears to the naked eye in the form of a network in which the little bars or spicula of bone run in various directions, and meet each other at short distances. By-and-by the ossified part, becoming extended, gets thicker and closer in texture, especially towards the centre, and the larger bony spicula which now appear, run out in radiating lines to the circumference. The ossification continues thus to spread and consolidate until the parietal meets the neighbouring bones, with which it is at length united by sutures. Fig. 308 represents the parietal bone of an embryo sheep about two inches and a half long, and shows the character of the ossification as it appears when the object