ARRANGEMENT OF FIBRES IN AREOLAR TISSUE. 229 striation, and also the tendency which the elastic fibres show to break across (seldom or never splitting- longitudinally), are indications of the original formation of the fibres as rows of isolated particles, which subsequently become fused together. In areolar tissue the bundles of white fibres intercross in all directions (fig. 262), and exhibit every degree of curvature. The bundles are very variable in size, the number of filaments in a bundle presenting a corresponding variation ; and the laxity or density of the tissue depends chiefly upon the size of the bundles and the closeness with which they are packed. The elastic fibres of areolar tissue run in the ground-substance between the white bundles, but when the latter are large and occupy almost the whole of the tissue the elastic fibres often appear to lie upon the surfaces of the bundles, and we even see here and there what appears to be an elastic fibre winding- round one of these bundles, and encircling it with several spiral turns. When acetic acid is applied, the fasciculus swells out between the constricting turns of the winding fibre, and presents a highly characteristic appearance (fig. 263). This remarkable disposition of the elastic fibres, which was pointed out by Henle, is not uncommon Fig. 263.—Bundle of white fibres of connective tissue swollen by acetic acid. (Toldt.) From the subarachnoid tissue at the base of the brain. Fig. 264.—Part of a moderately large tendon in transverse section. (E. A. S.) «, areolar sheath of the tendon, with the fibres for the most part running transversely, but with two or three longitudinal bundles, b ; l, lymphatic cleft in the sheath ; immediately over it a blood-vessel is seen cut across and on the other side of the figure a small artery is shown cut longitudinally ; c, large septum of areolar tissue ; cl, smaller septum ; c, still smaller septum. The irregularly stellate bodies are the tendon cells in section. in certain parts of the areolar tissue ; it may be always seen in that which accompanies the arteries at the base of the brain. It must be observed, however, that the encircling fibre sometimes forms not a continuous spiral, but several separate rings. In such a case the appearance may be explained on the supposition that the bundles in question are naturally invested with a delicate sheath, which, like the elastic tissue, resists acetic acid, but, on the swelling up of the bundle under