THE SKIN. 422 satisfactorily explained : it appears generally to be due to the development of air between the elongated cells composing the hair. The rate of growth of hair is about half-an-inch a month. Hairs are found on all parts of the skin except the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, the dorsal surface of the third phalanges of the fingers and toes, the glans, and the inner surface of the prepuce. On the scalp they are set in groups, on the rest of the skin for the most part singly. Except those of the eyelashes, which are implanted perpendicularly to the surface, they have usually a slanting direction, which is constant in the same parts. In the negro the hair-fol- licles have been found to be curved, so that the papilla may look in a direction parallel to or ■even away from the surface of the skin (Stewart). With the exception of the bones and teeth, no tissue of the body withstands decay after death so long as the hair, and hence it is often found preserved in sepulchres, when nothing else remains but the skeleton. Structure of the hair-follicle.—The follicle, which receives near its mouth the opening ducts of one or more sebaceous glands (fig. 481, t), consists of an outer coat continuous with the corium, and an epidermic lining continuous with the cuticle. The outer or dermic coat of the follicle is thin but firm, and consists of three layers. The most external (fig. 482, a) is formed of connective tissue in longitudinal bundles, without elastic fibres, but with numerous corpuscles. It is highly vascular, and provided with nerves. It is continuous above with the corium, and deter- mines the form of the follicle. The most internal layer (hyaline layer, Kolliker) (fig. 482, d) is a transparent homogeneous membrane, marked transversely on its inner surface with some raised lines, and not reaching so high as the mouth of the follicle ; it corresponds with the membrana propria or basement membrane of allied structures. Between the two is a layer extending from the 'bottom of the follicle as high as the entrance of the sebaceous glands, composed of an indistinctly fibrous matrix, which tears transversely, and of transversely disposed connective tissue ■corpuscles, with oblong nuclei (fig. 482, c). This layer is continuous with the papillary part of the cutis vera, and its blood-vessels are continuous above with those of that layer. The epidermic coat of the follicle adheres closely to the root of the hair, and ■commonly separates, in great part, from the follicle and abides by the hair when the Pig. 482.—Section of hair-follicle. (Biesiadecki.) 1, Dermic coat of follicle ; 2, epidermic coat or root-sheatk : a, outer layer of dermic coat, with blood-vessels, b, b, cut across ; c, middle layer; cl, inner or hyaline layer ; e, outer root-sheath ; f, cj, inner root-sheath ; h, cuticle of root-sheath ; i, hair. latter is pulled out; hence it is sometimes named the “ root- sheath.” It consists of an outer, softer, and more opaque stratum (fig. 428, e), next to the dermic coat of the follicle, and an internal more transparent layer (fig. 482, /, g) j next to the hair. The former, named also the outer root- 2 sheath, and by much the thicker of the two, corresponds \ with the Malpighian layer of the epidermis in general, and contains soft polygonal cells, including pigment- I granules in the coloured races, which at the lower part \ form a much thinner stratum and pass continuously into those of the hair-knob ; the internal layer or inner root-sheath, probably represents the stratum lucidum of the epidermis, but is not continuous with that part of the skin, ceasing abruptly a little below the orifices of the sebaceous ducts. Lining the root-sheath internally is a layer of imbricated, downwardly-projecting scales, the cuticle of the root-sheath (fig. 482, h), which is applied to the cuticle of the hair proper, to whose upwardly directed scales it fits like a mould. Its scales, as well as those ot the hair-cuticle,