RECENT LITERATURE OF CONNECTIVE TISSUE. 248 different animals, and in the connective tissues of different parts. In the vitreous humour of the eye no fibres are developed, and the cells become for the most part cither atrophied or much modified, and remain relatively few in number. The so-called jelly-like connective tissue which is thus produced consists therefore almost entirely of ground-substance. Connective tissue appears to be readily regenerated, although the new cicatricial tissue which is formed in place of that which has been removed by the knife or by disease, is not always obviously of the same character, either as regards its cells or fibres, as the tissue it replaces. As to the mode of its regeneration there is still some uncertainty. It was believed by Cohnheim, whose views have been supported by the experiments of Ziegler, that the new tissue was formed by the leucocytes (lymph-corpuscles) of the granulation tissue which first appears in the wound. But it is affirmed on the other hand by other observers that the leucocytes, although unquestionably the precursors of the newly-forming tissue, do not take any direct part in its formation, but are gradually replaced by plasma-cells of the surrounding tissue which also wander into the space within which the new tissue is to become formed. Here they produce the cicatricial tissue, either by immediate transformation of their protoplasm into fibrils, or by an extracellular formation in the adjacent ground-substance. RECENT LITERATURE. Altmann, Ueber die Fettumsetzungen inn, Oryanismus, Arch. f. Anat. u. Phys., Anat. Abth., Suppl. Heft, 1889. Bambeke, C., v., Be Vorigine des tissus de substance conjonctive, Ann ales de la societe Beige de microscopie, xii., 1889. Beltzow, A., Untersuchungen iiber Entiuickelung und Regeneration der Sehnen, Archiv f. mikr. Anat., Bd. 22, 1883. Bobritzky, C., Zur Kenntniss des Banes, der Entwicklung und der regressiven Metamorphose der Fettzellen, Medicin. Centralb. No. 43. 1885. Ehrmann, S., Ueber Fettgewebsbildung aus dem als Winterschlafsdriise bezciclineten Fettorgan, Sitzungsber. d. Wiener Akad., Bd. 87, 1883. Ewald, A., Zur Histologic u. Chemie der elastischen Fasern u. des Bindegewebes, Zeitschr. f. Biologie., viii., 1889. Erommann, C., Structur der Fettzellen und Hire Membran, Jenaische Zeitschrift fiir Natur- wissenschaften, xvii., 1884. Heller, J., Die Histogcnese der elastischen Fasern im Netzknorpel und Ligamentum nuchae, Dissert., Berlin, 1887. Jakowski, M., Fin Beitrag zur Lehre von der Entwicklung des Fettgcwebes, Festschrift zur Feier des 25 jahrigen Jubilaums von Prof. Hoyer, Warschau, 1884. Kolliker, A., Zur Entwicklung des Fettgewebcs, Anatom. Anzeiger, No. 8, 1886. Kuskow, N., Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Entwicklung des elastischen Gewebcs im Ligamentum nuchae und im Netzknorpel, Archiv f. mikrosk. Anatomie, Bd. 30, 1887. Lwoff, Ueber die Entwickelung der Fibrillen des Bindegewebes, Wiener Sitzungsb., 98, 1889. Mall, E., Reticulated and yellow elastic tissues, Anat. Anzeiger, iii. Jahrg., No. 14, 1888. Martinotti, De la reaction des fibres elastiques avec Vemploi du nitrate d'argent, Arch. ital. de biologie, xi., 1889. Metzner, R., Ue. die Bezieliungen der Granvla zum Fcttansutz, Arch. f. Anat. u. Phys., Anat. Abth., 1890. Nordmann, O., Beitrage zur Kenntniss und namentlich zur Farhung der Mastzcllen, Internat. Monatsschr. f. Anat. u. Histol. ii., 1885. Ognew, J., Zur Frage von der morphologischen Bedeutung des fibrillaren Bindegewebes, Archiv. f. Anat. u. Physiol., Anat. Abth., 1885. Poljakow, Ueber eine neue Sorte Zellen, ans welchcr die fettbildenen Organe im Bindcgewebe bestehen, Russian : Abstr. in Hermann and Schwalbe’s Jabresbericht, 1888. Randnitz, R. W., Beitrag zur Kenntniss der im Bindegew.ebe vorkommenden Zellen, Archiv. f. mikr. Anat., Bd. 22, 1883. Ranvier, L., Les iUmcnts et les tissus du systemc conjonctif, Journal de micrographie, 1889, 1890. Sherrington, C. S., and Ballance, C. A., On formation of scar tissue, Journal of Physiology, x., 1889.