366 BLOOD-VESSELS. Minute ganglia are found in various parts connected with the arteries, but their existence does not appear to be by any means universal. VEINS. Mode of distribution.—The veins are ramified throughout the body, like the arteries, but in most regions and organs of the body they are more numerous and larger, so that the venous system is altogether more capacious than the arterial. The pulmonary veins form an exception to this rule, for they do not exceed in capacity the pulmonary arteries. The veins are arranged in a superficial and a deep set, the former running imme- diately beneath the skin, and thence named subcutaneous, the latter usually accom- panying the arteries, and named vencc comites vel satellites arteriarum. The large arteries have usually one accompanying vein, and the medium-sized and smaller arteries two, but there are exceptions to this rule. The veins within the skull and spinal canal, the hepatic veins, and the most considerable of those belonging to the bones, run apart from the arteries. The communications or anastomoses between veins of considerable size, are more frequent than those of arteries of equal magnitude. Structure.—The veins have much thinner coats than the arteries, and collapse when cut across or emptied ; whereas a cut artery presents a patent orifice. But, notwithstanding their comparative thinness, the veins possess considerable strength, more even, according to some authorities, than arteries of the same calibre. The number of their coats has been differently reckoned, and the tissues composing them differently described by different writers, and this discrepancy of statement is perhaps partly due to the circumstance that all veins are not perfectly alike in structure. In most veins of moderate size, three coats may be distinguished, which, as in the arteries, have been named external, middle, and internal. Internal coat.—This is less brittle than that of the arteries, and therefore admits of being more readily peeled off without tearing ; but, in other respects, the Fig. 425. —Transverse section of part OF THE WALL OF ONE OF THE POSTERIOR TIBIAL VEINS (MAN). (E. A. S.) a, epithelial and subepithelial layers of inner coat ; b, elastic layers of inner coat ; c, middle coat consisting of irregular layers of muscular tissue, alternating with connec- tive tissue, and passing somewhat gradually into the outer connective tissue and elastic: coat, d. two are much alike. It consists of an endothelium, a sub endothelial connective tissue layer, and an elastic layer (fig. 425, a, b).. The endothelium of the veins is similar in character to that of the arteries, but the cells are shorter and broader. The subendothelial layer is less developed in most veins than in the arteries, and indeed is absent altogether in many. It is better marked in some of the medium-sized veins than in the larger trunks. The elastic tissue of the inner coat occurs as dense lamelliform networks of longitudinal elastic fibres, and but seldom as fenestrated membranes. Longitudinal muscular bundles, as well as isolated contractile cells, are found in the inner coat of some veins.1 Middle coat.—This tunic is thinner than that of the arteries, and has a much larger mixture of white connective tissue. It is pervaded by an elastic network, but this is less conspicuous in the veins than in the arteries. . In the veins of the limbs (especially the upper limb) and in those of some other parts, the muscular 1 Veins which are apparently healthy, sometimes exhibit here and there well-marked thickenings of the inner coat; these thickenings may represent rudimentary valves (Bardeleben).