EFFECT OF ELECTRICAL AND OTHER STIMULI UPON PROTOPLASM. 177 Many reagents in solution influence the activity of protoplasm. Some of these act by adding to or subtracting from the water which it contains. As a general rule the imbibition of water up to a certain point, varying according to the source of the protoplasm which is under observation (Thoma), accelerates the activity of the protoplasm, but beyond that point addition of water produces a destructive effect. A comparatively slight amount of desiccation is, so far at least as regards the protoplasm of the higher animals, destructive of vitality, but this statement does not hold good for the protoplasm of many of the lower animal and plant organisms. Amongst reagents acids, although very weak (even carbonic acid), stop the contractile manifestations ; alkalies, on the other hand, if sufficiently dilute, increase at first their activity. They are stopped by chloroform and ether, but may be again resumed on the removal of those vapours. Some poisons (e.g., veratria) rapidly arrest the movements of cells. Effect of electrical and other stimuli upon protoplasm.—The effect of electrical stimulation upon protoplasm which is exhibiting either amoeboid or streaming movement is, if sufficiently strong, to cause an immediate cessation of those movements, accompanied by a withdrawal into the main substance of any processes that may have been protruded. If the stimulation cease the movements will recommence, provided the shock has not been so severe as to injure the living- substance. Abrupt changes of temperature, and mechanical stimulation, such as is pro- duced by sudden pressure or harsh contact, act in a similar manner. Further considerations regarding the structure of protoplasm.—If the pseudopodia of a white blood-corpuscle are observed with a high power of the micro- Fig. 205.—An amceboid pale cokpuscle of the newt, KILLED BY INSTANTANEOUS APPLICATION OF STEAM, SHOWING THE STRUCTURELESS APPEARANCE OF THE pseudopodia. (Drawn by D. Gunn.) scope, they appear when first thrown out from the body of the corpuscle to be per- fectly clear and homogeneous as if com- posed of hyaloplasm alone. Subsequently the reticular part of the protoplasm may flow into the pseudopodium. This struc- tureless character of the pseudopodia can be well observed if a preparation of the blood of the newt be made and set aside for half-an-hour or more until the white blood corpuscles have had time to throw out broad flattened pseudopodia which spread themselves over the uncler-surface of the cover-glass. If now a jet of steam be allowed to play for a moment upon the cover-glass, these corpuscles are instantly killed without having been able to withdraw the pseudopodia. They can then be hardened and stained, and observed with the highest powers of the microscope, when it is found that the thin extended portions of protoplasm show no trace of structure but appear completely homogeneous, in decided contrast with the main part of the cell, which exhibits distinctly the spongio-plasmic network. Strieker has lately published a photograph of the white blood-corpuscle of a Proteus anguineus, which demonstrates the same fact. In this photograph, which was taken from the living amoeboid cell by an instantaneous method, the body of the cell, which is nearly spherical, is beautifully reticular, whilst a thin external layer and a pseudopodium, which is being protruded, appear completely homogeneous.