LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 378 lymphatic spaces is also met with between the anastomosing muscular fibres of the heart. What may be regarded as a third mode of origin of lymphatics is to be found in the open communications which subsist between the serous cavities and the lym- phatic vessels in their walls. These orifices or stomata, which will be described with the serous membranes, allow of the passage of lymph from the serous cavities into the lymphatics, so that those cavities may, in a certain sense, be looked upon as large lymph lacunae. Owing to this communication fluid is not, under normal cir- cumstances, suffered to accumulate in them. In some of the lower animals the lacunar condition of lymphatics has been long known. Rusconi found that the aorta and mesenteric arteries of amphibia are inclosed in large lym- phatic spaces. Johannes Miiller recognised the spaces which so extensively separate the frog’s skin from the subjacent muscles as belonging to the lymphatic system, and Recklinghausen showed that the subcutaneous lymph-spaces of the frog’s leg communicate with lymphatic vessels which envelope the blood-vessels of the foot; also that milk injected into these spaces finds its way into the blood. The lymphatic system, in being thus constituted by lacunas or interstitial receptacles, so far agrees with the sanguiferous system of crustaceans and insects. Structure.—In structure the larger lymphatic vessels much resemble the veins, except that their coats are thinner, so thin and transparent indeed that the con- tained fluid can be readily seen through them. When lymphatics have passed out from the commencing plexuses and lacunae, they are found to have three coats. The internal coat is covered with an epithelial lining (endothelium), consisting of a single layer of flattened nucleated cells, which have mostly an oblong or lanceolate figure, with an indented or bluntly serrated border, by which the adjacent cells fit to each other (fig. 436, a). Outside the endothelial layer the inner coat is formed of a layer or layers of longitudinal elastic fibres. The middle coat consists of plain muscular tissue disposed circularly, mixed with finely reticulating elastic fibres taking the same direction. Over the dilatations which occur in the vessels beyond each of the valves, the circular disposition of the muscular fibres gives place to a more irregular disposition, taking the form of an intricate interlacement of fibres. The external coat is composed mainly of white connective tissue with a sparing intermixture of longitudinal elastic fibres, and some longitudinal and oblique bundles of plain muscular tissue. In the thoracic duct there is a sub-epithelial layer (as in the arteries) ; and in the middle coat there is a longitudinal layer of white connective tissue with elastic fibres, immediately within the muscular layer. The muscular fibres of the middle coat, although for the most part transverse in direction, are nevertheless many of them oblique or even longitudinal. The largest lymphatics have blood-vessels ramifying in their outer coat. The commencing lymphatics or lymphatic capillaries, whether in plexuses or single (as in the villi), have a much simpler structure, their wall being entirely formed of a layer of endothelium either similar in form to those lining the larger vessels or (more frequently) presenting a characteristic waved border like the epidermic cells of grasses and some other plants (fig. 437). Gaskell has described an attachment of elastic fibres to the walls of smaller lymphatics in some parts, and infers that the patency of the lumen of these vessels may by this means be restored after it has been temporarily obliterated by pressure (or by contraction of the muscular coat). Valves.—The lymphatic and lacteal vessels are furnished with valves serving the same office as those of the veins, and for the most part constructed after the same fashion. They generally consist of two semilunar folds arranged in the same way as in the valves of veins already described, but deviations from the usual structure here