335 TACTILE CORPUSCLES. Tactile cells (Merkel). Tactile cells, isolated or in groups, but in the latter case not collected together to form a tactile end-organ, were described by Merkel as occurring in the deeper layers of the epidermis and sometimes in the subjacent true skin over almost the whole of the body (fig. 389 A). In animals they are especially numerous in parts of the skin which are devoid of hairs, as in that which covers the soles of the feet, and on the snout, as well as amongst the epithelium-cells of the hard palate. The cells in question are round or pyriform in shape, and prolonged at one part into the axis-cylinder of a nerve-fibre : in cases where the axis-cylinder is ramified, it may be connected with more than one of these cells. Each cell is stated to be inclosed by a cell-membrane which is continuous with a prolongation of the primitive sheath of the nerve-fibres. When the tactile cells occur in the superficial layers of the cutis vera instead of amongst the cells of the epidermis they are found to be enclosed in a capsule of connective tissue, which is pierced by the axis-cylinder of the nerve-fibre as this passes to apply itself to one of the surfaces of the usually flattened cell. Such a cell, inclosed in a capsule and forming the termination of a nerve-fibre, represents, according to Merkel, the tactile end-organ in its simplest form. The existence of tactile cells such as are described by Merkel is, however, not generally admitted by histologists, but Ranvier has described and figured a mode of termination which is somewhat like that described by Merkel with the exception that the nerve-fibres do not pass directly into the cells, but come into connexion with them through the medium of concavo-convex expansions, to which he has given the name of tactile disks or menisci (fig. 389 B). Haycraft states that in the carapace of the tortoise the nerves end in the nuclei of some of the deeper cells of the epidermis. Tactile corpuscles or touch-bodies (corpuscula tcicius)—(figs. 390 to 393). These were discovered by R. Wagner and Meissner in the papilla; of the skin of the hand and foot, where they are of an oval shape, nearly -gig- of an inch long and gio of an inch thick. They may be found in the skin of all parts of the hand and foot, including the bed of the nails, that of the volar surface of the forearm, in the Eig. 390.—Section of skin showing TWO PAPILLJE AND DEEPER LAYERS of epidermis. (Biesiadecki.) a, vascular papilla with capillary loop passing from subjacent vessel, c; b, nerve-papilla with tactile corpuscle, t. The latter exhibits transverse fibrous markings : three nerve-fibres, d, ore re- presented as passing up to it; at ff these are seen in optical section. t skin of the nipple in both sexes, in the conjunctiva at the edge of the eyelids, and in the skin of the lips and in the mucous membrane of the tip of the tongue. Similar occur in monkeys, but have not been found in animals lower in the scale. One, two, or more medullated nerve-fibres run to the corpuscle and either at once or after winding round it two or more times, pass into its interior and become lost to view. The tactile corpuscles were long de- scribed as consisting of a soft structureless core or central part, in which the nerve-fibres were thought to terminate by bulbous enlargements, and of an inclosing capsule of connective tissue, continuous with the perineurium of the nerve and composed for the most part of transverse or spiral fibres and nuclei, so arranged as to give the little body somewhat the aspect of a miniature fir-cone. It would appear however that a core, like that of the Pacinian corpuscles to be presently described, does not in reality exist m these corpuscles, but that the main substance of the touch- body is composed of connective tissue, prolonged inwards from the capsule in the