STRUCTURE OP THE COLOURED BLOOD CORPUSCLES. 210 Structure of the coloured blood corpuscle.—Each red corpuscle is formed of two parts, a coloured and a colourless, the former being a solution of hmioglobin, the latter, the so-called stroma, which is in by far the smaller quantity, being com- posed of various substances, chief among these being lecithin and cholesterin, together with a small amount of cell-globulin'(Halliburton and Friend). Water constitutes about two-thirds of the corpuscles ; if the water is driven off, about 90 per cent, of the residue is haemoglobin. If water be added to a preparation of blood under the microscope, the water is imbibed and the concave sides of the corpuscle become bulged out so that it is rendered globular. By the further action of the water the haemoglobin is dissolved d | | © © O yC* Fig. 242.—a-e, successive effects of water upon a red blood- corpuscle ; a, corpuscle seen edgeways, slightly swollen ; b, c, one of the sides bulged out (cup form); cl, spherical form ; e, decolorized stroma; /, a thorn-apple shaped corpuscle (due to exposure); g, action of tannin upon a red corpuscle. out of the corpuscle, and the colourless part or stroma remains as a faint circular outline. This simple ex- periment conclusively shows that the corpuscle is composed of a membrane or external envelope with coloured fluid contents, for the above reaction is precisely the same as would occur by osmosis with a bladder of the shape of the corpuscle filled with a strong solution of albuminous substance and placed in water (Schwann). On the other hand it is entirely inexplicable on the sup- position that the corpuscle is composed of a uniform disc-shaped stroma, permeated with coloured substance, which is the view advocated by Bruecke and Rollett, and adopted by nearly all subsequent writers on the subject, for if this were the case water should swell it out uniformly ; as happens if a disc of gelatine is placed in water, the whole disc imbibing the water, and become increased in size but retaining its original shape. The same fact is illustrated by the effects of mechanical injuries. If the corpuscles are suddenly pressed they become ruptured and the haemoglobin escapes, leaving the colourless part of the corpuscle as a mere outline. If blood is frozen the ice-crystals which form rupture the envelope, and on thawing the hfemoglobin escapes into the serum. Electric shocks passed through blood, if sufficiently strong, also rupture the delicate envelope of the corpuscles. Dilute acids act like water, but decompose the hemoglobin into colourless proteid (globin) and hematin, which are both dissolved by the acid. In the case of tannic acid, the products of decomposition are usually precipitated upon the envelope in the form of a small dark red coagulum (fig. 242, g). Alkalies, even when very dilute, cause a complete disappearance of the red corpuscles, the membranes as well as the haemoglobin being dissolved : the latter is converted into alkaline hiematin. Ether or chloroform produce a similar effect when shaken up with blood, but may not completely dissolve the envelope. The blood or serum of some animals produces decolorization - of the red corpuscles of others belonging to different genera. This may be due to the fact that the one is more alkaline or of less specific gravity than the other, but the actual cause has not been determined definitely. Solutions of common salt, if stronger than Off per cent., produce when added to blood ere nation of the red corpuscles. This is due to exosmosis, the corpuscles losing water and thereby becoming shrunken. Under like circumstances the blood- corpuscles of the frog and newt, which do not exhibit crenation, show a wrinkled appearance of the surface of the corpuscle, a phenomenon which is scarcely explicable except by assuming the presence of a membrane. The action of ether and chloroform and that of alkalies seems to throw some 1 Since shown to be a nucleo-proteid.