310 AXIS-CYLINDER. But the latter is always present, and is indeed the chief functional constituent of the nerve-fibre. The several parts of which the nerve-fibre is composed may now be described in detail. Axis-cylinder.—The essential part of every nerve-fibre is a pale and somewhat indistinct strand, which runs in the axis of the fibre and is termed the axis-land, axial fibre, or more commonly the axis-cylinder (fig. 355, 3 ; and 356, c). This essential part is usually enclosed, as just mentioned, in one or more sheaths, but these are not always present, especially at the origin and termination of a nerve- fibre ; and even in the course of the fibre they may be interrupted at intervals. The axis-cylinder, on the other hand, undergoes no interruption along the whole course of the nerve, from the nerve-centre to the peripheral distribution. It appears further to be clearly established that the axial fibre of a nerve is in every case a direct prolongation of a branch of a nerve-cell. It is therefore to be looked upon in the light of a far-extending cell-process ; and the study of the development of the nerve-fibre affords a direct confirmation of this view of its nature. In the fresh state, and under high powers of the microscope, the axis-cylinder presents an appearance of longitudinal striation, indicating a fibrillar structure (fig. 357) ; and at the termination of the nerves it may often be seen to separate into a Fig. 358.—Nerve-fibres stained with nitrate of silver to show Frohmann’s markings in the axis-cylinder. (Ranvier.) A, fibre showing a node, a, with the constricting ring. The axis- cylinder has become shifted, and the part which was opposite the node and which is stained by the silver, is now below it; r, conical enlarge- ment of the axis-cylinder. B, Isolated axis-cylinder. number of exquisitely fine filaments or fibrils. These, the primitive fibrillce, of Max Schultze, are embedded in a homogeneous or finely-granular material, and may with some reason be regarded as constituting the essential ox- conducting part of the axis-cylinder, and therefore of the nerve ; at least, it frequently happens that they form the only visible portion of the nerve-fibre that is prolonged to the ultimate termination. The fibrils often exhibit minute varicosities which are highly characteristic in appearance. They have a remarkable affinity for gold salts, and when placed first in solutions of these and afterwards in reducing agents (or merely exposed to the light in water), the metal becomes deposited in the nerve-fibrils, giving them a dark violet, almost black, appearance (see fig. 407, p. 346). They also become deeply stained by methyl blue, especially when it is injected into the vascular system of the living animal (Ehrlich). These methods ai-e employed to ti-ace the mode of ending of the fibrils. _ The axis-cylinder is, by some authors, stated to be invested with a very delicate structureless sheath. This sheath, which was first described by Mauthnei, may possibly be a protoplasmic inner layer of the medullary sheath ; but it is somewhat doubtful whether the appearance is not due to a layer of fluid which has become expressed by a shrinking of the axis-cylinder and coagulated under the influence of the reagents employed. It was shown by Frommann that after treatment with nitrate of silver and subsequent exposure to the light the axis-cylinder becomes stained in such a manner as to exhibit a distinct cross-striated aspect (fig. 358), but it is not known whether this depends upon any structural feature of the fibre or not. In addition to this cross-striated appearance, which may be seen in any part of the axis-cylinders, they exhibit a peculiar biconical enlargement at each node