MUSCULAR TISSUE. 285 MUSCULAR TISSUE. The muscular tissue is that by means of which the active movements of the body are produced. It consists of fibres, which are for the most part collected into ■distinct organs called “ muscles,” and in this form it is familiarly known as the flesh ■of animals. These fibres, from a characteristic appearance which they exhibit under the microscope, are usually known as “ cross-striped ” or “ striated ; ” they are many of them under the control of the will, and are hence often spoken of as “ voluntary ” muscles. Another kind of muscular tissue is disposed around the blood-vessels and most of the hollow viscera, often forming a distinct coat or coats to these. In this kind the fibres do not exhibit the same cross-striated appearance, and they have therefore been termed in contradistinction “ plain ” or “ non-striated ” muscular fibres. Most of these are entirely withdrawn from the control of the will, and they are therefore also termed involuntary. The muscular tissue of the heart, although having a cross-striated appearance, differs in many respects from that of the skeletal muscles : it is therefore described separately under the term “ cardiac ” muscular tissue. Muscular fibres are endowed with contractility, by virtue of which they shrink or contract more or less rapidly under the influence of certain causes which are capable of exciting or calling into play the property in question, and which .are therefore named stimuli. STRUCTURE OF CROSS-STRIATED OR SKELETAL MUSCLES. The skeletal muscular fibres are for the most part gathered into distinct organs -or muscles of various sizes and shapes, but most generally of an oblong form, and furnished with tendons at each extremity, by which they are fixed to the bones. The fibres are in the first place collected into bundles, of greater or less thick- ness, named fasciculi or lacerti (fig. 322). The fibres are parallel in the fasciculi ; and the fasciculi extend continuously from one terminal tendon to the other, unless in those instances, like the rectus muscle of the abdomen and the digastric of the inferior maxilla, in which the fleshy part is interrupted by interposed tendinous tissue. The fasciculi also very generally run parallel, and, although in many instances they converge towards their tendinous attachment with various degrees of inclination, yet in the voluntary muscles they do not interlace with one another. An outward investment or sheath of areolar tissue (epimysium) surrounds the -entire muscle, and sends partitions inwards between the fasciculi; furnishing to each of them a special sheath {'perimysium)} The areolar tissue extends also between the fibres (endomysium), but does not afford to each a continuous investment, and therefore cannot be said to form sheaths for them. Every fibre, it is true, has a tubular sheath ; but this, as will be afterwards explained, is not composed of areolar tissue. The perimysium contains elastic as well as white fibres ; but the elastic element is found principally in its investing, as distinguished from its penetrating, portion. In the endomysium numerous plasma-cells are found. The chief uses of the areolar tissue are to connect the fibres and fasciculi together, and to conduct and support the blood-vessels and nerves in their ramifications between the parts. The relation of these different subdivisions of a muscle to each other, as well as the shape of the fasciculi and fibres, is well shown in transverse section (figs. 322 and 323). 1 The term perimysium has usually been employed to designate the external investment of the whole -muscle as well as the special sheath of each fasciculus. I have ventured, however, to introduce the word epimysium for the general sheath, since the terms will then have a close analogy with those which are applied to the connective tissue investments of a nerve (see p. 324).