PACINIAN CORPUSCLES. o45 The nerve-fibre is single as it runs along the peduncle, unless when the lattei supports two corpuscles ; it retains the medullary sheath until it reaches the core, into which the axis-cylinder alone passes, freed from its primitive and medullaiy sheaths. In its course through the core it is somewhat flattened, and presents the appearance either of a pale, finely striated, and very faintly outlined band or stripe, or of a darker and more sharply defined narrow line ; differing thus in appearance according as its flat side or its edge is turned towards the eye. The contrast in the appearance of the fibre before and after entering the core is well exhibited after treatment with osmic acid, which stains the medullary sheath deeply, whereas the axis-cylinder is far less stained. It sometimes happens that the fibre regains its double contour for a short space, and changes again before it terminates ; this is especially liable to occur while it passes through a sharp flexure in a crooked core. The fibre usually ends by a sort of knob at the further extremity of the core, which is here itself somewhat dilated. The knob, often finely granular, appears to be an expansion of the axis-cylinder, and is sometimes of considerable size. It may be of an irregular shape with processes branching outwards from the sides, and in such cases has been taken to represent a nerve-cell ; but the characteristic nucleus of the latter is absent. The ultimate destination of the processes is unknown. The axis- cylinder shows the usual longitudinal fibrillation as it passes through the core, and the fibrils become somewhat spread out as they pass into the terminal expansion. In many cases the fibre, either immediately before terminating, or in its course through the core, divides into branches. In case of division of the fibre, the core is generally, but not invariably, divided in a corresponding measure, and the inner tunics present a figure in keeping with it. It is worthy of remark, that the nerve-fibre in its course along the core runs almost exactly in the axis of the latter, and it maintains this position even when passing through the abrupt flexures of an irregularly shaped core. It sometimes happens that a fibre passes quite through one corpuscle and terminates in a second, resuming its original size and dark outline while passing from the one to the other. A little artery enters the Pacinian body along with the nerve, and soon divides into capillary branches, which run up between the tunics. They then form loops, and return by a similar route into a vein corresponding to the artery : a single capillary usually accompanies the nerve as far as the core, and passes some way on the wall of the latter, sometimes with a spiral direction (Bowman). Occasionally a vessel enters the corpuscle at the distal end and passes towards the core, uniting the tunics in its passage. As to the nature of the core of the Pacinian body, there is considerable difference of opinion. That it is not merely an expansion of the medullary sheath of the nerve-fibre, as was thought by Engelmann, is shown by its behaviour with staining fluids, and particularly osmic acid (see fig. 406). Moreover in cases where the medullary sheath is prolonged for some distance to the core, as occasionally happens, the contrast between it and the substance which surrounds it, is very marked. In considering the true nature of the core, it should first be remarked that it is not completely homogeneous and structureless, as on superficial examination it seems to be, but exhibits at least in its outer part longitudinal striation and nuclei in variable number. In transverse section the striation in the outer part of the core is seen to be concentric, and pro- duced apparently by flattened nucleated cells, which are so arranged as to inclose the inner and more homogeneous portion. At the entrance of the nerve-fibre into the core the nucleated cells here spoken of are to all appearance continuous with a layer of cells in the endoneurium around the entering nerve-fibre, so that this outer part of the core, at least, might be regarded as formed by an expansion of endoneurium. The inner part, on the other hand, that, namely, which is in immediate contact with the axis-cylinder, appears structureless. In its behaviour towards staining re-agents, it resembles protoplasm, and it is possible that it may represent the protoplasmic layer which in young nerves intervenes between the axis-cylinder and the sheath of Schwann of a nerve-fibre, and in which the fatty substance of the medullary sheath becomes deposited. Nothing positive is known concerning the special purpose in the animal economy which