291 STRUCTURE OF THE WING-MUSCLES OF INSECTS. of the longitudinal view correspond to the more delicate network seen in other and •deeper planes of the disks. It is also clear from what has been said that these rectilinear appearances do not denote the presence of a network of filaments, but are the optical effect of septa separating the muscle-columns, which septa, at the level of the apparent dots, are thickened by the accumulation of a larger amount of sarcoplasm. In muscular fibres which have been treated first with acid and afterwards with chloride of gold, and which have been placed in formic acid for twenty-four hours, or until the gold has become reduced in the tissue, the sarcoplasm becomes stained of a dark violet colour, while all the rest of the muscular substance remains unstained. The reticular appearances are thereby rendered very distinct, and they have led many histologists to believe that the muscle- substance consists of a contractile reticulum composed of longitudinal filaments and transverse networks, and enclosing in its meshes a non-contractile fluid substance (enchylcma, Camoy), which is continuous in every direction in the fibre. But it can be proved, as will be seen immediately when the structure of the wing-muscles of insects is considered, that the inter-reticular substance (■i.e., the substance forming the muscle-columns) is undoubtedly the contractile part of the muscle, and that the apparent reticulum or sarcoplasm is not con- tractile. Moreover, careful observation with the highest powers distinctly shows that the filaments of the reticulum are actually septa which subdivide the fibre into longitudinal elements. Structure of the wing-muscles of insects.—The wing-muscles of insects may be looked upon as furnishing the key to the proper understandiug of the Fig. 333.—Sarcostyles op the wing-muscles op a wasp. Highly magnified. (E. A. S.) A, A', sarcostyles showing degrees of retrac- tion (? contraction). B, a sarcostyle extended, with the sarcous elements separated into two parts. C, three sarcostyles moderately extended. The structure of the sarcous elements is shown semidiagrammatically in these. A m HHt m m structure of muscle. Although often regarded as a contractile tissue sai generis they in fact agree in all essen- tial particulars of structure with the ordinary muscles. Moreover, in some insects they are replaced by muscles of iHH the ordinary type, and in others mus- cular fibres occur which may be regarded as transitional forms between the wing-fibres and ordinary fibres. The wing-fibres are large bundles of muscle-columns or sarco- styles (often spoken of as “ wing-fibrils ”) which are imbedded in a considerable amount of sarcoplasm con- taining peculiar granules, the whole being usually enclosed within a sarcolemma (figs. 333, 334). The nuclei of the fibre are scattered here and there in the sarcoplasm, and this has all the appearance and many of the chemical characters of cell-protoplasm. Amongst these characters is that of staining darkly with chloride of gold, in which respect the sarcoplasm of the wing-muscles exactly resembles the apparent reticulum of ordinary muscles. The main difference is one of amount, the quantity of sarcoplasm in the wing-muscles being relatively far greater (fig. 334) than in the ordinary muscles. When a living wing-fibre is broken up with needles in a small drop of white of egg) the sarcostyles become easily separated from the sarcoplasm which surrounds