THE SKIN. 414 parts loose and moveable, in others close and firm, as on the palmar surface of the hand and the sole of the foot, where the skin is fixed to the subjacent fascia by numerous stout fibrous bands, the space between being filled with a firm padding of fat. In some regions of the body the skin is moved by striated muscular fibres, which may be unconnected with fixed parts, as in the case of the orbicular muscle of the mouth, or may be attached beneath to bones or fascia;, like the other cutaneous muscles of the face and neck, and the short palmar muscle of the hand. Structure.—The cutis vera is made up of an extremely strong and tough framework of interlaced connective tissue fibres. The fibres are chiefly of the white variety, such as constitute the main part of the fibrous and areolar tissues, and are arranged in stout interlacing bundles, except at and near the surface, where the texture of the coriurn becomes finer and closer. With these are mixed elastic fibres, which vary in amount in different parts, and connective tissue corpuscles, which are often flattened up against the bundles of white fibres. Towards the attached surface the texture becomes much more open, with larger meshes, in which lumps of fat and the sweat-glands are lodged ; and thus the fibrous part of the skin, becoming more and more lax and more mixed with fat, blends gradually with the subcutaneous areolar tissue. In consequence of this gradual transition of the coriurn into the subjacent tissue, its thickness cannot be assigned with perfect precision. As a general rule, it is thicker on the posterior aspect of the head, neck, and trunk, than in front ; and thicker on the outer than on the inner side of the limbs, and as well as the cuticle,, it is remarkably thick on the soles of the feet and pahns of the hands. The skin of the female is thinner than that of the male. The skin is generally said to measure from Ath of an inch to nearly jtth of an inch (•5 to 3 millimeters) ; but it has been pointed out by Warren that, on the back and shoulders, it may be as thick as 5 or 6 mm. : and here it is almost entirely formed of dense anastomosing bundles of connective tissue, sending down on the one hand fibrous prolongations through the subjacent panniculus adiposus, and being penetrated obliquely on the other hand by columns of fat cells, which extend from that layer to the bases of the small hair-follicles, and conduct blood-vessels to these and to the surface of the skin. Buudles of plain muscular tissue are distributed in the substance of the coriurn wherever hairs occur ; their connection with the latter will be afterwards explained. Muscular bundles of the same kind are found in the subcutaneous tissue of the scrotum, penis, perineum, and areola of the nipple, as well as in the nipple itself. They join to form reticular layers, attached to the under-surface of the coriurn. In the areola they are disposed circularly. For convenience of description it is not unusual to speak of the coriurn as consisting of two layers, the “ reticular ” and the “ papillary.” The former, the more deeply seated, takes no part in the construction of the papillae, but contains in its meshes hair-follicles, cutaneous glands, and fat. The latter is extended into papillae, and receives only the upper portion of the hair-follicles and glands, together with the terminal expansion of the blood-vessels. The free surface of the cutis vera is marked in various places with larger or smaller furrows, which also affect the superjacent cuticle. The larger of them are seen opposite the flexures of the joints, as those so well known in the palm of the hand and at the joints of the fingers. The finer furrows intersect each other at various angles, and may be seen almost all over the surface; they are very conspicuous on the back of the hands. Fine curvilinear ridges, with intervening furrows, mark the skin of the palm and sole ; these are produced by the ranges of papilla?, to be immediately described : they form definite patterns, characteristic of each individual, but at the same time capable of being classified under a rela- tively small number of heads. Moreover, these patterns are permanent and do ,