STRUCTURE OF MUCOUS MEMBRANES. 406 hence are readily torn by a moderate force. The redness which they commonly -exhibit during life, and retain in greater or less degree in various parts after death is due to the blood contained in their vessels. The degree of redness is greater in the foetus and infant than in the adult. It is greater too in certain situations; thus, of the different parts of the alimentary canal, it is most marked in the stomach' pharynx, and rectum. Structure.—A mucous membrane is composed of corium and epithelium. The epithelium covers the surface. The membrane which remains after its removal is named the corium, as in the analogous instance of the true skin. 1 lu epithelium is the most constant part of a mucous membrane, being continued over certain parts to which the other constituents of the membrane cannot be traced, as over the alveoli of the lungs, and the front of the cornea of the eye. It may be scaly A B and stratified as in the mouth and throat, colum- nar as in the intestine, or ciliated as in the respiratory tract and uterus. When a mucous membrane is co- vered with an epithelium of the scaly and stratified variety, the mucus which moistens its surface is de- rived from glands in the membrane, which are lined with columnar and poly- hedral secreting cells ; but when a columnar epithelium or a ciliated epithelium covers the surface, a large part of the mucus is formed in the cells of this layer, and the glands of the mem- brane are frequently de- voted to the elaboration of some special secretion. The secretion is not as a rule formed at the same time in all the cells of the epithelium, but in some only. The first appearance of the mucigen within the cell is in the form of granules ; these appear to become enlarged, and eventually, as they are becoming transformed into mucus, they form clear swollen masses filling a large part of the cell, especially near its free border (fig. 4G4, to1, to2, to3). Those cells which are concerned in the production of mucus often become greatly distended with the accumulated mucigen into the shape of a goblet or chalice, and this may in many be seen to have become exuded from the free and apparently open end of the cell as a droplet of mucus. A certain number of these goblet- ox chalice-cells are almost always to be found in columnar epithelium covering mucous membranes. It is somewhat uncertain whether after discharge of their secretion they become reconverted into ordinary epithelium-cells, or whether they permanently maintain the chalice-like form, their cavity becoming again filled with secretion during rest. If the latter is the case the cells in question are analogous to the uni-cellular glands which are met with in the integument of some of the invertebrate animals. The corium of a mucous membrane consists of connective tissue, either areolar no- li V Fig. 464.—A. Columnar epithelium FROM THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF THE TRACHEA. (E. A. S.) to1, to3, to3, mucus-secreting cells between the ciliated cells, showing three stages in the formation of the secretion. B. — A MUCUS-SECRETING CELL FROM THE TRA- CHEA ; MORE HIGHLY MAGNIFIED.