BONE OR OSSEOUS TISSUE. 254 BONE OR OSSEOUS TISSUE. The bones are the principal organs of support, and the passive instruments of locomotion. Connected together in the skeleton, they form a framework of hard material, which affords attachment to the soft parts, maintains them in their due position, and shelters such as are of delicate structure, giving stability to the whole fabric, and preserving its shape ; and the different pieces of the skeleton being joined moveably together, serve also as levers for executing the movements of the body. While substantially consisting of hard matter, bones in the living body are covered with periosteum and filled with marrow ; they are also pervaded by blood- vessels for their nutrition. Bone has a white colour, with a pink and slightly bluish tint in the living body. Its hardness is well known, but it also possesses a certain degree of toughness and elasticity ; the last property is peculiarly well marked in the ribs. Its specific gravity is from 1.87 to 1.97. Chemical Composition.—Bone consists of an earthy and an animal part, inti- mately combined together ; the former gives hardness and rigidity, the latter tenacity, to the osseous tissue. The earthy part may be obtained separate by calcination. When bones are burned in an open fire, they first become quite black, like a piece of burnt wood, from the charring of their animal matter ; but if the fire be continued with free access of air, this matter is entirely consumed, and they are reduced to a white, brittle, chalk-like substance, still preserving their original shape, but with the loss of about a third of their weight. The earthy constituent, therefore, amounts to about two-thirds of the weight of the bone. It consists principally of phosphate of lime, with about a fifth part of carbonate of lime, and much smaller proportions of fluoride of calcium, chloride of sodium, and magnesian salts. The animal constituent may be freed from the earthy, by steeping a bone in diluted hydrochloric acid. By this process the salts of lime are dissolved out, and a tough flexible substance remains, which, like the earthy part, retains the perfect figure of the original bone in its minutest details ; so that the two are evidently com- bined in the most intimate manner. The animal part is often named the cartilage of bone, but improperly, for it differs entirely from cartilage in structure, as well as in physical properties and chemical nature. It is much softer and much more flexible, and, by boiling, it is almost wholly resolved into gelatin. It may accordingly be extracted from bones, in form of a jelly, by boiling them for a considerable time, especially under high pressure. The lining membranes of the Haversian canals and the walls of the lacunas are formed of a material which resists the action of strong hydrochloric acid (which dissolves the remainder of the animal matter) (Langer). In the compact substance of a femur that had been long buried, Aeby found only 16’5 per cent, of animal matter. The fluoride of calcium is found in larger quantity in fossil than in recent bones. MINUTE STRUCTURE OP BONE. On sawing up a bone, it will be seen that it is in some parts dense and close in texture, appearing like ivory ; in others open and reticular ; and anatomists accord- ingly distinguish two forms of osseous tissue, viz., the compact, and the sjpongy or cancellated. On closer examination, however, especially with the aid of a magni- fying glass, it will be found that the bony matter is everywhere porous in a greater