265 THE MARROW. The exact knowledge we possess of the minute structure of osseous tissue is largely the result of the careful investigation of the late Professor Sharpey, whose account, published in the fifth edition of this work in 1845, has needed no erasure, and but little addition, even to the present day. His labours in this field have been to a certain extent recognized in the adoption of the name “fibres of Sharpey” for the perforating fibres discovered by him, but it is only of late that the facts which he demonstrated are becoming understood and their significance appreciated by histologists. THE PERIOSTEUM. The periosteum, as already stated, is a fibrous membrane which covers the bones externally. It adheres to them very firmly, and invests every part of their surface, except where they are covered with cartilage. It is composed of two layers; the outer, consisting chiefly of white fibres, and con- taining occasional fat-cells, is the means of supporting numerous blood-vessels destined for the bone, which ramify in the membrane, and at length send their minute branches into the Haversian canals of the compact substance, accompanied by pro- cesses of filamentous tissue derived from, or at least continuous with, the periosteum. The inner layer is largely made up of elastic fibres, frequently in several distinct strata. Between it, however, and the proper osseous tissue there is a fibrous stratum containing in the young bone a number of granular corpuscles (osteoblasts), while in the adult bone these have become flattened out into an epithelioid layer covering the osseous substance, and are in many places separated by a cleft-like space (serving probably for the passage of lymph) from the rest of the periosteum (Schwalbe). By treating the membrane with nitrate of silver, lymphatics are discovered in it accompanying the blood-vessels in the outer layer ; and, as in other aponeurotic structures, extensive epithelioid markings, covering a great part of the surface, are brought into view. Fine nerves spread out in the periosteum ; they are chiefly associated with the arteries, and for the most part destined for the subjacent bone ; but some are for the membrane itself, and some of these end in Pacinian corpuscles. The chief use of the periosteum is to support the vessels going to the bone, and afford them a bed in which they may subdivide into fine branches, and so enter the dense tissue at numerous points. Hence, when the periosteum is stripped off at any part, there is great risk that the denuded portion of the bone will die and exfoliate. The periosteum also contributes to give firmer hold to the tendons and ligaments where they are fixed to bones. Its relation to the growth and renewal of bone will be referred to later on. THE MARROW. The marrow (medulla ossium) is lodged in the interior of the bones ; it fills up the hollow shaft of long bones and occupies the cavities of the cancellated structure ; it extends also into the Haversian canals—at least into the larger ones—along with the vessels. A fine layer of a highly vascular areolar tissue lines the medullary canal, as well as the smaller cavities which contain marrow ; this has been named the medullary membrane, internal periosteum, or endostewn; but it cannot be detached as a continuous membrane. Its vessels join on the one side those of the osseous substance, and on the other side are continuous with the capillaries of the marrow. The marrow differs considerably in different situations. Within the shaft of the