397 CHANGES IN THE CELLS DURING ACTIVITY. The material which accumulates within the cell is not always the same as ia which appears in the discharged secretion. Thus in the glands which farms 1 ie digestive ferments—especially the gastric glands and the pancreas—it has been Fig. 453.—Sections op the orbital gland op the dog. A, during rest. B, after a period op activity. (Heidenhain and Lavdovsky.) In A, the cells of the alveoli are large, being filled with the material for secretion (in this case, mucigen) which obscures their protoplasm, but some of the cells have not participated in the formation of. the secretion, and these remain small and protoplasmic, forming the crescentic group seen in most of the alveoli. In B, the accumulated material is discharged from the cells, which appear partially disintegrated in consequence. Both the cells and the alveoli are much smaller, and the protoplasm of all the cells is now .apparent. shown that the material which appears in the form of granules within the cells is not the pepsin and the trypsin which respectively characterise the secretions of those glands, but a precursor which is termed “zymogen,” and is easily transformed into Fig. 454.—Part op a ferment-forming gland; A at rest, B after a short period of activity, C AFTER A PROLONGED PERIOD OF ACTIVITY. (Langley.) In the resting condition the cells of the gland are almost filled with granules (of zymogen). During activity these become discharged from the cells as ferment, disappearing at first from the outer part of the cell, which is thereby left clear. Finally the granules only remain near the lumen of the alveoli, and near the surfaces of the cells which are contiguous to one another. In A and B the nuclei of the cells are obscured by the granules. the fermeuts by the actiou of certain reagents ; and it is supposed that a similar change may occur during the discharge of the secretion from the cells. Again, in the cells which secrete mucus, the substance which accumulates within the cells is not mucin, but a precursor of mucin, which is termed “ mucigen,” from the facility with which it becomes on discharge converted into mucin. It is difficult to decide whether the material for secretion is formed by the direct conversion of a part of the protoplasm of the secreting cell, or from materials taken up from the plasma of the blood and elaborated by the agency of the protoplasm. D D 2