PLAIN Oil UNSTRIPED MUSCULAR TISSUE. 302 various stages of development have been described in muscles at all stages of growth, and also in the adult condition, so that it has been conjectured that new muscular fibres may be formed in this way even after the development of the muscle is com- pleted. Nothing is known of the manner in which absorption of pre-existing fibres is effected to make room for the newly-formed fibres ; if, indeed, such change occurs at all. According to Mayer, many of the structures which have been described, under the name sarcoplasts and muscle-spindles, as fibres in course of development, are in reality fibres under- going degeneration. Kerschner, on the other hand, from their relatively large nerve supply, believes the muscle-spindles to be sensory end-organs. Regeneration.—It was formerly thought that after removal by the knife or by disease striated muscular tissue is not regenerated, but that any breach of continuity which may occur in a muscle is filled up by a growth of connective tissue. It would appear, however, that the breach is, after a certain lapse of time, bridged across by muscular substance, but how the new muscular tissue is formed is not fully understood. B A PLAIN OR UNSTRIPED MUSCULAR TISSUE. This is made up of cells, named contractile fibre-cells, which were first dis- tinguished as the true elements of the tissue by Ivolliker. The cells may form fibrous bundles, and strata, or may be less regularly arranged, and the tissue occurs either almost pure or mixed £ with other tissues in varying proportion. The cells are of an elongated fusiform shape (figs. 346 and 347), usually pointed at the ends. They are generally prismatic in transverse section, but are sometimes more flat- tened. The cells vary greatly in length according to the part or organ in which they are found. Some occur which are cleft or forked at one or both ends. Their substance is finely vacuolated and exhibits also a faint longitudinal fibrillation. Af * ^ ^ It ^ doubly refracting Each with intranuclear network, and the longitu- cell has a nucleus (a, a), rarely (final fibrillation of the cell-substance, with m(jre j-]uan one which is always protoplasm between the fibrils. . , , i _ B, a cell broken in the process of isola- elongated and eithei 0\ al Cl tion ; the delicate enveloping membrane rod-shaped. Towards each end projects at the broken end a little beyond ^ ^ nuc|eug the substance of the substance of the cell (B is from a draw- . ing by Mr. R. Boxall). the cell usually contains a few distinct granules arranged in linear series. The nucleus shows the usual structure, having an intranu- clear network (fig. 346, a). The involuntary fibre-cells pos- sess an exceedingly delicate homogeneous sheath (fig. 346, b), and like the sarcolemma of voluntary muscular fibres, this sheath is apt to be wrinkled when the fibie Fig. 346.—Muscular fibre-cells from THE MUSCULAR COAT OF THE SMALL INTESTINE, HIGHLY MAGNIFIED. (E. A. S.) A, a complete cell, showing the nucleus Fig. 347.— Musoular fibre-cells from HUMAN ARTERIES, MAGNIFIED 350 DIA- METERS. (Kolliker.) a, a, nucleus ; b, a cell treated with acetic acid.