427 SWEAT-GLANDS. minora, and, in some individuals, at the red margin of the lips, near the angle of the mouth) they open into the hair-follicles, and are found wherever there are hairs. Each has a short duct, which opens at a little distance within the mouth ot the hair-follicle, and by its other end, leads to a cluster of small rounded secreting saccules, which as well as the duct are lined by epithelium (fig. 489), usually charged with the fatty secretion. The cells as they multiply and become filled with the fatty granules advance to the lumen of the alveoli. Here they become disintegrated, and the fatty and other matters with which they are charged form the secretion of the gland, which is dis- charged by the duct into the mouth of the hair-follicle. The number of saccular recesses connected with the duct usually varies from four or five to twenty; it may be reduced to two or three, in very small glands, or even to one, but this is rare. These glands are lodged in the sub- stance of the corium. They are usually placed on the side to which the hair slopes, and in the angle formed by the junction of the arrector pili with the hair, so that when the muscular fibres contract they tend to compress the gland. Several may open into the same hair- follicle, and their size is not regulated by the magnitude of the hair. Thus, some of the largest are connected with the fine downy hairs on the alae of the nose and other parts of the face, and there they often become unduly charged with pent-up secretion. The Meibomian glands of the eyelids are regarded as modified sebaceous glands. Development of the sebaceous glands. —The rudiments of the sebaceous glands sprout like little buds from the sides of the hair-follicles ; they are at first, in fact, excre- scences of the external root-sheath (fig. 486, s), and are composed entirely of similar cells. Each little process soon assumes a flask-shape and the central cells become occupied by fat particles. This fatty transformation of the cells extends itself along the axis of the pedicle until it penetrates through the root-sheath, and the fat-cells thus escape into the cavity of the hair-follicle, and constitute the first secretion of the sebaceous gland. They are soon succeeded by others of the same kind, and the little gland is established in its office. Additional saccules and recesses, by which the originally simple cavity of the gland is complicated, are formed by budding out of its epithelium, as the first was produced from the epithelial root-sheath, and are excavated in a similar manner. The sudoriferous glands or sweat glands (figs. 471 and 490).—These are seated on the under-surface of the corium, and at variable depths in the subcu- taneous adipose tissue. To the naked eye they have the appearance of small round reddish bodies, each of which, when examined with the microscope, is found to consist of a tube, coiled up into a ball (though sometimes forming an irregular or flattened figure) ; from which the tube is continued, as the duct of the gland, upwards through the true skin and cuticle, and opens on the surface by a slightly widened orifice. The secreting tube is considerably larger than the duct, and also VOL. I. F F Fig. 489.-—Longitudinal section of a seba- CEOUS GLAND FROM THE CHEEK WITH A SMALL HAIR GROWING THROUGH ITS duct. Human. (Toldt.)