230 ELASTIC TISSUE. the operation of that agent, is rent into shreds or segments, mostly annular or spiral, which cause the constrictions. In other cases the union of branches of the cells around a bundle may be the cause of the appearance. The areolte, or interstices of the areolar tissue, are intercommunicating cleft-like spaces between the bundles and laminae. They are not present in the immature tissue, in which the ground-substance is continuous through- out, but as the matrix becomes fibrillar the areolae are formed, probably by the liquefaction of ground-substance. In fibrous tissue the bundles of white filaments run parallel, cohering very intimately. They either run all in one direction as in long tendons, or intersect each other in different planes as in some aponeuroses, or they take various directions and decussate irregularly with each other as in the dura mater. And when they run parallel to each other, as in tendon, they do not keep separate throughout their length, but send off slips to join neighbouring bundles and receive the like in turn ; so that successive cross-sections of a tendon or ligament present different figures of the sectional areas of the bundles. A sheath of dense areolar tissue covers the tendons and ligaments on the outside (fig. 264, a), and a variable amount of the same tissue (d, e) lies between the fasciculi into which the smaller bundles are grouped, sepa- rating them from one another, and also occurring, in greater amount, between the largest fasciculi (c). It is in these areolar tissue septa that the blood-vessels and lymphatics of a tendon or ligament run. The surface of a tendon or of any other part consisting of this texture, appears marked across the direction of the fasciculi with alternate light and dark streaks which give it a peculiar aspect, not unlike that of a watered ribbon. This appearance is owing to the wavy course of the filaments, for when the light falls on them their bendings naturally give rise to alternate lights and shadows. The fibrous and areolar tissues thus agreeing in their ultimate structure, it is not to be wondered at that sometimes the limits between the two should be ill-defined, and that the one should pass by inconspicuous gradations into the other. Instances of such a transition may be seen in many of the fasciae : these at certain parts consist of dense areolar tissue, but on being traced farther are seen gradually to become fibrous ; and fasciae, which in one body are areolar in character’, may be decidedly fibrous in another. In the elastic tissue, there is a great proportionate development of the elastic fibres, the white bundles being relatively few and indistinct, but considerable variation is met with in the proportion of the two kinds of elements. The white bundles are, for the most part, disposed irregularly and course in different directions, as in areolar tissue ; but, in some elastic ligaments, there are bundles of white fibres, which run as in an ordinary ligament parallel with one another, and from end to end of the structure. The elastic fibres in an elastic hga- Fig. 265.—Elastic fibres FROM THE LIG AMENTUM NUCHA3 OF THE OX, SHOWING TRANSVERSE MARKINGS ON THE FI- BRES ; HIGHLY MAGNI- FIED. (E. A. S.) CD 5W 'yao Fig. 266.—Cross-section of elastic fibres FROM THE LIGAMENTDM NUCH2E OF THE ox (drawn by T. P. (jostling.)