OSSIFICATION IN CARTILAGE. 275 matter in the matrix of the cartilage, the cells of which assume a highly charac- teristic arrangement, and a deposition of true membrane-bone, underneath the perichondrium, and closely investing the surface of the caitilage. What next happens is an irruption of the subperiosteal vascular and osteoblastic tissue into the middle of the cartilage, one or more apertures being excavated by absorption in the newly deposited osseous lamella and the tissue in question passing through these and burrowing into the cartilage (fig. 312, ir). Here it absorbs a great part of the calcified matrix, and by demolishing in this way parts of the walls Fig. 315.—Transverse section OF OSSIFYING CARTILAGE, IN- CLUDING A PORTION OF THE ADVANCING CALCIFICATION. From the humerus of a FCETAL SHEEP, MAGNIFIED 70 diameters. (Sharpey.) c, cartilage, tlie Cells of which are enlarged, hut the matrix not yet calcified ; b, primary osseous deposit in the cartilage-matrix, extending between the cartilage- cells and enclosing them in primary areolse. Fig. 314.—Longitudinal section through part of a phalanx of a 6 months’ human embryo. (Kolliker.) The calcified cartilage is completely absorbed almost to the limit of advancing ossification. The -darker substance on either side is the periosteal bone. The embryonic marrow has shrunk somewhat away from it. of the primary areolae, forms larger spaces (the secondary areolae, of Sharpey, the medullary spaces of H. Miiller) which are filled by jelly-like embryonic marrow, with ramified cells and osteoblasts, the cartilage-cells which occupied the primary areolm disappearing before it. All the middle of the calcified temporary cartilage becomes thus excavated with large spaces and replaced by the vascular osteoblastic tissue. As the calcification of the cartilage-matrix extends towards the ends of the shaft, proceeding always in the same manner, the osteoblastic tissue closely follows, and after supplanting the cartilage-cells in the primary areolae, absorbs parts of their walls so as to throw two or more together to form secondary areohe ; in this way a great part of the primary bone (or calcified cartilage-matrix) is at once removed. At a short distance below the advancing ossification, the medullary spaces become at first somewhat more enlarged by further absorption, but at the same time