231. VESSELS AND NERVES OF CONNECTIVE TISSUE. in close proximity to the nucleus of an adjacent cell ; they thus present the appear- ance of being arranged in pairs (fig. 274). Here and there a third nucleus, with a small amount of protoplasm, may be seen interpolated between two such cells. The lamellar extensions of the cells do not always end with an even line, but are themselves often prolonged into fine branches, which penetrate still further into the ground-substance which separates the fibre-bundles of the tendon from one another. In the pure elastic tissue, such as that which constitutes the ligamentum nucha? Fig. 272.—Cell-spaces of tendon of mouse’s tail, brought into view by treatment with NITRATE OF SILVER. 175 DIAMETERS. (E. A. S.) Fig. 273.—Transverse section of tendon of mouse’s tail stained with logwood. 175 diameters (E. A. S.) The flattened processes of the tendon-cells (which are stained deeply by logwood) appear in section as lines, frequently coming off at right angles from the body of the cell. The bundles of fibres are not represented ; they are very irregular, and but incompletely separated by the cell-processes. in animals and the ligamenta subflava in man, it is generally stated that cells are altogether absent. Schwalbe finds on the contrary numerous flat connective tissue Fig. 274.—Eight cells from the same tendon as represented in fig. 271. Magnified 425 diameters. (E. A. S.) The nuclei, with their numerous nucleoli, were deeply coloured by the logwood. The dark lines on the surface of the cells are the optical sections of lamellar extensions directed towards or away from the observer. cells scattered in the ground-substance which lies between the elastic fibres; the cells being often in close apposition with the elastic fibres, but never in continuity with them, as has been described by some authors. Vessels and nerves.—Blood-vessels, lymphatics, aud nerves are everywhere conveyed in the areolar tissue to the places where they are to be distributed, but very few blood-capillaries are destined for the tissue itself, although abun- dant lymphatic networks are present in many parts ; especially in the subcutaneous, subserous and submucous tissues. It is uncertain whether nerves terminate in the areolar tissue. It may be cut in a living animal apparently without giving pain, except when the instrument meets with those branches of nerves which traverse the tissue on their way to other parts. The fibrous tissue receives blood-vessels, but in general they are inconsiderable both in number and size compared with the mass of tissue to which they belong. In tendons aud ligaments with longitudinal fasciculi, the chief branches of the vessels run parallel with and between the larger fasciculi, and, sending communi- cating branches across them, eventually forming a very open network with large oblong meshes. Some fibrous membranes, as the periosteum and dura mater, are much