0 9 ft WHITE FIBRES. extending, in form of longitudinal bands, underneath the mucous membrane of the windpipe and its ramifications. 3. Entering, along with other textures, into the formation of the coats of the blood-vessels, especially the arteries, and conferring elasticity on these tubes. MICROSCOPIC STRUCTURE OP CONNECTIVE TISSUE. The three kinds of connective tissue, the obvious characters aud arrangement of which have just been described, agree closely with one another in elementary structure. They are all composed of a matrix or ground-substance, in which cells are imbedded, and in this ground-substance and between the cells are fibres of two kinds, the white and elastic. It is the different arrangement of the cells and fibres, as well as the relative proportion of one kind of fibre to the other, that determines the different characters of the varieties of connective tissue above enumerated. Ground-substance of connective tissue.—The ground-substance, matrix, or intercellular substance of the connective tissue is composed of a soft homogeneous material which occupies the tissue between the cells and cell-groups, and in which, as above stated, the fibrous elements of the tissue are found, it may be in so great a quantity as altogether to obscure the ground-substance in which they lie. It serves thus to unite the fibres, at least the white fibres, into the bundles which they form, penetrating between the individual fibrils of a bundle, and enveloping the latter with a homo- geneous sheath often of great tenuity. The ground-substance of connective tissue appears to contain mucin. It is precipitated and rendered cloudy by acetic acid. It becomes stained brown when treated with nitrate of silver and afterwards exposed to the light, in this respect resembling the intercellular substance of an epithelium. The cells of the tissue lie imbedded in it, either in shallow pits on the surface, or in spaces—cell-spaces—entirely enclosed by the ground-substance, the spaces being for the most part rather larger than the contained cells, with which, however, they correspond on the whole in shape. These cell-spaces (Saft- Icandlchen of Recklinghausen, lymphatic canaliculi of Klein and Burdon-Sanderson) are brought into view when the tissue is stained with nitrate of silver, for they therf look white upon the brown ground (fig. 258). White Fibres.—When examined under the microscope both the areolar and fibrous tissues appear to be principally made up of exceedingly fine, transparent, and homogeneous filaments, from about -g-oihyo to tbooo^1 °f an inch iu thickness, or even less (fig. 259). These are seldom single, being mostly united by means of a small and usually imperceptible quantity of the ground-substance into bundles and filamentous laminae of various sizes, which to the naked eye appear as simple threads and films. Though the bundles may intersect in every direction, the filaments of the same bundle run nearly parallel to each other, and no one filament is ever seen to divide into branches or to unite with another. The associated filaments take an alternate bending or waving course as they proceed along the bundle, but still maintain their general parallelism. This wavy aspect, which is very characteristic of these filaments, disappears on stretching the bundle, but returns again when it is relaxed. Fig. 258.—Cell-spaces of subcutaneous connective TISSUE, THE GROUND SUBSTANCE HAArING BEEN STAINED DEEPLY BY NITEATE OF SILVER. (E. A. S. ) 340 DIAMETERS.