240 DEVELOPMENT OF CONNECTIVE TISSUE. otherwise removed, as by a short treatment with dilute alkali, the fibres of the reticulum come clearly into view (figs. 280, 281). The true structure of this tissue was first pointed out by Bizzozero. In many situations the meshes of the retiform tissue are occupied by numerous corpuscles which closely resemble the pale blood- or lymph-corpuscles, but have a Fig. 280.—Reticulum from the medullary part of a lymphatic, gland. (E. A. S.) tr, end of a trabecula of fibrous tissue ; r, r, open reticulum of the lymph-path, continuous with the fibrils of the trabecula ; r', r', denser reticulum of the medullary lymphoid cords. The cells of the tissue are not represented, the figure being taken from a preparation in which only the connective tissue fibrils and the reticulum are stained. relatively larger nucleus, and less protoplasm than those. They are known as lymphoid cells, and the tissue containing them is termed lymphoid or adenoid tissue. This tissue is found composing the greater part of the lymphatic glands. Fig. 281.—End of a fibrous trabecula FROM THE SAME PREPARATION, SHOWING THE CONTINUITY OF THE CONNECTIVE TISSUE FIBRILS WITH THE RETICULUM : HIGHLY MAGNIFIED. (E. A. S.) tr, trabecula ; r, reticulum. and other structures allied to them, such as the solitary and agminated glauds of the intestine, and the simi- lar structures in the tonsils and elsewhere. Moreover, the alimentary mucous membrane is in some parts composed of the same tissue, and it occurs also in other mucous mem- branes and, in the form either of elon- gated tracts or of isolated nodules, m many parts of the serous membranes, fn the spleen, the interstices of the retiform tissue are for the most part occupied by blood, instead of by lymph as elsew'here. In organs into the construction of which this tissue enters, it serves as a supporting framework to those parts of the organ int-. which connective tissue of the ordinary kind does not penetrate. DEVELOPMENT OF CONNECTIVE TISSUE. Those parts of the early embryo in which connective tissue is subsequently to be developed, are at first composed entirely of embryonic cells, to all appearance similar to those which constitute the mesoblastic layer generally. It is, however, believed by many authorities that in their origin the cells which form the connective