MUSCULAR TISSUE. 290 . Alfch°ugli such a network as the one which is shown in fig. 330. B, with polygonal meshes is characteristic of the transverse section of the muscular fibres of vertebrates and of Those ?f msCC„ts’ fi^r®8 of many insects have the appearance in transverse section which h n m C> “ which the lines of the apparent network, i.e., of the sarcoplasm fllttpnTsbn ra T y’ an muscle-columns also therefore have a radial disposition and a the g“ Ver' BUM‘Vide<1 b»r e“"d">' “*’<* “f -“rcopla™ When a muscular fibre is examined in the fresh condition in serum, fine lonei- tudinal lines are seen, as before mentioned, running through the cross stride (see figs. 327, 331). Under favourable conditions, and especially after the action of weak acid, which swells the muscular substance and renders it clearer and more Fig. 331.—Living leg-muscle of water-beetle (dytiscus mar- ginalis). Highly magnified. (E. A. S.) s, sarcoleinma : a, dim stripe; b, bright stripe; c, row of dots in bright stripe, which are enlargements or thickenings on the longitudinal septa of sarcoplasm. These septa are repre- sented by the longitudinal lines, d. The continuity of these lines through the bright stripe is difficult to see in the fresh fibre, but after treatment with acid it becomes quite distinct. transparent, these lines can be traced from end to end of the fibre between the muscle-columns (fig. 332). By careful focussing it can be made out that the lines are really the optical section of the planes of separation between the sarcostyles, that is to say, they are the optical effect of the intro- columnar substance or sarcoplasm. The sarcoplasm, then, has in transverse section of the fibre, the appearance of a network ; in longi- tudinal optical section the appearance of fine parallel lines ; both these appearances are exhibited in the disk shown in fig. 330, B. It may easily be understood how these two effects would be produced by the presence of a small amount of interstitial substance lying between closely packed prismatic columns. In most muscular fibres the sarcoplasm further exhibits a peculiarity of arrangement which has a very characteristic influence upon the optical appearance of the fibre. As is shown in the longitudinal view of the fresh muscle (figs. 327, 331), and still more strikingly in the longitudinal view of the muscle which has been treated with acid (figs. 329, 332), the lines which represent the intercolumnar sarcoplasm exhibit enlargements at regular intervals upon their course. These enlargements lie in the bright cross strife, either near its junc- tion with the dim cross-strife as shown in figs. 327, 331, or in its middle : in the former case the enlargements form a double row in each bright stria, in the latter case they may he blended into a single row (as in fig. 340). In the longi- tudinal optical section these enlargements of sarcoplasm have the appearance of dots upon the fine longitudinal lines which run through the muscle : in the more extended fibres or parts of a fibre, these dots are in double rows, in less extended parts they are thicker and blend together in the middle of the bright stria ; this difference is well exhibited in fig. 339 at the parts marked R and I respectively. The dots of the longitudinal view correspond to the coarser transverse networks which are seen near the surface of the separated disks (fig. 330, B), while the fine lines 11J.JU1U1 ll( \ o T) Fig. 332. — Muscular FIBRE OF AN INSECT’S LEGAFTERSHORTTREAT- MENT WITH DILUTE FOR- MIC ACID. (E. A. S. ). S, Sarcoleinma ; D, dot- like enlargement of sarco- plasm ; K, Krause’s mem- brane.