HYALINE CARTILAGE. 245 By exposure to water and some other liquids, as well as to the action of electric shocks, the cell-body shrinks away from the inside of the capsule, and assumes a jagged or otherwise irregular figure, and then may hide the nucleus (fig. 287). It often contains larger or smaller fat-globules (fig. 285, g). The cells of cartilage appear to contain glycogen, for they are coloured reddish brown by iodine (Neumann). They are rarely dispersed singly in the matrix ; most commonly occurring in groups of two or more. When disposed in pairs (as at a, fig. 285) the cells are generally triangular or pyramidal in form with rounded angles, and with their bases opposite one another; in the larger groups (b) the cells have a straight outline where they adjoin or approach one another, but at the circumference of the group their outline is rounded. Towards the surface of the cartilage the groups are generally flattened conformably with the surface, appearing narrow and almost linear when seen edgeways, as in a perpen- dicular section (fig. 286, a). Various observers, and especially Tillmanns, have shown that the matrix of hyaline cartilage can be broken up after long maceration, and with the aid of Fig. 284.—A CARTILAGE CELL. IN THE LIVING STATE, FROM THE SALAMANDER : HIGHLY magnified. (Flemming.) Fig. 285.—Articular cartillage from HEAD OF METATARSAL BONE OF MAN (OSMIC ACID PREPARATION). THE CELL- BODIES ENTIRELY FILL THE SPACES IN ' THE MATRIX. 340 DIAMETERS. (E. A. S.) a, group of two cells ; b, group of four cells ; h, protoplasm of cell, with g, fatty granules; n, nucleus. pressure, into fine fibrils. Ac- cording to Cresswell Baber, these fibres are vertical to the surface iu articular cartilage, and parallel with the long axis in rib cartilage. They are more easily seen in the cartilage of birds than of mam- mals. Their chemical nature is not very clear, nor is it certain how far the appearances corre- spond with any structure naturally present ; but if, as Kiihne and Merochowetz assert, gelatin and mucin can be obtained from the matrix of cartilage, the fibres in question may be chemically of the same nature as the white fibres of connective tissue, the mucin belonging to the ground-substance in which they are embedded. Other histologists have described a network of exceedingly fine ramified canals penetrating the cartilage-matrix, and effecting a communication between the cell-spaces. Up to the present time, however, the existence of such anastomosing channels has not been conclusively proved, although often assumed in order to explain the manner in which nutritive plasma penetrates the matrix of cartilage to reach the cells. Budge endeavoured to demonstrate the existence of canaliculi by forcing coloured injecting fluid into the substance of cartilage, but the result of the experiment was not conclusive. It has also been attempted to show them by the so-called natural method of injection, that is by allowing indigo-carmine (which has aii