315 PALE OR NON-MEDULLATED FIBRES. extreme variability of appearance and size of mesh (fig. 363) even in the course of the same nerve-fibre, lends much probability to the view that it is produced artificially by the precipitation by the reagent employed, of some material entering into the constitution of the myelin of the medullary sheath. Gerlach has in fact shown that the character of the reticulum varies with the strength of the alcohol employed to act upon the nerve. It will be seen from the above that there is still much diversity of opinion with regard to the minute structure of the medullary sheath of the nerves. As to its chemical composition, the white substance or myelin consists chiefly of lecithin and neunn together with cholesterin and one or two other substances in less amount. When escaped from the nerve-fibres it forms drops either rounded or irregular in shape, which always show the double contour which is so characteristic of the medullated nerve-fibres, the appearance being due to the peculiar manner in which myelin refracts the light. In contact with water it combines with that fluid, and as a result of the imbibition the myelin-drops undergo a considerable increase in bulk, accom- panied by remarkable changes of form, often growing out into tube-like filaments for a con- siderable distance into the fluid. In this behaviour myelin is not peculiar but resembles certain other substance of a fatty and resinous nature. It is generally believed that medullated nerve-fibres occur only in vertebrates, but Retzius has described the nerve-fibres in Palaemon (a crustacean) as also possessing a myelin-sheath, with nodes and internodal nuclei. Sheath of Schwann, primitive sheath, or neurolenuna.—The sheath of Schwann forms the outermost covering of the white nerve-fibres. It has the appear- ance of a delicate homogeneous membrane with nuclei disposed at intervals along its inner surface. As already mentioned, these nuclei bear a definite relation to the segments of the nerve-fibre, for they lie about midway between the nodes, only one nucleus being found in each internode (fig. 359). The nuclei are oval and some- times flattened, they usually lie in a depression of the medullary sheath, and at each end of the nucleus, especially in young nerves, there is a small amount of granular protoplasm which may spread for a short distance between the primitive and the medullary sheath. The primitive sheath usually dips in at the nodes and is there only separated from the axis-cylinder by the annular band of Ranvier before mentioned. So long as the primitive sheath is accurately filled by the contained medullary substance its outline can seldom be distinguished, but sometimes, when the white substance separates at various points from the inside of the tube, the contour of the fibre becomes indented and irregular, and then the membrane in question may, in favourable circumstances, be discerned as an extremely faint line, running outside the deeply shaded border formed by the white substance. In the white fibres of the brain and spinal cord the nucleated sheath is absent, and these are only invested by a medullary sheath. In consequence of the absence of the comparatively tough primitive sheath the fibres from these situations cannot be isolated for any distance without rupture, and it is found that for the same reason the medullary sheath readily breaks away from the axis-cylinder, so that this is thus left bare. It is usually stated that the nodes of Ranvier do not exist on these white fibres of the brain and spinal cord ; but various observers have described appearances which seem to indicate that the nodes may be present in these fibres also. Pale or non-medullated fibres; fibres of Remak.—These occur princi- pally in branches of the sympathetic nerve, but they are found also in greater or less amount in the cerebro-spinal nerves. They are transparent, faintly striated fibres of varying size, which exhibit nuclei at frequent intervals. The nuclei are applied to the surface of the fibre, and, according to the generally received account, belong to a delicate homogeneous sheath, similar to the primitive sheath of the medullated fibre. It must be admitted, however, with Ranvier that it is difficult or impossible to exhibit the sheath, and if this is the case, the nuclei must be regarded as embedded in the peripheral layer of the fibre itself, and as belonging to this. Many of these VOL. I. Y