O-RIGIN OF NUCLEATED RED BLOOD-CORPUSCLES OF THE EMBRYO. 217 Pale blood-corpuscles also, which have migrated from the vessels, may find their way into the beginning of the lymphatics. In this way the presence of corpuscles in the lymph even before it has passed through the lymphatic glands is accounted for. Lymph-corpuscles are also produced in the spleen and in the thymus gland (the latter in early life) ; and it is still believed by some authors that they may also be formed by proliferation of connective tissue corpuscles. The corpuscles of the chyle and lymph are carried into the sanguiferous system and become the pale corpuscles of the blood, but some of the latter may pass directly from the lymphatic glands, spleen, and other organs containing lymphatic or lymphoid tissue into the blood- vessels which are supplied to those organs. Origin of the nucleated red blood-corpuscles of the embryo.—The first red blood-corpuscles are formed very early in embryonic life simultaneously with and in the interior of the first blood-vessels. They are developed in the mesoblast, in a circular area which surrounds the part of the blastoderm which is occupied by the developing body of the embryo. The area is known as the vascular area, and the first blood-vessels and blood-corpuscles are, therefore, formed outside the actual body of the embryo. The process of development is as follows :— Those mesoblastic cells in the vascular area which are concerned with the for- mation of vessels (angioUasts) become extended into processes of varying length, which grow out from the cells in two or more directions. The cells become united with one another, either directly or by the junction of their processes, so that an Fig. 254. —Part op the network in developino blood-vessels in the vascular area op the GUINEA-PIG. (E. A. S.) bl, blood-corpuscles becoming free iu an enlarged and hollowed out part of the network. The smaller figure on the left represents a of the larger figure, more highly magnified ; d, a nucleus under- going division. irregular network of protoplasmic nucleated corpuscles is thus formed (fig. 254). Mean- while the nuclei become multiplied, and whilst the greater number remain grouped together in the original cell-bodies or nodes of the network, some are seen in the uniting cords. The nuclei which remain in the nodes accumulate, each one around itself, a small amount of cell-protoplasm. The corpuscles thus formed (bl) acquire a reddish colour, and the protoplasmic network in which they lie becomes vacuolated and hollowed out into a system of branched canals enclosing fluid, in which the nucleated coloured corpuscles float. The intercommunicating canals gradually become enlarged so as to admit of the passage of the corpuscles. The protoplasm which forms the wall of these first vessels becomes differentiated around the nuclei which have remained embedded in it, so as to give rise to the flat cells which compose the blood-capillaries. As soon as the heart is developed, or even before this happens, the blood begins