191 KARYOKINESIS. Double Skein or Dispirem • Network or Reticulum ... 8. Open skein in daughter nuclei. 9. Close skein in daughter nuclei. 10. Resting condition of daughter nuclei. Historical.1—The existence of utricles or saccules enclosed by a membrane was recognized in the tissues of plants as long ago as the latter half of the 17th century (by Hooke, Malpighi, Grew, and Leeuwenhoek), and a nucleus was noticed and described by Fontana about a century later. At the beginning of the present century, the cellular constitution of plants was further studied and described by Mirbel and Turpin ; but it was not until the third decade of the century that the improvements which had taken place in the microscope led to the general recognition of the fact that, amongst plants at least, the higher organisms are entirely composed of cells, each of which is essentially formed of a membrane enclosing cell- contents and contains a nucleus (R. Brown, Schleiden, 1831—1838). This generalization was extended to the animal tissues by Schwann, in a remarkable work published in German in 1839 (Microscopical Researches into the Accordance in the Structure and Growth of Animals and Plants. Sydenham Society’s Translation, 1847), in which he further showed that in all probability every cell is derived from a pre-existing cell. The researches of Schwann were so widely extended and the evidence he adduced was so conclusive that his ideas, under the name of the “ cell-theory ” still remain as the accepted doctrine of the constitution of plant and animal organisms. The term protoplasm was applied by Purkinje to the substance of animal cells in 1840, but first came into extensive use after its employment by v. Mohl, in 1846, who applied it to the living substance of the plant-cell. The material itself, with all its most prominent characteristics as displayed in Infusoria, was however described, in 1836, under the name of “ sarcode,” by Dujardin, the accuracy of whose description has, it will be seen, left but little for subsequent observers to add :—“ I propose to name sarcode that which other observers have termed a living jelly, a substance glutinous, diaphanous, homogeneous, refracting light a little more than water, but much less than oil, extensible and ropy like mucus, elastic and contractile, susceptible of spontaneously forming within itself spherical cavities or vacuoles which become occupied by the surrounding liquid Sarcode is insoluble in water, but is eventually decomposed by it, leaving a granular residuum. Potash does not dissolve it suddenly like mucus or albumen, and seems simply to hasten its decomposition by water ; nitric acid and alcohol immediately coagulate it and render it white and opaque The most simple animals, such as amoebae and monads, are entirely composed, at least to all appearance, of this living jelly. In higher infusoria it is enclosed in a loose integument which looks like a network on its surface Sarcode is found in ova, zoophytes, worms, and in other animals ; but it is here capable of assuming with age a degree of organization more complex than in animals at the bottom of the scale Sarcode is without visible organs and has no appearance ot cellularity ; but it is nevertheless organized, for it emits various prolongations along which granules pass and which are alternately extended and retracted : in one word, it possesses ‘ life.’ ” Gradually, both in plants as well as in the lower animals, it came to be generally recog- nized that the sarcode of Dujardin and the protoplasm of v. Mohl are endowed with similar attributes, and a cell was defined as composed of structureless protoplasm, endowed with irritability and contractility, containing a nucleus and enclosed by a cell-membrane. That a cell-membrane is, however, not an essential character and is often absent, especially in animal cells, was shown by Leydig (in 1866), and was especially emphasized by M. Schultze and by Brucke (in 1861). Even at the present time the definition of a cell proposed by Leydig still holds good—“ a mass of protoplasm furnished with a nucleus.” Up to 1865 protoplasm was universally held to be homogeneous and structureless. Attention was drawn by Frommann, however, to a fibrillar structure in the protoplasm of many cells, and such structure was regarded by him as of universal occurrence. This view was somewhat later expanded by Heitzmann, Klein, and others, who described a reticular structure as occurring in all protoplasm, but it was by no means certain that the structure described might not have been produced by the reagents which were employed to exhibit it ; for it must be borne in mind that precisely such a reticulum as is exhibited in protoplasm which has been treated with alcohol or chromic acid can be equally well produced in solutions containing albumen or mucus. Nevertheless, it is the opinion of many histologists at the present day who have given special attention to the subject (Leydig, Kupffer, Flemming, Camoy) that protoplasm invariably contains a reticulum, although others, and probably a smaller number, still regard the reticular or spongy structure as non-essential to its constitution (Kollmann, Strasburger, Schwartz). The reticular structure of the nucleus, although it had been previously-described by various observers, was for the most part regarded as merely a localized and specialized part of the general cell-reticulum. The existence and , ' Pie following account is mainly derived from the “ Histoire de la Cellule ” sriven 'Biologie Cellulaire, Fascicule 1, 1884). ’ 6 by Carnoy