313 MEDULLARY SEGMENTS. of nerves in length with the growth of the limbs and other parts of the body is in part due to interstitial elongation of the segments. In the middle of each internode an oval nucleus lies embedded in the medullary -E pig- 36i. Medullated nerve-fibre treated with osmio acid (Key and Ketzius). A node of Ranvier (E) and a nucleus (K) is represented. The medullary sheath appears broken up into a number of segments with conical or funnel-shaped ends fitting into one another. sheath (figs. 356, b, 359, c, 361, k); these nuclei will be described with the primitive sheath. Medullary segments.—Other breaks of continuity are seen in the medullary sheath (figs. 353, 361) which are of an entirely different nature from the nodes of Ranvier; indeed it is somewhat uncertain how far they correspond to a pre-existent structure in the fibre. In consequence of their presence the medullary sheath appears as if made up of a number of small cylindrical segments with either conical or funnel-shaped ends which fit in with one another in the alternate segments. The segments in question have been frequently described as integral constituents of the medullary sheath (Schmidt, Lantermann and others). It is easy to convince oneself of the reality of the appearances here mentioned, but it is far less easy to be certain that they are not artificial productions. Against the view of their existence in the natural condi- tion it is to be noted that they are extremely variable in number and in size in a given length, even of the same nerve-fibre, that they appear to become increased in number if the nerve-fibre have been subjected to much manipulation, that they have no constant relation, so far as can be made out, to the other parts of the medullated fibre, and that, according to the testimony of several careful observers, they are not to be seen in the nerve-fibres of the living animal, unless these have been subjected to an abnormal amount of traction or other mechanical injury. This last assertion is denied, however, by others, who maintain the pre-existence of the medullary segments, and describe them and the oblique clefts which separate them as definite parts of the sheath. Ranvier on the other hand, who first described the original protoplasmic B iifJ-K condition of the medullary sheath, considers that the protoplasm has disappeared and become replaced by the pseudo-fatty substances (lecithin, neurin, &c.), except next to the primitive sheath or neurolemma, and next to the axis-cylinder, where fine layers still remain, and he regards these as being connected with one another by protoplasmic septa, which lie in the intervals between the conico-cylindrical segments of the medullary sheath. In short he regards each segment of the medullary sheath as repre- senting an elongated cell occupied mainly by this fatty material and wrapped round the axis-cylinder. Careful examination of the fibres in the fresh condition reveals fine obliquely disposed lamellae, which in optical section have the appearance of fibres, bridging across the clefts between the segments (fig. 353). In nerve- fibres which have been treated by a mixture of bichromate of potash and osrnic acid, and afterwards by nitrate of silver, the situation of each cleft is occupied by what looks like a thread of darkly stained substance passing spirally around the fibre (Rezzonico, Golgi). The meaning of these appearances is by no means clear. Rod-like and reticular structures in the medullary sheath.—It was