417 NAILS. less closely arranged, and terminate in branched extremities as in other parts of the epidermis. In the snout of the pig the branched axis cylinders pass partly into concavo-convex enlarge- ments between the deeper epithelium cells (tactile menisci of Ranvier, see p. 335). Merkel has described the nerves of the epidermis as ending in pyriform cells (tactile cells) placed between the ordinary epithelial cells ; and Langerhans thought that the nerves could be traced to stellate cells in the interstitial spaces, but improved methods of staining with chlo- ride of gold, which have been employed in the investigation, would seem to render it probable that the termination of the nerve-fibrils in the cuticle is free as above described, and between the cells, not actually within them. Xervcs are supplied in very different proportions to different regions of the true skin. They pass upwards towards the papillary surface, where they form plexuses, of which the meshes become closer as they approach the surface, and the con- stituent branches finer. From the most superficial or subepithelial plexus, which Fig. 475.—Section of skin showing two TAPILLJO AND DEEPER LAYERS OF EPI- DERMIS. (Biesiadecki.) a, Vascular papilla with capillary loop passing from subjacent vessel c ; b, nerve papilla with tactile corpuscle, t. The latter exhibits transverse fibrous markings : three nerve-fibres, d, are represented as passing up to it: at ff these are seen in optical section. lies immediately under the epithe- lium, delicate non-medullated fibrils pass upwards amongst the cells of the Malpighian layer of the epi- dermis, where they end, as we have seen, in free extremities. A large share of the nerves of the cutis vera is distributed to the hair-follicles, whilst some terminate in end-bulbs, tactile corpuscles, and Pacinian bodies, the last-named being seated in the subcutaneous tissue. The tactile corpuscles of the skin are found most numerously in certain papillae of the palm and sole, more sparingly in those of the back of the hand and foot, the palmar surface of the fore-arm, and the nipple. Such papillae commonly contain no blood-vessels, and are named “tactile” (fig. 475, b), as distinguished from the “ vascular ” papillae (a). The structure of these different terminal corpuscles has been already described (pp. 332 to 344). Many of the nerve-fibres, probably chiefly the non-medullated, are supplied to the plain muscular tissue of the minute hair-muscles, and to that of the blood-vessels. NAILS AND HAIRS. The nails and hairs are growths of the epidermis, agreeing essentially in nature with that membrane. Nails.—The posterior part of the nail, which is concealed in a groove of the skin, is named its “ root,” the uncovered part is the “body,” which terminates in front by the “ free edge.” A small portion of the nail near the root, named from its shape the lunula, is whiter than the rest. This appearance is due to the substance of the nail at this point possessing a greater degree of opacity in consequence of its being covered with a thick layer of the rete mucosum, the cells of which are in active process of division (Toldt).