292 MUSCULAR TISSUE. them, and they can then be studied independently of that substance. And in the first place it may be mentioned that they can, under these circumstances, be seen to contract, whereas the sarcoplasm gives no sign of contractility: they therefore Fig. 334.—Transverse section of part of a wing-fibre of an INSECT SHOWING THE SARCOSTYLES SURROUNDED BY SARCOPLASM. (E. A. S.) The tnuscle was treated with chloride of gold and acid, so that the sarcoplasm has become stained, the sarcostyles being left colourless. form the active portion of the fibre. The intimate structure of the sarcostyles can be advantageously investigated in such isolated elements, and this both in the living condition and under the influence of re- agents. In the living condition they show, as in the ordinary muscles, alternations of bright and dim striae. Each bright stria is bisected by a line which is the optical section of a transverse membrane (membrane of Krause). These membranes thus divide the fibre into a series of segments, which may be termed sarcomeres. In alcohol-hardened muscle each sarcomere can be seen to contain (1) in the middle a strongly refracting disk-like sarcous element; (2) at either end (next the membrane of Krause) a clear interval occupied by hyaline substance. With high powers the sarcous element may be made out to be composed of a sarcous substance, which stains with hsematoxylin, and is pierced by short tubular canals which extend from the clear interval as far as the middle of the disk ; these canals give it a longitudinally striated appearance. Fine longitudinal strife which appear to be due to delicate extensions of the sarcous Fig. 335.—Disk-like sarcous element of wing-muscle Showing its tubular structure. Highly magnified. (E. A. S.) From a photograph. A, Profile view. B, Viewed in optical transverse section. substance (perhaps delicate septa), may also, under favourable circumstances be seen traversing the clear intervals. If the sarcostyle is extended, the sarcous elements tend to separate into two parts, with an interval between them (fig. 333, B) ; this median clear interval corresponds with the line of Hensen (p. 288).1 Conversely, if the muscle is retracted (or contracted) the sarcous elements tend to encroach on the clear intervals and approach the membranes of Krause; and at the same time they become swollen, so that the sarcomeres are bulged out at their middle and contracted at their ends. The sarcostyles thus become moniliform, and in fresh and unstained fibres the effect of this form upon the light transmitted through the muscle is such that the swollen part looks comparatively clear, while the constricted part has a dark appearance ; and since this constricted part corresponds with the bright stria of the extended muscle, the strife appear to have become reversed during contraction. In a stained fibre, however, it is easy to see that no such reversal takes place in contraction (fig. 333, A, A'). Comparison of the structure of muscle with that of amoeboid protoplasm.—If we compare the structure of the muscle-columns as shown in the wing-muscles with that of amoeboid protoplasm, we find many points of coincidence. Both are composed of two kinds of substance, viz., a porous substance or spongioplasm which stains with haunatoxylin and similar reagents, and a clear matter or hyaloplasm which remains unstained. In both cases the process of contraction is accompanied by a flowing of the hyaloplasm into the pores or meshes 1 With still further extension, each sarcous clement may separate into four parts, in which case the two parts nearest the transverse membrane have been termed the accessory disks.