182 CHEMICAL NATURE OP THE NUCLEUS. substance. The chromatin is sometimes in the form of fine particles which are arranged in a linear manner to form filaments. The term chromatin was originally employed by Flemming to denote the whole substance of the chromoplasmio filaments, but since it has been shown (by Carnoy and others) that those filaments are actually composed ot two substances, one stainable and the other remaining by most dyes, it is advisable, to restrict the use of the term in the manner above indicated lhe particulate structure of nuclear filaments was first noticed by Pfitzner in the V-shaped loops of certain dividing nuclei. As to the membrane bounding the nucleus, this has been regarded by most authors as a distinct wall shutting it off from the protoplasm of the cell. Others look Fig. -10. Paiit of the nuclear filament of the cell shown in fig. 208. Greatly magnified. (Carnoy.) upon it as being merely a dense superficial portion of the ehro- moplasmic network, and therefore as not complete, but rather of the nature of a basket-work permitting of intercommunica- tion between the cell-hyaloplasm and the nuclear matrix. Others, who admit the incompleteness of this chromoplasmic membrane, yet describe a complete enclosing membrane of achromatic substance separating the nucleus from the cell-protoplasm. Chemical nature of the nucleus.—Not much is known regarding the chemical nature of the cell nucleus. Miescher described in the nuclei of pus cells a substance to which he gave the name nuclein, which is characterised by the resistance which it offers to most chemical reagents, especially to acids and digestive juices, and by its containing a considerable quantity of phosphorus. This substance is in all probability identical with Flemming’s chromatin. The achromatic material of the chromoplasmic fibres, which has received the name of Unin, has been conjectured to be similar to the plastin which is found in cell- protoplasm. The composition of the nuclear matrix and of the spindle of achromatic fibrils which makes its appearance in the nucleus during karyokinesis is completely unknown, but the fibres of the spindle are probably composed of linin. The nucleus has been supposed by some histologists to be identical in nature with protoplasm. Its behaviour, however, with many reagents is altogether different; and in general it may be said that it offers greater resistance to their action than the substance which surrounds it. Moreover, its chromoplasm stains much more intensely with haematoxylin and many other reagents, than does protoplasm, and, on the other hand, it remains in some cases unstained by reagents which colour protoplasm intensely, for example, solution of chloride of gold. So that chemically at least there is a considerable difference between the nucleus and the protoplasm. But if we regard the spontaneous changes which are manifested by both, and especially the important part which the nucleus plays in the division of the cell, as will be imme- diately described, there is much in favour of the view which regards the nucleus as a portion of the living substance somewhat altered in chemical nature, which is set aside to preside over the reproduction of the cell, and perhaps also over other functions. In favour of this view there are observations which show that under certain circumstances, the nucleus may enlarge at the expense of the protoplasm, even to the extent of absorbing the greater part of the latter, so that the whole cell is little else than nucleus ; indeed, this relative increase of size of the nucleus seems to be a change which constantly precedes the phenomena of cell-division. Functions of the nucleus.—Various observers have described in the cells of secreting glands and elsewhere, a spherical body which is either partly attached to the nucleus or is at least closely connected with it. This has been spoken of as the paranucleus (German, Nebenlcern), and it is described as having been