172 THE ANIMAL CELL. Every texture taken as a whole was viewed by Bichat (Anatomie gendrale, 1801) as constituting a peculiar system, presenting throughout its whole extent in the body characters either the same, or modified only so far as its local connections and uses render necessary ; he accordingly used the term “ organic systems” to designate the textures taken in this point of view. Of the organic systems above enumerated some are found in nearly every organ ; such is the case with the connective tissue, which serves as a binding material to hold together the other tissues which go to form an organ ; the vessels, which convey fluids for the nutrition of the other textures, and the nerves, which establish a mutual dependence among different organs. These were named by Bichat the “ general systems,” to distinguish them from others such as the cartilaginous and osseous, which being confined to a limited number or to a particular class of organs, he named “ particular systems.” Structural elements.—When any tissue is separated by the aid of the micro- scope into the simplest parts which possess assignable form, such parts are termed the structural elements of the tissue. In almost every tissue, some at least of these structural elements retain to a certain extent the characters of the elementary corpuscles of which the whole body is originally composed. These structural elements are named the “ cells ” of the tissue. Others again lose for the most part those characters, and becoming elongated and modified in structure are termed the fibres of the tissue, whilst in other cases, fibres are formed not from the cells but between them. Except the epithelium, all the tissues have fibres as characteristic structural elements, and some, as the connective tissue, fibres of more than one kind. But structurally and chemically as well as functionally, the fibres of the several tissues differ widely from one another. Intercellular substance.—In addition to these .separable structural elements, many of the tissues are composed of a homogeneous matrix or ground substance, in which the structural elements are imbedded. This matrix may exist in considerable quantity, as in some varieties of connective tissue, or on the other hand it may be almost imperceptible in amount, serving merely, as a cementing material to connect together the individual tissue-elements, as in epithelium. From its softness, clear- ness and homogeneity, this ground substance is often apt to escape observation, but its existence may always be rendered evident in consequence of the property it exhibits of combining with salts of silver, a brown deposit of metallic silver occurring in it on subsequent exposure to the light (v. Recklinghausen). Since all the animal tissues however diversified they may appear, originate as collections of the elementary corpuscles or cells above spoken of, and since these cells remain, many of them, as constituent elements of the formed tissue, we must first of all consider minutely what it is that constitutes an animal cell, what is its structure, its chemical composition, its physical and vital properties, and how it becomes reproduced and multiplied. THE ANIMAL CELL. An animal cell is a corpuscle of microscopic dimensions, the cells of the human body seldom exceeding g^th of an inch in diameter, and many being as small as one- tenth of this or even less. But whether small or large, every cell consists of two dis- tinct parts : of the main substance of the cell, which has received the name of proto- plasm (fig. 201, jo), and of a minute vesicular structure, generally placed near the centre of the cell, and termed its nucleus (n). THE PROTOPLASM OP THE CELL. Structure of the cell-protoplasm.—Until comparatively recent years it was universally held that the principal or living substance of the cell to which the name