COLUMNAR EPITHELIUM. 199 or cylinder-epithelium, in which the cells have a prismatic figure, and are set upright on the surface which they cover. In profile a row of these cells looks for the most part like a close palisade (fig. 281) ; but viewed from the surface each cell has a polygonal outline, the cells being flattened where they touch, from mutual com- Fig. 230.—Columnar epithelium cells op the rabbit’s intestine. (E. A. S.) Tlie cells have been isolated after maceration in very weak chromic acid. The protoplasm is reticular and vacuolated ; the striated border (str.) is well seen, and the bright disc separating this from the cell- protoplasm ; n, nucleus with intranuclear network; a, a thinned out wing-like projection of the cell which probably fitted between two adjacent cells. Fig. 231.—A row op columnar cells from an intestinal villus op the rabbit. (E. A. S.) str, striated border ; w, wander-cells between the epithelium cells. pression, so that thus again a mosaic pattern is produced. Columnar epithelium- cells vary much in form, in dimensions, and even in structure. Those which may be looked upon as typical are of a long tapering figure, the finer extremity being set Fig. 232.—Cross-section op a villus op the intestine. (E. A. S.) e, columnar epithelium with striated border ; g, goblet cell, with its mucus partly extended ; l, lymph-corpuscles between the epitlielium-cells ; b, basement membrane ; c, sections of blood capillaries ; m, section of plain muscular fibres ; c. 1., central lacteal. Fig. 233.—Goblet-cell prom trachea. Highly magnifier, (Klein.) upon a surface, and the other and larger end being free. At their sides and edges the columnar cells are often irregular and jagged, especially where, as is often the case, lymphoid or wander-cells are met with between the epithelium-cells (fig. 231, w). Indeed the cells are not by any means so regular in shape as they are often figured, being often compressed laterally, and sometimes extended sideways into flattened lamella: (fig. 230, a), which fit between the adjacent cells of the epithe-