•237 ADIPOSE TISSUE. consists of two parts, a delicate structureless external membrane, and a layer of finely granular protoplasm immediately surrounding the fat. The nucleus (n) is always°present in the protoplasm, but is often so flattened out by the pressure of the inclosed oil-drop as to be visible only with difficulty. The areolar tissue connects and surrounds the larger lumps of fat, but forms no special envelope to the smaller clusters ; and although fine fasciculi and filaments of that tissue pass irregularly over and through the clusters, yet it is probable that the vesicles are held together in these groups mainly by the fine network of capillary vessels distributed to them. In the marrow the connective tissue fibrils are but few in number or may, it is said, be absent altogether. The adipose tissue is copiously supplied with blood-vessels. The larger branches of these pass into the fat-lumps, where they run between the lobules and Tig. 277.—Deposition of fat in connective tissue cells OF THE NEW-BORN RAT. (E. A. S.) /, /', fat-cells ; h, kasmapoietic cell. subdivide, till at length a little artery and vein are sent to each small lobule (fig. 275, a, v), dividing into a network of capillary vessels, which pass between the vesicles in all directions, supporting and connecting them. The lymphatics of the fat are in close relation to the blood-vessels, accompanying and occasionally completely enclosing them as they enter the lobule. No nerves have been seen to terminate in this tissue, although Fig. 278.—Deposition of fat in con NEOTIVE TISSUE CELLS. (E. A. S.) /, a cell with a few isolated fat- droplets in its protoplasm ; /', a cell with a single large and several minute drops ; /", fusion of two large drops; (j, granular cell, not yet exhibiting any fat deposition; c t, flat connective tissue corpuscle ; c, c, network of capillaries. nerves destined for other tex- tures may pass through it. Accordingly it has been ob- served that, unless when such traversing nervous twigs hap- pen to be encountered, a puncturing instrument may be carried through the adipose tissue without occasioning pain. Development.—The fat first appears in the human embryo about the fourteenth week of intra-uterine life. It is deposited in the form of minute granules or drop- lets in certain cells of the connective tissue (figs. 277, 278,/,/): these droplets increase in size, and eventually run together, so as to form one large drop in each cell. By further deposition the cell becomes swollen out to a size far beyond that which it possessed originally, and its protoplasm remains as a delicate envelope surrounding the fat-drop. By the end of the fifth month the fat-cells have largely increased in number, and have become collected into small groups. The deposit of fat within the cells is preceded and accompanied by the formation of a rich network' of capillary blood-vessels (fig. 278), which are produced by a transformation of other cells of the tissue in the manner previously described (p. 218). The fat is often deposited in the granular cells of the connective tissue, these