ORIGINS OR ROOTS OF THE NERVES. The fibres of a nerve may be traced to some depth in the substance of the brain 01 spinal coid, and hence the term “ apparent or superficial origin ” has been employed to denote the place where the root of a nerve is attached to the surface in order to distinguish it from the “real or deep origin ” which is beneath the surface and concealed from view. If the deep origin be traced out, it will usually be found that the nerve-fibres arise from portions of the grey substance of the nerve-centre • such a portion of grey substance is termed the “ nucleus of origin ” of the nerve. In the case of the efferent nerves it would appear that the individual nerve-fibres originate as prolongations of the nerve-cells in the grey substance. In fact, as the researches of His have shown, these nerve-fibres have grown out from the nerve-cells (neuroblasts) within the embryonic nerve-centre (see Embryology, Development of Fig. 383.—Transverse section op the spinal cord op a chick on the 9th day op incubation, prepared by golgi’s method (Ramon y Cajal). A. Axis-cylinders of anterior root-fibres issuing from large cells of the anterior cornu, C. B. Posterior root-fibres passing from the bi-polar cells of the spinal ganglion, E, into the posterior column of the spinal cord (D), where they bifurcate (cl) and become longitudinal. e, /, g, collateral branches from these fibres, passing into the grey matter. Nerves). In the case of afferent nerves it seems to be clear that these in most if not all cases have grown into the nerve-centre from the cells of the ganglia, or from nerve- cells in the peripheral organs of special sense. Having entered the nerve-centre (fig. 383, D) the afferent fibres appear usually to bifurcate—at least this is the case with the fibres of the posterior spinal roots—and the two resulting branches become longitudinal, sending off lateral ramuscles (e,f, g) into the grey matter, in which they appear to break up into fine ramifications, without being directly continuous with nerve-cells of the grey substance. In the nerve-roots the fibres are bound up together, as they pass towards the foramina of exit from the cranio-vertebral canal, by a stout external sheath continuous with the pia mater and receiving an accession from the arachnoid and dura mater as the roots pass through those membranes. This sheath sends in strong septa which branch and unite with one another in the nerve-root, and thus divide it up irregu- larly into bundles of fibres, which have not the same cylindrical character, with special lamellated sheaths of perineurium, as the funiculi of the peripheral nerves,