401 STRUCTURE OF SECRETING GLANDS. tinctly lobular structure. The lobules are held together by the branches of the duct to which they are appended, and by interlobular connective tissue which also supports the blood-vessels in their ramifications. The larger lobules are made up of smaller ones, these of still smaller, and so on for several successive stages. The smallest lobules consist of a single group of alveoli, collected around a small duct, which issues from the lobule. This issuing duct is often markedly narrower than either the alveoli or the larger duct into which it opens, but since it is lined by somewhat flattened epithelium its lumen is quite as large as that of the alveoli (fig. 403, d') ; and a collection of the smallest lobules, united by connective tissue and vessels, forms a lobule of the next size, which, too, has its larger branch of the duct formed by the junction of the ramuli belonging to the ultimate lobules. In this way the whole gland is made up, the number of its lobules and of the branches of its duct depending on its size ; for whilst some glands of this kind, like the parotid, consists of innumerable lobules, connected by a large and many-branched duct, others, such as some of the sebaceous glands of the skin, are formed of but two or three ultimate lobules, or even of a single one. In fact, a small racemose gland resembles a fragment of a larger one. The smallest lobules were originally called acini, a term which is now often used to denote the alveoli. The alveoli are lined, and sometimes almost filled by the secreting cells, a cavity being left in the centre communicating with the excretory duct (fig. 463). In some Fig. 463. — Section op a racemose GLAND, SHOWING THE COMMENCEMENT OF A DUCT IN THE ALVEOLI. MAGNI- FIED 425 DIAMETERS. (E. A. S.). a, one of the alveoli, several of which are in the section shown grouped around the commencement of the duct, d'; a', an alveolus, not opened by the section ; b, basement-membrane in section ; c, in- terstitial connective tissue of the gland ; d, section of a duct which has passed away from its alveoli, and is now lined with characteristically-striated columnar cells; s, semilunar group of darkly- stained cells at the periphery of an alveolus. glands karyomitotic figures are numerous in the cells, indicating rapid cell-multiplication, whereas in others such indication is lack- ing (Gaule, Bizzozero). In some cases, minute canals have been described as leading from the central cavity between the cells, and these may aid in the conveyance of the secretion of the latter into the cavity. Further the flattened cells which compose the basement-membrane may send delicate lamellar processes between the alveolar cells, among which they form a sustentacular network (Boll, Ebuer). Many glands, yielding very different secretions, belong to the racemose class. As examples, it will be sufficient to mention the salivary, lacrymal, and mammary glands. Of the tubular compound glands, the most characteristic examples are the testicle and kidney. In these the tubular ducts divide again and again into branches, which, retaining their tubular form, are greatly lengthened out. The branches of the ducts are formed, as usual, of a limitary or basement-membrane (menibrana