THE SKIN. 420 developing nail the superficial layer of the epidermis or epitrichial layer (vide ante, p. 412) is greatly thickened, and below this thickening is a well-marked stratum lucidum and subjacent granular layer. Before the anterior border of the nail be- comes free, it appears to be continuous with the stratum lucidum in front of it. At birth the free end is long and thin, being manifestly the earlier formed part which has been pushed forward. As the infantile nail continues to grow, its flattened cells, at first easily separable, become harder and more coherent, as in after-life. The average rate of growth of the nails is about of an inch per week. The growth of the nail is effected by a constant generation of the cells of the Malpighian layer at the root. These cells acquire eleidin granules, and each successive series being followed and pushed from their original place by others, they become flattened into dry, hard, and inseparably coherent scales. " By this addition of new cells at the posterior edge the nail is made to advance, and by the apposition of similar particles to its under-surface at the lunula, it grows in thickness ; so that it is thicker at the anterior border of the lunula than nearer the root. It does not appear to increase in thickness while passing over the bed. When a nail is thrown off by suppuration, or pulled away by violence, a new one is produced in its place, provided any of the cells of the deeper layers of the epithelium are left. Hairs.—A hair consists of the root, which is fixed in the skin, and the shaft or stem. The stem is generally cylindrical, but may be more or less flattened : when the hair is young, it becomes gradually smaller towards the point. The length and thickness vary greatly in different individuals and races of mankind as well as in different regions of the body. In the straight-haired races (e.g. Mongolian), the individual hairs are coarser and thicker and the section more circular than in the crisp-haired races (negro) in which the section is smaller and oval, the hairs being sometimes markedly flattened. The section is largest in the North American Indians, Chinese, and especially in the Japanese. Light-coloured hair is usually finer than black. The stem is covered with a coating of finely imbricated scales, the upwardly projecting edges of which give rise to a series of fine waved transverse lines, which Fig. 480.—Human hair. (E. A. S.) A, The surface of the hair focussed to show the cuticular scales. B, optical section. The medulla looks clear, the air having been expelled from it by Canada balsam. may be seen with the microscope on the surface of the hair (fig. 480, a). Within this scaly covering, called the hair-cuticle, is a fibrous or cortical substance which in all cases constitutes the chief part and often the whole of the stem ; but in many hairs the axis is occu- pied by a substance of a different nature, called the medulla or pith. The fibrous substance is translucent, with short longitudinal opaque streaks of darker colour intermixed. It is formed of straight, rigid, longitudinal fibres, which again may be resolved into flattened cells of a fusiform outline ; they may be marked with ridges and furrows, and united with one another by fibrils, as with the deeper cells of stratified epithelium (Waldeyer). The colour of the fibrous substance is caused by oblong patches of pigment-granules, and generally diffused colouring matter of less intensity. Very slender elongated nuclei are also discovered by means of reagents, whilst specks or marks of another description in the fibroua substance are occasioned by minute irregularly-shaped cavities containing air. These air-lacunules are abundant in white hairs, and are best seen in them, there being no risk of deception from pigment-specks; indeed they may be altogether