LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 391 epithelial layer of flattened cells, similar to those lining the serous membranes, but as was shown by Hiiter, there exists on the synovial membranes no complete lining of the kind. 1 atches of cells may, it is true, here and there be met with which present an epithelioid appearance (fig. 450, B, e), as, indeed, we know to be the case m the connective tissue of other parts ; but most of the surface-cells of the synovial membranes are of the irregularly-branched type (fig. 450, a), the surface of the membrane between the cells and sometimes also over them being formed by the ground-substance of the connective tissue, whilst here and there small blood-vessels come close to the surface from subjacent parts. The cells are in many places smaller than in connective tissue generally. They vary much in shape in different parts, sometimes forming a network in the tissue by the anastomoses of their ramifying processes, in other parts being rounded, and more closely arranged. The cells of the vaginal synovial membrane are often slightly elongated in the direction of the axis of the tendon. The articular synovial membranes pass, as before said, a certain distance over the cartilages of the joints. They do not, however, end abruptly, but shade off gradually Fig. 451.—Transition of cartilage-cells into connective-tissue corpuscles of synovial membrane. About 340 diameters. From head of metatarsal bone, human. (E. A. S.) a, ordinary cartilage cells ; b, b, with branched processes. into the margin of the cartilage, the fibrous tissue becoming fibro-cartilage and the cells gradually losing their processes and becoming transformed into cartilage-cells (fig. 451), so that it is difficult to say where the one structure begins and the other ends. This portion of the synovial membrane, or of the cartilage, is known as the ‘c marginal zone ; ” it is best marked around the convex heads of the bones, and is especially well seen near the lower margin of the patella (Hiiter). The Haversian folds and fringes, at least the larger ones, agree in general structure with the -rest of the tissue of the synovial membrane, except that, as before remarked, some of them contain fat ; their surface layer contains for the most part irregularly stellate cells, except over the fat, where there is occasionally to be observed a true epithelioid covering like that of a serous membrane. The smaller non-vascular secondary fringes of Rainey (synovial villi) are minute finger- shaped processes projecting from the margins of the larger ones, and consist for the most part of small rounded cells with granular protoplasm and but little intercellular substance, enclosing a central strand of connective-tissue fibrils ; and in some cases a few cartilage-cells. Some of the synovial villi are entirely made up of fibro-carti- lage, being altogether destitute of the covering of rounded cells (Tillmanns). Vessels and lymphatics.—The blood-vessels in and immediately beneath the synovial membrane are numerous in most parts of the joints.' They advance but a