376 LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. Under this head are included not only the vessels specially called lymphatics or absorbents, together with the glands belonging to them, but also those named lacteal or chyliferous, which form part of the same system, and differ in no respect from the lymphatics, save that they not only carry lymph like those vessels, but are also employed to take up the chyle from the intestines during the process of digestion and •convey it into the blood. The serous and synovial membranes may also be con- veniently described along with the lymphatic system, since they are—especially the serous membranes—in close relationship to the lymphatics. A system of lymphatic vessels is superadded to the sanguiferous in all classes of vertebrated animals, but this is not the case in the invertebrata ; in many of these, the sanguiferous vessels convey a colourless or nearly colourless blood, but no additional class of vessels is provided for conveying lymph or chyle. Distribution.—In man and those animals in which they are present, the lymphatic vessels are found in nearly all the textures and organs which receive blood ; the exceptions are few, and with the progress of discovery may yet possibly disappear. It is, however, with the connective tissue of the several textures and organs that the lymphatics are most intimately associated ; indeed, as we shall immediately have occasion to notice, these vessels may be said to take origin in spaces in that tissue. The larger lymphatic trunks usually accompany the deeply- seated blood-vessels ; they convey the lymph from the plexuses or sinuses of origin towards the thoracic duct. The principal lymphatic vessels of a part exceed the veins in number but fall short of them in size ; they also anastomose or intercom- municate with each other much more frequently than the veins alongside of which they run. It not unfrequently happens that a lymphatic vessel or a close interlacement of lymphatic vessels, may ensheath an artery or vein either partially or wholly. In this •case the lymphatic is termed “ perivascular.” Origin.—Two modes of origin of lymphatic vessels are described, viz., the plexiform and the lacunar or interstitial, but no sharp line of distinction can be drawn between them, the difference depending chiefly upon the nature of the tissue or organ to which the lymphatics are distributed. Thus in flat, membranous or expanded parts, the lymphatic vessels usually form a network which is situated either in a single plane, as in many parts of the serous membranes, or in two or more planes united by intervening vessels, as in the skin and some mucous membranes. In the latter case the strata are generally composed of finer vessels, and form a closer network the nearer they are to the surface of the membrane in which they are dis- tributed, but even the most superficial and finest network is composed of vessels which are larger than the sanguiferous capillaries. The lymphatics of origin are often very irregular in size and shape (fig. 436, b, c). In them the lymph is collected, and it is conveyed away from the tissues and organs by more regular vessels provided with valves (fig. 436, a), which again combine to form larger lymphatic trunks. Here and there vessels are seen joining the plexuses of origin which arise in the tissue by a blind and often irregular extremity. A long-known and well-marked example of such a mode of commencement is to be found in the lacteals of the intestinal villi, which, although they form networks in the larger and broader villi, arise in others by a single vessel beginning with a blind or closed extremity at the free end of the villus, whence it sinks down to join the general plexus of the intes- tinal membrane.