260 BONE OR OSSEOUS TISSUE. depth in a straight or crooked direction through the leaves of a book, in which case it is plain that the perforations of the adjoining leaves would correspond ; it being understood, however, that the passages thus formed are most likely bounded by proper parietes. The apertures now referred to must be distinguished from larger holes seen in some lamellae, which give passage to the perforating fibres to be mentioned further on. But the lamellae have a further structure. To see this, the thinnest part of a detached shred or film must be examined, as shown in figs. 300 and 302 ; it will then appear plainly that they are largely made up of transparent fibres, decussating with each other in the form of an exceedingly fine network. In the Haversian systems these decussating fibres cross one another in different lamellae at right angles (v. Ebner), but in most other situations at more or less acute angles, and they are united here and there by obliquely passing fibres, so that they cannot be teased out from one another ; but at the torn edge of the lamella they may often be seen separate for a little way, standing out like the threads of a fringe. Most generally they are straight, as represented in fig. 300 ; but they are not always so ; for in some parts they assume a curvilinear direction (fig. 302). Acetic or hydro- Fig. 300.—Thin layer peeled off from a softened bone, as it appears under a magnifying power of 400 diameters (Sharpey). This figure, which is intended to represent the reticular structure of a lamella, gives a better idea of the object when held rather farther off than usual from the eye. Fig. 301.—Small part of a longitudinal section of decalcified tibia. Highly magnified (after v. Ebner). a, series of six lamella; which are cut for the most part in the direction of the fibrils, so that they appear longitudinally striated ; b, b, lamella, the fibrils of which are cut across ; the arrangement of the fibrils into bundles is indicated. Two lacuna are seen lying between the lamella, also canaliculi piercing the lamella. chloric acid causes these fibres to swell up and become indistinct, like the white fibres of connective tissue ; care must therefore be taken in their examination that the remains of the decalcifying acid be removed from the tissue, by maceration in water or in solutions of neutral salts. Moreover, the fibro-reticular structure is not equally distinct in all parts ; for in some places it is less decidedly marked, as if the fibrilla- tion were incompletely developed. The decussating fibres which constitute the lamellae were discovered by Sharpey, and their constant presence was taught by him for a long time before they were admitted by other histologists. It has lately been shown by v. Ebner that the decussating fibres of Sharpey are in reality themselves composed of exquisitely fine fibrils, so that they correspond with bundles of white connective tissue fibres rather than with single fibres. Like the connective tissue fibrils these of the bone are doubly refracting, and they are said (Ebner) not to be calcified,