4L0 STRUCTURE OF THE SKIN. THE SKIN. The skiu consists of the cutis vera or coriura, and the cuticle or epidermis. The epidermis, cuticle, or scarf-skin, belongs to the class of stratified epithelia, the general nature of which has been already considered. It forms a pro- tective covering over every part of the true skin. The thickness of the cuticle varies in different parts of the surface, measuring in some places not more than -^th, and Fig. 466.—Section of human EPIDER- MIS WITH TWO VASCULAR PAPILLA of the coitiUM. (Heitzmann.) B.P, loop of capillary vessels in papilla ; V, rete mucosum ; P.L, stratum granulosum ; E, stratum cor- neum ; 1) to p, duct of sweat-gland passing through the epidermis. in other parts, as much as -sfrth of an inch (about a millimeter), or even more than this in some individuals. It is thickest in the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, where the skin is much exposed to intermittent pressure, and it is not impro- bable that such pressure may serve to stimulate the adjacent true skin to a more active formation of epidermis ; but the difference does not depend immediately on external causes, for it is well marked even in the foetus. The more firm and transparent superficial part, or horny layer, of the epi- dermis, may be separated after maceration from the deeper, softer, more opaque, and recently formed part, which constitutes what is called the Malpighian layer, or rete mucosum.' The under or attached surface of the cuticle is moulded on the adjoining surface of the corium, and, when separated by maceration or putrefaction, presents impres- sions corresponding exactly with the papillary or other eminences, and the furrows or depressions of the true skin ; the more prominent inequalities of the latter are marked also on the outer surface of the cuticle, but less accurately. Fine tubular prolongations of the cuticle sink down into the ducts of the sweat-glands, aud are often partially drawn out from their recesses when the cuticle is detached, appearing then like threads proceeding from its under surface. Structure.—The cuticle is made up of cells agglutinated together in many irregular layers. The deepest cells are elongated in figure, and placed perpendi- cularly on the surface of the corium (fig. 467, e) ; they are denticulate at their lower ends, and fit into corresponding fine denticulations of the corium. The perpendicular cells generally form one stratum ; above them are cells of a more rounded or polyhedral shape (d). The cells have fine intercellular clefts or chan- nels between them, bridged across by fibres which pass from cell to cell, as in all stratified epithelia (see p. 196). These so-called “ spiny cells” form several strata; above, they become gradually more flattened, conformably to the surface, until a layer, often incomplete, is reached in which the cells have a markedly granular appear- ance (Langerhans). This has been termed the stratum granulosum. The granules in the cells are composed of a peculiar matter (elcidin of Ranvier, Iceratohyahn of