308 MEDULLATKD NEK VE-F1BKES. NERVE FIBRES. Iwo kinds of nerve-fibres arc met with in the body, differing' from one another both in their microscopical character and in their more obvious aspect : those of the one kind have received the name of ivhile fibres, on account of the appearance which they present when collected in considerable numbers, as in the nerve trunks or white matter of the nerve centres, the others being denominated grey fibres. When examined with the microscope it is found that this difference of aspect depends upon the presence or absence of a peculiar sheath to the fibre, formed of a kind of fatty substance, this fatty or medullary substance, as it is termed, giving a dark double contour to the white fibres (when seen by transmitted light), which is Fig. 352.—White or medullated nerve-fibres, showing the sinuous outline and double contours (after Bidder and Volkmann). Fig. 353.—A SMALL PART OF A MEDULLATED FIBRE HIGHLY MAGNIFIED (E. A. S.). The fibre looks in optical section like a tube—hence tlie term tubular, formerly applied to these fibres. Two partial breaches of continuity are seen in the medullary sheath, which at these places exhibits a tendency to split into laminae. The primitive sheath is here and there apparent outside the medullary sheath, and the delicate striae which are visible in the middle of the fibre probably indicate the fibrillaled axis-cylinder. Fig. 354.—Varicose medullated fibres from the root of a spinal nerve (from Valentin). altogether absent from those of the other kind. On account of this the white fibres are also known as the double-borclerecl or med/ullated fibres, the grey fibres being termed in contradistinction the pale or non-medullated fibres, or from their dis- coverer, the fibres of Romaic. The medullated nerve-fibres form the white part of the brain and spinal cord, and by far the greater part of the cerebro-spinal nerves. Viewed singly under the microscope with transmitted light they are transparent, and, as before stated, are characterised by their well-defined even outline and, except the smallest, by their double contour, which gives them a tubular aspect. Their size differs considerably even in the same nerve, but much more in different parts of the nervous system ; some being less than inch (2 f), and others upwards of y-g^th inch (17 f) in diameter. Speaking generally, they