DEVELOPMENT OF CARTILAGE. 251 pellucid substance, forming as it were a network of bright meshes inclosing them, but in reality consisting of the cohering capsules of the contiguous cells, and constituting all that exists of the matrix at this time.1 Glycogen appears at an early period in the protoplasm of cartilage-cells. Rouget found it in the sheep’s embryo of two months, both in ossifying cartilage and in the cartilages of the trachea. The subsequent changes consist in enlargement and multiplication of the cells and development of the intermediate matrix from a substance which is formed around and between them. The process appears to be as follows (fig. 293) :—The cartilage cells first divide, a species of capsule being formed round each of the young cells (b), whilst the old one inclosing them becomes blended with the intercellular matrix, and after a time, is no longer traceable (c). The new cells, in turn, divide in the same way, so as to make a group of four, each of which is surrounded by its own capsule (d), whilst the capsules of the first descent (secondary) blend with the matrix (e) like their predecessor. ABODE Fig. 293.—Plan op the multiplication op cells of cartilage (Sharpey). A, cell in its capsule ; B, divided into two, each with a capsule ; C, primary capsule disappeared, secondary capsules coherent with matrix ; D, tertiary division ; E, secondary capsules disappeared, tertiary coherent with matrix. The four cells may each form a succession of capsules and thus become more separated from one another, or they may divide again and form a group of eight or more. It is by reason of the cells remaining in contiguity with one another after the division is complete that the groups of corpuscles which are so charac- teristic of cartilage are produced. It is doubtful how the capsule is produced ; whether excreted by the cell which it afterwards incloses, as held by Kolliker; or formed by conversion of a super- ficial layer of the protoplasm of the cell-body, as was taught by Max Schultze ; or a primarily independent deposit around the cells. However this may be, there is at first no matrix but what is made up of the simple capsules. In further growth there is a difference, according as the cells do or do not undergo frequent division. In the latter case a cell becomes surrounded by many concentric capsules formed in succession ; that is, the first capsule is expanded, and the others formed each within its expanding predecessor, so that the cartilage comes to consist of scattered cells, each with a concentric system of capsules, which by means of re-agents may be rendered visible in the neighbourhood of the cells, but further off are inseparably blended into a uniform substance. When, on the other hand, the cells have a tendency to frequent subdivision, the new capsules are produced by the new cells, and are included in and finally blend with those which had belonged to the previous cells, as shown by fig. 293. 1 Cartilages, which retain this condition throughout life, have been termed “parenchymatous.” An example of this is found in the cartilage of the mouse’s ear. VOL. I. s