MUSCULAR TISSUE. 294. interval of the sarcomere), and have in optical section the appearance of rows of dark-looking dots. _ \\ hen these dots are carefully regarded they seem each to be surrounded by a bright halo (figs. 331, 339, R), which is apparently due to the manner in v uc i ey le ect the light which is transmitted through the muscle, much in the same way as an oil-globule or an albuminous granule, when viewed in water under a Fig. 338. Part of a contracted fibre of insect muscle (leg) treated with vinegar. (E. A. S.) lhe monilifonn appearance of the sarcostyles and the accumu- a ions o the .sarcoplasm opposite their constrictions are well seen, iiie ordinary cross-striation is not visible. high power of the microscope, appears when it is exactly focussed, to be surrounded by a bright area.1 Since each dot is encircled by a bright halo, and the ,, , , . . . ^°*-s are arranged in regular rows, the haloes become blended into a stripe, which is much brighter than the rest of the muscle-substance. This is m fact the chief cause of the very bright appearance of the clear bands o le res muscle. These clear bands, however, about correspond in level with R Fig. 339.—Wave of contraction passing over a MUSCULAR FIBRE OF DYTISCUS. VERY HIGHLY magnified. (E. A. s.) R, R, portions of the fibre at rest; c, contracted part: i, i, intermediate condition. the hyaline substance of the sarcomeres as seen in stained alcohol-preparations, so that their relatively bright appearance in the fresh muscle, as compared with the dim band or row of sarcous elements, is not entirely pro- duced by the light-effect above mentioned, although it is greatly enhanced thereby. Changes in contraction.—When these muscles contract the sarcous elements, as in the wing-muscles, become bulged out and shortened, while the fluid of the clear inter- vals becomes relatively diminished in amount. The ends of the sarcomeres are thereby con- tracted opposite the membranes of Krause, and the sarcostyles become monilifonn (fig. 338). This alteration in shape of the sarcostyles necessarily affects the sarcoplasm which lies in their interstices, which must become squeezed out of the parts which are opposite the bulgings of the sarcostyles and into the parts which are opposite their constrictions. In other words, the sarcoplasm must accumulate in greater quantity opposite the clear bands and the membranes of Krause, and must diminish in amount opposite the sarcous elements. This is, in fact, what can be seen to take place. In fig. 338 a contracted portion of muscle in which the sarcoplasm has been rendered evident by acid is represented, and it is seen that the sarcoplasm 1 It is in fact this action of the dots upon the light which tends to obscure the continuity of the longitudinal lines of the sarcoplasm in the fresh condition, so that in this condition it may be difficult or impossible to make out that continuity (see fig. 331).