423 NERVES OF THE HAIRS, pass, at the bottom of the follicle, into a layer of columnar cells which covers the surface of the hair-knob. The inner root-sheath itself consists of two layers, which towards the bottom of the follicle become blended into one. The innermost (that —co Fig. 483.—Longitudinal section through the FUNDUS OF A HAIR-FOLLICLE OF THE HUMAN scalp. (Mertsching.) a, outer, longitudinal layer of the dermic coat; b, inner, circular layer ; c, hyaline layer, which seems to be formed of two layers ; d, papilla, somewhat prolonged amongst the cells from which the medulla is forming : this is not an uncom- mon condition ; e, outer root-sheath, composed near the bottom of the follicle of only two layers of cells, of which the outer c' is the direct pro- longation of the columnar cells, while the inner e" is in contact with Henle’s layer and is formed of more flattened cells : both pass over the papilla into the cells of the hair-bulb ; f, Henle’s sheath, showing nuclei only below at the level of the papilla : at the bottom of the follicle it is continuous with the cells of the hair-cuticle, k : (j, Huxley’s layer, passing round into continuity with the cuticle of the root-sheath, li; l, cells which are becoming transformed into the hair-cor- tex; m, medulla becoming formed from the cells which immediately cap the papilla. next the cuticula) is known as Huxley's layer; it consists of flattened polygonal nucleated cells, two or three deep. The outermost (Henle's layer) is composed of oblong, somewhat flattened cells without nuclei, between which gaps frecjiiently occur, so as to give it the aspect of a perforated membrane. These gaps are filled up by projections from the cells of Huxley’s layer. At the lower part both layers pass into a single stratum of large polygonal nucleated cells without openings between them. At the upper part also of the follicle the two layers of the inner root-sheath are not distinguishable from one an- other (Ebner). The soft, bulbous enlargement of cl the root of the growing hair is formed of cells which are in course of multiplication, and are not arranged in definite strata. Laterally they are continuous with the cells of the outer root-sheath. Superficially they are becoming gradually transformed into the horny cells of the hair and of the inner root-sheath. At the bottom of the follicle they rest upon the hair-papilla, which may send a delicate extension between them. The papilla, which is vascular and also receives nerves, rises up into the bottom of the follicle, fitting into a cor- responding excavation of the hair-knob. In the large tactile hairs of animals it is very conspicuous. As the follicle, in short, is a recess of the corium, so the hair- papilla is a cutaneous papilla rising up in the bottom of it. Nerves of the hairs.—Nervous branches pass to the hair-follicles, and some, as just remarked, enter the papilla ; but besides these, many fibres pass into the outer root-sheath, where they appear to end as in the Malpighian layer of the