MINUTE STRUCTURE OF BONE. 261 the deposit of calcareous matter being: confined to the matrix in which they are embedded. They appear to be united into the lamella by a matrix or ground-substance, and take different directions in successive lamellas, so as to produce a granular or a striated appearance according as they happen to be cut transversely or longitudinally (fig. 301). _ In thin sections of bone, the concentric lines or rather bands which represent the cut edges of the lamella; show the section of the decussating fibres as round or angular dots, themselves punctated, which lie embedded in the homogeneous ground-substance (fig. 301, b). The lamella} are separated from one another by the lacunas which lie between them, where these are absent they are joined together by the ground-substance; they are also united by occasional bundles of fibres passing obliquely from one lamella to the other. Perforating fibres.—It was further shown by Sharpey that in many instances the lamellae are perforated by fibres, which pass through them in a perpendicular or oblique direction, and, as it were, bolt them together. These perforating fibres may be seen, with the aid of the microscope, in a thin transverse slice of a decalcified cylindrical or cranial bone, on pulling asunder the sections of the lamellae (as in fig. 304). In this way some lamella} will generally be observed with fibrous pro- Fig. 302.—LAMELLA? TORN OFF FROM A DECALCIFIED HUMAN PARIETAL BONE AT SOME DEPTH FROM the surface (Sharpey). a, lamella;, showing decussating fibres ; b, b, thicker part, where several lam elite are superposed ; c, c, perforating fibres. Apertures through which perforating fibres had passed, are seen especially in the lower part, a, a, of the figure. Magnitude as seen under a power of 200, but not drawn to a scale (from a drawing by Allen Thomson). cesses attached to them (fig. 304, b) of various lengths, and usually tapering and pointed at their free extremities, but sometimes truncated—probably from having- been divided by the knife. These fibres have obviously been drawn out from the adjacent lamella}, through several of which they must have penetrated. Sometimes, iudeed, indications of perforations may be recognized in the part of the section of bone from which the fibres have been pulled out (fig. 304, c). The processes in question are thus, so to speak, viewed in profile ; but they may frequently also be seen on the flat surface of detached lamellae (fig. 302), projecting like nails driven perpendicularly. The perforating fibres are, like the decussating fibres, for the most part bundles of fibrils which agree in character with those of the white fibrous tissue ; but some, as shown by H. Muller, are of the nature of elastic tissue (fig. 303, e). In some parts they escape calcification, and thus, as they shrink in drying, leave tubes or channels in the dry bone, generally leading from the surface inwardly ; but these