301 GROWTH. view, originally promulgated by Remak, that the fibres are produced as above ■described by the elongation of single cells, with differentiation ot their contents and multiplication of their nuclei. . . . , Growth.—The muscular fibres, after having acquired their characteristic iomi and structure, continue to increase in size till the time of birth, and thenceforward up to adult age. In a full-grown foetus most of them measure twice, and some ot Pig. 345.—Developing muscular fibres. Highly magnified. A, elongated cell with two nuclei and a striation beginning down’one side of the cell (from foetal sheep, Wilson Fox). B, from foetus of 2 months ; p, granular protoplasm ; .7, glycogenous substance ; n, nucleus ; s, commencing sarco- •iemma, with striated muscular substance developing imme- diately beneath it. C, from foetus of 3 months, displayed so as to show the ■contractile substance collected at one side of the fibre, and partially enclosing the unaltered substance of the fibre, (j; f, fibrils. B and C from Ranvier. them three or four times their size at the middle of foetal life ; and in the adult they are about five times as large as at birth. This increase in bulk of the individual fibres would, in a measure, account for the enlargement of the entire muscles. It is uncertain how far there may be a multi- plication or new formation of muscular fibres during the growth of a muscle ; but it is probable that during growth at least, if not in adult life, a new formation of fibres within the muscles does occur. The new fibres appear to be in part formed by the longitudinal splitting of tbe existing fibres, a process which was described by Weissmann, and which seems to be of very general occurrence at a certain period of growth. The splitting is preceded by the multiplication of the muscle-nuclei, which form a longitudinal series in the part which is about to become separated. The bundle of fine muscular fibres is found to be enclosed within a thick connective tissue sheath formed of several layers, continuous with the layers of Henle’s sheath of the nerve-fibre, and since these layers are more developed at the point of entrance of the nerve into the bundle than elsewhere, the whole structure has a spindle-shape, and on this account has received the name of muscle-spindle (Kuhne). The fibres of the muscle-spindle appear gradually to enlarge and eventually to form a bundle of ordinary muscle-fibres. The nerve and nerve-ending must, of course, participate in the cleavage, since each fibre is ultimately found to be furnished with a nerve- ending. But another important mode of new formation is by the transformation of cells (sarcoplasts) which lie between the muscle fibres, and which are presumably undifferentiated cells derived from the original muscle-plate. These cells enlarge and become elongated, and striated muscular substance becomes formed within them usually at one side, and often forming oval masses, which as they grow become longer and more spindle-shaped, the middle part being bulged out and the ends tapering off to fine terminations. At this stage of development the name of muscle-spindle has also been applied to these fibres. The middle bulged part receives a nerve fibre, which is provided with a terminal ramification, as with other muscular fibres, and a multi- plication of nuclei, and formation of sarcolcmma having already taken place, the development of the fibre may now be looked upon as completed. Such fibres in