387 LYMPHOID ORGANS. the trabeculae are almost or entirely absent, and the interior of the gland then looks in section like a continuous mass of lymphoid tissue, traversed by lymphatic channels. It is not unreasonable to presume that, in the proper glandular substance, there is a continual production of lymph-corpuscles, which pass into the lymph-sinus, and that fresh corpuscles are thus added to the lymph as it traverses the gland. This view is supported by the fact, that the corpuscles are found to be multiplying by karyokinesis within the pulp, and are more abundant in the lymph or chyle after it has passed through the glands. Other organs composed of lymphoid tissue.—Bodies which are similar in structure to lymphatic glands in so far that they are composed of a delicate retiform tissue, the interstices of which are closely packed with lymphoid cells, and are in intimate relation with the lymphatic vessels of the part, occur in many places. Thus, in the serous membranes, rounded nodules are here and there met with, which, as Klein has shown, are developed either around or at one side of an en- larged lymphatic (perilyrnphangicd nodule, fig. 446, a), or in some cases even within the vessel (endolymphangial nodule, fig. 446, b). The retiform tissue which con- stitutes the framework of the nodule is connected with the wall of the lymphatic, and lymphoid cells accumulate in the interstices of the retiform tissue, where they multiply and ultimately form a dense mass of lymphoid tissue. The endolymphangial nodules, although small and simple in structure, closely recall the structure of one of the cortical nodules of a lymphatic gland ; for a path A B (Klein.) A, perilymphatic nodule ; a, lymphatic vessel ; c, part of its epithelial wall, seen in optical section ; ■c, lymph-corpuscles within the vessel ; b, lymphoid tissue of the nodule ; cl, blood-capillaries. B, endo- lymphatic nodule ; a, vein ; b, artery ; c, capillaries ; cl, a lymphatic vessel, in which this whole system of blood-vessels is inclosed ; e, lymphoid tissue within the lymphatic vessel ; f, wall of the lymphatic in optical section. or channel for the passage of lymph is left between the central accumulation of lymphoid tissue and the wall of the vessel, this path being bridged across by retiform tissue and branched cells ; and along it the lymph must pass very slowly, and come into intimate relation with the tissue of the nodule. In other cases the lymphoid tissue of the serous membranes is less circumscribed, occurring in the form of ill-defined patches or elongated tracts, which lie along the course of the small arteries and veins, receiving from the latter branches which form a capillary net- work within the tissue.