253 .RECENT LITERATURE. The vital changes which occur in cartilage take place very slowly. Its mode of nutrition has been already referred to ; it is subject to absorption, and when a portion is absorbed in disease or removed by the knife, it is regenerated very slowly. A wound in cartilage is usually at first healed by connective tissue, which becomes gradually transformed into hyaline cartilage. The reappearance ■of the latter seems, however, to depend upon the presence of the perichon- drium, this membrane fulfilling, although perhaps not to so marked an extent, the same functions in the regeneration of cartilage as does the periosteum in the regeneration of bone. Schwalbe found that the cartilage of the rabbit’s ear grew only by apposition at its margins and surfaces, and not inters tit i ally ; but it is certain that the temporary cartilages grow in the manner last mentioned. Probably the rib-cartilages grow in two ways, viz. : (1) by interstitial expansion accompanied by multiplication of the cells and increase of the matrix ; (2) by apposition, fresh cartilage being formed under the perichondrium by transformation -of its fibrous tissue into cartilage (metaplastic formation). When a cartilage is fractured, as sometimes happens with the rib-cartilages, the broken surfaces become connected, especially at their circumference, by fibrous •or dense areolar tissue, and often by a bony clasp. RECENT LITERATURE. Apolant, H., Ueber Fascrknorpel, Diss., Berlin, 1890. Bicfalvl, K., Beitrdge zur Structur der Grundsubstanz des hyalinen Knorpels, Med. Centralb., 1888. Czermak, N., Vergleichende Studien uber die Entwicklung des Knochen- und Knorpelgewcbes (Vorldufige Mittheilung), Anat. Anzeiger, 1888. Bolster, R., Ueber die Intercellularsubstanz des Netzknorpels, Arch. f. mikrosk. Anat Bd 29, 1887. Morner, C. T., Histochemisclie Beobachtungen iiber die hyaline Grundsubstanz des Trachealknor- pels. Zeitschr. f. physiol. Chemie, Bd. xii., 1888. Renant, J., Sur la formation cloisonnante (substance trabecidaire) du cartilage liyalin foetal, Comt. rend. t. 104, 1887; Sur la bande articulaire, la formation cloisonnante ct la substance chondro-chromatique des cartilages diathrodiaux, Compt. rend. t. 104, No. 22, 18S7. Solg-er, B., Die Wirkung des Alkohols auf den hyalinen Knorpel, Festschrift fur A. v. Kolliker 1887 ; Ueber Schrumpfungserscheinungen am hyalinen Knorpelgewebc des Mcnschenund deren Bezie- hungen zu den Fibrillcn, Arch. f. mikrosk. Anatomie, Bd. 31, 1888 ; Ueber pericelluldre u. inter- cellular e Ablagerung im Hyalinknorpel, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. 34, 1889 ; Ueber Knorpelwachsthum, Verhandl. der Anat. Gesellschaft, iii., 1889. Spina, A., Beitrdge zur Histologic des hyalinen Knorpels, Wiener med. Jahrb., 1886. Spronok, C. H. H., Zur Kenntniss der Structur des Hyalinknorpels, Anatom. Anzeiger 1887. Thin, &., On the Structure of Hyaline Cartilage, Proceedings of the Royal Society, 1885. Van der Stricht, O., Rccherches sur le cartilage hyalin, Archives de biologie, t. vii., 1887 ; Sur la structure du cartilage diarthrodial des oiseaux, Yerhandl. der anatom. Gesellschaft’ iii., 1889, and Arch, de biologie, 1890. Vogel, A., Die Saftbahnen des Hyalinknorpels, Dissert., Bern, 1883. Zuckerkandl, E., Beitrag zur Lehre von dem Baue des hyalinen Knorpels, Sitzungsberichte der Wiener Akademie, Bd. 91, 18S5.