BONE OR OSSEOUS TISSUE. S76 their walls (which were at first formed only by the remains of the walls ot the primary areolae and therefore only by calcified cartilage-matrix) begin to be thickened by the deposition of layers of new bone, and this deposition increases gradually towards the middle of the shaft (compare fig. 317, c and d). The lacunae first appear in this deposit, there are of course none in the calcified cartilage. Moreover as layer after layer is deposited upon the walls of the medullary spaces these become gradually narrowed into inter-communicating channels, which contain little more than a blood-vessel and some jelly-like embryonic connective tissue (foetal marrow) with a few osteoblasts applied to the bone. In the end, some of the enlarged cavities and their walls remain to form the cancellated tissue, but much of this structure is afterwards removed by absorption, to give place to the medullary canal of the shaft. In many of the cavities the walls of the coalesced primary areolae may long be distinguished, like little arches, forming by their union a sort of festooned outline, upon which the new bony laminae are deposited (see fig. 318, and fig. 305, c). In some of the smaller bones it may happen that the calcified cartilage is completely absorbed from the centre of the shaft before any new deposition of bone takes place. This is the case in the phalanges (fig. 314). The primary osseous mailer forming the original thin walls of the areolae, and produced by calcification of the cartilaginous matrix, is decidedly granular, and has a dark appearance ; the subsequent or secondary deposit on the other hand is quite transparent, and of a uniform, homogeneous aspect. This secondary deposit begins to cover the granular bone a very short distance below the surface of ossification (see fig. 317), and, as already stated, increases in thickness further down. Close to the limit of advancing ossification, the blood-vessels terminate in capil- lary loops (see figs. 313, 317), which are often somewhat dilated. It is supposed by Ranvier that these vascular loops by their growth directly produce absorption of the cartilage, but it is more probable that this is caused by the agency of some of the cells which accompany the blood-vessels. The absorption of the walls of the primary areolae (calcified cartilage-matrix) seems to be effected by certain large cells (fig. 317, /, /) which from their function have been termed by Kolliker, osioclasts, and which are found wherever bone is being eaten away : we shall return to them further on. The secondary bone which thickens the walls of the medullary spaces is no doubt formed by the osteoblasts. With regard to the destination of the cartilage-cells, two opposite views have been taken by histologists. According to one, which was that adopted by H. Muller, and has received most adherence, the capsules are opened by absorption, and the cells are converted, after undergoing division, into osteoblasts. According to the other, the cartilage-cells themselves become removed by absorption, and take no- part, directly or indirectly, in the production of the secondary bone. The latter view of the matter was taken by Loven, and it was also regarded by Sharpey as in all probability the more correct. It is difficult to decide between these views. All that can be said is that the line of demarcation between the cartilage-cells and the osteoblastic tissue is exceedingly abrupt (fig. 317), and that the latter often, if not always, terminates either by a dilated vascular loop, or it may be by a developing capillary filled with blood corpuscles. Except that they are generally much shrunken and irregular in form (at least after death or the action of reagents), the cartilage-cells show no absorption and no distinct evidence of division, and it may be remarked that this is also the case when, as sometimes happens, they have not disappeared before the advancing subperiosteal tissue, but remain for a time still occupying an untouched primary areola (see fig. 313, c). As ossification advances towards the ends of the bone, the portion as yet