231 CELLS OF CONNECTIVE TISSUE. mcnt, are collected into smaller and larger groups or bundles (fig. 26G), which are separated from one another by septa of the white tissue, but the latter also penetrates between the individual elastic fibres of the group. The cells or corpuscles of connective tissue.—Three kinds of cells may be distinguished in connective tissue, and these may provisionally be termed the flattened or lamellar, the granular, and the vacuolated or plasma-cells. They are all imbedded in the ground-substance, occupying the cell-spaces previously mentioned. The flattened or lamellar cells (fig. 262, c, c and fig. 2G7), are often applied to the surfaces of the bundles of white fibres. Where three or more bundles come into Fig. 267.—Two connective TISSUE CORPUSCLES PROM THE SUBCUTANEOUS CONNEC- TIVE TISSUE ; HIGHLY MAG- NIFIED. (E. A. S.) The dark streak below l, in the right hand corpuscle, is a lamella which happens to be projecting towards the ob- server and is seen in optical section. apposition, the cells may extend between the several bundles, and they then consist of not one lamella, but of two, three, or more which fit in between the bundles, the body of the cell occupying the larger interstice. This is most marked in fibrous tissue, but is also seen in dense areolar tissue. The cells in some parts are united Fig. 268.—Ramified connective tissue corpuscles. (E. A. S.) 50 diameters.. (From a preparation stained with chloride of gold.) Fig. 269.—Epithelioid and ramified cell-spaces of connective tissue. (E. A. S.) 340 DIAMETERS. (From a preparation stained with nitrate of silver.) The nuclei of the cells are indicated. by their edges into patches, after tne manner of an epithelium ; in other cases, a> union takes place by means of branching processes, so that the cells form a kind of network throughout the ground-substance, and a corresponding network is of course formed by the spaces in which the cells lie (figs. 2G8, 2G9). These flattened connective tissue corpuscles are composed of clear cell-substance, with but a few