OSSIFICATION IN CONNECTIVE TISSUE. 269 is magnified about twelve diameters. The bone is formed in membrane as in the human foetus, but a thin plate of cartilage rises up on its inside from the base of the skull. The ossification, however, is decidedly unconnected with the cartilage, and goes on in a membrane lying outside of it. When further examined with a higher magnifying power, the tissue or membrane in which the ossification is proceeding, appears to be made up of fibres and granular corpuscles, with a ground-substance between, and, in point of structure, may not unaptly be compared to connective tissue in a certain stage of development. The corpuscles are large and angular, and they are densely packed all over the area of ossification, covering the bony spicula, and filling up their interstices. On observing more closely the points of the growing osseous rays at the circum- ference of the bone, where they shoot out into the soft tissue, it will be seen that the portion of them already calcified is granular and rather dark in appearance (fig. 309), but that this character is gradually lost as they are traced further out- Fig. 308.— Parietal bone op an embryo sheep. Size of the embryo 2i inches. (Sharpey.) wards in the membrane, in which they are prolonged for a little way in form of soft and pliant bundles of transparent fibres •(fig. 309, B, of). These are termed osteogenic fibres, the soft transparent matter of which they are composed being known as osteogenic sub- stance, or simply as osteogen. They exhibit faint fibrillation, and have been compared to bundles of white connective 'tissue fibres, with which, in some situations, they appear to be continuous (Gegenbaur). But although similar in chemical composition, they are somewhat Snt,fr0m these in appearance, having a stiffer aspect and straighter cours S bemg less distmctly fibrillated. The fibres become called by tl deposition within them of earthy salts in the form of minute globules whic a dai'k(sh gramilar opacity, until the interstices between the globuf also become calcified, and the minute globules becoming thus fused together tl new bone again looks comparatively clear (fig. 309, B, b). The small upper figure represents the bone of the natural size, the larger figure is magnified about 12 diameters The curved line, a, b, marks the height to which the subjacent cartilaginous lamella extended. A few insulated particles of bone are seen near the circumference, an appearance which is quite common at this stage. to w S 1ST1cSoffllf'blt'^t.COmr« ‘1° 05terniC fib,'es »™. according them. ’ ’ b“‘ the °*taa°“K“ offecte »"ly the matrix which unite. 7hloh Pro,°ig tony spicules, generally adjacltl cZ^ Wl° tl eal sPIcule,so “ to «>««> » contact with those from grow together fflo « R", ha.pP™7 8’the lm''-r,imst or Proximal fibres frequently t 'll • °\ ° ' ’ Gie other fibres partially intercross as tbov grow further into the membrane. The ossilic process LenfiinT^oZgel