174- CHEMICAL NATURE OF PROTOPLASM. they join one another they may be slightly enlarged. These enlargements at the junctions of the fibrils as well as the optical sections of those fibrils which are coursing in a direction more or less parallel to the visual axis of the observer appear, when the horizontally running fibrils are not clearly seen, as distinct points or granules in the protoplasm ; it is perhaps for this reason that the cell-substance was formerly con- stantly described as being finely granular. The external layer of the protoplasm of many cells, especially that of fixed cells like those which constitute the varieties of epithelium, and in a notable degree the cells of the higher plants, may become altered by the deposition in or upon it of chemical substances which render it firmer and more resistant than the rest of the cell. In this way a cell-membrane (fig. 203, me) may be formed, either complete or, more commonly, furnished with minute pores which allow of the passage of fluid or the connection of the cell with its neighbours by filaments of protoplasm which traverse the pores. In those cases where a cell-membrane is formed the peripheral layer of the protoplasm is usually furnished with a denser reticulum than the rest, but this is not the case in cells like the white corpuscles of the blood and the amoeba which have no cell-membrane. In these the exterior of the protoplasm may be clearer than the interior, indeed a reticulated appearance may be altogether wanting in it, or may be re- placed by a few radial striae. Such clearer peripheral protoplasm is sometimes known as the “ectoplasm” to distinguish it from the granular-looking “endoplasm” around the nucleus. Chemical nature of protoplasm.—Protoplasm may contain imbedded in its substance (generally in the hyaloplasm) various adventitious materials, such as granules of proteid or starch, globules of fat, crystals of various kinds, pigment- granules and globules of watery fluid (vacuoles). These may have been formed by the cell either from its own substance or directly from materials imbibed in a fluid form, or they may have been bodily incepted in the solid form, but they are not essential to its composition, although no doubt when they occur they play an important part in relation to its vital activities.1 Apart from these the protoplasm of all vegetable and animal cells, since it is similar in its functional manifestations, is also in all probability similar in chemical constitution. So far as the proteids are concerned, it would appear that there is a preponderance of the less stable members of that group, such as globulins and albumoses as distinguished from the more stable albumins, and that these cell-proteids appear to be associated with ferment-like reactions like those which produce digestive or coagulative changes. The chief proteid found is a muco-globulin, containing phosphorus, to which the name plastin has been applied. It would further seem that the presence of certain inorganic substances, and especially calcium, is essential to the life and therefore to the functions of protoplasm, but in what manner the lime may be combined with the organic basis of the living material, remains as yet quite undetermined. It must further not be forgotten that water enters very largely into the composition of all living material.2 3 CHEMICAL AND PHYSICAL CHANGES. AMCEBOID MOVEMENTS. Vital phenomena of protoplasm.—During the life of a cell its protoplasm is constantly undergoing chemical and physical changes. The chemical changes arc in some measure determinable by comparing the products which are given off by the 1 The terms “ deutoplasm ” and “ paraplasm ” (Kupffer) hare sometimes been applied to materials contained within a cell, which are not considered to constitute a part of the actual protoplasm. 3 For an account of the present state of knowledge regarding the chemistry of protoplasm and of tho cell generally, consult Halliburton, “A Textbook of Chemical Physiology,” 1891, pp. 190 to 211.