249 WHITE FIBRO-CARTILAGE. filaments in a piece of felt; in such parts the matrix has a rough indistinctly granular look, but sometimes this appearance is clue to the fact that the elastic fibres are incompletely developed, the granules which are to form them having not yet lun together into fibres. Sometimes the fibres are longer (fig. 291, c) but they still inter- communicate at short distances. In large animals such as the ox, where the fibres of ordinary elastic tissue attain a considei-able size, those of elastic cartilage are also very large with comparatively wide meshes, occupied of course by the hyaline ground-substance. WHITE FIBRO-CARTILAGE. This is a substance consisting of a mixture of the fibrous and cartilaginous tissues, and so far partaking of the qualities of both. Like hyaline cartilage, it possesses firmness and elasticity, but these properties are united with a much greater degree of flexibility and toughness. It presents itself under various forms, which may be enumerated under the following heads :— 1. Inter articular disks. These are interposed between the moving surfaces •of bones, or rather of articular cartilages, in several of the joints. In the joint of the lower jaw and in that of the clavicle they have the form of round •or oval plates, growing thinner towards the centre ; in the knee-joint they are curved in form of a sickle, and thinned away towards their concave free •edge. In all cases their surfaces are free ; while they are fixed by synovial or fibrous membrane at their circumference or extremities. The synovial membrane of the joint is prolonged for a short distance upon these fibro-cartilages, from their attached margin.1 2. The articular cavities of bones are sometimes deepened and extended by means of a rim or border of fibro-cartilage. Good examples of these marginal Jibro-cartilages are seen in the shoulder and hip-joints, attached round the lip of the articular sockets. In the joint of the lower jaw, the cartilage lining the glenoid cavity is also largely fibrous. 3. Connecting fibro-cartilages are such as pass between the adjacent surfaces of bones in joints which do not admit of gliding motion, as at the symphysis ■of the pubis and between the bodies of the vertebrae. They have the general form of disks, and between the vertebrae are composed of concentric rings of fibrous tissue with cartilage-cells and matrix interposed ; the fibrous tissue pre- dominating at the circumference, the cartilaginous tissue increasing towards the centre. The bony surfaces which they connect are usually encrusted with true cartilage. 4. The bony grooves in which tendons of muscles glide are lined with a thin layer of fibro-cartilage. Small nodules of this tissue (sesamoid fibro-cartilages) may also be developed in the substance of tendons, of which there is an example in the tendon of the peroneus longus, and also in that of the tibialis posticus, where it passes beneath the head of the astragalus. Fibro-cartilage appears under the microscope to be made up of wavy fibres, like those of ordinary ligament, with cartilage-cells occupying the place, and often ■simulating the arrangement, of the tendon-cells. As in elastic fibro-cartilage, the cells are immediately surrounded by a part of the matrix which is free from fibres (fig. 292). As a general rule they resemble the cells of ordinary cartilage, having a rounded shape, although somewhat flattened where the bundles of fibres are closely packed. 1 It has been stated by several authors that the interarticular disks are formed of fibrous tissue •only, without any intermixture with cartilage. This statement is, however, incorrect. In all cases (jaw, clavicle and knee), there are unmistakeable rows and groups of cartilage-cells enclosed in capsules between the bundles of white fibres.