VITAL PHENOMENA OF PROTOPLASM. 170 minute veins and find their way into the surrounding connective tissue, where they may further continue to exhibit amoeboid movements. Corpuscles which have thus emigrated from the vessels are known as “ wandering cells,” and the process of emigration is known as “ diapedesis.” Although probably occurring to a certain extent normally, it is greatly increased in inflammatory conditions of the tissues. Inception of foreign particles.—When any foreign particle comes in contact with a free cell, the particle adheres to it, becomes enwrapped by processes of the protoplasm, and is then drawn gradually into the interior, where it may remain for some time without change, being moved about by any currents which exist in the cell, and carried along by the changes of place which the cell undergoes (see fig. 204). Eventually such foreign particles may be extruded again. Ifj on the other hand, the particle is of considerable size as compared with the protoplasm with which it comes in contact, the latter extends around and over it so as to envelop it more or less completely. This phenomenon of inception seems thus to be dependent upon amoeboid movements of the protoplasm. Conditions influencing the contractile manifestations of protoplasm.— All the several manifestations of contractility are influenced in the same manner by Fig. 204.—Changes of form of a white corpuscle of newt’s blood, sketched at intervals of A FEW MINUTES. THE FIGURES SHOW ALSO THE INTUSSUSCEPTION OF TWO SMALL GRANULES, AND THE CHANGES OF POSITION WHICH THESE UNDERWENT WITHIN THE CORPUSCLE. (E.A.S.) similar external conditions. Thus it is found that variations of temperature have a marked effect upon all. In warm-blooded animals the phenomena cease altogether to be exhibited, if the protoplasm which is under observation is cooled to below a temperature of about 10° C., although they will be resumed on warming the preparation again, and this even if it has been cooled to 0° C., or a little lower. And when warmed gradually, it is found that the movements become more active as the temperature rises, attaining a maximum of activity a few degrees above the natural temperature of the body, although if maintained at an abnormally high temperature, they are not long continued. A temperature a little above this maximum, rapidly kills protoplasm, producing a stiffness or coagulation in it (heat-rigor) which is preceded by a general contraction. From the condition of rigor the protoplasm cannot be recovered. The contractility of protoplasm is dependent upon supply of oxygen. If this be withheld, the movements will, it is true, proceed for a time as usual, but this is because protoplasm, like other forms of contractile substance, such as muscle, has the power of storing away and using oxygen in some form of combination. For it is found that the active manifestations will not proceed indefinitely in the absence of oxygen, but cease after a time, to be renewed only on the accession of fresh oxygen.