SEROUS MEMBRANES. 391 surface. In some folds of the serous membranes and especially in the gicat omentum of many animals, including man, the meshes oi the reticulation have become open in many parts owing to the absorption of the intervening ground- substance and the perforation of the cells covering it, so as to allow of a free com- munication between the two sides of the fold of membrane. "W here the membrane is thicker, the ground-substance contains blood-vessels and lymphatics, with the Fig. 449.—Small portion op peritoneal SURFACE OF DIAPHRAGM OF RABBIT. (Klein.) Magnified. I, lymph-channel below the surface, lying between tendon bundles, t, t, and over which the surface-cells are seen to be relatively smaller, and to exhibit five stomata, S, S, leading into the lymphatic. The epithelium of the lymphatic channel is not represented. lymphoid and adipose tissue which is so often found in the serous membranes and especially in their folds ; as well as connective tissue corpuscles with their corresponding cell-spaces (figs. 438, 439), which in the serous membranes are very often collected into endothelium-like patches. In parts of the membrane in which the corpuscles are more thinly scattered, they possess branching processes, some of which intercommunicate with those of neighbouring cells, others may pass up to the surface of the mem- brane as pseudostomata and others again become connected to the walls of the lymphatics and blood-vessels. In the human subject, the serous membranes are bounded under the epithelium by a distinct basement membrane (Bizzozero). The blood-vessels of the membrane end in a capillary network with compara- tively wide meshes, which pervades the subserous tissue and the tissue of the serous membrane. The vessels are much more numerous in the nodules and tracts of lymphoid tissue (see below) as well as in the adipose tissue, which is found largely developed in the serous membranes of fat animals. The lymphatics of the serous membranes are exceedingly abundant. Their relation both to the cell-spaces of the tissue and to the surface of the membrane, as well as their general arrangement, has been already noticed. They are sometimes met with ensheathing the blood-vessels. Nodules of lymphoid tissue may occur, as before mentioned (p. 387), in the- substance of the serous membranes. More generally the lymphoid tissue of the serous membranes takes the shape of elongated tracts which follow the course of the small arteries and veins, receiving from the latter branches which divide to form a capillary network. Lymphatic vessels run in these tracts alongside the blood- vessels, and often partially enclose them. These lymphoid nodules and tracts are more numerous in the young animal; in the adult they are frequently found trans- formed into lobules and tracts of adipose tissue. The nerves of the serous membranes are destined chiefly for the blood-vessels, and for the most part accompany these in their course. A few pale fibres, however, are distributed to the substance of the membrane, in which they form a plexus with large meshes : from the branches of this plexus, fibrils may be traced which unite into a somewhat finer plexus near the surface.