3(H) DEVELOPMENT OF VOLUNTARY MUSCULAR TISSUE. In the deeper coloured muscular fibres of those animals which, like the rabbit possess two kinds of voluntary muscles, the transverse loops of the capillary network are dilated far beyond the size of the ordinary capillaries. J uuatea lai The number of capillaries in a given space of a muscle ^eul,degree of closeness is partly regulated by the size of the fibres; and accordingly in the muscles of different animals it is found that, when the fibres are small, the vessels are numerous and form a close network, and vice versa: in other words, the smaller the fibres, the greater is the quantity of blood supplied to the same bulk of muscle. In conformity with this, we see that in birds and mammalia, in which the process of nutrition is active, and where the rapid change lequiies a copious supply of material, the muscular fibres are smaller and the vessels more numerous than in cold-blooded animals, in which the opposite conditions prevail. Lymphatics.—So far as is known there are no lymphatic vessels in the voluntary muscles, although there is an abundant supply in their connective tissue sheaths and tendons, and the lymphatic vessels here would seem, as pointed out by Ludwig and Schweigger- Seidel, to serve the purpose of collecting and convey- ing away the lymph from the muscular substance. Nerves.—The nerves of a voluntary muscle are of considerable size. Their branches pass between the fasciculi, and repeatedly unite with each other in form of a plexus, which is for the most part con- fined to a small part of the length of the muscle, or muscular division in which it lies. From one or more of such primary plexuses, nervous twigs proceed, and form finer plexuses composed of slender bundles, each containing not more than two or three dark-bordered nerve-fibres, whence single fibres pass off between the muscular fibres and divide into branches which are finally distributed to the tissue. The mode of final distribution will be described with the general anatomy of the nerves. Fig. 344. — Capillary vessels OF MUSCLE, MODERATELY MAG- NIFIED. (E. A. S.) DEVELOPMENT OF VOLUNTARY MUSCULAR TISSUE. Most of the voluntary muscles of the body are developed from a series of portions of mesoblast which are early set aside for this purpose in the embryo and are termed the muscle-plates (see Embryology, p. 159). When the muscular fibres are about to be formed the cells become elongated, and their nuclei multiplied so that each cell is converted into a long multi-nucleated protoplasmic fibre. At first the substance of the fibre is not striated but is merely granular in appearance, but presently it becomes longitudinally striated along one side (fig. 345, a), and about the same time a delicate membrane, the sarcolemma, may be discovered bounding the fibre. The longitudinal striation, which is the first indication of the proper muscular substance, extends along the whole length of the fibre, but at first as just intimated affects only a small part of its breadth, the rest being formed by a highly glycogenic protoplasm containing the nuclei. In due time, however, this conversion into the proper muscular substance, further shown by the appearance of cross striae (fig. 345, b and c), extends round the greater part of the circumference of the fibre, and finally gradually involves its whole thickness, except along the axis, which for some time remains occupied by the nuclei embedded in undifferentiated protoplasm. Eventually, however, the nuclei take up their permanent position. Schwann considered each fibre to be formed by the linear coalescence of several cells ; but the researches of Kolliker, Wilson Fox, and others, tend to establish the