215 OTHER MICROSCOPIC ELEMENTS IN BLOOD. faint port-wine tint, a reaction which is generally taken as an indication of the presence of glycogen. In the blood of the splenic vein, and also in the pulp of the spleen itself, cells have been noticed resembling pale corpuscles in their structure, but much larger, and enclosing in their protoplasm a number of red corpuscles, or in some cases partially disintegrated portions of red corpuscles. The white corpuscles also tend to take into their protoplasm bacteria and other micro-organisms, which, according to Metschnikoff, may become destroyed within the corpuscles. They also appear to play an important part in absorption of solid and fatty particles, both from Fig. 250.—Colourless corpuscles treated with WATER AND WITH ACETIC ACID. (E. A. S.) 1, first effect of the action of water upon a white blood-corpuscle ; 2, 3, white corpuscles treated with dilute acetic acid ; n. nucleus. the intestines and in the physiological and pathological absorption of the tissues (absorption of tadpole’s tail, formation of abscesses). Leucocytes which have thus “ devoured ” other cells or foreign substances are often termed phagocytes. They are often of large size, but it has not been shown that they are morphologically different from ordinary white blood-corpuscles. Other microscopical elements in blood.—In the clear fluid which intervenes between the corpuscles, and which, in a preparation which has been made a short time, consists of serum, there can generally be detected a network of fine interlacing filaments of fibrin (fig. 251). There are also to be seen minute round colourless discoid particles in this fluid, which are usually massed together into groups, containing from a very few to an immense number of particles. They were first described under the name of elemen- tari/ particles by Zimmermann, and attention was subsequently drawn to them by Hayem, who re- described them under the name of “ haematoblasts ” as a source whence new red corpuscles are derived. Still more recently these structures have been again im estigated by Bizzozero, who has termed them “ blood-platelets,” and has ascribed Fig. 251.—Network of fibrin, shown AFTER WASHING AWAY THE COR- PUSCLES FROM A PREPARATION OF BLOOD THAT HAS BEEN A LLO WED TO CLOT. (E. A. S.) Many of the filaments radiate from small clumps of blood-tablets. Fig. 252.—Mass of blood-plate- lets, SHOWING THE CHANGES WHICH IT UNDERGOES AT ITS PERIPHERY WHEN OBSERVED IN SALT SOLUTION ON THE WARM stage. (Osier.) to them special functions not only in connexion with the regeneration of the red corpuscles but also with the formation of fibrin-ferment. It is certain that they are much more numerous in disease and especially in cachectic states of the system than in the normal condition, but they appear to be never altogether absent even in per- fectly healthy blood. Lowit believes that the plate- lets are nothing but particles of globulin which have become precipitated from the plasma after the blood has been drawn, and others have thought that they tire produced by the solution of some of the pale cor- puscles, but for both these views there appears to be insufficient evidence. It was shown by Osier that they occur free within the j.oix -vessels (fig. 2o3), although they become massed together immediately the blood is drawn. I he fibrin-filaments which then form, almost invariably radiate from Fig. 253. — Blood - corpuscles and PLATELETS WITHIN A SMALL VEIN OF THE RAT’S MESENTERY. (Osier.)