416 THE SKIN. from the superficial arteries into the papillae, as already mentioned. The veins closely accompany the arteries. Lymphatics are found in all parts, although probably not everywhere in equal number; they are abundant and large in some parts of the skin, as on the scrotum and round the nipple. They form at least two networks, one superficial and another more deeply situated, which intercommunicate by uniting vessels, whilst the deeper network joins the lymphatics of the subcutaneous tissue. According to Klein there is a continuous plexus through the whole thickness of the corium, and all the vessels possess valves. The most superficial network, although close to the surface of the corium, is beneath the net of superficial blood-capillaries, which are much smaller than the lymphatic capillaries. In certain parts on the palm and sole lymphatics pass into the papilla?, but do not reach their summits. Other lymphatics accompany the blood-vessels, two passing commonly with each small artery and vein, and joining and anastomosing over the vessels. As in other kinds of connective tissue, the lymphatics of the skin may he said to originate in the cell-spaces of the tissue, and since the cells lie for the most part in rows between the bundles, the combined spaces form interfascicular clefts which can be injected with the lym- phatics. The superficial cell-spaces communicate with the intercellular channels of the epithelium, and thus these also are brought into connection with the lymphatics. The cell- spaces of the adipose tissue can similarly be injected. Nerves.—Fine varicose nerve-fibrils pass up into the epidermis, penetrating between the cells of the Malpighian layer (fig. 474), where they undergo a cer- Fig. 474.—Section op epidermis PROM THE HUMAN HAND. HIGHLY magnified. (Rauvier.) II, horny layer, consisting of s, superfic:al horny scales ; sic, swollen- out horny cells; s.l, stratum lucidmn; M, rete mucosum or Malpigliiau layer, consisting of p, prickle-cells, ■ several- rows deep; and c, elongated cells forming a single stratum near the corium ; n, part of a plexus of nerve-fibres in the superficial layer of the cutis vera. From this plexus, fine varicose nerve-fibrils may be traced passing up be- tween the cells of the Malpighian layer. tain amount of ramification. The branches do not unite with one another to form a network, but end in knob- like swellings or varicosi- ties. With "the growth and displacement of the cells be- tween which they are placed, these varicosities become, ac- cording to Ranvier, continu- ,fly detached from the end of the fibrils, the latter meanwhile growing constantly o supply the place of the detached portions. In the skin covering the snout of certain animals (V.y. mole) the nerves end in peculiar erminal organs (Eimer), formed of thickenings of the epidermis the nerve-fibres posing as m elongated bunch of closely set, somewhat zigzag, varicose, unbranclied fibrils beU een t “pidermis-cells. Besides these fibrils there are others at the periphery of the organ v men aie