PIGMENT. 238 being usually found in great abundance in those situations in which fat is becoming developed (fig. 278). Sometimes, however, the deposition takes place in the flattened connective tissue cells (fig. 277,/), or in cells which are apparently intermediate between these and the granular cells, being rounded like the latter, but consisting of a much clearer protoplasm (fig. 277,/'). When deposited in ramified or flattened cells these acquire a spherical shape as they enlarge, in consequence of the distension produced by the accumulating fat. The fat in some parts, and especially in the serous membranes, is formed at the expense of pre-existing lymphatic tissue, the lymphoid cells probably becoming enlarged and transformed into fat-cells, whilst a considerable development of blood- vessels accompanies the change. A similar transformation is also witnessed in the thymus gland, which, in the foetus and infant, is chiefly composed of lymphoid tissue, but as growth proceeds becomes wholly converted into a mass of fat. The superficial resemblance which adipose tissue often bears to many glands, in its lobulated structure and the arrangement of its blood-vessels, has led some histologists to look upon the fat-cell as a corpuscle of specific nature, and totally distinct from any other kind of cell met with in the connective tissue. But against this view it may be urged that the situations in which fat is deposited are, previously to its appearance, in no way dis- tinguishable from the rest of the areolar tissue ; that the cells in which it is produced are, so far as can be seen, the same as those which are met with in almost all parts of the areolar tissue ; and further, that when from any natural cause the fat is entirely removed from the cells of a part and not again deposited in them, the part eventually acquires all the ordinary characteristics of the areolar tissue. The great development of blood-vessels in adipose tissue is obviously related to the function which it subserves in storing up the fatty materials derived from the food in such a form and situation as to be readily re-absorbed into the circulation when needed. Fat may be deposited in other cells besides those of connective tissue. PIGMENT. An accumulation of coloured pigment-granules is met with in many cells of the animal body, but most frequently in epithelium-cells and in cells belonging to the connective tissue. A well-marked example of pigmented epithelium-cells in the human body is afforded by the black coating which forms the external layer of the retina of the eye, and covers the posterior surface of the iris. Pigment is also met with in the deeper layers of the cuticle, especially in the coloured races, in the cortical substance of the hairs, in certain epithelial cells of the membranous labyrinth of the ear, and the olfactory region of the nose. In the connective tissue the pigment is met with in enlarged and irregularly branched corpuscles which are termed pigment-cells. Such ramified cells are very common in many animals. In the human body cells of this description are found in the dark tissue on the outer surface of the choroid coat (fig. 279), in the iris, where they are often variously coloured, and on the pia mater covering the upper part of the spinal cord. Pigment is also found in some of the ramified cells which form part of the retiform tissue of the medullary substance of lymphatic glands, and occasionally in some of the similar cells of the spleen. It may also be seen in migratory cells, and these are believed to carry the pigment to the epithelial structures in which it is deposited. The pigment (melanin) which is contained within the cells, consists of black or brown granules or molecules of a round or oblong shape, and almost too small for exact measurement. These molecules are densely packed together in some cells ; in others they are more scattered, and then it may be seen that there is a certain amount of colourless matter included along with them. When they escape from the ruptured cells, they exhibit very strikingly the “ Brownian ” molecular movement ; and in consequence of this movement the apparent figure of the particles is subject to change. It is worthy of remark, that when viewed singly with a very high magnifying power they look transparent and almost colourless, and it is