365 STRUCTURE OF ARTERIES. more open and lax towards the surface of the artery, where they connect the vessel with its sheath or with other surrounding parts. Longitudinally arranged contractile fibre-cells have been described by various observers in the external coat of some arteries (e.g., the iliacs, superior mesenteric, splenic, renal, dorsalis penis, and the Fig. -124.—Section op thoracic aorta, as SEEN UNDER A LOW POWER. (Toldt.) a, inner coat, showing in its inner part longi- tudinal muscular tibres cut across ; b, middle coat, showing elastic membranes alternating with the muscular tissue ; c, outer coat, with two sec- tions of vasa vasorum. umbilical arteries of the foetus). In the umbilical arteries, according to Eberth, a complete layer of longitudinal mus- cular fibres is also present in the middle coat, internal to the ordinary circular fibres. Scattered longitudinal muscular cells are present in some arteries amongst the circularly disposed fibres of the middle coat, and even in the subendothelial layer of the internal coat (see fig. 424, in the aorta). The outer coat is usually of greater proportionate 'x- thickness in the smaller arteries, but as it shades off into the surrounding connective tissue it is difficult to adjudge its exact thickness. Some arteries have much thinner coats than the rest, in proportion to their calibre. This is strikingly the case with those contained within the cavity of the cranium, and in the vertebral canal ; the difference depends on the external and middle coats, which in the vessels referred to are thinner than elsewhere. The pulmonary arteries have also much thinner coats than those of the aortic system. Vessels and nerves of arteries.—The coats of arteries receive small vessels, both arterial and venous, named vasa vasorum, which serve for their nutrition. The little nutrient arteries are not derived immediately from the cavity of the main vessel but pass into its coats from branches which arise from the artery (or some- times from a neighbouring artery), at some distance from the point where they are ultimately distributed, and divide into smaller branches within the sheath, and upon the surface of the vessel, before entering the outer coat where they are distributed (fig. 424). In some of the larger mammals, a few pass into the middle coat, and follow the circular course of its fibres, but in health none penetrate into this coat in the human subject and still less into the internal coat (Ranvier). Minute venules return the blood from these nutrient arteries, which, however, they do not closely accompany, and discharge it into the vein or pair of veins which usually runs along- side the artery. Lymphatics are present in the outer coat. Arteries are generally accompanied by larger or smaller nerves; and when, in the operation of tying an artery, these happen to be included along with it in the liga- ture, pain may be experienced ; but the vessel itself, when in a healthy condition, is insensible. Nerves are, nevertheless, distributed to the coats of arteries. They form plexuses round the larger arteries, and run along the smaller branches in form of fine bundles of fibres, which here and there twist round the vessel, and unite with one another in a plexiform manner. The fine branches destined for the artery penetrate to the middle coat, to the muscular tissue of which they are chiefly distributed. B B 2