PACINIAN CORPUSCLES. 343 perineurium of a nerve. Each lamella (fig. 404) consists of a connecthe tissue layer formed both of white fibres, which have mostly a transverse direction and are placed near its surfaces (b), and of elastic fibres, which pass in various directions, and (with occasional bands of white fibres) stretch across the thickness of the lamella from one surface to the other (c). The surfaces of the lamellae are covered Fig. 403. — Magnified view of a Pacinian body from THE OAT’S MESENTERY. (Ranvier.) n, stalk with nerve-fibre en- closed in sheath of Henle passing to the corpuscle ; n', its continu- ation through the core, to, as a pale fibre ; «, termination of the nerve in the distal end of the core. In the corpuscle here figured the termination is arbor- escent. d, lines separating the tunics of the corpuscle, often taken for the tunics themselves ; f, channel through the tunics, traversed by the nerve-fibre ; c, external tunics of the corpuscle. with a layer of endothelial cells (a), which can be brought to view with nitrate of silver, and then their continuity with the similar cells in the perineu- rium is made manifest (fig. 405). The tissue of each lamella is lax as compared with that of the layers of the perineurium, and the interstices between the fibres are occupied by a considerable quantity of watery fluid, probably of the nature of lymph, and containing occasionally lymph - corpuscles. This fluid in the fresh state tends to obscure the deli- cate fibres of the lamellae, so that the adjacent layers of endothelial cells belong- J j at LL ym/ ing to the successive lamellae stand out sharply when the corpuscle is viewed in optical section, and were long taken, to represent the actual tuuics of the organ. The layers are not however everywhere in such close juxtaposition, but are here and there separated from one another by interlamcllar spaces which are occu- pied by lymph, and represent the lymphatic clefts between the layers of the peri- neurium of a nerve. The nerve-fibre, the disposition of which may now be noticed, is conducted along the centre of the stalk, enters the corpuscle, and passes straight into the core, at the further end of which it terminates. As shown by Pacini, the layers of the