281 GROWTH AND ABSORPTION OF BONE. become much thinner ; showing that absorption takes place from within. In this last modification of the experiment also, as noted by Hunter, a transverse red mark is observed near the ends of the bone, beyond which they are white ; the red part indicating the growth in length during the use of the madder, and the white beyond, that which has taken place subsequently,—thus showing that the increase in length is caused by the addition of new matter to the extremities. Madder administered while the process of formation of the concentric lamelke of the Haversian systems is going on, colours the interior and recently-formed laminrn, so that in a cross section the Haversian apertures appear surrounded with a red ring. Flourens, and more recently, Kolliker, have repeated and varied these experi- ments, and have represented the results in beautiful delineations. Kolliker has, in addition, carefully investigated the microscopic appearances observed in the process of absorption of bone. From the results of his researches (which were in part anticipated by those of Loven), it would seem that the process is essentially dependent on the presence of large multi-nucleated cells, by him termed “ osto- ■clasts,” identical with the “ myeloplaxes ” of Ptobin (see p. 267), which excavate, in Fig. 320.—Three ostoglasts prom absorption surfaces of growing bone. (Kolliker). a, with thickened striated border. 400 DIAMETERS Fig. 321.—Bony trabecula from the lower jaw of a calf embryo with Howship’s foyeol.e and GIANT-CELLS AT THE ENDS WHERE ABSORPTION IS PROCEEDING AND OSTEOBLASTS COVERING THE SIDES WHERE BONE IS BEING DEPOSITED (Kolliker). the part which is undergoing absorption, small shallow pits (foveolce) in which also they lie. These pits were first noticed by Howship : they seem to occur wherever absorption is proceeding, and it is to them that the festooned appearance of the Haversian spaces (p. 264) is due. The ostoclasts (figs. 320, 321) vary in size, but are always many times larger than a blood-corpuscle : in shape they are spheroidal or flattened, with either an even or an irregular outline. Their substance is granular in appearance, and they each contain from two to ten clear round nuclei, but this number may be considerably exceeded, whilst on the other hand, there may be but one large nucleus provided with a number of bud-like projections. The ostoclasts have frequently on the side by which they are in contact with the bone a thickened striated border (fig. 320, a), somewhat similar to the well-known thickened base of the columnar epithelium-cells of the intestine. With respect to the origin and destiny of the ostoclasts, they are regarded by Kolliker both as in the first instance derived from and as eventually breaking up into osteoblasts. Ostoclasts are found in connection with the roots of the milk teeth where these are undergoing absorp- tion to make way for the permanent set. They were also noticed by Billroth to produce absorption of ivory pegs which had been driven into bone. Precisely