380 LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. It has been a question whether the cell-spaces of the connective tissue are in every case and completely filled by the cells, or whether the spaces may in some cases be either devoid of cells altogether, or but partially occupied by them ; so that room is left for the free passage of fluid. On this point we would remark that in many cases it is impossible to observe a difference between the forms of the cells ns shown by the gold method, and those of the spaces as shown by treatment with nitrate of silver, so that in these instances, at least, no open lymph-passage can be said to exist; but in other cases the spaces are relatively larger and here, no doubt, the part unoccupied by the contained cell may be filled by fluid.’ In oedematous conditions of the tissue, the cell-spaces become somewhat distended with serous fluid, and then in all cases they appear distinctly larger than the cells. Even where the S/ift- candlchen or lymphatic canaliculi (which correspond with our cell-spaces) are completely filled Fig. 438.—Nitrate of silver preparation from rabbit’s omentcm. (Klein.) Magnified. a, lymphatic vessel; b, artery ; c, capillaries; d, branched cells of the tissue which are seen to be connected both with the capillary walls, and, as at e, with the lymphatic. The cells are, in this instance, stained by the nitrate of silver. by protoplasmic cells, lymph can still readily find its way between the cells and the ground- substance by which they are closely surrounded. In other cases where the cells incompletely fill the cavities, a freer passage is left for both fluid and migratory corpuscles. A point still more difficult to decide is the existence or not of an open communication between the areolae of the connective tissue and the lymphatic vessels. The result of the injection of coloured fluids into the meshes of the areolar tissue in many parts would lead to the conclusion that some such communication may really exist, for the injection most gene- rally finds its way into the lymphatics. But it is very difficult to demonstrate such a con- nection anatomically, and up to the present time it can scarcely be said to be proved. It must be remembered that the ground-substance of the connective tissues is itself by no means impermeable to fluids, nor as we have just stated can it be supposed that the delicate walls of the commencing lymphatics can oppose any material obstacle to the passage of fluid into their cavity.