369 SMALLER ARTERIES, VEINS AND CAPILLARIES. the mode in which the passage takes place was not ascertained until some time after the date of his great discovery. The finding of the capillary vessels and of the course of the blood through them, was in fact one of the first fruits of the use of the microscope in anatomy and physiology, and was reserved for Malpighi (in 1661). When the web of a frog’s foot is viewed through a microscope of moderate power (as in fig. 427), the blood is seen passing rapidly along the small arteries, and thence more slowly through a network of finer channels, by which it is conducted into the veins. The small vessels interposed between the finest branches of the arteries and the commencing veins, are the capillary vessels. The course of the Fig. 427. — Capillary blood-vessels in the web of a frog’s foot, as seen with the hicroscope (after Allen Thomson). The arrows indicate the course of the blood. blood in them may be conveniently seen also in the lungs or mesentery of the frog, in the external gills and tail of tadpoles ; in the tail of small fishes ; in the mesentery of small quadrupeds ; and generally, in short, in the transparent vascular parts of animals which can be brought under the microscope. These vessels can also be demonstrated by means of fine injections of coloured material, not only in mem- branous parts, such as those above mentioned, but also in more thick and opaque tissues, which can be subsequently rendered transparent. The capillary vessels of a part are most commonly arranged in a network, the branches of which are of nearly uniform size, though not all strictly equal ; and thus they do not divide into smaller branches like the arteries, or unite into larger ones like the veins ; but the diameter of the tubes, as well as the shape and size of the reticular meshes which they form, differs in different textures. Their prevalent size in the human body may, speaking generally, be stated at from 3510-a tc ^ of an inch, as measured when naturally filled with blood. But they are said to be in some parts considerably smaller, and in others larger than this standard : thus, Weber measured injected capillaries in the brain, which he found to be not wider than -j-roo of an inch, and Henle has observed some still smaller,—in both cases apparently smaller than the natural diameter of the blood-corpuscles. The capil- laries, however, when deprived of blood, probably shrink in calibre immediately after death : and this consideration, together with the fact that their distension by artificial injection may exceed or fall short of what is natural, should make us hesitate on such evidence to admit the existence of vessels incapable of permitting the red corpuscles of the blood easily to pass through them. The diameter of the capillaries of the marrow of the bones is stated to be ^Vo °f a11 inch. In other parts, their size varies between the extremes mentioned : it is small in the lungs, and in muscle ; larger in the skin and mucous membranes. The extreme branches of the arteries and veins in certain parts of the synovial membranes are connected by capillary loops, which are considerably dilated at their point of flexure, and dilatations are also found upon the transverse capillaries of the red muscles of the-* rabbit. There are differences also in the size or width of the meshes of the capillary network in different parts, and consequently in the number of vessels distributed in a given space, and the amount of blood supplied to the tissue. The network is very close in the lungs and in the choroid coat of the eye, and comparatively close in muscle, in fat, in the skin, and in most mucous membranes, also in glands and secreting structures, and in the grey part of the brain and spinal cord. On the other hand, it has wide meshes and comparatively few vessels in the ligaments, tendons,