4 Gulliver's Researches. CHYLE. Molecular Base.—The milk-like opacity of the chyle had always been attributed exclusively to the chyle-globules, just as the colour of the blood is due to its red corpuscles. But the series of experimental researches, carried on throughout the seasons from 1838-41, resulted in the discovery that this white opacity is due to a ground or base of an infinity of equal-sized particles, so minute that, with any glasses lower than the highest powers then known, this ground presented only a confused opalescent or clouded ap- pearance. But this, by the aid of the deepest objectives and best illumination, was at length resolved into the now well-known molecular base, the chief morphological element of the chyle, since recognised by Professor Hughes Bennett (Lectures on Molecular Physiology, Lancet, 1863) as of much importance in relation to the molecular doctrine of physiology. The formation of this very foundation of the chyle may be greatly quickened or increased by the moderate use of fermented liquor (Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 12, 1863), a fact at variance with the extreme views of the teetotallers (App, to Gerber, plate xxxii ; JI"ote to Wagner, fig. cxlix. ; Lectures, Med. Times and Gaz., JSTov. 14 and 28, and Dec. 12 and 19, 1863; Hunterian Oration, p 9). LYMPH. Eesearches showing that the majority of the globules of lymph, of chyle, and of the thymus-juice are nuclei, while the well-known pale globules of the blood are nucleated cells ; an essential difference not yet recognised, as may be seen, e. g., in the current German books, and in Quain's Anatomy, 8vo., Lend. 1867, p. xlviii (Gerber's Anat., Note, p. 83, App. pp. 89—100, figs. 275—287; Hewson's "Works, JSTote cxxii; Med. Chir. Trans., vol. 23 ; L. and E. Phil, Mag., Jane, Aug., and Sep,, 1842; 2^ote to Wagner, fig. cliv; Lectures, Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 31, Nov, 14 and 28, Dec. 12 and 19, 1863, figs. 17—-22, 6 and 5). THYMUS. Experimental proofs that it may be emptied of its juice by starvation and filled by nutrition; and (after Hewson) that the thymus is an appendage to the lymphatic system, largest, like the regular lymphatic glands, at the time of life when sanguification and growth are most active (App. to Gerber, plates xxxii—xxxiii. ; Introduction and Notes to Hewson; Lectures above cited; and Hunterian Oration, 1863). This view concerning the thymus has isince been repeatedly advanced, especially in Germany, as a recent view or discovery; see, e. g., the Erench translation of Leydig,, Traite d'Histologie, 8vo., Paris, 1866,