Gulliver's Eeseaeciuw. 3 and hence the divisions Pyrencemata and Apyronaomata (App. to Gerber; Proc. Zool. Soc, Peb. 25, 18G2 ; Journ. Anat. and Physiol., vol. ii). 10.—Lepidosiren,—Observations showing that the red cor- puscles of this creature have rather a Bratrachian than Piscine character (Ann. JS'at. Hist., Oct. 18-18 ; Proc. Zool. Soc, Peb. 25, 1862, and Peb. 10, 1870). Pale Globules of the Blood.—The difference between these and lymph-globules, see Lymph, p. 4. Molecules, as cell-germs, see under Testes, p, 6. Coagulation.—^root that the blood coagulates regularly and quickly, and the muscles become rigid, in Deer, Poxes and Hares, hunted to death, and in Birds killed by fighting; contrary to the views, then current, of John Hunter. Experiments showing that increasing the proportion of the red corpuscles hastens coagulation (Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ., Oct. 1845 and 1848 ; Notes iii and xii to Hewson's Works). Buffy Coat.—An experimental inquiry, by which was discovered a progressive acceleration of the sinking, from its commencement, of the red corpuscles during the formation of the buffy coat ; that this sinking is neither due to an attenuation or a diminished specific gravity of the liquor sanguinis, nor to its retarded coagulation, but (as John Hunter, Wharton Jones and Nasse taught) to an increase of the aggregation into rolls and clumps of the corpuscles, so that when this aggregation is prevented by dilute saline solutions the liquor sanguinis is thinned, its coagulation retarded, and the buffy coat diminished or prevented ; while, on the other hand, by artificially increasing the viscidity, or thickness, of the liquor sanguinis, the aggregations of the corpuscles and formation of the bafi'y coat are hastened or increased. Slow coagulation of buffy blood rather an effect than a cause of the separation of the corpuscles from the liquor sanguinis (Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ., Oct. 1845; JS'otes, pp. 6 and 34 to Hewson's Work; Lectures, with engraved illus- trations, Med. Times and Gaz., Sep. 12 and Oct. 17, 1863). Filrin,—Its clot, both it animals and plants, a structure of fibrils, often aggregating into membranous forms, and all this quite independently of cells—contrary to the cell doctrine then universally- current—though the fibrinous clots often include cells; and cells, fibrils, molecules, and granular matter, compose the clots or mem- branes in inflammation. Vital endowments of the blood and fibrin, with comparison of the inspired declaration of the Pentateuch, and the views of Harvey and Hunter (Gerber's Anat., JN'ote, p. 29, and App., plates xxviii and xxix ; L. and E. Phil. Mag,, Aug. and Sep. 1842; Med. Times and Gaz,, Peb. 14 and 28, 1863, figs. 11, 12, 13, 15 ; Hunterian Oration, 1863). Softeniny of Fthrin or Thronilosis.—See page 6.