22102354787/ \■ L i $ X / j: A ij infi I • I s / i i 3THE GARDENER AND THE COOKTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK BY LUCY H. YATES LONDON CONSTABLE & COMPANY Ltd 1912PMKTED BY HAZELL, WATSON AND VINBT, LD., LONDON AND AYLESBURY. WELLCC^.'' r’STITUTE IJl- Y Coll. Call No. <S^TTEMT CHAPTER I OURSELVES AND THE GARDEN CHAPTER II CHOICE VEGETABLES, NOT NECESSARILY RARE, WHICH IT IS PROFITABLE TO GROW CHAPTER III A DIGRESSION AND SOME HINTS . V PAGE I 24 41CONTENTS VI CHAPTER IV THE DISTINCTION BETWEEN PLAINLY COOKED AND PLAINLY DRESSED VEGETABLES, WITH THE RAISON d’eTRE OF SAUCES AND DRESSINGS ' . CHAPTER V OF TENDER GREENS . CHAPTER VI OF GOURDS, MARROWS, AND THEIR KIND CHAPTER VII OF CELERY, OF CELERIAC, AND THE ARTI- CHOKES ; LIKEWISE THE POTATO . PACK 59 78 100 112CONTENTS CHAPTER VIII OF THE SOLANACE^, OF KITCHEN LILIES, AND OF HERBS «.•••• CHAPTER IX TREATMENT OF BEANS AND DRIED VEGE- TABLES ; OF CORN, RICE, AND ITALIAN PASTES ...... CHAPTER X THE MUSHROOM BED, DRIED FRUITS, CHEST- NUTS, AND SOME WEST INDIAN PRODUCE CHAPTER XI FRUIT FOR THE TABLE PAGE 133 150 170 19CONTENTS CHAPTER XII IN STOREROOM AND CLOSET : PRESERVES, JELLIES, BOTTLED FRUITS, PICKLES, WINES, AND CORDIALS CHAPTER XIII IN THE FRUIT ROOM . . . . FAOB 213 242 Vlllix Charlejiagne ....... 3 In Sussex ........ 5 An Ideal Ivetchen-Garden .... 7 When I Introduced Charlemagne to this Domain 9 The Better Half’s Garden . . . .11 Charlotte ........ 15 A Little Strip for the Herbiary . . . Under the Eye of the Mistress . . . .19 The Better Half ...... 26X LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS PAGE A Chafing-Dish . . . . . . .50 An Old Volume of Receipts .... 53 Chaklotte Chez Elle ...... 57 A Casserole ....... 63 If He Brings a Lettuce that is Gritty . . 95 Tomatoes ........ 135 “Kitchen Lilies” ...... 141 In the Store-Room . . . . . .215 The White Petals of the May-Blossom . . 227 I Must Bid You Farewell .... 259 Finis ......... 260B 1 The Gardener & The Cook (glnlAPTill L OURSELVES AND THE GARDEN OME considerable portion of the term of existenee to whieh I am entitled has been spent in trying to bring the mind of Charlemagne {alias Charles Mann), the gardener, into agreement with my own, and that of Charlotte, the cook, into unison with both. The following account is witness to the measure of my success. Charles Mann was introduced to me by a worthy friend, who took a lively interest in an experiment of whieh he frankly prophesied theTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 2 failure. However, he wished it well, and as proof of his sineerity he transferred Charles Mann from his serviee to mine. I have sinee had reason to think that Charles had beeome a little too mueh for him—as he has very nearlybeen too mueh for me. It may have been a eertain dominant note in the man’s eharacter which made me, all un- known to him, alter the spelling of his name and its accent—or was it the example of Charlotte, whose French tongue beguiled me ? Anyway, Charlemagne he very soon became, and Charlemagne he will remain to the end of time.THE GARDENER . AND THE COOK 4 Necessity for peace, a quiet life, and simple diet, the physician’s prescription, had led the Better Half and me into choosing a home in the country. Eventually we met with a house and garden suited to our requirements in Sussex, within reasonable distance of London and fairly easy access by road of a small market town. It was an old house, much out of repair, and incon- veniently planned, but it had an exceptionally well-situated kitchen-garden, and this decided us in its favour. Its previous owner had been a better gardener than architect, and if only for that reason we have had cause to be grateful to him. A good kitchen-garden has generally to be made. This kitchen-garden was a piece of land of nearly two acres, innocent of all trees save those which grew by the walls and a few espaliers down the middle paths. It was sheltered, open to the south and sloping. It was, as a hymn says ;5THE GARDENER AND THE COOK ' 6 A little garden walled around. Chosen and made peculiar ground, and was, I considered, in every respect an ideal kitchen-garden. When I first introduced Charlemagne to this domain I did so with feelings of entire satisfaction. He allowed that it might become a decent garden in time—in course of time. I doubted not that his imperial mind was capable of dealing with a more expansive field; nevertheless it was important that he should grasp all the possibilities which I myself foresaw before he attempted conquests beyond this territory. I explained to Charlemagne that it was our intention to live principally upon vegetables and fruit; that simple diet, with very little meat, was essential to our health ; that Charlotte, the cook, was an importation from France, and would re- quire many things to be grown for her to whichTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 8 she had been accustomed in her native country, and finally that I myself had a firmly-rooted con- viction that it was quite possible to have, all the year round in perpetual supply, every vegetable which mortal man might desire to eat, providing that sufficient energy and enterprise were brought to bear on their production. Charlemagne listened and inclined his head majestically ; he expressed no opinion, and made no opposition. All the same I had forebodings that everything would not go easily between us. Here was a man with an iron will, and the nature of a ruler ; was it to be expected that he should subordinate his wisdom, his tried Avisdom, to another’s theories ? Nevertheless it was impera- tive for us to have vegetables and to have them in abundance. I was careful to explain to him that we Avere prepared to erect, establish, or otherwise provide*ZtJhtrLS c>JK>&uc«i C/taW«m4xyru ‘?b TVuj 3om«.i»\ “THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 10 anything which, in reason, might conduce to con- tinuity of supply. I hinted at a foreing house and frames, and a cool cellar, and I saw his eyes brighten. His imagination was touched, and this was well; the main thing, all the same, was to get vegetables. After that we came to questions of detail. We have, I think, always been oecupied with questions of detail. Sometimes I am exasperated with Charlemagne’s attention to detail as I wateh him slip and cut, and stipple over his work ; sometimes he breaks out into open rebellion at my insistenee that every letter of my plans shall be accurately followed. When the Better Half makes a mild remonstrance with regard to our being at perpetual warfare, I reply that it is, after all, only over questions of detail, for I feel that slowly and surely I am winning Charlemagne over, and inspiring him with an enthusiasm for intensive cultivation.11THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 12 Therein lies the secret of such success as we have achieved. With intensive cultivation you may do wonders with quite a small plot of land ; without it, the finest acreage will yield but little. Our ground is oblong in shape, with its longest diameter from east to west. This gives a good stretch of both warm and cool borders. The bush fruits grow together in squads instead of being planted promiscuously here and there, and if they had not already been so placed, we should soon have brought them together. Bigger fruit trees, such as apple and plum, are found in the small orchard, and the only good pear tree that we possess fills the whole west side of the house wall. There is another garden, in which the Better Half takes his pleasure, and where occasionally both Charlemagne and I find relaxation, a garden that is full of incident and delight, from the first bud- dings of spring to the fall of the last yellow leaves,13 THE KITCHEN GARDEN but of that I am not going to speak, else would my speech be unending. It is the history of the kitchen-garden that I set out to write, since it is this kitchen-garden that has been, figuratively speaking, the cockjDit of strife, where our battles have been waged and a few triumphs won, for now that we have brought it to the point where it yields for us not only a never-failing supply of roots and legumes, but also a continuance of the rarer dainties, we have good reason to triumph. It has all been a matter of management, of careful rotation of crops, of frequent sowings, and prompt clearings, helped by the use of movable frames and a little forcing. I have been insistent about having only small sowings made at a time, but of having these kept up at regular intervals, so that as fast as one row had furnished its crop, it should be cleared to make way for another. Nothing has been left to run toTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 14 seed, nor have we saved for our own seed. This may seem to some an extravagance, but we have found that it pays best to buy fresh seed grown elsewhere. By liberal trenching and a little manur- ing of the soil we secure quick growth, and the rule is to gather everything when it is somewhat under rather than over its prime. Quality, rather than size and quantity, is the best aim where con- sumption is small, but were I growing for sale, I would still prefer to sell the well-flavoured small bean or marrow to the mammoths without taste— things which have to be cooked in pieces because they are too big to be cooked whole—it must have been these which a French satirist had in mind when he talked of legumes a Veau ! A dozen strong young plants, properly set out and attended to, amply suffice for our requirements at one time. We do not wish to be condemned to eat cauliflowers day after day simply becauseTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 16 it is their season, and they are clamouring for con- sumption, or to fatten on beans when we would prefer to have a salad, or to be surfeited with salads when we desire a mess of pottage. But we are never without the material for a salad at any time of the year. We have peas from April to August; we have beans practically always on hand ; young carrots and turnips ready for pulling in May; crisp radishes and cress in the late summer. The mushroom house supplies us with early seakale and rhubarb and chicory, as well as with edible fungi, while our first tomatoes and cucumbers come from the warm brick pits. Charlotte, the cook, is my staunch ally when I make out plans for the setting aside of this or that border or fraction of a plot for things which Charle- magne considers of small worth. It is pretty to watch their faces as we dispute the matter ; he, disdainful,then graciously condescending to humourTHE HERB GARDEN c 17 the whims of womenfolk ; she, emphatic, arguing the point with all the vehemence of her warm raee. Charlotte says that you cannot have savoury dishes without the help of bouquets. She culls the petals of marigolds for her soup, plueks the nastur- tiums, flower and leaf, for her salads, chooses the blind flowers of the marrows for an entree and seeks constantly for those fragrant sprigs which formerly she found all ready to her hand in the marche in her Southern town. Partly to please Charlotte, partly to carry out an ideal of my own, I have with mine own hands planted a herb-garden in one sheltered corner, where I put, as oecasion permits, every herb that comes to my hand that I can buy or that may be given to me. With good old Sir Thomas More I ean now say : . . . there is manie a plant I entertayn in my Garden and Paddoek whieh the Fastidious wouldeTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 18 cast forthe. I like to teache my Children the Uses of eommon Things, to know, for instanee, the Uses of the Flowers and Weeds that grow in our Fields and Hedges. Manie a Poor Knave’s pottage would be improved were he but skilled in the properties of the Burdoek and Purple Orchis, of Lady’s Smock and Brooklime and Poor Man’s Pepper. The roots of Wild Suecory and Water Arrowhead might agreeablie change his Lenten diet and Glasswort afford him a piekle for his Mouth- fuls of Salte Meat. Then there are the Cresses and Wood-sorrel for his Breakfaste, and Salep for his hot evening Mess. For his Medicine there is Herb-twopence that will cure a hundred Ills, Camomile to lull a raging Tooth, and the Juiee of a Buttereup to clear his head by Sneezing. Ver- vain cureth the Ague, and Crowfoot affords the least painfulle of Blisters. St. Anthony’s Turnip is an Emetie ; Goosegrasse sweetens the Blood; Woodruffe is good for the Liver, and Bindweed hath nigh as much Virtue as the Foraygn Seam- mony. Pimpernel promoteth laughter, and poppy,THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 20 sleep ; Thyme giveth Pleasant Dreams and an Ashen Branch driveth evill Spirits from the Pillow. . . . As for Rosemarie, I lett it run alle over my garden wall, not onlie beeause my bees love it, but beeause it is the Herb saered to Remembranee, and therefore to Friendship, whence a sprig of it hath a Dumb language that maketh it a chosen Emblem at our Funerall Wakes and in our Burial Groundes. . . So here, too, in my herb-plot will you find rosemary and rue, sage and thyme, mint and chervil, with marjoram, and the two savories, basil, fennel, borage, and many more. Sorrel comes up year after year in its bed over yonder, and likewise do the cresses. I have followed the advice of one who wrote in one of our reviews so far back as 1842, where he says : “ Take a little strip for the herbiary, let it be half way betwixt the flower and vegetable garden,21 AND THE HERBIARY ’twill form a very appropriate transition stratum, and may be the means of being more under the eye of the mistress, and thus of recovering to our Soups and Salads some of the comparatively neg- lected herbs of Tarragon and French Sorrel, of purslane and dill and clary, and others whose place is nowhere to be found save in the pages of old herbalists. . . . This little plot should, of course, be laid out in geometric pattern. . . .” With the geometric pattern I am not concerned —I dislike geometry—but the herbs are there, every one of them ! Our kitchen-garden has a beauty of its own, and a charm of its own, although it is not planted after the “ muddle method ” which Mr. Robinson de- precates in his preface to the English edition of Vilmorin’s excellent book on the vegetable garden. We have not erred and gone astray by planting patches of annuals and dotting bushes and fruitTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 22 trees here and there to make picturesque effects. Yet the symmetrical orderliness of a kitchen- garden must always make it “ a pleasure to see.” It is a pleasure, too, always full of anticipations. Deprecating the whole plan of the mixed garden, Mr. Robinson advises thus : “ One-fourth of the space, given entirely to vegetables, divested of walks, hedges, trees, old walls, rubbish and other impediments, would give a far better supply. Such a spot, well cultivated, would be a pleasure to see. . . . Put the fruit- trees in one part—the higher ground, if any—and the remaining part devote to vegetables, having it always a truly fertile, green garden. . . . There should not be the root of a fruit-tree in the way of a vegetable grower.” Agreeing with every word, I maintain that our garden, with its symmetrical plots and patches, with the trim espalier partitions, and the walls23 A PLACE OF INTEREST where touches of yellow apricot, or scarlet cherry sometimes hang, and where the leaves of plum and pear turn a glorious tawny gold in the autumn, is a pleasant place. Moreover, it is an interesting place, for it is the theatre of conflicts wherein first one and then another proves winner, and what pleasure in life is so keen as to come off a winner when every one else foretold defeat ? Let those prate of flower gardens and their beauties who will—for me, my kitchen-garden surpasses them all !24 ET me at the outset repeat (what is doubtless clear to all who read) that I am not attempting to give advice to the profession, but merely to tell of methods which Charlemagne and I have followed, and to record the results which we have achieved by dint of persevering patience. I am one of thousands who love a bit of God’s earth25 PROFESSIONALS for its own sake, and who take speeial delight in enjoying the fruits of their own toil therein. It may be that the toil has been badly expended at times, but what matter if the fruits (like the herbs) are there ? Charlemagne, of course, claims to be a profes- sional, and undoubtedly he has the conceit of one. I have deliberately thwarted his prejudices and gone against his judgment a score of times, but still I say, “ What matter ? ”—the fruits are there to speak for themselves. Charlotte is a professional, too ; but I have not had to thwart her, rather to applaud her efforts. It has taken us all our time to meet Charlotte’s requirements, and it is we, Charlemagne and I, who have been kept up to the mark by Charlotte’s persistent and insistent demands. But it has been good for us, and I am not blaming Charlotte, not in the least. This gardener and this cook of mineTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 26 provide the discipline whereby my soul is scourged to profit, and my Better Half, whose fastidious digestion it is we all combine to serve, sits in critical and amused contemplation, smoking the pipe of peace and reflection. Perhaps his is the wiser part! Experience has shown us that it is not needful to grow so many different kinds of vegetables, even though you are desirous of having a perpetual supply, as it is to keep up the regular succession of the crops. What is most important is to have facilities for growing winter crops, and for some forc- ing, so as to be independent of weather and season. This we have managed by careful use27 RIGHT OF VETO of a small hot-house, a larger cool-house, and frames. At first Charlemagne showed himself imbued with the usual ideas as to the laying-out of the land, marking out the plots for rows of cabbages and patches of potatoes after the ordinary fashion. Very quickly I placed a veto on any such pro- posals. No part of our valuable space was to spare for such things as could be bought for a few pence from any greengrocer or market gardener. Cabbages, I was careful to explain, took too much out of the soil and gave back too little in actual value; cauliflowers, it is true, were of a similar nature, but as the cauliflower was adapted to so many uses in the kitchen it could not be dispensed with. Potatoes, except for a few rows of earlies, which, when eaten directly after lifting, possess a flavour comparable to none, we could not spare land for, except where they might prepare the soilTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 28 for a better crop later on. Carrots and turnips grow best on soil whieh has been previously occu- pied by potatoes or celery rather than on freshly manured ground. This matter of the wise rotation of erops was one about which I read much, and after making many trials we have at last arrived at a systematic plan, to which we now adhere. Our early turnips we sow in frames, but the second crop is sown between rows of peas and thinned out freely. Lettuces are pricked out between rows of celery, and the finest grow on the ridges after the celery has been earthed for the autumn. Spinach we set between peas and beans, sowing a fresh row every fortnight, and thus keep ourselves supplied all the summer. Our first dishes of spring greens are compounded from cuttings of sorrel, spinach, turnip-tops, young nettles, and mercury—for we grow “ Good King Henry ” as respectfully as any other herb. With29 SOME RESULTS this variety, Charlotte is able to ring the changes without being at a loss for a puree at any time. We have eucumbers ready for eutting with the beginning of May, and they last throughout the summer by keeping the glass open. Tomatoes (under glass) we cut early in June, and those grown out of doors begin to produee in July, and the two lots keep us supplied right up to Christmas. Some variety of lettuee or endive we find it pos- sible to have all the year round, and the salad bowl is in almost daily use. Soup vegetables are also required every day, and Charlotte makes a voracious demand for good roots and onions for her savoury stews, wherein, as she says, it is the meat that flavours the vegetables, not they the meat. I fear me she would consider her skill but half appreciated if we failed to supply her with sueh things as salsify and celeriac, aubergines, chicory, and maize, as well as the more ordinaryTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 30 roots, or if there were not a few potirons hanging up in the storeroom with onions and shallots galore. From beets she makes most delicious little dishes as well as salads. And, of course, there has to be material supplied for the making of those various conserves which fill the larder shelves and adorn our table in winter days. It may seem ambitious to have attempted the growing of melons, yet the home-grown melon is one of the choicest of our desert fruits, and its growing offers no insuperable obstacle ; moreover, it was like offering a sop to Cerberus to suggest its cultivation to Charlemagne. He went up in his own estimation by several degrees ! Together we discussed the requirements of the melon tribe ; we decided that a frame covering a brick pit, with a six-inch hot-water pijDC going round it, with a bed of leaf mould (chiefly oak and beech), would give the necessary heat. Our au-31 THE MELON TRIBE thority told us that these leaves were better than the richest manure. We had to buy a sackful from a nurseryman, sufficient not being otherwise obtainable. The seeds we sowed first in small pots in a mixture of leaf mould and loam, embedding each seed in a little silver sand, then set the pots in the bed with a bottom heat of between 70 and 80 degrees. When they grew big enough to shift into larger pots, a stronger compost was used, and finally they were planted out on ridges in the frame itself, and as the fruit began to form the young plants were watered with liquid manure. When a sufficient number of flowers had opened we fertilised them by hand, using a camel’s-hair brush, and kept the lights open. As soon as the fruits came we picked off any that were ill-shaped, and gave the plants a little support from time to time. While they were making fast growth, plenty of air was admitted into the frame, and the foliageTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 32 was syringed daily. If any sign of red spider appeared a little sulphur was put into the syringe. The syringing was discontinued after the fruits began to ripen, and we gave less moisture with more heat, and when we could scent the aroma we knew the time had arrived for cutting. Blessed time ! The best varieties of melon which we have suc- ceeded in growing have been “ Beauty of Zion ” and “ Golden Perfection ” ; in praise of the last- named I cannot speak too highly. Few things are more tempting than a section of this, brought cool from the refrigerator, with which to begin dinner on a warm summer’s evening. In a favourable season we have had a fair supply of peaches and apricots from the trees that grow on the south wall, but a cold or wet year is fatal to these. Grapes we have not yet attempted, our hot-house space being needed for so many otherD 33 EARLY STRAWBERRIES things. But a veritable triumph it has been when we could set a dish of fully-grown, well-ripened strawberries before the Better Half for his delecta- tion, late in May or early in June. These are not pot-grown, oh, dear no ! We allow the plants to make their ordinary growth out of doors until the crowns are fully developed, then in April we lift them with a spade, with a good quantity of soil, and lay them on the bench on the south side of the cool-house. Here they quickly come into flower, and as the windows are opened wide during the day the bees are able to do their work. After the fruit has set we raise the bench to bring it nearer the glass, and keep the roots well supplied with moisture. It swells rapidly, and soon ripens with this slight protection, being carefully shielded from the cold at night. These strawberries are as fleshy and full of flavour as when grown out of doors in the ordinary course, and in this way we prolongTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 34 our enjoyment of this delieious fruit by at least a month. The mushroom house is a shed set against the side of a north wall, and a hot-water pipe, used only in severe weather, however, goes through it. The bed is eomposed of good horse-dung and loam, and is renewed from time to time when one lot of spawn seems worked out. Roots of rhubarb and ehieory stand on the floor here, eovered with up- turned barrels, when needful, for blanehing. Here also I make experiments with blanching dandelion for our first spring salads. As to the commoner kinds of vegetable—carrots, turnips, onions, and the like—we manage them somewhat after this fashion. Early French Horn carrots are sown in warm frames in the last week of February, and after thinning out we have them ready for the table by the beginning of June. The usual spring sowings are also made out of doors a3.5 COMMON THINGS little later. In August we sow the Scarlet Horn in a warm border, thin out in September, and have them left in the ground all winter, so that when pulled they are crisp and fresh. Turnips fare much the same, but as we value the tops almost as much as the “ roots ” we sow them more liberally. One crop of parsnips is raised in the summer and stored in the ground for the winter. A few beets of the Globe variety we grow in a frame for those special dishes which Charlotte prepares so daintily, but the row of beets for salad purposes and winter use make their growth in the usual way. We are experimenting with a variety called the Seakale Beet, and have succeeded in rear- ing some fine plants ; these make a delicious dish when cooked after the manner of ordinary seakale. The upright fleshy stems are stripped of their leaves, and the stalks have a very pleasant mild flavour.THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 36 Chicory is sown in the open ground in May, and the roots lifted and taken into the mushroom house in November. The roots themselves are never eaten, but they quickly make a top-growth, and if this is produced too fast it is checked by taking them to a cool cellar. The cauliflowers, which we sow out of doors in August, are protected with lights, so as to have them ready for cutting at the beginning of Novem- ber ; these last us until the true broccoli season, which commences after Christmas. Those which are frame-sown in spring, and planted out in the open in May, give us a supply for the summer. Of onions we grow only small varieties, sowing a fresh pinch of seed very frequently, as Charlotte, wise woman, eschews the use of large onions in her cookery, and in winter she will have only shallots. To please her we also grow a little garlic, but I have to watch warily lest the susceptible nose of37 AND FINE AROMAS the Better Half be ever offended by an over-dose of the pungent elove. It is but rarely that she proves indisereet. We, on the other hand, are very partial to the delieate aroma of chives, and con- stantly desire her to use the herb ; also we praise her warmly whenever leeks are introduced, and, indeed, we think there are few things nicer than a dish of fine white leeks with a creamy sauce. Charlemagne is an expert in the production of good leeks ; he loves nothing better than to sit on an old stool snipping and cutting young leeks for planting out, and takes great unction to himself when he has set out a row, regimentally precise, in a trench. Another delight of his is to bring me a perfectly- shaped lettuce, Roman or Cos, when it is well- blanched and firm of heart. Such are not so easily cultivated as one might imagine, for they call for patience and exactitude, but Charlemagne con- siders himself an example of both these virtues.THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 38 Endive he troubles less about, and thinks it suffi- ciently well cared for if covered over with an empty flower-pot, while Batavian endive he utterly de- spises. But, then, he has never been in Dutchland, and I have. Dwarf peas, one of the best varieties of which we And to be “ Sutton’s Forcing,” we sow in pots and place on the greenhouse shelf early in January. As soon as they have made a fair growth they are brought lower down, and are kept well fed with liquid manure and then staked. Successive sow- ings take place in the warm pits, and from the beginning of May until the outdoor ones are ready in July we are able to gather a good dishful of peas each week. We have proved that French beans could be gi-own pretty well all the year round, wherever a temperature of 60 degrees can be maintained, but we have not found it needful to keep them going39 FOR THE STOREROOM IN WINTER all winter, as before the frosts come we pick a quantity and salt them down in large earthen crocks, putting a layer of salt and one of beans alter- nately, then filling the crock with water. The brine is occasionally poured off and renewed. If the beans are taken out and washed, then left to lie in cold water for two or three hours before cooking, their flavour is very little inferior to those just gathered from the garden. Salsify, celeriac, cardoons, maize, and a great variety of dried beans and lentils we keep by us in the storeroom in winter ; nearly all of them have been grown on our own land. A bagful of chestnuts comes to me every year from Italy, and very delicious is the yuree which they make, also the dessert of boiled and peeled chestnuts eaten with sweetened cream. Since Charlotte has revealed to us what delicious soups pumpkins can provide, I am amazed that soTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 40 few people grow them in England. They keep moist for a long time when hanging in the store- room, and this golden puree, garnished with crisp morsels of fried bread, is a welcome sight on a cold winter’s day. I am as proud of finding all these things in orderly array in the storeroom or cellar as Charlotte is of her shelves filled with conserves and pickles, her wines and cordials, and her bottles of dried and sifted herbs ready for the assaisonnement of her soups and dishes.41 has often occurred to me that one of the reasons why the cooking of vegetables is done so much better abroad is to be found in the simpler utensils and stoves that are in common use in other countries. For the most part, firing is there anTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 42 expensive item, espeeially in Italy and France, and I have judged this to be one cause why stoves are invariably constructed so as to consume as little fuel as possible and to afford as much facility for utilising the heat produced as can be contrived. Where wood and charcoal are often substituted for coal, the processes of cooking are naturally slow, and this again has given rise to the use of earthen- ware pans for braising and stewing. The necessity for economy has fostered, so it seems to me, the invention of many ways and means, while climate has done its part in encouraging a preference for light, succulent and refreshing foods. When I go into an English kitchen, note its array of pots and pans and its ponderous range and elaborate gas stoves, and see the lavish use of fuel, I think it is surely somewhat shameful that with all this equipment our cooks can produce so little variety, so little that is original.43 ITALIAN HINTS I have before me as I write the description of an Italian kitchen, given by one who lives in a large house in Tuscany, who in England is accustomed to many luxuries, and whose style of living out there is considered to be generous in its scale. The writer says : “ I do not think that when meals are served it would occur to any one that my kitchen possessed neither ‘ range ’ nor boiler—not even an oven, nothing indeed but the little jornelli of the country, over which you may see the cook standing, fan in hand, fanning up the charcoal embers. There is a jorno di campagna, a small portable oven worked with hot embers on the top, but as it only holds a very limited number of dishes, things requiring to be fired in an oven have to be arranged for. This, at all events, has the advantage of obviating any chance of suffering from ‘ two pastries ! ’ “ Had I foreseen I was to live so many years in the house, I would probably have done more inTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 44 the kitchen department in the way of adding ‘ modern conveniences,’ but it is wonderful how well the natives of a country will work with the tools to which they have always been accus- tomed. . . . “ I do think that we English are rather barbarous in the matter of food and feeding, and even in many little matters of table appointment. ... In some of these I think Tuscan customs are more civilised, certainly. . . . There is not, of course, an elaborate English breakfast to take up the cook’s time in the morning, and his or her energies are therefore left free to work out the midday repast. Generally a cup of tea or coffee with rolls or dry toast suffices, and I expect a good plateful of whatever fruit happens to be in season at the time to accompany the tea and toast. . . . “ At twelve-thirty the dijeuner is served, the linen, the glass, the silver are all in irreproachable condition, and my Tuscan camiera in neat black gown, with the smartest of caps and apron fixings would think herself disgraced if her padrona’s table45 A TUSCAN TABLE were not tastefully deeked and adorned with little dishes of fruit and flowers. “ The first dish may be of eggs cooked in one of many ways, or it may be fish very delicately fried, or a cup of chicken broth flavoured to a nicety, or any one of the innumerable Italian pastes, risotto or macaroni, dressed with tomatoes or cheese, according to season. A dish of meat of one kind or other will follow—never a large roast or any- thing stodgy, and with this will come a green vegetable properly cooked, and potatoes fried. Then cheese, Gorgonzola or Roquefort, or one of the delicate little cream cheeses which come down to us from North Italy, with English biscuits and a plentiful assortment of fresh fruits, finish a meal which, though so simple, is satisfactory because every detail has been well thought out. “ Five o’clock tea is with us something of a meal, as dinner is rarely served before eight o’clock. The latter meal is limited to four courses, which is amply sufficient for an everyday home dinner. For the first of these soup is de rigueur. And hereTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 46 I must frankly avow that I prefer the English to the foreign variety of the artiele. I know that this is going against all the popular canons of good cookery, but when speaking of the superiority of English clear soup, I mean real, pure soup. Such soup as I refer to must be made the day before it is wanted, and a few spoonfuls of it are equal as a pick-me-up to a glass of old Madeira ! . . . A French or Italian cook prepares his soup fresh daily, and a very good article it is, but it is made on a different system ; the lesso, or boiled meat from which it is made, is eaten by the servants, garnished with the vegetables. . . .” I ought to make an apology for quoting this writer at some length, but her charming book, “ In a Tuscan Garden,” is full of sound practical wisdom. My personal knowledge of Italian methods of cookery and manner of living has impressed me with the conviction that in many ways these have47 OIL AND WINE the advantage over our own, and that they are eondueive to health is seen in the rich complexions and the sound teeth of the people. Their free use of pure olive oil, with the practice of eating abun- dantly of fresh fruit, and the extremely small con- sumption of tea, coffee, and spirits, tends to simplify meals and their preparation, while careful cooking makes digestible many things which would be despised in an English kitchen. Much the same thing may be said of France and French modes, only that in parts of France we see meat more plentifully used, and butter sometimes replaces oil, while a good deal of pastry of the most delightful kind tells that more use is made of the oven and bakehouse. Coffee comes out at all hours of the day. The little that I know of India and of Indian life leads me to think that the high-water mark of skill in the art of cookery perhaps is reached byTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 48 the Indian chef. This is said considering the few tools and the kind of raw material that he mostly has to work with. The Indian climate, again, impels a study of foods calculated to tempt and stimulate appetite, but when you look at the limitations of an Indian larder you are amazed at the variety that is evolved from it. Its available list of materials will most likely consist of ghee (rancid butter), oil, spices, a few grains, and a few vege- tables, perhaps a little fish or fowl, and some fruits. Allowing for certain radical differences in the matter of taste, Indian culinary art leaves our cruder European methods far behind. The capacities of rice, for example, are quite unknown in this country, whereas, when properly treated, spiced and flavoured, it is not inferior to macaroni. A Bengali’s menu is well varied—on the floor around him will be placed four or five large dishes and as many small ones; these will hold soup and fish,E 49 INDIAN CURRY curries, rice, cakes, puddings, pulse, porridge, and fruit, and several kinds of sweetmeats. Wherever European tastes and the luxurious demands of the wealthier natives have made them- selves felt, the cultivation of crops and the art of cookery are both brought to a high pitch of per- fection, but away from such centres the native palate will content itself with unripe fruits, indi- gestible roots, and the strong-flavoured vegetables which are indigenous to the soil. In this respect the influence of the Anglo-Indian has been bene- ficial, for the native chef, when he can be induced to exert himself, develops a surprising talent for turning out entrees and appetisers. Four courses is a modest menu indeed, and the variety of pillau, ketcheries, and curries that he can evolve wherewith to please a jaded appetite seems endless. And there is nothing in all the realm of culinary art to surpass a really fine curry.THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 50 I hold, too, that many of the delightful prepara- tions peculiar to Americans—the creamed dishes, the batter cakes, the dainty sweets, and wonderful range of desserts, are due as much to the ingenious cooking stoves and utensils used there as to the ingenuity of the American brain. The American kitchener is only second to the French cuisiniere in shape, in lightness, convenience, and cleanliness. M o r e - over, Americans, who are nothing if not up to date, are foremost in making use of electric appli- ances and gas cookers. Do not we owe to them the chafing-dish and many another fitment ? To them also we owe the introduction of the fashion of eating fresh fruit at the beginning of a meal. SinceTHE PLACE OF FRUIT Florida and California filled the world’s markets with melons and grape fruits, we have all adopted their suggestion of eating iced Cantaloup, or half- shaddock, before the rich soup or entree. In this country we are only just beginning to realise the dietetic value of fruit, but Americans contend that every fruit has a food value of its own, whilst sharing some of the general values. Certain fruits want balancing by fats, by nitrogen or protein ; others, such as figs, prunes, and the cocoanut are perfect in themselves. Grapes are nearly perfect, and bananas are a most substantial food. The Germans, I believe, carry off the palm for the various uses they make of cooked fruits, as with them fruit soups and fruit purees as an accompani- ment to meat are quite the usual thing. German methods of fruit preserving are in many ways scientifically superior to ours, and a great deal 61THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 52 of their fruit pulp finds its way into our jam factories. It is sad to think how we in England have fallen behind of late years in stillroom and storeroom skill. In former days we stood high in the estima- tion of the world at large, and even now the mention of the sweet waters distilled by our early grandmothers carries with it a fragrant memory of spices andthevisionof well-stocked store-cupboards. These were things all conducive to the health of a nation, but in place of this cleverness we now put the patent medicine and the druggist’s shop. In the high opinion that we hold regarding the value of herbs, vegetables and fruits, Charlotte and I are in perfect accord. Nothing delights her more than for me to unearth some old manuscript volume of recipes and for us to experiment with its instructions. Like most of her countrywomen, she is a great believer in tisanes, and has her special53 ‘an o/^ \/ofifmM ■sf retje-L/fTi *THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 54 brew for every ailment that human flesh is heir to. In winter time, when there is little that I can do outside, and when Charlemagne is busy “ under glass,” Charlotte and I have been happy in the closet where is the porcelain stove and the enam- elled pans. But what we achieve there I must give in another chapter. Harking back to the thought which started me on this digression, if digression it is, I will here describe the cooking utensils which are in use in our own kitchen. As I met with Charlotte on one of our many journeys abroad, fell in love with her and secured her attachment to myself, and her promise that if ever we again set up housekeeping in England she would come to live with us, I knew that it would be but fair to give her such surroundings as might in some measure make up to her for the familiar things she would leave behind.55 CHARLOTTE’S KITCHEN A first investigation of the kitehen and pantries, when we decided to take this rambling old house, was enough to show me that nothing less than a wholesale clearance would suffice. The ancient range, clumsy and out of repair, was taken right away and sold for scrap iron. The big open chim- ney was filled in at the top with sheet-iron, save where a hole was pierced for the funnel of the stove. The back and sides of this open space were clothed with Dutch tiles. In the centre now stands a handsome flat-topped cuisiniere, bright as polish can make it, reflecting itself in those selfsame tiles. The red-brick floor is covered in the middle with a woven rush mat, such as Charlotte loves. There are rows of pans and marmites, a few of copper, but for most part of enamelled ware, and not a single pan of black iron make, so dear to the average English mind. There is a shelf full of earthen casseroles and terrines, some brown, some blue,THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 56 some yellow. In the back kitchen we have fixed a charcoal braisiere, and—concession to the spirit of the age—a small portable gas-stove. In the dining-room, on the sideboard, you will find a chafing-dish, for use—so the Better Half says—in case of total failure, or when Charlotte goes on strike ! The walls of all our kitchen places are lime-washed, a pure white, so also are the walls of the larder and cellars, and the benches are of slate or stone. A slab of marble is Charlotte’s preferred pastry- board, it is cool and easily washed clean. She is happy in having a good mortar with pestle, but is not partial to the mincing machine, which I have been at some pains to get for her, and prefers instead her chopper and hollowed deal block, something like a trough. All her utensils have their regular time for cleaning and polishing, all saucepans and lids, tools and woodware beingTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 58 scrubbed first with strong soda water, then seoured with fine sand and polished until they refleet her faee. Every fortnight sees this grand “ nettoyage ” taking place. When you come into this region of the house you may easily imagine yourself baek in Provenee. Against the white walls are ranged the shining pans, and on the shelves sit the earthen eroeks and ehina dishes. The matting floor gives off a seent of sweet rushes ; everywhere there is a frag- rance of spotless cleanliness. It is all excessively simple, but that is why it suits Charlotte. Here, she is chez die.59 CHAPTER IV. THE DISTINCTION BETWEEN PLAINLY COOKED AND PLAINLY DRESSED VEGETABLES, WITH THE RAISON D’ETRE OF SAUCES AND DRESSINGS ITH a long list of vegetables and fruits before me, and some small understanding of the many ways in which these can be cooked and served, I feel myself to be somewhat in the position of the artist who, although he has a boxful of colours beside him, knows he must set them out in order on his palette before he can mingle and bring them into use.THE GARDENER AND THE COOK I have consulted with Charlotte on this point, and she agrees with me that before any one can appreciate the nice points of a special dish they must first be acquainted with the general values of the order to which it belongs. I have no quarrel with any one who tells me that it is not easy to find nice ways of cooking vegetables, without the accompaniment of meat, of fish, or of eggs. It is not. The whole point of success in such an achievement will depend upon the sauce. But when you have set out a plainly-cooked vegetable, be it boiled or stewed or baked, and with it a suitable and appetising sauce, believe me, you have brought out the sound principle in all cookery —that is, you have preserved the singular and dis- tinctive flavour of the article cooked. Everything that we cook has either a flavour of its own or has one imparted to it. With my Tuscan friend, before quoted, I am inclined to think that anything which CO61 SOME OF CHARLOTTE’S THEORIES suggests and involves manipulation is repulsive to good taste, and that to have to probe for it below a horrible layer of sauce or something worse is nothing more nor less than an atrocity. Charlotte, as I have said before, thinks that a little meat, or it may be poultry or ham, gives an appetising flavour to vegetables when both are cooked together. It is one of her axioms. Hence it generally results that while we by no means always eschew meat or poultry or flsh our bills with the butcher and poulterer are wonderfully small. But, like most foreign cooks, Charlotte is liberal in the use she makes of eggs, and that doubtful article, known in grocers’ parlance as “ cooking eggs,” she will not touch. If the egg be not fit to eat it is not fit to cook with, she declares. I do not grumble at the consumption of three or four dozen eggs per week, because I know that good cooking cannot be achieved without them, and thatTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 62 the average English cook who is a miser in eggs is a spendthrift in meat. I should find it hard were I called upon to decide wherein Charlotte best displays her skill—whether it is in the composition of a ragout, of a purSe, a gratin or a salad. In all she is successful. But let me analyse, if I may do so, the fundamental principles that underlie and characterise these different methods, and explain in what way they differ one from the other. The word ragout, I am told, comes from ragouter —that is, to give again taste, or to give new taste or appetite. The Academic Dictionary describes the ragout as a stew designed to stimulate appetite, irrespective of whether it is composed of fresh ingredients or is a rechau^e of materials already cooked. We have many ragouts come to our table; the quantity of meat used in them is so infinitesimally63 APROPOS OF THE RAGOUT small that it is quite correct to describe them as vegetable stews. They are combinations of vege- tables, principally roots, with onions and herbs, and all, including such portions of meat as are put in, are fried before they are placed in the casserole. Close covering insures the retention of all vapours, and slow and gentle The flat-bottomed casserole has a small plate set face downwards upon the bottom first; this is to ensure that the contents of the pan shall neither burn nor cook too fast. On this are placed in layers peeled white onions, small potatoes, slices of roots, and then a layer of meat trimmings, or it may be Herewith is a typical ragout, to illustrate the points just alluded to: cooking is invariably given them.THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 64 breast of veal or lamb cut into finger lengths, all previously fried. Over these is a sprinkling of seasoning and dried herbs. If the meat be one of the two mentioned all the vegetables chosen are white, if it be beef then carrots and tomatoes may also be used. The layers continue until the casserole is nearly filled, then another plate covers the whole, a cupful of warm water is poured in at the side and the proper cover of the casse- role is replaced. This is simmered on the top of the stove for at least three hours, and when the covers have been removed it is brought to table wrapped round with a cloth. If an old fowl or rabbit comes our way it is not used for a ragout, but is cut into pieces and packed close into the terrine, with certain small onions and herbs and seasoning, and a little fat of bacon, and after slow cooking is pressed down without removing, to be turned out when cold.F 65 THE PROCESS OF “ FAIRE REVENIR ” It happens occasionally that we are obliged to leave meat out of our dietary altogether and to live strictly au maigre. The Better Half is subject to attacks of rheumatic gout, and when one of them is threatening he will not so much as look at a chicken, let alone a four-footed animal. But this does not dismay Charlotte. “ After all,” she says, with a shrug of her plump shoulders, “ is it not the vegetables which give the flavour to the bouillon—the meat, what is it ? ” And the bouillon that she produces without meat, and the sauces, innocent of any but vegetable stock, and the terrine that is furnished with layers of vegetables and of spaghetti or macaroni, or the ragouts that owe their savour entirely to the care with which she browns every morsel that goes into the pot—all these would defy criticism. This process of frying, which she calls “ faire revenir,^’ is far too little known among EnglishTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 66 cooks. It is certainly one of the ehief causes of the suiDeriority of foreign eookery. It gives a flavour whieh ean never be got by simple boiling or stewing of vegetables or meat used raw, and it preserves those essential juices whieh plain boiling often allows to eseape. But there is frying and frying. Charlotte will never admit any sueh thing as bought lard into her kitchen. The small amount of lard whieh she uses, ehiefly for her pastry, she renders down herself from pure leaf fat obtained after some well- bred pig in the neighbourhood has been killed. For her ordinary frying-fat I buy the best beef- suet, in bulk, several pounds at a time, and this is slowly rendered and clarified, and is stored in well-eovered jars, lasting for months without re- newal. A puree in Charlotte’s hands may either be the garnish to meat or the base of a soup. It is67 ABOUT PUREES obtained by boiling or stewing whatever thing is destined to this use until it is so tender that it can be rubbed through a sieve or tammy. We have another small tool, called the passoire, but this is used principally for potatoes. It is patience, says Charlotte, which makes the 'puree. A puree of chestnuts always accompanies our Christmas turkey, and it forms the foundation of one of our most delightful winter soups. A puree of haricot beans is the base of more than one kind of cream soup, and it forms the chief ingredient of several dainty rissolettes and croquettes. A puree of apples or of tomatoes make a charm- ing filling for sweet or savoury rice croustades, and accompanies roast veal or cutlets. A puree of sorrel, of sorrel and spinach, of spinach alone, or of sorrel, spinach and mercury combined, is a frequent dish with us throughoutTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 68 the spring and summer, with or without eggs and other vegetables. Cucumbers, marrows, gourds, turnips and Jerusalem artichokes are all excellently adapted to the making of purees, and appear in divers modes. A puree of onions with roast mutton in winter, a puree of white onions with cream and new potatoes in spring, are two of the dishes in which we get the onion at its best, in our opinion. But there must be a distinction made between the puree that is destined to serve as the base of a soup and that which is designed for an entree or for an accompaniment to other things. In the first case its plain cooking by boiling or stewing only needs to be supplemented by patient rubbing through sieve or tammy, then is your foundation ready for use, for its additions and allongement. On the amount of the allongement will depend whether the soup is thick or thin. I well remember69 AND THE ^^ALLONGEMENT^^ the sad face of Charlotte when an unexpected guest arrived to dinner one evening, and the nicety of her calculation was upset by the necessity of making sufficient for four what had only been prepared for three. “ Quel dommage,” she mur- mured, “ quel dommage de Tallonger ! —but she proceeded to do it all the same, and to add yet one more egg. The puree that is to be eaten as such must, after being passed and rubbed, be returned to the casserole and receive butter, seasoning herbs, and perchance the yolks of eggs, or a little cream. It is stirred carefully and then is served. If it be served in cases of fried bread or shapes of rice you may make it reasonably rich and soft, if it is to accompany meat then keep it stiff. But a puree so made is, as a witty American once remarked, a thing “to be eaten daintily with a fork and be thankful for.”THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 70 I am not enlarging the point, I think, when I maintain that in the ragout and the puree we have the two modes of using vegetables least eommonly met with in England. Vegetables which have not a distinctive flavour of their own, or only a very mild one, are vastly improved by being served au gratin. This term comes from the verb gratiner—to bake brown, with fire-heat above, and is usually understood to mean baked in the oven with bread raspings. The vegetables are always brought to table in the dish in which they were cooked. Flavourings are given to a gratin by adding spices and herbs, or a little wine or sauce. Many vegetables lend themselves well- to treatment au gratin, but of them all perhaps cauliflower does so most agreeably, and for this purpose those cauli- flowers which are beginning to run to seed can be used quite well. Carrots, parsnips, artichokes,71 APROPOS OF SAUCES salsify and celeriac all adapt themselves to this form, but for a winter’s night, commend me to a gratin of sliced white onions, previously boiled, then drained and spread in the buttered dish, with shavings of stale cheese, salt and pepper, yet a little more blitter, and a baking till brown ! “ Tell me, Charlotte,” I have just remarked, “ why it is that some people can make a good sauce and some cannot ? ” Our expert maker of sauces looks thoughtful. “ One must have the notion—Videe—but then also one must be careful to use la cuisson,” she replied. Ah, surely, that is the point—la cuisson ! Let me translate this term into our plain English. It is, then, the liquid in which your vegetable has been cooked, which so many thoughtless cooks drain away as good for nothing, but which the good cook carefully uses for the liquefying of her rouxTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 72 and other ingredients. The water in which your white vegetables or your beans or spaghetti or macaroni have been cooked is far nicer than plain water or milk for a Avhite sauce or veloute. There is also a vegetable stock which can be made and stored to have always on hand. Instead of beef or veal, we use for this dried red haricot beans or lentils, and, after soaking, put them in a deep jar, then tie together a bundle of scraped carrots, parsnips, celery, and onions, adding the bouquet of herbs, and cook the lot for hours. It is strained off and reheated from time to time. Another foundation stock we generally have in hand is the following: Fowl or game bones, or bones of various kinds chopped small, together with lean ham and a little gravy beef, are stewed together with onions previously fried brown, sliced carrots, a clove of garlic, some bay leaves and parsley. All are put into a deep stew-jar and well covered73 SAUCES AS LUBRICATORS with water, and in the corner of the stove the liquor comes to a boil slowly, is skimmed and boiled again, and so on for some hours; it is then strained through muslin and kept in a jar to use for stock as required. It can be thickened with rotix or potato-flour, coloured and flavoured for a brown sauce, or it can receive yolks of egg and butter with flour and cream for a white sauce, or be enriched with wine and mushrooms for one of special quality. Any one with a moderate amount of the cooking instinct can with such a foundation evolve a variety of sauces. A sauce we say in this house is not an accident but a necessity. It is a “ felt want.” Condiments may be appetisers, but sauces are lubricators. But a sauce must be appropriate. It must act upon the taste in one of two ways, that is by con- trast or by a harmonious blend. You find the truth of this when studying a book of good recipes.THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 74 I have found it most true when making a study of Charlotte. I have never found her spoiling that best of all sauees, the gravy of meat, nor does she mingle together many different flavours in her made sauees, and very rarely does she allow the sauee flavour to dominate that of the dish it aceompanies. A white sauce, she tells me, is expected to be bland ; it should not be disturbed by bitter or pronounced ingredients. It carries well the mild flavour imparted by small white mushrooms, by shrimps, crayflsh, oysters, mild cheese, herbs of quiet flavour, and a little lemon is permissible where some acidity is desired. It should be enriched with eggs or cream, and with butter. The brown sauces require stronger flavours: onions, the stronger herbs (like chervil), horse- radish, tomatoes, red wine, the darker mushrooms, and truffles, pickles and chutnies. All may be used75 SALADS AND SEASONINGS at discretion, but the temptation to put in many at one time must be avoided. Not infrequently do we have pure melted butter with the veriest soupcon of vinegar added to it, served as the only accompaniment to our vegetable. This is invariably the case when asparagus is in season. And now, in this conneetion, I must touch upon the subject of Salad Dressings, although we shall take salads in their due order later. When Charlotte speaks of the assaisonnement of her salad I know she is alluding, and very rightly too, to its seasoning and flavouring, not to the ordinary ingredients of its dressing. I have to be exceedingly wary when she waxes eloquent about this assaisonnement. The Better Half has tried, but I think in vain, to extraet a promise from Charlotte that she will never on any account allow cloves of garlic to “ lurk within theTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 76 bowl.” She does not look on this as meaning that she is not to use garlie at all, but merely that the clove is not to be visible. Hence, though I may not see it done, I know that she rubs the inside of that bowl most tenderly with the pungent bulb. For my own part I covdd “ lay low and say nufhn,” but I do not like to see the Better Half wince. When, however, there are dainty white onions or chives to be had Charlotte gives me no cause for anxiety. As far as the other items of the salad dressing are concerned she is generally loth to add to them by more than the yolk of an egg, or a spoonful of made mustard, so that we have for dressing nothing more than salt and pepper, a little pure vinegar and the finest olive oil that I can procure. This I buy Avholesale, in the rush-covered flagons that come straight from Italy, but if at any time I am unable to renew the supply when it is required, I buy olive oil from a trustworthy chemist, for in77 THE DRESSING OF A SALAD this way alone can one feel really sure of having the pure article. The prejudice which so many have for oil, arises from the fact of its being so constantly adulterated with cotton-seed and other oils. Our pure olive or Florence oil is clear and bright and almost as thin as water. The chemist is bound to sell the pure element, as he buys it only for medical purposes. It is dearer to buy it in this way, but it is worth the extra cost. There is one dressing which we make in winter and prepare in a good quantity at a time. It is made by putting into a bowl the raw yolks of two eggs, adding to them a teaspoonful of salt, beating well and by slow degrees adding a pint of Florence oil until it is thoroughly blended. Then we add a spoonful of made mustard, one of tarragon vinegar, and two of ordinary vinegar, and a small spoonful of castor sugar. It is well mixed and bottled, and positively improves by keeping for some time.78 OF TENDER GREENS list of “greens” is a fairly eompre- hensive one, for with it I have plaeed the salads. Neeessity obliges me to make this broad elassifiea- tion, else would my pages become wearisome reading. If, in spite of the best that I can do, a weariness is felt, it will be because I have failed to bring into them that touch of personality which redeems all that Charlotte does—or says. By this I mean Charlotte’s personality, not mine. When I tell you how and why we have such and79 ABOUT RECIPES such a thing cooked in this or that way, you must figure to yourself, if you will, my white-capped, broad-backed bonne, whose round face is seriousness itself while she is at her task, although her busy tongue might lead you to suppose it was that which was working the hardest. No lesson given by book or word of mouth is equal to the one given by ocular demonstration, nor is any recipe so good as the one you have tried and tested and proved, succeeded or failed with, yourself. Next to that I would place the reeipes with which some one well known to you has done likewise. In all the recipes given herewith the testing has been done either by Charlotte or by myself, or by some one whom we have both believed in as being equally wise. Other people may give you better recipes, perhaps, but these are good, believe me. With this brief apologia I will ask you to bear inTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 80 mind that a tin utensil must never be used when cooking greens, although you may use non-tinned copper ; but our own practice is invariably to use enamelled iron for boiling or rapid cooking, and the earthen casserole or marmite for the stew or puree. Salt and a little sugar are put into the water, and where the cabbage or the peas seem gone past their prime we put in the slightest pinch of soda. Where it is possible to cook a vegetable by steaming it, we avoid boiling in water, and after either boiling or steaming there is invariably a further process of simmering and seasoning to be gone through. Spinach is one of those greens which we neither boil nor steam, although we cook it until tender before dressing it in its severest modes. But after it has been carefully washed and all stalks that seem tough have been discarded there is sufficient moisture left on the leaves to cook it, and in aG 81 AND THE USE OF BUTTER covered vessel, with a handful of salt added, it will cook in its own steam quite well. After ten minutes you may drain and press it, season, and add to it butter or gravy as may be liked. When there is no gravy of meat, I do not grudge the liberal addition of butter which Charlotte con- siders necessary, although sometimes I am com- pelled to hint that it is la mort au beurre. The result is, however, delicious, and the purSe appears under eggs, or with the braise of veal or mutton. Then sometimes we have it mixed with cream and egg-yolk, and served in cases of fried bread, decor- ated with powdered yolk and the shredded white of hard-boiled egg. The first early sorrel we use alone in the same way, and later in the season a few leaves of sorrel are generally added to the basket of spinach to give sharpness to the flavour thereof. But our best use for sorrel, I am persuaded, is that deliciousTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 82 soup we call Poiage d la Bonne Femme. For this the marmite is half filled with water or with onion stock, and we put into it when boiling a slice of fine white bread, absolutely without crust, and cut into dice. In the meantime in another pan several fresh spring onions have been added to some two or three ounces of butter, then a couple of handfuls of sorrel leaves, a heart of cabbage lettuce, some chives and small herbs, all minced together, are put into the same pan, and covered down to simmer for half an hour. After cooking through, these are crushed and a little salt and pepper added, then the whole is put into the marmite and allowed to cook a little longer. Be- fore it is served the pot is drawn aside to cool slightly, and the beaten yolks of two eggs and a little milk or cream are gently stirred in. This slightly thickens the soup, and it is ready to pour into the tureen and serve out with fried bread.83 THE SUCCULENT LETTUCE With sorrel we make also a fluid puree, or rather sauee, for eating with veal or fowl, and when cold this same sauce goes most agreeably with cold fish. Lettuce, cos or cabbage, cooked.^—One of the nicest dishes we can have in summer is that of lettuces stewed in broth and served hot with a garnish of green peas or young beans. After being washed and cut into half, the lettuces are thrown into boiling water with salt to blanch them, then lifted out and drained. They are then laid in a stewpan with sufficient vegetable or bone stock to cover them, with a spoonful of minced onion, of parsley and mint or tarragon, also minced, some pepper and salt and a little butter. They simmer under cover for an hour or more, and are then laid in a hot dish. Cooked peas or beans are used to fill the hollow centres, and a little of the liquor, being thickened and re-boiled, is then poured over.THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 84 Another little dish which Charlotte is proud to set before us is that of lettuce cakes. The firm leaves of large lettuces are cleaned, then blanched in boiling water, and laid flat on a board. On each one is spread a farce of minced onions and herbs mixed with cooked rice, and, if meat or bacon is permitted, a little of that, or if not some grated cheese, also seasoning, and the whole made moist with tomato sauce. The leaves are then rolled and tied into shape, and the rolls are placed in a buttered pan with a little stock and gently stewed for about an hour. When dished a little of the stock is thickened and browned and poured around the rolls. Our young nettles are cut down and boiled and served with the roast of lamb, and are not a whit inferior to spinach except that they are milder in flavour, but the touch of mint sauce that comes at the same time gives piquancy without interfering85 ON COOKING GREENS with the flavour. “ Good King Henry ” or Mer- cury has, on the other hand, a decided flavour of its own, and is improved after boiling by being returned to the pan and cooked again with butter —and plenty of it. But it is a most excellent herb for the blood, and adds yet one more to the list of “ greens ” medically serviceable to man, the heir of many ills. In the cooking of the stronger—shall I say the coarser ?—greens, such as cabbages, curled kale, Brussels sprouts, and broccoli, I have noticed that Charlotte is careful always to blanch them first and then cook in a second quantity of water. She tells me that this is the secret not only of keeping them a good colour, but of getting rid of those bitter flavours and injurious substances which make cabbage and its kin indigestible. As our liking for these greens is not very pro- nounced, and as we do not grow them for ourselves,THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 86 except a few roots of sprouts, Ave do not often have them on our table. Nevertheless, there are a few occasions when a little cabbage comes in appropri- ately, and the first young earlies are certainly delicious, therefore I tell you Avhat are our modes of treating them. After washing, the half cabbages are thrown into a panful of boiling salted water and left for five minutes. When drained from this, fresh boiling water is poured over them, more salt and a little sugar. They cook, with the lid off the pan, until quite tender, then are drained and pressed and chopped finely and returned to the pan Avith butter, pepper and a sprinkling of salt and a dash of vinegar, to steam throAigh for half an hour. By being pressed into a mould before turning out into a dish the shape is improved, and it is possible to pour a nicely-flavoured broAvn or tomato sauce round the base.87 CABBAGE AND KALE Brussels sprouts, after boiling, are stewed with broth or butter, or sometimes placed in the gratin- dish, with butter and grated cheese and heated through in the oven, or in place of cheese a few of the thinnest possible slices of fat bacon are put over them and the dish is set under a grill. Very nice, too, is a savoy heart, the leaves of which, after blanching, are opened out and a savoury mince filled in between. The whole is tied up afresh and stewed in a casserole with some good broth, which when thickened makes a sauce to pour round the centre piece. A little curry powder improves the dish. French beans, when forced and gathered young, we never slice, but have them whole after stripping off the ends and fibres. They are much finer in flavour if so treated, and if really long and large can be broken across. They are boiled in water until quite tender, and then strained and returnedTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 88 to the pan to simmer through again with a little butter and mineed herbs, or with parsley only. If the beans are grown out of doors and likely to be somewhat tough, we parboil them, then strain and put them into an earthenware jar and give them more butter, an onion, more herbs, salt, pepper, and enough vegetable broth to eover them. They are then closed down and gently stewed for an hour or more. A little of the liquor thickened with a spoonful of baked flour and the yolk of a raw egg makes the sauce to serve with them. When destined for eating cold as a salad (and French beans broken into short lengths make one of the nicest vegetable salads), they have to be well drained after boiling, and must not be dressed until the last moment. Plenty of minced parsley is added to the bowl, and rather more vinegar than would be the case with the ordinary salad. When freshly gathered, the small bean found89 BEANS AND PEAS inside the ordinary French bean is delicious, and needs no long soaking as the dried bean does. We invariably save a few of our plants so as to have some of these for use. Butter beans, gathered before the bean ripens, are eaten in the pods with butter sauce, and are most delicate. The majority of our plants are, however, left untouched, so as to yield the large white bean for winter use. It is only the scarlet runner bean that we slice and serve after the ordinary English fashion, and even this I must say I think is improved by being cooked after the Dutch mode, that is in a jar, with butter and parsley and in its own steam. The Indian way of cooking green peas answers admirably for those which have passed their first youth. The shelled peas are put into a stone jar with some leaves of fresh mint, a couple of tablespoonfuls of water, a good pat of butter, and a spoonful of sugarTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 90 and salt. The jar is tightly closed and set in a pan kept full of boiling water, to stand on the stove for two or three hours. It is taken out and sent to table tied round with a napkin, with a spoon for serving out the peas. The French mode of treatment is similar, only it is found good to add the leaves of a young lettuce to help keep in the steam, and the flavour of a small onion is deemed an improvement. The jar is sometimes set in a corner of the oven and cooked with a little more speed. When lettiice leaves and young onions are added to peas, I do not, of course, use mint. Some nicely boiled fresh green peas, with the flavouring of mint, make one of the prettiest and daintiest garnishes for other things. A charming dish is made by cooking tomatoes (whole) until tender, having simply taken away the stalk end, then after sprinkling these with salt and pepper a91 THE SALAD BOWL poached egg is set on the top, and the whole stands in a thick border of green peas. Truly Italian is it in colour. And now let us speak of salads. I have said that we have salads all the year round and that the bowl appears on our table almost every day, either for luncheon or dinner. It has nothing to do with the meat or vegetable section of the menu, although it claims relationship with the cheese, for we have one very delicious salad, in which cream cheese makes a conspicuous figure, the cheese being broken into rough fragments and set on white leaves, arranged on a plate, and cream dressing poured over ; and then again, the uncut leaves of well-blanched cos or escarole, like the stalks of crisp celery, go ad- mirably with other kinds of cheese, the dressing being passed round in another vessel. Some of our salads are composed of cooked vegetables left till cold—potatoes sliced with fineTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 92 ■ onions and cucumber ; tomatoes and carrots to- gether ; Freneh beans, sprigs of tender eauliflower ; celeriac, salsify, seakale, asparagus, and celery, all admirable. We do not favour—indeed we think the eustom barbarous—of introducing beetroot and tomatoes and a host of things with lettuee into one salad. So-called garnishes, and cress, mint, pars- ley, and herbs, need to be used with the utmost discretion. The simpler a salad ean be kept the better it is. Old John Evelyn, in a highly laudatory and grandiloquent “ Diseourse on Salletts,” mentions among the furniture and materials of whieh a salad may be composed no fewer than eighty-two items, but eventually, by the assistance of “ Mr. London, His Majesty’s Principal Gardener,” he re- duees them to a number not exceeding thirty-five. His disquisition casts quite an air of dignity over the salad bowl, although, as he says :93 THE VENUS OF THE DINNER-TABLE “ Some will doubtless wonder what my meaning is, to usher in a trifle with such magnificence and end at last Avith a fine receipt for the dressing of a Sallett Avith a handful of pot herbs ! ” About dressing of salads, as Avell as about their composition, a great deal has been written and said—a deal that is superfluous. Probably no tAVO people have ever been in perfect agreement as to the dressing of a salad. Personally, I am inclined to feel in sympathy with Dr. BushAvhacker, Avhen he quaintly says : “ A boAvl of lettuce is the Venus of the dinner- table. It rises upon the sight, cool, moist and beautiful, like that very imprudent lady coming out of the sea, sir. And to complete the image, sir, neither should be dressed too much.” For ourselves, Ave have perhaps only tAVO dis- tinctive dressings that Ave use, other variations are mere matters of flavour. One of these is the simpleTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 94 French dressing of oil and vinegar, with pepper and salt lightly sprinkled in, the other is really a mayon- naise. When required for a mayonnaise of vege- tables or fish this second dressing is a slightly richer edition of the dressing I have mentioned once before as one which can be kept in store. To that we should add another egg yolk, and it might be the yolk of a hard-boiled egg rubbed fine and mixed with the mustard also. It would be the best lesson in salad mixing and dressing for any one to come and watch Charlotte prepare it. To begin with, she is loth to wash her lettuces if they can becleansed by wiping or shaking. I think she and Charlemagne come nearest to quarrelling when he brings her a lettuce that is gritty with dust—it ought to be grown clean, she declares. Of late I have found he has adopted the plan of rinsing the whole lettuce in a pail of water and letting it dry before he brings it to the kitchen95THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 96 door. He grows canny. If I remark on the pains he takes to please her, Charlotte replies with a shrug, “ ’Tis but what he would have to do for the market, after all ! ” She does not, you see, know that our vegetable markets in England would be thought disgraceful in her country. I am trying to instil into the mind of Charlemagne that the outer refuse of vegetables ought never to go into the house at all ; it should be burnt and returned to the soil as its due. Is not this a common practice with our friends the Dutch, and where do you see finer vegetables than in Holland ? But to return to Charlotte and the salad bowl, which for the moment you may imagine that you see her filling. Her large, quick fingers break up the leaves, keeping out tough stalks and discoloured bits, and with the 'petite laitue (the thinning-out of the lettuce beds) she is endlessly particular. HerH 97 FATIGUING THE SALAD herbs, just a few carefully chosen leaves, and her onions are finely minced and put at the bottom of the bowl first of all, and it is gradually filled with the green stuff. Salt and pepper are sprinkled over, then she holds the bottle of oil in one hand, and with a fork lightly turns over the greens, using her judgment as to the precise amount of oil to put in. I trust no one will ever ask me exactly how much oil Charlotte has put into a particular salad, for I could never say. Her salads are never greasy, but each leaf has its due, and shines com- placently. Then, last of all, a spoonful of vinegar is lightly sprinkled on, and the gentle process of “ fatiguing ” the salad commences. This is a pro- cess she enjoys; she will even wax poetical at this time. Her movements with her salad are steady, methodical, gentle to caressing, and when she has done it is a thing that would indeed “ tempt the dying anchorite to eat.”THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 98 There is no sediment left at the bottom of this bowl, no grit, no lurking atoms, no sourness of vinegar, nor does any moisture collect. It is a good salad. A vegetable salad, when mayonnaise is used, is dressed only just before it comes to table, as if left long the mayonnaise is apt to separate and the vegetable to get sodden. After the mayonnaise sauce has been poured over it the garnishing is done, but this takes but a few seconds. Such a salad, of cold potatoes, arranged in circles with rings of tomato, cucumber, and onion, decorated with a sprinkling of finely-minced parsley, looks most appetising. If any difficulty is found in removing the skin of tomatoes, it is helped by dipping them into boiling water for a moment first. Very pretty is a salad of potatoes or other white vegetable garnished with a macedoine of other vegetables nicely varied in colour.99 THE SALAD-MAKER Occasionally we get what might be described • as a tour de force from Charlotte in the matter of salad-making, but only occasionally. As a rule we are content, as she is, with the plainer sort, satisfied to know that she can do great things and rise to the opportunity when it arrives. When it does arrive, let the season be what it will, she is never dismayed or put out where her salad bowl is concerned.100 Octrrotty OF GOURDS, MARROWS, AND THEIR KIND. HEN selecting melon seed from a catalogue my eye was attracted by the glowing description given to gourds. Remembering what won- ders a gourd can perform in the way of growing, according to Scriptural history, and having seen something of their beauty at a Harvest Festival, I yielded to the temptation to invest in some seed. If they did nothing else, they would be sure to101 THE LIFE OF A GOURD grow, and, if useful for no other purpose, they would at least do for part of the toll our viear would levy upon us when the Harvest Festival took place. We planted the seeds in pots in the frames, and very soon—long before the melons and marrows— the young plant appeared as a kind of white loop carrying its late house, the seed, on its back. Soon the leaves expanded, and in a very little while there was unmistakable evidence that the pots were too small for the families they contained. The chief business in life of a gourd, apparently, is to grow ! That the seedlings must be planted out was plain, and it was also plain that if they were really destined to become “ handsome plants, prolific of fruit of marvellous colours,” they should be planted where they could be seen and admired. The Better Half came to the rescue here and suggested planting them whereTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 102 they would form a screen to some rather ugly sheds. It was a wise suggestion, and we adopted it. A dozen plants were set in a line, in holes in the ground, the said holes being nicely packed with leaf mould and loam, and they were neatly staked. A few odd plants which remained over were dibbled in against the sides of the sheds just to be out of the way. The gourds kept up their reputation for growing once they had got over the shock of removal, and soon developed a talent for climb- ing. First they climbed the stakes ; then, seeing that these afforded but very inadequate scope for their powers, we had the stakes tied to poles. When the young climbers got to the tops of the po’es they brandished long tendrils in a helpless sort of way, and it occurred to me that some cane fastened across the sheds might allure them in that direction and make a sort of pergola. In the meantime the plants set against the sheds, in a103 AND ITS PURPOSE do-as-you-please sort of fashion, had thriven also, so that there was now very little shed to be seen. Before those gourds really stopped climbing and took it into their heads to make fruit we had to dig out the doors of the sheds and burrow for our tools ! Their blossoms were really very pretty, merely as flowers, and as soon as they were tired of the pastime of making flowers they settled down to the making of gourds proper. They began to “ swell visibly.” At length I found that if every gourd were not to become a pumpkin for size I must gather it in its early youth. The very pretty ones were remorselessly cut off in their mere infancy, as globes of bright colour, the plainer ones were given a rather longer lease of life. We tried eating them in various ways, but they did not taste anything like so good as they looked. To grow and to look handsome, and incidentallyTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 104 to cover up the deficiencies of the world, such ap- pears to be the reason for the existenee of gourds. Ours did all this, and in addition they went to the Harvest Festival. Although marrows, cueumbers, melons, and pumpkins all belong to the same tribe as gourds, they are very different from them as regards use- fulness. In proportion as they are useful and valuable they are more difficult to grow. The gourd, whieh exists to look handsome, grows rapaciously ; the melon, which is precious to the palate, has to be coaxed and humoured to be reared at all. Marrows and cucumbers come between these two extremes. As a food they are all, perhaps, of small account, since they consist of from 90 to 95 per cent, of water—but what water ! I am persuaded that English peojDle miss the best in regard to marrows because of letting them105 EDUCATING A GARDENER grow too large. I had much difficulty in persuading Charlemagne to cut ours when they were no bigger than a goose’s egg, but after he had been allowed to taste them when cooked he changed his mind. (N.B.—The cook can do much to help the gardener by giving him judicious “ tastes ” of the things he grows.) When gathered young there is no need to cut them and take out seeds, for seeds are not formed. They are cooked whole, and served with a Dutch sauce. Or we stew them in a covered vessel with butter. They have a very sweet flavour when cooked so, and are nothing like so watery as the big marrow which the coster loves to wheel about on a hot summer’s day. When left to grow a little larger, say to about half their possible size, marrows are very nice when cooked after the Venetian method, which is to pare and cut them across in half, to take out theTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 106 inside pulp with a spoon, and replace it with the following ; Two or three mushrooms minced, the crumb of a roll soaked in milk, two ounces of grated cheese, a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley and half one of onion, pepper and salt, sufficient to season, and two beaten eggs to mix to a paste. Fill each hollow in the marrow and then tie it into original shape, and set in a stewpan with a little butter, put on the lid and cook in the oven for an hour. Just before serving thicken the liquor in the pan and add to it the yolk of an egg and juice of a lemon ; place the marrow on a dish and pour the sauce over. Another way of treating slices of marrow (and of gourd or pumpkin), of which we are fond, is to have them laid in rings in the gratin dish. Tomato sauce is then poured over and crumbs and grated cheese sprinkled on the top ; they are then baked107 PUMPKIN PIES until by probing with a fork the marrow is found to be tender. From pumpkins, whieh our American relations persist in calling squashes, we make sweet puree— that is, the pumpkin or marrow stew^ed until tender, and mixed with butter and sugar, and spiced, flavoured with lemon and ginger, and enriched with the yolk of an egg. This makes an excellent filling for tartlets and pastry, the latter having been previously baked and cooled, and after the filling has been put in we pile the whisked white of the egg and more sugar on the top, and return the tart to the oven for a few moments. This is a very favourite sweet. In this connection I might speak of the dishes of beetroot which Charlotte prepares for eating hot. Plain beetroot has its place among our salad vegetables, of course, but there are other modes of utilising this most useful vegetable.THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 108 To our thinking, beets are far nieer baked than boiled, and there is less likelihood of their losing their colour by the breaking of the skin when they are cooked in the oven. When quite tender the skin is peeled off and the beets, if large, are cut into quarters and tossed in the saute pan with a little butter and a few drops of vinegar. This is the plainest way of dressing them. For Beetroot d la Creme small globe beets lend themselves better than do larger roots ; after they have been washed they should be baked entire and then skinned, and, still keeping them whole, be left simmering for awhile with a little butter. When they are ready to serve a white sauce is poured round them, and chopped parsley is sprinkled over them. The mild flavour of beets makes a little acidity in the sauce seem desir- able, and a dash of vinegar added at the last improves it.109 THE ITALIAN GOURD There is a delieious little marrow, ealled in the English books “ Italian vegetable marrow,” but in Italy it is called Zucchi. The books describe it as “ an extremely distinct variety, stems not running very thick, and short. The luxuriant foliage forms a bush. All through Italy, where this gourd is commonly grown, the fruit is eaten quite young, just before the faded flower drops off. The plants, when deprived of their unde- veloped fruits, continue to flower for several months most profusely, each producing a number of young gourds, which, gathered in that state, are exceed- ingly tender and very delicately flavoured.” We have grown this variety with great success and eaten it with pleasure ; it needs nothing but to be stewed in a covered pan, with a little butter and the juice is thickened and served therewith. In brief, it is this gathering whilst small and young which is the whole secret of getting the bestTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK out of marroAvs, gourds, and all the tribe, Avith the solitary exception, perhaps, of the great yelloAv pumpkin, Avhich Ave keep for Avinter and use in slices. I Avould heartily endorse the remarks of another friend Avho says that a vegetable marroAv Avhich has to be cooked in a fish-kettle is a mistake. MarroAVS and gourds, as everybody knoAvs, Avill produce numbers of “ male ” floAvers, and Char- lotte has a use for these, a most dainty, relishable, and thrifty use. Early in the morning, Avhile yet the dcAV is upon them, she searches for them, and on her dresser you may aftei'Avards find them placed cup doAVUAvards, to prevent them from closing. She boils rice, and to it adds finely minced cold meat or poultry, Avith its gravy, some garden herbs, and a savour of onion, and mixes the Avhole Avith a beaten egg. The floAver-cups are filled, not too tightly, then tied round Avith thread and set to noMALE FLOWERS OF THE MARROW stew in gravy or broth, in a braising-pan, or in the oven, until she considers them done. They may eook for an hour without coming to harm, and they will be served with the gravy in which they have been stewed. Ill112 OF CELERY, OF CELERIAC, AND THE ARTICHOKES; LIKEWISE THE POTATO any man finds fault with me that my gardening is all unorthodox, and any woman deelares that our eooking is equally heretieal, I Avill quote them the words of Florian : “J’observe et je suis la nature, c’est men secret pour etre heureuse.” Perhaps it is beeause Charlemagne is so obviously overrun with that deadly ereeper, Conventionalism, that I feel it ineumbent upon me to cut through and break across his cherished ideas. With him113 I OF TIMES AND SEASONS it is always “ A^ow is the accepted time ”—and no other. “ But think,” I say to him, “ only think how the seasons have become mixed up of late, especially in England ! Really, you can grow pretty well anything at any time of the year, if you only make up your mind to it.” We have a week of cool spring weather at the end of July that rushes a lot of new seeds into life, and we have May days in November that bring out a new m enthusiasm for rebudding and blooming. For my part, when I put in a plant or a seed, I make up my mind that if there is any grain of health in that plant or seed it is bound to grow, and it won’t be comfortable or happy until it has grown ! That thing of rigid rules and dates which men call a calendar I abominate. I will not consult it nor follow it. For my plants behave handsomely to me, and, as a rule, they answer the expecta- tions I have formed of them. CharlemagneTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 114 may think it witchcraft; but then he does not garden with his soul. There you have it! (This is not a digression, it has something to do with everything we produce, from the humble potato upwards.) Charlemagne is vexed and put out every year because that, with his most assiduous and correct care, he fails to get the fine asparagus which he would like to cut. The asparagus which we take most pleasure in every spring comes to us from a little seaside cottage garden, where lives an old sailor, whose acquaintance I made years ago. He and I made those beds of his on some raised banks, close to the sea, and he and I now enjoy their fruiting. As the asparagus of our gardens is a cultivated form of what was originally a wild shore plant it is quite possible to over-improve it. It wants salt, and it loves a soil of mixed sand and mud.115 ANTHONY’S ASPARAGUS-BEDS . The best result has come from those banks where no manuring has been done, but only a thorough weeding and clearing every year and a fresh salting. In our own garden we have introduced a good deal of sand and grit into the beds from time to time, with distinct advantage, and although here we get stalks that are plump and white, they never attain the flavour of those which old Anthony sends us from time to time. Our beds, in the autumn, are aglow with berries and thick with fine feathery foliage. It is a bad sign : even Charle- magne knows that. But as there is a whole literature of asparagus—for it forms one of the most fascinating chapters in horticultural science— I venture not to lay down any directions about it. For me it is enough to know that if our own beds yield badly, those by Anthony’s cottage are safe to do well, and we are sure of having aspara- gus in plenty, so I will begin about its cooking.THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 116 Of course asparagus must be boiled until it is tender or it is nothing, but it is invariably over- boiled and sodden. Dumas has laid down the law that the stalks should be ‘‘ croquantes ” and, moreover, that they should be drained of all wateri- ness by being served on a folded cloth. He is right: there should be sufficient crispness to make the stalks easy to hold, yet suffieient tenderness to cause the juiee to flow readily. We boil our asparagus in a deep pan, whieh will take a bundle standing upright, so that the tops are barely covered with water. This prevents the tender green points from falling off whilst waiting for the slower cooking of the thick stalk. However many recipes you may have for the dressing of asparagus you are bound to have it boiled first; the variations all allude to the finish- ings. For my own taste, when eaten hot it is never better than when served with jDure butter117 ASPARAGUS AND SALSIFY melted and passed round in a tureen, and when served cold we make either a mayonnaise or a simple salad dressing. It always seems a waste to eat asparagus with the gravy of meat and at the same time ; to do so invariably ends in watering the gravy down most disagreeably, and in making the plate detestable. Asparagus is one of those vegetables which must certainly be eaten alone, giving it all the dignity which a solitary setting can convey. What more delicious dish can you set before a guest than that of a dish of cold asparagus, straight from the refrigerator, sprinkled with vinegar and served with Hollandaise or Mousseline sauce ? It is fit for gods and kings. While asparagus is never better than when served plainly boiled (with suitable accompani- ment, hien entendu) salsify, or the oyster plant, has only begun to live after being thus prepared. It lends itself willingly to accommodations ; indeed,THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 118 it is nothing without them. All the same, with due trouble taken, it beeomes a very delicious vegetable, most useful in winter-time. Our favourite modes of treating it, after boiling, are to fry it in fat after rolling in egg and crumbs, or to crush it to a puree, and mix with butter and cream, season well and fill up scallop shells, scattering crumbs on the top, then browning these in the oven and serving the shells on a folded napkin. Stalks that are clumsy in shape we reserve for stews. Seakale, called by Charlotte chou-marin, is cooked something like asparagus, save that a flat- bottomed pan, in which it can lie full-length, is used, and a little vinegar is put into the salted water. It is better to pour off the first water and add fresh whilst cooking, as this vegetable so soon discolours. We prefer to drain it when it has parboiled, and to lay it in a white sauce toCOOKED CELERY finish cooking. The Better Half favours seakale beeause it has speeific soda properties benefieial for his eomplaint, but to me it is a feeble vegetable, somewhat neutral in eharacter. I will say, how ever, that taken fresh out of the ground, as ours is, or bought from a shop, days old (as yours probably is) it is two different things. From seakale it is but an easy step to celery, the eommon favourite. m Tell me, often as you will, how good is eooked celery, I must reply that it is never so good as when eaten raw. Take our prize roots, perfeetly blanched, erisp after their first taste of frost, and pull apart the stalks that break off as you do it, so tender are they. Dip these into salt and eat them with your bread and butter, or strew them in fine shreds over your winter salad. They are superlatively good. Nevertheless, I will own that when boiled tender, and served with a eream sauce, U9THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 120 compounded from the same liquor, it is far from being a thing to despise. If you must cook celery why not take celeriac instead ? I would humbly ask. Here you have a vegetable that is intended by Providence to be the cooked part of celery. It bears the celery flavour in full proportion, with none of the soft- ness and stringiness that is so apt to be a dis- agreeable adjunct. Some people call it the turnip- rooted celery. Its fault is that it is too little known. Celeriac is not easy to grow. It demands a hard bed, so hard that its dumpy root may fasten itself down and sit upon the soil, instead of being engulfed in it. If you meet its demands it responds by growing and by being ready for you at a time of the year when few other things are available out of doors. Ws boil it tender (and it takes but a half-hour121 CELERIAC AND ARTICHOKES in salted water), and serve it with the gravy of meat, or with any sauee we like, or with butter and grated eheese. Sometimes we cut it in slices and lay it in the gratin dish, with a cheese sauce and crumbs, and thus it makes a more substantial dish. A few slices of celeriac are a great improve- ment to any stew, and a small root goes admirably with the other ingredients of bouillon or stock. So, I repeat it, if cooked celery be your aim and intent, try celeriac instead. And now let us study artichokes ; the Globe artichoke first, but afterwards the Jerusalem, or, to give it its proper and correct name, the Topi- nambour. The one gives us only enough to eat to make us wish for more, the other satisfies abundantly. In globe artichokes only the base of the leaves and the root are eaten, but these roots are con- sidered a prize among cooks. Charlotte, fcrTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 122 instance, “ accommodates ” them in many guileful forms. Personally, I am quite content to eat the artichoke cold, after boiling, and to find it very nice thus, without taking more trouble over it. To sit lazily dipping these pretty leaves in a tarragon or mousseline sauce, and to wind up with an epicurean consideration of the root itself, is enjoyment enough. But Charlotte, she will take these bottoms and quarter them and return them dressed d la Maiire d'Hotel, or fried, or graiines, or in a dozen other ways. When served d la Barigoiile they are indeed a chef-d'centre. Being parboiled and drained, several fair-sized artichoke bottoms have their centres slightly hollowed out; they are then dusted over with salt and pepper and set in a buttered dish, the hollows are filled with a stuffing composed of minced shallots, mushrooms, parsley, bread crumbs, and yolk of egg and spoonful of ketchup123 WINTER ROOTS sauce, and then are set in the oven with buttered paper to protect them from burning, and are gently baked. When cooked, in about twenty minutes’ time, they are served. These jonds d’artichaiits accord admirably with a dish of mushrooms, or mix agreeably with cooked celery for a mayonnaise, or make an ex- cellent garnish to a graiin. Sometimes, too, we find them filling those delicate little pastry cases, called houchees, masked in cream. Topinambours, to give them their true name, we think a most nourishing vegetable, and they make a puree that lends itself to many uses. We do not let them remain in the ground after frosts have set in, as we find they go watery when boiled if this is done. Late in the year the tubers are lifted and stored, like potatoes. Often enough with us the Jerusalem artichoke replaces the potato, It is a main ingredient of the winterTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 124 vegetable pie; it makes a gratin; it yields a dainty soup, and in other ways proves itself a valuable servant. In cooking it is necessary to think well about preserving the colour—they are apt to go a dirty grey if trifled with—but we boil them in milk and water instead of in water alone, and if serving them with a sauce this same milk is the base for its making. If making them into a purie this same cuisson gives the desired thin- ness, or if the puree becomes a soup, white onions or shallots are cooked in butter without browning, some celery, salt and pejjper, and a little cream are added, and grated cheese is passed round when serving. This section would be incomplete were I to omit mention of such homely things as carrots, parsnips, turnips, and potatoes. You can, in any cookery book, find recipes for serving all of these, and I can add little, if anything, that is new to the125 MORE WINTER ROOTS number; yet to pass them unnoticed is to pay no compliment to the gardener who can turn out such dainty, even-sized snowballs as Charlemagne has done, and give to us carrots that eat like those of June in December. Small carrots we have cooked after the Flemish fashion, which is to scrape and throw them for a few minutes into boiling salted water, then to drain anS put them into a stewpan with a little butter and a few shallots. A pinch of salt a^d pepper and a dash of vinegar are added, and the jar is covered and set on the stove to cook for upwards of an hour. They are served either from the jar or are poured into a vegetable dish. Parsnips, which so many people never touch until the correctness of eating salted cod on Good Friday reminds them of their existence, are most delicious when treated as fritters, or au graiin,THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 126 or curried. Take them as fritters : Boil and then crush the pared parsnips down to a smooth paste, and add to that paste just one spoonful of fine flour, then two eggs, some pepper and salt and a very little dissolved butter. Work all this quite smooth and drop it by tablespoonfuls into a shallow pan with hot fat, and fry the fritters on both sides to a fine brown. Let them be small but fairly thick fritters, and serve them hot, with butter or with gravy of meat. Then, au gralin: Boil until tender after paring, but leave the parsnips whole. Cut them across in rather thin slices, lay in the buttered dish, put wafers of stale cheese among them, sprinkle freely with salt and pepper, pour in a cupful of vegetable stock, sprinkle a feAV crumbs over the surface and bake in a quick oven. Or curried: cook until tender and cut into short pieces the thickness of a finger, prepare a127 THE HOMELY TURNIPS sauce, white or brown, and stir into it a spoonful of good curry powder or paste ; add a teaspoonful of minced onion. Pour this over the parsnijDS as they lie in a stewpan, and then simmer in the pan for about an hour. Glazed turnips are extremely nice, but better, perhaps, as a garnish to other things. To serve them thus they require trimming down until all are of even shape, and about the size of a small jDear. They are boiled until tender, drained, and put into a saute pan with a small amount of butter, and are sprinkled with poAvdered sugar. When placed over the fire they require frequent stirring to prevent burning, and when they have browned a little, clear stock is added with seasoning of pepper and salt. Very young turnips, bpiled whole and served with a white or egg sauce and a garnish of freshly- chopped parsley, make a tempting dish. A 'pureeTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 128 of turnips is much improved by having a little cream stirred into it. As to the value of different ways of cooking potatoes I must say, emphatically, that everything depends on the kind of potato. Some potatoes will not boil well, some will not bake well, and it needs a very good potato to fry well. Yet there are very few potatoes that will not be good and give a good result if you will humour their idiosyncrasies. I think that one of the secrets of securing a really nice boiled potato is to take only those which can be cooked thus without dividing, and all as much as possible of the same size. To cut across a potato and then boil it is to let out all its flavour. Of course you retain much more flavour if you boil it with the skin on, but this, again, does not apply to very old potatoes, which are more wholesome to boil after paring. Roasted potatoes must have theK 129 AND HOMELIER POTATO skins pricked or they will be indigestible. A boiled potato should steam through after drain- ing, to give it a dry and floury appearance ; but do not, if you value its natural flavour, let it acquire the taste of the wash-tub by placing a folded cloth on the top of the pan. If the potato seems likely to break up before it is cooked through, jDOur away the boiling water and substitute cold, and bring it slowly to the boil again. For fully-grown and ripe potatoes steaming seems generally prefer- able to boiling, yet again it depends on the potato. New potatoes should first be boiled before they are tossed into the saute pan, or they will be heavy and waxy. Or after boiling they can be served with a cream sauce. Large, well-ripened new potatoes make by far the nicest salad when cold. From boiled or steamed potatoes in winter there are so many excellent dishes one may prepareTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 130 that it seems diffieult to ehoose out of the number. What delieious erusts for vegetable or meat pies can be made with mashed potato properly manipu- lated with egg, what delicate rissoles and cro- quettes wherein mashed potato is used in place of bread-crumbs, and what savoury pies wherein every other layer is one of sliced potato ! Then from remainders of mashed or whipped potato we make such elegant trifles as pommes de terre d la Duchesse. The whip of potato has butter and the yolk of an egg added to it, seasoning and some flavouring, preferably a pinch of sifted herbs. The paste is shaped into small round cakes and coated with more egg and crumbs, or with a batter, and fried to a golden colour in boiling fat. Varia- tions are made by making the flavour that of cheese, and sometimes the tiny cakes have a Proven9al taste because onion has been added to them and they have been fried in oil.131 MARCHANDE DE FRITES Like all her countrymen and women, Charlotte is an adept in making pomme de terre frites, and they are not a bit like our English fried potatoes. The pan she uses is an iron one, and deep, and the fat is that of suet, used over and over again for the same purpose. The potatoes, large ones, are pared and washed and dried in a towel; then cut with the hand into pieces of even size, the length and thickness of an index-finger, and dried again. When the fat boils they go into it and are stirred occasionally, but they literally boil in it for quite ten minutes. Then they are lifted out with the strainer, drained on a sieve, and dusted over with coarse salt. It always seems to me that Charlotte ought to stand at the street corner when she is doing these, and that I ought to see the urchins bringing their pennies and receiving back the yellow pocket-shaped paper packets in return, and see them gingerly fingering the scalding morsels, en-THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 132 joying them with gusto. The salt should be in a big tin dredger, the paper should be hanging from a nail, and the red chareoal embers should be casting a glow over Charlotte’s face; and, to complete the picture, the night ought to be dark and wet and cold, and she the one cheerful bit of colour in the scene, to which every one is attracted. Sure am I that there is always this as a last resource for Charlotte, should all other means of earning a living fail her !133 OF THE SOLANACE/E, OF KITCHEN LILIES, AND OF HERBS. HE Latin name of the tomato is Solanum lycopersicum, the edible wolf’s peach, or, popularly speak- ing, love apple. Another solanum, of which we also eat the fruit, is the aubergine, called in India the hrinjal. It took some time for us English people to learn to like the tomato and to appreciate it thor- oughly, but now we know that no garden can be considered properly productive unless it rears a few plants, and any one who has a greenhouse or frame at once settles to grow tomatoes therein.THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 134 Most people like tomatoes ripe and freshly gathered to eat raw or with a little vinegar, some eat them properly as a dressed salad, but not many attain that true appreciation which gives them their due place in the yuree and sauce, and sets this in frequent service on the table. Italians have, perhaps, gone to the extreme, for tomato sauce flavours or disguises almost everything that is savoury in certain parts of Italy, to the amuse- ment of the French, who sneer at their neighbours for having only one sauce. Yet I have found tomato sauce to be quite as common in France as in Italy. There are so many varieties of tomato that for planting it must be a question for the individual gardener to settle, since each one will know best what are the peculiarities of his soil and situation. There is an American variety which grows mag- nificently out of doors, but not nearly so well under135 COOKING A TOMATO glass. Of some other sorts the very reverse is noted. For my own part I do not favour the very large type ; to have its full flavour a to- mato should be eaten whole, whether you eat it raw or eooked,. and the medium- sized fruit, the “ drop ” or “ cherry,” varieties, are truly delicious as well as orna- mental. If you cook a tomato cook it well, else it were better to serve it raw, for partially cooked it is an anachronism. As to how you should cook it, have not all culinary pro- phets and sages given theirTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 136 advice in such plenty that to say more is super- fluous ? And yet perhaps there is still Charlotte’s way to be told ? Tomatoes a la mode de Charlotte.—Some half- dozen ripe tomatoes are plunged into boiling water to loosen the skins, and these are peeled off. At the stalk end a small hollow is scooped out and this is filled with a little mixture made as follows : A morsel of butter is dissolved in a sauce- pan, and with it is mixed a teaspoonful of flour ; this is thinned with a small cupful of clear stock ; into it are put three or four minced mushrooms and one shallot, a spoonful of chopped parsley and some salt and pepper ; this is simmered over the fire for some minutes, to cook the mushrooms through. When it has cooled, the hollowed tomatoes are filled and then set in a shallow pan or gratin dish, which has been previously oiled with a few drops of olive oil. Bread-crumbs are137 CHARLOTTE’S MODE scattered over, and the dish is set in the oven for about ten minutes, and as soon as the tomatoes steam through it is served. When stewing tomatoes, whether for serving as a dish alone or for use as a puree, we always prefer to cook them with oil rather than with butter. A savoury supper or luncheon dish is this : Tomatd Rolls.—The skins and cores are removed from six to eight tomatoes, and these are pulped down. With them are put a few spoonfuls of minced ham, onion, a little seasoning, the crumb of a stale roll dipped in milk, a few drops of tarra- gon vinegar, and the yolk of an egg to bind the mixture together. It is then shaped into rolls, dipped in egg, rolled in crumbs and cheese mixed, and fried in fat until crisp and brown. The dish is garnished with fried parsley. To the tomato puree, which forms the foundation of Tomato Soup, we add the crumb of white breadTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 138 cut into dice to give substance, onions shredded fine and fried in butter to give savour, clear vegetables or meat stock to give quantity, and when serving we hand a few fried sippets of bread with it. Creamed Tomato Soup.—The American fashion has milk added to the stock, and after passing through the tamis the whole is enriched with the beaten yolks of eggs and cream. This makes a very different kind of soup, but one that is very nice also. Tomatoes intended for a salad should always be skinned before slicing. As the autumn season advances we get many tomatoes left on the plants which will not ripen before frosts come, and these we cut down and use for a pickle. It is a first- class pickle. Having five or six pounds of tomatoes we slice them up thinly and sprinkle salt between each layer in a stone jar or pan. This is left to139 A MANUSCRIPT NOTE stand for some twelve hours. The liquor is then drained off and the slices are put into the pre- serving-pan with a quart of white vinegar, a pound of very thinly-shredded white onions, a pound of Demerara sugar, a quarter of an ounce each of cloves, bruised ginger, capsicum, and mustard seed, a single clove of garlic. These are set over the fire and stirred with a wooden spoon until the whole is a soft, mellow, rich mass. Perhaps it stays thus for two or three hours, then it is bottled in wide- mouthed glass jars. As a matter of fact, it is really more of a chutney than a pickle. Among my manuscript notes of cookery recipes I have the following savoury dish of tomatoes : Tomatoes and Sardines—a Relish.—In a buttered baking-dish place a layer of sardines from a newly- opened tin. Over them put a layer of minced young onions. Over these sprinkle chopped capers and marjoram leaves both together, addTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 140 pepper and salt and a spoonful of olive oil. Cover the bed with tomatoes thickly sliced, strew crumbs over, add bits of butter, and bake in a quick oven. A dish this is, says the recipe, which once eaten will be constantly repeated. The onions, capers, and marjoram are de rigueur. The aubergine, not often grown in England, is also a plant of the tomato kin, and its fruit, somewhat like a large pear, but of a deep violet colour, has a marrowy softness and something of the marrow flavour. The brinjal is a favourite vegetable in India and in common use. Eaten raw, the aubergine (or brinjal) is simply horrid, plainly boiled it is not at all nice, fried it is passable, and cooked in the following way it is excellent. Remove stalks and sepals and pare lengthwise. Cut down in half and take a-way the soft inside. Simmer the portions in butter until tender, then set them in a baking-dish and fill the hollows141 “ KITCHEN LILIES with a mince of meat and herbs or a vegetable minee flavoured with onion, sprinkle eheese over them, and bake in the oven until a light brown. And now to speak of onions, or, to give them their most worthy title, “ kitehen lilies.” This is no fancy nickname. The onion belongs to the lily tribe ; it is an Allium, of which we eat the bulb. The eschallot is the Allium ascaloni- cum; the leek is the Allium 'porrum; chives, garlic and rocambole, another variety of garlic, though much milder, are all of the same family.THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 142 All are bulbs, all contain a volatile essential oil, which is most valuable. All of them have power to restore and heal the sick, to cheer the well, to keep disease away (as disinfectants), and to give beauty to the eomplexion ! Onions are one of the finest nerve tonics known, and onions, in some form or other, we positively must have in cookery, more especially in vegetable cookery. They are the wit that enlivens the whole. To get the best that the onion has to give you must have it young. Young onions can be had all the year round if gardeners can be induced to grow them, and no cook worthy of her name will use a big onion where she can possibly get a small one in its place. A sprightly American writer has said of onions : “ I doubt not that all men and women love the onion, but few will confess their love. Affection143 ONION DAYS for it is concealed. Some people have days on which they eat onions, which you might call ‘ retreats.’ This act is in the nature of a religious ceremony, an Eleusinian mystery—not a breath of it must get abroad. On that day they see no company and deny the kiss of greeting to their dearest friend ; they retire within themselves and hold communion with one of the most pungent and penetrating manifestations of the vegetable world. Happy is said to be the family which can eat onions together ! ” In this household we are happy. We can and do eat onions together. For those who would have a dish of boiled onions—and how good for a cold is that dish !—some of the essential oil which causes onions to occasionally indigest is removed by boiling them in two waters. After skinning an onion cut out carefully all the base— another needful hint. Before frying or boilingTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 144 onions for a dish, parboil them if you would re- move an excess of pungency. I think I have before stated that we sow a pinch of seed every fortnight during the summer to keep ourselves supplied with tender young “ lilies,” and in winter an occasional new sowing takes place in a frame. A similar sulphurous oil as that which gives such value to the onion is possessed in a smaller degree by horseradish, while the ordinary radish possesses some of the same in still more minute quantity. Both the horseradish and radish are condiments, however, and never in any way come up to the onion in general usefulness, nor yet in health value. They have their place, however, in every garden, and you will find horseradish growing in ours, which we use for sauces both hot and cold. As to radishes, they are frequently found on the table for breakfast or luncheon,L 145 THE HERB-GARDEN AGAIN helping to make bread and butter “ lively,” as the Better Half would say. And now we consider herbs. Of pride in the herb garden I have spoken before. When Char- lotte comes out in search of something for her bouquet for the pot I am amused to watch the expression on her face when she goes to that plot. Very doubtful is she of finding what she will want. I feel like quoting to her—and often do so— certain lines from “ La Petite Corbeille des Fleurs ” : Venez choisir dans ma corbeille : De plusieurs les parfums sont doux, de tons la vertu sans pareille. I like to think that not many things requisite for the pot, at least, are missing from this herb garden of mine ! There is lemon balm, that most fragrant of herbs, for cordials and wine-cups and commonTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 146 herb beer. There is sweet basil for soups and salads ; and borage we would grow if only because it attracts the bees. Fennel is wanted for sauce to serve with fish. Marjoram we must have for stuffings and for flavouring the ragouts. Mint is indispensably dear to every English heart. Mus- tard, the small variety called Sinapis alba, is a delicious salad herb. Savory we must have, if for no other reason than the old one which says, “ Keep it dry by you all the year, if you love your- self and your ease.” It adds much flavour to beans or peas and to rice. Tarragon we cherish with care, as who would not ? so excellent is its addition to salad or sauce. The aroma of thyme is as grateful to bees as it is valuable among the other herbs intended for the pot, and sage, for fritters and for stuffings, and for its most excellent tea when sore throats threaten, is not less prized. Strange that parsley should ever have gained147 A PARSLEY-BED the reputation of being unlucky ! So lately as 1897 it is mentioned thus in a paper read before the Devon and Exeter Gardeners’ Association : “ It is one of the seeds to lie longest in the ground before germinating ; it has been said to go to the Devil and back again nine times before it comes*up, and many people have still a great objection to planting parsley, saying that if you do there is sure to be a death in the house within twelve months.” Even the phlegmatic Charlemagne was not to be tempted into making the parsley-bed in our garden, I had to do it myself ! But so far no ill fortune has followed me, and the parsley flourishes and is used every day. Marigolds and mallows and “ nasturtiums ” we grow freely, for from their petals and leaves Char- lotte makes many fine things. The leaves of “ nasturtiums,” for example, are served up inTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 148 salads and in sandwiches, the flowers decorate her dishes, the seeds make a pickle that is no whit inferior to capers. Mallows give flavour to certain sweet dishes and to waters. Marigolds may very well be added to ereamy yur^e or soup. Partly out of curiosity I have grown—or have, at any rate, planted'—other old-fashioned and uncommon herbs, such as angelica, the stalks of which we candy and put into preserves; and saffron, wherewith we impart a pale golden hue to cakes ; coriander for its seeds ; and purslane— perhaps because it is pretty. From old Anthony we yearly reeeive a basket of samphire when it is in its prime, and this we pickle with spiced vinegar. It makes a delieious relish thus, but is too salt to eat, as he doubtless imagines we do, with bread and butter. It is Anthony’s favourite relish for tea, and many times in bygone days I shared it with him. Many149 ROSEMARY AND LAVENDER times, too, have I helped him to rake it in from the rocks where it grows, as he would say, out of reach of the waves but within touch of the spray. Need I mention that in a woman’s garden you are certain to find rosemary growing ? It is there for the bees, but it is there for me as well, for the washes it makes for hair and skin, for the pot-pourri that scents the drawing-room, and, last but not least, for the reminder it is to friends that their memory is sweet. And side by side with rosemary grows lavender, not, perchance, “ for lovers true,” but for the linen press !160 TREATMENT OF BEANS AND DRIED VEGETABLES; OF CORN, RICE, AND ITALIAN PASTES. HEN we are busy cleaning bulbs and sorting seeds, shelling beans and peas and storing nuts, we know full well that summer has turned the corner. When all these things are in their place and finished, and when Charle- magne goes into the greenhouse and fastens the door quickly after him (lest in leaving it open he should let in some intruder), we know that winter is upon us. However clever we believe ourselves to be, with all our sowing and planting,151 THE STOREROOM SHELVES protecting and coaxing, we know that the time has come when old earth will do nothing but rest under her brown blanket. She will sleep until New Year comes in. It is then that we take special pride, Charlotte and I, in going into the storeroom, in re-arranging our shelves, in peeping into bags and baskets, in ordering in new samples of conserves and foreign produce (just as a matter of curiosity, of course, and so that we may know that we are up to date), and in evolving new dishes out of old materials. It is our way of hibernating. What an excellent provision for the winter a fairly good summer season enables you to make ! Who that has a garden need be afraid of the snotv for their household ? But to be well provisioned necessitates being industrious at the right time, some looking ahead and some knowledge of how to store and how to preserve. Cela va sans dire,THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 152 We dry peas and beans by hanging them up by the stalks in a dry shed. They are pulled up by the roots as soon as the leaves and pods have turned colour, and are not allowed to linger on the ground, getting tougher day by day. Sus- pending them by the stalk sends all the sap into the bean, and when the pods crack open we begin to shell, spreading them out over papers in the storeroom, leaving them in the sun for a few days, and then pack them in bags. If you are using beans like these in the early autumn they require very little previous soaking, but as the winter advances, and they shrink and harden, you may give them from ten to twelve hours soaking in cold water. When beans and peas have been soaked—pre- ferably, too, in soft water—and washed, put them to cook in boiling water, and only enough to well “cover them. The flavour is improved if you put163 NEW PEAS FOR OLD in one or two small onions and a bunch of herbs. The water in which beans or peas have been cooked should be saved for vegetable stock. If we are intending to make a dish of green peas for eating with meat or to use for garnishing another dish, there is a special method of treating them. After washing and removing all that float or are discoloured, the peas are put into a basin of warm water and left for twelve or fifteen hours ; they are then drained and piled on a dish whilst wet and left on a shelf in the sun. When they show signs of sprouting they are taken and cooked in boiling water exactly as if they were fresh peas newly gathered. They taste very much like new peas. A 'puree of dried peas blends excellently with one of potato or of rice for the making of rissoles. Very choice, in our opinion, are the delicate green beans called flageolets, especially choiceTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 154 when served in plenty of dissolved butter flavoured with the veriest soupcon of Tarragon vinegar. They are fit for the most critical of epicureans. Red haricots—it was surely from these that Esau’s pottage was made!—make a pleasant dish if served with tomato sauce, but they make a still better soup or puree. This soup can be further improved by adding some scraped and grated carrot to it. It is of the larger white haricot bean, or butter bean, that we grow the greatest quantity and on which we most rely. After soaking them we like to stew these in weak broth in preference to water, if possible, or if not a bit of butter is always put into the pan with them. When they have finished cooking there should not be more than enough liquor left in the pan to make the sauce. This is enriched with a little more butter or stock, flavoured with ketchup or curry, made into a165 APROPOS OF BEANS smooth blend with a spoonful of fecule or with the yolk of an egg and, being well seasoned, is poured over the beans. All these beans are improved, when cooking, by having a small onion and a few herbs, also a few black peppers tied together in a bag cooked with them. Salt should not be added until they have become soft. Do not imagine that you can render a tough bean soft by adding soda to the water in which it is cooked; only long soaking in cold water will soften it, but if obliged to use hard water for the soaking soften that with a lump of soda. It is quite easy to remove the skins of haricot beans after they have been soaked for some time, and when cooking them for people with delicate digestions it is wise to do this, but they must cook more slowly afterwards as they tend to fall. A very nice garnish for cutlets of meat, or gameTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 156 birds that have been stewed, is made by mixing a puree of red and white haricots with some tomato or brown onion sauce until a soft paste has been procured, and then squeezing this through a forcing bag into little cones (if for garnish) or serving it in little cocottes or ramequin cases if it is a detached accompaniment. A puree of beans, white or red, or of green peas, makes the foundation for quite a variety of excel- lent soups, of the thicker sort, and is greatly run upon in winter time. An American author has supplied me with a recipe for what she calls a delightful breakfast dish. Having tried it, and also proved its excel- lence, I offered it to my English friends as a luncheon item, for it is best suited to the dijeuner that is eaten a la fourchette. Pea Fritters.—Soak and cook well a pint of green peas, mash down to a purSe with a wooden spoon,157 AND OF GREEN CORN and season with butter, pepper, and salt. Put away this mixture if not wanting to use it imme- diately ; it will keep some days. When preparing your breakfast or luncheon make a light batter with two eggs, a teacupful of milk, one of self- raising flour, and a little salt. Stir the 'puree of peas into this, and when well mixed fill rings set in a hot frying-pan that has been rubbed with fat or oil, and fry the fritters on both sides thoroughly. Having tried the experiment of growing some Indian corn one summer, and of using it as Ameri- cans do, by taking the cob before it is ripe, and finding it to be both sweet and nourishing, we have never been without a few plants since. If you gather the cob while it is green the grains are full of a milkiness that is most delicious. In cooking it you have to strip off the outer leaves, turn back the innermost covering, and pick off theTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 168 threads of “ silk ” ; then lay the cobs in boiling salted water, letting it boil from twenty minutes to half an hour. You can then serve it in a vege- table dish to eat with butter, or with cream sauce. A way we much like of using green corn is of making Succotash. For this we take equal quantities of corn picked clean from the cob and of soaked butter beans. Sufficient boiling water to cover them, and no more, is put into the saucepan, and they are stewed until both are quite tender. The water is poured off and a large cupful of milk is substituted for it. The beans and corn stew in this for some time longer, and then we stir in a lump of butter, a teaspoonful of fecule or of cornflour, wet with cold milk, some pepper and salt. This is brought to the boiling point and then the whole is poured into a dish. Green corn makes excellent breakfast cakes, if159 BUCKWHEAT CAKES parboiled first, and then added to batter, and fried or eooked on a griddle. They should be eaten with maple syrup. In parenthesis here I should like to mention how good is buckwheat, and also ground Indian corn, for making breakfast cakes. How delicious they are on a cold morning, smoking hot, with butter spread liberally over each, and syrup poured over all! We think them lighter when made partly of buckwheat, and partly of ordinary white flour, but that is a matter of taste. They must be nourishing, and they certainly make a most welcome change from toast or bread. If I say least about lentils it is not because we do not use them, but because we are not so partial to them as are some people. Perhaps this is due to the fact that we have so many other things which take the same place. But we do occasionally make use of the red Egyptian lentils, chiefly as aTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 160 foundation for a red soup flavoured strongly with carrots, and for a puree to which other ingredients are added, and from which savoury rolls or cutlets are made. Lentils have this disadvantage, namely, that without doctoring they are rather flat and insipid ; on the other hand they have the advantage of being much more quickly cooked than beans or peas, and a previous soaking is not needful, although it improves them. Like all people who eat but little meat, we depend a good deal upon macaroni, rice, and similar preparations. A risotto we love ; macaroni, d la Milanaise, d la Napolitaine, or au gratin, we delight in. And Charlotte cooks such dishes to perfection. I have heard that some English people are so barbarous—or so clean !—that they must wash macaroni in water before they cook it. They sav it has been made with hands, it has dust aboutM 161 ABOUT MACARONI it when it is taken from a case, and it cannot be right to use it without washing. All I can say is that any one who has been in a macaroni factory will know better than this, and that if you wash it nothing but a flabby, messy-looking, and sodden dish can result. Macaroni ought never to be wetted with any water that is not boiling. You must throw it into boiling water exactly as you would rice, only rice we must wash well because of the very different manner in which it is sent out, and because it is a grain grown in the open. Macaroni in Italy is invariably served almost crisp, and to our thinking is often not sufficiently boiled ; on their side the Italians say that we English make it doughy and pasty. If possible we want to strike the happy medium. It should be thrown into plenty of boiling water, salted; like rice it wants room to swell, and therefore the pan chosen should be big enough,THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 162 As soon as it is tender, which can be told by testing with a fork, stop the boiling by throwing in a little cold water, and in another minute remove the pan from the fire and drain; then return it to the dry pan with a little butter. It is then ready to be “ dressed.” For a la Napolitaine it is necessary to have a fair quantity of grated cheese, preferably Gruyere or Parmesan, and after adding some butter to the macaroni you stir in lightly about half the amount of the cheese, then more butter, and 0 finally the rest of the cheese, with a sprinkling of black pepper. Serve it piled as loosely as possible in the dish, and eat with a fork. For macaroni d la Milanaise you add to the pan of drained macaroni sufficient clear stock or bouillon to barely cover it; this should be strongly flavoured with onion. Melt a little butter in a separate saucepan and stir into163 MACARONI MILANAISE it a spoonful of flour, work both together and then add another spoonful of Parmesan, a little made mustard, and some pepper and salt. Strain off into this the bouillon in which the macaroni has been simmering and boil up the sauce, then add to it several spoonfuls of tomato puree. Return all to the other pan and mix well, and when thor- oughly hot turn out into a dish and pass grated cheese round with it. Sometimes we blanch macaroni by giving it five minutes boiling in salt water, then drain and cover it with bean stock or bouillon, and add small onions and herbs to the pan. Cooked thus it is very nice for serving as a garnish to a ragout or stew of meat or vegetables. In serving it thus you would drain the macaroni and make it form a wall in a dish and fill the hollow centre with the ragout, or with cooked mushrooms in a thickened sauce, with a mixture of other vegetables,THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 164 or with a curry, just as occasion dictates. For my own part I prefer to use Spaghetti, a small and finer sort of paste for this purpose; it shapes better and is more pleasing altogether. It cooks rather . more quickly than macaroni, and costs no more. One word as to the purchase of Italian pastes: buy the best. See also that the package bears the label of some good Italian firm, preferably a Naples firm. Do not buy it loose from boxes of cheap stuff sent out by inferior factories—in the East End of London. Rice is a thing which few people cook really well, yet it is simple enough to prepare, and ought to replace potatoes on many occasions. It must be well cooked but not over-cooked. The secret of having rice soft, yet in distinct grains, is to wash it well first in several waters to rid it of all flour, and to plunge it in a quantity165 RICE AND A RISOTTO of fast boiling and salted water, and to keep it boiling at full gallop until you can, by testing a few grains, feel that they are tender. Never let it go on boiling until it has absorbed much water and becomes sticky. Drain through a colander, and then wash again in cold water by pouring several jugfuls over it. Drain again, and then return the rice to a dry pan and cover it up close to steam through again. A little butter put in will prevent the rice from sticking to the pan. Rice thus plainly boiled is ready for serving up in any way desired, for garnishing, for eating in place of potato or other vegetable, and for mixing with different ingredients. This is rice as it is served with a curry. When lifting it out of the pan do so with a fork and keep it light; let it fall in separate grains and not be spooned up in lumps. A Risotto is differently prepared. Here is Sir Henry Thompson’s recipe for it:THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 166 When making sufficient for three persons put two ounces of butter into a pan with three ounces of onion chopped very fine, fry both together until the onion is a pale brown. Blanch for five minutes in boiling water six ounces of large grained Patna rice, stirring it constantly with a fork. Drain the rice and stir it into the pan containing the onion and butter, let it be stirred well and simmer for two minutes more, then pour in suffi- cient broth to barely cover, draw the pan aside and let it simmer until the rice is soft, stirring occasionally. When nearly finished add an ounce of fresh butter, a pinch of nutmeg, a bit of saffron to colour (turmeric for Indians), and two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese. Pour into a dish. The risotto can be enriched by the addition of cooked mushrooms cut small or good gravy with bits of liver and ham. An Oriental pilao or pilau is rice cooked inSOME EXPERIMENTS 167 broth and highly spiced with nutmegs or cloves, tinted with turmeric or saffron, and made savoury with onions previously browned and fried, and it is tossed up in a dish and garnished with the yolk of hard-boiled egg, as we should serve a kedgeree. A pilao may have fish broken up with it or pieces of giblets, if preferred, or nuts ehopped are some- times added. A word as to drying vegetables for winter use. I cannot say that our experiments with this method of preserving have been altogether successful, that is, we eannot bring them up to the perfeetion attained by the firm of McDoddie, but as we only use dried vegetables on rare oecasions, having generally sufficient supply of something fresh available, and as that use is almost always con- fined to soups, our amateur method of drying has answered fairly well. Such vegetables as earrots, turnips, leeks, par-THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 168 snips, and celery are shredded very fine, as if intended for Julienne soup, and are spread out on trays and placed first in the coolest place in the oven, then brought a little nearer to the fire to finish, but never near enough to discolour. They dry quickly and do not lose colour, and an hour’s soaking in cold water previous to using restores both flavour and character. If soaked for any length of time we cook them in the same water, as some of the goodness will have been taken up by it. The secret of keeping the colour of herbs, when drying them, is to dry quickly enough. We spread them out on sheets of paper and put them in a warm oven, leaving the door partly open, and subject them to a fair heat. They should dry in less than an hour and be ready to sift and bottle. Parsley dried in this way keeps a beautiful bright green, but it takes a little longer than most other herbs.169 AND SOME SUCCESSES We prefer to dry sorrel and keep it in packets, rather than to follow the common French method of salting it down and boiling, then storing in crocks. To our thinking it is sweeter and less acid when dried, and soaking soon restores its freshness.170 AFTER X. THE MUSHROOM BED, DRIED FRUITS, CHESTNUTS, AND SOME WEST INDIAN PRODUCE HAVE never got baek in mushrooms what I have spent in spawn,” that eharming writer, Mrs. Earle, has said. This is answer to her own query, “ Do we reap as we sow ? ” She thinks that we all put more into life than we get out of it. Perhaps we do, and into gardens, too. Frankly, though, does it not depend on how we sow ? Before telling you about the mushroom bed whieh Charlemagne and I have made, and from which we have certainly reaped very fair returns, I will quote Mrs. Earle’s experience, because sheSOME EXPERIENCES gives a hint that might be serviceable to those who have greenhouses but no other place more suitable. “ This winter my gardener has tried, with very marked and satisfactory success, a bed under the greenhouse stage. It is made up in the ordinary way and darkened, and saved from the drip of the plants above by a sheet or two of corrugated iron. ... We have already had several excellent and useful dishes off it from this first experiment. Our outer cellar here is too cold to grow mush- rooms in winter, though it does well to grow the common chicory for the Barbe de Capucin salad, and also protects from early autumn frosts the broad-leaved Batavian endive. . . . We grow this in large quantities. It makes by far the best late autumn salad, and is excellent stewed.” I think I have before mentioned that our own mushroom bed is made up in a shed that covers a north wall, and it is on a slope. It is a dry, well- built shed, and is only used for storage of roots, mTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 172 The bed itself is made of horse droppings inter- mixed with loam, and was stirred as per directions given in a Dictionary of Gardening, and sown as there advised, with spawn procured from a re- liable firm of seed merchants. It is watered with a fine rose and rain water, frequently enough to keep it moist; for do not the ordinary field mush- rooms come best in a damp season ? They will not flourish in a dry soil, or when they are cold, and it is of no use attempting to make them do so. Moreover, on a frosty night ours are covered with straw mats or loose straw. We get quite enough mushrooms to keep us supplied with them for flavouring material, and often have a savoury dish besides. And when grown with care, in a clean place, you can be sure they are clean mush- rooms—which is more than can be said for the usual field ! The essence or fumet which you gain by stewing173 MUSHROOM MODES the peelings and stalks of mushrooms (stewing them in butter, not water) we bottle and keep for adding to other stews and sauces. It is most useful. Served independently mushrooms never seem nicer than when cooked in a shallow dish of fire- proof china, with fitting lid. This must be buttered and sprinkled with pepper and salt; just suffi- cient clear bouillon to float them is put in, and sometimes a tiny onion or two, and the dish is covered down and set in the oven to stew gently for half an hour. It is then ready to serve, gar- nished with fried croutons or within a ring of mashed potato. When the mushrooms themselves are the gar- nish to another dish they are invariably browned in butter in the pan over a brisk fire, or the cavities have bits of butter put within them and each is set on the baking tin and baked in the oven.THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 174 Stuped Mushrooms are a valued entremet at company dinners, and on the rare occasions when we entertain I like to have them served, for then we seem really to have had some substantial result from our mushroom bed ! They are pre- pared^ as follows : Fair sized mushrooms are needed, and after paring and removing all the stalk they are set in a buttered baking dish. The peeled stalks are chopped small and with them one or two onions ; these, with a couple of spoonfuls of minced parsley (or one spoonful of dried) and other herbs are fried in butter. A cupful of strong stock is put in, and then a handful of fine breadcrumbs. The centres of the mushrooms are filled and fine raspings sprinkled over the top. They are baked in a quick oven shielded from the fire with buttered paper. Small and broken mushrooms we dry in the oven for storing175 SUN-DRIED FRUITS In cooking dried fruits, prunes, figs, apricots, and other varieties, we find it an improvement to pour in a cupful of cold water after they have been boiling awhile. It is long and slow cooking that is needed to draw out their full flavour, and to make them mellow, and almost all dried fruits need plenty of time for previous soaking. Cook them in the same way in which they have been soaked if you would preserve their flavour, but if you have doubts about their cleanliness wash them well before soaking. It is well to wash those prunes which have a shiny skin, as a small amount of sulphuric acid has been used in their preparation to give them a better appearance. Sun-dried fruit loses its water by a natural process of evaporation and little, if any, chemical change takes place. Artificially evaporated fruit has the moisture withdrawn by rapidly moving currents of air and heat. Neither the heat ofTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 176 the sun nor that artificially applied is sufficient to cook the fruit at all, because the very effect of evaporation is to cool, and the fruit is left at a temperature far below that of the surrounding atmosphere. Instead of being cooked the albumen is coagulated. The more perfectly fruit is ripened the better will it be when dried ; unripe and immatured fruits cannot fail to be hard and dry when subjected to evaporation, and they are incapable of swelling much even after long soaking. The well-grown, well-ripened fruits of sunny countries dry easily, and quickly return to their original size by cooking. The excellence of French, Bosnian, and Turkish prunes is due partly to the cultivation that is given them on good soil, partly to the kind of plum selected, and partly to the care taken with regard to their drying in the direct rays of the sun. The French also use a primitive form ofN 177 A STORE OF FRUIT oven in some districts, and they have a plan of constantly interrupting, checking, and altering the drying process, which gives a particular char- acter to the prunes. The largest prunes are not invariably the best, because a good deal depends on district, but plump fruit with a small stone is sure to be better than a dry one with large stone ; it never pays to buy cheap dried fruits. It does pay to buy a small case of prunes, of raisins, or of Normandy pippins from a wholesale dealer, especially if you live at any distance from shops, or even if you do not. To have a supply of these things in stock ensures your frequent use of them, and they are very wholesome. As our orchard yields but a small supply of apples and pears, and that supply is only too soon exhausted, before Christmas we find ourselves depending much upon dried fruits. Sometimes we invest in a barrel of Canadian apples, or ofTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 178 South African pippins, and we do not regret the investment, but if only dried fruits were available it would still mean no lack. Think what an excellent range there is—prunes, Normandy pears and apples, figs, apricots, raisins, currants, dates, not to mention the conserves of mixed fruits, ginger, and other things. The practice of packing prunes between bay- leaves, which some French firms adopt, is commend- able, for it gives a dainty fragrance to the fruit that is very acceptable. Good, too, is the care taken to line the boxes with paper for protection against mildew, or to prevent the fruit from acquiring a flavour of wood. Stewed prunes or figs, stewed pippins (mellow to melting), dates sharpened with a little lemon juice, and pears made rich with the addition of sugar and wine, all served deliciously cold and in dishes of clearest crystal, with a pitcher of cream179 AND FRUITARIAN FANCIES or custard, these are seen almost daily on our table ; we have fruit for luncheon, fruit for dinner as a last course, and fruit—oftenest uncooked and ripe however—for breakfast too. Fruitarians ? No, only sensible, earth-loving people ! When there is such a wealth of “ kindly fruits ” to be enjoyed “ in due time,” who that is wise will set them aside as to be done without ? Far better is it to give some attention to the right treatment of natural dried fruits than to have recourse to tinned and bottled things in unwhole- some liquids and syrups. Why will not people who have children bear this in mind ? Currants and raisins we use freely, having several ways of introducing them into sweet dishes, all adopted because we believe in the dietetic value of both. There is no doubt but that they are extremely nourishing, and that theTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 180 nourishment is there in a highly concentrated form, namely that of grape sugar. But currants will be indigestible unless properly masticated, and where mastication is likely to be deficient it should be assisted by using a mincing machine. When making plum-puddings and mixtures for cheese- cakes we use this machine as much for the small fruits as for the coarser ingredients. To do so is to extract to the full all their flavour. Currant bread, made at home, is one of the most delicious foods you can have; currant bread made at the baker’s is one of the most surely indigestible products that you can buy. I say this without even making the reservation that “ it all depends upon the baker.” A few currants added to ordi- nary dough do not suffice to make currant bread. When a light dough has been prepared for bread it is worth while to add to it a little dis- solved butter and one or two eggs when kneading181 CURRANT BREAD in the fruit. Moreover, the fruit must have been dried after washing, A cut across the top of the loaf to let out the steam when baking makes the loaf much lighter, and yet the baker will persist in “ varnishing ” the surface, with the result that his loaf is tough and moist. Our own currant bread partakes more of the nature of the true French brioche, and is really nicer to eat when several days old than when just fresh. For the “ sponge ” we use fresh barm, not German yeast, and the dough, when it is mixed, is soft enough to beat with a wooden spoon. Butter, fruit, and a little sugar with the beaten eggs, and a little milk and water, are worked in after the sponge has risen, and the whole is left to rise in a warm place for several hours, much longer than is usual for ordinary bread. It is then lightly rolled on a floured board, and is baked in round cakes in the oven.THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 182 Sometimes it pleases Charlotte to take a portion of this light dough and to make it softer still with one or two more eggs and to add a little ehopped candied fruit and a glassful of Maderia wine to it, and to beat until she has obtained what is more like a light batter than a paste. This she pours into oiled moulds the size of a cup and bakes rather quickly. The moulds are never more than half filled, but the mixture rises in a crest above the top and does not fall again. These become what French confectioners designate as hahas; the correct mode of serving is to soak them in a syrup flavoured with sweet wine or liquor. We take great pride in having this uncommon con- fection when friends are to be entertained. A Gateau du Riz, wherein eggs and milk are added to boiled rice with sugar and salt, and grated lemon peel for flavouring, is made handsome by decorating the bottom and sides of the mould183 PLUMS AND PRUNES (which, by the way, is lined with a caramel, not butter) with split and stoned raisins and with shreds of candied fruit. It is baked until firm and turned out when cool. A delicious mixture for the filling of pastry tartlets has grated carrot for its foundation, breadcrumbs, sugar, chopped fruit, both currants and raisins, and beaten eggs for its ingredients, and it is invariably much liked. Large muscatel raisins are delicious when stewed with a little wine and water, but it is better to remove the seeds first. What time prunes have disappointed me from any cause I have found it best to turn them into a prune jelly, and then they are commendable. For this, after their soaking and cooking, they are rubbed through a sieve with all the juice there is, and the pulp is sweetened with sugar and flavoured with a little liquor. It is turned intoTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 184 a lined saucepan, and set on the fire, and into it a small quantity of gelatine, already soaked in cold water, is added, and the 'purie is brought to a boil, after which it is poured into a mould. If you put it into a circular mould and fill the centre with a whip of cream, after it is turned out, you have an excellent sweet. Many things will be good when they are pulped down and treated in this way which would be poor and unsatisfactory if merely stewed. Chestnuts are a capital addition to winter fare, as many besides ourselves have found out. But for me I hark back to those delicious creams we had in Italy, where a fine pulp of cooked chest- nuts surrounded a whip of thick cream, and both were eaten together with biscuits. The Better Half is exceedingly partial to chest- nut soup, and indeed Charlotte makes it most temptingly. The chestnuts are boiled until they185 CHESTNUTS THAT KEEP crack open, and are then thrown into cold water and peeled. They are crushed to a powder, or rather paste, for from time to time a little milk is added to make them go more easily through the tamis. This furee then goes into the marmite, where already is an onion cooking gently in butter. At the same time a little flavouring of spice, a spoonful of sugar, one of salt, and a pinch of pepper are added, and sufficient milk to make up the desired quantity. When it boils, being con- stantly stirred, a spoonful of rice-flour, wet with cold milk, is added, and a few spoonfuls of cream. Chestnuts baked or boiled and peeled make a capital second vegetable to eat with meat, if served up hot in a thin brown sauce. They also make most delicious little afternoon tea-cakes if pounded dry and mixed with an equal quantity of ordinary flour and the usual ingredients of butter, egg,THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 186 and sugar, with milk enough to form a dough. (Use self-raising flour.) Of other nuts—walnuts, coeonuts, kola nuts, hazel nuts, filberts, and almonds—it seems hardly necessary to say much, since they are best eaten in their natural state and for dessert. But we should all be wise to eat freely of them, in cold weather especially, for they supply much oil to the system in a form most easily assimilated. One may live on nuts, as do squirrels, providing you have nothing else to live on, but the ability to do so is here merely pointed to as proof of their body-building and nutritious character. People who consider themselves debarred from eating nuts on account of inefficient masticating tools should buy themselves a nut-mill, and perform the preliminary processes by its help. It is a little thing and costs a trifle, but it helps to keep its owner looking plump and substantial!187 OVERSEA DEALINGS Ground nuts are delicious when sprinkled over a fruit salad, or even over an ordinary lettuce salad. They are good enough to sandwich between thin bread and butter, especially if mixed with cream and sugar first, and they are prettily decorative as the garnish of a plain custard or the icing of a cake. Ground coconut we add to a curry, as many Indians do, and also to certain cake and bread mixtures. Salted almonds we prepare for our- selves, when we require them, which is not fre- quently, for although fashionable they are not really very nice. Our patronage of West Indian produce has come about through our dealing with the shippers for pure cane sugar for preserving purposes. These dealings brought to our knowledge many excellent and delicious things which it may be a service to mention here. We are, as a people,THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 188 lamentably ignorant of what our own colonies and dependencies produce, entirely to our own loss. For example, we ourselves, when we can get limes, now never use lemons ; the limes are finer, milder, and more delicate. We use green ginger for cooking and preserving purposes, and crystal- lised or glace ginger for dessert. Guava cheese and guava jelly have their place on our table. Chow-chow we love, also mango chutney and pickle. Chillies and peppers we have learnt to stuff and serve as “ appetisers.” Banana and plantain meal make delicious cakes, tamarinds are tempters of the invalid’s appetite; “ cum- quats ” (oranges in syrup) are a delicious sweet. Such things as arrowroot, sago, tapioca, semo- lina, maize, and rice we invariably buy from the same source; they are much purer and finer than we can buy elsewhere. Here, too, we get the189 WEST INDIAN IMPORTS maple syrup before mentioned, also the best of curry powders and pastes. As bananas are so much with us all the year round it leaves us small occasion to use the dried bananas which are sent over from the West Indies, yet when these are stewed tender, and a little sherry or juice of limes and sugar added to them, they are extremely nice, and stewed banana added to a fritter batter is every whit as good as slices of the fresh fruit.190 C HAPTEN XI. soil of oUr garden, which gives us J vegetables of which we have good reason to be proud, seems not so well adapted for growing fruit trees, or else it is that our orchard is too old to yield much. However it be we can boast of no special varieties or quantities, yet we have fairly good crops, as a rule, of the more commonplace kinds of bush-191 BURGLARIOUS BIRDS fruit from the garden, and, in a good season, a moderate supply of ordinary apples and pears from the orchard, and a few choice specimens from the espaliers when the season has been exception- ally fair. Later on, when we came to the point of acquiring a noble fruit house, of which more hereafter, the position of things was, of course, vastly improved. Still, even in the beginning, we had enough, after all, enough for ourselves and for the birds—and the birds invariably exacted full toll! When currants were ripening, indeed, we found it expedient to net over the bushes with coarse gauze, and we even thought, Charlemagne and I, of making an enclosure by stretching wire netting between poles placed all round the plot, as it is said that birds will not fly down into an enclosed space. So far, however, it has not been done ; every year we threaten them, and there the matter ends.THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 192 I say it surely would be inconsistent to talk of our enjoyment of the fruits and deny the birds, who, after all, are our fellow-toilers, the right to conjugate the verb with us. To people like Charlotte, who delight in making experiments in the fine art of preserving, good bush-fruit is very valuable, and, moreover, currants and raspberries are so useful for mixing with other and larger fruits. Also we love much in summer- time to have a plate of picked ripe currants set upon the breakfast table. When the bunches are cleansed by dipping in clean water and dried they are beautiful to roll lightly in powdered sugar and eat with bread and butter. We have a few bushes of white currants, a comparatively rare thing to find in an English garden, but one of our nicest dessert fruits. By netting the bush we have managed to keep the currants hanging right on into September, except in a very dry season.o 193 FRUIT SALADS One reason why they keep well is perhaps because Charlemagne follows a very old practice and breaks the tops of the branches at the tip, not right off, but leaving them to wither. It sends the sap into the fruit and prevents inordinate growth of leaves. Well-ripened raspberries and red currants mixed with a few tart cherries, what a delicious summer salad do they not make, especially if a suspicion of liquor lurks within the bowl ! The only dressing they need, if you mix them early enough in the day, and set the bowl in a cool place for a few hours, is plenty of sugar and sufficient wine to moisten it, with that goutte of kiimmel or more delicate noyau. A salad of fresh strawberries we dress in Italian fashion—that is, with sugar and the juice of lemons. To our thinking this is nicer and certainly more refreshing than thick cream can be, and it gives more value to the flavour of the fruit.THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 194 The secret of making a fruit salad tempting is to have it dressed some time beforehand, and to set the bowl on ice if possible. Black currants, of which you can never, in any garden, have too many, the birds are not partial to except in the green stage, and there is no need to protect the bushes. We ourselves are more than partial to them. We should think ourselves wanting in some great essential if our shelves did not show a good store of black-currant jelly and jam, and if there were no bottles of cassis for the making of delicious drinks. All the minute care and patience which the making of cordials and wines demand Charlotte simply delights in giving. It is difficult to make her understand that the eau-de-vie which is so cheap in her country is so dear in ours, or even that we must pay respect to licensing laws. Sometimes I tremble lest the revenue officers should scent our fragrant brews !195 AND FRUIT COMPOTES Black currants contain so much iron that they are both food and medicine. While they are dyeing the lips of those who eat them they are enriching the blood. In a lesser degree all the red and black fruits contain much iron, and for this reason alone blackberries would be worth cultivating in gardens just as we cultivate rasp- berries. Compotes of currants, whether red or black, are better if mixed with a few raspberries, or so we think; they are less rich. A compote of rasp- berries alone is much inferior to one of currants alone. It seems almost a pity to cook fine ripe raspberries. They are as good as strawberries when eaten with sugar and cream, but of course there will be many raspberries to gather which are neither fine nor large, yet for cooking purposes they are every whit as good. The American rasp- berry we do not care for at all. We have a fewTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 196 canes of Avhite raspberries, however, of which I am exceedingly ehoiee, and when ripe their amber eolour beeomes almost transparent, and so fragrant are they ! The strawberries whieh we eultivate early, by the help of the greenhouse, are, of course, too preeious and too fine to be eaten in any way but au naturel. But when June advances, and July brings a plenty of out-door fruit, we are ready, like everybody else, to try different ways of serving them. Au Bavarois is as niee a mode as any of using berries that are not very fine or perfect. The fruit is erushed down, without eooking, by rubbing it through a sieve, and is mixed with an equal quantity of thiek eream or of eustard, and liberally sweetened. A little gelatine that has been pre- viously soaked is stirred in, and the pan is set upon the fire to warm through gradually, but not197 OTHER FRUIT FANCIES to heat more than enough to mix the gelatine thoroughly. When taking it off the fire a few drops of cochineal are added to improve the colour, and a spoonful of maraschino or noyau. It is poured into a mould and left to get firm. If frozen and served with strawberry syrup this is even more delicious. Another mode is to make a puree of fruit, sweeten it, and boil up with some soaked gelatine, and when cold to beat into it lightly the snow of some whipped whites of eggs, and then to freeze. This is served with biscuits. Or we pile strawberries—or raspberries—on to a light foundation pudding, consisting of a nice custard made firm with some breadcrumbs and baked till set. On the top of the fruit, after sprinkling it liberally with sugar, we pile whipped cream and egg froth mixed, and set the dish in the oven for a few minutes to just tinge the colour.THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 198 Or again, a pastry foundation has the berries, just previously stewed, with sugar poured over, and a whip on the top. There are a number of fruit soups, any of which are delicious in summer-time, making a pleasant change from ordinary bouillon or potage. There is cherry soup for instance. For this stone four large cupfuls of cherries, and put them in a lined saucepan ; cover with a quart of cold water and bring to the boil. Add half a cupful of sugar to them and continue boiling until they are soft, and then rub them carefully through the sieve. Return this puree to the pan and stir in a tablespoonful of arrowroot first mixed with cold water ; when clear take off, add the juice of a lime or half lemon, more sugar if not sweet enough, and a liqueur glass of Morelia- cherry brandy. Charlotte’s fruit soup :199 FRUIT SOUPS Mixed fruits—that is, strawberries, currants, raspberries, and any early stone fruits available,— are used for this. All are cooked together in water until quite soft, and passed through a sieve, and the yur6e is sweetened to taste, slightly thickened with arrowroot, or, better still, a little French tapioca, previously soaked, and after boiling clear is set aside to become cold, served in china cups with morsels of cracked ice floating therein. A soup of apricots and vegetable marrow cooked together and flavoured with the juice of a lemon and spoonful of brandy is very good to serve hot. No egg or cream should be put into it, but a little tapioca cooked with the fruit and rubbed through the strainer at the same time prevents the separa- tion of puree and liquid. A soup of fresh limes, stewing the peel first in water and straining, sweetening and thickening that, then adding to it the juice, and, as it cools,THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 200 the beaten yolks of two eggs, and serving in eups with morsels of joreserved ginger floating in them is also very nice. Almost better than fruit soups, however, de- licious though they are, is the practice of serving fresh fruit, such as melons, shaddocks, and grape- fruit, or even oranges, as an introduction to a meal. Melons are served thus in slices, and are eaten with pepper and salt instead of with sugar; shaddocks require a little sweetening perhaps, as also does the grape-fruit for some palates. The proper way to serve the latter is to cut them across in half, scoop out the cores and pips, fill up the centre with sugar, and serve with a spoon. In eating them one should take out the juice, leaving nothing but pulp and rind. Large oranges, particularly jaffas and the navel or seedless variety, are admirable when served after this manner.201 PINES AND BANANAS Quantities of small pineapples are likely to find their way to us from the Cape, when their worth becomes better known. The South African pine makes little show beside the ordinary hot-house pine, it is true, but the cheap little brown things have a delicious flavour, are very juicy and whole- some, and can be brought over here and sold for a few pence each, or even less. The best way of eating these is to cut a morsel off the bottom to make the fruit stand level on the plate, then to take a piece from the stalk end, and to scoop out the centre with a spoon, precisely as one would eat a cooked egg. Bananas for the table are more tempting to the fastidious appetite when offered ready peeled, and cut into finger-lengths or cubes ; they should have a little sugar and the juice of a fresh lemon or lime squeezed over them. This is the true West Indian method of serving this fruit.THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 202 Oranges pared and slieed thinly give sharpness and flavour to any other mixture of fruits in a salad, but unless the salad is of oranges only their presenee should not be too obtrusive. The orehard, as I have before said, is an old one, and the apple trees have been left to grow mueh as they will, and thus we have alloAved them to remain, mueh to the disgust of Charlemagne. He would have liked to clear the ground of these gnarled and knotted trunks, and to have intro- duced new varieties grafted on Paradise stock, and goodness knows what besides. But the Better Half and I stood firm. Our wants Avere not great, and the old orchard was a pleasant place, and when the season was fair it yielded enough to supply all we needed, while the few sound old English sorts it contained seemed to us better worth having than the finer things of which Ave were told. It would have been nice, of course, to be able to203 A USE FOR FALLINGS count upon a more liberal supply of blenheims and pippins and mellow russets, yet of sueh as re- mained to be gathered we were thankful. There was one noble tree of early yellow transparents, whieh more than made up for any other lack— such a beautiful “ before-breakfast ” apple it is. We had a good many fallings to make use of, as eommonly happens in an old orehard. Of these the finer ones only were kept for roasting, and the others went to make jelly, and those whieh were not sound enough for this purpose made us apple butter. You cannot make good jelly out of ill- formed and inferior apples, but for butter it suffices to sliee, pare, eore, boil down to a pulp and sweeten, and every available apple can be utilised, even crabs. You merely have to go on boiling the brown pulp until a smooth, buttery mass results, and it can be stored away and used in winter time in plaee of ordinary butter.THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 204 But for roasting in the oven it pays to ehoose your best fruits, as such a dish, when baked with butter and eaten with sugar, is a thing to thank Providence for. Experience has taught us that it pays to have the proper means of storing both apples and pears. At first we laid them out on straw, on the storeroom shelves and floor. Later on I learnt that straw is the very last thing to keep apples and pears upon. Inquiry revealed to me the fact that a room or cellar partly underground was the best place for keeping fruit, better than the light, airy room above, where many other things found their home. Evenness of temperature, protection from frost, but a cool atmosphere, and shade ratfier than light were advisable. Further inquiry brought to my knowledge that special trays are now made on to which the apples can be placed, and that these fit one above another205 APPLES AND PEARS in tiers, allowing the air to pass round the fruit. When kept in this cool place, and after this manner, the ripening does not proceed too fast, and the fruit does not wither or grow soft. Frequent looking over is, of course, necessary, as the first sign of rot is a signal for removing the offending specimen. Rot is so quickly communi- cated, even where the single fruits are set well apart. Some pears will never be worth ripening, and where there is any quantity a good plan is to fill an earthenware crock with them, to pour in enough water to just barely cover, put on the lid, and send the crock to the nearest bakery, to be put in the oven after baking is done. They come back to you mellow and rich, although they probably went away like green bullets. If you would have a fine dish of pears, however, let these be cooked as a compote, namely, pare themTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 206 thinly, remove cores, and slice into elegant sec- tions, lay in a pan with a few lumps of sugar, and pour over sufficient claret to cover. Set the pan on the stove or in the oven and cook gently until the pears are thoroughly tender. This rich red compote contrasts pleasantly, both in appear- ance and flavour, with an Apple Compote, which should be white to transparency. For this prepare a syrup first, by boiling lump sugar in sufficient water to cover the quantity you are using, say half a pound, pare, core, and cook carefully till tender, seeing they do not break. If they froth and fall add a little cold water to the syrup. Lift out as they are done, and finally, boil up the syrup until thick and pour round the sections of apple. If liked this syrup can be coloured red with cochineal, and then it contrasts prettily with the white apple. For an Apple Salad you want very ripe fruit,207 COOKED APPLES not hard, but a little sharp. Pare and sliee moderately thin, and arrange in your dish, sprink- ling with finely-ground nuts. Add a spoonful of eastor sugar to the ordinary French salad dressing, and use a touch of cayenne instead of ordinary pepper. Or, instead of oil and vinegar, take the juice of limes or lemons, and add some good cream. An apple salad, as an accompaniment to ripe cheese, Stilton or Gloucester, is excellent. Apple Beignets are another joy. The apples are pared and the cores removed without dividing, so that when sliced the rounds are perfect. Dip each ring into the true beignet batter, which is compounded of whites of eggs, a little flour, a little sugar and salt, some olive oil, and sufficient Avater to dilute into a sort of thick cream. Drop each ring into a depth of absolutely boiling fat. When puffed out, and crisp and brown, drain them on paper, roll in powdered sugar, and serve hot.THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 208 Such fruit as blackberries and bilberries, of which the juice is the best part, we find it better to stew till soft, and then strain through a colan- der, or perhaps to rub through a sieve, obtaining a pulp that is somewhat more fruity than juice. This makes excellent sauces or fruit syrups for puddings when sweetened. Small stone fruit, like damsons and bullaces, are much better to use when rubbed through a coarse sieve or colander after their first stewing. This keeps out the skins and stones, whieh are so troublesome and so indigestible too. Certain kinds of cherries it pays to treat in the same way, and to make a sauce or quick jellies with the pulp so obtained, but finer cherries it is no waste of time to stone by hand, espeeially if making a compote therefrom. A word in conclusion as to the real difference between a compote and mere stewed fruit. Thep 209 COMPOTES AGAIN former, which keeps in the full flavour of the fruit without losing its form or spoiling its appear- ance, is a method to be infinitely preferred. For this you must make your syrup first by boiling together sugar and water—not too much of either ; the fruit to be cooked is wiped and put in, not too much at a time, and cooked until quite tender, but not long enough to break it, and after it is done the syrup is reduced by further boiling and poured over. For a compote of strawberries it suffices to pour boiling syrup over the fruit, repeating the process three or four times, and not to cook the fruit at all. A compote of apricots or peaches should have the blanched and split kernels added to the syrup. Rhubarb is much nicer cooked after this manner than stewed, and plums are vastly better, but gooseberries and raspberries and currants need stewing and are often better for straining too.THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 210 If I owned to having some conscienee-priekings in respect to birds when I began this chapter I must, ere its conclusion, add that I am more than ever inclined to award them their full rights to a partnership, since I have met with some words by Phil Robinson on that score. If any one doubt my assertion that birds are our fellow-toilers, and maintains that they are unprincipled marau- ders and no more, let him read the following lines ; “For bull-finches and chaffinches and bud- eating birds it is often said that they injure a tree for its own good, destroying insects which would eventually have done more harm than they. This may be as it may be, but I never heard any one suggest that blackbirds and thrushes have any ulterior beneficence in mind when they visit an orchard. Nor do I think, if frankly asked the question, that those birds would hesitate to give a straightforward answer. There is nothing in their demeanour to lead you to suppose that they affect any more virtuous intention than the satisfaction of their own appetites. . . .211 ORCHARD THIEVES “ Is there no good in them, then ? Are they marauders, nothing more ? Do not think so. Come out into the orchard after a shower, and see the turf dotted with blackbirds and thrushes. Look at them, hard at work among the worms. Was there ever such conscientious work being done before without overseer ? Tempted by the shower the worms and snails are abroad, but the word has gone round, and scores of terrible little eyes are watching, little feet are fidgeting, little beaks are waiting. If you could only chalk the birds’ feet you would find that every inch of ground had been traversed, not once but several times. Every bird is busy at once, either watching or catching, and with such single-heartedness of purpose as does you good to look at, and makes you forget the pilfered plums and the brigandage among the cherries. . . . “ How desperately hard at work they are, these small fanatics ! Every dead leaf in the shrubbery will be turned over in the twenty-four hours ; all the borders of the beds patrolled, and the whole ground searched for full-fed caterpillars. . . . No, they are not mere marauders, for even in the sunny fruit time, the mellow days of October, they areTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 212 doing good half the day, and by-and-by will come the months of inclement weather, when there are no orchards but those of hedgerow and copse, when all their time is spent in the incessant benefit of man. Nor forget the three months of the year when the little tithe-gatherers make your gardens beautiful with song, and ‘ for their quiet nests and plenteous food pay with their gentle voice.’ ”213 IN STOREROOM AND CLOSET: PRESERVES, JELLIES, BOTTLED FRUITS, PICKLES, WINES, AND CORDIALS. SHOULD I entitle this storeroom of ours by that quaint appellation used long ago—“ A Gentlewoman’s Closet of Rich Rarities ” ? I should dearly like tOj for in truth it is a goodly place ! It is a room at the top of the house, airy and dry, and not subject to great variations of tempera- ture ; in fact there is a small oil stove kept in it for use in extreme cold weather. There are permanent ventilating panes in the window ; and reed blinds keep out the sun and too much light, as a darkened room is best for keeping purposes.THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 214 It has shelves all round, and deep eupboards where we store superfluous jars and bottles. Down in the larder we keep a sufficient selection of all that is found here for immediate use, as Charlotte and I do not care to mount stairs oftener than we cg,n help, and this storeroom is our bank of reserve. Very proud are we when we carry up hither a fresh trayful of jars or bottles, all neatly labelled and sealed. Should we ever be beseiged we are sure to have something wherewith to keep star- vation away, Charlotte says, with a reminiscent smile. She has vivid recollections of that memor- able siege time of the early seventies, and such experiences, she says, make one frugal. I must frankly own that my own satisfaction in our storeroom arises out of quite another feeling. I value this well-filled place because, as a Scotch- man would bluntly say, “ there’s money in it.” It is a mundane reason, perhaps, but it’s a true one.215 1THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 216 There is money in a well-stocked storeroom, as many a resourceful woman has found out before now. Some time ago I came across the following sentence and have remembered it: “ In many districts the fruit and vegetable resources of some splendid little patch of soil lie dormant because no one in the family has any special knowledge of growing the crops or of con- verting them into marketable form. . . . “ Can woman achieve success in such an industry as converting into profitable form the products than can be raised at small cost from little patches of soil or small holdings . . . and what would be the outlay ? A few pounds for tools and fencing, perhaps, for well-selected seeds and casks for water, for a boiler and pans and sugar, for jars and covers, some vinegar, and condiments and labels.” Not having any special need at present to work upon the suggestion myself I commend it to others. Just how quickly a few pounds of initial cost would be turned over and made into a profit would217 THE PROFESSIONAL FINISH depend, of course, upon what efforts were made to secure a market. Suffice it to say that for produce, that is the best of its kind, turned out in workmanlike fashion, a market is never far to seek in England. The fault of so much home- made stuff is its very unprofessional finish and appearance, and its frequent flaws due to little bits of neglect. Where trouble is taken to ensure perfect uniformity of quality, and as much atten- tion is paid to appearance as to flavour, where jars and covers are as neat as they can possibly be, and good packing provides for careful transit, there is very little doubt but that orders will multiply. But apart from the necessity of giving this care to all that is destined for sale, it pays also to give it where only sufficient is made for home con- sumption. Variability in quality and flaws in finish are the most frequent causes of failure in the small way as in the large. Foreign importsTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 218 have done a good deal to educate the tastes of people, and it is useless to expect to win favour for the home-made article that fails to satisfy critcism in regard to its outward appearance, whatever its inside merits may be. In all these points Charlotte has been my teacher, plus royaliste que le roi in the etiquette of good cookery. Her care for les petits soins is truly very great, very commendalde. In the first place, for example, there is the sterilisation of all jars and bottles used. They are, of course, always washed and di’ied before they are put away, but, as Charlotte says, there is the humidity of this terrible English climate to con- sider, and when the climate is dry there is dust! So the process of sterilising begins by placing two great pans of deep baking tins on the stove, both partially filled with water. In the one as many jars as it will hold are laid on their sides, and turned219 FRESH FRUIT JELLIES round and about from time to time. The water in this pan boils all the while. As the jars are lifted out for fresh ones to go in they are dried and then made to stand upright, in the seeond pan, in which the water need not boil, as it is merely to keep them quite hot. When the time comes to fill them they are carried to the table, still in the pan, filled to overflowing with boiling preserve or liquid, the rim and outsides carefully wiped, and the covers fastened down at once. If metal covers are being used, or stoppers for the bottles, these are rinsed in hot water first. The work of filling and sealing the jars is done rapidly, so that air has little time to get in before the cooling process causes contraction. When they are cold an examination is made for any defects or cracks, which rarely occur, and the labels are affixed As far as the actual method of making jellies with fresh fruit is concerned we follow, as nearlyTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 220 as may be, the plan of an American friend, an authority in this branch of the culinary art. It consists in putting the fruit, after carefully picking it over and wiping it, into a stone jar of good proportions, and this is set within a ]3an half-filled with water, and put on the fire to boil for some hours. It is rather a slow process of extracting the juice and flavour of the fruit, but it does extract it eventually, and without addition of water. When the juice seems drawn strain through a bag of coarse flannel, squeezing it gently from time to time, and suspending it some height above the basin into which the juice falls. When all has come away that will come of its own accord a very little water may be passed through the bag and a further squeezing will bring away more goodness. To each pint of juice we allow a pound of sugar. The juice alone is set on to boil in the preserving221 AND PRESERVES pan, and the sugar is spread out over tins in the oven and made thoroughly hot, in fact it may show signs of melting. The juice must boil for twenty minutes exactly before the sugar is turned into it, and the putting in of hot sugar does not check the boiling. It falls in with a hiss and is dissolved almost while you look at it. Cease stirring when all the sugar is melted, let the liquor come to the point of rapid boiling for one minute only, then take the pan from the fire and immed- iately fill the glasses, which are already standing in scalding water. When the fruit used is at its proper pitch of ripeness, or somewhat under rather than Over ripe, and this method is strictly followed I have never known the jelly to fail of setting, even before it was quite cold. In making jam we follow a similar method, that is, boiling the fruit pulp some time before addingTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 222 sugar, heating that to reduce the after boiling as much as possible. By this means we consider the flavour of the fruit is retained, and the sugar never turns to syrup. The principle is that it is the fruit which requires cooking and not the sugar, and it remains the same in all cases except where it is desired to preserve whole fruit in syrup. Acid fruits only will make jelly, but even in some acid fruits the quantity of jelly-making pectin is small, and some other fruit must be added. Strawberries will not make jelly without the help of red currant juice, and the raspberry also needs the same combination. Peaches, insufficiently acid alone, combine well with a yellow plum. Rhu- barb will not make, jelly, nor will cherries, but the juice of gooseberries will help to set both. The best fruits for jelly-making are (in the order named) the currant, gooseberry, crab-apple, apple, quince, blackberry, raspberry, plum, and peach.223 PLUM CONSERVES For plum jelly the fruit should be taken when only half ripe, and be put into a deep stone jar, or lined pan, just covered with water, and cooked until very soft yet not to make a pulpy mass. Strain the juice twice and allow equal weights of sugar. Another method of making an excellent plum preserve, or I should rather say a conserve, is to place the picked and wiped plums into a stone jar, alternating each layer with one of sugar, and leaving the jar in a corner of the stove all night. Pour off all the liquor and boil it, then pour it over the fruit again, and repeat the process each day four or five days consecutively. The last time both fruit and syrup should be boiled to- gether for a few minutes only, then at once put into jars. We think a spoonful of vinegar added an improvement. Date plums, which come late in the season, make a delicious preserve treatedTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 224 after the foregoing manner, without the vinegar however. Aprieot or egg plums must have very little boiling, as their shape forms one of their most attraetive features. It is better, when the syru]3 boils, to drop them into it separatel}'^, and a few crushed kernels with them. Damsons and other small stone fruit need much cooking, and to be rubbed through a sieve to keep back skins and stones before any sugar is added to them. They will bear half an hour’s boiling after this. A concentrated form of jelly results. For damson cheese the quantity of sugar used is much less than for jam, and the pulp is boiled down until quite stiff, and small flat glasses are used for its storing in preference to the ordinary jam pots. Peaches should have both stones and skins removed, although the skins may boil in a little water separately and this may be added to the liquor afterwards. The fruit itself is quarteredQ 225 QUINCES AND APPLES and cooked in a boiling syrup, and the kernels are chopped and thrown in. Quinces, like apjDles, should be quartered and put into the pan with peelings, cores and all, and a pint of water may be added to every five pounds of fruit. When fully cooked, and all the goodness extracted, strain, and treat the liquor as before explained. In the case of apples alone, and when more flavour seems needful, a piece of stick cinnamon and a few cloves should be tied in muslin and boiled with the liquor, but removed before the sugar is added. Highly coloured and tart apples, like the Siberian crab, make the finest jelly. Set the jars in a sunny window for some days if the jelly seems loth to set. It grows firmer in course of time. Wild cherries and currant juice (red) make a delicious preserve, which is good for any weakness of the digestive organs.THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 226 As regards bottled fruits the whole success of this method of preserving depends on careful sterilisation, and on keeping the bottles air-tight. A light syrup keeps less well than a heavy or much boiled one. On the other hand, the fruit preserved in light or thin syrup is more fruity in flavour. It s quite possible to have bottled fruit that will keep well without using sugar at all. A rubber ring should fit inside the cover, and this should be soaked and put on whilst wet, so as to contract slowly. Grade all fruit intended for bottling, keeping the sizes as nearly equal as possible. Fill the jars quite full, and pour in the boiling syrup or water, and stand the bottles in a pan of water, also boiling. Bring the contents of the jars up to boiling point and then seal down at once. A few choice Morelia cherries we save for flavouring brandy, and also we have besides at227THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 228 least one bottle of peach branch, or, failing peaches (when from lack of blossom we may presuppose that peaches are likely to fail, that is) we pick the white petals of the May blossom and fill the bottle three parts full, then add brandy. In a few weeks’ time the flavour of the petals has all been extracted, and the liquor should be drawn off into another bottle ; it is but little inferior to real peach brandy. These are liquors for the flavouring of custards and creams, be it known, and are much nicer than bought essences. Like many other people of delicate appetite and fastidious taste, the Better Half favours light wines for drinking, especially home-made fruit wines. Of these we generally manage to have a small store, also of fruit cordials for drinking with soda and seltzer water in summer-time. It may be as well if I here give some particulars about the making of both of these. Orange and ginger229 MARIGOLD CORDIAL wine we have always in store, and these are made in winter months, but choicer than these are marigold, peach, and elder, and these we make every year if at all possible. In July, when the marigolds down in the wild garden are ablow, Charlotte gathers their petals every day until she has amassed about a peck of them, and when these have been picked into the deep brown pipkin she pours upon them (and with them a pound and a half of stoned raisins) a boiling liquid made with seven pounds of sugar, two pounds of honey, and three gallons of water. Whilst boiling this has been cleared with the whites and shells of three eggs, and is strained before it is poured over the flowers. The vessel is closely covered and left to stand undisturbed for twenty- four hours, and after a brief stirring the next day is again covered and left until the third morning. The whole is then strained off into a cask and withTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 230 the liquor is put the rinds of six oranges pared without whites, and a pound of sugar eandy; four or five tablespoonfuls of good brewer’s yeast are then stirred in, and the bung hole covered, and the wine is left to work until it froths out. When all fermentation has ceased we put in a pint of brandy and half an ounce of dissolved isinglass, and stop up the cask, leaving it untouched for some months. Our recipe for peach wine comes from a Canadian source, and is a most delicious beverage, made at really very little expense. In a year when our own peaches (those from the wall trees and not from the standards in the fruit- house, hien entendu!) fail we go begging from other gardens or buy from the London market, for we do not care to begin wine-making with a smaller quantity than twenty pounds. The fruit is sliced up into an earthenware pan, reserving231 PEACH WINES the stones ; loaf sugar equal to about a quarter of the weight of fruit is strewn among the mass, and this is left for a day. Five gallons of filtered soft water are then boiled with eight pounds of loaf sugar, and the whites of three or four eggs well beaten are stirred in, and the syrup is skimmed clear. The fruit and sugar and all juice are added to this boiling liquid and all heated together, any scum being removed as it rises. It is then poured into a cask, and the crushed kernels taken from the stones are put in also, with five or six spoon- fuls of good yeast. It is left to ferment for two or three days, stirring at long intervals, then it is strained off into a tub and returned to the cask. When all fermentation has ceased a pint of brandy is stirred in and the cask tightly closed. Before closing up, if thought desirable, it can be racked off into a clean cask of somewhat smaller size, as it should be one that is quite filled up. We keepTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 232 it untouched for a year, and generally begin to bottle off the previous year’s wine when we are ready to make a second supply. In making elderberry wine we prefer to erush and strain off the juice from the berries rather than to boil and obtain it that way ; we think that the former method gives more natural flavour and makes a more fruity wine. But the berries must be very fully ripe and very juicy. The fruit is stripped from the stalks and put into a tub and covered with water, and a weighty erusher is used to press them with at intervals. When the juice seems to have come away the liquid is strained off into the boiling-pan, and to eaeh gallon of it three pounds of brown sugar is put in at the same time. We boil in this liquor such spices as are to be added to the wine, viz., several pieees of root ginger, a stick of mace and einnamon, and a few cloves. The liquor boils for rather more233 ORANGE WINE than an hour, and is then poured into the cleansed tub and left with some yeast added to it to work for four or five days. It is better to put the yeast on to a piece of toast, and it must not be added until the liquor has cooled. At the end of that time the yeast is taken off, the liquor strained and poured into a cask, leaving the vent-peg loose, and when fermentation has ceased the cask is tightly closed up and kept for three months before opening. For orange wine the Seville oranges are necessary, and therefore we make this about the time when marmalade is in progress, in February or March. It is best to pare off the yellow peel very thinly, and to boil this with water and strain, then to add the pulp and juice, when the liquid is put on to boil with sugar ; it is again strained clear before pouring into the cask, where it must ferment for some weeks before corking down.THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 234 Another delicious wine is made from sour red cherries, if you can get several pounds to crush and obtain a fair quantity of juice. Weight pound against quart of sugar and juice and let both be mixed together and kept for three days covered up; then strain off into a wine cask, add a pint of brandy for every gallon of juice, and an ounce of dissolved isinglass, and secure the cask tightly. It may be racked off at the end of three months into bottles, and kept for some time longer before using. Another light red wine, almost like claret in flavour, and one which Charlotte deceives herself into believing is vin ordinaire, is made with the juice of sloes or damsons and red beetroots. The fruit is bruised and bottled in water long enough to extract all its juice and flavour, and this is strained off into a stone jar. Several pounds of well-washed beets are then boiled tender, pared and sliced into a deep pipkin, and the sloe liquor235 OTHER CORDIALS is poured over. The next day the rinds of oranges and lemons and the strained juiee are added and a good stirring is given. On the third day as many pounds of sugar as will equal a quarter of the weight of the strained juice are put into the preserving pan, and the whole of the liquor is drained off and put with them, and half as much filtered water. It boils for a short time only, and is then strained into the tub and some yeast put in when cool, and is left four or five days. When pouring off into the cask a little brandy is added. It improves with age. This leads me naturally to mention again the cordials to which I have before alluded. Properly speaking these are the juices of ripe fruits extracted by the aid of alcohol or cheap spirit, or, as Char- lotte would say, with eau de vie. But this, which is so inexpensive in her country, is dear in ours, so our cordials have to be made by crushing the fruitTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 236 and straining off its own juice, boiling that with loaf sugar sufficient to make a good syrup, and then adding a third of its amount of French brandy, or of spirits of wine, just before bottling. In this way we make red currant cordial, raspberry, blackberry, and quince, while of green gooseberries and ripe black currants we make a cordial that is less rich, being diluted with a little water and having less sugar, as both these are for common drinking. These cordials are never fermented, but are bottled off as soon as made, and a table- spoonful of any one of them is sufficient for a large tumblerful of drink. For raspberry vinegar the ripe berries are crushed slightly, and steeped in sufficient white wine vinegar to well cover them for twenty-four hours, and then strained off and boiled up with half the equivalent weight of sugar and after- wards boiled.237 AND SPICED CONDIMENTS VVe are not great eonsumers of piekles, and jjrefer to possess a few ehoiee kinds, sueh as nastur- tium-seed, walnut, mushroom, cherry, and plum, rather than the commoner mixtures and brands. A favourite tomato pickle or chutney I have mentioned before when speaking of tomatoes in another connection. Of all pickles the walnut is perhaps .the one best liked, as it is also the one which gives the most trouble in its preparation; nevertheless, it seems always well worth its cost. The walnuts must be gathered while soft enough to be easily pierced with a darning needle. They should be freely pricked, and then laid in a strong brine for several days, changing the brine once in the interval. Then drain and wipe each one, lay in fresh cold water for half a day, and afterwards spread them out on trays to set in the sunshine, turning frequently until they have become a deep black all over alike.THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 238 Boil sufficient vinegar to fill the jars required for the walnuts, and to each quart allow a tea- cupful of brown sugar, two dozen each of black and Jamaica peppercorns, half a dozen cloves, some pieces of root ginger, and a little allspice. Boil the spices in the vinegar and then the jars are filled with hot liquid. Nasturtium seeds are gathered whilst green and packed into small glass bottles, boiling vinegar and a little salt being poured over them. A vine- leaf tucked inside the neck of the bottle helps to keep their colour. Plums and cherries, which make sweet pickles, are prepared in the following manner : They are pricked, and when possible stoned, then laid in the preserving-pan with alternate layers of sugar, and when the pan is full sufficient vinegar is poured over to cover all. Some mace, cinnamon, and cloves are added. The pan is239 MARMALADES brought slowly to the boil, and allowed to boil for ten minutes. The fruit is then lifted out with the strainer and set in dishes to eool. The vinegar is boiled again until slightly thick, and when the fruit has been packed into jars it is poured over, and they are covered at once. Small cherry tomatoes put up after this manner are delicious. Large vegetable marrows make a nice marma- lade when flavoured with the thinly peeled rinds of fresh lemons and with bruised ginger root. Three quarters of a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit pulp is quite sufficient, and the mass should boil until it looks clear. If insufficiently boiled it makes a dull and cloudy preserve. For marrow chutney, a very nice preparation, the slices of raw marrow are laid in the preserving pan with sufficient vinegar to cover, alternating each layer of marrow with one of brown sugar.THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 240 When the marrow is quite tender some seeded raisins are put in, with a selection of mixed spices and ginger root, a little cayenne and salt. The boiling continues until the whole grows stiff. It should be put up in small brown pots. Let me not forget to mention that cranberry jelly is an item which every storeroom worthy of its name should hold, andthatrowan jelly—if you can find it in your heart to devote rowans to such a purpose—is very nearly as good and desirable. For both of these the berries should be well stewed with water and a tiny pinch of root ginger, and the pulp should be well crushed before straining, then boiled with two thirds only of its weight in sugar, for thirty minutes, and put down in small jars. Cranberries destined for sauce, which is eaten with turkey or duck, and sometimes with mutton, when we want it to resemble venison, should notR 241 A TRIBUTE TO INDUSTRY be cooked until they mash, but should look like small cherries in their sweet juice. In Norway, and, I believe, in Germany, this sauce accompanies hare and game birds. And so, you will perceive, our storeroom shelves are fairly well filled with dainties, and that we lack not variety. Charlotte is ever kept well occupied, so now we must turn to see how Charlemagne fills out his spare hours.242 IN THE FRUIT ROOM HO loves a garden loves a green- house too,” Cowper has said. And all the time that we have been busy in the kitehen and storeroom I must ask you to believe that Charle- magne has been happy in the garden and the greenhouse of his affections. Rightly speaking there ought to be a smudge of grease and a stain of brown earth on every alternate page of this book, for I myself flit indoors and out, as the mood takes me, and I set down the information I gather, or the notions that come into my head,243 MORE SCOPE FOR CHARLEMAGNE as they occur, but having some regard for doing things decently and in order, I have kept rigidly of late to my dealings with Charlotte, or I should say to Charlotte’s dealings with me. But it is now high time to return to Charlemagne. Without a doubt it is in the greenhouse that Charlemagne thrives best, and where his finer virtues flourish. When you know him as well as I do you will wish to meet him always there. But this small greenhouse of ours, the one erected for the winter housing of plants and for raising seeds, did him scant justice, as he very soon made me aware. Seeing what he did with that, however, I was moved to think of what he might achieve with bigger and finer opportunities. I thought much about the subject, read much, and one year, at the Exhibition of the Royal Horticultural Society at Westminster, I saw much. Without telling Charlemagne what it was I sawTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 244 I sent him up to Westminster to see for him- self. The main feature of that particular exhibition had been a show of fruit trees grown under glass : real big fruit trees in pots. When you possess an old orchard whose yield of fruit is doubtful at the best (and has always to be shared with the birds) the bare thought of growing your trees within doors, and of stealing a march on the birds by doing so, is exciting to the brain. I wondered if Charlemagne had been captured by the idea, and began to try him tentatively. “ Charlemagne, did you notice those pyramids of Early Rivers Nectarines ? ” I asked. “I was about to ask you. Ma’am, if you had noticed the Pitmaston Duchess Pears ? ” he in- quired, and there was a suspicious twinkle in his eye. “ Or the Emperor Francis Cherry, that fine half-standard ? ” I went on.245 IMPLANTING AN IDEA “ Or the Blue Rock Plum, Ma’am ? ” he con- tinued. I laughed. “ Evidently we are of one mind as far as admiration goes, but what would you say to trying the experiment of growing some ? ” I said. “We might try—I wouldn’t say we should succeed,” he answered cautiously. “ Oh,” I replied airily, “ trying means suc- ceeding; you know that quite well by this time, Charlemagne ! ” “ I won’t say as it doesn’t, ma’am,” he rejoined tactfully. But when we came to those dubious questions of detail, about which we invariably differ, no matter what the subject may be, I found that my reading and Charlemagne’s information did not exactly tally. To set against my theories he had a store of useful facts gleaned from talking with theTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 246 nurserymen. In sending him to the Exhibition I had bargained better than I knew. Eventually I found that if trying was to mean succeeding I must get first-hand advice myself at the fountain head. Accordingly I wrote to Sawbridgeworth. A lengthy and courteous reply told me that our present greenhouse was quite unsuitable for the purpose we meditated, occupied, as it was, already, and near to trees. With a proper construction, placed in an open space, we might have every chance of success. Given right conditions there was nothing to prevent us producing a supply of excellent fruit, enough to last us the year through. Then, cautiously, I approached the Better Half. “ You are going to be disappointed with your dessert apples this year,” I announced. “ Don’t I know it ? ” he replied. “ Can’t be helped ! ”247 AND MAKING A SUGGESTION “ And the plums can be counted on my fingers, they are so few,” I went on disconsolately, “ Well, the bullfinches had the first picking of the crop, so what could you expect ? ” “ But we must have fruit, else how can we live the simple life ? ” “ Buy it, then,” he said, as if that settled the matter. “ It’s against my principles to buy anything that I ought to grow,” I said firmly. “ How can you grow if the season’s against you ? Be glad you have the money to buy with.” Somewhat nettled, I remarked stiffly that a good grower endeavoured to be independent of the season. “ Man,” I said, “ is Nature’s redeemer, as ” “ Woman is man’s—is that it ? ” he asked, and then added, “ Well, and what does Charle- magne say ? ”THE GARDENER AND THE COOK 248 “As I do—we ought to begin to grow fruit under glass.” Then I gave him an outline of what we proposed. He looked thoughtful. “ Costs a lot to build a span greenhouse out in the open ? ” he queried, with British matter-of- fact regard for price. “ About 205. per foot, I believe,” I replied, with the same phlegm. “ And then the upkeep, etcetera, and the stock —hum! cheaper to buy, I should think.” “It is not a question with us of cheapness, surely ? Moreover, W'C have Charlemagne to consider,” I answered with dignity. “ Which, being interpreted, means that the conqueror is asking for more munitions of war, I presume ? ” “ He has his reputation, as, of course, we have our position to consider.” The Better Half is a philosopher. He never249 PLANS IN DETAIL fights against the inevitable, and seeing the con- elusion was foregone in this case, he gave way. The order went forth for a new glass-house to be erected in the open, and full discretionary powers were granted for its arrangements and stocking. We secured plans of a structure that was to be suitable for its purpose, and not too large for a first experiment. Its height would be about twelve feet from the ground, and its width fourteen, which admits of placing two rows of trees down each side of a middle path. The foundation was brickwork, with two courses of nine inch brick- work above ground, wooded sills and posts and rafters, and panes twelves inches square. It has side ventilators and top ones alternating on each side of the span. The side ventilators were made to open downwards to avoid draught, and there was a partition across the southern end of the house, as it is wiser to shelter off the space allottedTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 250 to peach and more delicate trees, leaving the hardier fruits for the cooler end. Also with such a division it is possible to syringe more freely without harming the bloom of fruit that is more advanced. This partition is of glass, like the panels of the doors at either end. We have wire netting round the ventilators to keep out those marauders, the birds. Observe how our sentiments have degraded ! We must preserve all the rain water possible for syringing purposes, so a trough runs all round this house and empties itself into a tank placed just within one door. When the supply will not suffice for watering as well as for syringing we save it all for the latter purpose, as an open water tank outside is kept filled from the main. A hot-water heating apparatus has been built in, only used, however, when it is necessary to keep frost at bay, as we are not really forcing. The251 FITTINGS AND FURNISHINGS boiler is of the Invincible type, with pipes for flow and return placed along by the brick work, and another pipe of smaller dimensions passes round the roof at the juncture of span and sides. The boiler will heat with coke, but better still we find the new fuel. Coalite, if intermixed with cinder siftings from the house fires. As the house is low we have no staging, but the pots stand on a deep and well-drained border, and as many of them are half sunk in the earth less Watering is necessary. The house was com- pleted during the summer time, and in September we received our first consignment of young trees ready for potting, selected from Messrs. Rivers’ catalogue. We had selected medium or second sized trees, for ours would not be required to produce large crops. The peach and nectarine half standards cost us 7s. Qd. each tree, the apricots were 5s. perTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 262 tree, and plums and cherries eost us 3s. 6d. eaeh. The ehoicer apples were dearer, but those of more average type were Ss. Qd. per tree. Altogether the stock cost us just £5. The trees were set in a double row at angles, bush fruits at the baek, half standards in front, so as to admit as mueh air and sun to all as possible. The peaches and nectarines were loeated at the protected end of the house. Later on a choice fig came to take its place in one corner, and a row of orange and lemon trees in tubs stood down the centre aisle. We could have aceommodated more trees had we wished, but deemed it best to set them five or six feet apart. When the fruits were ripening, and syringing had to be stopped, we kept a moist atmosphere in the house by watering the ground well. In the growing period syringing checks red spider, and an occasional dose of insec- ticide keeps down aphis ; also the Better Half does263 POTTING AND PRUNING a share by making the fruit-house his smoking- room, and both he and Charlemagne, the one with Navy Cut, and the other with “ shag,” are excel- lent fumigators. The great work of potting the trees when they arrived proved a testing time of skill and an occasion for much debate. The right kind of soil came with the trees from the nursery, and proved to be a fibrous loam mixed with a small amount of decayed stable manure and a consider- able proportion of rough chalk—the latter is needed for all stone fruits, it seems. The first pots to be used were those of thirteen inch diameter, but the second year the trees were transferred to pots of seventeen inches, and were not again repotted for at least two years. In between the occasions they received fresh top-dressings of fresh loam, but were not otherwise disturbed. We make a practice of rigorously cutting awayTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 254 all the small fibrous roots that annually make their appearance and would, if left to themselves, soon fill up the pots. A great point about growing good fruit on trees in pots is to limit the number which each tree may carrry, although to do so seems to demand a sacrifice. Of peach, nectarine, and fine apples we leave only six or eight to ripen, but are re- warded by seeing every one come to perfection and attain a fine size. The bush trees can carry more, and plums are allowed to ripen a fair number, while cherry trees seem to have their own method of regulating their crop, and may safely be left to do their own thinning out. Of course we could easily have grown more fruits, but it was also a question of growing good trees, and of making them last, as well, and we felt it wise to exercise discretion. But, dear me! what debates all these points involved.255 MASTER AND PUPIL When all fruits have been gathered the trees are brought out into the open to ripen the wood. This usually occurs about the end of June, and they remain out until September. Pruning takes place during the month of February, and at that season we give practically all our time, Charlemagne and I, to this delicate operation. He is the surgeon and I am his assistant. From him I have learnt the difference between a trijDle bud and a single bud, and to distinguish fruit buds from blossom and leaf buds. He is careful to keep the trees a good shape, liking to see them broad at the base, with straight stems, and to this end is sometimes ruth- less in cutting away what seem to me promising shoots. He will have it that they are deceptive raseals, and that they will yield little or no fruit if left on. As a rule I am told that stone fruits produee on wood formed the previous year, hence the value of having them make young wood whileTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 256 they are maturing a crop, and the advisability of limiting that crop. Our critical friend and neighbour, mentioned at the beginning of this book as the one to whom I am indebted for the transference of Charlemagne, will have it that we are more careful for our trees than we are for the fruit they produce or should produce. But this is a libellous imputation which both Charlemagne and I resent! I must confess, however, that these precious trees, and the appear- ance of this beautiful fruit-house of ours, have kindled within me an affection beyond anything I should ever have thought possible, and I am positive that the Better Half, who has travelled, by degrees, from the position of grudging concessionnaire to that of pfoud proprietor, is every whit as fond ! And as for Charlemagne, this regiment of precise trees is his immaculate body-guard, his crack corps, dear to his heart as delightful to his eyes !s 257 MISTRESS AND MAN There is no item relating to the care of these trees which he overlooks as he reviews them. It is much to his credit, of course, that he should be thus careful, but for my part, and to be quite frank, I must confess to you that I am ever on the watch lest Charlemagne and his regiment should take from me the last remnant of dictator- ship that I strive so hard to hold. Often enough it comes to a crossing of swords between us. For example, there is the matter of picking. . . . Charlemagne claims the right to pick the fruits himself, for there is a precise hour of the day and a precise point when he judges them to be prime, and his face, when he brings in the dish for dessert, is certainly a study worthy of a painter’s brush. He beams again. I am a Christian, I trust, with a Christian’s spirit of charity and goodwill. I like to see Charle- magne beam and to know he feels happy—butTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK 258 also I like to beam myself, and to feel happy too ! When a friend appears what more natural than to take him or her down to the fruit-house, to exhibit our treasures, and to eull with pride a luseious speeimen for their delectation ? At such a moment I beam broadly, graciously conscious of my benignity. And wherefore not ? (I warn you, reader, lest you also be in danger of being conquered by your Charlemagne !) There is little more to be said. The fruit-house, the greenhouse, the garden plots, the frames, the storeroom, and that busy hive, the kitchen— have they not all spoken for themselves ? I have introduced you, the passer-by, to an intimate view of territories where, most assuredly, trespassers would be prosecuted. You have met there the custodians of our rejDutation and health. I havet v*wTHE GARDENER AND THE COOK shown you Charlemagne and Charlotte working together usefully, if not always peacefully, and now, at the garden gate, I must bid you farewell, for whatever this Gardener and this Cook of mine may or may not do, they at least assure me that the place for all would-be inheritors of the earth is among the Meek ! Printed by Haeell, Watson <t Viney, Ld., London and Aylesbury.London : CONSTABLE & CO. LTD. 10 Orange Street W.C. MRS. C. S. PEEL’S FAMOUS BOOKS FOR THE HOME Cookery Crown 8VO. Is. net each Volume I. ENTREES MADE EASY Cutlets, Noisettes, and Fillets—Souffles, Mousses, Creams, e'c.—Casseroles, Stews, etc.— RichaufKs, Hashes, etc.—Minces, Rissoles, etc.—Cold Entries, etc. II. PUDDINOS AND SWEETS Pastry and Puddings made with Pastry - Puddings : Baked, Boiled, and Steamed—Souffles Pancakes, Fritters, etc.—Custards and Creams—Jellies and Sponges, etc. III. SAVOURIES SIMPLIFIED Savoury Toasts and Croutes—Casses, Croustades, Tartlets, etc.—Egg, Cheese, and Cold Savouries. IV. THE STILL ROOM: A few Recipes Old and New Tea, Coffee, Chocolate, etc.—Bread, Cakes, Scones, and Biscuits—Cups, Summer Drinks, Home-made Wines, Liqueurs—Jams, Fruits, Jellies, Cheeses, Syrups, and Preserved Fruits— Pickles, Vinegars, and Essences—Toilet Recipes. V. FISH AND HOW TO COOK IT How to Choose, Prepare, and Fillet Fish, etc.—Fish Stocks and Soups—Quenelles— Croutons, and Custard for Garnishing—Fish and Fish Sauce. How to Boil, Bake, Steam, Poach, Fry, Grill, and Stew Fish, etc. VI. DISHES MADE WITHOUT MEAT Vegetable Dishes—How to Cook Com, Haricots and Lentils, and Maigre Souffles—Dishes made with Macaroni, Spaghetti, and Rice—Cheese Dishes—Omelettes and Curries—Salads. Household Management TEN SHILLINGS A HEAD PER WEEK FOR HOUSE BOOKS A collection of hints, menus, and recipes which may help the inexperienced housekeeper to feed her household wholesomely, appetisingly, and economically. Price 3s. 6d. THE SINGLE-HANDED COOK This volume forms an indispensable addition to “ Ten Shillings a Head.” Price 3s. 6d. HOW TO KEEP HOUSE A guide for the young housekeeper in all matters relating to management of the home. Price 3s. fid. THE NEW HOME Treating of the Arrangement, Decoration, and Furnishing of a House of medium size. Illustrated, Price 3s. fid. Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged.BOOKS FOR THE HOME—continued London : CONSTABLE & CO. LTD. lo Orange Street W.C. THE COOKERY BOOK OF Lady Clark of Tillypronie 6s. net 1,800 Recipes Also Blank Pages for Notes and Memoranda EDITED AND ARRANGED BY CATHERINE FRANCES FRERE The Athenceum—“ This distinguished addition to the literature of the cuisine. . . . The volume should be valuable as a household companion.” The British Baker—“The book is one of the most interesting and useful which we have seen for a very long time.” The Lady—“ A notable addition to the literature of gas- tronomy.” The Westminster—“ This volume is as unlike the conventional, complicated, and, to the general reader, extremely dull modern cookery book, as a peacock’s finest tail-feather is unlike a barn- door fowl’s.” The Ladies' Field—“ The very name suggests at once that you are in contact with one to whom the art of cooking was a real art, to whom its technique was something worth studying, and it is worth studying this subject of fine combinations.”BOOKS FOR THE HOWE—continued London : CONSTABLE & CO. LTD. lo Orange Street W.C. WOMAN’S KINGDOM Containing suggestions as to Furnishing, Decorating, and economically Managing the Home, for people of Limited Means By Mrs WILLOUGHBY WALLACE. With Illustrations by Mrs. HERBERT DAVIS. Price Is. net How to Choose a House—How to Furnish a House for ;^iio, a Country Cottage for ;^8s, a Flat or Bungalow for ;^6o—The Nursery—The Kitchen and Pantry—Economical Menus—Recipes, etc., etc. A BOOK FOR MOTHERS FROM CRADLE TO SCHOOL By ADA S. BALLIN Crown 8vo. Price Is. net The Nursery—Clothing—Infant Feeding—Growth—Exercise—Children in Summer—Vaccination—Teething—Ailments in Infancy and Childhood — Complaints that have to do with Education—Care of Sick Children, etc., etc. The Guardian says—“It is true that excellent treatises already exist, hut Mrs. Ballin’s hook must take precedence of all these in the nursery in future.” THREEPENCE A DAY FOR FOOD By EUSTACE MILES (the eminent Vegetarian and Athlete) A volume by a dietetic authority on ecomomy and the highest efficiency in food. Foolscap 8vo. Price Is. net The Academy—“'HIT. Miles sets out fully and practically how to live on threepence a day. There are plenty of recipes given, and most of them sound delicious.” THE ECONOMY OF FOOD A popular treatise on Nutrition, Food, and Diet. By J. ALAN MURRAY, B.Sc. Author of “ Soils and Manures,” etc. Crown 8vo. Price 3s. 6d. net Nature—“'Yh.fs author has been very successful in his attempt, the scientific portions are accurate and up-to-date, the practical parts will fill a long-felt want, and the whole is presented in a clear and readable manner. In these days it is a god-seud to have a really trustworthy and popular guide.”BOOKS FOR THE HOME—continued London : CONSTABLE & CO. LTD. 10 Orange Street W.C. THE IDEAS OF A PLAIN COUNTRY-WOMAN By the “ Country Contributor ” Price 3s. 6d. net A volume of wholesome talks on homely subjects by a sensible woman. The Westminster Gazette.—“A delightful hook. ... It is all very simple, and very unpretentious, but it is full of grace and charm and good sense.” THE ROYAL STORY BOOKS Historical Episodes collected from English Romantic Literature in Illustra- tion of the Reigns of English Monarchs by G. L. Gomme. Illustrated. Price 3s. 6d. each THE KING’S STORY BOOK THE PRINCE’S STORY BOOK THE QUEEN’S STORY BOOK THE PRINCESS’S STORY BOOK THE NURSERY The Best Editions of Famous Fairy Books Price 3s. 6d. net each HANS ANDERSEN’S FAIRY TALES With i8o Illustrations by Helen Stratton, and Coloured Title and Frontispiece. GRIMM’S FAIRY TALES With lOO Illustrations by Arthur Rackham. Coloured Title and Frontispiece. THE ARABIAN NIGHTS Arranged for young people, with 130 Illustrations by W. Heath Robinson and others. Coloured Title and Frontispiece. THE JAPANESE FAIRY BOOK Arranged by Y. T. Ozaki. With 4 Coloured Plates, and 50 Black-and- White Illustrations by Native Artists. LAMB’S TALES FROM SHAKESPEARE With Illustrations in Black and White by Anning Bell, and an Introduction by Andrew Lang.