( 6 ) The native treatment consists in firing on head, giving stimulating Mussals, and blowing acrid substances into the nostrils with the view to occasion increased secre- tion of mucus. Receipts of what are considered most approved Mussals, and those for the preparation of irritating pow'ders to be blown into nostrils, are given in Part 3d page 25. The native treatment ought not to be followed as, at best, it is inert. Treatment.—Bleeding and purgation must be resorted to, and practised freely. Instruction for performing the operation of bleeding will be found in Part 4th page 54, bleed to one gallon or one and a half gallon if the animal be in high condition. Give a full dose of Aloes, namely, four ounces with Milk, as described Part 3d page 27, or half an ounce of Calomel. The affected part ought to be well fomented, a practice which alone will go far to ameliorate the severity of the affec- tion—more especially if early resorted to, it goes far to subdue the inflammation and thereby proportionally to diminish the extent of suppuration and sloughing—See Fomentation, Part 3d page 27. BHAO-KA MURZ; OR DHUDKA. History.—This disease as shown both by symptoms during life, and dissection after death, has, as holds with respect to Elephants, two seats, that of the brain and that of the lungs. At present the disease as existing in the former seat will be con- sidered. Bhao-ka Murz, when affecting the brain, consists either in inflammation of that organ, or in an apoplectic effusion of blood or serum within the skull, and occa- sioning death by pressure on the contained vital organ. The apoplectic variety usually supervenes suddenly and without any premonitory indication and is speedily fatal. The animal proceeds on its journey and down to the moment of seizure may evince no ailment; it then suddenly staggers, falls down and dies. The apoplectic variety usually has this sudden termination, and in most animals (all that have died of this disease at this Depot have been minutely dissected under my own eye) effusion either serous or sanguineous within the skull has been discovered. The inflammatory variety of the disease is indicated by the animal attempting to bite its keeper or whatever is within its reach, usually it is unable to stand—there is a somewhat convulsive motion of limbs, and occasionally it rolls on its back, bellowing loudly the while; the ears are stiff and cold, and the surface of the body is generally in the latter condition. This disease is equally prevalent in all seasons of the year, and arises generally from sudden check of perspiration, as the washing of the animal soon after coming off march, and before it is suffi- ciently cooled—but in all probability the continued exposure of the animal to an