( 21 ) cleaned with the red hot iron, afterwards dressed with Camphorated Oil or Blue Stone solution. A piece of cloth being introduced to fill up the entire space of the fistu- lous ulcer that the healing process may go on regularly and progressively from the bottom of ulcer to the surface. SORE BACK. History.—Of all affections appertaining to the Camel sore back is the most frequent unless the Serwans are under some direct and present superintendence, or are held responsible for its non-occurrence under other than unavoidable circum- stances. Sore back is occasioned by the unequal pressure of the saddle, and this unequality of pressure may arise either from the carelessness of the Serwan as to adjustment or from the saddle getting out of order. Comparatively few animals sent on Command from this Depot returned without being injured more or less in this respect, until Lieutenant Colonel Watkins, Deputy Commissary General, (then in charge of this Depot) instituted the rule that for all such injuries as could not be shown on the part of the Serwans to arise from unavoidable circumstances, the Ser- wans were to be retrenched half pay so long as their respective animals were under treatment; prior to the instituting of this rule, Camels with sore backs, found by far the greater majority of cases ; subsequently it is unusual to have a case of the kind under treatment. Treatment.—The usual treatment of ulcers is to be practised—poultice to clean—afterwards apply Camphorated oil or blue stone solution. A mixture of wax and oil in the proportion of two ounces of the former, to one of the latter is then to be applied, and over this a piece of cloth. The more effectually the air is excluded the more rapidly will cure be effected. FRACTURES. History—Fractures of bones of extremities, as also dislocations, I have found incurable. The mechanical power of a capstan and spokes I have found insuffi- cient, unless so great a degree of force had been used as would tear off the limb, or otherwise injure to an extent that would render the limb useless, as also its muscular and other fleshy parts. The only fracture that has been cured of the cases that have come under treat- ment is that of the lower jaw. The accident occurred from a fall; and the seat of the fracture was about the middle of the bone; and on both sides an iron splint of F