( 54 ) It. The metatarsal bone. S. The phalanges or feet bones. T. the four hinder bones of the feet of which in all as in the forefeet there are ten bones. U. The knee pan. SANGUIFEROUS SYSTEM OF THE CAMEL. Different from the sanguiferous system of the Elephant that of the Camel, at least in the venous department, is very capacious—large veins are to be seen extending longitudinally alongst lower part of trunk and in the neck; the jugular vein is between 2 inches to 2| inches in diameter. But the pulsations of the arterial system is not distinct. No artery about head, neck or extremities is to be found possessing a distinct and easily recognizable pulse. The heart is to be felt, though not always distinctly beating, when pressure is made with the hand between top of forelegs in front of the chest. From several observations made there it would appear that the pulsations of the heart in a healthy subject amount to fifty-four in a minute. OPERATION OF BLEEDING. The large diameter and superficial site of the external jugular vein in neck renders the operation of bleeding one of very easy performance. The animal is made to place itself in the couchant position. The forelegs are then secured as represented in Table 2d. A. to prevent the animal rising: then a rope moderately tight is put round neck as at B. The jugular vein speedily swells, at the site most eligible for the incision. C. and is opened by means of a common horse phlegme, used in the same manner as for bleeding a Horse. A gallon and a half of blood is a full bleeding, and in inflammatory cases that quantity should in the first instances be abstracted; afterwards a gallon, or only half may be drawn off according to the urgency of the individual case. An animal brought to Hospital with a fractured humerus, or arm bone, (an in- curable accident) was made the subject of experiment to ascertain how much blood could be drawn off from the jugular vein before death would ensue. The animal lived a few hours after upwards of ninety pounds had been abstracted. W. GILCHRIST, Asst. Surgeon, P. C. D. EIoonsoor, 16th 'November, 1842. 3 G. 11. Hullmann, Bengal Military Orphan Press.