In drawing up this Memoir, I have observed the same plan and had in view the same object as in drawing up the Memoir on the diseases of the Elephant, forwarded to Government in 1840, and which I am gratified to learn has received the favourable notice of the Right Honorable the Governor in Council of Fort Saint George, and of the Honorable the Court of Directors at Home. In order, therefore, to convey an idea of the design of arrangement of this Memoir, the prefatory remarks of that on the Elephant are here introduced, with the simple alteration, sub- stituting for the word Elephant that of Camel. The object of this Memoir is to communicate the result of my researches into the History and Treatment of the Diseases of the Camel, and to convey such other information, which has come into my possession during my enquiries as will, it is hoped, prove useful in preserving the efficiency of that useful animal. The design of the Memoir being purely practical, all questions relative to the animal not connected with its efficiency in regard to the use made of it in the Public Service, however interesting in themselves, are carefully excluded. Consi- dered only in regal’d to being employed in the Public Service as a means of trans- port, &c., such concise instructions are given for the preservation of its efficiency, and the treatment of its diseases, as will admit of easy reference, and convey the desired information. During peace when time and facilities exist to recruit this Department of the Public Cattle as occasions arise, the individual value of the animal is, to an extensive Government like that of British India, of little compara- tive amount. But opposite conditions exist in regard to its value during the progress of Military operations when circumstances render difficult fresh re-inforcement to meet the decreasing number, or efficiency, in those employed. The preservation of the efficiency of individual animals, during active service, more especially when employed beyond the Frontier, being an object of paramount im- portance, I have steadily kept in view while drawing up this Memoir, the communi- cating whatever had occurred to me as likely to prove conducive to that important end, so that those in whose hands is entrusted the superintending charge of the Public Cattle, will, it is hoped, find in it information which will assist them in the discharge of their important duties connected with the subject herein discussed. In reference to the Extract from Minutes of Consultation of Government, given at the commencement of these prefatory remarks—it will give me much pleasure to be put in possession of the exchange Reports, respectively of the Elephant and of the Camel, from the Bengal Presidency. With respect to this exchange it gives me pleasure that I have as regards Reports on the two animals just named, been enabled to take the initiative.