( 20 ) It is a frequent seat of disease being subject to inflammation when injured, whilst the animal with load on back is placing itself in the couchant position with the view to being unloaded ; and the inflammation is of a kind which is liable to go on to a sloughy suppuration. Sometimes incurable, always tedious. When the suppura- tion occurs deep in the substance of the tuberosity, the discharge instead of working outward to the surface generally burrows inwards into the cavity of the chest. WThen this happens that part of the breast bone covered by the Rahafay becomes absorbed to a greater or less degree—that part of the lung in the vicinity of the affection inflames and suppurates, and the pus goes on accumulating in the cavity of the thorax, till the contained organs, either from pressure or destructive suppura- tion, are unable to perform their function aad death results. The native treatment consists in firing around the base of the tuberosity—a treatment which in the inflammatory stctge of this affection can do no good ; and most probably will do much mischief. Treatment.—In the inflammatory stage the animal ought to be bled to a gal- lon, and the Rahafay well fomented. Fomentations in this complaint are very useful. These two means—the latter persevered in, may arrest the inflammation and cure result. But there is a great tendency to suppuration, and when pus is formed it ou^ht to be let out by incision, early ; otherwise it burrows through the substance of the tuberosity, thus giving rise to sinuses more or less extensive which are very tedious of cure. « When cases in this predicament are brought for treatment the sinuses ought to be laid open and dressed with Solution of Blue Stone or Camphorated Oil. Part 3d page 26. ULCERATED FEET. History—The feet of the Camel are frequently injured by going over stony roads, or on ground cleared of brush-wood, on which but stumps remain standing. In the latter case a fistulous wound, more or less deep, is inflicted, which is very tedious of cure. Indeed the same remark applies to all ulcers whether superficial or fistulous of the feet. Treatment.—Superficial ulcers require poulticing in the first instance to clean them ; they are then to be dressed with Camphorated Oil or Blue Stone, bandaged, and the whole inclosed in a leathern boot to exclude dirt. Fistulous ulcers are to be laid open if extending parallel with surface. If very foul, the most powerful and speedy detergent means is, the application of a red hot iron to the sloughy surface—fistulous ulcers at right angles to surface require, if foul, to be