( 14 ) thence the swelling extends up neck eventually reaching head. The back is exempt from swelling. Bowels healthy, also urine. The surface of body of healthy temperature. It is most prevalent during the cold and rainy seasons ; and is a fatal disease. This much resembles the Zaarbahd of the Elephant, and appears to be somehow connected with an affection of the spinal marrow. If the animal be brought under treatment early, the withdrawing of two quarts of blood will prove beneficial—firing alongst either side of spine and giving J a drachm doses of Calomel. When the disease is of some weeks standing it appears to have progress- ed too far to be within the reach of successful treatment. The means to be prac- tised in this as in the earlier cases are the same though cure of the former is much less likely to be affected than of the latter. ZOOLAAB, OR PURGING. • • History.—This may arise spontaneously during rainy or cold weather, or may be the result at commencement of rainy season, of the animal eating of the young and tender growth of the plant called Kaateemut, of which the animal is very fond, and which at a greater age is a very nutritious diet. If allowed to continue, this affection may cause death from the weakness thereby superinduce. The Native treatment consists in giving Narcotics, amongst which is Ganjah or Extract of Hemp. Treatment.—The Native Mussal No. 1, (vide Part 3rd page 28,) may be given conjoined with ^ a drachm of Opium. Fomentations will prove very useful. INDIGESTION. History—Before leaving the section of abdominal affections, I must allude to a state of the digestive organs called as above for the want of a more appropriate popular name Indigestion, in which though no prominent individual symptom is to be observed, with the exception of falling off in condition of the animal; there is to a greater or less degree weakness of one or more of those organs. The protracted continuance of this unhealthy condition occasion a cutaneous eruption over trunk, and indeed occasionally throughout whole of the surface of the^animal and a most obstinate eruption it is to get rid of. In animals which have died from other causes while labouring under the affec- tion now under consideration, I have occasionally found cysts varying in size from half