PREFATORY REMARKS. This Memoir is not forwarded as professing to contain a complete treatise of instruction on the subject of which it treats. It is drawn up with the object of complying, to the best of my ability, in reference to the opportunities for the inves- tigation of the diseases of the Camel, with the requisition of the Honorable the Court of Directors as set forth in the following documents, forwarded to me for my information and guidance. MILITARY DEPARTMENT. 19 and 20, forward let- ters from the Commissary General, submitting ex- planation in reference to Court’s paras, on the ex- pediency of a Veterinary Surgeon being appointed to the Public Cattle De- pot, in Mysore, with co- pies of other papers con- nected with the subject. Extract from a letter from the Honorable the Court of Di- rectors, dated 8th January, 1840. Para. 20. We concur with the Commissary General in considering the Report fur- nished by Assistant Surgeon Gilchrist, on the diseases of Cattle, to be very creditable to his zeal and industry, and that whilst the Depot has the bene- fit of his service, the appoint- ment of a Veterinary Surgeon to it is quite unnecessary. We would suggest that copies of his Reports should be furnished to Medical Officers in charge of Studs in Bengal and Bom- bay, and that the results of their experience should be communicated to Mr. Gilchrist. Ho. 1887. Extract from the Minutes of Consulta- tion 5th May, 1840. This para, will be com- municated to the Com- missary General in refer- ence to an extract from the Minutes of Consulta- tion, No. 3191, under date the 25th of September, 1838, and he will be in- structed to forward copies (two of each) for transmis- sion to Bengal and Bom- bay respectively, of all Re- ports which have up to this date been received from the Medical Officer at- tached to the Public Cat- tle Depot in Mysore, on the diseases of Cattle, and to forward for the same purpose two copies of such Reports as may hereafter be received from that Officer. (True Copies,) (Signed) W. CULLEN, True Extracts, (Signed) S. W. STEEL, Lieut. Col., Secretary to Government. Commissary General.