( 27 ) Red precipitate ointment is also an useful external application to clean ulcers, expediting the healing process. Boiling water or oil may be advantageously used with which to wash the sur- face of foul ulcers, by which means the sloughy surface is speedily thrown off and succeeded by a healthy granulating one. FOMENTATIONS. This is a very useful external application, as well for acute internal diseases, as for sprains and rheumatic affections, and for discussing some kind of tumours. For internal diseases, the trunk of the body ought to be fomented with hot water: a couple of cumblies of coarse blankets being previously put round the body, which is kept hot by the application of hot water to successive portions applied by means of a piece of cloth fixed to the end of a piece of bamboo some five or six feet long ; which is alternately dipped in pot of hot water and applied to cloth. i For the limbs or other parts a similar plan may be observed. A very convenient mode of applying heat in the shape of fomentation is one commonly resorted to by the Cattle attendants, is, that of mixing cow-dung with hot water till the mixture have the consistency of a thin paste; this is heated in a com- mon chatty, and applied direct to the surface to be fomented, with the cloth and bamboo brush-like apparatus above described. OPIATES AND ANTI-SPASMODICS. Of this class—Opium and Assafaetida are the most efficient and are given in combination with Carminative in flatulent and colicy diseases of which Native recipes are given further on. PURGATIVES. I have found only two substances to be efficacious as purgatives, namely, Aloes and Calomel. The former is given in doses of from 4 to 6 ounces dissolved in one or two seers of Cow’s Milk—Cow’s Milk adds considerably to the power of the medi- cine. Of Calomel ^ an ounce is a full dose given in a ball. It is a more certain aperient than the Aloes owing to the variable quality of the latter—in all inflamma- tory affections it is the aperient which ought to be used. I have tried the effect of Epsom and Glauber Salts, each separately, to the extent of 3 or 4 pounds for a dose and repeated it on consecutive days, but without any aperient effect. The same is to be said of Ghee, and of Castor Oil in doses each separately exhibited of a bottle-fuil. What is somewhat