PART SECOND. A vigilant superintendence over the Serwans will go far to preserve the efficiency of the animals under their immediate charge; whereas if this class of people are left to themselves, they are liable from indolence, carelessness, or from a wish not to proceed with a force to render their animals unserviceable, either temporarily or permanently. Instances of this malpractice have come under my own notice. The advantage of punishing by stopping a portion of pay while the animals injured from carelessness are under treatment; as was done here by Lieutenant Colonel Watkins have already been noticed, page 21, and, I am inform- ed by an Officer of H. M. 2d Regiment, who served throughout the Affghanistan Campaign under Lord Kean, that he was enabled by caiefully superintending his Serwan, to take his Camel through the Campaign, at the end of which it was equally healthy and efficient as at the commencement. Officers less attentive to their Cattle were much inconvenienced by inefficiency or loss. The Officer just alluded to was particular in having his Camel well groomed ; and in avoiding exposure, as far as was practicable to sudden and to great alterations of tempera- ture, and after a hard day’s work, giving it half a bottle of Arrack or other stimulus. The best places for picqueting Camels are topes if not situate on wet ground. They thereby are sheltered to a greater or less degree from the sun during day; and during cold weather from the great difference of temperature which in that season exists between that of night and of day. Much care should be taken when coming off a march to prevent sudden check of perspiration, for which purpose the jewel or coarse covering ought to be put on the animal immediately after its load is removed, and this ought to be worn during night, particularly during the rainy season and cold weather. On coming off a long march, or when the animal is worked hard, a stimulating Mussal, for which receipts are given, page 52, will be useful: and while on the march, rough roads should be avoided as far as practicable, for the feet of the animal are very subject to injury as already noticed, page 20: and when injured, the cure, if practicable, is usually tedious. On the other hand slippery roads ought to be avoided as much as possible, for the animal on such roads is far from being sure-footed. The Serwans are in the habit of passing a rope between the hinder legs of the animal when going alongst slippery roads, so as to allow only of short steps being taken; and in the event of one foot slipping it may thereby be brought up. Dislocation of the thigh joint is not an uncommon result of the animal slipping; also fracture of some of the bones of the extremities. Another important point to be attended to in preserving the efficiency of the animal, is attention to the condition of the saddles. If these are allowed to get out