( 17 ) when walking. It supervenes equally during all seasons, and is to be distinguished from Rheumatism, by the animal evincing little pain, but moving hinder legs in a dragging manner. It is removed in about a month by firing, and should this not be practised the recovery will be more distant but is usually certain of occurring. Treatment.—The native treatment consists in firing from the ear along neck ; alongst trunk, near spine. A purge ought to be conjoined to the above treatment; and should the system appear oppressed—more especially, if the affection supervene after continued exposure to an ardent sun on a long march, the animal ought to be bled to half a gallon. History.—Of tumours, the Camel is subject to a very great variety, some situate in glands—others below skin in various parts of the body. Of the former variety is This is a swelling of two glands situate near root of neck on lower part The glands in health protrude somewhat beyond general contour of body, and are dis- tinctly visible. It is equally liable to occur at all seasons, and animals in good con- dition are subject to it equally with those that are not. It occurs in each animal only once but not before the 10th year of age. This swelling invariably goes on to suppuration according to native experience. The cyst sloughs out leaving a foul deep ulcer. The animal usually can work when this is present, though, if oppor- tunity exist, of course relief from duty during treatment. Treatment.—The native treatment consists in applying a stimulating lini- ment, with the view to expedite suppuration. A poultice ought to precede the native application, afterwards it, or camphorated oil, or a solution of blue stone, or on the principle of cauterization, boiling oil may be introduced into the sloughy hollow ulcer to clean the surface of those sloughs. The after treatment con- sists in the continued application of camphorated oil; or blue stone, and excluding as much as possible the external air—Part 3d page 26. History.—This is a swelling always terminating in suppuration of the glands situate in the groin. Animals of all ages are equally liable to it. It occurs during hot weather only. The animal is unfit for service when the disease exists. TUMOURS. EAKUD, OR GOROOSH-KA MURZ. . \s * \J° y° ° j RUNDUK. E