( 8 ) The fit usually continues from four to eight minutes, at the expiration of which time the animal gets up, and commences eating as if nothing had happened. The return of fits is very variable as to time: several may occur in 24 hours, and with nearly equal intervals between. In other cases, several days may elapse between those on which the fits occur; and on the days of seizure they may be more or less numerous, sometimes they occur daily and in variable number. I have dissected several animals which have died of this ailment, and in all there was found a morbid sanguineous fluid in the spinal canal. All the thoracic and ab- dominal organs were usually found healthy, and when not, the kind and degree of the derangement was not such as to occasion the disease: 1st, because, such appear- ances were not always found in those which died of this affection; and 2ndly, in several of such in which they were seen the disease under consideration had not uniformly pre-existed—indeed, similar appearances have been traced in animals which died from old age. The disease is doubtless one of the nervous system. It is very variable in its continuance, and according to my own experience and to that of intelligent and old Camel attendants it is uniformly fatal. The native treatment consists in giving stimulating Mussals, and in blowing up the nose powders to in- crease secretion of mucus. This treatment is of no use. Part 3d page 28. Treatment.—Bleeding has been found to protract the recurrence of the fits; and in a given time materially to diminish their number. All the cases, however, that have come under my treatment have ultimately proved fatal; but this I attri- bute more to the advanced progress the disease had, from undisturbed continuance, been allowed to make, than from the nature and character of the disease itself. The animal ought to be scoured out with Aloes (vide Part 3d page 27.) The head fired, or a blister applied to neck—and alterative doses of Calomel and of Sulphuret of Antimony given. v The origin of this disease, in all probability, consists in undue exposure. I un- derstand that private breeders of the animal are particularly attentive to secure shelter as well from the inclemency of the weather, as from the direct in- fluence of the sun: and Hyder Alii, I am told, had sheds for his Camels, so that it appears to be the opinion of the native that the sun can exert a prejudi- cial influence on the animal. In this opinion I fully concur, and have little doubt but that the sun is a primary cause of the disease under consideration. CUMMAUN-KA MURZ. History.—This also appears to be a disorder of nervous system. Suddenly the neck becomes drawn to one side, apparently from the corresponding muscles of the other side of neck becoming paralytic. The animal is unable to walk steadily,