( 10 ) fatal, and to which the Natives give the name Bhao. When the membrane lining the wind-pipe and its ramifications constitute the principal seat of the disease, there is much cough; the breathing is more or less hurried and laborious, and the animal evinces considerable distress. There is occasionally running from eyes; the ears are cold, and so is surface of body. When the substance of the lung is the principal seat of the ailment, or when this is effected contemporaneously with the membrane of the wind-pipe the breathing is very laborious, as evinced by the heaving of flanks and the greater distress of the animal. In this variety, the Natives consider that the lungs are over-distended with air and that the difficulty of breathing arises from the lung being forced by over-distension into lower part of neck, thereby preventing the free passage of air into and out of the organ. When the lining membrane of the chest and that of the lung is the seat of disease, it is difficult during life to pronounce decidedly and correctly that such is the seat of the animal’s ailment. There is not much cough; but from the hurried breathing together with the circumstance being observed of. The bowels are in a healthy condition; it may be inferred with consi- derable confidence in the correctness of the inference that the animal is labouring under the variety of thoracic disease, now under consideration. After death a col- lection of fluid is generally found in the chest. This class of affections as might be expected is more prevalent in cold and rainy weather than during the hot season. The native treatment consists in giving Mussals of a stimulating character. Firing is never practised. This treatment has not even the negative character of doing no harm—it is possitively injurious— feeding the disease instead of subduing it. Treatment.—This disease being severe inflammation of a vital organ the most active measures for subduing inflammation ought to be practised and with the least possible delay. Bleed to two gallons (vide Part 4th page 54, for instruction for bleeding.) Give four ounces of Aloes dissolved in a seer of Cow’s milk combined with a drachm of Tartar Emetic. Foment the whole of the trunk (vide Part 3d page 27, for instructions for fomentation.) This latter operation is highly efficient when preceded by bleeding. The subsequent treatment consists in giving half a drachm doses of Tartar Emetic every 4th hour; persevering with the fomentations— and if the Aloetic aperient do not operate four hours after exhibition, give half an ounce of Calomel made into a ball, with a drachm of common Soap. The animal ought to be well defended from the elements in a shed. KOOD-KA MURZ. ^5 History.—In this affection, there is cough, difficulty of breathing, and a discharge of thick mucus from nose. It appears to be a severe Catarrh and makes its appearance during the monsoon and cold weather—disappears in hot weather.