PART FIRST. HISTORY AND TREATMENT OF DISEASES OF THE CAMEL. DISEASES OF THE HEAD. KUPPALEE-KA MURZ. History.—The term is applied to an inflammatory affection situated in some part of the head which if left uncontrouled proceeds to ulceration, and usually terminates in the death of the animal. The most common seat of the affection is the soft parts in the orbit or the eye-ball itself. The disease commences with tremors over body : about 2d day thereafter the neck becomes stiff throughout its length, and after the lapse of other 24 hours a tumour hard and prominent, and about the size of a small hen’s egg, appears on top of head; if that be the immediate seat of the malady, or if the orbit or eye-ball is its site, then eye-lids swell, there is much watery discharge. As the disease progresses the eye-lids are turned outwards, the eye-ball swells and inflames. If active mea- sures are not resorted to, the eye is destroyed by sloughy ulceration. There is always a discharge of unhealthy mucus from nose, but this is in comparatively large quantity when the tumour is situated in the nostril, which it sometime is. The in- flammation is liable to extend to the brain; when this happens the animal is cut off, and this spreading of the inflammation to a vital organ is the usual cause of death. If the inflammation confines itself to the orbit the extent of the mischief is the loss of its contained organ, the eye, and with respect to other sites, the inflammation being confined thereto, a foul ulcer results which heals slowly. This affection is not uncommon. It appears to be an inflammation of the cellu- lar membrane situate in the usual site of the disease, which if uncontrouled speedily runs on to sloughy suppuration. The disease is supposed to be occasioned by sud- den check of perspiration as it usually occurs after the animal has drank plentifully of cold water immediately after coming off a march. If active curative measures are not early resorted to the animal usually dies; and the ultimate termination of the malady in cure or death is estimated by the early or protracted appearance of the tumour. In the former case, recovery may be anticipated—in the latter, death. B