( 13 ) tion of the organ. And attention ought to be paid to the kind of food given subse- quently. A gram diet for a few days will be sufficient—afterwards grass may be added and then a gradual return to ordinary food. History.—Of the above terms, Malole is given to a milder and Soale to a severer and more protracted spasmodic disease of the intestines. Its occurrence is marked by great restlessness of the animal, which lies down to press its stomach on the ground, or on its legs when in the couchant position, rises up, moves from side to side; symptoms all the result of bodily distress arising from Colic. The animal leaves off feeding; and is subject to this ailment most frequently in the cold weather. The bowels may be open or otherwise. The urine is scanty or wholly suppressed, and is always high coloured. The surface of body is hot, and also ears. The Native treatment consists in firing on sides and across belly and in giving stimulating Mussals, but containing no opiate. Treatment.—Bleeding ought to be practised without delay to one gallon or one and a half. The trunk of body is to be well fomented and the operation steadily persevered in till cessation of symptoms, indicating distress of the animal, be supervened. An Aloetic purge with a drachm of Opium is to be given ; after the spasmodic action has subsided, and if the attack continues for a couple of hours after bleeding unrelieved, a copious injection of warm water, say two gallons, con- taining an ounce of Laudanum, will prove very useful. The after treatment consists in persevering with the fomentations, repeating the injection with only ^ ounce of Laudanum, and if decided relief be not secured, three hours after bleeding, this operation ought to be repeated to the extent of half a gallon. History.—This a dropsical swelling of the greater part of body, commencing about the back and lower part of belly, thence extending forward to raafa or protu- berance on breast bone, on which the animal rests when in the couchant position— SOALE, OR MALOLE. COLIC. ZAARBAHD. DROPSICAL AFFECTION. D