( 7 ) ardent sun, is a predisposing cause, acting on the head so as to impair the healthy condition of its vital contents, and thereby causing the animal to be the more sensible to morbific causes. The native treatment consists in giving stimulating Mussals, and in intro- ducing between eye-ball and eye-lid acrid substances with the view to cause copious lachrymation. Firing around navel and along sides of body is also practised. It is almost unnecessary to remark that this practice as a whole is at least useless, if not positively injurious. Treatment.—1st. The Apoplectic variety—Cold applications ought to be applied to head, while the trunk and hinder extremities are kept hot with fomentation sedulously applied. Blood to the extent of 20 pounds ought to be drawn off. An aperient given. The unjunum, or lachrymal preparation (Vide Part 3d page 25) may be introduced within the eye-lids, with benefit, after the measures just named have been practised. -2d. Inflammatory variety.—This variety being on its nature an inflammation of the brain or its containing mem- branes, requires the most active measures that can be resorted to in order to allay inflammation. Bleed to the extent of 20 pounds—apply cold lotion to head and warm fomentations to body. Give an aperient. The bleeding may be repeated to the extent of 10 or 15 pounds if need be. The fomentations to body and cold lotion to head ought to be continued uninterruptedly till a very decided and prominent improvement has occurred. MOORGHEE-KA MURZ; OR EPILEPSY. History.—This complaint which is not uncommon, is a regular epileptic affection and has received its native name from the circumstance of the animal showing symptoms which resemble those shown by the domestic fowl when labour- ing under a similar ailment. The approach of this malady is marked by no symptom. The animal con- tinues healthy to all outward appearance up to the supervening of the disease; it eats as usual, does not fall off in condition, and continues to work. The near approach of a fit is marked by the animal walking around its picquet restlessly,— and making an occasional gutteral roar. It then falls down, the neck is drawn backward so as to be bent on itself nearly—the limbs are moved convulsively the animal rolls from side to side, and continues with little interruption the gut- teral roar.