233 queen’s cake, plum cake, etc. of loaf sugar, in fine powder, and twenty drops of vanilla ; beat with a wire whisk till in a firm froth. Devonshire cream and any kind of marmalade may be used instead of whipped cream. 673. QUEEN’S CAKES. Half a pound of dry flour, half a pound of sifted loaf sugar, six ounces of currants, well washed and rubbed in a coarse cloth, six beaten fresh eggs, half a pound of good butter, dissolved, but not in oil, the grated rind of half a lemon and two table- spoonfuls of brandy ; mix these ingredients together in the order they are mentioned, and beat the mixture for ten minutes ; pour it into small moulds of various forms, and bake in a quick oven about fifteen minutes. 674. KICH PLUM CAKE. Put the following ingredients into a pan (or large basin) in the order in which they are given, then proceed as directed:— Three-quarters of a pound of good butter, beaten to cream, half a pound of richest moist sugar, three-quarters of a pound of currants, well washed and dried, three-quarters of a pound of raisins, carefully stoned, six ounces of mixed candied peel, finely chopped, six bitter and one ounce of sweet almonds, blanched and pounded, the grated rind of a lemon and the strained juice, a grain of powdered cloves, two grains of powdered cinnamon, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, fourteen ounces of sifted flour, half a gill of new milk, the yolks of six eggs, beaten with a wineglassful of brandy ; beat the whole together till well mixed ; then add the whites of the eggs, beaten to froth ; continue to beat rapidly for twenty minutes. Turn the mixture into a large cake- tin lined with buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven about two hours and a half. Turn the cake out carefully, and when cold, ice it according to the directions in the following receipt, or it may be used plain. 675. ALMOND PASTE AND ICING. (For rich cakes.) Blanch and pound to a fine paste twelve bitter and seven ounces of sweet almonds; add ten ounces of sifted loaf sugar, a tablespoonful of orange-flower water, and the whites of eight eggs, beaten to a froth ; stir the mixture till it becomes a soft