MUTTON. t>8 171. HASHED VENISON. #Make three-quarters of a pint of gravy as directed in haunch receipt. Cut about one pound and a half of cold venison into neat slices the third of- an inch thick ; leave on the fat. Season with a saltspoonful of white pepper, a teaspoonful of salt, and a tablespoonful of baked flour. Put the meat and the gravy into a bright stewpan, shake it frequently, and simmer very gently for half an hour. Add a quarter of a pound pot of red currant jelly and a wineglassful of port wine, simmer two minutes longer; then serve, very hot, with a dish of plain boiled French beans separate. 172. HAUNCH OF MUTTON. Order a haunch of fine South Down mutton that has been kept ten or twelve days, and desire the butcher to trim it ready for dressing; rub it well with a coarse cloth, and dredge it over with dry flour; tie it in large sheets of white paper, thickly spread with sweet dripping; hang it before a good fire, for the first half hour near, then draw it to a distance, and roast slowly till done ; baste constantly ; twenty minutes before serving take off the paper, dredge the mutton slightly with baked flour, and baste it with two ounces of dissolved butter; pour off the dripping ; add a teacupful of boiling water and a saltspoonful of salt to the gravy dripped from the meat; pour it into a hot well- dish, place the haunch on the dish, the broad side uppermost, and serve at once, with red currant jelly turned out on a glass dish or a plate. Note.—Time for roasting: underdone, ten minutes to the pound; with the gravy in, fourteen minutes; well done, eighteen minutes. In frosty weather, two minutes to the pound must be added in each case. 173. SADDLE OF MUTTON ROASTED. The saddle should be hung for ten days. Dredge it with dry flour; put it into a sheet of paper, thickly spread with sweet dripping; hang it before a good fire, quite close for twenty minutes, then at a distance, till done. A quarter of an hour before serving, take off the paper; put half a saltspoon of salt into a teacupful of boiling water; pour it over the mutton; then baste till slightly browned. Pour off the fat, and serve the