greengage moulds, sponge-cakes, custard. 211 595. GREENGAGE MOULD. Follow the preceding receipt, using three pints of greengages, and the kernels, blanched, instead of rhubarb and almonds ; whip a pint of sweet cream to a froth, and pour over; garnish with macaroons. 596. FRUIT TRANSPARENCY. Press out the juice of a quart of red or white currants ; strain it through a fine sieve into a brass skillet; add three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar and half an ounce of isinglass; boil and skim till it is perfectly bright and rather thick, about twenty minutes; pour it into a pretty mould, and stir in a pint of fine fresh fruit; put it in a cool place, or on ice, till quite firm. Turn out carefully, and serve, with or -without Devonshire or other cream round as a garnish. Note.—If red currant juice be used, then let the whole fruit be either red currants, raspberries, or red cherries. If white currant, either straw- berries or white currants. 597. CURDS AND CREAM. Put two quarts of the previous day’s milk into a cool oven, and let it remain till a firm curd is formed; when quite cold strain it through muslin; tie it up tight, and put it under a heavy weight to press out the whey ; let it remain for two hours; two hours before it is required, put it on a glass dish, and pour over it three-quarters of a pint of good sweet cream. This will be found a nice dish to serve with fruit moulds of any kind. 598. SPONGE-CAKES, WITH APPLE SNOW. Put six sponge-cakes into a glass dish, and pour over them three-quarters of a pint of good cream, or custard, made as di- rected in the following receipt; let them soak for two or three hours. Roast eight large apples till quite soft, take away the skin and core, and add to half a pound of apple pulp, half a pound of finely pounded loaf sugar, the strained juice of a lemon, and the whites of two eggs ; beat with a whisk till in a snow-like froth. Place it on the cakes, and serve at once. 599. CUSTARD. A pint of new milk, three ounces of loaf sugar, and the thin