BEEF. 82 milk; beat till quite light. Serve, on a very hot dish, in the form of a cone, and place the cutlets round. Note.—This dish may he served with broiled mushrooms, spinach, or endive instead of potatoes. 231. MINCED BEEF, WITH ITALIAN TASTE. • (Second dressing.) Mince one pound of cold roast beef, free from fat or skin; peel and chop one large mushroom and two shalots; put them with the mince, and season with a saltspoonful and a half of white pepper, two saltspoonfuls of salt, a saltspoonful of flour of mustard, the tenth part of a nutmeg, grated, and a tablespoonful of baked flour; cover it over, and let it stand till the paste is made. Eub an ounce of fresh butter into six ounces of baked flour ; moisten with the yolk of a large egg, beaten with a wine- glassful of cold water : knead to a firm smooth paste. Roll it out the eighth of an inch thick, cut it into strips the eighth of an inch wide, and three inches long, and let it stand in an airy place two or three hours; then dry it in a quick oven for five minutes; have a pint of good gravy or stock, put into it two tablespoon- fuls of grated Parmesan cheese, a teaspoonful of made mustard, a saltspoonful of salt; boil up, put in the paste, and boil for half an hour. Put the mince into a stewpan, with a gill and a half of good gravy, a teaspoonful of soy, a teaspoonful of chutney, and two tablespoonfuls of Harvey-sauce; simmer very gently for half an hour. Drain the paste on a sieve, lay it round the dish ; put the mince in the centre, and serve very hot. 232. AITCH-BONE OF BEEF, BOILED. Put the joint into an iron pot, and cover it with cold water ; boil up slowly, skim, then simmer as gently as possible till done. To be slightly under-done, allow eleven minutes to the pound; just done, twelve minutes; and ivell-done, thirteen minutes,after at boiling heat. In frosty weather, add a quarter of an hour to the whole time. If carrots be boiled with the beef, they will require an hour and three-quarters or two hours, according to size. Place the beef on a hot dish, the broad side downwards ; pour over it three-quarters of a pint of the liquor, garnish with carrots and serve. Note.—Reserve the liquor in an earthen pan for soup. For second dressings of salt beef, see ‘Plain Cooking ’ reeeiots—also for soups.