17 ONION AND PEAS SOUPS. MUTTON BROTH. 41. ONION SOUP, WHITE. Peel and slice six large onions and four large potatoes; put them into a stewpan with two quarts of water, a bay leaf, a laurel leaf, a tablespoonful of loaf sugar, a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of white pepper, and the crumb of a French roll. Boil fast for two hours; then rub the soup through a fine sieve. Put it again into the stewpan ; boil up. Beat the yolks of three fresh eggs, with two tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, and stir in for two minutes. Add half a pint of cream, and serve at once. 42. ONION SOUP, BROWN. Follow the preceding receipt, using stock (No. 1) instead of water, and substituting a wineglassful of white wine for the eggs and cream. Stir in the cheese just before serving. 43. PEAS SOUP. Soak a pint of split peas for two hours, wash them, and take out all that are black; put them into a saucepan with a quart of water, and let them simmer by the side of the fire till quite soft. Boil sixpennyworth of fresh beef bones in two quarts of water, with three onions, two carrots, a head of celery, one turnip, eight peppercorns, a saltspoonful of dried mint, a tablespoemful of moist sugai, and a saltspoonful of salt. When the bones are bare, strain the liquor and put in the peas. Boil and skim till the peas are quite mixed with the soup. Stir in three ounces of butter kneaded with two tablespoonfuls of baked flour, a tea- spoonful of salt, a grain of cayenne, a grain of white pepper, a saltspoonful of flour of mustard. Boil twenty minutes; then rub the soup through a tammy sieve, and serve very hot. Cut three slices of bread into half-inch pieces and fry to a pale brown colour in two ounces of good butter. Rub some dry mint to powder and sift it on to a plate. Serve these with the soup. 44. MUTTON BROTH. (One quart.) Cut into small pieces three pounds of quite fresh scrag of mut- ton ; put it into a saucepan with two onions, two turnips, half a head of celery, all sliced, a sprig of thyme, a sprig of marjo- c