118 rOEK. 310. POEK CUTLETS, WITH TOMATO SAUCE. Cut six or seven cutlets from tlie fore loins of small pork, each the width of the bone ; trim off all the fat, and bare the end of the bone about an inch. Season three ounces of fine crumbs of bread with a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of white pepper, and the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated. Beat a fresh egg on a plate for five minutes; dip each cutlet into the egg, and then into the crumbs; let them stand ten minutes. Cut the fat into small pieces; put it into a frying-pan and, when sufficiently dissolved, fry the cutlets in it to a pale brown colour (about twenty minutes) over a moderate fire; drain on a sieve before the fire for two minutes. Put a gill (or more) of tomato-sauce into u saucepan ; knead a teaspoonful of baked flour with half an ounce of butter, and stir in. Place the cutlets neatly round a hot dish; pour the sauce in the centre, and serve. 311. POEK CUTLETS, WITH SPANISH SAUCE. Have six chops off the fore loin cut the third of an inch thick, trim off all the fat. Season three ounces of fine bread crumbs with half a saltspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, and a saltspoonfiil of mixed herbs ; dip the cutlets into beaten egg, and then into the crumbs; let them stand in an airy place for a quarter of an hour; dip them again into the egg and crumbs; place them on a tin dish, with three ounces of butter, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour. Serve with the following sauce :—Peel and cut up one large Spanish onion, a small clove of garlic, four acid apples; put them into a saucepan, with the strained juice of two lemons, a grain of cayenne, two grains of powdered ginger, a tablespoonful of moist sugar, and stew for an hour, stirring frequently; add a wineglassful of Madeira or sherry, and serve—the cutlets round the dish, and the sauce in the centre. 312. POEK CUTLETS, WITH MUSHKOOM SAUCE. Cut six or eight chops, the width of the bone, from the fore loin of small pork ; trim off the fat, and bare the eud of the bone about an inch. Mix together the strained juice of a lemon, a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of white popper, a small onion,