MUTTON AND YEAL TEA. MUTTON BROTH, ETC. 243 a quart of cold water; stir it frequently till it boils; then skim with care. Simmer for three hours ; add a saltspoonful of salt. Take out the mutton, and strain off the tea, rubbing as much of the pulpy part of the barley through the sieve as will pass without much pressure. Skim off every particle of fat before serving. Note.—The mutton may be served in the kitchen as follows:—Season the barley with a saltspoonful of salt, the same of pepper, a teaspoonful of vinegar, and a finely-chopped onion. Mince the mutton, put an ounce of dripping into a saucepan, and when dissolved put in the mutton and barley to become quite hot. 711. MUTTON BROTH. Three pounds of scrag of mutton, one turnip, a sprig of parsley, the heart of a white lettuce, a teaspoonful of salt, and three pints of cold water; put these on in an enamelled saucepan, and simmer for three hours and a half, skimming constantly. If rice or tapioca be added, it must be boiled separately till tender, and put into the broth after it is strained, then boiled for ten minutes. 712. CHICKEN BROTH. Cut up a fowl, and break the leg bones; put it into a stewpan, with a quart of cold water, a teaspoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful of loaf sugar. Boil gently, skimming constantly, for four hours. Strain into a basin. When cold, take off the fat. Make a cupful hot when required. . Note.—With this broth a little tender macaroni may be served for a change. Boil the macaroni in plenty of water, with half a saltspoonful of salt in it, till quite tender, drain on a sieve, and cut into half-inch lengths. 713. YEAL TEA. Cut up, into small pieces, three pounds of lean veal; put it into an enamelled saucepan, with three pints of cold water and a salt- spoonful of salt. When it boils, skim very carefully. Simmer for three hours. Strain into a basin, and when cold remove every particle of fat. When required, pour half a pint, while boiling, on to a teaspoonful of arrowroot mixed with a dessert- spoonful of the cold veal tea. 714. VEAL BROTH. Make the broth exactly as the tea preceding, adding the white heart of a lettuce, two white leaves of endive, half a turnip, and