59 LOIN OF MUTTON. dripped gravy in the dish. Send to table very hot, and with a pot of red currant jelly turned out on a plate. Note.—A saddle, to be underdone, mil require only seven minutes to the pound; with the gravy in, ten minutes; and well done, a quarter of an hour. In frosty weather, add a quarter of an hour for the joint (in each case) extra. 174. LOIN OF MUTTON ROASTED. Place it before a quick bright fire, quite close for ten minutes -r draw it back, and roast slowly at a distance for one hour. A few minutes before serving, dredge it with baked flour and half a saltspoonful of salt; baste it well from the beginning. Pour otf the dripping, and serve its own gravy, with a little boiling water added to it in the dish. 175. LOIN OF MUTTON STUFFED, AND SERVED WITH RICH GRAVY. Bone a fine loin of Mutton, trim off some of the fat, and beat the mutton with a rolling pin to flatten it and to make it tender. Make a stuffing with a quarter of a pound of mutton-suet chopped fine, half an ounce of sweet almonds, boiled ten minutes and pounded to paste, an ounce of crumbs of bread, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a saltspoonful of mixed sweet herbs, half a saltspoonful of pepper, and the same of salt, a grain of cayenne, a grate of nutmeg, a grate or two of lemon peel, and two eggs, leaving out one white ; mix these well together, and spread the stuffing equally over the inner side of the mutton ; roll it neatly lengthways, skewer it up, and roast before a good fire, at a distance, for an hour and a half, basting continually. Put the bones into a saucepan, with a black onion, one shalot, a piece of garlic the size of a pea, half a carrot, half a head of celery, and a pint of water; stew three hours. Strain, and add a tablespoonful of baked flour, a dessertspoonful of mushroom ketchup, a teaspoonful of soy, half a saltspoonful of salt; boil up for ten minutes; add a wineglassful of port wine. Pour the gravy over the mutton, and serve very hot. 176. LOIN OF MUTTON STEWED WITH PICKLES. (Second dressing.) Trim off some of the fat of the remains of a roast loin of