BOILED AND FRICASSEED FOWL. 129 stir into it the third of a pint of the milk the fowls are boiling in ; boil ten minutes ; add a gill of thick cream ; place the fowls on a hot dish, draw out the skewers. Pour half of the sauce over the breasts, and serve the rest in a tureen. Note.—About three quarts of milk will be required for two good-sized fowls. If reserved in an earthen pan, it will make excellent soup, by adding onions, garlic, celery, carrots, salt, pepper, a bay leaf, the bones of the fowl, and a thick slice of crumb of bread; boil for two hours, then rub through a sieve. 33C. BOILED FOWL, WITH PARSLEY SAUCE For time, see preceding receipt. Dip the'fowl in hot water for one minute, and rub it well over with a cut lemon. This process will make it white. Cover the breast with a thin slice of fat bacon; tie the fowl in a clean white cloth ; put it into a sauce- pan (breast uppermost) with just sufficient cold water to cover it; boil up quickly, then simmer gently till done. Wash a good bunch of parsley in salted water; dip it twice into boiling water; chop the leaves quite fine; knead a quarter of a pound of butter with a tablespoonful of baked flour, and stir into the third of a pint of the water the fowl is boiled in; simmer five minutes; stir in a dessertspoonful of the chopped parsley; place the fowl on a hot dish (without the bacon), draw out the skewers ; pour half of the sauce over the breast, and serve the remainder in a tureen, and send to table at once. 337. FRICASSEED FOWL, WHITE. Cut a young fowl up into joints, and put it into cold water for an hour to blanch ; wipe it dry, and dredge each piece with baked flour ; put it into a stewpan with sufficient milk to just cover it (about three-quarters of a pint), and the following ingredients tied in a piece of thin muslin :—A shalot, four sprigs of parsley, a sprig of thyme, two leaves of tarragon, an inch of thin lemon peel, half of a laurel leaf, a quarter of an inch of mace, one clove, and a piece of nutmeg (about an eighth part of one) ; put it in the midst of the fowl; add a teaspoonful of salt and a tea- spoonful of loaf-sugar ; boil up quickly ; then simmer very gently tor three-quarters of an hour; take out the bag ; place the fowl on a hot dish ; pour over it the strained juice of a lemon. Beat K