clxxvi MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. Season the meat (half a pound) with a saltspoonful of salt, half a salt- spoonful of white pepper, half a grain of powdered mace, and a table- spoonful of baked flour. Put two ounces of butter into a bright stewpan, rub the bottom across once ■with cut garlic; put in the meat, and shake the pan till the butter is all absorbed, then add enough of the gravy (strained) to well moisten, simmer for ten minutes, stir in a tablespoonful of sherry, and serve either with fried sippets or a maccaroni wall. If a white dish be preferred, stew the bones and vegetables (fried but not browned), in milk, and substitute two tablespoonfuls of cream for the sherry, and garnish with slices of lemon. * SCOLLOPS OF MEAT, POULTRY, OR GAME A BREAKFAST PISH. Mince up as fine as possible any kind of cold, unsalted meat, or a mixture of meats, poultry, or game. Season, half a pound, with a saltspoonful of fine salt, a grain of cayenne, and a salt- spoonful of pepper. Make the meat quite moist with any kind of gravy, that of roast meat being the best. Rub a slice of bread to fine crumbs, season them with half a saltspoonful of salt, and a quarter of a saltspoonful of pepper. Rub the bottom of a tin scol- lop or a tin dish with butter, lay evenly over it a third of the crumbs, then put in the meat, and the remainder of the crumbs over that. Press it even ; place on the top, in small pieces, about an ounce of butter. Bake it in a moderately-heated oven or before the fire for twenty-five minutes. Place the scollop, or tin dish, on a napkin, and send it to table at once. ICED PUDDING. Have in readiness the following candied preserved fruits and other ingredients:—Two apricots, three greengages, two ounces of cherries, half an ounce of angelica, two ounces of mixed peel, two tablespoonfuls of cura^&o or French brandy, three-quarters of an ounce of the best isinglass, half a pint of new milk, two table- spoonfuls of powdered loaf sugar, and a pint of fresh double cream. Cut up the fruit into small pieces, put it into a basin, and pour the spirit over it. Dissolve the isinglass and the sugar by boiling them in the milk for three or four minutes, stirring