190 PUDDINGS, PASTRY, JELLIES, CREAM, ETC. sugar and the spirit. Butter a tin cake-mould, and lay in the almond mixture and fruit in alternate layers till all used up; bake in a moderate oven about two hours. Turn out carefully, and serve, hot or cold. 520. MATRIMONY PUDDING. Pare and core one pound and a half of apples, and boil with three-quarters, of a pound of loaf sugar, the grated rind and strained juice of a lemon, and the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated ; stir till they become a rich marmalade; then let it get cold. Make a custard as follows : —Moisten a tablespoonful of Oswego with half a gill of new milk; boil a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar in half a pint of milk, and stir into the Oswego while boil- ing ; add four well-beaten eggs and half a gill of thick cream. Butter a pie-dish, lay in the custard and marmalade in alternate layers till the dish is full; bake in a quick oven for twenty-five minutes. Serve, hot or cold. 521. CUMBERLAND PUDDING. Four ounces of apples, finely chopped, three ounces of fine crumbs of bread, four ounces of moist sugar, four ounces of well- washed currants, four ounces of beef marrow or suet, finely chopped, the grated rind and strained juice of half a lemon, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, three well-beaten eggs, a table- spoonful of dried flour, and half a gill of milk ; mix these in- gredients well together; beat for ten minutes; butter a basin; put in the mixture; tie a cloth over; put it into plenty of boiling water, and boil fast for three hours, or bake in a moderate oven an hour and a half. Serve, with sifted sugar over. 522. RATAFIA PUDDING. Four ounces of fine crumbs of bread, soaked in half a pint of boiling milk, four ounces of sifted sugar, four well-beaten fresh eo;g3, half a gill of cream, half a wineglassful of ratafia, and two ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and split in halves. When the bread has absorbed the milk, mix in all the ingredients, ex- cept the almonds, and beat with a wooden spoou for ten minutes; butter a basin and stick it in lines with the almonds; put in the pudding, cover it closely over with writing paper spread with