PUDDINGS, PASTRY, JELLIES, CREAM, ETC. 198 552. BAKED TAPIOCA PUDDING. Boil three tablespoonfuls of tapioca and the thin rind of a lemon, in a pint and a half of new milk for an hour and three- quarters ; stir in a quarter of a pound of sugar; let it get cold ; take out the peel; add three well-beaten eggs; beat for ten minutes; butter a pie-dish, put in the pudding, and bake in a quick oven for half an hour. The edge may be lined with paste if preferred. 553. TAPIOCA, PORTUGUESE. Boil three tablespoonfuls of the best tapioca in a pint and a half of new milk till quite, tender (about two hours) ; stir frequently; add six ounces of loaf sugar ^nd an ounce of fresh butter ; when well mixed, stand the saucepan off the fire for ten minutes, then stir in, by degrees, six well-beaten fresh eggs ; stir over the fire till at boiling heat, then let it get cool; add twenty drops of the essence of vanilla, or any other flavouring. Turn it into a glass dish, and let it stand in a cold place for two hours. Just before serving, sift evenly over the top a dessertspoonful of powdered cinnamon. 554. MACARONI, PORTUGUESE. Break three ounces of the best macaroni into inch lengths, and soak it in a quart of cold water for one hour ; drain on a sieve; put it into an enamelled saucepan, with a pint and a half of new milk and an inch of vanilla, and simmer gently for two hours. Take out the vanilla, add a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar in powder, and half a gill more milk; continue to simmer twenty minutes ; stand it off the fire for ten minutes, then stir in, by de- grees, five well-beaten eggs ; stir over the fire till at boiling heat, then add a wineglassful of brandy and half a gill of thick cream. When nearly cold, put it into a glass dish, and let it stand in a cold place for two hours. Just before serving, pound to a fine dust an ounce of macaroons, and sift over the surface. 555. VERMICELLI, PORTUGUESE. Follow the preceding receipt, allowing three-quarters of an hour less time and half a pint less milk.