PIIEFACE. XIV reduced Allemande sauce, strongly flavoured with mushrooms; each cutlet as it is dipped to be afterwards placed flat on a baking- sheet upon rough ice, to set the same quite firm on the cutlets; they are then to be egged, crumbed, fried in hot lard, and, being dished up, are to be garnished with a puree of green asparagus, or asparagus peas, and some supreme or any other wrhite sauce poured round the base.’—Francatelli’s Cook's Guide. ‘ SHOULDERS OF VEAL, STUFFED. ‘ Take the joint and lay it with the skin side downwards ; with a sharp thin knife carefully detach the meat from the bladebone; then hold the shoulder edgewise, and detach the meat from the other side of the bone, being careful not to make a hole in the skin; then cut the bone from the knuckle and take it out. You may at first be rather awkward about it, but after once or twice trying it will become easy; you may also take out the other bone, but I prefer it in, as it keeps the shape better; then lard the lean part like the neck (in No. 320) ; mix some salt and a little mixed spice together, with which rub the meat from whence the bone has been cut, stuff with veal stuffing, or sausage-meat, or suet pudding ; braise, garnish, and serve (as No. 303). This being the toughest part of the veal, it should be tried before taking up, to see if it is properly done, by thrusting a larding needle in it. If it goes in easily, it is done. This joint is excel- lent cold, and should be carved in thin slices crosswise.’—Soyer’s Modem Housewife. ‘ POULETS. 1 Set the fowls for one horn- in cold water, then they are to be plain boiled. For the sauce, use a pint and a half of bechamelle and a teaspoonful of white sauce ; reduce it to a pint; put into it equal quantities of mushrooms and truffles, and pieces of quenelle the size of a nut; leave it in the bain-marie to keep warm, and remain till wanted. Serve the sauce in a tureen, to be put on each plate by the carver.’—The Lady's Guide. ‘HARICOT mutton. ‘ This dish is nothing more than mutton chops browned in the frying pan, and then stewed in just enough water to cover them,