. 205 MINCE-MEAT. MINCE-PIES. till quite mixed; moisten with the yollc of an egg, beaten with three-quarters of a gill of cold water; knead to a firm paste, roll out the sixth of an inch thick, cut it into strips an inch broad and four inches long; let it stand in a cool airy place for four or five hours to di-y. Blanch and pound two ounces of sweet and twelve bitter almonds; when in a soft paste, add two ounces of sifted loaf sugar and the whites of three eggs beaten to froth; beat till in a soft smooth paste. Spread half the number of bis- cuits with this paste, and the others place upon them, and bake in a moderate oven about eighteen minutes. They should be of a pale brown colour, and crisp. 577. MINCE-MEAT (Made early in November). Two pounds of currants, 'well washed, carefully picked, and rubbed dry, half of them slightly chopped, two pounds of raisins, stoned and finely chopped, three-quarters of a pound of mixed candied peel, chopped, one pound of good apples, carefully cored, peeled, and chopped, one pound of fresh beef-suet, chopped, three-quarters of a pound of the under-side of the sirloin of beef (roasted, but not overdone) or fillet of veal, chopped, the grated rinds and strained juice of two lemons and one Seville orange, a pound and a half of moist sugar, half a nutmeg, grated, half a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, half a saltspoonful of powdered ginger, two grains of powdered cloves, and a pint of brandy ; mix these ingredients well together ; put the mince in stone jars, tie them over with bladder, and keep in a cool dry place till wanted. It will keep a year, or longer, and should always be made six weeks befoi’e it is required. New fruit must be used. 578. MINCE-PIES. Make a puff paste as directed in the following receipt:—Roll it out the fifth of an inch thick ; rub the patty-pans slightly with butter, line them with the paste, put two tablespoonfuls of mince- meat into each, moisten the edge with water, cover over with paste, trim round the edge with a sharp knife, make a small hole in the centre, and bake in a moderately-heated oven for twenty- five or thirty minutes. Serve hot. Note.—The quantity of paste given will make six mince-pies in tin circular patty-pans, measuring three and a half inches across.