CAKES. 236 together and beat for ten minutes. Butter some small tin mouldy half fill them with the mixture, and bake in a quick oven for eight or ten minutes. Currants, chopped, candied peel, or caraway seeds may be added. 683. MAD ELEN A CAKES. Two ounces of citron, chopped, two ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and pounded, three ounces of currants, washed and rubbed dry, six ounces of finely-pounded loaf sugar, six ounces of baked flour, sifted, six well-beaten fresh eggs; mix these ingredients well together; then add six ounces of fresh butter, dissolved, but not quite in oil, two tablespoonfuls of Curasao, and thirty drops of the essence of vanilla; beat the mixture for ten minutes; put it into small fluted moulds (three parts fill them) rubbed with butter, and bake in a quick oven about twenty minutes. Beat the white of an egg with two tablespoonfuls of ^/roeZy-powdered loaf sugar, and five drops of vanilla; spread this over the top of the cakes five minutes before they are done. Turn out carefully, and serve, either hot or cold. 684. SEED CAKE, PLAIN. Beat six ounces of butter with six ounces of moist sugar and a saltspoonful of caraway seeds, and mix into three-quarters of a pound of flour; add three eggs beaten with half a gill of milk; put the cake into a tin and bake in a moderate oven about fifty minutes. Turn out to cool. 685. YULE CAKE. Put one pound of sifted flour into a large basin; add a salt- spoonful of salt; dissolve a quarter of an ounce of German yeast in half a pint of tepid water, and stir into the flour with a wooden spoon; cover the basin with a thick cloth, and let it stand in a warm place for an hour to rise. Add half a pound of good butter, beaten to cream, half a pound of moist sugar, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated; three-quarters of a pound of currants, well washed and dried, four ounces of mixed candied peel, chopped, and two beaten fresh eggs; when well mixed, put the cake into a tin that will hold twice the quantity, and bake in a moderate oven about an hour and three quarters or two hours. Turn it out of the tin to get cold.