YORK HAM. 121 handful of parsley, four cloves, ten peppercorns, a blade of mace, a clove of garlic, two tablespoonfuls of moist sugar, and sufficient cold water to well cover it; boil up gently ; skim; then simmer for two hours. Make a paste, as follows :—Rub two pounds of dripping into three pounds of flour and three pints of bran ; add enough hot water to make it into a firm paste; roll it out about half an inch thick; put in the ham ; press the paste round it that it may perfectly adhere and keep in the juices ; place it on a tin dish, and bake in a gentle oven for six hours and a half. If to be served cold, let it remain in the paste till quite cold ; then crack the paste, pull off the skin, wipe the fat with a clean soft cloth; brush it thickly over with glaze; put a frill round the knuckle ; garnish with savoury jelly or parsley, and serve. If to be used hot, garnish with spinach, mashed turnips, or carrots. 320. YORK HAM. (Cooked in the Spanish way.) Soak the ham in plenty of cold water for twenty-four hours; scrape and wash it well; put it into a large iron pot, skin uppermost, and more than cover it with cold water; boil up slowly, then simmer for an hour. Take out the ham, wash it in cold water; put it back into the pot, and cover it with stock (No. 1) instead of water ; add two cloves of garlic, one large onion, two carrots, two turnips, a head of celery, a teaspoonful of mus- tard-seed, three tablespoonfuls of moist sugar, six cloves, an inch of bruised ginger, a laurel and a bay leaf, and a handful of parsley; simmer very gently till done, allowing from the time of boiling up in the stock twenty-six minutes to the pound; two hours before it is done pour in a bottle of Marsala or sherry, and keep the lid closely down till done ; put the ham with the stock into an earthen pan, and let it remain till quite cold. Take off the skin, wipe the fat with a soft cloth ; brush it over with good glaze ; tie a neatly-cut paper frill round the knuckle; garnish with savoury jelly, and serve. If required hot, take off the skin ; co\ er the fat with a sheet of blotting-paper; lay the loose skin over that, and bake in a gentle oven for an hour ; glaze ; and garnish with spinach.