BEEF CUTLETS. 81 229. BEEF CUTLETS IN PAPER. (Second dressing.) Mince as fine as possible three-quarters of a pound of cold roast beef, two ounces of fat bacon, one mushroom, and three blades of chives, or half of a shalot; add a saltspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, a quarter of a grain of cayenne, a mustard- spoonful of fresh-made mustard, the yolk of one egg beaten with a tablespoonful of beef gravy and a dessertspooi tful of sherry ; mix well, and form the mince into six cutlets; dip them into dis- solved butter (two ounces), dredge them lightly with dried flour, and stand them in a cold place for an hour. Season two ounces of fine crumbs of bread with a saltspoonful of mixed sweet herbs, in powder, half a saltspoonful of salt, and the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated; beat one egg ; dip each cutlet into the egg, then into the crumbs. Butter thickly six half-sheets of foolscap paper, put in the meat, fold over the edges to the form of a small cutlet, place them on a tin dish, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty- five minutes. Serve in the paper. 230. BEEF CUTLETS, WITH MA.SIIED POTATOES. (Second dressing.) Cut into small pieces three-quarters of a pound of cold roast beef, pound it in a mortar till in a paste; season with a saltspoon- ful of pepper, a saltspoonful of salt, a quarter of a grain of cayenne, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, a small teaspoonful of good anchovy-sauce, a mustardspoonful of fresh-made mustard, one shalot pounded, and the strained juice of a lemon ; mix in a tablespoonful of beef gravy, add two ounces of dissolved butter, dorm the paste into six cutlets, dip them into dissolved butter, dredge dried flour ever both sides; dip them into beaten egg, strew them over with fine crumbs of bread ; dip them again into eg£j and dredge over more crumbs. Place them in a bright tin dish, with a piece of butter as big as a nut on each, and bake in a quick oven for a quarter of an hour, or fry them in a little butter. Boil seven or eight potatoes, drain off the water, beat them with a wooden spoon till in fine powder; add two ounces of butter, a small tcaepoonful of salt, two tablcspoonfuls of cream -or new