193 ROLLED JAM AND WHITE PUDDINGS. sugar, cover closely over •with a round piece of paste, tie a cloth over that, and boil fast for two hours and a half. Half a pound of each will make a pudding for a pint and a half basin. The fruit must be sweetened as follows, and water must never be put in the pudding :—Currants, raspberries, and cherries, half their weight of sugar; plums, rather more; and damsons, three- quarters. 532. ROLLED JAM PUDDING. Make a paste as directed iu the foregoing receipt for fruit puddings; roll it out the sixth of an inch thick, and spread it with jam, leaving a quarter of an inch all round; brush the edge with water ; roll the pudding to the form of a bolster ; press the edges to make them adhere; roll it tightly in a cloth, tie both ends, put it into fast-boiling water, and boil rapidly for two hours. Cut it into six slices three-quarters of an inch thick, and serve at once. 533. WHITE PUDDINGS. One pound of fresh (pork) kidney fat, chopped, half a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of ground rice, half a pound of loaf sugar, half a pound of currants, well washed, two ounces of sweet, and eight bitter almonds, blanched and chopped, two ounces of orange and two ounces of lemon-peel (candied), chopped, the fourth part of a nutmeg, grated, half a saltspoonful of salt, two eggs, and a gill of new milk; beat these ingredients well together for twenty minutes : put the mixture into pig skins that have been well cleansed, leaving room for the pudding to swell, tie both ends, put them into boiling water, and boil slowly for two hours and a half. Serve hot or cold; in either case, remove the skin. When made for keeping, hang them up separately ; and when required, put them into hot water and boil up slowly for ten minutes. 534. ALMOND AND BREAD PUDDING. Blanch three ounces of sweet and four bitter almonds, and boil them ten minutes in half a pint of milk; then pound them to a paste. Chop four ounces of beef-marrow, beat two eggs, and add to the milk the almonds were boiled in ; rub three ounces of bread a day old to crumbs; mix these ingredients together; o