POULTRY. 13G 352. RISSOLES OF FOWL. (Second dressing.) Cut up about half a pound of cold fowl; put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan, with a piece of garlic the size of a pea, an inch of thin lemon peel, an inch of laurel leaf, and a pint of stock or water; boil fast till reduced to a gill of strong gravy, then strain. Chop the fowl and two ounces of ham or tongue till quite fine ; season with a saltspoonful of white pepper, a saltspoonful of chopped parsley, half a saltspoonfiil of salt, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, and a dessertspoonful of baked flour ; stir in sufficient gravy to moisten the meat; put it into a basin, and let it stand three hours to become firm. Make the meat up into six equal sized balls; dredge them lightly with dry flour; dip them into beaten egg, then into dried crumbs (see receipt) ; do this a second time, then fry in boiling lard or clari- fied dripping (one pound) till of a pale yellow-brown colour (about eight minutes). Serve writh a bimeh of fried parsley in the centre. Lay the parsley in salt and water for an horn: or more ; drain; then dip it twice into the boiling fat, after the rissoles are done; put it before the fire on a sieve for two minutes. Note.—A stewpan is better than a frying-pan for all things requiring to be boiled in fat, and where a proper pan is not possessed. 353. CROQUETS OF FOWL. (Second dressing.) Rub two ounces of fresh butter into six ounces of dried Hour; beat the yolks of two fresh eggs with four tablespoonfuls of cold water, and stir into the flour till in a stiff paste; knead till quite smooth ; roll it out twice ; then let it stand in a cool place for five or six hours; cut up about half a pound of cold fowl (roast or boiled) free from skin ; put the bones and trimmings into a sauce- pan, with a piece of garlic the size of a pea and half a pint of water, and stew for gravy; pound the fowl to paste; add two ounces of either ham, hung beef, or tongue, pounded ; season with the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, half a saltspoonful of white pepper, the grated rind of the quarter of a lemon, half a saltspoon- ful of flour of mustard, and a quarter of a saltspoonful of salt; add sufficient gravy to moisten. Continue to pound till all the ingredients are well mixed; roll out the paste the eighth of an inch