MUTTON. <30 mutton, leaving about the eighth of an inch thick n, and quite evenly cut; put the mutton into a stewpan, with a teacupful of made gravy, a teacupful of mixed pickles, a dessertspoonful of chutney, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, a teaspoonful of soy, a tablespoonful of pickle vinegar, and half a grain of cayenne. Simmer very gently for one hour ; baste the mutton frequently with the gravy. Skim off all the fat, and serve very hot. 177. FILLET OF MUTTON. (Second dressing.) Cut a neat compact piece (about a pound and a half) off a cold roast leg of mutton ; put it into a stewpan, with an onion, finely chopped, three large mushrooms, finely chopped, an ounce ■of butter, kneaded with a dessertspoonful of baked flour, the strained juice of a lemon, a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, a teacupful of gravy ; simmer very gently for three- quarters of an hour; shake the stewpan frequently, and baste the mutton with the gravy ; skim off all the fat; add a small wineglassful of Marsala, and serve at once. 178. POUNDED MUTTON CUTLETS IN ITALIAN PASTE, WITH TARTAR SAUCE. (Second dressing.) Half a pound of cold roast mutton, without fat or skin, three ■ounces of cooked ham, and a piece of garlic the size of a pea, pounded to a paste; season with a saltspoonful of pepper, the tenth part of a nutmeg, grated, an ounce of dissolved butter, and three tablespoonfuls of mutton gravy; mix well, and let it stand In a cool place for an hour. Make a paste as follows :—Beat the yolk of an egg with three tablespoonfuls of cold water; mix it into six ounces of dried flour, and knead to a firm paste; roll it out as thin as a shilling, cut it into three equal sized squares, and each square into two triangles; divide the meat into six parts ; put one into each piece of paste, turn it over, and trim it to the form of a cutlet; press the edges to make them adhere; put them into a stewpan half full of boiling fat, and fry to a pale brown colour (twelve minutes); drain on a sieve before the fire for three minutes, then serve with the following sauce :—Boil four eggs ten minutes; when cold, pound the yolks to powder;