MUTTON CUTLETS. MINCED MUTTON. 61 add one well-beaten yolk, half a saltspoonful of white pepperr half a saltspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of flour of mustard, and, by degrees, four tablespoonfuls of salad (Lucca) oil; then drop by drop a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar and two dessertspoonfuls of vinegar ; stir the same way the whole time ; add a teaspoonful of finely chopped chives; put the sauce on a cold dish and the cutlets (hot) round it. 179. MINCED MUTTON CUTLETS, WITH TOMATO SAUCE. (Second dressing.) Cut one pound of cold mutton into thin slices, without fat or skin ; mince it as fine as possible ; season with a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, a grain of cayenne, half a shalot,. chopped; add four tablespoonfuls of mutton gravy, with a drachm of isinglass dissolved in it, and an ounce of dissolved; butter ; stir till firm. Form the mince into seven or eight equal sized cutlets ; dip them into beaten egg, then into baked flour, and let them stand in a cool place for an hour. Dip them again into egg and flour, and fry in plenty of boiling fat over a quick fire for eight minutes/ put a teacupful of tomato-sauce into a small saucepan with a dessertspoonful of vinegar ; knead a tea- spoonful of baked flour with half an ounce of fresh butter, and stir into the sauce for five minutes. Serve the cutlets round the- dish, and the sauce in the centre. 180. MUTTON CUTLETS IN HASTE. (Second dressing.) Cut up either loin or neck of cold mutton into cutlets the third of an inch thick; trim off some of the fat; season each with half a saltspoonful of salt and a quarter of a saltspoonful of pepper; dip them into beaten egg, then into fine dry crumbs of bread, and fry over a quick fire in boiling fat for six minutes. They should be a light-brown colour. Serve very hot. Note.—Slices off a leg of mutton may be used, and any sauce or gravy' may be added. 181. MINCED MUTTON, WITH MACARONI WALL. (Second dressing.) Chop quite fine three-quarters of a pound of cold roast mutton ; season with a saltspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, the