108 VEAL. the tenth part of a nutmeg, grated, the thin rind of half a lemon, and a tablespoonful of brandy ; boil up quickly ; skim; then simmer very gently for three-quarters of an hour. Put the sweetbreads in a moderate oven (with a quarter of an ounce of butter on each) for ten minutes; skim and strain the gravy. Skin and clean twelve button mushrooms; put them into the gravy, with a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar; knead an ounce of fresh butter with a dessertspoonful of baked flour, and stir in; boil up ; put in the sweetbreads, and continue to simmer for a quarter of an hour. Serve the sweetbreads in the centre and the sauce round. 290. VEAL PATTIES. Strain the jirice of a lemon into a gill of cold water, and stir m sufficient to moisten three-quarters of a pound of sifted flour; knead to a smooth paste; lay it on a slab, and spread over it three-quarters of a poimd of fresh butter; turn over the four sides; dredge it with flour, and roll out. Do this four times; then fold it in three, and let it stand in a cool place for two or three hours. Roll out again twice, the second time the third of an inch thick. Have ready two circular patty cutters; one two inches and a half across, and the other one inch and a half. Dip the cutters into flour, and cut out eight of the larger size; press the smaller size on the centre of each piece of paste, cutting it the sixth of an inch deep. Roll out the remainder of the paste, and cut out eight of the smaller size. Place them all on a baking-tin, and bake in a quick oven till of a pale brown colour, about twenty minutes. Take them out, and with a sharp penknife remove the centre paste from the larger pieces; fill the vacancy with veal prepared as follows, then place the smaller piece over the centre, and serve immediately. Mince quite small half a pound of lean veal, and two ounces of ham, season with the grated rind of halt a lemon, the tenth part of a nutmeg, grated, half a saltspoonful of white pepper, half a saltspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, and a tablespoonful of baked flour. Put it into a saucepan with sufficient veal stock to well moisten it; and simmer gently ; stirring constantly, for a quarter of an hour Add the strained juice of half a lemon, and half a gill of thick cream ; then fill the patties as directed.