135 MINCED FOWL. 350. MINCED FOWL, WITH SAVOURY RICE. (Second dressing.) Cut up any cold fowl you may have ; put the bones, skin, and rough pieces into a stewpan, with a quart of water, an onion, half a carrot, a piece of garlic the size of a pea, one clove, a teaspoonful of loaf sugar, a teaspoonful of salt, and a saltspoonful of pepper; boil for two hours; wash half a pound of the best rice ; put it into a quart of cold water, and boil for a quarter of an hour; then strain dry; mince the fowl; season (one pound) with a salt- spoonful and a half of salt, a saltspoonful of white pepper, a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, a tablespoonful of baked flour, one large mushroom, cleaned and chopped, and the juice of half a lemon ; put the mince into a stewpan, with sufficient gravy to well moisten it, and simmer very gently, stirring frequently, for eighteen minutes. Put the rice into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, and stir over the fire for five minutes; add the re- mainder of the gravy, and simmer (stirring constantly) for ten minutes; lay the rice round the dish, and the mince in the centre. Serve very hot. 351. MINCED FOWL PIE. (Second dressing.) Cut up some cold fowl; put the bones on in a pint of water, with a quarter of a clove of garlic and half a bay leaf; boil till reduced to a gill. Mince about three-quarters of a pound of fowl, two ounces of ham or tongue, and one truffle; season with a saltspoonful of white pepper, a saltspoonful and a half of salt, the twelfth part of a nutmeg, grated; add the gravy, and the yolks of two fresh eggs, well beaten. Make a paste as follows :— Mash five or six mealy potatoes ; add a saltspoonful of salt, three ounces of butter, half a gill of good cream, and one well-beaten e8S > heat with a wooden spoon till quite light; spread a third of the potato round a deep dish ; lay in the mince, cover it with the remainder of the potato ; smooth it over neatly with a knife, and bake in a moderately heated oven for three-quarters of an hour. Place the dish on another, and send to table uncovered.