POTATO AND GERMAN PUFFS. CLIFTON PUFFETS. 203 570. POTATO PUFFS. Dissolve two ounces of fresh butter and two ounces of loaf sugar in a wineglassful of new milk; rub three ounces of mealy potato (boiled) to a fine powder; mix these together; add the grated rind of a small lemon and the yolks of three fresh eggs; beat for ten minutes; then add the whites, beaten to a froth. Butter five small tin moulds; put a fifth part of the mixture into each, and bake in a quick oven about eighteen minutes. Serve immediately, with sugar sifted over them. 571. CLIFTON PUFFETS. A quarter of a pound of apples, chopped, a quarter of a pound of raisins, stoned and chopped, a quarter of a pound of currants, well washed, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, three ounces of candied orange peel, chopped, two ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and chopped, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, a drachm of powdered cinnamon, a grain of powdered cloves, and a glass of sherry; mix these ingredients well together, cover the basin with a plate, and let it stand for two or three hours. Make a paste as follows :—An ounce of'sweet almonds, blanched and pounded to paste, an ounce of rice flour, six ounces of baked flour, an ounce of loaf sugar; mix these together, and moisten with half a gill of water and the strained juice of a large lemon. Knead and lay it flat on the slab; put in the centre half a pound of fresh butter, turn over the sides, roll out three times, and let it stand in a cool place for two or three hours. Boll out the sixth of an inch thick; cut it into twelve equal-sized square pieces, brush them over lightly with cold water; put a twelfth part of the fruit into each ; turn over one corner, press round the edge to make it adhere; place them on a tin dish, and bake in a moderately heated oven for an hour and a quarter. Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth ; add thirty drops of essence of vanilla or orange flower, and three ounces of finely pounded loaf sugar ; beat for ten minutes with a whisk; pour it over the puffs, put them again into the oven for ten or twelve minutes; then serve. 572. GERMAN TUFFS. f wo ounces of fresh butter, dissolved in two tablespoonfuls of