238 CAKES. caraway seeds, a grain of cayenne, and a saltspoonful of white pepper ; add two fresh eggs beaten with a tablespoonful of brandy. Make a dough as follows :—Rub six ounces of lard into one pound of flour, add a saltspoonful of salt; moisten with the third of a pint of tepid water, with a small teaspoonful of carbonate of soda dissolved in it; knead to a dough; roll out the third of an inch thick, and line a long plain eake tin; press the corners, that the crust may be of equal thickness all over; put in the fruit, press it down closely ; cover over with dough ; notch the edge round with a knife, and bake in a slow oven for nearly three hours. When cold, turn it out of the tin. 690. SCOTCH SHORT-BREAD. Put into a basin half a pound of dry sifted flour, a quarter of a pound of rice flour, a quarter of a pound of sifted loaf sugar, an ounce of sweet almonds, blanched and pounded, and three- quarters of a pound of fresh butter ; rub the ingredients together till the butter is well mixed in. Add two ounces of candied orange peel, chopped small, and the yolks of two small fresh eggs; knead to a firm smooth paste, roll out the third of an inch thick, and cut it into four square cakes ; notch round the edge with a knife, prick them over with a skewer, strew the top with large caraway comfits, and bake, upon paper, in a moderate oven till of a nale brown colour all over; about three quarters of an hour. 691. SODA SCONES. Rub five ounces of fresh lard into ten ounces of dry flour; add half a saltspoonful of salt; moisten with a gill of tepid water, or milk, with half a saltspoonful of carbonate of soda dissolved in it; knead to a paste ; roll out half an inch thick, and cut it into four triangular pieces. Bake over the fire on a girdle, or on a thick frying-pan, about eighteen minutes. Cut through the centre, and spread them with good butter. Ser\e vcr\ hot. 692. GINGER-BREAD NUTS. One pound of sifted flour, three-quarters of an ounce of finely- powdered ginger, the grated rind of a lemon, and five ounces of good butter. Rub the butter into the flour, then add the strained