CURRIES. 138 over the gravy and vegetables; add the strained juice of a lemon, and send both dishes to table immediately. Note.—If you have no Cre-fydd sauce, use instead a tablespoonful of port wine, a teaspoonful of soy, a teaspoonful of brandy, and a saltspoonful of chutney. 344. PLAIN BOILED RICE FOR CURRIES. Wash ten ounces of rice ; put it into a quart of cold water with a teaspoonful of salt, and boil for half an hour, taking care it does not settle to the bottom. Drain on a sieve, and separate each grain by stirring with a wooden fork, while drying before the fire or in the oven. 345. CALCUTTA RECEIPT FOR CURRY. A teaspoonful of turmeric, a tablespoonful of coriander-seed, a tablespoonful of poppy-seed, half a teaspoonful of ginger, a quarter of a teaspoonful of red chili, half a teaspoonful of cumin- seed, all well pounded; mix the powder with three ounces of butter, and fry it with two sliced onions for ten minutes. Cut up a young fowl; put it into the pan, and simmer for a quarter of an hour ; add the milk of one cocoa-nut and a saltspoonful of salt, stir well, and simmer a quarter of an hour longer ; stir in the juice of half a lime or a lemon, and serve, with plain boiled rice in a separate dish. See preceding receipt. 34G. MADRAS RECEIPT FOR CURRY. Knead two ounces of butter with two dessertspoonfuls of curry powder, and fry it with a sliced onion till slightly browned ; cut up into pieces an inch square, fowl, rabbit, or any kind of meat (about one pound); put it into the pan, with a saltspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of tamarind-paste, and a gill of gravy. Simmer gently and stir frequently for half an hour. Serve with plain boiled rice. 347. MADRAS RECEIPT FOR CURRY, NO. 2. Two drachms of turmeric, four chillies, two grains of mustard- seed, two drachms of coriander-seed, two grains of cumin-seed, two drachms of poppy-seed, all well pounded and mixed ; knead the powder with three ounces of butter. Slice two large onions and fry in the butter till tender, but not browned. Cut up a young