BEEF. 80 dip each piece into fine salad oil, and then into lemon juice, and let them remain for two hours; then dredge both sides with baked flour, and season with a small teaspoonful of salt, a salt- spoonful of pepper, a saltspoonful of flour of mustard, a salt- spoonful of loaf sugar, half a grain of cayenne, and two shalots, finely chopped. Make a stewpan hot, rub the bottom twice across with garlic, put in two ounces of butter, and when it is dissolved put in the beef; add half a pint of gravy, and half a teacupful of pickled mushrooms, but none of the vinegar; shake the pan, and simmer very gently for half an hour ; skim frequently ; add two tablespoonfuls of Marsala, and serve immediately, with savoury rice round it. 227. SAVOURY RICE. Wash half a pound of rice, and boil it in a quart of water for ten minutes ; then drain; put it into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of loaf sugar, half a saltspoonful of white pepper, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, the rind of half a lemon, grated, and the strained juice, half a pint of good gravy, and a teaspoonful of chutney sauce ; stir, and simmer till the gravy is entirely absorbed, about a quarter of an hour. Serve immediately. 228. BEEF-PIE, POTATO CRUST. (Second Dressing.) Boil five potatoes, mash them quite smooth, add a saltspoonful of salt, three ounces of dissolved butter, and the beaten yolk of one egg ; beat with a wooden spoon till perfectly light. Cut about three-quarters of a pound of cold roast beef into thin slices, take off the fat, skin, and gristle ; season with a small teaspoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of pepper ; spread a layer of potato in a shallow pie-dish, lay in the beef, pour over a teacupful of beef gravy and a tablespoonful of Ilarvey-sauce ; cover over with potato; smooth over the top with a knife; bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. Serve immediately. Note.—This pie may he made of any cold meat—poultry or fish—and if preferred, the meat can he minced. It will he found very good if carefully made.