260 PLAIN COOKING. moving them that they may be browned all over. Dredge the chops with a dessertspoonful of dried flour; season with a tea- spoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of black pepper, and half a grain of cayenne. Put the chops and the vegetables into a stewpan, with half a pint of gravy, a teaspoonful of soy, a tablespoonful of mushroom-ketchup, and a teaspoonful of vinegar; simmer as gently as possible for an hour and three-quarters. Serve very hot. 771. STEWED BREAST OP MUTTON, WITH VEGETABLES. Cut into dice, a quarter of an inch square, two carrots, one turnip, three potatoes, two leeks, one parsnip. Cut the mutton into pieces three inches long and two broad; fry it till brown; then, in the fat that comes from it, fry the vegetables. Put all into a stewpan, with a teaspoonful of sugar, a teaspoonful of salt, the same of black pepper, and three-quarters of a pint of water; let it come quickly to the boil; skim very carefully; add half a pint more water; skim, and then let it simmer gently for two hours. Skim off all the fat; throw in half a wineglassful of vinegar ; simmer ten minutes more, and serve very hot, the meat in the centre and the vegetables round. 772. TOAD IN A HOLE. Beat two eggs, stir in four tablespoonfuls of dried flour, add half a saltspoonful of salt and a pint and a quarter of milk ; beat the batter for twenty minutes. Grease a pie-dish, and pour it in; bury in the batter a piece of beef or mutton (about a pound and a half)] bake in a moderate oven for an hour and three-quarters. 773. MUTTON PUDDING. Cut up into three-inch pieces either slices from the leg, or chops from the neck ; take off nearly all the fat; season a pound and a quarter of mutton with a teaspoonful of salt, piled, and two saltspoonfuls of pepper. Make a crust with three-quarters of a pound of flour, half a pound of dripping, or six ounces of suet Line a basin with the crust a quarter of an inch thick, put in the meat and a teacupful of cold water, cover closely with a lid of paste, tie over a cloth, put it into boiling water, and boil fast for four hours; loosen round the edge with a knife, and turn out carefully. Serve very hot.