PLAIN COOKING. 270 same of pepper; add one oimce of dissolved butter. With this stuffing, apple sauce must be served (see receipt). No. 2 stuffing :— Soak three ounces of dried bread crumbs in a quarter of a pint of milk for half an hour ; mix with it four sage leaves, in powder; half a saltspoonful of salt, the same of pepper, a grate of nutmeg, the grated rind of half a lemon, and the strained juice, a saltspoon- ful of sifted loaf sugar, and one ounce of oiled butter. With this stuffing, prune sauce should be served, made thus:—Boil one pound of prunes in half a pint of water till quite soft; add a table- spoonful of moist sugar and a tablespoonful of either rum or brandy. Rub through a sieve, and serve in a tureen. Place the pig on a large hot dish, split it down the back, take off the head, divide the loins. Pour some gravy (see receipt) into the dish (not over the pig), and serve. 805. BOILED TRIPE AND ONIONS. The tripe must be quite fresh and well washed. Cut it into pieces three inches long and two broad. Place it in a stewpan, with six or eight moderate-sized onions, a teaspoonful of salt (for two pounds), a pint of milk and half a pint of water; simmer gently for two hours and a half. Serve very hot, in a deep dish or tureen, tripe and onions together. 806. COW HEEL, WITH PARSLEY-SAUCE. ' ' Split the cow heel, wash it, and place it in a stewpan with just enough water to cover it; simmer gently for three hours; uffiop t enough parsley to fill a tablespoon*; : put it into the stewpan. Mix - . two tablespoonfuls of baked flour, a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoon- X . ful of pepper, and a teacupful of cold water ; pom- it in, and stir till it thickens. Boil for ten minutes longer, then serve. 807. LIVER AND BACON. Cut half a pound of ribs of bacon into thin rashers, and one pound of calf’s or sheep’s liver into slices the third of an inch thick. Put the bacon (having removed the bones and skin) into a fryingpan, and fry both sides brown; place it round a dish before the fire. Dredge Horn on both sides of the liver, fry it slowly till brown (twenty minutes). Place it neatly on the dish. Pom away the fat, dredge about a dessertspoonful of dry flour