137 MAYONNAISE OF FOWL. MOCK STliASBUJRG FIE. thick; divide it into eight equal sized pieces, about three inches square; brush over the surface with cold water ; put an eighth part of the pounded meat into each piece, in the form of a sausage; fold the paste over ; press the edges to make them adhere ; then fry in plenty of boiling lard or clarified dripping (one pound) till of a yellow-brown colour (about ten minutes); drain on a sieve before the fire, and serve on a neatly folded napkin, with or without fried parsley in the centre. 354. MAYONNAISE OF FOWL. Wash two fine fresh cut lettuces (or any salad in season) and four spring onions ; leave them in water for two hours; boil four fresh eggs for twelve minutes, and when cold, pound the yolks to powder; season with a teaspoonful of flour of mustard and half a saltspoonful of salt; add the beaten yolks of two fresh eggs ; pound till in a paste; then drop in by degrees six tablespoonfuls of the best salad oil, three teaspoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, and two tablespoonfuls of French vinegar ; continue to stir till the sauce is like a thick smooth cream. Stand it in a cool place, or on ice, for an hour. Cut about ten ounces of cold boiled fowl into neat pieces a quarter of an inch thick and an inch and a half square. Wipe each leaf of the salad, and break it into inch pieces ; cut the onions quite small; put half of the salad into a bowl; on that lay half of the fowl; then half of the sauce ; then the remainder of the fowl; over that, the rest of the sauce ; pile the salad on that ; sprinkle the onions over the top ; garnish with thin slices of beet- root and cucumber placed alternately, and send to table. Note.—A few leaves of tarragon and a few of chervil, mixed with the salad, is a great Improvement, if the flavour is not objected to; but many persons dislike it. 355. MOCK STRASBURG PIE. Have a fine young fowl, two partridges, and a pheasant; cut the meat off, with a very sharp knife, in pieces about two inches long and a quarter of an inch thick ; break up the bones and put them, with skin and trimmings, into a saucepan, with a quarter of a clove of garlic, two shalots, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, a teaspoonful of salt, one clove, and a teaspoonful of loaf sugar ; boil till reduced to half a pint; then strain. Season the meat; to every pound allow a saltspoonful of dry salt, half a saltspoonful