CHRISTMAS PUDDINGS. EASTER BUNS. CXC1 CHRISTMAS PUDDINGS FOR THE POOR. Six pounds of flour, two pounds of bread, four pounds of suet, four pounds of currants, three pounds of raisins, two pounds of treacle or sugar, half an ounce of mixed spice, twelve eggs, and a pint and a half of milk. Rub the bread into crumbs, chop the suet, -wash the currants and rub them dry in a clean coarse cloth, stone the raisins, beat the eggs. Put the whole of these ingredients into an earthen pan, and stir the mixture well. Dip the pudding cloths into boiling water, dredge them over with flour, put in the puddings according to the sizes required, tie up closely, and boil in a copper for from four to eight hours. The quantities given will make eighteen pounds of pudding, and the cost will be about 9s. 6d. EASTER BUNS FOR POOR CHILDREN. Five pounds of flour, ten ounces of good, clarified dripping, or butter, one pound and a half of currants, well washed, picked and rubbed dry, one pound of moist sugar, a teaspoonful and a half of salt, a saltspoonful of ground ginger, a saltspoonful of ground allspice, two teaspoonfuls of tartaric acid, pounded to a fine dust, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. Rub these ingredients to- gether till they are thoroughly mixed. Dissolve four teaspoon- fuls of carbonate of soda in a quart of milk, slightly warmed. Add this to the rest, quickly stirring, till it becomes a firm dough. Divide it into forty-four equal parts, form each into a round cake, and bake in a moderately-heated oven for twenty- five minutes. It will be better to make the above quantity in four parts, as they should be put into the oven as quickly as pos- sible after they are made, or they will not be light. dhe quantities given will make forty-four large buns. The cost, without butter, will be 2s. 3cZ. REMEDIES, AND OTHER RECEIPTS. THE SKIN : IRRITATIONS AND ERUPTIONS. BITES OF MOSQUITO, HORSE-FLY, GNAT, ETC. For iriitation and eruption of the skin “ Calvert’s Carbolic Acid Soap is known to have been successfully used, and can be l ccommended. The “ Carbolic Acid : ” five drops in half a pint