POULT JOY. 126 330. BONED TURKEY, STUFFED WITH TONGUE AND FORCEMEAT. Boil a small pickled tongue slowly for three hours; 6kin it and trim off the root, leaving only a portion of the fat. Make a stuffing as in the preceding receipt, send them both to the poulterer to be put into the turkey. Then follow the preceding receipt in all things. 331. TURKEY’S LEGS, BROILED. (Second dressing.) Score the meat of the legs at half-inch distances, and three- quarters of an inch deep. Mis a saltspoonful of white pepper, a quarter of a saltspoonful of cayenne, a mustardspoonfol of fresh- made mustard, a saltspoonful of salt, a piece of garlic the size of a split pea, and the strained juice of a lemon; well mix this seasoning, and rub it into the divisions and over the legs. Place them on a gridiron over a bright fire, and broil for twenty minutes at a distance; turn them that they may be nicely browned all over. Place the legs on a hot dish, rub each over with half an ounce of butter, and send to the table very hot. Note.—Every receipt given for fowls may he followed for turkeys. 332. TURKEY, STUFFED AND ROASTED. Make a stuffing as follows:—Scrape half a pound of lean pork, a quarter of a pound of lean veal, two ounces of lean ham, and half a pound of beef-suet; rub two ounces of crumb of bread to powder; chop sufficient parsley to fill a tablespoon; mix these together. Season with the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, the grated peel of a lemon, a saltspoonful of white pepper, a grain of cayenne, a saltspoonful of loaf sugar, a saltspoonful and a half t>f salt, and two saltspoonfuls of mixed sweet herbs in fine powder. Put the whole into a mortar, and pound till in a smooth paste; add three well-beaten eggs, leaving out one white, and the strained juice of a lemon; when well mixed, fill the crop of the turkey; fasten the skin loosely over; put the remainder in the body ; cover it with sheets of white paper, thickly spread with butter or lard (half a pound). Hang it before a large fire, near for the first twenty minutes, then at a distance till done ; baste