clxxv •MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. VEAL CUTLETS WITH MUSHROOMS OR TRUFFLES. A pound and a half of veal cutlets, about the third of an inch thick. Cut them into neatly-shaped pieces, all the same size, and trim off the skin. Season with a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoon- ful of white pepper, and a dessertspoonful of baked flour. Trim off the skin of twelve medium sized mushrooms; wash, and wipe them. Rub the bottom of a pie dish once across with cut garlic, and then well butter it. Lay in the veal and mushrooms alter- nately, and on the top place, in small pieces, about two ounces of butter. Cover with another dish, and bake in a slow oven for an hour and a-half. If truffles be used (six or eight), cut them into slices, and put them in layers instead of mushrooms. Serve on a hot dish with cut lemon on a plate. This dish is very little trouble to arrange, and is quite suited as an entree at a dinner of entertainment. MUTTON HASHED VENISON FASHION. Cut slices of cold mutton the third of an inch thick, trim off the skin and browned fat. Season with a small saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of white pepper, and a dessertspoonful of baked flour. Have rather more than a quarter of a pint of strong strained gravy, made with the bones and trimmings of the mutton, one kidney cut up, a shalot, half of a small carrot, and two ounces of sheep’s liver. Put the mutton and the gravy into a small bright stewpan, shake it well, and place it over a slow fire, and let it scarcely simmer for an hour and a half. Stir in a table- spoonful of red currant jelly ; add half of a small wine glassful of good Port wine, and serve immediately, with a dish of French beans. The receipt is given for three quarters of a pound of mutton. This dish has been much praised, and can scarcely be distin- guished from venison. PULLED TURKEY OR FOWL. (Second dressing.) Pull the meat off the bones in strips, by using two forks ; make a gravy with the bones and half an onion, half a turnip, and a small head of celery fried in an ounce of butter till browned.