162 VEGETABLES. dessertspoonful of finely-chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of chopped chives, and a gill of new milk; simmer (shaking the stewpan frequently) for a quarter of an hour; add the yolk of one egg beaten with half a gill of thick cream ; stir in carefully, and serve immediately. 416. HARICOT BEANS. Soak the beans all night; put them on in plenty of cold water, and let them boil slowly till tender, which will take two or three hours; drain off the water, and stir in a saltspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a piled teaspoonful of chopped chives or shalots, two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, strained, and three ounces of butter; put on the lid of the saucepan, and simmer half an hour, shaking it con- stantly ; add two tablespoonfuls of cream, and serve. Note.—Haricot beans are very nice mashed; in that case, boil almost to pnlp, mash with a wooden spoon, rub through a fine wire sieve, and use rather more cream ; in all other respects follow the receipt. 417. ARTICHOKES. Take off the outer leaves, trim the stem, cut off the point c' each leaf with a pair of scissors ; wash the artichokes, and leave them in cold water for an hour. Put a wineglassful of vinegar and a tablespoonful of salt into two quarts of water, when boiling; put in the artichokes, and boil (uncovered) for nearly an hour. Drain off all the water, and serve on a napkin, with melted butter in a tureen. Knead three ounces of butter with a tablespoonful of baked flour, stir it into half a pint of boiling water, and boil ten minutes. 418. HOW TO DRESS LAVER. Put the laver into a bright stewpan with fresh butter (three ounces to one pound); stir over a brisk fire with a wooden fork for a quarter of an hour. Serve boiling hot, over either a spirit lamp or a hot-water dish. Note.—Laver is best eaten with roast mutton. 419. JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. Pare them neatly and wash them in cold water, with a teacup- ful of vinegar in it; boil in plenty of water (put them in while