CURAQAOj PINEAPPLE AND LEMON JELLIES. 225 earthen (uncovered') pan, and let it remain in a cool place till the next day. Take off the fat carefully, and wipe the surface of the jelly with a soft hot cloth, to absorb any that may remain. Put the jelly into a bright stewpan, with the strained juice of four and the thin rind of two large lemons, two inches of cin- namon, and fourteen ounces of loaf sugar; boil up; beat the whites of six eggs with half a gill of cold water, throw them into the jelly, and stir rapidly with a wire whisk for twenty minutes, boiling as fast as possible all the time. Draw it aside, and let it simmer (uncovered) for twenty minutes more; strain through a jelly bag; add either a gill of Madeira or brown sherry, and, if not sufficiently dark in colour, a few drops of burnt sugar. If not quite bright, strain a second time. Put the jelly into a mould or moulds, and let it stand in a cool place till firmly set, or on ice for an hour. 646. CUEAgiO JELLY. Follow the preceding receipt, adding the thin rind of half a Seville orange, and the strained juice of a whole one, and substi- tuting half a gill of Curasao for the wine. 647. PINEAPPLE JELLY. Peel and cut into thin slices three-quarters of a pound of fresh pineapple ; put it into a skillet, with ten ounces of loaf sugar and a pint of cold water; boil up, skim, and simmer for twenty-five minutes; then strain off the juice. Dissolve an ounce and a quarter of isinglass in half a pint of water; mix this with the juice ; add a wineglassful of rum, and strain through a jelly-bag. Decorate the top of a mould with thin inch pieces of pine, pour in the jelly, and let it stand in a cool place till firmly set. Note.—If not sufficiently coloured, add a few drops of burnt sugar. 648. LEMON JELLY. Rub ten ounces of loaf sugar on the rinds of eight lemons, to extract the essence; express and strain the juice ; put the juice and the sugar into a pint of water, and boil (skimming carefully) till it becomes quite bright; add a few drops of burnt sugar to colour it. Dissolve an ounce and a quarter of isinglass in a gill Q