283 PIQUANTE SAUCE. CHUTNEY SAUCE. garlic, all peeled and cut up, a teaspoonful of fresh-ground ginger, half a saltspoonful of cayenne, a blade of mace, bruised, a saltspoonful of mustard, and a saltspoonful of salt; stir fre- quently, and simmer for three-quarters of an hour; then rub the -whole through a hair sieve; put it into wide mouthed bottles, and, when cold, cork it down. It will keep for a month or six weeks. Many persons have preferred this sauce to the real. It may always be used as a substitute, and can be made when required. 849. PIQUANTE SAUCE. (To be made in August.) Half a sieve of large mushrooms and half a sieve of walnuts; put them each into an earthen pan, with one pound of salt, and let them remain for a week ; turn them, and bruise them with a wooden spoon, frequently. At the end of the week, press out, and drain off the liquor. Boil them separately till scum ceases to rise, skimming constantly ; then mix and measure the liquor, and to each quart add half a saltspoonful of mustard seed, a small blade of mace, four cloves, eight allspice, a saltspoonful of whole pepper, half an ounce of ginger, all slightly bruised, half a salt- spoonful of cayenne, an ounce of garlic, an ounce of shalot, and a quart of strong vinegar. Continue to boil and skim for twenty- minutes; then pour the mixture into an earthen pan; when cold, strain and add to each quart a gill of port wine, half a gill of soy, and half a pint of claret. Put it into bottles, cork securely, and seal over the top. To be kept for three months or longer before using. 850. CIIUTNEY SAUCE. One pound of new raisins, stoned, one pound of tamarinds, stoned, three ounces of garlic, peeled (all minced quite fine), three pounds of sour apples, peeled and cored, one pound of coarse brown sugar, two quarts of vinegar, a quarter of a pound of salt, a quarter of an ounce of cayenne, two ounces of ground ginger, three ounces of yellow mustard seed, pounded. Boil the apples in half of the vinegar till in a soft pulp. Boil the sugar in , the rest of the vinegar till in a clear syrup. When these are quite cold, mix the whole of the ingredients together, and stir well with a wooden spoon. Put the mixture into wide-mouthed