PLAIN COOKING. 254 saltspoonfuls of pepper, and two teaspoonfuls of salt. Make a paste as follows :—Mix eleven ounces of Hour with a teacupful of cold water and a pinch of salt; knead it well, roll it out, and put in the centre half a pound of good dripping; turn over the sides and roll out six times; line the edge of the dish with strips, of paste; moisten with cold water; put in the steak with a gill of cold water ; roll the rest of the paste out to the size of the dish; put it over ; press round the edge to make it adhere ; trim round with a sharp knife ; notch the edge at inch distances. Make a hole in the centre, and bake in a slow oven for two hours and three-quarters. Note.—This pie is large enough for four or five'persons. 752. BEEF STEAK PUDDING. Cut up about a pound and a quarter of beef steak into pieces an inch broad and three inches long; season with a good salt- spoonful of pepper and a small teaspoonful of salt. Make a crust with three-quarters of a pound of flour, and either half a pound of dripping or six ounces of chopped suet, and sufficient cold water to make it into a stiff paste; roll it out; rub a basin with dripping; line it with the paste ; press it flat where it folds over; put in the steak and half a teacupful of water; cover over with a small round piece of paste; press it to make it adhere; tie over a cloth, and plunge the basin into a saucepan of boiling water; boil fast for three hours and a half if the crust be made of dripping, and four hours if of suet. Loosen round the edge with a knife, turn out carefully, and serve hot. Note.—Beef-skirt may be used instead of steak; take off all the skin, and boil the pudding one hour longer. 753. STEWED OX KIDNEY. Cut up the kidney into pieces half an inch thick ; take off the skin and pith, sprinkle over a saltspoonful of pepper, a small tea- spoonful of salt, a quarter of a grain of cayenne, and a tablespoon- fill of dried flour ; put it into a stewpan with a small onion, finely chopped, and sufficient water to well wet the kidney; shake the pan frequently, and let it simmer three-quarters of au hour. Pour in a dessertspoonful of vinegar, and serve very hot.