beef: mushrooms, truffles, savoury rice. 79 spoonful of grated horseradish, and a quarter of a grain of cay- enne ; fry till the onions are a bright brown colour ; dredge in a a dessertspoonful of baked flour; add half a wineglassful of vinegar, and half a pin-t of beef gravy ; cut some neat slices of cold beef (three-quarters of a pound), without fat or gristle; lay them in the stewpan, and simmer as gently as possible for a quarter of an hour. Stir in a tablespoonful of any wine, and serve immediately. 224. BEEF, WITH MUSHROOMS. (Second Dressing.) Cut up into neat slices about three quarters of a pound of cold roast beef, take off the fat, skin, and gristle ; season with a tea- spoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, and half a grain of cayenne ; rub a pie-dish four times across the bottom with fresh- cut garlic; put in half of the beef, one finely-chopped shalot, four moderate-sized mushrooms, peeled and washed, an ounce of butter, in small pieces, then the remainder of the beef, four more mushrooms, another ounce of butter, a dessertspoonful of vinegar, and two tablespoonfuls of beef gravy ; cover closely, and bake in a moderate oven for three quarters of an hour. Serve on a very hot dish. 225. BEEF, WITH TRUFFLES. (Second Dressing.) Cut up into thin slices about a pound of cold roast beef; take off' all the outside, fat, and gristle; chop two shalots quite small; clean and cut into thin slices three truffles ; put the shalot into a pie-dish, -with an ounce of butter; season the beef with a tea- spoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, half a grain of cayenne ; lay half of it in the dish, spread the truffles over, put in an ounce of butter: then the rest of the beef; pour over a gill of beef gravy and a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup; lay on the top another ounce of butter, cover closely with a dish, and bake in a slow oven for three-quarters of an hour. Turn the beef and gravy on to a very hot dish, and serve. 226. BEEF, WITH SAVOURY RICE. (Second Dressing.) Cut some slices cff cold sirloin of beef a quarter of an inch thick (about pound and a quarter) ; trim off the fat and gristle ;