PLAIN COOKING. 258 constantly : a quarter of an hour to the pound will be required. Half an hour before serving, dredge it slightly with dried flour, and sprinkle over a saltspoonful of salt; continue to baste. Serve on a very hot dish. Pour off the dripping; add a teacupful of boiling water to the gravy that has dripped from the mutton, and pour into the dish. Note.—If the weather be frosty, eighteen minutes must be added to the time. 7G5. ROAST SHOULDER OF MUTTON. Cut out the vein from the under part; allow sixteen minutes to the pound, as a shoulder is generally liked well done; hang it before a good fire, and baste constantly. Half an hour before serving, dredge it with a little dried flour, sprinkle over half a saltspoonful of salt, and continue to baste ; pour off all the fat; add a teacupful of boiling water to the gravy that has dripped from the mutton, pour it on the dish, and serve very hot. If onion sauce be ordered, make it as follows:—Boil four onions in plenty of water, with a teaspoonful of salt in it, for half an hour; press out the water, chop the onions quite fine, boil them small; add half an ounce of butter. Serve in a tureen. 766. HASHED ROAST MUTTON. Peel and slice a large onion, put it into a stewpan, with a dessertspoonful of brown sugar and a tablespoonful of vinegar; simmer till quite brown. Cut into neat slices about three- quarters of a pound of cold roast mutton ; sprinkle over a salt- spoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of black pepper, half a grain of cayenne, and two dessertspoonfuls of dried flour. Put it into the stewpan with the onions ; pour over a quarter of a pint of either gravy or water, two tablespoonfuls of walnut-ketchup, and simmer for half an hour; shake the pan frequently. Garnish with toasted bread, cut into three-cornered sippets and placed at equal dis- tances round the hash. Serve very hot. 767. MUTTON AND POTATO PIE. Cut up about three-quarters of a pound of cold roast mutton, season with a saltspoonful of pepper and a saltspoonful of salt. Mash two pounds of potatoes to a powder; add three ounces of