ALMOND, COLLEGIATE, AND PAEADISE PUDDINGS. 185 /JO-2. BRANDY CREAM FOR PUDDINGS. Dissolve three ounces of loaf sugar in a wineglassful of water; boil till in a clear thick syrup; then beat it into a gill of good cream; add, by degrees, a wineglassful of brandy. Serve over the pudding. 503. ALMOND PUDDING. Sis ounces of sweet almonds, blanched, and pounded to a paste, six ounces of loaf sugar, in powder, half a pound of mixed candied fruit, cut into small pieces, half a gill of good cream, the yolks of six and whites of four fresh eggs, beaten separately; beat these ingredients well together, adding the whites last. Butter a dish or mould, put in the mixture, and bake in a quick oven for three-quarters of an hour, or rather more. Turn out carefully, and serve either hot or cold. 504. COLLEGIATE PUDDING. Make a paste as follows :—Five ounces of dried flour, an ounce of ground rice, two ounces of sifted loaf sugar, and six ounces of fresh butter, well rubbed together; moisten with the yolks of two fresh eggs beaten with the juice of half a lemon ; knead; then roll out the sixth of an inch thick. Butter a pint pie-dish, and line it with the paste; ornament the edge by clipping it in notches with a paste-cutter. Spread the bottom half an inch thick with any kind of sweetmeats, jams, or marmalade. Blanch and pound three ounces of sweet and six bitter almonds; mix with them six ounces of sifted sugar and four ounces of dissolved fresh butter; add the yolks of six eggs, beaten with two tablespoonfuls of brandy, and the whites of three eggs beaten to a froth. Beat the mixture for ten minutes, pour it over the fruit, and bake in a quick oven for an hour and a quarter. 505. PARADISE PUDDING. Six moderate-sized apples and a quarter of a pound of beef- suet, finely chopped, a quarter of a pound of fine crumbs of bread, eight ounces of moist sugar, the grated rind and strained juice of a Seville orange, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, four fresh eggs, and a tablespoonful of rum ; mix these ingre- dients, and beat with a wooden spoon for ten minutes. Butter a