267 FORK PILOT. ROLLED PORK. PORK CHOPS. 794. PORK PILOT. Slice two onions and two apples; put them into a stewpan, with a wineglassful of vinegar, a teaspoonful of sugar, a salt- spoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of curry-powder, half a grain of cayenne, and a teacupful of water; stir over the fire for ten minutes; stir in by degrees a dessertspoonful of dried flour. Cut about three-quarters of a pound of cold roast pork into pieces, an inch and a half broad and three inches long. Put them into the sauce; stir that each piece may be covered, and let it simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour. Boil half a pound of rice, in a quart of water, for twenty-five minutes ; drain on a sieve, and dry before the fire, or in the oven, for five minutes. Chop quite small a teacupful of mixed pickles or red cabbage. Put the pork upon a dish, strew over the pickles, place the rice round as a wall, and serve at once. 795. ROLLED PORK, OR A PIG WITHOUT A HEAD. Take a thin piece of the streaky part, about ten inches long and six wide; salt it, and let it remain for twenty-four hours. Chop small three onions and two apples; mix with them a small teaspoonful of dried sage, in fine powder, a saltspoonful of pepper, and a small teaspoonful of sugar. Dip the pork into cold water; wipe it dry; lay it on a board, skin downwards ; cut out all the bones, and remove the loose underneath fat. Spread the stuffing equally over; roll the pork as tightly as possible ; sew it up with fine white twine. Rub the skin well with dripping. Hang the pork before a good fire, at a distance ; baste constantly, and let it roast slowly for two hours and a half. Place the pork upon a hot dish; cut the twine in the middle, pull it out from each end; pour off the dripping; add half a teacupful of boiling water to the gravy dripped from the meat; pour it into the dish, and serve immediately. 796. PORK CHOPS. The chops should be rather less than half an inch thick. Broil them over a clear fire, at a distance, that they may be done through. They will require twenty-five minutes, and frequent turning. Sprinkle them slightly with pepper and salt, and, if it be liked, either finely-powdered sage or tarragon. Serve very hot.