SOUPS, BROTHS, ETC. 12 simmer for three-quarters of an hour, skimming often. Now put in the four muslin bags containing the vegetables, and simmer three-quarters of an hour longer. Boil the eggs for ten minutes ; cut a French roll into six slices, butter both sides, and fry or bake to a nice brown colour. Put them into a tureen, with the yolks of the boiled eggs. Place on their separate dishes, ready for serving, the fowl, sweetbread, cutlets, and steak; take out the bags, pour the soup over the bread, and serve. Make the cream boiling hot, add the mushrooms and half a saltspoonful of salt, and pour it over the fowl. Add a teaspoonful of loaf sugar to the peas, place them round the sweetbread. Pass a red- hot salamander over the larding to slightly brown it. Press the tomatoes through the muslin; add the brandy, half a saltspoonful of salt, half a grain of cayenne, a tablespoonful of vinegar; boil up and pour over the cutlets. Dissolve an ounce of butter, stir into it a saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper, and the port wine; add the onions; pour this over the steak, and serve the four dishes quite hot. 29. OS-TAIL SOUP. (Two quarts.) Have a fine ox-tail cut into pieces about an inch long, and the thick part again cut into four. Dredge it well with flour, and fry it in a quarter of a pound of good butter till of a nice brown colour. Slice and fry in the same butter two carrots, one turnip, two onions, half a head of celery, two mushrooms, and a piece of garlic as big as a pea. When brown, put the whole into a stew- pan with a quart of water, a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of moist sugar, a saltspoonful of mustard, a saltspoonful of black pepper, and six peppercorns. Boil up quickly, skim, then simmer very gently for two hours. Skim off every particle of fat; take out the tail, strain the soup ; add to it three pints of stock (No. 1); put in the tail; stir in a tablespoonful of soy and half a grain of cayenne. Simmer three-quarters of an hour longer. Add a large wineglassful of port wine, and serve immediately. 30. WHITE SOUP. (Three quarts.) Have ready a large fowl, four pounds of lean veal, a large lettuce, a carrot, two onions, a lemon, an ounce of sweet almonds,