PRESERVED GREEN GOOSEBERRIES AND DAMSONS. 295 stems and tlie stones, without breaking the cherries. Put six pounds, thus prepared, into a preserving-pan, with half a pint of red currant juice and a quarter of a pint of raspberry juice, and seven pounds of loaf sugar; boil up slowly, skim carefully, then boil rather fast for fifty minutes, skimming very carefully, when- ever scum rises. Put the preserve into pots, and the next day tie them over with paper or bladder. Note.—The quantity given will make ten half-pound pots. 889. PRESERVED GREEN GOOSEBERRIES. The gooseberries should be almost of full size, but not ripe. Pick them, and rub them in a clean coarse cloth ; to four quarts of gooseberries add four pounds of loaf sugar and the strained juice of three lemons. Put the whole into a preserving-pan, and let it stand by a gentle heat till the sugar is dissolved, then let it boil up slowly ; skim constantly, and simmer very gently for an hour and a quarter. Care must be taken not to let the fruit break. Put the preserve into pots, and the following day tie them over with strong cap paper, and brush that over with the white of egg. 890. PRESERVED DAMSONS. The damsons must be ripe and fresh-gathered. Rub off the bloom, pick off the stems, and leave out those that may be bad (six quarts). Put them into a preserving-pan with sufficient cold water to immerse them; Boil up quickly; then add two tablespoonfuls of vinegar and a teaspoonful of salt. Put the pan off the fire, cover it with a cloth, and let it stand for a quarter of an hour; then wash them in cold water, changing it often, till they are quite cold; drain on a cloth. Put eight pounds of loaf sugar into the pan with a pint of cold water, boil up, and skim ; boil fast for ten minutes; then put in the damsons, and simmer as gently as possible for three quarters of an hour, skimming constantly. Care must be taken not to break the skin. Put the fruit in jars. Boil the syrup quickly for five minutes, pour it over the fruit, and the next day tie the jars over with cap paper, and brush that over with the white of egg. Any kind of black plums may be preserved in this way. A quarter of an hour longer must be allowed for larger fruit.