MIXED FRUIT PUDDING. LEMON DUMPLINGS. 201 marrow, four sweet apples (peeled and cored), two ounces of candied orange-peel, one ounce of citron, one ounce of angelica, all finely chopped, an ounce of sweet almonds, blanched and pounded, a teaspoonful of vanilla sugar, in powder, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, two ounces of apricot jam, two ounces of sxdtana raisins, two ounces of rusks, pounded, a wineglassful of Maraschino, and three ounces of sifted loaf sugar; beat the mixture for a quarter of an hour, put it into a plain mould (rubbed over with fresh butter), cover it with writing paper spread with butter, tie a cloth over that, plunge it into fast-boil- ing water, and boil for two hours and a half, or bake in a mode- rate oven for two hours. Turn out carefully, and serve with the following sauce in a tureen. 564. PARISIAN SAUCE. Beat the yolks of three fresh eggs; add two ounces of sifted loaf sugar and half a pint of Marsala; stir over a slow fire till it thickens; add half a gill of cream, stirred in by degrees. Serve immediately. 565. MIXED FRUIT PUDDING. Peel, core, and cut up six or eight good cooking apples; put them into a skillet, with the grated rind and strained juice of a lemon, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, a grain of powdered cloves, eight ounces of loaf sugar, and one ounce of fresh butter stir over the fire till it becomes a rich marmalade ; let it get cold, then add two ounces of sultana raisins, two ounces of currants, both well washed and dried, three ounces of Muscadel raisins, stoned, and two ounces of orange marmalade. Make a paste as follows :—Beat six ounces of fresh butter to cream, and stir it into> six ounces of well-dried flour; add four ounces of sifted loaf sugar; moisten with five well-beaten eggs. Butter a tin mould, line it with this paste, put in the fruit mixture, cover closely over with a lid of the paste, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour and a half. Turn out carefully, and serve, either hot or cold. 566. LEMON DUMPLINGS OR PUDDING. Half a pound of beef-suet, finely chopped, half a pound of flour, half a pound of moist sugar, the grated peel of one and strained