FRIED AND COLLARED EELS. GENOA SAUCE. 4b adheres to the eels. Add half a pint of boiling water, a wine- glassful of Marsala, the strained juice of a large lemon, a bay leaf, a laurel leaf, and four sprigs of parsley tied together; simmer very gently for twenty minutes. Take out the leaves; stir in carefully the yolks of two fresh eggs, well beaten, and serve at once. 124. FRIED OR SPITCHCOCKED EELS. Choose eels weighing two pounds each; skin them, and place them either in a Dutch oven before a quick fire or on a gridiron, for eight minutes, to draw out the fat; split them down the thin paid, take out the backbone, cut off the fins, scrape the outside, and cut them into pieces three inches long. Have three ounces of dried crumbs of bread (see receipt) and two well-beaten eggs ; dip each piece of eel into the egg, then into the crumbs, and fry in boiling lard (sufficient to thoroughly cover them) over a gentle fire (about twenty-five minutes) till of a pale yellow colour. Serve, placed in a circular form, on neatly folded foolscap paper, with melted butter, or the following sauce in a tureen. 125. GENOA SAUCE. Clean and bone four anchovies, put them into a mortar, with a tablespoonful of capers, a quarter of a clove of garlic, a teaspoon- ful of curry powder, a saltspoonful of flour of mustard, and pound till quite smooth ; moisten with a wineglassful of Marsala, a wineglassful of the caper vinegar, and three wineglassfuls of cold water; put this into a saucepan and boil up. Knead a tablespoonful of baked flour with a quarter of a pound of butter; skim the sauce, stir in the thickening, boil fast for ten minutes, strain and serve. 126. COLLARED EEL. Have a very large eel, take off the first skin, cut off the fins, split it down the front from head to tail, and take out the back- bone ; put the eel into boiling water, with a wineglassful of vinegar and a tablespoonful of salt, and let it remain five minutes, lake it out, wipe it quite dry, lay it flat on a board, skin down- ■n\ ards. Make a stuffing as follows :—Mix together the following ingredients, and pound them in a mortar till in a smooth paste: lliree ounces of either fresh-picked shrimps or lobster, the hard