PUDDINGS, PASTRY, JELLIES, CREAM, ETC. 206 579. PUFF PASTE. Moisten half a pound of sifted dry flour with half a gill of cold water and the strained juice of a small lemon ; knead it flat, and lay in half a pound of fresh butter, fold over the four sides, and roll out; dredge it slightly with flour, and roll out four times ; then fold it over in the form of a bolster, and let it stand in a cool place for two hours or longer. Note. —If required for a tart, six ounces is sufficient. Flour used for pastry must be well dried and sifted, or when cold it is heavy and leady, consequently unwholesome. Borwick’s baking-powder renders pastry and puddings light, and is economical. To be had of all druggists, grocers, and corn-chandlers, with full directions for use. 580. SHORT PASTE FOR TARTS. Rub six ounces of fresh butter into six ounces of dried and sifted flotu’; add a teaspoonful of sifted sugar ; moisten with the yolk of an egg beaten with half a gill of cold water ; knead to a smooth paste. Note.—The quantity given is sufficient for a pint and a half of picked fruit. 581. FRUIT TARTS. Put a narrow strip of paste, made according to either of the preceding receipts, on the edge of a pie-dish; moisten it with cold water, that the crust may adhere; put in the fruit and sugar (no water), roll out the paste to the size of the dish, cover over, press round the edge with the thumb, make an incision with a knife at each end to let the steam escape, then put it into a mode- rately heated oven for an hour, or rather more, according to the paste used. Ten minutes before it is done, brush it over with the white of an egg, well beaten, and sift loaf sugar over that; put it again in the oven to finish. Serve hot or cold as preferred. Sweeten the fruit as follows:—Currants, raspberries, cherries, and ripe apricots, half their weight of sugar ; plums, rather more; and damsons, three-quarters; apples and gooseberries are given in plain cooking. 582. LEMON CHEESECAKE MIXTURE. Dissolve one pound of loaf sugar in the strained juice of three lemons and three tablespoonfuls of brandy ; stir in half a pound of fresh butter till dissolved, but not oiled; then add the grated