180 PUDDINGS, PASTRY, JELLIES, CREAM, ETC. fast in plenty of water for three hours and a half. Turn out carefully, and serve, with the following sauce in the dish. Note.—A pint mould will be required. 485. COCOA-NUT CREAM. (A sauce for puddings.) Put two ounces of loaf sugar into a saucepan, with a wineglass of water, an inch of cinnamon, one clove, and two inches of thin lemon peel; boil till in a thick syrup. Mix a dessertspoonful of Oswego with two tablespoonfuls of cocoa-nut milk, strain the syrup to it, and boil up for one minute; add two tablespoonfuls of cream ; stir till cold; then add one tablespoonful of brandy and twenty-five drops of the essence of vanilla. Serve cold. 486. LEMON PUDDING. Half a pound of fresh butter beaten to cream, half a pound of sifted loaf sugar, the grated rind and strained j uice of two lemons, four tablespoonfuls of Oswego, and six fresh eggs; beat the whole together for twenty minutes. Make a paste as follows :— Six ounces of sifted flour, six ounces of butter, a teaspoonful of loaf sugar, the yolk of an egg, beaten with a wineglassful of cold water. Rub the butter into flour till quite mixed, add the liquid, and knead to a paste; roll it out the sixth of an inch thick. Line a pie-dish, ornament the edge to taste, put in the pudding, and bake in a quick oven for thirty-five or forty minutes. Serve hot or cold. 487. CONSERVATIVE PUDDING. Four ounces of sponge-cake, half an ounce of ratafias, an ounce and a half of macaroons; put them into a basin, and pour over half a gill of rum and a gill of good cream; add six well-beaten eggs; beat for ten minutes. Butter a pint mould, stick it taste- fully with preserved cherries; put in the pudding, tie it over with writing paper spread with butter, and steam over fast- boiling water for an hour and a half. Turn out carefully, and serve with clarified sugar (flavoured with almond) in the dish, not poured over the pudding. Three ounces of loaf sugar, a laurel leaf, and half a gill of water, boiled ten minutes, will make the sauce.