PUDDINGS, PAST11Y, JELLIES, CBEAM, ETC. 204 new milk, two fresh eggs, beaten, two ounces of sifted sugar, and two ounces of dried flour ; mix the eggs with the flour, then add the rest, and beat for a quarter of an hour. Butter four or five small moulds; rather more than half fill them, and bake in a quick oven for eighteen or twenty minutes. Serve, with clarified sugar flavoured to taste, or with the following sauce in the dish. 573. MARASCHINO SYRUP. Put three ounces of loaf sugar into a saucepan with four bitter almonds, blanched and chopped, the thin rind of a quarter of a lemon, the strained juice of a sweet orange, and a wineglassful of water; boil and skim till quite bright and thick; then strain; add a wineglassful of Maraschino, and serve. 574. CUP PUDDINGS. Beat three ounces of fresh butter to cream; mix with it three ounces of baked flour, three ounces of sifted loaf sugar, three ounces of currants, or chopped raisins, and three tablespoonfuls of cream; beat ten minutes. Butter six or seven small moulds, three parts fill them, and bake iu a quick oven for twenty minutes. Turn out, and serve, with the preceding sauce poured over. 575. ITALIAN (JAM) ROLL. Put half a pint of new milk and four ounces of fresh butter into a saucepan; place it over a slow fire, and, wdren nearly boiling, stir in six ounces of sifted flour, four ounces of loaf sugar, in fine powder, and the grated rind of a lemon; when well mixed, add four beaten fresh eggs; stir till it becomes a paste ; then turn it on to a paste-board, and let it get cold. Dredge it with baked flour, and roll it out a quarter of an inch thick. Spread it with any kind of jam or marmalade, roll it over to the form of a bolster, and bake on a tin in a moderate oven for twenty or twenty-five minutes. Sift loaf sugar thickly over, and, when cold, serve either whole or cut into neat slices three-quar- ters of an inch thick, the cut side turned upwards. 57C. ITALIAN (ALMOND) SANDWICHES. Put into a basin four ounces of baked flour, two ounces of fresh butter, an ounce and a half of sifted sugar, and half a tea- spoonful of powdered cinnamon; rub the butter into the flour