•WHITE, OX-CHEEK, AND SHEEP’S-HEAD SOUrS. 13 rice flour, and half a pint of thick sweet cream. Cut up the fowl and veal, wash and slice the vegetables, blanch the almonds. Put these all into an iron pot with three pints of water, and simmer (skimming often) gently for two hours. Add the strained juice of the lemon, and half the rind cut off very thin, a blade of mace, a dessertspoonful of loaf sugar, half a grain of cayenne, two teaspoonfuls of salt, and (a pint at a time) four pints more water. Boil up and skim between each addition of water. Mix two tablespoonfuls of rice-flour with a teacupful of cold water, and stir into the soup till well mixed. Then continue To simmer for two hours and a half. Strain the soup through a fine sieve. Boil up again, add the cream, and serve at once. 31. OX-CHEEK SOUP (A LA MODE). Well wash an ox cheek; put it into an iron pot with three onions, two carrots, a head of celery, a turnip, a small bunch of sweet herbs, six sprigs of parsley, a black onion (see receipt), three cloves, ten peppercorns, a tablespoonful of moist sugar, a teaspoonful of mustard, a teaspoonful of curry powder, a salt- spoonful of black pepper, a quarter of a clove of garlic, four tea- spoonfuls of salt, quarter of a pound of mild lean bacon, and three quarts of water. Boil up quickly, skim, then simmer for three hours. Take out the cheek and cut off six slices of meat, half an inch thick. Put the cheek again into the pot. Mix three tablespoonfuls of flour with a dessertspoonful of soy, a tablespoon- ful of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, and two tablespoonfuls of brandy; stir this into the soup, and continue to simmer for two hours. Cut the slices of meat into inch squares, cut into small balls a large carrot and a turnip, peel twelve button onions, fry the pieces of meat and these vege- tables in a quarter of a pound of good butter, till nicely browned and tender. Skim off all the fat, strain the soup through a sieve. Add the pieces of meat and small vegetables; simmer half an hour, then serve. 32. SHEEP’S-HEAD SOUP. AV ell wash two heads, put them into an iron pot with two onions, one leek, two carrots, one turnip, one head of celery, a quarter of a clove of garlic, a dessertspoonful of brown sugar, two teaspoonfuls of salt, a mustardspoonful of fresh-made