SAVOY, MARROW, GERMAN, AND BAKE WELL PUDDINGS. 187 510. SAVOY PUDDING. Rub six ounces of Savoy cakes to crumbs, cut into small pieces a quarter of a pound of mixed candied peel, beat the yolks of four fresh eggs, beat a quarter of a pound of fresh butter to cream ; mix these ingredients well together ; add two ounces of sifted loaf sugar, two tablespoonfuls of brandy or rum, and a quarter of a pint of new milk; beat for ten minutes. Let it stand an hour to soak, then beat ten minutes more. Butter a pie-dish, put in the pudding, and bake in a quick oven for half an hour. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and place over the top of the pudding; put it again into the oven for five minutes ; then serve. 511. BAKED MARKOW PUDDING. Cut two French rolls into thin shoes, without crust, chop as small as possible six ounces of fresh beef-marrow, wash and rub in a coarse cloth six ounces of currants, chop three ounces of candied orange-peel, beat three fresh eggs with three-quarters of a pint of new milk and six ounces of sugar ; add the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated. Butter a pie-dish, and place in the ingre- dients in the following order:—Bread, marrow, fruit, custard, and so continue till the dish is full. Let it stand twenty minutes for the bread to soak; then bake in a moderate oven for an hour and three-quarters. Serve hot. 51-2. GERMAN PUDDING. Dissolve a quarter of a pound of butter in a wineglassful of new milk, and stir it into a quarter of a pound of dried flour ; add a quarter of a pound of sifted loaf sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, and four beaten eggs; beat for a quarter of an hour. Butter a mould, pour in the pudding, and boil fast for forty minutes, or bake in a quick oven for half an hour. Serve with clarified sugar flavoured with lemon. Three ounces of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of water, the juice and rind of two lemons; boil fast for ten minutes ; pour it over the pudding, if boiled, and in the dish, if baked. 513. BAKEWELL PUDDING. Blanch three ounces of sweet almonds, and boil them in half a pint of new milk for ten minutes; then pound them to a smooth