298 PRESERVES. 897. PRESERVED BEETROOT. This preserve will be found very useful to cut up for garnish, and for colouring jellies, creams, and sauces. It is also very nice as a sweetmeat: it should be cut into small balls when so served. Wash and peel six well-shaped beetroots; put them into a skillet with a pint and a half of cold water; boil up, skim, then simmer for twenty minutes; add the thin rind of four lemons, the strained juice of six, an inch of vanilla, an inch of cinnamon, four cloves, and four pounds of loaf sugar ; boil rather fast, and skim, till the beetroot is quite tender (about an hour). Place the beetroot in ajar ; boil the syrup very fast, till it becomes rich and thick, then strain it over, and the next day tie it down. Note.—Whenever cherry juice may be used, this may be substituted successfully. 898. ORANGE MARMALADE. Four dozen of Seville oranges, three dozen of St. Michael, and one dozen of fine lemons; wipe them all with a clean cloth. Peel the oranges with a very sharp knife, only taking off the yellow part; put that into cold water, and boil till it is tender. Grate the peel of the lemons ; take the white peel and pith off all the fruit; cut it into quarters, and take out the pips; strain out the juice ; strain the peel, and cut it into shreds ; put the pulp out of which the juice was extracted into the water the peel was boiled in, and boil till it is tender, then rub it through a fine sieve. Mix the shredded and grated peel, the pulp, and juice, and weigh out the same weight of loaf sugar. Put the whole into a preserving-pan, stir with a wooden spoon till the sugar dissolves, then skim, and boil till it becomes a rich marmalade (about an hour). Put the marmalade into pots, and the following day tie it over with cap paper, and brush that over with the white of egg. 899. DAMSON CHEESE. The damsons must be quite ripe and fresh gathered. Pub off the bloom and pick off the stems; take the same weight of loaf sugar as of fruit, put both into a preserving-pan, and place it over a slow fire ; stir frequently till it boils; skim constantly, and simmer for an hour and a half; then rub the fruit through a hair sieve. Put it into small moulds, and the next day tie them over.