183 POTATO PUDDING. MOGGINA’S PUDDING. 495. POTATO PUDDING. Bake four or five mealy potatoes, and press them out of the skin as soon as they are done, that the steam may evaporate; when cold, bruise them, and rub them through a fine wire sieve with a wooden spoon. To six ounces of potato, add six ounces of sifted loaf sugar, the grated rind and strained juice of a lemon, two tablespoonfuls of brandy, a gill of thick cream, or a quarter of a pound of fresh butter beaten to cream ; and four fresh eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately ; beat for a quarter of an hour; butter a plain tin mould; stick it with candied peel cut into thin half circles; put in the pudding, and bake in a quick oven for three-quarters of an hour ; turn out, and serve immediately ; or the pudding may be steamed over fast-boiling water for an hour, and served with any of the preceding sauces. 496. ALMOND AND POTATO PUDDING. Blanch a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds and boil them in half a pint of new milk for twenty minutes, then pound them to a soft paste; dissolve in the milk a quarter of a pound of fresh butter and six ounces of loaf sugar. Rub six ounces of cold mealy potatoes (roasted or steamed) to a fine powder ; grate the rind and strain the juice of a large lemon ; grate the sixth part of a nutmeg; beat five fresh eggs, yolks and whites separately. Mix these ingredients together, adding the whites of the eggs last; beat for a quarter of an hour or longer; butter a tin mould, put in the mixture, and bake in a quick oven for forty minutes; turn out carefully, and serve at once. Notb.—If baked in a pie-dish, ten minutes longer will be necessary, and the top may be strewed over with sweet almonds chopped to the size of split peas. 497. MOGGINA’S PUDDING. Grate half a pound of fresh cocoa-nut; beat half a pound of fresh butter to cream ; beat the whites of six fresh eggs to froth ; mix these together; add half a pound of sifted loaf sugar ; butter a tin mould, put in the mixture, and bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes; turn out, and serve, hot or cold ; or the mould may be lined with a rich puff paste ; or the paste made as in the following receipt. In either case, bake in a moderate oven an hour or rather more.