VEAL. 104 flour, strain three-quarters of a pint of the liquor the head is boiled in, stir in the butter and boil for ten minutes. Add half a gill of thick cream and the strained juice of half a lemon ; fifteen button mushrooms may be added, or a dessertspoonful of finely chopped parsley. Note.—Reserve the liquor in an earthen uncovered pan for stock or soup. 281. CALF'S HEAD, BAKED, WITH ITALIAN SAUCE. Trim and boil the head as directed in the preceding receipt, only adding a carrot, a turnip, half a head of celery, an onion, a blade of mace, three cloves, a laurel leaf, three allspice, six peppercorns, half a saltspoonful of mustard-seed, a tablespoonful of sugar, and a tablespoonful of salt. When the head is done, fold it in a cloth to dry. Season two ounces of dry fine crumbs of bread with a saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of white pepper, the fourth part of a nutmeg, grated, the grated rind of a lemon, a saltspoonful of mixed sweet herbs, a dessertspoonful of finely chopped parsley, and a grain of cayenne. Brush the head over with beaten egg, sift the crumbs over that, and let it get dry. Dissolve six ounces of butter, pour half of it over the head ; add the rest of the crumbs, then the remainder of the butter. Bake in a moderate oven about an hour; baste fre- quently. Serve Avitli the following sauce in the dish, but not poured over the head:—Peel and cut into thin slices a small cucumber, four truffles, and one shalot; skin and trim eighteen button mushrooms ; put them into a saucepan with a quarter of a pound of butter, and shake it over a brisk fire for. ten minutes, then stir in two tablespoonfuls of baked flour ; add threequarters of a pint of the liquor the head was boiled in, a grain of cayenne, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, half a saltspoonful of salt; stir over the fire for ten minutes. Add the juice of a lemon and half a gill of Marsala. Serve immediately. 282. HASHED CALF’S HEAD. (Second dressing.) Cut up the cold head into neat slices a quarter of an inch thick and about three inches long. Season (three-quarters of a pound) with a saltspoonfnl and a half of salt, a saltspoonful of white pepper, a grain of cayenne, the eighth part of a nutmeg,