PRESERVES. 296 891. PRESERVED APRICOTS. The following receipt in every way may be adhered to. 892. PRESERVED PEACHES, WHOLE. The peaches must be sound and not over-ripe. Wipe off the bloom, and throw them into a preserving-pan more than half filled with boiling water. Cover it with a cloth, and let it stand where it will keep hot, but not boil, for an hour. Then take them out, and put them into cold water. When they are cold, take off the peel, open the ends sufficiently to extract the stones, break the stones, and blanch the kernels. Weigh the peaches, and take the same weight of loaf sugar. Put the sugar into a preserving-pan, with sufficient water to moisten it, and boil till it is in syrup. Put in the peaches and kernels, and let them boil up for five minutes; then put them into a dish, and pour the syrup over them. Cover the dish with a sheet of paper, and let it re- main till the next day. Drain off the syrup, boil it for three minutes, and pour it over the peaches. Do this every day for a week. The last time, put in the peaches, and boil fast for ten minutes. Put them carefully into pots, pour the syrup over, and put part of the kernels in each pot, and the next day tie them down. 893. PRESERVED NECTARINES. Follow the preceding receipt, except that the peel may be left on. 894. PRESERVED PINE-APPLE. The pines must be ripe and perfectly sound. Cut off the rough yellow outside skin as thin as possible; then pare them thickly enough to take out all the eyes ; cut them into slices half an inch thick; then weigh, and to each pound of pine allow fourteen ounces of loaf sugar and half a gill of cold water. Put the thick parings into a piece of coarse muslin, and press out the juice. Put the sugar, the juice, and the water into a preserving- pan, and stir over a slow heat till it boils and the sugar is dis- solved ; then boil up quickly, and skim ; put in the fruit, and boil gently for twenty minutes, skimming constantly. Lay the fruit in a deep dish or basin, pour the syrup over, and let it stand for two days. Put it again into the preserving-pan, and boil slowly