22 FISH. butter. Roll it in a pudding-cloth ; secure both ends ; place it in a steamer over fast boiling water for thirty-five minutes. Turn it out carefully and serve, with the following sauce poured over it:—Put half a laurel leaf and half a bay leaf in a gill of new milk, and boil for three minutes. Beat the yolks of two fresh eggs with a wineglassful of cream. Take out the leaves; stir in the eggs for two minutes over the fire. Add the strained juice of half a lemon, stirred in by degrees, and pour it over the pudding. 52. SOUSED SALMON. (Second dressing.) Mix half a pint of the best vinegar with a gill of water, a saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of white pepper, a grain of cayenne, an inch of ginger, ten peppercorns, two cloves, a small blade of mace, and a quarter of a clove of garlic. Boil for ten minutes; then let it get cold. Trim the salmon neatly (about a pound and a half), place it in a deep dish, and strain the vinegar over it. Let it remain in pickle for twelve hours or more. Serve on a flat dish, with a garnish of fresh fennel. Note.—A teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar is an improvement 53. SALMON CUTLETS, WITH MILANESE SAUCE. For six cutlets, order three slices, the third of an inch thick, out of the middle of a small salmon; cut each slice into two; take off the skin, and remove the bone. Have six pieces of thin white paper; rub them three times across with fresh-cut garlic; spread them with butter (three ounces for the six). Put a wineglassful of Marsala into a soup-plate ; dip each cutlet into the wine ; then fold it in the buttered paper, and broil over a slow fire, or fry in plenty of boiling fat for a quarter of an hour; drain on a sieve before the fire. Take off the paper, and serve with the following sauce in the dish. 54. MILANESE SAUCE. Wash and bone two anchovies, peel one large mushroom and four shalots; chop these small, and put them into an iron sauce- pan with two ounces of butter, and stir over the fire till nicely browned; dredge in a tablespoonful of baked flour. When well mixed, add a tablespoonful of caper vinegar, a tablespoonful