266 PLAIN COOKING. thick). Fry the bacon, place it on a dish before the fire. Fry the veal in the bacon fat over a slow fire : it should take twenty minutes. When nicely browned on both sides, place it on the dish with the bacon round. Pour off the fat, dredge a dessert- spoonful of baked flour into the frying-pan, put in half an ounce of butter, shake the pan, and add a gill of water; boil up for a few minutes, add half a saltspoonful of salt, and serve in the dish with the veal and bacon. 792. VEGETABLE SOUP. Put into the liquor in which a knuckle of veal, or any other fresh meat, has been boiled, one carrot, one turnip, two onions, one lettuce, all cut into small pieces; add a dessertspoonful of salt, the same of sugar, a saltspoonful of pepper, and a quarter of a grain of cayenne. Boil for one hour; then put in a pint, or more, of peas, and continue to boil till they are tender, which will be, according to the age, from twenty minutes to three- quarters of an hour. Note.—A nice soup may always be made from any fresh bones, using vegetables as directed above in the summer, and in the winter split-peas, as directed in the first receipt for soup in Plain Cookery. 793. LEG OF POKE, STUFFED AND ROASTED. Chop fine three onions, rub to powder six sage leaves, add half a saltspoonful of pepper and a saltspoonful of salt; mix well together. Have a leg of pork, about five pounds’ weight. Loosen the flap from the meat with a sharp knife ; make a division large enough to contain the stuffing; put it in ; fasten down the flap with two small skewers. Bub the skin of the pork with dripping; hang it before a good fire, at a distance; let it roast very slowly, and baste it constantly, for two hours and a half. Take out the skewers; put the pork on a very hot dish, skin upwards. Pour off the dripping ; add a teacupful of boiling water and half a salt- spoonful of salt to the gravy that has dripped from the meat; pour it into the dish, not over the pork, and serve. Note. The skin of the pork must be scored with a sharp knife, each line half an inch apart.