VEAL. 100 veal (without the bacon) again into the stewpan, pour in the gravy, add the juice of a large lemon, strained, and two table- spoonfuls of white wine ; simmer half an hour longer, and serve. Note.—Pull out the thread before sending the veal to table. 273. STEWED BREAST OF VEAL IN WHITE SAUCE. Make a small stewpan hot, and rub it four times across with fresh-cut garlic; have a neatly cut square piece of the breast of veal, about three pounds ; place it in the stewpan, with two shalots, a blade of mace, the thin rind of half a lemon, a laurel leaf, a sprig of thyme, and three sprigs of parsley, all tied up in a piiece of clear muslin. Pour over a pint of water; boil up quickly; skim ; add a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of white pepper, and simmer, as gently as possible, for three hours and a half. Beat the yolks of two fresh eggs with half a gill of thick cream; take out the muslin bag, skim off every particle of fat; stir in the eggs for two minutes, and serve immediately. 274. BREAST OF VEAL STEWED WITH GREEN PEAS. Chop quite small three white leaves of a fresh-cut lettuce and six blades of chives ; cut into eight pieces two pounds of breast of veal, dredge it lightly with baked flour, and sprinkle over it a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of white pepper, and a dessert- spoonful of sifted sugar. Put these ingredients into a bright stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, and fry to a pale brown colour; add three-quarters of a pint of water, and simmer very gently for two hours; baste the veal with the gravy, and skim frequently till every particle of fat is removed. Put in a pint and a half of young fresh-shelled peas; simmer twenty-live minutes longer, and serve immediately. 275. BREAST OF VEAL STEWED WITH OYSTERS. Havp a neatly cut piece of the breast of veal, about two pounds and a half; place it in a stewpan, with a large onion, two cloves, a blade of mace, an inch of cinnamon, a sprig of parsley, a laurel leaf, a bay leaf, and a small sprig of thyme, all tied loosely in a piece of muslin; strain over the juice, of a large lemon and the liquor of three dozen oysters; simmer very gently for three hours,