75 STEWED LAMB. LAMB PIE. cucumbers into a quart of cold water, with a tablespoonful of salt and a wineglassful of vinegar, and let them remain for three hours; drain off the water. Knead a quarter of a pound of good butter with two dessertspoonfuls of dried flour, a grain of cay- enne, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, and a teaspoonful of sifted loaf sugar; put it into a bright stewpan, and shake over the fire till of a pale yellow colour; then put in the cucumber and simmer very gently for twenty minutes ; shake the pan fre- quently ; add a gill of stock (No. 2) ; continue to simmer for ten minutes. Add the strained juice of a small lemon, and serve, poured over the cutlets, cooked as follows :—Have eight cutlets from the best end of the neck, trim off the fat, and bare the bone about an inch. Mix a saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper, and a dessertspoonful of finely chopped parsley ; season the cutlets, and fry them to a pale brown colour in dissolved butter (a quarter of a pound). They will require eighteen minutes to fry slowly. 217. STEWED LAMB AND PEAS. Any part of lamb will do, but the neck is the best; cut it into neat chops (about one pound and a half); season with a salt- spoonful and a half of salt, a saltspoonful of white pepper, and a dessertspoonful of dry flour ; fry in butter (an ounce) till of a pale brown colour on both sides (eight minutes). Chop, quite small, two shalots, and four white leaves of a lettuce ; put them into a stewpan, with an ounce of butter, a teaspoonful of sifted loaf sugar, two leaves of tan-agon, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. When the butter is dissolved, put in the chops and three-quarters of a pint of any stock or water; simmer very gently for twenty minutes. Add a pint of very young fresh- shelled peas, half a saltspoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful of loaf sugar; continue to simmer till the peas are quite tender ; which, if young and fresh, will be a quarter of an hour. Place the lamb neatly on a hot dish, pour over the peas, and serve at once. 218. LAMB-PIE. , Cut about two pounds of neck of lamb into thin chops; take off nearly all the fat and all rough pieces; chop the bones off short; season with three saltspoonfuls of salt and two saltspoon-