BLACK CURRANT, JAM, SUET, AND TREACLE PUDDINGS. 275 ounces of either dripping or chopped suet. Line a basin; put in half the rhubarb, then a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, and the rest of the rhubarb; cover it closely with a circular piece of paste; press it down at the edge to make it adhere; tie over a cloth ; put the pudding into plenty of boiling water, and boil for two hours and a half. Loosen round the top with a knife ; turn out carefully, and serve. 821. BLACK CURRANT PUDDING. Make the paste as directed in the preceding receipt. Use six ounces of sugar and a pint and a half of currants, nicely picked. Note.—Damsons and red currants require six ounces of sugar to a pint and a half of fruit, but a quarter of a pound will be sufficient for cherries or plums. 822. JAM ROLLED PUDDING. Make a paste with six ounces of finely-chopped suet and three- quarters of a poimd of flour; roll it out a quarter of an inch thick; spread it over with half a pound of any kind of jam; wet the edge of the paste all round; roll it up into the form of a bolster; press the edge to make it adhere ; tie it in a cloth ; put it into a pan of boiling water, without bending it, and boil quickly for an hour and three quarters. Turn out carefully; cut the pudding into six pieces, and serve, the cut side uppermost. Note.—Marmalade, chopped apples, lemon juice, and currants may be used instead of jam for a change. 823. SUET PUDDING. Chop quite fine six ounces of suet; mix it with half a pound of flour, and two ounces of breadcrumbs ; add half a saltspoonful ol salt and sufficient cold water to make it into a soft dough. Dip a cloth into boiling water, dredge it with flour, put in the pudding, tie it quite tight, put it into plenty of boiling water, and boil three hours and a half, every now and then raising it from the bottom. Turn it out of the cloth on to a hot dish, and serve. 824. TREACLE PUDDING. Make a paste with six ounces of dripping and ten ounces of flour; roll it out the third of an inch thick; spread over it half a pound of treacle; wet the edge all round with water; roll up t 2