72 LAMB. 209. BOILED LEG OF LAME. Put the lamb into sufficient cold water just to cover it; boil up quickly; skim ; then simmer as gently as possible till done, allowing nineteen minutes to the pound, after it boils. When it has simmered three-quarters of an hour, add a dessertspoonful of salt. Serve with caper-sauce made as follows:—Take half a pint of the liquor the lamb is boiled in ; stir into it three ounces of butter, kneaded with a tablespoonful of baked flour; boil ten minutes; chop a tablespoonful of capers ; add these; then stir in a tablespoonful of thick cream. Place the lamb on a hot dish, the skin downwards; pour over half of the sauce, and the re- mainder serve in a tureen ; garnish with young carrots and mashed or whole young turnips. 210. BOILED NECK OF LAMB. Put a neck of lamb into sufficient cold water to just cover it; boil up quickly ; skim ; then simmer very gently for an hour. Knead a small tablespoonful of baked flour with two ounces of butter, and stir into the third of a pint of the liquor the lamb is boiled in ; boil ten minutes ; then add a dessertspoonful of finely chopped parsley ; boil fast for three minutes. Place the lamb on a hot dish, bones downwards; pour the sauce over, and garnish with plain boiled young turnips. Serve very hot. Note.—The liquor will make excellent ‘ economical soup ’—see receipt— or can he added to any stock. 211. MINCED LAMB. (Second dressing.) Mince about one pound of either roast or boiled lamb ; season it with a saltspoonful and a half of white pepper, two saltspoon- fuls of salt, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, one shalot, finely chopped, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and two dessertspoon- fuls of baked flour ; add three-quartern of a pint of gravy (made with the bones) and two ounces of butter; stir frequently, and simmer gently for twenty minutes. Serve with a wall of spinach round the dish. Well wash and pick the spinach, put it into a quart of boiling water, with a tnblcspoonful of moist sugar and a dessertspoonful of salt; press it well into the water, and boil