MUTTON CUTLETS. A CUT MALAY CUliKY. Go boiling water, a teaspoonful of salt, and a dessertspoonful of sugar, and boil till done (about eighteen minutes) ; drain off the water, rub the spinach through a fine wire sieve, and put it into a saucepan ; add a dessertspoonful of sifted sugar and a quarter of a gill of thick cream ; stir over the fire for five minutes. Place the spinach round the dish and the cutlets in the centre, the ends of the bones raised in the middle of the dish. Note.—Sorrel is dressed exactly as spinach, omitting the sugar. Some persons object to sugar with spinach, which should he ascertained before using it. 189. MUTTON CUTLETS, WITH INDIAN SAUCE. Have six or eight cutlets off the best end of the neck, the third of an inch thick ; trim off all the fat and gristle, leaAnng only the round piece of lean; beat them with a chopper ; brush them over with beaten egg, and strew them with fine crumbs of bread, seasoned with the tenth part of a nutmeg grated, and half a salt- spoonful of salt; put them into a tin dish, with a small piece of butter (a quarter of an ounce to each) under and on each, and bake in a moderate oven about three-quarters of an hour ; they must be a light brown colour. Chop fine a teacupful of Indian pickle; add to it a tablespoonful of chutney, two tablespoonfuls of stock or gravy ; simmer ten minutes, and serve, with the cutlets; place the cutlets in a circle, and the sauce in the centre. 190. A DRY MALAY CURRY. Pick a cauliflour into small pieces, and well wash them ; chop tAvo onions and one sour apple; pick a pint of fresh boiled shrimps; trim the fat off of five or six mutton cutlets ; knead a quarter of a pound of butter Avith tAvo tablespoonfuls of curry-poAvder and a teaspoonful of salt. Put the butter, onions, and apple into a stewpan, and fry till broAvn ; lay in the cutlets, then the cauli- flour and shrimps. Add a piece of garlic as big as a pea (bruised), shake the pan frequently, and let it simmer for an hour and three-quarters; add the strained juice of a large lemon. Place the cutlets round the dish, and the cauliflower in the centre; serve very hot, with a separate dish of boiled rice. W ;ish half a pound of the best rice, put it into three pints of F