PUDDINGS, PASTBY, JELLIES, CBEAM, ETC. 208 ounces of fresh butter; fold over, and let it stand two hours in a cool place ; roll out again twice, and each time dredge over a littly dry flour ; rub the tins slightly with butter, and line them with the paste, the sixth of an inch thick ; trim round the edge ; fill the centre with jam; ornament with narrow strips of p»aste, laid on in cross-bars, or with leaves tastefully arranged, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. Tartlets may be ornamented with a small crescent of paste in the centre, and baked a quarter of an hour or eighteen minutes. The quantity given will make two tarts (ten inches by seven) or twelve tartlets. 587. OPEN APPLE TART. Peel and core eight or ten good apples; put them into a sauce- pan, with half their weight of loaf sugar, the grated rind and strained juice of a large lemon, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, and a wineglassful of white wine ; stir over a quick fire till they become a rich marmalade. When nearly cold, add four beaten eggs and a gill of good cream; beat till quite cold ; fine a tart- tin with paste made as directed in the preceding receipt (a quarter of an inch thick), put in the apple mixture, and bake in a moderately-heated oven for thirty-five or forty minutes. Serve hot. 588. GROUND RICE CHEESECAKE. Knead two tablespoonfuls of ground rice with two ounces of fresh butter, and stir into half a pint of new milk, boiling ; add six ounces of loaf sugar, the strained juice and grated rind of a large lemon ; stir over the fire for a quarter of an hour; then let it get nearly cold. Make a paste as follows:—Form ounces of baked flour, half an ounce of ground rice, and five ounces of fresh butter, rubbed together; add a dessertspoonful of loaf sugar ; moisten with the yolk of an egg beaten with a wineglass- ful of cold water; knead to a smooth paste; roll it out to the size of the dish (eleven-inch oval tin dish), put it in, trim round the edge. Beat the yolks of six eggs; add them to the mixture ; beat ten minutes, put it on the paste ; grate the rind of a lemon over the top, and bake in a quick oven for half an hour. Serve hot. 589. CHARLOTTE RUSSE. Beat the yolks of five fresh eggs, and strain them into half a pint of good cream ; put this into an enamelled saucepan, and stir over