4 SOUl’S, BKOTHS, ETC. cold water; put the stems into a stewpan with eight spring onions, a saltspoonful of salt, a dessertspoonful of sifted sugar, and a pint and a half of cold water. Boil fast for an hour, then strain off the water and add it to three pints and a half of stock (No. 1). Boil rapidly (uncovered) for half an hour; add the asparagus heads and a wineglassful of brown sherry. Continue to boil for fifteen or twenty minutes, then serve. 12. SPRING SOUP. (Two quarts.) Cut into small balls, with a vegetable scoop, sufficient carrots and turnips to fill a breakfast-cup ; equal quantities of each. Peel eight spring onions, and cut them into pieces the size of a pea; scrape twenty-five asparagus, cut off the heads an inch long, and throw them into cold water; shell half a pint of young green peas ; chop a dessertspoonful of parsley quite small. Put the carrots, turnips, and onions into a pint of cold water, with two tablespoonfuls of loaf sugar, and let them remain for an hour. Put the trimmings of the vegetables into five pints of stock (No. 1), and boil for an hour. Strain. Add the carrots, turnips, and onions ; boil fast for a quarter of an hour, then put in the peas and asparagus heads: continue to boil fast (uncovered) for twenty minutes ; add a teaspoonful of salt and the parsley; boil two minutes more, then serve. 13. GREEN PEA SOUP. (Two quarts.) Wash two handfuls of fresh young spinach, two sprigs of mint, a large lettuce, and twelve spring onions; leave them in cold water, with three tablespoonfuls of moist sugar, for two hours. Shell a quart of old peas and three-quarters of a pint of young. Put all, except the young peas, into a stewpan containing a quart of boiling water, a teaspoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful of loaf sugar. Boil fast (uncovered) for an hour : then add three pints of stock (No. 2). Stir frequently. Knead two tablespoonfuls of baked flour with two ounces of fresh butter, and stir in for ten minutes. Rub the whole through a fine hair sieve, put it back into the stewpan and boil up; put in the young peas, stir