42 FISH. Serve very liot, on a neatly folded napkin, and with the following sauce in a tureen :—Knead three ounces of butter with a table- spoonful of baked flour; strain the third of a pint of the water the eel is boiled in, and stir the butter into it; boil ten minutes; scald a bunch of parsley, chop it, and stir a good-sized teaspoonful into the sauce. Note.—An onion or a slialot in the water improves the flavour of the eel, if not intended for a delicate digestion. 122. STEWED EELS. Skin and cut off the fins of an eel weighing two pounds; put it on a gridiron over a bright quick fire for six minutes to draw out the fat, well scrape it, andcut it into pieces three inches long; put it into a pie-dish with the strained juice of two lemons, a saltspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, a moderate-sized onion, chopped fine, a quarter of a clove of garlic, chopped, and a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar ; well rub the eel with this seasoning, and let it remain for an hour. Dissolve two ounces of butter, dip each piece of eel in, and dredge it with baked flour. Fry to a nice brown colour over a quick fire (in two ounces of butter) for ten minutes. Put three- quarters of a pint of stock (No. 1) into a stewpan, with a tea- spoonful of anchovy-sauce, a dessertspoonful of soy, a grain of cayenne, and a tablespoonful of baked flour; stir till it boils. Put in the eel, boil up quickly, skim carefully, then simmer gently for twenty-five minutes. Add half a gill of port wine, and serve. Note.—Button onions, button mushrooms, or fried sippets may be added. 123. STEWED EELS, WHITE. Skin and trim off the fins of two eels, weighing about one pound each ; put them into a saucepan of boiliug water, with a tablespoonful of vinegar and a dessertspoonful of salt, and let them remain for five minutes, to extract the fat; drain on a cloth. Knead three ounces of butter with a tablespoonful of flour, a saltspoonful of white pepper, and a saltspoonful of salt; put it into a bright stewpan, and shake it over a slow fire till well melted, but not browned. Cut the eels into pieces three inches long, put them into the stewpan, and shake it till the butter