Fisir. 44 yolks of two eggs, two ounces of fine crumbs of bread, a dessert- spoonful of finely chopped parsley, a saltspoonful of mixed sweet herbs in powder, the tenth part of a nutmeg, grated, the grated rind of half a lemon, a tablespoonful of baked flour, three ounces of butter beaten to a cream, half a saltspoonful of white pepper, a grain of cayenne, a saltspoonful of salt, and two well- beaten fresh eggs. Spread the stuffing over the eel, roll it up, beginning at the tail, bind it tightly, and sew it up in a piece of stout linen ; put it into a stewpan with an onion, sliced, a quarter of a clove of garlic, half a carrot, sliced, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, one clove, half a saltspoonful of pepper, a saltspoonful of salt, and two ounces of butter; simmer over the fire till the butter is nearly absorbed; then add a gill of Marsala and half a pint of water; boil up quickly, skim, then simmer gently for forty minutes. Take out the eel, stir two dessertspoonfuls of flour into the sauce; boil rapidly for ten minutes. Take off the linen, and strain the sauce over the eel. Note.—Collared eel may also be served cold, garnished with aspic jelly and sliced cucumber. 1‘27. EELS, WITH TARTAR SAUCE. Have an eel weighing a pound and a half; skin it, and cut off the fins; put it into boiling water, with a tablespoonful of vinegar and a teaspoonful of salt, and let it remain five minutes; cut it into three-inch lengths, and roll it in a clean cloth to dry. Make a batter as follows :—Beat the yolks of two eggs, and mix with three tablespoonfuls of baked flour; add an ounce of dissolved butter and the third of a pint of tepid water; beat quickly for ten minutes; let it stand in a cool place for two or three hours. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and add to the batter; continue to beat for ten minutes. Dip the eel into the batter; then fry it in boiling lard (enough to cover it) till of a pale brown colour (about twenty minutes) ; drain on a cloth before the fire. Place the eel in a circular form on a cold dish, and serve with the following sauce in the centre :—Rub the hard-boiled yolks of three eggs to a powder; add a saltspoonful of flour of mustard, half a saltspoonful of salt, half a grain of cayenne, and the beaten yolk of one egg; stir in, drop by drop, four tablespoonfuls of Lucca oil, two teaspoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, and one table-