202 PUDDINGS, PASTRY, .TELLIES, CREAM, ETC. juice of two lemons, one beaten egg, and half a gill of milk or water ; mix these ingredients, and beat with a wooden spoon for ten minutes. Wring a cloth out of hot water, dredge it with flour, divide the paste into four or five equal parts, make each up in the form of a ball, tie them in the cloth separately, put them into boiling water, and boil fast for an hour. Serve hot, with loaf sugar sifted over them. 567. KICH LEMON DUMPLINGS. Six ounces of sifted crumbs of bread, half a pound of beef- marrow, chopped, six ounces of loaf sugar, the grated rind and strained juice of two lemons, two beaten eggs, and half a gill of milk; mix these ingredients, and let it stand for half an hour; then beat the mixture for ten minutes, divide it into five or six equal parts, tie each in a cloth; plunge them in fast-boiling water, and boil fast for an hour. Serve with blanched sweet almonds, finely chopped (an ounce), strewed over, or with sifted sugar. Note.—Either of these mixtures may he made into a pudding; in that case, boil in a basin for three hours. 568. HASTY PUFFS. Put three-quarters of a pint of new milk into a saucepan, with the thin rind of half a lemon and an inch of cinnamon,* and boil up ; then stir in quickly three ounces of flour ; when well mixed, add three ounces of butter and three tablespoonfuls of sugar; when nearly cold, add three well-beaten eggs. Take out the peel and cinnamon, beat for five minutes. Butter six small cups; put a sixth part of the mixture into each, and bake in a quick oven for ten or twelve minutes. Turn out, and serve, with any kind of preserve placed round the dish. 569. PUDDINGS IN HASTE. An equal quantity of fine crumbs of bread, beef-suet, chopped, and currants, Avell -washed; half the quantity of sugar, eggs, and milk ; mix well. Dip some small cloths in hot water; wring them dry ; dredge well with flour, put a teacupful of the mixture into each, tie them up tightly, throw them into boding water, and boil fast for twenty minutes. Turn out carefully, sift loaf sugar over, and serve at once.