POULTRY. 140 stewpan, with rather more than a pint of fresh-shelled young peas, a teaspoonful of loaf sugar, and a saltspoonful of salt; boil rapidly, uncovered, for ten minutes ; put in the duck, and simmer gently for twenty-five minutes more. Place the duck on a hot dish ; pull out the skewers; pour the peas and gravy into the dish, and serve at once. 360. BRAISED DUCK, WITH OLIVES. Soak a teacupful and a half of olives in cold water for three hours; split them on one side, and take out the stone; press a quarter of a clove of garlic into an ounce of butter, dip it into white pepper, and put into the body of the duck; spread two ounces of butter over the breast, and on that lay a thin slice of fat bacon. Put it into a stewpan, with two onions, half a carrot, four sprigs of parsley, a bay leaf, one clove, and a saltspoonful of salt. Fry over the fire till the duck is browned slightly; then add three-quarters of a pint of strong stock, of any kind, and simmer for three quarters of an hour; baste the duck constantly with the gravy ; take out the duck, put it into the oven for ten minutes; stir into the gravy a tablespoonful of flour; boil rapidly for ten minutes (without the lid). Skim off all the fat, and strain through a sieve ; put the gravy back into the stewpan; wash and wipe the olives; put them into the gravy; boil up quickly. Put in the duck without the bacon, and simmer for twenty minutes. Place the duck on a hot dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. 361. HASHED DUCK. (Second dressing.) Cut up the remains of cold duck, about one por.id, season it with a saltspoonful of pepper, a grain of cayenne, and a salt- spoonful and a half of salt. Chop one large onion and a sour apple; put them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, and fry till slightly brown; stir in a tablespoonful of flour, a salt- spoonful of flour of mustard, and a teaspoonful of loaf sugar. When well mixed, add half a pint of strong stock, of any kind, ihe strained juice of half a lemon, and a tablespoonful of brandy. When nearly cold, put in the duck, and simmer gently for twenty minutes; skim, and serve very hot.