141 STEWED GIBLETS. GIBLET PIE. 362. STEWED GIBLETS. The giblets must be well cleaned and soaked in warm water for an hour. Wipe them dry, and cut them into neat pieces about two inches long; season (one set) with a saltspoonful and a hall of white pepper, two saltspoonfuls of salt, a grain of cayenne, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, two chopped shalots, and a tablespoonful and a half of flour. Put them into a bright stew- pan (rubbed twice across the bottom with garlic), with a quarter of a pound of butter, and fry over a gentle fire till slightly browned; then add a pint and a half of any good stock, a wine- glassful of white wine, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a dessertspoonful of Harvey-sauce; boil up slowly, skim, then simmer gently for two hours and a half, skimming occasionally. Serve very hot. Note.—Truffles (three sliced), button mushrooms (twelve), or six button onions may be added with improvement. 363. GIBLET PIE. Soak the giblets for an hour in warm water, wipe them dry, and cut them into neat pieces about two inches long. Season one set with a saltspoonful and a half of white pepper, two saltspoonfuls of salt, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, and a grain of cayenne; put them into a fire-proof covered jar, with just enough veal broth or cold water to well moisten them ; cover closely, and bake in a slow oven for two hours; then let them get cold. Cut about one pound of either veal cutlet or rump steak into pieces, two inches square and the third of an inch thick; season it with a saltspoonful of salt and the same of pepper ; lay it on the bottom of an eleven-inch pie-dish ; put the giblets, with their gravy, upon the steak, and rub the edge of the dish with lard or butter. Make a paste as follows:— Moisten nine ounces of sifted flour with a teacupful of water, with the juice of a small lemon in it; knead till smooth ; spread it out on the pasteboard, lay in seven ounces of good butter, fold over the sides, and roll out four times (always the same way), each time dredge over a little flour; roll it up, and set it in a cool place for two hours or more; cut off about a fifth part, roll it out the sixth of an inch thick ; cut it into strips the