122 PORK. 321. WESTPHALIA HAM. • Soak the liam for forty-eight hours, changing the water several times. Follow the preceding receipt, substituting claret for sherry, and simmering gently thirty-five minutes to the pound after the stock is put in. These hams are best cold, and must be glazed, and garnished with savoury jelly. 322. POTTED HAM. Cut up any cold ham into thin slices; trim off all fat, gristle, and outside pieces; mince small; season one pound with two teaspoonfuls of fresh-made mustard, half a cayennespoonful of cayenne, a saltspoonful of white pepper, and the fourth part of a nutmeg, grated ; pound the ham till in a smooth soft paste; add six ounces of fresh butter, dissolved ; continue to pound till well mixed; press the ham into small raised pie, or common pie- dishes ; pour over the top of each one ounce and a half of fresh butter, dissolved, and keep in a cool place till required. 323. MOCK BRAWN. Take the ears, eye-pieces, feet, and tongue of a middle-sized hog; salt them with one pound of common salt and a quarter of an ounce of saltpetre for five days; boil them (put them on in cold water) very gently, till quite tender ; pull out the bones, and cut the meat into pieces the size of a walnut. Boil also two ox feet till perfectly tender; take out the bones and all the meat, leaving only the skin ; press the skin flat on a board; cut up the nice part of the feet, and mix with the pork. Place the meat on the skin ; roll it up quite tight.; put it into a strong cloth ; sew it up, boil for two horns, then press it into a round pan or mould that will just contain it; put a heavy weight upon it, and let it remain till the next day; then turn it out. Serve with moist sugar and vinegar. Note.—The form should he that of a small Stilton cheese. 324. TO CURE A HAM. One pound of treacle, one pound of salt, one ounce of bay salt, two ounces of saltpetre, a quarter of an ounce of salt prunella ; put these ingredients into a saucepan and let it stand b}- a slow fire till quite in a liquid; then boil up; when quite cold, pour