POULTRY. 132 piece of fresh-cut garlic ; put in the fowl; pour over half a pint of strong veal gravy; boil up quickly, then place the pan where it will only just simmer. Slice six large ripe tomatoes; chop one shalot; season with a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of white pepper, a grain of cayenne, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, half a saltspoonful of flour of mustard, a quarter of a saltspoonful of powdered ginger; add the strained juice of two lemons, and a wineglassful of Marsala. Baste the fowl with the gravy frequently, and when it has simmered three-quarters of an hour, put in the tomatoes. Stir and boil up ; then continue the slow simmering and basting for another hour and a quarter. Take the paper off the breast, lay the fowl on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve immediately. 343. BRAISED FOWL AND WHITE SAUCE, WITH BRAISED BEEF AND CHESTNUTS. Procure the following articles :—A fine fowl trussed for boil- ing, one pound and a half of the upper side of the round of beef, three-quarters of an inch thick, six rashers of ribs of bacon, the third of an inch thick (without bone or skin), butter, milk, a gill of cream, garlic, shalots, one carrot, one head of celery, fifteen chestnuts, two lemons, oil, &c. &c. Mix together a tablespoonful of salad oil, the strained juice of a lemon, a saltspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of white pepper, a grain of cayenne, a saltspoonful of flour of mustard, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, a piece of garlic the size of a pea, bruised, and three tablespoonfuls of ‘ Cre-fydd Sauce.’ Rub this wrell into the beef, and let it remain ,(closely-covered) for twenty-four hours. Clean and cut up small, the heart of the celery, the carrot, and two shalots. Put them into a stewpan with an ounce of butter. Lay in the beef, pour over the sauce, and three-quarters of a pint of cold water. Place the fowl upon the beef, with two ounces of butter spread ■over the breast, and the bacon laid over that. Peel the chest- nuts with a sharp knife, and lay them round the fowl. Boil up quickly, baste the fowl with the gravy, then simmer as gently as possible for two hours and a half. Mix a tablespoonful of baked flour into half a pint of new milk; boil ten minutes; add the cream; place the fowl on a hot dish, with the bacon round it, pour the white sauce over. Lay the beef on a hot dish; pour