A FEW THINGS WORTH KNOWING. 316 969. WASH FOR STRENGTHENING THE HAIR. Half a pint of honey water, two ounces of spirit of rosemary, one ounce of pulverised sweet almonds, and one ounce of solution of ammonia. To be used occasionally. 970. MARROW POMATUM. Wash and soak in cold water one pound of fresh beef-marrow ; squeeze out the water, put the marrow into an earthen jar, and put it in boiling water till the marrow is dissolved; then strain it through muslin into a basin. When nearly cold, but not set, stir in by degrees six ounces of pure olive oil, more or less as it may be preferred firm or soft, and either of the following essential oils to perfume it:—Otto of roses, twenty drops ; orange flowers, thirty drops; magnolia, twenty drops; lavender, forty drops; bergamot or lemon, forty drops. 971. COSMETIC FOR FIXING THE HAIR. Take off the skin of half a pound of fresh mutton suet; pick out the pieces of bone and the discoloured parts of a quarter of a pound of fresh beef-suet; boil them down in an earthen jar till dissolved; then strain, and, when cool, but not set, add two drops of essential oil of nutmeg, two drops of essential oil of cinnamon, and eight drops of essential oil of orange flowers. Pour it into moulds four inches long, either round or any other form ; and when cold, fold each in tinfoil or lead paper. 972. POMATUM FOR CHILDREN’S HAIR. Pick carefully and wash a quarter of a pound of beef-marrow; put it into an earthen jar, with a quarter of a pound of fresh lard; stand it in boiling water till melted and clear; then strain it into a basin, add a gill of rose water. Stir it well, and let it get cold. Break it up, and squeeze it through the rose water till it begins to be soft; then press out the water, and beat it with a wooden fork; add one ounce of pure olive oil and half an ounce of violet- scented oil. Beat till it is quite smooth, and put it into covered toilet pots. (The mixing every kind of pomatum is better to be done in a cool place; more particularly when castor oil is used.)