168 VEGETABLES. 440. PARSNIPS. Scrape and wash the parsnips; cut off the small end, and divide the thick part into four, and if very large, into six pieces, lengthways; put them into boiling water, with a teaspoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of sugar, and boil moderately fast for about three-quarters of an hour. 441. FRIED PARSNIPS. Make a batter with two eggs, the third of a quart of milk, and three tablespoonfuls of flour, well beaten together ; dip the pieces of cold boiled parsnip into the batter, and fry, in butter or oil, to a light brown colour, and serve very hot; or the parsnips may be simply dredged with baked flour, and fried ; ten minutes will fry them. 442. VEGETABLE MARROW, WITH WHITE SAUCE. Pare the marrows neatly; cut them into quarters lengthways; take out the seeds and wipe the marrows with a clean cloth ; put them into boiling water, with a teaspoonful of salt, and boil for ten or fifteen minutes. Toast a round of bread, without crust; pour over a cupful of the vegetable water, and butter the toast. Serve the marrows upon it, with the following melted butter poured over. Knead three ounces of butter with a table- spoonful of flour, and stir into half a pint of boiling milk. Boil a quarter of an hour, stirring all the time. 443. STUFFED VEGETABLE MARROWS. Have two moderate-sized fresh-cut marrows; rub the skin with a coarse cloth ; cut off each end, about half an inch deep ; scoop out all the seeds, and fill the vacancy with pork sausage meat pressed tightly in ; rub the bottom of a stewpan six times across with fresh garlic; lay in the marrows ; add half a pint of stock (No. 1), a finely chopped slialot, the juice of six large toma- toes, squeezed through coarse muslin, a tablespoonful of vinegar, half a grain of cayenne, a saltspoonful of pepper, the same of salt, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, and an ounce of butter on each marrow; simmer gently for four hours ; baste the marrows frequently with the sauce; skim off the fat, aud serve; with the sauce poured over the marrows.