WHITING PUDDING. SMELTS. BOILED SOLE. 37 106. WHITING PUDDING. Put the whiting into boiling water, and boil slowly for ten minutes; remove the skin and all the bones, and pound the fish to a smooth paste in a mortar; beat a quarter of a pound of butter to cream, mix it with the fish (half a pound) ; add three ounces of baked flour, a saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of white pepper, the tenth part of a nutmeg, grated, the grated rind of a quarter of a lemon, and four well-beaten eggs, leaving out one white ; make the pudding into the form of a bolster, six inches long; roll it in well-buttered writing-paper, then in a cloth; secure both ends ; put it into a steamer over fast boiling water, and steam for one hour; serve with the following sauce poured over:—Boil the third of a pint of new milk with a bay leaf, beat the yolks of two fresh eggs with two tablespoonfuls of good cream; take out the leaf, add the milk to the eggs: stir in, by degrees, the strained juice of a lemon, and, when the sauce begins to thicken, pour it over the pudding and send to table at once. 107. FEIED SMELTS. Well dry the smelts, dip them into beaten egg, and dredge them over with fine dried crumbs of bread (see the receipt). Do this a second time, and fry in boiling lard (sufficient to entirely cover the fish) to a pale yellow-brown colour—about eight minutes. Serve either as a garnish to boiled fish or piled in the form of a tower, on neatly folded writing paper (foolscap), with a tureen of melted butter made as follows :—Knead three ounces of butter with a tablespoonful of baked flour, and stir into the third of a pint of boiling water; add two tablespoonfuls of new milk ; boil ten minutes. Serve. 108. FEIED SMELTS, PLAIN. Dip the fish into new milk, dredge them with baked flour, and fry in boiling lard (sufficient to cover them) till of a yellow- brown colour—about eight minutes. Serve as directed in the preceding receipt. 100. BOILED SOLE. A sole for boiling should weigh at least two pounds; it must be well scaled, but the skin left on both sides. Put it into plenty