113 KEBOBES AND KEDCHEREE. of a pound of sweet lard, spread over ; and bake in a gentle oven for an hour and a half. Serve cold. Note.—Use three times the quantity of each ingredient. 300. GRAVY CURRY. (An Indian receipt.) About a pound and a half of veal cutlets in pieces, a quarter of an inch thick and two inches square. Mix two tablespooufuls of biscuit-powder with a saltspoonful of mixed sweet herbs in powder, the same of pepper and salt. Dissolve a quarter of a pound of butter; dip each piece of veal into the butter, then into the powder, and fry in the remainder of the butter till Blightly browned on both sides. Slice two onions and a quarter of a clove of garlic ; knead three ounces of butter with two dessert- spoonfuls of curry-powder and one leaf of mint, chopped fine; fry the onions in the butter till tender; then put in the veal and three-quarters of a pint of stock or gravy ; simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour. Add the strained juice of a lemon, and serve, with or without rice. 301. KEBOBES AND KEDCIIEREE. (An Indian receipt.) Have about a pound and a half of veal cutlets the third of an inch thick ; cut it into neat pieces two inches square, and put it into three-quarters of a pint of water, with a wineglassful of vinegar, a saltspoonful of tarragon vinegar, a teaspoonful of salt, and half a clove of garlic, bruised. Let it remain for an hour. Wash half a pint of split peas, and boil them for two hours and a half in a quart of water; add half a pound of rice (well washed), and continue to boil for twenty-fivq minutes, stirring frequently to keep it from burning. Chop three onions, and fry them in butter (six ounces) till slightly browned; drain off the water, add the peas and rice to the onions; season with a teaspoon- ful of salt, a quarter of a saltspoonful of cardamoms, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated. Stir and fry till the butter is all ab- sorbed, and the whole is of a pale brown colour; then stir in the water drained from the rice and peas. Wipe the veal dry, dip each piece into beaten egg, then into curry-powder (a tablespoonful and a half), and fry slowly in butter (a quarter of a poundf i