123 WHITE AND BLACK PUDDINGS. it over the ham, and let it remain in this pickle for a month. It must be turned and well rubbed every day. Hang it in a dry warm place till quite dry. A large leg of mutton may be cured in the same way, but it will not require more than three weeks, and should be eaten as soon as it is dry. 325. TO CURE A TONGUE. A teacupful of moist sugar, half a pound of salt, half an ounce of saltpetre, and half an ounce of bay salt; rub these well into the tongue, and let it remain in pickle for three weeks; and if a very large one, four weeks; rub it well, and turn it every day. 326. SAVOURY WHITE PUDDINGS. The fry of a fresh-killed pig, one pound of the inside fat, one pound of lean pork, two onions, a small clove of garlic, four sprig3 of parsley, two sprigs of chervil, four sage leaves; all minced fine; six ounces of crumbs of bread, boiled in milk (a pint) till in a pulp, four yolks and two whites of fresh eggs; season with three teaspoonfuls of fine salt, one teaspoonful of powdered loaf sugar, two teaspoonfuls of white pepper, one tea- spoonful of flour of mustard, the fourth part of a nutmeg, grated, one grain of powdered mace, the grated rind of a lemon, and two grains of coriander-seeds in powder; add three ounces of baked flour ; stir the mixture well, and put it into pig’s-skins that have been thoroughly cleansed; secure both ends, and tie it into puddings of six inches in length, leaving room in each to swell; put them into warm water, boil up, then simmer gently for two hours. Hang them in a cool place to keep till wanted. Broil or roast before the fire for twenty-five minutes, and serve on a napkin very hot. 327. BLACK PUDDINGS. A quart of fresh-killed pig’s blood, one pound of the inside fat of the pig, cut into pieces a quarter of an inch square, three- quarters of a pound of rice, boiled for half an hour in water, then drained; two onions, and a small clove of garlic, chopped small, half a saltspoonful of mixed sweet herbs, two sprigs of chervil, chopped; season with two saltspoonfuls of dry salt, three saltspoonful:-; of black pepper, two grains of bruised mustard-seed,