POTATO FLOOR SOUFFI.fl. STEWED FRESII FRUIT, clxxix butter. Roll it out (always one way) till the butter is well mixed into the paste. Rub a twelve-inch tin dish with butter, lay in the paste, trim round the edge. Stir the fruit into the custard, pour it into the paste, place it immediately in a well- heated oven, and bake for three quarters of an hour. Turn it off the dish on to a napkin and serve. POTATO FLOUR SOUFFL'E.* Three ounces of potato flour, three-quarters of a pint of new milk, three ounces of fresh butter, a' quarter of a pound of pow- dered loaf sugar, and six fresh eggs. Moisten the flour with a little cold milk, then stir in the remainder of the milk boiling hot, add the butter and the sugar, and stir the mixture over the fire for ten minutes. Turn it into a basin and let it get cold. Beat the yolks of the eggs with a dessertspoonful of orange flower water, add them to the mixture, whisk the whites to' a stiff froth and add them, beat with a whisk for ten minutes. Rub a plain tin mould with butter, put in the mixture, and bake in a quick oven twenty minutes, roll a hot napkin round the tin, place it on a dish, and serve immediately. STEWED FRESII FRUIT. Gooseberries.—A quart of fine green gooseberries all about the same size; pick off the stems, wash and wipe the fruit; put it into a brass skillet, with three-quarters of a pound of powdered loaf sugar ; moisten the sugar ivith a tablespoonful of cold water. Place the skillet over a slow heat and simmer till the fruit is tender but not broken. Greengages.—Wipe the fruit, split it, and take out the stones; crack half the stones and take out the kernels, and throw them into hot water ; remove the skin. Put the fruit and the kernels into the skillet, and for every quart add half a pound of loaf sugar; simmer gently till tender. If the fruit be unripe, add a quarter of a pound more sugar. Apncots are done exactly as greengages. Orleans and other plums—The stones may be left in, and the skins be carefully taken off the fruit. The quantity of sugar as for greengages. ^ * Potato flour is easily made (see receipt in Meals for the Million, by * <re-fydd), and is very useful for invalids and children, 1 2