210 PUDDINGS, PASTIfY, JELLIES, CREAM, ETC. 592. JAM OR MARMALADE CHARLOTTE. Cut five slices of bread a quarter of an inch thick, trim off the crust and outside: lay it on a dish and pour over six ounces of dissolved fresh butter ; put it in the oven for ten minutes; when the butter is all absorbed and the bread is cold, spread each piece a quarter of an inch thick with any kind of jam or marmalade, and over that a teaspoonful of sifted loaf sugar. Blanch and chop two ounces of sweet almonds ; butter a plain mould, strew the almonds over ; lay in the bread and jam ; place a dish over, and bake in a quick oven for twenty-five or thirty minutes. Turn out carefully, and serve, with or ■without three-quarters of a pint of thick cream or rich custard poured over. 593. APPLE CHARLOTTE, HOT. Peel, core, and cut up twelve good apples; put them into a stewpan with two-thirds their weight of sugar, the grated rind and strained juice of a lemon, and the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated ; boil and stir till in a marmalade ; then add two ounces of fresh butter. Cut four slices of bread the sixth of an inch thick ; cut them into two-inch squares, and then across into triangles ; put them on a dish, and pour over four ounces of dis- solved fresh butter. When well saturated and cold, butter a plain mould ; stick in the bread so that the points meet in the centre ; fit one piece in the other round the sides; press in the apple, cover with a dish, and bake in a quick oven for three- quarters of an hour. Turn out carefully, and serve. 594. RHUBARB MOULD. Skin and cut into small pieces enough fresh young rhubarb to fill a quart measure; put it into a skillet, with a pound and a quarter of loaf sugar, the grated rind and strained juice of half a lemon, and twelve bitter almonds, blanched and chopped; boil fast; skim and stir till it becomes a rich marmalade. Add half an ounce of isinglass dissolved in two tablespoonfuls of boiling •water; rub a mould with sweet almond oil, put in the fruit, and let it stand in a cool place till firmly set. Turn out, and serve, with Devonshire cream round it.