273 APPLE TART. FRUIT TARTS. quarters of a pound of dried flour, a tablespoonful of sugar, half a pound of clarified beef dripping, and sufficient water to wet it; knead it till quite smooth; cut off a piece ; roll it out a quarter of an inch thick; put it round the edge of the dish ; wet it slightly. Roll out the remainder to the size of the dish; cover over ; press round with the thumb ; trim round the edge with a sharp knife; make a hole in the centre, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour. Serve hot or cold. Note.—Fruit tarts should never be ornamented; and crust made with dripping requires a quarter of an hour (for this size) longer to bake than when made with butter. 814. APPLE TART. Pare nine or twelve apples, according to size; cut them into quarters, and divide each quarter into two pieces; take out the core. Put the apples into a pie-dish, with half a pound of moist sugar, the grated rind of half a lemon, and two cloves. Make a puff paste as follows:—Mix three-quarters of a pound of well- dried flour with half a saltspoonful of carbonate of soda; make it into a stiff paste with cold water ; knead it flat on a slab ; put in the centre half a pound of clarified beef dripping (lard, or butter); turn over the sides; roll out the paste four or five times. Put an edge of paste a quarter of an inch thick round the dish ; wet it with water; roll out the remainder to the size of the dish ; cover over; trim round the edge with a sharp knife; make a hole in the centre, and bake for one hour in a moderately-heated oven. 815. FRUIT TARTS. Rub three-quarters of a pound of clarified dripping into ten ounces of dry flour; add a teaspoonful of sugar and sufficient cold water to make it into rather a firm paste; roll it out three times. Put a piece of paste the eighth of an inch thick round the rim of the dish ; put into the dish three pints of fruit and half a pound of moist sugar; roll out the paste as nearly as possible to the size of the dish ; wet the paste edging; put on the cover; press it slightly round the edge with the thumb; trim with a sharp knife; make a hole in the centre, and bake in a moderate oven from an hour to an hour and a quarter, according to the fruit used. Note.—This receipt will serve for all fruit tarts by adding to currants or damsons two ounces of sugar extra. Never put water with the fruit. T