147 ROAST AJXD BRAISED PARTRIDGES. white pepper, a grain of cayenne, one teaspoonfnl of flour of mustard, the tenth part of a nutmeg, grated, a saltspoonful of salt, one ounce of butter, and a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese; simmer a quarter of an horn- longer ; lay the macaroni round the dish, with the pulled pheasant in the centre. Serve very hot. 375. ROAST PARTRIDGES. Hang the birds before a brisk fire; baste constantly with butter (a quarter of a pound for a brace) and roast for about eighteen minutes. Serve garnished with fried crumbs; and with gravy and bread sauce in tureens. Put three ounces of crumbs of bread into a small fryingpan or stewpan, with an ounce and a half of butter, and fry over a gentle fire (stirring all the time) till of a pale yellow-brown colour ; drain on a sieve before the fire. Put a quarter of a pound of crumbs of bread into a stewpan, with one clove, two allspice, three shalots, and three-quarters of a pint of milk ; boil, and stir for a quarter of an hour; then rub through a sieve. Put the sauce again into the saucepan ; add either two tablespoonfuls of thick cream or an ounce of fresh butter; boil two minutes; then serve. Put a pint of stock (No. 1) into a saucepan with a teaspoonful of soy, a tablespoonful of Harvey- sauce, a tablespoonful of flour, half a saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of flour of mustard, and a grain of cayenne; boil quickly (uncovered) till reduced one-third (about twenty minutes); add a tablespoonful of port wine ; strain and serve. Note.—Partridges should he kept (unplueked) from ten to fifteen days, weather permitting. 376. BRAISED PARTRIDGES. The partridges must be trussed as a fowl for boiling. Slice a small carrot, an onion, a quarter of a head of celery, chop four or five sprigs of parsley; put them into a stewpan, with an ounce of butter; lay in the partridges (breasts uppermost), cover them with fat bacon; add half a pint of good stock of any kind, and simmer very slowly for two hours. Cut a round of bread without crust, the third of an inch thick ; spread it thickly with butter on both sides, and put it into the oven to brown slightly ; if required, add more butter. Lay the partridges on the bread ; rub the gravy through a fine sieve, vegetables also ; add a wineglassful l 2