PLAIN COOKING. 276 the pudding into a bolster form. Dip a cloth into boiling water, dredge it with flour, fold it well round the pudding, tie up both ends ; lay it in boiling water, without bending, and boil quickly for an hour and three quarters. Take off the cloth carefully, cut the pudding into six pieces, turn the cut side upwards, and serve quite hot. 825. CURRANT DUMPLINGS. A pound of dry flour, half a pound of well-washed currants, half a pound of beef-suet, finely chopped, half a saltspoonful of salt, and a tablespoonful of moist sugar, mixed with water into a dough; make up into eight or ten dumplings ; put them into boil- ing water, and boil rapidly for three quarters of an hour, stirring them from the bottom constantly. Drain before the fire for five minutes before serving. Note.—If preferred boiled in a cloth, tie each in a separate piece; but in that case it would be better to make a pudding, which would require boiling three horns and a half 826. CHARLOTTE PUDDING. Butter a large basin; strew it thickly with moist sugar; cut some thin slices of bread and butter without crust, peel and slice very thin three or four apples; have a pot of marmalade; put a layer of bread into the basin, butter downwards, then marmalade, then apples; continue to do this till the basin is quite frill; press it well down ; put a plate over, with a weight upon it, and bake in a quick oven for three quarters of an hour for a pint and a half basin, and an hour for a quart. Turn out carefully, and serve hot. 827. APPLE FRITTERS WITHOUT EGGS. Peel some large apples; cut them into slices a quarter of an inch thick; take out the core. Make a batter with a pint of mild ale and four tablespoonfuls of dried flour; beat it for twenty minutes; dissolve some fresh dripping, dip each piece of apple into the batter, and fry to a pale brown colour. Serve very hot. 828. CURRANT FRITTERS, YORKSHIRE. Make a batter as in the preceding receipt, or with milk and two eggs ; put in three ounces of well-washed currants and one