JUNIOR UNITED AND PRINCE ALBERT’S PUDDINGS. 181 488. JUNIOR UNITED PUDDING. Cut into slices, a quarter of an inch thick, half a pound of sponge-cake two days old; spread one side with fresh butter (three ounces for the whole) and the other with marmalade (half a pound for the pudding). Boil two ounces of loaf sugar in half a pint of new milk; beat four fresh eggs; add the milk to the eggs while hot, but not boiling. Butter a plain tin pint and a half mould ; lay in the cake (buttered side next the tin) and custard alternately to full. Let it stand half an hour to soak; then bake in a well-heated oven for an hour and ten minutes. Turn out carefully, and serve, with or without the following sauce in the dish. 489. ORANGE CREAM FOR PUDDINGS. Boil two ounces of loaf sugar and two inches of the peel of a Seville orange in half a gill of water for ten minutes; add the strained juice of a sweet orange and a tablespoonful of rum ; boil fast for three minutes; then beat it into a gill of thick cream. It must be very smooth, and beaten till nearly cold. 490. prince Albert’s pudding. Half a pound of butter beaten to cream, half a pound of dried flour, a quarter of a pound of sifted loaf sugar, half a pound of raisins—stoned and chopped, a quarter of a pound of mixed candied peel, chopped, half a wineglassful of brandy, the grated rind of half a lemon, a gill of new milk, and four beaten eggs; mix these ingredients and beat for ten minutes. Butter a mould ; put in the mixture, tie a cloth over, and boil fast for two hours; serve with clarified sugar, flavoured with brandy. Boil three ounces of sugar in a wineglassful of water for ten minutes; add a wineglassful of brandy. Pour the sauce over the pudding. 491. PRINCE OF WALES’S PUDDING. Dissolve a quarter of a pound of fresh butter till of a creamy substance; beat six fresh eggs, leaving out two of the whites; break up into coarse crumbs, two ounces of m acaroons and one ounce of ratafias; mix these ingredients ; add two ounces of sifted loaf sugar and a wineglassful of good brandy; beat the mixture for ten minutes; butter a tin mould, pour it in, and