MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. clxxxviii PRESERVED PEARS, FOR DESSERT. (To be done early in October.) Any good pears just gathered for keeping. Peel them, and cut them in halves ; take out the cores. Put the pears into cold water to prevent them becoming discoloured. Put the parings and cores into a skillet with double their weight of the common black plums, quite ripe. Cover them with cold water and boil slowly till the liquor is well flavoured and slightly pink: then strain it off. Put the pears into the skillet, with three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, in powder, to every pound. Cover them with the liquor, and simmer gently till they are tender, but not soft. Then take them out, put them into pots, boil the syrup rapidly, till it becomes thick and bright. Pour it over the pears, and when cold tie them over. Label the pots, and keep them in a dry closet. If the pears should get overdone by accident, break them up into a marmalade. They require more care than most things in preserving, as they quickly become soft. BOTTLED GOOSEBERRIES. (To be done late in June or early in July.) The fruit must be unripe, but full grown and fresh gathered. Pick off the stems and rub the gooseberries with a clean dry cloth, and put them into wide-mouthed glass bottles ; place them in a large iron pot with hay under and between them, fill the pot with cold water up to the neck of the bottles, and place it over the fire till it boils; then simmer till the gooseberries turn to a tchitish colour, and shrink. Take out the bottles, use one or more of the bottles to fill up others, and then pour in boiling water to cover the gooseberries. When quite cold, pour over the top some good salad oil, enough to be as thick as a pennypiece. Tie them over with bladder ; label them, and keep them in a dry closet. BOTTLED CHERRIES, CURRANTS, AND RASPBERRIES. (To be done in July.) Pipe Kentish cherries are the best for bottling. Pull out the stems, and proceed as for gooseberries in the preceding receipts. Currants and raspberries may be mixed in equal quantities, or be done separately. In either case, strip off the stems of fresh