97 TEAL CUTLETS. GRENATLNS OF VEAL. parsley, a large mushroom (or a truffle), all very finely chopped; add the grated rind of half a lemon, the tenth part of a nutmeg, a saltspoonful of mixed sweet herbs, half a saltspoonful of salt, and half a saltspoonful of pepper. Cut three chops off the best end of the neck of veal, just as thick as the bone ; take off the skin and the chine part of the bone ; butter three sheets of small foolscap paper with three ounces of butter; dissolve two ounces of butter, dip the cutlets into it, and then into the seasoned crumbs; if not all used, dip them a second time; lay each on a sheet of paper, roll the edge tightly round, preserving the shape of the cutlet, and boil sloicly in plenty of lard for an hour; drain on a sieve before the fire, and serve in the paper. 268. YEAL CUTLETS, BRAISED, WITH FRESH TOMATOS. Take one pound and a half of veal cutlet, half an inch thick; trim off the skin, and cut it into eight neat pieces; place the cutlets in a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter : when the butter dissolves, dredge over a dessertspoonful of baked flour, and let them become a pale brown colour on both sides (but very slowlyj. Clean and pound to paste, three anchovies, half a clove of garlic, and an ounce of mild lean ham ; peel and slice one small onion and six fine ripe tomatos; add the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, half a saltspoonful of white pepper, a grain of cayenne, the strained juice of a large lemon, a saltspoonful of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of Marsala or sherry ; put these ingredients all into the stewpan with the cutlets, and simmer as slowly as possible for an hour and a quarter; skim frequently, and shake the stewpan to prevent burning to the bottom. Serve quite hot. 269. GRENAT1NS OF VEAL. Have four or five chops off the best end of the neck or loin of veal cut an inch thick ; trim off the skin and the bone, leaving only the round piece of lean ; lard one side thickly with fat bacon ; put the trimmings and bones into a saucepan, with an onion, a carrot, a mushroom, a turnip, a sprig of marjoram, a sprig of thyme, three sprigs of parsley, a bay leaf, two cloves, two allspice, an ounce of lean ham, a teaspoonful of sugar, half a saltspoonful of white pepper, half a saltspoonful of Hour of mustard, and a quart of water ; boil fast for three hours ; skim often ; strain, and ii