172 VEGETABLES. in cold water for two hours. Put them into boiling water, with two tablespoonfuls of salt, and boil rapidly (uncovered) for twenty minutes; drain in a colander; press a hot plate on them to force out the water. Place them neatly on a dish, and serve quite hot. 458. CABBAGE. Summer cabbage should be small and light; winter cabbage of moderate size, firm but not hard. Trim off the outer leaves and stem, and divide the cabbage into four quarters; wash care- fully, and leave it in cold water, with a handful of salt in it, for two hours. Put it into fast-boiling water, with a tablespoonful of salt, and boil rapidly (uncovered) for twenty minutes for a sum- mer, half an hour for a ■winter cabbage, and forty minutes for a large savoy; drain in a colander, press out the water with a plate. Place the cabbage neatly on a dish, and serve quite hot. 459. STUFFED CABBAGE. Have a moderate-sized young firm cabbage, trim and well wash it; put it into warm water with a handful of salt and a wine- glassful of vinegar, and let it remain two hours. Make a stuffing as follows:—Three-quarters of a pound of pork sausage meat, a quarter of a pound of beef or veal suet, finely chopped, four shalots and four sprigs of parsley, finely chopped, the peel of half a lemon, grated, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, a saltspoon- ful of mixed sweet herbs, in powder, half a saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of flour of mustard, and one well-beaten egg; all well mixed together; cut the stem off the cabbage, and with a sharp knife scoop out sufficient of the heart to make space for the stuffing ; press in the stuffing, bind the cabbage with a piece of tape; put it into a stewpan, with three-quarters of a pint of any stock, or gravy, and two ounces of butter (on the cabbage) ; simmer gently for three hours and a half; add the strained juice of two large lemons ; take off the tape, and serve at once, with the gravy in the dish. 460. SALADS GENERALLY USED. Cos lettuces, cabbage lettuces, endive, beetroot (boiled), celety, cucumber, spring onions, shalots, watercresses, radishes, tarragon, chervil, chives, mustard and cress, &c. Every kind of salad must