51 FRIED OYSTERS. CURRIED OYSTERS. scollop-shells or a small tin dish), finishing with crumbs. Put half an ounce of butter in the centre of each shell, and half an ounce more on the top. Pour over each shell two dessertspoon- fuls of the liquor, put them into a very quick oven, or before a good fire, and bake to a pale brown colour. They will require about fifteen or eighteen minutes. 153. FRIED OYSTERS. Boil the liquor, and strain it over the oysters; let them remain till cold. Mix three tablespoonfuls of baked floiu- with the third of a pint of the oyster liquor and the strained juice of one lemon till in a smooth batter; add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs ; beat the batter for twenty minutes. Dry and beard the oysters. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth; mix them well with the batter, throw in the oysters; then fry them in plenty of boil- ing lard till of a pale yellow-brown. They will require about eight minutes. Drain on a sieve before the fire for one minute, and serve them very hot, placed in a circle on neatly folded white paper or on a napkin. Rote.—Large oysters are best for frying. 154. CURRIED OYSTERS. Chop an onion quite fine, knead two tablespoonfuls of curry- powder and a dessertspoonful of baked flour with a quarter of a pound of butter; put this and the onion into a frying-pan, and fry slowly till the onion is quite soft, stirring all the time; mix in a gill of the oyster liquor and the strained juice of a lemon. Take off the beards, put in the oysters, and simmer five minutes, carefully stirring; serve immediately, with a separate dish of rice and a bottle of chutney. Note.—The receipt is for four dozen of oysters. 155. RICE FOR CURRIED OYSTERS. Well wash half a pound of rice ; boil it ten minutes in a quart of water; strain, and boil it twelve minutes more in a pint and a half of new milk. Drain on a sieve before the fire ; stir with a wooden fork, to separate each grain. Serve as directed. Note.—The milk may be used for white sauce. e 2