98 TEAL. let it get cold; rub the bottom of a small stewpan four times across with garlic ; put in a quarter of a pound of butter, and when dissolved, lay in the veal, the larding uppermost, and let it become slightly brown. Take the fat off the gravy, and add sufficient to just reach the larding, but not to cover it, and sim- mer very gently for two hours ; skim and baste every ten minutes; take out the veal, skim off the fat; put in a pint of very young fresh-shelled peas and a teaspoonful of sifted sugar ; boil quickly (with the lid off) for ten minutes; put the veal in again, and simmer (uncovered) till the peas are tender; turn the gravy, with the peas, on to a dish, and place the grenatins, larding up- wards, in the centre, and serve immediately. 270. SMALL FRICANDEAU OF VEAL. Have either the middle of the loin or the best end of a neck of veal, about three pounds ; cut the meat off the bones in one compact piece; trim off the skin and fat, and lard it thickly with fat bacon ; rub the bottom of a stewpan three times across with a fresh piece of cut garlic ; place in the veal, with the bones and trimmings round it; add a sliced onion, a sliced small carrot, a mushroom, chopped, half of a lettuce, two cloves, a small blade of mace, form allspice, a saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper, a teaspoonful of moist sugar, and three-quarters of a pint of water; cover the larding with writing paper, thickly spread with butter; simmer as gently as possible for three hours; take off the paper, baste the veal, and continue to simmer half an hour longer. Take out the veal, skim off all the fat, and rub the gravy and vegetables through a hair sieve; add a tablespoonful of French brandy, or a wineglassful of sherry, and serve the gravy over the veal. Note.—Cold frieaudeau makes an excellent mayonnaise. ■> c receipt for Mayonnaise of Fowl, and follow it exactly. 271. FRICANDEAU OF TEAL. Order the butcher to cut a piece of veal from the prime part of the fillet, six inches long and four broad ; trim off the skiu and comers, and make it a compact neat piece; lard it deeply with good fat bacon all over the top and sides; rub a stewpan six times across with fresh-cut garlic; put in two slices of fat bacon.