PUDDINGS, PASTRY, JELLIES, CREAM, ETC. 212 rind of half a lemon boiled in an enamelled saucepan for three minutes; take it off the fire for five minutes; beat eight c-ggs, leaving out four of the whites ; add the milk to the eggs, stirring quickly as it is poured in. Put the custard again into the saucepan, and stir over a gentle fire till it begins to thicken; then strain through a fine sieve into a basin; add half a gill of good cream, and any of the following flavouring:—Brandy, Curafao, Maraschino, or rum, of either two tablespoonfuls; ratafia, one tablespoonful; essence of vanilla or lemon, twenty drops; orange-flower water, a teaspoonful. GOO. APPLE MOULD. Peel, core, and cut up twelve good cooking apples; to each pound of apple add three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, a quarter of an ounce of isinglass, the grated rind and strained juice of a lemon, and a wineglassful of rum. Boil in a skillet till in a rich jam, then rub through a fine wire sieve; rub the mould slightly with salad oil, or with dissolved fresh butter; press in the apple, smooth over the bottom with a knife, and let it stand in a cold place, or on ice, till quite firm. Turn out care- fully, and serve, with custard made as directed in the foregoing receipt (omitting the flavouring), poured over. 601. EICE AND ALMOND MOULD. Blanch two ounces of sweet and six bitter almonds, and pound them to a soft paste ; wash six ounces of rice ; put them into an enamelled saucepan, with six ounces of sugar and a quart of milk, and simmer gently till perfectly tender (about an hour and a quarter) ; dip a mould into cold water, press in the rice, put a plate over with a weight upon it, and let it stand in a cold place for four or five hours. Turn out carefully; put a border of any kind of jam or marmalade round the rice ; pour over a gill of good cream, and serve. 602. LEMON EICE MOULD. Wash six ounces of rice and boil it in a quart of new milk, with six ounces of sugar and the grated rind of two lemons, till tender (an hour and a quarter) ; press it into a mould, and let it