MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. cxc teaspoonful of peppercorns, the same of allspice and coriander seeds, and five pints of vinegar. Put the whole of these ingre- dients into a bright iron pot, cover it and put it by the side of the fire to boil up slowly; when it boils, skim carefully and stir, and let it simmer for three hours. Then, if all the ingredients are pulped, rub it through a sieve, and then through a tammy. When cold, stir in half a pint of soy, and a bottle of good port wine. Put the sauce into bottles, cork them securely, and tie a bladder over the corks. This sauce is very good to give a flavour to made dishes, stewed fish, and to eat with fish, curries, and cold meat. It will keep any time if the directions be attended to. GERMAN SAUCE FOR ASPARAGUS OR SEAKALE. Mix a tablespoonful of baked flour with half a pint of cream, and stir it over the fire till it begins to thicken, then add the beaten yolk of one egg, half an ounce of butter, a quarter of a saltspoonful of white pepper, the same quantity of salt, and a tea- spoonful of white vinegar. SOUP FOR THE POOR (Ten Quarts.) Half of an ox cheek, sixpennyworth of fresh bones, ten large carrots, twelve turnips, three pounds of potatoes, eighteen leeks or onions, three quarts of split peas. Wash the cheek in warm water, cut the meat through to the bone lengthways in strips, and then across. Scrape, peel, trim, wash, and cut up the vege- tables. Wash the peas. Put the whole of these articles, together with any bones or meat trimmings or cold vegetables there may be in the larder, and any water that meat or poultry has been boiled in, into an iron pot with three gallons of cold water. Put it by the fire to boil up slowly, stir and skim often, and let it simmer for six hours after it boils. Take out all the bones; stir in half an ounce of black pepper and a quarter of a pound of salt. If not required at once, keep it in uncovered earthen pans. The quantities given will make ten quarts of soup, and the cost will be about os.