MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. elxxviii SNOW BALLS WITH CUSTARD. Divide the yolks from the whites of four fresh eggs. Beat the whites with a whisk till in a firm froth, add two teaspoonfuls of very finely powdered loaf sugar. Put rather more than half a pint of new* milk into a bright stewpan, add twenty drops of orange flower water, or any other flavouring, and two dessert- spoonfuls of powdered loaf sugar; put it over a gentle heat, and when boiling, place in the sfiow in balls formed by the bowl of a tablespoon, simmer for four minutes, drain the snowballs on a fine sieve, in a cold place. Make a custard as follows: beat the yolks of the eggs, add them to the milk and stir it over a slow fire till it becomes as thick as good cream; strain it, and let it get quite cold. Place the snowballs in a glass dish, pour the custard over and send it to table. The quantities given 'will make enough to serve to four persons. The following Puddings may be eaten hot or cold (iced), and with or without the appropriate sauce. Cabinet, pine apple, Clarence, brandy, bread, a pudding for a Prince, Conservative, moggina, ratafia, ginger and bread, tapioca (steamed), and semolina (steamed). Let the pudding get quite cold; then place it (in the basin or mould in which it was cooked) in a pan of ice ; let it remain for two hours or more. If the sauce be served it must be iced also, and placed round the pudding shaped by a dessert spoon. These puddings, thus served, have been much appreciated, and they make a nice change from the ordinary “ iced pudding.” BEDFORD PUDDING. Two ounces of mixed candied peel chopped, two ounces cl raisins stoned and chopped, two ounces of currants washed and rubbed dry, a tablespoonful of honey, three fresh eggs, and half a pint of new milk. Beat the eggs well, boil the milk, take it off the fire and stir in the honey ; then add it to the eggs, beat for ten minutes, and let it stand till cold. Moisten a quarter of a pound of dried flour with cold water, knead it to a firm paste, lay it fiat on the board and spread over it a quarter of a pound of good