VEGETABLES. 160 408. ASPARAGUS. Scrape off the outer skin, cut off the end of the stalk, leaving the asparagus about seven inches long; tie it up into bundle.? with tape, and let it remain in cold water for two hours. Put it into plenty of boiling water, with a tablespoonful of salt, and boil, uncovered, for twenty minutes or half an hour, according to the size of the asparagus. Cut a round of bread half an inch thick, take off the crust, toast the bread, pour over it while on the fork a cupful of the water the asparagus is boiling in, spread it with butter on both sides, and serve the asparagus on it, taking off the tape ; serve melted butter in a tureen. Ivnead three ounces of butter with a teaspoonful of baked flour, and stir into half a pint of boiling water; boil a quarter of an hour. 409. SEA-KALE, WITH WHITE SAUCE. The kale must be perfectly fi-esli; well wash it; take off the outer leaves, trim the root; tie it into bundles, and put it into cold water for an hour; put it into a saucepan of boiling water, with a dessertspoonful of salt, and boil rapidly (uncovered) for twenty minutes or half an hour, according to the size of the kale. Serve upon buttered toast (without crust). Knead a tablespoon- ful of baked flour with two ounces of butter, and stir into half a pint of boiling new milk; boil ten minutes, and serve in a tureen. 410. SEA-KALE, WITH PARMESAN CHEESE. (Second dressing.) Sprinkle each piece of kale with a teaspoonful of grated Par- mesan cheese, a quarter of a saltspoonful of flour of mustard, and the same of pepper ; lay the kale on a flat dish ; strew the top thickly with Parmesan; pour over an ounce of dissolved butter, and bake in a quick oven, or before the fire, for a quarter of an hour. Serve in the same dish. 411. FRENCH OR SCARLET BEANS, PLAIN. Strip off the strings by breaking off each end ; cut the beans into shreds an inch and a half long and the sixth of an inch thick; throw them into cold water, with a teaspoonful of salt in it, and let them remain an hour ; drain, and put them into fast-