QUINCE MARMALADE. PUMPKIN GINGEIt. clxxxvii aoples, cut in slices, and sufficient cold water to cover them well, and boil till quite in a soft pulp; then strain through a sieve without bruising the pulp. Weigh the quinces and the juice, and allow three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar to every pound. Put the quinces, the juice, and the sugar into a stewpan and simmer gently, skimming often, till they are tender and the juice is clear. Put the quinces carefully into jars, and fill up with the juice. When cold, tie them down, and keep them in a dry closet. There will probably be more juice than the jars require. This can be put into small glasses; when cold it forms a bright jelly and is very good. QUINCE MARMALADE. The preceding receipt may be followed, leaving out the apples and breaking up the quinces with the juice till it becomes a marmalade. It will require fast boiling, so as to lessen the quantity of juice, after the fruit is broken up. PUMPKIN GINGER. (To be done early in September.) The pumpkin must not be ripe. Peel it and remove the seeds, and cut it into pieces resembling West Indian ginger in form and size. Make a pickle with two quarts of cold water, a teacupful of salt, and a teacupful of white vinegar. Put the pieces of pump- kin into this, and let them remain for twenty-four hours. Make < a syrup as follows:—The same weight of loaf sugar as pumpkin. T.o every pound add the strained juice of one lemon, half an ounce of ground ginger, and a quarter of a pint of cold water. Boil and stir till it become a syrup. Take out the pieces of pumpkin and wash them in cold water. Put them into the syrup and simmer gently till tender, but not soft. Turn the whole into a basin. The next day pour off the syrup, boil it up, and pour it over the pumpkin. Do this for three days. Taste the syrup, and if it is not sufficiently strong of the ginger, add a saltspoonful each day. The third day, when cold, put it into jars, cover the pieces of pumpkin with syrup, tie the jars over with bladder, and keep them in a dry closet for six months belore using.