229 SAVOURY MACARONI. CHEESE SOUFFLE. of mustard, two grains of cayenne, and a saltspoonful of white pepper; lay it on a dish, and sift grated Parmesan cheese thickly over (three ounces) ; on that lay an ounce of butter in small pieces; bake in a quick oven, or before the fire, till of a pale brown colour (from twelve to fifteen minutes). Serve very hot. 660. SAVOURY MACARONI. (Naples receipt.) Blanch six ounces of Naples macaroni in two quarts of boiling water with a tablespoonful of salt in it; let' it remain till cold, then drain on a sieve. Put it into an enamelled saucepan with two ounces of butter, and stir over the fire till the butter is absorbed; then add a quart of new milk and simmer very gently till quite tender (about an hour and a half); add a teaspoonful of flour of mustard, a saltspoonful of white pepper, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, a grain of cayenne, three ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and two fresh eggs, beaten with a gill of thick cream ; place it on a dish, and sift grated Parmesan cheese thickly over (three ounces) ; on that lay an ounce of butter in small pieces; bake in a quick oven, or before the fire, till of a pale brown colour (from twelve to fifteen minutes). Serve very hot. 661. CHEESE SOUFFLE, OR FONDU. Grate six ounces of rich cheese (Parmesan is the best) ; put it into an enamelled saucepan, with a teaspoonful of flour of mustard, a saltspoonful of white pepper, a grain of cayenne, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, two ounces of butter, two table- spoonfuls of baked flour, and a gill of new milk; stir it over a slow fire till it becomes like smooth thick cream (but it must not boil) ; add the well-beaten yolks of six eggs; beat for ten minutes; then add the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; pour the mixture into a tin, or a cardboard mould, and bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes. Serve immediately. 662. BREAD-AND- CHEESE PUDDING. Six ounces of rich cheese, grated, four ounces of fine crumbs of bread, two ounces of dissolved butter, a tcaspoonful of flour of mustard, a saltspoonful of white pepper, a grain of cayenne, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, a gill of new milk, and three