139 BltAISED DUCK. spoonful of white pepper, half a saltspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of loaf sugar, an inch of thin lemon peel, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, and half a pint of water; boil and stir for twenty minutes, till the water is all absorbed; then add two ounces of butter, and rub through a sieve; when cold, add a saltspoonful of fresh-chopped parsley, and stuff the ducks; roast before a quick fire, basting constantly till done. Ducklings require thirty-five minutes, and ducks fifty minutes. Must be sent to table hot, and with gravy, as directed for gosling in the preceding re- ceipt. 358. BRAISED DUCK, WITH TURNIPS. Peel eight or ten small turnips; sift a dessertspoonful of loaf sugar over them; dissolve six ounces of butter, and fry the turnips to a pale brown colour (in a stcwpan) ; add two ounces more butter, and an onion, chopped ; put in, breast downwards, a fine duck, and let it remain to brown, for twenty minutes. Take out the duck ; stir into the butter two dessertspoonfuls of baked flour, a teaspoonful of soy, a saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoon- fol of pepper, and three-quarters of a pint of any good stock; boil fast, and skim off all the fat; then add a wineglassful of ( Marsala and the strained juice of a lemon; put in the duck, breast uppermost, and simmer gently for twenty minutes; add the turnips, and continue to simmer twenty minutes more. Place the duck on a hot dish, the turnips round it, and the gravy poured over. Serve at once. 359. BRAISED DUCK, WITH YOUNG PEAS. Chop quite small four spring onions, two sage leaves, and four sprigs of parsley; season with half a saltspoonful of salt, a quarter of a saltspoonful of pepper, and the tenth part of a nut- meg, grated. Knead these 'with an ounce of butter, and put it into the body of the duck; spread three ounces of butter over the breast; lay on the bottom of a stewpan four large leaves of fresh-cut lettuce ; place the duck upon them, cover closely, and h't it braise or simmer till of a pale brown colour (about half an hour) ; then add three-quarters of a pint of stock (No. 2), or plain \ cal gravy. Continue to simmer for twenty minutes ; then take 0,11 duck, and put it in a quick oven for ten minutes; skim the gravy, and rub it through a fine sieve; put it back into the