156 GAME. SU7. CURRIED RABBIT. Peel and slice three good-sized onions; dredge them with two tablespoonfuls of curry powder, a dessertspoonful of dried flour, and fry in three ounces of good butter till of a delicate brown colour. Put them into a stewpan with a rabbit, cut into small pieces, a quarter of a clove of garlic, and sufficient stock to moisten; simmer very gently, stirring frequently, for an hour and a half; add the strained juice of a lemon and half a gill of cocoa-nut milk (or good cream), and serve at once, with a separate dish of plain boiled rice. Wash half a pound of best rice; put it into three pints of cold water, and boil for half an hour ; drain on a •sieve before the fire or in the oven; separate the grains by stirring with a wooden fork. 398. RABBIT PIE. Make a paste as follows : — Moisten half a pound of sifted flour with about half a gill of cold water and the juice of half a lemon ; knead it out flat; lay in half a pound of good butter; fold over the sides, and roll out four times ; each time dredge it with flour; fold it into a bolster form and let it stand two hours in a cool place. Have ready a young rabbit, three-quarters of a pound of veal cutlet, a quarter of an inch thick, and three ounces of mild bacon, very thin ; cut up the rabbit, each joint into two or three pieces, the veal into two inch squares, and the bacon into strips. Season with the tenth part of a nutmeg, grated, the rind of half a lemon, grated, two saltspoonfuls of white pepper, a grain of cayenne, and a teaspoonful of dry salt. Take the fifth part of the paste, roll it out the sixth of an inch thick, and cut it into strips an inch and a quarter wide; grease the edge of a pie-dish, and line it with the paste; lay in the veal, then the rabbit and bacon ; add a gill of stock or water; roll the paste out to the size of the dish ; wet the edge ; cover over ; press it roimd with the thumb to make it adhere; trim off the rough edge with a sharp knife; notch it round at half-inch distances; make a small hole in the centre, to let out the steam ; ornament to fancy, and bake in a moderate oven for two hours and a quarter. Note.—Three truffles, sliced, will be found a great improvement. Force- meat-balls or tho yolks of hard-boiled eggs may bo added, if liked —of either, six.