SOUPS, BROTHS, ETC. 18 ram, and four sprigs of parsley, all tied together; two quarts of water, a teaspoonful of loaf sugar, two saltspoonfuls of salt. Boil up quickly, skim carefully, then simmer for three hours and a half. Skim off all the fat. Chop some parsley quite fine, put a dessertspoonful into a tureen. Strain the broth and serve. Note.—Barley, tapioca, or rice may be added, according to taste—Wf a teacupful of either. The barley and tapioca will require two hours, and rice one hour boiling, in three-quarters of a pint of the broth before adding the rest. 45. GRAVY. Peel, wash, and slice a large onion, a large mushroom, half a carrot, and a small head of celery ; drain on a sieve, cut up into pieces the size of a walnut one pound of lean beef and half a pound of lean veal, both fresh killed. Make a bright stewpan hot, and rub it twice across the bottom with a piece of fresh-cut garlic. Put in the vegetables and meat, with an ounce of butter and two ounces of mild ham. Place the stewpan over a slow fire, shake it frequently, and let it simmer till the whole is nicely browned; then add four peppercorns, two allspice, two cloves, half an inch of mace, a teaspoonful of moist sugar, a mustard- spoonful of fresh-made mustard, three sprigs of parsley, a small sprig of thyme, and three pints of warm water. Boil up slowly, skim, then simmer gently for four hours, skimming frequently. Knead an ounce of butter with two dessertspoonfuls of well- baked flour, and a quarter of a saltspoonful of pepper. Stir this into the gravy, add a teaspoonful of soy. Boil fast for a quarter of an hour. Skim off every particle of fat, then strain through a fine sieve. The quantities given will make rather more than a pint of rich strong gravy. Hote.—If mushrooms are not to be had, substitute one tablespoonfnl of ketchup, to be put in with the soy. 46. ASPIC, OR SAVOURY JELLY. Put the following articles into an iron pot:—An os foot, un- boiled, two large pig’s feet, fresh, a small knuckle of veal, and a small knuckle of good ham, all well cleansed and chopped into pieces; two onions, a clove of garlic, two carrots, two apples, and two truffles, all scraped, washed, and cut up; four cloves, four allspice, half a teaspoonful of mustard-seed, a blade of mace, two