LEMON-BREAD, RAISIN, AND BAKED COCOA-NUT PUDDINGS. 177 beaten eggs; continue to stir for three minutes. When nearly cold, add half a pint of thick cream, beat for ten minutes, put the pudding into a pint and a half mould, and stand it on ice till quite firm, about two hours. 475. LEMON-BREAD PUDDING. Quarter of a pound of sifted crumbs of bread, quarter of a pound of beef-maiTow, or suet, chopped, quarter of a pound of moist sugar, the grated rind and strained juice of a lemon, a tablespoonful of dry flour, two eggs, and a gill of new milk; mix these ingredients together, and let it stand for twenty minutes; butter a pint basin, stick it tastefully with candied lemon peel, cut -very thin. Beat the pudding for ten minutes, put it in the basin, tie it over with a cloth, put it into boiling •water, and boil fast for three hours; serve with lemon sauce in the dish. 476. LEMON SAUCE. Boil three ounces of loaf sugar and the thin rind of a lemon in half a gill of water for a quarter of an hour ; then add the strained juice of a lemon and two tablespoonfuls of gin ; strain and serve. 477. RAISIN PUDDING. Quarter of a pound of flour, two ounces of ground rice, half a pound of beef-suet, chopped fine, quarter of a pound of moist sugar, quarter of a pound of Sultana raisins, the strained juice and grated rind of one lemon, one well-beaten egg, and a quarter of a pint of milk; mix these ingredients, beat with a wooden spoon for five minutes; butter a plain mould, put in the pudding, tie it closely down ; well cover it with boiling water, and boil rapidly for three hours. Serve with sifted sugar over the top. 478. BAKED COCOA-NUT PUDDING. Two-thirds of a cocoa-nut, grated, a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, three ounces of beef-marrow, chopped, three ounces of dried crumbs of bread, six ounces of any dried fruit, a quarter of a pint of new milk, two fresh eggs, the milk of the cocoa-nut, and the juice of a lemon ; beat these ingredients well together; butter a pie-dish or a mould ; put in the pudding, and bake in a N