297 PRESERVED MELON* ETC. for a quarter of an hour, skimming if necessary. Lay it in the dish, and the next day put it into pots, and tie down. Note.—The parings (not the outside) may he put into rum or brandy with half a pound of loaf sugar to one pound of parings, and kept for fla- vouring jellies, creams, or punch. 895. PRESERVED MELON. The melons must he perfectly sound and not over-ripe. Pare and quarter them, and, if large, cut each quarter into two; take out the pulp; place it on a sieve, with a basin under, to receive the juice from it. Weigh the melon, and put it into an earthen pan; cover it with cold water, with salt and vinegar in it (a tea- spoonful of salt and a dessertspoonful of French vinegar to three pints of water ; let it remain in this pickle for twenty-six hours; then wash and drain it. Take the same weight of loaf sugar as of fruit; put it into a skillet with the juice from the pulp, and boil, skimming carefully, till it becomes a bright syrup. Put the melon into the syrup when cold; boil up slowly, skim, then simmer gently for a quarter of an hour. Put the melon carefully into a basin; pour the syrup over it, and let it remain for three days; each day drain off the syrup; boil it fast for three minutes; then pour it over the melon. The last time of boiling up the syrup, add one ounce of ginger, slightly bruised. Put the melon into a jar, pour the syrup over, and place the ginger on the top; the next day, tie it closely down. Note.—Cucumbers may be preserved in this way and are excellent. 896. PRESERVED SIBERIAN CRAB APPLES. Wipe the apples without breaking the skin, and prick each through three or four times with a fine needle ; weigh them, and to every pound allow a pound of loaf sugar, two tablespoonfuls of gin, and the strained juice of half a lemon. Put the sugar, gin, and lemon-juice into a preserving-pan, and boil and skim till in a bright syrup; then put in the fruit, and simmer very gently till the skin is slightly cracked. Drain the fruit, and put it carefully into jars. Boil the syrup quickly for ten minutes, and when nearly cold, pour it over the fruit; the next dav, tie the jars over with cap paper.