REMARKS AND DIRECTIONS TO BE REMEMBERED. clix is an essential to good cooking, and the cook should never be without it. Dried or prepared Crumbs.—Put some bread on a sheet of paper, place it in a cool oven, and let it remain till perfectly dried through. Divide the crust and brown part from the crumb, and pound them separately till in very fine powder. Put them into jars, and keep them in a dry place. The white crumbs are to be used for sweetbreads, cutlets, fried fish, puddings, &c. The brown crumbs are to be used for hams, bacon, colouring broth, &c. Any pieces of bread there may be, should be baked daily, as the bread should not be stale, and pounded twice or thrice a week. Burnt Sugar, for colouring Soups, fyc.—Put a quarter of a pound of sifted loaf sugar into a small iron saucepan (untinned), and place it over the fire to bake, till it becomes black, but not crisp, like a cinder; add a pint of water, and simmer till the sugar dissolves, and the water is reduced to half a pint. Strain through a cloth, and when cold, bottle and keep for use. Great care is required in colouring, not to put too much, or it will spoil what it is intended to improve, both in appearance and flavour. It must be used by drops till the desired effect is attained. Black Onions, for Soups, fyc.—Peel six large onions, and place them on a tin dish. Knead together a quarter of a pound of salt butter and a quarter of a pound of moist sugar ; divide it into six equal parts, and place one on each onion. Put them into a slow oven, and bake till they are black through, but not burnt crisp. Baste them frequently with the liquor. When done, put them into a pie-dish, and keep for use. These onions give a finer colour to soup and gravy than anything else; they also impart a good flavour. Weights and Measures.—As the same weights and measures are not used everywhere, it is necessary to state that those re- ierred to in this book are avoirdupois, i. e. sixteen ounces to the pound, and imperial, i.e. twenty liquid ounces to the pint. Sieves vary even in London, therefore by a sieve must be under- stood fourteen dry quarts. Seasoning.—The over use of seasoning will spoil every other