16 SOUPS, BROTHS, ETC. gently for eight minutes; stir in a gill of thick cream, and serve immediately. 38. PALESTINE SOUP. (Two quarts.) Peel and wash three pounds of Jerusalem artichokes, one large onion, and a small head of celery. Put them into a stewpan, with two ounces of mild lean ham, a small blade of mace, a dessertspoonful of loaf sugar, and two quarts of stock (No. 2). Boil quickly (uncovered) for an hour. Knead together two ounces of butter and three tablespoonfuls of baked flour, and stir it into the soup for twenty minutes. Eub the soup through a fine sieve with a wooden spoon. Put it again into the stewpan ; boil up ; skim if necessary; then stir in half a pint of thick cream, and serve immediately. 39. LEEK SOUP. Trim and wash eight good sized leeks ; cut the white part into slices, and fry to a pale brown colour in a quarter of a pound of butter. Put them into a stewpan with three pints of water, the sixth part of a nutmeg grated, half a saltspoonful of white pepper, a saltspoonful of salt, and boil for an hour and a half, when the leeks should be in a pulp ; rub through a fine sieve. Cut three thin slices of bread, without crust; lay them in a tureen, sprinkle over two tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese. Put the soup again into the stewpan; boil up; stir in half a pint of thick cream. Pour it over the bread, and serve immediately. 40. VEGETABLE SOUP. Wash, trim, and cut into shreds an inch long a small cabbage, two large carrots, two turnips, a head of celery, two leeks, three onions, a large endive or a lettuce. Put them into an iron pot with half a pound of good butter, a tablespoonful of moist sugar, a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of curry powder, and let them fry till of a good brown colour ; stir constantly to prevent burn- ing. Add two quarts of water, and boil moderately fast for two hours, skimming frequently. Put into the tureen a wineglassful of Marsala and a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar. Pour in the soup, and serve at once.