GRUERE AND PARMESAN CHEESE. FRIED SIPPETS, clxxxi GRUERE FONDU, OR RAMAKINS. Six fresh eggs, three ounces of grated Gruere cheese, one ounce of fresh butter dissolved, a grain of cayenne, half a saltspoonful of flour of mustard. Beat the whites of the eggs separately, and the other ingredients together. When well mixed add the whites and beat for ten minutes. Put the mixture either into a souffle tin (buttered), or into small paper cases, and bake in a quick oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. Serve very hot. CHEESE STRAWS. Half a pound of dried flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of grated Parmesan or Gruere cheese, a tea- spoonful of flour of mustard, a saltspoonful of cayenne, and a saltspoonful of salt. Rub the butter into the flour, then mix the whole well together. Beat the whites of two eggs with a quarter of a pint of cold water, and stir in enough to form a firm paste; knead the paste well, then roll it out the eighth of an inch thick, and cut it into straw-like strips, about five inches long. Bake in a quick oven till of a pale brown colour, about five minutes. Pile them on a dish prettily, and serve either hot or cold. Must be kept in a dry place. PARMESAN TOAST. Grate two ounces of Parmesan cheese, knead it to a paste, with two ounces of butter and a grain of cayenne, cut a slice of bread without crust, the third of an inch thick, toast it slightly on both sides, butter one side, and on the other spread the cheese paste, put it into a cheese toaster, or Dutch oven, and bake for ten or twelve minutes. Serve on a hot dish. FRIED SIPPETS FOR GARNISH, AND FOR SOUP. Gut two slices of bread a quarter of an inch thick ; trim off the crust and dry sides, and cut it into inch and a half squares, and cut those from corner to corner, so as to form points. Put them into boiling butter or lard—six ounces—and fry to a pale brown colour, and till they are quite crisp. If for soup, the pieces must be square like dice, and must be fried in butter.