152 GAME. ■white pepper, a saltspoonful and a half of salt, a dessertspoonful of currant jelly, dissolved, a tablespoonful of brandy, and an ounce of dissolved butter. Mix the bread with the hare, and continue to pound till the whole is incorporated ; then add four well-beaten eggs, and beat for ten minutes •with a wooden spoon; butter a mould, press in the mixture; cover it with writing paper, spread with a quarter of an ounce of butter ; tie a cloth over ; put it into plenty of boiling water, and boil fast for three- quarters of an hour. Turn out carefully and serve with the same gravy as for roast hare. Note.—A pudding half the size may he made with two ounces of bread, half a pint of stock, six ounces of hare, one ounce of butter, and half the quantity of seasoning ; boil half an hour. 390. JUGGED HARE. Have a fine young hare cut into joints ; wash and wipe each piece and dredge it over with dry flour. Peel, slice, and wash one onion, four moderate-sized mushrooms, one small carrot, half a head of celery, and six sprigs of parsley; put these into a stew- pan with two cloves, half an inch of mace, a sprig of thyme, a small laiu-el leaf, and two thin slices of mild bacon (three ounces); lay the hare upon the vegetables, and on that put six ounces of butter in three slices. Stand the stewpan by the side of the fire, and let it simmer till the hare is firm and well-flavoured with the ingredients ; shake frequently. Take out the hare, strain the gravy, and skim off all the butter; lay the hare again in the stewpan (leaving out the liver); season with two saltspoonfuls of salt, one saltspoonful and a half of pepper, a teaspoonful ot moist sugar, and the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated ; put in the gravy; add about a pint of good stock, mixed with a table- spoonful of baked flour and a quarter of a pint of port wine; cover closely; shake the stewpan frequently, and simmer very gently for an hour ; then lay in the forcemeat-balls, made as follows:—Chop the following ingredients as fine as possible— The liver, half an ounce of lean (cooked) ham, three ounces of veal suet, enough parsley to fill a dessertspoon; add two ounces of fine crumbs of bread, two saltspoonfuls of mixed sweet herbs, a saltspoonful of pepper, the same of salt and loaf sugar, half a saltspoonful of flour of mustard, the tenth part of a nutmeg,