288 CONDIMENT AND OTHER SAUCES, KETCHUP, ETC. with a coarse cloth, and throw the onions into the brine as they are done. Let them remain for twenty-four hours, then drain, and wipe them quite dry. Put them into wide-mouthed bottles or jars, and cover them with vinegar prepared as follows:—To every quart of white wine vinegar add a teaspoonful of white peppercorns, half a saltspoonful of white mustard seed, and a saltspoonful of coriander seed. Boil up slowly; let it simmer for three minutes, and when cold, pour it over the onions. Cork, and tie over with leather. To be kept three weeks or longer before using. 864. PICKLED RED CABBAGE. (To be made in August or September.) Trim off all the outside tough leaves and cut out the stalks; pull the cabbages to pieces, and wash and wipe each leaf; cut them up into shreds, lay them on a large sieve, and sprinkle them with salt, about a quarter of a pound to a large cabbage; stir with the hands, so that the salt may be well mixed with the cabbage. The next day, put it into a clean soft cloth, and wipe it quite dry. Put it into jars, and covered with vinegar prepared as follows :—To every quart of vinegar, add three-quarters of an ounce of bruised ginger, three cloves, eight allspice, a tea- spoonful of black peppercorns, two long peppers, and a thick slice of boiled beetroot. Boil for three minutes, and pour it over the cabbage. When cold, tie it closely over and keep for six weeks before using. 865. PICKLED BEETROOT AND SPANISH ONIONS. (To be made in October.) Bake the beetroot in a moderately heated oven till tender (about two hours); when quite cold, peel, and slice it the sixth of an inch thick. Peel and slice, of the same thickness, an equal quantity of sound Spanish onions. Put them in jars in alternate layers, and cover them with vinegar prepared in the following manner :—To every quart of vinegar add a teaspoonful of salt, a small blade of mace, a quarter of an ounce of whole ginger, eight black peppercorns, two cloves, four allspice, and three grains of cayenne. Boil for three minutes, and when cold pour it over the vegetables. Put an equal quantity of the spice in each jar.