HUTTON CUTLETS. 63 184. MUTTON CUTLETS, WITH TOMATO SAUCE. The cutlets must be from the best end of a well-kept neck of mutton; trim off all the fat, pith, and gristle; bare the bone about an inch and a half; dip each cutlet in oiled butter, and strew over both sides fine crumbs of bread ; fry them slowly in plenty of lard to a pale brown colour, twenty minutes; pour a small bottle of tomato-sauce into a saucepan; mix together a teaspoonful of baked flour and half an ounce of fresh butter; stir it into the sauce for ten minutes ; add eight dr-ops of vinegar; pour the sauce into the centre of the dish, and place the cutlets tastefully round it. Note.—Each cutlet should have a bone in it, and the meat should not be thicker than the bone. Large thick cutlets are vulgar and ugly. 185. MUTTON CUTLETS, WITH PORTUGUESE SAUCE. Take five or six cutlets off the best end of a neck of mutton ; trim off the fat, bare the bone, and beat the cutlets with a chopper; season two ounces of fine crumbs of bread with the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, a saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper, and a quarter of a grain of cayenne; dip the cutlets into beaten egg (one), then into the crumbs; fry slowly in plenty of boding fat till of a pale brown colour, fifteen or twenty minutes. Peel and chop fine an onion, a large apple, half a clove of-garlic, six Sultana raisins; put them into a saucepan, with a wineglassful of vinegar, a teaspoonful of moist sugar, a tablespoonful of gravy, one clove, and four peppercorns; simmer twenty minutes; add a wineglassful of port wine; rub through a sieve; place the cutlets round the dish, and the sauce in the centre. Serve immediately. 186. MUTTON CUTLETS, WITH MUSHROOM SAUCE, WHITE. Have six or seven cutlets off the best end of a neck of mutton ; trim off the fat, pith, and gristle, and bare the bone an inch from the end. The cutlets must not be thicker than the bone, and all trimmed to the same size. Rub each cutlet with lemon juice, and season the whole ■with a teaspoonful of salt, a small teaspoon- ful of white pepper, the grated rind of half a lemon, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated; put them into a bright tin dish, with half an ounce of butter on each, and bake in a slow oven for