nsir. 40 tin dish six times across with garlic, put in the fish, pour over the remainder of the butter, and bake in a quick oven for eighteen or twenty minutes. Place the fillets in a circle on the dish, and serve very hot. 117. FILLETS OF SOLES, WITH MUSSEL SAUCE. Fillet a pair of moderate-sized soles; wash and wipe them dry; rub them over with lemon juice, and let them stand for an hour. Clean two quarts of mussels; put them into a saucepan, with half a clove of garlic, a blade of mace, a laurel leaf, four sprigs of parsley, an inch of thin lemon-peel, one clove, two all- spice, and a dessertspoonful of salt (no water) ; shake the pan constantly till the mussels open, then turn them into an earthen pan. Pull out the weed from under the black tongue, and remove the beard from each mussel; strain the liquor ; put the soles into a stewpan, with half a gill of the liquor, two ounces of butter, and a wineglassful of Madeira or Marsala; boil up quickly; then simmer for fifteen minutes. Put the remainder of the mussel liquor into a small saucepan, boil up, and skim; put in the mussels, boil for two minutes; then add the beaten yolks of three fresh eggs, with half a gill of thick cream; stir till smooth. Lay the soles neatly on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve at once. 118. FILLETS OF SOLES, WITH TARTAR SAUCE. (Italian fashion.) Eub two ounces of fresh butter into half a pound of well-dried sifted flour; beat the yolk of a fresh egg with half a gill of cold water, and mix into the flour; knead it to a stiff dry paste, and let it stand two hours in a cool place, roll it out as thin as a shilling, and cut it into eight pieces about four inches long and six inches wide. Cut a good-sized sole into eight fillets; rub each piece over with lemon juice, put it into the paste, wet the edges, fold it over, and press it with the thumb to make both edges adhere; trim it to the shape of the fillet, and, when they are all done, fry them in a bright stewpan of boiling lard, over a gentle fire, till of a yellow-brown colour (about half an hour); drain on a sieve before the fire for three minutes. Place the fillets on a cold dish in a circle, each one resting on the other,