251 ECONOMICAL SOUP. HARD DUMPLINGS. Fry in dissolved dripping or butter, stirring all the time. Cut some thin slices of cold boiled beef, fry slightly. Place the vege- tables in a cone-shape in the centre of the dish, and the beef round it. Serve very hot. 741. ECONOMICAL SOUP, No. 1. Skim the fat off the liquor the beef was boiled in ; put it into a cloth and press out the moisture. Slice three onions and one head of celery, and fry them in the fat to a pale brown colour. Boil a quart of split peas in a quart of water till tender; beat them with a wooden spoon, pour over the beef liquor, add the vegetables, and boil six hours, keeping it well stirred. Mix four tablespoonfuls of dry flour, a teaspoonful of flour of mustard, a saltspoonful of black pepper, half a grain of cayenne, a tablespoonful of moist sugar, a teaspoonful of dried mint, in fine powder, a dessertspoonful of vinegar, and three-quarters of a pint of cold water ; pour it into the soup, and stir till it thickens. Boil an hour longer. Cut some slices of bread a quarter of an inch thick into dice, and fry in plenty of good dripping or butter till brown. Drain before the fire on a sieve. Pour the soup into a tureen, throw in the fried bread, and serve immediately, with finely-powdered mint on a plate. 742. UPPER SIDE OF THE ROUND OF BEEF, ROASTED. Hang the beef before a good fire; dredge it with flour; let it be rather close to the fire for a quarter of an hour, then withdraw it to a little distance and roast slowly. Baste constantly till done ; allowing a quarter of an hour to the pound. Dish the beef, pour off the dripping, mix the gravy which is under it with a cup of boiling water and a saltspoonful of salt; pour it over the beef, and serve with hard dumplings. 743. HARD DUMPLINGS. One pound of well-dried flour, a saltspoonful of salt, and sufficient cold water to make a stiff paste ; knead it well for ten minutes. Make it up into six dumplings; throw them into boiling water, and boil rapidly, stirring them from the bottom, for three- quarters of an hour. Serve immediately.