WINE BISCUITS CHAMPAGNE OR MOSELLE CUP. clxxXV Sweetbreads, cock’s combs, rabbit, or veal may be used for this dish ; and small fresh mushrooms may be added with improve- ment. Excellent, pretty, and not difficult to make. POTATO FLOUR CAKES. Two ounces of butter beaten to cream, three ounces of potato flour, four ounces of powdered loaf sugar, one large egg beaten with a tablespoonful of cream, and two tablespoonfuls 'of well- washed currants or finely-chopped raisins. Mix these ingredients together, and beat the mixture till it is quite light. Put it into small tins, and bake in a quick oven for ten or twelve minutes. To be eaten hot or cold, but they are not so good when stale. Indian corn flour may be used, but the cakes are lighter when made as directed. WINE BISCUITS. One pound of dried flour, a quarter of a pound of pounded loaf sugar, a saltspoonful of ground ginger, a grain of cayenne, a quarter of a pound of butter, half a saltspoonful of tartaric acid, finely pounded, and half a saltspoonful of cream of tartar. Rub all these ingredients together till well mixed, dissolve a small teaspoonful of carbonate of soda in a little more than a quarter of a pint of warm milk. Stir it in quickly, then knead to a firm cfough. Roll it out to a quarter of an inch thick, cut it into strips two inches wide, and those into biscuits three inches long. Bake them in a quick oven till they are of a pale brown colour and quite crisp. CHAMPAGNE OR MOSELLE CUP. A tumblerful of strawberries or raspberries, three or four thin slices of pineapple, or three sweet oranges sliced, may be used, according to the season. Put the fruit into the cup, sprinkle over it two tablespoonfuls of pounded loaf sugar, add a wineglass- ful of brandy ; bruise the fruit and stir it till the sugar is quite dissolved, then put in about a pound of ice broken into dust, add a bottle of champagne or moselle, put two sprigs of burrage into the cup, and it is then ready to drink. There are various ways of making champagne cup—as, for instance, leaving out the fruit is one; adding soda water is another—all good, but the receipt given has been much approved of, therefore stands first.