299 CANDIED FRUIT, ETC. 900. BLACK CURRANT CHEESE. Follow the preceding receipt. 901. CANDIED OR FROSTED CURRANTS. Put two pounds of loaf sugar and half a gill of water into a skillet; boil up, skim, then boil rather fast for half an hour. Have about three pounds of fine ripe currants, red and white, in large bunches; dip each bunch twice into brandy (a gill), and then into the clarified sugar, while hot, but not boiling; do this a second time, then sift loaf sugar over them. Place them on a sieve in a dry warm place or in the sun, and let them remain till dry. They keep best in a paper box. 902. DRIED OR CANDIED FRUIT. Greengages, Orleans plums, apricots, or peaches may be pre- served as follows:— The fruit must be quite ripe and sound. Wipe off the bloom, cut them in half, and take out the stones. Have the same weight of loaf sugar as of fruit; put it into a preserving-pan, with half a gill of water to each pound; boil and skim for a quarter of an hour. Dip the fruit into brandy twice; put it into the syrup, and let it come slowly to the boil. Turn it carefully into a pan ; pour the syrup over, and let it stand till the next day ; then pour off the syrup; boil it quickly for five minutes, and pour it over the fruit while boiling hot. Do this every day for a week ; the last time boil it ten minutes. Put in the fruit, and boil ten minutes more ; when cold, lay the fruit on a hair sieve, dredge it over with pounded loaf sugar, and place it in a slack oven till the fruit is dry. Should be kept in a paper box, with strips of soft writing paper placed round each plum. Pears and cherries may also be preserved in the same way. Cherries only require three days, and two minutes' boiling on the last day. 903. ORANGE AND LEMON RINGS. Cut Seville oranges and fine lemons into slices the sixth of an inch thick, then with a sharp-pointed knife cut out the pulp, leaving a very thin coating of the white pith on the peel; soak these rings for twenty-four hours in cold water, slightly flavoured with salt; wash them and boil them in sufficient water to let