45 BED MULLET. FRESH HERRINGS. spoonful of French vinegar; continue to stir till the sauce becomes a thick cream ; chop quite fine one shalot, a piece of garlic as big as a pea, and one small gherkin ; stir these into the sauce, and serve (cold) as directed. 128. RED MULLET IN PAPER. Well wash the mullet; rub each one with a teaspoonful of salad oil, a teaspoonful of lemon j uice, a quarter of a saltspoonful of salt, the same of white pepper, the twelfth part of a nutmeg, grated; put them into a dish, and strew over them a tablespoon- ful of chopped parsley, two shalots, finely chopped, and let them saturate for three hours. Spread a sheet of foolscap paper (for each mullet) ■with an ounce of butter; put in the mullet, and roll the edges neatly and closely, to prevent the butter escaping, and broil over a gentle fire, or fry in plenty of boiling lard, for twenty or twenty-five minutes (according to size). Serve in the paper, with or without the following sauce in a tureen. 129. SAUCE FOR RED MULLET. Pound the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs with a teaspoonful of flour of mustard, a saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of white pepper, a tablespoonful of baked flour, a dessertspoonful of French vinegar, and three ounces of dissolved butter; add half a pint of cold water. Rub a saucepan three times across the bottom with fresh-cut garlic; put in the sauce, and stir over a brisk fire till it boils; add a tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley, boil up, and serve at once. 130. RED MULLET, BAKED. Wash the mullet, and rub it well with lemon juice; put it into a tin dish with a large mushroom, finely chopped, two sha- lots, chopped, three thin slices of carrot, and four sprigs of parsley chopped, a saltspoonful of salt, the same of white pepper, a quarter of a pint of Marsala; bake in a moderate oven for thirty-five minutes or three quarters of an hour. Baste con- stantly with dissolved butter (six ounces for three fish) ; serve with the sauce poured over the mullet. Note.—This receipt is written for a large mullet.