CHARLOTTES. 209 a slow fire till it begins to thicken, but not to boil. Turn it into- a basin to get quite cold. Dissolve five ounces of loaf sugar and three-quarters of an ounce of the best isinglass in three-quarters- of a pint of new milk; add two ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and pounded to paste, two inches of vanilla, and boil slowly for twelve minutes, then rub through a sieve, and stir it into the eggs while warm ; whip three-quarters of a pint of cream, and add to the rest; stir till it begins to thicken. Trim off the ends of eighteen or twenty new Savoy biscuits; rub a plain quart mould with fresh butter; stick the biscuits round in an upright position, close to each other, so as to form a wall (the flat side inwards), place the mould in a pan of ice, pour in the cream, cover over, and let it remain till quite firmly set. When about to serve, dip the mould in hot water, wipe off the droppings, and turn out carefully. 590. APPLE CHARLOTTE, COLD. Pare and cut up eighteen good cooking apples; put them into a skillet, with two-thirds their weight of loaf sugar, the grated rind and strained juice of two lemons, the fourth part of a nut- meg, grated, two cloves, and a wineglassful of Marsala; boil, and stir till in a rich marmalade, then rub through a fine sieve. Cut off the ends of eighteen Savoy biscuits ; butter a plain mould, and stick the biscuits closely round it in an upright position, the flat side inwards. Pour in the marmalade while hot; press it well in ; cover with a dish, and let it remain in a cool place (or put it on ice) till firmly set. Turn out carefully; cover the top with Devonshire cream, or the following whip, and send to table at once. Strain the juice of two lemons into half a pint of thick cream, and whip with a whisk to a creamy froth. 591. GOOSEBERRY, GREENGAGE, OR APRICOT CHARLOTTE. Equal weight of gooseberries and loaf sugar ; boil and stir till in a soft rich pulp, then rub through a fine sieve. Prepare the mould, finish, and serve as directed in the preceding receipt. Stone the plums, blanch the kernels, put them with the fruit, and two-thirds of the weight of loaf sugar, and boil till in a rich jam (whether greengages or apricots). Prepare the mould, finish, and serve as directed in the preceding receipt. V