clxxxiv MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. MIXED PICKLES. Trim French-beans, peel small onions, take out the white heart of cabbage in small pieces, pull into sprigs cauliflower. 'Well wash the whole, and throw them into strongly salted water quite boiling, and let them be in it for five minutes, then drain, and spread them out on a cloth, and lay it in the sun. When dry, mix them well together and put them into stone jars, and cover them with pickle made as follows: a gallon of vinegar, three ounces of dry salt, half an ounce of ground ginger, half a drachm of powdered mace, half an ounce of bruised red chillies, an ounce of flour of mustard, two ounces of turmeric, a quarter of a pound of shalots, and one clove of garlic peeled and chopped. Mix all these ingredients into the vinegar while cold, then boil up for five minutes, put it aside, and when quite cold fill the jars; tie them down closely, and keep them for six months, or longer, before using. Equal quantities of the vegetables have been used, but that may depend on taste. MACCAROXI MOULD OF FOWL WITH TRUFFLES. Cut up a young fowl into neat two-inch pieces. Put the bones into a pint and a half of water, and stew them till it becomes half a pint of strong gravy. When cold, put in the pieces of fowl, seasoned with a small saltspoonful of white pepper, two saltspoonfuls of dry salt, the grated rind of half a lemon, half a grain of powdered mace, and four truffles sliced. Simmer gently for twenty minutes; then turn it into a basin to get cold. Soak half a pound of Naples maccaroni for half an hour. Make a paste as follows:—Rub three ounces of fresh beef marrow into six ounces of dxy flour, add half a saltspoonful of salt, and the yolk of an egg beaten with a gill of cold water. Knead it to a firm paste. Rub a plain tin (oval) pudding mould thickly with butter, wipe the maccaroni dry, and cut it into lengths to fit in tastefully to the mould, both at the bottom and sides, which must be quite covered. Brush it over with the ■white of the egg. Roll out the paste, fit it neatly into the mould, making it adhere everywhere. Put in the fowl, with a tablespoonful of good fresh cream, cover over with the paste, tie a cloth over that, and steam over fast-boiling water for two hours. Turn out carefully, and serve immediately.