301 STEWED APPLES AND PEAKS. the skillet, put in the pippins, the juice, the peel, three cloves, three allspice, an inch of cinnamon, six ounces of loaf sugar, a gill of Marsala, and a gill of water. Simmer very gently, and skim often, till the pippins are tender, but not soft and pulpy. Take them out, put them in a pie-dish, boil the syrup till it thickens slightly, then strain it over the pippins. When quite cold serve. They should be of a rich dark brown colour through. 907. STEWED APPLES. Dessert apples should be used ; pare them neatly with a sharp knife, and scoop out the core; put them into a skillet, with half their weight of loaf sugar, one clove, an inch of cinnamon, the thin rind of half a lemon, and the strained juice, and three table- spoonfuls of cold water to every pound of apples; simmer very slowly, and skim frequently, till they are tender (about an hour and a quarter). Take them out carefully; place them neatly on a glass dish; boil the syrup quickly for ten minutes, and when nearly cold, strain it over the apples. To be served cold at dessert. A pint of whipped cream or Devonshire cream poured over the apples makes it a pretty dish for dinner or supper. 908. WHISKEY APPLES. American pippins are the best, but any sweet, sound apples may be used. Peel them neatly, scoop out the core with a narrow sharp-pointed knife. To every pound of apples allow three- quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, the thin rind and strained juice of a lemon, two inches of cinnamon, two cloves, half an inch of bruised ginger, half a gill of whisky, and half an inch of stick vanilla. Put the whole into a skillet, place it over a slow heat, and simmer gently for an hour and a half. Turn the apples frequently with a silver spoon, and skim often. If carefully attended to, the apples become quite transparent, and will keep for more than a year ; place them in large glazed jars; boil the syrup for five minutes; strain it over the apples, and when cold, tie them down. To be served at dessert. 909. STEWED PEARS. The large hard pears are the best for this purpose. Put them into a tm stewpan with sulficient cold water to cover them, and