24 FISH. with garlic. Dip in tlie cutlets, dredge them with the seasoned flour, and fry in boiling butter (three quarters of a pound) for twelve minutes. Serve with the following sauce in the dish. 57. INDIAN SAUCE. Peel and chop four shalots, put them into a saucepan with a tablespoonful of vinegar and a teaspoonful of moist sugar; stir over the fire till the shalot is tender, then put in a gill of good stock. Boil up, skim; add a teacupful of mixed Indian pickles cut into half-inch pieces, a teaspoonful of curry powder, and a tablespoonful of the pickle vinegar ; simmer for a quarter of an hour. Serve the sauce in the centre, and the cutlets neatly placed round it. 58. MAYONNAISE OF TURBOT. The following receipt in all respects will do for turbot: in gar- nishing, add twelve fresh-boiled prawns. 59. MAYONNAISE OF SALMON. Boil eight fresh eggs for twelve minutes ; when they are quite cold, take out the yolks and pound them to powder, add two salt- spoonfuls of fine dry salt, a teaspoonful of flour of mustard, a grain of cayenne, and the raw yolks of three fresh eggs. Stir quickly (always turning the same way) till in a smooth paste ; then add, drop by drop, ten tablespoonfuls of Lucca oil, two dessertspoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, and three tablespoonfuls of French vinegar. Continue to turn till the sauce has the appear- ance of thick cream. Let it stand in a cold place for an hour or longer. Wash and chop ten leaves of fresh tarragon, a sprig of chervil, and four small spring onions. Have about three-quarters of a pound of cold salmon (either boiled, brasied or dressed as directed for Mayonnaise, 61), free it from skin and bones, and divide it into pieces an inch and a half square. Season with the chopped herbs, onions, and a saltspoonful of fine salt. Trim and wash two large fresh lettuces, or any seasonable salad; let them remain half an hour in very cold water ; then dry them in a clean cloth, and cut them up into neat pieces half an inch broad. Put a layer of salad into the bowl, on that, two tablespoonfuls of the