7 MOCK TUKTLE SOUK. quarts of cold water. Boil up quickly; skim. Put in the Mar- sala, and simmer gently for two hours, skimming frequently. Take out the head, pull out the bones, and trim off all rough pieces; put the meat between two dishes, with a heavy weight on the upper one, and let it’get cold. Put the bones and trim- mings back into the pot, and simmer for four hours, skimming constantly. Knead a quarter of a pound of fresh butter with five tablespoonfuls of flour, baked till slightly browned, two grains of cayenne, a teaspoonful of flour of mustard, a saltspoonful of white pepper, and a saltspoonful of salt. Stir this into the soup. Add a dessertspoonful of soy and a teaspoonful of anchovy-sauce. Boil for a quarter of an hour, then strain through a fine sieve. Cut the meat of the head into inch -square pieces; put it into the soup, add the strained juice of a lemon ; simmer for twenty minutes. Put in the Madeira or sherry, and serve immediately. Cut lemons and cayenne should be handed. 22. MOCK TUKTLE SOUP. (Economical.) Clean and split a fine ox foot, put it into an iron pot with six- pennyworth of fresh beef bones, half a pound of gammon of bacon, three onions, two carrots, one turnip, one head of celery, a small bunch of sweet herbs, four sprigs of parsley, two sage leaves, one bay leaf, one laurel leaf, three cloves, four allspice, one blade of mace, six peppercorns, a grain of cayenne, a tablespoonful of brown sugar, and four quarts of cold water. Simmer gently and skim frequently for six hours. Take out the foot; cut off the meat, in pieces an inch square; dredge them with highly- baked flour. Put back the bones and rough pieces, and boil another hour. Pub the bottom of a fryingpan four times across with fresh-cut garlic ; dissolve six ounces of butter, and fry the pieces of foot to a nice brown colour. Stir into the butter three tablespoonfuls of baked flour, a dessertspoonful of curry powder, a teaspoonful of soy, a teaspoonful of anchovy-sauce, and a tea- spoonful of flour of mustard; add half a pint of the soup, and when nicely browned stir it into the whole. Boil fast for a quarter ot an hour, then strain through a fine sieve. Put in the meat, and simmer for half an hour ; add the strained juice of a large lemon and a wineglassful of'Marsala ; serve immediately.