PUDDINGS, PASTRY, JELLIES, CREAM, ETC. 182 bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes; turn out carefully, and serve, hot or cold. If cold, garnish with any kind of preserves. 492. CABINET PUDDING. Eight ounces of stale sponge-cake, one ounce of ratafias, seven ounces of candied fruit, eight fresh eggs, half a pint of new milk, a gill of cream, a wineglassful of Curasao or brandy, and two ounces of loaf sugar; boil the sugar in the milk; beat the eggs ; add them to the milk while it is warm, but not boiling. Let it get cold; then put in the spirit and the cream; cut the cake into thin slices ; butter a quart mould, stick it tastefully with three ounces of the fruit; lay in the cake, fruit, ratafias, and custard, in the order they are named, till it is quite full. Let it stand for an hour, that the cake may soak in the custard; then cover it with buttered writing paper ; tie a cloth over that, and steam over fast-boiling water for an hour and a half. Turn out care- fully, and serve, with the following sauce in the dish. 493. CURApiO SAUCE. Boil three ounces of loaf sugar and the rind of half a lemon in a gill of water; moisten a dessertspoonful of arrowroot with half a gill of cold water, and add to the rest; stir over the fire for three minutes; add a wineglassful of Curasao. Take out the peel, and serve as directed. 494. MARROW PUDDING, BOILED. Mix together the following ingredients :—A quarter of a pound of baked flour (or biscuit powder), a quarter of a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of currants, well washed and dried by rub- bing in a cloth, an ounce of sweet almonds, blanched and pounded, the grated rind and strained juice of a lemon, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, six ounces of beef-marrow, finely chopped, two beaten eggs, and a quarter of a pint of milk ; beat the mixture for ten minutes; butter a mould ; put in the pudding; tie a cloth over ; plunge it into boiling water, and boil fast for three hours. Turn out carefully ; sift loaf sugar over the top, and serve. Noxe. The same pudding may be made with either dried cherries, pre- served ginger, raisins, or candied peel, instead of currants. In either case, chopped small, or it may be made without fruit.