217 ITALIAN SWEETMEAT. TIPSY CAKE. the mixture briskly for a quarter of an hour, or longer; whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth ; add them; continue to beat for ten minutes. Butter a tin mould, put in the mixture, and bake in a quick oven about twenty minutes. Sift loaf sugar over, and serve immediately. 618. ITALIAN SWEETMEAT. Six ounces of mixed candied peel, four ounces of candied pine- apple, two ounces of angelica, all cut into fine shreds, three- quarters of a pound of sweet and twelve bitter almonds, blanched and pounded to paste, sixteen new laid eggs, the yolks stirred (not beaten) and strained, and a pound and a quarter of loaf sugar. Put the sugar into a saucepan with half a pint of water, and boil fast, skimming constantly, for ten minutes; add three table- spoonfuls of orange-flower water, and boil five minutes more. Pour off a fourth part into a basin to get cold. Take a small tin funnel (the pipe just big enough for a good-sized pea to pass through); hold it over the boiling sugar, and drop the strained yolks through, so as to form small balls; as they set, take them out, and drain on a sieve. When the egg is all thus prepared, stir the almonds into the sugar, and simmer till it forms a soft paste; then add two tablespoonfuls of brandy, and rub through a sieve. Butter a pie-dish, and put in the almond paste, candied fruit, and egg balls, in layers. Beat five whites of eggs, and add to the clarified sugar; beat to a froth, and pour it over the whole; bake in a quick oven about eighteen minutes. Serve hot or cold, but better cold. Turn out carefully. 619. TIPSY CAKE, OR TRIFLE. To prepare a tipsy cake for ten or twelve persons the following articles must be in readiness eight hours before it is wanted :—A pound sponge-cake, one day old, a quarter of a pound of greengage, a quarter of a pound of raspberry, a quarter of a pound of apricot jams, a quarter of a pound of orange marmalade, half a pint of Madeira or sherry, a wineglassful of French brandy, a wine- glassful of rum, a wineglassful of ginger wine, a wineglassful of Cura^o, five ounces of loaf sugar, six new laid eggs, a pint of new milk, half a pint of Devonshire or other thick cream, two ounces of blanched sweet almonds, an ounce of ratafias and