NECK. OF VEAL. (J3 third of a pint of boiling water; simmer ten minutes. Cut a round of bread, the third of an inch thick, off a two pound loaf; take off the crust and outside ; toast to a pale brown colour ; place the veal upon the toast; pom- off the dripping ; add the gravy to the melted butter, and pour it over the veal. Serve, with cut lemon on a plate. 259. BEST END OF NECK OF VEAL, ROASTED. Envelope it in buttered paper, and roast before a good fire til! done, twenty-five minutes to the pound ; a quarter of an houi before serving remove the paper, dredge lightly with baked flour, baste well, and let it become a bright brown colour. Knead two ounces of butter with a dessertspoonful of baked flour, and stir into the third of a pint of boiling water; simmer ten minutes; pour off the fat, and stir the gravy into the melted butter; add half a saltspoonful of salt; place the veal upon a dish; pour the gravy over, and serve, with a cut lemon on a plate. 260. BRAISED VEAL, WITH TRUFFLES. Take about three pounds of the best end of the neck of veal oi middle of the loin, the bones cut short; chop off the chine quite close to the meat. Clean and slice three fresh truffles; with a sharp knife cut off the skin of the veal, the eighth of an inch thick: spread two ounces of butter over it, and place the truffles in rows on the butter; put on the skin, and sew it round with a coarse needle and thread ; rub the bottom of a small bright stewpan four times across with garlic ; lay in a thin slice of ham (a quarter of a pound) ; on that put the veal, with the trimmings and the following vegetables round it :—A small carrot, a small onion, a mushroom, cut up into thin slices; put three thin slices of fat bacon on the veal; add half a pint of cold water, a saltspoonful of pepper, a teaspoonful of sugar, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, two cloves, a small blade of mace, and a grain of coriander seeds; cover closely, and simmer very gently for two hours and a half, skimming frequently. Take out the veal, skim off all the fat, and rub the gravy, vegetables, and ham through a fine hair sieve; boil up; add a wineglassful of Mar- sala and a dessertspoonful of brandy, and serve, the gravy poured over the veal.