39 FILLETS OF SOLES. BUTTERED SOLES. brown colour. Drain for two minutes on a sieve before the fire, and serve upon neatly folded white paper. Note.—The oil, strained into a basin, will serve two or three times, with a little added to it. Fish dressed in oil is excellent cold. 114. FILLETS OF SOLES, WITH WHITE SAUCE. Cut two soles into eight fillets; place them in a stewpan rubbed si\- times across the bottom with garlic; pour over a quarter of a pound of dissolved butter, add a saltspoonful of salt, half a salt- spoonful of white pepper, the tenth part of a nutmeg, grated, the grated rind of half a lemon, and one slialot, chopped as fine as possible; simmer ten minutes. Add a wineglassful of white wine and the strained juice of a lemon; simmer five minutes more; then serve with the following sauce poured over :—Beat the yolks of two fresh eggs with a gill of good cream ; strain the sauce in which the fish was stewed, skim off the butter, mix the sauce with the cream, and stir it over the fire till it thickens. Then serve as directed above. 115. BUTTERED SOLES. Bub a tin dish four times across the bottom with fresh-cut garlic; wipe the soles dry, and dredge them with baked flour. Lay them in the dish, Avith six ounces of butter (for two soles), and bake in a moderately heated oven for half an hour, or forty minutes if the soles be very thick. Serve on a very hot dish, Avith the butter poured over, and a teaspoonful of finely chopped chives or parsley sprinkled over the soles. 116. FILLETS OF SOLE, WITH SWEET HERBS. If the sole be large, cut it into eight fillets; if small, into four; rub each piece with lemon juice, and let it stand for tAvo hours; season two ounces of finely poAvdered dried crumbs of bread (see receipt) Avith a teaspoonful of mixed sweet herbs in poAvder, half a saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of Avhite pepper, the tenth part of a nutmeg, grated, and the grated peel of half a lemon. Dissolve a quarter of a pound of butter; beat one fresh egg; dip the fillets into the butter, then into the crumbs; let them stand for the butter to set; then dip them into the egg; sticAv the crumbs lightly over both sides. Rub the bottom of a