ArPLE AND QUINCE SAUCE. clxxxix gathered ripe, but not over ripe, fruit, and proceed as directed in the preceding receipt. The fruit will shrink, and slightly change colour when done. APPLE SAUCE : TO KEEP. (To be made early in October.) Hare a quarter of a sieve of good, sound, cooking apples; pull out the stem, and wipe each apple with a dry cloth; cut them in halves and take out the pips; put them into a bright stewpan with two large Spanish onions, sliced ; one ounce of slialot, peeled and sliced ; half an ounce of fresh garlic, peeled and cut up ; a drachm of mace and a quarter of an ounce of ginger, both bruised; a teaspoonful and a half of cayenne, and a pint of good vinegar. Put the pan, closely covered, over the fire, shake it often till it boils; then skim, and let it simmer for two hours. Stir it fre- quently with a wooden spoon, and in doing so break up the apples and onions, so that all the ingredients mix together. Add a pint of strong ale, and boil uncovered; and stir for half an hour, or longer, if the sauce is not thickened. Rub the whole through a coarse hair sieve, and then through a tammy, or fine hair sieve. Put it into half pint and pint bottles (they must be perfectly clean and dry), and when cold, cork it and tie it over with bladder. This is an excellent piquante sauce, to be made hot and served with any kind of cutlets, roast goose, pork, fresh herrings, &c. It will keep any time, if the receipt be carefully followed. QUIXCE SAUCE : TO KEEP. (To be made in October.) The quinces must be ripe and perfectly sound. Wipe them with a dry cloth, slice them, and take out the cores and stems. Por eight pounds of quinces, have in readiness the following in- gredients:—one pound of Sultana raisins, one pound of tama- rinds, stoned, a quarter of a pound of garlic, half a pound of shalot, peeled and cut up, one pound of treacle, a quarter of a pound of dry salt, three ounces of ground ginger, a quarter of a pound of yellow mustard seed, pounded, a teaspoonful of celery seed, pounded, half an ounce of cayenne, a drachm of mace, 15