AMERICAN AND RICE BLANCMANGE. 223 Dissolve seven ounces of loaf sugar and an ounce of isinglass in a pint of water ; add the grated rind of half a Seville orange and one lemon, with the strained juice of both, and the almonds. Simmer for ten minutes; then strain into a basin; beat the yolks of seven fresh eggs, add these, and stir over the fire till at boiling heat. Strain the mixture into a mould, and let it remain in a cool place till it is firmly set. 637. BLANCMANGE. Have ready the following ingredients, and proceed as directed : one ounce of the best isinglass, five ounces of loaf sugar, two inches of stick vanilla, two inches of cinnamon, a pint of new milk, a gill of rich cream, ten bitter and two ounces of sweet almonds; blanch the almonds and pound them to paste; add by degrees, while pounding, the third of a pint of cold water ; let it stand for two hours, then strain off the liquid. Put the milk, sugar, cinnamon, and vanilla into an enamelled saucepan, and boil slowly till the sugar is dissolved, then stir in the isinglass. When that is dissolved, strain into a basin ; stir in the milk of almonds and the cream ; when cool pour the mixture into a mould, and let it remain in a cold place till firmly set, or put it on ice for an hour. 638. AMERICAN BLANCMANGE. Peel and pound to a soft paste eight or ten Brazil nuts ; add a gill of water while pounding ; let this stand for two hours to extract the flavour. Beat four fresh eggs and mix them into five tablespoonfuls of Oswego flour ; dissolve four ounces of loaf sugar in a pint of new milk ; add the nuts ; simmer for five minutes ; let it stand off the fire for five minutes; then strain it into the eggs, stirring them quickly as the milk is added; stir over a slow fire till it thickens. Pour the mixture into a mould, and let it remain in a cool place till firmly set. Turn out carefully, and garnish with preserved mango, guava jelly, or preserved ginger. 639. RICE BLANCMANGE. Blanch and pound to paste ten bitter and two ounces of sweet almonds ; add while pounding half a pint of cold water ; let this stand for two hours. Boil three ounces of the best rice, six ounces of loaf sugar, the thin rind of half a lemon, two inches of