324 A FEW THINGS WORTH KNOWING. down a handful of chloride of lime, and let the water run. Never throw greenswater down drains ; let it get cold, then throw it on the earth in the garden. Burn all vegetable matter, or send it away ; if it be put into the dust-bin, it decays, and an unwholesome smell arises; put nothing into the dust-bin but ashes. Do not throw human hair down drains or W.C.; bum it. Do not throw bones into cellars or elsewhere, as they cause a bad smell. If kept for the purpose of selling, the precaution must be taken to boil them till quite bare, wash them in hot water, and dry them on the hearth; if not, burn therm Keep all firesides neat, and let each fire burn up the cinders it makes. Avoid putting things on the stairs or landings. Let everything have a place. Shut doors after you, by the handle, so as not to mark the paint. Use a fireside cloth and a housemaid’s box for upstairs firesides. Always have a clean cloth expressly kept for chamber use. Wash out all utensils before wiping them. Put fresh water into jugs and bottles daily. Wear a large apron for bedmaking. Bedsteads should be taken down in spring and autumn, the woodwork and joints scrubbed, and the whole well cleansed ; the furniture brushed, and cleaned with bread, or washed. Carpets are kept in nice order by cleaning them once a year with bread. Never use dirty brooms, brushes, or dusters. Wear gloves in all dirty work. After cleaning fire-irons and coal-scuttles (which should be daily in the winter), wipe them with a cloth, so that they may not soil the hands when used. Never dust gilt frames with anything but a soft brush. Careful daily dusting preserves the furniture, and makes a house always look clean. Never put a tablecloth on the table with a spot on it. When there are any marks, lay the cloth on a clean table, dip a piece of flannel into hot water, and rub them till they dis- appear ; then fold the cloth smoothly, and put it into the press ; lrequent washing wears out the cloths, and accidents will occur daily. Do not use soda, except for lamp and gas globes, other ground-glass, and rough kitchen work. Do not let workmen go upstairs in their thick dirty shoes. A pair of carpet-slippers or a pair of India-rubber overshoes should be kept for the purpose. Lay down cloths where they are at work, it on a carpet. TV hen rooms are swept, cover beds, sofas, &c. with sheets; old sheets should be kept for dusting-sheets. Never use kitchen-cloths