clxxiii ■WHITEBAIT. TROUT. then strain into a basin. Add three tablespoonfuls of thick double cream, stirred in quickly. Serve it over the fish. Note.—Small fresh mushrooms added to the sauce is a great improve- ment. In which case, trim them, and fry them in butter for five minutes. WHITEBAIT, PLAIN AND DEVILLED. "Wash the whitebait in very cold water, drain it, and dab it with a clean cloth while on the sieve. Turn it out on another dry cloth and dredge it thickly with baked Hour ; shake the cloth so as to make the flour adhere to the whitebait. Have a bright stewpan half full of boiling lard, put the whitebait into a flying- net that fits the pan, dip it quickly into the lard, let it be in one minute, take it out and shake it well, so as to prevent them sticking together ; dip it again for one or two minutes ; let the lard drain off; then serve piled on a hot dish. To devil them, shake cayenne from a caster over the whitebait before dipping them the second time. They should be of a drab colour and crisp. Cut lemon, cayenne, and brown bread and butter must be served. BAKED OR BROILED TROUT. Wash the fish, wipe it quite dry, and dredge it over with baked flour. Dissolve some butter to a creamy substance; an ounce for each fish weighing eight or nine ounces; dip in the fish, and let it stand ten minutes; then dredge it again with the flour, and dip it a second time into the butter. Place it upon a tin dish, and bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes; longer if the fish be larger. Or put it into a folding gridiron, and broil either before or over a bright fire about the same time. Lay it on a hot dish, without napkin or paper, and strew it over with finely-chopped parsley or chervil. Serve with dissolved butter, boiled ..and skimmed till quite bright, in a tureen; or with the following sauce :—Peel a cucumber, cut it into slices, sprinkle it over with a teaspoonful of salt, and let it remain two hours, put it on a sieve, pour cold water over it, and let it drain, chop it fine, together with two spring onions, add a dessertspoonful of Lucca oil, and the same of tarragon vinegar, stir it well, and place it round the fish. This sauce is very good served with fillets of sole, either plain or with sweet herbs.