SWEET, GROUND RICE, AND POTATO OMELET. 213 6tand in a cold place for four or five hours. Serve, with lemon marmalade round, and a gill of cream poured over. Note.—To vary the flavour, either vanilla (an inch) or cinnamon (two inches) may he boiled with the rice instead of lemon. To be served with cream only. 603. OMELET, WITH PRESERVE. Beat the yolks of seven and the whites of four new laid eggs; add three tablespoonfuls of thick cream ; dissolve an ounce of fresh butter in a small omelet-pan over a very slow fire; pour in the eggs, and stir quickly till they begin to set; let them continue over a very slow heat for three minutes; spread the upper side with any kind of jam or marmalade; fold it over in three ; dredge it with finely powdered loaf sugar. Pass a red hot salamander or fire-shovel over the sugar, and send to table immediately. 604. SWEET OMELET. Follow the preceding receipt, adding to the eggs while beating them, the grated rind of half a lemon, with the strained juice, and two tablespoonfuls of loaf sugar. Serve as directed, omitting the jam. 605. GROUND RICE OMELET. Moisten three tablespoonfuls of ground rice with a gill of cold milk, and stir it into half a pint of boiling milk; simmer for twenty minutes, then turn it into a basin and let it get quite cold ; beat three fresh eggs, mix them into the rice; add three tablespoonfuls of loaf sugar, the grated rind of half a lemon, and a tablespoonful of juice. Beat for ten minutes ; divide it into three parts, and fry in butter (three-quarters of an ounce for each) till of a pale brown colour. Serve hot. 606. POTATO OMELET. Three ounces of mealy potatoes, two ounces of loaf sugar, a quarter of a saltspoonful of powdered cinnamon, the strained juice of two oranges, three-quarters of a pint of new milk, and three fresh eggs. Beat the eggs separately, and the other ingre- dients together, then add the eggs and beat for a quarter of an hour ; fry in a small omelet-pan in fresh butter till of a golden colour. The quantity is enough for three, and an ounce of butter for each is necessary ; may be served plain, or with sifted sugar, or with marmalade between. If with marmalade, the orange juice may be left out.