clxxx MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. KIDNEY OR MUSHROOM OMELETS. Beat five fresh eggs, add while beating half a grain of cayenne, a small saltspoonful of salt, and a tablespoonful of milk. Slightly broil two sheep’s kidneys, season them with half a saltspoonful of white pepper, and the same of salt, while broiling; cut them up into small pieces and put them into the eggs. Put about an ounce of butter into an omelet pan, place it over a gentle fire, and when at boiling heat pour in the omelet: stir quickly till it begins to set, then keep it at a distance from the fire till firm, fold it over, place it on a hot dish, pour the gravy that came out of the kidneys into the dish, not over the omelet, and serve im- mediately. Mushroom omelet is made in the same way. The mushrooms should be large. Peel, wash, and wipe them dry; and either fry or broil them slightly, then cut them up into small pieces, and proceed as with kidneys. SCOTCH SCONES OR TEACAKES. Half a pound of dried flour, one ounce of butter, half a salt- spoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful tartaric acid, pounded to the finest possible dust, half a saltspoonful of cream of tartar, a small saltspoonful of carbonate of soda, and a quarter of a pint of new milk. Stir the salt, acid, and cream of tartar into the flour, rub the butter into the flour till quite mixed, put the soda into the milk slightly warmed, pour it into the flour, and knead it lightly to a firm dough. Form it into one large round cake, put it into a thick, untinned, round iron frying-pan, and place it over a slow heat to bake. While baking cut it into four three-cornered cakes. When one side is done, turn them. To be served hot or cold, buttered or unbuttered. They are good either way. GROUND RICE SPONGE CAKE. Half a pound of ground rice, half a pound of crystallised sugar, and four large fresh eggs. Beat the eggs for five minutes, add the sugar, and when well mixed add the rice, and beat the mix- ture till it becomes a stiff dough. Butter a cake tin ; put in the mixture, and bake it in a moderately heated oven for an hour. May be served hot or cold.