259 SEA PIE. IIAltICOT OF MUTTON. dissolved dripping, a saltspoonful of salt, and mix them into a paste. Line a flat dish with a thin layer of potato ; put in the mutton ; pour over a cupful of made gravy ; cover over with the potato ; smooth the top with a knife, and bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour. Turn it once or twice, that it may be equally browned. 768. PLAIN GRAVY FROM BONES. Chop the bones of any cold meat, poultry, or game into small pieces. Fry an onion with a teaspoonful of brown sugar till of a good dark colour. Put the bones, the onion, a saltspoonful of salt, four peppercorns, two allspice, one clove, one bay leaf, and a pint and a half of cold water into a stewpan ; simmer for three hours. Mix a tablespoonful of dried flour, a mustardspoonful of fresh-made mustard, half a saltspoonful of black pepper, a tea- spoonful of anchovy sauce, and a teacupful of cold water; stir it into the gravy, and continue to simmer half an hour longer. Strain. 769. SEA PIE. Sea pie is better made with raw meat, but it is very good with either cold roast mutton or beef. Cut up about a pound into slices a quarter of an inch thick; season with a teaspoonful of salt and a large saltspoonful of pepper. Chop fine two onions. Make a paste with a pound of flour and half a pound of either suet or dripping. Line a tin cake mould with the crust; put in the mutton, with half a pint of gravy; cover over the top neatly with the paste, and steam for three hours. Turn it out carefully on to a very hot dish, and serve immediately. Note.—If raw meat be used, gravy is unnecessary, water will do, and it must then ne steamed four hours. Ox kidneys or sheep’s hearts make a good sea pie. 770. HARICOT OF MUTTON. Cut up into small dice one carrot, one turnip, a small head of celery, the white part of two leeks, and let them be in cold water, with a spoonful of salt in it, for two hours. Drain off the water. Have three or four chump chops, trim off some of the fat, put it into a fryingpan, and when hot put in the chops ; fry over a quick fire for four minutes, turning them once. Take out the chops, and put in the vegetables, and fry them ten minutes,