FISH. 52 156. OYSTER VOL-AU-VENT. Make a puff paste with three-quarters of a pound of dry sifted flour, three-quarters of a pound of fresh butter, the yolk of an egg, the strained juice of a lemon ; beat the egg first alone, then with a gill of cold water; add the lemon juice. Put the flour into a bowl; stir in the liquid, and make it into a soft paste, touching it as little as possible. Squeeze the butter in a cloth ; slightly sprinkle the paste slab with flour ; lay on the paste, make a hole in the centre, put in the butter; turn over the edges, and roll out four times. Let the paste stand in a cold place for an hour ; roll out two or three times ; then roll it the last time an inch and a quarter thick. Press a tin vol-au-vent cutter quickly down, so as to take off the rough edges, and cut it the size and shape required. Make a circular incision with a penknife a quarter of an inch deep and half an inch from the edge; place it on a baking-tin, and bake in a hot oven for three-quarters of an hour. If the oven is not equal in heat, the vol-au-vent must be turned once or twice, that it may rise all round alike ; Avith a penknife take out the centre carefully, remove the soft paste, and fill the vacancy with oysters prepared as follows:— Beard three dozen oysters; put the liquor into a saucepan with the beards, a small piece of mace, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, a grain of Avliite pepper, a grain of cayenne, the thin rind of half a lemon, and the strained juice; boil up. Knead three ounces of butter Avith a dessertspoonful of baked flour, and stir in ; boil till it is reduced to a quarter of a pint; strain; add the oysters; simmer six minutes; stir in a gill of very thick fresh cream, and use as directed. Serve the vol-au- v ent on a neatly folded napkin. 157. OYSTER PATTIES. Strain the juice of a lemon into a gill of cold A\Tater, and stir in sufficient to Avell moisten three-quarters of a pound of dry sifted flour; knead to a smooth paste; lay it on a slab, and spread over three-quarters of a pound of good fresh butter; turn over the four sides, dredge with flour, and roll out; fold it again, and roll it out four times; then fold it in three, and let it stand in a cool place for tAvo hours. Have ready tAvo circular patty cutters, one