BRISKET AND STILTON OE BEEF STEWED. 83 233. STEWED BRISKET OF BEEF, WITH FRENCH BEANS. Have a neatly cut square piece of brisket of beef, about sever pounds ; bang it before a quick fire for balf an hour to brown; baste it well; put it into a stewpan, with three chopped onions, fried brown, and sufficient water to reach the top, but not quite cover it; boil up, and skim; then add a teaspoonful of pepper, a teaspoonful of fresh-made mustard, a dessertspoonful of soy, a tablespoonful of anchovy-sauce, a teaspoonful of moist sugar, two tablespoonfiils of mushroom ketchup, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, and a dessertspoonful of vinegar; simmer gently for four hours and a half, skimming frequently ; add one pound of French beans, strung, and washed in salt and water, but not cut, a wine- glassful of vinegar, mixed with a tablespoonful of baked flour; continue to simmer another hour, and serve—the beef in the centre, and the beans round the dish. 234. BRISKET OF BEEF, STEWED WITH PICKLES. Have a nicely cut piece of brisket, about six pounds; hang it before a good fire to roast for one hour; dredge it lightly with flour and baste well. Chop one onion, cut into half-inch squares, one carrot, one turnip, and a small head of celery; put them into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, and fry till brown ; lay in the beef, with a pint and a half of stock or water; boil up quickly ; skim ; then simmer very gently for two hours. Mix together a tablespoonful of flour, a teaspoonful of mustard, a tea- spoonful of sugar, a teaspoonful of curiy-powder, a saltspoonful of pepper, a dessertspoonful of soy, a dessertspoonful of anchovy- sauce, two tablespoonfuls of Ilarvey-sauce, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, and two tablespoonfuls of the vinegar of mixed pickles; stir these into the gravy, and continue the sim- mering two hours longer, skimming frequently; add a breakfast- cupful of mixed pickles, cut into inch lengths; simmer another hour ; then serve very hot. 235. STILTON OF BEEF, STEWED. Two ribs of beef, boned, and rolled by the butcher. Follow the preceding receipt, simmering only three hours instead of five. Weight, about seven pounds.