146 GAME. Lay the beef on a hot dish, pour over the vegetables, nuts, and gravy; add the strained juice of a lemon, and serve both dishes very hot. Note.—The bacon may be broiled for three minutes and served at breakfast. 373. PHEASANT TTITH TRUFFLES. (An Italian receipt.) Wash, peel, and slice sis large truffles; put the truffles into the body of a young pheasant, nicely trussed; pound the peel ■with half a clove of garlic, and knead it with one pound of fresh lard. Put the pheasant into an oval deep dish or pan, cover it with the lard ; add three sprigs of parsley, one sprig of thyme, a bay leaf, a saltspoonful of salt, four peppercorns, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, one- clove, three slices of carrot, and a wine- glassful of rum; cover it closely, and put it into a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour ; then let it remain for two or three days to imbibe the flavour of the truffles. When required, take it out of the fat; envelope it in paper, spread thickly with butter, and bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour. Strain the gravy; add a teacupful of any stock, with a dessert- spoonful of baked flour, hah’ a saltspoonful of salt, the same of loaf sugar; boil ten minutes; take the paper off the pheasant; add the dripped gravy and the butter to the rest. Place the pheasant on a hot dish, remove the skewers, pour over the gravy, and serve at once. 374. PULLED PHEASANT, AND SAVOURY MACARONI. (Second dressing.) Divide, with two forks, the meat from the bones of any cold pheasants ; pull it into pieces an inch long; stew the bones and skin for gravy, with a rub of garlic and one shalot; season the meat (half a pound) with a saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoon- ful of pepper, a tablespoonful of baked flour, the twelfth part of a nutmeg, grated, a tablespoonful of mushroom-ketchup, a table- spoonful of Marsala and two ounces of dissolved butter; add sufficient gravy to moisten, and simmer gently for twenty minutes ; soak a quarter of a pound of Genoa macaroni in cold water for two hours, then boil it till quite tender (two hours) in a pint and a quarter of good stock; season with a saltspoonful of