HINTS TO SERVANTS. 325 dusters, &c. but for what they are intended ; and do not put them away wet, as they cause a fusty smell, and will become mildewed. Render a strict account of all money expended for your em- ployers. Chimneys.—The kitchen chimney should be swept every five weeks. The discomfort on those occasions may be much lessened by arranging the hour according to the habits of the family. The ‘ upstairs work ’ should be done before the sweep aivives, and that should be one hour before the family breakfast. A fire should be lighted elsewhere; and after sending up the breakfast, the cook can remain in the kitchen till the cleaning is finished. Other chimneys are generally swept once a year (in May) ; but the dining-room, if constantly used, will require sweeping in December also. To Clean Varnished Paper Walls.—Wring a soil linen cloth out of very hot water (without either soap or soda), and mb the wall quickly (a small piece at the time) ; wipe it dry, and polish with a clean soft wash-leather. Cisterns.—The water should be drawn off once a fortnight, and the cisterns should be cleaned out three times a year or oftener. Filter.—The sponges should be washed in two or three waters, ancl the filter should be well rinsed out once a week. Decanters.—Decanters and water-bottles should be cleaned with tea leaves and a bottle brush, and well rinsed with cold water, then turned upside down to drain. Be careful never to use soda, or any acid, it makes them look thick, cloudy, and white, instead of clear and brilliant. China and Glass. Two clean tubs should be kept expressly for china and glass. Wash it well in warm water, and rinse in plenty of cold, and wipe with clean soft cloths. Be careful to keep the handles of cups and jugs clean. To take off tea stains use a little silver sand, or salt, but never soda. Tea Urns.—When about to send the urn to table, nearly fill it with fast boiling water, put on the circular shelf, put in the heater, which must be quite red hot, put the small lid over it, put on the lid of the urn, and rub it quickly over with a wash- leather, that there may be no dust upon it. When taken away, take out the heater, draw off the water, wipe the inside quite dry, and polish the outside with a wash-leather.