130 POULTRY. the yolks of two eggs with half a gill of thick cream; stir it into the sauce for three minutes over the fire ; pour the sauce over the fowl, and serve at once. 338. FRICASSEED FOWL, BROWN. Cut up a young fowl, and put it into cold water for an horn-; wipe it dry, and dredge it with baked flour; dissolve six ounces of butter in a stewpan, put in the fowl; shake the pan frequently, and let it simmer till nicely browned (about twenty minutes); clean twenty button mushrooms, chop two shalots, and one truffle; put them into the stewpan ; add a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of white pepper, the tenth part of a nutmeg, grated, a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, a wineglassful of white wine, a tablespoonful of baked flour, and half a pint of any stock; simmer very gently twenty minutes longer, shaking the pan fre- quently ; add the juice of half a lemon; place the fowl neatly on a hot dish ; pour the sauce over, and serve immediately. 339. BROILED CHICKEN, WITH MUSHROOM SAUCE. Split a chicken down the back, and press it flat. Have two sheets of white paper; spread each thickly with butter the exact size of the chicken (about two ounces on each); strew over each half a saltspoonful of salt, a quarter of a saltspoonful of white pepper, and a saltspoonful of finely-chopped parsley; lay the chicken on one, and cover it with the other; roll the edges se- curely to keep in the butter, and broil over a bright fire, at a distance, for half an horn. Clean twelve button mushrooms, put them into a small saucepan, with half a saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of loaf sugar, a teaspoonful of vinegar, a teaspoonful of brandy, and a teacupful of any good stock ; boil quickly for ten minutes; take off the paper, lay the chicken on a hot dish, breast uppermost, pour the sauce over, and serve. 340. FOWL, FRICASSEED IN OIL. Cut up a young fowl into joints, and put it into cold water for two hours ; wipe it quite dry. Put a pint of the best salad oil into a bright stewpan, and when warm, put in the fowl, with a teaspoonful of salt, two moderate-sized mushrooms, and three