116 roifK. made mustard, half a saltspoonful of salt, and stir over the fire till browned ; add the third of a pint of stock (No. 1), boil for a quarter of an hour; stir in a tablespoonful of brandy; strain, and serve in the dish, but not poured over the pork. 305. LEG OF PORK, WITH ITALIAN SAUCE. Have a leg of very small pork (not weighing more than three pounds and a half) ; roast it before a good fire, at a distance, for two hours, and serve (the skin uppermost), with the sauce, made as follows, poured over :—"Wash, scrape, and remove the bone of one anchovy; peel two shalots and a piece of garlic the size of a pea; wash three sprigs of parsley; chop these as fine as possible, and put them into a saucepan, with half an ounce of butter; stir over the fire till the shalot is tender; add a tablespoonful of baked flour, a tablespoonful of vinegar, a gill of strong stock (No. 1), a teaspoonful of capers, chopped, half a saltspoonful of pepper, half a saltspoonful of mustard; boil ten minutes; strain ; put the sauce again into the saucepan; boil it up; add a table- spoonful of white wine, and serve immediately. 306. MINCED PORK. (Second dressing.) Peel and chop quite small three good-sized apples, three onions, and half of a small clove of garlic; put them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, and stir over a gentle fire till tender; then add two dessertspoonfuls of vinegar and two tablespoonfuls of gravy ; mince about three-quarters of a pound of cold roast pork (without fat or skin) ; season with a saltspoonful of salt, the same of pepper, half a saltspoonful of flour of mustard, and a teaspoonful of baked flour; stir it into the sauce, and simmer gently for twenty minutes; add the strained juice of a lemon, and serve immediately. 307. FILLETS OF PORK, WITH APPLE SAUCE. (Second dressing.) Cut up about three-quarters of a pound of cold roast pork into slices the sixth of an inch thick; season three ounces of fine crumbs of bread with a saltspoonful of white pepper, a grain of