57 VENISON AND MUTTON. 1 f>9. HAUNCH OF VENISON. Venison should hang in a dry airy place from ten days to three weeks, according to the weather, and he rubbed dry with a clean coarse cloth, night and morning. When about to dress it, saw off the shank and the chine bones, strip off the skin, and trim off all rough pieces. Make a paste as follows :—Rub three pounds of sweet dripping into four pounds of flour and a quart of bran ; mis it into a stiff paste with hot water; let it stand one hour to get firm; roll it out half an inch thick, and entirely cover the venison with it: make it adhere of an equal thickness all over. Hang the venison before a large solid fire for three-quarters of an hour, near; then withdraw it, and let it roast gradually till done, basting it frequently with dissolved dripping. Allow thirteen minutes to the pound, weighed with the paste on. Half an hour before serving, split the paste with a knife, take it off; dredge the haunch slightly with baked flour, and baste with dis- solved butter till done. Place the venison on a very hot dish, the fat uppermost; pour a little of the gravy, made as follows, into the dish, and send to table immediately. Serve the rest of the gravy and the sweet sauce in tureens. (French beans, plain boiled, should also be served with venison.) To make the gravy, have three pounds of scrag of mutton, half a pound of liver, one kidney, and the venison trimmings, well washed. Put them into a stewpan, with a chopped shalot, half a carrot, sliced, a teaspoonful of salt, one clove, a bay leaf, six pepper-corns, two ounces of butter, a dessertspoonful of baked flour, and fry till brown. Add two tablespoonfuls of rum or brandy, a black onion, and a quart of water. Simmer for four hours, skimming frequently. Strain; add a wineglassful of port wine, and serve at once. Dissolve in an enamelled saucepan one pound, or more, of red currant, or ashberry, jelly, and serve in a tureen. 170. NECK OF VENISON. Follow the preceding receipt exactly, except in time ; eleven minutes to the pound will be sufficient for a neck.