CAKES. 234 smooth paste, then spread it over the cake about the sixth of an inch thick; let it stand in an airy place to dry while the icing is being prepared. Pound to the finest possible powder one pound of loaf sugar, add the whites of five fresh eggs, and the strained juice of half a lemon; stir till it becomes a thick moist substance. When the almond paste is dry, spread the icing over it about a quarter of an inch thick, and let the cake remain until it is quite set. The quantity given is sufficient for the preceding cake. 676. GENOA CAEE. One pound of dried flour, three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, pounded, half a pound of currants, washed and dried, half a pound of sultana raisins, picked and rubbed in a cloth, six ounces of mixed candied peel, chopped, the fourth part of a nutmeg, grated, the grated peel and strained juice of a lemon, two tablespoonftils of rum, and eight fresh eggs, beaten. Mix the above well together; then add one pound of fresh butter, dissolved, but not quite oiled. Beat the mixture for a quarter of an hour. Put it into a tin, nine inches square, and two inches deep, and bake in a moderate oven an hour and a quarter. Blanch and chop three ounces of sweet almonds; beat the white of an egg with two dessertspoonfuls of powdered loaf sugar and twenty drops of orange-flower water ; brush the top of the cake over with this, strew it with the almonds, and bake about a quarter of an hour longer. 677. GUERNSEY CAKE. Three-quarters of a pound of fresh butter, half a pound of dried flour, a quarter of a pound of finely-ground rice, three- quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, in powder, a quarter of a pound of dried cherries, slightly chopped, two ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and pounded, two ounces of candied orange peel, chopped, two ounces of angelica, chopped, the yolks of eight, and whites of three, fresh eggs, well beaten, and two table- spoonfuls of brandy. Beat the butter to cream, then mix in the ingredients in the order they are mentioned; beat the mixture for ten minutes; put it into a tin fined with buttered paper, and hake in a well-heated oven for an hour and twenty minutes. Turn out the cake to get cold.