TRIPE, FRICASSEED. 89 press the meat into a raised pie-dish or into pots; smooth over the top with a knife, and pour over an ounce of dissolved butter. Note.—There are various ways of preparing meat for potting ; but this way is simple and always digestible, if good materials be used. •251. TRIPE, FRICASSEED, WHITE, WITH ONIONS. The tripe must be quite fresh. Have about two pounds ; cut it into pieces three inches long and two broad ; wash it in cold water, and dry it with a cloth. Lay the tripe in a bright stew- pan, with a pint and a half of new milk; simmer as gently as possible for two hours; stir frequently to prevent the tripe burning to the bottom. Peel six or eight moderate-sized onions; put them in with the tripe, and simmer for half an hour ; then take them out and chop them quite small; season them with a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of loaf sugar, a teaspoonful of flour of mustard, a saltspoonful of white pepper, and the tenth part of a nutmeg, grated. Add two dessertspoonfuls of baked flour; stir them into the milk, and simmer a quarter of an hour longer. Add half a gill of thick cream or two ounces of fresh butter, stirred quickly into the sauce. Serve at once, very hot. Note.—The receipt is written for tripe that has been cleaned and boiled by a tripe dresser. 252. FRICASSEE OF TRIPE, BROWN. Slice thin two Spanish onions, mince fine one large mush- room or two truffles; put these into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, a saltspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, a saltspoonfiil of brown sugar, a saltspoonful of flour of mustard, six drops of tarragon vinegar, and a tablespoonful of baked flour; shake the stewpan to prevent the onions burning, and let them braise till brown. Add three quarters of a pint of stock (No. 2). and a tablespoonful of rum or brandy. Cut the tripe (two pounds) into neat pieces, three inches long, scald it for a quarter of an hour; dry it in a cloth, and place it in the stewpan; simmer very gently for two hours and a half. Add the juice of a large lemon and a glass of white wine. Serve very hot.