ITEMS FOR INVALIDS. 248 it boils ; beat the yolk of a new-laid egg ; place the sole on a hot plate, stir the egg into the water till it thickens, and pour over the sole as sauce. Serve at once. 730. CONVALESCENT’S SOUP. A small sheep’s head nicely washed and split; two pounds of fresh lean beef, half of a small turnip, half of a small lettuce, or endive, a saltspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of loaf sugar, a salt- spoonful of fresh made mustard, and three pints of cold water. Simmer gently, skimming frequently for two hours. Take out the head, cut the meat off the cheeks in neat half-inch pieces, free from fat; put the bones and trimmings back into the soup. Moisten two dessertspoonfuls of fine dry oatmeal with half a gill of cold water, stir it into the soup, and continue to simmer for two hours, then strain. Put the pieces of meat into the soup ; simmer three-quarters of an hour longer, skim off every particle of fat, add two tablespoonfuls of port wine, and serve the quantity required immediately. There will be about a pint and a half of soup. 731. BOILED EEL FOR CONVALESCENTS. The eel should weigh about three-quarters of a pound. Skin it and cut off the fins. Place it on a gridiron over a bright fire at a distance for ten or twelve minutes to draw out the oily fat; then scrape it well, and wash it in warm water. Put it into a quart of hot water, with a small teaspoonful of salt, and a bunch of parsley, and simmer gently for eighteen or twenty minutes. Serve with a little of the water, with a few parsley leaves in it, poured over. 732. STEWED EEL FOR CONVALESCENTS. Prepare the eel as directed in the preceding receipt; cut it into pieces two inches long, and stew in beef-tea (see receipt) half a pint, for twenty-five minutes, simmering very gently. Skim off the fat, add a tablespoonful of port wine, and serve immediately. 733. TRIPE FOR CONVALESCENTS. About one pound of fresh (dressed) tripe; wash it in cold water, and cut it into neat square pieces; take out nearly all the fat. Put it into a bright stewpan, with one pound of fresh lean