JUGGED HARE. BRAISED HARE. BRAISED LEVERET. 153 grated, tlie grated rind and strained juice of half a lemon, a tablespoonful of brandy, and two beaten eggs; beat with a wooden spoon till well mixed ; then make it up into balls rather less than a small walnut; dredge them well with baked flour, and fry in the butter skimmed off the gravy till slightly browned; lay them in the stewpan with the hare, and continue to simmer for forty minutes. Serve very hot, and with plenty of currant jelly in a plate. Note.—If not objected to, mix the blood of the hare with the stock; it thickens and much improves the gravy. 391. JUGGED HARE. (Yorkshire fashion.) Cut the hare up into joints; wash and wipe it dry ; dredge it over with three tablespoonfuls of flour; season with a teaspoonful of salt, two saltspoonfuls of pepper, the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated, the grated rind of half a lemon, and four shalots, finely chopped. Make a forcemeat as follows:—Quarter of a pound of beef-suet, the liver, a tablespoonful of parsley, a teaspoonful of mixed sweet herbs, two ounces of crumbs of bread, a saltspoon- ful of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, the grated rind and the juice of half a lemon, and two beaten eggs. Chop and mix these ingredients; make up the forcemeat into balls the size of a walnut, and dredge them with flour. Lay the hare in a covered dish or jar with the balls; add a pint of stock (No. 1), the blood of the hare, and a gill of port wine ; put on the lid, tie it closely down, and bake in a slow oven for two hours and a half. Dish carefully, so as not to break the balls, and send to table very hot, with currant jelly on a plate. 392. BRAISED HARE. The following receipt for leverets will also answer for hare, simmering three-quarters of an hour longer. 393. BRAISED LEVERET. Make a stuffing as follows :—Season two ounces of fine crumbs of bread with a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a saltspoonful of mixed sweet herbs, half a saltspoonful of white pepper, a salt-