247 MINCED CHICKEN. FILLET OF SOLE. basin, pour in the pudding, tie it over, and boil rapidly for half an hour. Make a sauce as follows :—Mix a saltspoonful of arrow- root with a teaspoonfnl of cold water, pour over half a gill of boiling water, stir in two teaspoonfuls of sifted sugar; beat the yolk of a new-laid egg, add it to the sauce, and beat it over the fire for one minute after it is at boiling heat. Serve over the pudding. Note.—The pudding is excellent without sauce, but less nutritious. 727. A LIGHT PUDDING. Beat the white of one and the yolks of two fresh eggs ; mix in two tablespoonfuls of well-baked flour and half a pint of new milk ; beat the batter for twenty minutes, cover it over, and let it stand two hours in a cold place. Butter a basin, beat the batter again for ten minutes, and pour it in. Dip a cloth into boiling water, dredge the centre -with flour, the size of the basin, tie it over, and plunge it into plenty of boiling water ; shake it in the water for a few minutes, then boil fast for half an hour. Mix a quarter of a pint of new milk with a dessertspoonful of baked flour and a tablespoonful of moist sugar ; stir over the fire till it thickens, then simmer ten minutes. Take up the pudding, pour over the sauce, and serve immediately, uncovered. 728. MINCED CHICKEN. Cut the meat off a small chicken, free it from skin and sinews, and crack the bones. Put the bones and trimmings into an enamelled saucepan with a pint of water and a saltspoonful of salt, and simmer, skimming frequently, for two hours and a half; then strain and skim off all the fat. Mince the meat, and dredsre over it a teaspoonful of Oswego flour; put it into the gravy, and simmer (stirring often) for twenty-five minutes ; then serve, with toasted bread sippets. Cooked chicken may be used ; in that case omit the Oswego, and add the well-beaten yolk of a new-laid egg, stirred in for one minute before serving, and simmer only for ten minutes. 729. FILLET OF SOLE. Have one fillet of a fine fresh sole, put it into a bright stewpan with a teacupful of cold water, let it simmer ten minutes after