POULTRY. 134 fowl or a rabbit into small pieces; put it into the pan with a teaspoonful of salt, stir till well covered with curry powder, and simmer for half an hour ; add the strained juice of a lime or lemon, and four tablespoonfuls of the milk of a cocoa-nut. Serve immediately, with plain boiled rice in a separate dish. 348. CURRIED FOWL. (Second dressing.) Cut up about half a pound of cold fowl; stew the bones in a pint of water till reduced to half a gill; slice a large onion ; mix three ounces of butter with a tablespoonful of curry powder, and fry the onion with it till browned and tender; put in the fowl (in small pieces) ; add the gravy, a saltspoonful and a half of salt, and a dessertspoonful of baked flour; simmer (stirring frequently) for twenty minutes; stir in half a gill of thick cream and the strained juice of a lemon ; serve with a Avail of plain boiled rice round the fowl; wash six ounces of rice, put it into a quart of cold water, and boil for half an hour. Drain on a sieve before the fire, and stir with a Avooden fork to divide the grains. 349. FOWL, WITH SAVOURY MACARONI. (Second dressing.) Put six ounces of the best Genoa macaroni into three pints of cold Avater, and let it remain tAvo horns. Cut up a cold fowl, put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan, Avith an onion, sliced, half a carrot, three sprigs of parsley, one clove, a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of flour of mustard, a dessertspoonful of grated cheese, a grain of cayenne, and a piece of garlic as big as a pea ; pour in a quart of cold Avater, or any light stock; boil for two hours; then sti-ain; lay the macaroni carefully into a steAvpan, with three ounces of butter; pour over the gravy, and simmer till tender (about an hour and a half). Season the fowl (three quarters of a pound) Avith a saltspoonful of salt, the same of Avhite pepper, and the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated; dredge it lightly Avith baked flour, and fry to a nice vcIIoav colour (ten minutes) in olive oil (a gill) or dissolved butter (a quarter of a pound). Lay the macaroni round the dish in the form of a Avail; add half a Avineglassfid of Marsala to the graA-y ; place the foAvl in the centre; pour over the gravy, and send to table at once.