REMARKS AND DIRECTIONS TO BE REMEMBERED. civil and shutting the door for ten minutes. If the heat be great, it •will be baked brown ; if moderate, slightly browned; and if gentle, yellow. Fire for Roasting.—The ashes should be well cleared out before making up the fire for roasting. Poultry, game, or joints under twelve pounds weight, require a fire nineteen inches wide and fifteen inches high. It should be burnt through, and the screen and dripping-pan placed before it, to get hot, before the joint is put down to roast. Roasting.—The joint should be hung close to the fire {four inches from the bars'), for the first quarter of an hour, unless otherwise directed in the receipts, and then drawn to a distance (twelve inches from the bars) till done. This process sets the juice in the meat, and much improves the flavour. Boiling.—Great care is required in boiling. Except where otherwise directed, the joint should be put into sufficient cold water to cover it, boiled up quickly, then simmered till done ; that is to say, the water must be kept at boiling heat, but must not be permitted to bubble, or to wave perceptibly. This process causes the meat to swell, renders it tender and juicy ; while boiling will cause the meat to shrink from the bone, and render it hard and dry. Braising.—This word means to cook meat, poultry, &c. by the appliance of very gentle heat, and with little or no liquid. The process is much longer than ordinary stewing, or than boiling, consequently simmering must be attended to. Steaming.—An ordinary steamer may be used in all cases where steaming is ordered ; the saucepan under it must be full of water, and boil fast all the time ; or for puddings a pint pie- dish may be turned upside down in a saucepan with three pints of boiling water in it, and the pudding placed upon that. Plates and Dishes should be washed in plenty of hot water (without soda), rinsed in cold water, then drained till dry. "\V hen sent to table, they should be hot, but not so much so as to be disagreeable. The bottom of the dishes should be care- fully wiped. Serving.—Whether about to serve immediately, or if the dinner