THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 446 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Coulibiac—continued. if it were not tliat the dish, a kind of flat pie, sometimes oblong, nearly square, or round, was introduced into this country spelled as given in the heading. The best paste for this, a sort of brioche, is made as follows: Put loz. of yeast into a basin with 1 wineglassful of warm milk and dilute it; strain into another basin and mix in sufficient flour to make a soft paste ; cover over with a cloth and set it to rise in a warm place. When sufficiently risen, add gradually fib. of sifted flour, Jib. of butter slightly melted, six eggs, and a little’milk. Work the paste so as to gave it a little consistence, and let it rise again before using. Puff paste is sometimes used instead of the above. Out of a vast number of receipts given for the pre- paration of Coulibiac the following have been selected, the variation of ingredients depending more upon cir- cumstances than taste: (1) Wrap about lib. of Coulibiac paste in a cloth, put it in a warm place, and let it remain for about fifteen hours. No sugar should be used with this paste. Turn it out on to a board, roll it out into a square about jin. in thickness, and cut it in halves. Put one-half on a well-buttered baking- sheet, cover it over first with a layer of well-boiled rice, then finely-chopped hard-boiled eggs, and lastly an eel cut up into small pieces. Dredge over a little ground spice, chopped herbs, and salt and pepper, cover over with the remaining half of the paste, fastening the edges together, form it into the shapie of a ball as nearly as possible, put it into a moderate oven, and bake until done. Take it out, and serve hot on a dish. (2) Put two cabbages well washed, cleaned, and chopped very fine into a saucepan of water, and add Jib. of butter, salt and pepper to taste. Cut two large onions into small pieces and fry but not to brown them, and put them also into the saucepan with the cabbage. Place the saucepan on the fire, and when the cabbages are well done and quite tender put them out on a dish and let them get cold ; then mix in six eggs boiled hard and chopped very fine. Next take 8oz. of Coulibiac paste and roll half of it out on to a baking-sheet, making it quite square. Spread over this the mixture in a thick layer, cover over with the remainder of the paste, and secure the edges by pressing them well together; brush the top over with a little eg’g, mark it with a knife into small squares, and bake in a good hot oven. When done, cut it into the squares previously marked, and serve as hot as possible. (3) Put 4 table-spoonfuls of cooked fine herbs into a basin with a veal-kidney cut into thin slices, mix well, and season to taste. Cut into halves two boiled calf’s brains, dust them over with salt and pepper, and sprinkle over with more cooked fine herbs. Have ready a rolled-out flat of Coulibiac paste, in the centre put a layer of boiled rice, having the grains separate and dry, cover this with a layer of chopped hard-boiled eggs mixed up with minced parsley, cover over again with the brains and kidney, and lastly with more rice. The total quantity required of the latter will be about lOoz. Fold over the edges of the paste to entirely close it, turn it over on to a baking-sheet, lifting- with a cloth, let it remain in a warm place for about twenty minutes, brush over the surface with melted butter, sprinkle it liberally with breadcrumbs, and bake in a moderate oven for about an hour. Take it out, put it on a dish, and serve with Madeira sauce in a sauceboat. See Fig. 534. Coulibiac—continued. (4) Fry in a little butter two shallots, onions, and two mushrooms; when cooked, chop them. Slice a calf’s kidney, put it in a basin with some of the cooked herbs, and some salt and pepper. Boil two calf’s brains, cut them in halves and again into slices, put them in a dish with the remainder of the cooked herbs, and season with a little salt and pepper. Flour a cloth and roll some Coulibiac paste out on it in an oblong shape ; put in the centre a layer of rice that has been boiled and left till cold, and put over the rice a layer of chopped hard-boiled eggs and chopped parsley. Put the kidney and the brains over the eggs, and cover them with cold boiled rice ; gather the edges of the paste up all round, bring them to the top, and press them together, first damp- ing them with a little water. Slip the pie carefully on to a baking-sheet, and keep it in a warm temperature for twenty minutes. Brush the pie over with a paste-brush dipped in warmed butter, then cover it well with breadcrumbs, and bake it for an hour in a moderate oven. In the mean- time prepare some Madeira sauce. When cooked, put the pie on to a hot dish, and serve it with the sauce in a sauceboat. (5) Cut off the fillets from seven or eight small trout and about two dozen small perch, put them in a basin with two or three dozen crayfish tails, and season to taste. Place the basin in a cool place, or in ice, and let it remain until wanted. In the meantime prepare some quenelle forcemeat, using a pound of the flesh of pike, soudac, or whiting, rub it through a fine sieve into a basin, and mix in 4 table- spoonfuls of cooked fine herbs. Put lOoz. of well-washed rice into a saucepan with a good supply of water, boil it until done, taking care to have the grains quite whole, drain off the water, add 5oz. of butter to the rice, season to taste, cover over the pan securely, and put it in the oven or on the side of the fire for about ten minutes. Bemove it and let the rice cool. Put a napkin on a board, and flour it well; over this put a flat of Coulibiac paste, longer than it is wide, cover over the centre with a layer of the quenelle forcemeat, over this the rice, over this again arrange the fillets of fish, with a layer of cooked fine herbs and crayfish tails on top, and moistening with a little cold fish sauce. Put over the remainder of the forcemeat, raise the paste over the preparation, fastening the edges securely together, and lifting up the cloth turn the paste over on to a baking- sheet ; set it to rise in a warm place for about twenty' minutes, brush it over with butter, sprinkle over with breadcrumbs, and bake in a moderate oven for fully an hour. Turn it out on to a dish, and serve with a sauce- boatful of brown sauce reduced with white wine. Turbot, salmon, or trout may be substituted for the other fish. COUNTESS SOUP.—See Soups. COUNTRY CAPTAIN.—A fanciful name given to a dish which will he found described under Fowl (Chicken), Kid, and Teal. It is, correctly speaking, a dry curry cooked in a frying-pan, of which “ Country Captains” of crafts sailing to and from Calcutta were supposed to be exceedingly fond. COUQUES. —The correct term for these little pasty- cakes should he Couques-baques, as the name is evidently derived from the German Kucken-gebacken, and they are known by the dual name in Flanders and Lille. They are described as a kind of pancake made of buckwheat-flour and butter; but this would be amongst the lower orders only, a much more refined Couque being prepared accord- ing to the following receipt, contributed by a foreign cook of considerable standing: Put J pint of cream in a saucepan, place it over the fire until boiling, then put in the thinly-pared yellow rind of one lemon, 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Beat the yolks of eight eggs, and stir them in quickly with the boiling cream. Remove from the fire, taking care it does not boil after the eggs are added, strain through a fine hair sieve into a basin, and leave it until cool. Dissolve Joz. of yeast in a little warm water, then mix it into Jib. of flour, adding more water if required to mould it into a light dough. Cover it and place in a warm place to rise. Put ljlb. of flour into a basin, and rub into it 4oz. of butter ; when quite smooth, pour in the cream mixture and knead it well. Put the