468 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &C., referred to, see under their special heads. Cream—continued. Cream—continued. Take some of the whites of the eggs and a little sugar and make a meringue, pour it over the pie, and put it into the 1 hot closet or warm oven to brown lightly. See Pig. 565. (2) Put into a saucepan lqt. of sweet, rich milk, 3 table- | spoonfuls of cornflour or wheat-flour, fib. of sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, or 1 teaspoonful of vanilla sugar or extract, and three eggs. Stir well, place the saucepan on the fire, and continue to stir until the mixture thickens. Have ready j a paste crust, baked in any desired shape, pour in the Cream, smooth over the surface, dust over grated nutmeg or powdered | cinnamon, and serve. (3) Beat 6oz. of sugar and 2oz. of butter in a basin to a l cream, stir in four eggs, the juice of an orange and half a lemon, and lastly 3oz. of flour. Pour lqt. of milk into a saucepan, add the mixture when thoroughly incorporated, stir over the fire until it thickens a little, pour it into pans lined with paste, and hake in a quick oven. Turn them out carefully, and serve hot or cold. Cream Plombidre with Bananas.—Peel some ripe bananas, and pass them through a fine hair sieve into a basin. Mix with the fruit puree about If pints of thick vanilla Cream, then pass the whole again through the fine hair sieve. Turn the Cream into a freezer, and leave it till thickened. Whisk 1 pint of Cream with sugar to taste, mix it with the frozen Cream, and add 1 wineglassful of Madeira. Arrange the Cream, rock shape, on a folded napkin, and serve. Cream Pudding (Baked).—(1) Mix 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and the rind of a lemon (grated) with six eggs well beaten to a froth. Take lib. of flour, 1 pint of milk, and 2 ! teaspoonfuls of salt, and mix them together. When thoroughly incorporated, add the sugar and eggs. Just before serving, add 1 pint of thick Cream. Pour this into small cups or pudding-dishes, and bake until done. (2) Warm a piece of butter about the size of a walnut, beat it until creamy, then mix in the yolks of four eggs, one at a time, and 4 table-spoonfuls of thick Cream, sift in 3 table- spoonfuls of flour, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar. Whisk the whites of the four eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them lastly with the other ingredients. Thickly butter the interior of a mould, dredge it with flour, then shake out all that does not adhere to the butter, and pour in the mixture. Put it in a moderate oven to bake. When cooked, turn the contents of the mould on to a folded napkin, or an orna- mental dish-paper, that has been laid on a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of fruit sauce. (3) Take lqt. of milk, put 2 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot into a bowl, blend it smooth with a little of the milk, and add to it 1 saltspoonful of grated nutmeg; break Jib. of butter into small pieces, and throw them into the bowl. Put what remains of the quart of milk into a saucepan, boil it up quickly, pour it while boiling on to the butter and arrowroot, and stir quickly till the butter is melted. Beat up in another bowl four eggs and 2oz. of sugar till the eggs are very light, then mix all together, pour into a pudding- dish, and bake in a moderately hot oven for twenty minutes. (4) Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in 1 pint of new milk, stir into it fib. of flour, and keep on stirring till it is smooth; then add 1 pint of sour Cream and the beaten yolks of six eggs; now beat up the whites, and stir them in. Bake slowly for three-quarters-of-an-hour. For the sauce, beat up fib. of butter till it is white, stir in by degrees fib. of finely-powdered white sugar, continue beat- ing the butter and sugar till it is a Cream, then pile it on a glass dish, grate a little nutmeg over, and serve with the pudding. (5) Boiled.—Put 1 pint of Cream in a saucepan with a blade or two of mace, the thinly-pared rind of one lemon, and caster sugar to taste. Boil the whole, take out the lemon-peel, put it in a mortar, pound it, then pass it through a fine hair sieve into a basin. Pour the Cream over the lemon-peel, and leave it till nearly cold, then stir in gradually the well-beaten yolks of six or seven eggs. When the ingredients are well incorporated, turn the mixture into a mould—one with a lid to it, if possible—put it into a sauce- pan of boiling water, and boil it over a slow fire for thirty minutes. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a dish, and leave till cold. Dissolve some currant jelly, pour it over the pudding, and serve. Cream Puffs.— (1) Slightly warm fib. of butter, and beat it well with fib. of caster sugar, then mix in two eggs. Put lflb. of sifted flour in a basin with 2 table-spoonfuls of baking- powder, stir in the beaten mixture, and work until quite smooth. Shape the dough into cakes, and bake them in a brisk oven. Beat two eggs well with 4oz. of caster sugar and 1 pint of milk, then stir them in with fib. of sifted flour. When smooth, turn the mixture into a stewpan, and stir it over a moderate fire until thick. When cooked, cut the cakes in halves, scoop out a little of the soft paste, and fill them with the Cream. Arrange them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper, and serve. (2) Put If pints of water into a round-bottomed, porcelain- lined pan, set on the fire, bring it to the boil, add 4oz. of butter, and as soon as it is melted stir in rapidly Jib. of flour and 3 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, both sifted together. Remove the pan from the fire, the contents being a stiffish dough, let it cool slightly, work in with the spatula six eggs, adding two at a time, and continue to work until the paste is rather soft. Have ready well-greased baking-tins, and with a table-spoon put the paste in lumps on them, keeping them a little apart; hake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes, or until they have a fawn colour. Take them out, let them cool, and open them on one side. In the meantime prepare the following Cream: Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of corn- flour with a little milk, put it into a saucepan with more milk, making the quantity used altogether 1 pint, 4oz. of powdered loaf sugar, and two eggs. Stir well over the fire until the mixture thickens, flavour with lemon or vanilla essence, let it get cold, fill the cakes with it, dust them over with caster sugar, and serve. (3) Boston.—Put barely fib. of lard or butter into a saucepan with f pint of water and 1 pinch of salt, and boil it. Put in, all at once, with the above mixture fib. of flour, and stir it over the fire till it is cooked to a smooth paste. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and beat in five eggs, one at the time. Slightly grease some baking-sheets, and drop dessert-spoonfuls of the mixture on to them, allowing a space of about tin. between them. Bake the cakes in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Have ready a pastry Cream prepared in the j. Fig. 66. Boston Cream Puffs. V / - py x '' i t 1 ' X following manner: Boil lqt. of milk with a lump of sugar in it to prevent burning, mix fib. of caster sugar with fib. of flour, then dredge them into the boiling milk, beating it all the while ; stir it for five minutes over the fire, add loz. of butter to the above mixture, beat five eggs, and stir them in. Move the saucepan to the back of the range, put the lid on, and let the contents cook about ten minutes longer. When nearly cold, flavour the Cream with lemon or vanilla. When cooked, cut a slit in the sides of the puffs, and fill them with the Cream (see Pig. 566). The difficulty in making Cream puffs is the baking in the uneven heat of a stove or range. They are nothing if they do not rise round and hollow, and the stove must be slackened down to suit. The more the paste is beaten against the sides of the pan as the eggs are added, and after, the more the puffs will expand in baking. If it can possibly be avoided, the oven door should not be opened during the whole time of baking. (4) French.—Put 1 pint of water into a saucepan with 7oz. of butter and 3oz. of sugar, and boil them. Then add lOoz. of flour, and stir until it becomes a thick paste. Take it off the fire, and mix in six eggs, one at a time, beating it with a spoon against the side of the pan. When the last of the six eggs is about to be put in, add to it 2 teaspoonfuls of extract of vanilla. The more the paste