251 THE ‘ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to. see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. size with a couple of forks, and drop them on to the tin in such a way that they shall be as rough and rocky as possible. Put them in a hot oven, and bake for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Take them out, and let them get cold. Rodon Cake (German).—Dissolve loz. of dry yeast in 1 tea- cupful of warm milk ; mix with it 4oz. of flour, work it well, and set the sponge in a warm place to rise. Blanch and peel Jib. of sweet almonds and six or eight bitter ones, pound them in a mortar until quite smooth, adding occasionally a small quantity of white-of-egg to keep them from oiling. Beat six eggs, and mix with them the pounded almonds, the grated rind of half a lemon, 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, fib. of the finest white flour, and sufficient warm milk to make a thin dough. Mix Jib. of warmed butter with the dough, and then the sponge, which should be well risen. Beat the whole together for twenty minutes with a wooden spoon, then mix in 4oz. of chopped sultanas, 2oz. of well-washed and dried currants, and about 1 table-spoonful of chopped almonds. Thickly butter the interior of a Cake-tin, and stick thin slices of almonds all round the sides and bottom. Pour the Cake batter into the mould, which should be only half full. Leave the Cake in a warm temperature until it has well risen. Bake in a moderate oven for an-hour-and-a-half, and turn it out of the tin whilst warm. Roll Cake.—Beat separately three eggs till very light, then beat them together with 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar, 3 table-spoonfuls of cream, or 1 table-spoonful of warmed butter, 1 breakfast-cupful of pastry-flour mixed with 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Spread very thin in a long, shallow tin, and bake in a moderate oven. Beat one egg, and add 1 breakfast-cupful of water and the grated rind and juice of one lemon. Pour this slowly on 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar mixed with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour. Cook in a saucepan till smooth like cream. Spread it while warm over the Cake, trim the edges with a sharp knife, and roll up, fastening the free edge by wetting with a paste-brush. Roman Cake. — Mix in a basin 4oz. of flour (half wheat and half rice), 4oz. of caster sugar, and flavour with a little vanilla or lemon-peel, 1 pinch of salt, and four eggs. Strain it through a sieve when thoroughly mixed, and then add Jib. of butter which has been warmed; stir over the fire until thick. When this frangipane is sufficiently set, take it off the fire and let it cool. Make a paste with 12oz. of flour, lib. of caster sugar, and fifteen eggs; beat it well, and turn it into a timbale-mould. Bake it, and when cold, divide it into four pieces, each of which cut into slices. Divide the frangipane into two portions, putting each part in a basin by itself, and flavour one with vanilla, the other with ground almonds. Soak one-third of the slices of the Cake in rum, one-third in maraschino, and one-third in rosolio. Put a layer of fran- gipane on a dish, then put in, one above the other alternately, the slices of the Cake. Mask each of them with a layer of currant jelly; cut some preserved fruits into little dice, and sprinkle them on the top. Make another layer of the Cake soaked as before, another of frangipane, and one of fruits, and continue in this manner until the Cake resumes its original shape. Mask the outside either with jelly or frangipane, sprinkle over more fruits, and mask over these with a thick layer of Italian meringue; decorate with the cornet. Put it in a moderate oven for two minutes to set [ the meringue. When quite cold, ornament it with preserved fruits and other confections. Rose or Clouded Cuke. — Mix well Jib. of butter in lib. of flour, add lib. of sugar and twelve eggs, well beaten, leaving out the whites of three. Then dissolve in J breakfast-cupful of boiling water 2 small teaspoonfuls of powdered alum, 1 small teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 2 small teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, and mix with 2 small teaspoonfuls of cochineal. Stir this mixture in one-third of the batter, and pour into a Cake-tin a layer of white batter, then a layer of red, beginning and ending with white. This is an ornamental Cake to cut for baskets. Roumanian Sweet Cake.—Put Jib. of flour in a basin, and mix with it 2oz. of sugar, the grated rind of half a lemon, J teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, and a very small quantity of powdered cloves. Put Jib. of honey into Cakes—continued. a small lined saucepan, place it over the fire until hot, but without letting it boil, then stir it in with the ingredients in the basin, and knead all well together. Cover the basin with a cloth, and leave the paste for an hour. At the end of that time, dredge a small quantity of flour over the table, put the paste on it, and roll it out about lin. in thickness. Lay the paste on a baking-dish, and bake it in a moderate oven. When cooked, strew comfits over the top. Rout Cakes.—(1) Large.—Put Jib. of sifted, crushed loaf sugar into a pan, warm it, and mix in the yolks of five eggs and the whites of four. Beat well with a whisk until the mixture is warm, then remove the pan from the fire, and let it cool. Work in 6oz. of flour, turn the batter into a well-buttered mould sprinkled over with sugar, put it in a slack oven, bake for an hour, turn the Cake out when cold, and serve. (2) Small.—Bub through a sieve lib. of sweet almonds that have been blanched and pounded (or use ground almonds) with lib. of caster sugar; beat into it the yolks of four eggs and the grated rind of one lemon. Make the paste into any shapes, sprinkle the tops with water, and sift caster sugar over them. Butter a baking-sheet, put the Cakes on it a short distance from each other, and bake in a quick oven until lightly coloured. (3) Take lib. of ground almonds, put them in a saucepan, and sift into it lib. of caster sugar; hold it over a gentle fire, and when the paste is so dry that it will not stick to the fingers, take it off. Be careful not to let the paste burn, and keep it moving. Boll it into thin and short lengths, and make a variety of shapes with it. Make an icing, and dip the shapes into it, one side only; drain them. They can be variegated by almonds or coloured pistachios scattered over them. Royal Cake.—Stone 12oz. of raisins, put them into a basin with about J pint of maraschino and four sticks of vanilla pounded with 6oz. of sugar, and cover over the basin until wanted. Work 21b. of butter to a cream, and prepare a paste with it, adding 31b. of flour, twelve eggs, and twelve yolks, and working in the vanilla mixture when the paste is thoroughly incorporated. Put the mixture into a mould, decorate with pieces of candied peel, and bake in a moderate oven. Turn the Cake out when done, and serve cold. Buggies Cake.—Bub 1J breakfast-cupfuls of butter into 4 breakfast-cupfuls of flour, in which you have already mixed 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda; add 3 breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar, and beat in six eggs and J pint of milk. Flavour to taste, and bake in a moderate oven. St. Amand Cake.—Put Jib. of flour into a basin to warm, and then take a fourth part of it and put it into a small stewpan. Dissolve Joz. of German yeast in a teacupful of warm milk, and add it to the flour in the pan to make it Ji into a sponge. Cover over the pan, and put it in a warm place to rise to double its original bulk. Make a hollow, or bay, as it is called, in the centre of the remainder of the flour, and put in the yolks of four eggs and the white of one, 3oz. of warmed butter, 5 table-spoonfuls of vanilla-flavoured sugar, 4 table-spoonfuls of butter-milk, and a little salt. The