TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 341 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Chaudeau—cont inued. immediately and serve. The sauce must not boil, or the eggs will curdle and spoil it. (2) Rub 4oz. of loaf sugar on the yellow rind of a lemon, put it in a saucepan with 1 pint of white wine, and place it over the fire until boiling. Beat the yolks of six eggs with the whites of three; move the sauce to the side of the fire, then mix in the beaten eggs, and continue beating them until thick and foamy. Serve without delay. CHAUDFROIDS.—Literally “hot-colds,” applied to certain methods of preparing birds. Further described under Fowls, Larks, Partridges, Pheasants, Plovers, Quails, Turkeys, Woodcocks, &c. CHAUSSONS.—French pasties answering in many particulars to English puffs. They are described as a sort of pastry made of a round of paste folded across the middle, and filled with apple or other marmalade compote or confection. Chaussons are served cold. See Cakes. CHEATS.—Little batter cakes fried and served with honey, jam, or sweet sauce. These are sometimes also known as Wonders. CHEENESUCKUR.—Hind, for a very superior kind of rice. CHEESE (Fr. Fromage ; Ger. Kase ; Ital. Cacio; Sp. Queso).—The English name for this important food product is doubtless derived from the Anglo-Saxon “Cese” or “ Cyse,” the c being pronounced as if it were cli. Cheese is literally the coagulated, pressed, and partially- dried solids of milk (casein and butter-fat), containing also a large percentage of water, some salt, and a portion of the sugar and mineral matter of the milk. It is ex- tensively prepared for food in all countries, chiefly from the milk of cows, but the milk of goats, sheep, asses, and other animals is occasionally applied to the same purpose. In China a Cheese is made from the nitro- genous matter of peas, but it differs in many respects from the Cheese made from milk, although its flavour and chemical composition are similar. Fig. 416. Curd-knife (Horizontal). The process of Cheese-making is very interesting, and depends upon the power that some animal membranes, such as the mucous membrane of the fourth stomach of the calf, have for coagulating milk, with the assistance of heat. The curd produced is carefully drained, collected, and pressed into various shapes, according to the style of Cheese to be manufactured. One process is as follows : The dairy farmer puts the greater portion of the milk into a large tub, to which he adds the remainder, suffi- ciently heated to raise the temperature to that of from 80deg. to 90deg. Fahr., according to the variety and custom. The whole is then whisked together, the rennet or rennet-liquor added, and the tub covered over. It is Cheese—continued. now allowed to stand until completely coagulated, when the curd is gently cut with two many-bladed knives (see Figs. 415 and 416), or with one single blade, after which it is allowed to subside, or it may be passed through a curd-mill (see Fig. 417). The curd, cut into small cubes, is gently stirred to prevent bruising and the consequent loss of the butter, the mass being gently heated Hie while, so that the cubes become tougher and part with much of the whey they contain. There are Fig. 418. Cheese-vat. two methods of heating. In Somerset a portion of the whey is removed from the tub, and heated sufficiently to raise the whole to about lOOdeg. Where the jacketed Cheese-vat (see Fig. 418) is used hot water or steam is turned into the jacket and the mass raised to the Fig. 419. Plain Ciieese-vat (Dairy Supply Company). exact temperature. Stirring continues until the curd is crisp and shotty; the whey is then drawn off or baled out, and the cm'd “ packs ” at the bottom of the tub. It is then cut into cubes about 4in. square, these being piled on each other. In a few minutes the Fig. 420. Cheese-vat, to Open with Key (Dairy Supply Company), mass is again cut up and left for acidity to develop sufficiently. The curd is then ground fine through a mill, and salted at the rate of 2 to 21 per cent. The Cheese- I mould or vat (see Figs. 419 and 420) is now lined with