427 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cC-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Colourings—continued. The three most important colours to produce are the three primaries—red, blue, and yellow; because a com- bination of red and blue gives purple; blue and yellow, green; and yellow and red, orange (see Fig. 508); and YELLOW Fig. 50S. Plan or Combining Colours. combinations of these secondaries—purple, green, and orange—can be brought about in such a manner as to give all the most beautiful and delicate tints and shades of the rainbow. A further combination of primaries and secondaries gives tertiary colours—thus : yellow and green give a yellow-green, blue and green a blue-green, and so on, varying in intensity according to the colour preponderating. Aniline Colours.—Many believe that those powerful colouring agents are poisonous ; but although this may bo so of large quantities, in small proportions, such as would be required to colour sugar, no injurious effect need be anticipated. To extract the colour from these dyes, it is only necessary to boil them in alcohol. One or two drops will colour a whole boiling of sugar. Blue. — Use powdered Prussian blue (soluble) or ultramarine blue of the best qualities only. Inferior or “ ordinary ” Prussian blue is insoluble unless a small quantity of oxalic acid (a deadly poison) is added; but the “pure soluble” Prussian blue, being made from iron, is harmless in small quantities. It may be dissolved in water to produce any desii’ed depth of colour ; but 1 drachm in 1 wineglassful of water will be found strong enough for all culinary purposes. Green.—(1) Wash and pound a quantity of spinach. Take it out in small lots, put it in a cloth, and twist the en Is of the cloth in contrary directions ; when all the water is out, put the spinach into a sugar-pan, and place the pan on the fire ; when the liquid begins to curdle, pour it through a very fine sieve, so as to pre- serve the colouring matter and not the water. The colouring, which will be on the sieve like a puree, is removed with a spoon, put into a glass, and placed in the cool until wanted. (2) A perfectly harmless green colouring substance for can- dies and other confectioneries can be produced from unroasted coffee-beans. They must be reduced to powder, and the oil extracted by macerating for a short time in ether; then let them be dried and mixed with sufficient white of egg to make a kind of gruel. Let this remain exposed to the air for a few days, and then bottle for use. It will yield a splendid emerald- green colour. Red.—(1) Carmine gives a beautiful colour, but is frequently adulterated with starch and cheaper aniline dyes ; it should be obtained from cochineal, and be very bright and lasting in use. Take 2oz. of solid carmine in cakes (the best only should be used), damp with a little water, pound in a glass mortar, and dilute with 3J pints of syrup; boil up again, and then leave to get cold. Just before bottling this, add 1 teaspoonful of sal-ammoniac for each 1J pints of syrup. Colourings—continued. (2) Take 150 grains of cochineal, damp it with 1 wine- glassful of water, and pound in a glass mortar. Put this into a saucepan with 100 grains of cream of tartar, 100 grains of alum, and 200 grains of sugar, and put the pan over a good fire to reduce the liquid to one-half its original bulk ; add about J pint of spirits of wine, boil up again, and strain. It is then ready for use, and can be put into bottles until required. (3) Take ljoz. of cochineal, bruise it, put it into an untinned copper pan with lqt. of fresh spring water and 2oz. of cream of tartar, set it on the fire, and boil. Add fib. of caster sugar and *loz. of salts of wormwood; boil these for a few seconds, then add loz. of alum, and boil for another three minutes. Pass it through a jelly-bag or tammy-cloth to filter it, and lot it get cold ; then put in J pint of spirits of wine, and bottle. Yellow.—(1) Put loz. of hay-saffron into a sugar-pan with 11 gills of water, a little alum, and Joz. of sugar. Place the pan on the fire, boil for ten minutes, and then pass the liquid through a cloth. (2) Put Joz. of Turkish saffron, 1 breakfast-cupful of water, Goz. of caster sugar, and Joz. of alum into an untinned copper pan, and boil for ten minutes ; then strain through a jelly - bag or cloth, and when quite cold add J teacupful of spirits of wine. Put into bottles until wanted for use. (3) Mix a little turmeric in cold water and use as a paste, mixing with sugar whilst boiling. Colouring Mixtures for Liqueurs, Wines, and Essences.—These differ in preparation from those used by the confectioner. Green.—Well wash and clean a handful of vine-leaves or spinach, put them into a decanter or bottle, fill up with spirits of wine, and place the decanter in the sun for ten or twelve days. When the liquid is of sufficiently strong colour, strain or filter it into bottles, and it is then ready for use. Pink. -This is obtained by dissolving Joz. of cochineal in spirits of wine, using- sufficient spirits only to dissolve it. The liquid can then be poured into bottles for use. Red.—Put 2 oz. of red sandal-wood into a bottle with 1 pint of spirits of wine, and let them infuse for a couple of weeks or so; then filter into small bottles, and it is ready for use. Should the colour not be deep enough, a very small quantity of bicarbonate of soda can be added. Yellow.—Put J drachm of saffron into a 4oz. phial, pour in 2oz. of spirits of wine of 62deg. over proof, and let it remain until the spirit is thoroughly tinted to the desired shade of colour. Filter it into small bottles, and put these by for use. The following colouring matters are not unknown amongst confectioners, and they must be sedulously avoided: Red—vermilion, red lead, sulphate of mercury, oxide of lead, and minium; yellow—chrome yellow, sul- phate of arsenic, chromate of lead, iodide of lead, or any preparation of lead; blue—calcium, blue verdita, carbonate of copper; green—emerald green, arsenite of copper, green verdita, carbonate of copper, Sclieele’s green, and others. COLTSFOOT.—The supposed medicinal virtue of this plant (Tussilago Farfara) has gained for it a place in the preparation of confectionery that is believed not to be deserved. By some authorities Coltsfoot is said to yield a demulcent juice, possessing tonic qualities that are very efficacious in relieving coughs; but others place so little faith in these curative properties that in preparing an essence of Coltsfoot they prefer to omit the plant. The following receipts should be found useful: Coltsfoot Liqueur.—Put into a jar loz. each of the essences of hawthorn, whiteheart cherry, cowslip, and Coltsfoot with lgall. of pure spirit, three gold leaves, and 3qts. of syrup. When thoroughly incorporated, pour off into bottles, cork, and use as desired. Coltsfoot Lozenges.—Soak loz. of gum dragon in 2oz. of orange-flower water for about six hours. At the end of that time squeeze and wring the gum in a cloth, work it on a marble slab with the palm of the hand till white and elastic, and work in gradually ljlb. of caster sugar and Joz. of essence of Coltsfoot. Sift some caster sugar over the slab, and roll the