THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 304 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred, to, see under their special heads. Carrots—continued. Carrots a la Nivernaise.—Cut off the ends of some small Carrots, and turn them evenly to the shape of olives, ljin. by fin.; cook and glaze them as directed for Carrots for Garnish. Carrots a l’Orleans.—Take a few young Carrots, turn them with a knife to equal sizes, cut them in slices about |in. thick, and blanch them well; then lay them on a sieve to drain. Put them into a stewpan with a lump of sugar and a little broth, and let them boil over a quick fire. When reduced to a glaze, add a piece of fresh butter the size of a fowl’s egg, and a little salt, tossing freely. Be careful that the butter covers the Carrots when you serve them, as no loose sauce should be visible. Carrots a la Paulette. —■ Scrape and wash the required number of Carrots, put them into a bowl of boiling water, and scald them. Take them out, drain, cut up into slices, put them into a saucepan of boiling water with a little butter in it, and boil until they are done and quite tender. Put a little butter and flour into a frying-pan, cook for a few minutes, sprinkle in salt and pepper to taste, and add the yolks of two eggs, a little lemon-juice, and some rich stock ; then put in the Carrots, and toss the pan over the fire so as to cook them without boiling. Turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. Carrots and Asparagus.—German Style.—Scrape three or four dozen Carrots of an equal size, blanch them for a few minutes, drain them, and fry in a stewpan with a little butter on a moderate fire, adding a little salt and pepper, and thickening with a little veloute sauce. Let the broth simmer for two or three minutes, and then add an equal volume of sprue asparagus cut up in pieces lin. long, blanched in salted water, and well drained. Season, and mix up with the vege- tables a few little bits of butter. Carrot Cakes.—Scrape and well wash a dozen or so large red Carrots, put them into a saucepan of salted water, and boil them. Cut out the hearts and dry them, rub them through a fine sieve into another saucepan, dry them over the fire, and keep hot. Put two eggs into a saucepan with a little salt and as much flour as they will take, mix in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, and stir well over the fire until the smell of the flour has evaporated. Add loz. of butter and the Carrot puree, and mix in a small quantity of sugared orange-flower leaves, 12oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, 4oz. of warmed butter, and the yolks of ten eggs and whites of four, mixing one well in before another is added. When these are thoroughly mixed, add the well-whipped whites of six eggs and sufficient flour to make it of the required consistence, put the mixture into a buttered tin or mould, and bake in a moderate oven for about forty-five minutes. Turn the cake out when done, and serve either hot or cold. Carrot Cheese-Cakes. — Mash a medium-sized Carrot that has been boiled tender, and pass it through a fine hair sieve ; melt loz. of butter, thoroughly wash and dry 2 dessert- spoonfuls of currants, and mix them with the Carrot; add 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and 1 table-spoonful of fresh curd, grate in half a nutmeg, and mix all with a well-beaten egg. Grease some patty-pans, line them with a good puff paste, half fill them with the Carrot preparation, and bake them till the paste is a light brown. These are considered very nice. Carrots with Cream. — Cut some large tender Carrots (pre- viously peeled) into dice, and blanch them for two minutes in salted water. Drain them, fry in a stewpan with a piece of butter, a little salt, and sugar; when almost dry, sprinkle over them a little flour, and pour in some good broth to three-fourth their height, stirring until the broth boils; then move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer until the Carrots are done. Beat the yolks of a few eggs with a little fresh cream, and add to them a little grated nutmeg and a piece of butter; stir this in with the Carrots, and serve. Carrots with Fine Herbs.—Scrape and wash 21b. or 31b. of Carrots, cut them into thick slices ; put them into a sauce- pan with a lump of salt and plenty of cold water, and boil until tender. Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan, place it over the fire until melted, then put in a small finely-chopped onion, and toss it about over the fire until browned. Pour Carrots—continued. 1 pint of water or clear broth over the onion and boil it for five or six minutes. Drain the Carrots and put them with the onion; add about 1 dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, and boil for three minutes longer. Take the Carrots off the fire, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Turn the stew on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. Carrots in Flemish Style. —(1) Scald l^lb. of young Carrots in boiling water for five minutes; when they are cool rub off the skin with a cloth, slice them about jin. thick, put them into a saucepan that holds about 2qts., add 1 table-spoonful of butter, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, 1 pinch of salt, and 1 wine- glassful of water; put the lid on, and let them simmer for twenty minutes, tossing them about now and then so that they all cook alike. Beat the yolks of two eggs with a wine- glassful of cream. When the Carrots are done, stir in the eggs and cream and a pat of butter, and boil it until the eggs are thick. Chop about 1 table-spoonful of parsley, mix it with the Carrots, and serve. (2) Put half-a-dozen or so of good Carrots into a saucepan of water, and boil them until they are quite tender; chop them up into small squares, put them into a saucepan with six small onions, a little chopped parsley, salt and pepper, pour over 3 teacupfuls of rich gravy, and stew them for a few minutes. Turn the whole, when done, out on to a dish, and serve hot. Carrot Fritters.—(1) Beat a large boiled Carrot into a pulp, pass it through a sieve, and mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of grated breadcrumbs and 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, stirring in two well-beaten eggs. Put a piece of lard in a frying-pan, and when this is hot shape the mixture into fritters and fry them. When they are done, put them on a hot dish, and serve with brown sauce. (2) Peel and boil three large Carrots; when tender, drain, put them into a basin, and mash them with a wooden spoon Beat six eggs, mix them with the Carrots, also 1 teacupful of flour, about 2 wineglassfuls of white wine, and sweeten to taste. Beat until all the ingredients are well mixed. Put a large lump of lard into a deep frying-pan, place it over the fire, and when it is boiling drop in the Carrot mixture in small quantities with a table-spoon; fry until nicely and equally browned, then take them out of the fat and lay them on paper near the fire to drain off as much of the fat as possible. Arrange the fritters on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, squeeze the juice of a Seville orange over them, strew caster sugar over, and serve. Carrots for Garnish.—Blanch some young Carrots in boiling water, rub their skins off, and turn them with a knife to equal- sized pear shapes ; then drain them, put them into a saucepan with some chicken consomme, add a little salt, pepper, and sugar, and boil till they are done. Reduce the liquor so as to glaze the Carrots, and serve. Carrots and Green Peas.—Alsatian Style.—Scrape three dozen young Carrots, and blanch them for a few minutes in salted water; drain them, put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter, toss about for a few minutes over a steady fire, add a little broth to half cook them, and season with a little salt and pepper; this done, add 1 j- pints of green peas, a bunch of parsley, and 1 pinch of sugar. Put the lid on the stewpan, and simmer until the peas are done, then adding 1 table- spoonful of butter. When taken off the fire, put in 2 table- spoonfuls of good raw cream, and another piece of butter; dish them up on a hot dish, and serve. Carrot Jam.—(1) Wash some Carrots, scrape, and cut them into rounds, put them into a preserving-pan with a little water, cover the pan over, place it on the side of the fire, and simmer gently until done; then pass it through a fine sieve and weigh, to every lib. of pulp adding fib. of sugar ; place this in the pan again, boil slowly, and skim well, and to every lib. of Carrots add 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice, the peel of half a lemon, and a liqueur-glassful of brandy. When done, put it into jars, tie it down, and it will last for years. (2) Wash and scrape some Carrots, cut the outside red parts into pieces, and boil them until they are quite soft; then rub them through a hair sieve. To every lib. of pulp put lib. of preserving sugar, and boil for fifteen minutes, stirring all the time, and removing the scum as it comes to the top. When