259 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads, Cakes—continued. beaten stiff, and 1 breakfast-cupful of pastry-flour. Pour into a greased mould, and bake quickly. (6) Take twelve eggs, lib. of caster sugar, Jib. of flour, the juice of one lemon, and 1 table-spoonful of good vinegar. Beat the yolks with the sugar, then add the whites and again beat well; add the flour, and after adding it do not beat it longer than is required to stir it in; add the lemon and vinegar just before putting into the buttered mould. When the Cake is eaten hot, lemon-flavoured sauce may be served with it. (7) Warm 6oz. of butter without oiling it, then beat it with lib. of caster sugar until creamy. Thoroughly whisk the yolks of ten eggs, beat them gradually in with the butter, then add lib. of sifted flour and the grated peel and juice of one lemon. Work these ingredients until well mixed: whip the whites of the ten eggs and stir them in lightly. Butter the interior of rather a large mould and pour in the mixture. It should only three-parts fill the mould. Blanch 2oz. of almonds, and lay them on top of the batter, then cover with coarsely-pounded sugar. Bake the Cake in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the Cake out of the mould, and let it get quite cold before serving. (8) Put into a copper basin lib. of powdered sugar; break in seven eggs, and grate in the rind of half a lemon. Beat well together with a wire whisk for one minute, place on a slow fire and heat it slightly, stirring sharply and continually. Take it from the fire, and beat well until thoroughly cold. Remove the whisk, and with a skimmer mix in carefully and slowly 11b. of well-sifted flour; two-minutes-and-a-half will be sufficient. Butter the interior of a lqt. round Cake-mould, and line it with paper, keeping it llin. higher than the mould. Pill it with the preparation, and bake for one-hour-and-a- quarter in a moderate oven. Let it cool thoroughly for two hours, and then turn out. Place it on a pastry wire grating, and glaze with vanilla-flavoured chocolate icing. Serve on a dish covered with a fancy paper. (9) Rub the inside of a smooth Cake-pan, or plain charlotte- mould, with olive oil or melted butter, and dust it thickly with powdered sugar. Sift 6oz. of flour, grate the yellow rind of a lemon, and separate the whites from the yolks of twelve eggs; sift 2oz. of powdered sugar, and beat 4oz. more of powdered sugar with the yolks until they are thick and creamy. If possible, have a second person beating the whites, or beat them to a stiff froth, and lightly mix with them the 2oz. of sugar; then quickly and lightly mix, without beating, a third of the flour with the yolks, then a third of the whites, then more flour and whites, until all are used; add the grated rind during the mixing. The motion of mixing must be very light, rather cutting down through the Cake batter than beating it. Beating the eggs makes them light, but beating the batter makes the Cake tough. As soon as the Cake is mixed, turn it into the pan, and bake in a moderate oven until a straw run into it can be withdrawn clean. (10) A rich Cake is made with four eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, 2 teacupfuls of caster sugar, £ pint of sweet cream, and lib. of flour mixed with 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar and 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Add the whites of eggs last thing before the flour, then stir that in gently, without beating, and make into a paste. Put it into a buttered tin and bake lightly. (11) Small.—Put in a bowl, warmed by standing in the oven for a minute or two, eight eggs and fib. of caster sugar; beat well for five minutes, and then add gradually Jib. of flour. Butter some sponge-cake tins and dust a little caster sugar in them; put about 1 table-spoonful of the mixture in each tin (see Fig. 299), sift caster sugar over the tops, and bake in a rather quick oven. (12) Whip five eggs and Jib. of caster sugar, and stand the basin in another with hot water in it; when you have whisked it until it is a thick white froth sift in gradually 3oz. of dried flour. Grease and dust a little flour in some tins, and half fill them with the mixture. Bake in a steady oven for about thirty minutes. (13) Stand a basin in one containing hot water and whisk in seven large eggs and fib. of caster sugar; beat well for about ten minutes, then stir in Jib. of flour. Butter some tins and dust a little caster sugar in them; put about } table-spoonful of the mixture in each, sift a little caster sugar over the tops, and bake in a brisk oven. Cakes—continued. (14) Make a syrup by boiling Jib. of loaf sugar in J pint of water, and while still hot pour it on to six eggs that have been whisked, the whites and yolks separately. Beat the eggs and syrup for about twenty minutes, or until they become a thick batter, and then mix in lightly lOoz. of Vienna flour. Butter some tins and dust a little caster sugar in them, three-parts fill them with the mixture, sift a little sugar on the tops, and bake in a moderate oven. Flat. Cup Shapes. Fig. 299. Tins used for small Sponge Cakes (Mathews and Son). (15) Beat thoroughly together 14oz. of caster sugar and twelve eggs, then sift in slowly 12oz. of flour. Put this into buttered tins and bake for half-an-hour. (16) Grate the peel of half a lemon and mix with 5oz. of flour. Beat with a fork six eggs in a basin, the juice of half a lemon, and 6oz. of caster sugar ; when whipped light, stir in the flour and lemon-peel. Butter some Cake-moulds, fill with the mixture, and bake about twenty minutes. Sponge Cake (Berwick).—Beat 1 teacupful of caster sugar with the yolks of three eggs, add 1 teaspoonful of lemon- juice in 1 teacupful of water, then mix with 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and Jib. of flour. Whisk the whites of three eggs to a froth and mix altogether, making a good dough. Put into round tins, and bake in a quick oven. When cool, split, and fill with whipped sweet cream. Sponge Cake (Butter).—Put Jib. of sifted crushed loat sugar into a basin, work in four or five eggs, beat in Jib. of warmed butter, pour in 1 teacupful of milk, and add 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder mixed in with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of flour. When the preparation is thoroughly mixed, turn it into a buttered shallow tin, and bake. Take it out when done, turn it out of the tin, and cover with a meringue made of 4 table-spoonfuls of sifted crushed loaf sugar to each white of egg. Let the Cake get cold and the sugar icing set, and it is then ready for use. 2 c 2