386 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Christmas Fare—continued. ingredient before another is added, 21b. of stoned and minced raisins, lib. of picked, washed, and dried currants, 1 dessert- spoonful of powdered ginger, and a small quantity each of | salt and grated nutmeg, and beat in lib. of treacle, J teacupful of milk, 1 teacupful of brandy, and eight beaten eggs. When all these ingredients are thoroughly incorporated, put the mixture into a basin or tie it up in a cloth, and boil in a saucepan of water over a good fire for about ten hours. Take it out, and it is ready for use. These puddings should be boiled several days before being wanted, and then only heated through before being served. (9) Put 6oz. of breadcrumbs and Jib. of flour into a basin, mix in Jib. of beef-suet finely shred and rubbed through a sieve, and add Jib. each of picked, washed, and dried currants and stoned raisins, 2oz. of sultana raisins, and 3oz. each of chopped candied orange- and citron-peels. When they are well mixed, grate over half a nutmeg, and stir in 1 breakfast- cupful of milk, five well-beaten eggs, and J wineglassful of brandy. Put the pudding into a buttered basin or plain mould, with a floured or damped cloth tied over it securely, or tie the pudding simply up in a wet cloth, plunge it into a saucepan of water over the fire, and boil for about six hours. Turn it out carefully on to a dish, pour round a little arrowroot or sweet sauce or brandy, and serve. The brandy may be warmed and ignited a few minutes before serving if desired. It is advisable to keep a kettle of boiling water ready to fill up the saucepan as the water wastes, for it is most im- portant that the rapid boiling should not stop even for an instant while the puddings are in the saucepan. CHUB (Fr. Cliabot; /Sj). Coto; Ger. Kaulbarsch).—It is stated by a great authority that the Chub affords excellent sport to the angler; but to those who fish in our rivers for something beyond sport, this fish is virtually worthless. It belongs to the family of the Cyprinidcp, and is of the same genus as the roach and dace, and may be styled a handsome fish, being blue- black on the back, changing gradually into silver-white on the belly, and marked about the cheeks and gill- covers with orange-gold. It is found in many British rivers, and some few on the European and American Continents, and frequents deep holes in ponds and canals, or a clear rushing stream. See Fig. 470. When full grown, the Chub is 12in. to 15in. long, and weighs from 41b. to 511). The flesh of the smaller Chub resembles that of the carp, and they are therefore usually cooked in the same way; hut to say the best of them they are not very palatable, being watery, taste- less, and bony. Besides this, as the flesh is exceedingly apt to take a yellow tinge by cooking, in spite of lemon- juice and other precautions used by cooks to preserve the meat white, they are held in very low favour in the kitchen, and are mostly stuffed and roasted, baked, or broiled. Baked Chub.—Scrape off the scales, remove the gills, clean and wash the fish thoroug-hly, and put it into a fish-kettle of boiling water, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, a large lump of salt, and a small quantity of fennel. Boil slowly until tender, then take the fish out and drain it well, lay it in a pie-dish, strew plenty of chopped parsley -.over, put two or three lumps of butter on the top, and place it in a Chub —continued. brisk oven. In fifteen minutes take the fish out of the oven, put it on a hot dish, pour the butter out of the baking-pan over it, and serve. Broiled Chub.—Clean a Chub, make two or three incisions across its back, brush it over well with a paste-brush dipped in warm butter, dust it over with salt, powdered thyme, and winter savoury. Lay it on a broiler, and broil it over a clear fire, turning it when done sufficiently on one side. When cooked, place the Chub on a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper on a hot dish; garnish it with parsley and out lemon, and serve. Roasted Chub.—Remove the scales and gills, clean and thoroughly wash the Chub, and season the inside of it with finely-chopped sweet herbs, such as rosemary, parsley, thyme, and winter savoury, &c.; then fix it on a spit and roast it before a clear fire, dredging with salt, and basting con- tinually with butter and vinegar. When the Chub is cooked, nicely coloured, and tender, put it on a hot dish over a folded napkin, or a fancy dish-paper, place a few sprigs of parsley round it, and serve with a suitable sauce in a sauce- boat. CHUFA.-—In central Spain a very refreshing acid drink called “ Orgeat ” is made from the tubers of the Cliufa, or Tiger-nut (Cyperus esculentus). The tubers are first soaked in water for two or three days, then pounded, and the liquor resulting subjected to cooling with ice. CHUMP CHOPS.-—See Chops and Mutton. CHUPPATEE.—This is a kind of plain biscuit eaten by all the lower classes in India, where the paste is flattened in the hands and cooked on sticks laid across a rude fire, made by digging a slanting hole in the earth. Europeans resident in India have them prepared as follows: Rub loz. of butter till quite fine in 21b. of flour, put in a saltspoonful of salt, and stir in sufficient cold water to make a stiff paste. Dip a cloth in hot water and roll the paste in it, leaving it for ten minutes; afterwards knead it, and leave for ten minutes longer. Divide the paste into small balls about the size of a walnut, and roll them out very thin; prick them all over with a fork, lay on a sheet of white paper spread over a baking-sheet, and bake in a brisk oven. They are very nice served hot and eaten with butter. CHURNING.—-See Butter. CHUTNEY—As an Indian word this would probably be more often spelled “ Chutnee,” but custom has allowed us to introduce the term, as well as all that it embraces, into our own language; therefore has it undergone certain modifications to meet British tastes and requirements. Chutney proper, as manufactured in India, is a powerful condiment, prepared by mixing a variety of fruits, sugar, vinegar, and spices in such an able manner that no particular flavour predominates. A very admirable Chutney is that made by the Begum Company, of London. The fruit mostly found in Chutney is apple, but capital varieties will be found under Elderberries, Goose- berries, Mangoes, Tamarinds, and Tomatoes. (1) Remove the peels and cores from 21b. of green cooking apples, chop them up, put them into a saucepan with 3 break- fast-cupfuls of vinegar, and boil to a pulp. Turn the pulp out into a basin, and when cold mix in loz. each of chillies and garlic, 2oz. of shallots, all finely chopped, loz. of ground ginger, 2oz. of salt, 4oz. each of mustai’d-seed and tamarinds, 12oz. of stoned and chopped raisins, and lib. of moist sugar, and stir well. Put the Chutney into bottles, place them near the fire for several days, cork them up, and keep in a cold place until wanted. This is always better for keeping. (2) Core, peel, and quarter Jib. of apples, put them into a saucepan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of vinegar, and boil to a pulp ; then remove the saucepan from the fire, and let the pulp cool. Stone Jib. of raisins, pound them in a mortar, and mix them up with Jib. of moist sugar and 2oz. each of garlic and mustard-seed, also pounded. Add 2oz. of ground ginger and