THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 252 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. butter-milk and eggs must be well beaten together before adding, and the flour sifted in a little at a time, keeping the paste stiff. Work it vigorously for ten minutes, and then add two eggs, one at a time. Mix the sponge into this dough, and work for a few minutes more. Then add another 3oz. of butter warmed to melting. Cover the paste over with a cloth, and put it in a warm place to prove. When it has risen for an-hour-and-a-half, work it again with the hands, adding 4 table-spoonfuls of whipped cream. Take a large border-mould with a concave bottom, butter it well, and three-parts fill with the paste, putting it in in layers; on top of each layer put some well-drained preserved chestnuts cut up in small pieces. Put the mould on a baking-sheet, keep it in a moderate temperature, and let the paste again rise for twenty minutes or so. When it has risen to nearly the rim of the mould, cover over the top with a sheet of buttered paper, and put the Cake in a steady oven, and bake for forty or forty-five minutes. Take it out of the oven, and pour into the hollow of it £ wineglassful of maraschino, which let it absorb. Let the Cake cool, put it on a dish, and fill the cavity with chestnut ice finished with whipped cream. Surround the ice with a circle of candied angelica cut to points (see Fig. 291), and dried cherries, and round the base put a circle of crystallised greengages, apricots, or American apples. St. Honore Cake.— (1) This exceptionally beautiful dish requires much skill and patience to prepare. Peel neatly two medium-sized, sound, blood oranges. Separate the sections carefully to avoid tearing the skin, as, should they lose any of their juice, they would be of little use. Lay a sheet of paper over a tin plate, arrange the pieces of orange on top, and leave them in a warm place to dry for four hours. Wipe neatly twenty-four malaga grapes, leaving on each about gin. of stem, so that they will remain firm while using them. Beat up lg pints of sweet vanilla cream, and lay it aside in a cool place until needed. Roll 3oz. of tart-paste into a round piece Sin. in diameter. Lay it on a baking-sheet lOin. wide, and prepare a choux paste as follows : Put into a sauce- pan 1 gill of cold milk with loz. of good butter, place it on a hot fire, and, when boiling, add at once 3oz. of well-sifted flour. Stir briskly with the spatula all round, take it from the fire, set on a table, and add immediately 1 saltspoonful of powdered sugar, mixing well for one minute more. Break in an egg, stir briskly for one minute, break in another, mix again, and then another, mixing all together for two minutes. Slide down the pastry-bag a small tube, pour in the above preparation, and press down the top with the hands on to the edge of the paste in the baking-sheet, so as to make an even border |in. high, and with the remainder of the paste press down on to another baking-sheet into twenty-four small, round choux Jin. in diameter, leaving them lin. apart. Glaze the surfaces with beaten egg, and place them in a brisk oven to bake for about twelve minutes. Remove, and let them get thoroughly cold. Spread over the paste, inside the border, 2 table-spoonfuls of apple marmalade; then put it in a moderate oven to bake for twenty-five minutes. Remove, and put to cool for thirty minutes. Make a paper cornet, cut off gin. from the point, and put into it 3oz. of red-currant jolly. Press this out gently, dividing it evenly among the twenty- four small choux. Make lib. of granulated sugar into a rich syrup. Oil 2ft. square of the surface of a marble table, and place at hand the pan containing the syrup. Plunge one of the grapes into this, remove it immediately with a fork, and lay it on the oiled table. Proceed the same with the other twenty-three, being careful to lay them lin. apart from each other. Now dip twelve of the sections of prepared oranges into the syrup, one by one, and lay them on the oiled table exactly the same as the grapes. Dip carefully the surfaces of the small choux into the syrup, and lay on the same oiled table. Then take the St. Honore bottom in the baking-sheet, and proceed to arrange it as follows: With the syrup standing on the right, lift the choux up, one by one, dipping one side of each lightly in the syrup, arranging them, on top of the chou-paste border, close together to form a crown. Should the sugar be too thick, return it to the stove, and let it boil up again; then take it off, and dip the thin part of the oranges lightly in it, and lay them over the small choux, the thick part upward, each one adhering to the other until they form the crown. Dip the tops of the grapes lightly Cakes—continued. into the same sugar, and place one on each join of the oranges, with another in the centre, the stems being upward; attach to the small choux the six remaining grapes, dividing them evenly. Arrange a fancy paper on a dessert-dish, and lay the St. Honore over carefully, then take the frothy part of the whipped cream, transfer it to another vessel, and, with the whisk, beat briskly for five minutes, adding gill of good cognac, g gill of kirsch, and 3oz. of well-pounded and sifted macaroons. Mix well together for two minutes longer, and fill the empty space of the St. Honore with three-quarters of this preparation, keeping it as high as possible. With the use of the pastry-bag and fancy tube, press down the rest of the cream, and decorate artistically the top and sides, taking care not to put any on the oranges, and then send the Cake to table. (2) To make the pastry for this very exceptional Cake, put over the fire in a thick saucepan 1 pint of water, gib. of butter, and goz. of sugar; when the water boils, throw in gib. of flour, and beat the paste until it comes away from the sides of the saucepan. Take the saucepan off the fire, let the paste cool for five minutes, and then beat in eight eggs, two at a time, thoroughly mixing them before adding more: the paste should be soft enough to drop easily from the spoon, but not soft enough to spread when dropped. Drop part of the paste upon a buttered and floured pan in pieces as large as small walnuts; form a ring of more of it, as large as the Cake, is desired, and about lin. broad and high; put more of it in a thin round, the size of the Cake, to use as a bottom or stand. Some cooks make the bottom of a thin round of Cake, but this is not advisable, for if the St. Honore custard stands in the Cake it saturates and softens it. Bake the little balls and ring in a moderate oven; when they are cool, cut a small piece out of each, and fill them with cold St. Honors custard, made as follows: For a Cake of medium size, put into a saucepan over the fire the yolks of six eggs, ljoz. of potato- or rice-flour, and g pint of milk, and stir them constantly until the mixture is quite smooth and begins to thicken. Take it off the fire, and stir with an egg-whisk for a minute. Mix fib. of sifted powdered sugar with the whites of six eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and whip this meringue with the custard; then return it to the fire, and beat for a moment with the whisk. When quite smooth, pour it into an earthen dish, and cool it; it will be ready for use for the Cake as soon as it is cold. After the custard is made, blanch some almonds by pouring boiling water upon them and then rubbing them on a wet towel to remove the skins; cut some white grapes in clusters of two or three, and make ready some sections of mandarin oranges, or French candied fruits, and some cherries, put each one on the end of a long wire skewer, and dip into thick syrup ready for use. When the pastry-ring and puffs are filled with the cold custard and the fruit is covered with sugar, shape the St. Honore Cake as follows : First lay the fiat sheet of pastry on a round flat dish, on the sheet lay the ring of pastry filled with custard, fixing it in place with melted sugar; then arrange the puffs round it filled with custard and the candied fruit, and finally heap the cold custard in the centre of the Cake. The Cake should not be made until shortly before it is required for use, because it deteriorates by standing, and, if the weather is damp, the candied fruit soon becomes sticky _ (3) Put 1 wineglassful of water into a stewpan with a little sugar, lemon-peel, and salt, and about 3gOZ. of butter. Put the pan on the fire, boil, and then take it off. Take out the zest, and quickly add gib. of flour, making it into a smooth and consistent paste. Put the pan on the fire again for four or five minutes for the paste to dry, then put it into another stewpan, and add four eggs, putting in one at a time, and lastly adding gib. of fresh butter. Then take a tart-sheet, and spread over it a thinnish flat of short paste of about 8in. or lOin. in diameter, and cut it qirite round. Put the first paste into a biscuit-bag, and squeeze out a string about the size of a thin sausage all round the edge upon the flat of paste; egg the paste over, put it on a baking-sheet, prick (or dock) the centre, and put into a moderate oven to bake. With the remainder of the paste, squeeze out some little Cakes (choux) round in form, and put them in the oven to bake. Then put 2oz. of rice-flour and the same of wheat- flour into a stewpan, and add the yolks of four eggs, gib. of