283 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils Sauces, dee., referred to, see under their special heads. Capers—continued. Capers as imported are the flower-buds of Capparis spinosa (Pig. 321), picked daily as soon as they are ready, and thrown into casks of strong vinegar. Prom these stores they are sorted into sizes by sifting through different meshed copper-wire sieves. The vinegar, acting upon the copper wire, gives to the pickle its emerald green, which renders the Caper at all times inclined to he deleterious. After sorting, the buds are classified under five headings: thus, nonpareils, capuchins, capotes, seconds, and thirds, and of all these the nonpareils are best. Fig. 321. Caper-plant. The hud is picked long before the flower is formed ready for blooming, and the further from this the more pungent it is as a condiment. The flower when fully formed is large, white or puce, and very elegant. A very good imitation of pickled Capers can be pro- duced by gathering the young green seeds, or shoots, of the nasturtium (Indian cress), and after soaking them in a weak brine, bottling them with vinegar in the usual way. The following is a very good receipt for preparing mock Capers, either from nasturtium-seeds or green peas: Lay them out on a paper in the sun for an hour or two, then put them into a bowl, and cover with a not very strong brine. Leave them in this for about three days, then drain off the brine, and spread them out in the sun again for an hour or two to partly dry. Pack them in jars or wide-mouthed bottles, and fill up so as to cover them with boiling white wine vinegar. Cork or tie down before the vinegar is cold, and these “Capers” will be ready for use in a few days’ time. Sometimes a small piece of alum is dropped into the bottle before adding the vinegar. Capers are used only for garnishing and making sauces, of which latter the following may be considered the best forms for their preparation. Caper Sauce.—(1) Put into a saucepan 1 table-spoonful of flour and 2oz. of butter, hold it over a fire and stir until the flour is brown ; add 1 pint of good stock, mix it in with the flour, and season with a little salt, pepper, and Worcester sauce ; when boiling, add 2 table-spoonfuls of Capers, and serve in a tureen. (2) Put into a saucepan 1 pint of clear broth or water and 1 table-spoonful of Capers. Let them simmer for ten rninui es, then mash the Capers by pressing them against the sides of the saucepan with a wooden spoon. Mix 1 dessert-spoonful of flour with a little cold water, and stir it in with the Capers whilst boiling ; put loz. of butter in with it, and when the butter is melted add 1 teaspoonful of the vinegar the Capers were bottled in, and serve very hot. Capers—continued. (3) Soyer recommends this sauce to be made by putting 12 table-spoonfuls of butter sauce (melted buttei’) in a saucepan, and when just on the point of boiling add 3 table-spoonfuls of Capers and 2oz. more of fresh butter; stir until the butter is dissolved, and add a little salt and pepper. It is then ready for use. (4) Dissolve 1 table-spoonful of butter in a saucepan ; add 1 table-spoonful of flour, and when it begins to bubble stir slowly iu 1 teacupful of boiling water. Beat in 1 teaspoonful of cold butter when the sauce is taken from the lire, and add 1 table- spoonful of Capers and vinegar, and 1 pinch of salt. The sauce is then ready for use. (5) Put 2oz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour into a small saucepan, and stir it over the fire until well mixed ; then pour in gradually 1 pint of clear broth, and continue stirring over the fire until boiling. Put in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of chopped Capers, boil for two minutes, then move the sauce off the fire. Beat the yolk of an egg with 1 teaspoonful of water, stir it quickly into the sauce, season to taste with salt, and serve. (6) Boil some Capers (or imitation) in a good brown gravy (about 1 table-spoonful of Capers to 1 pint of gravy) ; when they are soft, mash them against the sides of the saucepan with a spoon, stir in 1 dessert-spoonful of flour, which you have previously mixed with a little cold water, and boil till thick, stirring all the time; then add 1 oz. of butter, and, when melted, put in 1 teaspoonful of the vinegar that the Capers were in. It is then ready for use. (7) For Fish.—Make 1 pint of melted butter, into which put a small piece of glaze, and when the sauce is ready for serving stir into it 2 table-spoonfuls of choice Capers, salt and pepper to taste, and 1 table-spoonful of essence of anchovies. (8) For Boiled Mutton.—Make 1 pint of melted butter, and stir into it 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice, 2 table- spoonfuls of large Capers, and 1 table-spoonful of essence of anchovy. CAFE WINES.—Although, the western provinces of the Cape Colony are famous for the production of grapes, it is a remarkable fact that the wines manufactured from them are of an exceedingly inferior character; so much so, that they have provided a term of contempt for all wines that are hot, weak-flavoured, or insipid. “Like Cape sherry,” is a by-word in the trade, and not by any means undeservedly. Professor Simmonds writes of them : “ The making of the wine is on the whole very primitive, in no way corresponding with the excellence of the grape. The Colonial Government has, however, within the last two or three years, introduced better systems of wine-making, under experienced European authorities. Hitherto the Cape Wines have been mixed with so much brandy (height- ened with capsicum) that they cease to be wines, and become liqueurs. The colour is often made darker (to give the idea of strength and make it aiipear older) by means of burnt sugar; but the immature character of the wine is not done away with by these expedients. No attention is paid at all to the difference between table- wines and sweet wines. A considerable portion of the wine- drinking community wants sweet-tasting wine, and this compels the merchant to make dry wines sweet, which is generally done by sugar, or by the addition of extract wines. It is the manipulation of the wine which is to be blamed for the inferior quality of the Cape Wines.” Nevertheless, as the wines are cheap and sufficiently pure for making some kinds of sauces or stews, the cook need not be afraid to use them. CAPILLAIRE.—This syrup or liqueur is seldom used by itself, but generally for the purpose of giving a body to others. The name is derived from capilla, a hair, a prominent ingredient of it used at one time being the fronds of the maidenhair fern. The virtues supposed to be imparted by this herbal addition appear to have held very little credit amongst advanced liqueurists, hence the fern is now generally omitted, and the syrup compounded of sugar, clarified with white of egg, and flavoured with either orange-flower water, rose-water, or curaijoa. The