THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Carp—continued. knife round the circle in the centre, and lift out the piece of paste, that having to form the lid; scoop the cases out, pour a small quantity of sauce that has been finished with cray- fish butter, or anchovy cream, in each, put in a piece of the roe, pour in a little more of the sauce, and put the lids on. Arrange the boucheea on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper that has been placed on a hot dish, and serve. Braised Carp.—Take a large Carp (about 41b. or 51b.), and after thoroughly scalding, drawing, and cleansing the fish stuff it with some quenelle forcemeat of whiting. Care must be taken to remove what is called the gall stone, which is found at the back of the head, for if not removed it will impart a bitter taste, and the flavour of the fish will be spoiled. Lay the fish upon a drainer, mask over with some more force- meat, and ornament with some fillet of soles and tails of crayfish, keeping the head clear. Cover the whole with well- buttered paper, moisten with white wine, and let it braise gently upon the fire for about an hour. When done, place it upon a dish, garnish round with crayfish, and pour oyer thick German sauce made with a little of the liquor in which the Carp has been braised, garnish the body with attelettes of crayfish (see Fig. 339), and send to table. Braised Carp a la Chef de Cuisine.—Cut into 2in. pieces a well-cleaned Carp, remove the bone that is between the head and the backbone (as this is thought to give a bitter flavour), then cut the head into halves, and remove the bones from that. Put the whole into a bowl, sprinkle with salt, toss it about frequently, and let it remain for an hour; then wash it well, and drain. Put the pieces skin side downwards on a well-buttered drainer in a fish-kettle, sprinkle over grated nutmeg and pepper, put some slices of lemon freed of pips on the top, as well as two shallots cut into slices, and over these sprinkle pieces of parsley-roots and a few whole white peppers ; place the kettle on a slow fire with hot ashes on the lid, and cook for half-an-hour, by which time the fish should be done, and firm. Put it on a dish, remove from the kettle all the shallots and a portion of the parsley-roots, and spread the remainder over the fish. Pour 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of stock over the drainer — to remove the fish essence—into a saucepan with the shallots and parsley- roots, boil up once, strain it into a sauceboat, and serve with the fish. Broiled Carp.— (1) Scale and clean a Carp, and with a knife score across the sides, keeping the cuts quite |in. from each other; sprinkle the fish with salt and pepper, put it into a flat dish, with an onion cut into slices and a few sprigs of parsley, pour over a breakfast-cupful of sweet oil, and let it remain for an hour, rubbing it frequently with the marinade. Take it out, put it on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil it. When done, put it on a dish, pour over any fish-flavoured butter sauce, and serve. (2) Empty the fish, scale it, and wash it well, drying it on a cloth. Rub the Carp over with olive oil, season it with salt and pepper, put it on a gridiron, and broil it over a clear fire, turning to cook both sides equally. Boil some well-washed sorrel, and when tender, drain, and mash it with a small quantity of pepper, salt, and butter. Put the puree of sorrel on a hot dish, lay the Carp on it, cover it with white caper sauce, and serve. If preferred, maitre- d'hotel sauce or plain oil and vinegar can be poured over the fish in place of the white caper sauce. Carp—continued. (3) Scale and clean a Carp, wash it well in salted water and vinegar, drain and dry it, and rub it well with oil. Put it on a hot gridiron over a clear fire, and cook it until done, which will take from twelve to fifteen minutes, according to the size of the fish. When done, put it on a dish, and serve with caper sauce poured round it, or with oil and vinegar served separately. (4) Scale and clean a Carp, cutting off the fins and tip of the tail, remove the ears, and open the belly slightly to take out the entrails, taking care that the gall is not broken. Wash the roe, blend it with a few fine herbs mixed with butter and well seasoned with salt and pepper, stuff it into the belly of the fish, and sew it up. Put it in a dish or pan, pour over a little olive oil, sprinkle over finely-minced sweet herbs and salt, place the dish in front of a clear fire, and cook until the fish is done. Put it carefully on another dish, remove the thread, pour over a white caper sauce, and serve. Broiled Stuffed Carp.—Take a Carp and clean it, opening it all along the belly. Then make a stuffing with some mushrooms, parsley, chives, and two small onions, all finely chopped. Put a little butter in a saucepan, and add the mushroom mixture If the roe of the Carp is soft, it should be mixed with the mush- rooms and other savouries. Let the pan remain over a brisk fire for a few minutes, then remove it, and mix in some chopped anchovy, some yolks of hard-boiled eggs also chopped, and salt and pepper to taste. When the stuffing is done, put it in the belly of the fish, sew up the cut, wrap the Carp up in a sheet of oiled paper, and place it on a gridiron over a moderate fire. Remove the fish when quite done, take off the paper, put the fish on a dish with a large lump of butter worked up with lemon-juice, minced parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Carp a la Chambord.—Take a freshly-caught Carp, scale and clean it; then make a firm fish forcemeat mixed with fine herbs, and stuff it into the fish. Remove the skin from the sides of the Carp, and lard the flesh with square strips Fig. 340. Carp 1 la Chambord. of raw bacon-fat (see Fig. 340). Take a flat fish-kettle, and line the bottom with vegetables and bacon ; then put in the fish, season it, put in sufficient white wine to three parts cover the fish, and put the kettle in a moderate oven for about two hours. When the fish is done, the liquor should be reduced to half-glaze. Garnish the dish with mushroom heads, plain and studded quenelles, oysters, crayfish tails, or other things suitable, piled in groups, with a little genoa sauce (made with the fish stock, with the fat skimmed off, drained, and reduced) poured over them. Fish sauces should have butter added to them at the last moment before serving. Carp a la Maitresse d’Hotel. — Take a fresh Carp, scale, draw, and wash it thoroughly. Remove the roes, and, if soft, put them in water with a little vinegar and salt added, and let them blanch, but letting them boil up only once. Next take a gratin-dish and mask the bottom with minced vege- tables ; place the Carp on these, sprinkle a little salt over it, and pour in white wine to half the height of the fish; then add some aromatics, peppercorns, cloves, and a small bunch of parsley; put buttered paper all over the fish, put the pan on the fire, and boil; next put it into a slack oven, and about half-an-hour afterwards turn the fish and let it finish boiling slowly. Take the Carp out about thirty minutes before serving, put it on a dish, and keep it warm. Add a little good broth to the fish-stock, boil it up, strain it, and skim off the fat. Then take a small stewpan and put 5oz. of butter in it with the same quantity of flour, stir it up with a spoon, so as to make it like butter sauce (melted butter), quite smooth, put in a little of the fish stock, and place the