THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 451 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Crabs—continued. breaking- it, and fill the shells with the salad. Lay some cress or other greens on a dish, put the Crab shells on it, and serve. These salads can be made exceptionally pretty by garnishing in stripes, or other patterns, with chopped white and yolk of eggs, coral and parsley (see Fig. 540). The claws being used to form a crown or other device. Crab Sauce.—Put 3 teacupfuls of milk into a saucepan over the fire, add 2oz. or 3oz. of butter rolled in a little flour, and stir until the butter is dissolved; it should be stirred in one direction only. Chop up the meat from a Crab, and mix it up with a little each of ground mace, cayenne, and salt; stir it into the hot milk, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for about three minutes, taking care that it does not boil. Turn it into a sauceboat when ready, and serve. Crabs in Shells.—Clean and boil half-a-dozen Crabs, pick out the meat, and put the coral on one side. Chop up the meat, add a small onion, powdered ginger, or green ginger-juice, lime- or lemon-juice, mushroom ketchup, salt and pepper; put the mixture into a frying-pan with butter, and cook until the butter is absorbed. Pour in a little stock, boil until it is nearly evaporated, then remove the pan from the fire. Well butter five of the Crab shells, and fill them with tbe mixture. Grind down the coral, mix it up with breadcrumbs, sprinkle it over the mixture, put a few small lumps of butter on the tops, place the shells in the oven, and bake for a few minutes. Put them on a dish, and serve very hot. Crab Soup.—(1) Open twelve small uncooked Crabs, and remove the deadman’s fingers and sand-bags. Cut the Crabs in two parts, parboil, extract the meat from the claws, and remove the fat from the back of the shells. Place eighteen ripe tomatoes in a basin, scald them, “skin, and squeeze the pulp through a colander, keeping back the seeds. Pour boiling water over the seeds and juice of the tomatoes, and strain. Put in a saucepan one large onion, one clove of garlic, 1 table-spoonful of butter, 2 table-spoonfuls of lard, and the pulp of the tomatoes, and let them stew a short time. Put the meat from the claws, then the Crabs, and lastly the fat, into the soup ; season with sweet marjoram, thyme, parsley, lemon, salt, cayenne and black pepper. Pour in the water in which the seeds were scalded, adding more if there is not the required quantity of soup. Simmer for one hour, and a quarter-of-an-liour before serving thicken with grated breadcrumbs. Serve in a soup-tureen. (2) Wash and drain 8oz. of rice, put it into a sauce- pan with lqt. of milk or water, or equal parts of them, and add 2oz. of butter, a seasoning of grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper. Place the saucepan on the fire and boil gently until the rice is done, then add the meat of the body of a boiled Crab, well pounded in a mortar and rubbed through a fine sieve, with lqt. of rich stock. Pour the ?oup into a clean saucepan, add the meat from the claws, picked out in rather small pieces, season with pepper, and stir in 1 tea- spoonful of essence of anchovy. Boil for a minute or two, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, pour in 2 breakfast- cupfuls of cream, and stir well until the soup is quite hot, without boiling; turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve. (3) For 2qts. of soup use a breakfast-cupful of Crab-meat removed from the shell, or canned Crab-meat. Put in a sauce- pan over the fire 2 table-spoonfuls each of ^butter and flour, and stir them together until they are smoothly mixed; then add gradually lqt. each of hot milk and water, making the soup perfectly smooth by stirring it. Season rather highly with salt, white pepper, and cayenne ; put in the Crab-meat and 1 wineglassful of sherry. Let the soup boil once after adding the Crab-meat, and serve. Crab Soup with Okras. —To make 4qts. of soup, peel and slice two onions, and fry them brown in 2 table-spoonfuls of dripping or butter; fry with the onions a thin slice of ham weighing about Jib., and a knuckle of veal chopped, or about 21b. of any cheap cut of veal containing plenty of bone. Whilst these ingredients are frying, wash two dozen pods of Okra in cold water, and slice them thin, throwing away the stems. When the onions and meat are brown, add the Okra to them with 4qts. of boiling water, a small fresh green or red pepper chopped fine, and a seasoning of salt, and simmer the soup Crabs—continued. slowly for two hours, keeping the pot covered. Meanwhilo pick all the meat from six boiled Crabs, and fry it brown, with a small onion sliced and 1 table-spoonful of butter, and peel and slice one dozen medium-sized tomatoes. Four soft- shell Crabs fried in quarters may be used instead of hard-shell Crabs. Add the fried Crab-meat and the sliced tomatoes to the soup at the end of two hours, and let it simmer slowly for two hours longer, keeping it closely covered to prevent evaporation. If it has decreased in quantity, add sufficient boiling water to make it up to 4qts.; remove the bones and any pieces of meat which have not boiled to shreds, season carefully, and serve the soup hot. Crab Stew.— Steam 1 peck of live Crabs for twenty minutes ; pick out the flesh, put it in a saucepan with 1 pint of milk or cream, and stew it for fifteen minutes- Season with salt and cayenne pepper. Devilled Crabs.— (1) Put Jib. of butter into a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and cook together, stirring constantly to prevent burning; add to it 1 large tumblerful of rich cream, one onion that has been boiled soft and mashed up into a paste or pulp, a little grated nutmeg, and season with cayenne and salt. Then put in the Crab-meat and a raw egg or two, stir all well together, and cook for a few minutes, or until it begins to thicken ; then pour it all on a flat dish and let it remain until cold. Now fill the back shells of the Crabs with the mixture, egg them over with a soft brush, and cover with grated breadcrumbs or cracker-dust. Lay them in a baking-pan, put a small piece of butter on top of each, and bake in a moderate oven to a delicate brown colour, or fry them in plenty of hot frying-.lard. (2) Boil a dozen Crabs, and remove the meat from the shells and claws; add to the meat an equal quantity of bread- or cracker-crumbs, J teacupful each of Worcestershire sauce and mixed mustard, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 saltspoonful of pepper, half that quantity of cayenne, 2 table-spoonfuls of melted butter, and just enough milk to moisten these ingredients so that they can be mixed thoroughly. Fill the Crab-shells with this mixture, dust them with cracker- or breadcrumbs, arrange them in a pan, put a small piece of butter on each, and quickly brown them in a very hot oven. Serve hot or cold. The seasoning of devilled Crabs should always be high. (3) Pick out the flesh of one dozen cooked Crabs and mix with it 3 table-spoonfuls of breadcrumbs, a little chopped parsley, 2 dessert-spoonfuls of cream, the yolks of three eggs, 1 table-spoonful of butter, and salt and pepper to taste. When well mixed, put it back in the shells, which must have been previously cleaned, and bake in a sharp oven. Serve very hot. (4) After the Crabs have been boiled in salted water for twenty minutes, crack the claws and take out the meat, remove it also from the shells, and put it in a basin with half the quantity of breadcrumbs; for each Crab add 1 teaspoonful of vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, 1 teaspoonful of warmed butter, J saltspoonful of salt, and a small pinch of cayenne. Put the mixture in the Crab-shells, cover the surface with biscuit-crumbs, place in a brisk oven, and bake brown, basting the tops with butter. Serve in the shells. Fig. 541. Minced Crab. Minced Crab.—Put the finely-chopped meat of a Crab into a saucepan, pour over I wineglassful each of white wine and vinegar, and season with cayenne, salt, and pepper. Cook 2 p 2