THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 390 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <t c., referred to, sec under their special heads. CINNAMON (Fr. Cannelle; Ger. Zimmt ; Ital. Oannella; Sp. Canela).—This is the inner bark of shoots sprouting from the truncated stock of the Cinnamomum zeylanicum, and is imported from Ceylon, or should be; but, unfortunately, this spice admits of considerable adulteration, and finds a coarser, much less expensive substitute in a tree of a lower order, called the “ Cinna- mon cassia,” or Chinese Cinnamon. The principal defect in this adulteration is that it is not so sweet or spicily flavoured, otherwise the resemblance is so very close that confectioners frequently use cassia in preference. When the Dutch held possession of Ceylon, they occasionally made havoc amongst the Cinnamon-trees by burning them, in order that the price might be kept up by a scarcity in the market. This was a rather dangerous practice, for although the bark when stripped is renewed, it takes three years to complete the growth, and by that time the tree is possibly somewhat exhausted by the excessive germinal energy required of it for the repair of the lost bark, and from a practice -encouraged by the Cingalese of expressing a camphorous gum from the roots. “There are points of interest,” says Kettner, “about Cinnamon in connection with old cookery, and three of these may be noted ” : The first is that when we hear of “ sweet powder,” or poudre douce, in the dainty dishes of our ancestors, this means a mixture of sugar and Cinnamon. Some recent writers having seen this powder mentioned as pulvis dulcis, have misread it pulvis ducis and have rendered it poudre de due, or “ duke’s powder.” The more probable corruption would be from poudre douce to douce poudre, and thence to “ duke’s ” (douhee) powder. The next note of interest concerns cameline sauce, which was a great favourite in the Elizabethan age, and contained Cinnamon amongst other ingredients. The composition is given as equal parts of ground Cin- namon, ginger, cloves, and cardamom, mixed with three or four times the quantity of new breadcrumbs, and the whole wetted down with herb vinegar. “ According to old English receipts,” Kettner tells us, “ dating from the time of Chaucer, it was made of currants, kernels of nuts, crusts of bread, ginger, cloves, flour of Cinnamon, and salt, brayed well and mixed with vinegar,” and that the origin of the name cameline has been long a vexed ques- tion amongst French cooks, and proceeds at some length to account for its connection with Cinnamon through the French canelle. Without following the lead of the ag- grieved foreigners, it will be sufficient to observe that many of the names applied to dishes would be vexed questions if they were for a moment allowed to bother them. The third point mentioned by Kettner is an attempt to connect an ancient sauce called syne, synee, or sene (sometimes cyne or cynne) with the word Cinnamon, because this spice sometimes formed one of the flavouring ingredients; but the more probable suggestion is that syne is an abbreviation of Sinapis, the chemical name for mustard, which was invariably present in syne sauce. Candied Cinnamon.—(1) Soak some Cinnamon in water for twenty-four hours. Then cut it into pieces lin. long, and boil them in sugar that has been heated to thread (see Sugar-boiling). When this has boiled once, drain off the sugar and dry the Cinnamon in a stove; put it into small shapes and cover with sugar boiled to the blow (see Sugar- boiling). When the candy is half-cooled, set them in a screen for some time, and let the candy harden. They should be kept in tins in a dry place and wrapped in paraffin paper. (2) Cut some sticks of Cinnamon into pieces rather less than ljin. in length, and give them a boil in some thin syrup. Remove the pan from the fire, and let the Cinna- mon soak in the syrup for six hours. Then take the pieces of Cinnamon out of the syrup, lay them on wire gratings, and set them in the stove till they are quite dry. When they are dry arrange the gratings in candy-tins, so that there will be three layers, one above the other. Boil s6me Cinnamon—continued. sugar to the blow degree (see Sugar-boiling), and pour it into the tin so that the sugar may lie well over the Cinnamon on the upper grating. Put this in the stove and let it stand all night. Next morning see if the Cinnamon is well coated. If so, drain off the loose syrup and gently loosen the pieces of Cinnamon, take them out of the tin, lay them on a sieve, and set in the stove to dry. Cinnamon Biscottini.—Beat the yolks of six eggs with 6oz. of sugar till well frothed; mix in 3 teaspoonfuls of warmed butter and 1J teaspoonfuls of powdered Cinnamon, and beat the mixture a few minutes longer, then sift in pb. of flour, and continue working till it has become thoroughly incor- porated. Slightly wax a baking-sheet; then with a biscuit- forcer force the mixture on to it in pieces about 2 jin. long and lin. wide. Brush the biscottini over with some very thin royal icing, and bake in a moderate oven till lightly browned. When cooked, take the biscottini out of the oven and leave till cold before packing away or serving. Cinnamon Brandy.—To lib. of essence of Cinnamon add lib. of essence of cherry and lgall. of syrup of gum arabic, and put into four barrels of rectified spirits. This is a cordial- maker’s formula for Cinnamon brandy. Smaller quantities can be made in proportion. Cinnamon Buns.—(1) Mix Coz. eacli of sugar and flour and 2oz. of German yeast together: stir in two well-beaten eggs and lqt. of warm milk; cover the mixture, which is called a sponge, with a cloth, and set the basin on a warm place for it to rise. Rub fib. of butter in 3jlb. of flour till smooth, then add J table-spoonful of mixed spice and J table- spoonful of powdered Cinnamon. When the sponge has risen, mix all the ingredients together, working them well to procure a nice mellow dough ; if the dough is too soft, stiffen it with a little more flour. After it has risen lialf-an-hour longer, divide the dough into equal quantities and roll them into balls with floured hands. Warm some baking-sheets, and rub them lightly over with butter ; arrange the buns on these, leaving a short space between each bun, and flatten them slightly. Leave the buns to rise for a short time, then brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in milk; let them rise a short time longer, then bake them in a quick oven. When cooked, brush the buns over again with milk. Serve either hot or cold. (2) Put fib. of moist sugar and 2Joz. of German yeast into a bowl with lqt. of water at 94deg. Fahr., and let them dissolve ; then mix in 12oz. of flour, and set it to rise. Add 11b. each of butter and lard, loz. of salt, a few currants, and a flavour- ing of ground Cinnamon. When well incorporated, form the dough into rounds, put these on tins, taking care not to let them touch each other, let them prove (that is, rise), brush over the surfaces with egg-and-milk, dust them over with caster sugar, let them prove again in the oven, and afterwards bake in a hot oven. Take them out, and use cold. Cinnamon Cakes.—(1) Work together 21b. of flour, lib. of butter, and lib. of sugar; beat the whites of six and the yolks of three eggs with a little rose-water, and make all into a dough, but reserve a little of the eggs. Form the dough into cakes, brush them over with the egg, and strew over a little Cinnamon, sugar, and chopped blanched almonds. Butter some baking-sheets, lay the cakes on, and bake in a slow oven. (2) Work together 2qts. of flour, Jib. of butter, Jib. of sugar, and 1 table-spoonful of Cinnamon, and make into a dough with the yolks of six or eight eggs. Lay on a baking- sheet, and bake in a slow oven. (3) Rub 3oz. of butter to a cream, work in 4oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, beat for a few minutes, and add J tea- spoonful of ground Cinnamon, sifted in with 8oz. of flour, one egg, and sufficient milk to form a paste. Roll the paste out moderately thin, cut it into cakes with a biscuit-cutter, place them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven. (4) Put 8oz. of sifted flour into a warmed basin, mix in 3oz. of crushed loaf sugar and Joz. of ground Cinnamon, and form into a paste by adding cream. Roll out the paste on the board or table, cut it out into cakes, prick these all over with a fork or biscuit-docker, put them on a baking-sheet (not oiled, but dusted with flour), and bake in a moderate