374 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cCc., referred to, see under their special heads. Chocolate—continued. (8) Take f pint each of water and milk, and let them boil together in a saucepan. Put 4 table-spoonfuls of grated Chocolate into a bowl, and with a little cold milk stir it to a smooth paste; then pour it into the boiling milk and water, and let it boil for two minutes, stirring all the time. Apple (flavoured) Chocolate.—Although vanilla may be regarded as the usual flavouring for Chocolate, a variety of fruit essences are sometimes used, amongst which that of the apple is the more common; or the Chocolate may be dissolved in water in which apples have been stewed to a piilp, and strained off. Chocolate-Apple Custard.—Peel, core, and cut into quarters about one dozen cooking apples, put them in a saucepan with a very small quantity of water, to prevent them sticking to the bottom of the saucepan, sweeten to taste, and dust in some powdered cinnamon. Cook the apples gently over the fire till reduced to a pulp. Scrape lib. of French Chocolate, put it in a saucepan with 6oz. of caster sugar and 1 qt. of new milk. Beat the yolks of six eggs and the whites of two. When the Chocolate and milk boils, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and pour in gradually the eggs, stirring quickly all the time. Spread the apple pulp over the bottom of a deep dish, pour the Chocolate mixture gently over it, set the dish in a pan of boiling water, and stand it over the fire till the custard is firm. When cooked, sift caster sugar over the custard, brown it under a salamander, and serve. Chocolate Bavaroise.—Take 1 pint of cream and whip it to a stiff froth; soak loz. of gelatine in a teacupful of milk ; scrape loz. of Chocolate to a powder, add 2 table-spoonfuls of pow- dered sugar to it, put it into a small saucepan with 1 table- spoonful of boiling water, and place the pan on the fire, continuing to stir it until it is quite smooth and glossy. Boil up another teacupful of milk, stir the Chocolate into it, and add the gelatine ; then pass it through a strainer into a basin and add more sugar, so that with the 2 table-spoonfuls used before the quantity will be ilb. altogether. Put the basin in ice, and beat the mixture until it becomes quite thick; then pour in the cream, mix all well together, and put it into a mould. When it is' quite hard, put it on a dish, and pour more whipped cream heaped round it. Chocolate Biscuits.—(1) Put the yolks of eight eggs in a basin with jib. of caster sugar, and beat them well; then mix in gradually 6oz. of flour, and continue beating until the batter is quite smooth. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, then stir them in very lightly with the foregoing, and season the mixture with a few drops of the essence of vanilla. Butter some small round tins, three-parts fill each with the mixture, and bake in a brisk oven. When cooked, take the biscuits out of the tins, and leave them until cold. Put l|oz. of Chocolate into a saucepan with a very small quantity of water, and stir it over a slow fire until dissolved; then put in about Stable- spoonfuls of sugar, and continue stirring it over the fire until reduced to such a thickness that it will not run off the biscuits when spread over them. Dip the biscuits in the Chocolate, and lay them on a dish. When the Chocolate is dry and cold, the biscuits may be served. (2) Put the whites of three eggs into a basin with Jib. of caster sugar, and beat them together till thoroughly blended, adding gradually 60 drops of vanilla extract, twice that quan- tity of lemon-juice, and 2 table-spoonfuls of grated Chocolate. Cover a baking-sheet with paper, put the mixture in small lumps on it, dust over with a little caster sugar, put them into a cool oven, and leave them until they become hard. When done, take them out, brush the back of the paper with water, remove the biscuits, and let them get cold before using. (3) Put 4oz. of butter into a basin, warm it, and beat it to a cream, adding gradually an equal weight of sifted crushed loaf sugar. Mix in the yolks of three eggs, and beat for about twenty minutes; then add 2jroz. of Chocolate and the whites of two eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Smear a baking-sheet over with warmed lard, cover it over with paper also brushed over with lard and dusted with caster sugar, take up the mixture with a teaspoon, drop it on to the paper, put the biscuits , in a slow oven, and bake for about ten minutes. Take them out when done, and they are ready for use. (4) Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, then mix with them 6 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and 4 table-spoonfuls Chocolate—continued. each of sifted flour and grated Chocolate. Thickly butter some baking’-sheets, put the mixture on them in small quantities, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, take the biscuits off the tins, and leave them until cold. Keep them dry in tin canisters. Chocolate Blanc-mang-e.—(1) Soak 2oz. of gelatine for two hours in 3 pints of milk in a saucepan, and then put it in a bain-marie, or use a double boiler. Scrape loz. of Chocolate fine, and put it in a small saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls each of sugar and boiling water. Stir this over a hot fire Fig. 454. Chocolate Blanc-mange. until smooth and glossy (it will take about a minute), then stir into the milk, add the remainder of ilb. of sugar, and strain. Turn into moulds, and set away to harden. The dish should be made at least eight hours before being wanted. A tea- spoonful of vanilla extract may be added at discretion. (2) Dissolve 3£oz. of gelatine in 1 pint of cold water, and let it stand an hour; then boil 2qts. of milk, and stir in the solution of gelatine. Sweeten to taste, dissolve in about one-third of the mixture ilb. of Chocolate, and pour into the bottom of an ornamental mould. Set aside to cool, and when firm fill up with the plain blanc-mange. When quite stiff, turn out on to a glass dish, and serve with cream, wine, and sugar (see Fig. 454). Chocolate Blanc-mange and Cream. Soak lioz. of gelatine in i pint of cold water for four hours. Then warm lqt. of milk and stir into it the soaked gelatine and §lb. of sugar ; let it get very hot, and when the sugar and gelatine are quite melted, strain; add to it three heaped table-spoonfuls of grated Chocolate, boil for ten minutes, stirring constantly, then pour into a bowl and let it cool. When nearly cold beat it with an egg-whisk for five minutes; flavour to taste with vanilla, and whisk until it begins to thicken; then pour into a mould wetted inside with cold water and that has a cylinder in the centre. Let it stand all night; turn it out next day on a glass dish, and fill the cavity left by the cylinder with whipped cream, piling it high over the blanc-mange, and arranging among the cream little specks of bright jelly. Chocolate Bonbons. - (1) Put ylb. of the best French Chocolate in a sugar-boiler (one with a pointed lip to it will be required), and stand it over the stove till the Chocolate is soft. Dissolve yoz. of gum arabic in 1^ table-spoonfuls of hot water, mix it with the softened Chocolate, and stir all over a slow fire till the Chocolate is quite smooth ; then mix in 2oz. of fine icing- sugar. When well mixed, drop the Chocolate mixture from the spout of the sugar-boiler, cutting it off with a piece of bent wire, into pieces the size of Spanish nuts, and letting them fall in close rows on sheets of polished tin. When the bonbons are dry and hard, take up the sheet of tin with both hands and bend it both ways over a fine wire sieve until all the bonbons have fallen off. Pack the bonbons between sheets of paper, in small cardboard boxes. (2) Boil 21b. of sugar to larg'e pearl, that is, the degree of heat at which little raised balls appear on the surface of the sugar (see Sugar-boiling). Dissolve jib. of Chocolate over