TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 322 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cauliflowers—continued. grated Parmesan cheese in about ^ pint of white sauce, and stir it over the fire until hot. When cooked, drain the Cauliflowers, put them on a dish that will stand the heat of the oven and can be served at table, pour the white sauce over them, strew finely-grated breadcrumbs over, and baste them with 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter. Put the Cauliflowers into a brisk oven until browned on the top, or brown them under a salamander. Serve hot. Cauliflower Salad.—(1) Boil one large Cauliflower for half- an-hour in 2qts. of water to which 1 table-spoonful of salt has been added; then take it out to drain, and when cold divide into small branches. Arrange these in the centre of a dish, and garnish with a border of strips of pickled beet. Pour cream dressing, or a breakfast-cupful of mayonnaise dressing, over the Cauliflower, and arrange a star of the pickled beet in the centre (see Pig. 389). Serve as soon as possible after preparing. (2) Take a medium-sized head of cooked Cauliflower, pare off the root, and detach the Cauliflower into equal-sized flowerets; place these in a salad-bowl, season with 1 pinch of salt and i pinch of pepper, and sprinkle over 1 pinch of chopped parsley; add 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, 2 of oil, mix all well together with a wooden spoon, and serve. Cauliflower Sauce.—Take two Cauliflowers, clean them thoroughly, then boil them in salted water, and remove the tops, so that the flowers will fall to pieces, picking them up carefully. Then put 18 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce into a stewpan with 4 table-spoonfuls of good white broth, salt and pepper to taste, and boil for about ten minutes. Add the Cauliflower and ^ teaspoonful of sugar. Stir them about until well mixed, and then add 2 table-spoonfuls of liaison, made of yolks of eggs and cream or milk. Cauliflowers Sautes.—Cut or divide two or three Cauli- flowers into branches or sprigs, and put these into hot water for two or three minutes to scald ; then drain them, put them into a saucepan with sufficient stock to cover, grate over a little nutmeg, and boil until they are done. Take them out, drain them, put them into a saute-pan with a little butter and finely-chopped parsley, and toss the pan for a few minutes over a clear fire. Turn them out on to a dish, and serve very hot. Cauliflower Soup.—(1) Trim off the outside leaves of two large or three small Cauliflowers, wash them, and cut into small twigs. Put about 2oz. of butter into a stewpan, melt it, then put in the Cauliflowers and toss them about over a brisk fire until they are somewhat browned. Pour a suf- ficient quantity of clear broth over the Cauliflowers, put in a bay-leaf, an onion that has been stuck with two cloves, and a small bunch of thyme and parsley; season to taste with salt and pepper. Boil the broth gently at the side of the fire until the Cauliflowers are tender, then remove the onion, thyme, and bay-leaf, and pass the Cauliflower and broth through a fine wire sieve; use a wooden spoon to ease the Cauliflower through. Return the broth and mashed Cauliflower to the saucepan, and give it another boil up; when ready, turn the soup into a soup-tureen and serve it with a plate of croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. (2) Prepare a little veal or mutton broth, with salt and pepper added to season ; then put in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of flour to thicken it like cream. Cut up a Cauliflower into small bunches or tufts, put these into a stewpan-with salted water, and boil; when done take them out, place them Cauliflowers—continued. on a strainer to drain, and then put into the soup, taking care not to break them. The yolks of two or three eggs with a little beaten cream, if added, will make a great improvement, and give it a rich taste. Cauliflowers with Spanish Sauce.—The same preparation again as for Cauliflowers with White Sauce. When the Cauliflowers are done, drain them, and put them to simmer a little in a stewpan with a few table-spoonfuls of Spanish sauce. Cauliflowers with Tomato Sauce.—Boil the Cauliflowers till tender, and drain them; then arrange them on a hot dish. Have ready some rich butter sauce—that is melted butter—with plenty of cream or butter in it, and stir into this some tomato sauce. As soon as it boils up pour it over the Cauliflowers and serve. Cauliflowers with Veloute Sauce.—The same preparation as for Cauliflowers with White Sauce, using veloute instead of white sauce. Make the veloute by putting a small piece of butter in bechamel sauce. Cauliflowers with White Sauce.—Remove all the green leaves, open the Cauliflower, and clear it of live-stock if there be any. Leave the Cauliflower in cold water for an hour ; then put it into boiling water, with a little salt and butter. This vegetable, being very tender, is soon cooked. If you wish to boil it beforehand, take it off the fire when only half-done, as its being left in boiling water will soon finish it. Drain separately, without breaking, dish in the shape of a large Cauliflower, and pour white sauce over them. Cream of Cauliflower.—Put 3 table-spoonfuls of flour in a saucepan with loz. of butter, and pour in gradually while stirring 3 pints of white broth, adding | table-spoonful of salt; then put in half a medium-sized Cauliflower, and boil it slowly for thirty minutes. Strain the Cauliflower on a sieve, and stir in | breakfast-cupful of cream. Serve with a handful of croutons souffles. Dressed Cauliflower.—Take a large Cauliflower, lay it in a large bowl, pour over it sufficient cold water to cover, and shake in 1 heaped table-spoonful of salt; let it remain in this for twenty minutes. Have a large saucepan on the stove nearly full of boiling water, take the Cauliflower out of the salted water, drain well, and put it into the boiling water (be sure that the water is boiling very fast when it is put in). Let it boil for twenty minutes ; then, if done enough, take it up and chop finely; add to it l^oz. of butter, 4 table-spoonfuls of breadcrumbs, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and ^ teaspobnful of pepper. Stir in an egg beaten up, and mix all well together ; put it on a flat dish, cut |oz, of butter into very small bits and stick them here and there over the top. Put it in the oven to brown, or brown it before the fire, and serve. Pried Cauliflowers.—(1) Wash and trim the Cauliflowers, put them in a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of salt, and boil until half cooked. Prepare a frying batter; drain the Cauliflowers, put a good-sized lump of fat or butter into a flat stewpan and make it hot; dip the Cauliflowers into the batter, then put them in the fat, and fry until nicely browned. Lift the Cauliflowers out of the fat with a skimmer, let as much of the fat run off as possible, then lay them carefully on to a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper; dust over with a small quantity of salt, and serve without delay, as if not eaten while very hot they will not be nice. (2) Take a good Cauliflower, divide it into small branches, remove the superfluous stalks, and boil in water with a little salt, but so that they are kept firm; then place them in a basin with a little chopped parsley, oil, lemon-juice, salt, and pepper, letting them remain for thirty minutes. Drain, flour, dip them in well-beaten eggs, and put them into boiling fat. When they are fried a good colour, take them out, put on a sieve to drain, and dish them. (3) Cut off the leaves of a thoroughly drained and cold boiled Cauliflower, and divide the centre part into small natural sprays; put these into a deep earthenware dish or basin, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, and pour over a little vinegar. Let them remain in this for half-an-hour; then take out the pieces, drain them well, dip them into batter, and brown