297 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cardoons—continued. (6) Procure four or five freshly-gathered Cardoons, cut them into pieces of equal length, and blanch them in slightly acidulated scalding water. Trim off the prickles, rub off the skin and slime, and then soak the Cardoons in cold water for a few minutes. Drain, put them in a stewpan, and cover with slices of bacon; moisten to their height with white stock, white wine, and white broth, from which the fat has not been skimmed, in equal quantities ; boil the Cardoons until tender. Blanch some ox-marrow, and when firm drain it well, and cut it into small pieces. Drain the Cardoons when cooked, and lay them flat over a silver vegetable-dish, and pour hot Spanish sauce over them. Surround the base with three-corner meat cakes, that have been fried brown, and fill up the centre with balls of the marrow (see Fig. 334). Serve very hot. For a savoury luncheon dish this cannot be excelled, and invalids devour it with gusto. Cardoons with Veloute Sance.—Cut the leaves of the Cardoons into slices, with the exception of the tough, hollow ones, and remove all the prickles. Put the thickest leaves into a saucepan of boiling water, boil them for a few minutes, and then put in the leaves of the heart; trim the middle stalks into large olives, put them in, and blanch them also. Rub a piece of the Cardoons in cold water to see if the slime will come off easily, if so, throw the lot in, and rub them well. When quite clean, put the Cardoons in white sauce, and boil them. Take the Cardoons out, put them in a stewpan with some stock-broth, and boil them quickly. When cooked, drain them, put them on a hot dish, pour some hot veloute sauce over, and serve. If preferred, French melted butter can be used in place of the sauce veloute. Fried Cardoons.—Trim off the outer leaves of four Cardoons, cut them up into 6in. lengths, thread them on string, put them into a saucepan with sufficient water or stock to moisten, and boil over a clear fire until they are done and quite tender. Take them out, drain, dust them over with flour, put them into a frying-pan with a small quantity of butter, and fry to a good colour. Drain them, put them on a dish, and serve with melted butter poured round, or in a sauceboat. The Cardoons may be tied in bundles, and then cooked, and served, if desired, in the same way as asparagus, with toast under them. Puree of Cardoons. — Remove the prickles from some white and quite sound Cardoons, blanch them in water for twenty minutes, rub off the skins, cut them into 3in. lengths, and put them on a wire-drainer in an oval stewpan ; lay on the top some thin slices of fat bacon, and cover them with a white dressing made of flour, stock, and clarified fat; add one onion, two cloves, one faggot, some slices of lemon which have been peeled and all the pips taken out, and a little salt and pepper. Let these simmer until the Cardoons are done, then pour in an equal quantity of bechamel sauce; reduce, and press the puree through a tammy-cloth. Before serving, add butter and double cream to the puree. Stewed Cardoons.—(1) Trim off the outer leaves of four Cardoons, string the white part, and cut them up into pieces about 2in. long; put these into a bowl of water, wash them well, drain them, put them into a saucepan with a small bunch of sweet herbs, sprinkle over a little ground mace, salt, and pepper, pour over 1 wineglassful of white wine and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of veal gravy, cover over the saucepan, and cook gently until the Cardoons are done and tender. Add a thickening of butter rolled in flour, boil until the liquor is thick, remove the bunch of herbs, and add the juice of half a lemon. Turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. (2) Use the white part only of the Cardoons ; scrape and wash them, and cut into pieces about the length of the little finger. Put them into a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of salt, and boil until the slimy skin can be easily rubbed off. Put the Cardoons in cold water, rub them well with a towel, and when all the slime is removed drain them ; cover the bottom of a stewpan with a thin layer of fat bacon, put in the Cardoons, and cover them with more bacon, a few slices of onions, a small bunch of thyme, parsley, and a bay-leaf tied together, the juice of half a lemon, one or two cloves, and salt and pepper to taste. Cover the whole with water, and boil the Cardo ons—continued. Cardoons until tender. When cooked, drain them, rfiturn them to the saucepan with the bacon, pour in 1 teacupful of broth and tj teacupful of Spanish sauce, place it over the fire, and boil gently until the sauce is reduced to the required thickness. Mix a small quantity of melted ox-marrow with the Cardoons, turn them with the sauce into a hot dish, and serve. CARLOWITZ.—An Austrian red wine. CARLSBAD WATER.—See Aerated Water. CARMELITE SOUP —See Soups. CARMINE (Fr. Carmin).—A beautiful red pigment composed chiefly of the dried cochineal insect mixed with alum and a little red oxide of tin, this latter being omitted when the Carmine is prepared for culinary use. The term is derived from Kermes, the Arabian for cochineal. Its use is recorded from as early as the 17th century, chiefly as a paint or rouge for ladies’ faces. The best Carmine is sold in cakes, which are prepared from the cochineal as follows: One pound of the dried cochineal insect is coarsely bruised, and then macerated for a few minutes in 3galls. of pure water. To this is added loz. of cream of tartar, and heated gently. Then, whilst hot, loz. of powdered sulphate of alum is dissolved in it, and the boiling continued for a little time longer. As this crimson liquor cools, the Carmine settles to the bottom, and for the purpose of expediting the process it is customary to pour the hot solution into shallow dishes. Other processes are sometimes used ; but for the cook’s purpose, none is better than that just described. The best black cochineal should be used. Carmine Colouring.—Soak a 2oz. cake of Carmine in a little water to soften it, and then break it up in a glass mortar, and dilute it with 2qts. of hot syrup at 28deg. When this is cold, dissolve 2 teaspoonfuls of powdered sal ammoniac in it, and put it into bottles for future use. The above is very cheap and good, and is specially recommended. CARNABYN.—The name given to a very nutritious wine made from malt and meat. Its properties are said to be stimulating and tonic. CAROB.—From the sweet pods of this tree (Ceratonia Siliqua) a spirit and syrup are made in Sicily and other countries on the Mediterranean. It is said to possess a very pleasant flavour. In Egypt aromatic liqueurs and other refreshing mucilaginous drinks are made from it. The sweet pulp is so rich in butyric (butter) acid, that it performs an important part in the manufacture of flavourings in imitation of fruits. The brown pulp yields a spirituous liqueur, which is sometimes used by confec- tioners and manufacturers of British cordials. CARP (Fr. Carpe; Ger. Karpfen; Ital. Carpione).— Included in the great family of Carps are to be found many of our well-known fish, such as tench, barbel, gudgeon, gold-fish, loach, bream, chub, roach, dace, min- now, and bleak. The fish usually selected by cooks as the representative of this kind is the Cyprinus carpio, a fresh-water native of Europe and Asia, growing to as much as 2ft. in length, though generally averaging rather less