347 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. •for details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cheese—continued. as the liquor boils mix in 7oz. of flour, and cook for a few minutes. Bemove the saucepan from the fire, add the yolks and the well-whipped whites of four eggs, and stir in Jib. of grated Gruyere Cheese. Pour the mixture into a dish, cover the top with thin slices of Cheese, brush the surface over with yolk of egg, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty-five minutes. Take out the Cheese when done, and serve. (3) Pound to a paste in a mortar Jib. of Cheddar Cheese, and if cut in thin pieces it will be easier to pound. Beat well the yolks of two eggs and the white of one. Mix with them 1 breakfast-cupful of cream, and blond the beaten eggs and cream by deg-rees with the pounded Cheese. Put the mixture into a small baking-dish and bake it for ten or fifteen minutes. Baked Cheese Pudding'.—Beat well four eggs, and mix with them loz. of butter melted to oil and 1 gill of cream, then add and mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of sifted breadcrumbs and lib. of grated Cheese. Pour this mixture into a dish lined with puff paste, and bake. Boiled Cheese.—(1) Chop small Jib. of any mild Cheese, put it into a basin with 1 teacupful of cream, and melt it in the oven or over the fire ; then sprinkle in salt and pepper to taste, and work in the yolk of an egg. Have ready a few small rounds of toast, put them at the bottom of cups or glasses, pour the Cheese mixture over, and serve. (2) Put J pint of beer into a small saucepan, chop Jib. of Cheese and put it into the beer, and stir over the fire until the Cheese is melted and it is on the point of boiling; then take it off at once, pour it over slices of buttered toast, and serve while very hot. (3) Put 4oz. of grated Cheese into a saucepan with J tea- cupful of milk and a very small lump of butter. Stir the mixture over the fire with a wooden spoon until boiling, then move it to the side and stir in quickly one well-beaten egg. Turn the mixture on to a hot dish, brown it under a sala- mander, dust a small quantity of cayenne pepper over, and serve. Cake of Cheese.—Use about a quarter of a fat Brie Cheese, chop it, then pound in a mortar; pass the Cheese through a fine wire sieve, and mix with it 2J breakfast-cupfuls of flour. Slightly warm fib. of butter and work it in with the Cheese, then mix in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of grated Gruyere Cheese and six well-beaten eggs. Work all the ingredients well together, roll the paste out, mould it into a flat cake, and mark it with a knife in squares (see Fig. 426). Lay it on a baking-tin and bake in a moderate oven. When nicely browned, put the cake of Cheese on a hot dish, and serve. Cheese Aigrettes.—Mix 3oz. of flour with J pint of water, put it in a saucepan with 2oz. of butter, and let it boil a-quarter- of-an-hour, stirring all the time. Take it off the fire, add the yolks of three eggs, 3oz. of grated Cheese, a little cayenne and salt, and beat it thoroughly with a wooden spoon. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a froth and add them to the mixture. Put a little fat in a saucepan, and when not very hot drop the paste in, a table-spoonful at a time. When they are brown, servo while hot. Cheese d’Artois.—Beat the yolks of two and the white of one egg for a few minutes, and then add 2oz. of melted butter, 3oz. of grated Parmesan Cheese, and a little pepper and salt. Boll about 3oz. of puff paste out rather thin, and cut it in halves ; spread the Cheese over one half, and the other half over that. Cut it in rounds, wet the edges to make the paste stick, brush them over with beaten egg, and bake for ten minutes in a quick oven. Cheese—continued. Cheese Biscuits.—(1) Grate 5oz. of any Cheese into a mortar, mix with it a teacupful of the finest wheat-flour and Jib. of cream curds, season with a small quantity of salt, and pound well, adding gradually 5oz. of warmed butter ; then stir in sufficient beaten eggs to make a stiff: paste. Sprinkle a little flour over a table, put the paste on it, and roll it out till very thin. Cut the paste into rounds with a tin cutter about 1 Jin. in diameter, arrange them on buttered baking-sheets, leaving a small space between each, and bake in a quick oven. When cooked, put the biscuits on an ornamental dish-paper or a folded table-napkin placed on a hot dish, and serve them while hot. (2) Grate Jib. of Parmesan Cheese in a basin, and mix with it about two-thirds of the quantity of finely-grated stale breadcrumbs, 1 teaspoonful of flour, and 1 pinch of cayenne pepper and salt; warm 2oz. of butter, and beat it with two eggs, then stir them in with the other ingredients ; mix well together, and let it stand for an hour or so. When ready, knead the paste well, roll it out as thin as possible, cut it into strips or triangles (whichever are preferred), and bake them in a quick oven. When cooked (they will require from fifteen to eighteen minutes) put the biscuits on a hot dish, having first placed a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on it, and serve them. (3) Prepare a small quantity of puff paste, roll it out on a' floured table, grate as much Parmesan Cheese over it as will thickly cover the surface, sprinkle over a little cayenne pepper, double the paste over, and then roll it out very thin. With a round tin cutter, about 2in. in diameter, cut the paste into rounds, brush these over with a paste-brusli dipped in beaten egg', put them on a floured baking-sheet, leaving a short space between each, and bake in a quick oven till lightly browned. When cooked, arrange the biscuits on a folded napkin or a lace-edged dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve while very hot. (4) Put an equal quantity of grated Cheese, butter, and flour into a basin, mix them thoroughly, and add a little salt and cayenne. When the mixture is smooth, cut it into shapes like biscuits, put them on a buttered baking-sheet, and bake to a rich golden colour. Take them out and serve. The biscuits should be made about the sizo of macaroons. (5) Make some rich paste, roll it out very thin, strew all over it grated Cheese, sprinkle over the Cheese pepper and salt, and roll it up tight; then roll it out again thinner than before, and strew grated Cheese all over it, and again sprinkle it with pepper and salt; roll it up tight, and let it stand in a cold place for half-an-hour. Then roll it out again, and cut it into any desired shapes, prick them over with a fork or docker, and bake them quickly in a hot oven. Before taking them out brush over with beaten egg, and strew over them a little very finely-grated Cheese, then shut them into the oven to let them glaze. They may be served either hot or cold. (6) Mix together 2oz. of finely-grated Cheese, 2oz. of flour, 2oz. of warmed butter, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Work the whole into a smooth paste, adding a little water, and roll it out thinly. Cut the paste into finger lengths, lay them on baking-sheets, and bake lightly. When cooked, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, spread on a dish, and serve while hot. Cheese Brioches.—(1) Make this paste as for other brioches. Have ready some Swiss Cheese, cut it into dice, and throw these into the paste while it is still liquid. Bake it as other brioches are baked. (2) Mix with a brioche paste (which should be rather soft) lib. of Gruyere Cheese cut into small dice, Jib. of grated Parmesan Cheese, and 1 saltspoonful of cayenne pepper; then shape it, egg over it, place in a buttered mould, and bake in a moderate oven for about two hours. Serve hot. Or it cau be cut into small pieces, made in different shapes, baked on a baking-sheet in a hot oven for about half-an-hour, and served very hot on a dish covered with a napkin. See Brioches. Cheese Canapes a la Journeaux.—Cut some pieces of bread Jin. thick, trim off the crusts, and then cut up lin. wide and 3in. long ; fry these a delicate brown in clarified butter, grate a little Cheese over them, sprinkle a little cayenne pepper and salt on the tops, and put them in the oven until