253 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PBACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. caster sugar, a piece of lemon-zest, and 1 pinch of salt; add to this 1 wineglassful of milk. Put the pan on a moderate fire, and stir it well. When it commences to bubble put it back, and add the whites of four eggs well whipped, stirring continually until it is nearly cold. The crust of the Cake being baked and cold, dip the little choux into sugar icing, one at a time, then place them close together, side by side, round the top circle of the choux paste, and upon each of these little choux place a preserved cherry also dipped in the icing. Put the Cake on a dish, fill the hollow with the cream mixture, and let it stand for twenty minutes, when it will be ready to serve. (4) Put 2oz. of butter into a lined saucepan with 1 breakfast- cupful of cold water, place it over the fire until hot, then throw in Jib. of flour in which £ teaspoonful of sugar has been added, and stir the whole rapidly until thoroughly mixed. Take the saucepan off the fire, continue stirring the contents for a minute or two, let the paste stand for a minute or two, then mix in four eggs, one at the time, stirring well after each egg is added; then let the paste stand for half-an-hour. Put 2oz. of flour on a paste-board with 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, loz. of butter, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Add one beaten egg, and work the whole until quite smooth. Roll the paste out Jin. in thickness, and trim it to a round shape; lay it on the bottom of a buttered baking-dish, and spread a thin layer of the first prepared paste over it. Put more of the paste into a pastry- bag, and squeeze it out all round the Cake, making a border. Prick the centre of the paste in several places with a fork and inside of the border. Brush the border over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake it in a brisk oven. Put the remainder of the paste in small quantities on a buttered baking-dish, and bake them also. In the mean- time prepare the following cream: Put the yolks of five eggs into a saucepan with 5oz. of caster sugar and 1 teacupful of milk, and beat them well; place the saucepan over a slow fire, and stir the contents with a wooden spoon until rather thick, then take it off the fire before boiling, or the eggs will curdle; flavour the mixture with any kind of essence, and turn it on to a plate to cool. Beat the whites of the five eggs to a stiff froth, and mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of the mixture while still beating; then let it rest a little before mixing in the remainder of the cream mixture; it will not require any more beating, but it should be very lightly stirred. If stirred too much the cream is in danger of becoming too liquid. When the Cakes are cooked, take them out of the oven, pile the cream in the centre of the large Cake, raising it in a pyramid form, and smoothing it over with the blade of a knife. Put 2oz. of sugar into a saucepan with 2 table- spoonfuls of water, and place it over the fire until reduced to a syrup that when tried in cold water will immediately become brittle (see Sugar-boiling). Do not stir the syrup much. Dip the top of each of the small Cakes or choux into it, holding them on the point of a fork or skewer; place a small candied plum on the top of each, then arrange them around the cream on the border of the Cake (see Fig. 292). Serve the Cake when cold. Sand Cakes.—(1) Large.—Slightly warm Jib. of butter, and beat it until creamy with Jib. of caster sugar; add gradually the beaten yolks of twelve eggs, 1 breakfast-cupful of fine wheat- For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Cakes—continued. flour, 1 breakfast-cupful of potato-flour, and the grated peel of half a lemon. Continue beating the ingredients until thoroughly mixed, then stir in gently the whites of the twelve eggs, which should have been whisked to a firm froth. Flavour the hatter with 1 table-spoonful of brandy or rum (which may be omitted). Thickly butter a Cake-tin, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. (2) Warm Jib. of butter, and beat it until creamy with 4oz. of caster sugar; then mix in the beaten yolks of six eggs, Jib. of flour, 1 teacupful of mashed potatoes, and the grated peel and juice of one lemon. Beat the mixture until all the ingredients are well incorporated, then mix in lightly the well-whisked whites of the six eggs. Butter a Cake-mould, pour in the mixture, allowing room for it to rise, and bake in a moderate oven. Blanch and peel 2oz. of sweet almonds, cut them into thin fillets, and sift caster sugar and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon over them. When the Cake is about three-parts cooked, strew the almonds on the top of it, cover it with a sheet of paper to prevent the almonds from burning, and finish baking. (3) Beat lib. of butter to a cream and mix in the yolks of twelve eggs and the grated peel of a lemon; then mix in gradually Jib. of potato-flour and Jib. of powdered sugar, all these thoroughly sifted. When they are well blended together, add J wineglassful of rum or brandy, and the whites of twelve eggs whipped to a froth; stir it well, and bake in a buttered tin in a steady oven. (4) Warm Jib. of butter and rub it into Jib. of wheat-flour and Jib. of potato-flour ; then add six eggs whisked, Jib. of caster sugar, and the juice and grated rind of a lemon. Mix well together and bake in a moderate oven till three-parts done, when draw out the Cake and sprinkle over the following mixture: 2oz. or 3oz. of blanched almonds minced, 1 tea- spoonful of cinnamon finely-powdered, and 2oz. of sifted sugar. Replace the Cake in the oven, and finish baking it, care being taken that the almonds do not brown. (5) Small.—Rub 4oz. of butter into 4oz. of flour and 2oz. of corn or potato-flour; add 4oz. of sifted sugar and half the rind of a lemon, finely chopped, and make the whole into a stiff paste by adding half an egg. Set the paste in a cool place for thirty minutes, roll out very thin, cut it into Cakes with a plain round cutter, and dust them with a little sugar. Put the Cakes into a moderate oven, and bake until a good yellow colour ; take them out, and serve hot or cold as desired. Sand Cake with Marmalade (German).—Work the follow- ing into a stiff paste: lib. of butter well rubbed into fib. of flour, Jib. of ground almonds, 4 table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar, seven whisked eggs, and the grated peel of a lemon. Roll it out and cut into thin round slices. Put a layer of mar- malade upon each slice, place them one on top of the other, and bake very slowly. When they are about rather more than half done, take them out and pour some icing over them all, and then put back in the oven to finish baking. Savarin Cake.—By many cooks this Cake is confounded with the Baba Cake, but there is no other reason for associating the two beyond that it is just possible Brillat-Savarin, from whom the Cake derives its name, being acquainted with the Baba, sought to convert this knowledge to his own credit, an act that should have been unworthy of the great “ philosopher of taste.” (1) Rub fib. of butter into lib. of flour, then mix in 4 table-spoonfuls of sugar, four well-beaten eggs, and sufficient warm milk to make a dough. Knead it well’ then mix in Jib. of leaven. Blanch and chop very fine 2oz. of sweet almonds, butter the interior of a Cake-mould, and strew the chopped almonds over it, put in the Cake mixture, and set it in a warm place to rise. When well risen, put the Cake in the oven and bake it. Put J pint of water in a saucepan with Jib. of sugar, and boil it until reduced to two-thirds its original quantity, then pour in 2 wineglassfuls of rum, boil it up, and take it off the fire. TVlien cooked, turn the Cake out of the mould on to a dish, and pour the sauce oyer it. The Cake may be served either hot or cold. (2) Dissolve Joz. of German dried yeast in a basin with 1 gill of lukewarm cream. Add 4oz. of sifted flour, knead well for two minutes, and set in a warm place for five minutes. Sift into another vessel 6oz. of flour. Make a hollow in the centre and pour into it 2oz. of powdered sugar, four eggs