THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 342 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads Cheese—continued. a cloth, filled with curd, covered, and put in the press (see Fig. 421) for twelve hours. Next day the cloth is changed, and the Cheese returns to the press for twenty- four hours. It is sometimes further pressed. The Cheese Fig. 421. Cheese-press (Dairy Supply Company). is next greased, capped with cloth, bandaged, and placed in a special ripening-room, where it remains for some three months, being frequently turned. The above is an outline of the Cheddar process. The soft Cheese-press is of various forms, a round, fiat press being sometimes used for cream and other soft, fresh curd Cheeses (see Fig. 422). Fig. 422. Press for Cream Cheeses. In Great Britain the leading Cheeses are Cheddar, Cheshire, Stilton, Gloucester, Derby, Leicester, Wiltshire Loaf, Caerphilly, Wensleydale, Cotherstone, Liberton, and Dunlop. The soft Cheeses are: York Curd, Godmanchester, New Forest, Col wick, and Graveley. In America and Canada Cheddar is the Cheese of the country. In France there are some fifty varieties, the chief of which are Gruyere, Cantal, Gex, Gerome, Port du Salut, Roque- Cheese—co ntinued. fort (made from sheep’s milk), Olivet, Void, Rollot. Ljivarot, Brie, Camembert, Neufchatel, Mont d’Or, Mignot, Pont- l’Eveque, Coulommiers. In Holland Gouda and Edam. In Italy Gorgonzola, Cacio, Cavallo, Pecorino, and Par- mesan. In Switzerland Gruyere, Spalen, Gessenay, Back- stein, Yacherin, and Bellelay. In Germany Hartz, Lim- burg, Munster, and Backstein. See Coloured Plate. Some of the stronger sorts of Cheese are rasped fine and used as a condiment—Parmesan to wit. The Cheese of Limburg, or “ Limburger,” as it is called, is partly putrefied before it is considered ready to be eaten. Roquefort Cheese is made of sheep’s milk and ripened with much care in caverns. The better qualities of the Laplander’s Reindeer Cheese are highly lauded by travellers in Lapland, and Cheese made from buffalo- milk is said to be good. Stilton Cheese, made only of milk, contains about 32 parts water, 37 fat, and 241 casein; Cheddar contains 31 to 34 parts water, 31 to 34 fat, and 24 to 26 casein; Gorgonzola contains about 40 parts water, 25 fat, and 25 casein. The soft Cheeses contain more water and less solids. All Cheeses contain a small proportion—sometimes as much as 6 per cent.—of mineral matter, and sugar, which may reach 5 per cent. Cream Cheeses contain from 55 to 63 per cent, of fat (butter), the rest being chiefly water. There is a Cheese made and known in Switzerland as Schabzeiger, and in Norway as Myseost, which is chiefly composed of the sugar of milk. As an article of food Cheese ranks very high, being, according to good authority, eminently nutritious, whole- some, and digestible. In Cooley’s “ Cyclopaedia ” we read: “ Like all other food, Cheese digests more readily when well masticated, and the neglect of this precaution is one reason why it frequently disagrees with delicate stomachs. It is rendered more agreeable to many palates by toasting or otherwise cooking it, but becomes less digestible by that operation. The basis of Cheese is casein or coagulated curd, a protein substance containing 15‘6 per cent, of nitrogen; it therefore cannot fail to prove nutritious provided it is properly digested.” Cheese-curd carefully freed from water and milk by expression and the addition of salt, is a mixture of casein and butter. It contains most of the phosphates of lime and soda of the milk. When taken as a condiment, especially when rich and old, it powerfully promotes the secretion of the saliva and gastric juice, and thereby aids the stomach in performing its proper functions. Rotten Cheese is very unwholesome. In some parts of the United States, Cheese is manu- factured on a very large scale in factories which are often owned by a large number of farmers in common; the result being, on the whole, a decided improvement in the quality of the product, with a large diminution of the cost of manufacture. Large numbers of Cheeses prepared in these factories are exported to Great Britain and the West Indies. “Very slight differences,” says Cooley,‘‘in the materials, in the preparation, or in storing of the Cheese, materially influence the quality and flavour. The richness of the milk —the addition to or subtraction of cream from the milk— the separation of the curd from the whey with or without compression—the salting of the curd—the collection of the curd, either whole or broken, before pressing—the addition of colouring matter, as annatto or saffron, or of flavouring—the place and method of storing—and the length of time allowed for maturation, all tend to alter the taste and odour of the Cheese in one way or another, so as to be readily perceptible to the palate of a con- noisseur.” In fact, few alimentary products are so easily affected by slight circumstances as Cheese; hence its numerous varieties. These are commonly dis- tinguished by names indicative of the place in which they have been manufactured, or of the quality of the materials from which they have been prepared.