307 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Carving—continued. cook ! That is not an uncommon fate ; but, happily, the cook’s chefs d’ceuvre are sometimes submitted to the refined treatment of a skilful Carver, and such a one the cook would take to his heart with tears of gratitude, and in an ecstasy of .joy. Too well he knows that good Carvers are scarcer than good cooks, and yet upon the skill of him who serves the viands depends in a marked degree the success of the viand itself. Be the dish never so tasty and ornamental, much of its artistic credit may be lost in the carving. Let’s carve him as a dish fit for the gods, Not hew him as a carcase fit for hounds. SHAKESrEAB. It is noteworthy that, with the exception of the German kerben, to notch or jag, no other Continental language has a near equivalent to our word; the terms for “to cut,” generally used, being applicable to a variety of purposes. From the Anglo-Saxon ceorfan, pronounced “ korfan,” carving takes its origin, and it has undergone very little alteration through changeable ages. Fig. 345. Pair of Slicing-carvers. The office of Carver has always been recognised in the annals of cookery as of exceptional importance; now-a- days, in small families it is the duty of the host to dispense his own hospitality, but at one time this was the duty of the hostess or lady at the head of the table, hence carving became a highly important element in the education of a lady intended to shine in any scale of society. But in spite of all this how rarely do we meet with a skilful Carver ? This part of the domestic education is sadly neglected, for the following reasons : firstly, because of the general lack of opportunities to practise; secondly, be- cause the average man is lazy at table, and prefers to be served rather than serve others; thirdly, because to bear the reputation of an able Carver entails a perpetual, and, sometimes perhaps, inconvenient demand upon the services of the individual, whilst others, not less actively employed with their knives and forks, sit around him to enjoy the products of his skill and dexterity. Continental cooks are of opinion that the average Englishman is the very worst Carver in existence; that he is not aware of his deficiencies but undertakes cheerfully the most complicated operations, and performs with extraordinary clumsiness by main force what might be done by a light movement of the knife did the operator take the precaution to first under- stand the anatomical complications with which he is attempting to deal. Indeed, it is no unusual circumstance for the French satirist to exercise his entertaining wit upon representations of the deeds of the British Carver. Carving—continued. In one cartoon, which forcibly presents itself to our recollection, the father of a family is depicted struggling with a goose, which circles gaily round a dish, making spasmodic darts from side to side, and freely besprinkling the guests with the gravy. “ Which is the goose ? ” in- quires the artist in the sub-line. But, although the hos may be to blame for his lack of carving skill, yet the cook comes in for his share of badinage, for in a counter cartoon he is represented trussing the goose, and piercing Fig. 347. Poui.try-carver. its body in all sorts of ungainly and almost impossible directions with wooden and iron skewers, as long and large as ordinary walking-sticks. Then again, the goose is sent to table literally floating in gravy. Now the Continental cook, in view of the probable dearth of good Carvers, takes the skeleton out of the goose by boning, and having stuffed the bird, and pressed it back again into its original shape, sends it to table boneless and skewerless, so that a child can cut it; and what is equally to the point, the gravy or sauce is served in a-tureen. But it is not with dishes that need no special carving that we have to deal here; such delicacies as galantines and boned meats generally requiring to be sliced only, it will be sufficient to observe that for them the Carver needs only to use a long, broad-bladed knife. To carve joints, game, fish, or poulti-y, the Carver should be comfortably and conveniently seated, with the dish holding the viand to be carved placed at a distance not exceeding the length of the forearm—that is, from the elbow to the wrist—from the edge of the table. The Carver should sit close to the table, upon a chair about Fig. 348. Poultry-scissors and Carver Combined. 2in. higher than the generality of dining-room chairs. Standing up to carve is neither graceful nor necessary, provided the Carver is a master of the art; in any case, it is a sure sign of incompetence, and indicative of a “force- of-arms” operation, threatening direful consequences to the neighbouring guests. The Carver should be supplied with tools that are suit- able for the purposes required of them—a long, broad- bladed knife for slicing, such as round of beef (see Fig. 345); a long, narrow blade for ham (see Fig. 346); a short medium-broad blade for poultry (see Fig. 347); a slice for fish (see Fig. 357); and a pair of Carver's scissors for large birds when expedition and exceeding neatness are desirable. Fig. 348 illustrates a very ingenious instrument invented by a Frenchman, being poultry- scissors and carver combined. A would-be Carver can only attain proficiency by studying the bony structure, joints, and outward land- marks, so that he may carry his knife through the soft parts direct to the joint he wishes to sever; otherwise, instead of clean cuts, he will disfigure the soft portions by hacking and jagging. Full directions for reaching these joints are described under their various headings ; 2 f 2