429 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jkc., referred to, see under their special heads. Compotes—continued. paste into portions about the size of a filbert, shape them like sparrows’eggs, roll them in some browned savoy biscuit powder, put them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven for five minutes. Arrange the cakes in a Compote-dish in a pyra- mid form, pour some syrup flavoured either with lemon or cinnamon round them, and serve. CONDE, A LA.—The French name for a puree of red haricot beans and a dish made of apricots and rice. The term evidently originated from Conde Castle, at Chantilly; but, as Kettner observes, there appears to be no valid reason for cherishing the title. CONDIMENTS.—Commonly known as “seasonings,” the term embracing, therefore, all those materials that are added to foods to give flavour or improve their digestive qualities. Those most familiar to us are salt, vinegar, lemon peel and juice, spices, aromatic herbs, oil, butter, sugar, honey, and preparations of them in sauces. CONFECTIONERY (Fr. Confiserie; Ger. Zucker- werk ; Ital. Confezione; Sp. Confitura).—This exceedingly vague term originated with the family chemist, who com- bined with his own trade that also of the grocer or spiceman. Family medicines in which the two trades were agreeably blended followed a very natural desire to please customers, which was effected by dressing up nauseous drugs in sugar, and dubbing them generally “ confections,” by which title they are familiar to this day. The variety of primitive confections could be numbered by twos and threes; but modern chemists have extended the list indefinitely, and make up almost any drug, however unpleasant to the taste, into sugary and jam-like doses. The grocer also, after separating his sugar and spice trade from drugs, has carried with him the old name which was so familiar to all, and as a consequence the manufacture of sweetmeats and allied preparations have affiliated themselves, as it were, to the general term “ Confectionery.” In America groceries are still known as “ confectioneries,” but in all other civilised countries the sugar-worker only is a confectioner, or its equivalent in any particular language. “ To con- fect ” seems applicable to both chemists and grocers, but confectioners do not recognise any such word, and are therefore left out in the cold, having no specific verb to indicate the act of their working at the trade. By the growth and development of ages. Confectionery, nondescript as the title is, has assumed the proportions of a giant art, and now embraces under its undefined head all sorts and conditions of sugar-working, including sweetmeats of every kind, ices, compotes, jellies, jams, marmalades, and other preserves, and many that should rather be deputed to the realms of the pastry-cook. The distinction, again, between the pastry-cook and the con- fectioner is not easily defined, the two arts being usually acquired by one individual. Confectionery is derived from the chemists’ Latin conficere, to make up or “ dispense but now that we have accepted the use of the term in such a widely-extended sense, the chemists’ confections belong to -an inferior race, and are therefore described separately, sometimes as conserves or elec- tuaries. Varieties will be found under such headings as Bonbons, Candy, Comfits, Drops, Lozenges, Rocks, and Sweetmeats, and their manufacture described under Crystallising, Sugar-boiling, &c. The manufacture of cordials, liqueurs, and sweet wines were at one time classed under Confectionery, but these have assumed sufficient importance to separate themselves from general sugar-working and to become a separate industry. With this branch, flavoured-syrup makers are also associated, so that by degrees, as new branches spring from the old stock, the term will be brought down to indicate the sweetmeat-making industry only. CONFECTIONS.—The manufacture of these sugary preparations appertains to the chemist rather than to the cook or confectioner—that is, as we now understand the application of the term (see Confectionery). But as it has been generally acknowledged that there is some doubt where a line can be drawn between the chemist and the cook, it should not therefore be considered beyond the prescribed limitation of a work of this kind to include amongst its multifarious receipts a few that might more correctly be described as domestic medicines. Amongst the more useful of these are : Aromatic Confection.—Mix carefully in a mortar 2oz. each of powdered nutmegs, cinnamon, and hay-saffron, loz. of pow- dered cloves, and ioz. of powdered cardamom-seeds. When these are carefully blended, stir in lib. of prepared chalk and 21b. of caster sugar. Mix thoroughly, and store away in stoppered wide-mouthed bottles. Moisten from J to 1 tea- spoonful with a little water, to be administered three or four times a day in cases of summer diarrhcea. Confection of Pepper, or Conserve of Black Pepper.— (1) Rub up 2oz. of powdered black pepper and 3oz. of powdered caraway-seeds with lib. of clarified honey ; 2oz. of liquorice powder may be added, or the same quantity of powdered fennel-seed. (2) Take £oz. each of powdered black pepper and powdered liquorice-root, loz. of caster sugar, and £ fluid ounce of oil of fennel, and work these up in a glass mortar with 2oz. of honey. A teaspooi.ful of either of the above for a dose. Confection of Roses. —Beat in a mortar lib. of fresh red- rose petals to a pulp, rub them through a coarse wire sieve, and then work in about 31b. of caster sugar. Preserve this in a jar as a vehicle for other drugs, such as powders. Confection of Senna (Lenitive Electuary).—Powder to- gether in a large stone mortar 8oz. of thoroughly dried senna leaves and 4oz. of dried coriander-seeds. Pass the powder through a fine wire sieve until there is about lOoz. sifted. Boil lib. of chopped figs and 3oz. of bruised liquorice juice in 3 pints of water. Reduce to l j pints, then strain off the liquor, and press or squeeze the residue. Put this liquor into a double boiler, bain-marie, or water-bath, and let it evaporate until 24 fluid ounces only are left. Boil for half-an-hour in a separate vessel Rb. each of preserved tamarinds, cassia pulp, and prunes, in just sufficient water to cover them. Strain off the liquor, and add that with 241b. of caster sugar to the other liquor ; after stirring it up well, let it cool, and then stir in the sifted powder of senna and coriander. Let the whole remain in the jar to set, and it will soon be ready for use. Other receipts are given in which jalap, treacle, and apples find a place, but there are none better than the above. Dose from 1 teaspoonful upwards. CONFITS.—See Comfits. CONSERVES.—See Pic kles. Preserves, &c. CONSOMME.—The plain English of this culinary term of French introduction is “ consumed.” It might also he consummate—as “ a consummation devoutly to be desired ”—but as in the process of its preparation the first principle is to strengthen broth or soup by reduction by boiling. Consomme appeals to the former signification. “ Double ” broth is therefore the more correct definition of the term; and owing to this peculiarity, cooks are warned of a mistake very likely to lie made. The quantity is reduced by boiling to about half its original bulk; the seasonings—such as salt, pepper, and other spices, and aromatic herbs—that would be sufficient for the original quantity, would necessarily lie twice too much for the reduced broth or Consomme. Several futile attempts have been made by gastro- nomers to classify Consommes, as they have also tried in vain to draw distinctions between broths, soups, Consommes, potages, and bouillons; but as the receipts for what would be intermediaries of these classifications outnumber the classified soups themselves, it will not be advisable in this work to introduce such a useless arrangement. As a prime basis for Consommes we have the following,