THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 348 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d:c., referred to, see under their special heads. Cheese—continued. the Cheese has melted. Serve while hot. A fillet of anchovy shredded into two laid lengthwise on these Canapes are an improvement, and they may be eaten cold with salad a la Journeaux. They may also be garnished with finely-chopped fried parsley. See Fig. 427. Cheese Cream.—Put some cream and milk into a saucepan, using two-thirds more of the former than of the latter. Place them over the fire until hot, then put in a small quantity of rennet, cover the saucepan, and keep it in a warm place until the contents are curdled. Turn the curds into a perforated china mould, and leave them to drain for an hour or two. When ready, put the curds on a dish, strew caster sugar over them, and serve with cream. Cheese Custard.—Put 2oz. or 3oz. of finely-scraped Cheese into a basin, and beat it up with two eggs and 1 teacupful of milk. Pour the mixture into a well-buttered dish, place a few small lumps of butter on the top, bake for a few minutes, and serve. Cheese ringers.—(1) Put 2oz. of grated Parmesan Cleese into a basin, and mix it up with 1 saltspoonful of cayenne and 1 pinch of salt. Poll out thin 4oz. of rich puff paste, spread the Cheese mixture over it, turn the paste over, and cut it into pieces about 3in. long and §in. wide. Put them on a buttered baking-sheet in a sharp oven, and bake for fifteen minutes; take them out, dust over with more grated Parmesan Cheese, pile them on a dish, and serve very hot. Parmesan Cheese is the only Cheese that should be used. (2) To 3oz. of flour add 1 saltspoonful of baking-powder, mix it thoroughly with the flour, rub in 2oz. of butter, add 3oz. of grated Cheese, and salt and cayenne to taste. Mix all this to a stiff paste with a little milk, roll it out and cut into strips about 3in. long or a little longer, roll them round like fingers, and bake on a tin for five minutes in a quick oven. They should only be lightly browned. Cheese Pondu.—(1) Put five or six eg'gs into a saucepan, mix in a third of their weight in grated Parmesan Cheese, and half this quantity in butter, and stir well over a slow fire until the eggs are set. Pour the mixture into a dish, and serve very hot. Slices of toast should accompany this. (2) Remove all the crust from a French roll, and pour ^ pint of boiling milk on the crumb; whisk the yolks of two eggs, pour them over, add jib. of grated Cheese, and beat them all well together. Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, mix them with the rest, put the preparation in a tart-dish, with a high band of paper round, and bake for twenty minutes in a quick oven. Serve while hot. (3) Soak 2 table-spoonfuls of very fine dry breadcrumbs in barely 1 breakfast-cupful of new milk. Beat separately the yolk and white of an egg, working until very light. Dissolve 1 saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in a little hot water, and mix it with the milk and breadcrumbs; stir in the beaten yolk and white of the egg, melt ^oz. of butter and stir it in, shake in a little pepper and salt, and then mix in 4oz. of grated Cheese. Butter a shallow pudding-dish, and pour this fondu into it; strew some dry breadcrumbs over the top, and bake in a rather hot oven till it is nicely browned. As it soon falls, serve it in the dish it was baked in as quickly as possible. Cheese Fritters.—(1) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of flour into a bowl, warm loz. of butter till it is melted, and pour it into the middle of the flour; add to this gradually, stirring and beating all the time, 1 breakfast-cupful of Cheese—continued. lukewarm water, then, still stirring, drop in the yolks of two eggs, and shake in 1 saltspoonful of pepper, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of dry mustard. Stir in 6oz. of grated Parmesan Cheese and the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Drop this mixture, a table- spoonful at a time, into boiling lard or clarified fat (fat or lard does not boil till the bubbling ceases and it becomes still). As the fritters get firm, turn them over with a skewer that they may brown evenly; as soon as they are nicely browned, take them up with a small wire strainer, lay them on a sheet of paper to drain for an instant, put them on a hot napkin in a dish, and serve them garnished with fried parsley. (2) Put 1 pint of water into a stewpan with 4oz. of butter, and place it over the fire until boiling-, then move it to the side; dredge in gradually about jib. of flour, stirring it with a wooden spoon; then place the saucepan over the fire again and stir until the flour is cooked. Move it off and let it cool a little. Grate Ooz. of Parmesan Cheese, and beat the yolks of six eggs; whisk the whites of the eggs separately to a stiff froth. Stir these ingredients into the cooled mixture, adding the whites of eggs last; season with salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Put a large lump of fat into a stewpan and place it over the fire. With two teaspoons con- stantly dipped in boiling water shape the mixture into small egg-shaped pieces, and drop them into the fat. When they are crisp and lightly browned all over, take them out of the fat, and drain them well on a piece of paper or a wire sieve which should be placed near the fire. When all are cooked and drained, arrange the fritters on a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper. Strew grated Cheese and a dust of salt over them, and serve. Cheese Fritters Souffles.—Only a Gouffe could concoct such a dish as the following : Put l^oz. of butter into 1 pint of hot water with a little salt and pepper. When it boils, add jib. of flour and a teacupful of grated Parmesan cheese, and stir over the fire for three minutes. Break in. three eggs, one at a time, and add loz. of lean cooked ham cut into small dice. Grease some paper with cold fat and cut into strips 2in. wide ; then make the paste into balls about the size of a walnut, and place them on the strips of paper. Put 31b. of frying-fat on the fire in a frying-pan (try the heat with a piece of breadcrumb, when the bread should only produce a very slight fizzing), dip each strip of paper in the frying-fat till the balls of paste are detached from it, and fry these gently, stirring with a skimmer. When of an even yellow colour, drain them first on a sieve and then on a cloth, sprinkle with sugar, dish them up on a napkin, and serve, garnished with fried parsley. Cheese Omelet.—(1) Cut several small pieces of Cheese about iin. thick, arrange them on their edges round the sides of a baking-dish, and cover the bottom of the dish with sifted browned breadcrumbs ; place thin slices of Cheese over this, then three or four eggs, not broken, salt and pepper to taste, a little grated Cheese, and finally a layer of the browned breadcrumbs. Put a few small lumps of butter on the top, set the dish in the oven, and bake for from ten to fifteen minutes, or until the eggs are quite firm, but not hard. When done, serve as hot as possible. (2) Whip three eggs, and then add 2oz. of grated Parmesan Cheese and a little pepper and salt. Put loz. of butter in an omelet-pan, and, when it is melted, pour in the eggs, stirring quickly to keep it from sticking. When just set, turn it quickly on the other side, and then on to a hot dish. Serve very hot. (3) Put loz. of butter in a frying-pan, and heat it on the hot stove. Break twelve eggs into a bowl, beat them thoroughly for four minutes, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of grated Swiss Cheese, pinch of salt, and j pinch of pepper. Pour the whole into the frying-pan, and make an omelet. Turn this on to a hot dish, besprinkle the top lightly with a very little grated Parmesan Cheese, put it in the oven for two seconds, and then serve. Cheese Fatties.— (1) Get a slice of bread llin. thick, cut it into small rounds with a cutter, and with a smaller cutter hollow out the middle to make a little cup. Fry them in butter, first dipping them in milk and egg-and-breadcrumbs. Mix