TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 312 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Carving—continued. and serve bone and kidney witli the slices. In all these cases it is important that the edge of the knife shall be Fig. 366. Carving Saddle of Mutton as keen as possible, or mutton will cut jagged instead of smooth and clean. A Carving—conti nued. arises “ Where do they all come from ? ” it is a joint that can be readily spoiled by bad carving. Let the round bulging part be placed uppermost, and the knuckle end to the right or left, according to which side the leg belongs—right leg, knuckle to the right; left leg, knuckle to the left (with a shoulder of mutton the arrangement is the same); but a better guide perhaps is to feel with the fork for the direction of the shank-bone, and then see before you commence cutting that the leg is placed with the thickest part from you. From this pai-t slices may be cut one after the other (see Fig. 367, A) down to the bone, either from the knuckle or thick end, according to the wishes of the guests. When the Carver has rendered a good account of this first position, the joint should be turned over, and then some very fine slices of meat can be cut in the direction indicated by the dotted lines shown in Fig. 367, B. When the leg is boned and stuffed the plan of carving is much simplified, as shown in Fig. 367, C. A Fig. 368. Carving Capon or Pullet. Fig. 367. Carving Leg of Mutton. A leg of mutton, either boiled or roasted, is so commonly sent to table that apart from the doubt that naturally Pork.—The direction of the cuts in carving joints of this meat are usually indicated by the “ scoring ” of the skin; but with a leg of pork it is best to remove all the “ crackling ” and then carve as if it were a leg of mutton, serving a little strip of crackling with each slice if desired by the recipient. To cut through the crackling without removing it may cause serious mis- direction of the knife, and some very awkward slices result. Poultry and Game Birds.—There are a few simple rules to be observed in carving birds that may be main- tained throughout; but although the cuts may appear to be simple enough on paper, the difficulty is to carry them out successfully on the bird itself. From its shape