319 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Caudle—continued. (2) A very common mode of preparing' it is by making1 a thick oatmeal gruel with J pint of strong ale, and heating this with moist sugar and ground mace and ginger in sufficient proportions to suit the palate of the maker, who usually gains a reputation for making Caudle according to the taste with which the ingredients are proportioned. A beaten egg whipped in before serving is by some considered an excellent addition. (3) Mix quite smoothly 1 level table-spoonful of flour with 1 pint of water (be very careful to have no lumps), put it on the stove, add 1 level teaspoonful of salt, stirring con- stantly till it boils, and allow it to boil for ten minutes. Then pour it into a bowl and let it get quite cold. Beat an egg to a foam, add to it 1 breakfast-cupful of the gruel when cold, and a glass of wine. Sweeten to taste, and grate in a little nutmeg. (4) Prepare a sufficient quantity of gruel with half grits ; when boiled, strain it into a basin and let it get cold, stirring it occasionally. For 1 pint of the Caudle, mix with it 1 wine- glassful of white wine, the grated peel of half a lemon, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and sugar to taste. (5) Make i pint of gruel with oatmeal and water, and when cooked mix in with it J wineglassful each of brandy and white wine, 1 table-spoonful of capillaire, |oz. of butter, three or four pieces of thinly-shred lemon-peel, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Stir the Caudle over the fire until on the point of boiling, then turn it into a bowl and serve while very hot. Brown. Caudle.—Put 11 teacupfuls of oatmeal in a saucepan, and pour in sufficient water to make a smooth gruel; stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until cooked. Strain the gruel through a fine hair sieve, return it to the sauce- pan with lqt. of mild ale, and stir it over the fire until boiling. Mix \ pint of white wine with the Caudle, sweeten it to taste, and serve. Cold Caudle .—Pour lqt. of boiling water out of the kettle into a jug and leave it until cold, then mix with it the beaten yolk of one egg, the juice of one lemon, 3 wineglassfuls of white wine, and loz. of syrup of lemons. Sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and serve. CAULIFLOWERS (Fr. Choux-fleurs; Gcr. Blumen- kohln; Sp. Coliflors ; Ital. Cavoli fiorei).—There is so little difference between broccoli and Cauliflowers that a large specimen of the former might easily be mistaken for the latter, although epicures have been wont to regard broccoli as worthless in comparison with the more tender, and perhaps more succulent, Cauliflower. The latter, Fig. 386. Cauliflower. may, perhaps, possess a somewhat finer flavour, but it has the advantage of being in perfection during the milder seasons, such as summer and early autumn; later on it speedily deteriorates. The cultivation of Cauliflowers has been carried to the highest degree of perfection in England, both in private and market gardens, and it is certainly a vegetable worthy of all the skill and care so liberally bestowed Cauliflowers—continued. upon it. The best varieties are known under the follow- ing names : Early London White, True Walclieren, Frogmore Forcing, Early Erfurt, Large Asiatic, Lenor- mand’s, Dwarf Mammoth, Stadtholder, Early Paris Short- stemmed ; and for a late variety it would be difficult to supersede Yeitch’s Autumn Giant. The heads selected for cooking should be close, foam- like, white, and as freslily-cut as may be. See also that the leaves and flower are uninjured by caterpillars, for when the leaves are attacked it is rarely that the flower escapes the ravages of these horticultural marauders, and when a stalk is bitten the flower at the end loses much of its tenderness, juice, and flavour. Should it be necessary to cut Cauliflowers faster than they are required for use, they may be stored on the floor of a coal-shed or cellar, in which protected and cool position they will keep comparatively fresh for some days. The long green leaves of the growing plant should be en- couraged to protect the flower from the sun, for which purpose some gardeners break the central rib of the inner leaves so that the upper part of the leaves shall fold down upon the flower, and thus preserve its white- ness. When the flower opens in places and begins to look greenish here and there, the quality is not so good as those which are white and tightly close. Before cooking, Cauliflower should be soaked in strongly-salted water, which will get rid of any insects that may have selected the sprays for a refuge; and in cooking it is always advisable to slightly acidulate the water, for in this way the whiteness is preserved. An epicure declares that Cauliflower is in itself so good, that, cleanly and sufficiently cooked, even in water only, it is delicious; but properly and daintily prepared, it is a dish for a king. After deploring the ability of the English cook, of whom he says: “ Les Anglais ne cuissent leurs legumes qu’a l’eau, encore ne sont ils qu’a moitie cuits ” (The English cook their vegetables in water only, therefore they are but half cooked). The writer gives his idea of how Cauliflowers should be cooked. The Cauliflower must be par-boiled in water, and the stem cut off sufficiently to allow of its being stood upright on the dish. Having been thus cooked and neatly trimmed, the Cauliflowers must be placed carefully in the stew- pan, and simmered gently in the following sauce : 4 table-spoonfuls of butter well rubbed into 1 table- spoonful of Bermuda arrowroot ; as the butter melts, A pint of water must be stirred into it by degrees. When the Cauliflower has been simmered in this gravy Fig. 387. Mode of Serving Small Cauliflowers. until perfectly tender it must be placed in the dish, and kept hot while the well-beaten yolk of an egg and a squeeze of lemon-juice are added to the sauce. Some rasped Parmesan cheese must be strewed over the Cauli- flower, and browned with a salamander or in front of a clear fire. The sauce must be poured around, or, if preferred, the Cauliflower may be dished on toast, and the sauce poured over, and serve quite hot. Cauliflower