THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 436 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cordials and Liqueurs—continued. and a few bruised cloves, in 2qts. of proof spirit. In ten days’ time filter the spirit off the other ingredients and sweeten with syrup. Banme Consatateur.—A very pleasant violet-coloured Liqueur manufactured in some parts of France. Macerate J- drachm of mace in 3 pints of proof spirit, and dissolve in it 1| drachms of spirits of jessamine, 1 drachm each of spirits of orange- flowers and spirits of rose, and i drachm of tincture of vanilla; when sufficiently blended, filter off, and dissolve in the spirit lilb. of loaf sugar. Bottle for use. Baume des Grecs.—This is a French Liqueur of local repute only. It is coloured delicate rose, and prepared as follows: In 5 pints of proof spirit macerate loz. of angelica-seed, Joz. of coriander-seed, 1 drachm each of fennel-seed and aniseed, and a lemon minced small. Macerate, colour, filter off, and add ljlb. of loaf sugar dissolved in 1 pint of water. Chine-Chine.—Put Jib. of bitter almonds, loz. of angelica-seed, and 5 drachm of mace into stone jars or bottles, pour in 4|qts. of proof spirits of wine, and let them macerate for a month or five weeks ; filter, dissolve 2jlbs. of loaf sugar in it, add 5 drops of oil of cinnamon, 4oz. of orange-flower water, and lqt. of water; stir well, and bottle. A little pale yellow colouring should be added before bottling. Cliristoplielet.—Put 5oz. of finely-chopped figs and 2oz. each of ground orris-root and aniseed into jars, with loz. each of ground cinnamon, sage, and coriander, Joz. each of ground cardamom and galanga, and 2oz. of saffron, also ground; pour over 4qts. of Medoc wine and 9jqts. of spirits of wine 60deg. over proof, and let them stand for a month, frequently shaking the bottles, which must be well corked and kept, if possible, in a warm place. Pour off the spirit into a basin, add 4qts. of capillaire and 3Jqts. of water to the figs, &c., and let this stand for a few days, shaking continually; pour it off, mix it with the spirit, filter through flannel, and bottle. Coquette Flatteuse.—Bub the peel off four or five lemons and two large or three small oranges with 41b. of loaf sugar, and put into stone jars or bottles; pour in 6qts. of proof spirits of wine, and add 2Juz. of dry tops of hyssop and Joz. of musk roses. Let this macerate for from three to five weeks, shaking the bottles occasionally; filter, add lqt. of water, and bottle in small bottles. A little red colouring should be mixed in. Creme de Macaron.—Put 5loz. of bitter almonds and 3 drachms each of cardamom, cinnamon, and cloves into stone jars or bottles, pour in 5qts. of spirits of wine 60deg. over proof, and let them macerate for a month; add lqt. each of rose-water and orange-flower water, 2qts. of filtered water, and 2^-qts. of capillaire ; filter, and bottle for use. Creme Mojou.—Put loz. each of ground cinnamon and mace into stone jars, with 2 drachms of nutmeg and ljoz. of rosemary- leaves, and pour over 9jqts. of proof spirits of wine. Let this macerate for four or five weeks, add 2qts. each of rose- and orange-flower water, ^ drachm of essence of amber, 1 drachm each of essence of vanilla and berg'amot, 3|qts. of water, and 4qts. of capillaire. Filter through flannel, add a little rose colouring, and bottle for use. Creme Romantique.—Put 9|qts. of spirits of wine 60deg. over proof into stone jars or bottles, add 2oz. each of lemon- peel, mace, lavender-flowers, and marjoram, loz. of cinnamon, and 3OZ. of cloves, and let them remain for three or four weeks to macerate, stirring frequently. Add this to -|oz. of essence of vanilla, 2|qts. of rose-water, 4qts. of capillaire, and 4|qts. of water; filter, add a little rose colouring, and bottle. Creme Voizot.—Put 9Jqts. of spirits of wine into stone jars or bottles, and add 2oz. of lemon-peel, loz. of orange-peel, ^•oz. each of rosemary-leaves, • balm, and cinnamon, |oz. of peppermint, and 2 drachms each of cloves, nutmegs, mastic, and storax. Shake the bottles frequently for about a month, and add to the whole 2qts. each of rose-, orange- flower, balm- and peppermint-waters, J drachm of essence of vanilla, and 4qts. of capillaire. Filter, stir in a little green colouring, and bottle. Doree Cordial.—Put into a bowl 3qts. each of brandy and Malaga wine, add ^oz. each of saffron, Peruvian bark, cinnamon, and bitter orange-peel, and let them digest for seven or eight days. Strain into another bowl, add 21b. of loaf sugar, let Cordials and Liqueurs—continued. this dissolve, pour the cordial into bottles, cork them up securely, and use as required. Eau des Abbes.—Chop as fine as possible 3oz. of lemon-peel and lloz. of orange-peel; put them into a large jar or bottle with loz. of aniseed, loz. of juniper-berries, and \oz. each of sage and peppermint, all finely powdered; pour in 4| pints of spirits of wine 60deg. over proof, and shake the bottle frequently for a month. Pour off the spirit, add to the bottle 3f pints of water, shake the bottle, and let this remain for a few days; strain into the spirits, pressing out as much as possible, and add lqt. of capillaire and a little red colouring. Filter, and bottle. Eau Aerienne (Luft Wasserl.—The same as for Eatj Cordiale, using 2oz. each of orris-root, lavender, and camomile-flowers, loz. each of sage and sassafras, 2^oz. of cin- namon, 2oz. each of fennel-seed and rosemary-leaves, 21-oz. of cumin, and 6oz. of finely-chopped figs. The same quantity of spirits of wine, water, and capillaire is also used. Eau d’Amour.— Put 5oz. of finely-chopped lemon-peel into bottles with loz. of bitter almonds pounded to a paste with a little spirits, 4oz. of finely-chopped figs, I50Z. of cinnamon, and loz. each of lavender and mace, all ground ; pour in 9 J pints of spirits of wine GOdeg. over proof, and let it remain in a warm place for a month, frequently shaking the bottle. Strain off the spirit, add to the bottles 6f pints of water, let this stand for a few days, strain, and add it to the spirit, together with lqt. of Muscat wine and a little rose colouring ; filter through flannel, and bottle for use. Or it may be made as above, but using 3oz. each of bitter almonds and lemon-peel, ljoz. of cinnamon, Joz. of mace, foz. of cloves, 2oz. of lavender-flowers, 9i pints of spirits of wine, 2qts. of Muscat wine, 9 drops of oil of amber, 3^ pints each of water and capillaire, and rose colouring as before. Eau d’Argent.—(1) Put into a bottle or jar lfoz. of flower of the lily, loz. of bitter almonds pounded to a paste with a little spirits, 4 drachms each of peppermint and nutmeg, Joz. of cinnamon, |oz. of aniseed, 2 drachms of angelica-root, and 1 drachm of cloves. All the dry ingredients must be finely ground. Pour in 4f pints of spirits of wine 60deg. over proof, and shake the bottle daily for a month. Pour off the spirit, add 3y pints of water to the bottle, shake this frequently for a few days, strain it into a vessel containing the spirit, squeezing out as much as possible, add lqt. of capillaire, filter through flannel, and bottle for use. (2) Made as above, using ljoz. of finely-chopped lemon-peel, 4 drachms of cloves, 3 drachms each of ground angelica-seed, aniseed, and orris-root, 4 drachms of powdered cinnamon, 4J pints of spirits of wine, 3 pint of balm-water, ljqts. of water, lqt. of capillaire, and a little pink colouring. Eau de Baal.—Put into a bottle 2|oz. each of orange-peel, cin- namon, and sage, Joz. of cloves, loz. each of aniseed, fennel- seed, and rosemary-leaves, and l|-oz. of camomile. Pour in 9|qts. of spirits of wine GOdeg. over proof, and add foz. each of galanga and vanilla. Shake the bottle frequently for a month, keeping it, if possible, in a warm place. Pour off the spirit, add to the bottle 4qts. of capillaire, 7qts. of water, and a little red colouring ; let this stand for a few days, pour it off, mix in with the spirits, filter through flannel, and bottle. The orange-peel should be very finely chopped, and the other ingredients powdered. Eau Carminative.—Prepared in the same way as Eau Cor- diale, using 3oz. each of finely-chopped lemon- and orange- peel, 2oz. of cumin, l-|oz. each of aniseed, camomile, and juniper-berries, loz. of mint, Joz. of nutmeg, all finely powdered, and using the same quantity of spirits, water, and capillaire. Eau Cordiale.—Chop lflb. of lemon-peel as fine as possible, put it into jars or bottles with 2jOz. of balm, and 2oz. each of ground coriander and aniseed, 4oz. of ground cinnamon, loz. of mace, and Joz. of grated nutmeg; pour in 9|qts. of spirits of wine, and shake the jars (which should be well corked) daily for a month. Pour off the spirits, add to the jars 7qts. of water, let it stand for a few days, strain into the spirits, add 4qts. of capillaire and a little blue colouring, filter, and bottle. Eau Divine.—Prepared as for Eau Cordiale, using 9Jqts. of spirits of wine to 12oz. of chopped lemon-peel and 2oz. of