THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 256 For details respecting Culinary Processes„ Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. (3) Mis 2 breakfast-cupfuls of butter, lib. of caster sugar, 3 pints of flour, four eggs, and J teaspoonful of ground mace into a paste. Boll tbin, cut into small Cakes with a round biscuit-cutter, and bake in a quick oven. The Cakes should be made in a rather cool room, and they cannot be made in very warm weather. They can be kept a long time, and are very fine eating. (4) Put 21b. of flour and lib. of caster sugar into a basin; then add a little finely-powdered cinnamon, or grated nutmeg, and loz. of caraway-seeds. Beat all these well together, and add the yolks of two eggs, then the whites, and Jib. of butter warmed to melting. Make into a stiff dough. When the ingredients are thoroughly incorporated, roll out the paste to about Jin. in thickness, and stamp it out into Cakes with a biscuit-cutter. Dock, or prick them over with a fork. Flour over some baking-sheets, put them on, and bake in a quick oven. Currants are sometimes used instead of caraway-seeds. (5) Mix lib. of sugar with 31b. of flour, a grated nutmeg, and three eggs into a dough, adding only sufficient warmed butter with a little rose-water to make it stiff. Boll out the dough Jin. thick, cut it into Cakes, and bake in a quick oven. (6) Beat ilb. of warm butter to a cream and add to it gradually Jib. of flour, one egg, 6oz. of pounded loaf sugar, Joz. of caraway-seeds, and 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped citron- peel. Mix all these into a stiff paste with milk. Boll it out into thin flats, cut out with a biscuit-cutter, put these on greased baking-sheets, and bake in a slow oven. Silver Cake.—(1) Warm Jib. of butter to melting, and work into fib. of flour and lib. of powdered sugar flavoured with 1 tea- spoonful of essence of almonds, and make into a dough with the whites of eleven eggs beaten to a froth. Put into a suitable greased tin and bake. Ice over with an icing flavoured with almonds. (2) Mix the whites of six eggs with J breakfast-cupful of butter, f breakfast-cupful of milk, 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of flour, 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Make into a paste, put in a buttered mould, and bake quickly. (3) Take 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar, J breakfast-cupful of butter, the whites of three eggs, J breakfast-cupful of corn- flour, stirred smoothly into nearly J breakfast-cupful of milk, 1J breakfast-cupfuls of flour, J teaspoonful of cream of tartar, J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and vanilla or almond flavour. Work the butter to a cream, and gradually beat in the sugar; then add the flavouring. Mix the flour, cream of tartar, and soda together, and sift. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, add the cornflour and milk to the beaten sugar and butter, then add the whites of the eggs and the flour. Mix quickly and thoroughly. Put the batter in greased sheets about 2in. deep, and bake in a moderate oven for about half- an-hour. A chocolate icing goes well with this Cake. (4) Warm Jib. of butter and Jib. of sugar, and work into 6oz. of flour; mix well together with the whites of eight eggs whisked to a froth. Put into a greased tin and bake. Simple Cakes.—Take Jib. of flour and rub Jib. of butter into it; then add 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, a little salt, and one egg well whisked. Mix all well together, and roll out to about Jin. in thickness. Cut it into various fancy shapes with biscuit-cutters, and bake on tins in a moderate oven till coloured. Sly Cakes.—Mix loz. of sugar with Jib. of flour ; add to this only sufficient cold water to make it into a smooth, stiff paste; roll it out three times, spreading 2oz. of butter on iteach time, folding and rolling it in as for pastry. When the third 2oz. of butter are folded in, roll it out very thin and cut it into small rounds or squares about 2Jin. or 3in. in diameter. Have ready Jib. of washed and dried currants, spread half of the little pieces of paste pretty thickly with them, lay the other half on top of them, one on each, pressing them gently so as to form a sandwich. Bake in a quick oven. They should be nicely browned. Small Cakes. -— Into ljlb. of flour rub ljlb. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of lard; then add ljlb. of fine moist sugar, 4 table-spoonfuls of powdered cinnamon, and make these ingredients into a dough with J pint of milk in which 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda has been dissolved. Boll Cakes—continued. out the dough thin on a floured paste-board, cut into shapes, and dip the face of each Cake in granulated sugar. Bake slowly on greased baking-sheets. Snow Cakes.—(1) Large.—Put Jib. of butter into a basin and beat it to a cream, using the back of a wooden spoon; add Jib. of powdered white sugar, and beat with the spoon for five minutes longer. Break two eggs, beat them till they are quite light, and add to them J teaspoonful of essence of vanilla. Add the eggs and vanilla to the butter and sugar, and mix them well together, then mix in lightly lib. of potato-flour. Have a shallow square tin lined with buttered paper, put the Cake into it, and spread it smoothly over. Bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour in a moderate oven. When the Cake is out of the oven and has cooled a little, cut it into square pieces and take it out of the tin. (2) Sift through a fine sieve lib. of arrowroot to free it from lumps. Beat together to a cream Jib. of butter and Jib. of powdered white sugar; add to this by degrees the arrow- root, and continue beating it for a little time. Then beat to a stiff froth the whites of six eggs and stir them in. After all the egg froth is added, continue beating for twenty minutes till the mixture is a smooth white batter, then add 1 teaspoon- ful of essence of lemon. Butter the inside of a Cake-tin, pour the batter into it, and bake in not too hot an oven for an-hour-and-a-half. (3) Cream Goz. of white butter with 7oz. of caster sugar ; add the whites of nine eggs, not previously beaten, Jib. of flour, and 5oz. of cornflour. Beat all well together, and then add 1 teaspoonful of milk and juice of half a lemon. When thoroughly mixed turn it into a shallow tin, buttered and floured, but do not fill the tin by half. Bake lightly. (4) Small.—Take the whites of ten eggs, 1J breakfast- cupfuls of sugar, 1 breakfast-cupful of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, salt, and any flavouring desired. Bub the flour, cream of tartar, sugar, and salt well together. Add the eggs, beaten till light, and stir only suflicient to mix very lightly. Put into greased moulds, and bake in a quick oven. (5) Take f breakfast-cupful of butter, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar, J breakfast-cupful of milk, 2J breakfast-cupfuls of pastry flour, J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 1J teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, the whites of eight eggs, and 1 teaspoonful of almond flavouring. Mix the soda and cream of tartar with the flour. Be sure to use 1J teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, as the extra amount is intended to stiffen the whites of the eggs. Bub the butter to a cream, add the sugar, and beat again; add the milk and flour alternately, a little at a time, and beat well. Lastly, add the beaten whites and the almond flavouring. Bake in two small buttered pans in a moderate oven. (6) Take Jib. of well-washed butter, warm it, and beat it to a cream, adding slowly Jib. of arrowroot, 1 teacnpful of caster sugar, a little salt, and either lemon, vanilla, or almond flavouring. Put the whites of three eggs in a basin, and whisk them until they are like snow ; then put them into the arrowroot, and whisk again until the batter is quite light and white. Pour it on to a shallow baking-tin, and bake in a quick oven. When it is done cut it into 2in. squares. Caster sugar may be dusted over the top of these Cakes. (7) Put Jib. of cornflour on a plate, and mix into it J tea- spoonful of baking-powder. Beat three eggs in a basin till they are quite light, then mix with them 1 teacupful of milk. Put 3oz. of butter into a larger basin, together with 3oz. of sugar, and beat these to a cream, using the back of a wooden spoon; add and beat into this a little cornflour, and then a little of the beaten egg-and-milk, and continue in this way, adding and beating in cornflour and egg alternately, a little at a time, till all is mixed in the butter and sugar. Then last of all add 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Have some small tins ready greased, half fill them with the mixture, and bake for about ten minutes. Snowball Cakes.—In making these Cakes ball-shaped moulds (see Fig. 29G), about the size of oranges, are required, which must open into halves upon a hinge and have holes pierced in them close together, like a fine sieve. Having obtained these moulds the Cake is to be made as follows : Sift Jib. of flour on to a board or table and make a bay in it; pour J wineglassful of white wine into the bay. Then add the yolks of three eggs, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, and 1 pinch of salt. Mix the flour in