316 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. CASEIN.—The nitrogenous or flesli-forming portion of milk from which cheese is made. It is sometimes known as “Caseum,” and was supposed to be the albumen of milk, but recent chemists have decided that Casein is not a combination of albumen and potash, because the ash of milk contains no alkali. Casein differs from albumen, because it cannot be coagulated by heat, as shown in making Welsh-rabbits, when the cheese melts : but Casein lias a peculiarity entirely its own, of being thrown down in a coagulated form by what are called “ organic acids.” These acids are met with in rennet, an animal membrane, for which reason calf’s and pig’s rennets are used largely in making cheese. The milk is boiled with the rennet, and down falls the Casein (see Cheese). Casein is one of the elements of food, and classed with albumen and fibrine; but it differs also from fibrine, because it will not undergo spontaneous coagulation as fibrine does. Cheese—especially cheese made from skim-milk—may be considered almost entirely to consist of Casein. The average quantity of Casein in different milks is as follows : Ass’s milk Woman’s milk Cow’s milk Goat’s milk Ewe’s milk 182 per cent. 1-52 „ 45 4-02 4-50 As the nourishing qualities of milk depend chiefly upon the proportion of Casein in its constitution, it will be seen by the above table that the milk of the ewe stands higher than the others given, and the ass’s milk lowest, the woman’s milk being also exceptionally poor. See Albumen and Fibrine. CASHEW.—The fruit of the Cashew-tree (Anacardium occidentale), a native of Jamaica and of the East and West Indies, yields a kidney-bean shaped nut, which hangs from the end of the pear-shaped fruit. In size and shape, Fig. 381 Casiiew-fruit and Nuts this eccentric nut resembles the kidney of a rabbit or hare. The fruit is juicy, fleshy, and has a pleasant flavour —sugary, acid, and perhaps a trifle acrid—but neverthe- less extremely delectable to the taste. A very delicious wine is made from the expressed juice, and from the wine a spirit, which is considered superior to rum, is distilled. The Cashew-nut contains a kernel that is very pleasantly flavoured, and abounds in a sweet, milky juice, with a bland oil and sugary gum that render it valuable for cook- ing and confectionery. Sometimes the kernels are added to Madeira wine to improve the mellowness of its flavour. There are several varieties of the Cashew, but only one known to the culinary profession, which is shown in the drawing, and which has very showy green and dark red flowers. The fruit of this kind is roasted to give flavour to punch, and the juice of the flower-stalk yields a pleasant acid, which can be converted into a beverage superior to lemonade. CASKS.—In early times liquids were stored in jars and carried about in skins; but for many a long year back the trade of the cooper, or Cask-maker, has flour- ished, with the satisfactory result that vessels are now built capable of holding an immense body of valuable liquid without the chance of loss by fracture, or deteriora- tion by atmospheric action or exposure. There are now prepared for our use Casks of various kinds, varying from an oyster-barrel to the great tun of Heidelberg, which will contain 49,000galls. Unfortunately, the capacity of Casks is not regulated by Act of Parliament, but by custom; hence it follows, as a matter of course, that the Cask measures of England, Scotland, and Ireland differ in a marked degree. The wine tun is assumed to contain 252galls., which is two butts of 126galls. each, or four hogsheads of 63galls. each. But foreign Casks are of all sorts and sizes, and vary considerably, the hogshead being anything from 40galls. to 50galls.; a butt (of sherry) 120galls., and a pipe 114galls. Octaves are of 11>galls, capacity, and half-octaves half that amount. Casks used for storing wine in Germany are larger than those of France, and are called stiicks, containing 240galls., and half-stiicks, containing 120galls., or a French butt of sherry. Wine is exported from Germany in auras, or ohms, of 30galls. each. In some countries it is usual to store wine in vats of extraordinary size. In Sicily, the capacity of a wine-vat is often as much as 17,600galls., and some contain 30,000galls. In the cellars of Messrs. Moet and Chandon, at Epernay, are two Casks holding 33,000galls. apiece. The staves are 8in. thick, and supported on four walls of solid masonry, the head being also beautifully carved in bold relief. At the Paris Exhibition of 1878 a Cask was exhibited holding 22,000galls., and in the wine cellars at Barcelona there are vats holding from 30,000galls. to 50,000 galls., the latter eclipsing the great tun of Heidelberg. For the relative capacities of the various Casks known to the commercial fraternity of this country, reference should be made to the Table of Equivalent Weights and Measures. It may be useful to know how to clean a Cask before using it. For large establishments, several valuable machines have been invented ; but for ordinary use, it will be sufficient to rinse out the Cask with water and soda, then fill it with water, add a little hydrochloric acid to it, and allow it to stand with this in f ir two or three days, finally emptying and rinsing out with fresh water. The outsides should be thoroughly scrubbed with a hand-brush. CASSAREEP.—A condiment made in the West Indies from the expressed juice of the cassava-root, to which several native spices are added. CASSAVA.—There are several names given to this plant, such as Cassada, Cassado, Manioc, Mandioc, and Maniliot, the last having preference among botanists, as indicated by the botanical name (Jatroplia Maniliot). It is one of the spurge tribe, and presents considerable interest to the culinary artist, from the many uses to which its products are applied. To us it is better known as the plant from which tapioca is obtained, but to the natives of Brazil and other parts where it is cultivated in a rough way, the uses to which its root and juice are applied render it one of the most valuable, and yet, strange to say, most dangerous of Nature’s handi- works. Rhind observes of it, “ When it is considered that this plant belongs to a highly-poisonous tribe, and is itself one of the most virulent of the species, it cannot but excite astonishment to find that it yet yields an abundant poison which, by the art of man, becomes not only perfectly innocent, but highly nutritious, yielding nourishment to many thousands of the natives of South America, and affording a luxury to the tables of more refined Europeans.” The Cassava is indeed one of Nature’s contradictions, in which she seems to delight, but as it is by the hand of man that the conversion takes