257 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. luces, d'c., referred to, see under their special heads, Cakes—continued. gradually from the sides so as to make a smooth paste, give it six turns as for puff paste, and divide it into twelve equal- sized pieces; roll out each piece into thin round flats. Mark each round in strips with a pastry-roulette, taking care not Fig. 296. Mould for Snowball Cake. to cut through to the edge of the round; then take them up with the handle of a wooden spoon, threading it between the cuts, and drop into the moulds, closing them when full. Put the moulds into boiling fat for six minutes, then take them out and drain on a sieve; open the moulds, take out the Cakes, and roll them in vanilla-flavoured sugar. Keep the Cakes in a warm place and dish them piled up in an orna- mental paste basket (see Pig. 297) or glass dish. Snowflake Cake.—Take J breakfast-cupful of butter, 1J break- fast-cupfuls of caster sugar, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of pastry-flour, i breakfast-cupful of milk, the whites of five eggs, 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 2 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda or H teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, and the juice of half a lemon. Beat the butter to a cream. Gradually add the sugar, then the lemon, and when very light the milk and whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth ; then the flour, in which the soda and cream of tartar are well mixed. Bake on a greased sheet in a moderate oven. When nearly cool, pour icing over the top. Soda Cakes.—(1) Large. —Mix 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda with lib. of flour, and rub into it Jib. of warm butter ; when quite smooth add three eggs, previously beaten, Jib. of currants washed and dried, Jib. of caster sugar, and a few bruised caraway-seeds. When thoroughly mixed, put in a buttered tin and bake. (2)_ To make a richer Cake Jib. of butter and Jib. of minced candied peel may be used ; loz. of ground sweet almonds may be substituted for the raisins (or currants), but if this is used a little more bicarbonate of soda will be necessary, and the Cake must be baked immediately it is made. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Cakes—con tinned. (3) Bub ilb. of butter into ilb. of flour mixed with J tea- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Add 6oz. of well-washed and dried currants, ioz. of candied peel cut into small pieces, and ilb. of sugar; mix all these well together, and then add two well-beaten eggs mixed with J pint of milk, and stir them well together. Bake in a buttered tin in not too hot an oven. (4) Line a Cake-tin with buttered paper. Then put into a basin lib. of flour, 6oz. of butter, 6oz. of sugar, and with the hands rub the butter well into the flour and sugar, and then mix in fib. of washed and dried currants. Put 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda and J teaspoonful of tartaric acid on a plate,- and with the back of a spoon crush out all the lumps, rub it quite smooth, and mix in with the other ingre- dients. Beat up two eggs with J pint of milk, and mix all together with this. Put the Cake as quickly as possible into the lined Cake-tin, place it immediately in a moderate oven, and bake for nearly two hours. (5) Dip a Cake-tin in boiling water, rub it dry quickly and line it with greased paper. Put lib. of flour into a large bowl with ilb. of butter and 2oz. of lard, and rub the butter and lard well into the flour with the hands. Then put 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda on to a plate, and with the back of a spoon crush all the lumps and work it quite smooth; add it to the flour together with Jib. of washed and dried currants, 1 dessert-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and 2oz. of candied lemon-peel cut into small pieces. Mix all these well in. Break two eggs in a bowl, beat them till they are very light, and add to them the juice of half a lemon and J pint of milk. Pour this into the flour and other in- gredients, mixing it quickly and lightly into a dough. Put as quickly as possible into the tin and let it bake in a quick oven for the first twenty minutes, then put it in a cooler part of the oven and let bake for an hour longer. Eun a sharp knife into the middle of the Cake, if it is dry when taken out the Cake is done, but if the knife comes out sticky let the Cake stay in the oven a-quarter-of-an-hour longer. (6) Sift 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda and lib. of flour together, then rub in Jib. of slightly-warmed butter, add three well-beaten eggs, Jib. of washed and dried currants, Jib. of caster sugar, Jib. of minced candied peel, and a pinch of powdered caraway-seeds. Work the ingredients till well mixed. Line a Cake-tin with strips of buttered paper, pour in the mixture, and bake in a quick oven. (7) Small.—Eub Jib. of butter into lib. of flour, adding Jib. of stoned raisins (or Jib. of currants), a quarter of a grated nutmeg, Jib. of caster sugar, and a little salt. Mix all these well together, then dissolve 1 teaspoonful of bicar- bonate of soda in 1 gill of warm milk. Beat up three eggs and add them to the milk, whisking well all the time. Add this to the dry mixture, and beat again for five minutes; then pour it into tins, lined with oiled or buttered paper, put it in the oven and bake for from one-and-a-half to one- and-three-quarter hours. (8) Two eggs well beaten, 1 pint of milk, 1 pint of flour, 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in a little of the milk, and 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar dissolved in a little water. Make into a batter and bake in buttered moulds. (9) Sift 2oz. of cream of tartar and loz. of bicarbonate of soda with 41b. of flour, and rub into this 4oz. of lard; make a bay and work in a little more than Joz. of salt and sufficient churned milk to make a dough. Form the dough when well worked with a biscuit-break into rounds about the size of a small saucer, brush them over with milk, dock them, and bake in a quick oven. Take them out when done, and serve cold. Souffle Cake -with Punch.—Beat the yolks of ten eggs with 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, 4 table-spoonfuls of crushed ratafias, 2 table-spoonfuls of potato-flour, Joz. of candied orange-flowers, and 1 pinch of salt. When the above ingre- dients are well beaten together, whip the whites of the°ten eggs and stir them in. Thickly butter the inside of a plain oval mould, sprinkle some stale breadcrumbs therein, and pour in the. mixture; butter a strip of paper about 2Jin. broad, sprinkle breadcrumbs over it, and tie it round the" top of the mould so that when the mixture rises it will not go over. Put the mould in a moderate oven and bake for half-an-hour. Make a custard flavoured with maraschino, and mix with it 2 wineglassfuls of punch. When the Cake is baked sufficiently