THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 403 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, itec., referred to, see under their special heads. COCK-A-LEEKIE.—Although Scotland claims the supreme credit for this dish, it is hut the Scottish edition of a fourteenth-century English dish, known in those days as ma-lachi, or ma-leaclii, “ ma ” being the old English term for fowl. In making malachi, the bird was half roasted and then boiled in broth until the meat would fall from the bones, when the whole bird was chopped to pieces, and served with a strong broth made from the fowl stock, and flavoured with an extra quantity of onions and other vegetables, syrup, spice, and raisins or currants. In Scotland the orthodox mode of procedure was to boil a capon in broth, and when the liquor began to boil, pop in a large proportion of white leeks. After an hour’s boiling the fowl was removed, and the flesh cut into pieces off the bones and returned to the broth with another batch of leeks, pepper, salt, and stewed prunes and raisins. With lialf-an-hour’s more boiling the Cock-a-Leekie would be ready to serve. A notion prevails amongst a few unenlightened persons that this soup requires, as a sine qua non, an old cock for its correct manufacture; but this is not the case, for if the bird be not a young one it is better left out, and some other meat, such as veal or lean pork, substituted. Then, again, the leek element may be in excess for some tastes—indeed, it very often is—but this is due to a mis- conception of the meaning of the term “leekie,” that is, if the English origin of the dish be accepted; for the word lachi or leachi, following the “ ma ” in ma- lachi, does not refer to leeks, but to a “ slice.” Latterly, in Scotland, the prunes have been omitted, which, perhaps, may be due to- an opinion expressed by Talleyrand in favour of the soup, but advising that if the prunes were boiled in it they should not be served. Soyer wrote: “With all due respect to Scotch cookery, I will always give the preference in the way of soup to their Cock-a-Leekie, even before their inimitable hotch-potch,” a remark that, apart from the acknowledged excellence of these two, and many other Scottish dishes, was probably written during, or in memory of, a visit to the Land o’ Cakes; for Soyer rarely praised any other dishes than his own—and, perhaps, in this case he was referring to his personal preparation. The following receipts are modern: Cock-a-Leekie.—Finely chop 41b. or 51b. of shin of beef, put it into a saucepan with 3galls. of cold water, and boil until a rich liquor is obtained ; strain this into a saucepan, pouring it over a roasted capon or fowl, and boil for three or four minutes ; put in lib. of blanched leeks, well cleaned and cut into tin. lengths, and boil for half-an-liour longer. Take out the bird, bone it and chop it up, return it to the pan, add another pound of leeks, season with salt and pepper, and boil again until the leeks are done and the soup is quite thick. Serve hot. Mock Cock-a-Leekie.—Put 21b. of lean veal into a saucepan with lgall. of water, and a seasoning of mace, cloves, and celery-seed tied up in a muslin bag, and boil for fully two hours. Take out the veal, cut it up into small pieces, put it back in the saucepan, together with three or four leeks well washed and finely chopped, and boil for half-an-liour longer ; grate in a potato, boil for a quarter-of-an-hour, remove the bag of seasoning, and add salt and pepper to taste. Pour the soup into a tureen, and serve as hot as possible. A few pieces of toast may be floated in it. COCKS’ COMBS (Fr. Cretes [crests] de Coqs).— Artistic cooks, especially those of Continental education, lay great store by blanched Cocks’ Combs for decorating purposes, hence in France they are carefully collected and preserved. In British cookery they are just those parts that are thrown away with the offal. It is the great trouble and pains required to prepare them that seems to appal the ordinary cook, for whose gratification it may be well to state that bottled Cocks’ Combs, which may be purchased of any charcutier, are quite as good as those personally prepared—perhaps better—as it is no easy matter to clear the tissue of blood. The following in- Cocks’ Combs—continued. structions for blanching Cocks’ Combs, and otherwise preparing them for use, have been supplied by a very distinguished chef. Put about lib. of fresh Cocks’ Combs into a saucepan, cover them with water, set the pan on a brisk fire, stir until the skins begin to rise, and then pour in sufficient cold water to prevent them cooking further. Take them out, remove the skins, trim the parts where they have been cut off the heads of the birds, put them into a bowl of salted water, and let them soak for six hours. Turn them out into cold fresh water, Fig. 483. Blanched Cocks’ Combs. changing it several times, and let them remain until they are quite white ; then put them into a saucepan with a good supply of water, add a little butter, lemon-juice, and salt, and boil them. Should they be wanted for garnishing attelettes, they will not require to be much cooked. Care must be taken to cease the cooking as soon as the skins rise, otherwise the blood will coagulate, and it will then be im- possible to blanch them. See Fig. 483. Artificial Cocks’ Combs are sometimes cut out of the palates of oxen or sheep, or from the white part of a calf’s Fig. 484. Imitation Cocks’ Combs for Garnish. pluck. See Fig. 484. Having cleaned, flattened, and blanched the piece cut away for the purpose, the exact shape of a Cock’s Comb can be cut out with a sharp pair of Fig. 485. Imitation Cocks’-comb Punch. scissors, or, what is better, have a punch (see Fig. 485) made to cut out the required shape—one worked by either a lever