274 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. for details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ifcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Calf—continued. be, excepting for the sake of the order and discipline set down for the working of this Encyclopaedia, which must be sustained throughout as an example to the race of culinary bibliographers, who appear to revel in exceptional irregularities. But there is one good reason why Calf’s Kidneys are styled “Veal,” and that is because they are generally cooked and served with the loin, whereas sheep’s kidneys find their way most frequently into special dishes, or are cooked separately, and sometimes substituted for Calf’s. Baked Calf’s Kidney.—Trim off the skin and fat from a Calf’s Kidney, and cat it lengthwise into halves. Sift some finely-grated breadcrumbs in Jib. of pork-sausage meat, and a small quantity of chopped truffles; season them with pepper and salt, and bind with a beaten egg. Spread the mixture over the halves of kidneys, and wrap them in pieces of pigs’ caul, allowing room for the forcemeat to swell a little. Put the kidney in a baking-tin, baste it with «butter, and bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour, or more, according to the size, bast- ing frequently with the butter in the tin. Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir it over the fire till browned ; stir in a little more than 1 teacupful of stock, and boil. Skim the fat off the sauce, pour in 1 wine- glassful of sherry, and boil up again. Cut the halves of kidneys into slices, arrange them overlapping each other on a hot dish, strain the sauce over, and serve. Fig. 312. Calf’s Kidney for Broiling. Broiled Calf’s Kidney a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Cut a Calf’s Kidney in halves lengthwise ; beat it lightly, dust a little salt and pepper over, and dip each piece in butter that has been slightly warmed. Thickly coat the pieces of kidney with the butter, and broil them over a clear fire, allowing from four to five minutes for each side. Put 2oz. of butter in a basin, season it with chopped parsley, pepper, and salt; squeeze in a little lemon-juice, and work it near the fire till warm, but it must not be oiled. Put the maitre-d’hfitel butter on a dish, place the pieces of kidney over it, and serve. Calf’s Kidneys a la Breton.—Finely chop four large onions, put them in a saucepan with a bay-leaf and a lump of butter, and fry till nicely browned. Dredge a little salt, pepper, and flour over the onions, add 1 pinch of sugar, pour in £ pint of gravy, and boil them gently till cooked. Cut two Calf’s Kidneys in slices, and season with salt and pepper; put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry over a quick fire. When the kidneys are cooked, take the pan off the fire, pour a small quantity of glaze and a little lemon-juice over them, and sprinkle in a little chopped parsley; toss them about well till all the slices are covered. Arrange the slices in a circle on a hot dish, and fill the centre with the chopped onions. Garnish with croutons of fried bread that have been brushed over with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze, and serve. Calf’s-Kidney Patties.—Take two Calf’s Kidneys and their suet. Skin the suet and also the kidneys, and chop them both very fine. Peel an apple, and chop it and a little candied lemon-peel very fine, add it to the chopped kidney and suet, together with a few well-washed and dried currants, some sifted breadcrumbs, the yolks of four or five eggs boiled hard and chopped fine, a little grated nutmeg, powdered cloves and mace, and a little salt; mix all these thoroughly, and then stir into it some orange-flower water and a little rich Calf—continued. wine. Make some puff paste, line the bottom of a dish with it, put in the minced kidney mixture, cover with more of the paste, trim the edges, press them together, and bake in a slow oven. Calf’s-Kidney Pudding.—Remove the fat from a Calf’s Kidney, and cut it in moderately thick slices ; season them with salt and cayenne, and cover over with 1 table-spoonful each of minced parsley and shallot. Line a basin or dome-shaped mould with suet-pudding paste, and cover the bottom with fillet of beef cut in thin slices ; put over this a few pieces of ham, also cut very thin, and arrange the slices of kidney on them in layers with a little kneaded butter between. Mask the top layer with melted glaze, cover over the top of the basin with a crust of the paste, and close the edges all round. Tie the mould (or basin) up in a cloth, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil over a quick fire for an-hour-and-a-quarter. When done, turn it out on a dish, glaze with a paste-brush, and serve like any other meat pudding. Calf’s-Kidney Soup.—Cut a small onion in slices, and fry in a little butter until slightly coloured. Chop a Calf’s Kidney in small pieces, season with salt and pepper, put it in the pan with the onions, and cook for a few minutes. Drain the kidney from the fat, and put it in a soup-tureen to keep hot. In the meantime have ready 3 pints of richly-flavoured stock, six button mushrooms cooked in a little lemon-juice, and one or two gherkins cut very small. Put the gherkins and mushrooms in the tureen with the kidney. Make the stock quite hot, remove it from the fire, and add the yolks of two eggs and a little cream ; pour it over, and serve very hot. A little cayenne may also be added just before serving, if desired. There are various methods of making kidney soup, but none superior to this. Calf’s Kidney Stewed in Wine.—Cut a Calf’s Kidney in several pieces, remove the sinewy parts, and cut it in slices of a moderate thickness. Put jib. of butter in a frying-pan and melt it; then put in the slices of kidney, season with salt and pepper, and fry them over a brisk fire till the moisture has evaporated. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped shallot and onions in a stewpan with a little butter, and fry them without browning ; put twelve or eighteen mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, and a clove of garlic in with the onions. Pour in Fig. 313. Calf’s Kidneys Stewed in Wine. over the onions, &c., ( pint of white wine and J pint of gravy. Boil the liquor till reduced to half its original quantity, then strain it through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan; mix with it a little thick brown sauce and i teacupful of melted glaze, stir it over the fire for three minutes, then put in the slices of kidney, and heat them without boiling. Take the garlic and bunch of parsley out of the liquor, put the kidney and sauce on a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve ; or the slices of kidney may be served in a fancy paste croustade (see Fig. 313). Croquettes of Calf’s Kidney.—Mince a Calf’s Kidney with some of its fat; season with cayenne, white pepper, and salt, cover with breadcrumbs and yolk of egg, make it into balls, and fry in boiling butter. Drain them upon a sieve, and serve upon fried parsley. Fried Calf’s Kidneys.—(1) Remove the fat from some kidneys, and cut them in rather thin slices ; sprinkle the slices over