THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 290 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Caramel—continued. pan briskly to melt the sugar well; then place it on the stove, and let the sugar boil slowly until it becomes a light brown colour. If a moderate fire it will require four minutes, but if a brisk fire only two will suffice; this will now be a Caramel. Take a pudding-mould holding lqt.; line the in- terior with all the Caramel, holding the mould in the left hand, and spreading it evenly all around. Put the mould in a cool place, and let it get thoroughly cold. Have 1 pint of milk in a bowl; break in four eggs, add jib. of powdered sugar and 1 teaspoonful of lemon-essence. Beat well for five minutes, strain through a sieve into another bowl, and fill the mould with this cream. Put it in a tin pan filled with water to half the height of the mould, and place in a very moderate oven for forty-five minutes. When of a good golden colour remove, and cool for at least two hours. Turn it out on to a dessert-dish, and serve with its own juice. Caramel Croquenbouch.es of Fruits.—Remove the stalks from some greengages, Orleans plums, grapes, and cherries; quarter some pink pears, and remove the peel and white pith from some oranges and quarter them. Stick the fruit on small wooden splinters, and dip them in sugar that has been boiled to the crack (see Sugar-boiling), and lay them on a sieve which has been oiled, until the sugar is stiff. When ready to use the fruit, push them up from underneath the sieve with the fingers so as not to injure the sugar on them. Rub the outside of a plain, high, round mould with oil of almonds, and build the Caramel fruit up outside in circular rows, com- mencing with the largest at the base of the mould, and ending with the smallest, so that when the croquenbouche is lifted off the mould on to a dish the small fruit will be uppermost. Ornament with candied angelica and spun sugar. Preserved fruits can be used for this purpose if fresh are not obtainable, but in that case the syrup must be well drained off, and the fruits partially dried before being dipped in the Caramel. Caramel Custard. — (1) Make a rich cinnamon - flavoured custard; allow a breakfast-cupful of brown sugar to every quart of custard, and stew it in a pan till it browns well. Then mix it with the custard while both are hot. Serve cold. (2) Moisten 1 breakfast-cupful of brown sugar with a little water in a saucepan, stir it over the fire until it becomes a dark brown colour, then add 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling water. Beat up the yolks of six eggs with a little milk, strain them, and add 1 pint of milk, sufficient of the cold Caramel mixture to colour the custard, and sugar to taste. Butter a mould, pour in the custard, and put this in a bain- marie containing cold water; place on a gentle fire or gas-stove, and let it be, taking care that the water does not quite boil. When the custard is set, turn it out, and serve. (3) Take 1 teacupful of moist sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of cold water, lqt. of warm milk, six eggs, £ teaspoonful of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. Put the sugar into a flat stewpan, and stir until it melts and is light brown ; add 2 table-spoonfuls of water, and when the sugar is dissolved stir it into the warm milk. Beat the egg-, add to them | teaspoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring and part of the caramelled milk. Strain into the remainder of the milk, and pour into a buttered 2qt. mould. Set the mould in a pan of warm water, and bake for thirty to forty minutes, or till firm. Thrust a knife into the middle; if it comes out clean, the custard is done. Serve cold with Caramel sauce. Caramel Frosting.—Put into a saucepan 1 table-spoonful of water, add 1 breakfast-cupful of brown sugar and one square of chocolate. Place it on a hot stove and simmer gently for twenty minutes, being careful not to let it burn. Spread it on the cake while hot. Caramel Mousse.—Beat the yolks of six eggs in a stewpan with 9 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, then pour in 1 pint of milk and stir the mixture over a slow fire till it thickens and is on the point of boiling, when remove it at once, for if it quite boils the eggs will curdle. Pass the cream through a fine hair sieve into a basin, and stir until it has cooled. Put ilb. of caster sugar into a small pan, and stir it over the fire until it has boiled to a dark brown. Stir in 1 teacupful of water with the Caramel, and boil it a few minutes longer. Whip the cooled mixture over ice for ten minutes ; then gradually mix in the Caramel and 3 teacupfuls of whipped cream. Pour the mixture Caramel—continued. into a dome-shaped mould, put a sheet of paper on the top, and close the lid; then pack it in pounded ice and salt. The mousse should be kept at least one hour in the ice. Dip the mould in milk-warm water, wipe it, and turn the mousse out on to a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper that has Fig. 329. Caramel Mousse. been placed on a dish, garnish with small sponge cakes, decorated with dried cherries (see Pig. 329), and serve. Caramel Pudding.—(1) Cream together 1 breakfast-cupful each of warmed butter and caster sugar. Add five eggs (yolks and whites beaten separately), and 1 breakfast-cupful of preserved damsons, removing the stones. Beat all together very lightly, and season with 1 teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring. Prepare an open tart case of patten paste, fill with the Caramel preparation, and bake in a quick oven. (2) Boil a handful of loaf sugar with | pint of water until it is dark brown. Warm a custard-mould, pour the syrup into it, and turn the mould about until it is well lined. Beat the yolks of eight eggs with 1 pint of milk, and pour this into the mould ; cover the top with a piece of paper, and put it in a saucepan containing sufficient cold water to nearly reach the top of the mould, but take care not to let it come over the top (a bain-marie will do better). Boil gently for one hour. When done, take the mould out and set it in a basin of cold or iced water; when cold turn the pudding out on to a glass dish, and garnish with fruits, biscuits, &c. (3) Boil 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar with wineglassful of cold water in a saucepan until of a dark brown colour; pour it, while hot, into a plain and quite dry mould, and turn it about until the mould is well lined with the Caramel. Beat the yolks of four eggs and the white of one in a basin, and add 1 table- spoonful of caster sugar. Boil | pint of milk ; when cool, mix it with the eggs and sugar, and turn the custard into the mould lined with Caramel. Put the mould in a saucepan half-filled with water, taking care not to let the water come over the top, simmer it gently for half-an-hour, and then turn it out on a dish. Some of the hot Caramel will run off and form a sauce round the pudding. If the Caramel is flavoured with a little liqueur, such as maraschino or curagoa, the pudding is greatly improved, or the custard may be flavoured according to taste. (4) Put in a basin four eggs with 3oz. of powdered sugar ; mix briskly with a whisk for two minutes, add 1| pints of cold milk and 1 teaspoonful of lemon-essence. Mix well for one minute, and strain through a sieve into another basin. Butter and sugar well six small pudding-moulds, fill them lin. high with Caramel, let it cool for five minutes, then pour in the prepara- tion, dividing it equally. Place the moulds in a tin pan filled to half their height with warm, but not boiling water, put in a moderate oven, and steam for forty minutes. Take them out, turn on to a hot dish, and serve in their own sauce. These puddings may be prepared in cups instead of moulds. Caramel Sauce.—Put 4 table-spoonfuls of white sugar into a saucepan upon the fire with 1 table-spoonful of water; stir it constantly with a wooden spoon for three or four minutes until all the water evaporates, and watch it carefully until it assumes a delicate brown colour. In the meantime, put into another saucepan 6oz. of sugar, half the yellow rind of a lemon cut thin, lin. of stick cinnamon, and 1 pint of cold water; bring these gradually to the boil, and simmer for ten minutes; add 1 wineglassful of wine, or half the quantity of brandy. Strain the liquid quickly into the Caramel, mix them thoroughly, and serve the sauce with any pudding desired.