THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 393 For details respecting Culmary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. CISOLO.—A wine of Piacenza, in Italy. CITRIC ACID (Fr. Acide citrique; Ger. Citronen- saure).—Although. this is commonly known as “Acid of Lemons,” it derives its name from the citron tribe, to which the lemon belongs, but is found in, and frequently obtained from, acid fruits generally, such as citrons, lemons, oranges, quinces, gooseberries, currants, cran- berries, whortleberries, cherries, mulberries, &c.—these last containing somewhere about 1 per cent, of the acid in their juice. The process by which Citric Acid is usually prepared for commercial purposes is described thus: Take 2qts. of lemon- or lime-juice, 4|oz. of prepared chalk, 27| fluid ounces of diluted sulphuric acid, and lqt. of distilled water. Heat the lemon-juice, then add the chalk (finely powdered) by degrees to it, and when all the chalk is in, set the pan by for the precipitated citrate of lime to subside. This will take some time; but when thoroughly settled, pour off the fluid from the precipitate, and then wash it several times with warm water. When the precipitate is as clean as possible, pour over it the diluted sulphuric acid mixed with distilled water, and boil the whole for a quarter-of-an- hour or a little longer in a glass, earthenware, or lead vessel. Then squeeze the liquor through a strong linen bag, and filter that which runs through. Evaporate the filtered liquor over a gentle heat, and then reduce to less than one-half of the original quantity; set it aside in shallow dishes to crystallise. Citric Acid is used chiefly by confectioners, and aerated water and liqueur makers, for the purposes of simulating or intensifying fruit acids. To buy it in crystal is the safer plan, as it is easily adulterated, and some purchasers are much tempted by the offer of low prices. Citrocliloric and phospho-citric acids have been intro- duced to the aerated-water trade as being superior to Citric Acid, and much cheaper for lemonades and such- like drinks; but the recommendation would appear to end at the price, for it is quite certain that natural lemon- juice contains no such compound as either. It is, there- fore, very improbable that the flavour would be superior to the original. Competent chemists have declared both of these compound acids to be harmless. Imitations of lemon- and lime-juices are made by dissolving Citric Acid in water flavoured with soluble essences of lemon or lime. CITRON.—The fruit (see Fig. 476) of the Citron-tree (Citrus medico) is well-known in medicine, as it possesses extraordinary anti-scorbutic properties; so, also, do the fruits of other kinds of the Citrus tribe, such as lemons limes, oranges, &c. In cookery the candied peel is chiefly used, and is prepared in the same manner as orange- or lemon-peel. Sometimes known as Cedrat. Citron Blanc-mang'e.—Blanch lib. of sweet almonds, put them into a good-sized mortar and pound them to a paste ; to this paste add by degrees 5 tumblerfuls of water, mixing with the pestle. When thoroughly mixed, strain it through a cloth, squeezing it well to get all the milk of almonds from the paste. Divide this milk of almonds into two equal parts. Grate the rind of a Citron on some lump sugar, and continue till 6oz. of sugar have been used, | then dissolve this sugar in one-half of the milk of almonds. In the other half of the milk of almonds dissolve 6oz. of plain lump sugar. Put lloz. of isinglass to soak in just sufficient cold water to cover it. When the sugar is quite melted strain each half of the milk of almonds, still keeping them separate, and when the isinglass is sufficiently soaked put foz. of it into each of the halves of the milk of almonds, and when it is quite dissolved place a mould in ice and pour in the white blanc-mange to the depth of fin.; let that set, and then pour in the same quantity of the other half, which ought to be clear yellow; let that also set, and then pour in some more white, and so proceed, pouring in alternately yellow and white, till the mould is full. Citron Cake. - (1) Warm lib. of butter, and mix it with lib. 2oz. of sugar; when well worked together add lib. 4oz. of flour, six eggs, and the yolks of four. Cut in long shavings 4oz. of green Citron, layer these alternately with the cake mixture in a papered tin, and bake in a slow oven. Citron—co ntinued. (2) Rub lib. of butter into lib. of flour, add slowly the well-beaten yolks of ten eggs, then the whites beaten to a froth, and lib. of sugar. Cut into thin slices about lib. of Citron, fill a buttered tin with alternate layers of peel and paste, and bake in a moderate oven. (3) Work up with 4 breakfast-cupfuls of sifted flour 1 break- fast-cupful of butter, and add 2! breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar. Beat to a froth the whites of ten eggs and add to the other, with 2 table-spoonfuls of rose-water. Put in a buttered cake-tin alternate layers of Citron-peel, cut into thin slices, and the batter. Bake in a moderate oven. (4) Rub fib. of butter into lib. of flour, add lib. of caster sugar, twelve well-beaten eggs, 21b. of chopped Citron-peel, 21b. of shredded almonds, 21b. of grated cocoa-nut, and 1 tea- spoonful of mace, and mix thoroughly. Bake in a buttered tin. Citron Cheese-Cakes.—(1) Put lpintof cream into a saucepan, place it over the fire until boiling, then move it off and let it get cold. Beat two eggs well, stir them into the cream, place over the fire again, and boil for five or ten minutes until the eggs are thickly curdled. Blanch 2oz. of sweet almonds, put them in a mortar and pound them well, adding occasionally a few drops of orange-flower or rose-water to prevent them oiling; cut 2oz. of green Citron-peel into thin shreds, and chop up two or three Naples biscuits. Mix all the ingredients with the curds, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar. Butter the interior of some patty-pans, and line them with a good puff paste, trim and notch this round the edges, fill the pans with the mixture, and bake for twenty minutes or so in a brisk oven. When cooked, take the cakes out of the tins, arrange them on a hot dish, over which a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper has been spread, and serve. (2) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of curd into a mortar, and beat well until it is quite smooth; then add 4oz. of almonds blanched and pounded with a little orange-flower water and the well-beaten yolks of four eggs. When these are well mixed add two Naples biscuits finely grated, 2!oz. of finely-