286 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Vtensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Capons—continued. at the base of each Capon. Then take a silver skewer (see Attelettes) and put two cocks’ combs and a truffle on it, and thrust it into the bread support between the legs of the Fig. 324. Braised Capons a la Godard. Capons (see Fig. 324). Some sauce a la Godard must be served separately in a sauceboat. Braised Capon a la Neapolitaine. — Bemove the breast and thigh-bones and stuff the carcase with a mixture of chicken quenelle forcemeat, cooked goose fat liver (foie gras), and truffles, cut into small squares. Then truss it, lard it with bacon-fat, and braise it in a good stock. Care must be taken not to over do it. About fifteen minutes before it is required for use, take it out of the pot, drain, rub it, and mask the breast with a layer of white forcemeat, decorate with truffles, and set it in the entrance of the oven to poach for a few minutes. Place the Capon on a layer of fried bread without crusts, arranged on a large dish, and put round it a rich garnish made with truffles, cocks’ combs, pistachio-kernels, and macaroni cut short and seasoned (see Fig. 325). The kernels and cocks’ combs should be slightly flavoured with a veloute sauce, reduced with mushroom liquor, and the truffles Fig. 325. Braised Capon 1 la Neapolitaine. glazed with a paste-brush. Veloute sauce reduced with mush- room liquor, or Spanish sauce reduced with a little tomato ketchup, should be served with the Capon in a sauceboat. Braised Capons with. Quenelles and Truffles.—Prepare and braise two Capons as for Braised Capons a la Financiere, without larding them. Then make a ragout with cocks’ combs, truffles, mushrooms, and chicken quenelles, moistened witli supreme sauce. Put this ragout on the dish and place the Capons with their crops upwards against a pillar of fried bread (as previously described). Then garnish as follows: Put two large decorated quenelles in the spaces left between the Capons, that is against the side of the block of bread, and put a truffle on each and one on each side of them. Then put a smaller decorated quenelle at the base of each Capon with a cock’s comb on each side of it, and, lastly, put a large quenelle on the top of the bread. Some supreme sauce should be served in a sauceboat. Braised Capons with Rice.—Prepare two Capons as for Braised Capons a la Financiere, but do not lard the breasts. Then take lOoz. of rice, wash it, and cook it in some chicken broth; when it is done, season and strain Capons—continued. into it a little of the liquor the Capons have been cooked in. Mix well together. Then put a layer of the rice on to a dish, put the Capons on it, and serve. Skim the gravy, strain it, and serve in a sauceboat. Braised Capons with Rock-Salt. — Take two Capons and prepare them as for Braised Capons with Bice, then put them in a braising-pan with lj pints of chicken broth. When done, drain them, remove the fat from the stock, strain it, and add half its quantity of rich veal broth, such as blond de veau. Beduce both of these together, then put the Capons on a dish, pour a little of the gravy over them, and dust them with rock-salt. The remainder of the gravy should be served separately in a sauceboat. Braised Capons with Stuffed Cocks’ Combs and Supreme S?„uce.—Take two Capons and prepare them as for Braised Capons a la Financiere, covering them with buttered paper. Boast them before a good clear fire, and when they are done remove the paper, put them on a dish, and pour over some supreme sauce. Then garnish them with some cocks’ combs prepared as follows : Cut some cocks’ combs open, but do not quite sever them, put in a little chicken forcemeat about the size of a small nut, and fold them over to enclose it, then dip them in frying batter and fry in hot fat until of a light golden colour, drain, and sprinkle a little salt over them. Put some supreme sauce in a boat, and serve. Braised Capons with Sweetbreads and Truffles.—Prepare and truss two Capons as for Braised Capons a la Financiere. Then make a ragout of chicken quenelles and cut mushrooms mixed in sauce a la regence. When the Capons are done, drain and put them on a dish, and lean them against a block of fried bread, with the crops downwards. Then put one sweetbread below each Capon, one on the top of tho bread, and one in each space left between the Capons. Put a crayfish on each side of the sweetbreads, except the sweetbread on the top of the bread, and a truffle on each crayfish. Serve with some sauce a la regence in a boat. Braised Capon of Toulouse a la Chipolata. - Choose a fino young Capon, draw and singe it, and truss as if for boiling. Then peel a lemon and cut it into slices, lay them on the Capon, and support them with thin layers of bacon-fat. Tie them up, and put the Capon into a stewpan spread with vegetables and trimmings of fat.' Let it cook for a few minutes, and add lOoz. of pickled pork. Then put in suffi- cient good broth and white wine to half the height of the Capon. Boil it up, and put the pan on a moderate fire, so that the Capon will braise slowly. It will require to be turned several times, and will take about an-hour-and-a-quarter to cook. When done, remove the pan from the fire, and twenty minutes before serving put twenty small chipolata sausages, or one large common sausago (not too thick), into the pan. Chipolata sausages are made of poultry-meat, bacon, and bread-pulp. When ready take out the Capon, strain the cooking-stock through a sieve, remove the fat and reduce it to half-glaze, adding a few table-spoonfuls of good brown sauce and two or three dozen fresh mushrooms. When it is sufficiently reduced, add the sausages, the pork cut into squares, twenty-four chestnuts, and the same of small glazed onions. Place the Capon on a dish, garnish with the onions, sausages, &c., and serve with the sauce. Capon Pie.—Separate the flesh from the bones of a cold roasted Capon, and cut it into slices with the exception of the thighs and pinions, which should be left whole. Peel and boil about £lb. of chestnuts, finely chop in equal quantities some thyme, sweet marjoram, and pennyroyal; line a pasty-pan with paste, put in the thighs and pinions, and strew them over with minced onions ; next put in the flesh of the bird with four sweetbreads and half-a-dozen oysters cut in halves, season them with the minced herbs, salt, cloves, grated nutmeg, and a small quantity of mace ; cover with the chestnuts, and put a few small pieces of butter over them. Close the pan, and bake the pasty in a brisk oven. Meanwhile prepare a sauce with gravy, stock, drawn butter, two or three boned and filleted anchovies, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. When cooked, garnish the pasty with slices of lemon, pour the sauce over, and serve. Capon Soup (Spanish Style).—Put a piece of beef weighing about 21b. into a large saucepan or stockpot, and add about