344 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culmary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <ic., referred to, see utider their special heads. Cheese—continued. up. A richer way is to put equal parts of butter-milk and thick milk in a kettle over the fire, heat it to almost boiling, pour into a linen bag, and let it drain till next day. Then take it out, salt it, put in a little cream or butter, as it may be thick or not, and make up into balls the size of an orange. Cottenliam Cheese.—This Cheese might be mistaken for Stilton if it were not flatter and broader in shape. In flavour it is if anything somewhat richer than the generality of Stiltons, and when cut shows a richer and creamier surface marked with blue veins, delicate, dark, or turning to brown, according to the age of the Cheese. For further information regarding this Cheese, reference may be made to Stilton. Cream Cheese.—Cheeses under this name are made from new milk, milk and cream, mixed in various proportions, and even strippings,” the last of the milk drawn from the cow at each milking, and less creamy than the bulk; but the genuine cream Cheese, made from pure cream, cannot be compared to these weaker substitutes. Several receipts will be found for these and a variety of other cream Cheeses, some resembling each other very nearly in their mode of preparation, and differing very little in taste or quality, but having distinguishing titles. (1) Take lqt. of cream, warm it in hot water till it is about the heat of milk from the cow, add rennet (sufficient to coagulate in twelve hours), then break it slightly with a spoon, and place it on a frame over which a piece of fine canvas cloth has previously been fastened, subsequently remove it into a damp cloth, place it in a bottomless box or frame, cover with a well-fitting board and a weight, and let it stand a few hours; then put a finer cloth in the frame, and shift the Cheese into it. A little powdered salt may be sprinkled over the curd when it comes out of the cloth ; it may then be placed in the moulds to take its final shape, square, round, heart, or fleur-de-lis. It will be fit for use in a day or two. (2) Take lqt. of cream that has become sour and thick, mix in 1 table-spoonful of salt, and pour it into a piece of thin muslin (butter wrapping) placed on a sieve. Leave it in a cool place for three days to drain and ripen, pouring away every day the whey from the dish it stands on. Lift the Cheese out by taking hold of the corners of the cloth, turn it on to a plate, and it will be fit to eat the next day. (3) A fine cream Cheese may be made by putting away lqt. of good cream in a cream-bowl (see Fig. 423) until it is very thick. Lay a pieoe of well-washed wet calico in a small hair sieve, standing on a dish. Pour the cream into this when it is ready, and let it drain for three days, emptying the whey out of the dish every morning. Two Fig. 423. Cream-bowl (Dairy Supply Company). table-spoonfuls of salt may be dissolved in the cream before setting it for souring, and the curd pressed lightly into a wooden mould with perforated bottom. Kept in a cool pantry for a week or ten days makes a well-drained cream Cheese more mellow and flavoursome. See Kush Cream Cheese. Daventry Cheese.—A round, flat Cheese, very rich, white, and veined, like a ripe Stilton, but of a darker green. Derbyshire Cheese.—These are large, white, flat, round, and somewhat inferior Cheeses of a modified Cheshire type, commonly made in Derbyshire factoi’ies ; they are alike deficient in the quality of the Cheshire and the flavour of the Cheddar. Dorset Cheese.—This is known as Blue Vinney or Blue- veined Dorset, or Double Dorset, and is usually made with skimmed milk. The system is now dying out, the market for this class of Cheese being occupied by an article of a better class, but a few farmers still make batches and Cheese—continued. occasionally use new milk. Some of those specially made by Dorsetshire farmers for home consumption are much richer than the Cheeses prepared for market. Dunlop Cheese.—This is one of the best toasting Cheeses made. It was the national Cheese of Scotland, being manu- factured principally in Ayr, Lanark, and Renfrew, but farmers have largely given up its manufacture. White, rich in flavour, and buttery. Dutch Cheeses are of two kinds, the Edam, or round, and the Gouda, or flat, the latter, when good, resembling Cheddar in flavour. Dutch Cheese is, however, made largely from milk which is poor in fat. It is not made in a very cleanly manner; it is artificially coloured, and the rind reddened with ochre. Dutch Cream Cheese.—Put the yolks of five eggs into a basin with three whole eggs, and beat them well; then mix with them 1 pint of butter-milk. Procure 3qts. of milk just from the cow, pour it into a saucepan, and place it over the fire until boiling, then stir in the above mixture. Boil up once, then take it off the fire, cover it, and let it stand until the curd has formed. Turn the curd into a fine hair sieve, put a weight on the top, and leave it thus for twenty-four hours. Serve the Cheese with cream and sugar. Gloucester Cheese (Double and Single).—All buttery Cheeses are good toasters, but very few equal the Gloucester, especially that known as Double Gloucester; the difference between “ double ” and “ single ” being that the former is made from pure milk, whilst the latter is made from milk that has been deprived of part of its cream. In flavour both kinds are exceedingly mild, and something of a salvy consistence, circular, flat, and weighing from 221b. upwards. Gorgonzola Cheese.—For some reason or other this splendid manufacture of Cheese was a long time finding its way from the north of Italy to these shores, although, as a matter of fact, it is considered by many epicures to be superior to our Stilton. In some particulars it resembles Stilton, but not in shape, being flat and broad. When cut it presents, if ripe, a yellow colour, and rich green veinings. Unfortunately, the great demand for it that exists has led to the introduction of weak, gummy, and altogether inferior makes. Gorgonzola should be firm and creamy, with the two flat surfaces as nearly level as possible; those of inferior quality sink in the centre, and are weak in substance. Green Cheese.—See Sage Cheese. Gruyere Cheese.—It can hardly be said that this Cheese is a favourite in this country, where so many good Cheeses are made; but it has a certain reputation which is well supported by the manufacture. It is a very large, flat, round, thick Cheese, and cuts firm, with large holes, or “ vesicles ” as they are called, containing at times a little moisture. The odour of Gruyere is very peculiar, but the nutty flavour of a good sample is only equalled by that of the Cheddar. The best qualities are imported from Fribourg, but good, sound Gruyere is also manufactured in Ain, the Jura, Vosges, and other mountainous districts in France and Switzerland. The process employed in making Gruyire is unique, but there are two qualities, the better being called Emmenthaler, the difference being in the quality and character of the milk. Italian Cream Cheese.—Squeeze and strain the juice of three lemons, add to this 7 table-spoonfuls of powdered white sugar, and 2 table-spoonfuls of white wine, and then add and beat in by degrees lqt. of cream. Whip the whole with an egg whisk till quite thick. This will take about lialf-an- hour. When quite thick, lay a piece of muslin over a hair sieve, and pour the cream in through the muslin. Let it stand twelve hours, and when turned out garnish with flowers. Leicester Cheese.— Flat, circular, very shallow, and coloured deep red; strong in flavour. Limburger Cheese.—This Cheese is chiefly famous for its pungently offensive odour. It is made from skimmed milk, and allowed to partially decompose before pressing. It is very little known in this country, and might be less so with advantage to consumers. Lincoln Cheese.—Manufactured from a mixture of new milk and cream, and sold as a cream Cheese, in pieces about 2in. thick. It will not keep more than two or three weeks.