394 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Citron—continued. sifted crushed loaf sugar, and 2oz. or 3oz. of green Citron cut up very small. Put the mixture into patty-pans lined with puff paste, place a few pieces of Citron on the top of each, put them in a quick oven, and bake for about fifteen minutes. Turn them out when done, and serve either hot or cold. Citron Cordial.—Take 6oz. of Citron-rinds, 4oz. of orange- peel, a well-bruised nutmeg, and Tj pints of syrup. Put these ingredients into a large stone jar, pour on 2qts. of spirits of wine, and leave to macerate for ten days in a warm place. Then strain through a jelly-bag, and afterwards through filtering-paper if necessary. Citron Cream Ice.—Rub off the rind of a large Citron with lumps of sugar, scrape them into a basin, and stir in the juice of a lemon, sugar to sweeten, and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of double cream. Pour the mixture into a freezer, and work it well. When frozen, it is ready for use. Citron Ice.— (1) Rub off the zest of three lemons on lumps of sugar, put them into a basin with the juice of seven lemons, and the zest of a large Citron, and mix in 3 teacupfuls of plain syrup and a very little water. Pass the mixture through a fine sieve into a freezer, freeze in the usual way, and serve as required in moulds. (2) Cut some Citron into slices, and pour over it hot lemonade, then put it on ice, and freeze it. Citron Jelly.—Take fib. of lump sugar, with some of it grate the rinds of two Citrons. As the sugar gets coloured with the rind, scrape off the coloured part with a knife, and grate again till there is no coloured rind left on either Citron, always scraping the coloured sugar off. Put the scraped sugar into a basin, pour on it 1 pint of cold water, squeeze in the juice of four lemons, and strain this mixture through a jelly-bag. Clarify the rest of the sugar to syrup (see Sugar-boiling), and then put a fourth part of it into a small pan and boil it to caramel (see Sugar-boiling). Soak loz. of isinglass in just enough cold water to cover it. Mix together the water and lemon-juice and sugar coloured with Citron-rind, the caramel, the syrup, and the soaked isinglass, and stir them over the fire till the isinglass is completely dissolved, then pour the jelly into a mould, and when perfectly cold, dip the latter into hot water for an instant, and turn the jelly on to a dish. Citron Liqueur. —Take lib. of Citron-peel macerated in 6qts. of 60deg. over-proof spirits of wine, with 2qts. of capillaire and 5qts. of. water, and colour golden with infusion of saffron. Citron Liqueur, or Cream of Citron.— Put lqt. of spirits of wine into a bottle, add 60 drops of the oil of Citron, shake the bottle well, pour in lqt. of syrup, add 2oz. of yellow colouring, and filter until quite bright, changing the filtering-paper after being once used. Pour this into small bottles, cork them down, and keep in a cool place until wanted. Citron Paste.—Take some Citrons, cut off the ends, and take out all the seeds and middle. Boil the Citrons in water till quite tender, then take them from the boiling water and throw into cold water, and let them remain in it for a minute ; dry in a cloth, and press them to get all the water out. Then pound them and rub through a sieve ; weigh them, and add double the weight of clarified sugar. Put Citron and sugar into a preserving-pan, and let them boil very gently indeed, stirring constantly till thoroughly mixed; then put the paste into moulds, and stand them on the stove till dry. Citron Pound Cake.—Cut ilb. of candied Citron into small pieces, and see that the oven is properly heated. Line two cake-tins with buttered paper. Sift lib. of flour. Put lib. of butter into a large bowl, work it to a cream, and beat in the following ingredients successively: lib. each of powdered sugar and flour, 1 teaspoonful of salt, eight eggs, and 1 wine- glassful of brandy; then add the Citron, and bake the cake in a moderate oven for about three-quarters-of-an-hour, or until a straw can be thrust into it and withdrawn without being sticky. Citron Preserve.—Take a large lump of sugar weighing about lib., grate a Citron all over with this till the juice is almost oozing out. Then with a knife scrape off all the outside of the sugar to which the Citron-rind adheres, and on to this squeeze the juice of half the Citron. Melt the rest of the sugar over the fire, and boil it to the feather degree (see Citron—continued. Sugar-boiling), which is, when the skimmer is lifted out of the boiling sugar and shaken, large sparks of sugar rise from it and stick to one another as they rise. When the sugar has arrived at this degree of heat, take it off the fire and let it stand a short time. Then add the sugar the Citron was grated on, and the juice squeezed over; stir, and continue stirring, till a kind of ice forms on the top. When sufficiently cool, pour the preserve into mo aids. Citron Pudding1. -(1) Put 1 table-spoonful of flour into a basin, and mix in 2oz. of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and 1 breakfast-cupful of cream ; then beat in the yolks of three eggs. Place the cream in small cups or glasses, sprinkle them over with 2oz. of Citron-peel cut up very thin, and bake in a quick oven. Turn them out on a dish, and serve. (2) Work jib. of butter to a cream. Beat an egg till it is quite light, with' 3oz. of powdered white sugar, and mix it thoroughly with the beaten butter. Line a shallow pudding- dish with some rich pastry, put a thick layer of sliced Citron at the bottom of it, pour over the mixture of beaten egg, butter, and sugar, and bake till the pastry the dish is lined with is done. Take it out of the oven and put it away till quite cold. Citron Water Ice.—This is the same as Citron Ice, excepting that it is not moulded. Cream of Citron.—See Citron Liqueur. Preserved Citrons.—(1) Take some small Citrons, and cut a slit in the side of each. Put them over the fire in a pan of water, but do not let the water boil; whenever it is near boiling, pour in cold water to prevent the boil. When the Citrons rise to the top of the water in the pan, take them out and throw them into cold water. Put them back again into the hot water over the fire, and let them boil gently till tender. Take them out and put again in cold water ; afterwards boil them eight times in clarified sugar, and then pour both sugar and Citrons into an earthenware pan and let it stand all night. Next day drain the syrup off the Citrons, and, adding to this syrup a little more sugar, boil it up twenty-five or even thirty times, and then pour it over the Citrons and again let them stand all night. Repeat this every day for three days, boiling the sugar to a higher degree each day, till on the last day it is boiled to pearl, the degree at which little raised balls form on the surface of the sugar (see Sugar-boiling). The fruit may then be put into jars. To preserve Citrons dry, the process is exactly the same to the end, when, instead of being put into jars, they should be laid on sieves and dried in a stove, after which they may be glazed with the sugar that is left. (2) Procure a ripe Citron, grate the rind off and cut the Citron into small pieces, and tie them loosely in a piece of muslin; put them in a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil until tender. When cooked, strain the water off the Citron into a preserving-pan, and put in with it 21b. of coarsely- crushed loaf sugar, the juice of one lemon, and the white of an egg. Boil the water until the sugar has dissolved, then put in the pieces of Citron, without the muslin, and boil for a few minutes longer; five minutes before removing the pan from the fire, pour in a wineglassful of orange-flower water. Leave the Citron in the syrup until cold, then pack it in jars, and strain the syrup over. Preserved White Citron.—Cut some white Citron into pieces, lay these in a bowl, cover them with salt and water, and leave them for seven or eight hours. When ready, wash the pieces of Citron in plenty of cold water, and boil them. When tender, drain the Citron, lay it in a jar, and cover it with clarified sugar. On the following day, drain the syrup off the Citron and boil it up; when smooth and cold, pour the syrup over the Citron, leave it for twenty-four hours, and then proceed as before. On the third boiling, put the Citron in with the syrup and boil them both together. Put the pieces of Citron into moulds, and leave them to candy. The Citron may be kept packed away in boxes for any length of time. Whipped Citron Cream.—Dissolve ^oz. of gelatine and 4oz. of sugar in a small quantity of boiling water, and leave it to cool. Drain the syrup off £lb. of preserved Citron into 1 pint of thick cream, a,nd whisk it to a stiff froth, then mix in the dissolved gelatine and sugar. Continue whipping the mixture until it is very stiff, then mix in the pieces of Citron.