THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OE PRACTICAL COOKERY. 280 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their svecial heads. CALT7SO.—The name of a favourite wine of Pied- montese production. CAMEMBERT.—A very rich cheese named after the French village in the Department of Orne, where it is chiefly made. See Cheese. CANADIAN DISHES.—These differ very little from those of other parts of the American Continent. Perhaps those of greatest local importance which differ from British cooking are the Cookies, Corn-bread Loaf, Corn- meal Muffins, Crullers, Johnny Cakes, Waffles, Sasatijs, and some others, all of which are duly treated under their specific headings. CANAPES. —This French term is applied to little dainty and tasty morsels resembling in a measure our sandwiches, and yet being totally distinct from them in their preparation, as will be understood from the following receipts. Other Canapes will be found described under various headings. Bengal Canapes.—Put 4oz. of chopped ham in a mortar and pound it, then mix with it a little more than J breakfast- cupful of thick cream. Cut a dozen small rounds of bread about Jin. in thickness, put them in a flat stewpan with a lump of butter, melt it, and fry them a pale golden brown. Drain the rounds of bread on a sheet of paper for two or three minutes, then mask each with a thick layer of the ham mixture; over that spread a thin layer of chutney, and cover with grated Parmesan cheese. Spread white paper over a baking-sheet, lay the toast on it, and put in a brisk oven until the cheese has browned a little; then take them out, dust a small quantity of cayenne- pepper over each, arrange them on a hot dish that has been garnished with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, put a few pieces of parsley round, and serve. Bombay Canapes.—Skin and bone six anchovies, put them in a mortar with 2oz. of butter, and pound them to a smooth paste, then pass it through a fine wire sieve into a small sauce- pan over the fire; let it get hot, then stir in quickly the beaten yolks of four eggs. Continue stirring the mixture over the fire until thick. Cut some rounds of bread without any crusts; put a lump of butter in a stewpan over the fire, and when the blue smoke arises put in the rounds of bread and fry them until of a pale golden colour; take them out, drain them a minute or two on a piece of paper, spread the anchovy mixture over, dust them with a small quantity of cayenne-pepper, put them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a dish, and serve hot. Canapes.—Cut some thin slices of bread, take off the crusts, and toast them an even brown. Butter lightly, and spread with any kind of potted meat or fish. Put two slices together, and cut them in long strips. They make a tasty dish for tea or supper parties. Canapes Madison.—Cut six thin slices of bread and shape them alike. Toast to a golden colour, and lay on a dish. Cover each toast with a very thin slice of lean, cooked ham ; spread a little mustard over that, then cover with a layer of garnish- ing a la Proven9ale. Dredge grated Parmesan cheese on top, and strew a little fresh breadcrumbs over all. Place them in a hot oven, and bake for ten minutes; then take them out, arrange on a hot dish covered by a folded napkin, and serve. Fig 316. Various Canapes. Canapes of Various Sorts.—Cut some slices of bread, about 2|in. across and 3in. lo.ig, and fry them very lightly in clarified Canapes—continued. butter. When cold, mask their tops with anchovy butter; arrange upon them some anchovy fillets, herring fillets, pickled tunny, smoked salmon, or some crayfish tails; intermingle these various fillets with chopped, hard-boiled egg, gherkins, or chopped parsley, or whole capers, or spread all over with caviare (see Fig. 316). Put a folded napkin on a dish and serve the Canapds on it. Tricolour Canapes.—Skin and bone six anchovies, pound them in a mortar, and pass them through a fine wire sieve. Boil three eggs until hard, separate the whites and yolks, and pass them separately through the sieve. Care must be taken in preparing these ingredients not to get the colours mixed. Cut four slices of bread, trim off the crusts, and cut each slice into two squares. Melt a good-sized lump of butter in a stewpan, put in the squares of bread, and fry them until a pale golden colour. Drain the pieces of bread, leave them until cold, then spread them over with the pounded anchovies. Put a strip of the hard-boiled white of egg on a piece of the fried bread, next a strip of finely-chopped gherkins or capers, and next a strip of the yolk of egg, thus making three colours on one piece of bread. Proceed in a like manner with the rest. Spread a fancy dish-paper or a folded napkin over a dish, arrange the Canapes tastefully on it, putting a few sprigs of parsley here and there, and serve. CANDIED FEEL.—There are three kinds of Candied Peel used by cooks and confectioners to flavour cakes, puddings, and other sweet dishes. These are lemon, orange, and citron, or cedrat. The mode of preparation adopted for the wholesale market is very simple. The pulp is removed from the thick rinds of very soimd young fruit, which have been cut into halves; the rinds are then boiled in water until they are soft, and afterwards suspended in a strong candy syrup (cold) until they become partially transparent. The next step is to dry them either in a current of warm air or a drying-stove, at 120deg. Fahr. The same principle and process is adopted by artistic confectioners for preparing some very tasty little baskets and cups for holding fruit, cream, ices, jellies, and other confections. The following receipts depend upon the Candied Peel for their quality: Candied-Feel Pudding. —(1) Thinly slice an equal quantity of citron-, orange-, and lemon-peel. Butter a pie-dish, line it with puff paste, and put in the sliced peels. Beat the yolks of seven and the whites of two eggs with 6 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, then pour it over the peels. Put the pudding into a brisk oven, and bake for a little more than half-an-hour. Serve either hot or cold. (2) Put lloz. of butter over the fire in a brass saucepan, and when it is quite hot mix with it eight eggs beaten well with lloz. of powdered white sugar; keep stirring it for seven or eight minutes, put it into a dish, and let it stand all night. The next day mix with it Jib. of candied orange-peel, lemon- peel, and citron, and 1 wineglassful of orange-flower water. Butter a pudding-dish, lay a sheet of buttered white paper at the bottom of it, put the voldron on to it, and bake for twenty minutes. Turn it out of the dish it was baked in, and serve in a silver or glass dish, garnished with pieces of candied orange-peel and citron. CANDY.—The origin of this term is evidently from the Latin Candidas, glittering white (candied sugar having that characteristic), or again it may have originated from Khand, the Sanscrit for the sugar cane. However that may be, there is only one accepted definition of the word in cookery, and that is “ boiled sugar with more or less flavouring.” The process of making Candy must not be confounded, although it often is, with crystallising sugar. For further information on this subject see Sugar- boiling. Candied Fruit or Nuts.—Boil lib. of loaf sugar in 1 break- fast-cupful of water to the crack (see Sugar-boiling). The syrup must never be stirred, and must boil quickly, not furiously. Take the prepared fruit or nuts on the point of a large needle or fine skewer, dip them into the syrup, and then lay them on a dish that has been lightly buttered or oiled ; or string them on a thread, and after dipping in the syrup suspend them by the thread. When oranges are used,