413 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Codfish—continued. dish. Add a gill of brown sauce to the liquor in the baking- dish, strain the whole into a stewpan, put in a little essence of anchovy, 2oz. of butter, and a squeeze or so of lemon-juice : boil the sauce for three or four minutes, pour it round the Cod’s head, and serve. Baked Cod’s Head and Shoulders.—Take a good-sized pie- dish (one that the fish may be sent to table in) and put in the fish, the forepart being stuffed with some veal stuffing. Lay the fish belly downwards in the dish, pour over it a thin mixture of flour-and-water until the dish is three-parts full, sprinkle over a little pepper, and add twelve oysters with their liquor and two or three anchovies filleted and cut into small lengths. Place small lumps of butter along the back of the Cod, put the dish in the oven, and as the butter begins to melt baste the fish, and continue to do so until done. A piece of oiled paper may be placed over the back to prevent the skin from browning. When done, take out the dish, with a spoon remove as much of the liquor as possible, put it into a saucepan on the fire, and reduce by boiling (either straining or thickening as required), add a little lemon-juice (or other flavouring), pour it hot over the fish, and serve. Forcemeat balls may be used instead of the veal stuffing'; they are served placed round the dish. Boiled Cod.—(1) Prepare a good-sized fish (see Fig. 494), tie it round several times with string or tape, put it into a fish- kettle with some well-salted cold water, and place the kettle on the fire, letting it boil very gently, and frequently skimming. After it has once boiled, the fish will only take from two to three minutes longer. Take it out, remove the string or tape, and serve. The addition of the juice of half a lemon or a table-spoonful of vinegar to the water, renders the flesh very white. (2) Wash a piece of fish weighing about 21b. and put it into cold water for an hour to steep ; then take it out, put it into an oval pan with boiling water and a large handful of salt, and place the pan on the fire to boil; then let it simmer for ten minutes, skimming frequently. Take out the fish, put it on a drainer, dish it upon a napkin, surround it with parsley, and serve with melted butter or oyster sauce. (3) Take a good-sized fish, clean it, and wipe it dry. Care- fully truss the head, so that in boiling' it will keep its shape, and crimp the fillets so that the inside may be done as soon as the outside. Put the fish into the fish-kettle, cover with sufficient lukewarm salted water (that is, if it is being cooked whole; if not, the water must be boiling), boil up once, and then put the kettle by the side of the fire where it will simmer until done. Serve with oyster sauce. (4) Cut a good-sized fish into slices ; have ready a pan with salted water (the salt in the proportion of lib. to every 6qts. of water), and let the water boil; then put in the fish, and remove the pan to the side of the fire where it will simmer, letting it remain there for from twenty to thirty minutes. When the fish is nicely cooked, not overdone, take it out, remove the bone (which is easily done), and serve. If the fish is not crimped, it will require more salt to make it firm. Boiled Cod a la Hollandaise.—Remove the gills from a large Cod, pulling out the entrails where the gills form a hole, chop off the fins, well wash the fish (using plenty of water), drain and dry it, sprinkle it over with salt, placing a handful inside, and let it remain in a cold place for several hours. Take it up, wash off all the salt, tie the head up with string to keep it in place, crimp it on both sides (that is, make about six incisions about lin. deep along the sides inclining towards the head), put it into a bowl of cold water and milk, and let it disgorge for about forty-five minutes. Take it out and drain it, put it belly downwards on a drainer in a fish-kettle, Codfish —continued. pour in sufficient slightly-salted water to nearly cover it, add 2 or 3 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, and boil slowly until the cuts begin to open and the flesh is firm to the touch. Put the fish in the same position on a napkin spread over a dish, garnish with boiled potatoes and sprigs of parsley, and serve with Dutch sauce. Boiled Cod with Anchovies.—Place a crimped Cod on a dish, and sprinkle salt all over to cover it; then put it on a drainer in a fish-kettle, add sufficient boiling water to cover, and place the kettle on the fire to boil fast for five minutes, then removing it to the side and letting it simmer for ten nfinutes longer. Take out the fish on the drainer and let it drain; cover a dish with a napkin or cloth, place the fish on it, and lay fillets of anchovies and fried parsley alternately round. Make some melted butter sauce, and serve it in a sauceboat, with slices of lemon arranged on a plate. Boiled Cod with Cream Sauce.—Clean out the inside of a fresh Cod by opening the white skin of the belly, and thororrghly wash the fish all along the bone, taking care to remove all the blood with the knife-point or a stiff brush. Put the fish on a drainer, place it in a fish-kettle with salted water, and boil it fast at first and then slower. When done, take it out on the drainer and drain it, remove the skin, and pour over it some sauce made as follows: Put lib. of fresh butter into a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of Hour, and moisten with 1 pint of good cream, adding 1 pinch each of salt and cayenne, and 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovies ; place the pan on the fire, let the sauce thicken, but not boil, and work it well with a spoon. Serve either over the fish, or separate in a tureen. Boiled Cod with Oatmeal (Scotch Style).—Clean and wash a Cod’s head and shoulders, or a small fish. In the mean- time, soak in water seasoned with salt and pepper as much oatmeal (coarse Scotch) as will be required to stuff the fish, and let it remain for thirty minutes. Stuff the fish with this, wrap it up in a cloth, and boil it. Should the oatmeal not be quite fresh, dry it in the oven for a-quarter-of-an-hour before soaking. Boiled Codling with Oyster Sauce. -Prepare a fresh fish weighing about 31b. (see Fig. 495), put it in a saucepan or fish-kettle with drainer, cover with well-salted fish stock, and cook slowly for thirty minutes. Take it out, drain well, lay it on a dish, and garnish with a few branches of parsley and slices of boiled potatoes. Serve with oyster sauce separately. Boiled Middle of Cod a la Flamande. — Take a good- sized Cod, from the centre cut out a slice of about 7in. or Sin. in width, remove the scales, wash the fish Fig. 496. Boiled Middle of Cod a la Flamande. thoroughly, score the sides of it, place it in a basin, cover with salt, and leave for twenty-five minutes to macerate. Well wash the fish to remove the salt, in the belly part put