THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 376 Fur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Chocolate—continued. The creams may be dipped in the Chocolate one at a time by means of a long needle. See Tig. 455. Fig. 455. Dipping Chocolate Cream Chocolate-cream Bars.—(1) To be able to make these, moulds, made either of tin or copper, must be at hand (see Fig. 456). Put the required quantity of Chocolate paste into a vessel to melt; pour as much of it into the moulds as will coat them to about ),in. in thickness, turning them about so that as the paste cools they will be evenly coated all over, and set them away to harden. Fill up the moulds with melted cream, prepared as for Chocolate Creams ; let it get cold and hard, smooth over the surface with more of the melted Chocolate paste, and let this set. Turn the bars out of their moulds, and they are ready for use. To obtain a good gloss, the bars must be brushed over with a solution of shellac in alcohol. (2) Have ready a tin, the sides of which are lj-in. high, cover the bottom and sides with greased paper, and pour in some melted sweetened Chocolate paste to about iin. in thickness. Over this pour the required quantity of cream, prepared as for Chocolate Creams, to about lin. in thickness, and let it set; then cover it over with more Chocolate. Cut it into bars with a sharp knife when cold, and it is ready for use. The Chocolate paste must be melted by putting it into a pan placed inside another one with boiling water, and letting it melt. The cream must be melted over a slow fire, and stirred continually before being used. (3) Should the bars be required with only a thin coating of Chocolate, the tins must be prepared with the greased paper as above, and the cream melted and poured into it. When set, it is taken out and masked all over—using either a knife or brush—with a thin coating of melted Chocolate, and it. may be cut up into bars as before. The idea of using greased paper in the tins is to ensure the cake of bars turning out whole. Chocolate-cream Buns or Cakes.—Prepare the cream as for Chocolate Creams, and when cooled form it into the shapes required, such as buns or cakes, put these in a warm place, and let them harden slightly on the outside. Put the required quantity of cocoa paste, or prepared Chocolate, into a copper bowl, set it in a saucepan of boiling water over the fire, and let it remain until the Chocolate is melted. Great care must be taken that no water enters, or the Chocolate will be spoilt. With a knife or brush, the latter for preference, mask the buns or cakes smoothly with this, and set them away to dry, afterwards, by means of another brush, glazing them with a solution of shellac in alcohol. Chocolate-cream Drops.—Put 41b. of granulated sugar into a sugar-boiler with lqt. of water and 1 teaspoonful of cream Chocolate—continued. of tartar, and boil to the feather degree ; then pour this on to a marble slab, when cold turning in the edges with a knife, and working the mass to and fro without intermission with a long-handled spatula, until it granulates into a putty-like consistency that can no longer be worked in this way. Scrape off any that may have adhered to the spatula, mix it all together, and work it with the hands in the same way as dough is kneaded; then form it into balls, roll these well, and put them on sheets of glazed paper until the Chocolate covering concretes. Remove the paper, and the drops are ready for use. The cream may be flavoured with any essence, extract, or fruit juice desired. Chocolate-cream Ice.—(1) Set | pint of milk over the fire, with £lb. of caster sugar and ilb. of grated Chocolate in it, and beat until the Chocolate is all dissolved; then strain it into another vessel and let it cool. Whip lqt. of thick cream in a pail or pan, set on ice, and add the Chocolate milk while whipping. Flavour with vanilla extract when all the ingredients are put into the freezer. (2) Beat up two eggs, 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar, and 1 teacupful of flour, and stir in 1 pint of boiling milk ; then add lqt. of cream and another teacupful of sugar. While this is being boiled, which will take about twenty minutes, scrape loz. of Chocolate into a small pan with 2 table- spoonfuls of sugar and one of boiling water. Place the pan over the fire, and mix until the paste is quite smooth and glossy; then put it into the other mixture whilst it is boiling. Pour all into a basin or mould, putting this into cold water or pounded ice to cool, and stirring frequently; when quite cold, add 1 teacupful of sugar and lqt. of milk, and put it on the ice to freeze. (3) Prepare a cream as for any other cream ice. Put in a saucepan 2oz. of well-chopped Chocolate and loz. of powdered sugar, add to it half the cream preparation, place the pan on the stove, and with a whisk stir briskly, and let it boil for three minutes. Take it from the fire, add it to the re- maining half of cream, then mix the whole well together for two minutes, and strain through a fine sieve into a freezer. Let it cool for thirty minutes, then freeze it exactly the same as for other ices, and serve the same. (4) Take jib. of vanilla-flavoured Chocolate, rasp it very fine, and throw it into a pan with a little water. When melted, mix and beat it with some cream which has been boiled, and a little salt. Except in creams of fruit, as pineapples, apricots, raspberries, &c., a little salt is always requisite, but only a very little. If this cream is to be iced, instead of sixteen eggs for lqt. of cream, only put eight, and set them on the fire to thicken, but be careful that they do not curdle. When removed from the fire, mix in 2oz. of isinglass, and rub the whole through a sieve. The isinglass should have been previously dissolved in a teacupful of boiling water. Put into the freezer, continually stirring until stiff. (5) Slice up jib. of Chocolate, put it into a stewpan with 1 teaspoonful of vanilla extract (see Flavourings) and f pint of cream. Set it upon the stove to dissolve, and add loz. of isinglass (see Gelatine) ; strain through a fine strainer, and stir in 1 pint of whipped cream and 1 table-spoonful of maraschino. Sweeten to taste with caster sugar, pour into a mould imbedded in ice, and when firm turn out in the usual way. (6) French Style.—Put Jib. of Chocolate into a saucepan on the fire, or at the entrance to the oven, let it melt, and work it with a spoon; then add 3 pints of vanilla cream, pouring- it in gradually, and lastly 5oz. of dissolved gelatine. Stir gently over the ice for a few minutes, turn it into a mould packed in ice, and let it freeze. Dip the mould into lukewarm water, turn the cream out on to a dish, and serve. Chocolate Creams au Nougat.— Put 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar in a sugar-boiler, with a little water to melt it, add loz. of ground almonds, and stir over a fire. When this is brown, spread it on a baking-sheet, and leave it until cold. Chop it very fine, and mix with it the same quantity of vanilla cream, made by boiling ilb. of caster sugar with a stick of vanilla until it reaches 40deg. Fahr., and then adding 2 table- spoonfuls of double cream, and putting in a basin until cool. Roll the mixture into little balls, and dip these on a fork