444 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cornflour—continued. salt; then stir into it lqt. of boiling milk, put it over the fire, and boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour, stirring hard all the time. Take it from the fire, pour it into a basin, and work loz. of butter well in, beating it for quite three minutes ; then let it cool. Beat up four eggs with 6oz. of sugar, and when the batter is cold beat them well in, and stir in 1 saltspoonful of grated nutmeg and powdered cinnamon mixed; lastly, stir in \ tea- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in hot water. Pour the batter immediately into greased muffin-rings, and bake in a hot oven. See Fig. 527. Cornflour Ramakins.—Put the required quantity of Cornflour into a saucepan with a little milk, and parboil it; add a little each of grated Parmesan cheese, butter, grated nutmeg, pepper, and sugar, and mix well. Remove the pan from the fire, take up the paste with a dessert-spoon, put it carefully on a slab, place a piece of cheese in the centre of each, cover over with a little of the Cornflour paste, and let them get cold. Trim them round, dip them into well-beaten yolk of egg, plunge into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry. When done, take them out, drain, put them on a napkin on a dish, and serve. Cornflour Shape.—Put into a saucepan nearly 1 pint of milk, and let it get hot gradually. With the remainder of the pint of milk blend smoothly 2 table-spoonfuls of Cornflour with 1 table- spoonful of sugar. When the milk in the saucepan is very hot, pour into it the blended Cornflour, milk, and sugar; let it boil for ten minutes, continually stirring. Wet the inside of a shape with cold water, and pour the Cornflour into it. When quite cold, turn it out on to a glass dish, put some jam or custard round, and serve. Cornflour Slappers.—Put in a basin 1 pint of Cornflour, 1 salt- spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of caster sugar, and 1 teaspoon- ful of butter. Mix it with sufficient boiling milk to wet the flour; let it cool, then add two eggs well beaten in cold milk, and mix it to a thin batter; bake in cakes on a hot griddle. Cornflour Spider Cake.—Put in a basin If teacupfuls of Cornflour, 1 breakfast-cupful of wheat-flour, f teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar; beat one egg in 1 teacupful of new milk and | 1 teacupful of sour milk, and mix these with the dry ingre- dients. Put 1 table-spoonful of butter in a hot cake-tin, turn the mixture into it, and pour 1 teacupful of new milk over the top, but do not stir it; put the tin in a hot oven, and bake for twenty minutes. Cornflour Sponge Cakes.—(1) Large.—Mix together 1 break- fast-cupful of wheat-flour, 1 teacupful of Cornflour, i tea- spoonful of salt, | teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, 1 table-spoonful of warmed butter, the yolks of two eggs and the white of one egg; spread the mixture in a shallow baking-pan, and bake. (2) Small.—Take |lb. of Cornflour, three-quarters of that quantity of sugar, Jib. of butter beaten to a cream, and three well-beaten eggs. Mix with the dry Cornflour 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, then beat all well together with the butter and eggs. Bake in small cake-tins in a slow oven. Fig. 528. Cornflour Timbale. Cornflour-—continued. then move to the side, put in a lump of fresh butter, about 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, 1 teacupful of thick brown gravy, and a very small quantity of chopped garlic ; boil for ten minutes longer, stirring all the time. Butter a square timbale-mould, pour the mixture into it, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and boil for an hour. Turn the timbale on to a hot dish, pour some rich brown gravy round, and serve. This may be garnished with chicken or veal quenelles (see Fig. 528). Cornflour Waffles.—Put into an earthen bowl 1\ breakfast- cupfuls of Cornflour, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 dessert-spoonful each of lard and butter, and pour in 1 pint of boiling milk. Beat this mixture smooth, let it cool.until lukewarm, then add two eggs well beaten, and bake the waffles at once in a hot buttered waffle-iron. Maryland Cornflour Cakes.—Mix with 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling milk, 1 breakfast-cupful of sifted white Cornflour, 1 teaspoonful of caster sugar, 1 table-spoonful of butter, and 1 saltspoonful of salt; when the batter is cool, add one egg, the yolk and white beaten separately. Butter some warm cups, pour in the mixture, and bake about half-an-hour in a moderately hot oven. Port Royal Cornflour Cakes.—Mix together lib. of fine Cornflour and |lb. of wheat-flour; shake in 1 dessert-spoonful of salt, mix in gradually and smoothly 2qts. of milk, then add six eggs beaten very light. Bake on a griddle, and serve hot. Spiced Cornflour Pudding.— Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of milk with 3 dessert-spoonfuls of Cornflour. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of milk (less the 2 table-spoonfuls) into a saucepan on the fire, add a few cloves, coriander-seeds, or cinnamon tied up in a muslin bag, and sufficient sugar to sweeten; boil up once, remove the bag, put in the Cornflour, and stir well on the side of the fire until the preparation is quite thick. Beat in 1 gill of port wine, pour the whole into a damped mould, let it get firm, turn it out when cold, and serve as required. CORNISH PATTIES.—See Patties. CORN-SALAD.—This is the name given to an annual herb (Valerianella olitoria) sometimes used in salad, and known also as Lamb’s Lettuce (see Pig-. 529). It has a slightly bitter taste, and although it may be used by it- self, it is better as an addition to lettuce salads. On the Conti- nent it is known as doucette. Salad of Corn-Salad.—Pare oft the outer stale leaves and the roots from lqt. of Corn-Salad, wash in several waters, drain in a cloth, and arrange in a salad- bowl. Season with salt and pepper diluted in 1 salad-spoonful of vine- gar and lj salad-spoonfuls of sweet oil. Mix well when about to serve, but not before. Salad of Corn-Salad with Beetroots.—Arrange 1 pint of Corn-Salad and three medium-sized boiled beetroots cut in slices in a salad-bowl, and season the same as for Salad of Corn-Salad. Salad of Corn-Salad with Hard-boiled Eggs.—The same as for Salad of Corn-Salad, but when about to serve garnish with two hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters. CORNUCOPIAS.—Vessels of this shape are great favourites with artistic confectioners, as indicating hospi- Fig. 529. Corn-Salad. Fig. 530. Cornucopia Moulds. Cornflour Timbale.—Make a smooth batter with Cornflour and boiling- water, stir it over the fire, and boil for ten minutes ; tality as well as abundance. The term is derived from two Latin words signifying “ horn ” and “ plenty.” In