310 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Carving—continued. Pish.—With but few exceptions the modes of carving fish depend upon the shape, and then in describing the carving of one fish you include all of a similar kind. Fig. 357 Fish-slice. Some fish, however, are only considered partly worth eating, it is therefore well to ascertain which are the prime parts, and to serve them only to your guests. A silver or plated fish-slice is the best instrument (see Fig. 357). Carp is one of those fish that are only partly eaten, Fig. 358. Carving Carp. and that part is or should be the middle of the back, where Carp are generally larded (see Fig. 358). Cod’s head and shoulders require no special knowledge if they come off a large fish. The cut of the scoring indicates clearly how the slices are to be obtained (see Fig. 359. Carving Cod’s Head and Shoulders. Fig. 359); but it is advisable to know that with each slice a little of the sound may be appreciated. The sound is attached to the sides of the backbone, and will be found there. As to carving the head, as that will Carving—continued. Mullet are usually split into halves lengthwise, and half the liver served with each half of the fish. Salmon requires no special plan, unless it is one that good Carvers adopt when serving the middle cut. The fish- Fig. 361. Carving Turbot. slice should be passed in lines along the back, lengthwise, to half the distance, and then this part cut in transverse strips (see Fig. 360), so that each guest receives a slice from the thick of the back and a fair cut of the thin ; the prime object is to avoid breaking the flakes. All large flat fish can be carved after the same plan as shown at Fig. 361 for carving turbot. Score two lines with the slice right down to the rib-bones, one being on each side of the central backbone, then transverse slices can be removed from one side at a time. Turn the fish over, and proceed as before, if more is required for serving than one side will supply. The flesh on the fins and the skin are highly esteemed by epicures, therefore they should not be removed before cooking. A sole does not often require carving, serving merely as a dish for one; but in the case of an exceptionally large fish it may be treated as the turbot, the transverse slices being very much broader. B Fig. 360. Carving Middle of Salmon. Fig. 362. Carving Ham. assuredly fall to pieces, the Carver must serve the frag- ments as best he can, taking heart of grace from the certainty that all of them are equally good. Ham.—There are two or three plans of carving a ham, but the best by far is that shown in Fig. 362, A, although it is not so satisfactory in those cases where it is intended