349 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Cheese—continued. together 2oz. of grated Cheese, loz. of butter, 1 table-spoonful of milk, and a little salt and cayenne; fill the breads with this mixture, stand them in the oven, and as soon as the Cheese is melted, serve them. (2) Cut off some thick slices of stale bread and trim them into rounds with a cake-cutter. Scoop out a piece from the middle of each round so that it shall form a kind of shallow cup. Break an egg and separate the yolk from the white; beat up the white, and dip the cup-shaped pieces of bread into it. Strew them with fine breadcrumbs, fry a pale brown, and put them on paper to drain. Beat up the yolk of the egg. Boil up 4 pint of water, and stir into it loz. of butter, 5 table-spoonfuls of grated Cheese, and pepper and salt to taste ; when this is all melted, take the saucepan off the fire and stir in the yolk of the egg, put it on the fire for an instant to get hot, but do not let it boil, and then stir in J teacupful of breadcrumbs. Place a table-spoonful of this into the hollow of each of the pieces of fried bread, put them into a hot oven, and brown them quickly. Serve on a hot dish on a napkin. See Fig. 428. Clieese Pudding. -(1) Put 2oz. of butter into a basin, warm it, and beat to a cream ; then mix in Jib. of finely-grated Cheese, 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, and two eggs beaten until qui^e light. Sprinkle over a little grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper to taste; turn the mixture into a well-buttered basin, put it into a moderate oven, and bake to a light brown. When done, turn it out on to a dish, and serve very hot, with slices of toast for garnish. (2) Mix Jib. of grated Cheese, 2oz. of butter, four eggs, and a little cayenne and nutmeg. Butter a small pan, pour the mix- ture in, and bake for twenty minutes. Serve hot for supper. (3) Put loz. of butter into a saucepan, slice thinly into it Jib. of Cheese, and add 1J teacupfuls of milk; stir it over the fire till the Cheese is melted. Then take the saucepan from the fire and add the yolks of two eggs, and stir them well in. Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in very lightly; then pour it all into a small pudding-dish, bake in a quick oven for ten minutes, and serve at once. (4) Put into a saucepan 1 pint of fresh milk, 3|oz. of sifted breadcrumbs, two beaten eggs, and Jib. of grated Cheese. Put the saucepan over the fire and stir till the Cheese is melted, then pour the pudding into a buttered dish and brown in a Dutch oven before the fire. Cheese Puffs or Ramekins.—(1) Put in a stewpan J pint of water and 2oz. of butter, and when it boils add Jib. of flour; stir this slowly over the fire for three or four minutes, then mix in Jib. of grated Parmesan Cheese, and break in three eggs one at a time. Butter a baking-sheet and put the paste on it in lumps about the size of an egg; flatten them a little, brush the tops over with egg, put some pieces of Gruyere Cheese cut in dice on each, bake, and serve very hot. (2) Grate Jib. of any dry, rich Cheese. Butter one dozen small paper cases, or little boxes of stiff writing-paper like souffle-cases. Put a saucepan containing 1 gill of water over the fire, add 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, and when the water boils stir in 1 heaped table-spoonful of flour, and beat the mixture until it shrinks away from the sides of the saucepan ; then stir in the grated Cheese. Remove the paste thus made from the fire, and let it partly cool. In the meantime separate the yolks from the whites of three eggs, and beat them until the yolks foam and the whites make a stiff froth. Stir the yolks in with the paste first, and next lightly mix in the whites. Put Cheese—continued. the mixture at once into the buttered paper cases, only half filling them (as they rise very high while being baked), lay on the top small slices of Cheese symmetrically, and Fig. 429. Cheese Ramekin. bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. As soon as the puffs are done, put the cases on a hot dish covered with a folded napkin, and serve very hot. See Fig 429. (3) Put loz. of butter into a basin, heat it to oil, and beat in an egg; then add Coz. of grated Parmesan Cheese, sprinkled with cayenne to taste, and loz. of flour. When thoroughly incorporated, roll the paste on a floured board, cut it into fancy shapes, brush over with egg, and bake in a moderate oven. Take them out when a good brown colour, sprinkle over grated Cheese, and serve when slightly cooled. (4) Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan, warm it, and mix in 3oz. of flour and 1 breakfast-cupful of milk; stir well, and boil for a few minutes. Remove the pan from the fire, mix in lightly the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, add 2oz. of finely-grated Parmesan Cheese, and a slight seasoning of salt and pepper. When all these are thoroughly mixed, work in the whites of three eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Have ready the required number of paper ramekin-cases slightly greased with butter, put in sufficient of the mixture to three-parts fill them, place them carefully on a baking-sheet in a sharp oven, and bake for from ten to fifteen minutes. When they are done, and well risen and browned, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. These ramekins should be served directly they are taken from the oven, or they will sink and spoil. (5) Scrape fine Jib. of Gloucester Cheese and Jib. of Cheshire Cheese. Beat this scraped Cheese in a mortar with the yolks of four eggs, Jib. of fresh butter, and the crumb of a French roll boiled in cream till soft; when all this is well mixed and pounded to a paste, add the beaten whites of four eggs. Should the paste seem too stiff, 1 or 2 table- spoonfuls of sherry may be added. Put the paste into paper cases, and bake in a Dutch oven till nicely browned. The ramekins should be served very hot. Cheese and Rice.—Wash Jib. of rice in several waters; put it into a saucepan with enough cold water to cover it, and when the water boils pour it off and add to the rice J pint of milk, and let it stew very slowly for twenty minutes. Grate Jib. of hard dry Cheese; then take a flat dish, scatter over it Joz. of dripping cut in small pieces, put on that a layer of rice, sprinkle over this some of the grated Cheese, shake on to that a little salt and pepper, then add another layer of rice, then grated Cheese, and a sprinkling of salt and pepper, and so on, rice and Cheese alternately, till all is on the dish. Then put on the top Joz. of dripping cut in small pieces, and put the dish in a Dutch oven in front of the fire till the top is nicely browned. Cheese Salad. -Put the yolk of a hard-boiled, very fresh egg into a basin, and rub it smooth with a table-spoonful of salad-oil; then add 1 teaspoonful each of salt, eayenne, sugar, and made mustard, mixing each one separately before another is added, and stir in Jib. of grated Cheese. The Cheese used for this should be as old as possible without being high. When all are well worked together, add 1 table-spoonful of onion-vinegar, put the mixture into scallop shells, and serve with shredded lettuce or other green salad. Cheese Sandwich.—(1) Grate 2oz. of Roquefort, Parmesan, or other Cheese, and work it well with a pat of butter. Spread