TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 404 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cocks’ Combs—continued. at the cook’s service, and Lecoq, a celebrated culinary master, literally revelled in taking his clients in with them,“who,” Delamere remarks, “complacently took them in themselves,” quite ignorant of the deceit. Real Cocks’ Combs can readily be distinguished from those that are artificial, because both sides are studded with papillae, or little warts, which is not the case with those cut from the palate and stamped from other parts—in these there are probably no papillae at all. Cocks’ Combs with. Truffles in Aspic.—Pack a plain cylinder mould in pounded ice. Take lib. of blanched and cooked Cocks’ Combs, and the same quantity of truffles, stewed in wine and cut into rounds. Have ready some half-set aspic jelly, dip some rounds of truffles in it, arrange them in a circle against the inner sides of the mould, and put in a circle of the Cocks’ Combs, also dipping them in the jelly. Proceed in this manner until the mould is full of alternate circles of truffles and Cocks’ Combs, and then leave them until they are set. Afterwards fill the mould up carefully A* Fig. 486. Cocks’ Combs with Truffles in Aspic. with cold, but liquid, jelly, and leave in the ice for an hour or two. When quite set and hard, dip the mould into hot water to loosen the jelly, then wipe it, and turn it oh to a dish. In the middle of the dish might be fixed a small column of bread masked with fat, so that when the jelly is turned out, it fits into the hollow of the mould. A subject modelled in fat, representing a cock (see Pig. 486) or other suitable subject, might be placed on the top to give it a finish. Garnish round the base of the jelly with croutons of aspic jelly. Fried Stuffed Cocks’ Combs.—Take Jib. or so of blanched and boiled Cocks’ Combs, cut them lengthwise without severing them, put a small piece of chicken forcemeat in the centre of each, fold them up to their original shapes, dip them into frying batter, plunge them into boiling fat, and fry to a good colour. Take them out, drain them, dust them over with salt, arrange them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with fried parsley for garnish. Rissoles of Cocks’ Combs with Ham. Take two or three dozen blanched and boiled Cocks’ Combs, cut them up into small pieces, and put them into a saucepan with a third of their bulk of chopped cooked ham. Pour 2 breakfast-cupfuls of rather thick bechamel sauce into a saucepan, reduce this on the fire, add 4 or 5 table-spoonfuls of melted glaze, set the pan on the side, and mix in the pieces of meat, which should soak up nearly all the sauce but yet keep it of a good con- sistence. Turn the whole out into a basin and let it cool. Boll out some half-puff paste, with it and the preparation form rissoles, fry these in boiling fat, drain them, arrange them on a folded napkin spread over a dish, and serve. Rissoles of Cocks’ Combs and Truffles.—Blanch and trim twelve Cocks’ Combs, put them into a saucepan with a white ] thickening made of butter, flour, and stock, and boil them. Turn them out into a basin, let them get cold or nearly so, I Cocks’ Combs—continued. cut them up into small pieces, mix in a few truffles boiled in sherry and chopped, and stir well with the reduced liquor from the Cocks’ Combs. Boll out a pound or so of puff paste, cut it into rounds of about 4in. in diameter, put these into the oven for a few minutes to brown on one side, put a little of the preparation on each of them, fold them over, damping the edges to make them adhere, dip each one separately into well-beaten egg seasoned to taste with salt and pepper, plunge them into boiling fat (either butter or lard), and fry them. Take them out, drain them, arrange them in a pile on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with fried parsley or other garnish. COCKS’ KERNELS.—Hard secretions found in the flesh of the cock. They are esteemed a great delicacy, and are therefore almost unknown, excepting amongst a few of the professed gourmets of the wealthy classes. They are prepared as follows : Well wash the required quantity of white, firm, and unbroken Cocks’ Kernels, put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them, add butter, lemon-juice, and salt as required, and stir over the fire until they are firm, but without boiling. Take them out, drain, and use as a garnish. COCKLES.—This name, for a very delicious little shell-fisli, is undoubtedly derived from the French coquilles, shells; the French for Cockles is Coques. They are of the genus Cardium (heart-shaped), and may Fig. 487. Cockles. be classed amongst the scallops (see Fig. 487). When cooked and removed from their shells they are prettily diversified in colour, yellow and red predominating. As their usual habitat is the sand of the sea-shore, they are almost always gritty, even after cooking, unless extra- ordinary precautions are taken for cleaning them by soaking them in numerous renewals of cold salted water before putting them in the pot to boil. The following instructions are given by Mr. Rawson for washing and boiling Cockles: After having washed in several waters as many Cockles as may be required, leaving them to soak for at least one hour in each water, put them into a final bath with a piece of salt in it, and having covered the bowl with a cloth leave them for the night; by the morning they will probably have discharged all their sand, and be ready for cooking. Have a very little water at the bottom of a large sauce- pan and put the Cockles in to about half-full; then set it over the fire, and give the Cockles a good shake up now and again as they get warm. When their shells are open they are done, and should be cooked no longer, or they will