THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 424 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Coffee—continued ready for use. Pour it into cups or glasses, and serve. The cream should be thick without being compact. (5) Put 8oz. of powdered sugar and the yolks of six eggs into a saucepan and mix well for ten minutes ; add 1 pint of boiling milk, stir for two minutes longer, pour the whole into a copper basin on the hot stove, and with a spatula or spoon stir gently at the bottom until well keated, but it must not boil. Take it from the fire, and put it on the table; add immediately 1 pint of sweet cream, mixing again for two minutes, and throw in 2oz. of freshly-ground Coffee, stirring for two minutes longer. Return the basin to the stove, beat the contents up again with a whisk, and return to the table once more. Cover with a napkin so that the Coffee can infuse thoroughly for half-an- hour, strain through a fine sieve into the freezer, and freeze it. Serve as other crexm ices. (6) Roast 6oz. of Coffee till the berries are covered with an oily moisture. Put them into a stewpan, mix in 1 pint of warm milk and 3 teacupfuls of caster sugar; then put the lid on the stewpan and stand it off the fire to cool. Beat the yolks of eight eggs with 1 pint of milk, and strain through a sieve into the other ingredients; stir this over the fire until it begins to simmer; then pour into a basin and let it cool. Pack an ice-box or freezer with ice, turn the cream into it, work it with a spoon to remove the frozen cream that adheres to the sides, and when all is solid, serve in glasses or on a folded napkin spread on a dish. (7) Put into a saucepan over the fire jib. of roasted Coffee- berries and shake them until they are thoroughly heated; pour over them 1 pint of cream, cover the saucepan, and let the cream and Coffee remain hot for an hour without boiling; then strain off the cream. After the cream is strained, put into a thick saucepan the yolks of eight eggs, lib. of sugar, and the cream. Dissolve l|oz. of gelatine in 1 gill of hot water, and whisk j pint of cream to a stiff froth ; put the saucepan containing the sugar, eggs, and cream over the fire, and stir until it begins to thicken; then remove from the fire, and stir the dissolved gelatine into it for two minutes; next mix in the whipped cream lightly and quickly. Put the Coffee into a tight-covered mould, and freeze it; or put it into little paper cases, and freeze these for three hours. (8) Pour 1 pint of boiling water over 6oz. of freshly-ground Coffee, and let it stand for a few minutes; then strain it, and mix with 1 j pints of milk and j pint of scalded cream, sweetening to taste. Put half of the mixture in the freezer and the other on ice. When the Coffee which has been put in the freezer has partly frozen, mix it with the other, and serve. (9) With 3 pints of syrup at 35deg. mix 3 pints of scalded cream and j pint of strong Coffee. Strain the Coffee through a fine sieve, put it in a freezer, and let it freeze for an hour. Work the frozen cream from the sides, and serve in glasses. Coffee Cream Syrup.—To each quart of Coffee syrup stir in 1 pint of thick cream. This preparation is fit for immediate use only. Coffee Croquenbouclie.—Boil in a stewpan j pint of water, jib. of butter, and joz. of caster sugar; take them off the fire, sift in jib. of flour, and stir over the fire again for four or five minutes. Drop teaspoonfuls of this paste on different parts of a floured slab, roll them with the hand to a round shape, put them a short distance from each other on buttered baking-sheets, brush over with egg, and bake in a slack oven. When they are done, take them off the baking-sheets, put on a slab covered with paper, and leave to dry in a warm place for an hour. Take them up one by one with the fingers, and dip one side only in some icing sugar; then build them against the inside of an oiled dome-mould, fixing one above the other in circles-. It will require two persons for this operation. When the sugar is cool, turn the croquenbouche out on a pastry grating and mask it with a thin layer of pre- pared Coffee icing sugar. When the glaze is firm, remove the croquenbouche from the grating, dish it on a folded napkin, and serve with any garnish. Coffee Custards.—(1) Beat in a basin lqt. of boiled milk, 1 pint of very strong Coffee, the yolks of five eggs, and ljoz. of caster sugar, and strain through a pointed strainer. Fill six breakfast-cups with the custard, skim off all froth, stand them in a large stewpan, pour in boiling water to about half the height of the cups, stand the stewpan on a very slow, fire, Coffee—continued. put on the cover, placing a few hot coals on the top, and let the water just simmer. When the custards are set, let them get cold, and then turn them out, and serve. (2) Roast 3oz. of raw Coffee, but do not blacken it, put it while hot in J pint of warm milk, and cover over ; let it stand for half-an-hour, then strain through a sieve. Beat the yolks of six eggs in a stewpan, pour in the milk, and add jib. of caster sugar; set the pan over a slow fire, stir till thick without boiling, and then turn it into a basin. When nearly cold, mix in loz. of gelatine dis- solved in a little warm water, strain into a basin, and stir over pounded ice until thick. Remove from the ice, add gradually 1 pint of sweetened and w"hipped cream, and pour it into an ornamental cylinder mould packed in ice. When the custai’d has set, dip the bottom of the mould in warm water, wipe it dry, then turn the custard out on a dish, and serve. Coffee Drops.—Put 21b. of coarsely-sifted crushed loaf sugar into a small pan with a lip to it, and make it into a paste by adding a decoction of 2oz. of Coffee. Caster sugar should not be used for this, as it makes the drops heavy, and spoils their appearance ; while the paste should be of such a thick- ness that it will easily drop from a spoon. Set the pan on a ring on the stove, made to fit it, and with a spatula stir until the sugar is dissolved and makes a slight noise, but without letting it boil. Remove the pan from the stove as soon as the sugar is near the boiling-point, and stir well with the spatula until it is so thick that when dropped it will still retain its round form and not spread too much. A little coarsely-powdered sugar may be added if it is too thin. Hold the pan in the left hand, and with a piece of bent wire in the right cut off small drops, and let them fall on a smooth tin or copper plate, keeping them at a little distance from one another and at regular intervals ; let them remain for about two hours, remove them carefully with a thin spatula, pack in boxes, and put away for use. Coffee with. Egg. — Beat 1 teacupful of cold water and 3 dessert-spoonfuls of ground Coffee with one egg. When well beaten, put it in a Coffee-pot, pour in 1 pint of boiling water, and boil for five minutes; then move it from the fire, and pour a little in a cup. Pour it back, and let it stand for five minutes before using. Coffee Glacees.—Beat the yolks of six eggs with jib. of caster sugar; then add the w'hites of the eggs and jib. of flour. Mix to a smooth paste, and press out of a biscuit-bag on to sheets of paper, making rounds about 3in. in diameter and Jin. thick. Dust a little caster sugar over these and bake them ; when they are done, glaze the tops with Coffee icing. These are very delicate, but inexpensive. Coffee Granito.—Mix 1 pint of strong Coffee with j pint of syrup, boiled to 28deg.; pour it into a freezer, stirring the mixture about, and as it freezes to the sides working it to the centre with a spatula. When it is half frozen, so that it looks something like snowy water, pour it into glasses, and serve. Coffee Icing.—Put lib. of the finest clarified sugar into a copper pan, and boil it to the blow degree ; then stand the pan in cold water until the sugar begins to set at the sides, flavour with a teacupful of strong Coffee, and work against the sides of the pan with the back part of the bowl of a spoon to give the sugar a granulated appearance, having acquired which it is ready for use. Coffee Jelly.—(1) Infuse jib. of ground Coffee in lqt. of water, strain it, and add a little brandy. Boil four calf’s feet in 4qts. of water till the stock is reduced to 2qts., strain, and let it settle. When cold remove the grease, and boil it with twelve beaten eggs, the juice of four lemons, 21b. ol loaf sugar, and the prepared Coffee; stir the mixture well, strain it through a fine jelly-bag into a glass mould, and let it set before being turned out. -(2) Soak loz. of gelatine for two hours in j pint of cold water, and pour over lj pints of boiling water. When the gelatine is dissolved, add lib. of caster sugar and 1 pint of strong Coffee. Strain, turn it into moulds, and leave it to set. Serve with sugar and cream. Coffee Iiiqueur.—(1) Put lib. each of blue and green Coffee- berries into a Coffee-roaster and roast them, adding joz.