TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 278 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Calf—continued. it to boil in a large saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil it fast until it is tender, wbicli will take about five minutes. As soon as tbe spinacli is tender, drain it, and throw it into plenty of cold salted water, and as soon as the bacon is crisp take it up on a hot dish and keep it hot. There should be Jin. in depth of fat from the bacon in the frying-pan, or, if the quantity is scant, add a little lard, and when it is hot put in the liver, fry it brown on both sides, cooking it as quickly and as thoroughly as possible, and seasoning it with pepper and salt. When the liver is done, put it on the hot dish with the bacon, and keep it hot. Drain the spinach, put it into the frying-pan with the drippings, and stir it over the fire until it is ho*-, then turn it out on a hot platter, lay the liver and bacon on the spinach, and serve hot. Minced Calf’s Liver.—Chop finely about 1 Jib. of Calf’s Liver, a small onion, and Jib. of fat bacon. Put the onion and bacon in a stewpan with a small piece of butter, and stir it over the fire for five minutes, then put in the liver, dust it with salt and pepper, and any kind of seasoning that may be liked, and stir the whole over the fire for ten minutes. Turn the mixture on to a dish, leave it until cool, then mix three beaten eggs with it. Sew a caul into a bag, put the mince into it, and fasten it at the end. Put a good-sized lump of butter in a saucepan, melt it, then put in the bag, place the lid on the saucepan, and steam it for an hour, turning it occasionally. When cooked, take the caul out of the saucepan and leave it until cold before serving. Quenelles of Calf’s Liver.—Pound lOoz. of white firm Calf’s Liver with 2 table-spoonfuls of fine herbs, pass all through a sieve into a basin ; work with a spoon 5oz. of slightly-warmed butter, two whole eggs, and the yolk of one; when frothy, mix in 1 table-spoonful of flour, 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, and the pounded livers, and sprinkle pepper and salt over. Take small quantities of the preparation with a table-spoon, and drop it into a saucepanful of boiling salted water. When the water begins to bubble, move the saucepan to the side of the fire. When set, take the quenelles out, drain them, put them on a hot dish, sprinkle some breadcrumbs fried in butter over them, and serve. Roasted Calf’s Liver.—(1) Procure a moderate-sized white Calf’s Liver, lard it inwardly with seasoned bacon and fillets of truffles; lard also the upper surface with finely-cut bacon, leaving both ends without larding. Put the liver in a bowl with some trimmings of raw truffles, a few sprigs of parsley, a little fine herbs, a sprinkling of pepper and salt, and a little oil. In two hours’ time take the liver out, wrap it with the seasoning in oiled paper, tie it securely at each end with string, run an iron skewer through it, and fix it on the spit. Roast the liver in front of a clear fire, basting continually. In about one hour and twenty minutes’ time, take the paper off, and glaze the liver with a paste-brush. Peel and cut five small, black, raw truffles in dice, and put them in a sauce- pan. Put the trimmings in another saucepan with J- pint of white wine ; boil the liquor quickly till reduced to one-third, then strain it into the saucepan containing the truffles; stir in a little rich brown sauce to thicken it, and boil for seven or eight minutes. Put the liver on a hot dish, pour the truffle sauce over it, and serve. (2) Select a middling-sized, white Calf’s Liver, lard it in- wardly with fillets of fat and a clove of garlic cut in slices, sprinkle pepper and salt and a handful of chopped mushrooms over it, wrap it in a pig’s caul, and tie it securely, fastening it also with an iron skewer. Fix the liver on a spit, and roast it for three-quarters-of-an-hour in front of a clear fire, basting often with the drippings, in which has been mixed a few teaspoonfuls of vinegar. When the liver is cooked, take it off the spit, cut the strings off, but leave the caul on, and place on a hot dish ; skim the fat off the drippings, mix a little rich gravy with them, and boil them up. Fry 2 table- spoonfuls of chopped shallots in a little lard, then add 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, J pint of brown sauce, and the gravy from the drippings; boil for a few minutes, then put in 1 pinch of chopped parsley, 1 pinch of pepper, and the juice of one lemon. Pour the sauce over the liver and serve. (3) Select a white Calf’s Liver, lard it with thick fillets of bacon, sprinkle chopped garlic, herbs, and mixed spice over it, cover with a thick layer of lard, and roast in front of a Calf—continued. clear, moderate fire. Put the liver on a hot dish when cooked, skim the fat off the drippings, squeeze a little lemon-juice in, pour it over the liver, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. (4) Lard a firm white Calf’s Liver that has been thoroughly cleansed, put it into a pickle composed of vinegar and a few slices of onion, add also a few sprigs of parsley, a little thyme, bay-leaf, and salt and pepper to taste. Let the liver remain in this for twenty-four hours, take it out and drain it, fasten it on a spit and roast it in front of a clear fire, basting frequently with its own liquor. Glaze it with a light glaze, put it on a dish, pour round brown sharp sauce, and serve. Although this is an ordinary dish, great care must be used or the effect will be spoiled. Scalloped Calf’s Liver.—Clean a Calf’s Liver and partially boil it; cut it into slices, which trim into small heart-shaped pieces. Put a quantity of shallots and mushrooms into a stew- pan with a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, pour in 1 pint of clear broth, and boil them for five minutes; move the saucepan to the side of the fire, put in the pieces of liver, and stew gently until tender. When cooked, take the liver out of the liquor, and remove the bunch of herbs and parsley; pour in some more gravy, and put in loz. of butter that has been kneaded with 1 table-spoonful of flour; stir it over the fire and boil for ten minutes. At the end of that time put in the pieces of liver to make them hot again, then turn all on to a hot dish, and serve. Scallops of Calf’s Liver ■with. Fine Herbs.—Cut a Calf’s Liver in slices of equal sizes and shapes, dip them into flour, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry to a light colour. Take them out when done, and keep hot. Cut up some fine herbs, such as shallots, mushrooms, &c., cook them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and add 1 teaspoonful of flour and a little gravy (or water with a small quantity of glaze added) to moisten; when well cooked add the liver, warm it but without boiling, squeeze over a little lemon-juice, sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, and serve as hot as possible. Stewed. Calf’s Liver.—Cut 21b. of Calf’s Liver into square pieces, and put them in a saute-pan with loz. of clarified butter; season with 1 table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and add two medium-sized, sliced onions. When well stewed for, say, about six minutes, pour in 1 teaspoonful of vinegar and 2 table-spoonfuls of Spanish sauce, and let the whole just come to the boil. Serve hot on a dish with a little chopped parsley sprinkled over. Stewed Calf’s Liver a la Bourgeoise.—Place in a sauce- pan on the fire a small Calf’s Liver thoroughly larded with pieces of larding-pork—previously seasoned with a pinch of chopped parsley and a crushed clove of garlic—with 2 table- spoonfuls of clarified butter, one sprig of thyme, two bay- leaves, half a sliced carrot, and half a sliced onion. Turn the liver over and moisten it with 1 gill of Spanish sauce and 1 gill of white broth. Season with 1 pinch of salt and J pinch of pepper, and cook for forty-five minutes. Strain the sauce into another saucepan, meanwhile keeping the liver in a warm place ; add to the gravy two medium-sized, well-scraped, sliced, raw carrots, and 2oz. of salted pork cut into shreds. Stew well together for twenty-five minutes, and pour the garnishing over the liver just before serving. Decorate with six small onions placed round the dish. Stewed Calf’s Liver a l’ltalienne.— Cut 21b. of fresh Calf’s Liver into small pieces; put them with loz. of clarified butter into a pan on the hot range, with one peeled and finely- chopped onion, and a crushed clove of garlic; season with 1 pinch of salt and J- pinch of pepper. Cook well for five minutes, tossing the pan well all the while; moisten with J wineglassful of white wine and 1 gill of Spanish sauce. Add six chopped mushrooms, and cook again for three minutes. Serve with a teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley sprinkled over. Terrine of Calf’s Liver a la Froven$ale.—Select a fine, white liver, cut it in thin slices, and fry them in bacon-fat, with a little chopped onion, a few trimmings of truffles and mushrooms, and two or three sprigs of sweet herbs, and sprinkle salt, pepper, and spices over. When nearly done, pour 1 teacupful of Madeira over; boil till reduced, then move the pan off the fire, and allow the preparation to cool.