360 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Sec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cherries—continued. spoon, to prevent it from sticking to the bottom and burning. For every lib. of fruit, boil jib. of loaf sugar in the strained water in which the stones have been boiled until small transparent bubbles form on the top. Mix the clarified sugar with the fruit and continue stirring it over the fire until thick and smooth. Turn the marmalade into small jars or glasses, leave until cold, then tie them over, and keep for use in a dry store cupboard. (2) Take the stalks off the Cherries and remove the stones ; then weigh them, and allow to each lib. of Cherries ilb. of sugar. Put the sugar into a preserving-pan, and to each lib. of sugar add 1 breakfast-cupful of water; let this boil until a few drops of it cooled in cold water are crisp and slightly sticky. When the sugar is boiled to this state, put in the fruit and let it boil quickly, keeping it constantly stirred till the marmalade becomes thick and the Cherries are clear and almost transparent. Remove the pan from the stove and allow the marmalade to cool slightly ; put it into jars and cover them. (3) Boil 21b. of sugar with 2 wineglassfuls of water, skim it well until, on shaking the skimmer after dipping it in the sugar, the latter drops from it like icicles (see Sugar- boiling). Put in 41b. of picked and stoned Cherries, and boil them; when the marmalade flows readily, take it from the fire and put into pots for future use. (4) Remove the stalks and stones from the required quantity of Cherries, mash the fruit, put it into a sauce- pan, and boil quickly for a few minutes. Rub through a fine sieve, leaving nothing but the skins; put the puree into a saucepan and place it over the fire. When the original bulk is reduced to one-half, add an equal weight of sugar, boil to the thread (see Sugar-boiling), turn it into jars, and cover them over when cold. (5) Take 41b. of large red Cherries, thoroughly ripe, remove their stalks, and stone them. Put them into a preserving- pan, and stir them over a gentle fire till they are reduced to one-half of the original bulk. Clarify 81b. of loaf sugar and boil it to the degree of heat at which if the finger be dipped in cold water, then instantly dipped into the boiling sugar and immediately back again into cold water, the sugar will roll from the finger in a ball in the water, and will become rather hard as it cools (set Sugar-boiling). When the sugar has attained this degree of'heat, add the boiled Cherries to it, and keep stirring till the bottom of the pan can be seen ; it is then boiled enough. Take the pan from the fire, let the marmalade cool a little, and put it into pots. Lay over the marmalade in each pot a piece of white paper dipped in brandy and cover the pots air-tight. Cherry Marzipan.—Blanch 31b. of almonds, put them in a mortar, and pound to a paste with a little cold water. Boil in a preserving-pan 2jlb. of sugar to the degree of heat at which if the finger be dipped in cold water, then instantly into boiling sugar, and immediately back again into the water, the sugar will roll from the finger in a ball, but the ball will remain soft when cold (see Sugar-boiling). When the sugar is boiled to this degree, mix the almond paste with it. Take lib. of ripe red Cherries, remove the stalks and stones, bruise, and squeeze the juice out of them; add this juice to the paste in the pan and mix it well. Keep the pan on hot ashes, and stir and work up this paste constantly with a wooden spatula for two hours, taking very great care that none of the paste be allowed to stick to the pan. If on touching it then it does not stick to the finger, it is done enough; if so, push it all to one side of the pan. Clean the bottom and side that has been cleared of the mixture and dredge it well with flour, then put all the paste on the floured part and clean and flour the rest of the pan. Now take the pan by both handles and give it a sort of circular shake, or move it round and round till the paste all unites together. Lay it in paper, or, if required for immediate use, on a well-floured table. Cherry and Noyeau Cream Bonbons.—These are worthy of more than ordinary attention, having . been contrived by Francatelli when Confectioner to the Queen. Work 2oz. of soaked and strained gum arabie, j pint of noyeau, and some sugar, to an elastic paste. Then take 1 gill of Cherry-juice, the whites of two eggs, and the remainder of the 21b. of sugar (of which some was used to make the paste)-, and make an icing. With these two mixtures make the bonbons Cherries—continued. as follows : Put the paste into a biscuit-forcer having a jin. hole at the end, and squeeze it out on to a baking-sheet previously dusted with finely-powdered sugar. Taking the forcer with the left hand, have a small knife in the right, and cut off the paste as it comes out in pieces about the size of filberts. Then place the baking-sheet before the fire for ten minutes to dry their surfaces. With the tip of a fork, take each one separately and dip it into the icing, put it on a wire strainer, and place them when ready again in front of the fire for ten minutes, when they will be fit to be put in boxes with paper between the layers. Cherry Open Tart.—Take some open-tart moulds, and line them with puff paste, dusting a little finely-powdered sugar over it. Fill each one with stoned Cherries, put close together (but not on top of one another), place them in a moderate oven, and bake for half-an-hour. When done, take them out, and sprinkle a little caster sugar over the top. Cherry Paste.—Remove the stalks from some good Cherries, and put them in a preserving-pan with a little water. Let it boil—stirring well—for a few minutes, then pass the fruit through a fine wire sieve, rubbing it with a spoon. Weigh this puree, take its equal weight of caster sugar, clarify the sugar, and boil it to the feather or sixth degree (see Sugar-boiling) ; then add the paste, beat it in well with a spoon, and boil again. This paste can be either put into moulds or spread upon tin plates, and placed in a warm stove to dry. Cherry-Paste Drops. -Take ljlb. of Cherries, remove the stalks, and pound them in a mortar with their stones. Boil the whole up once and then pass it through a sieve. This should make about lib. of pulp. Put the pulp into a pre- serving-pan with lib. of coarsely-sifted sugar and a few drops of essence of peach-kernels (see Flavourings). Put the pan on the fire and boil, stirring all the time, and when it has become of the required consistency put the mixture in a spouted saucepan or drop-bag, and drop pieces the size of a florin on a baking-sheet. Put the drops in a screen before the fire for an hour or so to get dry ; when they are dry, lift them with a knife from the baking-tin on which they were put, and pack them in boxes with paper between the layers. A few drops of cochineal will give them the required tint if the colour from the Cherries is not sufficient; it should be added before the pulp is removed from the pre- serving-pan. Cherry Pie.—(1) Remove the stones from the Cherries, and then scald the fruit in their own juice; sweeten liberally, and pour into a deep pie-dish lined with a rich paste. Dredge with flour, cover with a top crust of the same paste, ornament the edge, and bake. (2) Remove the stalks and stones from the Cherries. Butter a pie-dish, line it with a short-crust, then put in the fruit ; fill up the dish with molasses, dredge a small quantity of flour over, and cover with a flat of the same crust; trim it off round the edges with a sharp knife, moisten them with water and press together. Put the pie in a quick oven and bake it for nearly three-quarters-of-an-hour; the crust of the pie should be very lightly coloured. When cooked, take it out of the oven, sift caster sugar over, and stand on another dish. Serve either hot or cold. (3) Boil jib. of rice, strain the water from it, and let it stew with some sugar till quite tender and sweet. Pick the stalks from lib. of ripe juicy Cherries. Take jib. of pow- dered white sugar and roll the Cherries in it. Lay about jib. of these sugared Cherries at the bottom of a pie-dish, over them put a quarter of the sweetened rice, then a fourth part of the Cherries, then rice, and so on till all the Cherries and rice are in the pie-dish, taking care to raise the pie high in the middle. Make some rich puff paste, cover the edge of the dish with a strip of it, and lay a cover of puff paste over all. Brush the pie-crust over with beaten white of egg, and sprinkle powdered white sugar on top. Bake the pie in a moderate oven for an-hour-and-a-quarter. When taken from the oven, lay some apricot marmalade over the crust, and sprinkle over a few crushed macaroons. Serve either hot or cold. Cherry Pie with Brown Bread.— Make about lib. of tartlet- paste, and with it line a hot ornamental pie-mould. Lay buttered paper over the bottom and sides of the paste inside, fill