338 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Charlottes—continued. cake; and for the top, small round sponge cakes or maca- roons. Lay the cakes inside the mould in circles, slightly wetting the overlapping portions with white of egg to keep them in place. While the egg is drying, prepare enough whipped cream to fill the centre of the mould, and just before sending the Charlotte to table fill it with the cream, turn it out of the mould on a dish, and serve it at once. (13) Soak 1 Joz. of gelatine in a little water until soft, then put it into a saucepan with 1 pint of milk and place it over the fire. When the gelatine has quite dissolved, move the saucepan to the edge of the fire, pour in the beaten yolks of three eggs, and stir it until thickened. Remove this mixture from the fire, and leave it until nearly cold, then mix in 1 wineglassful of sherry, 1 breakfast-cupful of thick cream, and 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of lemon- flavoured sugar. Whip the mixture until very thick. Rinse a mould out with cold water, put a layer of savoy cakes at the bottom, and arrange some in an upright position round the sides, cutting off the enls to make them stand. The ends of the cakes may be thrown loosely into the mould. Pour in the cream, and keep the Charlotte in a cool place, or an ice-cliest, for an hour or two. When ready to serve, turn the Charlotte out of the mould on to an ornamental dish. Charlotte Russe au Cafe.— Take six small Charlotte-russe moulds. When thoroughly cleaned line them with lady’s-finger cakes, cut into halves; should they then be higher than the mould, trim them off at the edge. Add to 1 pint of vanilla cream 2 table-spoonfuls of coffee essence ; beat thoroughly together for two minutes, and fill the moulds with the mixture. Turn them over on to six dessert-plates, spread a little more cream on the top, and cover each with one macaroon. Dress the rest of the cream round the plates, and serve. Charlotte Russe a la Chateaubriand.— (1) Blanch .jib. of Jordan almonds, cut them up into shreds, and sprinkle a few of them over a Charlotte-mould packed in ice and masked with a little warmed sweet jelly ; cover them over with more of the jelly, and let it set. Put a small mould in the larger one, and fill up the cavity between them with more of the jelly mixed with the remainder of the almonds. The jelly should be nearly set before the almonds are mixed in, other- wise when it is poured into the mould the almonds would sink to the bottom, and the effect would be spoilt. Take out the small mould, fill the hollow with a noyeau-flavoured cream, turn the whole out when set, and serve. (2) Prepare lib. of Neapolitan cake paste (see Cakes), and take a part of it and roll it out into two strips Jin. in thick- ness, and as wide as the Charlotte-mould is high. Place them on a baking-sheet, and put them in a slow oven to bake; when of a light golden colour, take them out, trim the edges very smooth, and with a knife cut the strips cross- wise in pieces fin. in width. Serve the remainder of the paste in the same way, except that it is cut into rounds of about fin. in diameter with a plain biscuit-cutter. Then take a Charlotte-mould, put a piece of paper at the bottom, and cover this with some stiff royal icing made with the white of egg and sugar, and with it stick the pieces of paste together at the bottom of the mould, so that they overlap each other, and in reversed circles. Then put some of the icing into a paper funnel, and let some small drops fall between the circles, so that they will stick together. Squeeze out a little of the icing on to the edge of the narrow strips of paste, and stick them, overlapping one another, round the mould. Care must be taken to prevent the icing showing outside. Then in the angle where the strips of paste join the rounds (in the inside of the Charlotte) put a circle of icing so that they will all stick together, next putting the Charlotte in a hot place to dry. While it is drying, put the yolks of ten eggs into a stewpan, and add Jib. of caster sugar and lqt. of cream, boiled and flavoured with vanilla. Place it on the fire, and when the yolks begin to thicken take it off and pass it through a sieve. Take six preserved pears, Jib. of dried cherries, five preserved apricots, and the same of preserved greengages, cut them in dice, and put them in separate sugar-boilers, adding some syrup flavoured with a little maraschino.; let the syrup boil, and then take it from the fire, keeping the fruit in until cool, then draining it. Next put a freezing-pot in the ice, and pour in the" cream, Charlottes—continued. adding 1 wineglassful of maraschino and 1 gill of milk of almonds ; mix this well up with a spatula until it is partly frozen, and then add 1 pint of well-whipped cream, continuing to mix until the cream is frozen ; then add the prepared fruit. Mix and fill an ice-mould, small enough to go under the Charlotte, with the cream, close the mould and put butter in the opening, so that no water can get to the cream ; put this in the ice for two hours, covering it, and then turn the cream out of the mould on to a dish spread with a folded napkin ; glaze the Charlotte with apricot jam diluted with syrup, and place it over the cream. Charlotte Russe a la Princess Royal. -Put 3 breakfast- cupfuls of milk into a saucepan, and add the thin rind of a lemon, a slight flavouring of cinnamon and noyeau, sufficient sugar to sweeten, and ljoz. of soaked gelatine. Place the saucepan on the side of the fire, or over a very slow one, and stir gently until all the gelatine is dissolved, without letting the liquor boil or get too hot; then turn it out on to a fine sieve, rub as much through as possible, colour one half with cochineal, and let the whole cool. Pack a Charlotte-mould in ice, pour in a little warmed sweet jelly, masking the bottom and sides with it, decorate the mould with any kind of small preserved fruit or fruits, cover them over with more of the jelly, and let this set. Place a small mould inside the larger Fig. 412. Charlotte Russe a la Princess Royal. one, fill the cavity between them with, first, a little of the red- coloured jelly, then the white or plain, then Dantzic or gold and silver jelly, and so on until the space is full, allowing one layer to set before another is put in, and when all is firm remove the small mould. Put a breakfast-cupful of well-whipped cream into a basin and whisk in Joz. of dissolved gelatine, a flavouring of noyeau, and sufficient sugar to sweeten ; pour this into the centre of the mould, pack ice on the top, turn it out when set, and put a small quantity of well-whipped cream on the top in the shape of a ball, with smaller ones put round the dish at the base, or ornament the top with a princess royal crown on a rosette or star of angelica (see Fig. 412). A little desiccated cocoa-nut should be mixed with the cream placed on and round it, to give a flavour to it. Charlotte Russe with Liqueurs. — This is prepared as for other Charlottes Russes, ivith the exception that a wineglassful each of curaqoa, noyeau, and maraschino are used in the cream. Charlotte Russe with Pine-apple Flavouring'.—Line a Charlotte-mould with paper, and arrange some finger biscuits (savoy) at the bottom and sides so as to form a rosette, putting the biscuits on their glazed side. Cut straight, on ends and sides, some other biscuits, having them as long as the height of the mould ; arrange these biscuits, standing up, close together round, and slightly leaning against the sides, laying them on also with their glazed side ; then put the mould in ice. Next prepare a mixture of loz. of gelatine dissolved in J pint of pine-apple syrup, a little lemon- or orange-zest, and the juice of an orange ; strain the liquid into a sugar-boiler, put it in ice, and stir it well so that it will thicken to the density of