303 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Carrageen—continued. it by putting it over a gentle heat, stirring constantly. When quite dry it may be reduced to a powder, in which state it is portable, and readily mixed with water for invalid use. Carrageen Water.—Put loz. of Carrageen into a bowl of water, wash it well, put it into another bowl with 1 pint of water, and let it soak for ten minutes. Turn it with the water into a saucepan, add double the quantity more of water, a stick of cinnamon, and 2oz. of sugar, and boil over a moderate fire until the whole has the consistency of cream. Pass it through a fine sieve, add more sugar to moisten if desired, and serve while quite warm. CARROTS (Fr. Carottes; Ger. Carotten).—This famous vegetable was not known in Great Britain until it was introduced to us by the Flemings in the reign of Queen Elizabeth. The ancient Greeks used it as a vegetable before the Christian era, and to them it was known as stapliylinos, frequent mention being made of it by old authors. In the reigns of James I. and Charles I. ladies were in the habit of decorating their head-dresses with the leaves, which are exceedingly delicate, feathery, and fern-like; indeed, the leaves of the Carrot are frequently used by cooks to decorate a table. The tops of the Carrot are cut off about lin. below the crest, and stood in a saucer of water. In due time a very ornamental tuft of fine leaves will grow out and spring up, requiring but very little further ingenuity to adapt them. As to the nutritive value of the Carrot, considerable difference of opinion exists amongst chemists, it being generally ad- mitted that it is less nutritious than the potato; but as a flavouring vegetable we have apparently none other of such widely accepted utility. Scarce a soup, ragout, hash, or savoury of any kind would be considered perfect unless the flavour of the Carrot entered into its com- binations ; and so accustomed are we now to its use, that boiled beef without Carrots would be an unwelcome dish. Fig. 342. Early Short-horn Fig. 343. Late Long-horn Carrot. Carrot. Sir Humphry Davy tells us concerning the Carrot that the greater part of the alimentary portion of it consists of saccharine matter, which may in a considerable degree account for its antiseptic qualities. The quantity of nutritive matter is nearly 10 per cent, in the whole weight of Carrot, being 98 parts in a 1000, and of these three are starch or mucilage, and the remaining 95 sac- charine matter. The quantity of ready-formed saccharine matter in Carrots is much greater than in any of the cerealia, being 2 b per cent, more than in barley, and about six times more than the quantity contained in potatoes. It is presumed, therefore, that Carrots are much better adapted than the latter for the distillery. Dr. Hunter, in the “ Georgical Essays,” details experiments made to prepare from Carrots a beverage resembling beer, and subsequently a spirituous liquor. The former proved un- successful ; but the result of the latter was, according to the doctor’s opinion, very encouraging. “ From a gross calculation,” he concludes, “ I am induced to think that a good acre of Carrots manufactured in this manner will leave a profit of forty pounds after deducting the land- lord’s rent, the cost of cultivation, distillation, and other incidental expenses. In this calculation I presume that Carrots - continued. the spirit is worth six shillings per gallon, and not excised.” This is, perhaps, rather an exaggerated state- ment, though it has been found by other experiments that 18 tons, the produce of one acre, will yield lOOgalls. of proof spirit—a larger product than that obtained from an acre of barley; while the refuse supplies a greater quantity of food for hogs. There are two kinds of Carrots usually sold in our vegetable-markets, being in perfection at different times of the year; they are the Early Short Horn (see Fig. 342), and the Late Long Horn (see Fig. 343). For forcing and early crops the Common Early Horn, Early French Forcing, Early Nantes, and Early Short Horn are the more famous; but for main or later crops, the Altrin- cham, James’s Intermediate, Long Horn, and Long Red Surrey are more often met with. But as cooks are not much interested in horticulture beyond judging of the quality, it will be sufficient to refer to early Carrots as short and pale, and later Carrots as longer and deeper in hue. Boiled Carrots.—Wash and scrape two large Carrots, put them in boiling salted water, and boil until tender. Cut them into Jin. squares, or into fancy shapes, with a vegetable-scoop ; put over the fire in a saucepan 1 table-spoonful each of butter and flour, and stir them until the mixture bubbles, then gradually stir into it 1 pint of boiling milk, and let the sauce thus made boil once; season it with 1 teaspoonful of salt, i salt- spoonful of pepper, and a very little grated nutmeg. Heat the Carrots in this sauce, and serve them. Boiled Carrots can also be served with salt, pepper, and butter, or with some chopped parsley, or with white sauce containing the yolk of an egg, care being taken not to boil the egg. Cold boiled Carrots are nice cut in slices and fried in butter. Boiled Carrots served with Brown Sauce.—Thoroughly wash some young Carrots, cut them squarely across the top, put them into a saucepan of boiling water and boil until tender. Dry the tops that have been cut off the Carrots, put them into a frying-pan in which loz. or more of butter has been melted, and fry them over a brisk fire until brown, turning them often. Allow for 1 bunch of Carrots, 1 break- fast-cupful of brown stock, 1 table-spoonful of flour, and b Fig. 344. Boiled Carrots served with Brown Sauce. table-spoonful of ketchup. Put the flour into a small sauce- pan, pour in the stock, and stir it over the fire until boiling. Put the browned tops into the sauce, season it to taste with salt and pepper, and boil it for five minutes longer. When the Carrots are tender, take them carefully out of the water so as not to break them, then rub off lightly with a towel the thin outer skin. Arrange the Carrots in an upright position on a hot dish, pour the sauce round them, and serve without delay. See Fig. 344. Carrots a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Scrape some Carrots, cut them in halves lengthwise, and boil them in salted water. When they are tender take them out of the water, put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter, some chopped parsley, a little pepper, salt, and sugar, and squeeze the juice of a lemon over them. Toss them about over a moderate fire for a few minutes, then turn them into a hot dish, and serve. Carrots a la Dlenag£re.—Peel some young Carrots, and leave them in cold water for a few minutes ; then put them (thinly sliced) in a stewpan half-full of good broth, season with salt, pepper, mace, and a bouquet of sweet herbs and parsley, and stew until they are tender. When done, put them on a dish. Mix some flour with a little of the liquor in a cup, stir it in with the other, and add a piece of butter and a little browning. When thick, pour it over the Carrots, and serve.