241 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. Lady Cake.—(1) Mix well together lib. of caster sugar, Jib. of flour, Jib. of butter, and the whites of fourteen eggs. Flavour with 2 drops of oil of bitter almond, and bake on a buttered tin. (2) Work to a cream lib. of caster sugar and Jib. of butter. Mix 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar in Jib. of flour and J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in a gill of sweet milk. Beat all together into a stiff paste and bake in a greased mould. Two table-spoonfuls of whisky or rum is an improvement. (3) Beat 6oz. of butter to a cream ; add gradually to it lib. of caster sugar, 1 teaspoonful of essence of almond, 1 teacupful of milk, the whites of six eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and lib. of flour, in which mix 1 teaspoonful of baking- powder. Mix all well together, and bake in a greased tin, and when cold cover with sugar icing. Lafayette Cakes.—Mix together Jib. of butter, Jib. of caster sugar, Jib. of flour, six eggs, and Joz. of ammonia salt in powder; bake in round flat tins about Jin. deep, or drop some of the paste on white paper and spread it out into a round thin Cake. Bake these in a moderate oven on baking-sheets. When done, take them off the paper, spread some jam on two of them, and put three together. Trim round the edges with a knife, and cut them into four, six, or eight parts, according to fancy. Layer Cake.—Make lib. of puff paste, nine turns, and roll it out about Jin. thick ; with a round tin cutter 5in. in diameter cut ten rounds out of the paste, sprinkle a little cold water over two baking-sheets, put the rounds of paste on them, and sprinkle them also with water ; sift a little rather coarsely- ground sugar over them, bake in a moderate oven till very crisp, but keep them as white as possible. When cooked, put them on a dish, one above the other, masked alternately with currant jolly, apricot and orange marmalade. Mask the whole, when built up, with apricot marmalade, ornament the top with any fresh fruits that happen to be in season, sprinkle finely-chopped pistachios round about, decorate with icing, and serve. See Fig. 279. Lead Cake.—Put into a basin 2qts. of flour, loz. of salt, 2Joz. of sugar, 21b. of butter, and mix well together ; add twelve eggs, well beaten, mix again, roll the paste out on a wooden slab three times, leave it for about half-an-hour, spread over Jib. of butter, roll it out four times, and fold into a thick Cake. Cut out the edges with a tin cutter, and with a fork prick the top all over. Brush over with whipped yolks of eggs, and bake in a moderate oven for an-liour- and-a-half. Leaf Cake.—Blanch and pound Jib. of sweet almonds with half-a-dozen bitter ones; rub the yolks of eight hard-boiled eggs until quite smooth. Bub fib. of butter in ljlb. of flour, and when quite smooth mix in the above ingredients with Jib. of caster sugar, three well-beaten eggs, and sufficient milk to make a consistent paste. Work the mixture thoroughly, Ihen Cakes—continued. lay it on a paste-board over which some flour has been sifted, divide into six equal portions, and roll them out very thin. Butter a baking-sheet, lay the Cakes on it, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake a light yellow in a slow oven. When cooked, slip one of the Cakes off the baking-sheet on to a dish, mask it with a coating of any kind of preserve, put another Cake on the top of that, coat that also with preserve, and so on until the last Cake is on the top. Mask the top of the last Cake with the finest white sugar icing, trim all evenly round the edges with a sharp knife, and serve when the icing is quite dry. Lee Cake.—Weigh twelve eggs, beat them well, then mix with them their weight in sugar and half their weight in flour; when the above mixture is quite smooth, turn it into shallow Cake-tins, in layers about lin. in thickness, and bake them. Squeeze the juice of five oranges and three lemons, together with their pulp, into 21b. of caster sugar, and work it till quite smooth. When cooked, take the Cakes out of the pans, and mask them with the mixture in the same way as iced Cakes are done, putting one above the other on a dish till the whole of the sugar is used up. Spread a layer of it on the top and sides, and serve. Leigditon Cake.—Mix together lib. of butter, 1 pint of cream, 21b. of caster sugar, 4 pints of flour, with 2 teaspoonfuls of fresh yeast mixed in, 2 teaspoonfuls of essence of almonds, and the whites of twelve eggs. Put in a greased tin and bake. Leopard Cake.—Cream Jib. of butter; add Jib. of moist sugar gradually, then the yolks of three eggs, and 1 teaspoonful of lemon, vanilla, or any other kind of flavouring, and 1 salt- spoonful of powdered mace. Put J teaspoonful of cream of tartar and J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda into lib. of pastry-flour, saving a table-spoonful or so of it, lest the Cake be too stiff. If all be used, add the flour and 1 teacupful of milk alternately, a little at a time, then the whites of three eggs beaten stiff. Mix all well together, colour a fourth of the dough with grated chocolate, and put it in the pan in spots. Bake from forty to fifty minutes in a moderate oven. Light Cake. — Put 31b. of sifted flour on to a board or table and with one-fourth of it, ljoz. of yeast, and 1 breakfast- cupful of cold w'ater, form a sponge and set to rise. Make a bay in the remainder of the flour, and work in loz. of salt, 4oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, 1 breakfast-cupful of cream, the yolks of twenty-four eggs and the whites of twelve, and 21b. of butter. Mix the paste thoroughly, then work in the sponge, add a few table-spoonfuls of well-whipped cream, to make the paste as smooth as possible, put the whole into a well-buttered fluted mould, and let it rise in a warm temperature until it is double its original height; put it at once into a moderate oven, and bake for an hour. Pull the Cake out to see if it is light and flexible, and then bake again for half-an-hour, or until dark and firm. Turn it out when ready, and serve either hot or cold as required. The Cake I should be of a darkish colour. See Fig. 280. 2 B