391 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads Cinnamon.—continued. oven for a few minutes. Take the cakes out, and use when cold. (5) Put Jib. of blanched sweet almonds into a mortar with a small quantity of rose-water, and pound them thoroughly. Beat two eggs with a breakfast-cupful of sour cream, mix with them 11b. of caster sugar, the pounded almonds, a teaspoonful of grated lemon-peel, and a small quantity of powdered Cinnamon. Butter a shallow cake-tin, line it with thin tart- crust, and pour in the mixture. Bake in a brisk oven, and serve either hot or cold. Cinnamon Comfits.—Francatelli advises that these, when wanted in small quantities only, should be prepared as follows : Take some Cinnamon and soak it for a little while in water, so as to make it soft; when soft, let it be cut into small strips, and dried before the fire. Take a preserving-pan, place the strips thinly but close together on the bottom of it, and put the pan over a very slow heat, so as to thoroughly warm it. Then add some syrup with a little gum dissolved in it, putting in a very little at a time. Shake the pan vigorously over the fire, and continue to add the sugar until the strips have had seven or eight coatings. Every time a coating of syrup has been given, the strips must be turned out on to a baking-sheet to dry, and the pan thoroughly cleaned. Cinnamon Confection.—Take 2 drachms of Cinnamon, bruise it, and mix with it a little clarified sugar or syrup of mallows. Boil lib. of sugar to the crack, a degree of heat at which if the finger be dipped into cold water, then instantly into the boiling sugar, the sugar will roll off the finger and form a ball in the water hard enough to stick to the teeth if bitten (see Sugar-boiling). When the sugar is boiled to this degree, throw in the bruised Cinnamon, stir it well into the sugar, and then remove it from the fire. As soon as the sugar begins to whiten, pour the confection into moulds, and set it in the stove till perfectly dry. Cinnamon Cordial.—(1) Macerate lib. of bruised Cinnamon in lgall. of proof spirit. At the end of a week drain off the spirit, and add 2qts. of strong syrup. A little rose-water, musk, and ambergris should be added to enrich the aroma. (2) Dissolve 1 fluid ounce of oil of Cinnamon in lgall. of proof spirit; add to this 31b. of loaf sugar dissolved in 1 pint of water and 1 pint of rose-water, using extracts of musk and ambergris in small quantities to give a full aroma. Cinnamon Cream Ice.—Put one or two sticks of Cinnamon into a mortar, pound well, and mix in 4oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar. Put the mixture into a saucepan, pour over a breakfast-cupful of milk, and boil for a few minutes over a clear fire; then stir in the yolks of two eggs, 1 pint of cream, and the juice of a lemon. Pour the whole into the freezer, and let it remain until wanted. Cinnamon, Currant, and Caraway Cakes.—Bub lib. of butter into 3|lb. of flour, then make a bay in the centre, and put in lib. of caster sugar; moisten with half milk and half honey-water, and make into a dough. Divide the mass into three parts, mixing with one a little powdered Cinnamon, with another a few caraway-seeds, and with the third a few currants. Boll each out about jin. thick, cut into small rounds, brush over the tops with a little milk, and bake in a moderate oven. Cinnamon Drop Biscuits. -Put 4oz. of butter into a basin, I warm it, beat it to a cream with a wooden spoon, add gradually 4oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, beating continually ; then add three eggs, working one in before another is added, sift in lightly and slowly 6oz. of flour, a few well-washed and dried currants, and loz. of ground Cinnamon. Put the paste into a biscuit-forcer, and with this lay out small rounds on several thicknesses of paper spread over a baking-sheet. When ready, put them into a quick oven and bake. Serve, or use when cold. The currants may be omitted if desired. Cinnamon Flavouring. (1) To prepare this, dissolve 2 drachms of Cinnamon oil in 1 pint of rectified spirit, and add very slowly 1 pint of water; then mix in slowly lib. of powdered Cinnamon. Stir the mixture well and then pass it through a paper filter. (2) Dissolve loz. of oil of Cinnamon in 3oz. of rectified spirits of wine. A few drops will impart a powerful flavour { of Cinnamon. Cinnamon—continued. Cinnamon Liqueur.—(1) Pour 16 pints of brandy and 2 pints of water into a bowl, add 2oz. of Cinnamon in small pieces, the thin rind of two lemons, and loz. of liquorice-root, and let the whole "infuse for several days. Distil the liquor and mix it up with a syrup composed of 21b. of sugar and lgall. of water. Bun this two or three times through a filter, and it is ready for use. (2) This is prepared the same as above, using 24 pints of brandy, 4oz. of Cinnamon, 2 drachms of mace, and loz. of liquorice-root, which must be well beaten. The zest of two lemons must also be added, and the whole infused for several ^lays before it is distilled. The syrup is made of 41b. of sugar to 14 pints of water. (3) Crush 21b. of sugar-candy and put it in a saucepan with loz. of stick Cinnamon and lqt. of water, and boil these until reduced to a syrup. When ready, strain the liqueur through a jelly-bag or a piece of flannel, and mix 2qts. of pure proof spirit with it. Pour the liqueur into bottles, cork these tightly, and keep them in a cool dry store-closet for use. (4) Prepared in the same way as Liqueur des Eveques (see Cordials and Liqueurs), with lib. of Cinnamon, 91qts. of spirits of wine, 71qts. of water, 31qts. of capillaire, and a little red colouring added just before filtering. (5) Bruise well loz. of stick liquorice, 2 drachms of mace, and 7jlb. of stick Cinnamon; put them into a jar or large bottle, pour on to them 3qts. of the best French brandy, and cover the jar closely. Let the infusion stand for some days before filtering it. Put 41b. of sugar into 31 pints of cold water; when the sugar is completely dissolved pour the sugar and water into the brandy and spice. Stir it well in order to mix all thoroughly together. Strain it, then pour it into bottles, and cork them well. Cinnamon Lozenges. (1) Sift the required quantity of finely- crushed loaf sugar on to a slab, make a hollow in the centre, and pour in sufficient dissolved gum arabic to form a stiff paste (lib. of gum is dissolved in 1 pint of water). Add a flavouring of powdered Cinnamon and a few drops of essential oil of Cinnamon, colour with coffee colouring, roll the paste out on the slab, dusting frequently to prevent its sticking; when about gin. in thickness sprinkle the surface with starch-powder and sugar, and smooth it with the palm of the hand. Cut out the shapes, put them on boards or wooden trays, and set them on the stove or hot closet to dry. Pack in boxes, and use as required. (2) Sift 141b. of crushed loaf sugar on to a slab or table and make a bay in the centre. Soak 4oz. of gelatine in water. Put lflb. of glucose in a sugar-pan on the fire, bring it slowly to the boil, remove from the fire, add the soaked gelatine, and stir well until dissolved; pour this into the bay of the sugar, add Cinnamon flavouring and orange colouring to fancy, and form it into a paste. Boll it out, cut it into shapes, dust with corn-starch, dry in the hot closet, and pack away in boxes. Cinnamon Sauce. Take a stick of Cinnamon, break it up into small pieces, and put it into a pan with 3oz. of sugar and a little more than 1 pint of water; put this on the fire, and after it has boiled up once, skim and strain it into a basin. Mix a little arrowroot or potato-flour with a little cold water, put it into the pan, and take out the Cinnamon. Boil it once more, and it is ready for use. It may be prepared without the arrowroot or potato-flour. Cinnamon Star Cakes.—(1) Whisk the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth and mix with (jib. of caster sugar, the grated peel of half a lemon, and a small quantity of powdered Cinna- mon. Pound in their skins Jib. of sweet almonds, with a small quantity of brandy; then incorporate them with the above mixture. When well mixed, put the paste on a floured table, roll it out as thinly as possible, and with a small star-shaped tin cutter stamp out cakes. Butter a baking-tin, arrange the cakes on it a short distance from each other, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake them in a slow oven. When cooked, pass the blade of a knife between the cakes and the baking-tin, take them off, and lay them on a dish until cold. (2) Pound 4oz. of almonds in their skins ; beat the yolks of four eggs with the whites of two, and mix with them 11b. of caster sugar, continuing the beating for some time. Mix the pounded almonds with the eggs, 11b. of fine flour, the grated