315 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Fig. 378. Carving Neck of Veal. With a breast of veal the Carver commences by sepa- rating the ribs from the brisket, cutting horizontally (A to b). The parts can then be cut across, as shown in Fig. 377 (ccc, ddd). The carving of the neclc should be preceded by the long horizontal cut cd (Fig. 378). The pieces for serving Carving—continued. should be cut diagonally (ab, Fig. 378), and not in chops, or the slice would be too large and ugly if served with the bone. Besides that, the bones are useful for the stockpot. The loin of veal is a very nice joint to carve, as it is generally very meaty, therefore the diagonal cuts (the same as for the neck) answer admirably. The kidney and its fat should be first cut out and carved separately. Fig 380. Carving Haunch of Venison. These instructions for the Carver must not be con- cluded without advising the cook, who desires to see that his preparations have gained rather than lost merit by their service, to look carefully and critically to the truss- ing, dressing, and garnishing, concerning which much will be found under their specific headings. The foregoing instructions have been given plainly and simply, so that the art of carving may be simplified instead of rendered more confusing to the uninitiated by the introduction of unnecessary detail. Some gourmets may suggest that the prime parts have been insufficiently pointed our and described, a fault, if it be one, on the right side, for when carving for many the claims of a single gourmet should not be acknowledged. Indeed, unless all are gourmets at the table none should be recognised at all, but when the gourmet sits alone, then he will probably not only recognise, but serve himself with the parts of his soul’s desire. Fig. 376. Carving Roasted Sucking-pig. carving is sufficiently simple to require no further in- struction than is shown by the dotted lines in the illustration (Fig. 376). Tongue.—There is only one way possible of carving this viand, and that is by transverse slices, which might be cut through if it were not required to preserve the shape of tongue. The fat at the root should be cut in thin slices in the same direction, and a piece served with each slice of the lean. Rolled tongue should be sliced horizontally. ODD Fig. 377 Carving Breast of Veal. Veal.—The instructions given for carving joints of other meat apply equally to veal with but very small differences. The shoulder of veal—a very favourite part—requires that the joint should be sent to table turned the reverse way to a shoulder of mutton, and then the carving is identical with the under-cutting of the shoulder of mutton, commencing at the knuckle end for prime cuts. Fig. 379. Carving Fillet of Veal. A fillet of veal is simply cut in slices, just as a round of beef, only a trifle thicker (see Fig. 379). Take care to distribute the stuffing equally. Venison.—The only part of this game that the direc- tions given for carving other meat does not apply to is the haunch. A transverse cut (ab, Fig. 380) to the bone is first made round the leg just above the joint, and then longitudinal slices of fin. thick are cut out fi-om c to the transverse cut ab. The slices (wedge-shaped) should slope by degrees as the back of the loin is approached. If the slices are skilfully removed, a well of rich gravy remains in its place. Carving—continued. through, as shown in Fig. 375. A small portion of the liver ought to be served with each piece of rabbit, that is unless the liver has been used up in making a sauce or stuffing. Sucking-pig.—As this little delicacy ought to be dis- jointed by the cook before sending to table, the plan of