THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 343 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cheese—continued. The inodes of preparing various kinds of Cheese are not always permitted by manufacturers to be at the disposal of the public; but in cases where it has been possible to gain reliable information, instructions are hereunder given, arranged alphabetically, according to popular name, and without regard to nationality, taste, shape, or other classification. It will lie found that they consist in greater or less degree of (1) those which are new and unsalted, having no other properties than those of cream and casein ; (2) similar Cheeses salted or soured; (3) firm Cheeses, not too hardly pressed; and (4) cured, or ripened, hard Cheeses. The two latter com- prising what are called fermented Cheeses, that is to say, Cheeses which have undergone some kind of decom- position, generally of a putrefactive kind, in which ammoniacal salts have been developed, fatty acid, and a peculiar acrid oil, accompanied by strong flavours. Artificial Cheese. —(1) Boil together 2qts. of milk and lqt. of cream, with a moderate quantity of powdered nutmeg, mace, and cinnamon. Beat four eggs, pi$4 them in the milk with 4 table-spoonfuls of the best white vinegar, and con- tinue boiling until it comes to a curd; then turn the mixture into a Cheese-cloth, tie it up, and let it hang for six or eight hours to drain. Take the Cheese out of the cloth, flavour it with a few drops of essence of rose-water, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar; then turn it into a colander, and leave it for an hour or two. Cover the bottom of a dish with cream, turn the Cheese on to it, and serve. (2) Pour Igall. of cream and lgall. of milk into a saucepan, and boil them; then add seven or eight well-beaten eggs and 7 table-spoonfuls of wine vinegar, and simmer gently on the side of the fire until a tender curd appears. Turn the whole into a Cheese-cloth, and hang it to drain for several hours. Untie the cloth, mix in a little salt, turn the curd on to another cloth spread over a colander or Cheese-hoop, place a heavy weight on the top, and let it remain for an hour or so. Put it on to a dish when ready, and serve. Bath Cheese. —(1) Take 2qts. of new milk and add, while at 90deg. Eahr., just as it comes from the cow, sufficient rennet to bring it to a curd in four hours. When the curd is firm and does not adhere to the finger laid upon it, take it out of the setting vessel in slices with a metal saucer and place it in layers in the mould, 4in. by 4in. and 2in. high, until full—the mould should stand upon a straw mat. When the liquid (whey) has drained sufficiently, place a clean mat and a board over the mould and turn it rapidly. This plan repeated will by degrees make it so solid that the mould can be removed without the Cheese falling about. Then sprinkle fine salt over it, spread with a feather, and place it on a dry shelf in a fairly warm room (63deg. Fahr.) to ripen, turning it daily ; when a fine white mould has covered it, it is fit to eat. If ^ pint of cream is added to 3 pints of milk the Cheese will be improved. (2) To lgall. of new milk add 2qts. of cold spring water and sufficient rennet to turn it as above; then take the curds gently out with a skimming-dish and fill a vat lined with a Cheese-cloth with it. Put a weight upon it, and leave for a day or two to drain. Turn it out of the vat on to a plate, wrap in dry cloths, and leave to set and drain. Cover it with another plate, and turn occasionally. It will be ready for use in about a fortnight. Bexhill Cheese.—A small round flat cream Cheese of excellent quality, known locally. Bondon Cheese.—See Neufchatel Cheese. Brickbat Cheese.—So called from its shape, which resembles a brick. It is made in Wiltshire of new milk and cream. See New-milk Cheese. Brie Cheese.—A large, round, Hat, soft Cheese, from fin. to lin. thick and lOin. to 12in. in diameter, made in the district of Brie, about 25 miles from Paris. It is the most popular Parisian Cheese, many millions being sold in the city every year. Brie is made from new milk, although a Cheese termed “ fa^on Brie ” is made from partially-skimmed milk. When firm enough to remove from the mould, the Cheese is placed in a separate apartment until, after turning daily, it is covered with a white mould; it then goes into another Cheese—continued. apartment to take the blue and red mould—the latter, however, which improves the flavour, is not obtainable in all dairies. One gallon of rich milk makes a large Cheese. Brie is fit to eat in about six weeks. Camembert Cheese.—This, next to Brio, is the most popular French Cheese. It is small, round, weighs about lloz., and is covered with blue mould on the top of a white mould. Camembert is chiefly made in Calvados, in Normandy, which is the centre of a large and important industry. The milk is placed warm into wooden tubs provided with lids, brought to a curd in two-hours-and-a-half, removed by large ladles into the metal moulds about 5in. high by 4in. in diameter, turned in six to eight hours, turned again next day, and finally removed, the curd being upon straw or rush-mats the while. When firm enough the Cheeses are salted in the hand, turned daily on shelves until covered with white mould, removed to the sechoir or h&loir to take the blue, where they are ripened, and ready for use in five to six weeks. Temperature and humidity, as affecting the growth of the fungi, are all-important in the manufacture of this Cheese. Cantal Cheese. —This Cheese is made in Auvergne; it is piquant in flavour, yellow in colour, and weighs from 401b. to 1201b. The milk is set for curd at about 72deg. Fahr., the curd broken up in an hour, the whey removed, and the curd drained and kneaded. After undergoing' various processes of working, pressing, and fermentation, the moulds are filled, the curd having been salted, and then pressed. The new Cheeses are removed to a cave, frequently washed with salt water, and ripened, this operation taking . about two months. The manufacture of Cantal reaches about ten million pounds per annum. Cheddar Cheese is one of the kings of Cheese; it is pale- coloured, mellow, salvy, and, when good, resembling a hazel- nut in flavour. The Cheddar principle pervades the whole Cheese-making districts of America, Canada, and New Zealand, but no Cheese imported by us can equal the Cheddars of Somerset and the West of Scotland. Cheddar Cheeses are made from 1001b. to 1501b. in weight, but the Wilts Loaf and the West Gloucester Cheeses, both much smaller, are made upon a principle which closely resembles the Cheddar. The curd is brought in an hour at from 80deg. to 85deg. Fahr., broken down, gently heated by the addition of hot whey, until the curd has become firm and shotty. The whey is then removed, the curd pressed, cut up, piled, aired to induce the formation of acid, again cut, ground, salted, and vatted. It is then pressed, and finally removed to the curing-room, where it remains at a temperature of 65deg. to 70deg. Fahr., and regularly turned until ripe. Cheshire Cheese.—(1) This Cheese is frequently confounded with Cheddar, and the resemblance is great in many respects. Both are manufactured from new milk, the evening’s milk being cooled, and the next morning’s yield added to it, when both are heated to from 80deg. to 84deg. Fahr. Very little rennet is used. The further process throughout is similar to that in the Cheddar district, and the Cheeses are large, round, and thick, weighing from 1001b. to 1201b. The Cheese should be solid, mellow, and rich, but the flavour is stronger than Cheddar; this, however, renders it more appetising to some tastes than its milder rival. From its name it would be understood to be made in the county of Cheshire, but the soil of that county, salt springs, and other conditions which are thought to give the characteristic to the Cheese extend considerably beyond the borders. (2) Imitation.—A very good Cheese closely resembling Cheshire Cheese may be made by collecting the curds with- out breaking them, and then chopping them one by one with as much regularity as possible, using a flat wooden knife for the purpose. Put the broken curds lightly into a large Cheshire Cheese-vat lined with a Cheese-cloth, and fill it to several inches, so that after much pressing it will be at least 7in. or 8in. thick ; it will be ready for cutting after about a year’s careful storing. It is usual to cut a hole in the tops of these Cheeses when they are ripe, and after pouring in a pint of port wine or stout, replace the plug of Cheese and leave them to mellow. Cottage Cheese.—Pour some boiliDg water into a pan of clotted sour milk. It will curd at once. Stir it, turn it into a colander, pour a little cold water over, salt it, and break it