401 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Cloves—continued. the paste into a biscuit-forcer, squeeze out small quantities at a little distance from each other on to the paper, put the biscuits in a quick oven, and bake. Take them out when done, and use when cold. A few well-washed and dried cur- rants may be mixed with the paste if desired. See Fig. 481. Clove Gin.—This is made by mixing rough gin and syrup, and adding 2oz. of essence of Cloves to each gallon of the mix- ture ; pour it into bottles, cork, and set away until wanted. Clove Liqueur.—Put 2qts. of pure spirit into a large jar with lib. of loaf sugar, about twenty ripe or dried black cherries, and .3 table-spoonful each of bruised coriander seeds and bruised Cloves. Cover them over, and let them infuse for a month. The jar should be put in a warm place. At the end of the month, filter the liqueur through flannel, and bottle it. Clove Lozenges.—Put loz. of picked gum-dragon in a gallipot with a little tepid water, and let it soak for six hours ; then work the gum with the flat hand on a marble slab, work in slowly l^lb. of icing sugar, flavour with essence of Cloves, and colour with a little burnt umber. Dredge caster sugar over the slab to about j-in. thick, roll out the paste on this, stamp out the lozenges with a small round tin cutter, place them in rows on baking-sheets dusted with caster sugar, and set them in a screen to dry. Put the lozenges in well-stoppered glass jars, and keep them in a dry place. Clove Sugar.—Pound 2oz. of Cloves and lib. of loaf sugar in a mortar, and when very fine, sift it. Put away in well-stop- pered bottles till wanted. Clove Water.—Put ten Cloves and half a stick of cinnamon in a jar with lqt. of water, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, cover the jar, and stand it over some hot embers, or in the oven. When they have infused for several hours, strain the liquor through a fine hair-sieve, and bottle it for use. Cream of Cloves, or Clove Cordial.—Put lqt. of spirits of wine of 62deg. over proof into a large bottle, add 40 drops of oil of Cloves, shake the bottle well, and mix in lqt. of syrup and sufficient yellow colouring to give it the required tint. Strain the liquid through fine filtering-paper, put it at once into bottles, stopper these, and set them aside in a cool place. This is a delightful liqueur, and is considered excellent for relaxed throats. Essence of Cloves, or Clove Extract. — (1) Put 2oz. of coarsely-bruised Cloves in a bottle with 1 pint of spirits of wine, and cork the bottle tightly. At the end of a fortnight decant and bottle off. (2) Put loz. of Cloves and ^ pint of gin in a bottle, cork it down tightly, and put it away for a month, giving it a shake now and then. Strain the essence into small bottles till wanted for use. Tincture of Cloves.—Put lib. of roughly-ground Cloves into a chafing-pan over the fire and let them get hot; then turn them into a hot jar, pour over 4gall. of over-proof plain spirit, cork up securely, give it a shake two or three times a day for a week, then let it stand for another week ; carefully draw it off into bottles, cork and seal them, and set away until wanted. COAL—This subject will be further treated under the heading Fuel. At one time Coal, wood, and char- coal formed the only lieat-producers used in kitchens; modern discoveries and inventions have, however, intro- duced other agents, such as gas, paraffin and oil, so that these require a special heading, under which their com- parative merits can be discussed. There are many varieties of Coal, some of which are suitable for kitchen ranges with powerful draughts, and some that suit the old-fashioned open grate. Cooley states that the more important kinds of Coal may be classified as follows: (1) Lignite, or brown Coal; (2) Bituminous, or caking Coal; the most widely diffused and valuable of English Coals. This class is subdivided into (a) Calcing Coal, which splinters in heating, but the fragments then fuse together in a semi-pasty mass; (b) Cherry Coal or Soft Coal, lustrous in appearance, but does not fuse, although it ignites well and burns rapidly; Coal—continued. (c) Splint, rough, or hard Coal, which is black and glistening, but does not readily ignite, giving off eventually a strong heat; (d) Gann el, or parrot Coal, which is dense and compact, having a shelly fracture, and taking a polish like jet, and splinters in the fire, and burns clearly and brightly without much draught. Near Edinburgh, at Bathgate, is a curious deposit of Coal, known as “ Boghead Cannel Coal,” or “ Torbane Hill Mineral.” It differs greatly from other Cannel Coal, and is not of much use for kitcheners. (3) Anthra- cite, or stone Coal, which is very hard, dull in appear- ancdj and burns with little flame or smoke, throwing out intense heat, but requiring a strong draught. (4) Steam Coal, resembling Anthracite. In selecting Coal the first consideration will be the grate—what is it capable of burning ? Closed grates, called generally kitcheners, with flues, will burn a Coal or coke that in an open grate would be of no use; so that where one would burn anthracite another would almost require what is termed “ drawing-room ” Coal. Thus: (1) Lignite, or brown Coal, burns with little flame and much soot-producing smoke, therefore not suitable for kitchen purposes at all. (2) Bituminous, or caking Coal, is the very best for all general purposes, and is sold under a variety of names. It is obtained chiefly from the districts around New- castle and Wigan. The Cherry Coal variety comes principally from Glasgow, Staffordshire, Derbyshire, Nottingham and Lancashire. It constitutes the bulk of the great coal fields of North and South Staffordshire, and occurs in Shropshire, Leicestershire and Warwick- shire. (3) Anthracite is obtained from South Wales, Devon- shire and other parts, and (4) Steam Coal, adapted only for steam vessels, is found in South Wales and the Tyne districts. A good kitchen Coal should not be very sul- phurous—more than 2 per cent, renders it unfit for use in open grates. Coals containing excess of mineral should not be used, as they leave a quantity of ash that will occasionally find its way into vessels that are not intended for its reception, and these Coals are very liable to form large clinkers, and cake round the bars or other parts of the plate. Coal is sold under such specific names as nuts, cobbles, &c., the former being that which will pass through the first coarse screen, but will not pass through a second. The lumps therefore require no breaking up, but are of an exact size to suit the kitchen grate, requiring a mini- mum of attention on the part of the stoker. Further information on different kinds of fuel will be found under their particular headings. COAL-FISH.—This is a species of cod, remark- able for its black back, from which it derives its name (Gadus carbonarius). It is found principally in the cold waters of northern climates, in the Baltic and Davis Straits, and at certain seasons along the coasts of Spitz- bergen and the Orkney Islands. It is considered a useful food amongst a certain class of hardy north- country feeders, especially if caught under a year old, but after that time the flesh grows coarse. The inhabi- tants of the Orkneys catch the year-old fish with rod and line, and call it a “ sillock.” In the second year it comes less frequently to the shore, and is then fished for from boats, and is called a “ cooth ”; as it advances in age it retires further out to sea, and grows to the length of 2ft. or 3ft., or more, and is then called a “ setlie,” being fit to split open, salt, dry, and export, a large quantity going to the Mediterranean for Spanish consumption as calalou. In Edinburgh the young fish are called “ podleys,” and are occasionally bred there in salt-water ponds. The mode of cooking differs in no respect from that of codfish, to which reference for receipts should be made. 2 M