THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 445 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Sec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cornucopias—continued. heathen mythology Ceres, the goddess of agriculture, is generally represented holding a “horn of plenty” filled to overflowing with corn and fruit. To make these of paste or nougat, special moulds are required (see Figs. 530 and 531), which can he obtained of most manufacturers of confectioners’ utensils. Fruit stands made in glass and silver for holding fruits (see Fig. 532) as if pouring from Cornucopias are not un- common. For instructions in this kind of work reference should he made to Gum-paste. Cornucopia Biscuits.—Put in a basin ilb. of caster sugar, two eggs, and | saltspoonful of salt; work these together with a spoon for ten minutes, stir in gradually 2oz. of flour, add 4 dessert-spoonfuls of orange-flower water, and work the paste ten minutes longer. Butter a baking-sheet, drop the paste on in small round drops with a spoon, put them at once into the oven before they spread too much, let the heat be moderate, and keep them in it for six minutes; take them out, detach the biscuits, and twist them, one at a time, upon a pointed wooden tool that is used for that purpose to give them a Cornucopia or sugar-loaf shape. Put them away in a dry place, and when ready to serve fill them with whipped cream and strawberries, and ornament the outsides with icing. Cornucopia of Glacees Fruits.—Make some nougat-paste, and mix in 12oz. of almonds cut in fillets and 6oz. of caster sugar ; oil a Cornucopia-mould and line it with the nougat-paste; when it is firm, remove the mould, and put the Cornucopia on a Cornucopias—continued. dish with the pointed end turned up. It must be supported underneath with a stem made of nougat-paste. Ornament the opening of the Cornucopia with leaves formed out of almond-paste or gum-paste ; arrange in the hollow pre- -tOS si Fig. 533. Cornucopia of Glacees Fruits. served and fresh fruits glacees with syrup boiled to the crack (see Sugar-boiling). When grouping the fruits, cut out some imitation leaves in candied angelica ; do not stick them on with gum or sugar, as they would be difficult to remove when serving. See Fig. 533. CORNWALL PUDDING.—See Puddings. CORSTORPHINE CREAM.-A preparation of cream named after a village and hill near Edinburgh, where it is commonly made. See Cream. COSAQUES .—A French term applied to what are more familiarly known as crackers. The original Christ- mas crackers, the pulling of which has given so much amusement to adults and children alike, were at one time charged with sweets and mottoes, and known as cracker bonbons ; but the march of civilisation has led to the discarding of sweets and pretty speeches, often amusingly inappropriate, in favour of novelty in dress and masquerading. The modern cracker-maker has provided for this by substituting fancy costumes made of tissue-paper for the bonbons, the fanciful name of Cosaques having been given to those of foreign manu- facture. British makers have instituted “ Somebody’s Luggage ” and other quaint titles, all of which are in great demand, and supply employment to many at a season when em- ployment is most needed. See Crackers. COSTARD.—The name of a famous cooking apple, so called from the rib-like projections of its sides. The term costard-monger, corrupted to coster-monger, ori- ginated from this. See Apples. COSTMARY.-This plant (Tar .acetum Balsamita) has been cultivated in British gardens ever since its in- troduction in the sixteenth century. It is not so frequently met with as formerly, other herbs, such as tansy, having gradually supplanted it, in spite of its very marked flavour. In France it is mostly used in salads, but in this country it was at one time largely used to flavour ale, and thus assumed the name of Alecost. Modern butlers add a small quantity of it to negus, when they can get it. COTELETTES. — Fr. for cutlets, our term being derived therefrom. Literally “little ribs.” COTTAGE PUDDING.—See Puddings. COTTAGE SOUP.—See Soups. COULIBIAC.—There are various methods given of spelling this Russian word; sometimes it is also written Culibiac, and sometimes, so a Russian chef informs us, Koljbiack. To the latter the preference might be given