417 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Codfish —continued. Nantucket Style of Cooking1 Cod. - Take a white dried fish, cut out the thick part, and soak it in water for ten or twelve hours; then chop it up into smaller pieces, put these in a saucepan with fresh water, and boil them for a few minutes. Pour off the water, add fresh, and boil for a few minutes longer ; then pour off the water from the pan, letting the fish remain, add milk in sufficient quantity to a little more than cover it, and place the pan on the fire ; when it is warm, put in a little piece of butter and a pinch of pepper. Mix a little flour in some milk, and stir it in for a few minutes, when the dish will be ready to serve. Rechauffe of Cod.- -(1) Take some boiled pieces of fish and remove the bones and skin ; put these latter into a stewpan with a little good broth, place the pan on the fire, and reduce rapidly by boiling without a cover on the pan ; add to this an equal quantity of cream or milk flavoured with a little essence of anchovy, cayenne pepper, and salt to taste, and make it thick by adding corn and wheat-flour in equal parts. Put the fish into this while it is quite hot. Butter a dish, sprinkle over dried breadcrumbs, put the fish on this, dust more crumbs over the fish, put a small piece of butter on the top, and place the dish in a sharp oven for a-quarter-of-an-hour, then serve. (2) Remove the skin and bones of any pieces of boiled Cod while they are warm, place them in layers in a dish, and season each layer with spice and salt. Continue the layers until the dish is full. Put the skin and bones of the fish into a pan with a little of the liquor in which it was boiled, boil this until all the goodness is out, pour off the liquor through a strainer, and let it stand a little to settle ; then add it to the pieces of Cod in the dish. The addition of a few oysters, shrimps, or hard-boiled eggs will be a great improvement. Make a light crust, cover the dish, and bake in a brisk oven until done. (3) The same as No. 2, excepting that it is made into patties, with the fish cut up into small pieces, mixed into a paste with milk or cream, and well seasoned. (4) Pick off the flakes, put them into a saucepan with the sauce (if any) that is left, and twelve or fourteen oysters with their liquor. If there is not sufficient to moisten the fish, add 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of butter wanned to melting-. Place the pan over a gentle fire, and when its contents are quite hot, put it on one side. Have ready some boiled and mashed potatoes, put them on a dish, leaving a hollow in the centre, place the fish in this, and sprinkle over it (not over the potatoes as well) breadcrumbs or biscuit-raspings. Brown the surface with a salamander or in the oven, and when a good colour serve it. Salted Cod a la Bonne Pemme.—Have ready about 21b. of soaked, cooked, and boned Cod, and prepare it the same as for Salted Cod cooked in Biscayan Style. Put it into a saucepan, moistening with J pint each of bechamel sauce and German sauce ; add three potatoes and three hard-boiled eggs (all cut into thin slices), and J pinch of pepper. If too thick, put in a little milk. Cook for about five minutes, then serve with 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Salted Cod cooked in Biscayan Style.- Bone 21b. of Cod and soak it in cold water for a day, changing the water as often as possible; then place it in a saucepan with a good supply of fresh water, and simmer over a slow fire till boiling. Take it out, drain well, return to the pan with fresh water, and let it come to the boil again; then take it out and scale it. Fry together in a saucepan two chopped onions and one green pepper in 1 gill of oil for five minutes; add one good- sized tomato cut in pieces, one clove of bruised garlic, and one chilli pepper (capsicum). Moisten the ingredients in the saucepan with 3 pints of broth, add a bouquet garni, 3 table- spoonfuls of tomato sauce, and 1 pint of peeled potatoes, and cook for forty-five minutes; then add the Cod, and boil again for five minutes longer. Dress it on a hot dish, and serve with 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley sprinkled over. Salted Cod served in Brown Butter.—The fish must be soaked in cold water for two days, and the water changed constantly; then scrape off the scales, clean and wash thoroughly, lay it in a fish-kettle, and place over a slow fire until boiling. Move the kettle to the side of the fire, skim off any scum that may have risen to the top of the water, and let it boil gently for ten minutes. Put 4oz. of 1 Codfish continued. butter into a frying-pan, and place it over the fire; when it is hot, put in a few sprigs of parsley, and fry until brown. Drain the fish, being careful not to break it, and lay on a hot dish; pour the butter and parsley over, and serve while very hot. Salted Cod with Cheese. -Soak some Cod for two days in water, this being constantly changed; then clean it, scrape off the scales, put it into a fish-kettle with a lump of salt and suffi- cient cold water to cover it, and boil gently for ten minutes. Drain the Cod, baste with warmed butter, roll in grated Parmesan cheese, giving it a good coating all over, lay on a baking-dish, strew a small quantity of finely-grated bread- crumbs over it, and put in a brisk oven until browned. When cooked, lay the Cod on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with a few neat sprigs of parsley, and serve while very hot. Salted-Cod Salad.—(1) Soak some small square pieces of salted Cod in cold water, changing the water occasionally. After soaking for ten or twelve hours, drain and dry the pieces of fish on a cloth, brush them over with warmed butter, and broil over a clear fire. Peel and boil five potatoes; when cooked, drain them, cut into slices, and while hot . place them in a salad-bowl; put in the pieces of fish, pour in 1 wineglassful of Rhine wine, lay a plate over the bowl, and leave the salad till cold. Pick and wash a small quantity of endive, put it in the bowl with the other ingredients, add two or three anchovies that have been skinned and cut into fillets, and about 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley. Mix together in equal quantities some vinegar and oil, and season to taste with sugar, pepper, and salt. Pour the dressing over the salad, stir it lightly with a fork, and serve. (2) Cut three rather large pieces of flesh from a salted Cod, divide each piece into halves, put them in a basin of cold water, and leave all night. On the following day, drain the pieces of fish, dry them on a cloth, brush over with a paste-brush dipped in warmed butter, and broil over a clear fire. Leave the fish till cold; then flake it or tear it apart with two forks, cover with oil and vinegar in equal quantities, season with pepper and salt, and let it stand for an hour. Wash and drain some lettuces, and put them in a salad-bowl; then drain the pieces of fish and put them in. Pour some mayonnaise dressing over the salad, arrange tastefully on it some rings of lemon-peel and some picked shrimps or prawns, and serve. Salted Cod on Toast.—Separate the flesh of some salted Cod from the skin and bones, flake it, soak in cold water for half-an-hour, and then drain it well. Mix 3 table-spoonfuls of cream and 1 table-spoonful of flour with the fish; beat one egg with £ teacupful of milk, stir it into the fish mixture, season with salt and pepper, turn it into a saucepan, and stir over a slow fire till hot. Cut some moderately-thick slices of bread off the bottom of a household loaf, toast and butter them, season with pepper and chopped parsley, and lay them on a hot dish. Spread the fish mixture on the toast, and serve it while very hot. Scallops of Cod.—Take any pieces of cold cod, remove all the bones and skin, and divide the flesh into small pieces or flakes. Prepare a cream sauce, or if preferred work 3 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce with a good lump of butter over the fire, seasoning with a little salt and pepper. When the butter is well mixed in with the sauce, put in the pieces of fish, and mix them well, so that the sauce will work well into the fish. Let the mixture stand until it is cold. Garnish a dish with small slices of fried bread, put the scallops in the centre, smooth them over with a knife or spatula, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, and baste with a little butter, and then brown the top with a salamander. Place round the dish croutons of bread cut in various shapes and toasted. Stewed Cod.— (1) Cut some Cod into slices about ljin. in thickness, put them in a fish-kettle with enough boiling water to cover them and a good-sized lump of salt, and boil for five minutes ; then take the slices out carefully and drain well. Put some white stock into a saucepan (allowing 1 teacupful to every pound of fish), and 3 table-spoonfuls of finely-grated breadcrumbs, and put this over the fire to get hot. Mix together in a basin for each pound of fish 1 teaspoonful of ground rice, ^ wineglassful of sherry, 1 tea- spoonful of lemon-juice, and a very small quantity each of 2 N