414 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PR AC TIC AL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cbe., referred to, see under their special heads. Codfish—continued. Codfish—continued. a large raw carrot, tie it loosely with string, and put it belly downwards on the drainer of a fish-kettle, pouring enough cold water over to cover it, with 1 handful each of parsley and salt. Put the kettle on the fire and let it boil up, and as soon as it commences to bubble remove to the side and let it remain for twenty-five minutes longer. Take the fish out, put it on a napkin to drain, place it on a dish, and surround with parsley. Serve with some potato croquettes and a sauceboatful of Flemish sauce. See Fig. 496. Boiled Salted Cod.— (1) Take about 21b. of salted Cod and put it into tepid water for six hours to steep; then take it out and put it for the same length of time into cold water, changing this about every hour-and-a-half. Take a gallon saucepan, put in the fish, fill up the saucepan with water, and put it on the fire ; when it boils, put it on the side, and let it simmer for five minutes longer. Take out the fish, put it on a strainer to drain, place it on a dish, pour over ^lb. of butter, melted and mixed with the juice of a lemon, surround with a garnish of eight plain-boiled potatoes, and serve. (2) Take half a salted Cod, cut it into large squares, put it into cold fresh water, and let it remain for three days, changing- the water every day. Scale it, put it into a stew- pan with plenty of cold water, put the lid on the pan, and place it on the fire to boil; as soon as it commences to bubble remove it to the side, and let it simmer for twelve or fifteen minutes longer. Take out the fish with a skimmer, put the pieces on a cloth, take out the large bones, put the fish on a dish, and baste it with clarified butter mixed with the juice of a lemon and a little parsley and grated nutmeg. Garnish the dish with potatoes, and send to table. (3) Prepare and boil a salted Cod as for Boiled Salted Cod No. 1. When done, take it out, drain, and serve with the following sauce: Take some onions, cut them into small dice, fry them in butter until they are a nice light brown, sprinkle over a little flour, and moisten them with a little cream or milk ; when they are done, add a good-sized piece of butter and seasoning-. Place tbe fish in the sauce, warm all up together, and serve. (4) Take a good-sized fish, remove all the salt from it by steeping in water, place it in a large fish-kettle, and put on the fire to boil; when it commences to boil, remove to the side of the fire, and keep warm. Take two or three heads of garlic, pound well, and put them into a stew- pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of oil, 4oz. of butter, and salt and pepper to taste. Place the pan on the fire, shaking it fre- quently ; then put in the fish while it is quite hot, and continue to shake until all are well mixed. A little lemon-juice added effects a great improvement; and if the sauce is not mellow enough, put in a little more oil, with a table-spoonful of veloute sauce. Boiled Salted Cod a la Maitre d’Hotel. This is prepared the same as for Boiled Salted Cod with Egg Sauce, excepting that ilb. of melted maitre-d’liotel butter is used instead of the egg sauce. Boiled Salted Cod -with Brown Butter.—Prepare and cook the fish as for Boiled Salted Cod (No. 1). When it is done, put it on a dish, pour over 1 pint of brown butter, and garnish with fried parsley. Boiled Salted Cod with Egg1 Sauce.—(1) Chop as fine as possible lib. of freshly-salted Cod that has been soaked, boiled, and allowed to get cold. Mix 1 teaspoonful of corn- flour with 1 teacupful of milk till smooth, and stir it over the fire till it thickens; add to this £lb. of mashed potatoes rubbed through a sieve, 2oz. of butter, 1 dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, two well-beaten eggs, and pepper to taste. Stir till very hot, and then serve. (2) Prepare the fish as for Boiled Salted Cod (No. 1). Boil two eggs for ten minutes, cut them up into large dice, and mix them into 1 pint of melted butter sauce. Take the fish out when done, place it on a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Boiled Salted Cod with Spinach.—Choose a good, white’ and thick, salted Cod, cut it in halves, and soak one half in cold water for two or three days, changing the water fre- quently ; then take it out, cut it into square pieces, and boil these in a stewpan on a good fire in plenty of water. When the liquid commences to boil, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and let it continue simmering for from twelve to fifteen minutes. When done, take out the pieces of fish, place them on a strainer, let them drain, remove all the bones and the skin, and cut the fish up into smaller pieces. Take 4 large handfuls of spinach, wash and chop it, put it into a frying-pan with a little oil, and add 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley; add presently a handful of bread- crumbs, and mix them in well, next adding sufficient milk to moisten all, but still keeping the contents moderately stiff ; then put the pan on the fire, boil for ten minutes, and put in the pieces of Cod. Place them on a gratin-dish in layers, with oil spread on top of each layer, and with a knife or spatula smooth the oil on the top layer; dust over some breadcrumbs, baste well with oil, and bake for thirty minutes in a moderate oven. When it is done, serve. Buttered Cod.—Prepare a Cod and soak it as for Crimped Cod ; then drain it. Have ready a piece of butter as large as an egg, melted and hot. Dust the fish with flour to absoi-b all the water, divide it into small pieces, and lay these in the hot butter, stirring well for about five minutes. Turn it all out upon a dish, pepper to taste, and serve. Buttered Salted Cod.—Pick the flesh off the bones of the fish and soak it for half-an-hour or so in cold water. When ready, drain the fish thoroughly, then mix 1 table-spoonful of flour in it. Put loz. of butter in a frying-pan, make it hot, put in the fish, and stir it over the fire for six or seven minutes. When cooked, turn the fish on to a hot dish, dust a small quantity of pepper over, and serve. This is a very simple but tasty dish, which makes a good relish for break- fast or luncheon. Cod a la B>oyale.—Choose a small fish, or the tail end of a large one, clean it, open it down the back on each side of the bone with a knife, and fill it up with some stuffing made as follows: Take the crumb of a French roll and rub it through a rather coarse sieve; chop loz. of beef-suet or fat bacon very small, and add a little dried parsley, sweet herbs, salt and pepper; mix these well together, adding an egg and a teaspoonfnl of essence of anchovy. Next make a break- fast-cupful of thin melted butter sauce, add the juice of a lemon, a pinch of salt and pepper, and a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, and put this into a baking-dish (taking one in which the fish can be sent to table). Put the fish into this, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour, frequently basting, so as not to allow it to brown. If the sauce should become too thick, put in a little water, a piece of butter, and a few drops of anchovy. When the fish is quite done, pour over the sauce, and serve. Cod an Gratin.—(1) Clean a fresh Cod and prepare it by tying up the head with string and filling the inside with rnaitre- d’hotel butter; then put the fish belly downwards on a buttered drainer in a fish-kettle, and pour over it a mixture made as follows: Melt lib. of butter in a saucepan, put in 3qts. of chopped mushrooms, two blanched and chopped shallots, 4 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, the juice of two lemons, a pounded clove of garlic, and salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste; all of these being well mixed and partly cooked before being used. Pour over the fish 1J pints of white wine, and bring it quickly to the boil; then place the kettle in a slack oven and let it boil gently but continually for an-hour-and-a half, basting the fish about every ten minutes with the liquor. If the flesh is firm, put the Cod on a dish, pour over half of its stock, and servo with the remainder in a sauceboat. Any fish sauce may also accompany it. (2) Take half a Cod (the tail end is the best for this) and cut off both the fillets. Butter a gratin-dish and sprinkle it with a little minced onion and finely-chopped raw mushroom. Place the fillets side by side on the dish, add a little season- ing, and dust over with minced parsley and mushrooms, and lastly, breadcrumbs. Put the dish in a hot oven, and bake for from ten to twelve minutes ; then take it out, pour over a little brown sauce, replace it in the oven, and cook for seven or eight minutes longer. Serve the fish on the dish upon which it was cooked. (3) Clean a fresh Cod and prepare it for boiling; put it on the fire in cold water with a handful of salt, and let it boil gently for five minutes. Remove it from the kettle, lay it in a tin or dish, and spi'ead over it a mixture made as follows: Put in a stewpan ilb. of butter, pints of