442 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, itc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cornflour—continued. (3) To 3 pints of warm water add | gill of yeast, \ teaspoon- [ ful of dissolved ammonia, and 1 teaspoonful of salt; stir in sufficient Cornflour to make a batter, add 1 pint of flour, and beat the whole smooth ; cover it, and set it in a warm j place to rise. In ten or twelve hours’ time, add two well- beaten eggs, form it into cakes, and bake on a griddle to a light brown. Serve on a hot dish with butter and syrup. Cornflour Gruel.—(1) Blend 2 table-spoonfuls of sifted Corn- | flour with 3 table-spoonfuls of cold water till perfectly smooth, [ and then pour in gradually 1 pint of boiling water, stirring it well in ; add a small quantity of salt, put it over the fire, and let it boil half-an-hour, stirring all the time, and | removing any scum that rises. This gruel may be sweetened with sugar and flavoured with white wine and grated nutmeg. (2) Mix 2 teaspoonfuls of Cornflour and 1 saltspoonful of salt with cold water until of a smooth, thin paste, stir into it 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling water, and cook five minutes, or until the desired consistency is obtained. Strain, add a little sugar if desired, and thin it by adding a little milk. If intended for a patient, a little lemon-juice improves the flavour; or ^in. stick of cinnamon or a little nutmeg may be boiled | with it to flavour. Cornflour Hasty Pudding1.—(1) Take lqt. of milk, and with a little of it blend 2 table-spoonfuls of Cornflour to a smooth paste. Throw 1 teaspoonful of salt into the remainder of the quart of milk, place it on the fire, and as soon as it boils pour it over the Cornflour, stirring it well. Put it into the saucepan and let it boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour, stirring it often enough to prevent burning. Take it from the fire and stir into it about ljoz. of butter. Pour into a deep dish and let it stand in a pan of hot water till sent to table, but do not cover it. Serve with either jam or sugar and cream. (2) Put over the fire in a saucepan 3 pints of water; when it boils throw in a little salt, and stir in gradually 3 pints of Cornflour and 2oz. of butter, and keep stirring till it is quite thick. Serve it hot, with cream, or milk and sugar, or treacle. (3) Mix together 6oz. of Cornflour and 2oz. of wheat-flour, and then stir both flours into lqt. of boiling water. Let it boil hard for half-an-hour, stirring it almost constantly. At the end of the half-hour, add 1 teaspoonful of salt and loz. of butter, and let it boil gently for ten minutes. Serve it in a deep dish with either butter, sugar and grated nutmeg, or else cream and sugar. Cornflour Jelly.—(1) Put 1 table-spoonful of Cornflour into a basin, mix in 1 table-spoonful of milk, and then add the yolks of three eggs. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of milk (less the table- spoonful) into a saucepan, bring it to the boil, add sugar to sweeten, and stir in quickly the egg and Cornflour mixture, and continue to stir until all is quite smooth. Pour the mixture into a mould, let it set, turn it out, and serve. This is a good jelly for an invalid, and may be flavoured with any essence. (2) Boil lqt. of water with 12oz. of sugar, and add to it the juice of one small lemon and about half the rind cut off thin and in small pieces. Mix 3 table-spoonfuls of Cornflour in i pint of boiling- water, stir it into the boiling syrup, and boil slowly for about ten minutes, so as to lose its milky appearance and become almost clear. Pour it into custard-cups or any kind of moulds, let it get firm, and serve each with 1 table- spoonful of sweetened cream whipped to a froth. Cornflour Loaf Cake.—Bub |lb. of butter into lib. of Corn- flour, and make into a thick batter with boiling milk. Beat two eggs and stir into the batter when cool. Dust a little flour over jib. of stoned raisins and ilb. of washed and dried currants, and stir them into the batter with fib. of moist sugar; put the mixture into a buttered cake-mould, and bake for two hours in a moderate oven. Cornflour Lunn.—Put into a large basin and mix well together 1 breakfast-cupful of wheaten-flour, 1 teacupful of Cornflour, and 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, and when thoroughly mixed add 3 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. Melt over the fire or in the oven 2oz. of butter, and pour it into the middle of the mixed flours. Break three eg-gs into a small bowl and beat them up very light. Mix the flours and butter to a batter with f pint of new milk, then pour the eggs over it, and stir them in. Grease a pudding-dish, and pour the batter in, only filling it half full. Put it in a quick oven and bake for twenty minutes. Serve it Cornflour—continued. hot on a dish covered with a napkin. It may also be made without sugar. Cornflour Meringue.—Blend 1 table-spoonful of Cornflour to a smooth paste with a little cold milk. Pour on to it, stirring all the time, lqt. of boiling milk ; put it into a saucepan, let it boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour, and keep stirring to prevent its burning. Take it from the fire, and beat up the yolks of four eggs with 2 table-spoonfuls of powdered white sugar and a few drops of essence of lemon or vanilla ; stir this by degrees into the boiled Cornflour and milk, which will have cooled a little while the eggs and sugar were being beaten. Then butter a pudding'-dish, pour all into it, and bake for a-quarter-of- an-hour. Meantime, beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth with 1 table-spoonful of jam or jelly added by degrees. Take the pudding from the oven at the end of a-quarter-of-an- hour, heap this stiff froth lightly on it all over, put it back in the oven, and let it brown very slightly. It may be served either cold or hot. If the Cornflour is flavoured with lemon- essence, use strawberry or some other sweet jam to beat up with the white of egg. If it is flavoured with vanilla, use currant jelly. Cornflour Musk.—(1) A cast-iron pot with feet is the best vessel to use, as being raised lin. from the stove the mush will be less likely to stick to the bottom and burn. Boil 2qts. of water and 1 table-spoonful of salt (having previously greased the inside of the pot with a little lard or dripping); then sprinkle in gradually 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Cornflour, beating1 at the same time with a spoon. Put on the lid, and let it simmer for three hours. When cold it can be cut into slices and fried. (2) Add 1 teaspoonful of salt to 1 breakfast-cupful of Corn- flour, and mix it quite smooth with a small quantity of cold water, then stir in gradually lqt. of boiling water. Pour the mush into a jug, which stand over the fire in a saucepan of boiling water, and cook for two hours. When done it may be served either hot or cold, with sugar and cream. Cornflour Pastry Cream.—Put 1 pint of water or milk into a saucepan with 5oz. of sugar, and boil them. Add 2oz. of Cornflour mixed stiff with water, stir well, and boil again; add the yolks of five eggs and 2oz. of butter, and stir well over the fire until the mixture is quite thick, which will take about ten minutes. Let the mixture cool before adding a flavouring, and when it is quite cold it is ready for use. Cornflour Porridge. —Pour 2) pints of water into a saucepan, add 1 teaspoonful of salt, and bring the liquor to the boil on a moderate fire. Add while boiling 1 pint of Cornflour, stir well and continually, and boil for quite half-an-hour. Turn it out into cups or other vessels, and serve with cold milk separately. The Cornflour may be boiled in milk instead of water, but milk must always be served with it. Cornflour Pudding (Baked).—(1) Put Agall. of milk into a saucepan with 6oz. of sugar, boil them, and beat in 7oz. of . Cornflour, adding a small quantity at a time. Cook slowly over the fire for about thirty minutes, then add 4oz. of butter and the yolks of eight eggs or five whole eggs. Turn the preparation into a dish or mould, and bake in a moderate oven until done. Turn it out, pour sweet sauce over or round, and serve. (2) Mix 2oz. of Cornflour in ^ teacupful of milk, add to it 3 pints of boiling milk, sweeten with caster sugar, and flavour with vanilla or any other flavouring. Pour the mixture into an enamelled saucepan, and stir it over the fire until thick; remove it from the fire, and beat in one egg; butter a pie- dish, turn the pudding in, put a little butter on the top, and bake in a slow oven for three-quarters-of-an-hour. This makes a nice light pudding for invalids. (3) Mix 1 teacupful of Cornflour in lqt. of milk, put it over the fire, and keep stirring till it thickens. Sweeten to taste either with sugar or treacle, grate a little nutmeg into it, and stir in two well-beaten eggs and loz. of butter. Pour the pudding into a pudding-dish, and bake in a Dutch-oven in front of the fire for half-an-hour. (4) Put lqt. of milk into a saucepan, keeping back enough to mix the Cornflour with, and let it get hot. Mix smoothly 4 table-spoonfuls of Cornflour with the milk reserved for the purpose and 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar; when the milk in the saucepan is almost boiling, pour into it the blended Cornflour, milk, and sugar ; stir till it boils, and then at once take the