TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 397 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, 'duces, ifrc., referred to, see under their special heads. Clams—continued. the hard parts of the Clams moderately fine, put them into a saucepan with the water in which they were washed, 1 pint of tinned or sliced tomatoes, an onion peeled and sliced, a small red pepper, and 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, and cook very slowly for one hour; then strain through a fine colander. After the soup has been strained, put it again over the fire, add to it pint of new milk, 1 table-spoonful of butter, 4 table-spoonfuls of finely-powdered cracker dust, and the soft portions of the Clams, and stir it constantly until it boils. Let it boil for a minute, add more salt and pepper if necessary, and serve very hot. Steamed Clams.—Take some Clams and scrub their shells well in water; then place them in a saucepan without any water, put them on the fire, and cook until the shells open. Take out the Clams with a skimmer, pour the liquor into a jar, and let it settle. It will be useless to strain the liquor through the finest strainer, but a piece of linen may be used; or if allowed to settle, and care be taken not to move the sediment, the water can be poured off. Take out the Clams from their shells, pulling off the thin skin round the edge, and cutting off the whole of the black end with a pair of scissors. Dip each Clam in a little of the liquor, and if at all tough cut that part through. When the water has settled, pour it into a saucepan, add the Clams, and make it hot, but do not boil it. Take out the Clams, and serve with brown bread-and-butter, toasted crackers, or on pieces of buttered toast. Stewed Clams.—Remove thirty-six small Clams from their shells, put them into a stewpan with 2oz. of fresh butter, 1 pinch of chives, and 1 pinch of finely-chopped chervil; add ^ break- fast-cupful of water— so that they will not be too salt—also i pinch of pepper and 2 table-spoonfuls of sifted breadcrumbs, and boil for two minutes. Turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve with the juice of half a lemon squeezed over. Stewed Soft Clams.—(1) Wash 31 dozen of fresh soft Clams so that no sand adheres to them after they are opened, lay them carefully in the palm of the left hand, and with the fingers of the right remove the body carefully, but nothing else, being very careful not to break it, and . throwing away all the other parts. When all are pre- pared, place them in a stewpan, with loz. of butter, -J- pinch of white pepper, 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine, and two finely-hashed medium-sized truffles; place the cover on the pan, and cook gently for eight minutes. Put the yolks of three eggs into a bowl, add 1 pint of sweet cream, and beat well for three minutes ; pour this over the Clams, and toss the saucepan for two or three minutes very gently, to thoroughly incorporate the Clams with the cream, but without letting the liquor boil again, or the Clams will break. Neither spoon nor fork should ever be used in mixing them. Pour the whole into a hot dish, and send to the table at once. (2) Prepare 3 dozen fresh and rather small soft Clams, throw away all the hard part, retaining nothing but the body; place them in a stewpan with 2oz. of butter, ^ pinch of pepper, a finely-chopped shallot, and i wineglassful of Madeira wine, and cook on the hot stove for seven minutes; then add 1 gill of Spanish sauce, 1 pinch of chopped parsley, the juice of a medium-sized lemon, and loz. of butter, stirring the whole well for three minutes longer, without letting it boil. Pour the whole into a hot dish, and serve at once. CLAREMONT SAUCE.—See Sauces. CLARENCE PUDDING.—See Puddings. CLARET (Fr. Clairet; It. Clarette, from clari or clar, “ clear ”).—Of all tlie wines produced in Prance, there are none so famous as the Red Bordeaux. Not only are these wines famous for full bodies, bouquet, and delightful flavour, hut also for a richness of hue which is so remark- able that the name of the wine has provided a distinctive name for a colour, and for the simple processes employed in its manufacture. Indeed, Continental vintners are wont to observe that all other wines require special skill in manipulation; but Claret makes itself. From the time of this wine being introduced into Great Britain and Ireland it gained great favour, especially in the smaller island, where, according to Irish historians, Claret—continued. Claret soon became the prime dinner-drink of the “ quality.” Amongst the descendants of those who came over from Normandy with the Conqueror to this country. Claret was almost a necessity of life; but, as the old Saxon taste for mead and other sweets would assert itself at times, it became necessary to qualify Claret with sugar and spices. This led to a demand for mulled Claret, and to this day we find in England, Claret-cup, and other Claret concoctions, preferred to Claret plain. A writer on the subject of wines, says of Claret: “ Those who are not connoisseurs in it would not easily be enabled, from any description, to realise an idea of its beauties. Its colour, for instance, is difficult (even in these days of new hues) of definition—it is, in fact, ‘ Claret colour,’ and nothing else. To define an odour is a task equally, if not more onerous, and I can think of nothing closer to convey a notion of the bouquet of Claret than a combination of raspberries and violets ; the body is ‘ round,’ fruity, and soft as satin, and all the components are so happily blended into a homogeneous whole that during the degustation of good Claret all the senses seem to be simultaneously gratified. It is not, however, merely as a sybaritic luxury that I would wish Claret to be known; higher praise may be accorded to it as one of the most refreshing, the most cooling, and the most invigorating beverages, easy of digestion, and even assisting that process, a mildly stimulating and inebriating drink, in every way fulfilling the Scriptural character, as a ‘ wine that maketh glad the heart of man.’ ” After such a eulogy, the mouth waters for Claret; but it is quite evident that the writer refers to the higher classes of wine, such as Chateau Lafitte, Chateau Latour, Margaux, and some others, the genuine productions of the primest vineyards along the sloping banks of the Dor- dogne, Garonne, and Gironde; but it must not be forgotten that some so-called Clarets are prepared on the banks of the Thames, and, unfortunately, find a ready market amongst certain classes in this country, who purchase these crimson liquids, and hope to drown their terrible imperfections by boiling them with lemon, spice, and sugar. These wretched concoctions it is not our business to recognise, under this heading or any other, but they intrude themselves upon us as so nearly approaching the price of some vins ordinaires that it is difficult to dis- tinguish one from the other, unless the palate is sufficiently educated in vinology to detect the inimitable flavour of the grape where it exists. The imitation Claret may make an excellent gargle for a sore or relaxed throat, by reason of its acid and astringent qualities—but genuine Claret does not act like that. Of the various kinds of Claret some words are necessary, although it may be fairly stated that their names are legion. Those best known to us are Chateau Lafitte, Chateau Latour, Chateau Margaux, Mouton Rothschild, Haut Bages, and many others, down to St. Julien, Medoc, and Yin Ordinaire—from 40s. to Is. per bottle. From the simplicity of its manufacture, Claret is es- sentially a vintage wine, its quality depending firstly upon the grapes used, and, secondly, upon the seasonableness of the year. The best Clarets are made from the juice of the Cabernet grape, which differs in quality according to soil and situation. Lafitte, Margaux, St. Julien, and Medoc are all made from this grape, and yet they differ con- siderably in their respective qualities and flavours; but what may be said of almost all wines is that a good year affects all grapes alike, although it does not always follow that a good year in one part of the Continent should be a good year throughout. Indeed, it very rarely happens that this is the case. Hence, even Clarets, or Bordeaux wines proper, differ in different situations. The year 1864 was a grand vintage for Lafitte, 1869 answered well for Lafitte and Latour, and then follows Latour again in 1870. The vintage of 1874 was fairly