287 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils Sauces, dbe., referred to, see under their special heads. Capons—continued. ilb. of scrag of mutton, a knuckle of veal, a chicken, a partridge, and a few slices of blanched ham. Pour in a little less than 2 pints of beef-stock, reduce to a light-coloured glaze, then add about 8 pints of stock, three each of carrots, turnips and onions, six leeks tied up in a bundle, two heads of celery, about a quarter of a blanched cabbage tied up in a bunch, a clove of garlic, four cloves, and mace and pepper to taste. Boil slowly for about five hours. Cut into small cubes or squares about two dozen young carrots and turnips, half the quantity of leeks, and the white parts of three heads of celery; blanch them and cook them in stock. Cover a dressed Capon with slices of bacon-fat, and braiso it in a pot with mirepoix sauce, cooking at the same time half-a-dozen or so small sausages. Take out the Capon and sausages, add the liquor to the broth in the saucepan, skim well, and reduce it. Cut the Capon into four parts, and then again into pieces, and remove the skins from the sausages, cutting them lengthwise into halves. Put them all into a tureen, together with the cooked vegetables, strain the soup over, and serve. Roasted Capons. — Select two fine fat Capons, truss, and pre- pare them for roasting. Have a good clear fire, put the birds on a spit or under a jack, and roast them. When quito done remove them from the fire, put them on a dish, and garnish Fig. 326. Boasted Capons with Watercress. with watercress (see Fig. 326). Some good meat gravy should be served with them in a sauceboat, and the birds look much handsomer if decorated eacli with an attelette through its breast. Roasted Capons a la Turque. — Select two plump young Capons ; pluck and draw them, and wash thoroughly inside and out with warm water, then cover them with warm water and leave them for half-an-hour. Boil sufficient rico to stuff the birds with in well-seasoned stock. Dry the birds, stuff them with the rice, truss them, cover with thin slices of fat bacon, and wrap them in sheets of white paper. Fix the birds on a spit, and roast in front of a clear fire. In about an hour’s time the birds should be cooked ; remove the paper and bacon, untruss them, put on a hot dish, pour a veloutc sauce over them, and serve. Roasted Capons with Nouilles.—Prepare two Capons as for Braised Capons a la Financiere, covering over the breasts with slices of bacon-fat instead of larding them. Wrap brown paper round the Capons, and roast them before a good fire. When they are done, remove them from the spit, and take off the bacon. Moisten some nouilles with German sauce, and then add grated Parmesan cheese and chicken glaze. Put the nouilles on a dish to 2in. in thick- ness, place the Capons on them, and serve with German sauce. Stewed Capon a la Francaise.—Pluck, singe, and draw a Capon, wipe it well both inside and out, rub it well with lemon, truss it, tie slices of bacon-fat over it, put it into a saucepan with an onion cut in slices, pour over 1 breakfast- cupful of rich stock or gravy, and stew gently on the side of the fire until the bird is done. Put it on a dish, and serve. Stewed Capon a la Regence. — Prepare a Capon, put it into a frying-pan with a little butter, and toss it over the fire for a few minutes. Take it out, lard it, put it into a saucepan, and add a turnip, onion, and carrot, cut in slices, a few button mushrooms, a bunch of sweet herbs, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour over a tumblerful of Madeira wine and a little rich stock, set the saucepan on the side of Capons—continued. the fire, and simmer gently until the Capon is cooked. Put a ragout of vegetables on a dish, place the Capon on it, and serve. Stewed Capon in Turkish Style.—Put a small pinch of saffron into a saucepan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water, and boil it. Chop up two onior.s, put them into a frying-pan with 3 table-spoonfuls of oil or melted butter and fry them, adding a little of the saffron-water and a finely-minced clove of garlic. When the onions are nearly done, put in a Capon cut up in slices or pieces, pour in 1 pint of broth, or sufficient to cover the pieces of Capon, and cook until done. Put a border of boiled rice round a dish, place the Capon in the centre, pour the strained liquor over, and serve with a garnish of quarters of hard-boiled eggs. CAPRI.—The name given to very excellent red and white wines produced in the Island of Capri, situated in the Bay of Naples. See Italian Wines. CAPSICUMS.—These are perhaps better known as Chillies, or Peppers, green and red, all of which belong to the same family {Capsicum), although differing somewhat in shape and colour. The manufacturers of Cayenne Pepper import largely for their purpose the fruit of Capsicum annuum, which reaches them in the shape of large withered, broken, dark-red pods, from which the moisture has been completely dried. They are sent in this state from the East Indies ; but the gardener’s efforts to cultivate them in this country have generally proved successful. C. annuum grows to the height of 2ft., with long hardy stems, supporting long, narrow, dark green leaves, and bearing white flowers in June or July, the latter giving place to long red pods containing hard seeds. There are several varieties, of which the following are the more important: Cherry Pepper {C. cerasiforme), bearing cherry-shaped fruit; Bell Pepper (C. grossum), bearing fruit shaped something like a conical bell; Bird Pepper (0. baccatum), yielding a very small fruit, which is duly gathered when ripe, dried in the sun, and then pounded and mixed with salt, and sold as an inferior sort of Fig. 327. Long and Round Capsicums cayenne. Fig. 327 shows both long and round Capsicums, the shapes of which are produced by both red and yellow varieties. The heat and aromatic properties of these Peppers are due to the active principle, an alkaloid termed capsicine. Cooks generally prefer to use the fresh fruit, or the ground pepper, but such excellent preparations, containing capsicine in such a highly concentrated form, have been made for us by modern manufacturing chemists that, as soon as they are sufficiently well-known they are certain to be universally adopted, especially as the Red Pepper of commerce is subject to serious adul- terations such as those of Venetian red, turmeric, ver- milion, and earths. See Adulterations. Capsicum Butter.—Put about Joz. of cayenne popper in a mortar and pound it, mixing in gradually Rb. of butter, and continue the pounding till the cayenne is well incorporated with the butter. This mixture is generally used for sandwiches. Capsicum Syrup. — Make 2 pints of strong syrup (21b. of sugar to the pint), and whilst hot pour in loz. of tincture of Capsicum. Bottle for use.