THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 466 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Cream—continued. and the meringue dusted over with finely-powdered caster sugar, and put in the oven to colour slightly. (2) Put 3joz. of sugar into a basin with 1 dessert-spoonful of flour, and add four eggs, one at a time. Moisten with 1 pint of milk and strain through a sieve, then add a little lemon flavouring, and stir over the fire for two minutes. Take a flawn-mould (see Flawns), butter it well, and line with some puff paste rolled quite thin, and pour in the mixture. Place the mould in a moderate oven for forty-five minutes to bake. When the preparation begins to set, put some paper over the top. When it is done, remove the paper, sprinkle a little sugar over, take away the mould, and it is ready for use. (3) Russian.—Take a flawn-mould and line it with some trimmings of puff paste, and cover the bottom to half the height of the mould with a layer of vanilla-Cream frangipane, place a round of paper over this, and put it into a moderate oven until the paste is nearly done ; then take it out, remove the paper, and cover over with a layer of raspberry marmalade that has been through a sieve. Cover this again with another layer of frangipane until the mould is quite full. Cover over the sur- face slightly with some crushed macaroons, then a little sugar, and put it back into the oven for ten minutes longer. Cream Fritters.—(1) Put 1 teacupful of flour into a basin with an equal quantity of pounded macaroons, a few dried orange- flowers that have been browned in sugar, 2oz. of finely-shred candied lemon-peel, and one or two small lumps of sugar. Beat the yolks of nine eggs, mix them with £ pint of milk and \ pint of Cream, and stir in gradually with the other ingre- dients, then add the beaten whites of three eggs. Turn the mixture into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire until thick and boiling. Pour the mixture into a well-floured dish, dredge flour over it, and leave it until cold. Cut the paste into small pieces, roll them round, put them in a frying-pan with some hot butter, and fry until lightly browned. Drain the fritters, arrange them on a hot dish over Which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and dust over with caster sugar. Serve while hot. (2) Grate Jib. of sponge biscuits in a basin; beat the yolks of four eggs with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, a small quantity of powdered cinnamon, grated nutmeg, and a pinch of salt. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of flour with 1 pint of milk or Cream, then mix all the ingredients together. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, and, when boiling, throw in the fritters with a knife from a plate. When nicely browned, strain the fritters on a slice, then arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper that has been placed on a hot dish; sift some caster sugar and squeeze some orange-juice over them, and serve. Cream for Fruit Pies.—Put 1 pint of milk into a stewpan with the rind of a lemon and a little cinnamon. In the mean- time take the yolks of two eggs and whisk them well with 1 teaspoonful of flour and 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of Cream, and put them into a stewpan. Put the pan containing the milk on to the fire and let it simmer, and just as it boils add it gradu- ally to the eggs, putting the pan containing them over the fire and whisking until of the consistence of Cream ; then take it off the fire, and as it gets a little cool put in 1 table-spoonful of orange- or rose-flower water. Let it get quite cold. Remove the crust from a fruit pie and pour in the Cream, replacing the crust. Some cooks cut it into quarters, but it is not required. Great care must always be taken not to let the Cream boil, as it soon curdles. Cream Glazed.—(1) Take Jib. of sugar and J pint of water, put them into a stewpan, and boil until the syrup forms into a ball when rubbed between the thumb and finger. Take the whites of three eggs, whisk them well up, and pour in the syrup, and continue to beat until the mixture is stiff and cold. Stir it into any frozen Cream made with a little less than the usual quantity of sugar. Glaze as for No. 2. (2) Put the yolks of six or seven eggs into a basin, and mix them up well with 1 table-spoonful of flour or ground rice and Jib. of caster sugar. Moisten this with 1J pints of milk, and strain it through a sieve into a saucepan. Put it over the fire and stir until it is thick and nearly boiling; then remove it to the side, and mix in the thin rind (zest) of a lemon. Pour this into a basin and let it get cool, constantly stirring- it. Take out the zest, pour the Cream into a deep dish, dust it over with sifted sugar,' and, Cream—continued. in order to glaze it, put it in the oven or brown it with a salamander. If it is required to be marbled, little spots of caramel must be dropped all over it at a little distance from one another, so as to form a marbling. This Cream may be flavoured with either vanilla or orange-blossoms. Cream Ice.—(1) The sort of Cream ice usually made is composed of milk and a small proportion of Cream, with eggs and sugar added to it. Dissolve Jib. of sugar in lqt. of milk, place it over the fire, and let it heat to the Fig. 564. Cream Ice Freezer. boiling-point. In the meantime beat three eggs to a cream, pour the boiling milk into them, return to the fire, and stir until it begins to thicken. Then remove it from the fire, stir until it is smooth, flavour, and let it cool. When it is cool, freeze it in the freezer (see Fig. 564). (2) Beat the whites of four eggs light and mix them in a pan with 3 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot, previously moistened with a little cold water. Put 3qts. of milk in a saucepan and boil it, then pour it over the eggs. Put the pan on the fire and stir until its contents thicken a little. Let it get cold. When it is cold, add lqt. of Cream, any flavouring that may be desired, and sweeten to taste. Put it into a freezer until wanted for use. Cream Ice with Filberts.—Roast Jib. of filberts in a frying-pan or oven; boil 3oz. of sugar to the caramel (see Sugar-boiling), then mix the roasted filberts with it; agitate the mixture, brush a baking-sheet lightly over with a paste-brush dipped in oil, pour the mixture on it, and leave it to harden. Pound it coarsely. Pour lqt. of thin Cream into a saucepan, add 9oz. of caster sugar, and stir over the fire till boiling; then move it to the side, add the well- beaten yolks of eight eggs, continue stirring till thick, then put in the pounded filberts. Pour the Cream into a basin, leave it to cool, then pass it through a fine hair sieve into a freezing-pot and freeze it. Cream Jelly with. Fruit.—(1) Soak loz. of gelatine in J pint of milk for four hours. Then scald 1J pints of milk, and pour over it, adding at the same time Jib. of powdered white sugar. Stir over the fire till nearly boiling-, then strain, and divide into two equal parts. Put one half in a saucepan over the fire, and stir into it the beaten yolks of three eggs ; stir till it begins to thicken, then pour it into a basin, and let it cool. Whisk the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, and beat up, hut not with the whites of the eggs, 1 pint of rich Cream to a stiff froth. Divide the frothed white of egg into two separate heaps. As the white gelatine begins to set, whip into it gradually one-half of the white-of-egg froth in small quantities, alternately with all the whipped Cream. Into the yellow gelatine whip in by degrees and in small quantities the other half of the frothed white of egg. Then stir into the yellow gelatine a flavour-