TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 402 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. COBBLERS. — A fanciful name given to certain drinks, in allusion probably to the ingredients being cobbled or patched together. Receipts for these will be found under various fruits, the following being those more commonly known. Champagne Cobbler.—Put 1 table-spoonful of sugar (or syrup) into a large glass or glasses, half fill them with crushed ice, fill up with champagne, put in a slice or two of lemon, and drink through straws. Claret Cobbler.—Put 1 wineglassful of claret into a glass with a very small quantity of clove cordial, and the required quantity of crushed ice, float two slices of lemon on the top, and drink through straws. Mock Champagne Cobbler.—Put 1 table-spoonful of sugar (or syrup) into a large glass, pour over 1 table-spoonful of elder-flower water and half the quantity of orange-flower water, stir well, add 1 table-spoonful of brandy and a small (split) bottle of lemonade, put a slice of orange on top, and add as much ice as required. Drink through straws. Sherry Cobbler.—(1) Put 1 gill of sherry and 1 table-spoonful of sugar or syrup into a pint glass, half fill with broken ice, stir until the sugar is dissolved, fill up with more ice, put two rings or slices of lemon on the top, and drink through straws. (2) Take a large tumbler, put into it 2 wineglassfuls of sherry, 1 heaped-up table-spoonful of powdered white sugar, six or eight strawberries or raspberries, and three small slices of pineapple or orange ; fill the glass up with broken ice, and serve it immediately, with straws stuck into the Cobbler to drink it through. Whisky Cobbler.—Put 1 gill of rye or Bourbon whisky into a tumbler with 1 table-spoonful of sugar, half fill up with crushed ice, put in two slices of lemon, and drink through straws. COBURG PUDDING—See Puddings. COCA.—The leaves of the Coca-plant (Erytliroxylon Coca) (see Fig. 482) are said to possess a marvellous power of supporting the human system under excessive muscular fatigue and prolonged abstinence from food. Upon these questions considerable variety of opinion exists. A celebrated traveller states that he was hardly sensible of the fatigue of the mountain descents after Fig. 482. Coca-plant. chewing Coca-leaves, that as a consequence of this chewing, hunger and thirst were suspended for a long time, and that neither appetite nor digestion were other- wise affected. Other travellers declare that Coca-leaves are quite inert. Extended experience has shown that Coca contains an active principle or alkaloid (Cocaine, which is sometimes used in medicine) closely resembling Coca—continued. in its effects the alkaloids of tea and coffee. From this it may be surmised that an infusion of Coca would be about as stimulating and refreshing as a cup of tea or coffee. It is of no other use to the cook. Coca Liqueur.—Infuse lib. of Coca-leaves in 2qts. of over- proof spirit and let them remain for a fortnight; then strain and filter the liquor, mix in 2oz. of spirit of juniper, joz. of vanilla essence, and loz. of essence of rosemary. When these are thoroughly incorporated, mix in 2qts. of clarified syrup, and bottle off for use. COCHINEAL—The generic name for the insect (Coccus cacti) from which this colouring matter is obtained gives a clue to its habits. It infests the cactus of Mexico and the Brazils, and is, when mature, brushed off the plants into convenient vessels, and dried by the application of heat. There are two kinds of Cochineal in the market—silver cochineal, which shows a purplish grey, generally styled “ silver,” and black cochineal, of a red or purple-black colour. Either may be used in preparing crimson colouring for confectioners, commonly called “ carmine,” according to the following receipts: (1) Put 1 pint of water into a copper stewpan, and dissolve lib. of loaf sugar in it; then add joz. of Cochineal and loz. of salts of wormwood, both crushed fine in a mortar, and boil for ten minutes, stirring in with a wooden spoon loz. of cream of tartar and joz. of alum. When dissolved, strain the colouring through a flannel bag, and as soon as it is cold put it in small bottles, corking them tightly. (2) Boil jib. of ground Cochineal with 2qts. of water, then add 21b. of loaf sugar, jib. of alum, fib. of cream of tartar, and boil it again. Strain through a jelly-bag, and when cold put it into bottles. (3) Mix together joz. each of alum, cream of tartar, and Cochineal, with j pint of boiling water; put the mixture into a porcelain stewpan, and let it stand on the stove for twenty-five minutes. Stir in gradually joz. of salts of tartar, and add jib. of caster sugar. Strain and bottle it. (4) Boil 1 joz. of Cochineal and 2oz. of cream of tartar with lqt. of water in an untinned copper pan; then add 12oz. of loaf sugar and loz. of salts of wormwood, and boil for a few minutes longer ; next add loz. of alum, and boil for three minutes longer. Strain through a jelly-bag. When the colouring is cold, add j pint of spirits of wine, and bottle it. (5) Put loz. of finely-bruised or powdered Cochineal into a sugar-boiler, add joz. each of finely-powdered alum and salts of wormwood, pour over 2 breakfast-cupfuls of filtered water, boil up, and let it simmer for two minutes. Take the boiler from the fire, and with a wooden spoon stir in loz. of cream of tartar, pour the whole into a flannel bag (a very thick one), and filter into a basin. Put 4oz. of sugar into the sugar-boiler, with a little water, and boil it to a slight caramel (see Sdoab-boiling). Pour the Cochineal liquor over this, taking care not to let any sediment go in, mix well for a few minutes longer, and pour in a small quantity of spirits of wine. When cool, it should be bottled and corked securely. If put in a cool place the Cochineal will keep good for a long time. (6) Pour a breakfast-cupful of water into a saucepan, and as soon as it boils add loz. of Cochineal beaten to a fine powder in a mortar, and boil for ten minutes longer; then add loz. of cream of tartar beaten up with 2 grains of alum, and boil for another few minutes. Remove the pan from the fire, let the liquor cool and settle, pour it off into bottles, and it is ready for use. COCIDO.—This Spanish dish is an excellent combi- nation of solids and fluids. The term is probably taken from the earthen cooking-pot the name represents. It is in reality little better than a sort of combined broth and hash of anything in the way of scraps that are handy, and duly qualified with smoked sausages. It is not likely to find much favour in this country. COCKADE.—A term used in cookery, applied to sugar or paste ornaments, which are thought to resemble in a measure the kind of ribbon decoration originally worn l on military hats.