375 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Chocolate—continued. the fire, and put in 2 teaspoonfuls of the boiled sugar. Stir the Chocolate with this to a thin paste, then pour it into the rest of the sugar, and boil together to caramel (see Sugar- boiling). Melt a little butter to oil over the fire, skim if necessary, and pour it clear into a basin. Rub this butter all over a marble table, or slab, with the hand. When the Chocolate and sugar are boiled to caramel, or the degree of heat at which the sugar becomes brittle in cooling, pour the mixture on to the buttered slab. Take a long knife by the two ends, one in each hand, and with it press lines tin. apart all down it, and cross these lines with others the same distance apart; then pass the knife between the Chocolate and the slab. When cold, break it into square pieces, and wrap each in a piece of paper. Chocolate Boucliees.—Beat the yolks of six eggs in a basin with jib. of caster sugar, then add the well-whipped whites,' and sift in jib. of flour. When these are well mixed, fill a paper funnel with the paste, and press it out in rounds 1 jin. in diameter on to some sheets of paper ; sift a little caster sugar over these, and bake them. When they are done, trim the rounds with a cutter, spread the flat surface of one round with apricot jam, put another round on that, and so on until all the rounds are used, and then glaze them with some Chocolate icing. Chocolate Cake.— (1) Cream 1 teacupful of butter, and beat in gradually 1 j breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar. Dissolve jib. of scraped Chocolate and 5 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar in 1 teacupful of boiling water, and stir over the fire until smooth ; then stir in the sugar and butter. Beat well three eggs. Mix with lib. of flour, 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and 5 tea- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Mix all together with 1 tea- cupful of milk. Bake for twenty minutes, on buttered sheets, in a moderate oven. This cake may be iced. (2) Cream 1 breakfast-cupful of butter, add gradually 2 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar, the yolks of five and .the whites of three eggs, 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, 3 breakfast-cupfuls of flour in which 1 j teaspoonfuls of baking-powder (or lj tea- spoonfuls of cream of tartar and j teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda) have been mixed; work well. Cover two baking- sheets with this, and bake in a moderate oven for half-an-hour. Put in a saucepan 6 table-spoonfuls each of grated Chocolate and sugar with 2 table-spoonfuls of hot water, and stir over the fire until quite smooth; then pour in 1 teaspoonful of vanilla extract. Beat the whites of two eggs to a froth, and mix with the sugar and Chocolate. When the cakes are done, ice them over with this. (3) Beat jib. of butter and jib. of caster sugar well together: dissolve jib. of grated Chocolate in 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and add this to the sugar and butter, with the yolks of four eggs. Mix jib. of flour, 2oz. of ground rice, and 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder together, and sift over the Chocolate mixture ; then stir in lightly the whites of four eggs beaten to a froth. Pour this into a cake-tin, and bake for one hour in a moderate oven. (4) Put 4oz. of butter into a basin, warm it, and mix in 6oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar. When these are well in- corporated, add 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, a little vanilla for flavouring, and 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder mixed up with 1 jib. of flour; then beat in 2oz. of liquid or warmed Chocolate. Turn the mixture into buttered tins, and bake in a moderate oven. Take the cakes out when done, cover them with sugar-icing, and they are ready for use. (5) Blanch and peel jib. of almonds, put them into a mortar, and pound them until smooth, mixing in occasionally a small quantity of white of egg to keep them from oiling. Beat the yolks of nine eggs with jib. of caster sugar, then mix in the pounded almonds, 4oz. of grated Chocolate, 1 teaspoonful of pounded vanilla, and 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs. Whisk the whites of five eggs to a stiff snow, and work them in lightly with the other ingredients. Butter the interior of a fancy-shaped mould, strew in some breadcrumbs, then shake out all those that will not adhere to the butter, and pour in the batter (which should only three-parts fill the mould, leaving room for it to rise), and bake in a moderate oven. Turn the cake out of the mould when cooked, and leave it until cold. • Chocolate Caramels.— (1) Put 6jib. of granulated sugar, jib. of grated Chocolate, and 3 pints of cream or rich milk into I Chocolate—continued. a copper boiler having a round bottom, and boil over a clear fire, stirring constantly; when it arrives at the crack degree, add 2 table-spoonfuls of vanilla extract, boil up, stir for a minute longer, and pour it out on to a slightly oiled or buttered marble slab. The caramel should be poured on the slab between greased iron bars to the depth of half an inch. Let it stand until quite cold, remove the bars, cut the batch into small cubes with a cutter, and wrap each one in waxed paper. (2) Take 1 breakfast-cupful of molasses, j breakfast-cupful of sugar, jib. of Chocolate (cut fine), j breakfast-cupful 0/ milk, and 1 heaped table-spoonful of butter, and boil all together, stirring all the time. When this will harden in cold water, pour it into shallow pans, and as it cools, cut into small squares. (3) As for Bonbons, but with the ingredients in somewhat different proportion : 2jib. of sugar, jib. of Chocolate, jib. of butter, and j pint of milk or cream. Chocolate Caramel Icing.—Take 1 breakfast-cupful of brown sugar, one square of Chocolate (scraped fine), and 1 table- spoonful of water, and simmer gently twenty minutes, being careful not to let it burn. Spread on the cake with a knife whilst hot. Chocolate Caramel Tablets.—Boil jib. of sugar in 1 tea- cupful of water to the crack degree, and add 1 table-spoonful of scraped Chocolate; boil up again to the crack, and then let it cool. Oil a marble slab, turn the sugar on to it, and as it hardens cut it into lin. square tablets with the point of a knife. When quite set, break them apart. Chocolate Cheese. —Whip lj pints of cream until it is quite thick, and then add the juice of a lemon and joz. of isinglass dissolved in 1 table-spoonful of warm water. Melt jib. of pounded Chocolate, add a little water, and when the Chocolate is dissolved add a little sugar. Mix this with the whipped cream, pour into a mould, and stand on ice, having pre- viously whipped the mixture over ice until it commenced to freeze. Chocolate Comfits.—Melt 2oz. of Chocolate in a little warm water over the fire, beat and mix it to a paste, pour it over lib. of marzipan or almond-paste mixture, and flavour to taste with vanilla or cinnamon. Mix all thoroughly, spread it on wafer shapes, and bake in not too hot an oven. Chocolate Confection.—(1) Boil jib. of sugar to pearl, which is that degree of heat at which little raised balls form on the surface of the boiling sugar (see Sugar-boiling). When the sugar is at this degree, add to it 2oz. of Chocolate dissolved in a little water ; stir constantly till it boils, and then put the preserve into moulds. (2) Boil jib. of sugar to feather, that is, the degree of heat when, if a skimmerful of the boiling sugar is taken up and blown through, large sparks of sugar will fly from it (see Sugar-boiling) ; then add to it 2oz. of gTated Chocolate, melted in a small quantity of clarified sugar; stir, and mix it in well. Serve before it is cold. Chocolate Conserve.—Put 2oz. of Chocolate and j teacupful of water into a saucepan, boil until the Chocolate is dissolved, and mix with jib. of sugar boiled to the pearl degree. Pour the mixture into a mould packed in ice, and let it remain until wanted. Chocolate Cream.—Cut jib. of Chocolate into thin shavings, soak it in a little cold milk, and then set it over the fire, crushing it smooth as it heats; then gradually pour in lqt. of milk, stirring continually. Mix the yolks of ten eggs with j pint of oream, stir this into the Chocolate, and thicken in a bain-marie. Chocolate Creams.—Boil jib. of sugar with a stick of vanilla to 40deg. Fahr., add 2 table-spoonfuls of double cream, and pour it all into a basin to cool. Take out the stick of vanilla, work the sugar with a spatula until it comes to a stiff paste, and then shape the paste into little nuts. Dissolve some Chocolate in a sugar-boiler, adding sufficient syrup at 20deg. Bahr. to bring it to the thiokness of a thin gruel. Dip the balls in the Chocolate, take them out with a fork, put them on a tin sheet, and finish with a cornet filled with the Chocolate. When they are cold, put them on a sieve to dry.