440 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cornets—continued. of the Cornet is cut off to leave an opening as large as may be required. The Cornet is nearly filled with sugar icing, or other soft material, and the top carefully folded over, so that upon pressure the contents ooze through as Fig. 520. Cornet. required by the operator in an even string or quantity. This could not be effected in any other way in the case of a sticky or “ clinging ” material. For other important information on this subject, see Piping. CORNFLOUR.—Sometimes known as Corn-meal or Indian-meal. This is a fine Hour made by grinding the kernels of Indian-corn. Since its introduction into this country it has steadily gained favour amongst all classes until it has become a staple commodity here, due in a great measure to the excellent quality of the Cornflour introduced and the innumerable dishes to which it can be applied. Preparations of Indian-corn have reached us under various titles, such as Coralline, Hominy, Maizena, Oswego, Polenta, and others, each being of sufficient importance to be described under a special heading. Cornflour, or fine corn-meal as it is sometimes called, is prepared by rubbing Indian-corn or maize between stones until all the hard outside shell of the corn is removed and only the soft, floury kernel remains; this is then further ground into flour, or fine meal. Cornflour is frequently mixed or blended with other flours or ground starches; but that supplied by such a firm as Brown and Poison would probably be quite pure flour of the Indian- corn. The value of Cornflour as a food has been disputed, the impression prevailing that if continued it is injurious. Letheby writes something to that effect of the grain; but other chemists declare that it contains more fatty oil than anj other cereal, although somewhat poorer than wheat in albumenoid, or flesh-forming matter. Anyhow it is much consumed all over the world, and is very useful to the cook and confectioner, as the following receipts will testify. It has a sweet taste, somewhat insipid to those who are unaccustomed to it, but by others declared to be more delicious than any other meal. Cornflour Batter Cakes.—Put lib. of Cornflour in a basin with lib. of wheat-flour, 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, Cornflour—continued. and 1 pinch of salt. Stir gradually into the above ingre- dients lqt. of milk or milk-and-water, then add 1 teacupful of melted lard. When well mixed and smooth, spread the mixture out on iron plates in thin cakes (see Fig. 521), and fry them over a slow fire ; turn when cooked on one side, and cook the other. These cakes are very nice when eaten hot. Cornflour Blanc-mange.—Boil 1 pint of milk with 3oz. of loaf sugar; mix 2 table-spoonfuls of Cornflour in a cup with a little cold water, stir it in with the boiling milk, and boil it a few minutes. When off the fire, beat in 1 table-spoonful Fig. 522. Cornflour Blanc-mange. of butter, add salt to taste and any flavouring; wet the inside of a suitable mould with cold water and pour in the preparation. When cold, turn out and garnish with pre- served fruits (see Fig. 522). Cornflour Breakfast Cakes.—(1) Mix together lqt. of sifted Cornflour, 1 teacupful of wheat-flour, and 1 table- spoonful of salt; then stir in gradually lqt. of warm water, thus making a soft dough; put a cloth over the pan and leave it till morning. Next day, dissolve 1 saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in 1 pint of warm milk-and-water, and with this mixture reduce the dough to a batter, stirring it very hard. Cover the batter, and place it in front of the fire to rise for fifteen minutes. Put a small piece of lard in a frying-pan, melt it, put in the batter in the shape of small crumpets, and fry them, turning with a knife when brown on one side. When cooked, put the cakes on a hot dish, and serve them. These cakes can be eaten with either dripping, butter, or treacle. (2) Put lqt. of Cornflour into a basin and stir in sufficient boiling water to moisten it, add two well-beaten eggs, and sufficient milk to make a stiff batter. Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of saleratus in a little hot water, mix it with the batter, and add a small quantity of salt. Butter some square baking-tins, fill them three-parts full with the batter, and bake in a quick oven. When cooked, take the cakes out of the tins, cut them into small squares, put on a folded napkin on a hot dish, and serve. Cornflour Cakes.—(1) Mix in a basin 1 breakfast-cupful of Cornflour, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, J breakfast-cupful of wheat-flour, and 2 saltspoonfuls of salt. Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in J teacupful of boiling water, and pour it into 3 teacupfuls of sour milk ; mix it with the dry ingredients, and add two eg’gs, well beaten. Butter some small cake-tins, pour the preparation in about 1 Jin. deep, and bake for twenty-five minutes in a quick oven. (2) Mix in a basin Jib. of Cornflour, Jib. of wheat-flour, 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and J teaspoonful of bicar- bonate of soda; rub in Jib. of butter, and when smooth add Jib. of caster sugar and the beaten whites of eight eggs. Flavour to taste, and bake in buttered tins. (3) Rub 3oz. of butter in Jib. of wheat-flour and Jib. of Cornflour, and add loz. of baking-powder and sufficient milk to mix them. Put the paste in tins to about 2in. in depth, and bake. (4) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk into a saucepan, boil it, add 2oz. of sugar, pour it into a basin over 12oz. of Corn- flour, and let it remain for from two to three hours. Sift 1 dessert-spoonful of baking-powder with lib. of wheat-flour. Beat Jib. of butter to a cream, work in three eggs, and add gradually the Cornflour ; make this into a batter, using more