296 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cardoons—continued. When cooked, put the Cardoons on a hot dish, strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve over them, and serve. (3) Trim two or three heads of Cardoons, cut the solid parts into pieces about 5in. or 6in. long, peel the edges, and put them into scalding water until the skin will come off easily. Plunge them into cold water, remove the peel, and put them again into cold water. Put 111b. of fat from ox-kidney cut up small into a saucepan with a few slices of carrot, an onion stuck with cloves, two lemons cut in slices but without the peel or seeds, and add a clove of garlic, one or two bay- leaves, and a bunch each of parsley and spring onions. Set the saucepan on the fire, taking care not to let the ingredients brown at all, and when the fat is about three-quarters done dredge in a table-spoonful of flour, pour in sufficient water to moisten, sprinkle in salt to taste, and boil well for a few minutes, skimming frequently. Let the liquor settle, and pour off the clear into another saucepan ; place the Cardoons in this, add two slices of lemon without rind or seeds, set the pan on the fire, and boil for a few minutes ; then cover the Cardoons with a round of greased paper, and simmer gently on the side of the fire for from three to four hours. Take out the Cardoons, put them into another saucepan with a little rich stock, and simmer gently until they nearly fall into a jelly. Turn them on to a dish, pour over Spanish sauce reduced with a little glaze and butter, and serve with a garnish of pieces of toast spread over with ox-marrow. The tops of the Cardoons may be skinned and cut up, blanched, and cooked with the other parts, and used as a garnish. Cardoons for Garnish.. — Select white and quite sound Cardoons, cut them into 3in. lengths, remove all the prickly part from the sides, plunge them into a basin of water, and let them blanch for twenty minutes. Take them out, rub off the skin, put them on a wire drainer in an oval-shaped sauce- pan, cover them over with slices of bacon cut very thin, and pour over a mixture made with flour, clarified broth-fat, and stock; then add one onion, two cloves, one faggot, a little salt and mignonette pepper to taste, and a few slices of lemon without the pips. Place the pan on the side of the fire, and simmer gently until done. Take them out, drain them, and they are ready for use. Cardoons ■with Ox-Marrow.—(1) Take some Cardoons cooked as in Cardoons for Garnish, arrange them in a silver casserole, and pour over a little Spanish sauce. Blanch some ox-marrow by putting it into boiling water, take it out, drain it, and spread over pieces of toast cut iin. thick, 2in. long, and lin. wide; sprinkle these over with salt, glaze them, and put them in a hot oven for about four minutes. Arrange the Cardoons on a dish, place the pieces of toast on the top, and serve. (2) Cut the white stems of one or two heads of Cardoons into pieces about 6in. long, remove the fibrous skin, and put Fig. 333. Cardoons with Bouchees of Ox-marrow. them into acidulated water to soak. Take them out, put them into a saucepan of water, and blanch them for about fifteen minutes over a clear fire with the cover on the pan. Drain them, plunge them into cold water to steep, drain once more, and put into a saucepan; pour over them 1 wine- glassful of white wine, moisten to their height with broth and toppings, and add the juice of three lemons, a few cloves and peppercorns, and a small lump of well-kneaded butter. Cover the whole over with slices of bacon, over that put a piece of paper, put the lid on the pan, and boil over a moderate fire until they are done. Take them out carefully ona at a Cardoons—continued. time, arrange them on a silver dish in the form of a pyramid, trim both ends, and slip them on a di-h; then cut them across through the centre so as to divide the pyramid, and pour over them a little brown sauce reduced with wine. Place small puff-paste patties (bouchees) of ox-marrow round the dish (see Fig. 333), and serve with brown sauce in a sauceboat. (3) Proceed as for Cardoons a l’Espagnole (No 1). —Take a few pieces of ox-marrow of about equal size, and put them in warm water to draw out the blood. When thoroughly cleansed, blanch, and stew them in water with a little salt and a few slices of lemon to keep them white. When done, drain them in a clean towel, and put them into some reduced Spanish sauce. Skim off the fat, and do not forget to add a little sugar, which is desirable in all dishes of Cardoons, for it improves them greatly. Serve very hot. (4) Cut the leaves of some white heads of Cardoons into slices about 6in. long, throwing away all the tough hollow ones, strip them of their prickles, and blanch them in boiling water, first putting in the thickest leaves, next the leaves from the heart, and lastly the middle stalks, which should have been turned to the shape of large olives. Try a piece of Cardoon in cold water to see whether the slime that is on the surface will come off easily with rubbing; if so, throw the whole into cold water, and rub them well till all the slime is off. Throw the Cardoons into a white sauce that has been prepared as for vegetables, boil them up once, then leave them in the sauce. Cut some pieces of ox-marrow all of one size, put them into warm water to draw out the blood, blanch them, and stew in salted and slightly acidulated water. Take the Cardoons out of the sauce, trim them at both ends, put them into a stewpan with a teacupful each of Spanish sauce and broth, and a small quantity each of salt and sugar, and boil them quickly, taking care that they are not overdone, and well skimming off the fat. Drain the pieces of marrow in a clean cloth, and put them in with the Cardoons. Arrange the Cardoons and pieces of marrow on a hot dish, strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve over them, and serve. (5) Chop the white parts of the required quantity of freshly- gathered young Cardoons into pieces of equal lengths, put them into a basin of boiling water, blanch, and plunge them into cold water until they are cool. Take them out, drain them, wipe dry, and scrape and clean them well. Put a few slices of bacon and ham at the bottom of a saucepan, with two or three sliced carrots, two heads of cloves, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; place the Cardoons on the top, cover them over with thin slices of lemon and bacon, add salt to taste, and pour in sufficient water to moisten. Put the saucepan on the fire, and as soon as the liquor boils mix in a lump of butter kneaded with flour, and cook until the Cardoons are done. Put a little Fig. 334. Cardoons with Ox-Marrow. gravy and ox-marrow into a saucepan, stir them well in the bain-marie, add a little thickening, put the saucepan on the side of the fire, place the Cardoons from the ham and bacon mixture in it, and simmer gently for about ten minutes. Have ready some slices of bread about jin. thick, cut off the crust, toast and cover them over with blanched marrow, spread a little beef-glaze over, and warm it with a salamander; put the stewed Cardoons in the centre of a dish, place the pieces of toast round, and serve.