350 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces. <fcc.. referred to, see under their special heads. Cheese—continued. this on some thin slices of bread, put another thin slice on the top of each, press them gently together, cut the sandwiches into finger lengths, and arrange them tastefully on a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper, garnishing here and there with freshly- gathered parsley. Serve the sandwiches with salad. (2) Boil three eggs until hard, take the yolks only, and with loz. of butter, melted over the fire, mix and rub them to a smooth paste; grate 4oz. of Cheese and work it into the paste, season it to taste with pepper and salt. Cut three slices of thin bread-and-butter, spread half of each slice with one-third of this paste, and fold the other half of the slice over it. Cheese Souffles.—(1) Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter in a saucepan and add 1 heaped table-spoonful of flour; when smooth, add 1 teacupful of milk, 4 teaspoonful of salt, and a few grains of cayenne, and cook two minutes ; then add the well-beaten yolks of three eggs and 1 breakfast-cupful of g-rated Cheese, and set away to cool. When cold, add the whites beaten to a stiff froth, turn into a buttered dish, and bake twenty-five or thirty minutes. Serve immediately. (2) Mix 2^-oz. of flour with 1| pints of milk, put this into a stewpan, and stir it over the fire until it boils ; then season with salt and pepper, and strain through a sieve. Grate 7oz. of Par- mesan Cheese, beat the yolks of seven eggs, and add these to the paste. Beat the whites of seven eggs until they are firm, and then mix with the rest. Pill some paper souffle-cases with the mixture, and bake for a-quarter-of-an-hour. These are to be served directly they are out of the oven. (3) Put Jib. of butter in a stewpan, and when it is warm mix the beaten yolks of ten eggs in with it; keep this on the fire for a few seconds, stirring slowly; when it is thickened take it off the fire, add gradually 7oz. of grated Swiss Cheese, 7oz. of grated Parmesan Cheese, and put in 4 saltspoonful each of pepper and sugar; then warm it very slowly, stirring all the time. Take it off the fire when it is smooth, and. add the whites of two eggs, previously whisked. Twenty-five minutes before serving the souffle, add the whites of six more whipped eggs, get nine middling-sized oblong paper cases, and fill them with this preparation ; spread some paper on a baking-sheet, stand the cases on it, and bake them in a slack oven. Serve while hot. See Fig. 430. (4) Put into a saucepan loz. of butter and let it melt; add also loz. of flour, and stir in gradually 1 teacupful of milk ; keep stirring till it boils, then throw in 1 saltspoonful of pepper, and about as much cayenne as may be stood on the face of a sixpence; let it boil for ten minutes, stirring all the time. Take the saucepan off the stove, and drop in before it cools the yolks of three eggs, one at a time, and when they are well stirred in grate in 3oz. of Cheese. Beat all this well together ; have ready the whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth and stir this in last, but stir very lightly and be careful not to beat down the froth. Pour this mixture into small paper cases, or if more convenient into tin cups, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. When the souffles are done arrange the cups on a hot dish, and serve imme- diately. (5) Take 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, 1 table-spoonful of flour, 1 teacupful of milk, |lb. of grated Cheese, three eggs, 4 .teaspoonful of salt, and a dust of cayenne. Put the butter in a saucepan, and when hot add the flour and stir until smooth, but not browned ; add the milk and seasoning, and cook two minutes ; then add the yolks of the eggs well beaten and the Cheese. Set away to cool. When cold, add the whites beaten Cheese—con tinned. to a stiff froth. Put into a buttered dish, and bake from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Serve the moment it comes from the oven. The dish in which this is baked should hold lqt. Cheese Soup.—(1) Take 14 breakfast-cupfuls of flour, 1 pint of rich cream, 4 table-spoonfuls each of butter and grated Par- mesan Cheese, a dust of cayenne, two eggs, and 3qts. of clear- soup stock. Mix the flour, cream, butter, Cheese, and pepper together in a basin, place this in another of hot water, and stir until the mixture becomes a firm, smooth paste. Break into it two eggs, mix quickly and thoroughly, and cook two minutes longer ; then set it away to cool. When cold, roll into little balls about the size of a walnut. When the balls are all formed, drop them into boiling water and cook gently for five minutes. Puj^ them in the soup-tureen, pour the boiling stock over, and serve with a dish of finely-grated Parmesan Cheese. (2) Peel a large white onion, cut it into slices, and fry in a stewpan with a little butter; when it is brown, add 2qts. of broth, a bunch of parsley mixed with a little chervil, and a bay-leaf, and let it boil for ten minutes; then colour it with a few table-spoonfuls of good gravy, and remove it to the side of the fire. Toast lightly some thin slices of bread, put them in a soup-tureen, and sift over them some grated Parmesan Cheese and a little pepper; cut some Gruyere Cheese in small dice, put these in the tureen, and pour the soup over them. (3) Peel and finely mince an onion, put it into a sauce- pan with 41b. of butter and stir it over a brisk fire until browned, dredging in occasionally a small quantity of flour. Pour 2qts. of water over the onion, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil it for ten minutes or so. Cover the bottom of a soup-tureen with a thin layer of grated Parmesan or Gruyere Cheese, and over that place a layer of thin slices of bread; put in another layer of Cheese, then a layer of bread, and so on until four layers of each are put in. Strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve over the Cheese and bread, and serve while very hot. Cheese Straws.—(1) Put 4 saltspoonful each of cayenne and salt in 2oz. of flour; then rub in 2oz. of butter, and add 2oz. of g'rated Parmesan Cheese; mix all these to a stiff paste with the yolk of an egg. Roll this out about 5in. long, cut it into strips and rings, lay them on a greased baking’- sheet, and bake for ten minutes in a quick oven. When they are done put the straws through the rings like a bundle of sticks, and serve. (2) Mix to a paste 41b. of flour, 3oz. of grated Cheese, 4 saltspoonful of salt, and 4 saltspoonful of cayenne, with the yolk of an egg. Roll the paste out about 5in. long, cut it into strips, and twist these like paper spills. Flour a baking-sheet, lay the strips on it, and bake them in a moderate oven until they are crisp, but do not let them brown. (3) Roll scraps of puff paste thin, sprinkle with grated Cheese (and cayenne pepper if you like), fold, roll out, and sprinkle again; then repeat the process, and place on ice to get firm. When cold, roll out an oblong flat Jin. thick, place it on a baking-sheet, and with a pastry-cutter cut into strips 4in. or 5in. long and less than 4in. wide. Bake, and Fig. 431. Cheese Straws. serve piled in cross triangles or squares (see Fig. 431). When the paste is very hard, they are cut as narrow as possible, laid in the pan in groups of five or six, with one straw bound round the middle to represent a bundle of straws, and baked in that position.