359 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Sec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cherries—continued. and put thorn on a strainer to drain; pass the syrup through a silk sieve into a freezing-pan, and then add 3 table-spoonfuls of kirschenwasser. When the syrup has frozen to icicles, Fig. 441. Cherry Iced Compote. put in the Cherries, and let the pan remain in the ice for fifteen minutes longer. Pour the Cherries into compote- glasses, and serve. See Fig. 441. Cherry Jack.—Put 1 wineglassful of Cherry cordial or shrub into a glass, and mix in 1 table-spoonful of lemon-honey and a very little brandy or rye whisky; fill up with ice, and drink through straws. Cherry Jam.— (1) Choose for this ripe (but not over-ripe) fruit. Make a small hole in each and remove the stone, breaking the Cherry as little as possible. To every lib. of fruit add fib. of preserving sugar. Put it into a preserving- pan, place it on a good fire, and boil, stirring continually from the first. Let it boil for forty-five minutes, then take out a little, and put it on a cold plate to test. If it jellies or sets, the jam is done, and must be put into jars at once. Remove the jars to a cool place and tie them down. The jam will not require to be skimmed while it is boiling, as all the scum will boil away. (2) Pick and stone 51b. of good Cherries, and when they are again weighed they should scale quite 41b. Put 21b. of preserving sugar and 1 pint of water into a preserving- ,pan and boil for two or three minutes; add the Cherries, stirring gently so as not to break them, boil again for eight minutes, then pour it all into a basin and let it stand for twenty-four hours, so that the Cherries will soak well; then remove them, put them on a sieve and let them drain. Now add lib. of sugar to the syrup, place the Cherries in it, and boil again for another eight minutes. When done, remove the pan, let the preserve get quite cold, put it into jars, and cover over the top with a thin round of paper dipped in brandy, and then with a larger round tied firmly round the jars or pots. See Jams. (3) Put 61b. of Cherries (picked and stoned) into a basin, bruise them a little, and let them stand till the juice runs from them. Put into a preserving-pan lib. of red-currant juice and lib. of loaf sugar. Place this over the fire, and sta- rt till the sugar is melted; when it boils, empty the basin of Cherries into it, and add 4jlb. of powdered white sugar. Let it boil fast for half-an-hour, skimming if necessary, and then take the pan from the fire ; let it cool a little, and put the jam into pots. When quite cold, lay on top of the jam in each pot a piece of white paper dipped in brandy, and cover the jars so as to exclude the air. Cherry Jam made -without Sugar. —Pick the stalks off a sufficient quantity of Cherries, wipe them with a cloth to free them of all dust, and stone them. Break the stones, put them in a saucepan with a small quantity of water, and boil for a few minutes. Strain the liquor from the stones through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan with the fruit, and boil the whole until reduced to a thick jam, stirring at the same time with a wooden spoon; a small quantity of powdered cloves and cinnamon may be added to the jam if the flavour is agreeable to taste. When sufficiently reduced— that is to say when the jam is boiled to a thick pulp—put it into jars ; leave it until cold, then cover it as for Cherry Jam, No. 2. This jam will keep for several months. Cherries—continued. Cherry Jelly.—(1) Remove the stalks and stones from 21b. of Cherries, put them into a basin, pound the kernels, and squeeze the juice of four lemons through a sieve. Mash the Cherries with a wooden spoon, adding about 1. teacupful of red-currant jelly; then add the kernels, lastly the lemon- juice, and mix these well together. Boil and skim 1 pint of clarified sugar and isinglass, put the Cherries into a jelly-bag, pour this syrup over them, and run it through until quite clear. If not sufficiently sweet, add more sugar; if the con- trary, add more lemon-juice. Damp a mould, pack it in ice, fill it with the jelly, and turn it out when well set and firm. (2) Make a strong syrup (lib. of sugar to 1 pint of water), and skim it as it boils ; when all the sugar is properly dis- solved, throw in a quart of Cherries to the pint. When the Cherries are thoroughly cooked take the pan off the fire, and when the syrup is cold mix with it loz. of isinglass to the quart and the juice of three or four lemons. Strain through a jelly-bag, fill a mould or moulds, and stand on ice. (3) Soak 2oz. of isinglass in just sufficient cold water to cover it; pick 41b. of Cherries free of stalks and stone them (they should be ripe, juicy Cherries), mix with them ^lb. of currants picked free of stalks, put them into a preserving- pan over the fire, and stir and bruise them with the back of a wooden spoon till the juice comes freely from them; then strain it through a cloth, squeezing it well to get all the juice. Put the juice into the pan again, mix with it ljlb. of clarified sugar, add the soaked isinglass, put it over the fire, and stir till the isinglass is completely melted; as soon as a scum begins to form, take the jelly off and put it into pots. Note.—Tin moulds would make these jellies turn a dead blue colour. Cherry Jelly in Mould.—Melt joz. of gelatine in a little warm water and beat it in J pint of double cream to a froth; then add 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and flavour with noyeau. Stone some preserved Cherries, put a little of the jelly into a mould, put in a layer of Cherries, and then jelly alternately with Cherries until it is full. Put the mould on ice until required, and then turn out the jelly on to a dish to serve. See Fig. 442. Cherry Liqueur.—Remove the stalks and stones from an equal quantity each of Morello Cherries and sweet black ones. Break the stones and put them with the fruit into a large bottle, also put in for every 21b. of fruit 41b. of loaf sugar, half a stick of cinnamon, about a teaspoonful of bruised cloves, and lqt. of brandy. Cork the bottle tightly, stand it in a warm place, and leave it for fourteen days. When ready, filter the liqueur until quite clear through a jelly-bag or a piece of flannel. Pour it into smaller bottles, cork them, and keep in a dry store cupboard. Cherry Marmalade.—(1) Remove the stalks and stones from the selected quantity of Cherries ; crush the stones, put them in a saucepan with a small quantity of water, and boil them until all the flavour is extracted. Put the fruit in a preserving-pan with a small quantity of water, and boil it until reduced to a pulp, stirring it occasionally with a wooden