333 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Champagne—continued. and when it is coming to a boil set it back to a cooler part of the stove to prevent it overflowing, and stir while boiling for six minutes. Place a vessel under the jelly-bag, remove the pan from the fire, and pour the whole into the bag, immediately adding to it -j pint of Champagne. Let it drain into the vessel, return it to the bag, placing another vessel underneath, and let it drain through for fully two hours. Have ready a quart jelly- mould, pour the jelly from the vessel into it, and set it aside in a cool place for two hours, and afterwards pack it in ice to harden for two hours longer. Turn the jelly out on to a dish, garnish with macaroons (see Fig. 400), and send to the table. (3) Pour lqt. of light calf’s-foot stock into a saucepan,and add 1 teacupful of lemon-juice and 6oz. of sugar. Set the saucepan on the side of the fire, and simmer gently for five minutes, skim- ming frequently as any scum rises. Add a little soaked gela- tine, and stir well until it is dissolved; then put in the whites and broken shells of six eggs to clarify it, and simmer for five minutes longer. Pour the whole into a jelly-bag, and strain it into a mould. When the bag has run dry, pour in 1 pint of Champagne, and pack the mould in ice. Turn it out on to a dish when set and firm, and serve. Champagne Jelly in Glasses. -A charming mode of serving is the following, by Dubois : Put fifteen leaves of gelatine in a basin, cover them with cold water, and let them soften for half- an-hour ; then drain the water off. Ascertain the consistence of the gelatine, pour it into Champagne glasses, not letting the j liquid come quite to the brim, put them in a bucket, surround them with ice, cover the top, and let the jelly set. Pour a little dissolved jelly in a basin, and whip it until it is white and frothy ; then take up table-spoonfuls and put into each of the j glasses when the other jelly is set. When the froth is cool, wipe round the glasses, and serve. Cliampag'ne Punch.—(1) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar into a saucepan with half the quantity of water, and boil to a syrup. When ready, pour it into the freezer, add a bottle of Cham- pagne, and work well until frozen. Add the whites of two eggs, beaten up with crushed loaf sugar to the consistence of icing, and work the freezer again. Turn it into glasses, and serve very cold. (2) Put into a vessel 1 pint of cold water and fib. of powdered i sugar, and grate in the rind of one ripe medium-sized red j orange, adding its juice and the juice of one-and-a-half medium- sized lemons, and with the spatula beat well together for five minutes. Strain it through a sieve into the freezer, add f pint of Champagne, put on the lid, set it in an ice-tub, fill the freezer all round with broken ice, mix slightly with rock-salt, and then turn the handle on the cover as briskly as possible for three minutes. Lift up the lid, and with a wooden spoon detach the punch from all round the freezer, and the bottom as well ; then recover it, and turn the handle sharply for three minutes more. Uncover and detach the punch the same as before, being careful that no ice or salt drops in. Put on the lid, and repeat the same three times more. When ready, put it into some punch- glasses, and send to the table. Champagne Sauce.—(1) Place two cloves, six whole peppers, one bay-leaf, and f table-spoonful of powdered sugar, in a saucepan with a good glassful of Champagne. Place it on the fire, and reduce for five minutes; then moisten with J pint of Spanish sauce, and cook for fifteen minutes longer. Strain through a fine strainer, and serve. (2) Mix thoroughly in a saucepan 1 table-spoonful each of butter and flour ; set the pan on the fire, and stir con- stantly until the mixture is dark brown, then pour into it ' i pint of boiling gravy (the liquor in which pieces of lean meat have boiled until it is very rich). Pour in this gravy gradually, and stir slowly and continually. Let it boil up once, season well with pepper and salt, and strain. Add 1 teacupful of Champagne just before serving. (3) Put 2oz. of butter into a small lined saucepan; melt it, then put in 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until lightly browned. Pour in f pint of clear gravy, continue stirring it over the fire until boiling and thickened, season to taste with salt, then pour in very quickly while stii'ring £ pint, of Champagne ; boil it up once, then strain it through a fine hair-sieve, and serve immediately. Champagne Syrup. — Pour 2 pints of Champagne into a vessel with 2 fluid ounces of brandy and 1 fluid ounce Champagne—continued. of sherry, and add 31b. of sugar; dissolve this without using heat, and bottle for future use. Iced Champagne and Fruit Jelly.—Get a variety of preserved fruits, wash them in warm water, sponge them carefully, cut into dice, put them in a basin, pour in i tumblerful of cognac, and let them steep for an hour. Put in another basin six or seven leaves of clarified gelatine, and pour over them 1 tumblerful of orange-syrup with half a bottle of Champagne, 1 teacupful of pine-apple syrup, and 1 teacupful of lemon-juice. Pour this preparation into .a freezer, turn the can, and stir the preparation with a large spatula. As soon as it begins to set, work it without leaving off until frothy and elastic. Drain the fruits, and mix with the preparation, which then take up with a large spoon, and with it fill a jelly-mould embedded a-quarter-of-an- hour before in salted ice; cover it with a round of paper, and place on it a pan filled with salt and ice. A-quarter-of-an-hour after take the mould out of the ice, wash it, quickly dip it into tepid water, wipe it well, and turn the jelly out on a very cold dish. Pour over a puree of fruit, or sweetened raspberries, cooled on the ice, and serve it immediately, or keep it cold in an ice-chest. Iced Champagne Granito with Strawberries.— Put a freezing-pot in some mixed pounded ice and bay-salt, and pour in two bottles of Champagne and lqt. of syrup. When it is frozen to icicles, add lib. of crystallised strawberries, and serve in glasses. CHAMPAGNE BRANDY.—A very fine liqueur brandy, distilled from rich champagne wine. CHAMPAGNE CIDER.—See Cider. CHAMPIGNONS.—Amon gst the numerous edible fungi with which France abounds, those commonly known as the Fairy-ring mushrooms or Champignons (Marasmius oreades) are not the least valuable to the cook, possessing powerful flavouring qualities: they are found growing in rings, in dry upland pastures, and a very pretty fancy attributes to them an association with the moonlight dances of fairies. As they are so closely allied in appear- ance to a poisonous Champignon (Marasmius wrens) cooks are not much given to using them, although the two may be readily distinguished. The harmless Champignon (see Fig. 401) has cream-coloured laminae, or “ gills ” as they are commonly called, and the gills of the poisonous Cham- pignon are dark. But the better feature of distinction is that the latter have stems that are hairy, especially towards the root. Again, the edible Champignon is always found in the open country, whereas the poisonous kind mostly frequents woods, but are sometimes found con- sorting with the edible Champignon as a member of the Fairy-ring. A little caution only is necessary to detect l their presence.