TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 276 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces. Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Calf—con t inu ed. baking. When cooked, put the liver and bacon on long pieces of buttered toast on a hot dish, and serve with a brown gravy. Calf’s Liver d la Franpaise.—Choose a firm white liver, cut it into slices, and put them in a saucepan with two thin slices of fat bacon, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 1 finely- chopped shallot, a small lump of butter, and a sprinkling of pepper and salt. Put on the lid, and keep the saucepan close to a moderate fire, so that the liver will cook without simmering. When thoroughly done, which will take about an-hour-and-a-half, put it on a hot dish, and keep it warm. Boil the gravy and bacon together, pour it over the liver, and serve at once. Calf’s Liver a l’ltalienne.—Select a firm white liver, and cut it into thin slices. Put some chopped mushrooms, chives, and parsley at the bottom of a saucepan, with a little white wine, olive oil, and melted lard. Sprinkle pepper and salt in, then put a layer of Calf’s Liver on this, and continue in this manner till the saucepan is nearly full; put some slices of bacon on the top, put on the lid, with some red-hot coals on top, and cook all over a slow fire. When done, arrange the liver on a hot dish, skim the fat off the sauce, reduce it, pour it over the liver, and serve. Calf's Liver a la Milanaise.—Cut a large white liver into thin slices, beat them slightly, sprinkle a little salt and mixed spices over them, dredge with flour, and dip in beaten eggs. Put some lard in a frying-pan, and when boiling, plunge the slices of liver in. Fry them till nicely browned, and sprinkle a little salt over them ; arrange on a hot dish, with a garnish of lemons cut in quarters, and serve. Calf’s-Liver Balls for Soups.—Trim off the skin from half a Calf’s Liver, and chop it finely; mix with it 4oz. of chopped beef-suet, a slice of bread that has been soaked in milk and pressed dry, 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, a small quantity of any herb in powder, and salt and pepper to taste. Mix the ingredients well, and bind them together with the beaten yolks of four eggs and the whites of two. Add grated breadcrumb to make the mixture consistent. Divide the mixture into small portions, roll them round, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil them for thirty or thirty-five minutes. Serve the balls in a tureen with soup. Calf’s-Liver Broth.—Remove all the uneatable parts near the gall-bladder from a well-coloured Calf’s Liver, put it into a saucepan with Igall. of water, and boil for two hours, or until the liquor is reduced to half its original quantity. Add a small handful each of burnet-leaves, wild endive, water- cress, and chervil; cover over the pan, remove it from the fire, and put the lid on it for ten minutes. Strain the broth through a fine sieve, and use lukewarm as desired. This is an excellent drink for persons in a high state of fever. Calf’s-Liver Fain or Cake.—(1) Put a small chopped onion in a frying-pan, with a little melted bacon-fat; when fried, add a bay-leaf, a little thyme, 5oz. of lean bacon cut in dice, and lilb. of liver cut in thin slices; sprinkle pepper, salt, and spices over, and fry them. When the liver is done, put in a few freshly-chopped trimmings of mushrooms, some chopped trimmings of truffles, and 1 teacupful of Madeira. Boil quickly till reduced, then take the preparation off the fire, and leave it till cool. Put into a mortar a piece of bread, previously soaked in water, with a quarter of the quantity of the liver preparation, pound it, and then mix in gradually two whole eggs and the yolks of four ; when thoroughly mixed, pass the forcemeat through a sieve, season it with pepper and salt, and work it for a few minutes with a spoon. Butter a Calf—confirmed. plain cylindrical mould, fill it with the forcemeat, stand the mould in the bain-marie, and poach it for forty minutes. Turn the contents of the mould out on to a hot dish, pour some Madeira sauce over, and serve. See Fig. 314. (2) Glazed. —Put a small chopped onion into a frying-pan, with 5oz. of rasped bacon; when of a good colour, put in about lilb. of Calf’s Liver and lOoz. of fat bacon cut into small cubes, and add a bay-leaf and a little thyme. Place the pan over a brisk fire, season the meat to taste, and cook until the liver is done. Add \ wineglassful of Madeira wine, reduce this, turn the whole into a basin, and let it get cold. Put it into a mortar, add a quarter its bulk of bread panada, pound them well together, add the yolks of three eggs, rub the mixture through a fine sieve into another basin, and add to it a salpifon of truffles, tongue, and Calf’s udder, boiled, or simply some cooked fat bacon, using about a third of the bulk of the liver mixture. Put a few slices of fat bacon at the bottom and round the sides of a charlotte-mould, pour in the preparation, put the mould into a saucepan with 1 pint or so of boiling water, and cook in a slow oven for about forty-five minutes. Take out the mould, let it cool for five or six hours, dip it into boiling water, ease the sides with a knife, and turn it out on to a dish. Remove the slices of bacon, smooth the surface with a knife dipped in hot water, glaze it with a paste-brush, let it cool, and serve. (3) German Style.—Remove the sinewy parts from about ljlb. of Calf’s Liver, scrape it well, rub it through a sieve into a basin, season with salt and pepper, and mix in a little finely-chopped onion and parsley. Work lOoz. of butter to a cream in a warm basin, add the yolks of seven or eight eggs, when frothy add a little flour, three handfuls of sifted breadcrumbs, and lastly the liver, and season well. Try a small quantity in a tartlet-mould, which poach in the oven, and if of the required consistence, turn the whole into a buttered and breadcrumbed cylinder mould, put it in a pan with a little water, cover over the top with buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for about forty-five minutes. Drain off the fat from the mould, turn it out on to a dish, pour over hot piquant sauce, and serve. Calf’s-Liver Fain or Cake in Jelly.—Prepare some Calf’s Liver as for Pain or Cake in German Style, but omitting the breadcrumbs; rub it through a fine sieve into a basin, mix in an equal quantity of tepid aspic-jelly and a few table-spoonfuls of melted glaze. Turn the preparation into a saucepan packed in ice, stir well until it thickens, remove it from the ice, add Fig. 315. Calf’s-Liver Pain in Jelly. four or five cooked truffles cut up into small squares, and turn the whole into a cylinder mould packed in ice. Turn it out in about an hour’s time, glaze the sides with half-set jelly, decorate with truffles cut into small rounds or crescents, arrange a few croutons of aspic jelly round the base (see Fig. 315), and serve. Calf’s-Liver Pudding.—Wash 1lb. of Calf’s Liver, put it into a stewpan with a very small quantity of water, and let it cook slowly by the side of the fire for an-hour-and-a-half. At the end of that time, drain the liver, cut it up into small squares, season with pepper and salt, and mix with it some