THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 457 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Crapiva Soup—continued. put in witli the onion the previously prepared puree. Fry all together for a few minutes, stirring, mixing, and dusting occa- sionally with flour from a dredger. Transfer this when nicely cooked, without being burnt, into a large saucepan, and gra- dually moisten it with 2qts. of beef broth. Let this boil up, and then move it to one side so that it will continue to simmer, and drop in six smoked sausages, either whole or cut into slices. Boil slowly for an hour, skim off the fat, and just before serving stir in 1 breakfast-cupful of sour cream. With this soup it is usual to serve a dish of halves of hard-boiled eggs, which may be either plain, stuffed, or fried. CHAPPIE.—The common name of a sort of fresh- water b&ss of the genus Pomoxys, found in the rivers of the Southern United States and Mississippi vales. For inodes of cooking, see Bass. CRAYFISH or CRAWFISH (Fr. Ecrevisses; Ger. Bachkrebs).—There are two species of Crayfish or Craw- fish familiar to this country, the one diminutive, found in rivers, and the larger, caught in the sea. Of the latter it is not necessary to make mack comment, excepting \ \ Fig. 549. European River Crayfish. perhaps to observe that the flesh is much coarser than that of the lobster, and that it is by no means a favourite in England, although it is eaten very freely in France and other parts of the European Continent, where it is palmed off for lobster. Fig. 550. American River Crayfish. The river Crayfish (Astacus fluviatilis) is the idol of the artistic cook ; he uses it upon every available occasion, not always for the sake of its quaint form and pretty colour, but quite as often for the flesh of the tail, which lends Crayfish—continued. itself to so many decorative purposes. In Europe and America the flesh is highly esteemed by all classes. Our British rivers unfortunately provide but a few, no attempt having yet been made to cultivate them; in America the case is different, for some rivers there abound with them. Our deficiency is, however, made-up by importations from France and Germany, basketsful being sent over, not only in good preservation, but alive. As might be expected, the Crayfish common to Europe (see Fig. 549) differs iff some particulars of shape from the American Crayfish (Cambarus aftinis) (see Fig. 550), but in taste they agree. There are so many ways of serving Crayfish, and so many good uses to which they can be adapted by an ingenious cook, that after perusing the receipts contributed to this Encyclopaedia by several experts, numerous variations and modifications will suggest them- selves. First, then, for the River Crayfish.—-These should be supplied alive, and cooked by plunging into boiling water or thin stock in which certain herbs or flavourings have been immersed. It is advisable to fold the tail and tie it round with a piece of thin string or thread, so that the shock may not cause the Crayfish to injure itself or others. Death is in- stantaneous. Aspic of Crayfish with Salad.—Set a plain border-mould in ice, and have ready sufficient warm aspic jelly to fill it. Cut some truffles in halves and dip them in the jelly, as well as an equal number of Crayfish-tails, and as each is dipped stick them round the interior of the mould alternately (see Fig-. 551). Chop up the meat from the claws and stir into the jelly, pouring it at once into the border-mould. When cold, turn the border out on to a dish, after dipping the mould for an instant in hot water. Fill the centre of the border with shredded lettuce mixed with a thick mayonnaise, and pile this upi so that the Crayfish-tails may be arranged round and over it in rows. Garnish the dish with coarsely-chopped aspic, and put a few pieces on the topi. Serve very cold. Bisk of Crayfish.—See Bisk. Bouchees of Crayfish.—Take two dozen Crayfish and pint them in a stewptan with a little salt, a few pepipiercorns, some finely-choppjed vegetables, a bunch of piarsley, and a little vinegar or white wine ; cover over the pan, put it on a good fire, and boil for eight or ten minutes. Remove the pian from the fire, and when the fish have cooled a little, take out the flesh from the tails and claws and cut it up into small pieces, putting them into a small plan, and thickening with a little reduced white sauce. When wanted for serving, fill a dozen bouchees piatties with the preparation, and garnish over with lobster coral and parsley. Canapes of Crayfish-tails.— Take some slices of bread cut gin. in thickness, remove the crust, cut them up into smaller pfieces 2fin. long and ljin. wide, put them into a frying-pan with some butter, and fry until light brown. Take them out, drain them, and spread over some Crayfish butter. Put some trimmed Crayfish-tails on the centres of the slices of bread, with a border of finely-chopped piarsley round them, arrange these canapes on a folded napkin, and serve.