460 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Ordinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Crayfish—continued. Crayfish Salad with Aspic.— (1) Select three dozen Crayfish and boil them; take them out when done, and let them cool. Remove the flesh from the tails and claws, put it into a basin, add a little seasoning, and cover with oil and vinegar. Take the small claws, remove the flesh from them, also the trimmings of the tails, mix them into a lettuce-and-cress salad cut up into shreds, season with salt, and add a little mayonnaise sauce to thicken. Take a plain border-mould, and put ice all round it. Next take four hard-boiled eggs, divide them in halves, dip them on one side only into a little half-set aspic jelly, and put them into the mould in an upright position with the points directed, to the bottom, cutting away a little of the sides to the shape of the side of the mould. In a few minutes’ time fill the mould up with aspic jelly, and let it get cold and set; about fifteen minutes before it is wanted, turn it out on to a dish (quite cold). Arrange the salad in the shape of a pyramid in the cavity of the border. Take the tails one at a time, and with the aid of a larding-needle place them in a circle on the salad (see Fig. 551). Garnish an attelette skewer with a truffle, and put it in the top. Serve a sauceboatful of mayonnaise sauce with this. (2) Many varieties of this very pretty salad can be arranged by artistic cooks. The half eggs may be omitted, and the jelly border ornamented with glaze (see Fig. 555). Fig. 555. Crayfish Salad with Asric (No. 2). Crayfish. Sauce.—Take ^lb. each of flour and butter, and moisten with a little water and the liquor that any fish has been cooked in (but having the fat removed), and with them make a sauce. When it thickens in boiling, add 3oz. of fresh butter, a small lump of Crayfish butter, and 5 table-spoonfuls of Crayfish-tails and claws, either cut up into small dice or put in whole. Crayfish Soup.—(1) Thoroughly wash fifty live Crayfish in plenty of cold water, and put them head first into 4qts. of boiling water with 1 table-spoonful of salt, a carrot scraped and sliced, one turnip and one onion (peeled and sliced), one Crayfish—continued. small sprig of parsley with the root attached, one red pepper, and a dozen whole cloves. Boil all these together for twenty minutes, then take out the Crayfish, and continue to boil the soup as before. When the Crayfish are cold enough to be handled, break the tails away from the bodies, remove the flesh of the tails entire, and put it by to use presently. Put the shells of the tails and the bodies of the Crayfish in a mortar and crush them ; then put them into tbe soup, and continue boiling it for an hour longer. When the soup has boiled an hour, strain it, pressing the vegetables and Crayfish shells with a wooden spoon in a fine sieve to extract all possible colour and flavour; next, mix together over the fire 2 heaped table-spoonfuls each of butter and flour until they are smoothly blended, and gradually add to them the strained soup, stirring constantly to prevent the formation of lumps. When all the soup has been stirred in, add 1 gill of cream and i pint of white wine, put in the Crayfish-tails, season with salt and cayenne, and serve at once. (2) Put two dozen Crayfish in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil them for fifteen minutes; then drain them, pick out the meat from the shells, and cover it over. Put the shells and small claws in a mortar and pound them well, mixing in by degrees 3oz. of butter; then put this in a stewpan, stir it over the fire until the butter is red, pour in 1 pint of clear broth, and boil gently for an hour. At the end of that time strain the soup into a large saucepan, pour in enough clear broth to mAkc 3 pints of soup, season it to taste with salt and pepper, put in the meat of the Crayfish, and place it over the fire until very hot, but without letting it boil. Beat the yolks of two eggs in a soup-tureen, then pour the soup in gradually, stirring at the same time. Serve the soup while very hot, with a plate of croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. Crayfish Stock.—We are indebted to Baron Brisse for'this fine receipt. Boil three dozen Crayfish, put the bodies with the meat from the tails into a mortar, and pound well with one dozen blanched sweet almonds. Put 4oz. each of ham and veal into a saucepan with a few sliced onions, parsnips, and carrots; cook for a few minutes on the side of the fire, then add a small quantity of melted bacon-fat, and 1 tea- spoonful of Hour; stir the latter well in, and pour in the quantity of stock required; season with mushrooms, truffles, chives, cloves, parsley, basil, salt, and pepper, and add two or three small breadcrusts. Simmer gently until the veal is done, take it out, add the mashed Crayfish, and rub the whole through a fine sieve ; it is then ready for use. This stock may be used for moistening pies, patties, &c., or for cooking such vegetables as cardoons and cauliflowers, or it may simply be served with boiled rice. Potted Crayfish.—Pull out all the meat from about six dozen boiled Crayfish, put it into a mortar, and pound it well with ' IJoz. of butter and a seasoning of ground mace, salt, and pepper. When these ingredients are pounded to a smooth paste, stuff it into jars, cover over with warm butter, tie the jars over with bladder to prevent the air from getting into it, and the potted Crayfish will then be ready for use. Salpi^on of Crayfish. -Put 1 pint of bechamel sauce into a saucepan with four mushrooms, one truffle, and the meat from three Crayfish, all cut into dice ; thicken well, and let it cook for five minutes ; then serve. Scalloped Crayfish-Tails.—Remove the tails from some Crayfish, and cut them into three pieces. Put some veloute sauce into a stewpan with a little essence of mushrooms, and reduce it; then add a little fresh butter, and also a little Crayfish butter to thicken it. Next add the tails and an equal bulk of mushrooms, 1 table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, and a little lemon-juice. Mix well, and fill some scallop-shells or tin shell-shapes, sprinkling a few fried breadcrumbs over the top, place them in the oven for a few minutes to warm, and then serve. Stewed Crayfish. — Put the bodies and shells from the tails of lqt. of Crayfish into a mortar, crush them a little, put them into a saucepan with £ pint of white wine, or water slightly acidulated with vinegar, and add half a blade of mace ; cook gently for a-quarter-of-an-hour, stirring well, and strain the liquor into another saucepan. Put in the Crayfish-tails, half a grated nutmeg, 2oz. of butter rolled in flour, and a slight