255 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. and bake it for an hour in a moderate oven. Wben cooked, turn the Cake on to a sieve, and leave it till it has cooled. Cut a round of genoa Cake, 2in. thick, and a little larger than the savoy Cake, and bake it in a flat stewpan. Coat the surface of the round of Cake with orange icing, place it on a dish, and put the savoy Cake in the centre. Make a slight aperture in some oranges on the sides near the stem, and empty them with a vegetable-spoon; when quite cleared, stop up any holes in the rind with butter and place the orange-peels on powdered ice. Fill the hollows of the oranges with alternate layers of blanc-mange and slightly reddened orange-jelly. When the mixture in the oranges is firm, divide them into quarters from top to bottom, cut an end off each of the quarters so that they will stand upright, surround the savoy Cake with small baskets made out of mandarines, and garnish the base of the round of Cake with the imitation oranges (see Fig. 294) and serve. School Cake.—(1) Mix together 21b. of flour and Jib. of moist sugar; make a hollow or bay in the centre, and put in 1 table-spoonful of fresh yeast and J pint of warmed milk; knead it well, and put in a warm place to rise. Dissolve Jib. of butter in a little warm milk, and mix with the dough when it has risen; wash and well dry ljlb. of currants, chop a little mixed candied peel, and add to the dough with 1 tea- spoonful of powdered allspice and the grated rind of one lemon. When thoroughly mixed, put it in a buttered tin and set in a warm place to rise. Bake in a moderate oven. (2) Into lib. of flour mix thoroughly Jib. of brown sugar, Jib. of butter, warmed, 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 1 breakfast-cupful of warm milk, and after all are thoroughly incorporated add Jib. of well-cleaned and dried currants, and mix again. Place the paste in a buttered tin, and bake in a moderate oven. Scotch Cakes.—(1) Put Jib. of butter in a basin and work it to a cream, then add lib. of flour, dried and sifted, lib. of caster sugar, and 1 teacupful of milk. Make it into a dough, and roll it out to about Jin. in thickness. Cut it into Cakes with a biscuit-cutter, and bake until they are lightly coloured. (2) Rub Jib. of butter into lib. of sifted flour; mix in lib. of caster sugar and 1 large table-spoonful of powdered cin- namon, and make into a dough with three well-beaten eggs. Roll it out into a sheet, cut it in round Cakes, and bake them in a quick oven; they will require but a few minutes to bake. (3) Rub 12oz. of lard into 3Jlb. of flour, mix in 12oz. of sugar and Joz. of volatile salt, adding sufficient milk to dissolve the sugar and salt. Roll it out to about Jin. in thickness, cut out with a small round cutter, dock each one well, and pinch round the edges with the thumb and finger. Put them on wiped but not greased tins, and bake in a moderate oven. Scrap Cakes.—These are made with a breakfast-cupful of the browned scraps which are left after pork-fat has been rended down, minced small, put into a basin, and rubbed into Jib. of flour. Add 2 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, Jib. of currants, washed and dried, Joz. of finely-chopped candied peel, a little grated nutmeg, and 1 pinch of salt, all mixed together and moistened with a sufficient quantity of water to make a light paste. Roll out the paste, and cut it into Cakes with a round biscuit-cutter. Put them on a baking- sheet, and bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes. A tea- spoonful of baking-powder makes these Cakes a little lighter. Sea Cakes.—Take lib. of ground almonds. Rub the yolks of twelve hard-boiled eggs through a fine sieve. Make a smooth paste with the eggs, almonds, and lib. of sugar, Jib. of warmed butter, the zest (grated peel) of two lemons, Jib. of flour, loz. of powdered cinnamon, and a little milk. Roll out the paste to Jin. in thickness, and cut it into rounds with a biscuit- cutter. Brush the Cakes over with egg, and bake in a slack oven till done. Short Cakes.—(1) Large.—Rub lOoz. of butter into lib. of sifted flour until quite absorbed, and then add Joz. of salt and Joz. of caster sugar. Make a bay in the flour, and pour in J pint of water; mix with the hands until all the water is taken up, and then sprinkle over the top another gill of water and mix to a smooth paste. Knead the paste well, gather it j Cakes—continued. together, and let it stand for one hour. Roll it out about 1 Jin. thick, and round it; press the edges with your finger, and with a knife make cuts across the Cake, about Jin apart and Jin. deep. Butter a baking-sheet, place the Cake upon it, and brush over the top with beaten egg. See Fig. 295. Fig. 295. Short Cake. (2) Prepare a puff paste with lib. of flour and Jib. of butter; roll it out the last time to a very thin layer, cut it into about four equal-sized pieces, trimming them either to a square or round shape. Butter a baking-sheet, lay the pieces of paste on it, and bake them in a brisk oven. Stew about ljlb. of strawberries with sugar and a very small quantity of water, and when sufficiently cooked turn them into a basin and leave until cold. When the Cakes are baked and have got quite cold, spread a layer of the strawberries over one, put another Cake on the top of that, which also spread with the strawberries; proceed the same with the next Cake, and cover with the remaining one. Sift caster sugar over the top of the Cake, place it on a fancy dish, and serve. Preserved strawberries may be used if fresh ones are unattainable (3) Small.—Mix J teaspoonful each of salt and bicarbonate of soda, and 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, in 1 pint of sifted flour. Rub in 2oz. of butter until it is absorbed, then add gradually J pint of milk or cold water, mixing with a knife. Turn it out on to a well-floured paste-board, and toss with the knife until floured ; pat it into a flat Cake, and roll till Jin. thick. Cut it into Cakes with a small round cutter, and put them quite close together on a greased baking-sheet, and bake for ten or fifteen minutes. (4) Take lib. of flour, and rub Jib. of well-washed butter into it; then add one egg, well whisked, Jib. of powdered sugar, 1 pinch of salt, and sufficient milk to make a light smooth paste. Roll out the paste to about Jin. in thickness, cut it into various shapes with biscuit-cutters, and bako on a floured baking-sheet still nico and crisp. (5) Put into a basin 1 pint of flour, and make a hollow, or bay as it is called, in the centre, but not to the bottom of the flour; then dissolve J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in 1 teaspoonful of boiling water, and put it into 1 breakfast-cupful of thick sour milk, and mix well in 3oz. of butter worked to a cream, and a little salt. Pour this into the bay in the flour, and mix to a smooth paste. Flour the table or board, and roll the paste out to the thickness of Jin. Cut it into various shapes with biscuit-cutters, and bake in a brisk oven until quite done. (6) Take lib. of ground rice and rub into it 6oz. of well- washed butter, or fresh if preferred; add a little salt, and suffi- cient water to make a paste. Roll this out, cut into shapes, and bake on greased or floured baking-sheets. (7) Warm 1 pint of milk and dissolve Jib. of fresh butter in it, then add sufficient flour to make a light smooth paste. Roll this out to about Jin. in thickness, and cut it with a large round cutter into Cakes. Put them on baking-sheets, and bake for about ten or fifteen minutes. Shrewsbury Cakes.—(1) Rub Jib. of butter into lloz. of flour; when quite smooth, add lib. of caster sugar, 1 table-spoonful of caraway-seeds, and two small eggs. Mix well together, using a little water to make it into a paste; roll it out thin, and cut out with a circular biscuit-cutter. Butter some plates, put the Cakes on, and bake in a brisk oven. (2) Rub Jib. of butter into ljlb. of flour; add Jib. of caster sugar, and when quite smooth mix in the white of one and the yolks of three eggs, then make into a paste with the addP;on of a little water. Roll out into thin sheets, and cut we paste into rounds about the size of the top of a wineglass. Arrange them on buttered tins, and bake a golden colour in a slow oven.