THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 389 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cider—continued. and the bung left out; but the fermenting-tun used for the manufacture of British wines is by far the more convenient (see Fig. 474). When active fermentation has ceased, or subsided nearly to cessation, the Cider should be drawn off into very clean, fresh casks. This generally induces a fresh fermentation, which may be slight or very active, and in either case demands a repetition of the racking. It is customary in some parts of the world to fumigate the cask before running in the Cider, by burning inside it a strip of linen coated with sulphur; this is kindled at one end and lowered into the cask through the bung- liole, the bung being immediately replaced. The object of this operation, called “ stumming,” is to prevent the Cider from “ fretting ” or undergoing the second fermentation mentioned; but that it effects this purpose there appears to be good scientific and technical reasons to doubt. After racking finally, the Cider is run into store- casks, and stowed in a cellar, or other cool place, where a low and regular temperature can be maintained. Here it may be left to mature, or “ ripeii,” and by the following spring the Cider should be in good condition and fit for drinking or bottling. The alcoholic strength of Cider necessarily varies according to the quality of the apples and the amount of “ liquor ” (water) added to the juice, but the average percentage of alcohol would be 9f. See Alcohol. Refining Cider.—The following' receipt has been adopted: Take some new sweet milk, and let it stand for a night; then skim it, and, in the proportion of 1 pint of milk to a 9gall. cask of Cider, pour it into the cask, stir it well up with the Cider, and let it settle. It will give a richness to the Cider, and make it pure and fine. The following receipts give the most important uses to which Cider is adapted: Boiled Cider (American).—Take any quantity of new sweet Cider, let it boil steadily until it is reduced to three-fourths of the quantity put in the pan, and skim it as the scum rises. Let it get cool and bottle it, corking the bottles well, and sealing' the corks. Cider not more than one or two days old is best for boiling. If this boiled Cider be kept a long time, a mould may perhaps form on the surface, but it will not spoil the Cider, though the mould must be removed. Bottle Cider.—Select 1 ;lb. of tart apples ; grate them, and put equal portions into two quart champagne bottles. Add 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and spring water until the bottles are full; cork and tie them down, then set in a warm place, and the Cider will be ready for use in about three days’ time. A great improvement is the addition of a slice of quince to each bottle. Bottled Cider.—See Bottling. Champagne Cider.—This is the name given to a preparation of lemonade syrup, flavoured with essence of apples and pears, coloured with sugar colouring. It is only a very poor substitute for the real effervescent bottled Cider. Cider Cake. —(1) Rub Jib. of butter into 111b. of sifted flour and a teaspoonful of powdered carbonate of ammonia. Stir well together, with lib. of moist sugar and a little powdered spice, and moisten the whole with warm Cider until it forms a stiff dough. Put this into buttered baking- tins, and bake in a quick oveu for half-an-hour, or until the cakes turn easily in the tins. (2) Mix together 4 breakfast-cupfuls of flour, 1 teaspoon- ful of allspice, and 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda; then add lib. of butter, lib. caster sugar, three eggs, beaten separately, and sufficient Cider to form a stiffish dough. "When thoroughly incorporated, put into shallow tins, and bake. Cider Cocktail.—Half-fill a pint glass with broken ice, mix in 2 drops each of essences of lemon and gentian, and 1 table-spoonful of essence of dandelion; pour in a bottle of Cider, and drink through straws. Cider Cup.— (1) Put 1 pint of Cider into a claret-jug, add to it 1 wineglassful of sherry, 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy, the rind of a lemon pared off very thin, half an orange in thin slices, Cider—continued. and three thin slices of cucumber, if in season; sweeten to taste, add 1 breakfast-cupful of finely-pounded ice, and serve before the ice is quite melted. A little grated nutmeg and a liqueur-glassful of curagoa may be added if desired, and are a great improvement. (2) Pour J pint of boiling water over Jib. of loaf sugar, and when it is all dissolved and the liquor cool add 2 wine- glassfuls each of brandy and cura^oa, a slice of cucumber, and the juice and peel (rubbed on sugar) of a lemon. Let it stand a little, and then pour in 2 large bottles, or quarts, of Cider, and about lqt. of broken ice. It should be consumed soon after making, as it loses its strength very quickly. Cider Jelly.—(1) Soak 2oz. of gelatine in cold water for two hours; then put 2J pints of Cider into a pan, and when it boils pour it on the gelatine. Stir in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar, mix well, and strain through a tammy into a mould. Let it cool in ice for six or eight hours, then turn it out on to a dish, and serve garnished with biscuits and whipped cream. (2) Take some good, ripe apples, cut them in quarters, put them in a pan, and pour over sufficient sweet Cider to cover them. Put the pan on the fire, and boil until the apples are done; then strain the contents through a sieve. Do not press the apples, but let the liquor drain through of itself. Measure the liquor, and to every pint stir in lib. of caster sugar ; then put the pan on the fire again with the liquor and sugar, and boil for from twenty to thirty minutes. Let it get cold, and serve in glasses (see Fig. 475). Cider Punch..—Mix in a jar Jib. of sugar with 1 gill of water and J pint of white wine, stirring until the sugar is dissolved; then cut two lemons into slices, put them in the jar, add a lump of ice, and pour in lqt. of champagne Cider. The punch will then be ready to serve in glasses. Cider Vinegar.—Put ljlb. of rye-flour into a basin, and mix it up with a little vinegar to make it sour; then make it into a thick paste by adding warm water, and put it into a barrel of Cider. Shake the cask well, stirring the Cider with a stick; set the cask in a warm place, and in about ten days it will be vinegar, and fit for use. Strain it into bottles, and cork them down. It will keep for a long time. Imitation Cider.—It is to be feared that this drink is more generally known in large towns, especially London, than the genuine fermented juice of the apple. Its only claim to con- sideration is that it is harmless. To every pound of sugar add Joz. of tartaric acid, 2 table-spoonfuls of fresh yeast, and lgall. of water. After fermentation has subsided, stir in sufficient artificial apple flavouring to taste. Imitation Cider Brandy. — This is sometimes made with apple flavouring dissolved in rectified spirits of wine. The proportions generally used are : loz. of apple flavouring and Joz. of pear flavouring to lib. of gum arabic, diluted with 9galls. or lOgalls. of rectified spirits of wine. Mulled Cider. — Take three eggs, whisk them well, and add sufficient sugar to tone down the acidity of the Cider that is to be added. Boil lqt. of Cider, and when the eggs are beaten light, pour the Cider over them, stirring briskly. Put all this back in the pan, and stir it till it boils again; then serve it hot in glasses. CINCHONA.—The bark of the Cinchona flava is sometimes used in the manufacture of bitters.