THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 459 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, At. , referred to, see under their special heads. Crayfish—continued. (2) Pick the meat from the tails of twelve boiled Crayfish, dry the shells, and pound them all together in a mortar, adding loz. of good butter. Place the whole in a saucepan on a moderate fire, stirring until it clarifies, then strain it through a napkin, letting it drop into cold water. When congealed, take it out and place in a warm basin, stirring until it takes the colour. Crayfish Cheeses with Jelly. —Take three dozen Crayfish, boil them, remove the flesh from the tails and claws, cut it up into small cubes, and mix with them the fillets of four anchovies, also cut up into cubes, and 2 table-spoonfuls of capers. Thicken the mixture with mayonnaise sauce finished with a little aspic jelly. Take ten or twelve dariole- moulds, place them on a baking-sheet, and put ice all round ; put at the bottom of each a round of sliced gherkins pre- viously dipped into half-set aspic jelly. Mask the sides of the moulds with a layer of mayonnaise and aspic, and fill them with the prepared mixture ; lastly, mask the top with a layer of mayonnaise. Let the cheeses remain in the ice for an hour. When wanted to be served, turn them out and arrange on a dish, garnishing with parsley. Crayfish Croquettes. —Make a Crayfish salpigon, and keep it covered over. Take a little bechamel sauce, reduce it, and add a few table-spoonfuls of mushroom-liquor and a little cream ; when it is thick, put in 2 table-spoonfuls of cooked mushrooms cut up small, and a little Crayfish but’.er. Take it off the fire, carefully put in the salpiQon, and pour the whole into a kitchen basin to cool. Shape the croquettes like corks, dip them in breadcrumbs, and fry in hot fat to a light brown colour. Take tliem out, put on a strainer to drain, and place in a group on a dish with a folded napkin laid on it. Crayfish for Garnish. — (1) Take the required number of fish and plunge them into boiling salted water in which a little vinegar and a few chopped vegetables have been cooked. Put the pan on the fire and boil for eight or ten minutes longer. Toss them in the pan frequently until they are done. (2) Take some Crayfish, and wash them well in several waters until quite clean and the water is left clear. Put a few slices of carrots, onions, a little parsley, thyme, a bay-leaf, two cloves, 1 wineglassful of vinegar, a little water, and salt and pepper into a saucepan, and boil for an hour; then drain off the liquor and put it into another saucepan upon the fish, and boil for twenty minutes, stirring slowly all the time. Let them remain in the liquor until wanted; then remove, drain, and take off all the small claws. They are then ready to serve. Crayfish Nudels.—Prepare the nudel-paste with the yolks of three eggs, working them together with sufficient flour to make a stiff dough ; divide this into six equal portions, shape them into balls, and roll them out. Put the nudels in a saucepan with sufficient milk to cook them, and boil until tender. Beat the yolks of four eggs and stir them in with the nudels, add 2oz. of Crayfish butter, and continue stirring until dis- solved. Season to taste with salt, and then mix in the whites of the four eggs, which should have been whisked to a stiff froth. Thickly butter the interior of a mould with Crayfish butter, turn the nudels into it, put a few bits of Crayfish butter on the top, and bake in a moderate oven. When the nudel mixture is browned and lightly caked over the top, turn it out of the mould on to a dish, and serve. Crayfish Omelet. —(1) Take two dozen tails of boiled Cray- fish and cut them up into dice. Remove the flesh from the claws, chop it up with the trimmings of the tails and an equal quantity of fresh mushrooms, put them into a basin, and add ten eggs, a little salt and nutmeg to season, and a small pinch of finely-chopped parsley; whip them well for two or three minutes. Put 4oz. of butter into an omelet-pan and warm it, add the eggs, &c., let it thicken a little, and then put the tails—previously mixed with 1 table-spoonful of white sauce reduced with a little meat glaze—in the centre. Take out the omelet when cooked, roll it up, put it into an oblong dish, and serve. (2) Stew twelve Crayfish-tails in a saute-pan on the hot stove with Joz. of butter, letting them cook for five minutes. Break twelve eggs into a bowl, add 5 teacupful of cream and 1 pinch ■of finely-chopped parsley, season with 1 pinch of salt and Crayfish—continued. 'x pinch of pepper, then beat it up sharply for four minutes. Make an omelet and fold up the side opposite the handle of the pan. place the Crayfish right in the centre, fold up the other side, turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. Crayfish Pudding1. —(1) Put Jib. of breadcrumbs into a basin with some warm milk, and let them soak for five minutes ; then take them out, press well, and put them into a stewpan. Place the pan on the fire to warm, and with a spoon well work the crumbs ; then put the pan on the side of the fire »and add one eg'g, a little caster sugar, and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour. Warm 4oz. of Crayfish butter and 2oz. of other butter in a basin and thoroughly work with a spoon ; when beginning to cream, add, one at a time, the yolks of six eggs and 4 table-spoonfuls of vanilla sugar. When the mixture is quite frothy, add the breadcrumbs and the well-whisked whites of five eggs. Turn it at once into a cylinder-mould previously buttered and floured, and put it in the bain-marie for forty- five minutes, to poach. When ready, turn it out on to a dish and mask it with vanilla cream. (2) Soak 1 breakfast-cupful of breadcrumbs in milk ; warm 2oz. of Crayfish butter, and beat it, adding gradually the yolks of five eggs ; then mix them with the soaked crumbs, and put in a small quantity of salt. Whisk the whites of five eggs to a stiff snow, and stir them gently in with the above mixture. Thickly coat the interior of a mould with Crayfish butter, and arrange tastefully round the sides ami at the bottom a few Crayfish-tails ; then pour in the above mixture, and tie a sheet of buttered paper over the mould. Place the mould in a saucepan with boiling water to three- quarters its height, and steam it. Prepare a sufficient quantity of Crayfish sauce, flavouring with lemon-juice and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. When cooked, turn the contents of the mould on to a hot dish, pour the sauce round it, and serve. Crayfish. Quenelles (German).—Pick the flesh out of the shells of several fresh Crayfish, and chop it as fine as possible. Prepare ilb. of Crayfish butter, warm it slightly, beat it vigor- ously until it begins to get creamy, then mix it with the beaten yolks of four eggs, and stir it into the minced fish ; add about 1 teacupful of grated breadcrumbs, k table-spoonful of minced chives, salt, cayenne pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Work the ingredients until well mixed, then divide the mixture with a table-spoon into small egg- shaped pieces; plunge these into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil for ten minutes. When cooked, drain the quenelles, put them on a hot dish over a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve. Crayfish. Rissoles.—Take a dozen or so of middling-sized Cray- fish, and boil them in the ordinary way. Remove the flesh from the tails and claws, cut it up into small pieces, and put them in a basin with the same quantity of . cooked fish force- meat, likewise cut up. Then take the same bulk of mushrooms as of Crayfish, and put them into a saucepan with a few table-spoonluls of bechamel sauce. Place the pau on a sharp fire in order to reduce the quantity, adding afterwards a little of the liquor of the Crayfish. Stir it until it becomes thick, and then add the Crayfish and forcemeat. Let the whole boil up once, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and add the yolks of two eggs and a lump of Crayfish butter, also a little grated nutmeg to taste. Pour it into a basin and let it cool. Next make lib. of puff paste, cut it in halves, roll it out, one half after the other, into square thin flats. Put some small balls of tiie Crayfish mixture, about the size of a walnut, on the first flat about Ijin. apart. Damp the paste and fold it in a straight line so as to cover the mixture, and fix it between each ball by pressing it down with the finger. Take a plain or fluted biscuit-cutter about 2in. in diameter, and cut out the rissoles in the shape of a crescent. As soon as the first row of rissoles is ready, cut the flat straight with a knife, and commence another row in the same way, until all the mixture is used up. Put each rissole into well-beaten egg, then into breadcrumbs, rubbing them over with the hand to spread the crumbs over equally, and place them on a baking-sheet covered with buttered paper. Just previous to being served, throw them into boiling hog’s lard, and fry them for six or eight minutes, or until of a nice colour; then take them out, put them on a strainer to drain, and serve on a dish with a cloth or napkin spread over it.