THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 425 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jsc., referred to, see under their special heads. Coffee—continued. of lard during the operation; let them cool slightly, grind them, put them into a jar with lgall. of proof spirit, and let the liqueur remain for fourteen days; then mix in 2qts. of syrup, colour to a deep brown with caramel, bottle, and cork. (2) Put into a jar lib. each of ground chicory and roasted horse beans, add 4oz. of freshly-ground Coffee, pour over lgall. of proof spirit, ancl let them stand for a day or so; then add lgall. of syrup, mix well, and bottle off. Coffee Liqueur (Creme de Mocha) Jelly. -Put fib. of caster sugar into a stewpan with 2oz. of gelatine. Boat well the whites of three eggs, and add to them 2 l pints of water and the juice of a lemon. Pour this over the sugar and gelatine, put the pan on the fire, and stir well until the mixture boils. Pass it through a jelly-bag, and if clear add i pint of Coffee liqueur; but if not, strain again. Place a mould in the ice, fill it with the jelly, and let it stand for two hours. It will then be ready to be turned out. Coffee Mange.—Put ioz. of gelatine in a saucepan with 1 pint of milk, and place it over the fire till dissolved, stirring it occasionally. Make i pint of very strong Coffee, strain it from the grounds into the saucepan with the milk, and sweeten with 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar, then stir it over the fire till the sugar has melted. Pour the mixture into a basin, and leave it till cold; then mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of thick cream, turn into moulds, and leave till set. When ready to serve, turn out of the moulds on to a fancy dish. Coffee flavoured with Oat Liquor.—Take 1 teacupful of very clean oats and boil them for five or six minutes in soft water ; then strain off, and boil again for half-an-hour in more water. Pass the liquor through a silk sieve, and use it when making Coffee, to which it will impart a fine flavour resembling vanilla. Coffee Pudding.—Make j breakfast-cupful of strong Coffee, and clear it well. Beat up four eggs with 5 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and j teaspoonful of salt, then mix in gradually 1 pint of boiling milk and the Coffee. Strain the mixture into a mould, which stand in a deep pan containing hot water that will reach to half its height, and place it in a moderate oven. When quite firm, take the pudding out and leave it until cold ; then turn it into a dish, strew caster sugar thickly over, glaze under a salamander, and serve. Coffee Souffle. -(1) Put in a sugar-boiler j-lb. of green Coffee, roast it without browning it, and soak it in lqt. of boiling milk for one hour. Mix 1 breakfast-cupful of flour, 1 tea- cupful each of caster sugar and vanilla sugar, and j salt- spoonful of salt with the prepared milk; pour it into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire until boiling. Remove the mixture from the fire, put in the yolks of six eggs, and the whites beaten very firm. Pill some paper cases with the mixture, and bake. When done, sprinkle caster sugar over the top, and serve at once. (2) Put in a stewpan 1 pint each of milk and cream, add a little sugar and salt, and let it boil. Roast jib. of raw Coffee, throw it while hot into the boiling cream, and finish as for No. 1. Coffee-flavoured Sugar.—Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of very strong Coffee into a saucepan, and mix in sufficient sugar to form a stiffish liquid; stir this with a spoon until it commences to boil, remove the pan from the fire, and mix in 2 table-spoonfuls more of pounded loaf sugar. Well work the sugar against the side of the pan until cool, when it will become dull and thick and like a powder. Dry it in the oven or hot closet, sift it through a fine sieve, and it is ready for use. Coffee Syrup.—Infuse jib. of freshly-roasted and ground Coffee- beans in lgall. of boiling water. When cool and settled, filter off, and add 121b. of crushed loaf sugar, dissolving by heat without boiling. Coffee Walnuts. M. Reichert gives us the following excellent receipt: Between two halves of candied walnuts put a small piece of soft almond paste flavoured strongly with essence of Coffee. These can, when dry, be stored in tins or bottles, and are considered a great delicacy. See Fig. 505. Coffee with Whipped Cream.—Put into each cup sufficient sugar to sweeten the Coffee, and 1 table-spoonful, or a little more, of boiling milk. Have ready some whipped cream, Coffee—continued. 1 pint whisked to a stiff froth being required for a dozen cups of Coffee. Fill the cups moderately full with hot Coffee, lay on top of each a spoonful or two of the whipped cream, give it a gentle stir, and serve. Creme de Mocha.—See Coffee Liqueur. Gloria.—This is a kind of Cafe-noir. Sweeten 1 breakfast- cupful of Cafe-noir, pour on to it 1 teaspoonful of brandy, and light it; when the brandy is nearly burned away, blow the flame out, and the Coffee will be fit to drink. Hot Coffee and Soda-water. —Have a Coffee-pot quite dry and „ clean, put in jib. of Coffee and joz. of chicory, pour on lqt of boiling water, and let it stand for ten minutes where it will keep quite hot, but do not let it boil; add to this lqt. of soda- water, and sweeten with condensed milk and sugar. Marbled Coffee Shape.— Cut lqt. or so of blanc-mange into small pieces, and take about half of it and mix in a pan over the fire with 1 table-spoonful of Coffee extract. Rub the inside of a mould with a little oil, lean it sideways, put some of the white blanc-mange in it in patches, and then some of the brown, and so on alternately till the mould is quite full. Pack the mould in ice. When the contents are frozen, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it well, and turn the cream out. By no means an easy dish to make, as, after setting in the mould, the whole must be warmed to melting, and without shaking the mould, packed again in ice. , . itL. Fig. 505. Coffee Walnut. Mousse au Cafe. -Put 4oz. of Coffee into a small saucepan, pour over a little more than 1 teacupful of water, add loz. of sugar, and boil. Stir in slowly the yolks of two eggs, let the mixture get cold, strain it, and add 2 breakfast-cupfuls of well-whipped cream. Pour the mixture into glasses, and serve. Parfait au Cafe (Parisian).—Put 6oz. of caster sugar in a saucepan with the yolks of six eggs and 1 pint of sweet cream, and mix well together for two minutes. Set the saucepan on the hot stove, stir gently and continually from the bottom, using a spatula, until about to boil. As this is difficult to determine on account of the briskness of the fire, the best way to tell when it is sufficiently done is to lift up the spatula and see whether the cream adheres thickly to it; if so, remove the saucepan from the fire, place it on the table, add 4oz. of freshly-roasted Coffee-beans, and stir again for one minute longer. Remove the spatula, cover the saucepan with a napkin, put on the lid, and infuse for one hour. Beat up 1 pint of sweet cream, and let it rest until needed. Place a freezer in a tub, fill it up all round with broken ice mixed with rock-salt, wipe the cover, and remove it. Strain the infused preparation through a fine sieve into the freezer, put on the cover, take hold of the handle, and turn the freezer briskly in opposite directions for five minutes ; then remove the cover, and with the spatula detach all the cream that adheres to the sides and bottom, re-cover and turn sharply as before; remove the cover, detach the cream from the sides and bottom, replace i he "cover, and begin turning again in opposite directions for five minutes longer. The cream should then be thoroughly frozen. Drop the whipped cream into the freezer, very little at a time, m<an- while mixing it gently with the spatula. Have ready a three- pint channeled mould, with a spoon fill it with the preparation, and put on the lid. Place some broken ice with rock-salt at the bottom of the pail, lay the mould over, fill’ up the pail with more ice and salt, and freeze for fully an hour. Remove the mould, dip it in lukewarm water, wipe away the ice and salt, lift up immediately, take off the cover, turn the cream on to a cold dish with a folded napkin, and serve.