351 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cheese—continued. (4) Work 2oz. of grated Parmesan Cheese into 2oz. of puff paste, sprinkle over a little cayenne, roll out the paste to about -Jin. in thickness, cut it into narrow strips, arrange these on a baking-sheet brushed over with water, and bake in a quick oven for five or sis minutes. Turn them care- fully on to a dish, and serve. Cheese Tartlets.—Line two dozen tartlet-moulds with some ; puff paste rolled out thin. Put in a saucepan 4 table-spoon- fuls of gTated Parmesan Cheese, 1 table-spoonful of flour, ; 2oz. of butter, the yolks of six eggs, and 1 pinch of salt, and stir this over a slow fire until the butter is melted ; then take it off and let it cool. Whip the whites of four eggs, mix them with the other, fill the tartlet-moulds with the mixture, stand them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a slow oven. When done, j take them out, sprinkle over the tops a little grated Parmesan Cheese, and serve while hot. Cheese Toasts.—(1) Cut 4oz. of old Cheese into very thin slices, put these into a frying-pan with ^ teacupful of milk, a small lump of butter, salt and pepper to taste, and stir well over the fire until the Cheese is melted; then add two well-beaten eggs, and another | teacupful of milk, and cook for one minute. Have ready some slices of hot toasted bread without crusts, spread the mixture over them, and serve hot. (2) Chop 4oz. of Gloucester Cheese, put it in a mortar with 2oz. of butter, and pound to a smooth paste; then mix with it 2 teaspoonfuls of mixed mustard and f wineglass- ful of sherry. Season to taste with salt, and add a small quantity of powdered mace if liked. Cut six rounds of bread about 3in. in diameter; put a large lump of butter in a flat stewpan, place it over the fire until the blue smoke rises, then put in the rounds of bread, and fry them until a pale golden colour. Drain the pieces of bread on paper for a few minutes, then spread the above mixture over them ; lay them on a baking-sheet and put into a brisk oven for seven or eig-ht minutes. Garnish a hot dish with a folded table- napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, arrange the toasts on it, brighten them up with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve. Cheese Trifles.—Mix together the beaten yolk of an egg, 1 table-spoonful of cream, loz. of grated Parmesan Cheese, and a seasoning of cayenne ; then whisk the white of the egg to a stiff froth and beat it lightly in. Line some small patty-pans with thin puff paste, put 1 table-spoonful of the mixture in each, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. Cream-Cheese Fritters. - Cut some cream Cheese into very thin slices and mask them with apricot or other jam ; dip them into batter flavoured with noyeau, plung-e into boiling fat or oil, fry, drain, and serve. Cream Cheese with Marmalade.—Put 1 pint of cream into a saucepan, place it over the fire until boiling, then take it off and mix with it a few table-spoonfuls of any kind of marmalade preferred, and a small quantity of finely-chopped, candied lemon-peel. Leave the cream till nearly cold, put a moderate amount of rennet in it, and turn into a mould. When ready to serve, turn the Cheese on to a dish and sift caster sugar over. Cream-Cheese Fuff's.—(1) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk and 2oz. of butter into a saucepan.; bring them to the boil, and stir in sufficient flour to form a stiffish paste, letting it dry over the fire. Then add and mix in a small cream Cheese about 6oz. in weight, 2oz. of crushed loaf sugar, 2 tahle- spoonfuls of well-whipped cream, a little salt, and three or four eggs. The paste should not he too thin ; more flour must be used if required to thicken. Poll out about lib. of puff paste as thin as possible, cut it into rounds about 2in. in diameter, put a little of the preparation in the centre of each, turn up the edges of the paste so as to form a three-cornered cup, brush the top and sides over with egg, put them into a moderate oven, and bake to a light brown. Take them out, dust over with caster sugar, and they are ready for use. Two table-spoonfuls of whipped cream may be used as a substitute for the cream Cheese. (2) Take 3oz. of freshly-made cream curd and let it be scalded and drained (the curd is obtained by adding rennet to lqt. of cream). Boil i pint of milk with loz. of butter in it, drop in 1 teacupful of flour all at once, and stir the paste over the fire for a few minutes; then put Cheese —continued. in the 3oz. of cream curd and 2oz. of grated Cheese, and pound the mixture smooth, next beating in three eggs, one at a time. Put 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of this Cheese- flavoured mixture into patty-pans, lined thinly with pie- paste, and bake in a slack oven; or else cut out flats of patty-paste very thinly rolled ; put 1 table-spoonful of the mixture in the middle, pinch up the sides like a three- cornered hat, and bake on a greased baking-sheet. They will open out in baking, and Americans eat them with apple sauce. Creamed Cheese.—Grate fib. of Cheese into a saucepan, and add half the quantity of butter, the yolks of four eggs, a little cayenne and salt, and 1 teacupful of milk. Warm the mixture over the fire, taking care not to let it boil, turn it out on to a dish, and it is ready for use. Gherkin Buck.—See American Rarebit. Golden Buck.—This is an American favourite. Cut up into 'small pieces about lib. of Cheese (American for preference), put them in a saucepan, sprinkle over a little pepper, pour over f tumblerful of ale or beer, and stir over the fire, using a wooden spoon, until the whole is quite melted, which should not take longer than a couple of minutes. Arrange six pieces of hot toast on a dish, pour over the preparation, place a poached egg on the top of each, garnish with small sprigs of fried parsley (see Fig. 432), and serve as hot as possible. See American Rarebit, or Gherkin Buck. Hot Cheese Paste.—Put fib. of Cheshire Cheese in a mortar, and pound it well with loz. of butter, 3 teaspoonfuls of mustard, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and 1 saltspoonful of cayenne pepper. When these ingredients are well mixed and pounded together, put the mass in jars in a cool place, and it will keep good for some time. Iced Cream Cheese.—Put 1 pint of cream in a saucepan, with the grated peel of half a lemon and 1 table-spoonful of orange-flower water, and boil it for three or four minutes. Beat the yolks of ten eggs; move the cream off the fire and stir the eggs in gradually; stir it by the side of the fire for a few minutes, but without allowing it to boil again. Pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve, turn it into a freezer, and work it until frozen. Take the frozen Cheese up in table-spoonfuls, and shape and stamp them like small pats of butter. Arrange them on a dish and serve them. Mock Crab.—(1) Rub loz. of grated Cheese and loz. of butter together, and when they are well mixed add 1 saltspoonful of dry mustard, f saltspoonful of cayenne pepper, a few drops of essence of anchovy, 1 teaspoonful of vinegar, and a little salt. Work it into a smooth paste, and spread it on slices of dry toast. (2) Put about 4oz. of any Cheese, Double Gloucester for choice, into a mortar, and beat it up .with 1 teaspoonful each of vinegar and made mustard. Sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, turn the mixture on to a dish, and it is ready for use. (3) Chop fine about 4oz. of Cheese—mellow Cheese for pre- ference—put it into a mortar, with a little cayenne, salt, and 1 table-spoonful of made mustard, and pour in 2 table- spoonfuls of vinegar and a small quantity of salad-oil. Continue to pound until the mixture has the appearance of cream, then add 12oz. of picked shrimps. Stuff the preparation into a crab shell on a dish, with sprigs of parsley and thin slices of lemon for garnish, and serve. Potted Cheese.—Take lib. of Cheshire Cheese, cut it into dice, and put these in a mortar with 6oz. of butter,