270 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. C alf—co nt inued. into cold water and there left until wanted, or dried with a cloth and set on a dish in the pantry with the feet and other parts ready for use (see Tig. 307). Baked Calf’s Head.—(1) Take out the brains, and put the head in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover it; boil until the meat will easily leave the bones. Cut up the meat, sprinkle it over with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, put it on a dish with 1 wineglassful of wine, 4oz. of butter, and the brains which have been boiled separately. Put the dish in the oven, and bake until done. (2) Put a Calf’s Head in a saucepan of water, and boil it until it is quite tender. Cut the meat into pieces, and put it on a dish with a sprig of thyme, a pinch of mace, pepper, salt, and a few cloves. Mix 1 table-spoonful of softened butter with 1 table-spoonful of flour; work it into the meat, and put a layer of breadcrumbs on the top. Pour in a wineglassful of wine, and fill up the dish with the water the head was boiled in. Place the dish in a good oven, and bake for forty-five minutes. Serve with a garnish of forcemeat balls, and hard- boiled eggs cut in slices. (3) German Style. — Split open a Calf’s Head with the neck attached to it, scald it until it is perfectly white, and remove the jawbone. Put a few slices of bacon at the bottom of a saucepan, and over this put a thin beef-steak, and season well with salt and pepper. Place the head on the steak, moisten with beef-broth, add a bunch of sweet herbs and an onion stuck with cloves; cover over the pan, and cook until the head is tender. In the meantime prepare a ragout with lqt. of gravy and 1 pint of port wine boiled together, add to this one or two sweetbreads, parboiled and cut in slices, also eighteen oysters, a few mushrooms and truffles, and cook until the whole is tender. Place the head on a dish, and remove the brains, eyes, bones, and tongue; chop up the brains and tongue, put them on a baking-dish, pour over a little of the ragout, place the head over this, and pour over the remainder of the ragout, as well as a little melted butter. Scrape over a little Parmesan cheese, bake iu a moderate oven until well browned, and serve. Two-hours-and-a-quarter will be sufficient time for cooking from the commencement to the finish. Boiled. Calf’s Head. — (1) Plunge a fine, fresh, white Calf’s Head into hot water for one minute, lift it up, and sharply rub it all over with a coarse towel so as to remove all the remaining hairs. Carefully cut the flesh, starting from the centre of the head, right down to the nostrils. Then, with a very keen knife bone it from the top to the base on both sides. Place in a saucepan 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, 1 gill of vinegar, one medium-sized, well-cleaned, sliced carrot, one sound peeled onion, eighteen whole peppers, and 2 pinches of salt. Poul- in very gradually 2qts. of cold water, briskly stirring until all is added. Cut up half of the head into six equal pieces, add them to the broth, as also the other whole half, and let all cook together on a moderate fire for an-hour-and-a-half. Lift up the pieces and the half head, and place the six pieces on a dry napkin. Have ready a hot dish with a folded napkin over it, neatly dress the six pieces on it, decorate with parsley or greens, and serve with any desired sauce. Place the remaining half head in a stone jar, strain the broth over it, and keep it in a cool place for any purpose required. (2) Thoroughly clean a Calf’s Head, i-emoving the brains and tongue, and boil it tied up in a cloth to keep it white. It is For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Calf—continued. as well to soak the head for two or three hours previously to boiling, as it improves the colour. Wash, soak, and blanch the brains, then boil them ; scald some sage, chop it fine, add pepper and salt and a little milk, and mix it up with the brains. The tongue, which should be soaked in salted water for twenty-four hours, should be boiled, peeled, and served on a separate dish. The head should boil until tender, and if intended to be sent to the table plain should bo served as taken up, with melted butter and parsley; if otherwise, when the head is boiled sufficiently tender, take it up, spread over a coat of the well-beaten yolk of egg, sprinkle with bread- crumbs, and brown before the fire, or in the oven before serving; or the plain-boiled head may be garnished with lemons, mushrooms, cocks’ combs, truffles, and attelettes (see Pig. 308). Boiled Calf’s Head a la Cavour.—Take half a boiled Calf’s Head as for Boiled Cale’s Head No. 1. Before serving, pour over 1 gill of hot tomato sauce, and surround it with twenty- four stoned and blanched olives, arranged in clusters, and six sippets of fried bread. Boiled Calf’s Head ■with. Poulette Sauce.— Pour £ pint of hot poulette sauce over half a boiled Calf’s Head, sprinkle it with 5 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and serve. Boiled Calf’s Head with. Vinaigrette Sauce.—Proceed the same as for Boiled Calf’s Head No. 2, laying a folded napkin on the dish and arranging thereon the half of the head. Serve with parsley-leaves round the dish and 1 pint of vinaigrette sauce in a sauceboat. Braised Calf's Head.—Clean and bone the head. Prepare a sufficient quantity of finely-chopped lean veal and fat bacon to stuff it. Season the stuffing with sweet herbs, salt, and pepper, and bind it with the beaten yolks of two or three eggs. Stuff the head, sew it up securely to prevent the stuffing from falling out, and wrap it in a cloth. Line a braising-pan with slices of veal and bacon and a few slices of carrots, put in the head with a bunch of thyme and parsley and two bay- leaves ; season to taste with spice, and pour in 1 pint of broth and I pint of white wine. Stew the head for four hours. When cooked, take it out of the cloth, put it on a hot dish, garnish with a financiers ragout. Strain the cooking-liquor of the head into a small clean stewpan, mix 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine with it, boil for a few minutes, then pour it over the head, and serve. Calf’s Head Bigarre.—(1) Cut off the bones of the lower jaw and the nose-bone of a Calf’s Head, the latter as close to the eyes as possible. Well wash the head in plenty of hot water, to remove all the blood, then blanch it and let it cool. Cut lib. each of fat bacon and beef-suet into small pieces; put them into a saucepan with |lb. of butter, two small onions, a bunch of parsley, the juice of one lemon, a few sprigs of thyme, one or two bay-leaves, and a small quantity each of cloves, mace, allspice, pepper, and salt. Pour in as much water as will cover the head when it is put in, and boil the mixture for an hour. Wrap the head in a cloth, put it into the boiling liquor, and boil for three hours. When cooked, unwrap the head, split it into halves, put them between two plates with a heavy weight on the top to keep them in shape, and leave them till cold. Thoroughly beat the yolks of four eggs with about loz. of warmed butter, and a seasoning of pepper and salt; when the halves of the head are cold, dip one in the beaten egg, giving it a good coating, then cover it thickly with finely-grated stale breadcrumbs, seasoned with a little salt and pepper. Boll the other half of the head in what is left of the beaten egg; mix some finely-chopped parsley in the breadcrumbs, and cover it thickly with them. Warm some butter, dip a paste-brush in it, and shake it over the breadcrumbs to prevent them from burn- ing while in the oven. Put the halves of the head on a baking- tin, and place in the oven till nicely browned. Put the Calf’s Head on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper that has been placed on a hot dish, garnish it with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of tomato sauce, or, if preferred, either parsley sauce or Italian sauce can be used. (2) Scald and clean a Calf’s Head, put it into a saucepan with a lump of salt and boil it until tender. Drain and bone the head, put it between two dishes with a weight on the top, and press it to an oblong shape. When the head is quite cold cut it in halves. Warm loz. of butter, and beat it well Sauces, d'C., referred to, see under their special heads.