THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 250 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. of brandy or wine, and 1 teaspoonful of mixed ground maee and cinnamon. Bake, and put the fruit Cake between the two plain Cakes, with apple or other jelly between (see Fig. 288). Press it with the hand in putting together. Trim the edges oven, and cover with icing. (2) Warm Jib. of butter and beat to a cream, working in lib. of caster sugar gradually, beating all the time. Flavour with 1 teaspoonful of grated lemon-rind or half a grated nutmeg. Beat four eggs very light and add them to J pint of milk. Mix J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda and t teaspoonful of cream of tartar with lqt. of flour ; sift this into the bowl of beaten ingredients; beat quickly and vigorously to thoroughly mix, and then stop. Take three round baking-sheets of the same size, and in each of two put one-third of the mixture, and bake. To the other third, add 4 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, 1 breakfast-cupful of currants, and about 2oz. of citron-peel, cut fine. Bake this on the remaining sheet. When done, take out of the oven, and spread a light Cake with a thin layer of apricot jelly while warm. Place on this the dark Cake, and spread that also with jelly. Place the other sheet of light Cake on the top of that, and lay a sheet of paper over all. Put a piece of board on the Cake, and place two flat irons on it, so as to flatten the Cake as it cools. Rich Cake.— (1) Bub into 41b. of sifted flour lib. of butter and lib. of lard, add 3 table-spoonfuls of baking-powder, 31b. of washed and dried currants, 21b. of moist sugar, lib. of minced stoned raisins, Jib. of chopped mixed candied peel, 1 teaspoonful of mixed spices, and 1 pinch of salt. Make into a dough with eight well-beaten eggs and a little milk. Bake for one-and-a-half hours, or longer, in a moderately hot oven. Cover with sugar icing, and pipe or ornament with crystallised fruits, angelica, or any other way. (2) Bub lib. of butter into lib. of best white flour, then add lib. of caster sugar, 2oz. of ground sweet almonds, eight eggs, and 1 wineglassful of brandy slowly while beating. When thoroughly mixed, pour it into a buttered mould, and bake. Richelieu Cake.-—Put Jib. of sugar, Jib. of blanched and pounded almonds, and the yolks of four eggs, into a bowl, and with a spatula mix well together for two minutes. Place the whites of eight eggs in a copper egg-basin, with J salt- spoonful of salt, and with a wire whisk beat them to a stiff froth; add this to the above preparation, with 3oz. of melted butter, 3oz. of flour, and 1 teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring. Mix slowly together for three minutes. Butter a plain 3qt. mould, line the interior thoroughly, and pour in the prepara- tion; place it in a moderate oven for an-hour-and-a-half, then remove and let it cool, and turn out. Dress on a dessert- dish with a folded napkin, and serve. Fig. 289. Riscasoli Caiie. Riscasoli Cake.—The following receipt is given by Dubois for the preparation of this Cake : Mix together fib. of wheat- and potato-flour in equal parts, lib. of caster sugar, 5oz. of butter warmed to melting, the yolks of six eggs, a little salt, and vanilla or any other flavouring to taste. Make it into a dough with milk, but work in the butter after the whites of eggs. Fill a buttered dome-shaped mould well dusted with potato-flour with this. Bake in a moderate oven. Cakes—continued. When turned out and cooled, cut it horizontally into slices about Jin. thick, then rebuild the Cake into its original form, putting one slice on top of another, soaking each of them with a little alkermes liqueur. Mask them also one by one on the top with a layer of vanilla-flayoured frangipane, and finish with alkermes liqueur. Place the Cake on a cold dish, mask the surface first with a thin layer of apricot mar- malade or greengage marmalade, then with a layer of whipped cream, sweetened, flavoured, and kept very firm. Smooth the surfaces well, decorate them with the same cream, squeezed through a cornet, as shown in Fig. 289, garnish with a ring of macaroons, and serve as soon as ready. Risen Cake.—Cream 9oz. of butter by beating it well when warm with the hand, and add lib. of caster sugar. Put J pint of yeast in ljlb. of flour, mix with it half the butter and sugar, and let it remain till the next morning, previously beating in 3 gills of milk. In the morning, when well risen, add the rest of the butter and sugar, with four well-beaten eggs, a few washed and dried currants, and a little grated nutmeg. Beat all well together for some time. Put it in a buttered tin, and let it rise again in a warm place. It must be very light before it is baked. Robert Cakes.— Beat the yolks of ten eggs with lib. of caster sugar, well whisk the whites, add them, and beat the whole together for a few minutes. Stir in gradually with the beaten eggs Jib. of sifted flour, the grated rind of one lemon, and the strained juice of half a lemon. Bake the batter in jelly-cake tins. Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, then mix well with them the juice and grated rind of an orange and lib. of caster sugar. When cooked, take the Cakes out of the tins, leave till nearly cold, then spread them over with the above mixture. Place the Cakes in layers on the top of each other, and serve them. The above quantities will make two Cakes. Rock Cakes.—(1) Bub Jib. of butter in ljlb. of flour in which a little powdered mace and 1 pinch of salt have been previously mixed; when quite smooth, add Jib. of currants, washed and dried, Jib. of caster sugar, four eggs, 6 table-spoonfuls of cream, and 1 wineglassful of brandy. Flour a baking-sheet, and when the ingredients are thoroughly mixed, take small quantities on a fork and drop them lightly on the sheet a short distance from each other, and bake quickly. See Fig. 290. Fig. 290. Rock Cakes. (2) Bub Jib. of butter into lib. of flour in which 1 tea- spoonful of baking-flour and a little salt have been previously mixed; then add Jib. of caster sugar, Jib. of currants, washed and dried, and a little grated lemon-peel. Mix to a stiff paste with two eggs, which have been beaten, and a little milk if required ; but the paste must be very stiff, or the Cakes will be flat. Flour a large baking-sheet, and with a fork drop small quantities of the paste lightly on it, leaving a short space between each. Bake in a quick oven. (3) Bub 3oz. of butter into lib. of flour, then add 1 teaspoon- ful of powdered ginger, 3oz. of powdered white sugar, and 1 dessert-spoonful of baking-powder, and rub these in also. Take 3oz. of sultana raisins, rub them in a towel to free them from stalks, and when quite clean, mix them in. Put two eggs into a bowl, beat them till they are quite light, add to them J teaenpful of milk, and stir this into the flour, &c., till it is a stiff dough: it should be so stiff that a spoon will stand in it. Butter a flat baking-sheet, and put on to it rough pieces of this dough, about double the size of a walnut. Do not cut the dough, as it would make the shape of the Cakes too smooth; tear out pieces of the requisite