THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 462 For details respectin'7 Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <1referred to, see under their special heads. Fig 55S. Cream-bowl (Dairy Supply Company). Cream—continued. surface and collect in a thin stratum, provided the milk is left quite undisturbed for some time. The now celebrated Dr. Laval discovered that violent agitation would have the same effect, and invented machines called “ separators,” small ones being worked by hand, while larger ones - require steam power. One of the hand-power machines, called “ the Baby,” is especially calculated to render good service where only, two or three cows are kept. Experience shows that this machine will extract some 20 or 30 per cent, more Cream from the milk than can be obtained by “setting.” It operates on new milk at once, just as it comes from the cow, the cylinder at the top being sometimes fitted with a cold- water jacket so as to reduce the temperature of the milk if warm. The operation is very simple: the milk is put into the cylinder at the top, and by a rapid turning of the handle the Cream is separated from the milk by a centrifugal action, and after being collected by a specially arranged apparatus, trickles out of one pipe, whilst the “ separated ” milk pours out from the other. Cream-setting pans are made of various sizes, styles, and materials—those stamped solid from silver-tinned steel are excellent, being very strong and durable; those of white porcelain with lips, are much used, and look very clean and attractive, but need not be preferred to the steel pans so far as results are concerned. A Cream-spoon is very useful for collecting the Cream as it forms, but it is not so frequently used as the skimmer. A small bowl (see Fig. 558) receives the Cream as it is skimmed off. When the Cream is required to keep for any length of time, or for frequent serving, a covered earthenware jar, or “steen” (see Fig. 559) is found to be very convenient, and the Cream is poured into it from the collecting bowl. The following receipts refer more especially to the preparations evolved from the principle already described. See also Butteb, Cheese (for Cream cheeses, &c.), Cus- tards, and several sauces, such as Veloute (velvet sauce), Bechamel, Mayonnaise, and varieties of these. Bavarian Cream.—This Cream is served cold, or is sometimes used to fill a charlotte russe. (1) Take 1 pint of thick Cream, add sufficient caster sugar to sweeten it, and flavour with vanilla or lemon. Whisk the Cream to a froth, which remove as fast as it appears and put in a glass dish. Take 1| table- spopnfuls of gelatine, dissolve it in warm water, and when it has quite dissolved, add it to the froth, and mix for a-quarter- of-an-hour. Put it on the ice or in a very cool place for a few hours, when it will be ready for use. (2) Dissolve |oz. of gelatine in cold water until it has quite disappeared, and then add 3 pints of Cream or milk, and put it into a saircepan. Place the pan on the fire, and stir well until scalding hot; then remove it from the fire, and put in 3 teacupfuls of caster sugar and the yolks of eight eggs, added a little at a time to the other ingredients, taking care to stir well while doing so. Replace the mixture on the fire, and keep it there till quite hot again. Take it off, and add the whites of the eight eggs well beaten with 8 teaspoonfuls of vanilla extract. Pour it into moulds, and place it on the ice until wanted. Fig 559. Cream-jar (Dairy Supply Company). Cream—continued. (3) Put II pints of milk into a saucepan with 6oz. of sugar and loz. of gelatine, and stir it over the fire until the gelatine is dissolved, but do not let it boil. Strain it through a sieve into a freezer, work well, and when it has nearly set, add 1 teacupfnl of Cream beaten up for ten minutes, and the whites of six eggs whipped and put into the Cream, and then beat up all for five minutes more. While beating, add the flavouring required, such as lemon, vanika, or almond, or any other selected. (4) Put foz. of gelatine over the fire with 1 gill of hot water, and stir until it is dissolved, when it may be set near enough to the fire to keep it liquid. Whip the white of one egg to a stiff froth, and gradually pour the liquid gelatine into it, whipping until it begins to set; then cool for five minutes, whip again, and stir into it 4oz. of pulverised sugar, five drops of lemon- and ten of vanilla-essence, and 1 table-spoonful of brandy. In the meantime prepare 1 pint of whipped Cream ; when the whipped Cream is ready, whisk the yolk of one egg for one minute, and then beat it into the prepared gelatine ; last of all add the pint of whipped Cream, stirring it in very gently and thoroughly, and use the Cream fo fill a charlotte-monkl lined with sponge-cake or lady’s- fingers. The Bavarian Cream is sometimes cooled in a mould, Fig. 560. Bavarian Cream. and turned out on a base of whippe 1 Cream decorated with half-cherries (see Fig. 560). Boston Cream Puffs.—Put I pint of water into a saucepan with lib. of lard and a little salt, and boil; then add gib. of flour, or a little more if required, and stir over the fire for five minutes longer, or until it becomes a smooth paste. Take it off the fire, and mix in five eggs, one at a time. Take a spoon, and drop small quantities of the mixture on to slightly- buttered baking-tins, giving an inch or so of distance between each. Put the sheet into a moderate oven, and bake for twenty minutes. Open the puffs by making an incision in the sides, and fill them with Cream. Bourbon Cream Ice. Put 2oz. of currants, well washed and dried, into a bowl, with the same quantity each of candied orange-peel, citron-peel, dried cherries, cut pine-apple, and a little essence of vanilla, and add to these 1 teacupful of maraschino and let them soak in it. Make a custard with 1 pint of milk, fib. of caster sugar, and the yolks of eight eggs, and mix in with it | pint of milk of almonds made with Goz. of blanched Jordan almonds and twelve bitter ones. The vanilla essence may be added to the latter and not the former mixture, which is a decided improvement. Put the milk of almonds and custard into a basin together, and place them on the ice to freeze; then add the fruits, work well with a spoon, and freeze until quite firm, when it can be put into moulds, and left on ice until wanted for use. Burnt Cream. Put 1 pint of Cream in a saucepan with the thinly-pared yellow rind of one lemon, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and boil it. Put four whole eggs in a basin with the yolks of two, 1 table-spoonful of flour and i wineglassfnl each ot ratafia and orange-flower water, and beat them well. Strain the Creamthrough a fine hair sieve, leave it until nearly cold, then stir it in with the beaten eggs. Turn the mixture into a saucepan and stir it over the fire until thick, but do not let it boil, then turn it into a dish. Put about 4oz. of crushed loaf sugar into a small saucepan with a small quantity of water, and place it over the fire until browned ; then take it off and stir it. Pour the sugar fancifully over the top of the Cream, and serve it either hot or cold.