THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 363 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cherries—continued. following day, the syrup should be strained off the Cherries, reboiled, and poured, while warm, over them again. Repeat this process on the third day, then cover the jar with stout paper, tie it down securely, and keep the Cherries in a dry store cupboard for use. Cherry Water.—(1) Take 21b. of good Cherries, pick off the stalks, and put them into a basin. Then pour 3qts. of boiling- water over them, and let them steep for a couple of hours, the basin being covered over. Put the juice in a jelly-bag with some paper, and let it filter through. Then add to the juice lqt. of syrup at 38deg., stir well together, and pour the Cherry-water into jugs. (2) Put 1 wineglassful of Cherry-syrup into a tumbler, fill up with cold water, and sweeten to taste. Cherry-water Ice.— (1) Remove the stones from the Cherries and pound them in a mortar to extract the flavour. Then pass them with the fruit through a wire sieve into a freezing-- pan, and set it on the ice. A few drops of extract of almonds, if added to the kernels in the mortar, will bring out the flavour, and a little lemon-juice, if added to the fruit, will give them a sharper taste. (2) Procure lib. of sour Cherries, put them in a vessel, after picking off the stems, with Jib. of powdered sugar, and squeeze in the juice of three larg-e lemons. Mix well with the spatula for five minutes, then add lqt. of cold water, stirring the mixture for two minutes longer ; strain through a fine sieve into the freezer, pressing the Cherries down with a wooden spoon. Freeze, and serve the same as for other ices. Cherry Wine.—(1) To make 5 pints of this wine, take 151b. of I Cherries and 21b. of red currants. Bruise them together, mix with them two-thirds of the kernels, and put the whole of the Cherries, currants, and kernels, into a barrel, with Jib. of sugar to every 1 pint of juice. The barrel must be quite full. Cover the barrel with vine-leaves, and sand above them, and let it stand until it has done working, which will take about three weeks ; then stop it with a bung, and in two months’ time it may be bottled. It is not necessary to fortify this with brandy, though it is often done. (2) Mix 3qts. of German Cherry-juice with 1 pint of grape- sugar syrup, and 1 pint of simple syrup. The juice itself, contains 12J per cent, of alcohol, which is quite sufficient for the purpose of producing a sweet British wine. (3) Measure the Cherries and bruise them, adding to every gallon lqt. of boiling water. Let this stand for twenty-four hours, stirring occasionally ; then strain off the liquor, and put in a jar, adding 21b. of sugar to every lgall. Stop tightly, and let it stand for two or three months, when it will be fit for use without straining or boiling. Compote of Cherries.—(1) Cut off the stalks of lib. of Cherries to about fin. in length. Then put Jib. of caster sugar into a sugar-boiler, and add Jgall. of water. Place the boiler on the fire and boil for three minutes; then put in the Cherries, put the cover on the boiler, and boil for five minutes more. Take out the Cherries, put them on a strainer, and let them drain; then place them in a compote-dish, with the stalks sticking up. Reduce the syrup to 30deg., and when it is cool pour it over the Cherries and serve. (2) Select some fine large Cherries, wipe them over with a damp cloth, and cut the stalks to within Jin. of the fruit. Make some syrup in a sugar-boiler, put in the Cherries, let them simmer gently by the side of the fire for three minutes, then turn carefully out into a basin. Arrange the Cherries in circles, building them to a dome shape, with their stalks upright, in a compote-dish, pour a small quantity of noyeau- flavoured syrup over them, and serve when ready. (3) Pull off the stalks of 21b. of ripe Cherries, remove the stones with a quill without injuring the skins to any degree, put the fruits into a saucepan with 3 teacupfuls of syrup at 32deg., and cook them. Let them get cold, strain off the syrup through a fine sieve into a freezer, freeze it for a few minutes, add 3 table-spoonfuls of kirschenwasser, and let it remain until it becomes like icicles ; put in the Cherries, let them remain for fifteen minutes, turn the whole out on to a compote-dish, and serve as cold as possible. The May Duke Cherries are the- best for this dish. Dried Cherries.—(1) Make some very small holes in as many Cherries as required, so that the stones may be taken out Cherries—continued. without breaking the Cherries very much. Then put them into boiling syrup made with J pint of water to lib. of sugar. Let them remain in this only long enough to scald—say about ten minutes, for if in any longer they will break up. Then take the pan off the fire, pour the contents in a basin, cover over the basin, and let them stand for a day. Take out the Cherries, put the syrup back into the pan, and boil it up again, skimming- frequently, and pour over the Cherries. This must be repeated for three days, and on the fourth the Cherries must be taken out, put on a strainer, and drained of all their moisture. Then put them on wire sieves, and keep them over a g-entle heat for a few hours to dry, so that when touched they will not stick to the fingers. Let them get quite cold, then dust finely-powdered caster sugar over them, and put in layers with white paper between. Care must be taken that when drying the Cherries are not exposed to too much heat, or they will brown and become unsightly. (2) To every 51b. of stoned Cherries take lib. of crushed preserving sugar. Put the fruit into a preserving-pan with sufficient water to cover it, and heat up to boiling-point; take out the fruit with a perforated spoon and dry it; put into the preserving-pan again, sprinkling sugar between each layer of Cherries. Let it stand a little, that the sugar may melt, then set the pan on the fire, and make the syrup scalding-hot as before ; take it off, and repeat this thrice, drain the fruit from the syrup, and lay the Cherries singly to dry on dishes in the sun, or on the stove. When dry, put them into a sieve, dip them into a pan of cold water, draw out again instantly, and pour them on a fine, soft cloth; dry them, and set once more in the hot sun or on the stove. Keep the Cherries in a box in a dry place with white paper between the layers of Cherries. This way is best to give plumpness to the fruit, as well as colour and flavour. Essence of Cherries.—To prepare this, red Kentish Morello Cherries and wild or Black Gean Cherries must be used, taking them in the proportion of fib. of the former to fib. of the latter. Take out the stones, crack them, put them together with the fruit into a stone bottle, pour over lqt. of proof spirit, and let it remain for a month. Then draw off 1 pint of the liquor, filling up with more of the spirit; filter this pint, and pour it into a bottle that will hold 3 pints. Shake the bottle containing the Cherries and spirit, leave it for three days, strain through a flannel bag, then filter once or twice through paper, and mix it with the pint of liquor. Bottle and use as required. German Cold Cherry Dish.—Boil fresh, ripe Cherries in sugar and water until they fall to pieces. Add sufficient potato-flour or arrowroot to thicken them, and pour into a dish to cool Glazed Cherries.—Take some brandied Cherries and put them in a hot place to dry. Glaze them with icing made by boiling lib. of sugar to 40deg. and then bringing it back to 38deg. by the addition of kirschenwasser; let it cool, and beat it with a wooden spoon to a grain or paste (see Sugar- boiling). Italian Cherry Brandy.—Put lqt. of White-heart Cherries into a jar, pour over lqt. each of brandy (white) and common rough gin, and 2qts. of syrup. Let them remain for fully two weeks, and use as required. Pickled Cherries.—(1) Remove the stems from some Cherries, put a thick layer of them at the bottom of a stone jar, empty about a teacupful of sugar over them, and put in a few cloves and pieces of broken cinnamon. Fill the jar in this manner with layers of Cherries, sugar, and spice, and fill it up with the best cold vinegar. Tie a piece of stout paper securely over the jar, keep it in a warm temperature for a few days, and then put it in a dry store cupboard for use. (2) Get some firm, ripe, fresh, short-stemmed Cherries, and lay them in a stone jar with the stems on. Put into an enamelled pan enough vinegar to cover the Cherries, and sweeten it to taste; add 1 teaspoonful each of allspice, mace, cloves, and cinnamon, to lqt. of vinegar. Put on the fire until it is scalding hot, then pour over the Cherries, and let them stand until the next day, when the vinegar must be poured off them into the pan again, scalded as before, and poured once more on the Cherries. Repeat this for nine mornings, and the pickle will be ready for use.