THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 324 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cbe., referred to, see under their special heads. Caviare—continued. The best Caviare is undoubtedly that prepared from the roe of the sterlet, or young sturgeon, which in Russia is carefully collected and preserved for the Imperial table. Caviare is generally known as d’ilcra, signifying “ eggs,” and consists of four different kinds. (1) Caviare Grenu (grained).—This is prepared by collecting the eggs in a sieve, and cleaning by passing a steady current of water through them, stirring freely so as to thoroughly wash them all. Then they are left to soak for an hour or so in strong brine, and after- wards drained off through a tammy-cloth. This kind of Caviare is reckoned the best and most expensive, and requires to be eaten quite fresh. (2) Caviare Compacti (solid).—The mode of prepara- tion is somewhat the same as the grained ; the eggs, when soaking in the brine, being kneaded with the hands to make them soft. They are then put, 41b. or so at a time, in strong silk bags, which are twisted tightly until all the brine is squeezed out, and the Caviare is dry. In this condition, it is packed in barrels for exportation. (3) Dried Caviare.—Another kind, prepared by brin- ing the eggs as soon as they are deposited by the fish, leaving them for six or seven hours piled up in barrels, straining them from the brine, salting again, again drying and laying them in the sun to harden. (4) Red Caviare.—This is a very inferior quality, made from the roe of any fish, such as the grey mullet, or sea carp, caught in the North Sea. A very excellent Caviare, that commands general favour, can be prepared and served as follows : Take out the roes of several full-grown fresh sturgeons, put them into a bowl of water, remove as many of the fibres as possible, and beat the roes in the water with a whisk until they are all out. Should any of these fibres adhere to the whisk, they must be taken off and thrown away. Put the .fine part or grains of the roe into a sieve, pour away the water and add fresh, replace the roe, and whisk well again. Continue to change the water and whisk until the former is quite clear, and all the fibres are removed by the latter. Drain these grains of roe, put them into a basin, sprinkle over sufficient salt and pepper to taste, tie them up in canvas, and hang them up where the water can drip from them. When drained they are ready for use, and may be eaten raw or on buttered toast, and sprinkled over with chopped onions. If the Caviare is wanted to be kept for any length of time, plenty of salt must be mixed with it. Very good imitations of Caviare are manufactured in the vicinity of Marseilles, and along the shores of the Mediterranean, especially at Tunis. It is called Bou- targue, or Poutargue, and is prepared by treating the roes of the mullet, shad, and other fish as described for Caviare. In the Indian Archipelago, and in the numerous rivers of Sumatra,' these fish are very common and grow to a great size, and lead to a great trade, without any undue destruction of fish. The Indians set branches of cedar-trees overnight in the water in the spawning- season, and in the morning they are usually covered with spawn; this is collected in baskets made expressly for the purpose, and when the spawn is in sufficient quan- tities the Indians set to work and roll it up into balls with their hands, setting these in the sjm to dry. Herring- eggs are considered very good prepared in this way, and the Spanish Americans make cakes of these and other fish eggs, salted, rubbed into paste, pressed into masses, smoked, cut up into thin slices, and served. Canapes of Caviare.—Cut two or three slices of bread about jin. in thickness, and then cut them up into rounds with a biscuit-cutter, of about 2in. in diameter; put these in a pan with a little butter, and fry to a light brown colour. When done, spread a layer of Caviare on the rounds, and serve them on a dish covered with a napkin, or ornamental dish-paper. Caviare with Eggs.—Cut some slices about jin. thick off stale French rolls; butter them with anchovy butt dr, or fry them lightly in butter. Spread over each slice a thick Caviare—continued. layer of Caviare, squeeze a little lemon-juice over, and add a dust of pepper and salt. Have ready some hard-boiled eggs, peel them, and cut into slices, using a very sharp knife; lay the slices of egg one on each slice of bread, and serve on a dish with an ornamental paper. A little chopped mustard-and-cress salad spread over the Caviare is a great improvement. Caviare Rolls with Oysters.—Sift lib. of flour, and add to it 1 pint of warm milk with Joz. of yeast dissolved in it, and with this make a sponge (see Bread). Put Rb. of flour into a basin, make a hole in the centre, and add the yolks of three eggs, a little salt, 3oz. of warmed butter, and a little milk slightly warmed into it; mix all well together to make a stiff paste, and work it sharply with the hand. When the dough has risen to double its original bulk, put it into the paste, beat up for five minutes longer, place a cover over it, and put it in a warm place for two hours to rise. After Fig. 391. Caviare Roll, with Oyster. a while put it on the board or table (previously floured), cut it into quarters, roll them into long shapes, cut trans- versely to about the size of a walnut, and taking the pieces one at a time, roll them to a ball with the hands. Set these a little apart upon a baking-sheet, let them stand for thirty minutes, then egg them over, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, take them out, let them get cold, cut them open at the top, take out a little from inside, and fill up the hollow with Caviare; place a raw oyster in the centre of each (see Fig. 391) and serve. Splendid little savoury entremets. Caviare on Toast.—Prepare six rounds of toast of white bread. Put 2 large table-spoonfuls of Caviare into a saucepan, add 1 table-spoonful of cream, and heat for a-minute-and-a-half at the side of the fire, stirring carefully meanwhile. Pour this over the toast, and serve on a dish with a folded napkin. Mock Caviare.—This will hardly be appreciated where the real thing- can be procured, but failing that it may be made by pounding some boned anchovies with a clove of garlic in a mortar, and mixing with them lemon-juice or vinegar, cayenne, a few drops of salad-oil, and salt to taste. Spread this upon bread-and-butter, or buttered toast, and serve. CAYENNE.—See Capsicums. CECILS.—These are commonly described as “fried balls of savoury minced meat.” They are very tasty, and prepared as follows : Trim off the fat and hard skin from any kind of cold cooked meat, finely mince the lean, and mix with it some grated crumbs of stale bread, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of chopped onions, some chopped anchovies and chopped parsley, and season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Put the mixture into a saucepan with a piece of butter, and stir over the fire for a few minutes; then leave it till cold. Take it out, divide into small equal quantities, shape these into balls, brush them over with beaten egg, and coat with finely-grated breadcrumbs. Melt a piece of lard or butter in a frying-pan, and fry the balls till they are of a nice golden brown. When cooked, drain them, put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper that has been placed on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of clear beef gravy. CEDR.AT.—See Citron. CELERIAC (Apium graveolens rapaceum) (Fr. Celeri- acbe).—Tbis is a variety of celery having the root shaped liked a turnip (see Fig. 392), that being the part eaten. It is a great favourite in Germany and other parts of