381 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Chops—continued. cotelette, which is equivalent to om- cutlet. It means just exactly what it says—a piece chopped off, and might therefore, as meat, he any part of the animal; but the orthodox Chops being cut from either loin (see Fig. 460) Fig. 461. Chump Chop. or chump (see Fig. 461), it is customary to confine the term to these two parts, and to speak, therefore, of loin Chop or chump Chop according to whether it is cut from the loin or from the larger surface of the buttock end of the loin, whence the leg has been cut, and commonly called the chump. The literal meaning of chump is a short, thick piece of wood—a signification that should not, in respect of quality, be extended to the Chop. Broiling or grilling is the correct mode of cooking Chops, and full directions will lie found for this and other styles under such headings as Lamb, Mutton, Pork, &c. CHOPPERS.—No properly-ordered kitchen would be without an instrument suitable for chopping up or mincing meat, suet, or other foods. Some of those used Fig. 462. Chopping-knife. are very simple in their construction. Fig. 462 is in the form of a cook’s knife, with a blade varying from 2in. to 4in. broad at the forte, and tapering to a point at a length of from 8in. to 20in. It is the form commonly used in Continental kitchens. For chopping parsley and cutting up fine salad they are exceptionally effective. Choppers—continued. For chopping suet, a chopper such as Fig. 463 is generally preferred, these partaking of numerous varieties in shape and style of handle, but resembling each other in action. In size they vary greatly, some being so large as to require both hands to work. For chopping on a large scale, such as meat for sausages, or vegetables for soups, Fig. 464. American Meat- and Vegetable-chopper (Starkett’s Patent). a machine such as Starkett’s chopper is found to be most valuable. The meat or vegetables are placed in the cylindrical vessel, and upon turning a handle the chopper goes up and down with great rapidity, and the cylinder rotates at the same time, thus bringing all the contents under the chopper with consummate regularity. See also Cleavers, Mincing, &c. CHOUCROUTE. — This is the French term for German sour-crout {saver-kraut), of which it is an evident corruption. Larousse, the French etymologist, says: “ This word owes its origin to the inclination displayed in all languages, but more especially the French, to adopt unknown words to those which are known. Of sauer (soui') we have made cliou (cabbage), and of kraut (a cabbage) we have made croute (a crust).” See Sour- crout. CHOUX.—This French term should properly signify “ cabbages,” but by some extraordinary etymological freak it has become familiar in first-class kitchens as the name of a paste (pdte-d-clion), from which some very dainty little cakes can be manufactured. The following receipts for making this paste are those generally used by Continental pastrycooks, and may therefore be con- sidered as standards, from which certain little varieties for special purposes have been advocated. Choux Paste (Pate-A-chou).—(1) Put jib. of butter in a stew- pan with 2oz. of caster sugar, a pinch of salt, £ pint of water, and a little finely-grated lemon-peel, and stir it over the fire till it begins to boil; then sift in 4oz. of flour, and continue stirring till it forms a very stiff paste. Take it off the fire, and leave till cold. Break two or three eggs, one at a time, in with the paste, and beat it together till the paste is soft and will fall easily from the spoon. It is then ready for use. (2) Into a saucepan put 1 pint of new milk and 2oz. of butter, and set it on the stove, stirring slightly with a wooden spoon; when the milk boils, sift in ilb. of fine flour, and stir briskly for at least two minutes. Remove the pan to a table, break in one egg, and mix sharply for two minutes ; break in a second egg, mixing sharply again, and repeat with a third and a fourth, when the Choux paste is ready for use. Care must be taken in mixing these pastes not to make them thicker than a stiff batter. The following l are a few adaptations: Choux with Caramel.—Put lib. of butter in a saucepan j with 1 pint of water and 1 saltspoonful of salt, place it over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side, where it may just simmer, and stir in gradually sufficient flour to make a thick, smooth paste. Put the saucepan over the fire, | stir three or four minutes longer, then take it off and let the paste cool. Flavour the paste with rose-water, or any other I flavouring preferred, then mix in slowly five well-beaten eggs.