367 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, iSec., referred to, see under their special heads. Chestnuts—continued. Chestnut Paste.—Boil some Chestnuts in water till soft. Peel, skin, and rub them through a sieve. Then pound them, and to each fib. of pounded Chestnuts add fib. of marmalade (orange, cherry, or any other kind that may he preferred), and lib. of sugar. When weighed, boil the requisite quantity of sugar to the feather, that is, the degree of heat at which if a skimmerful of sugar be taken up and shaken the sugar will emit large sparks, which will adhere together on rising (see Sugar-boiling). When the sugar is at this degree, mix it well with the pounded Chestnuts and marmalade, put it into moulds, and bake. Chestnut Pudding\-^(1) Boil and peel fifty fine Chest- nuts, and when thoroughly cooked pound or crush them finely; add fib. of pounded sugar, the minced rind of half a lemon, a dessert-spoonful of orange-flower or rose- water, a breakfast-cupful each of breadcrumbs and sweet biscuit in crumbs, and a teacupful of good cream ; then stir in with half-a-dozen eggs, well beaten up, yolks and whites together. Put the whole into a buttered mould (or this quantity may be divided between two), and bake in a steady oven. On turning the pudding out of the mould, dust it with sugar, and set it for an instant under a glowing salamander. (2) Mix in a stewpan lib. of Chestnut puree, a little sugar, three eggs, ilb. of currants, washed and dried, fib. of Smyrna raisins, a little salt, and a wineglassful of rum. Line a dome- shaped mould with pudding-paste, pour the preparation in, and cover it with paste ; tie the mould up in a cloth, put it • into boiling water, and let it boil one-hour-and-a-half. When done, turn the pudding out on a dish, and mash it with apricot sauce flavoured with rum. (3) Take about forty Chestnuts, remove the brown shell, boil and peel them, and rub through a sieve ; put this puree into a saucepan with 1 pint of cream, 4oz. of butter, 6oz. of caster sugar, and a little salt. Stir this mixture upon the stove until it begins to thicken (stir it well so that it does not burn), and add the yolks of eight and the whipped whites of six eggs ; then pour it into a mould and steam for an-hour-and-three- quarters. When done, turn it out upon the dish it is to be served upon, pour some diluted puree of apricots over it, and serve. (4) Boil fib. of Chestnuts till soft, peel oft’ both skins, put them into a mortar with four peeled bitter almonds, and pound until smooth. Warm fib. of butter, beat it well with 3oz. of caster sugar, stir in gradually the beaten yolks of six eggs, and the pounded Chestnuts and almonds. Whisk the whites of four eggs to a stiff snowy froth, and stir in lightly with the mixture. Thickly butter a mould, pour in the mixture, tie a sheet of buttered paper over the top, and steam it for three- quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, turn the contents of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve. (5) Boil 21b. of Chestnuts until soft, peel off both skins, and pound in a mortar. Put a stick of vanilla into a saucepan with f pint of milk, and boil it for a few minutes until the milk is nicely flavoured; then take out the vanilla and stir in the Chestnuts, with 6 table-spoonfuls of sugar. Continue stirring the Chestnuts, and boil them until thick and almost dry ; then pile them in the centre of a hot dish garnished with stewed fruit, and serve. (6) Make a small slit in the outer peel of lflb. of Chestnuts, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil them until soft; then peel off both the outer and inner skin, and pound them in a mortar. Slightly warm 4oz. of butter, beat it well, and mix in 4oz. of caster sugar and the yolks of six eggs ; mix this with the pounded Chestnuts, and pour in ^ pint of milk. Whisk the whites of the six eggs to a stiff froth, stir them in with the pudding, and flavour with essence of vanilla. Butter a pudding-basin, pour in the mixture, tie a floured cloth over the top, and boil for an-hour-and-a-half. Turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of sweet white sauce. (7) Put three dozen Chestnuts in a saucepan with some cold water and boil them until tender; then drain, remove their shells and inner skins, and pound the Chestnuts in a mortar. Slightly warm 6oz. of hutter and beat it until creamy with 5 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and mix it with the Chest- nuts. Beat six eggs with three-parts of a breakfast-cupful of milk, and mix with the other ingredients. Thickly butter the interior of a mould, ornament the sides and bottom with candied cherries and small pieces of. candied peel, pour the Chestnuts—continued. mixture carefully into the basin, and cover it with a sheet of buttered paper. Put the pudding in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam it for an-hour-and-a- half. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve. Chestnut Pudding with Fruits. - Put a cheese-mould in salt and ice pounded together, and keep it covered. Dissolve six leaves of French gelatine and 11b. of sugar in a breakfast- cupful of water, and mix it with lib. of Chestnut puree; thicken this preparation, stirring it on ice, and add to it a mixture of preserved fruit, together with some sultana raisins and*"a few table-spoonfuls of maraschino. Put this into the mould which has been kept in the ice, shut it up, lute the junctures with common paste, and cover the mould with ice. In three-quarters-of-an-hour dip the mould in tepid water, and then turn the pudding out on to a cold dish. Chestnut Puree. — (1) Peel the brown skin off some large Chestnuts, and immerse them in boiling water until the under- skin can be easily removed ; then put them in a saucepan with some chicken consomme, and let them simmer gently for twenty minutes. When they are done, add half the quantity of Spanish sauce, reduce, and press through a sieve, and finish the puree by adding 1 table-spoonful each of butter and meat glaze. (2) Take about forty Chestnuts, remove their husks, boil them, and then rub off the skins; put the Chestnuts into a stewpan with 1 pint of good stock, and simmer gently until done; then pound them in a mortar, add a little caster sugar, grated nutmeg, and \ pint of cream ; reduce this, and rub it through a hair sieve. When required for use, make it hot, and just before using stir up in it a pat of fresh butter. This puree is generally used for cutlets, braised turkeys, &c. Chestnut Puree with Cream.—Peel the outer skin off fifty Chestnuts, put them in boiling water for a few minutes so as to loose the under-skins, and rub these off in a cloth. Put the Chestnuts in a stewpan, moisten them with a little water, and add a handful of caster sugar and half a stick of vanilla. When the Chestnuts are done, dry them, and pass them through a sieve. Put this puree in a stewpan with half its weight of sugar. Fig. 450. Chestnut Puree with Cream. and keep it over a slow fire, stirring it. When it is firm and dry, pass it through a coarse wire sieve. Take the vermicelli up with a spoon, and form it in a circle on a dish. Twist a piece of paper in the shape of a funnel, fill it with some of the Chestnut puree, and squeeze it out in strings on to the circle, so as to complete the border shown by Fig. 450 ; sweeten, flavour with vanilla, add some whipped cream, and put it in the middle of the circle. Chestnut Puree Soup.'—Peel off the dark skin of some Chest- nuts, put them in boiling water for a few minutes, remove the under-skin, put them in a saucepan, just cover with a little broth, and let them boil on a moderate fire until they are tender; then strain and pound them. Pass 3 pints of warm broth through a sieve into a stewpan, put the Chestnut puree into it, and stir ; when it bubbles, move it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer three-quarters-of-an-hour. In the mean- time peel and blanch some carrots and turnips, and cut them up into little pieces the size of a pea. Skim the fat off the soup, add a saltspoonful of sugar, put in the carrots and turnips, and keep the liquid simmering', skimming it often ; in a quarter-of- an-hour add some moderate-sized heads of white asparagus, blanched, cut in lengths of two-thirds of an inch, and boiled five minutes. When ready, serve the soup in a tureen.