406 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ifee., referred to, see under their special heads. Cocoa—continued. cultivated in tropical regions on both sides of the Atlantic, but the bulk of the seeds brought to England come from the West Indies, principally Trinidad and Grenada. The tree itself is not very imposing in appearance, rarely attaining a greater height than 20ft., but when in full flower it presents a very pretty sight, for it has a smooth greyish bark, from which appear to spring almost indiscriminately small pink flowers and long tapering leaves. The fruit is something like a small badly- Fig. 488. Cocoa Fkuit and Floweks. shaped gherkin, with furrowed sides (see Fig. 488), and reaches a length of bin. or 8in., and a breadth of Sin. or 4in. At first the pod is green, afterwards it turns to yellow, and on the sides exposed to the sun soon assumes a bright red. Each pod contains from 50 to 100 almond- shaped seeds; these are pinkish when fresh, but turn a beautiful deep (chocolate) brown when dried for commerce. The inside of the mature fruit is chiefly made up of these seeds, or “ nuts ” as they are called when dried, the outside covering being brittle and no thicker than stoutisli brown- paper. When the fruit is ripe it is gathered and piled in exposed heaps to undergo a species of fermentation, or partial decay of the outer skin; as soon as this is satisfactorily accomplished, and it does not take long, the fruit is broken open and the seeds extracted. These are at first surrounded by a sweet buttery pulp, which soon dries by exposure to the sun. When Cocoa was first used for making a beverage it would be difficult to ascertain; to the Mexicans, who have long been accustomed to bruise up the seeds with water and flavour them with spice, we go for our earliest knowledge of it. Montezuma, the Mexican monarch, is reported to have indulged in a chocolate preparation made by working the brown liquid into a froth with the richest cream, flavoured delicately with vanilla; and of this he partook himself and regaled his guests from a golden bowl, serving it personally with a golden spoon, or ladle—a very laudable combination of a jovial tem- perance bowl d la Punch. It was during this monarch’s reign (1520) that Cocoa first found its way into Europe, where it has taken up its quarters ever since, and become a prime favourite. The vanilla-flavoured chocolate cream of Montezuma finds favour to this day. Indeed, the amount of Cocoa, in its various forms, now consumed in the world must be enormous. In Spain, Italy, France, and Central America it constitutes the principal unfer- mented beverage to about fifty millions of people, who are estimated to use annually above 100,000,0001b. of the Cocoa—continued. seeds. In this country in 1820 the consumption of Cocoa- seeds was recorded as 276,4211b.; in 1860 this increased to 4,583,1241b.; and by 1880 still further, to close upon 10,000,0001b., the imports being nearly three times that quantity. In the manufacture of Cocoa and chocolate the seeds are first roasted in metal cylinders and afterwards bruised, the husks being removed by fanning. The broken seeds (or “ Cocoa-nibs,” as they are termed) are then ground on a warm slab, beneath heated rollers, until the whole forms a smooth paste. This, if left so, would be Cocoa pure and simple; but there is usually added to it other ingredients, such as starch, with the view of cheapening the article. For forming this paste into chocolate it is enriched with a large percentage of sugar, with flavourings of vanilla, cinnamon, or other sweet spices. Unfor- tunately, Cocoa and chocolate are largely adulterated, the additions consisting of sugar, starch, and flour or farina, of different plants, in varying proportions, accord- ing to the intended quality. So far these additions are harmless, but when we find animal and mineral substances, as pointed out by Hassall, in some cases to add weight, in others colour, the practice cannot be too strongly I condemned. They can mostly be detected with the microscope. The average composition of Cocoa-seeds when deprived of their husks, is nearly as follows : Oil (Cocoa-butter) ... ... 51 Starch, gum, &c. ... ... 22 Gluten, &c. ... ... 20 Water ... 5 Theobromine 2 100 Cocoa is exceedingly wholesome, and as an article of food it cannot possibly be too highly recommended. As a beverage it will not be found so refreshing as tea or coffee, because the whole of the substance is taken in the form of an emulsion into the stomach; while with tea or coffee it is only the infusion that is drunk—tea, likewise, owing to the manner in which it is prepared, losing the greater part of its principal nutritious property ' (gluten), which is left behind in the leaves. But for giving strength to the system, for building up that daily waste which is constantly going on, for supplying good and ■ wholesome food and drink at one and the same time, Cocoa (and by Cocoa is included chocolate) stands pre- eminent and far in advance of either tea or coffee. From the large amount of fat (over 50 per cent) ex- hibited in Cocoa in its pure state, it is often found to be too rich for delicate stomachs; it is for this reason that manufacturers lessen its proportion by a chemical process . or the more simple one of addition. During roasting, a volatile oil is developed, and to it the aroma is due; the principle theobromine is like tlieine, a white crystallisable substance, but contains much more nitrogen. The rest of the principles are all of exceeding importance in the formation of good flesh and blood; indeed, like milk, they contain in themselves every ingredient necessary to the growth and sustenance of the body. Cocoa-butter is a pleasant yellowish-white fat of the consistence of suet, and of an odour resembling that of chocolate. It is chiefly used for medicinal purposes. It keeps well and has no tendency to become rancid, and might therefore be used for protecting potted meats. Of the numerous Cocoas offered for sale to the public, all possibly, excepting the very cheap kinds, possess more or less characteristic value, being merely skilfully-prepared varieties of nib or flake Cocoa rendered soluble and diges- tive. Yan Houten’s preparation is famous for its sim- plicity and exquisite flavour; but there are others with excellent qualities, in which sugar and a small quantity of I arrowroot are combined — Granulated Cocoa, in which