369 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Chestnuts—continued. Chestnut Timbale.—As a specimen of what can bo done in the way of artistic cookery, this timbale, by Dubois, may be considered as worthy of great merit. Mix in a basin Mb. of flour, Mb. of caster sugar, and ilb. of warmed, clarified butter; when worked quite smooth, add the yolks of five eggs, a little salt, and a little grated orange-peel. Work this for two or three minutes, and then add the whipped whites of five eggs. Butter some baking-sheets, spread the paste on jin. thick, and bake it in a slow oven. When taken out, cut out six flats of square shape, measuring- the height of the timbale - mould selected to be used; mask one side of these pieces with white sugar royal icing. Cut out a six-sided flat, from a pattern cut out of cardboard, mask this with marmalade, and glaze over, like the six flats, Fig. 451. Chestnut Timbale. with icing. The icing being dry, cut two opposite edges of the flats of biscuits with sloping edges, so as to make them fit neatly when joined together, and set them against the timbale-mould, fixing them on with icing sugar; adorn each face of these six sides with coloured piping, hiding the lines of junction with a thread of white icing; when set firm, remove the mould and place the timbale on a flat or piece of board, bordered ornamentally with gum-paste. When about to serve, fill the hollow with a sweet puree of chestnuts, flavoured with vanilla, mixed with preserved fruits cut in dice; cover the timbale with the glazed flat as a lid, and on the centre of that fix a little plume of spun sugar, or other ornament, such as a small vase of crystallised fruits or flowers. See Fig. 451. Compote of Chestnuts.—(1) Peel the brown skin off forty or fifty large Chestnuts, and put them in boiling water for a few minutes until the light skin comes off easily when rubbed in a cloth; then put them in a large copper sugar-boiler so that they lay flat at the bottom, cover them with a syrup at lfiOdeg. Fahr., and let them simmer gently for twenty minutes. When they are done, strain the syrup off through a conical strainer, and reduce it to 30deg. Fahr.; before reducing the syrup, flavour it with half the rind of an orange or lemon, cut very thin, or a quarter of a stick of vanilla. Put the Chestnuts in a compote-dish, strain the syrup over them, and serve. (2) Boast the Chestnuts, and when they are done peel oft' both the skins. Put 4oz. of crushed loaf sugar into a sauce- pan with oply as much water as it will absorb, put in the Chestnuts, and toss them about over a slow fire. When they are well coated with the syrup, turn them on to a dish, and dust them over with caster sugar. Serve the compote when cold. (3) Take about a hundred Chestnuts, remove their outer skins, and put them into a saucepan with about 3 teacupfuls of bran, a lemon cut into pieces, and some water. Place the saucepan on the fire, and let the Chestnuts cook until they are soft enough for a pin to go into them easily; then rub For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Chestnuts—continued. off the second skin, and throw them into cold water with the juice of a lemon in it. Clarify and boil gently 1Mb. of sugar to small thread degree—that is, when a drop of the sugar put on the end of the thumb is touched with the tip of the forefinger, and the finger and thumb opened again, draws to a fine thread, and on breaking leaves a drop both on thumb and finger (see Sugar-boiling). When the sugar has boiled to this degree, drain the Chestnuts, and put them into it together with the juice of one lemon and § gill of orange-flower water. Put all these over the fire for a little while, but do not let them boil. Before they are boiling hot, take the pan from the fire and let it stand all night. Next day lift the Chestnuts out of the syrup, letting them drain into it. Boil up the syrup four times, then add more sugar, and boil it to the blow degree—that is, when a skimmerful of the boiling sugar will, when blown through, emit small sparks of sugar. When the syrup is boiled to this degree of heat, put the Chestnuts into it again, let them get thoroughly hot, and then put them into compotiers. (4) Boast some Chestnuts as if to send to table. Peel and remove the inner skin, then put them into a saucepan with jib. of sugar and 1 gill of water ; let them simmer in this for fifteen minutes, then squeeze in a little lemon-juice, and serve with powdered white sugar strewed over them. Compote of Chestnut-paste.—Boast fifty Chestnuts, peel the skins off, and rub them through a coarse wire sieve. Boil 12oz. of sugar to the ball degree, add the Chestnuts, and work all well together in the sugar-boiler with a spatula; when thoroughly mixed, take it off and put it by until wanted. Shape the paste in the form of Chestnuts, put them on a baking-sheet, and set them in the screen; roll them in apricot jam, and then dust some caster sugar over them; put them again in the screen on a wire drainer, and when dry, dip them in some sugar boiled to the crack. Arrange them on a dish, and pour some syrup flavoured with cnraijoa round them. Compote of Vermicellied Chestnuts.—(1) Slit the skins of fifty Chestnuts, and roast them ; when they are done, rub them through a coarse wire sieve on to a dish. Boil 12oz. of sugar to the ball degree, put the Chestnuts into it, and work all together with a wooden spoon while still on the fire. Flavour this paste with vanilla sugar, and rub it through a coarse wire sieve into the compote-dish in a raised pyramidal form; set it in the screen to dry crisp, and with a teaspoon place small heaps of whipped cream round the base. (2) Peel the outer skin off some large Chestnuts, and immerse them in boiling water for a few minutes until the second skin can be easily removed; then lay them flat at the bottom of a large copper sugar-boiler, cover them with syrup at 16deg. Fahr., and let them simmer gently for twenty minutes. When done, strain the syrup off through a conical strainer, reduce it to 30deg. Fahr., put the Chestnuts back in it, and press them through a hair sieve into a compote- dish. The Chestnuts will fall like vermicelli. Croquenbouche of Chestnuts. — Coat about sixty peeled Chestnuts with caramel sugar, and stick them on the outside of a mould, using sugar boiled to the crack to stick them together. Ornament the Croquenbouche when lifted off its mould and placed on the dish with caramel fruit-paste rings and green angelica, or with different sorts of liqueur bonbons. Croquettes of Chestnuts.—There ai-e several modes of pre- paring these little delicacies, but none have been found to supersede the receipt given by Ude. Take fifty good Chestnuts and put them in a hot oven, having scored each of them with the point of a knife, to save them the trouble of bursting. When well roasted, clean them, and put half (taking care to choose those that have most colour) into the mortar, with 3oz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of cream, and well pound them; rub this paste through a hair sieve, then mix with it the same quantity of butter as before, a pinch of salt, 3oz. of sugar, and £ pint of cream, and put the whole over the fire in a stewpan to dry. When it has acquired a little con- sistence, add to it six yolks of eggs and any flavour desired, whether lemon, vanilla, citron, or coffee. Let this paste go to the fire again after the yolks of the eggs are added, and stir it well with a wooden spoon till it is rather firm. Butter a dish, and spread the paste over equally with a knife; cover 2 K uces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads.