THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 392 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Cinnamon—continued. peel of half a lemon, and a small quantity each of powdered Cinnamon and cloves, incorporating the ingredients thoroughly. Dredge flour over a table, put the paste on it, roll it out very ( thin, and with a star-shaped tin cutter stamp it out into small ' cakes. Lay the cakes on a buttered baking-sheet, not too close | to each other, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten white of egg, dredge them with caster sugar, and bake them in a slow oven. Cinnamon Sticks.—(1) Put jib. each of well-sifted sugar and flour and the yolks of four eggs into a basin, and work them well up ; then add 1 table-spoonful of Cinnamon sugar, j When all these are well worked together, put in Jib. of flour j and ljoz. of butter melted by warming, and beat all vigorously | until thoroughly mixed. Put the paste into a biscuit-forcer | having a tin-piping funnel about the size of a stick of Cinna- J mon, dust the table or board over with sifted sugar, and press out the paste, cutting it off into lengths of about 4in. or 5in., and lay these out straight in parallel rows upon a baking- sheet having white wax well rubbed over it. Pill a paper cornet with royal icing flavoured with Cinnamon, pipe the icing upon the sticks, put them into a moderate oven, and bake until they are of a light colour. (2)' Beat the yolks of two eggs with Jib. of caster sugar for twenty minutes; then whisk the whites to a stiff snow, and J add them, with 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of blanched and pounded almonds, 1 teaspoonful of powdered Cinnamon, and a ! small quantity of powdered cloves. ’ Mix in gradually Jib. of finely-sifted flour, and beat the whole of the ingredients | together for a few minutes; then roll the mixture, and cut it into long strips. Butter baking-tins, lay the sticks on them, and bake them until dark brown. Take the Cinnamon sticks off the tins while still warm, and leave them until cold. Cinnamon Sugar.—Take 2oz. of Cinnamon, dry it in the screen, and pound it in a mortar with lib. of caster sugar until quite smooth. Pass it through a sieve, put it into bottles, cork up tightly, and keep in a cool place until wanted for use. Cinnamon Sweetmeats.—Put lib. of sweet almonds into a basin, pour on them sufficient boiling water to cover them, slip j them out of their skins, and as they are blanched throw them into cold water. Drain the water from them, dry them thoroughly, and pound them, a few at a time, in a mortar to a fine paste, adding a little water during the pounding to keep the almonds from oiling; mix thoroughly with the pounded almonds lib. of powdered white sugar, and as many slightly- beaten whites of eggs as will make it easy to spread with a knife ; add to this a small quantity of cochineal, to give it a fine red colour, and Joz. of powdered Cinnamon. When all these ingredients are thoroughly well mixed into the paste lay it on some wafer-paper, and cut into any shapes that may be desired. The paste should be spread about Jin. thick. Bake in not too hot an oven. Have some sugar boiled to the feather, or the degree of heat at which, if a skimmerful be taken from the boiling sugar and blown through, good-sized sparks of sugar will fly from it (see Sugar-boiling). Dip a camel’s-hair pencil in the syrup at this heat, and as the sweetmeats are taken out of the oven brush them over with it. This dries directly, and very much improves the look of the sweet- meats. Cinnamon Syrup.—(1) Bub 1 drachm of oil of Cinnamon (oil of cassia is sometimes used) into 2 drachms of the heavy car- bonate of magnesia, put this into a folded filtering-paper, and pour through gradually 2qts. of water. Dissolve in the liquor which has filtered through 81b. of loaf sugar, using only suffi- cient warmth to dissolve the sugar. This syrup is strictly non-alcoholic, and keeps well. (2) Bub 30 drops of oil of Cinnamon in a mortar with 1 dessert-spoonfni of carbonate of magnesia, and add gradually 2 pints of water; filter this through paper, and in it dissolve 3Jlb. of granulated sugar without heating it. Cinnamon Tablets.—Put lib. of sugar into a sugar-boiler, add just enough water to dissolve it, boil to the seventh degree, or “ball,” then put in a few drops of essence of Cinnamon. With a spoon or spatula rub the sugar against the sides of the boiler so that it will whiten it. Then pour the sugar into small moulds or on to a slab slightly greased with oil of almonds, and mark off into small squares or oblongs. Put the moulds or slab near the fire for about half-an-hour, to dry Cinnamon—continued. the tablets and make them hard. A little rose-pink colour may be added whilst the sugar is boiling, to give them a better colour. Cinnamon Wafers.—Sift 6oz. of finely-powdered white sugar, put it into an earthenware basin with 6oz. of flour, Joz. of powdered Cinnamon, 6oz. of butter (melted over the fire), and one beaten egg ; mix all these with a little milk to a thin paste. Heat an iron plate very hot over the fire, rub it well with butter, put on it a spoonful of the paste, fry it a nice brown, turn it, and fry the other side brown also; then roll it round a small stick. Proceed in this way, frying the paste and rolling it round the stick till all are done. Let the wafers get quite cold before removing the sticks. Cinnamon-Water Cakes.—Pound in a mortar Jib. of almonds, whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, then mix them with the almonds, and add Jib. of sugar, 1 table-spoonful of Cinnamon-water, a small quantity of powdered Cinnamon, and sufficient flour to form a thick paste. Boll the paste out rather thin on a floured table, and cut it into any small fancy shapes liked. Butter a baking-sheet, lay the cakes on it, and bake them in a slow oven. The cakes should be only lightly coloured when cooked. Keep them dry in tin canisters. Cinnamon-Water Ice.—Bruise two small sticks of Cinnamon, put them into a saucepan with a little plain syrup, and simmer on the side of the fire for ten minutes. B-emove the pan from the fire, stir in 1 wineglassful of brandy, the strained juice of three lemons, and the required quantity of simple syrup. Pour the mixture into the freezer, freeze it, turn it into a mould packed in ice, let it set, and turn it out. Cream of Cinnamon.—Pour lqt. of spirits of wine into a bottle, add 2 drops each of oil of roses and oil of Cinnamon, shake the bottle vigorously until the oil is dissolved com- pletely, pour in lqt. of syrup, and add sufficient red colouring to g-ive the liquid a bright colour. Filter into small bottles, stopper these down, and the cream of Cinnamon is then ready for use. This liqueur has a very agreeable taste. Essence of Cinnamon.—Put 2oz. of coarsely-bruised Cinnamon and 1 pint of spirits of wine into bottles, and cork these very tightly. Put them into a warm place, and leave them for a fortnight; then decant and bottle off the essence. Extract of Cinnamon (for flavouring').—Macerate 4oz. of Ceylon Cinnamon bruised in a mortar in lqt. of proof spirit for ten days or longer, then strain it off, and dissolve in the spirit 2 drachms of the essential oil of Cinnamon. The spirit may be left standing on the bruised Cinnamon if preferred, and the clear fluid only used for flavourings. Tincture of Cinnamon.—Pour lgall. of over-proof plain spirit into a jar over lib. of freshly-ground Cinnamon, let it steep for a fortnight, filter, bottle, cork and seal, and put away for use. CIRCASSIAN PUDDING.—See Puddings. CISCO.—A fish of the herring tribe, found chiefly in Lake Ontario. It has nothing particular to recommend it beyond the ordinary herring, excepting a somewhat stronger and more savoury flavour. Its counterpart may be found in the Scottish Loch Fyne herrings, which are distinct in some respects from the common herring. Potted Cisco.—Take ldoz. Cisco, or enough to nearly fill the jar they are to be cooked and kept in, dress them and wipe them with a dry cloth, dust a little salt in and over them, and let them remain for twelve hours; then wipe them again with a dry cloth, and season with 2 teaspoonfuls of white pepper, 1 teaspoonful of ground cloves, and 1 teaspoonful of cayenne and ground mace mixed. Put the fish (with their backs down) in the jar crowded close together. Melt a sufficient quantity of butter (say 31b.), and when it has settled pour over the fish sufficient of the clear part to cover them; put a greased paper and a lid on top of the jar, set it in a pan of water, and bake it in a slow oven for about four- hours. Keep the fish in the same jar, always covered with butter, and in a cool place.