441 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Cornflour—continued. milk-and-water as may be required, dredge in the wheat-flour, and stir well with a wooden spoon to form a stiff paste. Have ready buttered the required number of tins, make them hot, pour in the mixture to about l^in. in depth, and bake in a quick oven. (5) Slightly warm 2oz. of butter in a basin, mix 2 table- spoonfuls of sugar and two eggs with it, and beat it well; then mix in 1 pint of corn-meal and a small quantity of salt. Put 1 pint of milk in a saucepan, place it over the fire until it begins to boil, then stir in small quantities at the time of the mixture, stirring with a wooden spoon until all is used and well mixed, then take it off the fire. Thickly butter the interior of a shallow cake-tin, turn the mixture into it, and bake the cake in a brisk oven. (6) Put in a basin 1 breakfast-cupful of Cornflour, 4 teacup- ful of caster sugar, 1 saltspoonful of salt, 1 breakfast-cupful of wheat-flour, 1 dessert-spoonful of baking-powder, 1 table- spoonful of butter warmed to melting, and one egg beaten in i pint of milk ; mix thoroughly, and spread it in the bottom of two cake-tins, previously buttered. Bake quickly. Cornflour Cheese Cakes. —Take the juice and rind of three lemons, 3 breakfast-cupfuls of water, 3 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar, three eggs, 3 table-spoonfuls of Cornflour, and 2 table- spoonfuls of butter. Boil the water, mix the Cornflour with a little cold water, and pour the boiling water on to it. Let it boil up once, and then turn it on the butter and sugar After it cools add the lemons and eggs. Make into an open tart or tartlets with puff paste. Cornflour Crackers.—Put 21b. of Cornflour into a basin and work in 4 table-spoonfuls of warmed fat or butter; mix in lib. of sugar, pour in gradually 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and add sufficient wheat-flour to make a stiff dough ; knead it well, and let it stand for two or three hours in a warm place. Take up small pieces of the dough about the size of a walnut, shape them like shells (see Fig. 523), brown them in boiling fat, and serve on a napkin spread over a dish. Cornflour Cup Cakes.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of wheat-flour and half that quantity of Cornflour into a basin, rub in 2oz. of lard, and when quite smooth mix in 6 table-spoonfuls of sugar, J table-spoonful of vinegar, a very small quantity of powdered cinnamon, and 1 teacupful of warm milk in which 1 salt- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda has been dissolved. Stir the ingredients until well mixed. Butter the insides of as many teacups as will be necessary, dredge them lightly with flour, and fill with the mixture. Bake them ; when cooked, leave until half cold, then turn them out of the cups and serve. Cornflour Dodgers. — (1) Scald 2 breakfast-cupfuls of fine white Cornflour with boiling water; add 1 teaspoonful of melted butter, 1 teaspoonful of caster sugar, | teaspoonful of Cornflour—continued. salt, and 1 table-spoonful of milk ; leave it, when mixed, till cold, and add two eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately. Grease some small tins and make them very hot, drop the batter (which should not be too thin) into them, and bake till brown and puffy in a very hot oven. See Fig. 524. (2) Take lib. of good meal made from white corn. Sift it, add 1 teaspoonful of salt, and mix it then to a pretty stiff dough with cold water. Knead into long oval-shaped cakes and bake in -pans. The crust should be baked nice and brown. Cornflour Dumplings.—Finely chop 41b. of beef-suet, dredging it at the same time with flour; mix the suet with 3 pints of Cornflour, add 1 teaspoonful of salt, stir in gradually sufficient milk to make a stiff dough, and knead it well. Divide the dough into equal portions, flour the hands and roll the dough into dumplings ; flatten them with a rolling-pin, and beat on both sides to make them light and flaky. Wring some cloths out in hot water, flour them, and tie each dumpling loosely in one. Plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water and boil for two hours. When cooked, dip each dumpling in cold water, then remove the cloth, put on a hot dish, and serve either with meat, or as sweet dumplings with treacle, or sugar and butter. Cornflour Fritters.—Beat eig'ht eggs till very light, and mix them with lqt. of milk; stir in gradually 12 piled table- spoonfuls of yellow corn-meal and 1 saltspoonful of salt, and continue stirring till well mixed. Put lib. of fresh lard in a large deep frying-pan, or a flat stewpan, and when boiling, quickly drop the batter into it, a ladleful at a time. If the batter is too thin, more meal can be added; as the lard is reduced, put in some more, take out the fritters with a skimmer, drain them well, and put on a hot dish. Serve the fritters while very hot with wine and sugar, or molasses. Cornflour Gliocchi.—Put some Cornflour into a saucepan, mix it until smooth with hot water, and stir over the fire for about twenty minutes. Turn the Cornflour on to a paste-board, leave it until cold, then cut into diamond-shaped pieces about Jin. in thickness; spread half of these with butter, strew Fig. 525. Cornflour Gnocchi. grated cheese over, and place the other half on the top. Put them on a dish, and place in a brisk oven until the cheese has melted. Serve while very hot. If preferred sweet, treacle or sugar may be spread between them in place of the cheese. The tops are then spread with icing of different colours. See Fig. 525. Cornflour Griddle Cakes.—(1) Pour over t> table-spoonfuls of Cornflour 1J pints or rather more of boiling water, and let it steep all night. Next day beat into it by degrees 3 pints of milk, beating the Cornflour quite smooth as the milk is added; when the milk is mixed in add salt to taste, l|oz. of butter warmed till quite soft, three well-beaten eggs, and then beat in lightly and quickly enough self-raising flour to make a moderately thick batter. Bake the batter in cakes at once on a griddle over the fire. (2) Sift together lqt. of Cornflour, 2 table-spoonfuls of wheat- flour, and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Melt 2 table-spoonfuls of butter in 1^ pints of milk over the fire, and as soon as it is melted stir in the flour gradually ; when all the flour has been stirred in, let the mixture cool. When cold, whisk four eggs to a froth, and beat them into the mixture, which should then be about the consistency of batter. Have ready on the fire a hot griddle, slightly buttered or greased with fat salted pork to prevent burning, and fry the cakes quickly. Serve hot, with butter and honey, or molasses.