439 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensile, Sauces, <&£., referred to, see under their special heads. Corks and Corking—continued. of the vessel with oil or honey, in order to exclude the air. Beckmann informs us that pitch was used by the ancients for stopping the large wide-mouthed earthen vessels in which they kept their wines; wooden casks were then unknown, or at least were very scarce. Stoppers of Cork seem to have been first introduced after the invention of glass bottles, which occurred some- where about the fifteenth century. The first bottles were wide-mouthed vessels, hence the Corks or bungs were cut to fit loosely, and were made tight fitting by the insertion of some kind of coarse canvas or cotton-wool under the cork. As the mouths of the bottles assumed narrower dimensions, the system of fitting Corks tightly followed as a mere matter of adaptation, and thus towards the end of the seventeenth century Cork stoppers were used in the shops of German apothecaries. The term Corks is peculiarly British, all other countries where Corks are used having special names or definitions: thus, in France they are Bouchons (or mouth-pieces); in Germany, Korkstopfeln (Cork-stoppers); in Italy, Turacciole (or stoppers); and Spain, Tapons (or covers). The word Cork, or its native equivalent, being sometimes added to designate the material of which the stopper is made, as in the German Korkstopfeln. The material from which Corks are made is the bark of the Quercus Suber, or Cork oak, which grows abundantly in southern France, Italy, and Spain. The tree is stripped as it stands, and the bark generally grows again. That of the first stripping and younger trees yields the finest Cork, and is commercially known as “Velvet Cork”; older bark is usually full of holes, eaten through by insects, which have the good taste to leave the bark con- taining their self-made channels as soon as it is stripped off and laid out to dry. Although it is not always necessary to use the velvet Cork, it is as well to know Fig. 519. Cork-drivers. that it is the most elastic and air-tight. Coarser Cork may be used, and generally is, even for bottling wine ; but then it is advisable to soak the Cork in hot water Corks and Corking—continued. until it becomes soft and pliant even as the best velvet Cork, when it may be compressed in a squeezer (see Fig. 518), the better to fit the mouth of the bottle, and then driven home with a driver (see Fig. 519). After corking wines or other liquors that are to be kept, it is usual to seal the tops with wax, specially prepared, and described under Bottling, to which article reference is advised. CORKSCREWS. — These useful little weapons require no special notice beyond mentioning that they are made in so many various shapes and modes of working that they could not be exhaustively described in anything less than a volume exclusively devoted to the subject. It may be taken for granted that each and all have sufficient merit of a kind to warrant their existence. There are Corkscrews worked by a lever and compound lever; others by the reverse action of a system of screws, which not only forces the screw into the cork, but draws it and casts off the cork in one continued action ; some are fitted with winches, and some fixed to slanting stands or frames for drawing wines which must not be shaken. Their name is legion, and the choice must be left to the fancy of the purchaser. CORN.—See Indian Coen or Maize. CORNCAKES.—See Cobnflour Cakes. CORNCRAKES, or LANDRAILS (sometimes known as Corn-Birds). — These birds are migratory, making their appearance in the British Isles about the end of April or the beginning of May, and leaving for more southern latitudes at the end of September or beginning of October. They are to be found in the South of France, Spain, Southern Italy, Greece, Southern Russia, and the islands of the Mediterranean, leaving these places for the warmer regions of Africa on the approach of winter. In summer they are sometimes found in lands further north than Great Britain. They frequent the long grass of meadow-land near rivers, fields of green corn or clover, and beds of osiers, where they can be recognised by the harsh grating noise that they make during the night. Corncrakes are excellent for the table, and are mentioned by Dr. Thomas Muffet, who lived in the reign of Queen Elizabeth, as deserving to be placed next the partridge, their flesh being so sweet and tender. Drayton, in one of his songs, mentions it as “ The Rayle, that seldom comes but upon rich men’s spits,” in allusion to their scarcity. They are small birds, not usually weighing more than about 6oz., aiid are technically known as Crex Crex, or Crex Patensis. In France they are known as Roix des cailles, and are cooked as Quails. CORNED MEATS. — These are simply meats (generally beef) well salted before being cooked. They are usually salted with much coarser salt than that used at table, which is a fine powder, while that used for pickling meat is in coarse grains, or corns, hence the term “ Corned Meats.” Corning meat renders it unfit for roasting or broiling, it can only be boiled. The meat loses in weight in the process, but still it is a good way of preserving it for a longer time than would be possible if it were not salted, and it makes the coarser parts of the meat more tasty, especially when eaten cold. See Beef, Tongue, &c. CORNETS. — These useful little instruments are nothing more elaborate than a small sheet of paper screwed up into a conical shape, and used by confectioners for a variety of purposes. They may be of any size required, and should* be made of strong smooth-faced paper, such as cream-laid note. When firmly folded (see Fig. 520) a pin will keep them from unfolding. The point