418 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &'c., referred to, see under their special heads. Codfish —continued. cayenne pepper and mace. Make these ingredients quite s_mooth with a very small quantity of cold water, then mix them in the hot stock, and boil for two or three minutes. Move the stock to the side of the fire, put in the fish, and let it simmer gently for six or seven minutes. When cooked, take the slices of fish gently out of the saucepan with a fish- slice, arrange on a hot dish, pour th.e sauce over them, and serve while very hot. The dish may be garnished with oysters warmed in their own liquor. (2) With a sharp knife take off the flesh in long slices from the tail end of a Cod weighing 21b. or 31b.; cut each piece up into three or four smaller pieces, and put these into flour seasoned with salt and pepper; then place them in a frying- pan and fry gently. Take the bone of the Cod and put it into a pan with one finely-chopped onion, three or four peppercorns, a little bundle of sweet herbs, and lqt. of water, and boil for one hour. Pass the liquor (which will be about 1 pint) through a conical strainer into another pan, and thicken it with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour made into a smooth paste with cold water; drop the pieces of fish in this, and let them simmer gently for fifteen minutes by the side of the fire. Just previous to serving-, add a few drops i of vinegar, and dish up. (3) Scotch Style.—Take a large stewpan, put into it 4 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped onions, 20 table-spoonfuls of melted butter, 2 table-spoonfuls each of Harvey’s fish sauce and essence of anchovies, and 1 table-spoonful of chilli vinegar. From a good-sized piece of fish cut off two large slices, put these in the pan with the onions, &c., and place the pan over a good sharp fire. When the contents commence to boil, put the pan by the side of the fire and let it simmer for lialf-an-hour; then turn the slices of fish and let them simmer for fifteen minutes longer. Put the fish on a dish, add a little sugar to the pan, and boil fast so as to reduce the stock until it is thick. When done, pour it over the fish, and serve. Stewed Cold Salted Cod (Amebican).—Take a piece of cooked fish, and break it up in small pieces, separating the fibres as much as possible (the finer it is, the better). Put the pieces in water in a saucepan and let them remain for an hour ; pour off the water, add fresh, make it hot, and pour it off; then add just sufficient water to cover the fish. To about lqt. of the soaked fish put in a piece of butter about half the size of an egg, a little flour, and 1 pinch of pepper; then beat up two eggs and mix them in. When hot, turn it out of the pan, and serve. Stewed Salted Cod.—(1) Choose a piece of salted Cod, say about lib. in weight, cut it into squares, and put into a stewpan with plenty of cold water; place the pan on the fire, and when its contents boil remove it to the side, put on the cover, and let it remain for ten minutes. Take out the Cod, put it on a strainer to drain, remove the bones, and put it into a flat stewpan; chop d^-oz. of butter into small pieces, put these in the pan, and add a little grated nutmeg and 2 table-spoonfuls of melted butter sauce; also add a little finely-chopped parsley and the juice of two lemons. Place the fish on a dish, and surround it with a garnish of croutons of fried bread. (2) Scrape and cut into four pieces or squares about 21b. of salted Cod. If it is a dry fish, it must be put into cold water and left for a couple of days; but if salted in tubs, a' few hours will do. Pour some cold water into a stewpan, put in the fish, and place it on a good brisk fire. When it begins to bubble, remove the pan to the side, and let it remain for twelve or fifteen minutes. Take out the fish, put the pieces on a strainer to drain, remove the bones, and break the pieces up small. In the meantime, take a medium-sized onion, chop it very fine, put it in a stewpan with a little butter, and fry gently so as not to give it a colour. Put in the pieces of Cod, take the pan off the fire, and toss the fish so as to get the butter well spread over it; when all this butter has gone, put in some more, a little at a time, until 6oz. in all has been used. Care must be taken to turn the pan j round continuously. The mixture in the pan should by this , time be thick and creamy. Add a little grated nutmeg, finishing } up with the juice of a lemon and a little finely-chopped parsley. Place the fish on a dish, and garnish it with croutons of bread fried in butter. Codfish—continued. (3) Steep the fisli in cold water for a day or two; then drain it, put it into a fish-kettle with enough cold water to cover it, and boil gently for ten or fifteen minutes, removing the scum as it rises to the top of the water. When the fish is cooked, drain it, remove all the bones, cut the flesh into small pieces, mash it, and then put into a stewpan. Break into a basin as many eggs as there are pounds of fish, mixing in for each egg I table-spoonful of cream, and beat well together; then pour the mixture gradually over the fish, and stir the whole over a slow fire with a wooden spoon. Allow also 1 table-spoonful of sweet oil for every pound of fish, and mix it in gradually. Let all simmer for nearly fifteen minutes ; then turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve with as little delay as possible. Vol-au-Vent of Cod with Cream Sauce.—Remove the skin and bones of some cold cooked Cod (any remains can be used up), and divide the flesh into flakes with a fork. Put 1 teacupful of bechamel sauce in a stewpan with 2oz. of butter, work it over the fire until the butter has dissolved, then put in the fish, season to taste with salt and pepper, and warm up again. Make a vol-au-vent of paste, and when baked, stand it on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper spread over a dish, turn the fish into it, 'and serve quickly. Cod’s Liver.—This is usually appropriated by the fishmonger for extracting the oil. It is very nice, how- ever, prepared as a forcemeat. Quenelles of Cod’s Liver.—Take ^lb. of very fresh Cod’s liver and chop it up fine, adding a little breadcrumb, the yolks of three eggs, salt, pepper, and finely-chopped parsley. Mix these well, and form the mixture into quenelles as follows : Take two table-spoons, fill one, and smooth it over with a knife dipped into hot water ; then take the other spoon, and put that also into boiling water to heat it; turn the quenelles from one spoon into the other, and then put them into a well-buttered saute-pan. When the required number are made, pour in some good stock, place the pan on the fire, and boil for about ten minutes, or until the quenelles are quite firm. They are then ready to serve. Cod’s Roes.—These are generally seized upon by the greedy fishmonger for purposes of his own. Dried and smoked they can be preserved for a length of time, and may he cooked as though quite fresh. Cod’s Roe a la Hollandaise.—(1) Take a good Cod’s roe, wash it well, and put into a pan in which 1 pint of water, 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and a little salt and pepper are boiling. When the roe has boiled for fifteen minutes, take it out, and put it on a strainer to drain ; then place it on a dish and pour over some sauce made to imitate Dutch sauce, as follows: Put 1 table-spoonful of flour into 2 table-spoonfuls of cold water, mix well, and stir it into 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling water (the liquor in which the roe was cooked will do) in a saucepan; place the pan on the fire, and stir until the liquor becomes quite thick; put in a little salt, loz. of butter broken into small pieces, and mix well; then add the juice of half a lemon, or 1 teaspoonful of good vinegar, and when all are thoroughly mixed, add the well-whisked yolk of an egg, and stir over a slow fire for five minutes. Pour the sauce over the roe, and serve. Parsley may be used in place of the egg if preferred. ' (2) Wash a roe, pick it to pieces, taking care to remove every particle of skin, and bail it as for No. 1. When quite done, put it on a strainer to drain, and serve with the same sauce, or with plain butter sauce, with 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovy added. Pried Cod’s Roe (Hard).'—Take a hard Cod’s roe and boil it in salted water until it is quite firm. Let it get cold, cut it into slices jin. thick, and put these into a pickle of a little bay-salt and saltpetre, 1 teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, ground cloves, nutmeg, and allspice, - mixed with 2 teaspoonfuls of vinegar, and let them remain for a day, giving them now and then a turn over. Take them out, put them to drain, dry well, brush over with egg, and dip them into breadcrumbs mixed with a little salt, pepper, and finely-chopped parsley; then put them into a frying-pan with 'butter, and fry them to a brown colour. Place on a dish, and pour round them some sauce made with 1 tea-