385 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Christmas Fare—continued. that the master is expected to return to every mortal creature that earns a living in his neighbourhood, and calls, or has called, at his house in behalf of his own or his employer’s business. The boar’s head and peacock have gone by the board, but we have yet sif-loins, turkeys, geese, sucking-pigs, plum puddings, mince pies, and a variety of cakes and other delicacies, so that there seems to be no reason why we should not observe and keep up the great and joyous season with as much heartiness and vigour as ever was in the days of yore. Happily, too, the Lord of Misrule has in a measure given way to the mistletoe-bough and its mystic rights ; and Christmas-trees and snap-dragon for children, dancing and round games for adults, have superseded such ab- surdities as dipping for nuts and apples, foot plough, hot cockles, and blind-man’s-buff. An extensive variety of receipts suitable for this season will be found under various headings. Christmas Pudding's.—(1) Break six eggs, and separate the yolks from the whites. Take 2 breakfast-cupfuls of rich mincemeat (if it has become too dry for pies so much the better, as it will make a nicer pudding), put the yolks of six eggs into it, and beat them well with it for three or four minutes. Beat the whites to a froth, and have ready 6oz. of flour. Add to the pudding first a little flour, and then a little beaten white of egg', and so on alternately till both flour and egg are used up, beating each addition well in. Butter the inside of a good-sized mould, and put the pudding into it, allowing room for it to swell, cover it firmly, plunge it into boiling water, and keep it boiling rapidly for five hours. (2) Well wash and dry ljlb. of currants, stone lilb. of raisins, slice and cut rather small 6oz. of candied peel, skin and chop as fine as possible ljlb. of beef-suet, rub through a fine wire sieve Jib. of breadcrumbs, and blanch and chop fine Joz. of sweet almonds. Put all these into a large earthenware pan, add to them fib. of flour, a saltspoonful of salt, and lilb. of moist sugar, and stir well together with a wooden spoon till they are thoroughly well mixed. Beat up seven eggs and stir into them by degrees 3 table-spoonfuls each of brandy, sherry, and noyeau ; then mix this into the fruit, suet, flour, &c., in the pan, and continue stirring till all are well incor- porated. Pill two or three buttered basins or moulds with this, and if they are not fitted with covers tie cloths firmly over them, plunge them into boiling water, and let them boil fast for five hours. (3) Well wash and dry lib. of currants, stone lHb. of raisins, cut small or into slices fib. of candied peel, skin lflb. of beef- suet and chop it as fine as possible, and put all into a large earthenware pan, adding lflb. of breadcrumbs rubbed through a fine wire-sieve, 2Jlb. of flour, and lib. of sugar. Mix all these together thoroughly with a strong wooden spoon, then stir in six eggs well beaten with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and continue stirring till thoroughly well mixed. Butter a mould or basin, fill it, tie a cloth firmly over it, plunge it into boiling water, and let it boil fast for twelve hours. (4) Put 12oz. of sifted breadcrumbs into a basin, and work them in with 8oz. of flour; then rub in 12oz. of finely-shred beef-suet, add 8oz. of picked, washed, and dried currants, 4oz. each of chopped candied orange- and citron-peels, lflb. of raisins cut in halves and stoned, a small quantity of powdered ginger, half a nutmeg grated, and work well in with a spoon nine or ten well-whipped eggs and a wineglassful of brandy. Mix well for a-quarter-of-an-hour or so, until the whole of the dry ingredients are moistened and incorporated. Put the pudding into a mould or basin with a cloth tied over, or put it into a cloth, and boil for six hours in a saucepan of water. Place it on a dish, pour round a little brandy or brandy sauce, and serve. This pudding, if not required for use the same day as made, should be tied up in a cloth, hung in a cool cellar, and before serving boiled again for about two hours; it will remain good for a month or so after being first boiled. (5) Put 3 breakfast-cupfuls of grated soft breadcrumbs into a bowl, and mix in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of finely-shred beef- suet, 3 teacupfuls each of washed and dried currants and stoned raisins, 1 teacupful of candied citron-peel cut up into very thin slices, 1 breakfast-cupful of moist sugar, and 1 salt- spoonful each of grated nutmeg and salt. Beat five eggs in Christmas Fare—continued. a basin, and mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour made into a thin batter with milk ; add also £ wineglassful of brandy and stir this into the dry mixture. The ingredients should be added in the order given, and each well worked in before another one is added. Put the pudding into a buttered basin, secure it with a floured cloth tied tightly over, put it in a saucepan of water, and boil (or it may be placed on a trivet in the saucepan and steamed) for four hours. Turn it out on to a dish, pour over wine sauce, and serve. (6) Stone lib. of raisins, put them into a bowl, pour over them 1 wineglassful of brandy, and let them stand while the rest of the ingredients are being prepared ; pick over lib. of currants, wash them thoroughly in plenty of cold water, rub them dry on a towel, and then toss in a sieve with a little flour to separate the stems from them ; free lib. of beef-suet from skin, and chop it fine, with 4 table-spoonfuls of flour ; cut into thin slices 2oz. of citron and loz. each of candied lemon- and orange- peel ; grate the yellow rind and squeeze the juice of one orange and one lemon; pour boiling water on 4oz. of shelled almonds, let them remain in it until the skins become moist, then rub these off the nuts with a clean dry towel, and cut each nut into three or four slices ; grate one nutmeg, sift it into lib. of sugar, and add 1 teaspoonful of salt, and crumb lib. of dry bread from the inside of a stale loaf. Mix together all these ingredients with the hands, adding to them eight eggs, 1 wineglassful each of brandy and sherry, and just enough cream or rich milk to slightly moisten the pudding. Butter and flour a tin pudding-mould, shaking out all superfluous flour, fill the mould to within lin. of the top, lay a round of buttered white paper over the pudding, cover the mould so tightly that no water can penetrate while it is boiling, and fasten the cover securely ; then set it in sufficient boiling water to reacli two- thirds up the side, and boil steadily for ten hours, replenishing the water as it boils away. The mould must be perfectly water-tight, or the pudding will be spoilt. The mould must not be opened until the pudding is about to be served. Plum puddings made in this way will keep for a long time in a cool, dry place. Before using them the mould must be placed in boiling water and boiled for two hours. Serve the pudding hot, turned from the mould upon a hot dish; just before sending it to table pour over a wineglassful of rum or brandy, set fire to the spirits, and send the pudding to the table blazing (see Fig. 469). Serve with rum or brandy sauce. (7) Put 31b. of stoned raisins, or 21b. of raisins and lib. of well-washed and dried currants into a bowl, and mix them up with 8oz. each of sifted breadcrumbs, finely-chopped mixed candied-peel, and moist sugar, 1 teacupful of flour, half that quantity of milk, 21b. of shred beef-suet, 1 table-spoonful of ground mixed spice, and a small quantity of salt, and stir in ten or eleven well-beaten eggs and ^ gill of milk. Pour the mixture into a buttered basin or plain mould, cover it over on the top first with greased paper and then with a wet cloth, tying it securely; put it in a saucepan of water over a good fire, and boil for ten hours. Turn it out when done, dredge over a little caster sugar, and serve. A little brandy added to the mixture while mixing is an improvement, but it may be dispensed with. (8) Chop and rub through a sieve 31b. of beef-suet, put it into a bowl, and work it into an equal quantity of flour; then add and mix in the order given, thoroughly incorporating one 2 L