THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 266 For details respectinj Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jrc., referred to, see under their special heads. Calf—continued. Calf’s Brains en Matelote.—(1) Peel twenty small onions, and put them into a saucepan with -|oz. of butter, and fry to a light brown colour; add 5OZ. of flour, stirring well for a few minutes; then add 1 breakfast-cupful of good broth, 1 teacupful of red wine, and a little salt and pepper. Place the pan on the side of the fire and let the liquor simmer for thirty minutes. Take 1 pottle of mushrooms, pick them over, wash them, and cut into rather small pieces; put them into the sauce and boil for eight minutes longer. Take the boiled brains, drain them, place on a warmed dish surrounded with the onions and mushrooms, and serve with the sauce poured over all. (2) Put three prepared Calf’s Brains into boiling water for a few minutes, take them out, wipe them dry, and cut each into halves. Cut fib. of streaky bacon into small squares, and add two onions and one carrot finely-chopped, a few cloves, two pimentos, a few sweet herbs, and a handful of mushroom trimmings ; place these in a stewpan with 2 wine- glassfuls of red wine, and put on the lid. Reduce the liquid to one-fourth of its original quantity and add the brains. Boil for eight or ten minutes, and then strain the liquid into another stewpan. Skim, and thicken with a little brown sauce with ten or twelve mushrooms added. Boil for a few minutes, and then mix in the brains and bacon, twenty small onions, and two dozen blanched olives. Let all simmer for a few minutes. Serve the brains on bread croutons, and garnish with the bacon and vegetables. (3) Prepare and blanch three Calf’s Brains ; place some slices of bacon round a stewpan, put in the brains, with a little salt, pepper, a small piece of butter, the juice of half a lemon, and 1 table-spoonful of white broth. Place the pan at the side of the fire for half-an-hour, or until the dish is wanted to be served. Fry some pieces of bread to a light brown colour, cut in the shape of cocks’ combs, and put them in the dish with the brains between. Cover over with matelote sauce, and serve. Calf’s-Brain Sauce for Salad.—Cut some boiled brains into small pieces; put them in a mortar with a few tarragon- leaves and i- wineglassful of onion vinegar, and pound them. Season the mixture with pepper, salt, and a few grains of cayenne, and then mix in gradually, till quite smooth, about 5 pint of thick creamy salad-dressing. The sauce is then ready for serving. Calf’s Brains in Scallop Shells.—Boil two brains, cut them into dice, season well, and put into a basin. Gradually reduce 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce in a sauce- pan, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of melted glaze; when it is cooked to a nice cream, add 4 table-spoonfuls of cooked sweet herbs; cook it for two or three minutes, then add the brains and take the pan off the fire. Have ready eight or nine scallop shells, thoroughly cleaned, fill them with the mixture, sprinkle over some grated Parmesan cheese, and glaze them. Serve hot. Cromeskies of Calf’s Brains. — Reduce i pint of brown sauce in a saucepan for two or three minutes, and then gradually add 1 wineglassful of Madeira and 1 gill of melted glaze; when it becomes thick, remove it from the fire. Cut two cooked Calf’s Brains into small dice, put them into a basin, and add a little grated nutmeg, cooked mushrooms equal to half the quantity of the brains, and the same pro- portion of cooked tongue; cut these also into small squares and mix with the glaze. Allow the mixture to get cold; then divide it into pieces, and roll it like a cork, a little flat at the ends. Wrap them one at a time in strips of wafer placed between two wet cloths. Take each one separately and put it into a batter, and then into hot lard until the paste is nicely coloured. Drain them of fat, and then serve on a cloth, with a little dried powdered parsley sprinkled over. Croquettes of Calf’s Brains.—Boil |-lb. of brains gently for twenty minutes, and then put them for a few minutes in cold water; peel off the outside, chop up the brains, and add 1 breakfast-cupful of breadcrumbs. Mash all together, then add 1 teaspoonful of finely-minced parsley, loz. of butter, the yolk of an egg, a little lemon-juice, grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper to taste. Mix all well together, and, after flouring the hands, make it up into shapes like sausages; coat these with flour, and fry in a wire basket, in lard or butter, until they are of a light yellow colour. Serve with cream sauce. Calf—continued. Tried Calf’s Brains with Tartar Sauce.—Proceed as for Boiled Calf’s Brains with Black or Brown Butter, then dry the brains well in a napkin; bread them, and fry in hot grease for five minutes. Serve with i pint of Tartar sauce separately. Calf’s Chitterlings.—These are in less euphonious language, but as a matter of fact, the Calf’s entrails, known to superior cooks as the Chaudron of the Calf; but it may be taken as an inference that, however savoury these “ morsels ” may be, they are not served up to table under their proper names. Before cooking them in the styles mentioned hereunder, they should be ripped open and thoroughly cleansed. Chaudron Fritters.—(1) Put a Calf’s Chitterlings in a sauce- pan, with sufficient water to cover them, and boil until par- tially cooked. Drain the Chitterlings, leave them until cold, then cut into small pieces. Mix together a seasoning of grated nutmeg, pounded cloves, mace, salt, finely-minced onion, parsley, and tarragon. Put 1 pint of mutton-broth in a saucepan, squeeze in the juice of one orange and one lemon, and season it with a small quantity of grated nut- meg ; place it over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side and stir in quickly the beaten yolks of two eggs. Roll the Chitterlings in the mixed seasonings, giving them a good coating; put them in a frying-pan in which a lump of butter has been melted, and fry over a brisk fire, turn- ing them. When cooked, put the Chitterlings on a hot dish, pour the prepared sauce over, and serve. (2) Steep the Chitterlings in salted water for twelve hours; refresh in clear cold water, and partially boil them. Put 5 or 6 table-spoonfuls of flour in a basin, and mix it to a smooth batter with white wine; season with salt and pepper. Cut the Chitterlings into small pieces, dip them in the batter, put them into a frying-pan with some hot lard or beef-dripping, and fry them until nicely browned. When browned drain the Chitterlings on a piece of paper in front of the fire, arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Boasted Chaudron.—Steep the Chitterlings in salted water for a night. Cut them into small pieces and partially boil them; when ready, drain, and finish cooking in front of a clear fire, basting them well with butter and dredging with flour to brown them nicely. When cooked, arrange the Chitterlings on a hot dish, pour butter sauce and the juice of a lemon over them, and serve. Calf’s Ears.—The probability of making any very tasty dish out of the cartilaginous substance of an animal’s ear appears to be very remote, and yet we Fig. 303. Calf’s Ear Cleaned for Cooking. have cooks around us who pride themselves upon their success in this particular. The ears should be cut off with a wide base (see Fig. 303), scalded, scraped, and blanched. Boiled Calf’s Ears.—Scald the hair from the ears, and clean them thoroughly; boil them in veal gravy until they are tender, and blanch in cold spring water. Serve the ears