463 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads, Cream—continued. Burnt Cream Sauce.—The following sauce can be used for either custard or batter pudding. Put 2oz. of caster sugar into a small saucepan, and stir it over the fire till dark brown ; pour in slowly with the sugar 1 teacupful of thin Cream, or 2 table-spoonfuls of milk and 2 table-spoonfuls of Cream. Continue stirring the sauce over the fire till the Cream is hot, then turn it into a sauceboat, and serve. Chateaubriand Cream.—Set a jelly-mould upon the ice and pour some liquid jelly round it, turning it round sideways so as to let it set; stick some shredded alnjonds round the sides and top until the mould is covered, put a little more of the jelly round, and when set give it another coating. When this is done satisactorily, fill in the cavity with noyeau Cream. Clouted or Clotted Cream.—This is a favourite in the West of Eng-land. Put the milk into a bell-metal vessel and let it remain for twenty-four hours, then put it over a wood fire so that it will be thoroughly heated. When it has been over the fire for an-hour-and-a-half and is about to simmer, strike the vessel with the knuckles, and when it ceases to ring, or at the appearance of the first bubble, it must be removed, for the great secret is not allowing it to more than simmer. Take it off the fire and let it stand for twenty-four hours longer, when the Cream will have risen thick enough to be cut with a knife. It must then be skimmed off and put into jars for use. Confectioners’ Cream (Creme Patissiere).—Put 1 pint of cold milk into a saucepan, and place it on the stove. Mix in another vessel 2oz. of powdered sugar with loz. of wheat-flour and Joz. of cornflour ; break in two whole eggs, and beat well together with the whisk for two minutes. When the milk is boiling, add it to the preparation, and after stirring for one minute longer put it into another saucepan, and place it on the stove. Beat well until it comes to a boil; then remove from the fire, and add immediately 1 teaspoonful of vanilla essence. Mix thoroughly again for one minute longer; then pour it into a bowl, and let it get cold. This is used for many confectioners’ purposes. Cream a la Diplomate.—Put loz. of gelatine into 1 teacupful of cold water, and let it soak. Put 1 pint of Cream into a saucepan, and place it over the fire for a few minutes to slightly warm. Whip it, and remove the froth. Then add sufficient milk to the cream that is left to make 1 pint altogether, put in 6oz. of of sugar, and boil up. When it boils, add the gelatine, stirring- well until the latter dissolves ; then strain it through a sieve into a basin in which the whites of four eggs have been previously whipped, and add 1 teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring- and 1 tablespoonful of light wine. Stir well, and when it begins to thicken add the whipped Cream and, when thick enough to drop, 1 breakfast-cupful of mixed candied fruit. Put it into a mould on ice, and when quite set turn it out and garnish with angelica leaves, wine-jelly, or fruit. A pint of blanched almonds or pistachio-nuts finely chopped may be used instead of, or as well as, the candied fruit. Cream a la Patissiere.—Separate the yolks and whites of six eggs, and beat the whites to a stiff froth with 2 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar -, put the yolks of the eggs into a basin with a little less than a teacupful of milk, and beat them well. Put 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar into a lined saucepan with J table-spoonful of potato-flour and three-parts of a breakfast-cupful of milk; then mix in the beaten yolks of the six eggs, place the saucepan over a slow fire, and stir the contents with a wooden spoon until thick; but they must not boil, or the eggs will curdle. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and stir in gradually the beaten whites of the eggs. Dissolve Joz. of gelatine in warm water and strain it into the above mixture; season to taste with any kind of essence, and turn it into a mould. When the Cream is a little cooler, pack the mould in pounded ice and salt until ready to serve. Cream and Ancliovy Toast.—Cut four slices of bread about J,in. in thickness, then cut each into halves and trim off the crusts. Put a lump of butter in a stewpan, place it over the fire until the blue smoke rises, then put in the pieces of bread and fry them a golden brown. When fried, put them on a sheet of kitchen-paper to drain. Beat the yolks of two eggs in a basin and mix with them 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped olives, 1 table-spoonful of anchovy paste, 1 breakfast-cupful of Cream, and 2oz. of butter. Season to taste with cayenne pepper and mushroom ketchup. Stand the basin in a saucepan Cream—continued. with hot water to about three-parts its height, place it over the fire, and stir the contents until thick. Put the squares of fried bread on a dish, pour the contents of the basin over them, and leave until cold. Skin and bone five or six anchovies, Fig. 561. Cream and Anchovy Toast. and divide each into four fillets; whip J pint of Cream to a stiff froth, and pile it on the top of the anchovy mixture when quite cold. Lay the fillets of anchovies lightly on the top of the Cream, and serve (see Pig. 561). Cream -with Barley (Creme d'Org-e).—Put 1 pint each of milk and water into a stewpan with 1 breakfast-cupful of pearl barley, and boil until the latter is soft. Bub the barley through a fine sieve, and mix in with it 1 pint of Cream, 2oz. of butter, 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, two whole eggs well whisked, and a quarter of a grated nutmeg. Put this mixture into the saucepan again, and place it on the fire to simmer gently for an hour, stirring continually. It may be either served in glasses or baked in a dish; in either case from three to four more eggs will be required. Cream Biscuits. — (1) Put Jib. of flour into a basin, make a hollow in the centre and work in J teacupful of Cream, the whites of three eggs, loz. of sugar, a wineglassful of brandy, and a small quantity of salt. When quite smooth, roll the paste out very thin, cut it into rounds with a cutter 2in. in diameter, prick them all over with a docker or fork, put them on a floured baking-sheet, and bake in a sharp oven until done. Turn them out, let them get cold, and rise as desired. (2) Prepare a biscuit dough with 81b. of flour, Joz. of butter, 12oz. of sugar, four eggs, 4oz. of bicarbonate of soda, 2oz. of carbonate of ammonia, Joz. of cream of tartar, 1 teacupful of water, and sufficient oil of lemon to flavour. Work this into a soft dough with Cream. When well kneaded, roll it out to the required thickness and cut it out into shapes ; drop those for a minute into boiling water, then put them into cold water, and drain on a cloth. Put them on a baking-sheet, at a little distance apart, and bake them in a moderate oven. (3) Beat up the yolks of six eggs with 6oz. of powdered white sugar, and when they are well beaten together add and beat in gradually 6oz. of flour. Beat the whites of the six eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them in with the beaten yolks, sugar and flour; add then J breakfast-cupful of whipped Cream, and stir it in very carefully and gently. Pour this mixture into moulds, and bake. (4) Mix the yolks of six eggs with 6 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and 1 table-spoonful of vanilla sugar; add a tiny pinch of salt. Beat the above ingredients well, sifting- in at the same time sufficient flour to make a stiff batter ; then add the well-whipped whites of the six eggs and 1 teacupful of whipped thick Cream. Make some small paper cases, fill them with the above mixture, dust some caster sugar on the tops, and put them in a moderate oven. In a quarter-of-an- hour’s time take the cases of biscuits out, put them on a folded napkin or a fancy-edged dish-paper on a hot di-h, and serve them as quickly as possible. Cream Buckets.—Prepare a soft almond paste, and spread it in a rather thick layer upon a long-shaped baking-sheet that has been waxed and floured, and bake it. When cooked, cut ’ the paste into strips about 3in. wide, and long enough to enclose the bucket-models. Shape rounds to fit the models, cut the edg-es of the strips slantwise in the. same direction, lay on the bottom rounds, and roll the strips round the models (blocks of wood) made for this purpose ; fasten with icing- sugar, and trim carefully, keeping in form with paper fastened round the paste, and leave till the paste is cold. Remove the blocks, and solder the joins with a support of