470 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Cream—continued. off the fire, leave it till cool, then stir in the beaten yolks of six eggs, the grated peel of half a lemon, and loz. of mixed blanched and pounded sweet and bitter almonds. Beat the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, add them to the above mixture, line the sides of a mould with strips of buttered paper, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, leave the pudding to settle for a minute, then turn it carefully out on to a hot dish, sift some caster sugar over, and serve. Cream Sherbet.—Beat loz. of caster sugar into 1 pint of Cream and the whites of six eggs previously beaten to a stiff froth. Dissolve another ounce of caster sugar in 3qts. of water, and pour this upon four lemons thinly sliced; mix well with the other, strain, and put it into a freezer until ready for serving. Cream with Sherry.—Put 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar into a stewpan with 1 pint of Cream and 1 teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. Put the pan on the fire, and let the Cream simmer for about an hour; then let it cool, and add 1 large wineglassful of sherry (or Marsala). Pass through a fine sieve into glasses, and sprinkle a little cinnamon on the top of each. Cream Souffles.—Put 4 table-spoonfuls of flour into a sauce- pan with 4oz. of butter, and stir it over the fire until it is well mixed, then pour in gradually 1 pint of Cream, and continue stirring until it boils. Turn the mixture on to a dish, and leave it until cool. Warm 4oz. of butter, and beat it until creamy; then beat in gradually the yolks of ten eggs and 3oz. of vanilla sugar. Whip the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them with the other eggs into the cooled mixture. Thickly butter the interior of a souffle-mould, and strew it over with breadcrumbs, shaking out the superfluous ones ; pour in the mixture, and tie a sheet of buttered paper- over the top. Stand the mould in a saucepan, pour round it boiling water to three-parts its height, taking care not to let any go in the mould, and boil it gently at the side of the fire for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When the souffle is cooked, turn it on to a hot dish, and serve without delay. Cream Strudels.—(1) Put 7oz. of flour, 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, and 2oz. of butter into a stewpan on the fire; stir in gradually 1 pint of Cream, and continue stirring until cooked. Remove the pan, stir until nearly cold, and mix in the beaten yolks of six eggs and the whites of two. Put 1 pint of milk and a stick of vanilla into another stewpan, and place over the fire to boil. Divide the mixture into pieces about the size of a walnut, roll them out to about 2in. in length, and put into the Cream, and boil for five minutes. Take them out of the Cream, and put them on a sieve to drain. Boil the Cream until reduced to half the quantity, mix the beaten yolks of four eggs into it, and sweeten to taste. Place the strudels on a buttered dish, pour the custard over them, and bake in a moderate oven until evenly glazed. Arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve with a sauce- boatful of vanilla Cream sauce. (2) Prepare a strudel-paste with the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, 1 table-spoonful of warmed butter, a small quantity of salt, and sufficient flour to form a stiff dough. When well kneaded, divide the dough into small, equal-sized quantities, shape them into balls, and roll out as thinly as possible to an oval shape. Spread a thick layer of sour Cream over each of them, and dust with a small quantity of salt; then roll them over, lay them on a buttered baking-dish, put two or three small pieces of butter on the top of each, and set them in the oven. When they have risen, and are just beginning to brown, baste with a few table- spoonfuls of boiling milk, and finish cooking them. When cooked, arrange them on a hot dish, and serve. Cream Syrup.—(1) Put i pint each of fresh Cream and milk into a bottle with lib. of powdered loaf sugar, and shake them well together. The addition of a few grains of bicarbonate of soda will prevent souring. Keep in a cool place. (2) Dissolve by gentle heat lib. of caster sugar in J pint of fresh milk, and when cool, stir in i pint of rich Cream. Cream Tart.-—Put lqt. of milk into a saucepan, flavour it with vanilla, place it over the fire, stir in gradually 4 or 5 table-spoonfuls of the finest sifted flour, sweeten to tajjste Cream—continued. with caster sugar, and continue stirring over the fire till thick. When ready, move the Cream to the side of the fire, and stir in the beaten yolks of six eggs, taking care to keep the mixture smooth and free from lumps. Rub ^lb. of butter in lib. of flour till quite smooth, and add the beaten yolk of one egg and sufficient milk or milk-and-water to make a stiff paste. Dust a little flour over the table, roll the paste out, stick about 2oz. of butter over it in little pieces, fold it over, roll out again, stick over with more butter, fold in three, and leave for half-an-hour to rise. Beat the paste with a rolling-pin, stick it again with butter, dust over with flour, roll it out, fold over, and again leave for half-an-hour ; then beat the paste again with the rolling-pin, dust it over with a little more flour, and roll it out. Butter a tart-dish, line it with the paste, and pour in the prepared Cream, using the trimmings of the paste to make a rim to the tart and strips across. Brush the paste over with a feather or a fine brush dipped in the beaten yolk of an egg, and bake in a quick oven. Serve either hot or cold. Cream Tartlets.—(1) Line some small tartlet-pans with rich paste, and bake. When done and quite cold, fill them with some whipped Cream, put a little jelly in the centre of each, and serve. (2) Butter a dozen tartlet-moulds, line them with some short paste, fill with apple marmalade, and bake in a moderate oven. Take them out when done, mask with some apricot marmalade, and over that put some well-whipped vanilla Cream. With a knife or spatula smooth this over, and make it into a pyramidical shape. Cream flavoured, -with Tea (Creme du The).—(1) Soak |oz. of gelatine in | pint of milk for four hours; add |lb. of loaf sugar, and pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of very good, hot tea. When the gelatine and sugar are quite dissolved, strain the preparation through fine muslin and let it cool. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and when the gelatine mixture is quite cold, beat it in by degrees to the frothed whites of the eggs, and whip in 1 pint of rich Cream that has been beaten to a froth. Wet the inside of a mould with cold water, pour the mixture into it, and stand it in ice for eight or ten hours; then turn out on to a glass dish, and serve Cream with it. (2) Beat the yolks of eight eggs with jib. of caster sugar, and mix in sufficient freshly-made, strong tea to flavour. Put lqt. of milk in a saucepan over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side, and stir in the beaten eggs. Strain the mixture through a fine hair sieve, fill small cups with it; stand them in the bain-marie, and keep simmering gently at the side of the fire for ten minutes. At the end of that time put the pan and cups into a moderate oven, and bake for a quarter-of-an-hour. When the Cream is firm, take the cups out of the pan, leave until cooled, and stand them on ice until ready to serve. Cream Toasts.—(1) Cut some slices of bread ^in. thick, and trim off the crust. Have ready on the range a bowl half full of boiling water, with loz. of butter in it; toast the slices of bread a pale brown, and as each slice is done, dip it in the boiling water and butter for a second, sprinkle with a little salt, and lay it in a deep, hot dish (the one in which it is to be served). Put lqt. of milk into a saucepan over the fire, thicken with loz. of cornflour (or less, if Cream Fig. 569. Cream Toasts. is mixed with the milk), stir in 2oz. of butter, let it simmer till all the toast is ready, and stir into it the whites of three eggs (which should have been beaten to a stiff froth before the bread was cut). Let this just come to a boil, and pour it over the toast, lifting the slices one by one to let the mixture run in between them (see Pig. 569). Cover the