370 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Chestnuts—continued. it with a sheet of buttered paper, and let it cool. When cold, cut it with a knife. Take half of a Chestnut, and make the paste into the shape of a big Chestnut; put some crumbs of bread over the croquettes, • then dip them into the yolks and whites of three eggs beaten up with a little salt, and into the breadcrumbs again. Give them a good shape, fry them of a nice colour, and serve them as a sweet dish. If dipped into eggs only, without crumbs, they are more delicate. Dust fine sugar over them after they are fried. Devilled Chestnuts.—Put lib. or so of large Chestnuts into a saucepan of salted water, and parboil them ; then plunge them into cold water, and with a sharp knife scrape off the skins, after removing the outer shells. Dry them, put them into a frying-pan with butter, and fry, tossing and shaking them about in the pan over the fire until they become of a golden colour, and sprinkling with salt mixed with double its quantity of cayenne. Take them out when done, and serve hot or cold, as desired. Forcemeat of Chestnuts.—Take some sound ripe Chestnuts, cut off the outer hard skin, and put them into boiling- water for a few minutes to remove the thin skin; take them out, and throw them into cold water, so as to preserve their colour, then drain and weigh them. Put 6oz. into a stewpan, and cook them for twenty minutes with a little veal stock or gravy. Let them g-et cold, then pound them in a mortar with an equal bulk of butter or 3oz. of fat bacon, add a little grated nutmeg, lemon-peel, 2oz. of breadcrumbs, and salt, with the yolks of two eggs to make the mixture bind well. Form the forcemeat into balls or cakes, dip into flour, and boil in some good stock or water for a-quarter-of-an-hour, when they are ready for use. Glazed Chestnuts.—Peel off the brown skin of some Chestnuts, and immerse them in- boiling- water until the under-skin can be easily removed; then put them in a saute-pan, with butter spread over the bottom; cover them with a veal broth and consomme, and simmer gently, but so that the Chestnuts will not break. When they are done, glaze them with a meat glaze, and serve. Preserved Chestnuts.—Peel the brown skins off some Chest- nuts, and immerse them in boiling water until the lig-ht skins can be easily removed. Have some very weak syrup ready, put the Chestnuts into it, stand them on one side of the fire, and let them simmer for several hours, adding a little more syrup occasionally. The syrup should thicken gradually while simmering-, otherwise it would be useless, as it would get mouldy. Heat the Chestnuts two days in this manner, then take them out, and drain them. Boil some syrup to the blow in a small pan; when it is cool, work it against the sides of the pan with a spaddle until it has a gloss. Dip the Chestnuts into this, drain them on a wire sieve, and dry in an oven for two or three minutes. Puree of Chestnuts.—(1) Peel off the outer skin of lqt. of Chestnuts, then put them into a saucepan of boiling- water with a lump of salt, and boil them for a few minutes. Bub one of the Chestnuts, and if the under-skin peels off easily, drain them, plunge into cold water, and remove all the skins. Put the Chestnuts into a saucepan with a quart of broth, place over the fire until boiling-, then move to the side and boil slowly until tender. When cooked, rub the Chestnuts through a fine wire sieve with a wooden spoon, then return them, with the remainder of the liquor, to the saucepan; put in a teaspoonful of sugar and a small lump of butter, and boil them up again. Turn the puree on to a hot dish, and serve it while very hot. (2) Skin and blanch the Chestnuts ; boil in just enough stock to cover them, and when quite soft rub through a fine hair sieve. Add pepper and salt to taste, and a small quantity of boiling cream. (3) Boil lib. of Chestnuts for ten minutes, peel and skin them immediately, put them into a saucepan with lqt. of broth, 1 table-spoonful of salt, 2 teaspoonfuls of pepper, and pb. of butter, and let all boil well for thirty minutes. Rub through a sieve, and use when needed. Puree of Chestnuts a la Jardiniere.—Place in a saucepan 1 pint of puree of Chestnuts, moisten it with 1 pint of broth and a wineglassful of Madeira wine, and boil ‘for thirty minutes ; then put in a quarter of a carrot, the same of turnip cut with a tin tube, 1 table-spoonful of asparagus tops, six Brussels Chestnuts—continued. sprouts, and a piece of cut-up cauliflower the size of an egg. Boil all together for fifteen minutes, and serve, after seasoning, with § table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Roasted Chestnuts.—Split the skins on one side of some large Chestnuts, put them on a pan with a perforated bottom, stand them over a moderate fire, and when they are done wrap them up in a cloth for ten or twelve minutes. Serve them witli salt and butter. Sug-ared Chestnuts.—(1) Roast some Chestnuts as if for the table, and peel off the skins. Have some osier rods, or reeds, cut into pieces 3in. or 4in. long, and put a roasted and skinned Chestnut on the point of each of these. Take a piece of butter about the size of a nut and rub it with the hand on a marble slab or an iron plate, taking care to rub the butter all over it and not to miss any part of it. Boil some sugar to caramel; that is, to the degree at which, if a little of the boiling sugar be put into cold water, it will when cold he brittle and snap clean (see Sugar- boiling). When the sugar is at this degree of heat, take a wood splint, with a Chestnut on the end of it, in each hand, and dip them in the caramel. Keep twisting about and twirling them round till they begin to cool, that the caramel may lie evenly all over them. When they begin to cool, lay them on the buttered plate, and proceed with two more. When all the Chestnuts are done and are cold, take out the bits of osier and wrap each Chestnut neatly in paper. This is a delicious sweet- meat, but it should not be kept. (2) Roast some Chestnuts as if for the table, take off the skins, and cut them into halves. Dip the halves, one at a time, in well-beaten white of egg, then roll them in powdered white sugar and lay them on paper in a moderate oven to dry. Do not allow them to touch one another till they are dry. They may, if desired, be glazed either white or brown. CHIANTI.—This is the name of a favourite Italian wine, which has found its way into this country, and obtained considerable repute. It has a fine Burgundy flavour, and as it can be supplied at a price little, if any, above that of the lower-classed French wines, its importation should meet with encouragement. See Italian Wines. CHICA.—Along the western littoral of South America this beer (brewed from maize) has enjoyed all the privi- leges that are usually associated with old age and civili- sation. Originally the drink of the American Indians, it has found its way to the heart of the civilised colonist, and has undergone so many alterations since then that the term is now applied, in that part of the world, to intoxi- cating drinks generally. The Chica brewed by the moun- tain Indians has a dark-yellow colour, with an agreeable, slightly bitter acid taste. It is found in every hut. and sometimes even in the graves of the chiefs. A modern traveller in these parts states in his book, “ Twenty Years in South America,” that he has drunk Chica that has been dug out of burying-places where it must, according to his calculation, have been interred upwards of three hundred years. Professor Simmonds tells us, in “ Popular Beverages,” that in brewing Chica from maize, the corn is malted in the usual way; an infu- sion is then made from it with boiling water, and the resulting liquor ferments without further addition. Two kinds of Chica are usually made from the same grain. The first, called claro, is the water in which the malt has been infused; this is drawn off, and afterwards boiled. In taste it has some resemblance to cider. The second kind is made by boiling the grain with the water for several hours ; it is then strained and fermented, and is called nito. The residue, or sediment, left in the jar of this latter brew is used as a ferment for bread. CHICKEN.—See Fowls. CHICK-PEAS.—These small leguminous vegetables (Cicer arietinum) are not much used in this country, although they are possessed of considerable nutritive and culinary merits. In France they are frequently used and known as Pois cliiches; in Italy, they are Ceci; in Germany, Kicher, or Kicherbsen; and in Spain they are Garbanzos,