TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 447 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, seej/^frer their special heads. Couques—continued. sponge, when it has well risen, into the dough, and knead them both together. Cover the dough and keep it in a warm tempe- rature for about two hours. At the end of that time cut the paste into small pieces about the size of an egg, roll them to a round shape, lay them on a baking-tin, and leave for half-an-hour to rise. Brush the balls over with a paste- brush dipped in beaten egg, and put them in a brisk oven. When lightly browned, open each ball a little and scoop out a small portion of the inside ; put a small piece of butter in the hollow and dust in a little salt. Arrange the balls in a pile on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve them immediately, for if not very hot they will not be so nice. COURT BOUILLON.—The only translation for this word is “ short broth,” as we say small beer; but as it is described by Jules Goufte, it is a highly-seasoned stock, used to boil fresh-water fish, thereby redeeming something of their general tastelessness. If made well it will keep for some time if boiled up every few days, so that it may be prepared in any quantity according to requirements, and should be the chief stock at a riverside watering-place, where guests like to taste the fish caught by themselves or their friends. When boiling up for keeping, add a little water each time. A useful quantity may be made as follows: (1) Slice up a large carrot and a full-sized onion, and put these into a 4qt. saucepan together with a bunch of well-washed parsley, a sprig or two of thyme, 1 teaspoonful of pepper- corns, 1 table-spoonful of salt, and a pat of butter. The addition of two or three bay-leaves or a blade of mace will increase the savouriness of the fish boiled in this stock. The butter should be sufficient when melted to moisten the bottom of the saucepan. Stir this mixture for a few minutes over the fire before adding any liquor, then pour over gently about 2qts. of water, and throw in after it 1 breakfast-cupful of white-wine vinegar; after this has boiled up, let it simmer on the side for an-hour-and-a-half. Strain into a basin, and set it aside for use. Wine is frequently added to this during the process of cooking. (2) Another Court Bouillon, called a la Nantaise, is frequently used in Continental kitchens for boiling almost any kind of fish. It is made by adding a free supply of pepper and salt to a liquor of half milk and half water. Mace and herbs are also occasionally added. (3) Pour into a fish-kettle sufficient white wine to nearly fill it, add a small quantity of brandy and sherry, and a little each of turnips, carrots, parsnips, onions, and celery, all cut in pieces, a head of garlic, a few cloves and laurel- leaves, and thyme, chervil, parsley, salt, and pepper to taste. Set the kettle over a sharp fire, add a large lump of butter or lard, and boil quickly to reduce the liquor to a third of its original bulk. Set the liquor alight if it will burn while boiling, as this greatly improves the flavour. Should the Court Bouillon be intended for fast-days, olive oil must be used instead of the lard or butter. The white wine may be omitted and vinegar and water substituted, and some of the other ingredients may also be left out, if the Court Bouillon is not required so rich. (4) Put a lump of butter well kneaded with flour into a saucepan or fish-kettle, warm it, and pour over 1 wineglassful of boiling vinegar; then add, according to the fish to be boiled in it, sufficient white wine to cover it, as well as two slices of lemon, without rind or pips, two laurel- leaves, and sufficient salt and pepper to taste. Water may be substituted for the wine if a cheap Court Bouillon is required. (5) Pour lqt. of white wine into a fish-kettle with half that quantity of water, a bunch each of parsley and thyme, a little basil, two bay-leaves, a clove of garlic, and a few small onions, all tied in a muslin bag, and a few slices of carrots and onions. Put the fish to be cooked in this, and after it is done the Court Bouillon may be put on one side for after use. (6) Cut up one good-sized, peeled, and well-washed carrot, with an onion, and half a bunch of parsley-roots, also cut up; brown them in a wineglassful of white or red wine, according to the fish ; add to it any well-washed pieces of fish-heads and Court Bouillon —continued. 1 pint of water. Season with .1 pinch each of salt and pepper. Boil well for five minutes, let it cool, strain through a napkin or a sieve into a jar, and store away for use as required. (7) Pry an onion, two or three sprigs of parsley, and a stalk of celery, finely chopped, in butter ; add 2 table-spoonfuls of salt, eight or nine peppercorns, two bay-leaves, a few cloves, 1 pint of vinegar, and 2qts. of boiling water. Boil for twenty minutes, strain, and put it by till wanted for use. COUTEAU JULIENNE. —A French-made knife used especially for cutting vegetables into slireds for Julienne soup. There are several kinds of knives used for the same purpose, almost every cook having a special fancy to his own. For general purposes an ordinary cook’s knife answers well in skilful and careful hands. COVERS.—Irrespective of dish and other covers, there is a meaning to this word which gives it some importance in table-service. It is described in Webster’s Dictionary as “ the table furniture for the use of one person at a meal,” and involves therefore a variety of subjects that will be better treated under the general heading of Table-service. COW-HEELS.—In Scotland these are more generally known as ox-feet; but as it is difficult or impossible to judge whether the feet or heels belonged to the male or female species, and both are precisely similar so far as culinary purposes are concerned, the subject is treated generally under this head, excepting, of course, those known as Calf’s feet. There are many ways of prepar- ing Cow-heels, for the table, and as they are generally sold already parboiled, or blanched, it will be taken for granted throughout the following receipts that, unless specially mentioned, the feet have been previously cooked. If the feet are quite raw, they will require some hours’ steady boiling, and a capital stock will result. As a light and digestible food, Cow-lieels, well cooked, are strongly re- commended, and for preparing dishes for invalids they are invaluable. The feet of the neat, or young cow, require precisely the same treatment. Cow-heel Fritters.—(1) Cut some boiled Cow-heels in thick slices, dip them in beaten egg, roll in breadcrumbs, and fry till light brown in boiling fat. Fry some slices of onions, put them in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the pieces of heel round, and serve ; or they may be garnished with fried parsley. (2) Cut up some boiled Cow-heels in convenient pieces, and dip them in frying batter ; heat some lard in a frying-pan, and when boiling drop the pieces of feet in and fry them brown. Put them when done on a hot dish, and serve. These make a tasty breakfast relish. Cow-heel Jelly. — Get an unskinned Cow-heel, cut the foot through the joints, chop the long bone, and remove the fat; wash it well, put it in a saucepan, cover with cold water, and boil for ten minutes. Strain off the water and wash it again. Put it in an enamelled saucepan, cover it with cold water, and stew gently for six hours, skimming it continually. When done, strain the stock into a basin, let it get cold, and skim off the fat. In using the jelly be careful not to mix the sediment with it. Cow-heel Soup.—Cut two Cow-heels and lib. of salt pork into small pieces, put them in a stone jar with 5 pints of clear broth, the juice and chopped rind of one lemon, and a season- ing to taste of chopped herbs and parsley. Cover the jar, stand it in a moderate oven, and leave it for some hours until the goodness is well drawn out of the meat. Afterwards strain the soup into a stewpan, and mix with it 1 pint of rich gravy, ^ pint of white wine, six hard-boiled eggs cut into halves, and twelve small forcemeat balls ; season to taste with salt, black pepper, and cayenne. Boil up the soup, turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. Grilled Cow-heel.—Remove all the bones from a blanched Cow-heel, cut the flesh into rather small pieces, egg and bread- crumb them, and grill till they are light brown, then serve.