388 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Cider—continued. or fifteen hours in lightly-covered wooden tubs, in order, as they allege, that the Cider may take a rich colour by the “ brown-reddening ” of the exposed torn surfaces of the apples. But this process would appear to be un- necessary for the purpose explained, as the juice, if pressed out immediately after crushing, would itself take colour according to its quality and roughness. Un- doubtedly some object would be gained, namely, that of extracting more sugar from the marc (crushed fruit) if the crushed apples were covered with water and allowed to macerate; but this does not apply to the juice already freed, which should be put into the fermenting-tuns at once, and set fermenting. The following remarks on fermentation, by a noted authority on the subject, are worth considerable atten- tion. He says: “ It is not our purpose to touch here upon that part of the process of Cider-making which is included in fermentation until we get to that particular feature—of which so much has been written and said, and yet so little is actually known—beyond just to caution Cider-makers that fermentation will set in at any time Fig. 472. Box Cider-press. after the juice of the fruit is eliminated. Exposure to the air has of itself little or nothing to do with the setting- up of alcoholic fermentation, and therefore it will be mqre correct to speak of ‘ crushing ’ as the act responsible for starting a fermentation, which cannot take place so long as the juice remains within the cells of the apple, and the skin remains unbroken and sound.” It is imperative, therefore, for the production of good Cider, that all the juice should be extracted from the fruit by excessive pressure, and this can only be effected by powerful presses manufactured for the purpose (see Eig. 472). Some presses are plain, without a box (see Fig. 473). The crushed pulp is wrapped in hair-cloth, or coarse canvas bags, and after being drained into suitable receivers, the full bags are set one upon the other under the press. The juice which runs away at first is muddy, but afterwards it runs bright and clear and ready for the fermenting-tun. It is a common practice amongst farmers and others who make cider in large or small quantities, to throw away the pressed marc, or use it to feed pigs; but economical Cider manufacturers, knowing that the 'marc For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Fig. 474. Domestic Fermenting-tun. with a cloth; the juice will soon begin to show signs of fermenting (see Fermentation). Sometimes Cider is fermented in closed barrels, with the bung-hole upwards Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Cider—continued. still contains a large quantity of sugar and apple flavour, break up the pressed cakes and pour water over them, let the fruit soak, or macerate, for twenty-four hours, Fig. 473. Cider-press without Box and then use the liquor to make an inferior Cider for qualifying better and stronger kinds. The fermenting- tun should be filled nearly to the brim, and covered