TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 254 Per details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, i-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. 1 gill of lukewarm milk, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Knead these well for two minutes, but do not mix in the flour. Add 3oz. of melted butter and t gill of curaijoa (or any other liqueur desired), then knead in the flour with the other ingre- dients, adding the yeast dough previously laid aside, and mix with the hands, briskly beating the whole in contrary directions for twenty minutes without ceasing. Cover with a cloth and set in a warm closet to rise to double its original bulk, which will take about half-an-hour. Butter a crown- shaped mould holding about 3 pints. When ready, take 2oz. of blanched almonds, minced fine, add them to the dough, and beat well for two minutes longer. Then with a spoon drop the paste into the mould, this not being qirite filled to the top. Set aside again in the warm closet until the paste rises to the edge; then place in a moderately brisk oven for twenty-five minutes. Should the oven be slow, thirty- five minutes will be necessary. To ascertain whether the Cake is baked, thrust the point of a larding-needle into the centre, and should any dough adhere to it the Cake must be left in five minutes longer. When done, turn it out on a plain wire grating, and glaze with a syrup made as follows : Put into a sugar-pan loz. of granulated sugar with 1 table- spoonful of cold water, and let it come to the boil; remove, and add immediately 1 table-spoonful of curafoa, mixing well together. Glaze the Cake with this, then let it cool. Place a folded napkin on a dessert-dish, dress the Cake nicely on top, and serve. (3) Hot.—Prepare a Cake as above, and when turned out of the mould place it on a wire grating, but do not glaze it. Pour into a saucepan 1 pint of cold water with 5oz. of granu- lated sugar, and let it boil for five minutes. Take it off, and add immediately ^ gill of kirsch, mixing it in well. Place the grating with the savarin in a vessel, take hold of the handle of the pan, and drop the syrup carefully over the top; lift up the grating and Cake. Keturn the syrup remaining in the vessel to the pan, and boil again; return the grating and Cake to the vessel, and pour over the remaining syrup. Then, lifting the grating on one side, slide the Cake carefully on to a dessert-dish. Put into a saucepan 4oz. of candied cherries with $ gill of kirsch, stir it slightly until it comes to the boil, and decorate the top of the Cake with it, then serve. Savarin Cake a l’Anglaise.—Prepare a Cake as above; when turned out, place it on a wire grating, but do not glaze it. Cut it evenly through the centre, so as to make two equal discs. Garnish the top of the under one with apricot marma- lade, and arrang'e the other half on top as carefully as possible, so that the Cake has its original form. Have a dessert-dish with a folded napkin, dress the Cake on it, and serve with a saucebowl of whipped cream. Savoury Cake.—Beat four eggs, mix them with 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of flour and sufficient milk to make it of a creamy consistency; mix in 1 table-spoonful of minced chives and a small quantity of salt. Butter a shallow tin, pour in the Cake mixture, and bake it in a brisk oven until richly browned. Savoy Cake.— (1) Warm -)lb. of butter without oiling it, and beat it until creamy with 2oz. of caster sugar; mix eight eggs, \ pint of milk, and fib. of flour in with the beaten eggs, and stir it vigorously for twenty minutes or more. Fig. 293. Savoy-cake Moulds. When ready, put in 1 table-spoonful of yeast, 2oz. of sultanas, and 2oz. of well-washed and dried currants; blanch lJ2oz. of almonds, and cut them into thin fillets, then thickly coat the interior of a shapely mould (see Fig. 293) with butter, and arrange the filleted' almonds round the sides and bottom; Cakes—con tinned. strew a small quantity of caster sugar over them, and pour in the batter carefully. It should only three-parts fill the mould, as room must be left for rising. Stand the mould in a warm place for two hours, or until the batter has well risen, then put it into a moderate oven and bake for an hour. When cooked, the Cake should be only lightly coloured; turn it out of the mould while hot. When the Cake is cold, dredge it over with caster sugar. (2) Take lib. of flour and fib. of caster sugar; beat up the yolks of seven eggs in a basin, adding gradually the sugar, with a little grated rind of lemon, and a little flavour- ing-such as orange-flower or rose-water. Whisk up the whites and add, then sift in the flour gradually, working all the time, and when all is added beat for twenty minutes longer. Take a mould or Cake-tin, butter it well, and sprinkle sugar over it, turning the mould or tin over so that all the sugar that does not adhere to the butter will drop out; then tie a strip of paper round the top of the mould to raise the wall of it, so that the batter will not run over when it is baking. Three-parts fill the mould, and bake for about an- hour-and-a-quarter, or perhaps a little longer, in a quick oven. (3) Slightly butter the inside of a savoy-cake mould, drain off as much of the butter as possible, let it set, and sprinkle over with caster sugar. Turn the mould round several times so that as much sugar as possible will adhere to the butter, put a band of paper round the top of the mould, and set it in a cold place while the mixture is being prepared. Break into a basin the yolks of fourteen eggs, mix in the rind of two lemons, rubbed off on lib. of sugar, beat well with a wooden spoon until the preparation is nearly white, then add the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth; mix in 6oz. each of flour and potato-flour, stirring lightly; three- parts fill the mould with the mixture, put it in a moderate oven, and bake. Take it out when done, remove the paper, turn it out on to a sieve, and serve when cold. (4) Take the yolks of ten eggs and mix them with lib. of caster sugar; put theso on the ice to get perfectly cold, as the eggs will be much finer. Then beat them well for about twenty minutes with a wooden spoon, adding the grated rind of one lemon. Take the whites and beat them until white as snow, pour them into the batter, and sift in Jib. of flonr. Butter a mould, put in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. Savoy Cake with. Oranges.— This fanciful dish has only eccentricity to recommend it. It was originally prepared by Urbain Dubois for the court of Prussia. Put |lb. of caster sugar into a basin with 2 table-spoonfuls of powdered orange sugar, 1 pinch of salt, and the yolks of seven eggs; beat the mixture well till frothy, then sift in gradually 3oz. of flour and 2oz. of potato-flour. Whip the whites of eight eggs to a stiff froth, mix them with the batter, and pass the whole through a fine hair sieve. Warm a mould and grease it with kidney fat, dust some caster sugar and potato-flour, mixed in equal quantities, over it, shaking out all that does not adhere. Three-parts fill the mould with the batter, set it on a baking-sheet that has been covered with live embers,