443 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cornflour—continued. pan from the fire. Beat up two eggs, and when the Cornflour has cooled a little stir them well into it. Pour it now into a well-buttered pudding-dish and bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes. (5) Put 3 pints of milk into a saucepan on the stove, and while it is getting hot, blend 6 table-spoonfuls of Corn- flour with a little cold milk. Just before the milk boils crush three bay-leaves in the hands and throw them into it, then stir in the blended Cornflour. Keep stirring till it boils, and let it boil for five minutes, still stirring, or it may burn. Move the saucepan a little away from the fire so that it may cool slightly. Beat together three eggs, 3oz. of sugar, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Pick the bay-leaves out of the boiled Cornflour, and mix in the beaten eggs and sugar, then pour it into a pudding-dish and bake for ten minutes in a moderately hot oven. Serve hot. (6) Mix together 1 breakfast-cupful each of yellow corn- meal and molasses, and pour over them lqt. of boiling milk, mixing it in gradually; then add 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 table-spoonful of ground cinnamon or ginger, and 1 piled table-spoonful of butter, and let these ingredients cool. When they are quite cold, put them into an earthen pudding-dish, set it in a moderate oven, pour upon the top 1 pint of cold milk, but do not stir the milk into the pudding, and bake for three hours, taking care that the pudding does not burn. Serve either hot or cold. (7) Put 1 pint of milk over the fire, and when it comes to the boil, shake and stir in 5 pint of Cornflour, continue stirring till it boils, and let it boil thres minutes. Take it from the fire, and let it cool; then mix in an egg beaten up with jib. of sugar, f saltspoonful of salt, and grated nut- meg to taste. Put it into a buttered pudding-dish and bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Serve cream with it. (8) Boil in a saucepan lqt. of milk; add ^lb. of Cornflour, and with a wire whisk stir briskly and continually for fifteen minutes. Take from the fire, let it cool, and add 4oz. of powdered sugar, mixing well for one minute; break in four eggs, flavour with 1 teaspoonful of vanilla essence, and mix well for two minutes longer. Butter and sugar well six small pudding-moulds, with a ladle fill them with the Corn- flour, place them in a tin pan, filling it to half the height of the moulds with warm but not boiling water, put it in the oven, and bake for thirty-five minutes. Bemove, take the moulds from the pan with a towel, and with a thin knife detach them. Turn them on to a hot dish and serve with the following sauce : Put 1 pint of milk to boil in a sauce- pan on the stove; break into a vessel two eggs, add loz. of wheat-flour, |oz. of Cornflour, and 3oz. of powdered sugar, beating the whole well together with a spatula for three minutes. If the milk be boiling, add it gradually to the preparation, stirring continually for two minutes ; return the whole to the saucepan, place it on the stove, and stir briskly until it comes to the boil; remove it, and add immediately 1 teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring. Strain the sauce through a sieve into a sauce-bowl, and serve. (9) Boiled.—Put lqt. of milk in a saucepan over the fire, and when very hot stir into it 3 table-spoonfuls of Cornflour soaked in a little cold milk. Let it boil for thirty minutes, stirring it constantly, then mix in 1 teaspoonful of salt and l|oz. of butter, and let it boil five minutes longer ; then stir into it two eggs beaten up with 3 table-spoonfuls of milk. When the eggs are added, draw the pan to the side of the fire and cook slowly, stirring constantly for ten minutes. Pour the pudding into a deep dish. Serve cream and sugar with it. (10) Skin and chop very fine lib. of beef-suet; warm 1 pint of milk and lib. of molasses and mix them together; beat four eggs very light and stir them into the warmed milk and molasses, 1 table-spoonful at a time, alternately with small quantities of chopped suet and Cornflour. Be sparing with the latter, only adding sufficient to make a batter of the mixture. When all the suet and eggs are used up, add 1 teaspoonful of grated nutmeg and powdered cinnamon, and a little grated lemon-peel. When the pudding is thoroughly well mixed, dip a cloth in boiling water, squeeze the water from it and dredge with flour, put the pudding into it, and tie up, leaving it room to swell. Plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for three hours without letting the boiling cease for an instant. Serve hot with wine sauce. Cornflour—continued. (11) Boil 1 pint of water with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar in it; sprinkle in gradually 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Corn- flour, and stir it over the fire for five minutes. Mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of finely-chopped suet, one beaten egg, the grated rind of one lemon, and 1 pinch of salt. Damp a pudding- cloth, flour it, place it in a bowl, and pour in the batter ; tie the cloth loosely so as to leave room to swell, which it should do to nearly double its original bulk, and boil for five hours. Serve with sweet wine sauce. (12) Indian.—Put lib. of Cornflour into a basin, pour over 2 pints of water, and let it soak in a warm place for twelve Hours. Pass the liquor through a coarse cloth into a sauce- pan, add lib. of sugar, and boil, stirring continually ; when it begins to thicken, add 6oz. of lard or butter, warmed, with a few white cardamoms and sticks of cinnamon, and continue to cook until the mixture is quite thick. Put it into a well- buttered mould or basin, let it get cold, turn it out on to a dish, and serve. (13) Put lib. of lard or butter into a saucepan, melt it, add lib. of browned Cornflour and a few white cardamoms and sticks of cinnamon, stir well until the Cornflour com- mences to colour, add lib. each of blanched almonds and stoned raisins, also a syrup made with lib. of sugar to 1 pint of water, and continue to cook and stir until the prepara- tion thickens. Pour it into well-buttered moulds, let them get cold, turn them out, and serve. Cornflour Pudding made with Cowslip Wine. — Put 2 table-spoonfuls of Cornflour into a basin with 2 table- spoonfuls of cream, and beat in the yolks of two eggs. Put 3 breakfast-cupfuls of cowslip wine into a saucepan on the fire, heat it without boiling, stir in the Cornflour, sweeten to taste, and stir continually until the preparation is quite thick. Pour it into a damped mould, let it set, turn it out, and serve. This is an excellent dish for an invalid. Cornflour Puffs.—(1) Put lqt. of milk into a saucepan, and when it boils stir in gradually 8 piled table-spoonfuls of Corn- flour, 4 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, and a grated nutmeg. Stir vigorously over the fire and let it boil for fifteen minutes, take it off, and set it away to cool. Beat eight eggs to a light froth, and when the batter is cold stir them in gradually. Butter some cups, three-parts fill them with the mixture, and bake well in a moderate oven. Put a lump of butter in a sauce- pan with the strained juice of one lemon, about 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and stir it over the fire till creamy. When cooked, turn the puffs on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over, garnish with whole-fruit jam, and serve (see Pig. 526). (2) Sift 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar into 2oz. of wheat- flour, mix with it Jib. of Cornflour, and sprinkle in a little