THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 469 For details respecting Culmary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cream—continued. is beaten, so much the lighter will the puffs turn out. Take some baking-sheets, grease them, and then wipe clean. Put the paste on in pieces the size of a walnut, giving plenty of room between them, and shape with a knife and spoon; put the sheets into a moderate oven, and bake for twenty minutes. The puffs being hollow in the centre, cut them open, and fill with some pastry Cream and fruit jelly. Cream Quenelles. —Put f pint of Cream in a saucepan with loz. of butter, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and 1 pinch of black pepper; give the Cream two or three boils, then stir in gradually sufficient flour to make a stiff paste. Leave the mixture till cold, then stir in, one at a time, enough eggs to convert it into a thin paste, so that it will easily drop from the spoon. Put some water in a flat stewpan over the fire, and when it boils drop in the paste, a tea- spoonful at a time. Poach the quenelles for ten minutes, then drain them, and they are ready for serving. Cream Rockwork.—Put lqt. of milk, or milk and Cream, over the fire in a stewpan, and dissolve in it gib. of sugar. Beat the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth with 1 table- spoonful of powdered white sugar, and when the milk boils, put in this froth, a table-spoonful at a time, and cook in the boiling milk, turning it once. Do not put so many spoonfuls in at once that they will run together. Lift out the spoon- fuls of froth carefully, as they are done, with a skimmer, Fig. 567. -Cream Rockwork. and lay them on a sieve; when all are done, put them in a cool place, still keeping them on the sieve. Beat up the yolks of six eggs, add them to the milk, with a little more sugar, and stir constantly till it begins to thicken, then take it from the fire and let it cool, stirring occasionally. When quite cold, stir into it 1 dessert-spoonful of essence of vanilla, pour it into a deep glass dish or bowl, and pile the cooked froth as rocky as possible (see Fig. 567). Serve sponge cake with it. Cream Salad Dressing.—Take two eggs and beat them well, adding 1 teaspoonful of sugar, ^ saltspoonful of salt, and the same of mustard, next 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and lastly 1 table-spoonful of Cream. Put the basin 01- bowl containing these into another basin of boiling water, and stir until the mixture becomes as thick as rich Cream. The water in the bowl should be kept boiling all the time, and it will then only take about five minutes to finish it. Remove the basin, and let it get cool, when it will be ready for use. See Salads. Cream Sauce.—(1) Put into a saucepan 2oz. of butter and loz. of flour; place it on a slow fire, and with a spatula stir lightly for two minutes, adding 2ot,. of caster sugar, 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine, and 1 teacupful of Cream. Stir well again for two minutes, to avoid its coming to a boil; take it from the fire, and immediately add 1 wineglassful of rum, stirring it lightly again. Pour the Cream into a sauce-bowl, and serve as required. (2) Beat gib. of butter in a bowl till it is very light ; add gib. of powdered white sugar and g pint of Cream, place the bowl in a basin of hot water, and keep stirring till the contents are creamy—a few minutes ought to be sufficient. (3) Put f pint of Cream into a saucepan, with salt and pepper added to taste; place the pan on the fire, and boil. Mix 1 table-spoonful of flour with 1 teacupful of cold Cream Cream—continued. until it becomes a smooth paste, add it to the boiling Cream, boil for three minutes longer, and it is ready for use. (4) Put into a frying-pan 1 table-spoonful of butter, and make it quite hot, but not enough to brown; then stir in 1 teaspoonful of flour until it is quite smooth, and gradually add f pint of milk. Boil it up once, with a little salt and pepper to taste, and it is then ready for use. The butter may be omitted and more Cream irsed, if preferred. (5) Put 1 pint of milk to boil in a saucepan. Break into a basin two eggs, add loz. of wheat-flour, g-oz. of cornflour, and 3oz. of powdered sugar, beating the whole well together with a spatula. When the milk is boiling, add it gradually to this, stirring continually for two minutes. Return the whole to the saucepan, place it on the stove, and stir briskly till it comes to a boil; then remove, and add immediately 1 teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring. Strain the sauce through a sieve into a sauce-bowl, and serve. (6) Take pint of bechamel sauce and goz. of butter; beat together thoroughly, and add J breakfast-cupful of sweet Cream. Then serve. (7) Pour 1 pint of Cream into a saucepan, and make it quite hot. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter into another pan, place it on the fire, and when the butter begins to bubble stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of cornflour. Mix it well, with one- tliird of the cream, stirring till it boils and thickens. Then add more Cream and boil again, and when perfectly smooth stir in the remainder of the Cream, when the sauce should be quite thick, almost like batter. Season with g teaspoonful of salt, the same of celery salt, g saltspoonful of pepper, and a little cayenne, and when it is quite thick and hot serve with the fish or meat it is intended to be used with. (8) Take 3oz. of butter and gib. of sugar; work them together till the mixture is quite smooth and white, grate in a little nutmeg, and add and stir in boiling milk till the sauce is of the consistency of thick Cream. Cream Sauce for Venison. —Pour A pint of Cream over the venison when cooked, and catch it in a dish. Strain the Cream into a saucepan, put 1 table-spoonful of chopped, cooked onions in it, and a small lump of butter that has been worked with a little flour; stir the sauce over the fire till boiling and the flour is cooked, then move the pan to the side and mix in the beaten yolks of two eggs. Stir it till well thickened, but do not let it boil again ; and serve the sauce in a sauceboat with the venison. Fig. 568. Cream Scones. Cream Sauce with Vinegar. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour into a saucepan with loz. of butter, and stir it over the fire until mixed, but not browned; then pour in gradually g pint of Cream, and continue stirring until thick and boiling. Season the sauce with salt and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; squeeze in the juice of a lemon, or a sufficient quantity of vinegar to give it an acid flavour, then serve. Cream Scones.—Put g pint of Cream into a saucepan, and when on the point of boiling, sift in sufficient flour to make a stiff batter, stirring all the time ; add 1 pinch of salt. Roll the paste out on a floured board to about gin. in thickness, and cut into rounds with a circular tin cutter. Put a griddle over a clear, brisk fire, and when hot lay the scones on it; when browned one side, turn them, and brown the other. They will take from ten to twelve minutes to cook. Put the scones on a folded napkin on a dish, and serve. See Fig. 568. Cream Shape-Pudding.—Mix 1 teacupful of ground rice with 1 pint of Cream till quite smooth; stir it over the fire till on the point of boiling, then add 1 teacupful of caster sugar and a piece of butter about the size of an egg. Continue stirring, and boil the mixture till thick. Move the mixture