314 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c, referred to see under their special heads. Carving—continued. whole on the toast. If you elect to cut up the bird, then look out for a little bag of sand that is to be found next the liver, and remove it, or by its rupture the flesh may be made unpleasantly gritty, and spoil the dish. 'Turkey, bustard, capercailzie, and other birds of a similar size can be carved after the same plan, the object Fig. 371. Carving Partridge. being to cut good substantial-looking slices without destroying the appearance of the bird until compelled to do so by the demand upon its resources. There are two modes of carving the breast of a roasted tui-key, as shown in Fig. 373, A and B. In A the slices are made in a transverse direction, and from a large bird many good slices can be obtained; or the slices may be longitudinal Fig. 372. Pigeons Trussed for Roasting. (ba), as shown in B. The stuffing is obtained by making an incision between the legs and lifting the “ apron ” (c). Boiled turkey is better carved longitudi- nally, as the transverse incisions would be likely to become ragged and broken in the cutting. The wings and legs are removed as explained for a fowl, the shin- Carving—continued. bone being removed from the drumstick, and that fleshy part either served whole or sliced like a small leg of mutton. Boned and stuffed turkeys require no knowledge of carving, but may be sliced through transversely, com- Fig. 373. Carving Roasted Turkey. mencing at the neck end, or almost any part, according to the views of the Carver. Observe that the leg-bones of a boiled turkey are trussed in under the skin, differing in that respect from the roasted bird; this may entail a little extra difficulty in removing the limb. Fig. 374. Carving Boiled Turkey. Rabbit.—This is very easy to carve if sufficiently boiled (a whole rabbit is almost invariably boiled), as in that case the flesh and joints are soft and unresisting. The first step is to sever the limbs from the body, which is done precisely as described for hare. Some Carvers then split the back by forcing the point of the knife through the Fig. 375. Carving Boiled Rabbit. backbone, and cutting down between the loins through the tail. In this way the backbone has to be split throughout, a task that, if desired, might well be performed by the cook before trussing, and as some force must be used a very firm hold should be taken with the fork. The back and loin are to be cut into short lengths, the thickest meat being found on the loin. The shoulder-blade can be cut