302 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ebe., referred to, see under their special heads. Carp—continued. to the ordinary epicure depends upon the mode in which they are cooked. The following receipts can be relied upon as giving the very best results attainable in those cases where the roe (which is best soft) is cooked separate from the fish. Boiled Carp Soft-Roes.—Remove the roes from the fish, and cleanse them of all their blood; then steep them in cold water until they are quite white, drain them, and put them in a stewpan with cold salted water and a little vinegar, and boil until they are done. Drain them, and put them into some fish consomme or general stock. Boudins of Carp served with Supreme Sauce.—Prepare some forcemeat of Carp, making it rather stiffer than is generally used for quenelles. Fry a chopped onion in butter without colouring it, then mix it with the forcemeat. Chop some truffles and some cooked fillets of chicken and tongue. Boil some bechamel sauce till stiffly reduced, then put in the chopped truffles and fillets, stir them over the fire for a few minutes, and take the saucepan off. Put some small equal quantities of forcemeat on buttered strips of paper about 3 tin. long and 2jin. wide, make a hollow by pressing the forcemeat or boudins in the centre, and put in each a small quantity of the salpii^on of chopped truffles, &c., without quite filling them; then cover that completely with forcemeat. Prepare some Carp-roes for garnish, and reduce some veloute sauce maigre with some essence of mushrooms. Put the boudins in a deep frying- or saute-pan with a little stock, and let it simmer for fifteen minutes. When cooked, drain the boudins, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, put the roes in the centre, pour the reduced sauce over them, and serve. Fried Carp’s Roes.—Clean the required number of very fresh Carp’s roes, put them into a bowl of water, and let them soak for several hours, changing the water frequently. Take them out, put them in a saucepan with a little boiling water and vinegar, sprinkle in salt to taste, and boil them for a few minutes; take them out, drain them, dip them into batter, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry to a good brown. Place them on a cloth to drain, arrange them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with fried parsley for garnish. Scalloped Carp’s Roe.—(1) Trim, clean, and blanch a Carp’s roe ; put it into a saucepan with salted water and vinegar, and boil until quite done. Take it out, drain, chop up small, put into another saucepan with a little white thickening and white wine, pour in a little of the water in which a few mushrooms have previously been boiled, add a bunch of sweet herbs, and sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste. Set the saucepan on the fire, and as soon as the liquor thickens add the boiled mushrooms cut in slices, together with a few cooked crayfish tails. When the whole is done, take out the bunch of herbs, mix in a large lump of butter, put the mixture into scallop- shells, cover over with grated fried bread or crust, place the shells in a moderate oven, and brown the surface. Take them out when done, and serve. (2) Take some soft roes of Carp, prepare them as for Boiled Carp Soft-roes, and cut them into small dice. Prepare some veloute sauce, together with some essence of mushrooms, adding a little butter to thicken, and then put in the small dice. Fill seme table or scallop shells (coquilles) with the meat, sprinkle over fried breadcrumbs, put in the oven to warm a little, and then serve. CARRAGEEN.—Amongst the edible seaweeds Carra- geen, or Irish sea-moss, Chondrus crispus (see Fig. 341), holds pride of place. It grows from 2in. to 12in. long, and is cai'tilaginous, flexible, and reddish-brown in colour. As physicians have strongly recommended its use to invalids with delicate digestions, it has assumed an im- portant position amongst foods. Various preparations in which Carrageen is concerned have appeared under as many different names, hut without seeming to take a very strong hold of public favour. The following receipts are, however, very much approved. Carrageen Blanc mange.—(1) Take lqt. of milk, 1 level table- spoonful of Carrageen farina, £ teaspoonful of salt, 3 table- spoonfuls of sugar, and 1 teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring. C ar r ageen—continued. Put the milk in a double boiler, and sprinkle the farina into it, stirring all the while. Let this heat slowly. When it boils up and looks white, add the sugar, salt, and flavouring. Strain, turn into a mould that has been dipped in cold water, and set away to harden, which will take about three hours. The blanc-mange is ready to serve as soon as cold. (2) From lqt. of rich unskimmed milk take i pint, and add to it 2oz. of bitter almonds blanched and pounded, half a nut- meg, a large stick of cinnamon broken up, and eight or nine blades of mace. Set this in a closed pan over bright coals, and boil it for half-an-hour. In the meantime, wash through two or three cold waters )- handful of Carrageen (too much of it will give an unpleasant taste to the blanc-mange), and add to the la pints of cold milk. When it is sufficiently flavoured, stir in the boiled milk, adding gradually |lb. of caster sugar, and mix the whole well. Set it over the fire, and boil quickly for five minutes ; then strain it into a jug, wet a mould (or teacups will do) with cold water, put the blanc-mange into it, and leave it undisturbed until it is hard. It is well to remem- ber that after washing the seaweed it should be drained well. A little rose- or peach-water, maraschino or kirschenwasser improves the flavour. Fig. 341. Two Kinds of Carrageen. (3) Take 1 teacupful of Carrageen, lqt. of milk, 1 salt-spoon- ful of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring. Soak the moss in cold water for fifteen minutes, then pick over, wash, tie in a net bag, and put it into a double boiler with the milk. Boil until the milk will thicken if dropped on a cold plate ; then add the salt, strain it, and flavour, moulding in small teacups or in egg-shells. Break off a piece as large as a half- penny piece on one end of the egg-shell, pour out the egg, rinse the shells, stand them upright in a pan of meal, and fill with the blanc-mange. Serve blanc-mange with sugar and cream, also with apple or grape jelly ; or put half a peach, or any candied fruit, in the bottom of the cup before filling. Carrageen Chocolate.— Put loz. of well-washed and soaked Carrageen into a saucepan with 1 pint of water, and bring it to the boil. Pour 1 teacupful of cold milk into a basin, and mix in loz. of grated chocolate; turn this into a saucepan containing 2 breakfast-cupfuls of boiling milk, and boil for about five minutes. Add the two boiling mixtures together, strain them, add sufficient sugar to sweeten, and serve in glasses while quite warm. Carrageen Farina.—Put lib. of Carrageen in water, and let it macerate to extract the bitterness. Take it out, drain it dry, and boil in a saucepan with a little water for an hour, pass it through a fine sieve, let it settle, and decant it; then add lib. of caster sugar, and evaporate the moisture of