378 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, sec under their special heads. Chocolate—continued. of caster sugar, and mix them over a slow fire. Shape this into olives. (This is done by taking sufficient paste between the forefinger and thumb of the right hand to make a small filbert; put this in the palm of the left hand, and roll it with the index finger of the right in the shape of an olive.) When all the paste is used, roll the pastilles in white non- pareil comfits (“hundreds and thousands”), then place them in rows on a sheet of paper on a plate, and dry them in the screen. They must only be dried in a very moderate heat. (2) Put 8oz. of fine Chocolate in a saucepan, and stand it in a moderate oven to soften. Dissolve joz. of gum arabic in a little hot water, mix it with the Chocolate, and stir them both over a slow fire until quite smooth, then add 2oz. of caster sugar; mix this well, and lay out the pastilles by dropping them from the spout of the sugar-boiler, using a curved piece of wire to cut each pastille off neatly as it drops upon a sheet of polished tin. Chocolate Pie.—Prepare a plain flat cake, having it so thick that when cooked it can be opened (that is, the top separated from the bottom). Make a mixture of loz.' of Chocolate finely powdered and 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar well mixed together; then add gradually j breakfast-cupful of boiling- milk and the yolks of two eggs well beaten, with a little vanilla for flavouring, and put it on the fire for ten minutes to simmer. Take it off, and when quite cold spread the bottom-half of the cake over with it, put on the top, sprinkle over with a little caster sugar, and serve. See Fig. 458. Chocolate Pistachios.—Put the required quantity of grated Chocolate into a hot iron mortar, and pound it well with the pestle, also heated. Take a little out at a time, wrap it round a pistachio (rolling it in the hand to give it shape), and throw it into nonpareils. Continue in this way until as many are done as are wanted. Store them away in boxes or tins. Chocolate Pudding'.—(1) Put lj pints of milk into a pan to boil. Put 4 table-spoonfuls of scraped Chocolate into a small saucepan, with 2 table-spoonfuls of boiling-water and 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and put the pan over the fire until the paste is smooth and glossy; then stir it into the boiling milk. Mix 4 table-spoonfuls of cornflour with j pint of milk and 1 teaspoonful of salt; pour this into the boiling milk, and stir for about three minutes. Take a fancy mould, dip it into water, pour in the mixture, and let it remain for a quarter-of-an-hour; then turn it out on to a dish, and heap some well-whipped cream all round it. Sugar and cream, or vanilla sauce, may be served with it. (2) Put in a saucepan 3oz. of grated Chocolate, 1 teaspoonful each of nutmeg and cinnamon, and lqt. of milk, the latter being added gradually whilst stirring, put the lid on, and let the mixture come to the boil. Take the saucepan off the fire for a few minutes whilst the Chocolate is stirred up from the bottom, and press out the lumps; then put it on the fire again, and when it boils, stir in slowly alb. of caster sugar; then set it away to cool. Beat six or eight eggs very light, pour them into the pan of Chocolate when this is quite cold, beat all well together, and bake. It will bake best by being put in a pan of boiling water. To be eaten cold. (3) Warm 2oz. of butter, and beat it to a cream with 2oz. of caster sugar; then mix in the beaten yolks of three Chocolate — continued. eggs, and 3 heaped table-spoonfuls of grated Chocolate. Whisk the whites of the three eggs to a stiff snow, and mix this in. Butter the interior of a dome-shaped mould, fill it with the mixture, tie a sheet of buttered paper over the top, and bake it in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the contents of the mould on to a hot dish that has been garnished with a folded napkin, or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve. (4) Put joz. of gelatine in as much cold water as will cover it, and let it soak ten minutes; then put the gelatine into a small saucepan on the stove, and stir it in until it is melted, but do not let it boil. As soon as it is melted, take it off the stove and let it cool a little. Mix jib. of grated Chocolate with 1 pint of milk till it forms a smooth paste, put this into another saucepan on the stove, and stir till it boils. Put the yolks of four eggs into a bowl, cover them with 2oz. of sugar, and pour over them the hot Choco- late and milk; pour this quickly from the bowl into the saucepan, and stir it over the fire for two or three minutes, but not allowing it to boil. Take the saucepan from the stove, put in a few drops of essence of vanilla, and stir into it the melted gelatine. Wet the inside of a 1) -pint mould to prevent sticking, pour the pudding into it, and put it in a dry cool place till the pudding sets; then turn it out on a glass dish, and serve. (5) Grate jib. of Chocolate, and rub six penny stale sponge cakes through a fine wire sieve. Put 4oz. of butter in a saucepan with 1 teacupful of milk, and place it over the fire until the butter is melted. Then mix in the grated Chocolate and cake crumbs, and stir it until thick. Take the saucepan off the fire and let the contents cool a little. Separate the yolks and whites of three eggs, beat the yolks well with 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and a few drops of essence of vanilla, and stir them into the above mixture. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them in lightly at the last. Butter a mould, pour the mixture into it, cover it with a sheet of buttered paper, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam for two hours. Care must be taken that the water does not enter at the top of the mould. Beat the yolks of two eggs well with 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar and j pint of sherry; pour this into a small basin, which stand in a saucepan of boiling water, and whisk it well over the fire until of a thick creamy froth. When the pudding is cooked, turn it on to a hot dish, pour the sauce round it, and serve. Chocolate Pudding with Almonds.—(1) Blanch and pound in a mortar 4oz. of almonds ; warm 2oz. of butter, beat it well with 3oz. of caster sugar, then mix in gradually the yolks of six eggs, 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of grated Chocolate, and the pounded almonds, working the mixture well. Whisk the whites of the three eggs to a stiff snow, and add this to the mixture. Butter a mould, dredge caster sugar in it, shake out what is superfluous, pour in the mixture, cover it with a sheet of buttered paper, irlace it in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam it gently for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, turn the contents of the mould out on to a hot dish, pour vanilla cream sauce over it, and serve. (2) Blanch 2 table-spoonfuls of almonds, and cut them into thin fillets; soak j teacupful of grated brown bread in a small quantity of port wine, wash and dry 2oz. of currants, grate 2oz. of Chocolate, and mix together with the beaten yolks of four eggs and 3 table-spoonfuls of sugar; then add a small quantity of allspice or pounded cloves ; whisk the whites of the four eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly in with the above mixture. Butter a mould, pour in the pudding mixture, put it into a saucepan with boiling water to three- parts its height, and steam it for two hours. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve it with a Chocolate sauce, either poured over it or in a sauceboat. Chocolate Pulled Candy. Put 1 teacupful of cream into a saucepan with jib. of light-coloured molasses or golden syrup and the same quantity of sugar, and boil for about fifteen minutes; add loz. of grated Chocolate, and boil until the mixture is brittle. Turn it out on to a dish, add a little vanilla flavouring when it is nearly cold, and it is ready for use. Before the mixture is quite cold, it may