380 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, 6cc., referred to, see under their special heads0 Chocolate—continued. and bake in not too hot an oven. Should the sweetmeats not be coloured enough, colour them darker with a little sal-ammoniac. Chocolate Syrup.—(1) Mix up Jib. of scraped best Chocolate cake with lqt. of water, add 41b. of loaf sugar, and stir over a slow fire until the Chocolate is dissolved and the sugar syruped. Very useful to the pastrycook and con- fectioner. (2) Rub down to a coarse powder 2oz. of the bark of roasted cacao-beans, and mix with 2oz. of simple syrup; boil this in 1 pint of syrup made by dissolving 12oz. of sugar in J pint of water, and after an-hour-and-a-half’s gentle simmering, strain through a flannel bag, and add 2 drachms of extract of vanilla. Chocolate Tablets.—Boil 71b. of loaf sugar, 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and 3 pints of water in a sugar-boiler for ten minutes ; then add lib. of warmed butter, let the mixture froth up, boil to a weak crack (or 5deg. less than the crack), pour it out on to an oiled slab, and cover over with Jib. of powdered Chocolate. Work this well in, kneading the mass as if it were dough, pull it again and again over a hook fixed in the wall, return it to the slab, work it into ropes or flat ribands, let it cool, mark it into tablet shapes or squares, break it up at the indentations when cold, and pack away in boxes for future use. Chocolate Tart.—Prepare 1 breakfast-cupful of Chocolate and stir in a couple of well-beaten eggs. Line a pie-dish with a very thin layer of puff paste, pour in the mixture, place it in the oven, and let it set quite firm. Have ready Jib. of cooking' apples, peeled, cored, sliced, and stewed tender (or use tinned apples), put them on top of the Chocolate, cover over with cream, and dust over with 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar; cover over the tart with more paste, glaze the surface with egg, and bake in a moderate oven. Chocolate- and. Vanilla-cream Bonbons.—Soak 2oz. of the finest picked gum arabic in J pint of hot water, squeeze it through muslin, flavour with a few drops of essence of vanilla, and put in as much caster sugar as it will absorb, working the whole into a rather stiff, smooth paste. Melt 4oz. of Chocolate with 1 table-spoonful of water, standing it in the oven until it is quite dissolved, and then beat in with a spoon the whites of two eg’gs. Have ready a biscuit- forcer, with a Jin. tube at the end of it, fill it with the gum preparation, and push it out upon a large sheet of paper well sifted over with fine sugar ; as the cream is forced out, cut it off in pieces from the mouth of the forcer with a knife, so that each shall be about the size of small filbert-kernels; when the paper is full of these drops, put it on a baking- sheet, and set this in the screen for ten minutes. Take one at a time of these drops on the tip of a fork and dip into the Chocolate icing, then set them on a fine wire tray, and put in the screen for ten minutes. When quite hard and set, put them between sheets of paper in a box. Chocolate Wafers. — Thoroughly whisk the whites of two eggs, then mix with them 4oz. of grated Chocolate, Jib. of caster sugar, and sufficient flour to form a stiff paste. Roll the paste out as thin as a penny-piece on a floured board, cut it into cakes 3in. in diameter, lay these on a baking-tin, and bake in a slow oven for fifteen minutes. When cooked, take the cakes out of the oven, detach them from the baking-tin by passing the blade of a knife underneath, and roll them one at a time round the handle of a wooden spoon. Slip them off quickly, and dry them. Chocolate Whips.—Put loz. of Chocolate, finely powdered, into a small pan, add 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar and 1 table- spoonful of boiling water, and let the Chocolate dissolve; when it has dissolved, put it into 1J pints of milk, which should have already been made hot in a double boiler or bain-marie. Beat six eggs and Jib. of sugar (less the 2 table- spoonfuls already used) in J pint of cold milk, and stir all into the boiling milk, continuing to stir until it thickens; then put in 1 pinch of salt, and let it cool. Take 1 pint of cream, put 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar into it, and season with J teaspoonful of vanilla extract; whip this to a froth. When the custard is quite cold, put it into glasses, and heap the cream upon it. It may be served in one large glass, and then the cream is also put on top of it. Chocolate—continued. Chocolate Wine.—Put 4Joz. of scraped Chocolate cake into a saucepan with lqt. of water, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until dissolved; then mix in gradually 6 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and 1 table-spoonful of powdered white starch, stirring the ingredients over the fire. Boil for fifteen minutes, then turn it out, and place it where it will get cold, when it is ready for serving. Flavour with vanilla or almond extract. Frothed Chocolate.—Put 3 pints of fresh milk over the fire. Blend 3 table-spoonfuls of grated Chocolate in J pint of boiling water, and as soon as the milk boils stir the blended Chocolate into it and let it simmer for ten minutes, stirring it almost constantly. Have the whites of five eggs beaten to a stiff froth, three of them whisked up with 2oz. of sugar, and two without sugar. When the Chocolate has simmered for ten minutes, let it boil up; then take it from the fire and stir in sufficient sugar to sweeten it moderately, and the whites of the two eggs frothed without sugar. Have the Chocolate-pot very hot and pour the Chocolate into it. Serve it in cups, laying on top of each cup of Chocolate a spoonful of the sweetened froth or meringue. Iced Chocolate.—Break 4oz. of Chocolate into small pieces; put these in a saucepan with J teacupful of cold water, and stir over a slow fire, with a wooden spoon, until dissolved. Take the Chocolate off the fire, mix in 1 teacupful of hot water, and stir it well for a few minutes; mix 1 teacupful of cold syrup at 30deg. Fahr. with this, and turn it into a freezer. When frozen, it is ready to serve. Mulled Chocolate.—Blend 3 table-spoonfuls of grated Chocolate to a paste with boiling- water. Put 3 pints of fresh milk over the fire, and as soon as it boils stir in the Chocolate paste; let it simmer for ten minutes, and then with a Choco- late-muller churn it to a froth, keeping it over the fire meanwhile. Pour it into a Chocolate-pot, and serve at once. Parfait au Chocolat.—Put Jib. of the best Chocolate in a saucepan with a small quantity of water, and stir it over the fire till dissolved. Prepare a custard with 1 pint of milk, ten eggs, and sugar to taste ; mix the dissolved Chocolate with this, and pass the whole through a silk sieve or tammy-cloth ; then place the mixture over ice, and work in with it a small quantity of whipped cream and syrup. When quite smooth, turn the custard into a long plain mould (called in France a mould a parfait), and pack it in ice for two hours. Dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the parfait on to a folded napkin on a dish, and serve. Stamped Chocolates.—To form the Chocolate into shapes, have two kinds of moulds, made either of thick tin or copper tinned inside. The one, with a narrow edge, is impressed with a device or figures, such as men, fish, &c.; the other is flat, or nearly so, and the same size as the first, with a shallow device in the centre. Pound some unsweetened Chocolate in a warm mortar, and when it forms a paste put it in the first mould, and then press the flat stamp on the Chocolate. In this way the Chocolate is marked with both the devices. When it is cold it can be easily taken out. These are not usually attempted by amateurs, because of the expense of the stamps and moulds. Fig. 460. Loin Chop. CHOPS.—There is no word in any other language that can he called the direct representative of “ Chop.” To those acquainted with English, the signification is unique, nor can it lie confounded with the foreign