TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 305 uces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Carrots—continued. it is cold, add 41b. of bitter almonds blanched and finely chopped, the grated rind and juice of four lemons, and 4 tum- blerful of brandy, mixing all thoroughly together. Put the jam into jars, cover the tops with prepared paper, and tie tightly down. Carrot Marmalade.—Put the thinly-pared rind of four lemons in a small quantity of water, and boil them until soft. Peel 21b. of large Carrots, put them in a saucepan with water to cover, and boil until tender (they must not be overcooked, or they will break). When cooked, drain the Carrots and lemon-peel and cut them into thin strips. Put the water in which the lemon- peel was boiled in a preserving-pan with ljlb. of lump sugar, and boil until little bubbles rise to the top. Then put in the shred Carrots and lemon-peel, and boil them until reduced to a thick pulp, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon to prevent burning at the bottom of the pan. Great care must be taken with this, as if the marmalade is at all burnt it will be unfit for eating. Fill glasses or jars with the marmalade, and leave it until quite cold before covering them. Carrot Pie.—Peel, wash, and slice some Carrots lengthwise, and boil them ; when they are partly cooked, strain them. Put some puff paste round the edge of a pie-dish, put in the Carrots, season with a little salt and pepper, pour a little water over them, cover with some more puff paste, slightly moistening the edge so that the two j>astes may adhere to each other, and bake in a slow oven until a light brown. Carrot Plum Pudding-.—Mix with 41b. of flour 41b. of cold boiled potatoes that have been well mashed, 41b. of sugar, 41b. of chopped suet, 41b. of raw grated Carrots, 41b. of currants washed and dried, 41b of stoned raisins, loz. of chopped candied peel, a little grated nutmeg, and 1 teaspoonful of mixed spices ; mix thoroughly together, but do not add any water, as the Carrots will moisten the sugar sufficiently. Turn the mixture into a pudding-basin which has been greased, cover the top with a floured pudding-cloth, tie it down, and boil for six hours. Serve with brandy or wine sauce. Carrot Pudding-.—(1) Put sufficient Carrots into a saucepan so that when they have been boiled and scraped there will be Jib.; put them in a mortar with an equal quantity of sugar, pound them well, and make into a paste with Jib. of butter slightly melted, ten well-beaten eggs, 1 wineglassful of brandy, a little grated nutmeg and lemon-peel, and a little lemon-juice. Line a pie-dish with some good puff paste, put in the Carrot mixture, place the dish in the oven, and bake for an hour ; then serve. (2) Grate Jib. of Carrots and lib. of breadcrumbs and mix up with the whites of eight eggs, 2oz. of butter, J pint of cream or milk, J pint of wine and rose-water in equal proportions, spicing and sweetening to taste. Lay a puff paste over the dish, bake for an hour, and sift sugar over it. (3) Take Jib. of grated Carrots, Jib. of flour, Jib. of bread- crumbs, Jib. of suet, Jib. of currants washed and dried, the grated rind of half a lemon, and 2 table-spoonfuls of treacle. Mix all well together with just enough milk to make it into a stiff dough. Boil it in a mould for an-hour-and-a half, being careful that it boils quickly all the time. See that the water is boiling fast when the pudding is put in, and should the water reduce much while the pudding is boiling, replenish with boiling water from a kettle kept boiling for the purpose. Carrot Puree.—(1) Steam four medium-sized finely-chopped Carrots for fifteen minutes in a saucepan with 2oz. of butter; then moisten with lqt. of white broth, adding a teacupful of raw rice, a bouquet garni, J table-spoonful of salt, and 1 tea- spoonful of pepper. Cook thoroughly for thirty minutes, then rub it through a fine sieve. Finish with a teacupful of cream, and serve with 2 table-spoonfuls of small fried croutons. (2) Scrape and wash lib. of fresh young Carrots, cut them into slices, and put in a stewpan with a good-sized lump of butter. Toss them about over a brisk fire until they begin to brown ; then put in an onion with two cloves stuck in it, a bay-leaf, that should be tied together with a small sprig each of thyme and parsley, and pour over sufficient water to cover. Boil the Carrots until tender, then turn them on to a fine wire sieve, remove the onion and bunch of herbs, and rub the Carrots through the sieve with a wooden spoon. Return the mashed Carrots to the saucepan with a small piece of butter, and keep them stewing slowly at the edge of the fire for an For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Carrots—continued. hour or two—the longer the better. Season the puree to taste. If too thick, a small quantity of broth may be mixed with it. Serve it very hot. Carrot Puree 'with Rice. — Mince ljlb. of fresh, tender Carrots, and fry them in a stewpan with a piece of butter, a little salt, and 1 pinch of sugar ; moisten them with a little broth, put the cover on the stewpan, remove it to the side of the fire, and let it boil until the broth is reduced, stirring the Carrots about occasionally. Have two or three potatoes boiled in salted water, and when done drain them and dry in the oven ; then mix them with the Carrots, and pass all together through a sieve. Put this puree into a stewpan, add slowly 2qts. of good broth, and stir it; when it boils, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer for twenty-five minutes. Season it with salt and pepper, skim all the scum off, thicken with three yolks of eggs, pour it through a fine sieve into a soup-tureen, and add to it 4 table-spoonfuls of boiled rice. Carrot-Puree Soup.—Mince very finely all the red part of some Carrots, fry it with butter, and finish cooking by adding a little broth ; when done, reduce the broth to a glaze, stir in 6 table- spoonfuls of bechamel sauce, and strain through a sieve. Mix with this puree 3 pints of white broth, then pass it all through a sieve into a saucepan, stand it on the fire, and stir it until it begins to bubble; then move it on one side of the stove, and leave it for an hour to settle. Skim off all the fat from the broth, and thicken it with a liaison of four yolks of eggs diluted with cream and passed through a sieve, and put the soup over the fire again, stirring in a few table-spoonfuls of blanched nouilles and a piece of butter. When the soup is hot, pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve. Carrot Salad.—Boil some Carrots, and, when cold, slice them and put them on a dish. Make a salad-dressing, cut some hard- boiled eggs in halves, and put them round the dish. Chop somo parsley fine and garnish the dish with this, some capers, and chopped olives, and pour the dressing over before serving. Carrots Sautes a la Creme.—Pare off the ends of six good- sized Carrots, scrape them neatly, wash thoroughly, and cut in rounds Jin. thick ; put these into a saucepan with white broth or salted water to cover, place the lid on the saucepan, and lot them cook for thirty minutes. Remove, drain, and place them in a saute-pan with 3 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce and 1 breakfast-cupful of cream or milk, and season with 1 pinch of salt, J pinch of pepper, and J pinch of nutmeg. After ten minutes, place them in a hot dish, sprinkle over 1 pinch of chopped parsley, and serve. Carrot Soup.—(1) Scrape six large Carrots, cut off the red parts, and put them into a stewpan; slice two onions, cut up one head of celery and Jib. or so of raw ham, and put them in the stewpan with the Carrots, then add 1 piled table-spoonful of butter, put the lid on, and simmer over the fire for ten minutes ; next add lqt. of stock, and let all simmer until the vegetables are tender. Drain the vegetables well, pound them in a mortar, put them in the stock they were cooked in, and add another pint; strain this through a fine hair sieve, put it into the stewpan, and stir gently over a moderate fire until it boils ; then move the stewpan to one side, skim off all the fat, and let it simmer gently for a-quarter-of-an-hour. When ready to serve, add a gill of cream, J teaspoonful of sugar, and a little pepper and salt. (2) Boil four or five good-sized Carrots till tender. Cut up the red part only and rub it through a sieve. Then weigh it, and to Jib. add and stir in, by degrees, lqt. of good stock; season to taste with salt and a little cayenne. Let it boil up, put it into a tureen, and send to table very hot. Servo with bread cut into small square pieces, and fried. Carrots Stewed with Sugar. — Scrape the Carrots, wash them, cut into slices, scald in boiling water for five minutes, and drain them. Put a good-sized lump of butter in a stewpan, melt it, and then put in the Carrots ; moisten them to their height with broth, and season to taste with salt and pepper and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Stir the Carrots over the fire with a wooden spoon, dredging in at the same time a small quantity of flour. Beat the yolks of two eggs with 1 table-spoonful of moist sugar ; when the Carrots are tender, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and stir in the beaten eggs. Do not let the liquor boil after the eggs are added. Serve the Carrots very hot. 2 F