431 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sautes, <£•<;., referred to, see under their special heads. Consomme—continued. Consomme—continued. Consomme on Plates (aux Plats).—Make about ljqts. of Consomme (as for Consomme with Quenelles, No. 2), strain it, and place by the side of the fire to keep hot. Cut off some 1-in. slices of stale brown bread, and shape them 2in. by lin., keeping the crust on. Place about seven or eight of these pieces of bread upon each plate, arranged in a circle, leaning- on their edges, and one edge overlapping the next. Slightly butter the centres of the plates so dressed, break a fresh egg and pour it in, add some salt and pepper, and pour a little of the Consomme on the bottom of each plate. Put them into a gentle oven, so as to lightly poach the egg, take them out, pour a little more of the Consomme over the bread, and serve the plates and a tureenful of the Consomme separately. The Consomme should have a garnish of small vegetables mixed up with it. Consomme witli Quenelles (aux Quenelles).—(1) Prepare eighteen small quenelles (see Pig. 510), arrange them in a buttered stewpan, taking care that they do not touch each Fig. 510. Rolling Small Quenelles. other, pour some salted water over them, and poach for two minutes. Drain on a sieve, put them in the tureen with lqt. of boiling Consomme poured over them, and serve. (2) Remove the flesh from an uncooked chicken, and with it make some quenelle forcemeat. Take ilb. of lean beef and the same quantity of veal, chop it up fine, put it into a stewpan with two well-beaten eggs, and moisten with 3qts. of cold broth, with the fat skimmed oft'. Chop a cooked fowl into pieces, put .them in the pan with the legs, wings, giblets, and back of the raw chicken, and a finely-minced carrot, leek, and small piece of celery. Put the pan on a good fire, let it boil gently, and when it begins to bubble, it must be removed to the side, so that only one side will be boiling-. Take two tea- spoons and mould the forcemeat into small quenelles, throw them into boiling water to poach, take them out, drain on a strainer, and put them into the tureen. Then remove the fat, and strain the Consomme through a damped cloth over the quenelles. (3) Make a dozen chicken quenelles, colour one-tliird of them with pounded tarragon, another with lobster coral, and the other with pounded truffles, put them into separate pans, poach them in the bain-marie, and put them into cold water until a game Consomme is ready; then put them into the tureen, and pour the boiling Consomme over them. Serve very hot. (4) Butter the bottom and sides of twelve quenelle moulds, decorate them with sliced truffles and cooked smoked tongue, fill them with chicken forcemeat, poach them in salted water for two minutes, turn them out of the moulds, and serve in a hot tureen with lqt. of boiling Consomme poured over them. (5) Put 14 teacupfuls of chicken forcemeat in a paper cornet, and cut away the end of the cornet, leaving a ^in. aperture. Butter a pan, and with the forcemeat make eighteen round quenelles. Put on top of each quenelle a small slice of truffle, poach them for two minutes in white broth, drain them in a hair sieve, and serve in the tureen, after pouring lqt. of Consomme over them and adding 1 table- spoonful of cooked green peas and six cooked cocks’ combs. Consomme with Rice and Cream (au Creme de Riz).— Remove the fat from 4gall. of Consomme or white stock, put it into a stewpan, place it on the fire to boil, and when on I the point of boiling, stir in 4 table-spoonfuls of ground rice, previously moistened with a little of the stock. Boil for ten minutes, add 1 teaspoonful each of sugar and salt, boil again, and when the rice is quite done, pour in 4 pint of boiling- cream. Remove from the fire, strain, and serve. Duchess Consomme (a la Duchesse). - Rub a small baking- sheet with butter, cover it with 4oz. of choux-paste rolled out about jin. thick, cook in the oven for six minutes, and then cover the paste with forcemeat in small lumps at a little distance apart, pressed through a cornet. Cut the paste with »a paste-cutter into twelve equal-sized pieces, each piece holding a lump of the forcemeat, put them in the tureen, pour lqt. of boiling Consomme over, and serve. English Consomme (a l’Anglaise).—Add 1 teacupful of minced cooked fowl and 3 table-spoonfuls of cooked green peas to lqt. of boiling Consomme, and serve very hot. Gourmet Consomme (a l’Epicure).—Cut three thin slices from the centres of three round dinner rolls, toast them on one side, and mask them on that side with a good coating of grated Parmesan cheese. Dust a little pepper over, place them on a gridiron, and put in the oven until the cheese is nearly melted and a little browned. Take them out, put them on a warm dish, and keep them quite hot. Meanwhile put lqt. of game or chicken Consomme into a stewpan, place it on the fire, let it boil, and immediately pour in 4 tumblerful of Madeira; then put in eight or ten fresh eggs, one at a time, without breaking the yolks, and let them poach in it. When the liquor begins to boil, cover over the pan, and remove it to the side of the fire. Take out the eggs, and put them on the pieces of toast. Strain the Consomme through a sieve, and serve it in a tureen, with the eggs and toast separately. Indian Consomme (a 1’ Indienne).—Cut one cooked artichoke- bottom into dice, and one slice of fried egg-plant fruit into pieces, drain them on a cloth to remove all the fat, add 2 table-spoonfuls of cooked rice and 1 teaspoonful of curry- powder rubbed smooth in a little water, put these into a soup-tureen with lqt. of boiling Consomme, and serve. Italian Consomme (a 1’ Italienne). — Put lqt. of Consomme into a saucepan, boil quickly, add f breakfast-cupful of Italian paste, cook for six minutes, stirring frequently, and sei-ve. When macaroni, rice, spaghetti, &e., are used, they must be parboiled, and broken into pieces before being added to the Consomme. Neapolitan Consomme (a la Napolitaine).—Cut into pieces 2oz. of cooked macaroni, adding 40z- of chopped cooked tongue, 4°z- of lean cooked ham, and two or three mush- rooms cut into small pieces. Pour all into a tureen with lqt. of boiling Consomme, and serve with grated cheese on a separate dish. Olio Consomme.—This is a great favourite at the Court of Vienna, we are informed by Dubois, and is of Spanish origin. It is prepared as follows: Make some good stock with a piece of round of beef, two knuckles of veal blanched, and two calf’s feet, put it into a saucepan with some vegetables, a little salt, and lOqts. of broth, and boil very steadily. When the meat is quite done, take it out, let it drain, strain the liquor through a cloth, remove the fat, and let the broth set. Take a small quantity each of onions, leeks, carrots, celery-roots, and parsley-roots, mince coarsely, put them into a stewpan with a little butter, fry them, and when coloured, put in a pound or two of fat pork, two partridges, a shoulder of mutton, a couple of chickens, two hind-legs of a hare, and a few pheasant and chicken bones—the whole of them being partly boiled previously and the meat cut up in rather small pieces; then season with a piece of blanched ham, some uncooked poultry giblets, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 1 table-spoonful of whole spice. Let these all fry for a few minutes, pour in the stock, skim well, and let it simmer at the side of the fire until the meat is done. Pour the Consomme into another stewpan, remove the fat, add a bottle of Malaga or Madeira, and let it clarify by the side of the fire for an hour or so, keeping it well skimmed. It is then ready for use, or a little rice may be added. Royal Consomme (a la Royale).—(1) Beat two eggs, and mix with them 4 teacupful of milk and 1 pinch of salt. Butter a small basin, pour in the beaten eggs and milk, stand the basin in a larger one containing hot water, put