452 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Crabs—continued. gently oyer tlie fire for about ten minutes, and add 2oz. of butter warmed and mixed up with one boned anchovy, and stir in the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Sprinkle in sufficient sifted breadcrumbs to thicken, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve with the claws and sprigs of parsley for garnish (see Fig. 541). Scalloped Crabs.— (1) Remove the meat from the shells of twelve Crabs, rejecting the stomach (which lies just at the back of the eyes), the intestine (which is coiled up in the middle of_ the body), and the soft fins (which lie under the legs), but saving the green fat and the curd (which lie next the shell). Boil two eggs hard, remove the shells, and chop them fine ; grate the rind and strain the juice of a lemon. Put 1 table-spoonful each of butter and flour into a saucepan over the fire, and stir them until they bubble; then gradually stir in 1 pint of milk, and let the sauce thus made boil for a moment; season it with 1 teaspoonful of salt, i saltspoonful of pepper, and a dust of cayenne ; add the Crab-meat, chopped eggs, and lemon. Let these ingredients all heat together, and put the mixture into scallop shells, or on a dish which can be sent to table. Dust cracker-crumbs over the tops, brown the scalloped Crab in a hot oven, and serve at once. (2) Pick out all the meat from the shell of one large Crab, chop it up with some mushrooms, parsley, truffles, and one small onion; put these in a saucepan with a little butter, and turn them about until they are a nice dark brown. Clean and wash the shell. Add some flour, salt, cayenne pepper, and a little corach to the mixture, stir it over the fire a few minutes longer, then turn it into the shell; sprinkle breadcrumbs over the aperture, add a small piece of butter, and brown with a salamander. Serve while very hot. (3) West Indian Style.—To prepare this the required quantity of Crabs should be obtained alive, and their claws pulled off. Put the bodies into a saucepan of cold water and boil them, take out and let them get cold, remove all the flesh, taking care not to break the gall, and mix the dark fat up with the meat; season with cayenne, salt, and pepper, add lime-juice to taste, and mix in a few bread- or biscuit-crumbs. Fill the backs, which must be well cleaned, with the mixture, put them into a moderate oven, and bake for fully ten minutes ; take them out, and serve very hot. The black fat may be omitted if not liked, but it is considered a very great improvement. Stewed Crab with Tomatoes.—Select a large-sized Crab, take out the flesh from the claws and body, as well as the soft parts, carefully removing the lungs (the grey part) and all pieces of shell. Weigh the meat, and to every pound of it add -Jib. of fine breadcrumbs taken from a very stale loaf and passed through a coarse sieve, J pint of tomato sauce, the grated peel and juice of half a lemon, and a few very thinly- cut slices of the same cut off before squeezing. Sprinkle over the mixture a little salt and pepper, and a taste of cayenne (if liked). Put these into a saucepan with 1 wineglassful of sherry or Chablis, place the pan over the fire, and simmer gently for fifteen minutes, stirring frequently. If the Crab is a very dry one, a little more wine may be added, or a small quantity of milk ‘ or water may be mixed with it in the first place. Warm uji slowly, and when hot turn it out into a deep dish, and garnish round the edge with half-slices of lemon and small triangular pieces of dry toast arranged alternately. Soft-shell Crabs require well washing before being subjected to the cook’s hands. It is advisable to rinse them repeatedly, and then to lay them on the table to dry. They must be handled gently, or the claws will be broken off. Next, with a sharp knife cut a half-circle out of the body, passing the blade just behind the eyes— this will remove the eyes and sand-bag—then lift the apron or Hap at the back underpart of the body and cut it away. Boiled Soft-shell Crabs.—Take off the small claws and drop the bodies into boiling' salted water; boil them for a-quarter- of-an-hour, and when they are done, take them out, drain them, and serve with either mayonnaise, cream, butter, or parsley sauce. Broiled Soft-shell Crabs.—After preparing some Soft-shell Crabs, dip them into melted butter seasoned with pepper and salt, put them between the bars of a buttered double-wire Crabs—continued. broiler, and broil them until the shells are bright red and slightly browned. As soon as they are done, serve them hot with melted butter and lemon-juice, or with a lemon cut into quarters. Slices of hot, dry toast may be served under them. Fried Soft-shell Crabs. - Have ready a dish full of fine, dry breadcrumbs or cracker-dust mixed with a little pepper and salt, and on the stove a frying-kettle or large frying- pan half-full of smoking-hot fat; beat two eggs until they are quite mixed, roll the Crabs in the crumbs, dip them for an instant in the beaten eggs, taking care not to wash off the crumbs, then roll them again in the crumbs, and put them in the hot fat to fry ; they will be done as soon as they are brown all over. Take them out with a skimmer, lay for a moment on brown paper to free from grease, and serve hot. A lemon cut into quarters makes a good garnish for them, the juice being squeezed over the Crabs if desired. Sometimes the juice of a lemon is mixed with 1 table-spoon- ful of melted butter and a little pepper and salt, and poured over the Crabs just before sending them to table. Stewed Soft-shell Crabs with Okras.—Brown in a saucepan with Joz. of butter, a chopped onion, about loz. of raw ham cut into dice, half a green-pepper pod (also cut into small dice), J table-spoonful of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of pepper; moisten this with lqt. of white broth or consomme, add 1 table- spoonful of uncooked rice, six sliced okras, and a sliced tomato. Let all cook thoroughly for about twenty minutes, and five minutes before serving add the flesh of three well- washed, minced, Soft-shell Crabs. Oyster-Crabs are best known in America, where they form a very high-class dish. The modes of preparing them for the table are limited, and the Crabs themselves are none too plentiful for their quality. Fried Oyster-Crabs.—Wash and dry 1J pints of Oyster- Crabs, dip them first in flour, then in cold milk, and finally in cracker-dust or finely-sifted breadcrumbs; shake them well in a colander, and fry in hot fat for three minutes. Serve in croustades made of short-paste (see Fig. 542), garnish with parsley, and sprinkle a little salt over before serving. Stewed Oyster-Crabs a la Foulette.—Remove all the meat from 1J pints of Oyster-Crabs, put it into a saucepan with a little of the liquor from them, and add loz. of butter, a little each of salt and pepper ; parboil for three or four minutes, add gently 1 breakfast-cupful of Hollandaise sauce, stew for two minutes longer (but without boiling), add the juice of half a lemon and 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley ; stir gently, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. CRAB-AFFIiES.—The fruit of the wild apple-tree is generally known by this name; but the American Crab- apple (Pyrus coronaria) is a cultivated tree bearing long- stalked fruit, which grows in clusters or bunches (see Fig. 543). Another variety is the Siberian Crab (Pyrus baccata), which is much smaller, cherry-like, and dark skinned; the ffesli being more or less red and pink throughout. Either of these is excellent for table pur- poses, when cooked and preserved. The following receipts are strongly recommended: American Crab-apple Cheese.—(1) Select as many Crab- apples as will fill a large wide-mouthed jar, and after carefully wiping them, cut away such parts as are bruised or unsound