TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 396 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <1c., referred to, see under their special heads. Clams—continued. well kneaded in flour, or a handful of crackers, and complete the cooking'; then remove the herbs, stir in 6oz. of butter, and serve. (2) Well wash six potatoes, and peel and cut them into small dice-shaped pieces. Wash again in fresh water; take them out, drain them, and place them in a 3qt. stewpan, adding 2qts. of cold water. Peel one medium-sized onion, chop it up very fine, and place it on a plate; take a quarter of a bunch of well-washed and picked parsley, and place it with the onions. Well wash two bunches of celery, chop it up very fine, place it with the parsley and onions, add all these to the contents of the stewpan, and place the pan on a brisk fire; season with a light pinch of salt, adding at the same time a table-spoonful of b itter, and let all cook until the potatoes are nearly done, eighteen minutes being generally sufficient. Cut out crosswise, from a piece of fresh pork, one slice jin. thick, and cut this into pieces jin. square ; fry, and reduce these in a pan on the hot stove for four minutes, and add them to the broth, together with f teaspoonful of thyme. Lightly scald four fine medium-sized tomatoes, peel, and cut them into small pieces, and add to the preparation. Open and place in a bowl twenty-four medium-sized, fresh Clams, pouring into another bowl half of their juice. Place the Clams on a wooden board, cut each into four equal pieces, immediately plunge them into the pan with the remainder of the ingredients, and gently mix, so as to prevent burning, stirring from the bottom, and boiling only for two minutes. ( Put the pan on the corner of the stove to keep warm. Season with 1 saltspoonful of black pepper and 1 table- spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, gently stirring the whole | with a wooden spoon; break in two crackers, stir a little | again, and leave two minutes longer on the side of the fire, but under no circumstances allowing it to boil. Pour the chowder into a hot soup-tureen, and serve. Clam Croquettes.—Steam or boil some Clams, chopping the hard parts into small pieces. Take both the soft and the hard parts and mix them with a thick cream sauce, add salt and pepper to season, and make them into small rolls or croquettes; roll these in breadcrumbs, dip them in beaten egg, then into the crumbs again, throw them into boiling lard, and fry to a light colour. Clam Forcemeat.—Fry an onion chopped very fine in loz. of butter until it is a golden colour, adding 1 table-spoonful of flour to make a roux, moisten with j pint of stock, stirring [ well and continuously until the same hardens, season with £ table-spoonful of salt, a scant teaspoonful each of white pepper and cayenne, 1 table-spoonful of Worcester sauce, % teaspoonful of mustard, a crushed clove or garlic, and 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Stir well, adding twenty- four blanched Clams minced exceedingly fine, and twelve mushrooms, also chopped up small. Cook for thirty minutes in a saucepan, then put it back off the fire, add the yolks of four eggs, and stir again for a moment. Cool, and use as required. Clam Fritters.—(1) Wash 1 pint of Clams, drain them, chop them up, and add a little salt and pepper. Then make a good frying batter, put the Clam mixture in small quantities into it, cover well, and fry in boiling fat. (2) Put some fresh Clams into one pan and their liquor into another. Prepare a mixture of broken crackers and flour in equal quantities, and dip the Clams first into their own liquor and then into this, repeating the operation three times, lastly dipping them into milk and then again into the flour mixture. Have ready some boiling lard, drop in a few Clams at a time, and let them fry for four or five minutes ; then, take them out with a skimmer, put them on a strainer, drain away the fat, and they are ready to serve. The pan containing the lard must be so deep that the Clams will be J covered when put in. (3) Carefully wash all the sand away from 1 pint of Clams, ! chop them fine, and strain the water in which they were J washed. Have ready, over the fire, a frying-kettle half full of fat. Mix together a breakfast-cupful of flour, the chopped Clams, the yolk of an egg, 1 teaspoonful of salt, i salt-spoon- ful of pepper, and enough of the water in which the Clams were washed to make a thick batter. When the fat is hot beat the white of one egg to a stiff froth, stir it into the batter, drop it by the table-spoonful into the fat when it "is I Clams—continued. smoking hot, and fry the fritters to a good brown. Take them out of the fat with a skimmer, lay them on brown paper for a moment to free them from grease, and serve them hot. Clam-Juice Broth.—Wash the Clams in their shells in cold water, put them on the stove in a good thick saucepan, and as they get hot the shells will open ; then carefully pour out the broth, strain it through a fine cloth, season to taste, and serve hot. Clam Soup. —(1) Prepare the Clams as for Steamed Clams; then take lqt. of the Clam liquor after it has settled, put it in a saucepan, boil it, and remove the scum ; then add 1 pint of boiling water, and season with pepper, salt, cayenne, onion, and parsley. Put in the hard part of the Clams which have previously been removed, and let it simmer for a quarter-of- an-hour longer, then strain, and boil again, and while it is boiling thicken it with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, cooked in 1 table-spoonful of butter. Put in 1 pint of hot milk or cream and the soft part of the Clams, and when they are all done put them on a dish, and serve with crackers and pickles. (2) If the soup is wanted in a hurry, heat the Clam liquor to boiling point, cut the Clams up into small pieces, and put them in; add seasoning, and pour the liquor into a tureen over two eggs well whisked and diluted with boiling milk. (3) For this soup fifty large, or one hundred small Clams will be required. In removing them from the shell, carefully preserve the liquor, which should be strained into a saucepan, and add to it lqt. each of milk and water. If the Clams are large cut them into halves, put them into the saucepan, and boil over a moderate fire until they are tender, say for about one hour. Skim the soup clear, add to it ^lb. of crackers (broken small), or jib. of butter crackers (rolled fine) ; cover the pot for ten minutes; then add jib. of butter, and serve hot. (4) Wash 1 pint of Clams and steam them in their own liquor, cut the soft part from the hard, and chop the latter very fine. Thicken 1 pint of hot cream with 1 table-spoonful of flour, cooked in 1 table-spoonful of butter; then add both the soft and hard parts of the Clams, and season with salt and pepper. If the puree be too thick, add a little more cream or a little of the Clam liquor. Put it on to boil, and when quite hot strain it, and serve in a tureen. Fried Clams.—Wash a bunch, or 1 pint of soft Clams removed from their shells, in cold water, to free them from sand, and lay them separately on a towel to dry; have ready a frying- kettle half full of fat, and set this over the fire. Whilst the fat is heating, prepare a dish of beaten raw eggs, and a platter of cracker-dust or breadcrumbs; roll the Clams in the crumbs, then dip them in the beaten eggs ; again roll them in crumbs, and when the fat is smoking hot, put them into it, and fry to a golden brown. Take them out with a skimmer, lay them on brown paper to drain off the fat, and serve hot. Fried Clams should be sent to table with a garnish of lemon, cut into quarters, or a dish of sliced fresh or pickled cabbage. Little-necked Clams served Raw. — Wash some of these Clams in water, scrubbing them with a brush, wipe them dry on a cloth, open them, and cut them away from the shells. Put five in a plate on the half shells, with half a lemon placed in the centre of the plate, and serve with crackers and a small dish of finely-chopped cold cabbage. Scalloped Clams.—(1) Well wash six good-sized Clam shells, fill them with Clam forcemeat, flatten them with the hand sprinkle over sifted breadcrumbs, smooth the surface with the blade of a knife, and moisten with a little clarified butter. Arrange them on a baking-pan, and bake until they are well browned, which will take about six minutes. Place them on a hot dish, and serve at once, with sprigs of parsley for garnish. (2) Prepare as for Steamed Clams. Make a white fish sauce, put the fish into shells or in a hollow dish, pour the sauce over them, sprinkle over a few buttered crumbs, put them in the oven, and bake until of a light brown colour. Soft-Clam Soup.—Cleanse 1 pint of soft Clams in 2qts. of cold water until they are free from sand, and then strain the water through a towel fine enough to retain the sand. Cut the hard part of the Clams away from the soft portions, and put the latter in a cool place till the soup is nearly done ; then chop