TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 353 uces, k'c., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Cheese—continued. and stir over the fire until melted. Mix a small table- spoonful of flour with the Cheese, continue stirring it until smooth and the butter begins to run from the Cheese, then take it off and turn it on to a hot dish ; spread a layer of honey over, and serve immediately. Welsh Rarebit.— (1) Chop small Jib. of cooking Cheese, put it with 2oz. of butter in a little saucepan, and as the butter melts and the Cheese gets warm, mash them together. When softened, add two yolks of eggs, ^ teacupful of ale, and a little cayenne pepper and salt. Stir till it is creamy, but do not let it boil, for that would spoil it. Place some slices of buttered toast on a dish, pour the Welsh rarebit upon them, and set inside the oven about two minutes before serving. Some use milk instead of ale. (2) Take |lb. of Cheese and break it into small pieces if it is soft; but if hard, grate it. Put J teacupful of milk into a double boiler and add the Cheese. Mix 1 teaspoonful of mustard, a little cayenne, and £ teaspoonful of salt together, add one eg’g, and beat well. When the Cheese has melted, add the egg mixture and 1 teaspoonful of butter, and cook for two minutes longer, or until it is thick, taking care not to let it curdle. Pour the mixture over four slices of toast, without crusts, that have been kept warm, and then serve. Ale may be used in place of the milk, or cream substituted, if preferred. ■ (3) Cut up into small pieces lib. of American Cheese, place them in a saucepan, pour over )- tumblerful of good ale, and season with ^ saltspoonful of cayenne pepper. Stir continu- ally over the fire with a wooden spoon until the mass is well melted, which will take about ten minutes. Have ready six large pieces of toast, arrange them on a very hot dish, pour over the preparation, spreading it equally, and serve very hot. Welsh Rarebit an Gratin.—Cut off six slices of bread,'toast them lightly, cover with Gruytro Cheese cut into slices a little less than fin. thick, and lay them in a roasting-pan, sprinkling over pepper to taste and covering with browned breadcrumbs. Put the pan in the oven for about ten minutes. Arrange the toast on a very hot dish, and send to the table. Welsh-Rarebit Sandwich.—Put 7,1b. of mild American Cheese in a mortar with 2oz. of butter and 1 teaspoonful of mustard, pound well together, and dilute with a small quantity of tarragon vinegar. Spread the mixture between slices of bread, and serve. Of the Pests to which Cheeses are subject, the two following are the commonest and most important: Cheese Hoppers.—These are the larvae of a two- winged fly (Piophila casei), which infests dairies and Cheese-stores, laying its eggs in cracks or crevices in the Cheese, which is destined to be the future food of the Fig. 436. Cheese Hoppers (Magnified). young. The fly (see Fig. 436) is small, with a shining black body, and having reddish forehead, antenna*, and legs. When the larvae are hatched they soon make their presence felt by their voracious attack upon the Cheese. They are called “hoppers” or “jumpers,” be- cause of their extraordinary power of springing into the air, which is brought about in the following marvellous manner: The maggot curls itself up until its head and tail meet, then it fastens two small hook-shaped man- dibles into the tail, and stretching itself until the circle formed is flattened, it suddenly lets go and springs into the air, and to a considerable distance. Swammerdam, the naturalist, saw one not jin. long jump out of a box Cheese—continued. .6in. deep, and he observes that this would equal, in pro- portion to size, a man jumping 50yds. into the air. The Cheese-fly is of the family Muscidw, to which the house-fly, blow-fly, and many others belong. To preserve Cheeses from these depredatory insects they should be brushed frequently, and all cracked or injured Cheeses should be moved, as soon as they are discovered, into separate stores. Cleanliness in the stores, dryness, and plenty of ventilation are the best preventatives. Cheese Mites.—The technical name for the species to which these little creatures belong is Acarus siro, more commonly known as Acarus domesticus. They are very minute insects, found in decayed Cheese, the dry and powdery parts consisting almost entirely of these and their ova in different stages of development. Upper View. Under View Fig. 437. Cheese Mites (Magnified). With the aid of a microscope the various gradations assumed on the way to maturity are exceedingly in- teresting, the period occupied from hatching to that stage occupying only eight days. By the illustrations given (see Fig. 437), it will be seen that the Cheese Mite is furnished with a long snout, forming strong, cutting, pointed mandibles, which the mite has the power of thrusting forward and withdrawing either one at a time or together. In this way a Cheese can be readily destroyed by them, for they crumble it into minute pieces, and emit as they proceed a liquid which causes the decay to spread rapidly. Blyth tells us that they appear to be very retentive of life, even without food. Leewenhoek confirms this, and adds further that one lived for eleven weeks gummed on its back to the point of a needle. He also observed that when kept for any length of time without food they are apt to fall upon and devour each other. A strong heat will kill them, and steeping a Cheese affected by them in whisky will have the same effect'. Some persons express a fondness for Cheese Mites, and devour them by the spoonful, even preferring them to Cheese, so they are wont to say. This may be, for as a matter of fact the mites taste of the Cheese in a milder form; but however depraved such a taste may be considered, it is exceeded by those who express a penchant for Cheese Hoppers. CHEESE CAKES.—In cookery it does not follow that cakes, or any other production, should always maintain the characteristics of manufacture or ingredients from which they originally derived a name. Numerous instances of name-perversion or mal-adaptation are familiar to cooks, but surely none are more erratic than the term with which we are now dealing. Originally, it is probable that cheese did form the prime constituent of the custard contained in the pastry case ; but if so, a corrupted taste has declared in favour of sweets before savouries. Our modern Cheese Cakes are more or less guiltless of cheese, but some adventurous chefs have cleverly combined the flavour of cheese with lemon custard, and have produced some 2 i