419 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sa^lces, Ac., referred to, see under, their special heads. Codfish —continued. cupful of gravy and a few drops of essence of anchovy, thickened with a little flour and 1 table-spoonful of chopped capers. Let the whole be boiled up for two or three minutes, then serve. fried Cod’s Roe (Soft).—Put a large soft roe into -1- pint of boiling water, with 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, 1 pinch of salt, and a dust of pepper, and boil for ten minutes; then take it out, and put it on a strainer to drain. Beat up an egg, take half of it, put it in a basin, and dip the roe into it so as to cover it all over. Have ready some raspings and breadcrumbs mixed, dip the roe into this, plunge it into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry it on one side till brown; then turn, it over and fry the' other side. Place it on a dish, and serve with butter sauce flavoured with anchovy essence, or a little plain butter sauce seasoned with lemon-juice and cayenne pepper. Scalloped Cod’s Roe.—Cook about jib. of roe as for Cod’s Roe a t a Holdandaise. .Take 1 teaspoonful each of flour and cornflour and mix them with 1 table-spoonful of water; next take 3 teaspoonfuls of the liquor in which the roe was boiled while it is still at boiling point, stir it into the flour mixture, adding |oz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, and a little cayenne pepper, and put it over a brisk fire, stirring until it gets quite thick. Mask the roe with this, and put it on a dish well buttered and sprinkled with sifted breadcrumbs. Spread out the roe evenly, and cover with more breadcrumbs seasoned with salt and pepper, to about lin. in thickness; melt a little butter, spread it over the top, and then bake for twenty minutes in a quick oven. If it is not well browned in this time, use a salamander to finish it. Stewed Cod’s Roe. — Put the roe in a saucepan and cover it with equal quantities of vinegar and water, place it over the fire until boiling', then drain it. Put the roe in another saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and cover with equal quantities of white wine and stock. Boil the roe for fifteen minutes, then put it on a hot dish. Put Joz. of butter that has been kneaded with \ table-spoonful of flour in the cooking-liquor of the roe, and the juice of half a small lemon, and stir it over the fire. When thickened and boiling, pour the sauce over, and serve. Cod’s Sounds.—These are gelatinous fringes that run along each side of the backbone on the inside of the belly. They are highly esteemed by invalids and others as a nutritious luxury. There are various ways of pre- paring them for the table. Boiled Cod’s Sounds.—(1) Take six sounds and soak them in cold milk-and-water for several hours ; then boil them in some more milk-and-water until they are quite tender. Take them out, drain, and put them on a dish with a folded napkin or dish-paper spread over it, and serve egg sauce with them. (2) Boil the sounds as in No. 1, and cut them into pieces, but not too small. Make some egg sauce, put the pieces of sound into a pan with it, and place the pan on a gentle fire, continually shaking it until the fish is quite done. Arrange the sounds on a dish in the form of a pyramid, pouring the sauce over, and surround the dish with a garnish of boiled parsnips cut into neat shapes. (3) Scald some sounds, pare off their black skins, and rub them well with salt; then put them in a saucepan of cold water, and boil gently at the side of the fire until nearly cooked. Drain the sounds, dredge them over with flour, put them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire. Put loz. of butter in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until well mixed; then pour in a little more than J- pint of good gravy, season with salt and pepper, and continue stirring it over the fire until boiling. When cooked, lay the sounds on a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve. Cod’s Sounds-and-Tongues Pie.—Steep an equal quantity of sounds and tongues in cold water for twelve hours ; then put them into a stewpan with 2oz. of butter and fib. of sliced onions, put the pan on the fire, and fry them until they are of a i brown colour ; take them out, add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and 1 pint of good stock, and mix well until quite smooth. Put back ! Codfish —continued. the sounds and tongues, add 1 pinch of pepper, 1 wineglassful of Madeira or white wine. 1 teas] oonful of essence of anchovy, and the juice of half a lemon, and place the pan over the fire for five minutes, stirring frequently so as not to let them burn. Take out the tongues and sounds, arrange them in a pie-dish, mixing in with them a few uncooked o? sters and hard- boiled eggs cut into quarters, pour over the sauce, cover the dis-h with a light paste, and put it in the oven to bake. As soon as the crust has risen and is done, the pie is ready for serving. Roasted Cod’s Sounds.—Wash and clean some sounds, put them in a saucepan with sufficient milk-and-water to cover them, and boil gently until three-parts cooked; then move them off the fire, and leave until cold. Finely chop about two dozen oysters, and mix them with 1 breakfast-cupful of grated breadcrumbs and 2oz. of butter; season the mixture with salt and pepper and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and bind it with beaten yolks of eg-gs. Spread the forcemeat over the sounds, roll them round, fasten them securely with small skewers, baste willi a few table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, roll in finely-grated breadcrumbs, and lay in a Dutch oven to roast in front of a clear fire, turning constantly and hasting with butter, which should be kept for that purpose in a small basin near the fire. More grated breadcrumbs should be strewn over if the others fall off at all. When nicely browned, arrange the sounds on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of oyster sauce. Cod’s Tongues. -—• Although these tiny organs are not often noticed in the mouth of the fish, they are, never- theless, exceedingly tasty, and can he formed by an ingenious cook into a variety of pleasing dishes, amongst which the following will hold a leading position: Blanched Cod’s Tongues.- Well wash eighteen fresh Cod’s tongues in cold water ; then drain them, place in a saucepan on the hot stove, cover with fresh water, season with a handful of salt, six cloves, twelve whole peppers, one sliced onion, a bouquet garni, and half a sliced lemon, and let them come to the boil. Transfer them with the water and garnisliings to a stone jar, and they are ready for use. Boiled Cod’s Tongues.—(1) Place the tongues in warm water, and leave them for a-day-and-a-half, changing the water once. Put a pan of water on the fire, and when it boils throw in the tongues and boil them for ten minutes. Place pieces of toast on a dish, brush the tongues over with egg sauce, put them on the toast, and serve. (2) Proceed as in No. 1 as far as the boiling'. Let them get quite cool, and then put them into a frying-pan, previously either dipping in batter or brushing with egg and then bread- crumbing them, and fry to a light colour. They can be either served by themselves, or they make a very good garnish for large pieces of cooked Cod. Boiled Cod’s Tongues -withi Egg Sauce.—Wash in cold water 21b. of salted Cod’s tongues, pour lukewarm water over them, and let them remain where the water will retain its heat for two hours or longer. When the tongues have soaked, put them in a saucepan over the fire in enough cold water to cover them, add 1 breakfast-cupful of milk and a small red pepper-pod or a seasoning of cayenne, and cook slowly for about lialf-an-hour, or until they are tender. In the meantime, boil three eggs hard, remove the shells, and chop the eggs. Just before the tongues are done, put in a saucepan over the fire 1 table-spoonful each of butter and flour, and stir them together until they begin to bubble; then gradually stir in enough of the milk-and-water in which the tongues were boiled to make the sauce sufficiently salt, and more milk to bring it to the consistency of thick cream. Put the tongues into the sauce, add the chopped eggs, and serve hot. Cod’s Sounds-and-Tongues Pie.—Sec Cod’s Sounds. Cod’s Tongues a la Poulette. — Put eighteen blanched tongues into a saucepan on the stove, add 1 pint of Dutch sauce, i gill of the stock in which they were blanched, and 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and heat well for five minutes without boiling. Pour the whole into a deep, hot dish, sprinkle a little chopped parsley over, and serve. 2 N 2