298 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Carp—continued. than 1ft. But there are so many varieties, resembling each other in some points yet differing in many others. Those more frequently met with in our fish-markets are the English Carp (see Pig. 335), the Prussian Carp (see Fig. 336. Prussian Carp. Fig. 336), and the Gold Carp (see Fig. 337), all possessing about equal claim upon the cook. It is in season from September to May. The flesh is very highly esteemed by some epicures, and more especially the roe, which can be cooked in a variety of ways, but it is generally admitted that the body is better either stewed or braised. In its native state, the Carp is exceedingly long-lived, extending, so it is said, to over 200 years, which is not improbable, seeing how curiously tenacious of life it has proved to be. Indeed, Fig 337 Gold Carp. according to the accounts of certain natural historians, instances have been known of the Carp being taken by the hook from a private fish-pond, cut open and robbed of its roe, the incision being sewn up, and the Carp doing well after, even to the production of another roe. This legend may possibly be accepted with the proverbial pinch of salt. Baked Carp.—Clean a Carp, put it into a bowl of salted water and vinegar, and let it disgorge. Take it out, drain and dry it, stuff with well-seasoned forcemeat, sew up the belly, brush it all over with egg, dredge breadcrumbs over, and put a few small lumps of butter here and there on it. Place the fish in a deep earthenware dish, with two onions cut in slices, and a few sweet herbs; pour over 1 breakfast-cupful each of red wine and stock, mixed with 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce or essence, put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake for an hour. Put the Carp carefully on a dish, and keep it hot. Strain the liquor into a saucepan, add a lump of butter rolled in flour to thicken it, and stir constantly over the fire until it is done ; then mix in 2 teaspoonful of sugar, the juice of a lemon, and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Pour this round the fish or into a sauce- boat, and serve. Baked Carp a la Mariniere.—Take a good-sized Carp (say from 81b. to 101b.), scale, draw it, and cut a little off the fins, and put forcemeat in its inside. Remove a little of the skin from the back, leaving the flesh exposed, and lard this with fat bacon; then truss the head, put the fish on a drainer in a long fish-kettle, season it, and fill the kettle to about half the height of the fish with court-bouillon and white wine in the proportion of lqt. of the former to ^ pint of the latter. Put the kettle on the fire and let the liquid boil for five minutes ; then remove the Carp, and put it in a moderate oven for an-hour-and-a-half to bake, basting it frequently. When it is done, take it out, drain it, and pour Carp—continued. its stock through a sieve, putting the fish back again into the kettle to keep hot. Prepare a little brown sauce with the stock, and, when clarified and strained, put it into a flat stewpan with a handful of mushroom trimmings, pour a wineglassful of white wine into it, and reduce ; then pass it through a seive, and add jib. of good butter to it. Place the Carp on an oval dish, and garnish it on both sides with a bunch of quenelles of whitings, one of mushrooms, and one of blanched olives; glaze the larding with a paste-brush, and pour a little sauce over the other parts of the fish and a little at the bottom of the dish. Put the soft roes into the remainder of the sauce, and serve in a sauceboat. Boiled Carp.—(1) Clean and wash one or two Carp, put them into a saucepan, pour over sufficient rich beef-gravy to cover, and add a bunch of sweet herbs, one onion, three or four cloves, and salt to taste. Put the saucepan on a moderate fire, and cook gently for about an hour or until the fish is done. Pour a pint of strong beef-gravy into a saucepan with 2 wineglassfuls of port wine ; make this hot and add the strained juice of half a lemon. Place the Carp on a dish, pour over the hot, lemon-flavoured liquor, and serve at once. (2) Take a Carp, scale and clean it, and stuff the inside with some firm fish forcemeat mixed with cooked fine herbs. Put the fish, belly downwards, on the drainer of a fish-kettle with a good supply of court-bouillon and red wine mixed in the pro- portion of lqt. of the former to i pint of the latter. Boil up the liquid, and when boiling remove the kettle to the side of the fire, but keep it boiling till the fish is done, which for a Carp of 81b. or 101b. would be about an-hour-and-a-half. Next take an oval dish and put two small pieces of fried bread on it as a support to the fish; then cover over the dish with a napkin folded twice, and put the fish on it between the two pieces of bread. Garnish the dish with fresh parsley and large cooked crayfish. Prepare a sauce— either genoa or bordeaux—well beaten up with a little of the fish stock and mixed up with a garnish of crayfish tails. Put the sauce in a boat and serve. Matelote sauce may be used instead of the two named. (3) Scale and wash a couple of Carp, remove the livers and roes, and put them on one side; put the fish in a fish-kettle with a bunch of sweet herbs, one sliced onion, a small stick of horseradish, a lump of salt, lqt. of cider, sufficient water to cover the fish, and boil it. Chop two shallots, two boned anchovies, and finely mince the liver ; put them in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of soy; season with salt, black pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper ; pour in 1 pint of port Fig. 338. Boiled Carp. wine, and about | pint of the cooking-liquor of the fish. Boil the sauce about fifteen minutes, then strain it through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, put in loz. of butter that has been worked with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until thickened. Fry the roe of the Carp in butter. Put the Carp on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, garnish it with the roe, slices of lemon, and fried parsley, arranged in alternate groups, and serve (see Fig. 338). Bouchees of Carp Soft Bioes.—Roll out some puff paste at six turns to about lin. in thickness, cut it into rounds with a fluted tin cutter about 2 lin. in diameter, then with a plain tin cutter l£in. in diameter cut three-quarters through the centre of each ; arrange these on a buttered baking-sheet a short distance from each other, and bake them in a quick oven. Trim away the gut from ten or twelve soft roes of Carp, steep them, blanch them, then cut them into middling-sized pieces. Take the cases out of the oven when cooked, run a