313 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Carving—continued. alone some awkwardness arises; but this has to be over- come by plunging the fork upright into the very centre of the breastbone, and keeping it there until the bird is dis- posed of and distributed as desired. This will suggest the use of a second fork for serving, especially when operating upon a capon, goose, turkey, or other large bird. With a capon or pullet it is usual to remove the legs first (see Fig. 368, A, B), and this is done by passing the knife between the thigh and the body until the bone is reached, then the thigh is forced back and the joint laid open—the leg can then be removed readily enough with the point of the knife. In removing the wing (C) a part of the breast should be sliced away with it, carving close to the ribs, and then, when the joint is reached, bend out this limb also to expose the joint, and then sever with the knife. These instructions apply to all large birds, but are some- times neglected by persons ignorant of the ordinary rules of carving, the result being that in their frantic efforts to cut through the joints, without first exposing them, they score a wretched failure, as irritating to themselves as it is aggravating to the waiting guests, who watch their food being mangled. Having removed the legs and wings of the capon, they should be cut into two pieces lengthwise, passing through the joints (hinge joints), which are best cut through with carving-scissors. The breast can next be removed in splendid slices, as indicated by the dotted lines in A, Fig. 368. When all these parts are duly served some very good pickings can be supplied by dividing (through the ribs) the breast from the backbone, and cutting these again into lengths. c D Fio. 369. Carving Fowl. A fowl is carved very much in the same way as a capon, as may be seen from Fig. 369. The direction of the knife in cutting through the thigh is clearly shown at D, the legs and wings are first removed, and this is sometimes effected by a clever Carver at one stroke of the knife (see Fig. 369, A). The blade is held horizontally, I Carving—continued. and cuts right down to the bone (a to B); then by bending the back of the knife downwards the joints are exposed, and by a dexterous movement of the knife the whole side is cut off. When cold roasted fowls are carved before sent to table, and tied up into position with string, or ribbon, this single-cut system is of the utmost value. The breast can be carved in the usual way (see Fig. 369, B), whether the fowl has been boiled or roasted. If well trussed the wings should form a flat surface to rest on the dish (Fig. 369, C), but the trussing strings shown must be removed before sending the fowl to table. The breastbone should be divided into two parts by a trans- verse cue (c to JD, Fig. 369, A). A B Fig. 370. Carving Roasted Goose. Boasted goose presents very little difficulty. Slices are cut off the breast by incisions made as in Fig. 370, A or B, the blade of the knife taking a downward and outward direction. The limbs are removed in the usual way, and the stuffing is got at by cutting through the apron just above the tail (Pope’s nose). A duck is carved precisely after the same plan as a goose, but as the limbs are considered prime they are usually the first removed, and the breast-slices are, of course, fewer than the goose admits of. Ducklings may be simply cut into four pieces by a lengthwise cut right down and through the centre, and then across. Of a canvas-back duck the breast only is served, and this is sliced off, after removing the wings. Partridges and pheasants are easy enough to carve if properly trussed. A young partridge may be merely split into halves lengthwise, and cut across again if desired; but a large plump bird should be divided into three, as shown in Fig. 371, which is accomplished by two lengthwise cuts on either side of the breast (C), the two pieces (B and D) resulting, and leaving the breast on the carcase to be afterwards separated from the back. Small pheasants are treated much the same as large partridges; but if the bird is large, it may be carved as if it were a fowl, cutting away with the wing as little as possible of the breast. Pigeons, quails, moor-fowl, and other birds of about their size may be split lengthwise into halves, as witli small partridges. Fig. 372 shows one of these small birds trussed for roasting. The skewer is removed before serving. B shows the position of the wings on the back; these are the only difficulties of any importance to be met with in cutting right through. Plovers may be cut into halves, three pieces, or served