340 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Charlottes—continued. 2 table-spoonfuls of cinnamon sugar and a little chopped orange- and lemon-zest (grated rind), pour in £ wineglassful of Madeira or Malaga wine, and let the crumbs absorb it, woi-king it with a spoon to the required consistence. Then well butter a Charlotte-mould, and lay the preparation at the bottom and round the sides to about -jin. in thickness, pressing the breadcrumbs hard; slightly warm the apples, put them into the hollow in the mould, and coyer the top with a piece of bread well buttered and cut into a round shape ; place the mould on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderately hot oven for forty minutes. Take it out of the oven, pass a knife between it and the Charlotte, turn it out, and dust over some caster sugar. CHARTREUSE.—Standing out pre-eminent among liqueurs are the famous manufactures of the monks of the French Monastery of Grande Chartreuse, situated in Daupliine, near Grenoble, amongst the rugged mountains of the Alps; and very justly proud these followers of the Benedictine St. Bruno are of their wares. A writer on the subject tells us that these Carthusian recluses devote the whole of their time to the religious exercises entailed in cultivating herbs and making these holy liqueurs from them; the industry providing some two or three hundred of them with perpetual lucrative em- ployment. The annual monetary return to the establish- ment from the sale of Chartreuse is estimated at upwards of 2,000,000 francs, and it is not therefore surprising to learn that other monks in monasteries have taken up the idea. Originally Chartreuse was little better than an elixir made from the juice of the herbs found on the Alps, which was stored in small bottles, for the purpose of com- forting the pilgrims who passed through Dauphine; but we are told, a learned chemist of Lyons stopping in the abbey in the year 1834 noticed some aromatic herbs thrown aside from which the juices had been expressed. Calling atten- tion to them, he was informed that they were useless; but as he observed that pigs devoured them eagerly, he further examined them, and then exclaimed that instead of being useless they were a real treasure. Taking them into the laboratory, he had the furnaces lit, got the alembics into working order, and produced the first liqueur. From this it will be understood that the secret of the manufacture is the fragrance of the Alpine herbs, and so great is this that all other attempts to imitate this monasterial production are inferior, even if they are not altogether failures. Chartreuse is made of three colours— green (vert), yellow (jaune), and white (blanc), but the basis of all three is declared to be as follows : Angelica, 10 grammes; hyssop, 2 grammes; balm, 2 grammes; peppermint, 20 grammes ; nutmeg and cloves, 4 grammes; in 2qts. of rectified spirits of wine. To this is added a fair pro- portion of strong syrup and either spinach green or saffron, for green or yellow, or no colouring at all for the white. The severity of the discipline enforced by St. Bruno upon these retiring liqueur-makers has led the Continental cooks in a fit of satire to make a few suggestive dishes, which they dedicated to these monks and style Chartreuses. The secret consists in disposing of highly tasty morsels amongst severely plain food such as cabbage, between the leaves of which would be concealed pats of savoury forcemeats of game and other good things. Fruits are applied in the same manner. The following receipt is given as a very artistic example, but others of a much more monastic character will be found under other headings, such as Fish, Fowl, Partridges, Pigeons, Prairie-hens, Strawberries, and Sweetbreads. Chartreuse of Vegetables and Game.—Scrape and wash six large carrots, peel and wash the same number of white turnips, and boil them for twenty minutes in salted water. Pour off the water, add 3 pints of stock and 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and simmer gently for one hour; then take up, drain, and set away to cool. Cut two large cabbages in four parts, wash them, and boil twenty minutes in^ salted water. Drain in the colander, and return to the saucepan, Chartreuse—continued. with 1 pint of stock, two cloves, a bouquet of herbs, and two onions tied in a piece of muslin, 1 dessert-spoonful of butter, lib. of bits of pork, and three grouse. Cover the saucepan, and place it where the contents will simmer for two-hours-and-a-half. When cooked, put the grouse and pork on a dish to cool; turn the cabbage into a colander, chop it very fine, season with salt and pepper, and put away to cool. Butter a plain mould holding about 4qts., and line it with buttered note-paper cut to fit the sides and bottom. Cut the cold turnips and carrots in thick slices, then in pieces all the same size and shape, and line the sides and bottom of the mould with these, being particular to have the pieces come together, and having the yellow and white arranged in either squares or rows. With the chopped cabbage put | pint of brown sauce and 2 table-spoonfuls of glaze, and stir over the fire for six minutes ; then spread a thick layer of this on the vegetables, being careful not to displace them. Cut each grouse into large pieces, season with salt and pepper, pack closely in the mould, moisten with another J pint of brown sauce, and cover with the remainder of the cabbage. Two hours before serving time place this in a steamer and warm it up. While the Chartreuse is steaming, make the sauce as follows ; Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter in a stewpan, and when hot add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, stirring until a dark brown; then add the stock in which the cabbage was cooked, and enough of that in which the turnips and carrots were cooked to make lqt., and stir until it boils ; then add 2 table-spoonfuls of glaze, and set it back where it will simmer for one hour. Skim off the fat, and strain.. When the Chartreuse is done, take it up and turn it gently Fig. 414. Chartreuse of Vegetables and Game. upon the dish, lift the mould very carefully, take off the paper, pour 2 table-spoonfuls of the sauce over and the remainder round it (see Fig. 414). This Chartreuse can be made with any kind of poultry, game, or meat. CHATEAUBRIAND. —A certain mode of dressing a fillet-steak lias been dedicated to tlie celebrated Francois Bene, Count Chateaubriand, by French cooks upon the following slender analogy. In 1802 Chateau- briand wrote a book entitled “La Genie du Christi- anisme,” which gave a very lucid descriptive account of the crucifixion, with the thieves on each side. The ingenious chef was in the habit of cooking thick fillet- steaks by laying them between two steaks of an inferior character, so that the fillet might not burn in broiling. The notion seems to have struck one or other of these savoury gentlemen that there was some resemblance between the two acts, and henceforth the fillet was au Chateaubriand. Later cooks have modernised the act, but lost the idea, consequently a fillet-steak cut open and stuffed is au Chateaubriand. CHAUDEAU.—The name of an old-fashioned French caudle cup, now generally used as a sort of sauce. Cliaucleau Sauce.—(1) Rub loaf sugar on the yellow rind of a lemon, put it in a saucepan with 4oz. more sugar, the juice of the lemon, i pint each of water and wine, and the beaten yolks of eight eggs. Whisk the sauce over the fire until thick and on the point of boiling, then move it off