THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 339 Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Charlottes—continued. cream ; then remove it from the ice, and add £ pint of well- whipped cream and 6oz. or 7oz. of fresh or preserved pine- apple cut into small dice. Pour this into the Charlotte, and let it remain for an hour. Turn it out, and serve on a dish with a folded napkin spread over it. Charlotte Russe with Pistachios. — This is prepared with coloured glazed biscuits, half white and half a light green, made with pistachios. Cut each biscuit in a slanting direction to the height and length of the Charlotte-mould. Put in the pieces of biscuit, letting them lean slightly against the sides of the mould, alternately varying the shades. The mould should have a layer of paper and then one of biscuits put at the bottom previous to the pieces being put in. Put the mould in the ice-tub an hour before required for table, and then about fifty minutes afterwards, or just before it is served, fill it up with some bavaroise preparation, made with a puree of pistachios, diluted with plain syrup perfumed with orange- flowers, and glued with gelatine or white of egg, and thickened a little on the ice by stirring it; then add some well-whipped cream to it, say 3 tumblerfuls. The cream should be added slowly and a little at a time, and be well mixed in each time. When the mixture is firm enough, turn the Charlotte out on to a bottom of gum paste, the top being decorated with small beads of icing sugar put on with a cornet (see Piping). Garnish the base with either chopped jelly or jelly croutons, spread a layer of marmalade over the top of the Charlotte, and place round the rim small glazed bouehees of biscuit, with chopped jelly or cream put in the centre of the circle. French Charlotte.—(1) Scoop the centre out of an almond sponge cake, leaving' the bottom and sides about tin. thick. Put Mb. of macaroons in a basin with some sherry, and soak them well. Whip to a stiff froth 1 pint of cream. Put the soaked maca- roons at the bottom of the sponge-cake mould, then spread a thick layer of preserve over them and fill up with the cream, piling it high in the centre. Ornament the edge and all round the cake with icing by squeezing it through a cornet. Stand the Charlotte in a glass dish, and serve it when ready. (2) Line a dome-shaped mould with slices of genoa cake, whisk with an egg-beater a sufficient quantity of curds to fill the mould, sweeten them to taste with caster sugar, and flavour with any kind of essence. Pour the whipped curds into the mould and pack it in pounded ice and salt until firm. When ready to serve turn the Charlotte out on to a fancy dish, ornament it tastefully with sweetmeats, or leave it plain. Italian Charlotte.—Peel about 21b. of pears, cut them into quarters, remove their cores, put them into a lined saucepan with \ pint of white wine, the tliinly-pared rind of half a lemon, a small piece of stick cinnamon, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar. Cook them over a slow fire. Line the bottom and sides of a dome-shaped mould with lady’s fingers, arranging them in the form of a star or rosette at the bottom, and packing them closely together at the sides. When the pears are tender, remove the piece of cinnamon and lemon-peel, add J pint of whipped cream, with Joz. of dissolved gelatine, and turn them gently into the lined mould. Pack the mould in pounded ice and salt for two or three hours. When ready to serve, turn the Charlotte out of the mould on to a dish; beat 2oz. of caster sugar with the whites of two eggs to a firm, stiff froth, then spread it over the Charlotte; garnish with croutons of apple jelly. Mosaic Charlotte.—Put a layer of some white and black grapes, strawberries, small pieces of stewed apples, pears, or any fruit obtainable that is in season, in a plain mould; mix the varieties as much as possible to give a mosaic appearance, j Put the mould upon the ice and pour in sufficient clear jelly to cover them. When the jelly has set, line the mould with savoy biscuits, cutting them, and putting them at the bottom ! to form a rosette, also placing them upright round the sides, j cutting off a piece from the ends of each, and trimming the edges so that they will stand close together at the side of the mould. Pill the centre with a vanilla cream, with a little ] angelica, stewed apples cut in dice, and a wineglassful of brandy added. Let it remain on the ice until set, then turn it out, set a pile of candied cherries on the top (see Fig. 413), and serve. Neapolitan Charlotte.—Line a well-buttered Charlotte-mould with some tartlet paste, cover this with paper, fill the centre Charlottes—continu ed. with flour, or dried grains, to preserve the shape, put in into the oven, and bake. When done, turn the flour or grain out of the mould, and let the Charlotte-case cool; then turn it out, give the mould a good wiping, place the Charlotte back in it, and put it on the ice. Prepare a mixture of chestnut- bread with gelatine, stir, thicken it on the ice, and then add 5oz. of sultana raisins, the same quantity of preserved peel of citron, orange, and lemon sliced small, and 4 table- spoonfuls of marachino; put this into the Charlotte, and let it remain for an hour. When ready, just dip the mould into , hot water, turn the Charlotte out, place a layer of apricot marmalade on the outside, smooth it with a spatula or knife- blade, and decorate the top with a rosette made of preserved fruits and candied angelica. Polisli Charlotte.—(1) Cut a sponge cake transversely, dip each piece in any kind of cream, then place them back, giving’ the cake its original shape as nearly as possible. Put the cake on to a fancy dish, cover it with cream, strew caster sugar on the top, and decorate it according to fancy with preserves or sweetmeats. Garnish round the base of the cake with sweetmeats and croutons of red-currant jelly. Place the dish over ice, and leave it there for an hour or two. (2) Take a timbale-mould and bake a vanilla-flavoured sponge cake in it. When it is cold, cut it transversely into slices about Jin. in thickness, and upon each slice put some frangipane cream flavoured with vanilla. Put the slices on a dish in their original positions, and mask the outside with a slight layer of apricot marmalade and then a layer of meringue ; smooth it, and decorate with a cornet, arranging it so that when cooked it can be decorated with preserved fruits and paste. Sprinkle some finely-powdered sugar over the meringue, and put it in a moderately hot oven to bake so as to give the meringue a nice yellow colour. Take the Charlotte out of the oven when done, wipe the dish well, decorate the meringue with apple and gooseberry jelly, and serve. A little vanilla-flavoured cream should be served separately in a boat. Prussian Charlotte.—Take a plain mould and put a little jelly (flavoured with brandy and coloured with a little essence of cochineal) to about Jin. in depth. Put the mould on the ice, and line the sides with savoy biscuits, filling up the centre with maraschino cream. Leave the mould on the ice until the preparation sets, then dip the bottom of it for a second in warm water, and turn it out. Ornament with candied fruit. Fig. 413. Mosaic Charlotte. Westphalian Charlotte.—Choose about fifteen good apples, remove the peel and cores, and mince them very finely; then put them into a stewpan with about Jib. of melted butter, toss them on a brisk fire until their moisture is reduced, dust over them a few handfuls of sugar, and add a little cinnamon and lemon-zest. Let them cook for a few minutes longer, and then remove from the fire. Next take lib. or ljlb. of brown breadcrumbs, dry them well, and rub them through a sieve. Put -Jib. of butter into a pan, make it hot, throw in the breadcrumbs, and fry them for a few minutes so that they will get dry; then put them into a basin, and add 2 h 2