430 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Sec., referred to, see under their special heads. Consomme—continued. which might almost be styled the “ Consomme stock,” for by some addition to this, almost all other Consommes may be prepared. Sometimes, however, the basis of the Consomme is either fish, veal, game, rabbit, or'chicken stock. These will, then, be specially indicated, and receipts for them found under their specified headings. Consomme Stock.—Cut up finely 121b. of shin of beef, put it into a stockpot with two scraped carrots, two peeled onions, | three washed leeks, a few sticks of celery, and a small bunch of parsley roots, all finely minced ; add six cloves, 1 teaspoonful of peppercorns, a bay-leaf, and the whites and shells of six | eggs. Moisten this with 2galls. of broth and lqt. of water, | stir thoroughly for two or three minutes without ceasing, place it on the hot range, and add a few pieces of chicken or bones if handy. Simmer slowly for about four hours, skim off the grease, strain through a wet cloth into a glazed earthenware crock, and put away in a cool place for future use. The following receipts may be relied upon as of the very best, most of them being merely combinations of the Consomme stock given above: Andalusian Consomme (a l’Andalouse).-—Boil 3 table- spoonfuls of tapioca in lqt. of Consomme, add J pint of thin tomato sauce, boil for ten minutes, and serve with a few small veal or chicken quenelles. Colbert Consomme (a la Colbert).—Put six poached eggs into lqt. of boiling Consomme, and serve in a hot tureen, or poach the eggs in the Consomme, and serve. Colbert Spring Consomme (a la Printanier Colbert). Prepared the same as for Colbert Consomme, adding J pint of cooked minced vegetables. Consomme with Biscottes.—Slightly warm 11b. of butter, and beat it with a spoon till creamy; stir in one by one the yolks of four eggs, and when frothy, mix in gradually Jib. of flour and the well-whipped whites of the four eggs; season the mixture with salt and grated nutmeg. Butter a baking-sheet, dust some flour over it, spread the mixture on it to about Jin. in thickness, and bake in a slow oven. Heat 2qts. of either game, poultry, or fish Consomme; when cooked, take the biscottes out of the oven, cut them into small squares, put them on a plate, and serve with the soup in a soup-tureen. Consomme with Celery (au Celeri).—Pare and blanch half a root of celery, cut it up into equal-sized shreds, put it in a saucepan, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of boiled rice, Joz. of J smoked, cooked tongue, and six mushrooms, shred very small.. Pour lqt. of hot Consomme over this, and serve. Consomme with Chestnut Timbales.—Put J wineglassful of Madeira wine and a bouquet garni into a saucepan with 3 pints of game-stock Consomme, and boil well together for two hours. Have ready 3 table-spoonfuls of puree of chestnuts, mixing in the yolks of three eggs, and adding a very small quantity of salt and pepper. Take six small timbale-moulds, butter them well, and fill them with the preparation. Poach for two minutes, and let them get cool before turning out of the moulds. Put them in a soup-tureen, and serve, adding the boiling Consommd. Consomme with Chicken Custard.—Take 2oz. of cooked chicken’s flesh, pound it well in a mortar, pass it through a fine sieve, and mix with it two eggs, 3 table-spoonfuls of milk, twelve drops of essence of almonds, and salt, nutmeg, and cayenne to taste. Mix them well, put into three or four well buttered dariole-moulds, and put them in the bain-marie until they are set, which will take about twenty minutes. Then take them out, cut into various shapes, put them into the tureen, and pour over lqt. of boiling Consomme. A few points of asparagus, or green peas and chervil-leaves, may also be added with advantage. Consomme with Chicken Timbales.—Proceed as for Royal Consomme (No. 2). Have ready two chicken timbales coloured green -with spinach-juice, also two red ones coloured with carmine, and two plain ones. Arrange them alternately in the tureen, pour over lqt. of boiling Consommil, and serve. Consomme with Choux (aux Choux).—Make a handful of croutons the size of the little finger with 2oz. of choux-paste, cook them on a tin dish in the oven for ten minutes, and fill them with chicken forcemeat pressed through a cornet. Put C onsommd—continued. them in a tureen with 2 table-spoonfuls of cooked peas and 2 table-spoonfuls of sliced mushrooms, pour lqt. of Consomme over, and serve. Consomme with Darioles (aux Darioles).—Put into a mortar 6oz. of lean cooked ham, pound it well, and mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of thick bechamel sauce, the yolks of six eggs, 4 table-spoonfuls of tomato puree, a little cayenne, and two eggs. Strain the preparation through a fine sieve into a basin, and mix in 6 table-spoonfuls of Consomme and 2 table- spoonfuls of Madeira wine; turn into well-buttered dariole- moulds, put them in the bain-marie, or in a saucepan of boiling- water, and let them poach. Have ready 2qts. of chicken Consomme. Turn the preparation out of the moulds, cut it into quarters, put these in a soup-tureen with 1 breakfast-cupful of freshly-boiled green peas, pour over the Consomme (which should be boiling), and serve. Consomme with Fish Quenelles (au Poisson).—Mix a little crayfish butter with eight fish quenelles; fill six long- shaped quenelle moulds with this, and poach them in salted water for two minutes; drain, and after turning them out of the moulds put them into a tureen with 2 table-spoonfuls of cooked green peas and the same quantity of boiled rice, pour lqt. of boiling Consomme over all, and serve. Consomme with Game Ravioles (aux Ravioles).—Take an uncooked partridge or pheasant, cut off two strips (fillets) of the flesh, remove the skin and sinews, cut it up into small pieces, and put into a mor-tar with half the bulk of cooked calf’s brains and the same quantity of raw ox-marrow and- grated Parmesan cheese. Pound well, add the yolks of two eggs, take the mixture out of the mortar, and make five or six dozen ravioles with it. Have ready some boiling salted water, and about five minutes before the ravioles are required, plunge them in the water, and boil up a little ; take the pan off the fire, let the ravioles remain for three minutes longer, take them out, put them on a strainer to drain, place them in the soup- tureen, and pour about 2Jqts. of Consommti over. Consomme with Green Peas (aux Fois).—Cut into small pieces about half a breast of a cooked chicken, put it into a tureen, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of boiled rice, 2 table- spoonfuls of cooked green peas, and one truffle cut into dice. Pour lqt. of boiling Consomme over all, an l serve with gi-ated cheese on a separate dish. Consomme with Noques (aux Noques).—Put Jgall. of Con- somme into a stewpan over the fire ; cut Jib. of raw veal into slices, chop the meat very fine, put it into a mortar with 5oz. of butter, and pound well; rub this into a puree through a fine sieve, put the puree back into the mortar, season it with salt and pepper to taste and a few spices, and add to it about three-quarters its bulk of choux-paste, made thick with eggs and a handful of finely-grated Parmesan cheese. Beat it well together, and when it is mixed, take it out in small quantities with a teaspoon, and drop into the hot Consomme to make the noques. Boil up for a few minutes, put the lid on the pan, and set it by the side of the fii-e for three minutes. Take out the noques, drain, put them into the tureen, and strain the Consomme over them. Consomme with Onions (a l’Oignon).—Add to the well- beaten whites of four eggs J pint of puree of onions and J pint of cream. Beat well together, and season with a very small quantity of grated nutmeg- and J table-spoonful of salt. Fill three timbale-moulds (previously well buttered) with the mixture; poach them in water to half their height for six minutes, and turn out. Cut them into twelve pieces, and put them in the soup-tureen, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of cooked asparagus-tops and the same quantity of green peas. Pour lqt. of boiling Consomme over, and serve. Consomme with Pancakes (aux Crepes).—Prepare two light pancakes, cover one with chicken forcemeat, and sprinkle over a little grated Parmesan cheese; put the other pancake on top, cut them in twelve pieces, and serve with lqt. of boiling Consomme poured over. Consomme with Pearl Barley (a l’Orge).—Well wash 3 table-spoonfuls of pearl barley, drain, put it into a saucepan with 3 pints of Consomme, and let it boil for forty minutes. Add 2 table-spoonfuls of cooked breast of chicken cut in dice, 2 table-spoonfuls of cooked green peas, and serve in a hot tureen.