434 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cookies—continued. it in with the butter, work in more flour, enough to make a soft dough, roll out the dough, sprinkle caster sugar on the' top, cut into little cakes, and bake them for about ten minutes. (3) Mix in a basin 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar and 1 tea- cupful of warmed butter, and when these are beaten to a cream, add lib. of flour, in which has been mixed 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, and beat all together with three eggs and 1 tea- cupful of milk. Roll out the dough, sift caster sugar over the surface, cut it into little cakes, put them on buttered baking- tins, and bake. (4) Beat Jib. of warmed butter with Jib. of caster sugar until it presents a creamy appearance; beat six eggs and mix them in, then add 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, a few drops of essence of lemon or cinnamon flavouring, and enough flour sifted in gradually to make a soft dough. Smooth the dough, stand it on the table a few minutes previous to rolling out, roll it out, sift caster sugar over the surface, and cut into cakes ; put these on buttered baking-sheets, and bake. Cookies made ■with Cocoa-nut.—These are made in the same way as Cookies No. 2, with the addition of a little g’rated cocoa-nut, which should be mixed with the butter and sugar before adding the flour. Cookies made with Cornflour.—Many American cooks prefer to use cornflour; the method of preparation is the same as for other flour. Cookies made with Figs.—Put lib. each of butter and sifted sugar into a basin, work them to a cream, and add and beat in well eight eggs; put a dessert-spoonful of baking-powder into ljlb. of flour, sift well, add to the butter, together with 12oz. of chopped figs, and work the whole into a dough. Roll it out moderately thin, and cut into small rounds ; put these on a buttered baking-sheet, dust over with sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. Take them out, and let them get cold ; they are then ready for use. Cookies made with Ginger.—(1) Beat Jib. of butter and lib. of powdered white sugar to a cream; whip the yolks of two eggs with 1 table-spoonful of powdered ginger, J teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, and J teaspoonful of grated nutmeg'; then beat the eggs into the creamed butter, add the whites of two eggs whisked to a stiff froth, stir in flour till it is a thick dough, and mix in lastly J gill of milk with a saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in it. Roll this dough out very thin, cut it into small cakes, and bake in a hot oven till crisp. (2) Mix in a basin before the fire Jib. of butter, Jib. of sugar. Jib. of black molasses, two eggs, 1 table-spoonful of ground ginger, 2 table-spoonfuls of water, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, and work in lib. of flour, or enough to make a soft dough. Roll out to Jin. thick, and cut out shapes with a biscuit-cutter; put on a buttered baking-sheet, and bake in a steady oven. (3) Beat 1 breakfast-cupful of warmed butter and 1 break- fast-cupful of caster sugar together, add 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 1 teaspoonful of ground ginger, and 7 breakfast-cupfuls of flour; mix this in with the sugar and butter, add one egg, 1 breakfast-cupful of molasses, and 1 tea- spoonful of vinegar. When the ingredients are thoroughly incorporated, roll the dough out, shape it into little cakes, and bake for ten minutes on buttered baking-sheets. (4) Beat 7oz. of warmed butter with 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar until creamy. Beat the yolks of four eggs with another breakfast-cupful of caster sugar, then mix them with the butter; beat the whites of the eggs and add them. Mix with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of flour, J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 2 table-spoonfuls of yellow ginger, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Stir this in with the butter mixture. Make the dough into several little balls, rolling them with floured hands, flatten them, set them a short distance from each other on buttered baking-pans, and bake for about ten minutes. Cookies made with Lemon.—Warm slightly Jib. of butter, and beat it to a cream together with lib. of sugar, the grated yellow rind of one and the strained juice of two lemons; after beating for at least five minutes, whisk in the beaten yolks of three eggs, and when they are well mixed, whisk in the whites of three eggs beaten to a froth; then stir in sufficient flour to make a stiff dough (about lib. - will be Cookies—-continued. enough). Roll the dough out on a floured pasteboard, cut it into cakes, and bake them quickly. New Year’s Cookies.—Slightly warm Jib. of butter, and beat it till creamy with lib. of caster sugar; beat three eggs well and mix them with the butter, then stir in gradually 1 pint of the best sifted flour and 1 table-spoonful of caraway-seeds. Stir 1 teaspoonful of saleratus in 1 teacupful of milk until quite dissolved, then strain it, mix J teacupful of cider with it, and mix gradually in with the other ingredients. Work the mixture well, adding more flour, if required, to bring it to the desired stiffness. Dust some flour over the table, place the paste on it, roll it out, and cut it into round cakes. Butter a baking-sheet, lay the cakes on it, and bake them in a quick oven. When slightly browned, arrange the cakes on a hot dish, and serve. COQ DE BRUYERE.—Fr. for Blackcock—Cock of the Heath. COQ D’INDE. —Fr. for Turkey-cock—Cock of India. COQUILIiES. —Fr. for shells. Fish and other tasty meats are frequently served en Coquille—that is, in large scallop shells, or metal vessels made in these shapes (see Fig. 513). Some of these are fashioned with considerable skill and artistic taste, and are manufactured of silver, or white metal heavily electro-plated; others, again, are made of stout blocked tin. CORiACH.—There is a hot, red sauce called by this name, which is chiefly used for giving colour and flavour to other sauces, or as a relish. It is prepared by mace- rating cayenne pepper, walnut and mushroom pickles, garlic and cochineal with vinegar. A very good receipt for this has been contributed by an Indian cook. Mince very finely a handful of small red peppers, a third that quantity of garlic, six or eight pickled walnuts, J pint of g-ood mushroom ketchup, and 1 teaspoonful of bruised cochineal. Put these in a stone jar and pour over 2qts. of best malt or white wine vinegar—the latter gives the prettier results—and leave this tightly corked to macerate for three or four weeks, giving the jar an occasional shake. Pour the clear liquor through a tammy, and put into small bottles for use. The dregs at the bottom of the jar may be pressed, or squeezed in a cloth, but are not of much further value, although it is sometimes recommended that they shall he saturated again; but the result would necessarily be most unreliable. CORALLINE. — A partially-cooked food prepared from Indian-corn; it is considered to be very nutritious, and is useful for making light puddings, blanc-manges, and other digestible dishes. CORBEILLES.— Fr. for baskets; applied by Con- tinental confectioners to all manner of vessels holding displayed fruits and flowers. CORDIALS AND LIQUEURS.—It is to the European Continent that we have to look for perfection in the preparation of Cordials and Liqueurs, and espe- cially to France, which maintains an unsurpassed reputation for its Benedictine, Chartreuse, Anisette, and numerous other Liqueurs, manufactured chiefly by monks as a source of no little profit to their fraternity. Holland is famous for its curacoa, and Belgium, Germany. Austria, Russia, and Italy are also noted for special productions.