279 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ice., referred, to, see under their special heads. Calf—cont inued. Pound the liver when cold, and mix with it an equal quantity- of chopped, fresh, fat bacon; sprinkle pepper and salt over, and a point of garlic. Pass all through a sieve into a basin, add a quarter of its quantity of blanched fat bacon cut in squares, 1 teacupful of ham cut in dice, and 1 teacupful of fine herbs. Pill an earthen pan having a lid to it with the preparation, stand it in a saute-pan, put the lid on, pour a little water round it, put in a moderate oven, and bake for two hours. Take the terrine out of the oven when done, and a-quarter-of-an-hour afterwards put a small plate, fitting the interior diameter of the terrine, on the top with a heavy weight on it, and leave it till cold. Cut the terrine up when quite cold, put it on a dish, garnish with croutons of aspic jelly, and serve. Calf’s Pluck.—The pluck of an animal in butchers’ parlance consists of the liver, lights, and heart. These are usually soaked and blanched before using. Boiled Calf’s Pluck.—Select a fresh, white Calf’s Pluck and steep it in cold water for five or six hours. Drain the pluck, put it into a saucepan with more water and 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and let the liquid boil. Again drain the pluck, carefully scrape it in all the folds, rinse it well, then put it back into the stewpan with the pulp of two lemons, freed of peel and pips, one onion stuck with three cloves, and |lb. of finely-chopped beef-suet. Mix a small quantity of salt with 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir it till smooth with some cold water, then mix it in with the above ingredients, and put the stewpan over the fire. When the contents are boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and boil the pluck for about two-hours-and-a-half, keeping it rather firm. When cooked, drain the pluck on a sieve, sponge it on a cloth, and then put it on a hot dish. Serve with some white sauce that has been finished with a small quantity of vinegar and a few chopped leaves of tarragon and pimpernel. Calf’s-Fluck Soup.—Put half of a Calf’s Pluck in a saucepan with some stock-broth and boil it; when cooked, drain and chop it. Pry a chopped onion in butter, and when nicely browned put in the Calf’s Pluck; season it, and stir over the fire till the moisture has somewhat evaporated. Beat the yolks of three eggs with a small quantity of cream, pour them in with the pluck and onion, stir them over the fire till thick and on the point of boiling, then move to the side; add 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, then spread the mixture out on a baking-sheet and leave it till cold and firm. Divide the mixture into four equal parts, and roll them out into square thin flats. Slightly moisten the surface of one of the flats ; put some rich forcemeat into a forcer and squeeze it through in form of little balls on the flat, arranging them in straight lines lin. apart. Cover the forcemeat with another flat of paste and press round between them, using the hand first, then the back of a small round paste-cutter, thus marking the ravioles; which now cut out with a paste-cutter about ljin. in diameter. Proceed the same with the two remaining portions of paste. Poach the ravioles in boiling salted water for ten minutes. Pour 2qts. of boiling broth into a soup- tureen; drain the ravioles, put them in, and serve the soup. Boasted Calf’s Pluck.—Clean the pluck, stuff the heart with forcemeat of breadcrumbs, butter, and minced parsley, seasoned with pepper, salt, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; fix the liver and lights on to the heart with skewers, and roast it in front of a clear fire ; dredge it over occasionally with flour and baste it constantly with butter, thus making a nice brown froth all over it. Prepare a melted-butter sauce and mix 1 table-spoonful of lemon pickle with it. When cooked, put the pluck on a hot dish, and serve it with the sauce in a sauceboat. Calf’s Sweetbread.—See Sweetbreads. Calf’s Tongue.-—In comparison with an ox- or neat’s- tongue, the tongue of the Calf is very inferior as regards flavour; it is therefore usual to cook and serve it with tasty sauces. More frequently it is used as a garnish for Calf’s head, or minced and made up with forcemeat. The following receipts will he found of a very superior quality. Calf’s Tongue with. Tomato Sauce.—Trim and well wash a Calf’s Tongue, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and Calf—continued. scald it. Take out, drain and lard it, put it into a saucepan with two carrots and two onions, three heads of cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and sufficient rich stock to moisten. Simmer gently for four hours. Take out the tongue when done, and cut it in halves, removing the skin; put them on a dish, and serve with tomato sauce poured over. Cold Calf’s Tongue served a la Macedoine.—Put six pickled tongues into a saucepan of boiling water and boil them until tender. Take them out, skin them, put between two dishes, and let them remain with a weight on the top until cold. Bound them at the root end, cut them flat art the sides, and divide lengthwise in halves. Glaze with a paste- brush, and mask with a thin layer of half-set aspic jelly to give a relief. In the meantime prepare a macedoine with carrots and potatoes formed in the shape of balls, Brussels sprouts, flowerets of cauliflowers, green peas, sprue-asparagus or asparagus peas, and French beans cut in small diamond shapes. All of these vegetables must be blanched separately, well-seasoned, and put in little piles of symmetrical size in the centre of a dish. Arrange the halves of tongues round with the points upwards, pour round a little aspic jelly, and serve with tartar or ravigote sauce in a sauceboat. Stewed Calf’s Tongue and Brains.—Put into hot water a boiled Calf’s Tongue and a cooked brain, keeping the brain as whole as possible, and make them hot. Make a brown gravy by stirring 1 table-spoonful each of butter and flour over the fire until light bro.\n, and then gradually stirring in 1 pint of boiling water; season with 1 teaspoonful of salt, I saltspoonful of pepper, and 1 gill of vinegar; lay the tongue and brain on a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve at once. Or serve them with a hot sauce, made by mixing with a breakfast-cupful of mayonnaise 1 saltspoonful of dry mustard, 1 table-spoonful each of chopped parsley, capers, and pickles, and 1 teaspoonful of grated onion. Stewed Calf’s Tongues with. Mushroom Sauce.—Steep the tongues in water till the blood is disgorged, then drain them, and put them in a stewpan with such vegetables for flavouring as carrots, turnips, and onions, two bay-leaves, a piece of mace, and a few cloves. Pour in sufficient water to cover; add some pieces of veal and bacon and a lump of salt. Stand the stewpan over the fire till the water com- mences to boil; then move it to the side of the fire. Skim, and keep simmering till the tongues are tender. When cooked, take the tongues out of the saucepan and skin them, cut each into three slices, giving them the shape of cutlets. Glaze them, arrange in a group on a bed of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of mushroom sauce. Calf’s Udder.—This is obtainable from the cow Calf only, and is not therefore of much culinary importance. It is generally used to give consistency to forcemeats. Forcemeat of Calf’s Udder.—Take a Calf’s Udder, clean and boil it, let it get cold, put it into a mortar, and well pound it. Pass it through a fine hair sieve and it is ready for mixing with other forcemeats. CALIFORNIAN WINES.—See American Wines. CALIPASH AND CALIPEE.—These terms are probably corruptions of the word carapace, which is the hard, domed shell covering the back of the turtle, crab, lobster, &c. In the popular acceptation the former word signifies the flesh of the turtle under the upper shell, and the latter that upon the under shell; but of these much more will be found under Turtle. CALISSON.—The name of a celebrated French sweet- meat known best at Aix-la-Ohapelle. CALLEBQGUS.—A favourite drink in Newfoundland, made by adding spirit to spruce beer. CALLOU.—A kind of palm wine manufactured by the Arabs from the flowers of the cocoa-nut palm (Cocos nucifera). It has a limpid, soft, agreeable flavour; but as it attains perfection within twenty-four hours of being made, its vinous condition is quite as evanescent, for it sours in a few hours after.