THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 300 Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Carp—continued. pan on a slow fire. Stir the sauce until it boils, when remove it immediately, and add 4 table-spoonfuls of gherkins cut into small dice. Pour the sauce over the Carp, then place the roes on top, and send to table. Carp en Matelote.—(1) Clean and cut into pieces a good-sized Carp, put the pieces into a basin with salt sprinkled over them, and let them remain for an hour; then put them into cold water, and let them disgorge for about twelve minutes. Take them up, drain, put them into a fish-kettle, and add lqt. of mushrooms, one onion, one carrot (all cut up into slices), a bunch of sweet herbs, a bunch of parsley, two cloves, Jib. of butter, and a little each of powdered mace, salt, and pepper; pour over 1 pint of claret, cover over the kettle, and boil slowly for about forty minutes, by which time the fish should be done. Put it on a dish, strain the liquor into a saucepan, add a liaison of flour and butter, and boil up once ; add to it a breakfast-cupful or so of matelote sauce, work in jib. of sugar boiled to caramel and afterwards dissolved in J pint of red wine, and boil up once more; then squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and add a little mushroom essence or ketchup. Pour this over the fish, and serve. (2) Scale and clean a large Carp and cut it up into thickish slices, put these into a saucepan with a large lump of butter, a bunch of sweet herbs, and salt and pepper to taste; pour over a little more than 1 breakfast-cupful of port or other red wine, and boil for five minutes over a clear fire. Set fire to 1 wineglassful of brandy, pour it over the fish, and let it remain until the flame is extinguished. Put a few small mush- rooms, onions, and artichoke bottoms into a frying-pan with butter, and brown them. Place the slices of Carp on a dish, and garnish with the onions, mushrooms, and artichoke bottoms, interspersed with small pieces of fried bread. Pour the liquor over the fish, and serve hot. Carp a la Paysanne.—Prepare a vegetable julienne (made of carrots, onion, and celery-root cut in pieces, but not too thin), put it in a stewpan with a little butter or oil, and fry them over a slow fire; but when only half done, add some raw mushrooms, two tomatoes with the seeds extracted, a clove of garlic, and, lastly, two medium-sized river Carp cut into thick pieces; add seasoning and a pinch of saffron, pour in white wine to half the height of the fish, put the pan on a brisk fire, and boil until done. Reduce the stock to half its original bulk. Next prepare some bread croutons fried in oil, place the Carp on them, and pour over the vegetables and fish-stock. Carp Boiled in Beer.—Put a few thin slices of bacon at the bottom of a fish-kettle and sprinkle over a mixture ofrcarrots, onions, shallots, and sweet herbs, all finely-chopped. Clean and wash a Carp, wipe it dry, place it on the top of the mixture in the kettle, sprinkle over a little salt, pour in beer to about three-parts the height of the fish, cover over with a sheet of greased paper, put the kettle in a moderate oven and cook for half-an-hour; then turn the fish over, and boil again until it is done. Take out the Carp carefully, put it on a dish, and keep it hot. Strain the liquor into a saucepan, skim off all the fat, and put it on the fire; as soon as the liquor boils sprinkle in a handful or so of stale breadcrumbs, or sufficient to make it quite thick, stir well off the fire, pass it through a sieve over the Carp, and serve. Lettuces, mushrooms, onions, or fish quenelles may be used for garnish. Carp rorcemeat.—Rub through a fine sieve lib. of cooked Carp- flesh ; mix in lOoz. of butter, and an equal quantity of bread panada, sprinkle over with salt and pepper, and work in two eggs and a little reduced veloutd sauce. When well incor- porated, it is ready for use. Carp Pie.—Prepare and clean a Carp and cut it up. Take a good-sized pie-dish, put a layer of butter at the bottom, and then put in the Carp, adding 2 handfuls each of capers, well-washed currants, a few cloves, a little mace, and nutmeg; then mix a little salt with some butter, and put it over them; cover the dish over with paste, make a hole at the top, pour in some white wine, and bake in a moderate oven till done. It may be served either hot or cold. Carp Stewed in Beer.—Take a medium-sized Carp, scale, clean, and cut it into two pieces. Take each half and cut it transversely into slices, taking away as much of the bone as Carp—continued. possible. Should the roe be soft, blanch it separately. Next take a flat stewpan and put some butter at the bottom, then a layer of onions sliced, and put in (on top of the onions) the Carp, keeping the pieces side by side, having also removed the gall stone, and cut the head into two pieces. Sprinkle over some salt and chopped celery, and add a bunch of parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, a piece of gingerbread about as large as the hand cut into small dice, peppercorns and cloves to taste. Then pour in sufficient of any light kind of beer (in Germany weissbier or white beer is used) to moisten it. Put the stewpan on a sharp fire and let the liquid boil up for seven or eight minutes, then remove the pan to the side of the fire, and finish cooking. Take ont the pieces of Carp, and arrange them on a dish with the blanched soft roes; skim the fat off the sauce (which should be rather thick), and pour it through a sieve over the fish. Christmas Carp in Poland.—The fish cooked in this way is the traditional dish of the feast celebrated on Christmas eve by the Poles and Italians. Take a good-sized live fish, and run a knife through the head to let it bleed, catching the blood in a basin; then remove the scales and clean the fish thoroughly, putting the soft roe in vinegar and water to blanch. Cut the fish up into equal pieces. Take a stewpan, cover the bottom with a layer of sliced onions and parsley roots, and put the fish in upon this, salting it a little, and adding sprigs of parsley, thyme, a bay-leaf, some peppercorns and cloves, and pouring in (to about half the height of the fish) a mixture of half white wine and half hydromel (honey wine or mead). Put the pan on a brisk fire, and boil for ten minutes, then remove it to a moro moderate one to finish cooking. When the Carp is done, take it out, strain the stock into another stewpan, remove the fat, and boil again, thickening with a small piece of kneaded butter. Let it boil for fifteen minutes, then pass it through a sieve, and add two lemons (without the peel), cut in slices, 1 teacupful of ground almonds, and a similar quantity of currants well-washed in warm water, and boiled for a minute or two in white wine. Let it bubble twice, and then add the blood diluted with a little vinegar. Put the Carp on a dish, pour over the sauce, place the roes round it, and serve. Fisherman's Carp.—Take two middling-sized Carp, and scale and clean them; then cut them up transversely into pieces. Have ready a large bowl, wider than it is high, and place in it two bay-leaves, a sprig of thyme, a piece of dry, bitter orange- peel, and a few peppercorns and cloves ; put the pieces of fish in this, and add sufficient red wine to cover. Place the bowl on the fire, and boil quickly, so that when the Carp is done the liquor will be reduced to one-half its original quantity. Take three or four large onions, cut them in slices, and fry in oil until of a nice light colour, then sprinkle over a little flour, add the stock slowly, and let it boil gently until the onions are done. Add the pieces of Carp, simmer for ten minutes longer, and then add a little vinegar to the sauce. Serve all on a dish. Forcemeat Carp a l’Aacienne.—Take a good-sized Carp, scale it, and remove all the flesh from the bones; then cut off the head and tail, leaving about lin. of the bone on each so as to fix them in the forcemeat. Make a forcemeat of the flesh rubbed through a sieve, to every pound of it add lOoz. each of bread and bread panada, season with salt and pepper, add two eggs and some reduced veloute sauce maigre thickened with an egg, and mix all well in a mortar. Poach a small piece of this forcemeat in water, and if it be too stiff add a little more sauce. Sufficient forcemeat must be made to replace the body of the Carp. Cut a slice of bread, lin. thick, 4in. wide, and of the length intended for the forcemeat Carp ; then make a ragout of Carp roes, mushrooms, truffles, and crayfish tails, mixed in Espagnole sauce stiffly reduced, with Madeira; put the slice of bread on a dish, with the head and tail of the fish at either end. Take the forcemeat and work it into the shape of the fish ; when it is the correct shape, take a little of the centre out with a gravy-spoon and fill the hollow with some of the ragout, cover it over with force- meat lin. thick, smooth the Carp over with a knife, brush it over with egg, make marks in the forcemeat with a spoon to represent scales, and poach it in the oven. Place the remainder of the ragout on the dish on each side of the Carp, and serve. Fried Carp. — Scale and remove the gills of a small Carp weighing about 1 Jib. or 21b., slit the back the whole length,