THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 461 For details respecting Culmary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c,, referred to, see under their special heads. Crayfish—continued. seasoning of salt. Toss the pan for a few minutes, and cook until the preparation is done, which should be within half- an-hour of the commencement. Cover the bottom of a dish with slices of toast, pour the Crayfish mixture over, and use the claws for a g'arnish. Timbale of Crayfish.—A great number of Crayfish are required for this dish, so that it would be sufficient for a large party. Having picked out the tails of some 150 Cray- fish, brush each over with warmed Crayfish butter. Have ready some very clear savoury jelly and a large timbale-mould, warm the jelly just to the liquid state, pick up each tail with a larding-needle or other convenient article, and dip each in the jelly ; then arrang'e them round the mould as shown Fig. 556. Timbale of Crayfish. in the drawing (see Fig. 556). The jelly will make them adhere to the mould. When the top is reached—remember the mould will be upside down, and should be packed in ice— leave the jelly fixing the tails to set. Pick out all the meat from the claws and bodies, and chop up very fine; mix this mince with sufficient warmed jelly to fill the timbale, and leave that also to set. When the jelly is firm, dip the mould for an instant in hot water, wipe the mould, and then turn the timbale out on to a dish. Garnish with croutons of jelly and an attelette decorated with truffles. Sea-Crayfish.—Although the flesh of these ungainly- looking fish is coarse ancl lacks flavour, it admits of very nice treatment, as is shown in the following receipts : Roasted Sea-Crayfish.— Fasten a Sea-Crayfish on the spit in front of a clear fire, and roast it, basting it frequently with a preparation of butter melted and mixed with cham- pagne and highly seasoned with salt and pepper. When the fish is done, which can be told by the softening of the shell, put it .on a dish, strain the basting liquor, flavour it with lemon-juice, add a little champagne, salt and pepper to taste, pour it over, and serve very hot. Sea-Crayfish a la Bordelaise.—Put a few shallots and one onion chopped very fine into a stewpan with a little oil, and fry them, but not enough to colour them, adding also two tails of uncooked Sea-Crayfish chopped up with the shells on. Toss the pan, and add a bunch of parsley garnished with a sprig of thyme, and a little cayenne and salt to season it; let them remain on the fire for two or three minutes, then add 3 wineglassfuls of white wine, put the cover over the pan, and boil for fifteen minutes. Take out the fish, drain it, wipe the shells clean outside, and put them on a dish, with chopped parsley dusted over them. Add a few table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce to the liquor to thicken it, and also a lump of butter, boil it up again, strain through a cloth, and pour it over the fish. Sea-Crayfish Patties.—Put 21b. of puff or brioche-paste on to a damped board, roll it out thin, and with a biscuit-cutter cut it up into two dozen rounds about 3in. in diameter. Prepare a little mixture with two Sea-Crayfish and fish forcemeat, put a small quantity of this on half the rounds of paste, cover over with the other half, press the edges well together, brush the patties over with beaten egg, put them in a sharp oven, and bake until done; then take them Crayfish—continued. out, and serve as hot as possible. If desired, after they have been egged over they may be plunged into a frying- pan of boiling fat, and fried. Sea-Crayfish with Prawns.—Put two large Sea-Crayfish into some court bouillon, and boil them until quite done ; then take them out, drain on a sieve, and remove the flesh from the tails, breaking the under-shell so as to keep the flesh whole. Sponge the meat and shells, and put them on a dish, with the shells spread their full length upon a bunch of parsley put in the centre ; cut the meat of the tails into *. slices, and put them along the sides of the shells ; put four Fig. 557. Sea-Crayfish with Prawns. sauce, with the creamy part of the shells added, also seasoned with a little cayenne. Garnish with croutons of aspic (see Fig. 557). CREAM (Fr. Creme; Ger. Ralim; Sp. Crema; Ital. Crema).—The derivation of this term is somewhat obscure and confusing. Webster and other lexicographers give it as being akin to the Latin verb cremare, to burn; but fail to show the process by which this has come to signify the oily constituent of milk. It has been suggested that Cream alludes to the readiness with which milk burns in boiling; but if we go back to the French use of the word, we find that it was first applied to a custard, which was known to Continental cooks as English Cream—Cream in delicate allusion, probably, to the care required in its cook- ing. Every cook knows that a custard should be boiled in a water-bath, on account of the readiness with which it burns; a peculiarity that gave Continental cooks, who were jealous of England’s reputation with the custard, an opportunity of changing the name to creme an bain- marie. The famous Careme appears to have been still more dissatisfied even with this subterfuge, therefore lie contrived to convert the English custard (creme Anglaise) into creme Franchise by the addition of a small quantity of isinglass to the mixture. In an unfortunate moment the word Cream was adopted into the English language as applying to the thick olea- ginous fluid which rises to the top of milk after standing, and from which butter and cheese are made. With a know- ledge of Continental cookery we became familiar with the Continental adaptation of the term, hence our acceptation of the word is not only extensive but somewhat contradic- tory and confusing, unless we are content to regard as Cream every thickened fluid that has the oily parts of milk for its foundation. Of the liqueurs called cremes, such as creme de noyeau, these may be considered fancy names ; also Creams in confectionery, as chocolate Creams. These will be fully described under their particular headings, so also will custards, cullis, and other terms that might be confused with Cream. Creaming, or Separating as it is technically called, is brought about in either of two ways : by setting the milk in large earthen pans in a dairy kept at an even temperature, taking the Cream off with a skimmer as it rises and accumulates on the surface; or by the use of a machine called a “ separator.” By the first, or “ setting ” system, the oleaginous particles of the milk rise to the