420 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Codfish —continued. Cod’s Tongues with Black-butter Sauce.—Blanch eighteen Cod’s tongues, put them in a saucepan with £ gill of the liquor they were blanched in, and heat, but do not let them boil. Drain well, dress on a hot dish, pour over 1 pint of black-butter sauce, decorate each side of the dish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve. Pried Cod’s Tongues.—Well wash eighteen fresh tongues, drain on a napkin, dip in cold milk, and then roll them one by one in flour. Put 1 teacupful of clarified butter into a frying-pan, heat it, gently lay in the tongues, keeping them separate, and cook for three minutes ; then turn them on the other side, using a fork, and cook for three minutes longer. Take them up carefully with a skimmer, put on a cloth to drain, season with 1 pinch of salt and £ pinch of pepper. Dress them on a hot dish with a folded napkin, and garnish with sprigs of parsley. Serve with 1 gill of hot tomato-sauce in a sauceboat. COFFEE (Fr. Cafe; Ger. Kaffee; Ital. Caffe; Sp. Cafe).—The plant by which Coffee berries, or, more cor- rectly, seeds, are produced is of the same natural order as the trees from which quinine and cinchona bark are obtained. Hence it is not surprising to find that Coffee possesses medicinal properties of a very high order, due chiefly to its aromatic essential oil and the active prin- ciple called caffeine, a crystal alkaloid that closely resembles them (of tea), quinine, cinchonine, and others. Payen gives the following as the composition of the Coffee-berry:— Water 12'000 Woody tissue ... ... ... ... ... 34'000 Fixed fatty matters ... ... ... 10 to 13’000 Gum, sugar, and vegetable acids ... ... 15 500 Nitrogenous matter allied to legumin (vege- table casein) ... ... ... ... ... 13'000 Free caffein ... ... ... ... ... 0'800 Compound of caffein with potash ... 35 to 5'000 Solid fatty essence ... ... ... ... 0'002 Aromatic essential oil ... ... ... ... O'OOl Saline matters ... ... ... ... ... 6'697 100 000 Talleyrand wrote: “A cup of Coffee lightly tempered • with good milk detracts nothing from your intellect; on the contrary, your stomach is freed by it, and no longer distresses your brain; it will not hamper your mind with troubles, but give freedom to its working. Suave molecules of Mocha stir up your blood, without causing excessive heat; the organ of thought receives from it a feeling of sympathy; work becomes easier, and you will sit down without distress to your principal repast, which will restore your body, and afford you a calm delicious night.” Fig. 497. Coffee Berries and Beans. The Coffee-plant (Caffea arabica) is a native of Arabia, and the better kinds are generally known as “Mocha”; but it is extensively grown in the French possessions in the West Indies, the seed having been imported thither in the reign of Louis XIY. (1741) after it had been cultivated at Amsterdam, and from this seed, which was of genuine Mocha descent, the West Indian gardens were stocked. The tree frequently attains a height of from 12ft. to 15ft., its leaves are laurel-shaped, and the berries resemble cherries, each containing two “ beans ” (see Fig. 497). When dried in the sun the husks are separated from the seeds; but in their natural (green) Coffee —continued. state they have a very peculiar taste. The produce of a good tree would be from 141b. to 21b. of berries. Rhind observes that the appearance of a Coffee plantation during flowering is very peculiar, the flowers maturing so rapidly that the trees which were previously appa- rently bare of flowers become almost in a night a mass of snowy white. The peculiar feature of the Coffee-bean is that it is not ready for use until roasted, that process bringing out flavours that would he otherwise unknown. There are various methods of roasting Coffee, the follow- ’ ing being strongly recommended. A small Coffee-roaster should be used, and the berries carefully selected. New beans will not roast well, as they contain a large proportion of clammy juice, which Fig. 498. Mocha Coffee Beans. requires careful and thorough drying. Small beans are the best, and those of Mocha (nearly all Arabian Coffee is styled Mocha) are nearly round (see Fig. 498). Boasting Coffee Beans. — Put the beans in the roaster, set this before a moderate fire, and turn slowly until the Coffee takes a good brown colour ; for this it should require about twenty-five minutes. Open the cover to see when it is done. If browned, transfer it to an earthen jar, cover it tightly, and use when needed. Or a more simple plan, and even more effectual, is to take a tin baking-dish, butter well the bottom, put the Coffee in it, and set it in a moderate oven until the beans take a strong golden colour, twenty minutes sufficing for this. Toss them frequently with a wooden spoon as they are cooking. Another plan is to put in a small frying-pan lib. of raw Coffee-beans and set the pan on the fire, stirring and shaking occasionally till the beans are yellow ; then cover the frying- pan and shake the Coffee about till it is a dark brown. Move the pan off the fire, keep the cover on, and when the beans are a little cool, break an egg over them and stir them until they are all well coated with the egg. Then store the Coffee in tins or jars with tight-fitting lids, and grind it as wanted for use. Coffee should always be bought in the bean and ground as required, otherwise it is liable to extensive adultera- tion with chicory (or succory); some persons like the addition, but the epicure who is really fond of Coffee would not admit of its introduction. The following receipts for making Coffee are those practised by the first cooks in the country: Breakfast Coffee.—Allow 1 table-spoonful of Coffee to each person. The Coffee when ground should be measured, put into the Coffee-pot, and boiling water poured over it in the proportion of f pint to each table-spoonful of Coffee, and the pot put on the fire ; the instant it boils, take the pot off, uncover it, and let it stand a minute or two; then cover it again, put it back on the fire, and let it boil up again. Take it from the fire and let it stand for five minutes to settle. It is then ready to pour out. Cafe au Bait.—(1) Put 2qts. of milk in an earthenware pot on the hot range and let it heat until nearly boiling ; then immediately add 2£oz. of finely-ground Coffee. Shuffle the pot in contrary directions whilst the milk comes to a boil, theti let it rest for three minutes. Strain through a clean napkin into a hot Coffee-pot, and serve with six small cups.