THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 474 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Cream—continued. beat up again, cover over the saucepan, and cook at the side of the fire for about ten minutes. When it is done, let it get cold, adding any flavouring desired. Plombiere Cream Ice.—Put into a stewpan 1J pints of Cream or milk, 14oz. of caster sugar, 6oz. of ground almonds and fifteen bitter ones (previously well pounded with 1 table- spoonful of orange-flower water), 3oz. of apricot jam diluted with 1 teacupful of water, and the yolks of eight eggs, and place the pan on the fire, stirring the contents continually ; when the mixture begins to get thick, take it off, stir for a few minutes, and pass it through a fine sieve into a basin. Pour the preparation into a freezer, twisting the pan with a vigorous movement and sometimes working with a spatula or knife. When the mixture is nearly stiff, add two whites of Italian meringue and work well again, adding last of all J pint of well-whipped Cream. It can either be turned out into moulds, or served on a dish with a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper. Heap it up in layers with apricot jam between, and surrounded at the base with some almond cakes (see Fig. 573). Portuguese Cream Ice.—Put Jib. of sugar into a pan, place it on the fire and keep stirring until it begins to boil; then remove it, and put it in the oven to bake. Take it out when done, add a stick of cinnamon, bruised, and the thin rind of a lemon. Replace it in the oven, and let it remain for a few minutes more. Then pour J pint of water into a basin con- taining the yolks of ten eggs, lib. of caster sugar, and 1J pints of milk; mix these well together, and pour into the pan, on the fire, stir until it thickens, and then pass through a fine sieve into a bowl or basin. Add 1 wineglassful of curaijoa, place the basin on the ice to freeze the contents, and mix in, just before it is completed, 1 breakfast-cupful of well-whipped Cream, 3oz. of sliced pistachios, and the same quantity of finely-minced candied orange-peel. When it has frozen sufficiently it is ready to be served. Potted Cream with Lemon.—Measure 6 small cream- potfuls of new milk, put it into a basin with the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of five, and Jib. of caster sugar. Whisk the eggs well with an egg-whisk, put in the peel of half a lemon, infuse it for twelve or fifteen minutes, and pass through a fine hair sieve; fill some small cream-pots with the mixture, stand the pots in a stewpan with water to half their height, place the stewpan over the fire till the water begins to boil, then move it to the side, and put some hot ashes on the lid. When the Cream has set, take the pots out of the water, wipe them, and leave till cool. When ready to serve, turn the Cream out of the pots on to a fancy or glass dish. Princess Cream.—Put 1 pint of whipped Cream into a basin and add to it 6oz. of mixed fi'uit, such as drained preserved cherries (red and white) and pears. Cut the cherries into halves and the pears into small dice shapes, removing the cores of the last-named before doing so; then add 1 wineglassful of brandy, sweeten to taste, stir in loz. of dissolved isinglass, pour into a mould, and when ready for use turn out in the usual way. Prussian Cream.—Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth with Jib. of sugar, some lumps of which have been rubbed on the peel of a lemon, and put into a saucepan with 1 pint of Cream ; whisk for a few minutes, then set over the fire, and continue whisking till it boils. Pour the Cream into a dish, and serve it when cold. It is nice eaten with stewed fruit or preserves. Cream—continued. Rhenish Cream. — (1) Soak for ten minutes loz. of gelatine in sufficient cold water to cover it. Beat well the yolks of six eggs, mix in the juice of two lemons, and add the yellow rinds of the lemons cut off very thin; mix in next 1 breakfast- cupful of sherry, and sugar to taste. Pour 2 breakfast- cupfuls of boiling water on to the soaked gelatine, stir it into the mixture of eggs and wine, put the whole into a saucepan on the stove, and let it heat till it thickens, but do not let it boil. Strain it into a basin, stir it till it is cool, and pour into a mould. (2) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Rhenish wine into a sauce- pan with Jib. of loaf sugar and a stick of cinnamon, and place it over the fire. Beat well with an egg-whisk the yolks and whites of seven eggs. When the wine boils, take it off the fire, and remove the cinnamon. Add the wine by degrees, while very hot, to the beaten eggs, and continue to whisk rapidly till thick enough to be lifted on the point of a knife. Add a little orange-flower water and the strained juice of a lemon, pour the Cream on a dish, and garnish with sugar, small biscuits, or pieces of citron. (3) Dissolve loz. of isinglass in 1 pint of water, add the yolks of five eggs, with the juice and peel of two lemons, J pint of white wine, and Jib. of white sugar. Stir the mixture together, and boil gently till thick enough to put into the mould; it is then ready for use. (4) Put loz. of isinglass in 1 pint of boiling water, stir till dissolved, and let it stand till cold. Beat the yolks of four eggs with J breakfast-cupful of caster sugar, then mix them with the dissolved isinglass, and add the grated peel and strained juice of three lemons, and J pint of white wine. Stir the mixture well, and boil it over a slow fire till it begins to thicken, then pour it into a well-oiled mould, and leave it till set. When ready to serve, turn the Cream out of the mould on to a glass or fancy dish. Rock Cream.—Mash 1 breakfast-cupful of well-boiled rice to a paste, mix with it the whites of twelve eggs beaten to a stiff froth with 6oz. of caster sugar, stir in 6 table-spoonfuls of rich fresh Cream and 20 drops of essence of almonds or extract of rose. Put it into a mould till quite cold and firm, turn it out on a glass dish, garnish with preserves, and serve with Cream or milk. Roman Cream.—Put 1 pint of milk into a saucepan with 5oz. of sugar, a small piece of cinnamon, and loz. of gelatine, and place it on the side of the fire; let the gelatine dissolve, and then whisk it well. Take the yolks of six eggs, beat them up until they are light as for custard, and put them into the saucepan, but do not let the mixture boil. Strain through a fine sieve into a freezer, and when nearly cold whip to a froth, and add 1 teacupful of cura^oa or 1 wineglassful of wine. Turn the Cream out into glasses, and keep them on the ice until wanted. Rose Cream.—Sweeten lqt. of milk with caster sugar, and put it over the fire until boiling. Whisk the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, drop the froth in small quantities into the milk, turn them over once or twice, then take out, and lay them on a fine hair sieve to drain. When all the white of egg has been thus used, beat the yolks of the six eggs, and stir them into the milk, adding more sugar if required. Stir the Cream at the edge of the fire until thick, but without letting it boil, or the eggs will curdle, then turn it into a basin, and stir it occasionally until half cold. Flavour the Cream with a few drops of rose-water and J wineglassful of brandy, turn if into a glass or fancy china dish, and arrange the poached whites of eggs on the top. Strew nonpareils thickly over, and serve. Royal Cream. Put Joz. of gelatine into a basin with lqt. of milk, and let it stand for half-an-hour. Add the yolks of three eggs, beaten up with 4 table-spoonfuls of sugar, and stir well; also a little flavouring of vanilla. Put the basin into a pan of hot water, and stir continually until the mixture thickens. Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, and add to the basin immediately it is removed from the hot water; stir well again, pour the mixture into moulds, and set them away to harden. Turn them out, and serve with or without sauce. Sherbet Cream Ice.—Beat up very light the yolks of three eggs, with 1 teaspoonful of orange-flower water, then mix in by degrees lqt. of Cream. Turn this into a saucepan over the