428 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, $ee under their special heads. Coffee—continued. hours in the ice. Dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it with a cloth, turn the blanc-mange out on to a fancy dish, garnish with macaroons, and serve. See Pig. 504. Coffee-and-Brandy Cream Bonbons.—Soak 2oz. of the finest picked gum arabic in J pint of hot water, strain it, and mix with it J gill of brandy and enough caster sugar to make it into an elastic paste. Beat the whites of two eggs with 2oz. of Coffee extract and enough icing sugar to make a rather but not very stiff paste. Fill a biscuit-forcer (having a Jin. tube at the end of it) with the white paste, and push it out upon a large sheet of paper that has been well sifted over with caster sugar; as the contents of the .forcer are pushed out, cut them off with a knife in pieces the size of small filberts. When each sheet of paper is full, stand it on a baking-sheet and put it in the screen for ten minutes to dry the bonbons. Take them up one at a time, using the point of a fork, dip them in the Coffee icing, put them oa wire trays, and stand them for another ten minutes in the screen. Store them away between layers of white paper, in a box or lin. Coffee Cake.—(1) Make a paste (called Madeleine paste by Dubois) with the following ingredients : 7oz. of dried and sifted flour, Jib. of powdered sugar, 7oz. of butter, 1 table-spoonful of potato-flour, the yolks of six eggs, the whites of six eggs well whisked, one whole egg, 2 table-spoonfuls of cognac, and a little salt. Put this mixture into a buttered cylinder mould, and bake. When it is done, turn it out of the mould and let it cool. While it is cooling, beat up the whites of four or five eggs’and when firm sift into them Jib. of caster sugar; whip this over the fire until quite thick, then remove it, and continue whipping until it gets perfectly cold ; add to it J wineglassful • of very strong Coffee infusion or extract of Coffee, to give it a dark colour. Bub Jib. of butter up in a cloth to soften it; put it in a basin, and work it with a spoon, gradually pouring in the Coffee mixture as soon as it becomes creamy. When the cake is cold, trim it, and divide it transversely into thin slices ; mask each layer with the Coffee mixture, build the cake to its original form, mask it all over with the Coffee mixture, smooth it over, and decorate it. Put it on a dish on a folded napkin, and fill the hollow with the remainder of the preparation. (2) Mix together 3J breakfast-cupfuls of pastry flour, J tea- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 1 breakfast-cupful of butter, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar, four eggs (the yolks and whites beaten separately), and 1 breakfast-cupful of strong clear Coffee. Divide the dough into three parts, add to one part 1 breakfast-cupful of currants, J breakfast-cupful of stoned and chopped raisins, Jib. of sliced citron (all the fruits must be floured), 2 teaspoonfuls of molasses, 2 teaspoonfuls of brandy or wine, and 1 teaspoonful of cinnamon and mixed mace. Knead all thoroughly together, and bake. (3) Mix Jib. of ground almonds and 1 wineglassful of Coffee extract with the whites of two eggs ; when well beaten, lay it out in small quantities on white paper, spread on a baking- sheet, and bake in a slow oven. (4) Beat Jib. of butter to a cream together with lib. of sugar, then beat into it Jib. of slightly-warmed molasses; | add J saltspoonful of powdered cloves, 1 saltspoonful each of powdered mace and cinnamon, beat the mixture hard for at least five minutes, then mix in the beaten yolks of three eggs ; have ready J pint of black Coffee, made with the very best Coffee beans, and stir it in ; then add in small quantities alternately the whites of three eggs whisked to a stiff froth, and 1 Jib. of flour; stir in 1 teaspoonful of saleratus dissolved in hot water, Jib. of citron chopped fine, Jib. of washed and dried currants, and Jib. of stoned and chopped raisins; citron, raisins aiid currants being dredged with flour before being mixed into the cake. When thoroughly mixed, bake in two cake-tins. When ^uitc cold, wrap the cakes in a thick cloth, and keep them till required for use in a tightly-closed cake-box, as this cake loses its aroma if exposed to the air. Coffee Caramel Tablets. —Boil Jib. of sugar to the crack degree; then move it from the fire, add 1 breakfast-cupful of cream and 1 table-spoonful of Liquid Coffee Extract, and boil it Up again to the crack. Move it from the fire, and when it is cool, turn it on to a slightly-oiled marble slab. Mark the surface of the caramel into tablets with the back of a knife, and when cold, snap it asunder at the parts marked. Coffee—continued. Coffee Charlotte Husse.—Line a plain charlotte mould with some lady’s finger biscuits' and stand it in ice. Put Jib. of Coffee in a basin with lqt. of boiled cream, and let it stand one hour. Beat in a stewpan the yolks of eight eggs and Jib. of caster sugar, pour in the Coffee and cream, and stir over the fire until the mixture begins to thicken. Soak loz. of gelatine in cold water, drain it, and add to the cream ; stir, and when the gelatine is melted, strain through a sieve into a basin, stand the basin on ice, and stir the cream until it begins to thicken; add lqt. of well-whipped cream, pour it into the mould, and let it remain in the ice for one hour. Dip the , mould in tepid water, put a folded napkin or ornamental paper on a dish, and turn the charlotte on to it. Coffee Cheese.—Boil J pint of cream and 1 pint of milk to- gether, and add a small lump of sugar and 1 pinch of salt. Boast 4oz. of Coffee-beans, put them while hot in with the cream and milk, cover the stewpan, and infuse till quite cold. When cold, mix J pint of cream with it, put it all in a basin packed in ice, and whip till the cream begins to thicken ; then add Joz. of isinglass dissolved with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar in 1 teacupful of water, and beat again until it is very thick. Put in a mould, surround with ice, and let it freeze. Coffee Cream.—(1) Boil 1 pint of milk and cream together, and add a small lump of sugar and 1 pinch of salt. Boast 4oz. of green Coffee-berries in a frying-pan, put the beans while hot in with the cream, place the cover on the stewpan, and let them steep till qLiite cold. Beat the yolks of four eggs in with the cream, strain it twice through a cloth, fill some break- fast-cups with it, and stand these in a large stewpan containing enough water to reach to half their height; put on the lid and a few live coals on the top of that, and let the water simmer. When the cream is set, let it get cold, and then turn it out of the cups. (2) Boast Jib. of Coffee-berries over the fire in a preserving- pan, shaking frequently; when they are well browned throw them into 1 pint of boiling cream ; cover this over with the lid and set it aside for the infusion to draw. Strain it through fine linen into a stewpan, add caster sugar to taste, and_six yolks of eggs ; stir the whole upon the fire until it thickens. Drop in l joz. of fine isinglass, strain it again through a sieve, and add J pint of good whipped cream. Pour the mixture into a large mould and set it upon the ice to get cold and firm ; when it is so, turn it out in the usual way. (3) Set a copper pan on the fire, put into it 8oz. of raw Coffee- berries, stir them about until they are slightly browned, then pour over 2 breakfast-cupfuls each of milk and cream, and add 12oz. of sugar and the yolks of six egg's ; continue to stir until these form a custard ; run this through a fine sieve into a freezer, and freeze. Pour into a mould packed in ice, let it set, turn out on to a cold dish, and serve. Coffee Cream Ice. -(1) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of ground Coffee in a bottle with J pint of water, and leave it to steep all night; then strain it through a cloth previously rinsed in hot water. Beat 12oz. of caster sugar with 1J pints of cream, and mix this with the Coffee. Put the mixture in a freezer, turn this about with one hand and work the cream from the sides with the other. In this way the cream can be frozen in a very few minutes. (2) Mix 1 teacupful each of sugar and flour together, and beat them with two eggs. Put 1 pint of milk on the fire, and when it comes to the boil stir in_the beaten eggs and flour, and let it simmer for twenty minutes; cool it, and then add lqt. of cream, J pint of strong Coffee, and another teacupful of sugar. Pour the mixture into a freezer, work it occasionally, and let it freeze. (3) Put in a stewpan 1 pint of cream, 14oz. of caster sugar, the yolks of eight eggs, J pint of strong Coffee, and J salt- spoonful of salt; beat them well together, and stir over the fire until thick ; strain, put the mixture into a freezer, and let it freeze for an hour or so. (4) Prepare about 1 pint of Coffee, making it with water, pour into a basin, let it cool, mix in an equal quantity of cold cream, and sweeten to taste; pour the whole into a freezer packed in a very little ice, and let it remain covered over for about ten minutes. With a spatula ease away the sides where they have frozen, cover over for twenty minutes longer, use the spatula again, cover over for another twenty minutes, work the handle of the freezer slightly, and the Coffee will be