295 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, sec under their special heads. Cardinal—continued. caster sugar over, cover the bowl, and leave for an hour or two. Pour 1 bottle of Rhine wine or moselle over the straw- berries, cover the bowl again, and leave for a short time longer. Pour another bottle of the same wine as used before over the strawberries, also i bottle of seltzer water, and serve. If to be kept, strain the Cardinal through a jelly-bag, pour it into bottles, and cork them tightly. (3) Pick lib. of ripe strawberries as for No. 1 ; put them into a china bowl, sift |lb. of caster sugar over, baste with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of red wine, and leave for an hour or two, keeping the bowl covered. When the strawberries have stood sufficiently, pour in with them 1 bottle of Rhine wine and £ pint of red wine. Pour in at the last, when quite ready for serving, £ bottle of seltzer water, or, if preferred, a bottle of champagne. Cardinal of Sweet Oranges.—Peel the yellow rind very thinly off an orange, and put it into a jug; pour in 2 pint bottles of wine, cover the jug, and let the peel infuse for an hour or two. Scrape off all the white pith of the oranges, cut them into thin slices, put them in a china bowl, cover plentifully with caster sugar, and leave until the peel is ready. Strain the wine from the peelings through a fine hair sieve over the fruit, add more sugar if required, pour in a bottle of sparkling moselle, and serve immediately. CARDOONS (Fr. Cardons).—This vegetable (Cynara Cardunculus) is not very well known in this country, although in France it is much used as a vegetable (see Fig. 332). It is a native of Canada, but not success- fully cultivated in Great Britain, although, as M. Thoumire informs us, several attempts have been made to his knowledge to grow it in private gardens, the result being invariably unsatisfactory, as the Cardoons pro- duced were green, tough, and un- cookable, whereas the stalks should be white, crisp, and tender. In the south of France Cardoons are grown to perfection out of doors, but in the north the protection of a cellar is resorted to, and blanching ensured by packing the plants with straw. Some cooks claim great praise for the Cardoon as a tasty and nutri- tious food; but chemists do not appear to place much value upon its nutritive qualities, ranking it gener- ally as one of tbfe lowest order. In France, some pleasing stews are made with the young inner leaves, and they are frequently chopped up and put into soups to thicken. Stewed with beef-marrow they are said to be excellent, and as they are fit for use from October to December, a time when vegetables are particularly scarce, it would be well to encourage their cultivation if possible. In the hope that British cooks may soon be making inquiries for Cardoons, several modes of preparing them, as recom- mended by Continental chefs de cuisine, are hereunder appended. Baked Cardoons with Breadcrumbs.—Blanch and boil the required number of Cardoons; put them into a dish well- buttered and sprinkled with grated bread, cover them with breadcrumbs, pour over sufficient warmed butter to moisten, and brown the surface either with a salamander or in the oven. Take out the Cardoons when done, and serve. A little grated cheese may also he sprinkled over with the breadcrumbs. Cardoons en Blanquette.—Cook some Cardoons in the same way as in Cardoons for Garnish, and when they are done cut them into lengths, mix them with hot German sauce, put this in a silver casserole, and garnish with croutons of bread fried in butter. Cardoons—continued. Cardoons Boiled in Butter.—Prepare two or three heads of Cardoons, cut them up in pieces of any length, clean them, remove the threads, blanch and peel them, put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them, and add a lump of butter kneaded with salt. Set the saucepan on the fire and boil them until they are done and quite tender ; then take them out, drain, put them into a saucepan with hot melted butter, and simmer gently for a few minutes, adding a little each of vinegar and grated nutmeg. Turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. Cardoons Boiled in Stock.—Cut the stalks off white and tender Cardoons, remove the prickles, put them into boiling salted water, and boil them for a-quarter-of-an-hour; then drain them, rub off the skins with a cloth, and put them into cold water. Put them in a saucepan, cover with white stock, and let them simmer until they are done ; then take them out carefully, arrange on a dish, pour over melted butter sauce, and serve. Cardoons with Brown Sauce.—Select white and tender Car- doons, chop off the green stems, and cut the white stems into pieces about 2iin. or 3in. in length. Wash these thoroughly, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, with salt and a little vinegar or citric acid added. Put in a small piece of the crumb of bread to take away the bitterness from them, cover the pan over, and boil for twenty minutes. Take them out with a skimmer, dip them into cold water, and rub well on a cloth to remove the thin skin. Cover over the bottom of a saucepan with trimmings of bacon, put the Cardoons on these, add sufficient broth to moisten them to their height, 1 tea- spoonful of flour wet with water, a little white wine and acid, a few spices, and salt to taste ; cover the whole over with paper, and boil slowly until done. Take them out, drain, put them on a dish, and serve with brown sauce poured over them. Cardoons with. Cheese.—Remove the outside leaves from four or five Cardoons, string the white parts, and cut them into pieces about lin. in length; put these into a saucepan with 1 pint of port wine, and cook them on a slow fire until they are quite tender. Sprinkle in salt and pepper to taste, and add loz. of butter well rolled in flour. Turn the whole out into a dish, squeeze over the juice of an orange, and sprinkle over 4oz. of grated cheese. Brown the surface with a sala- mander, or in the oven, and serve as hot as possible. Cardoons a l’Bspagnole.—(1) Procure some very white heads of Cardoons, cut each leaf into slices Gin. long (with the exception of the hollow ones, which are tough and thready), and remove all the prickles. Put the thickest leaves into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil them for a few minutes; then put in the leaves of the heart, turn the middle stalks into olive shapes, put them into the boiling water with the others, and blanch them also. Next try a piece in cold water to see whether the slime which is on the surface will come off by rubbing; if so, take them off the fire immediately, refresh them in cold water, wash them, and rub off all the slime. Prepare a blanc as follows : Cut |lb. of fat bacon and a small piece of beef-suet into large squares, put these into a saucepan with 2oz. of butter, half a lemon cut into thin slices, a small lump of salt, and as much water as will cover the Cardoons when they are added. Stew the blanc for half-an-hour. then throw in the Cardoons, boil them up once, and leave in the blanc. When ready to use the Cardoons, trim them at both ends, put them in a stewpan with 1 teacupful each of Spanish sauce and broth, and a small quantity each of sugar and salt, and boil over a sharp fire so as not to cook them too much, keeping the fat well skimmed off. When cooked, arrange the Cardoons on a hot dish, strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve over them, and serve without delay. (2) Cut the required number of Cardoons with white heads into pieces from 2in. to 3in. long, throwing away all the hollow and green ones ; put them into a saucepan of water, and boil them for half-an-hour. Drain the Cardoons, and rub off all the slime that will be found adhering to them. Put loz. of butter into a stewpan, with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir over the fire until mixed ; then pour in about 1 pint of clear broth, add two or three small onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, a small quantity of verjuice, and salt to taste. Put in the Cardoons, and stew them gently until tender