262 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Twine the strips into knots Cakes—continued. means of a fluted pastry-wheel. (see Fig. 302), and then drop it into a stewpan of hot fat, and turn it occasionally to en- sure it browning on all sides. Drain each Cake as it is cooked; place it on a dish and strew caster sugar over it. These are best served cold. Tartary Cakes.—Eub |lb. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of lard in 11 lb. of flour; save a small quantity of the flour to roll with, and add 3 breakfast- cupfuls of brown sugar and three eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately. Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in a little cream, and mix with the dough, afterwards adding f teaspoonful of tartaric acid dissolved in a little cream. Season with ground mace or wine, make into small Cakes, and bake on buttered baking-sheets. Taylor Cakes.—Eub into 3^ breakfast-cupfuls of pastry-flour ilb. of butter; add 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, | tea- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 2£ breakfast-cupfuls of sugar, and flavouring to taste. Beat all together with i pint of milk and three eggs. Form into loaves, and bake in a moderate oven for forty-five minutes. Mask over with icing. Tipsy Cake.—(1) Have ready a large stale sponge Cake, and pierce it through in several places with a skewer; put it on a glass dish, and soak it in equal proportions of wine and brandy. As the liquid runs on the dish, pour it over again, and con- tinue this until the Cake is well soaked. Cut some blanched sweet almonds into long shreds, and stick them into the Cake. Pour over a good custard, and serve as soon as possible after being got ready. A few ratafias or macaroons make a good garnish for the dish. (2) Take a few, say ljoz., of sweet almonds, blanch them and cut them into long thin shreds as nearly of a size as possible, and stick them in regular order into a long sponge Cake; put it into a deep dish, and then pour over it as much sherry wine and brandy mixed as it will soak up, and let it remain for quite twelve hours. Sherry wine alone or with raisin wine may do instead of the brandy. Prepare a rich custard and pour it round, but not over, the Cake ; if for the supper table no custard should be used. (3) It can also be made in the shape of a tower, by taking a sponge Cake of three or four days old and trimming off the rough parts at the bottom so that it will stand evenly, and proceed with the liqueur and almonds as before. The longer it stands the better it is, but the brandy, &c., that is in the dish must be constantly put over it until it is all absorbed. (4) Soak a sponge Cake in wine and water. Make a custard of six eggs to lqt. of milk, and pour over it. Eeserve the whites, beaten to a stiff froth, to pour over last. Garnish with jam. (5) Take a lib. sponge Cake, cut it into halves horizontally, and lay each half on separate dishes. The under half should be put on a glass dish. Pour over each 1 \ wineglassfuls of sherry, and let them soak. Put on the under half of the Cake 3 table-spoonfuls of strawberry jam. When the top half has absorbed all the sherry poured over it place it on top of the jam over the under half of the Cake, being very careful not to break it or spoil its shape. Put ^lb. of almonds in a bowl, pour over them some boiling water, let them stand in it for a few minutes, then slip them out of their skins. Cut them lengthwise into strips and stick them thickly all over the Cake. Pour round the Cake as much rich boiled custard as the dish will hold, and serve. (6) Geusian Style.—Eub 4oz. of loaf sugar over the outer rind of a lemon, put it in a bottle with 1 pint of any kind of wine, the juice of the lemon, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Shake the bottle well, then pack it in ice or stand in a cold place for two or three hours. Cover the bottom of a glass dish with layers of sponge Cake, pour the wine over them, and serve with small biscuits for garnish. (7) Fob Children.—Spread a little jam over a dozen or so of stale sponge Cakes, and then pour over them sufficient Cakes—continued. currant or raisin wine for them to absorb. Pile them on a dish, and pour round, not over, some nicely-flavoured cold custard, and garnish the dish with preserved fruits cut in pieces. Travelling Cakes.-—Beat up well the yolks of twelve eggs, and add while beating £lb. of pounded sugar and the grated rind (zest) of half a lemon. When the mixture becomes frothy, mix in 12 table-spoonfuls of finely-grated breadcrumbs, and the whisked whites of ten or twelve eggs. Butter a baking-sheet, and put the mixture on it, spreading it in a thin layer. Put the mixture into a slack oven, and when done cut it with a round biscuit-cutter. Mask half with apricot marmalade, and join two together by this means. Tunbridge Cakes.—Put £lb. of dried and finely-sifted flour into a basin, and rub into it 2oz. of well-washed or fresh butter; then add 1 pinch of salt (or it may be better if put into the flour before it is sifted), 2oz. of caraway-seeds, 4oz. of finely-powdered loaf sugar, and sufficient cold water to make it into a stiff paste. Boll the paste out very thin, cut it into small rounds with a biscuit-cutter, prick little holes into the tops (or dock them), and bake from a-quarter-of-an-hour to half-an-hour in a moderate oven. Turin Cakes. —Put 2oz. of blanched sweet almonds, and three or four bitter ones, into a mortar, add the white of one egg, and pound together; beat up the yolks of five eggs, add them to the almonds, and gradually work in lib. of caster sugar. Beat up well and add 2oz. of sifted flour, loz. of potato-flour, and the whites of five well-whisked eggs. Butter some tartlet-pans, and sprinkle over some sugar ; then pour in the batter, and bake in a moderate oven for about thirty minutes. Turkish. Cakes.—(1) Large.—Whip the whites of twelve eggs to a stiff froth, then mix in by degrees a little more than -)lb. of wheat-starch; mix well, then stir in gradually sufficient water to make a thin batter. Procure a slightly hollowed circular sheet of iron, place it over a dullish fire, and when warmed pour in some of the batter, making it spread out thinly. Directly the Cake is cooked (it will not take above a minute) take it out of the pan and pour in some more batter, the same quantity as the last lot; proceed like this until all is cooked. Put one of the rounds of Cake in a deep dish, flavour a break- fast-cupful of milk with rose-water, and sprinkle some of it over the Cake; place another Cake on the top, and proceed thus until half are used. Then spread a thick layer of clotted cream over them, and lay the remainder of the Cakes over, proceeding as before. Pour about 1 pint of boiling syrup over the Cakes, cover them, and put in a cool place. When cold, cut the Cakes into squares or any shape desired, and serve. Pounded almonds can be used in place of clotted cream if preferred. (2) Boil lib. of loaf sugar in lqt of water until reduced to a syrup. Beat the whites of fifteen eggs, and mix gradually in with them sufficient water and flour to make a thin batter; pour a layer of it in a slightly-domed circular sheet of iron that has been placed over a slow fire, and cook it for one or two minutes; then take it out, put in more batter, and so on until all are used. Pour the boiling syrup into a rather deep baking-tin, put this over a slow fire, then put in the Cakes, one at a time, and mash them into the syrup with the back of a wooden spoon. ■When the syrup is thick, sprinkle a few drops of rose-water over it, and leave it until cold. Turn the mixture out on to a dish, decorate the top with blanched and shredded almonds and pistachios, and serve. (3) Small.—Beat the whites of fifteen eggs, and mix with them fib. of powdered wheat-starch; then pour in sufficient water to make a thin batter, and continue stirring until smooth. Procure a circular, slightly-domed, sheet of iron, place it on a moderate fire, and when warm pour in a thin layer of the batter. In a minute or so the batter will be cooked; then take it out and replace it with more, continuing thus until all the batter has been cooked. Blanch and peel 3oz. or 4oz. of almonds, or pistachios, and pound them in a mortar. Sprinkle a small quantity of rose-water over the Cakes, double them in halves, then sift the pounded almonds over them, and fold again, giving them a wedge, quarter, or triangular shape. Beat two or three eggs, put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, and place it over the fire. Dip the Cakes in the beaten egg, then put them in the hot butter and fry until lightly browned. Put them in a basin, pour over about 1| pints of boiling syrup,