422 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utens ls, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Coffee—continued. table-spoonful to every pint of water; boil slowly for ten or fifteen minutes, then pour it into a Coffee-pot that has a Coffee-bag fixed inside; or percolate through a cafetiere. Serve with plenty of boiling milk and sugar. As already shown by the foregoing receipts, Coffee is best made by percolating boiling water through the freshly-roasted, freshly-ground beans. , Numerous inven- tions of apparatus have been made, all seeming to have special qualities. Amongst these the following are perhaps the more noteworthy: General Hutchinson’s Coffee-pot (Fig. 500, a) and Urn (Fig. 500, b), both acting upon the principle of percolation. The Coffee-pot is in two parts, the upper being fitted with a perforated bottom upon which the Coffee rests. The water is poured in through a coarsely- perforated disperser, and the Coffee is kept in its place by a sort of damper. When the liquor has run through, the top part may be removed, and the lid then fits the bottom part containing the beverage. The urn is fitted in a somewhat similar manner. Fig. 501. Lebrun’s Cafetiere (Adams and Son). Lebrun’s Cafetiere (Fig. 501) is so contrived that when the water boils it passes through the Coffee by steam pressure directly into the cup. The Vienna Coffee-pot (see Fig. 502). fitted with a spirit-lamp, works upon a similar plan, the boiling water rising and passing through the Coffee. A little Cafetiere called the “ Potsdam ” (Fig. 503) is rever- sible, so that when tbe water boils, by means of the spirit burning in the tray below, the operator turns the pot over, and the water then passes through the Coffee into the vessel that is then undermost. As explained before, these utensils have their merits, but are too elaborate for general purposes, although the results are excellent, and the Coffee produced is second to none. Coffee is employed by con- fectioners as a flavouring for many pleasing dainties, the following receipts being se- lected for their eminent practi- cability : Coffee Bavaroise.—(1) Stand a saucepan over the fire with fbz. of gelatine, lOoz. of lump sugar, and 1 pint of water; when the gelatine and sugar are dissolved, strain through a silk sieve, and let the solution get cold. Mix with the cold jelly i pint of liquid Coffee extract. Pack a cylinder-mould in ice, pour in the jelly, and turn it about so as to line the mould all over. Boil 11 pints of milk with a little strong Coffee —continued. Coffee in a large saucepan; beat the yolks of eight eggs with Jib. of caster sugar, and pour in with the milk and Coffee, stirring until the custard begins to thicken. Soak 1 joz. of gelatine in cold water, drain it, and mix with the hot custard. When dissolved, strain it into a basin, and stand the basin on ice. As the custard begins to thicken, mix in 1J pints of whipped cream; turn this into the mould, imbed it in the ice, with a cover on the top. of it and ice on the top of that, and leave for an - hour - and - a - half. Before turning the bavaroise out, dip the mould in tepid water. (2) Soak ^ teaspoonful of gela- tine in teacupful of cold water for two hours ; pour on this |- pint of strong boiling Coff ee, and when the gelatine is melted add 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar. Strain into a tin bowl, pack this in ice, and whisk the contents until they begin to thicken; then add 1 pint of whipped cream, and when thoroughly mixed, pour into a mould to set. Serve with sugar and cream. Coffee Beer.—A beverage by this name was invented by a certain M. Pluehart. The ingredients and quantities in a thousand parts are—Strong Coffee, 300 ; rum, 300; syrup thickened with gum Senegal, 65 ; alcoholic extract of orange- peel, 10 ; and water, 325. It does not appear to have reached any important degree of popularity. Coffee Blanc-mang'e.—Roast 4oz. of Coffee-berries, grind them, put them in a basin, pour iu ^ pint of boiling water, and leave them till the grounds have settled at the bottom. Dissolve ioz. of gelatine in a small quantity of boiling water, and strain it into a basin. Pour the clear Coffee carefully from the groundj into the basin containing the gelatine, and sweeten it with Vlb. of caster sugar. Blanch lib. of sweet almonds, put them in a mortar, and pound them to a paste, adding gradually 1) pints of water. Squeeze the almonds through a cloth, and pour half of this liquid on to the Coffee. Dissolve another -Joz. of gelatine in 1 teacupful of hot water, sweeten it with 1-lb. of caster sugar, and mix the remainder of the almond liquid with it. Pack a mould in ice, pour iu a layer of the Coffee mixture, and let that freeze ; then pour in a layer of the almond mixture, allowing that to freeze also, and con- tinue in this way till the mould is full ; then leave it for tw Fig. 502. Vienna Coffee- Pot (Adams ancl Son). Fig. 503. Reversible Pots- dam Cafetiere (Adams and Son).