263 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OP PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. and leave until well soaked. When ready, arrange the Cakes in a group on a dish, and serve. Turk’s Cake.—Put four eggs and 4oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar into a basin, beat them together over a saucepan of boiling water for about ten minutes ; remove the basin from the saucepan and beat five minutes longer. Sift in 4oz. of flour and 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, stir gently to mix, pour it into a plain mould buttered and dusted with sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. Turn it out when done, and let it get quite cold. In the meantime beat 2oz. of butter with 4oz. of sugar to a white cream, add gradually 1 table- spoonful of cold clear strong coffee, beating in a few drops at a time, and working well until the whole forms a firm smooth paste. Put this into a forcing-bag with a tube fitted to it, decorate the Cake in an artistic Turkish pattern, let the icing set, and serve. Velvet Breakfast Cakes.—Simmer 1 pint of new milk, but do not let it boil; add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, beat three eggs and add with a little salt and 3 table-spoonfuls of fresh yeast. Mix in enough flour to make a dough. Knead it and put it to rise in a warm place for two hours with a cover on the basin; shape into little Cakes, put them on buttered baking-sheets, and bake for a quarter-of-an-hour in a quick oven. Velvet Cake.—Beat fib. of warmed butter and lib. of caster sugar with the hand until it becomes like cream. Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in 1 teacupful of cold water, and mix in with the butter and sugar. Put 2 tea- spoonfuls of cream of tartar in lib. of flour, and sift gradually in with the other ingredients ; add five eggs, the whites and yolks beaten separately, flavour to taste, beat all well together, put in a greased tin, and bake for half-an-hour. Venice Cake.—(1) Beat up the yolks of twenty-eight eggs and 6oz. of sugar until quite light, then beat up the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth and mix in, adding 3oz. of blanched, shredded, sweet almonds, 6oz. of flour, and a little lemon- peel, and mix well together. Butter a mould, pour in the mixture, and bake until done in a moderate oven. (2) Take a large savoy Cake and cut it into slices trans- versely, of about fin. in thickness ; mask each slice with raspberry or apricot jam, or each jam alternately. Put the layers in their original places and ice the whole over. The icing should be allowed to run into the flutes and mouldings of the Cake. Place it just within the door of the oven to dry, but not to get discoloured. When dry enough decorate with piping. (3) Separate the yolks and whites of four eggs, put the yolks in a basin with 4 heaped table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, beat them well, and mix in gradually 6 table-spoonfuls of flour. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff snow, and stir them in lightly and quickly with the above mixture. Line some small square boxes or tins with sheets of white paper, pour some of the above mixture into each, about two-thirds filling them. Dust over with caster sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. When baked, leave the Cakes until cold, then cut a small round piece out of the centre of each, fill the hollow with peaches or apricots that have been stewed in syrup, put two together, and arrange on a dish. Victoria Cake.—(1) Warm lflb. of butter in a basin and beat it to a cream, then add 6oz. of blanched almonds and two or three bitter ones well pounded in a mortar, fib. of dried cherries cut in halves, fib. of well-minced mixed candied peel, lflb. of flour, 1 pinch of salt, and four well-whipped eggs. Beat all together quickly for a few minutes and then add slowly, beating all the time, fib. of flour, eight well-beaten eggs, and a large wineglassful of brandy. Put lfoz. of fresh yeast into 1 table-spoonful of warm water and let it dissolve. Make a hole in the centre of the batter and pour in the yeast. Knead this thoroughly, and then add f pint of cream whipped to a froth. Butter a baking-tin and half fill it with the mixture; put a cloth over it and place before the fire to rise. When it has risen to double its original bulk, bake it at once in a moderate oven until it is of a light brown, or so that a skewer if passed into it comes out again clean. This Cake may also be served as a pudding, with custard sauce poured over it. (*,) Take two lemons and rub the rinds off with pieces of Cakes—continued. sugar until the coloured part is all transferred to the sugar ; pound up the lumps and add more sugar to make up fib. Beat the whites of three eggs to a froth and add the sugar, stirring together; then add the yolks of six well-beaten eggs. When all these are thoroughly incorporated, mix in slowly 7oz. of flour. Pour the batter into a tin lined with buttered paper, and bake until it is done a light brown. Vienna Cakes.—(1) Lakge.—For this you must use four or five large plates, and stretch paper over them. Make an edge round them with more paper, and sew them to the rounds. Butter them well, and put them on a baking-tin. Prepare a mixture made by working together fib. of butter beaten to a cream, the yolks of twelve well-beaten eggs, and the grated peel of half a lemon; then add gradually fib. of pounded sugar, fib. of flour, and the same of potato-flour. Mix all well together, and then add the whites of twelve eggs whipped until like snow. This must be spread over the plates not thicker than fin. Bake until of a nice yellow colour, but not to let them even slightly brown. When done, turn out and let them get cold, and then take off the paper without breaking the Cakes. Put one on top of the other with a layer of different coloured preserves and marmalades between them. Then take a little powdered sugar, dissolve it in lemon-juice, and spread it thickly over the top and sides. Put it in the oven to dry, and then ornament the top with preserved fruit or marmalade. (2) Take 7oz. of sweet and loz. of bitter almonds, blanch them, and put them in a mortar with a few drops of orange- flower water and pound thoroughly. The orange-flower water will prevent them oiling. Then mix in lib. of flour and break into this fib. of butter. Kub a few lumps of sugar upon the rind of a lemon and break them to a powder, adding fib. more. Then beat in the yolks of three well- whisked eggs, and when the paste is made put it on a board and roll out to about fin. in thickness; put it on a baking- sheet and bake in a moderate oven until it is browned equally all over. Then take it out and cut into six or seven equal portions, spreading jam of different colours upon all but one; put them one on top of the other, and the one not spread with jam on the top of all. Cover the top with icing and ornament with coloured-sugar piping. Another way of cutting them is so that the bottom is the largest and the layers become smaller in gradation towards the top, leaving a border of about lin. on each piece, which can be masked with different coloured jams or preserved fruits. (3) Slightly warm fib. of butter, and beat it in a basin until creamy, then beat in the yolks of twelve eggs one at the time. Sift in gradually 4oz. of the finest wheaten-flour and the same quantity of potato-flour, fib. of caster sugar, and the grated peel of half a lemon. Beat the mixture thoroughly for ten minutes or so, then whip the whites of the twelve eggs to a firm froth and add them gently. Butter a few shallow paper cases, place them on a baking-dish, and spread a thin layer of the mixture in each case. Bake the Cakes in a moderate oven, they must not be too much coloured. When the Cakes are cooked, leave them until cold, then take off the paper. Put a fancy dish-paper or a folded napkin on a round dish, and pile the Cakes on it, with a layer of different coloured preserves between them. Squeeze lemon-juice on a moderate quantity of caster sugar, work it until dissolved, then spread it thickly over the top and round the sides of the Cake. Put the Cake in a warm place till the glazing is dry, then ornament the top with candied or preserved fruit, and serve it. (4) Slightly warm fib. of butter and beat it until creamy with fib. of caster sugar; blanch and pound 2oz. of sweet almonds, then mix them with the beaten butter, also the grated rind of one lemon, fib. of sifted flour, and the yolks of ten eggs. Work the above mixture thoroughly for twenty minutes or half-an-hour. Whisk the whites of the ten eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them in lightly at the last. Butter the interior of four or five shallow paper moulds, place them on baking- sheets, pour a thin layer of the mixture into each, and bake in a moderate oven. Peel lib. of apples, core, and cut them into slices; put them into a stewpan with lfoz. of butter, 4oz. of caster sugar, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Put the pan over a slow fire, and stir them occasionally with a wooden spoon until reduced to a pulp. Beat the yolks of three eggs with the juice of a lemon, pour them in with the