398 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Claret—continued. good in some places, so also was that of 1875; and then come 1877, generally good, 1878, 1879, 1880, and so on. Any wine-merchant of good reputation will know all the best vintages by heart, and take pleasure in guiding his customer’s choice ; but to pronounce an opinion on Claret requires familiarity with the best. The following are a few of the most acceptable uses to which ordinary Clarets may be adapted with some advantage to themselves. Prime Clarets should never be interfered with, beyond placing in a warm room lief ore drawing the cork. Claret Cup.—(1) Pour into a jug J pint of Claret and 1 pint of filtered water, add 1 teaspoonful of caster sugar, 2 tea- spoonfuls of brandy, and two or three slices of orange, and thoroughly mix them. Stand the jug on ice for half-an-hour, strain, and decant. (2) Mix with 1 bottle of Claret £ breakfast-cupful of sherry, ^lb. of sugar dissolved in a little water, 1 bottle of soda-water, the thinly-sliced peel of a lemon, two or three slices of cucumber, or a sprig of borage or verbena, and ice. (3) Pour a bottle of Claret into a large jug and add three thick slices of cucumber, loz. or 2oz. of caster sugar, a sprig of balm and borage, J wineglassful of brandy or curagoa, and 1 pint bottle of seltzer-water, and well mix them. Stand the jug on ice for an hour, strain, and decant for use. (4) Pom- into a large bowl 1 imperial pint of Claret and 1 wineglassful of brandy, then throw in five or six leaves of fresh mint, the thinly-pared rind of one lemon, and, if in season, three thin slices of cucumber, and sweeten to taste ; then add 1 breakfast-cupful of finely-pounded ice, and on top of all throw in two bottles of either soda- or seltzer-water. Serve immediately. (5) Take a large bowl holding 5 pints, squeeze in the juice of three lemons, add 4 table-spoonfuls of powdered loaf sugar, 2 liqueur-glasses of curaijoa, and two slices of cucumber with- out seeds; then pour in 3 pints of Claret and 1 bottle of soda-water. Mix thoroughly with a spoon, adding about fib. of ice in one lump ; mix again, then decorate with a thinly- sliced orange, berries of any kind cut up small, and finally with a small bunch of fresh mint. Serve in small glasses. (6) Put the thin rind of a lemon into a bowl or basin, and sprinkle with 2oz. of crushed loaf sugar and a very little nutmeg; next pour in a liqueur-glassful of cura^oa and about a teacupful of sherry. When these are incorporated, add a bottle of Claret, and two or three well washed and dried sprays of lemon thyme. A few minutes before serving break in as much ice as required, and pour in a bottle of soda-water.- (7) Put 2oz. of finely-powdered loaf sugar into a bowl, pour over it a wineglassful of elder-flower wine, and stir in a table-spoonful of brandy, two or three slices of lemon, and a bottle of Claret. Add a bottle of lemonade a few minutes before serving. (8) Rub 3oz. of loaf sugar on a lemon rind, then put the sugar into a mortar with ground spices to taste, using a little each of nutmeg, cinnamon, and cloves, or any one singly; pound them well together, turn them into a bowl, put in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of broken ice, and pour in a bottle of Claret, or, if desired, Claret and water in equal quantities. (9) Cut a piece of cucumber about 4in. long- into thin slices ; place in a bowl, and sprinkle with about 3 table-spoonfuls of crushed loaf sugar; pour over this a bottle of Claret, and add three thin slices of lemon. Let this remain for an hour or so, then add two sprays of blue- flowered borage, and a few minutes before serving pour in a bottle of soda-water. (10) Rub off the rind of a lemon with 2oz. of loaf sugar, pound it, put it into a bowl together with three thin slices of the lemon, and pour a wineglassful of pale dry sherry and a bottle of Claret over it; a few minutes before serving add two or three sprays of lemon verbena, 2 breakfast- cupfuls of broken ice, and a bottle of champagne (dry for preference). Serve at once. Claret Fizz.— Put 1 wineglassful of Claret into a tumbler with a few lumps of ice, shake them round for a minute or | Claret—continued. two, pour the Claret into a larger glass, pour in a bottle of lemonade, and drink while it is effervescing. Claret Ice.—Pour a pint of Claret into a basin, add the strained juice of three lemons, together with the zest rubbed off with lumps of sugar; pour in a wineglassful of brandy and half the quantity of rum, add sufficient simple syrup to sweeten, pour the mixture into the freezer, and then into a mould packed in ice. When set, turn it out and serve. Claret Jelly.—(1) Put into an enamelled saucepan ^lb. of lump sugar, 10 drachms of gelatine, i■ pint of Claret, and i wine- glassful of brandy, and let it soak for ten minutes. Pare very thin the yellow rind of half a lemon, put it, together with |lb. of currant jelly, into a saucepan with the wine and gelatine. Put the saucepan on the stove and stir till it boils, then draw it to the side and let it simmer for five minutes. Wet the inside of a jelly mould with cold water, strain the jelly into it, and when quite cold turn out into a glass dish and serve. (2) Put loz. of isinglass into a saucepan with f pint of Claret, and boil it until melted; then mix in -fib. of loaf sugar, and stir until the sugar is dissolved. Take the saucepan off the fire and mix with the contents 1 teacupful of raspberry-juice, 5- wineglassful of brandy, and the juice of a small lemon or half a large one. Strain the mixture through a jelly-bag into a jelly-mould, previously rinsing the mould out with a little cold water. Stand it on ice or in a cool temperature until set. Sweeten 1 pint of cream to taste with caster sugar, flavour it with a few drops of essence of vanilla, and whip to a stiff snow. Dip the mould containing the jelly in warm water, wipe it and turn the contents out on to a fancy dish; pour the whipped cream over and round it, and serve. Claret Julep. — Put a little more than a wineglassful of Claret into a large glass with an equal quantity of syrup, and add a* dash of rye whisky; fill up the glass with ice, arrange a little mint or balm on the top, and put in a few ripe berries of any fruit in season. Drink through straws. Claret Puffs.—Mix a breakfast-cupful of Claret with 1{> breakfast-cupfuls of thick cream; sweeten the mixture to taste with caster sugar; cover the basin with a cloth and let it stand for one night. On the following- morning whisk the mixture well, and skim off the froth as it comes to the top, placing it on a fine hair sieve to drain. Pile the froth on to a dish, pour some rich sweetened cream round it and serve it as soon as possible. Another way of serving it is to cover the bottom of a dish with cream that has been sweetened with caster sugar, then to put the froth on it in table-spoonfuls, letting them float about. Claret Syrup.-—Mix lqt. of good syrup, in a pint of good Claret. Frozen Claret.—Put into a bowl lqt. of orangeade and a pint of Claret, and mix in a syrup made with 41b. of sugar. Turn the whole into a freezer, work it well until nearly frozen, pour it into glasses, and serve while icy cold. Imitation Claret. — Chop fine, or pass through a mincing machine, 71b. of raisins, put them with lib. of the “ mother of Claret” (a cake formed of Claret leaves), and lgall. of boiled red rhubarb or red gooseberry juice, into a barrel with a tap at the bottom, add a pinch of crimson salts, cover over with a cloth, and allow the whole -to ferment for eight or ten days. When the fermentation has ceased, draw off into a cask, add 1 pint of plain spirit mixed up with lib. of refined loaf sugar, and leave it to work for a fortnight longer. When it has ceased working, add a little of the liquor (which should have been kept back), put in 1 gill each of elder-flower water and orange-flower water, and 2oz. of gelatine soaked and dissolved in wine. Mix well, stirring from the bottom, bung up securely and let it stand three months. Care must be taken that the barrel is not shaken during this time. Mulled Claret.— Put into a saucepan with i pint of water, a little powdered ginger and grated nutmeg, a few cloves, and a small piece of cinnamon, and let them boil for a minute .or two; then strain. Put the liquor back into the saucepan, and add £ pint of Claret and four or five lumps of sugar. Remove from the fire before it boils, serve hot.