248 TIIE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ice., referred to, see under their special heads. C Ekes—continued. Cakes—continued. (4) Beat lib. of butter in an earthen pan with your hand one way, till it - is like a thick cream, then put in twelve eggs well beaten with half the whites, also lib. of well-washed currants, lib. of flour, lib. of sugar, and a few caraway-seeds. Beat all well together for an hour ; butter a pan and put it in, then bake it for an hour in a quick oven. (5) Cream lib. of butter, then work with it well lib. of sugar; add lib. of flour, sixteen eggs, and the yolks of four. Mix all well together, and bake in small round buttered tins. (6) Cream lib. of butter and rub into it gradually lib. of sifted and dried flour. Beat the yolks of ten eggs till light, then add lib. of caster sugar, beat again, put in 1 wineglassful of brandy or whisky flavoured with nutmeg or the grated rind of a lemon; mix all together. Beat the whites of twelve eggs to a stiff froth, and stir in just before baking. Bake in small buttered tins for two hours. (7) Cream lib. of butter, and sift in gradually lib. of flour and lib. of caster sugar ; beat in eight eggs. When all is thoroughly mixed, stir in 1 wineglassful of brandy, 1 pinch of salt, and the rind of two oranges or lemons rubbed on sugar. Currants, raisins, mixed peel in small quantities, or any other kind of dried fruits may be added if liked. Line some rings (see Fig. 286) with buttered paper, turn the paste in, set them on iron baking- sheets, and bake a light colour. (8) Cream lib. of butter and add lib. of sugar, the yolks of ten eggs, \ wineglassful each of wine and brandy, the whites of the eggs whipped stiff, and lib. of flour. Put into one- fourth of the dough 1 teacupful of currants, and into another part 1 teacupful of ground almonds; leave the rest plain. Fill small round tins three-quarters full. Into half of those with the plain dough put three small pieces of citron, inserting them upright a little way in the dough. Sift sugar over the tops, and put them in a moderate oven to bake for twenty minutes. Ice over the plain and currant Cakes. (9) Take lib. of butter, lib. of sugar, eight eggs, and 14oz. of flour ; mix the butter and sugar together until it is creamy (if the butter is hard it may be warmed a little), break the eggs into a basin and work them into the mixture very slowly, as the (lightness of the Cake depends upon this. Having done so, work in the flour very lightly; seeds, or currants and peel, may be added according to taste. Bake as before. (10) Warm Jib. of butter and stir in |lb. of caster sugar; mix thoroughly together, and then add, one by one, six eggs. When well beaten, sift in gradually lOoz. of flour and the grated peel of two lemons; add Jib. each of washed and dried currants, mixed peel cut small, stoned raisins, or 1 table- spoonful of caraway-seeds if preferred to the fruit. Line with paper some Cake-rings three or four thicknesses round and underneath, stand them on iron baking-sheets, pour in the Cake mixture, and bake. Fig. 286. Pound-cake Ring (Mathews and Son). (11) Put into a basin £lb. of butter and fib. of powdered sugar. Grate in the rind of half a lemon, and with the hand knead well for twenty minutes. Break in five eggs, adding gradually and carefully, and kneading sharply with the hand for ten minutes longer. Then add fib. of well-sifted flour, mixing the whole slowly and thoroughly for five minutes longer. Butter a 2qt. round Cake-mould, and line it with thick paper at the bottom and sides. Fill it with the pre- paration, and put it in a slow oven to bake for fully one hour. Remove, and let it cool for about two hours. Unmould, detach the paper, and lay it on a pastry wire grating. Glaze the tops and sides with a vanilla-flavoured chocolate icing. Lay the Cake on a dish with a fancy white paper. Prepare 3oz. of candied cherries, 2oz. of angelica, 2oz. of red and the same of white pears, both candied ; cut the cherries in halves, the ang-elica lozenge shaped, and the pears each in six parts (except one white one, which is kept whole), keeping the fruits all separate. Place the whole pear on top of the Cake in the centre, stem upward. Then decorate thus: at the base of the pear lay two slices of red pear, carefully, one against the other on one side. Repeat on the other side, and arrange in the same way two slices of the white pear in the middle of the space on one side, and two more slices opposite. Now cover the four spaces nearest the pear with half a cherry each, and arrange four angelica lozenges in the empty place at the end of the layers of pear. Then on each of the four angelica points lay half a cherry. Begin decorating the edge of the Cake all around in a crown shape with one angelica lozenge, putting near the point one half cherry, then another lozenge, and continue the same all round until joined. Arrange the remaining slices of pear in the spaces near the border, and it will be ready to send to table. (12) Slightly warm lib. of butter, add lib. of caster sugar, and mix them thoroughly together with a wooden spoon, then beat in three eggs. Mix in gradually £lb. of flour and a small quantity each of powdered cinnamon and grated nutmeg, and then add six more well-beaten eggs. Work the mixture well, then add another |lb. of flour, 1 wineglassful of sherry, a few drops of essence of rose-water, £ wineglassful of brandy, §lb. of finely-chopped candied fruit, and |lb. of chopped citron. Beat the mixture well; butter the interior of a Cake-tin, strew in some finely-sifted breadcrumbs, and shake out those that do not adhere to the butter; put in the Cake-mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. The mixture should only three-parts fill the mould when it is first put in, as room must be left for the Cake to rise. When cooked, turn the Cake out of the tin, leave it until cold, then glaze it over with icing. (13) Warm slightly a large basin, put lib. of sugar and lib. of butter into it, and work them well together with the hand for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Into another basin break eight eggs, and beat them until they are very light; add them gradually to the butter and sugar, stirring them in with a wooden spoon. Mix in lib. of flour, adding it a little at a time, and stirring well in ; add 21b. of washed and dried currants, and jib. of candied lemon-peel cut into small pieces. Put all this when thoroughly mixed into a buttered Cake-tin. Bake it for nearly two hours in a moderately hot oven. (14) German.—Beat 8oz. of warmed fresh butter and 8oz. of caster sugar to a cream ; sift in by degrees lOoz. of flour and add five eggs, one at a time. Beat all together with the hand, add -jib. of sultanas, jib. of mixed candied peels chopped small, and the grated rind of a lemon. Line a Cake-tin with buttered paper, and put three rounds of paper at the bottom of the tin; pour the Cake mixture in, and bake for two hours in a moderately quick oven. When done, turn it out, and put on a sieve to cool. (15) As Fritters.—Cut 2oz. of any pound Cake into fingers ; cover them with a thin coating of red or black-currant jam, and press'two together. Dip them into sweet batter and fry in boiling fat until they are of a light colour; take them out, drain them, dust over with caster sugar, and serve with sweet or wine sauce. Princess Louise Cake.—Fill two jelly-cake tins with sponge Cake batter; bake them, and when done cut the centre from one of the Cakes, leaving- a rim l^in. wide ; put some jelly on the other Cake, lay the rim on the edge, and fill the centre with Bavarian cream. Put the Cake on a dish, arrange some candied fruits round, and serve. Prussian Breakfast Cakes.—Sift 71b. of white flour into a bowl and rub in Jib. of butter. When all the butter is absorbed, stir in 1 pint of warm water and lqt. of warm milk, the yolks of four eggs, and £ pint of thick yeast, and make into a dough ; let this remain with a cloth over it in a warm place for half-an-hour or so to “prove.” Roll out thickly and mould into rounds about 6in. in diameter ; butter some baking- sheets and put the Cakes on, a short distance from each other; let them rise for a few minutes in a warm place and then bake in a moderate oven. When they are done a light brown, brush a little warm butter over the tops, and serve hot. Queen (or Heart) Cakes.—(1) Cream lib. of butter, mix with it some rose-water, lqt. of flour, and lib. of caster sugar. Add a few currants, washed and dried, and beat all well together. Put into greased heart-shaped moulds (see Fig. 287, A). Bake in a moderate oven, and dredge over with white sugar. (2) 1 teacupful of butter, 1 pint of caster sugar, lqt. of flour, four eggs, 1 wineglassful each of wine, brandy, and thin cream, lib. of currants, washed and dried, and ground spice to taste. Warm the liquids together, and stir quickly into the beaten sugar, butter, and eggs; add the flour, and finally the fruit. Bake in heart-shaped pans in a moderate oven.