THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 345 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cfee., referred to, see under their special heads. Cheese—continued. Loaf Cheese.—This name refers chiefly to the shape and size of the Cheese, which is small and cylindrical, with slightly bulging sides. Any kind of Cheese may be made into this shape; but the greater number come from Cheddar, Gloucester, and Wilts. Marolles Cheese. -A French cream Cheese of excellent quality made at Marolles. Milk Cheese.—(l) Take lqt. of thick sour milk, 1 teaspoonful of butter, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and 1 table- spoonful of cream. Place the milk in a pan on the back of the stove, and scald it until the curd has separated from the whey. Spread a strainer-cloth over a bowl, pour in the milk, lift the edges of the cloth, draw them together, and drain or wring quite dry. There will be but half or two-thirds of a cup of curd. Put it in a small bowl with the butter, salt, and cream, and mix to a smooth paste with a spoon. Take 1 teaspoonful and roll in the hand into a smooth ball. It should be quite moist, or the balls will crack. If too soft to handle, put it in a cool place for an hour, and then it will shape easily; or it may be served without shaping, but just broken up lightly with a fork. If scalded too long, the curd becomes very hard and brittle. It is better when freshly made, and is delicious with warm gingerbread, and is an excellent lunch or tea dish. Season this Cheese with 1 table-spoonful of finely-powdered sage, if that flavour is liked. (2) Take as much clotted sour milk as required, set in a pan on the stove over a low fire, and let it heat slowly without burning. When it shows signs of beginning to boil it should be taken off, as boiling makes the curd tough. Pour it into a muslin bag and hang it on a nail to drip till next day. Then chop up the ball of curd and mix with salt, pepper, and cream to taste; or cream, or sweet milk and sugar. Press into shapes, and- serve. (3) Dissolve a teacupful of salt in 2galls. of warm new milk, and stir into this about i teacupful of weak rennet. If the milk has become cold it should be warmed to 95deg. Fahr.—not higher, or the curd will be hard. Put this aside for a couple of hours, when the curd should be quite set. Cut the curd across in every direction with either of the curd-knives shown in Figs. 415 and 416, and bale out a good portion of the whey with a cup or spoon, then drain the curd through a cloth spread over a colander, and pack it in a Fig. 424. Box for Making Milk Cheese. Cheese-box (see Fig. 424) or mould, sprinkling salt between the layers. See that the curd is moderately dry before packing- in the box. Put the lid on the box and turn every day, placing a very light weight on the top. Cheese-moulds or vats are for the most part round, but any mould per- forated all round about with holes, and having a lid that fits inside will do. These are more convenient for making milk or cream Cheeses in small quantities, but the usual vats are to be preferred. Neufchatel Cheese.—Of all the foreign-made salted milk Cheeses that reach our shores, this favourite is the smallest. The Cheese known as Bondon is a species of Neufchatel, but generally so exceedingly salt and dry to the taste that they are not favourites. The ordinary Neufchatel, as imported direct from the Department of Seine-et-Oise, in France, is Cheese—continued. rich and well-flavoured, weighing about 5oz. or 6oz. each, the best samples being blue veined. British imitations are not unknown in the market, but they are extremely inferior. New-milk Cheese.—See Milk Cheese. North Wilts Cheese.—A cylindrical-shaped Cheese, with a smooth hard rind, and small size, weighing not more than 101b. or 121b. It is considered rich, and of a very delicate flavour, being Cheddar in typo. The name is taken from the locale of their manufacture. Parmesan Cheese.—As the name indicates, this Cheese is a native manufacture of Parma in the north of Italy. It possesses such a delicious sweet taste that it is universally employed by cooks for culinary purposes, especially when grated. The milk from which this Cheese is made is drawn from cows which are kept in sheds all the year round, and fed in summer on cut grass and in winter on fine hay. The cream skimmed from the milk is used for butter, or cream Cheese making, so that Parmesan Cheese is not of a very buttery quality, and the rennet is added to the skimmed milk at a temperature of 80deg. to 89deg. Fahr., and the whole is then placed over a slow fire and the temperature raised to about 120deg., the curd meanwhile separating in small lumps. Saffron is sometimes added to the milk before heating-, giving it a yellowish-green hue, and the curd is then put under pressure. These Cheeses are of enormous size, shaped in large flat hoops, then edges rounded, and weighing about 1801b. each, and are of a dark, almost black, colour on the outside, brought about by dressing with colouring, and rubbing with linseed oil, until a good surface is procured. Parmesan Cheese takes about three years to ripen, and as its size necessitates some time being- occupied in its consumption, it is advisable to cover the cut surfaces with paper steeped in sweet oil. Pont-l’Eveque Cheese.—A new-milk Cheese named after the place of its manufacture. It is pronounced inferior to Brie Cheese, but has an excellent local reputation, and deserves to be better known. Pontgibaucl Cheese. —A kind of foreign Cheese that is allowed to ripen at a very low temperature. It is very similar to Roquefort. Port du Salut Cheese.—This genuine favourite should be better known in this country. The flavour of it is most pala- table and mild, the substance soft and pasty, and it possesses all the qualities of the best Cheeses. This Cheese is shaped into round cakes, weighing from 51b. to 81b. each, and they are stamped with the name of the place of their manufacture. Pot Cheese.—Put 2qts. of sour milk and lqt. of butter- milk in a saucepan, and place it over the fire until scalding hot ; then take it off, and with a skimmer remove the curd from the whey. Put the curd in a muslin bag, tie it, and hang up to drain for an hour or two. Moisten the curd slightly with cream, mix a small quantity of salt with it, work it well with the hands, then mould it into small balls. Lay these on a dish, cover them over, and set in a cool place until ready to serve. Roquefort Cheese.—(I) This Cheese owes its peculiarity to being made of ewes’ milk, although some makers are now using the milk of the cow. Naturally, therefore, it possesses a peculiar pungency and flavour, although in other respects it somewhat resembles other veined Cheeses. Upon the Continent Roquefort takes precedence of many other Cheeses, whether foreign or native ; but in this country it is not so highly esteemed for general purposes. It should not be cut until considerably advanced in the process of decay, and then its excellence cannot be denied. The mould is produced by the introduction of mouldy breadcrumbs, and by pricking to admit the air. (2) Imitation. — Take the required quantity of prepared gluten of wheat, mix in salt to taste, and a small quantity of a solution of stareh. Form the mixture into the shape of the Cheese, and it is ready for use. If left for a little time it soon acquires the taste, smell, and unctuosity of Cheese, and if kept for any length of time it is not easily distinguished from Roquefort. By varying the process slightly other Cheeses can be imitated. Rush. Cream Cheese.—The chief feature of this over other cream Cheeses is that it is wrapped in a rush mat to ripen.