421 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Coffee—continued. (2) Put 4|oz. of freshly-ground Coffee into a Coffee-filter, gradually pour over it 1 pint of boiling water, and let it stand for three minutes; then gradually pour over 2.j pints more of boiling water, taking special care that under no circumstances should the Coffee be allowed to boil again after the water has been poured over. When all the fluid has dripped down, put it into a hot Coffee-pot. Take 3 pints of thoroughly- heated milk (but do not boil it), pour it into a hot pot, and send to the table with six cups, pouring into each cup half Coffee and half milk. ' Cafe Noir, or Black Coffee.—(1) Grind 6 table-spoonfuls of Coffee-beans in a mill, .but neither too coarse nor too fine. Have a well-cleaned Coffee-pot or Cafetiere (see Fig. 499), put the Coffee on the filter, with the small strainer over, and Fig. 499. Cafetiere or Coffee Percolator, fitted with a Bag for the Coffee (Adams and Son). pour on 3 breakfast-cupfuls of boiling water, adding it little by little. When all the water is used up, put on the cover, and let the Coffee infuse, but on no account must it boil again. Serve in six small cups. Coffee should never be pre- pared more than five minutes before the time for serving. (2) Pour 3 pints of cold water into an earthen pot on the hot range, and when it boils immediately add 4joz. of freshly- ground Coffee; then put the pot on the corner of the stove and leave it for three minutes. Have ready a piece of red- hot charcoal about the size of a small banana, and plunge it into the Coffee ; but if there is no charcoal handy a piece of red-hot cinder will answer. Let this stand again for three minutes; then the surface of the Coffee will be foam, which must be thoroughly removed with a skimmer. Carefully and gently pour the Coffee into a hot Coffee-pot, and send to table with small hot cups, accompanied with liqueur-glasses of old cognac. This is sufficient for six persons. (3) Pour lqt. of boiling water on 1 breakfast-cupful of Coffee, stir it well, and let it stand in a warm place for fifteen minutes; or if required very black and bitter, boil it for five minutes. Milk is not served with this. French Coffee.—To ilb. of pure Coffee add loz. of chicory, and mix well together. Put half this into the pot, which must be thoroughly clean and dry, stir it on the stove till it is hot but not burnt, then crush on it one egg, shell included, and pour on immediately 2qts. of cold water. Stir occasionally till scalding hot, but do not let it boil, or it will be spoilt; then draw it from the fire, still leaving on the stove, but where it cannot boil, and let it stand seven or eight minutes. Serve with boiling milk. Steamed Coffee.—Put in a hot Coffee-pot 1 large table- spoonful of ground Coffee and loz. of isinglass, fill up with water, stand the pot in a kettle of boiling water, and steam for twenty minutes. When ready to serve, strain the Coffee into another pot. White Coffee. —Heat 2 breakfast-cupfuls of lightly-baked Coffee-berries, and while hot pour over them lqt. of boiling water. Let this stand for half-an-hour; then add lqt. of boiling milk, and serve with sugar. For the purpose of making a speedy cup of Coffee the following very useful preparations may be men- tioned, all of them though, however pure, lacking Coffee—continued. somewhat of the aroma of Coffee made from the freshly- ground berry : Bssence of Coffee.—(1) This is prepared by percolating boiling water through four parts of Coffee and two parts of chicory, and then, after adding one part of burnt sugar colouring, reducing the liquid by boiling until it assumes the consistency of treacle; 1 teaspoonful of this essence is sufficient for 1 breakfast-cupful of Coffee, hot water or boiling milk being added according to taste. The essence may be preserved in well-corked bottles, and is then ready at any time for immediate use. (2) Bruise 4oz. of well-roasted Coffee in a warmed brass mortar, put it in a bottle with 1 pint of rectified spirits of wine, cork tightly, and keep the bottle in a warm tem- perature for ten days. Filter the essence, and keep it in small well-stoppered bottles. (3) Put loz. of ground Coffee into a small saucepan with 1 pint of cold water, and let it boil until reduced to about 2 table-spoonfuls. Strain through a cloth, press well, and let it cool thoroughly. Liquid Extract of Coffee.—Perhaps this is the most useful of all stock preparations of Coffee, and it is considered superior to the essence for culinary purposes. Take lib. of well- roasted, freshly-ground Coffee and infuse in lqt. of boiling water at a slow heat in a closely-covered vessel for two or three hours. Strain through a tammy-cloth, return the liquor to the saucepan (enamelled ware alone should be used), and boil down to 1 pint. If this process is care- fully conducted, the Coffee will retain its aromatic flavour. To preserve it 1 wineglassful of cognac should be added to every pint. Clark’s Coffee Extract is an excellent pre- paration of a somewhat similar character. Distilled Coffee is another form of liquid extract which retains the aroma well. There are several imitations of, or substitutes for, Coffee that deserve some notice; they are principally concoctions of horse-beans, roasted with honey or sugar; beet-root, sliced and dried in a slow oven until capable of being ground; dandelion-roots, dried, washed, and ground with caramel; and chicory. They do not, however, possess the exhilarating properties of the Coffee-bean. A very good imitation Coffee is made as follows : Roast lib. of barley and grind it in a Coffee-grinder; then mix with it an equal quantity of acorn Coffee, which is prepared as follows: Gather the acorns when ripe (when they fall from the trees in the autumn); peel them, cut into pieces about the size of Coffee-berries, and keep them near the fire until quite dry; then roast till a dark brown in the Fig. 500. General Hutchinson’s Coffee-pot and Urn (Adams and Son). same way as Coffee is roasted. Directly the acorns are roasted, grind them very coarsely, as if fine the Coffee will have a thick appearance. The barley and acorns should be well mixed together. When making the Coffee, use 1 heaped