288 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, -Utensils, Sauces, £c., referred to, see under their special heads. Capsicums—continued. Cayenne and Catechu Lozenges.—Soak loz. of gum dragon in 2oz. of water, and work it on a slab until it becomes quite elastic ; then add gradually 21b. of icing sugar and foz. each of essence of cayenne and prepared catechu. The cayenne and catechu must be added only when the paste is smooth and com- pact, and a few drops of cobalt blue should also be added while working, so as to give a brilliant whiteness to the paste. Dust the slab plentifully with powdered loaf sugar, roll out the paste to about the thickness of two half-crowns, and with a cut rolling-pin make impressions of the shape of the lozenges. Should one of these rolling-pins not be to hand, make a mark on the paste with the back of a knife. With a round tin cutter, about fin. in diameter, cut out the lozeng-es, put them flat in rows upon baking-sheets dusted with sugar, and let them dry in the hot closet or screen. Put them when ready into jars, keep them in a cool place, and use as desired. Cayenne Cheese.—Put 3oz. of grated Parmesan cheese into a basin, mix in an equal quantity each of flour and butter, sprinkle over sufficient cayenne pepper to taste, and work well to a paste ; roll this out thin, cut it into shapes, and bake them in a moderate oven until done. Take them out, place on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve very hot. Cayenne Drops.—Put the required number of pounds of sugar into a sugar-boiler with a little water, and boil it to the feather degree (see Sugar-boiling) ; add a little lemon-juice, and boil to the caramel degree; then add a few drops of essence of Chillies or cayenne, to give it the required flavour. Pour the sugar while boiling into impressions made in dried icing sugar; let the drops get cold, and pack them away in tins or boxes for future use. Cayenne Pepper.—For this, thick-skinned, fine, red, long, Peppers must be used. Spread fib. of it on a tray, and dry it in the air, but not in the sun; then take off all the stalks, put them in a mortar, and pound them well. Put the cayenne into jars, and it is ready for use. The mortar should be covered over with a cloth while pounding, so as to prevent the dust flying into the eyes of the operator. Cayenne Salt.—Put 2oz. of fresh Chillies in a mortar and powder them; then mix with them 2 table-spoonfuls of dry salt, 1 wineglassful of white wine, and 2 wineglassfuls of water. Put the mixture into a bottle, cork it, and keep it in a warm place for a week. At the end of that time, strain the mixture through fine muslin, pour it into plates, and let it evaporate by the heat of the sun or a hot stove. When ready, it will be in soluble crystals of cayenne and salt, and will be found a very useful condiment. Cayenne Wine.—Put about three dozen fresh red Chillies in a mortar and pound them, then put them into a large bottle, pour over them f pint of white wine or brandy, cork down tightly, and leave it for two or three weeks—foz. of cayenne pepper may be used in place of the Chillies if preferred. This wine gives a great finish to sauces, soups, stews, &c. Chilli Sauce.—Chop six green Peppers and four large onions very finely, put them into a , saucepan with two dozen peeled tomatoes, 8 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar and 3 of salt, and 3 breakfast-cupfuls of vinegar. Set the saucepan on the fire and boil gently for an hour. Let the mixture cool, pour it into jars, and cover over. It is then ready for use. Chilli Vinegar.—(1) Steep a handful of Chillies in a bottle of the best vinegar for fifteen days, keeping the bottle well corked. At the end of this period pour the vinegar off and bottle it. Or it may be made by steeping a table-spoonful of cayenne pepper in a bottle of vinegar for a fortnight, then straining it clear'and bottling. Acetic acid, reduced to the strength of vinegar by adding water, makes it more delicate in flavour. (2) Put 2oz. of picked, cleaned, Bird’s-eye Chillies into a bottle, pour over 3 breakfast - cupfuls of vinegar, cork or stopper up the bottle, and let it remain for four or five weeks. Filter 1 breakfast-cupful of the liquor, add to the remainder another breakfast-cupful of vinegar, expose the bottles to the sun for a few days, filter off the liquor, add it to the quantity already filtered, and it is then fit for use. Essence of Capsicum.—(1) Put 2oz. of dried Capsicums in the sun for an hour or so, pound them in a mortar, put them into a glass bottle, add 1 teaspoonful of salt, and pour over only sufficient vinegar to make a limp paste. Stopper up Capsicums—continued. the bottle, expose it to the sun for a few days, filter the liquor through muslin, adding more vinegar to bring the whole to the consistence of thick sauce, and pour it into a bottle ; it is then ready for use. (2) Put 2qts. each of distilled water and over-proof spirit into a jar, add lib. of Capsicum pods and let them steep for a month, taking care to have the jar corked, and giving it a vigorous shaking daily for the first two weeks. It is then ready for use, but must first be strained and filtered, and the jar must be replenished with an equal quantity of spirit to that which is drawn off. Essence of Cayenne.—Pour lqt. of vinegar into a jar over loz. of cayenne, cover it over securely, and let it remain for a month. Strain the liquor through a muslin bag or strainer into bottles, cork them down, and put them away in a cool place until wanted. Pickled Capsicums.—(1) Put some Capsicums in a jar, and cover them over with boiling vinegar, adding to every pint of liquor ^oz. of powdered mace, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. When quite cold, tie the jars over with bladder, and in about five or six weeks they will be quite ready for use. It is better to gather the Capsicum pods before they are red. (2) The Capsicums should be young, green, and freshly gathered. Cut off their stalks, then scald them; put them in a basket, place a board over them with a weight on the top, and leave them for twelve hours for the purpose of extracting all the bitter water. Arrange the Capsicums in layers in a stone jar with parsley and mint between the layers; fill up the jar with strong white vinegar, and put the lid on. Leave the pickles for fifteen days before using them. If kept for any length of time, the vinegar must be changed occasionally. Stuffed and Baked Green Peppers.—Wash half-a-dozen large green Peppers, put them into boiling water, and boil for five minutes; take them from the water, and rub off the skins with a wet cloth. Cut off the stem ends, remove the seeds with a small spoon, and stuff the Peppers with any kind of minced cold meat, mixed with an equal quantity of stale bread softened with cold water, and seasoned with salt. Eeplace the stems, set the Peppers in a deep earthern plate or dish, pour in as much cold gravy as the dish will hold, and bake the Peppers in a moderate oven for half-an-honr. They may be stuffed with sausage-meat and bread. Serve on the dish on which they were baked. Cheese may be grated and mixed with bread- crumbs for stuffing Peppers ; and they should then be fried instead of being baked. Tincture of Capsicum.—Put fib. of Capsicums into a vessel with J pint of spirits of wine, and let them macerate for three days ; then filter, and when quite drained pour over the Capsicums j pint of spirits of wine and ) pint of water, taking care not to disturb the surface of the Capsicums. This will produce a large quantity of tincture. Add 1 wineglassful of water with 20grs. of chloride of calcium (fused) dissolved in it, and another wineglassful of water with 60grs. of phosphate of soda dissolved in it. Take care to have the salt solutions well mixed with the tincture, each being added separately. This will keep for any length of time, and is very useful when fresh or dried Capsicums are unattainable. CARAMEL.—The origin of this word is from the Latin canna, a cane, and met, honey. In this sense it is applied by confectioners to a class of sweetmeats which find exceeding favour in the United States and on the Euro- pean Continent, and are rapidly gliding into popular dis- tinction in all parts of the civilised world. Receipts for making a variety of these will be found hereunder. The term Caramel is also used for a colouring familiarly known as “burnt sugar”-—for soups, gravies, syrups, wines, spirits, and other things, requiring a brown or orange tint, without a pronounced flavour. It is described as a dark brown substance, obtained by heating sugar to 400deg. Fahr., or 210deg. to 220deg. Cent. Chemists tell us that Caramel is formed in the roasting of all materials contain- ing sugar, such as malt, when it is baked on the kiln to make stout, and in roasting coffee, and it is a question how far it can be chemically distinguished from the brown of roasted meat, fried onions, and flour. Kettner amusingly