260 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. Sponge Cake a la Chantilly.—Take a stale sponge Cake, cut off the top, scoop out the inside, leaving a wall fin. thick; put this on a glass dish, fill the hollow with |lb. of cherries (stoned and the stalks taken off), pour over them a wineglassful of brandy, and then put on the top of the Cake. Put % pint of rich cream and loz. of powdered white sugar into a large bowl, and with an egg-whisk whip the cream to a stiff froth, add to this half-a-dozen drops of essence of vanilla, and pour it over the Cake just before serving. Sponge-Cake Cream Ice.—Beat the yolks of eight eggs with fib. of caster sugar and 1 table-spoonful of vanilla sugar. Put six sponge Cakes in a slow oven till dried, then crush them. Boil 1 pint of cream and i pint of milk together, then stir it gradually in with the beaten yolks of eggs, Cakecrumbs, and sugar; return it to the saucepan, and stir by the side of the fire till thick, but without allowing it to boil. Strain the custard into a basin, mix 1 wineglassful of vanilla liqueur with it, turn it into a freezing-pot, and work it till frozen. Turn the ice into a fancy-shaped mould, put the lid on, and pack it in pounded ice, leaving it about two hours. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the ice out on to a fancy dish. Sponge-Cake Pritters.—Cut into slices lfin. in thickness lib. of stale sponge Cake; pour over a little cream, put them into a frying-pan with butter, and fry them ; arrange them on a dish over strawberry or other preserve, and serve. Sponge-Cake Ring -with Cream.—Put £lb. of pounded orange or vanilla sugar with the yolks of six eggs, and beat them until well frothed, add also saltspoonful of salt. Whisk the whites of the six eggs to a stiff snow, and mix them lightly with the yolks; stir in smoothly 3oz. of sifted flour, and 3 table-spoonfuls of potato-flour. Butter the interior of a high-shaped savarin-mould, dust it over with potato-flour and caster sugar, shaking out all that does Fig. 300. Sponge-caicb Bing Filled with Whipped Cream. not adhere to the butter, then pour in the mixture, place it in a moderate oven, and bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, turn the Cake out of the mould, and let it cool. Coat the Cake with a thin layer of marmalade, and afterwards with orange-flavoured icing. Sweeten 1 pint of thick cream with caster sugar and whip it to a stiff froth. When the icing is dry, put the Cake on a round glass or china dish, pour the whipped cream in the centre, and serve. See Pig. 300. Sponge Cake ■with. Bum.—Put 4oz. of caster sugar into a basin with one egg; work them with a wooden spoon, and beat in gradually the yolks of three eggs. When well beaten, mix with the eggs 2oz. of slightly-warmed butter, and the well- whipped whites of three eggs; add 2oz. of flour, an equal quantity of potato-flour, £ wineglassful of rum, and a small quantity of grated lemon-peel. Brush the interior of a flat mould with a paste-brush dipped in warmed butter, dust the mould over with potato-flour, and shake out all that does not adhere to the butter. Pour the mixture into the mould, which should be just large enough to allow a little room at the top for rising. Put it in a slack oven and bake for about half-an-hour. Turn the Cake out of the mould, let it Cakes—continued. cool, then coat it over, first with a thin layer of orange marma- lade, and afterwards with rum icing. When the icing is dry, place the Cake on a dish over which has been placed a folded napkin or a lace-edged dish-paper, and serve. See Fig. 301. Whipped cream may be served with it. Sponge-Cake Swiss Roll.—Six eggs, 1)- teacupfuls of flour, 1 teacupful of caster sugar, and the grated rind and juice of one lemon. Beat the eggs separately and very light. Do not beat the batter much after adding the flour, which must be done last of all. Get a square baking-pan, butter it, and pour one-half the batter in, reserving the rest for a second layer. Have ready a damp towel, on which lay the Cake when taken out of the pan; spread over the Cake jam or currant jelly, roll it up whilst damp, and when firmly set put it in a place to dry. It is good eaten with sauce when for a dinner- dish, or it can be cut in slices and eaten as small Cakes. Take care that the oven is very hot when the Cake is put in, and do not keep the second half waiting longer than necessary. Stag-Horn Cakes.—Put the yolks of six eggs and one whole egg into a basin and whip them well; then mix in a little more than 1 teacupful of cream, the grated peel of one lemon, 1 table- spoonful of blanched and pounded sweet almonds, |lb. of caster sugar, and sufficient flour to form the whole into a stiff paste. Dredge flour over a paste-board, put the paste on it, knead it, and roll it out to about Jin. in thickness. Cut the paste into the shape of horns with a tin cutter shaped for that purpose. Put a large piece of lard into a deep frying-pan, place it over the fire until boiling, then put in the pieces of paste and fry them on both sides until a pale golden colour; as the pieces of paste are cooked take them out of the fat and lay them on paper near the fire, to drain. When all are done, put them on a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, strew a small quantity of powdered cinnamon or caster sugar over them, and serve. Strawberry Cake.—Bub well lib. of butter into 21b. of flour, add lib. of loaf sugar, a pinch of ground mace, six well- beaten eggs, and 2 table-spoonfuls of wine to flavour. Put into a buttered tin, and bake quickly. Strewed Cake.—Dissolve 2oz. of dry yeast in J pint of luke- warm milk, then mix in gradually sufficient flour to make a light dough. Cover the dough and put it in a warm place until well risen. Slightly warm Jib. of butter and beat it with 4 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar; when creamy beat in, one at the time, six eggs ; flavour with the grated peel of half a lemon, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; sift in ljlb. of flour, and stir in slowly sufficient milk to make a light dough. Work in at the last the yeast dough and beat thoroughly together Procure a flat tin with a raised edge all round it, dredge it over with flour, and roll the dough out on it, making it about Jin. thick. Cover the dough lightly with a cloth and set it in a warm place to rise. Warm 2oz. of butter, and woi-k it well with 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, 2oz. of flour, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Chop the mixture of butter, &c., into small pieces, dredging it occasionally with flour and sugar, and strew them over the dough. Bake the Cake until lightly browned in a brisk oven, and when cooked put it on a hot dish and serve.