tee encyclopedia of practical cookery. 289 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Caramel—continued. Caramel—co ntinued. describes its use as allied to the powdering and rouging of ladies’ faces, to give complexion; but in this, as most of his analogies, the witty writer makes his facts subser- vient to burlesque. To prepare this colouring in its purest form, it is advisable first to dissolve the Caramel in hot water, and when cold to precipitate it by adding alcohol. In this way, the powder can be dried and bottled for future use. It may be prepared as follows: (1) Put into a silver-lined stewpan 1 teacupful of brown sugar and J teacupful of water. Stew over a hot fire till it burns a little. If too thick, make of the consistency of thin molasses, by adding a little more boiling water. Bottle and cork for use. (2) Put lib. of sugar into a saucepan on the fire, and stir constantly until it is almost black, and hard and brittle. Stir in slowly 1 pint of cold water, and boil to a syrup; let it get cold, pour into bottles, and it is ready for use. (3) Put into a small iron omelet-pan Jib. of granulated sugar, and place on a slow stove to burn thoroughly for thirty minutes. Remove the pan to the table to cool slightly for five minutes, and then add J pint of boiling water, mixing well with an iron spoon. Replace the pan on the stove, and boil for five minutes, stirring continually; then strain the sugar through a sieve into a basin, and put it in a cold place to cool thoroughly. Pour it into a bottle, and use when required. Burnt sugar prepared in this way will keep in condition for several weeks. (4) Stir Jib. of caster sugar in a copper pan with a wooden spoon over a slow fire until thoroughly melted; boil it for a- quarter-of-an-hour, stirring occasionally. When the sugar is a rich, dark brown, add lqt. of cold water, and let it simmer for twenty minutes. When cold, strain, put it into bottles, and cork it down tightly. Do not let the Caramel boil quickly, or it will turn black. (5) Melt 1 breakfast-cupful of brown or white sugar with 1 table-spoonful of water in a frying-pan. Stir until it becomes of a dark brown colour. Add 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling water; simmer for ten minutes, and bottle when cool. (6) Melt some moist sugar in a saucepan over a slow fire ; when quite brown, moisten it with a little broth, white stock, or water, stir it with a fork until quite brown, taking care not to let it burn. When done, put it away in a jar; it can be used for glazing the surface of meat or colouring. Caramel Basket Billed with Caramel Fruits.—ToFrancatelli we are indebted for the following design: Boil lib. of sugar in 1 breakfast-cupful of water to the crack (see Sugar-boiling), and cool it by dipping the bottom of the pan into a little cold water. Rub the outside of a mould with oil of almonds, dip a pointed wooden stick in the syrup, and draw it along the out- side of one part of the mould in narrow threads, either straight, curved, or in zigzags, and cross them diagonally with other rows of the spun sugar in a similar manner. The edges of the basket and the base or stand are to be formed in the same way, but are to be worked out in bolder relief, so as to give strength and support to the whole structure. When the sugar is set, remove the mould, and the basket is ready. Remove the stalks from the fruits with which it is intended to fill the basket Stick the fruits upon small wooden splinters, dip in sugar which has been boiled to the crack, and rest them upon an oiled sieve, which, when full, should be set on one side to let the sugar stiffen upon the fruits. When this is satisfac- torily accomplished, raise the fruit on the sieve by pressing with the fingers under the sieve, and lift out carefully by the sticks so as not to damage the sugar round the fruits; then arrange them in the basket according to taste, with sprigs of angelica or real leaves between and amongst them. This Caramel basket is very pretty, but not easy to make. Caramel Bonbons.—(1) Boil some syrup to the crack (see Sugar-boiling), and flavour with either liqueurs, essences, or a strong extract of coffee ; hold it over a very slow fire in a saucepan so as to allow it to cook slowly for about two minutes : in this way it will acquire flavour but little or no additional colour. Oil a slab, pour the Caramel on to it, and when it has cooled a little, mark it with the back of a knife in the shape of small squares or lozenges. When quite cold snap them asunder. (2) Take Jib. of chocolate broken up, 41b. of brown sugar, Jib. of fresh butter, and 1 pint of milk. Pour the milk into a preserving-pan and add the other ingredients to this. Let it boil at least half-an-hour, stirring frequently. When done, a crust of sugar will form on the spoon and on the side of the pan. Pour in a table-spoonful of extract of vanilla or other flavouring ; remove from the fire and stir rapidly till the Caramel begins to thicken. Then pour it quickly into buttered pans, and when nearly cold cut into small squares. Caramel Cream.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of moist sugar into a sugar-boiling pan, hold it over a slow fire, stir gently, and when dark brown pour on to the bottom of a charlotte- mould and let it cool. Beat seven or eight eggs in a basin with two or three more yolks, add lqt. of milk, beat again, and then add fib. of caster sugar and a little grated lemon- peel. Ten minutes afterwards pass the liquid through a sieve into the mould with the Caramel, having previously buttered the mould round the sides. Set the mould in a stewpan on Fig. 328. Caramel Cream. a trivot, pour round some hot water so that it may reach to half the height of the mould, let the water boil up, and then draw the stewpan back, or if a gas-stove (which is best) turn low, so that the liquid preserves the same degree of heat, without boiling. Cover the stewpan, put hot ashes on its lid, and let the preparation poach for one hour at least; let the cream cool in the water. At serving-time turn it out on a dish (see Fig. 328), and garnish round with sweet biscuits and crystallised fruits, angelica, or what fancy and means may suggest. Caramel Cream Ice. — (1) Boil over the fire Jib. of moist sugar in a wineglassful of water ; when a dark brown colour, remove it a little to one side, and add the thin rind of one lemon and a stick of cinnamon. Bake all together at the side of the fire for a few minutes, stirring slowly; then add J pint of water, the beaten yolks of ten eggs, lib. of sugar, and 1J pints of milk. Stir over the fire until thick, and then strain it through a sieve into a basin. Pour in 1 wineglassful of cura^oa; freeze the ice in a freezer, and when nearly frozen mix in J pint of whipped cream. (2) Put 21b. of brown sugar into a skillet and stir constantly over a brisk fire until melted. Be careful not to let it burn. While it is melting, heat 1 pint of milk, and stir a little at a time into the melted sugar. Strain it, and when cool pour it into 3qts. of cream, beating well. Then freeze. (3) Put into a bright, copper sugar-boiler lib. of caster sugar, two eggs, half a large vanilla bean, split and cut into small pieces; add lqt. of milk, whisk well, boil, and strain through a sieve. Put 1 teacupful of sugar in a small stew- pan and stir over the fire until the sugar turns liquid and begins to smoke. Turn this into the boiling mixture, and set away in a crock to cool. When cold add lqt. of cream. Put the mixture into a freezer, and freeze. The flavour of this cream can be varied by browning the sugar more or less according to taste. (4) Put 4qts. of rich cream into a copper basin with 21b. of granulated sugar, four eggs, one vanilla bean, split and cut crosswise into small pieces, and J pint of Caramel. Stir well, put the basin on the stove or the fire, and continue to stir until the mixture reaches the boiling-point; then remove it and strain at once into an earthenware pan. Let it cool, put it into a freezer, and use as required. Caramel Creme Renversee.— Put into a copper sugar-pan 3oz. of granulated sugar with J gill of cold water. Toss the