THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 330 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, referred to, see under their special heads. Cellaring—continued. temperatures that are desirable in their stores, and these are given in the following table: Spirits and aerated waters, anything under ... Champagne, Moselle, hock, and other sparkling light white wines Ale, stout, and bottled beer for keeping Burgundy, claret, and other light red wines ... Port, sherry, Madeira, and Marsala Bottled beer intended to mature rapidly Wines in wood for ripening, not over ... 50deg. Fahr. 50deg. ,, 54deg. „ 55deg. „ 58deg. ,, 60deg. ,, 65deg. ,, But the great difficulty experienced by cellarmen is to regulate these temperatures, for cellars are quite as liable to change their temperature with the seasons and weather as other parts of the house. This is some- times overlooked, especially by those who recognise the importance of ventilation. In the summer, if the tem- perature of the cellar is too high, or varies much, ales are liable to fret, becoming what is called “ pricked,” tasting insipid, and sometimes smelling very disagree- able. Red wines and ales when kept in or exposed to a low temperature taste raw and thin, lose their bouquet, and tu rn cloudy. Every cellar, therefore, should be fitted with one or more thermometers, and these should be self-registering, so that the lowest temperature may be indicated as well as the highest. There should also be a thermometer outside the house, so that the cellarman may close the ventilators when the external air is above 5odeg., keeping the internal air generally at that degree by means of ice in buckets. Should the inner and outer air fall below the mean (55deg.), then some form of heating apparatus would be advisable for reasons already explained. Yentilation, dryness, and cleanliness, are also important precautions in cellar management, and must be carried out with a due regard to temperature. The walls should be lime-washed frequently in the summer, and in the winter also when artificial warming is resorted to; the floor of the cellar should be concreted throughout, and washed down occasionally with chilled water, pro- vided the drainage system is good. In a small way, it may be considered that so much care would be thrown away upon a cellar, for a great belief in the unchangeable temperature of the under- ground cells that answer for the purpose frequently leads to neglect. One of the greatest features of a good feast is the liquor, and it is, therefore, quite as well to have it well kept, for then it is superior in quality, and fully repays the trouble taken over it. Wines particu- larly pay for attention, otherwise the best wine will be poor; but with care a second quality wine may be brought to greater perfection. The fittings of a cellar may be either very elaborate or simple. Stands for barrels, called scantlings, made of wood or iron, or both combined, either self-canting or fixtures. Apparatus fitted with weighted levers, screws, or springs, causing the barrel to tilt as it empties, are frequently preferred to the plain stands, although some cellarmen consider that they are pi'one to induce care- lessness, and assert that the automatic action is not always reliable. Of bins for stacking wine, those of iron or earthenware are usually preferred as being easier to keep clean, and permitting the air free access to the bottle all round. Porcelain labels hung on to removable hooks are very useful to indicate the kind, quality, and date of bottling and storing any particular wine, and the intelligent cellarman will certainly keep a cellar- book in which every detail of importance to the wine and stock he has under his charge shall be duly entered up and balanced. CEIiLULOSE.—The woody fibre of vegetables. It is seen in a pure condition in finely-carded cotton, in Cellulose—continued. the best white filtering-paper, ;in linen, and the pith of the elder. Blyth says : “ Pure Cellulose is white, taste- less, innutritious, insoluble in water, alcohol, ether, and oils. Dilute acid solutions and dilute alkaline solutions scarcely affect it.” But it is an interesting fact that when acted upon by strong sulphuric acid, it is first converted into dextrine and then into grape-sugar (glucose). CENTERBA.-The name of an Italian liqueur manu- factured in Tocco, from aromatic herbs found growing on the Apennine Mountains. As these herbs are very numerous, the term Cent-erba, or a hundred herbs, is used. \ CEPES.—A kind of mushroom or boletus found in Prance and some parts of the Continent. It is exceed- ingly savoury, and a great favourite amongst cooks. Cepes en Coquilles.—Select some small firm Cepes, mince the heads, put them into a frying-pan with a small lump of blitter, and fry gently, tossing them about. Season to taste, put a bunch of sweet herbs in with them, and when the moisture has evaporated put in a few table- spoonfuls of bechamel sauce that has been reduced till of a creamy consistency. Fill some silver shells with the above mixture, level the surface with the blade of a knife, and sprinkle over some grated breadcrumbs; baste each with a table-spoonful of warmed butter, and brown them under a salamander or in the oven. When glazed over the surface, arrange the shells on a folded napkin or an orna- mental dish-paper, and serve. A few neat sprigs of fried parsley improves the appearance of the dish. Cepes for Garnishing'.— Cut four Cepes into pieces, and cook them in a saute-pan for three minutes with 1 table- spoonful of olive oil, 5 table-spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and half a clove of crushed garlic. Moisten with- 5 pint of Spanish sauce, and serve. Cepes au Gratin.—Take some Ctpes, remove the skin, and wash them ; then cut off the stalks, chop the heads up to a mince, and put them in a frying-pan with a little butter or oil, and a few table-spoonfuls of minced parsley. Put the pan on a brisk fire and fry them, seasoning with salt and pepper. When their moisture is reduced, add a little bechamel sauce, or a little butter well worked with the hand, and a little parsley chopped fine. Let the sauce boil, and pour the mince into a gratin-dish. Then chop up the stalks, fry them in butter, and spread over the top. Sift some breadcrumbs over the whole, baste with birtter, put the gratin into a moderate oven, and bake for twenty minutes. Cepes Omelet.—Fry six Cepes cut into small pieces in j-oz. of butter for two minutes. Beat twelve eggs in a bowl, season with 1 pinch of salt and i pinch of pepper, pour them over the C£pes, and make an omelet as described under Omelets. CERCELLES —Fr. for Teal. CEKiVELAS.—Fr. for Saveloys, of which the English name is a corruption. CHABLIS.—The name of a white Burgundy wine grown in the districts round about the French town of that name; but the title must be used somewhat indiscrimin- ately by wine merchants, seeing that many hundreds of times the amount produced there annually is sold in France and other countries as Chablis. In Paris, the term is used generally to denote white wines of the same class, just as cognac is the generic term for brandy. Through- out Europe, the genuine Chablis are held in great repute for the following very cogent reasons: They are strongly alcoholic without betraying it; they have body, finish, and bouquet; are limpid and very white, and distin- guished for health-giving and profoundly digestive qualities; brightly stimulating the mind without intoxi- cating. They keep well, and will bear a sea voyage without suffering, and that made from the grand vintage of 1846 cannot now be procured for money, being