268 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Calf—continued. cut all the hairs away, and stew in a saucepan with slices of veal and bacon, seasoned with parsley, carrots, bay-leaves, spice, and thyme, and moisten with 1 wineglassful of white wine, and 1 ladleful of broth. Take out the ears when done so that a knife can easily be run into them. Drain, and let them cool. Stuff them with fowl or other forcemeat, giving them a horn shape; dip singly into egg, cover with bread- crumbs, giving two coatings if necessary, plunge into boiling fat, and fry to a light brown. Arrange them on a dish, pour round tomato or other sauce, and serve. (2) Soak four ears in warm water to draw out the blood, put them in some good white stock that a Calf’s head has been cooked in, and boil over a good fire for an hour or so until quite tender. Let them remain in this until they are cold. Prepare ^lb. of good forcemeat, and add a few finely- chopped mushrooms to it, and the yolk of an egg to bind the mass. Take the ears out of the stock, dry on a cloth, and stuff them nearly full of the forcemeat. Beat up two or three eggs in a basin; dip the ears first in this and then in some breadcrumbs. Put them into a frying-pan with some lard, and fry, but not too quickly, as the forcemeat will require some time to cook. Put a layer of mashed potatoes on a dish, place the ears on it, and serve with a sauce of fine herbs poured round. (3) Take four ears, trim them short, and score them (see Fig. 306). Put them into a little warm water to remove the blood, &c., and then boil in some good Calf’s-kead stock until quite tender. Put some good chicken forcemeat, about fin. thick, on a plate or dish, nearly fill the ears with some more of it, and put them on the plate (or dish), on the top of the other forcemeat. Put a sheet of well-buttered white paper round each one, and another piece on the top ; place in a moderate oven, and bake until the forcemeat is set. Remove the paper when the ears are done, and serve with some Italian sauce poured over them. Calf’s Feet.—Tire jelly obtainable by boiling these is the principal virtue that cooks value in Call’s or any other animal’s feet, for it is not only nourishing, but bright and beautiful when skilfully prepared. Ox-feet, or cow-heel, yield less jelly in proportion to weight, although age matures the gelatinous tissues and renders them more consolidated. The jelly from these would therefore be stronger and more glutinous; but for a light, bright, sparkling, delicate jelly, nothing can be produced to equal that from the foot of the Calf. As will be evident from the following receipts, jelly is not the only tasty viand that can be prepared from Calf’s Feet, which before using should be prepared thus: Break the foot across several times, split it up between the toes, remove the piece of fat between the toes, and all the marrow from the bones. Well wash the foot, put it into a saucepan of cold water, and bring to the boil; take out the foot, plunge into a basin of cold water, and scrape thoroughly. Boiled Calf’s Feet. — Split each of three feet into halves, and after removing the large bones put them to soak in fresh water for one hour. Wash thoroughly, drain, and place them in a saucepan, with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and 3qts. of cold water. Stir well; add 1 gill of vinegar, one onion, one carrot (all cut in shreds), twelve whole peppers, a handful Calf—continued. of salt, and a bouquet garni, and cook briskly for an-hour- and-a-half. Drain well, and serve with any kind of sauce. Boiled Calf’s Feet with Piquant Sauce.—The same as for Boiled Calf’s Feet, using ^ pint of hot piquant sauce to pour over. Boiled Calf’s Feet with Foulette Sauce.—Same as Boiled Calf’s Feet, adding \ pint of hot poulette sauce, made as follows: Put 1 pint of hot German sauce into a saucepan with loz. of fresh butter, add the juice of half a medium- sized lemon, and 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Heat well on the hot stove until thoroughly melted and mixed, but do not lot it boil. Keep the sauce warm, and serve poured over the Calf’s Feet on a dish. Boiled Calf’s Feet with Remoulade Sauce.—The same as for Boiled Calf’s Feet, adding J pint of hot remoulade sauce. Calf’s-Foot Jelly.— (1) Clean and wash four Calf’s Feet and put them in a saucepan with lgull. of water, and add 2oz. of isinglass and a little lemon-peel. Place the pan over a moderate fire, and stew gently until a strong jelly is formed ; carefully skim off the fat, and pour in lqt. of white wine. When this is incorporated, work in lib. of loaf sugar, the juice of eight lemons, and the whites of fifteen eggs beaten to a froth. Put the pan back again on the fire and boil for fifteen minutes longer; remove to the side, and let the jelly remain for a few minutes to settle; then strain it through a jelly-bag into moulds. When perfectly cold, turn it out, and serve. (2) Bone six feet and put them in a stockpot with lgall. of water ; when it boils, skim, move to the side of the fire, and let it simmer for ten hours, adding occasionally a little more water; strain through a hair sieve into a large basin, and let it be till the next day; skim off the fat, and put the jelly to clarify in a stewpan with Hlb. of loaf sugar, six cloves, 1 dessert-spoonful of coriander - seeds, foz. of whole cinnamon, the juice of six lemons, and i bottle of Madeira. Stand the stewpan on the fire, whip four whites and one whole egg with a little drop of water; whisk in lqt. of the jelly, then turn all into the stewpan containing the remainder of the jolly and whip till it boils. Put a flat lid on the stewpan, with some live coals on the top, and let the jelly simmer for twenty minutes. Put the rind of three lemons in a jelly-bag, strain the jelly through two or three times until perfectly clear, then turn it into moulds, and keep in a cold place, or pack in ice until it sets. This jelly can be used for many purposes. (3) Cut a set of Calf’s Feet into pieces, put them in a stone jar with lqt. of milk, 5 pints of water, a handful of hartshorn shavings, £oz. of isinglass, and a small quantity of mace. Cover the jar with brown paper, tie it down securely, and put it in the oven. When cooked, strain the jelly through a fine hair sieve, leave it until cold, then skim off the fat. Use when required. (4) Thoroughly wash four Calf’s Feet in plenty of cold water, trimming off all defective portions, and carefully removing all the hairs ; put them over the fire in a thick saucepan with 2galls. of cold water, 1 piled teaspoonful of salt, a dozen whole cloves, lin. of stick cinnamon, and the yellow rind of one lemon cut very thin. Place the saucepan where its contents will boil very slowly ; remove all scum as it rises, and continue the boiling until there are only about 2qts. of the broth remaining in the saucepan. By this time the Calf’s Feet will have become almost gelatinous from the prolonged boiling, and the broth will be in good condition to make the jelly. Strain the broth, and cool it, in order to remove the fat. After the broth from the Calf’s Feet is quite cold, it will present the appearance of a cloudy, whitish, opaque jelly; it must then be clarified and flavoured as follows: For 2qts. of the unclarified jelly, put into a thick saucepan the whites and shells of four eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of cold water, and the yellow rinds of two lemons cut very thin. Mix these ingredients for a moment, breaking the egg shells ; then add lib. of white sugar, the cold jellied broth, place the saucepan over the fire, and occasionally stir its contents until they begin to boil; then place it where the jelly will boil gently until it looks as clear as wine under the scum of egg which rises to the surface. Put into a large bowl lqt. of sherry and the strained juice of four lemons; set a colander over the bowl,