245 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. beaten together until the sugar is quite dissolved, then add Jib. of butter warmed to melting, 1 gill of milk, Jib. of flour, and 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder. Beat these up well and spread thinly on a greased baking-sheet. Put into a moderate oven, leaving the door open, and bake. A board should be placed under the tin so that the bottom of the Cake will not bake too quickly. When nearly done cut into squares and cover each one with meringue or icing made stiff. Set back in the oven for a few minutes to finish, and serve. Sifted sugar may also be sprinkled over the icing before returning to the oven to finish baking. Merry Christmas Cake.—Mix together 2 breakfast-cupfuls of flour, 1 breakfast-cupful of cornflour, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, and rub in 1 breakfast-cupful of butter. When quite smooth, beat in the whites of eight eggs and 1 teacupful of milk. Bake in flat Cake-tins. When done, spread icing with grated cocoa-nut between the layers, on the top, and round the sides. Milan Cakes.—(1) Large.—Take lib. of flour, Jib. of butter, 41b. of powdered sugar, and four eggs. Sift the flour on the table. Make a hollow in the centre, and fill it with the sugar and butter and the grated rind of a lemon; knead well the butter and sugar for three minutes, add the eggs, one at a time, and work in the flour slowly. Let it rest after mixing for about half-an-hour in a cool place. Then roll it out about Jin. thick, cut out six pieces with a round Cake-cutter, glaze the surfaces with beaten egg and milk, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. When cold, dress on a dessert-disli with a folded napkin, and serve. Keep the rest of the paste for further use, as it will remain sweet and fresh for two or three days. (2) Bub Jib. of butter in lib. of flour until smooth, then mix with it Jib. of sugar and a pinch of salt. Beat two eggs with J wineglassful of rum, and mix them with the above ingredients, also sufficient cold water to make a stiff dough. Knead the mixture thoroughly ; dredge flour over a paste- board, and roll it out to the thickness of a penny piece. Butter a baking-sheet, lay the dough on it, brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, sift caster sugar over it, and bake in a brisk oven. Leave the Cake until cold, then cut it into halves; spread a layer of any kind of preserve over one half, and put the other half over it. Put the Cake on a fancy dish and serve. (3) Small.—Warm 4oz. of butter, and beat it with C table- spoonfuls of caster sugar until creamy; then mix in 4 wineglaFS- ful of brandy, one beaten egg, and Jib. of flour. Work the mixture until all the ingredients are thoroughly incorporated and then roll it out as thinly as possible on a floured table. Cut the paste into small diamond-shaped Cakes, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, lay them on buttered baking-sheets, and bake in a brisk oven. (4) Put Jib. of caster sugar into a basin with the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, and whip them well. When it begins to froth, add 2 table-spoonfuls of pounded and blanched almonds, passed through a fine sieve, Jib. of warmed butter, and work it for three minutes ; then add Jib. of flour and 4 table-spoonfuls of minced, candied, citron-peel. Make the paste stiff, and then take it out with a spoon in pieces about the size of a walnut; place them on a table slightly floured, roll in the hand until round, and then put them, one by one, on to a slightly-greased baking-sheet, keeping them a little way apart. Put them in a moderate oven and bake for fourteen or fifteen minutes. The quantity of paste as made above will make two dozen Cakes. Mille-Feuilles Cake.—(1) Boll out 2Jlb. of rich puff paste, cut it into sixteen pieces, mark them in the centre where a piece is to be removed, put them into a moderate oven, and bake. Take them out when ready, remove the centres, fill them with any kind of jam, replace the centres, pile the pieces one on top of another, and the Cake is ready for serving. (2) Bavarian.—Take about lib. or ljlb. of the trimmings of puff paste, and divide it in twelve pieces about the size of an egg ; roll these out into rounds, and put them on baking- tins. Trim the rounds with the top of a charlotte-mould, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, remove them from the oven, and put another baking-sheet, with a very light weight on the top, to keep them level whilst cooling. Let them get Cakes—continued. quite cold, and then mask them on top one by one with a layer of cream, flavoured with vanilla. Cut each one in quarters, and put them evenly and regularly one over the other. When all are done, mask the Cake with a layer of cream, sprinkle over with chopped pistachios, and put on the ice for thirty minutes. Modena Cake.—Take Goz. of butter and work until it be- comes like a cream, then rub it into Jib. of flour and Jib. of sugar. Whisk six eggs for a-quarter-of-an-hour, and mix the flour and sugar gradually witli the eggs, then add a little grated lemon-peel and some candied lemon-peel, cut into thin slices, and finally mix in about J saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Line a tin with buttered paper, put in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour. Montblanc Cake.—Take a deep flawn-circle, and line it with some tartlet-paste. Bomove the circle and then pinch the paste on the top as well as against its outer sides, wrap these round with a strip of paper and sew them with thread. Cover the inside of the paste, and the bottom and outside, with buttered paper; then fill up the hollow with flour in order to bake the paste firm. When the flawn is taken out of the oven, take off the paper, remove the flour, and mask the bottom and sides with a rather thick layer of apricot marmalade, and spread over a layer of light frangipane perfumed with orange. Then take fifteen ordinary choux of a round shape and moderately large size; open them from below, and fill the cavity with a Bavarian cream, flavoured with strawberries and thickened on ice. Close these, and dip them one at a time into cooked vanilla icing sugar; lot them drain a little, and then put them at once into the flawn-case. Build up in the shape of a pyramid (see Big. 282), and when the icing is cold the choux should have adhered. Cut pieces of angelica into points, and set between the choux. Montmorency Cake.—Make a sponge of 4oz. of sifted flour and Joz. of yeast, with 1 pint of warm water; put it in a warm place to rise. Then take Jib. of flour, also sifted, rub into it Jib. of warmed butter, make a hole or bay in the centre, and in it put J teacupful of water, ten eggs, and Joz. of pounded sugar. Mix all these well together, and work into a paste, adding five more eggs, one at a time. Allow the sponge to rise to twice its original bulk, and then mix it with the paste together with Jib. of dried cherries, quartered. Half fill a pudding-basin (that has been buttered) with the paste, and when it llias risen to the top of the basin put in a moderate oven and bake. When done, turn it out and put it on a cloth. Boil 1 pint of kirschenwasser with 1 pint of syrup, and serve in a boat with the Cake. Montrose Cake.— Break twelve eggs into a basin and whisk them well for ten minutes, then add a little grated nutmeg, J wineglassful of brandy, and 1 table-spoonful of rose-water. Have ready lib. of butter beaten to a cream and mixed with lib. of caster sugar. Beat it all well up for about twenty minutes, and sift in lib. of flour and Jib. of currants. Put in a buttered tin, and bake. Mountain Cake.—Mix 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar and J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of flour, then rub in 1 breakfast-cupful of butter ; when quite