426 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. COGNAC.—The name is usually applied in France to brandy of various qualities, the term originating from a locality famous for its brandy. COKER-NUT.—See Cocoa-nut. COLANDERS.—These very necessary culinary utensils derive their name from the Latin verb colare, signifying to “ flow through.” Amongst French cooks they are known as Passoires, or more generally Tamis. Those mostly used in our kitchens are made either of tin (see Fig. 506) or earthenware ; but in larger kitchens they are frequently found of more durable material (see Fig. 507) and of various sizes, from that capable of holding one gallon to four gallons or more. The uses of the Colander are manifold, as will be seen in tbe receipts given throughout this Encyclopaedia; for straining the water from boiled vegetables, and as a first strainer when liquor has to be drawn from solids for the purpose of being further refined. The tin and earthenware varieties are also of great service for sifting chopped suet, or breadcrumbs, where a certain amount of fineness of grain is required, somewhat coarser than powder. Col- anders are also useful for washing peas, beans, rice, and currants, and other articles where a stream of water running through is desirable. In short, the cook would be quite at a loss without one or more. They should be kept scrupu- lously clean. COLARES.—A Portuguese wine of inferior quality; rarely met with in this country. COLBERT SAUCE—So called after a famous French minister, Jean Baptiste Colbert, who lived in the reign of Louis XIV., See Sauces. COLBERT SOUP.—See Soups. COLCANNON. — Sometimes this is spelt “Kol- cannon ”—the “ Kol ” being evidently a derivative of “ Kohl,” a cabbage It is known to us as a favourite Irish dish, and can be prepared as follows: (1) Butter the interior of a plain mould, and strew thickly over the inside some breadcrumbs that have been browned in Colcannon—continued. butter. Mix together lib. each of cold boiled turnips and potatoes, stir in loz. of warmed butter, and season with salt and pepper. Put the mixture into the mould, press it down tightly, and bake in a moderate oven. In about half-an- hour’s time turn the shape carefully out on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Boil separately some cabbages and potatoes in equal quantities ; when cooked, drain them, mix them together in a saucepan, put in a lump of dripping, season with pepper and salt, and mash them over the fire. Turn the mixture out on to a hot dish, and serve. Boiled onions can also be mixed in if liked. COLE WORT.-—This is a species of cabbage charac- terised by not producing a firm bead. In cookery this term i 5 generally used to signify young cabbages that, although little more than seedlings, are amenable to successful culinary treatment. COLLARED MEAT.—The strict meaning of collar- ing, as applied to meat, is to roll up tightly and bind with a string. It is used in modern cookery with much wider significance, as will be seen in the various receipts given under specific headings. Collared head of any kind is a favourite dish. COLLATION .—-This term seems to have little or no reason for its existence in connection with catering, a “ cold collation ” signifying merely a collection of cold foods. COLLEGE PUDDING.—-See Puddings. COLLOPS.—The origin of this word is doubtful, but the meaning of it in kitchen parlance is understood to be small slices of meat. The term is used frequently throughout this Encyclopaedia with a general significa- tion, but in the following receipts it has a special application. Bub the bottom of a stewpan with butter, lay in some very thin slices of meat, with some pepper, salt, an onion, and an apple (both chopped fine), close the lid, and let the meat stew gently till it is very tender. Serve as hot as possible. Russian Collops.—Put loz. of butter into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir it well over the fire, and pour in four beaten eggs aid 1 teacupful of cream. Season the mixture with salt, stir it with a wooden spoon until on the point of boiling, when it should be taken off immediately or the eggs will curdle. Melt fib. of butter in a frying- pan, pour in some of the mixture, and fry it until lightly browned on both sides. When all has been fried in this way, cut each cake into halves, trim these into equal-sized oblong-shaped pieces, cover each piece with quenelle force- meat, and roll them round, moistening the edges to make them stick. Dip in beaten egg, coat thickly with breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling butter until browned. Drain the Collops, put them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. COLOURINGS. — The success of tbe confectioner depends in a great measure upon the free use of bright colours and their artistic arrangement. The cook also, in a minor degree, avails himself occasionally of their services, but more especially as a “ browning ” for gravies, or such like, and then he is wont to combine a rich brown colour with savoury flavours. In the preparation of sweet entremets and other combinations in which sugar holds a prominent place, it is imperative that the colours used should be harmless to the individuals by whom they are swallowed. But, unhappily, it does not always follow that colours prepared for the confectioner’s use are harmless; indeed, so little regard appears to have been paid by colour manufacturers to the quality of the ingredients used, that the public have become exceed- ingly suspicious of bright colours, especially green and blue, and not without good cause, as shown by the reports of experienced analysts.