244 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ifee., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. disli, and strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve over it. Leave the madeleine until cold, then fill the centre with thick cream that has been whipped to a stiff snow and flavoured with a few drops of orange-flower water. Serve without delay. Madison Cake.—Put lib. of butter and 1 Jib. of sugar into a bowl and beat them to a cream; add J pint of cream, twelve eggs, beaten until very thick, and 21b. of flour, adding Jib. at a time. Work well until perfectly smooth, add Joz. of powdered mace and two grated nutmegs, beating them well in; then add lib. each of currants and raisins and Jib. of citron cut into thin slices and all dredged with flour ; stir lightly without beating, pour the mixture into a pan, or pans, lined with buttered paper, smooth the surface with a knife, sprinkle over a little caster sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. Turn it out, and serve as required. Magdalen Cake.—(1) Break ten eggs into a basin and whisk them well, then add Jib. of finely-sifted sugar and beat again until the sugar is taken up. Work 6oz. of warmed butter with the hand until it forms a cream, then mix in the eggs very slowly. Dredge in Jib. of dried flour. Take 2oz. of coarsely-ground sweet almonds, and chop up 2oz. of candied orange-peel. Mix in the 2oz. of peel, butter a Cake-mould, and sprinkle the pieces of almonds over the bottom and sides. Fill the mould with the mixture, sprinkle some shreds of sweet almonds over the top, and bake for half-an-hour in a quick oven. (2) Warm 6oz. of butter, and beat it well; when it begins to look creamy beat in ten eggs, one at a time, then mix in Jib. of flour and Jib. of caster sugar; beat the mixture for twenty minutes. Thinly slice ljoz. of candied orange- peel, and mix it with the batter. Thickly butter the interior of a Cake-tin, arrange round the sides and at the bottom thin fillets of blanched and peeled sweet almonds; pour in the batter slowly so as not to disarrange the almonds, arrange a few filleted almonds on the top, and bake at once. Malaprop Cake.—Beat the yolks of four eggs in a basin, and whisk the whites in another until they are of a stiff froth. Work Jib. of butter with the hand in a warm basin until it becomes like cream, and then mix in Jib. of caster sugar. Stir well together, and add the yolks, a fourth at a time; when all are worked in, sift in lightly Jib. of dried flour, and, lastly, the whites of the eggs. Flavour according to fancy, but if essence is used it must be mixed with the cream. Grated peel, if used, should be mixed with the flour. Put the Cake in a buttered mould, and bake for an hour in a brisk oven. Manon Cakes.—Butter a baking-sheet, and spread on it some very thin puff paste; put a layer of apricot marmalade over it, brush the edge with a little egg, and put another layer of paste on the top of the marmalade. The easiest way to put on this top layer is to roll it out to the required size and then roll it rrp on the roller and lay it on. Then put some wash of egg yolks over the top and score it with a knife, so that it will cut up in strips 2in. by 4in., and mark with broad arrows along its length. These marks or cuts will let out the air from the paste and prevent bubbles or blisters. Glaze with white of egg and sugar before putting into the oven. When cold, cut them up. Manque Cake with Rum.—Warm Jib. of butter, beat it well with Jib. of caster sugar, then mix in gradually fib. of flour, Jib. of pounded sweet almonds, 1 pinch of salt, and 2 wineglassfuls of old Jamaica rum; bind the ingredients to- gether with the well-beaten yolks of six eggs and two whole ones. When well mixed, stir in very lightly the whites of the six eggs, having first well whipped them. Make a large square paper case, butter it well, pour in the biscuit mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. Blanch and chop Jib. of sweet almonds, cut them into thin fillets, and dry them in a hot closet. Put the almonds into a basin with 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and mix them well with the whites of two eggs. When the biscuit is nearly cooked, brush the top over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, then cover it with the almond mixture. Place the Cake in the oven again to finish cooking it, and slightly brown the almonds, then take it out. When cold, cut the Cake into diamonds, or any other shape preferred, and serve them on a fancy dish. Cakes—continued. Manx Cake.—Take a few lumps of sugar and rub off all the peel from half a lemon. Weigh the sugar, and add sufficient of pounded sugar to make up Jib. Put Jib. of ground rice into a basin and add the pounded sugar. Break four eggs into a basin and whisk them until, upon taking up a spoon- ful, there are no threads, which will be about half-an-hour, then put in the lumps of sugar and let them dissolve; mix all, adding slowly, with the flour. Beat together and put into a buttered tin or mould and bake for about half- an-hour. Marble Cake.—Make the light part of a marble Cake by- mixing 1 breakfast-cupful of butter rubbed in 5 breakfast- cupfuls of flour in which 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda has been already mixed with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar, the whites of eight eggs, 1 breakfast-cupful of sour cream, and beat all well together. Mix in another basin 5 breakfast-cupfuls of flour, 1 teaspoonful of bicar- bonate of soda, and 1 teaspoonful of mixed spices; rub in 1 breakfast-cupful of butter, and when quite smooth add 2 breakfast-cupfuls of brown sugar, 1 breakfast-cupful of molasses, 1 breakfast-cupful of sour cream, the yolks of eight eggs, one whole egg, and 1 wineglassful of brandy. Put in a mould, in alternate layers of light and dark batter. Bake quickly, and turn out when cold. A lion or other suitable mould will answer for this Cake. Marien Cakes.—Bub Jib. of butter into lib. of flour, and when quite smooth mix in lOoz. of caster sugar, the finely- grated rind of one lemon, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon and nutmeg. Bind the above ingredients together with six well-beaten eggs and a little milk if necessary, and work the whole well; it should form a rather stiff paste. Dust a little flour over the table, and roll the paste out on it to about lin. in thickness. Cut out the Cakes with a round tin cutter, 2in. in diameter, place them on buttered baking- sheets, ornament them on the top with small fillets of sweet almonds and well-washed and dried currants, and bake till lightly coloured in a slow oven. When the Cakes are done, detach from the tin and leave them till cold. Mazarin Cake with. Rum.—Sift lib. of flour on to a paste- board; take a quarter of it and make a sponge with Joz. of yeast (German) dissolved in a little warm water. Put the sponge in a warm place to rise. Then take the re- mainder of the flour and make a hollow in the centre and work in Jib. of melted butter, J pint of warm milk, Joz. of sugar, and a little salt. When it is made into a paste, add seven eggs, one at a time, beating the paste all the time. When the sponge has risen to double its original size, mix it into the paste. Then take a plain pudding-mould, butter it, and strew over some blanched almonds cut into thin strips. Fill up the mould half way, and when the mixture has risen so as to fill it put it in the oven and bake. When done, turn it out of the mould on to a dish and make a sauce to serve with it as follows: Put 1 breakfast-cupful of syrup at 30deg. into a stewpan with J pint of rum and 2oz. of finely-minced candied citron, boil it and thicken with 3oz. of butter. Cut the Cake in halves horizontally and pour half of the sauce over each, and when all the sauce is absorbed put one piece over the other to resume its previous shape. Put it on a napkin and serve. Melting1 Cake with Sabayon.—Put into a saucepan 5oz. of butter, melt it, pour into a basin, and with a wooden spoon work well until frothy ; add to it the yolks of three well-beaten eggs, one by one, and one whole eg'g; sprinkle in 5oz. of sugar, a little of which is flavoured with lemon, 5oz. of potato-flour, a little salt, and add lastly the whipped whites of four eggs. Mix well and pour it into a buttered flat mould dredged over with potato-flour. Put the mould on a baking-sheet, and bake in a slack oven. When taken out, turn it over on a dish. Put into a stewpan the yolks of seven or eight eggs, together with 6oz. of powdered sugar; mix the eggs up with the sugar and dilute them with J teacupful of white wine. Set the pan on a very slow fire, whip the liquid, without leaving, until it is quite frothy, preventing it boiling over. It must get as light as whipped whites of eggs. Pour this into the hollow of the Cake, and serve immediately. Meringue Cakes.—Make a sponge Cake of the following: Jib. of finest caster sugar and the whites of ten eggs well