THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 432 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Consomme—con tinued. them in the oven, and bake till the contents of the smajl basin are firm in the centre. Take the basins out, and put the small one away to cool; when set, cut the mixture into small well-shaped pieces, put them into a soup-tureen, pour over them lqt. of boiling clear Consomme, and serve. (2) Take the yolks of six eggs, two whole eggs, £ tea- spoonful of grated nutmeg, £ table-spoonful of salt, and £ teaspoonful of cayenne, and beat well together in a bowl, adding 1 breakfast-cupful of cream. Strain through a fine hair sieve, and with this fill six small buttered timbale-moulds. Stand them in a stewpan with boiling water till reduced to half their height, and place them in the oven until they are firm, which will take about fifteen minutes. Immediately after taking them from the moulds, cut them in slices, add them to lqt. of boiling Consomme, and serve in a tureen. Royal Spring Consomme (a la Printanier Royale).— To lqt. of boiling Consomme add three moulds of Royal Consomme (No. 2) cut into pieces, also ^ pint of cooked minced vegetables, and serve. Sevigny Consomme (a la Sevigne).—(1) Take a chicken and a shank or two of veal, put them into a braising-pan, pour over 1 pint of salted water, add 1 table-spoonful of butter and an onion, and braise. After the meat is well cooked, take it out of the braising-pan, put it into a stewpan with lgall. of water, and let it stand by the side of the fire to simmer for four hours. Take a little of the liquor, put it in with that which was left in the braising-pan, boil it up, and as soon as the brown glaze is dissolved put it in with the other, adding a few vegetables, a little parsley, three or four cloves, half a bay-leaf, and two or three peppercorns, all bruised. When the stock is done, strain it, take off the grease, clarify it by adding a little raw finely-chopped beef and the whites of two eggs, boil up again, and pass it through a broth-napkin. With a 2in. biscuit- cutter cut some rounds out of slices of bread, fry them in butter, and when done, which will only take a minute or so, drain them, put one on each plate, and pour the Consomme over them. Serve very hot. (2) Fill six very small timbale-moulds with chicken force- meat, poach them for two minutes in hot water, and set them aside to cool; turn them out, put them into the tureen with 2 table-spoonfuls of cooked asparagus-tops and 2 table-spoonfuls of cooked green peas, pour over lqt. of boiling Consomme, and serve. Spring Consomme (a la Printanier).—Cut two carrots and one turnip into shapes with a vegetable scoop, simmer for twenty minutes in salted water, drain, and throw them into lqt. of Consomme in a saucepan, with 2 table-spoonfuls of cooked green peas and 2 table-spoonfuls of cooked French beans, cut into small pieces. Add a handful of chift'onnade (described under that head), cook five minutes more, and serve in a hot tureen. Swedish Consomme (a la Snedoise).—Chop up together one carrot, half a turnip, one leaf of a white cabbage, 2 table- spoonfuls of peas, and 1 table-spoonful of French beans, adding loz. of butter, ^ table-spoonful of salt, and a very little pepper. Keep the preparation very thick, and cook for twenty minutes in a saucepan, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan | cheese. Cut three French rolls into halves, take out the crumb, fill them with the mixture, sprinkle the tops with more cheese and a little warmed butter, put them into the oven for two minutes, and serve in a hot soup-tureen, with 3 pints of Consomme poured over. CONSTANCE PUDDING.—See Puddings. CONTI SOUP.—See Soups. a Wedge of Truffle. B Fillet contised. Fig. 511. Mode of Contising. CONTISING.—This is a culinary term adopted into our high-class kitchens from the French contiser, which Contising—continued. means, literally, “ to wedge.” Slits are cut with a knife into fillets of poultry, game, or fish, and wedge-shaped slices of truffle (see Fig. 511, a), tongue, or other savoury meats let in (see Fig. 511, b). The effect is good if neatly executed, and a combination of flarvours acquired that is indisputable. COOES AND COOEING.—Looking back through the long vistas of culinary history, and comparing modern cookery with the earliest efforts of which we have any record, it is interesting to note the circumstances that have given impetus to improvements, and the simple, almost imperceptible, changes that have followed each other in quickening succession, until what probably origi- nated in an accidental discovery born of a knowledge of fire, has resulted in an exceedingly fine art. The origin of the term “ Cook ” can be traced back to the mediaeval Romans, whose “Coquere”has proved a convenient basis of this and other words used in our language ; notably, cake, coke, and concoction. Rome was at one time the mother of cookery, for the practice was there fostered by lavish expenditure, and encouraged by love of luxury : that is to say, in the days when the Empire stood at its highest pin- nacle, and was preparing for itself the agents of its ulti- mate ruin. Luxury led to extravagance, extravagance to unequalled folly and vice; but for all that, We do not admit that the downfall of a nation can be encompassed by intro- ducing high art into its cookery. According to Careme, the Romans knew little or nothing of the culinary art as we know it, nor were they by any means gourmets ; on the contrary, their inclinations, so far as feasting was con- cerned, were most unrefined, and they washed down patties of peacocks’ brains with huge goblets of rich, sweet, highly- spiced, and fruity wines. What manner of gourmet could he be who would pretend to catch the delicate flavour of an artistic viand after nourishing his palate with spiced wine and deluging his stomach with drinking! The Romans, then, were not gourmets, in spite of their vaunted Apieius, Lucullus, and Epicurus—the latter giving his name to our “ epicures.” They were more properly gourmands ; glut- tonous rather than dainty, estimating the culinary merit of dishes by their cost. Cleopatra, for instance, is reputed to have dissolved a priceless pearl in wine to please Antony ; but as pearls require very strong acid to dissolve them, and such acids art not pleasing to the taste, it is doubtful if the story has any foundation in truth. Pro- bably many other similar stories are equally doubtful. The French—or Gauls, as they were called in the palmy days of Rome—were then, as now, famous for their culinary talents ; so much so, that when the Roman army invaded and conquered the “ bearded ” Gaul, as told by Caesar in his “ De Bello Gallico,” many of the captives were carried to Rome as slaves, and billeted to the kitchens of nobles. In an old print, preserved in the British Museum, is the drawing of a Roman kitchen, and therein we see the bearded Gaul lording it over a few cringing Roman ser- vants without beards. This peculiarity of the beards and no beards confirms the story that the Gallic, or French, slave was the original Roman chef. When Julius Caesar landed in Britain from the French coast, it is just pro- bable that he brought some of his French Cooks with him, as well as the name, for amongst the Anglo-Saxon tra- ditions we find the word “Kok” for Cook. The Germans (Caesar’s “ Allemanni”) have also their Koch (Cook), derived from the Roman Coquere, and so also is the French Cuire, from which is obtained their Cuisinier. It is obvious, then, that we get our word “ Cook ” either direct from Rome, or indirectly through the Anglo alliance with the German Saxon. An amusing writer has observed that the Latin for Gaul I and game-cock are the same—“ Gallus.” The French for cock is Coq, being the first syllable, or root, of coquere ; hence he deems it probable that the term Cook and coquere may have received their origin from the Gallic coq—an argument that appears to gain some sort of confirmation