407 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cocoa—continued. arrowroot is mixed to keep tlie fatty particles from form- ing a pasty mass; Epps’s Homoeopathic Cocoa, prepared with arrowroot and sugar; Iceland Moss Cocoa (introduced by Dunn and Hewett), which contains a certain quantity of carrageen; Maravilla Cocoa, compounded with sugar and sago-ilour; and Caraccas Cocoa, which closely resembles Maravilla. Cadbury’s preparations of Cocoa are deservedly famous for their purity and fine flavours, and the same remark applies to those made by Messrs. Fry. The addition of sugar and arrowroot, or sago, increase the nutritive qualities of the Cocoa without seriously detracting from their flavour. They have for this reason been not inaptly styled “ Cocoa soups.” There are two or three modes advocated to prepare a cup of Cocoa, and of these the following deserve to be specially recorded, particularly those prepared from the nibs, as for general use nothing can be better; but the afore-mentioned preparations maintain the palm for flavour and convenience. (1) Mix 3 table-spoonfuls of prepared Cocoa with 1 pint of water and 1 pint of milk, and boil it for twenty minutes, whipping all the time with an egg-whisk. Sweeten when served. (2) Put 1J teaspoonfuls of Cocoa into a breakfast-cup, pour in a little boiling milk, and stir to a paste ; then fill up the cup with more boiling milk, sweeten to taste, and serve. If preferred, the cup may be about three-parts filled with boiling- water and then filled up with boiling milk. (3) Put 2oz. of Cocoa-nibs to lqt. of water, and boil well for rather more than half-an-hour. If Cocoa shells are used, boil for nearly an hour. Serve with sugar and boiling milk. (4) Put J teacupful of Cocoa-nibs into a saucepan with 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar and 1 gill of milk, and boil slowly for about half-an-hour ; pass the liquor through a strainer, and it is ready for use. This will keep good for a couple of days, and need only be warmed up when wanted. (5) Put 4oz. of Cocoa-nibs and 3qts. of water into a saucepan, and boil until the liquor is reduced to 5 pints, which will take about five hours ; pass it through a fine sieve, and it is ready for use. The nibs should never be served with the liquor, as if they are allowed to stand for any time, they will give a bitter taste to the drink. Fig. 489. Cocoa Blanc-mange. Cocoa Bavaroise.—Boil in a saucepan ^oz. of gelatine, lOoz. of caster sugar, 1 stick of vanilla, and 1 pint of water ; then strain through a jelly-bag or napkin, and leave it to cool. Boast Jib. of Cocoa-nibs in a copper sugar-boiler over a slow fire, put them while hot in 1J pints of boiling milk, and let them steep for one hour. Put the milk and Cocoa-nibs in a saucepan, with loz. of caster sugar and the yolks of eight eggs; stir them over the fire (but do not let them boil), and add ljoz. of gelatine which has been dissolved in water; then strain through a cloth into a basin, set it on ice, stir it until it begins to set, and then add 1J pints of whipped cream. Put a cylinder-mould in the ice for a short time, take it out, and line it with the vanilla jelly, and then stand it in the ice again; when the jelly is set, till the mould with Cocoa-cream, and let it remain in the ice for two hours. Turn the bavaroise out of the mould when ready to serve. Cocoa— continued. Cocoa Blanc-mange.—Put £ pint of milk in a saucepan to boil; mix 6oz. of Cocoa with 1 teacupful of cold milk till smooth, then pour it in the saucepan with the boiling milk, stir it over the fire, and boil it for five minutes. Dissolve loz. of isinglass in a small quantity of milk, then mix it with the other ingredients. Turn the mixture into a mould, leave it till somewhat cool, and then pack it in pounded ice. When ready to serve, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, and turn the blanc-mange out on to a glass or fancy dish, and surround with macaroons (see Fig. 489). Cocoa Cream Jelly. — Put 3oz. of gelatine into 14 pints of hot water, and let it dissolve ; then add to it Jib. of sugar, two eggs, and the juice of a lemon. Strain the liquor through a cloth, let it cool, add J wineglassful of Cocoa liqueur, and turn the whole into a mould packed in ice. Let it remain for an hour, then turn it out on to a dish, and serve. Cocoa Liqueur.—Put lib. of freshly-washed Cocoa-beans into a mortar, bruise them well, put them into a bottle or jar with lgall. of plain spirit, and add 31b. of sugar. Set the jar in a warm place, and gently rock (not shake) it daily for three weeks, so that all the flavouring will be extracted. Strain and filter the liqueur, mix in loz. of vanilla essence, pour it into small bottles, cork these up, and use as required. Cocoa Pudding1. - (1) Put Jib. of stale bread and 1 pint of milk in a saucepan, and let it boil, stirring until it becomes a thick paste; then add Jib- of caster sugar, loz. of butter, 1 table-spoonful of prepared Cocoa, and a few drops of essence of vanilla. Take the pudding off the fire, and beat in the yolks of three eggs ; then whip the whites of the eggs to a froth, and mix them with the other ingredients. Butter a pie-dish, pour in the mixture, and bake for three- quarters-of-an-hour in a moderate oven. (2) Put into a saucepan 5oz. each of butter, pow- dered sugar, and finely-cut Cocoa, and the yolks of five eggs. Place the pan on the hot stove, and with a whisk stir briskly for five minutes; then take the pan off the stove. Beat up in a copper basin the whites of the fivo eggs to a firm froth, and add them to the preparation in the saucepan, mixing all well together for two minutes. Butter and sugar well six small pudding moulds, fill them with the preparation, and place them in a tin pan, filling this to half the height of the moulds with warm, but not boiling, water; put the pan in the oven for half-an-hour. Take them out, turn them out on a hot dish, and servo with cream sauce poured over. COCOA-NUTS (Fr. Noix cle Coco; Ger. Kokos- niisse; Ital. Caccai ; Sp. Cocos).— By lack of due caution in orthography a strange confusion of tongues has arisen, leading to still more curious confusions of association. Cacao, by a very simple change of pronun- ciation, has become cocoa. Coco-nut has become in our language Cocoa-nut; and, in the diction of the coster- monger, coker-nut. There is another article of com- merce—coca—recently introduced into this country, which has no more connection with the former than they have with each other; and as this yields a medicinal principle (cocaine) that has gained some con- siderable notoriety, the confusion is complete. The Cocoa-nut is the fruit of a tall, straight palm (Cocos nucifera) which flourishes in the eastern parts of Asia and the islands of the Indian Seas, whence it is imported into all parts of Europe. The nuts are found clustering under the plume of leaves, and frequently number on one palm as many as a hundred, the tree often bearing flowers and ripe nuts at the same time. When picked, the nut, as may be seen by the section shown in Fig. 490, is covered by a thick mass of fibre (Cocoa-nut fibre), so much coveted by mat-makers, over which is a thin brownish case. The nut in its green state is filled with a juice called “ Cocoa-nut milk,” which is sweet and refreshing, and used by refined natives or foreigners with coffee, or for making tasty dishes and wine. The pulp is then so soft that it may be eaten with a spoon, and with a little Madeira and lime-juice