318 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Cv.lmary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. CASSOLETTES.—A sort of scented sweetmeats, such as pastilles, much esteemed on the Continent, where they are principally manufactured. Culinary art has, however, extended the signification to a sweet-smelling dish, described hereunder. Cassolette of Castelnaudary.—Take lib. of dry haricot beans, let them steep in water for a few hours, then put them into a stewpan with a little water, and place the pan on the fire. When this begins to boil, take it off the fire, cover over the pan, and let it remain for an hour. Strain off the water, put in fresh, add a little salt, and put the pan on again to boil ; when the beans are about three-parts done, take them out and strain them. Take a preserved (confite) leg and wing of a goose, put them in a low iron or enamelled pan or dish, adding 6oz. of the fat of a goose, put the pan on a moderate fire, and fry them ; turn them, and when quite done put in the beans and a small sliced French saveloy. Take one or two large onions, chop them in slices, and put them into a stewpan with some chopped bacon and two cloves, and let them fry; then dust over a little flour, and add lqt. of broth quite hot. Stir until it boils, and then put in two sprigs of sweet herbs and a chopped tomato, or a little tomato sauce ; boil the sauce quickly to reduce it, and then pour it over the beans. Put all together into an oven, and let the lot simmer until both meat and beans are cooked. Sprinkle over a little breadcrumb and finely-chopped parsley, put the pan at the oven door until the surface is a bright colour and slightly crisped. Leave the Cassolette in the pan or low dish in which it was cooked, and serve. This is a popular dish of Languedoc, in France. Cassolettes of Potato, Rice, and Salmon will be found under these headings. CASTER SUGAR.—See Sugar. CASTLE PUDDINGS.—See Puddings. CATAWBA. —A celebrated wine brewed in the United States. See American Wines. Catawba Syrup.—Mix together 1 pint each of simple syrup and Catawba wine. This is an American favourite, and is greatly in demand for flavouring soda water. CATFISH.—There are two varieties of this fish ; one (Pimelodus) (see Fig. 383) frequents rivers and grows to a great size, some specimens having been caught in the Mississippi weighing not far short of 2001b. The sea Catfish (Galeicthys marinas) is considered by some to be Fig. 384. Sea Catfish. the better suited for the table, and the flesh is declared to be excellent, but rather inclined to be coarse-fibred, oily, and poorly flavoured. It is sometimes called Hog1 fish, and a more hideous-looking creature it would be difficult to conceive. Although the names of the two fish are the same, it is very evident that they are not of the same species. The receipts refer to the river Catfish, the Catfish.—continued. sea Catfish being usually dried and cooked as dried haddock or salmon. Catfish Chowder. —(1) Wash the fish in warm water, put it on in just water enough to cover it, and boil until tender, or until the bones will slip out. Take out the largest bones, chop up the fish, put it in a stewpan with 1 pint of water a large lump of butter, 1 breakfast-cupful of cream, a little pepper and salt, one onion, 1 teaspoonful of mustard, and i teacupful of walnut ketchup, and stew until quite thick. Garnish with sliced lemon, and serve hot. (2) Take two Catfish, skin them, and boil till thoroughly done, then pick them very fine, and add two good-sized onions, ilb. of butter, 1 table-spoonful of salt, 1 table-spoonful of pepper, 2 table-spoonfuls of Worcestershire sauce, and a little celery or celery-seed, thyme, and parsley. Pour over all lqt. of boiling water, and cook fast for about half-an-hour. Catfish Stewed with Tomatoes.—Cut the fish in slices, each weighing about 2oz., and fry them in a frying-pan with very little butter or dripping. When they are partly browned and about half-cooked, add 1 breakfast-cupful of water, one or two minced green onions, and a pod of red pepper. Strain a tin of tomatoes through a colander over the fish, and cook together about half-an-hour. Serve with strips of dry toast. CATSUP.—See Ketchup. CAUCASIAN WINES.—Although a considerable quantity of wine is manufactured in Caucasia, it is not of a very fine quality, being used chiefly for making brandy. It is mostly colourless, like water, or pale red, and is of a fiery character, but tones down by age to a fine Burgundy flavour. It is stated that as much as seven- and-a-lialf millions of bottles are produced annually in Mingrelia and the northern provinces. The natives, however, keep and transport them in skins of buffaloes and goats, which are tanned with the hair inside, and pitched with black naphtha. In some parts the wine is stored in large earthenware vessels as large as hogsheads, which are buried in the ground for the space of three years, or even longer. CAUDLE.—Oatmeal, or any other gruel, sweetened and enriched by the addition of spices and wine, usually administered as an internal comfort to lying-in patients after parturition. Some curious and varied customs prevail in different parts of the country concerning Caudle, which will be found recorded in various works on the habits and customs of the people. As most Caudles are served hot, a bowl such as shown in Fig. 385 is much prized for the purpose. The following receipt for Caudle is given by a famous nurse: (1) Rub three or four lumps of sugar over the rind of a lemon, and dissolve these in 1 table-spoonful of hot water; beat up an egg and whisk this in with it, adding, a little at a time, 1 wineglassful of port, Madeira, or sherry. Stir in also teaspoonful of ground ginger, and a good dusting of grated nutmeg. Have ready about f pint of fine oatmeal gruel, and just before serving stir the mixture into it quickly. Most invalids like Caudle prepared this way.