475 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cream—continued. fire, close the lid, and as soon as it boils, strain it through a sieve, and mix into it 6oz. of powdered white sugar. As soon as the sugar is quite melted, pour the Cream into an ice-pail, and stand it in a refrigerator till frozen. Sicilian Cream Ice.—Take l.V pints of Cream, fib. of loaf sugar, and the yolks of eight eggs, and put them into a stew- pan with the rind of two oranges rubbed off with the sugar. Place the pan on the fire, and stir until the Cream begins to get thick ; then pour it through a fine hair sieve into a basin, and add 1 teacupful of citron liqueur. Stand the preparation on the ice, and let it freeze quite stiff ; then add 2oz. each of diavolini, shred pistachios, and chopped dried cherries. Mix thoroughly together, and place in moulds on the ice until wanted, then turn out in the usual way. Snow Cream.—(1) Pour 1 pint of Cream into a basin, sprinkle in 4oz. of sifted, crushed loaf sugar, and mix in the grated rind of three lemons and the juice of two. Whisk well and vigorously, until the preparation is quite thick, turn it into a sieve of sufficient size to just hold it, and let it remain for a day. Put it on a dish, and serve. (2) Put i table-spoonful of flour into a lined saucepan, stir in gradually 1 pint of milk, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, flavour with a few drops of essence of vanilla, and continue stirring over the fire until it boils. Move the milk to the side of the fire, add the beaten yolks of four eggs, and stir until the eggs have thickened, without letting the mixture boil; then turn it into a deep dish. When cool, stir J wineglassful of brandy into this custard. Mix 4 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar with the whites of the four eggs, and whisk them to a stiff froth. Put 1 pint of milk-and-water into a flat stewpan, and place it over the fire to boil. With 2 dessert-spoons take up small quantities of the beaten white of egg, which mould so as to leave the impression of the spoons on them, and drop into the pan of milk-and-water. As each lot are cooked, take them out of the pan, and lay them on a sieve, over which has been spread a folded napkin, to drain. When all the white of egg is used, pile the shapes lightly over the top of the custard, and serve. Souffle Cream Ice with Brandy.—Mix j- pint of brandy with two whites of Italian meringues, and add 1 pint of double well-whipped Cream and 3oz. of small ginger comfits. Mix these well together, put them into a mould embedded in finely- pounded ice mixed with salt and saltpetre, and lot it freeze. When quite firm, turn it out of the mould, and serve. Souffle Cream Ice with Maraschino.—Mix 1 teacupful of maraschino with two whites of Italian meringues when they are quite cold. Add 1 pint of well-whipped Cream and the kernels of eighteen walnuts (the walnuts being picked before they are quite ripe, and the skins removed from the kernels). See that these are thoroughly incorporated with the other ingredients, and then pour the preparation into a mould, which is to be packed in ice well pounded and mixed with salt and saltpetre. When frozen, turn out, and serve. Souffle Cream Ice with Mering-ue.—Make a custard with the yolks of six eggs, lj teacupfuls of pine-apple syrup, and a stick of vanilla. Mix this with two whites of Italian meringue and \ teacupful of noyeau or maraschino, and then stir in well 1 pint of Cream, previously whipped, and lastly 2oz. of chocolate pastilles and jib. of pineapple cut up very small. When thoroughly incorporated, pour into a mould and place on the ice to freeze. When firm, turn it out and serve. Souffle Cream Ice with Vanilla.—Take two whites of Italian meringue, and when they are cold mix them with loz. of vanilla sugar and a pint of well-whipped Cream. Place a mould on the ice, and pour in the mixture ; cover over the \ mould, and pack it in pounded ice mixed with salt. When hard, turn out, and serve. Sour Cream Dumplings (German Spatzbn).—Put 1 pint of sour Cream into a saucepan over the fire, stir in gradually, with a wooden spoon, sufficient flour to make a stiff paste, and continue boiling it until cooked. Turn the mixture on to a dish, and leave it until cool. Beat three eggs, dust in a small quantity of salt, and mix with the paste. Place the mixture in small portions in a saucepan of boiling milk, and boil them for five minutes. Strain the dumplings, place them Cream—continued. on a hot dish, put a few pieces of butter on the tops and serve. Sour Ci’eam Snowballs. -Mix f pint of sour Cream with three well-beaten eggs, then mix flour in gradually and smoothly till the batter is so thick that a spoon will stand in it. Stir in i pint of beer, sweeten to taste with brown sugar, put in a few cardamoms, beat well, and drop into boiling lard or butter, a dessert-spoonful at a time. Fry them a pale brown, and lay them on white paper to drain. Fold a napkin in a dish, lay the fried snowballs on it, dredge sifted sugar over, and serve hot. Sour Cream Soup (German).- -Peel and finely chop an onion, put it into a saucepan with 2oz. of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir it over the fire until nicely browned, then pour in 1 pint of sour Cream and 1 pint of pea soup. Season the soup to taste with salt and grated nutmeg, and boil it for five or ten minutes. Put some sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread in a soup tureen, pour the soup over them and serve. Spanish. Cream.—(1) The same as Italian Cream, with the exception of the gelatine being put into cold water first, and then into hot water to dissolve, instead of into the custard. (2) Dissolve ioz. of isinglass in pint of water, strain it through a fine hair sieve, and mix with lqt. of milk ; turn this into a saucepan, stir it over the fire until on the point of boiling, then turn it out, and let it cool a little. Beat the yolks of eight eggs, stir them gradually in with the milk, add a wineglassful of white wine, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar. When the mixture is quite cold, pour it into a dome- shaped mould, and pack it in pounded ice for a few hours. When ready to serve, dip the mould into warm water to loosen the contents at the sides, then turn the Cream on to a dish. Spanish Cream Custard (Lecha Crema).—This Spanish dish is prepared as follows: Beat the yolks of three eggs and the white of one. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour in a saucepan with a small quantity of grated lemon; stir in very gradually 1 pint of new milk and the beaten eggs, and continue stirring over the fire till on the point of boiling, then move it to the side, and let it thicken. Put some small ratafias at the bottom of a dish, and soak them with brandy or sherry, and put a layer of any description of preserves on the top. Pour the Cream over the cakes, and leave till cold before serving. Stone Cream.—(1) Put loz. of isinglass into a lined saucepan with lqt. of Cream, stir it over the fire until dissolved, then strain it through a fine wire sieve, and continue stirring until nearly cold. Spread a layer of apricot jam at the bottom Fig. 574. Stone Cream. of a glass dish, pour 1 teacupful of orange wine over it; pour the cream over the jam, and leave it until quite cold and firm. Blanch loz. of sweet almonds, and split them length- wise into halves; stick them on the t.op of the Cream when ready, garnish with ratafias, and serve (see Fig. 574). (2) Dissolve ^oz. of isinglass in a small quantity of boiling water, strain it, and mix it in a saucepan with 1 pint of Cream, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and stir the Cream over the fire until boiling; pour it into a bowl and let it cool, stirring occasionally. Pile some preserved cherries, or any other kind of preserved fruit, in the centre of a glass dish, and grate the peel of one large lemon, and squeeze the