325 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Celeriac—continued. the Continent, where it is boiled and eaten when cold, sliced and dressed with oil and vinegar. It is imported from Hamburg, and is not much cultivated in England. Nicholson, in the “ Dictionary of Gardening,” describes it as a turnip-rooted variety of the garden celery, very useful for soups, and easily cultivated. Boiled Celeriac. - -(1) Take some Celeriac, remove the peel from the roots, and cut them into slices, or quarters; then put them in boiling' salted water, or meagre broth, and keep them boiling until done. Put them on a strainer to drain, and serve either simple or with melted butter. (2) Peel the required quantity of Celeriac, cut them into slices, and put these into a basin with water flavoured with lemon-juice or vinegar, leaving them to soak for several hours ; then put them into a saucepan with a good supply of boiling salted water, and boil until done. Take them out, drain, pour over a little sauce made with butter, yolks of eggs, and lemon-juice, and serve. If preferred, after the Celeriac has been boiled they may be stewed gently for a little time in rich brown sauce. Puree of Celeriac.—Procure a root of fresh young Celeriac; remove the discoloured outside peel, wash it in plenty of water, and cut into small pieces. Put it into a stew- pan with 4oz. of butter, more or less, according to the quantity, and toss it about over a brisk fire until beginning to brown. Then put in with the Celeriac a small bunch of thyme and parsley, and half a bay-leaf, tied together, and a small onion with two cloves stuck in it. Pour in sufficient clear broth or water to cover the Celeriac, and boil until tender. When cooked, turn the Celeriac on to a fine wire sieve, throw away the bunch of herbs and onion, and rub it through the sieve with a wooden spoon. Put about 2oz. of butter into the stewrpan, melt it, then put in the mashed Celeriac, add 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar, and keep it stewing gently at the side of the fire for an hour or more, stirring occasionally. Serve while very hot; if it is too thick, a small quantity of boiling broth or water may be mixed in with it. Stewed Celeriac.—This kind of celery is almost a foreigner in England, and is prepared as follows: Cut off all the leaves from the required quantity to about lin. from their roots, and if the latter are large, divide them into quarters. Wash them thoroughly in several waters, blanch them in boiling salted water, and drain thoroughly; then put them into a saucepan with some rich sauce, and simmer gently until the roots are done. Put the Celeriac on a dish, pour the sauce round, and serve. The sauce should be of the con- sistence of cream when done. CELERY (Fr. Celeri ; Ger. Sellerie; Ital. Sedano ; Sp. Apio) (.Apium graveolens).—An aromatic plant of the same race as the parsley. It lias been cultivated from wild smallage, and is now grown extensively in this and other countries as a flavouring vegetable or salad. To the Italians we are indebted for the perfection to which Celery has been brought in cultivation, and to them also is due our first knowledge of its culinary value. It was introduced into England about the middle of the seven- teenth century. Celery is generally sent to table raw (see Fig. 395), to be eaten with cheese as salad, the leaf-stalks having been blanched during growth by heaping the earth round them as they spring from the ground. The juice of the stalks contains sugar, mucilage, starch, and a substance resembling manna-sugar; this latter giving to it health- restoring virtues of no mean order. Kettner says of it: “ Also it makes a soup of itself; it makes a sauce of itself; it is excellent plain-boiled; a sea-kale ; it will stew to perfection; and it makes a salad which is not only Fig. 392. Celeriac. Celery—continued. good in itself, but also doubly good because it may be had when other salads fail.” Celery is seasonable from September to April. See Fig. 393. Fig. 393. Celery Plant. Curling Celery.—A famous cook gives us the following in- structions : Slit the stalks with a pen-knife closely if the fringe is to be fine, taking- care that the slits all end at an even line. Where a large amount of Celery is used every day, set on the tables in Celery-glasses, a kind of rake is used instead of the pen-knife, and this rake is made by driving a number of the three-edged sacking-needles of the smallest size through a soft piece of cigar boxwood. The Celery ends are combed with this, and set in glasses of ice-water to curl at leisure. Fig. 391. Oak Celery-stand. Serving Celery in a Glass.—Well wash two or three heads of fine white Celery, pare off the green stalks and trim the roots neatly, taking care to save the clear white hearts. Cut each head lengthwise into quarters, rinse them again in cold water, and let them remain in clean water with a piece of ice in it until wanted. Arrange. them in a Celery-stand (see Fig. 394) or glass, or dress on a china dish with a few pieces of ice in the centre, and serve.