THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 387 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Chutney—continued. half the quantity of cayenne, pound the whole well together, mixing-, them thoroughly, and turn the mass into the saucepan with the apples. When they are all thoroughly incorporated, put the Chutney into an earthenware jar, and keep this in a warm place until the next day; then put the Chutney into small jars, tie them down, and it is ready for use. Chutney prepared in this way will remain g'ood for a couple of years. CIDER (Fr. Cidre; Ger. Cider; Ital. Sidro, or Cidro; Span. Sidra, or Cidra).—The origin of Cider, or “ Wine of Apples,” as Pliny styles it somewhere about the commence- ment of the Christian era, appears to be lost in the dark- ness of ages ■ it was known to the ancient Hebrews, and is recorded as a favourite drink of King Solomon. Some writers credit Cider with Noah’s oft-quoted mistake, and even go so far as to express a belief that the evils of drunkenness were plainly indicated in the ban placed on the forbidden fruit of the Garden of Eden. Whether this be so or not, or whether the forbidden fruit was an apple or not, it is quite certain that Cider can lay claim to a very ancient history, and deserved universal popularity, which same popularity has fallen off in a great measure in this country, probably owing to taxation and the neglect of the orchard rather than to taste. John Evelyn tells us in his “Sylva,” published in 1664. that “ It was by the plain Industry of one Harris (a Fruiterer to King Henry the Eighth) that the Fields, and Environs of about thirty Towns, in Kent onely, were planted with Fruit, to the universal benefit, and general Improvement of that County to this day.” And then he goes on to explain that ‘‘ as by the noble Example of my Lord Scudamor, and of some'otlier publick spirited Gentle- men in those parts, all Hereford-shire is become, in a manner, but one intire Orchard : And when his Majesty [Charles II.] shall once be pleas’d, to command the Planting But of some Acres, for the best Cider-fruit, at every of his Royal Mansions, amongst other of his most laudable Magnificences ; Noblemen, wealthy Purchasers, and Citizens will (doubtless) follow the Example, till the pre- ference of Cider, wholesome, and more natural Drinks, do quite vanquish Hopps, and banish all other Drogues of that nature.” The foregoing famous chronicler shows himself to have been a firm believer in the virtues of Cider, for he further says: “ It is good of a thousand kinds, proper for the cure of many Diseases, a kind vehicle for any sanative vegetable or other medicinal ingredients ; that of Pippins, a specific for the consumption, and, generally, all strong and pleasant Cider excites and cleanses the stomach, strengthens digestion, and infallibly frees the Kidneys and Bladder from breeding the Gravel and Stone, especially if it be of the genuine Ircliin-field Redstrake; not omit- ting how excellently it holds out good many years to improvement, if full-body’d and strong, even in the largest and most capacious vessels, so as when for ordinary drink, our Citizens and honest countrymen shall come to drink it moderately diluted (as now they do six-shilling Beer in London and other places), that they will find it mar- vellously conduce to health; and labouring People, where it is so drank, affirm that they are more strengthen’d for hard work by such Cider than by the very best beer.” If such was the accredited character of Cider, it is not surprising that its popularity was at one time unequalled by any other beverage known, nor that in the days of heavy taxation it should have been made to bear the greatest burden. Townsend, in his “Manual of Dates,” in- forms us that “ In addition to the hereditary duty on Cider granted by 12 Charles II. (1660), a duty of 4s. per hogshead was levied by 13 William III. (1701), upon all Cider and perry made in England.” These duties, having undergone various modifications, were repealed in 1830. The year 1763 and - following saw the highest rate of taxation, which continued up to the time when it was removed altogether, the result being, as already explained, destruc- tive to the industry. Cicler became an expensive drink, 1 Cider —continued. and was, therefore, forsaken by the working classes. French wines took the place of Cider at the tables of the wealthy, and as orchards became rapidly at a dis- count, they were dismantled without mercy, until it is now an admitted fact that there are not sufficient apples grown in England to meet the demand. England lias long since yielded her Cider-making priority to other nations, notably France, United States, and Canada, either country producing many times the quantity of Cider produced in Great Britain from either home-grown or imported fruit. The kind of apple best suited for yielding Cider has long been a subject of dispute; but as no positive decision has even yet been arrived at, it is not improbable that all apples are suitable, and that the rough or Cider apple, as it is called, is more generally used because it is a much commoner kind than the sweeter varieties, and grows in the hedgerows of Cider countries without much cultivation or that loss from depredators that the unguarded position would appear to invite. Herefordshire, Worcestershire, Gloucestershire, Dorset- shire, Devonshire, and some other counties claim pre- eminence for their Cider, to which they are in a measure entitled; but it is a question how far the quality of the Cider produced depends upon the county in which the fruit was grown, the soil, the kind of apple, or the process and skill of manufacture. The first act of Cider-making is to gather the fruit when it is ripe, and then to select that alone which is sound, for rotten apples are apt to impart disagreeable flavours. Having sorted the apples carefully, they must Fig. 471. Cider-mill. be crushed so that the juice cells may be burst. For this purpose various machines have been invented; but the most satisfactory of all is one containing two wooden fluted rollers, fed by a hopper, and worked by the turning of a crank (Fig. 471). The juice that runs from the Cider-mill should be caught in a pan or other suitable vessel, and emptied at once into the fermenting-vat. The apples should be so crushed up that no piece larger than a filbert should be allowed to pass through the mill. To ensure this, it is sometimes advisable to pass the apples a second time through the mill. As the pieces fall, they may be caught on a coarse cane sieve resting on the pan used to collect the freed juice. The next work is the pressing of the fruit, which should immediately follow the crushing; but some Cider-makers allow the crushed fruit to stand, before pressing, for ten 2 l 2