TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 358 For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, ifec., referred to, see under their special heads. CKerries—cout inued. 21b. of Cherries and £lb. of red currants together). Mix these well, and then put it into bottles; cork, tie them down, and put into a pan of cold water; place the pan on the fire and boil gently for six minutes. Take them out, let them get cold, wax over the corks, and put the bottles in a cool place until the syrup is wanted. Cherry Custard.—Stone and cut the stalks off 21b. of ripe Cherries, put them into a preserving-pan with |lb. of loaf sugar, and place over a slow fire until nearly cooked. Drain the Cherries ; strain the syrup, and boil it till reduced to a thick consistency ; then put in a fourth-part of the Cherries, and continue boiling it until the mass foams. Boil a stick of cinnamon and a small quantity of mace in lqt. of milk. Well beat twelve eggs with a sufficient quantity of caster sugar, then turn them into a saucepan and stir them over the fire until thick without letting them boil; strain the milk into this, and stir all together for a few minutes at the side of the fire. Put the drained Cherries in a pie-dish, pour the custard over them, and bake for thirty minutes. When cooked, pour the remaining Cherries and the syrup over the custard, and serve. Cherry Flawn.—(1) Put 31b. of Cherries into a preserving- pan with 12oz. of sugar and a little water, and cook them until done. Strain the syrup into a saucepan, thicken it by reducing, put in a quarter of the Cherries, and reduce again until it falls in sheets from the spoon. Line a flawn-ring Fig. 440. Cherry Flawn. with puff paste, put in the Cherries that are not crystallised, and bake for forty-five minutes in a quick oven with a piece of buttered paper spread over the top. Remove the paper, damp the crust, and sprinkle sugar over ; glaze this in the oven or with a salamander, then put over the crystallised Cherries together with the syrup, and serve. See Fig. 440. (2) Choose some sour and not over-ripe Cherries, pull off the stalks, and take out the stones. Take a flawn-ring and line it with thin paste, cutting it off level at the rim. Sprinkle a little sifted sugar over the bottom and place in the Cherries, squeezing them close to one another, and then sprinkle a little more sugar on top. Put this in a slack oven and bake for thirty-five minutes. It should be served when cold. (3) German.—Put |lb. of flour on a table, make a hollow in the centre, and rub in -Jib. of fresh butter (quite cold), 6oz. of sugar, the yolks of four eggs, and 1 pinch of salt. Thicken the paste quickly so as to make it stiff without having to work it too much, and put it on the ice to cool for twenty minutes. Next take about \ pint of small sour, but ripe, Cherries, remove the stalks and stones, and squeeze 1 handful of them in a cloth to a mash, to extract the juice. Take half of the kernels, pound them in a mortar, and put into a sugar-pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of claret and the Cherry- juice. Take a flawn-ring, butter it well, place it on a baking- sheet with paper over it, make the paste into a round flat (but without using the rolling-pin), and line the flawn-ring with it. Trim the edges, pinch it on the top, then take away the circle and pinch the paste all round—that is, round the outer sides. Tie paper round the flawn so as to be a support to the paste, fill the centre with Cherries, and put in a moderate oven to bake. Now beat up in a stewpan the yolks of two eggs and one white, jib. of caster sugar, and 2 table- spoonfuls of sour cream. Mix well up for two minutes, add the infused juice of the Cherries, and put it on the fire to warm, stirring it well. When the flawn is nearly done, take it out of the oven, pour in at the top the juice of the Cherries, and put it back again in the oven. Let it remain for ten minutes longer, and then take it out and remove the paper. Place the flawn on a sheet of white paper, and Cherries—continued. ornament the sides with icing sugar. Sprinkle a little sugar over the top, and serve. Cherry Fool.—Remove the stalks and put 21b. of Cherries into a jar, with ^lb. of crushed loaf sugar; pour in 1 pint of water, cover the jar, place it in a saucepan with boiling water nearly to the top, and boil until the Cherries are soft. Take the jar out of the saucepan, leave it until the following day, then pass the Cherries through a fine wire sieve. Crack the stones, put them into a.saucepan with any skins that may have been left in the sieve after the Cherries were rubbed through, put in a small stick of cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful of bruised cloves, and 1 pint of water. Boil the liquor for fifteen or twenty minutes, then strain it through a fine hair sieve over the fruit. Stir in with the fruit sufficient wine and water mixed in equal quantities to form a smooth weak syrup, and sweeten to taste with more sugar. Cut a small French roll into thin slices, and then into small squares; place these on a baking-dish, sift sugar over, and glaze under a salamander or in a brisk oven. Place the fruit on ice or in a cold place until quite cold, then put in the glazed pieces of bread, and serve. Cherry Fritters.—Select black Cherries with their stems on, and tie them together in small bunches. Prepare a batter with plenty of eggs, and sweeten it with a small quantity of sugar. Put the Cherries into a frying-pan with some clarified butter, and fry them, dropping a small quantity of the batter all round them. AVhen the batter has set and nicely browned round the Cherries, -put them on a hot dish, strew caster sugar and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon over, and serve while very hot. Cherry Gateau.—Take out the stones of lib. of red Cherries, put them with half their kernels and stones into a jar, sprinkle in |lb. of sugar, pour in 1 teacupful of water, and cook in the bain-marie or saucepan of boiling water until the fruit is reduced to a pulp. Strain through a fine sieve. Place loz. of gelatine into a bowl with 1 teacupful of water, put it into a saucepan on the fire, and stir continually until dissolved. Pack a fancy mould in ice. Blanch six bitter almonds, dip them into the gelatine mixture or glaze, arrange them at the bottom of the mould, and decorate with two rings of angelica, likewise dipped in the mixture. Cook by stewing ^lb. of White-heart Cherries, taking care that they do not break, and arrange them in the same way in the mould. Now add the remainder of the gelatine to the red Cherry puree, stir over the fire until it is nearly set, pour it into the mould, and leave until quite set and firm. Turn the contents of the mould out on to a cold dish, and serve with whipped cream. Cherries Glazed with Caramel.—Take some either fresh or brandied Cherries, cut the stalks off rather short, and put the fruits one at a time in boiling sugar prepared as follows : Put lib. of caster sugar with 1 pint of water into a sugar- boiler, and when the sugar has dissolved place it over a quick fire, boil, and carefully skim it. It must be boiled to such a degree that if a stick or skewer be put into it and then suddenly plunged into cold water the sugar will come off easily, and if placed between the teeth will not stick to them (see Sugar-boiling). Let the Cherries drain well, and when cold they are ready to serve. Cherry Ice.—Put 21b. of ripe red Cherries, picked and stoned, into a small preserving-pan, bruise them a little, and set them over the fire with ^lb. of loaf sugar broken very small, and a little water. Boil them and then rub through a hair sieve. Crack the stones, pound the kernels, and squeeze over them the juice of two lemons. Add to the Cherries when rubbed through the sieve lib. of sugar boiled to first degree, is that when, if a drop of the boiled sugar be put on the thumb and touched with the forefinger, and when the thumb and forefinger separate again it draws to a fine thread, and in breaking leaves a drop both on finger and thumb (see Sugar- boiling). When the sugar is at this degree and the Cherries are added to it, strain the lemon-juice and kernels on to them. Mix all this thoroughly and put it into a freezer. Keep stirring it, to distribute the Cherries well through it, until it has set. Serve in glasses. Cherry Iced Compote.—Take 21b. of good Cherries, remove the stalks and stones, and boil the fruit in £ pint of syrup at 32deg. Let the syrup get cold, take out the Cherries,