311 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Carving—continued. to serve it all in the one condition, that is, as a joint; then it is usual to commence cutting in slanting circular cuts from the knuckle, a very economical system, but cooks have so many uses for any remnant of ham that may be left on the bone, that none of it need be wasted; a very important consideration to those who would not care to see too much of the shank. Sometimes the bone is removed, and perhaps the ham may also be stuffed; there are two or three modes of carving this, as shown in Fig. 362, B, the round slices being chiefly recommended. Fig. 363. Carving Hare. Hare.—The directions usually given for carving this game are for the purpose of serving the primest parts of the flesh only, leaving the limbs and bony carcase for future culinary uses. Slices should, in this case, be cut transversely from the back, commencing over the shoulder blade and continuing backwards to the pro- minence of the hip bones (see Fig. 363). Sometimes a leveret may be entirely cut up at table, and then the same transverse cuts shown in the illustration may be carried right through the backbone. The limbs can be dis- jointed by passing the knife between them and the body so far as the bones will allow, and then by bending the limb outwards and in the opposite direction the joint (ball and socket) will be exposed, and can readily be divided with the point of the knife. The head is much liked by some persons; it should be cut off at the neck, and after the lower jaw has been removed be split open by a longi- tudinal cut commencing at the tip of the nose, and com- pleted by forcing the knife by short firm strokes, splitting the forehead, to between the ears, cutting through the entire skull, and thus laying open the brain and tongue in two parts. The head, being regarded as an ornament, should not be cut off until the body has been dealt with. Heart.—It is not very often that the Carver will be called upon to serve this dish; but should occasion re- quire, whether roasted or baked, stuffed or not, large or small, the slices should be wedge-shaped, cut from the top to the point, and go right through into the centre or stuffing. Lamb.—The fore-quarter is the favourite joint and re- quires some experience. Other joints, such as the leg and loin, are carved the same as corresponding parts of mutton. The first thing to do with a fore-quarter is to loosen the shoulder, which is done by a circular cut about an inch deep in the direction marked ABC in Fig. 364. The shoulder can then be lifted and dissected off the ribs Carving— continued. if desired, to be put upon another dish and reserved for serving cold; but it is much more artistic to leave the shoulder on after raising it and squeezing some lemon- juice in under it. A longitudinal cut (dce) separates the short ribs from the neck and is followed by transverse incisions made in the direction of the ribs, commencing from G to E. At F some choice meat, answering to the “ kernel ” of chops, is to be found. The shoulder may also be carved as for shoulder of mutton, and served, according to the choice of the guest, either with or without the ribs. The neck is better cold, and may be cut in any direction preferred—straight across for preference. Mutton.—The shoulder offers diverse styles of carving, but some very nice cuts can be obtained if the plan shown in Fig. 365, A, is adopted. First ascertain, with the carving-fork, the direction of the spine of the blade-bone, and then cut longitudinal wedge-shaped slices from either side of it. Small transverse slices can be got out of the inner part where there is no bone, and the under-surface (Fig. 365, B) can be cut as shown by the dotted lines A, B, and D. What is left of the shoulder is so rarely served cold that it matters little how the joint is carved. A B Fig. 355. Carving Shoulder of Mutton. provided the directions given are observed. There is no necessity to trouble about preserving the appearance of the joint, for that is reckoned of secondary importance, and never looks neat after the first cut. A haunch of mutton is not so often served now-a-days as formerly, but when it does find its way to the table it should be carved as directed for haunch of venison. A saddle of mutton, or double loin, requires some judgment in its carving, for it is so essentially a joint of the epicure, that an error in serving it is deemed by such persons a deed almost equal to a crime. Fig. 366, A, shows the plan of carving this joint in a very dainty style—first a longitudinal cut near the centre (ab), then diagonal slices for serving, and cuts from the thin edge (d to c) for the sake of the fat. But al'l saddles of mutton are not dressed alike, hence we may have to deal with a saddle of fat mutton prepared as shown in Fig. 366, B. The cuts might then be directly transverse, as with the sirloin of beef, but, should the saddle be small like Welsh mutton, a system of diagonal carving (see Fig. 366, C) is almost indispensable if anything like worthy slices are to be procured. The loin is carved after a somewhat similar plan to the saddle, but the usual method is to cut it into chops