242 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Cakes—continued. (3) Rub into Jib. of fine flour £lb. of butter; when thoroughly mixed add ilb. of moist sugar, £lb. of currants, ^lb. of ground rice, £oz. of caraway-seeds, loz. of candied lemon-peel cut in thin slices, half a grated nutmeg, and 1 pinch of salt. When thoroughly mixed, dissolve 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in J pint of boiling milk. When cold beat up three eggs and stir in with the milk, and make the Cake-dough with it. Butter a Cake-tin, tie buttered paper round the outside, pour the Cake mixture in, and bake in a moderate oven. (4) Small.—Mix in lib. of flour, 3 teaspoonfuls of baking- powder, rub in jib. of butter, and add Jib. of caster eugar, a little ground caraway-seed, cinnamon, and grated lemon-peel. Beat in \ pint of milk, two eggs, and stir in with the above, making it to a dough; butter some small tins, pour the mixture in, and bake in a hot oven. (5) Mix with £ quartern of bakers’ dough 2oz. of butter, |lb. of moist sugar, ^lb. of currants cleaned and dried, a little thinly-sliced candied lemon-peel, and half a grated nutmeg. Let it rise in a warm place, with a cloth over the top. Butter some Cake-tins, knead the dough well, three- quarter fill the tins with it, and leave for an hour to rise. Bake for an hour or so in a moderate oven. (6) Rub into lib. of flour jib. of beef dripping; add 2 tea- spoonfuls of baking-powder and 1 pinch of salt. Wash and dry 6oz. of currants and add to the flour with |lb. of moist sugar, \oz. of caraway-seeds, and half a grated nutmeg. Beat two eggs with | pint of milk, and mix the Cake. Bake about one-hour-and-a-quarter in a moderate oveu. (7) Mix together in a large bowl 3 teacupfuls of flour, 3oz. of butter, and 1 teacupful of sugar; rub well together with the hand, cut loz. of candied orange-peel into small pieces and add it together with 2 teacupfuls of washed and dried currants. Put £ teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda on a plate, and with the back of a spoon crush out all the lumps and rub it quite smooth; add this with 1 saltspoonful of salt to the other ingredients in the basin, and mix it in. Beat up two eggs and mix with them a teacupful of butter- milk. Now dip a Cake-tin into boiling water, dry it thoroughly, and line with buttered paper. Mix the eggs and butter-milk thoroughly and quickly with tho dry ingredients, put the Cake into the tin, and bake in a moderately hot oven for an- hour-and-a-quarter. (8) Put into a basin ljlb. of flour, £lb. of moist sugar, and 2 dessert-spoonfuls of baking-powder; rub in with the hands 6oz. of butter, and mix in ^lb. of washed and dried currants. Beat up three eggs with 5 pint of milk and 7 or 8 drops of essence of lemon; with this, mix and beat in the flour mixture in the basin, working it to a dough. Put it into a buttered tin and bake at once. Cakes—continued. Lightning Cake.—Warm and beat 6oz. of butter until creamy, then mix with it 6oz. of caster sugar, the yolks of six eggs and the whites of three, 7oz. of finely-sifted flour, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Beat the mixture briskly for twenty minutes. Thickly butter the interior of a round Cake- tin, strew baked breadcrumbs over it, shaking out any super- fluity; pour in the batter, and bake in a brisk oven. Turn the Cake out of the mould while warm. Little German Cakes.—Prepare a sponge with |oz. of yeast, a little cream, and about 3oz. of flour, and set it to rise; then work it into 9oz. more flour, 2oz. of pounded loaf sugar, ioz. of salt, the whites of two eggs and the yolks of five, together with -Jib. of warmed butter. Divide this paste into twelve parts, put them into well-buttered moulds, and bake, having previously let them rise. Take the Cakes out when of a light red colour, cut them into slices, sprinkle over with caster sugar, replace in their original position, and serve hot or cold as desired. Loaf Cake.— (1) Put in a bowl 1 Jib. of flour, fib. of moist sugar, and loz. of caraway-seeds ; beat thoroughly eight eggs, and put in with the flour. Dissolve 1 table-spoonful of yeast in 2 table-spoonfuls of milk-and-water, and mix with the rest. Set in a warm place for a short time to rise, then mould it and put in a buttered tin. Bake for about two hours in a steady oven. (2) Cream Jib. of fresh butter by warming before the fire, and working with the hand or a wooden spoon. Beat six eggs and mix with the butter and Jib. of moist sugar; when thoroughly mixed, work in lib. of flour, half the grated rind of a lemon, 3 table-spoonfuls of rose-water, 1 teaspoonful of dis- solved ammonia salt, J teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, 1 grated nutmeg, and 1 teacupful of milk. When thoroughly beaten, pour into a Cake-tin lined with buttered paper, and bake for two hours in a steady oven. Lord Mayor’s Cakes.—Beat together for fifteen minutes in a basin set in a larger basin of hot water eight eggs and lib. of caster sugar; when quite thick, add lib. of flour and sprinkle in a few caraway-seeds. Put the mixture into a biscuit-bag; have some pieces of paper cut round, and drop 1 table-spoonful of the mixture on each piece, sift caraway- seeds or sugar on the tops, put them on baking-sheets, and bake in a hot oven. When done, remove the papers and stick the Cakes together in pairs, with white of egg and sugar mixed. Louvernaise Cakes.—Prepare the paste as for Richelieu Cake, and when ready have a square Cake-tin covered all over with paper. Spread the paste over lin. thick with a knife, and put it in a moderate oven for eighteen or twenty minutes. Take it out, and when cool lay the Cake on a table, detach the paper, sprinkle the surface freely with powdered sugar, and cut it into any shaped pieces desired. Dress on a dessert-dish with a folded napkin, and serve. Love Cakes.—Mix with ljlb. of flour four eggs beaten with 1 teacupful of yeast and 5 pint of warm milk; work into a dough, add gradually lib. of butter, knead thoroughly, and leave it one hour to rise. Mix with it Jib. of caster sugar. Butter small Cake-pans and put the mixture in. Place thin slices of candied lemon- and orange-peel on the top, and bake in a quick oven. Lunch. Cakes.—(1) Large.—Put into a basin 21b. of flour mixed up with Jib. of moist sugar; make a hollow in the centre, put in 1 table-spoonful of thick and not bitter yeast, add J break- fast-cupful of warm milk, not hot enough to scald the yeast, stir in a little of the flour, and let it rise for about forty-five minutes. Add the other f breakfast-cupful of milk warmed sufficiently to dissolve Jib. of butter, stir in ljlb. of well- washed currants, a small quantity of chopped peel, 1 tea- spoonful of ground allspice, and the grated rind of a lemon. Turn the preparation into a well-buttered hoop or tin, set it to rise in a warm place, and afterwards bake in a moderate oven. Turn it out when done, and use cold. (2) Prepare a batter with 21b. of flour, 4oz. of lard, -Jib. each of sugar and well-washed currants, loz. each of cream of tartar and bicarbonate of soda, adding sufficient milk to form a dough. Three-parts fill some buttered sponge-cake tins, brush the Cakes over with egg, dust over with sifted sugar, bake in a moderate oven, and use as desired. Luster Cake (German).—Dissolve 2 table-spoonfuls of yeast in J pint of warm milk, and mix it in gradually with Jib. of flour; work the dough well, cover it with a cloth, and set in a warm place to rise. Blanch and pound 4oz. of sweet almonds and a few bitter ones. Warm and beat lib. of butter until creamy with 6oz. of caster sugar, and beat in eighteen eggs, one at the time ; add the almonds, the grated peel of half a lemon, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Mix in gradually with the beaten eggs lib. of flour, and when quite smooth work in the sponge. Butter a Cake-tin, pour in the mixture, which should only come to half the height of the tin, and leave it in a warm place to rise again. Bake in a moderate oven; it will take an hour to cook. Macdonald Cakes.—Rub 6oz. of butter into -Jib. of pastry- flour ; add 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 1 teacupful of cornflour, 3 teacupfuls of sugar, and 1 toaspoonful of essence of lemon or other flavour- ing. Mix well together and make it into a stiff dough with the whites and yolks of four eggs beaten separately and sufficient milk. Bake in two shallow tins, previously greased, in a moderate oven. Madeira Cakes.—(1) Large.—Break three eggs into a basin and beat them up for two minutes ; then add the grated rind of a lemon. Dissolve 6oz. of loaf sugar in a stewpan with J gill of water. Bring this to the boil, and then, when boiling, add it to the eggs. Put this basin into another larger one than that in which the eggs, &c., are, and partly fill it with boiling water, so that the temperature of the batter may, while For details respecting Culinary Processes, Xftensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. UNSVERSin LiSRAkY : rrnc