473 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, Ace., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Cream—continued. (7) Prepare a Cream with the yolks of eight eggs, lqt. of milk, and nine sheets of gelatine, sweetening it to taste, and flavouring with any kind of essence. Pour it in equal portions into three basins ; colour one a deep red (using cochineal), and another green (using spinach-green): the basins should be kept in the bain-marie while the colouring is being added, and until used. Pack the required shaped mould in ice, pour in the red-coloured Cream to Jin. deep, a similar thickness of the plain Cream, and lastly the green-coloured Cream, letting each layer set before another is added. Con- tinue in this way until the mould is full, or all the ingredients used up; let the whole set as stiff as possible, dip the mould into lukewarm water, turn the Cream out on to a cold dish, and serve. Care must be taken to have the layers of equal thickness, or the effect will be spoilt. Italian Cream Ice.—Put 1J pints of milk or Cream into a stewpan with fib. of caster sugar, the yolks of eight eggs, 6oz. of burnt almonds bruised to a pulp, twelve bruised coriander-seeds, three cloves, the rind of two oranges, and a little powdered cinnamon or mixed spice. Put the pan on the fire, stir the mixture until it gets thick, and pass it through a fine sieve into a basin. Pour 1 teacupful of brandy over 6oz. of mixed candied orange-, lemon-, and citron-peel, chopped up fine ; leave this a short time to soak, then add to the other ingredients, and mix them well; pour into a freezer or mould, and when firm, turn it out, and it is ready for use. Light Cream.—Separate the yolks from the whites of six eggs; put the yolks into a lined saucepan with 6 heaped table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and a little more than J breakfast-cupful of milk, and beat them well. Place the saucepan over a slow fire, and stir the contents with a wooden spoon until thickened, but on no account let them boil, or the eggs will curdle. When ready, flavour the mixture witli a few drops of any kind of essence, and turn it on to a dish until cold. Put the whites of the six eggs into a basin, and beat them to a stiff froth with a wire whisk; continue beat- ing, and mix in at the same time about 3 table-spoon- fuls of the cold mixture. Take the whisk out, put in the remainder of the mixture, and stir it very lightly with a wooden spoon. After the whipping is done the Cream should be stirred as little as possible, or it will become liquid. This Cream can be served as it is, or used for filling Chantilly baskets, &c. Mauritius Cream.—Mix 3 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot with a small quantity of milk till smooth, and porn- in quickly 1 pint of boiling milk. Beat the yolks of six eggs to a froth, mix them with the milk and arrowroot, pour the whole into a saucepan, and stir it over a slow fire till thick and of a rich yellow colour, taking care not to let it boil, or the eggs will Fig. 572. Mauritius Cream. curdle. Flavour the Cream with 2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla, and when nearly cold mix J wineglassful of brandy with it, and pour it into a fancy glass dish. Whip the whites of six eggs with 6 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar to a foam, pile it up rockily on the Cream (see Fig. 572), ornament it with pink sugar, and serve. Muscovite Cream.—Put loz. of gelatine into a stewpan with 3 pints of milk, boil until all is dissolved, then add the well- beaten yolks of four eggs and 5oz. of caster sugar. Mix well, boil again until done, pass it through a fine sieve, and let it cool. Put the whites of the four eggs into a bowl, whip them to a stiff froth, and when the Cream is Cream—continued. nearly congealed, beat them into it. Add any flavouring that is desired, and pour into a mould. Put this by on the ice, and use when wanted. Neapolitan Cream.—Mix in a basin 1 table-spoonful each of flour and custard-powder with 1 teacupful of milk; when smooth, turn it into a saucepan with 1 pint of fresh fruit juice, stir the whole over the fire with a wooden spoon, and boil until thickened, sweetening to taste with caster sugar. Move the Cream to the side of the fire, and stir in quickly the beaten yolks of two eggs; whisk the whites of the two eggs, and stir them lightly in. Pour the Cream into a china bowl, and serve. Neapolitan Cream Ice. —Make 1 pint of vanilla Cream ice, 1 pint of pistachio Cream ice, and l pint of raspberry-water ice. Take a long brick-form mould holding 3 pints, put the raspberry-water ice at the bottom, arrange the vanilla Cream on top, and fill up with the pistachio, and cover tightly. Set the mould on broken ice mixed with rock- salt at the bottom of a pail; fill up the pail with more ice and salt, and freeze for two hours. Plunge the mould in warm water to wash off the ice and salt, and turn the Cream on to a piece of paper laid on the table. Dip a long knife in warm water, cut the brick lengthwise through the centre, divide each piece into three, so that the Neapoli- tan will then be in six equal-sized square pieces, each having the three kinds of Cream. Dress on a cold dish with a fancy paper over, and serve. Newport Whipped Cream.—Put 1 pint of sour or sweet Cream into a bowl with J pint of new milk, half a lemon cut into slices, and sugar and wine to taste, and whip them well together. Take off the froth, and serve it in jelly- glasses. New York Cream Ice.—Put into a saucepan 3 breakfast- cupfuls of milk, 10 table-spoonfuls of sugar, Jib. of gelatine, and a vanilla bean, and set the saucepan at the side of the range, whore the milk will heat up gradually, and thus give the gelatine time to dissolve; stir frequently from the bottom until the milk boils. Put a little more milk in a bowl with the yolks of ten eggs, well whisk them, pour the boiling milk over, and strain into a freezer. The vanilla bean may be wiped, and put away to be used again. When the custard has become cold, and begun to freeze, whisk the cup of Cream to froth, stir it in, and finish the freezing as usual, working the Cream until it is twice its original bulk. It is then ready for serving. Pastry Cream.—(1) Put 1 pint of milk and 1 pint of Cream into a stewpan, place it on the fire, stirring continually with a wooden spoon, and after it has boiled put in 2oz. of sugar, the peel of a lemon, and a little salt, and let it remain until the peel is infused in the Cream. Add the yolks of eight eggs and beat up, keeping the pan over the fire. When the Cream is of a good consistence pass it through a fine sieve, rubbing it with a wooden spoon, into a basin, where it can be kept until wanted for use. If the Cream is preferred very thick, more eggs may be added. (2) Mix in a stewpan 2 table-spoonfuls of dried flour with the yolks of six eggs, beating- them with a wooden spoon; when well mixed, add 1J pints of boiling Cream and a little salt. Place the pan on the fire, and when the mixture begins to boil take it off and beat it up again, putting it back on the fire for twelve minutes or so. Next put Jib. of fresh butter into a stewpan to clarify, and add it to the mixture in the other stewpan ; turn the lot out into a basin to get cool. Take some sugar (sufficient to sweeten), rub it well on the rind of a lemon, put it into a basin, add loz. of macaroons, and stir into the paste. If the paste be too thick, add another table-spoonful of Cream; and if too thin, the yolks of two more eggs. It can be flavoured in various ways, such as with coffee, orange, vanilla, &c. Cream cheese mixed with this makes a very nice tartlet: Line some small, well-buttered tartlet-moulds with trimmings of puff paste, put 1 table-spoonful of the Cream over, and a little piece of the paste cut into the shape of a star in the middle, and bake in a sharp oven; dust with finely-powdered sugar, using the salamander so as to glaze the star, and serve. (3) Put lqt. of milk into a saucepan with 2oz. of sugar, and boil. Take 6oz. more sugar and 4-oz. of flour, and pass this through a sieve into the boiling milk; beat it up well, and boil for five minutes longer. Add loz. of butter and five eggs