377 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Chocolate—continued. into Chocolate made as for Chocolate Creams. Set them out on a baking-sheet, and when cold place them on a sieve to dry. Chocolate-cream Tarts. — Boil 1 pint of milk with loz. of grated Chocolate and a little sugar. Mix 2oz. of flour with about Jib. of sugar, and beat them into the boiling milk; then add loz. of butter and four yolks of eggs well beaten, and remove the pan from the fire before the eggs are cooked. Flavour with vanilla. Line deep tartlet pans with tart paste, fill them with the Chocolate cream, and bake in a slack oven. Whip the whites of the eggs, add 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and make a meringue. Squeeze this from a bag over the tops of the tarts, and put them in a quick oven until slightly coloured on the tops. Chocolate Custard (Baked).—Scald lqt. of milk, stir in 4 heaped table-spoonfuls of Chocolate and let it simmer a minute or two till the Chocolate has dissolved, stirring all the time. Beat up the yolks of six eggs with Jib. of powdered white sugar, take the Chocolate from the fire, and pour them in ; stir for one minute and flavour to taste with vanilla. Have a baking-tin filled about lin. deep with boiling water, pour the custard into cups, stand them in the tin of boiling water set in the oven, and let them bake slowly. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth with a little powdered white sugar, and when the custards are cold pile some on each, and lay a small piece of red jelly on top. Chocolate Drops.—(1) Put 51b. of pure Chocolate paste into a heated iron mortar, and with a warm pestle pound it until it becomes oily ; then add 2|lb. or 31b. of finely-sifted crushed loaf sugar, and continue to pound until thoroughly mixed. Turn it all out on to a slab and keep it warm. Roll out half at a time until it is of such a consistency and smoothness that it will dissolve in the mouth like butter ; then continue in the same way with the remainder. Warm it up again with a little lard, to make it more pliable, form it into small balls, arrange these in rows 4in. apart on sheets of white paper, take up the paper by the ends and bump it on the slab so as to flatten the balls slightly on the bottom, and let them get quite cold. Remove them from the papers, and they are ready for use. (2) Put ljlb. of Chocolate on a plate in the oven just to warm it; then put it into a lined pan with -Jib. of caster sugar, and stir over the fire until well mixed ; take it off, roll it into pieces about the size of small marbles, and put them on a sheet of white paper. Take the sheet by each corner and lift it up and down, so that it may touch the table each time, and by that means the drops will swell to about the size of a sixpence. Strew nonpariels over them, and leave them until cold and dry. Pack them between sheets of paper in cardboard boxes. Chocolate Drop Cakes. — Butter a baking-tin. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff snow, then mix with them 4oz. of caster sugar and 2oz. of grated Chocolate. Drop 1 tea- spoonful of this mixture at a time on the buttered tin, and bake in a cool oven. Take the cakes carefully off the tins while hot. Chocolate Eclairs.—See ^Eclairs. Chocolate Ice.—Put in a sugar-boiler lib. of vanilla Chocolate and f pint of water ; when it is melted, add 3 pints of double cream and i pint of syrup at 35deg. Fahr., strain it through a silk sieve into a freezing-pot, and let it freeze for one hour. Scrape off the frozen cream from the sides of the pot, and serve in ice-glasses. Chocolate Icing'.—(1) Take If breakfast-cupfuls of sugar, put it into the whites of two eggs, and beat them well together; then scrape 2oz. of Chocolate into a small pan with another y breakfast-cupful of sugar and 4 table-spoonfuls of water, place the pan over the fire, and stir until the paste becomes quite smooth and glossy; then mix it into the eggs and sugar. When quite mixed, it is ready for use. (2) Put 1 teaspoonful of gelatine into 3 table-spoonfuls of water, and let it soak for two hours; then pour over it J gill of boiling water, and mix in If breakfast-cupful of sugar finely sifted. Prepare 2oz. of Chocolate as for No. 1, stir it into the mixture, and use at once. (3) This preparation is very useful for covering the tops of layer cakes, or for coating cream puffs. Boil lib. of caster sugar and f teacupful of water together in a deep stewpan for Chocolate—continued. five minutes, then add 3oz. of grated Chocolate. When this has been boiled until a little dropped in cold water will set hard, stir in four whole eggs rapidly, beating continuously. Let this mixture cook about five minutes more, constantly stirring. Flavour with vanilla extract, and keep on beating while using. When spread over a cake it cuts well, and does not crack or break off. (4) Put lib. of caster sugar and six whites of eggs into a bowl, and beat rapidly with a wooden spoon or spaddle for about ten minutes. Get 4oz. of grated common Chocolate in a pannikin on the side of the stove, and when it is melted pour it into the icing in the bowl, add 2 table-spoonfuls of vanilla extract, beat up, and it is ready to use for cakes. Chocolate Kisses.—Beat fib. of caster sugar and two whites of eggs together in a bowl for about fifteen minutes, when, if it has been kept cold, the mixture will be white and firm enough to draw up in points; then add another white, and beat five minutes longer; then a pinch of tartaric acid or lemon-juice, vanilla flavouring, and 2oz. of grated Chocolate Fig. 457. Chocolate Kiss. (the common sort will do). Mix thoroughly, and then drop pieces as large as walnuts on greased baking-sheets, and bake in a very slack oven. The baking is the difficult part of the manufacture of these delicious sweetmeats. They need heat enough to make them swell and round out almost hollow, but the oven must not be hot enough to melt or colour them. When cold they will slip off the sheets. See Fig. 457. Chocolate Layer Cake.—Rub lib. of softened butter with lib. of flour and cornflour, mixed in equal quantities, and lib. of moist sugar, and work in the whites of fourteen eggs, one at a time, beating thoroughly ; then squeeze in a little lemon-juice, add f breakfast-cupful of milk, and flavour with essence of lemon to taste, beating well again. Make an icing of lib. of caster sugar boiled in f pint of water for five minutes, add 3oz. of grated Chocolate, and boil again until a little dropped in cold water will set hard like candy; then beat in quickly four eggs, and stir over the fire for another five minutes. Flavour with vanilla, and beat it up occasionally while cooling. Fill. a mould in layers alternately with the cake mixture. Bake in a quick oven, and turn out for use. Chocolate Meringues.—Put the whites of three eggs into a basin with lib. of finely-crushed loaf sugar, and beat well for about fifteen minutes, or until the mixture is white and firm like icing ; then add three more whites, putting them in singly and beating one up well before another is added ; next mix in 2 teaspoonfuls of extract of vanilla and 3oz. of grated Chocolate. Put the mixture into a biscuit-forcer, let it drop on to a well-buttered baking-sheet, place the meringues into a slow oven, and bake gently for a few minutes. Take them out when done, let them get cold, slip them off the bakino-- sheet, and they are ready for use. Chocolate Mousse.—Put three cakes of Chocolate in the oven for a few minutes to soften them. When soft, work the Chocolate to a paste with a few table-spoonfuls of syrup flavoured with vanilla; warm it, and add gradually the white of one egg, whipped and sweetened, and 14 pints of whipped cream' slightly flavoured with vanilla sugar. Pack a quart dome- shape mould in pounded and salted ice, fill it with the mixture, put a cover on, and ice on the top of that, and leave it for an hour. Before turning the mousse out, dip the mould in tepid water. Chocolate Pastilles.—(1) Melt 8oz. of Chocolate in a small sugar-boiler, add a few drops of essence of vanilla and loz.