TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 317 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred, to, see under their special heads. Cassava—continued. place, it would perhaps be interesting to know that the grand metamorphosis takes place by simply subjecting the root or juice to heat. There are two kinds of Cassava usually cultivated, termed respectively the bitter and the sweet. The bitter is said to be more poisonous than the sweet, but the roots of both are dried by the Indians, ground into Hour, made into cakes, and baked. The expressed juice of the sweet Cassava, when fermented, pi-oduces the intoxicating liquor called Piwarry. “ Among the Indians of Nicaragua, and also in the interior of Peru,” we are informed by a writer on the subject of the drinks of nations, “ an intoxicating beverage is prepared by chewing the boiled root of Cassava and leaving it to ferment, after mixing with it hot water and cane-juice. The process being much the same as in the case of Kava of Fiji and the South Sea Islands. The juice of the manioc, as described above, is also fermented with the addition of molasses, and con- verted into an intoxicating liquor, in great favour with Indians and negroes.” CASSEROLES.—These are little vessels, used in every kitchen of any pretension. They are usually made of metal, either copper or iron, flat-bottomed, and fitted with short handles. Continental cooks are in the habit of using the term to denote a sort of measure, as a Casserole of rice, and in this way certain dishes have obtained the same distinguishing title, as Casserole au riz, Casserole a VIndienne, Casserole a la Polonaise, Fig. 382. Silver Casserole. and the dish used to hold these Casseroles becomes a Casserole (see Fig. 382) by the same system of adapta- tion. They are generally made of silver. Casserole of Mock Sweetbreads with Potato Border. — Cut lib. of lean uncooked veal into small pieces, put them into a saucepan with salted water and a slice of onion, and boil until quite tender; then take them out and plunge into cold water to whiten. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of white sauce into a saucepan, and add 1 saltspoonful each of celery, salt, and half that quantity of pepper, to season it; place the veal in this, and add 1 teacupful of mushrooms cut into quarters. Put the pan on the fire for five minutes, or until the meat and mushrooms are hot, then take it off, and at once add a well-beaten egg and 1 teaspoonful of lemon- juice. Put a border of potato round the edge of a dish and the meat, &c., inside, or it may be garnished with toast. CASSIA.—There are several varieties of the Cassia, one of which (Cassia Fistula) produces long pods con- taining a soft, blackish pulp, which is used in making an aperient confection. Another variety (Cinnamomum Cassia) yields a bark that is somewhat less aromatic, but otherwise difficult to distinguish from cinnamon. Oils and essences are prepared from this bark just as in cin- namon, for which it is often sold without detection. Candied Cassia.—Take as much of the powder of Cassia as will cover a two-shilling piece, pound with it a small quantity of musk and ambergris. When the Cassia, musk, and ambergris are well pounded, take jib. of sugar, add to Cassia—continued. it as much water as will moisten it, boil to a candy height (see Sugar-boiling), then add the powder and mix well in. Pour this mixture into buttered pewter saucers. Let it stand till quite cold, and then turn it out. Cassia Ratafia. — Bruise )lb. of bitter cherries, also lib. of Cassia; pound i drachm of cinnamon, and cut small lib. of Cassia-leaves. Put cherries, Cassia, Cassia-leaves, and cin- namon into a good-sized jar, pour in 3qts. of brandy, cover it closely, and let it stand for three weeks. Then melt in lqt. of water 21b. of sugar, open the jar and mix this sugar and water with the liqueur, cover it, and let it stand longer. Then strain it, put it into bottles, and cork them air-tight. CASSILE.—This dish derives its name from the cinnamon or cassia used in its preparation. In many parts of the American Continent it is considered very delicate and delicious. Mash one or two large cold boiled potatoes, and stir in with them 3 table-spoonfuls of thick cream; put the thinly-pared rind of a lemon in a saucepan with a small piece of stick cinnamon and lqt. of milk, and boil it for ten minutes. Remove the lemon-peel and cinnamon, and stir the boiling milk gradually into the potato mixture, then pour the whole into the saucepan, and stir it over the fire for five minutes. Pour the mixture into a dome-shaped, either fluted or plain, mould, and leave it until cold. When ready to serve, turn the Cassile out of the mould on to a fancy dish. CASSINA.—The leaves of a. North American plant (Ilex Cassine), mingled with some others of the same species, form the basis of a famous “ black drink,” which is used by the Indians as a medicine, and as a state drink at some of their religious festivals. It is said to have something of the same effect upon them that opium would have. The leaves are dried and prepared for use as tea, and the beverage brewed from them not only resembles tea in flavour, but contains a fair pro- portion of the active principle (caffeine) of coffee. One use to which this “tea” is applied—the cure of drunken- ness—renders it worthy of consideration; but the quantity introduced into England, except as an adulteration of tea, is very small indeed, and it is but little known. CASSIRI.—A famous drink by this name is brewed in British Guiana from the sweet potato, or, perhaps, more often from the root of the sweet cassava. Prof. Simmonds states that the drink is prepared by soaking in water the farina obtained from one of these sources, and then boiling it, stirring freely all the time the vessel is on the stove, to prevent burning. When the boiling has continued long enough to have evaporated the water to one-half, “a pellicle forms upon the surface; the liquor is then poured off, without disturbing the pellicle, into another vessel, and allowed to ferment.” Dr. Schomburg describes a drink of the same name prepared from maize, sweet potatoes, and sugar-cane juice. The maize is crushed in a vessel, which has the form of a mortar, and then boiled into a pap. The same is done with the sweet potatoes, and this is then mixed with the juice of the sugar-cane. So far the pro- cess is quite unobjectionable; but the next step is not so inviting. A quantity of maize is chewed by the natives in order to convert its starch into sugar by the action of the saliva, and it is then, when fully saturated with this human ferment, spat into gourds, and added with plenty of water to the other ingredients, which would be already in a state of busy fermentation. The flavour of this drink is described as being by no means dis- agreeable. In South America it is called Kiebla, and the spirit distilled from it is familiar as Puichin. CASSIS.—A liqueur made in France from black- currant skins. To prepare this it is necessary to squeeze out the pulp from the fruit, and this is usually done by women, who have the patience to squeeze between the finger and thumb one berry at a time. See Cue- rants.