285 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tfec., referred to, see under their special heads. Capons—continued. Boiled Capon (Pakistan Style).—(1) Take a large fat Capon, draw it, being careful not to remove the fat from the rump. Next peel 21b. of good, but not too large, truffles, and when wanted boil them in a little Madeira, keeping the pan covered while boiling. Take the trimmings of the truffles and pound them with an equal amount of breadcrumb, then add half a raw goose fat liver (foie gras), the whites of two eggs, and a few table-spoonfuls of scraped fat bacon, season it to taste, and rub through a sieve. Put the stuffing into the Capon, making it bulge. Truss the Capon with its legs forced under the skin, rub it well over with lemon, and tie over it thin slices of bacon-fat. Then put it into a stewpan with some slices of vegetables and bacon, pour in sufficient good white broth to cover, and place over all a piece of buttered paper and boil gently. When done, take it out, drain, and take off the string. Then take an oblong dish, and put a layer of poached forcemeat over it, put the Capon on it, and garnish both sides with cooked, white cocks’ combs. Heap the truffles at each end of the dish. It may be decorated with garnished skewers (see Attelettes) or not as desired. Prepare some veloute sauce with the Capon stock, and serve in a sauceboat. (2) Served Cold.—Take two good Capons, draw, and singe them, then cut up the leg-bones at the joint; partly disengage the meat of the log-bone, and cut it half the length; then force the legs into the hollow. Make a little raw quenelle forcemeat, and fill the crops with it. Then truss them neatly, leaving the legs quite straight. Hub them well over with lemon, and put slices of bacon-fat over them. Place in a stewpan with sufficient white broth and white wine to cover them, put on the cover of the pan, and place it on a moderate fire to boil. When they are done, take them out, drain, wrap up in a slightly damp cloth, and let them cool. Then make a garnish of some button mushrooms, Fig. 323. Boiled Capons Garnished with Cocks’ Combs and Mushrooms. masked with a white chaudfroid sauce, round truffles glazed with a paste-brush dipped in half-set jelly, and some cocks’ comhs. Then take an oblong dish, and on it fix a pain-vert of an oval shape, but not too thick, having in its centre a support of wood masked with fat. When the Capons are cold, take off the string, and put them on the pain-vert, letting them lean slightly against the wooden support. Put the truffles on both sides of the support, and the cocks’ combs round them. Then take some aspic jelly, cut it into fancy shaped croutons, and edge the centre of the dish with them, and put the button mushrooms round the breast of the Capons (see Pig. 323). Boiled Capons with Rice.—Truss and cut the leg-bones short and thrust into the sides of the Capons. Then rub the birds over with lemon, wrap them up in layers of bacon, and boil in some good white stock. When done, remove the bacon, drain the Capons, and place them on a dish leaning against a sloping support fixed on the dish. Decorate the support with a crown cut out of bread or paste, and fill the hollow of the crown with cocks’ combs and mushrooms. Then decorate the centre of the dish with a small circle of moulded rice, and arrange a garland of whole truffles at each end of the dish. Pill the space under and between the Capons with a mixture of quenelles, cocks’ combs, truffles, and mushrooms, covered with a little supreme sauce reduced with the stock of the Capons. Put the remainder of the sauce in a sauceboat, and send to table. Boiled Capon with Rice a la Provenpale.—Prepare a Capon for boiling, covering it with slices of fat bacon; put it into a stewpan with sufficient broth to cover it, adding a few Capons—continued. peppercorns and cloves. Place the lid on the pan, and boil over a moderate fire for an-hour-and-a-quarter. When done, remove the pan from the fire. About twenty minutes before wanted, put 2 table-spoonfuls of minced onions into a stewpan, and fry with a large tomato (the seeds taken out) chopped fine and mixed with the onion. Add to these sufficient of tbe strained stock and topping of the Capon to three times their height, then add a pinch of saffron and a bunch of parsley. Put in the quantity of rice required, cover over the pan, and boil for forty minutes, when the rice should be firm and well cooked; add a little grated nutmeg, and spread it on a dish. Then take the Capon out of the pan, drain it, put it on the rice, and serve. Boiled Capon with. Rock-salt.—Take a fat and tender young Capon, draw, singe, and truss it, putting a piece of butter in its inside, and rub it well all over with lemon. Next take a stewpan with sufficient water to cover the Capon, and add a handful of rock-salt and a bunch of parsley. Set it to boil, and when boiling put the Capon into it, cover over the pan, put a weight on the top, and remove it to the side of the fire, but near enough for the Capon to boil fast for an-hour-and-a- quarter. When done, remove it from the pan, take off the string, and place it on a dish and garnish with halves of a lemon and a bouquet of parsley-leaves. Put a puree of celery or turnips on a separate dish and some good gravy in a sauceboat, and serve. Braised Capon.—Take a young Capon, draw and truss it, and put it into a braising-pan with lib. of fat bacon cut into small pieces round it; add 1 table-spoonful of butter and 1 pint of veal broth. Put the cover on the pan, and place it on a brisk fire so as to give the Capon a nice colour all over. Then remove it to a moderate fire, and put some hot coals or embers on the top and braise the Capon for an hour. When done, drain, salt, and dish it up. Skim off the fat from the liquor, add £ pint of good stock, reduce it to half glaze, strain, and pour over the Capon. Capons may be stuffed with truffles, chestnuts, sausages, olives, or plain veal stuffing. Braised Capons a la Pinanciere.—Take two Capons, pluck, singe, and draw them, remove the forked part of the breast- bone, fill the crop skin with butter seasoned with salt and pepper, and truss them the same way as if for roasting. Lard the breast with strips of bacon-fat, and tie some slices of fat bacon over the remainder of the Capons, viz., the parts not larded. Put them into a braising-pan with just enough good stock to come above the pinions, then lay a round of buttered paper over the Capons, cover over the pan, and let them simmer for an hour. Remove the paper and glaze the parts that are larded. Then make a ragout of foie gras cut in scallops, mushrooms, and some small chicken quenelles mixed in financifere sauce, and put it on a dish round a block of fried bread, made by cutting the crumb of bread in the shape of a block, Sin. in height, Cin. square at the base, and 3jin. square at the top ; fry this in some boiling fat, let it drain, and it is then ready for use. It can be fixed to the dish with a little paste made of egg and flour. Arrange the Capons with their crops downwards, one on each side of the bread towards the ends of the dish, and put two geese’s fat livers (foies gras) studded with small truffles between them on the other two sides of the bread; put a crayfish on each side of the geese’s fat livers and a cock’s comb on the top. Put a larded sweet- bread on the top of the bread support; then garnish three silver skewers (see Attelettes) with cocks’ combs, crayfish, and mushrooms in the order given, and thrust them into the Capons and sweetbreads. Put some financi&re sauce in a sauceboat, and serve. Braised Capons a la Godard.—Prepare and cook two Capons as for Braised Capons a la Pinanciere, but do not lard the breasts. Then make a ragout of cocks’ comhs, truffles, and mushrooms moistened with sauce a la Godard. Prepare a dish with a bread support and croutons of fried bread round the edge; pour in the ragout, and garnish with cocks’ combs, truffles, some larded sweetbreads, and two large quenelles, orna- mented with truffles and tongues, in the following order : A larded sweetbread on each of the sides and one on the top of the bread, and a quenelle on top of the two sweetbreads, put that on the dish by the side of the bread; place a truffle on the top of each quenelle, and one on each side of the sweet- breads, leaving a little space between, and a cock’s comb in I the space left between the sweetbreads and truffles, and one