THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 476 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cream—continued. juice of two lemons over. When just tepid, pour the Cream round the fruit and serve. (3) Put any kind of preserved fruit at the bottom of a g-lass dish, pour over it the juice of a lemon and 1 wineglassful of Maderia or white wine, and dust over with a little grated nutmeg. Put foz. of isinglass into a little water to dissolve, pour it into a pint of Cream in a saucepan, add 2oz. of sugar, place the pan on the fire and bring it to the boil; then remove the pan to the side, and stir until nearly cold. Pour the Cream gently over the preserved fruit, and when it is perfectly cold, serve. Swiss Cream.—(1) Mix the yolks of eight eggs, 1J- tea- spoonfuls of caster sugar, and the grated yellow peel of one lemon, in a basin, and put this in a larger one containing boiling water. Beat the eggs well, then whisk in gradually i pint of French white wine. Turn the Cream into a glass dish, and serve it immediately. (2) Put 1 pint of good milk into a lined saucepan, sweeten it to taste with lemon-flavoured sugar, and boil it; then take it off the fire, and let it get nearly cold. Mix 3 teaspoonfuls of flour quite smooth with 3 table-spoonfuls of lemon juice and a little of the boiled milk, then add the remainder of the milk, and stir over the fire until thickened and boiling. Arrange some lady fingers and macaroons in a dish, and pour the Cream over them. When quite cold, spread § pint of thick and well-whipped Cream on the top, strew a few chopped preserved cherries and pieces of candied peel over, and serve. Thick Cream.—Mix the juice of two small lemons and 1 wine- glassful of brandy in 1 pint of Cream, and sweeten it to taste with caster sugar. Pass the Cream backwards and forwards from one basin to another until it is thick, then turn it into a glass dish, and serve. Turkish Cream Pie.—Make about Hlb. of flaky pastry, roll it out as thin as possible on a floured table or pastry board, and divide it into rounds of about 5in. diameter. Butter a round baking-tin, the same diameter as the pieces of pastry, and put in half, one upon the other, brushing over each with a paste- brush dipped in warm butter. Put ilb. of ground rice into a saucepan with lj pints of milk, boil until reduced to a thick pulp, turn it into a basin, and leave it till cold; then put in the whites of two eggs, and work the rice mixture until of the consistency of clotted Cream. Spread this over the pastry, and cover it with the remaining rounds, moistening between them with butter, as before. Cut the pastry across into strips about 2in. broad, and bake it in a moderate oven until delicately coloured. When cooked, arrange the strips of pastry on a hot dish, pour hot syrup over, dust with caster sugar, and serve. Velvet Cream.—(1) Put into a pan on the fire loz. of gelatine with £ pint of sherry, and add the juice and grated rind of a lemon, and 1| breakfast-cupfuls of sugar. When the gela- tine is all dissolved, strain, and leave the mixture to cool, but before it begins to stiffen, add 1| pints of Cream. Beat all together until it is nearly thick enough to drop, then pour it into moulds, and place them on the ice until the preparation is as stiff as blanc-mange. (2) Put 1 pint of Cream into a saiicepan, add loz. of isinglass dissolved in 1 teacupful of water, place the pan on the fire, and boil up ; then add 1 tablespoonful of noyeau, remove the pan from the fire, and stir until nearly cold. Put a layer of apricot marmalade at the bottom of a dish, pour the Cream over, put a little marmalade or a whole apricot in the centre, and serve. (3) Whisk lip 1 pint of Cream with sufficient caster sugar to sweeten it, and add loz. of isinglass dissolved in a little water. This may be flavoured with any kind of jam, preserved fruits, or flavouring. Fresh fruits chopped up small make a very favourite addition. Put the Cream into a mould, set on ice, and turn out on to a glass dish garnished round with sweet biscuits. (4) Soak loz. of gelatine for two minutes in enough cold water to cover it. From 3oz. of lump sugar take three or four lumps, rub them on the rind of a lemon, and put them into an enamelled saucepan. Squeeze over them the juice of the | lemon, and add pint of white wine, the remainder of the lump sugar, and the soaked gelatine. Put the whole on the stove, and keep stirring till the gelatine is quite melted, then strain it I Cream—continued. into a bowl, and let it cool. Whip a pint of rich Cream with a whisk till it is a stiff froth, and when the wine mixture is quite cold, lightly mix this in, pour it into a mould packed in ice, let it freeze till it is firm enough to turn out, and serve. Versailles Cream.—Put 4oz. of caster sugar into a small frying-pan, place it on the fire, and stir until it is of a light brown colour; add 2 table-spoonfuls of water, stir up for a little while, and mix it into lqt. of milk. Beat seven eggs in a basin, and add § teaspoonful of salt. Put this into the milk, with % teaspoonful of vanilla extract. Butter well a two-quart Charlotte Russe mould, pour the mixture into it, place the mould in a basin of warm water, and put it in the oven until the custard is firm in the centre, which can be ascertained by thrusting a knife into it. If the custard is not milky, it is done. It will take about forty minutes in a moderate oven, but only thirty minutes if the oven is very hot. When done, remove it to a cool place until wanted, then it must be served as cold as ice, with some caramel sauce poured over. Virginia Cream.—Put ^ pint of Cream into a saucepan with lqt. of milk and a little sugar and lemon-peel, and boil it until it is reduced to half its original bulk. Then take it off the fire, and when it is nearly cold, mix in the yolks of eight eggs, and pass through a strainer into a pan, which should be put into the bain-marie to thicken the mixture. Continue straining it, and when it is done, pour it into a deep dish. Next whip up the whites of the eight eggs with a whisk, and as the froth rises put it in a heap over the Cream. When no more froth can be obtained, sprinkle over a little sugar, and glaze it in the oven or with a salamander. Whipped Cream.—(1) This is made from Cream that has been left for a day before being skimmed from the milk. It should be put into a large basin and set on ice, so that it may be kept cool while it is being whipped. This is done with a whisk, and has to be continued until the Cream is froth. A little white of egg and gum-water will make it stand better, and it should only be made just before it is wanted for use, the sugar required to sweeten it and the flavouring being put in last. By taking off the froth with a spoon as it forms, and putting it on a coarse hair sieve, the free Cream runs through, leaving froth only ; the liquid Cream may be put back to the other Cream being whipped. (2) Put lqt. of good Cream into a bowl or basin, and in another basin mix the white of an egg with some sifted sugar and orange- or rose-water. When the latter preparation is well mixed, stir it into the Cream, and whisk it well. When the froth rises, take it off with a spoon, and pile it on a dish. It may be garnished with candied peels, or eaten with cooked fruits or cake. (3) Put 2qts. of the richest Cream (double Cream, if possible) into a copper basin, place it on a pail filled with ice, and beat it well with a wire whisk. Remove the froth with a per- forated skimmer as it comes to the surface, and lay it upon a sieve to drain. When it is all converted into froth, put the sieve in a cool place for a couple of hours; then add gradually, and gently work into it, 6oz. of the finest powdered sugar and 2oz. of vanilla sugar. It is then ready for use, and may be employed to fill meringues, or for any other purpose. (4) Whip £ pint of Cream to a strong froth, after mixing with it some finely-rasped lemon-peel, a squeeze of lemon-juice, ^ wineglassful of sweet wine, and a little caster sugar. Lay it on a sieve in a heap, and the next day put it on a dish and garnish round it with very light puft'-paste biscuits, made in shapes the length of a finger and about the thickness of two, over which should be strewn caster sugar. The edge of the dish may be garnished with macaroons. Whipped Cream flavoured with Brandy, Coffee, Curacoa, Rum, &C.—Put 1 pint of fresh Cream into a basin, and set it over a larger basin containing broken ice. Beat the Cream with a wire whisk, slowly at first, but quicker as the froth begins to form, and then whip in I gill of brandy, liquid extract of coffee, or other flavouring. Beat until all this is thoroughly worked in, and then turn the Cream froth into a glass dish and place it in an ice chest to keep cool until required for serving. The froth may be set on a fine silk sieve to drain, and the Cream dripping from it, if any, returned to the basin for further whipping.