331 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads Chablis—continued. acknowleged where it is to be found as the gem of the cellar. The chief brands are Moutonne, Valmur Vandesir, Blanchot, Clos, Montrachet, and Montdemilieu. Chablis Cup.—(1) Put about live lumps of sugar into 1 pint of boiling water, with a little lemon-peel added. When the liquor is cold, add 1 wineglassful of dry sherry, lib. of ice, and a bottle of Chablis. (2) Put 1 pint bottle of Chablis and 1 liqueur-glassful of chartreuse, maraschino, or noyeau, into a jar, and place it in ice, putting a lump into the mixture. Just before it is wanted to be served, put a bottle of seltzer water in it. CHACH.—An Indian beverage, made from skimmed milk, and common in almost every native household. CHACOLI. —A light wine, either white or red, made from Chilian grapes, and generally consumed amongst the working-classes. CHAD.—See Shad. CHAFING-DISH.—A dish or vessel for cooking on the table, or for keeping food warm. May be heated by means of coal, spirit, or hot water. CHAMBERTIN.—A very highly esteemed brand of Burgundy wine, remarkable for its delicate but pro- nounced bouquet. CHAMBORD.—This is the name of an old royal castle situated near Blois, in France, which has given a name to certain French dishes, but especially to a mode of dressing carp by larding as in a fricandeau. The story is that when Catherine of Medici married the son of Francis I., the royal couple took up their residence in the castle of Chambord, and, very naturally, Catherine brought with her a staff of her own countrymen cooks. French cooks at that time were not so famous as they now are, or they might perhaps have found means of using up some of the carp which abounded in the ponds and lakes in the neighbourhood of this castle. The Italian cooks conceived the idea of importing flavours into the flesh of the fish which it did not otherwise contain, being, in fact, of a somewhat tasteless character at the best of times. This could be done by larding, as though it were veal, hence to that mode of dressing carp the name of “a la Chambord” is given. Other cooks have in modern times enlarged upon this process, so that the title is sometimes misapplied, and the prime point of larding omitted, or the larding is extended to other fish which do not require it. CHAMPAGNE.—This name is given to a very wide and indefinite class of wines, white or red, still or sparkling, but especially the latter, as understood in this country. The title is derived from the district of Champagne, in France, now represented by the department of Marne, where the rich soil gives to the grapes a quality they would not otherwise be found to possess. The genuine Champagne wines are classified as first and second cuvees, or pressings, and yield mousseux, demi-mousseux, or cremant, and non-mousseux or sillery. The mousseux, or “sparkling” Champagne, is prepared as follows: After the vintage the wine stands till December; it is then racked off into other vessels, and fined with isinglass. In the following March it is put into bottles and corked with great care, the corks being softened in hot water and inserted with much force. The bottles are then stacked in the stores in a sloping position, with the corks I pointing downwards, so that any sediment may collect in the neck of the bottle on the cork, and then by drawing the cork the deposit can readily be removed. Before re-corking, brandy and sugar are introduced in various proportions, or a liqueur of the finest old brandy mixed with a proportion of old Champagne, and in which the purest white sugar-candy has been dissolved ; and to these additions are, in a great measure, due the various Champagne—continued. degrees known in the market as sweet, dry, and liqueured. In Champagne prepared for the English market, the proportion of sugar introduced is very small, and that of brandy very large; whereas for the French and Belgian markets the sugar preponderates over the brandy, and hence their Champagnes are sweeter and less intoxicating than ours. In re-corking, an extraordinary waste of wine ensues from the bursting and breaking of bottles, sup- posed to be caused by the strength of the wine, and buyers are wont to estimate the value of the wine by the amount of breakage—the best wine breaking most bottles; but it is just possible that some of the breakage may be due to unsound bottles or careless handling. The most ex- tensive cellars or storehouses in France are cut out of the chalk hills, forming subterranean caverns of extra- ordinary extent. The temperature in these crypts is low and regular, and the wine is not so subject to be disturbed by external changes of weather or season. The best varieties of Champagne are those manu- factured around Rheims and Epernay. Sillery has a fine amber colour, is dry, spirituous, and possesses a remark- able bouquet; the wines of Ay and Mareuil are less spirituous, but sparkling, and also with a fine bouquet; so also are those of Hautvilliers, Dizy, and Pierry. Saumur is a second-class Champagne of good quality, and several other well-known brands have their claims upon public consideration ; but, although the markets are well supplied with the genuine wine, there are many imitations and shams to be met with sold at low prices, that may be pleasing to some palates, but are as bad as poison to the connoisseur. These are sometimes mis- called “ Tisane de Champagne but although Tisane is an exceedingly light wine, it should be the pure, although much watered, juice of the grape. Recently Champagne has been introduced into this country from the provinces of the Rhine, and the Germans may be congratulated upon their production of such vintages as Neckar, Meissner, and Naumburg. A small quantity reaches us also from the United States, but the sea voyage is against the probable importation from Australia or other distant lands. The notion that cheap Champagnes are made in this country from gooseberries (see British Wines) is a popular delusion, and one that is unworthy of the slightest credence, for the simple reason that, although excellent Champagne can be made from this fruit, the juice of the gooseberry would, from its scantiness and scarcity, be considerably more expensive than the juice of the grape; and there are no plantations in this or any other country which are of sufficient extent to provide the enormous quantity that would be required for the purpose. Factitious Champagnes are sometimes met with concocted from light Rhenish, cider, and other cheap liquors, but happily in most cases these prepara- tions are quite harmless, and often quite as palatable as some Champagne, and are excellent imitations of the genuine thing in taste, appearance, and bouquet. Iced Champagne.—Cover the bottom of a pail, up to three- fourths of its height, with a layer of pounded and salted iee, put the bottles of Champagne in, and let them remain for forty minutes. To 41b. of ice use lib. of crushed kitchen salt. If the iced wine is meant to be placed on the table, the bottles should be placed in small ornamental pails (see Fig. 399) set on a tray, and in this case the neck of the bottles must be clothed with a leather case, to protect the hands of those who uncork the bottle. Mock Champagne. — Use grapes which have been picked when full grown and just beginning to change colour; bruise them in a tub, and for every quart of grapes pour in lqt. of water. Leave the fruit for three days, stirring it once a day; then press it through a cloth, and let the juice stand for four or live hours. Pour the liquor carefully from any sedi- ment, for every gallon mixing with it 31b. of loaf sugar, and turn it into a barrel, fixing the bung in lightly. Leave it for three weeks, or till it has ceased working, and at the end