326 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heaas Celery—continued. Baked Celery.—Well wash and trim a couple of heads of Celery. Cut them into small pieces about |in. long’, throw them into boiling water with 1 table-spoonful of salt, and boil for ten minutes, then drain them in a colander, and put back into the saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, loz. of butter rolled in flour, pepper and salt to taste, and let them get quite hot; let them simmer for three minutes, pour the whole into a bowl, and let it cool. When it is cold enough beat up an egg, and stir it into the sauce. Butter a flat pudding-dish, pour the Celery into it, strew plenty of fine breadcrumbs over, cover it, put it in the oven, bake for twenty minutes, then uncover it, and let it remain in the oven till brown. Baked Celery with Cheese.—Let the Celery be cut small, about lin. long, and split to look a little like macaroni. Boil in water for ten minutes about 1 pint of these pieces, drain, mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of grated cheese, 1 teacupful of butter, add a little pepper and salt, and bake for a time in a pan. Pour over the top J teacupful of rich stock, and serve in a tureen. Fig. 395. Celery Prepared for Cooking or the Table. Boiled Celery.—(1) Cut off all outside pieces, and trim the roots of three heads of Celery; cut them into 6in. lengths, wash them well, and tie together. Cover them with boiling water in a saucepan, add some peppercorns, a piece of mace, an onion, and a little salt, and boil them. Put 1 dessert- spoonful of flour and 1 table-spoonful of butter in a saucepan, and when it is melted add sufficient water to that the Celery was boiled in to make the sauce. Beat the yolk of an egg with the juice of a lemon, and stir it in with the sauce when it is off the fire, adding a pinch of salt. When the Celery is done, put it on a dish, cut off the string that ties it together, and pour the sauce over. (2) Wash, trim, and blanch ten small heads of Celery, and blanch twelve medium-sized onions. Put the Celery and onions in a stewpan, cover with veal stock, and let them boil gently until they are tender; then lay the Celery on some slices of toast, and put the onion? round the dish. Reduce some white bechamel sauce with 1 pint of the stock the vegetables were boiled in, and when it is thick add a little sugar and \ gill of very thick cream. Pour it over the Celery. (3) Carefully wash half-a-dozen heads of Celery without breaking them apart, and trim off the roots and green stalks; boil them in salted boiling water until just tender, but not until it begins to break; drain, and serve with any sauce. The Celery is dished on toast, like asparagus, or served with the sauce poured over it. Boiled Celery with Cream.—(1) Cut six heads of Celery into pieces about 3in. long, wash these thoroughly in plenty of cold water to remove all the grit, put them into a saucepan of water, and boil until they are quite tender. Pour 1 break- fast-cupful of cream into a saucepan, mix in a lump of butter kneaded in flour, season with salt and grated nutmeg, and boil over a clear fire until the whole is quite thick. Take out the Celery and drain it, put it into the saucepan with the cream, and warm it thoroughly, without boiling ; then arrange the pieces on a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. (2) Chop off the green parts of three or four heads of Celery, cut the white into pieces about 3in. in length, wash them well, put them into a saucepan with plenty of water, and boil until tender. Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of cream C elery—con tinned,. into a saucepan, add the strained and well-beaten yolks of four eggs, and sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste ; then drain the Celery and add it to this, and boil well until the liquor is thick. Cover a dish with slices of toast, pour the Celery mixture over them, and serve. Braised Celery.—Take a few heads of Celery and trim each stick, leaving only the white part; then tie them in bundles and parboil for about ten minutes, next throwing them into cold water. Take them out after a few minutes, drain them upon a sieve, afterwards place them in a stewpan with some white stock, and let them simmer gently for about an hour. When done, drain them upon a napkin, and dish up upon croutons of fried bread. Pour some good brown sauce, to which has been added a little chicken glaze, over the Celery, and serve. Celery Cordial.—Not much used, but very aromatic if well made. To 21b. of bruised Celery-seeds put lgall. of proof spirit and lgall. of syrup made from white sugar. Let it macerate for a month, clarify, and bottle for use. Celery •with Cream.— (1) Cut off the outside pieces of some Celery, remove the hard stems, and cut it into the lengths required; well wash these and boil them in plenty of water for ten minutes ; then drain, refresh in cold water, and cut to equal lengths. Put them in a stewpan with some pieces of bacon and 1 pinch of salt, cover them with broth that has not had the fat skimmed off, and add the juice of half a lemon or 1 wineglassful of white wine; put a sheet of paper over the top, and boil them on a moderate fire till they are done. Take them out carefully one by one and drain them on a sieve, trim nicely, arrange on a dish, pour over some bechamel sauce reduced with 1 teacupful of cream, and serve hot. (2) Pare nicely four heads of Celery, cut them into pieces 2in. in length, and wash thoroughly; then remove from the water with the hands and lay them on a napkin, this preventing- sand from adhering to the Celery. Blanch them in boiling salted water for five minutes ; then remove, drain, and put in a saute-pan with 2oz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of potato-flour, stirring all well together, and moistening with i pint of consoinmd. Cook and reduce the whole for twenty minutes. When done, thicken with two beaten yolks of eggs diluted in 3 table-spoonfuls of cream, and add 3 pinch of grated nutmeg. Serve garnished with six croutons. Celery Cream Soup. Put 3 pints of stock into a saucepan with a small piece of lean cooked ham and an onion, both finely minced, and boil for a few minutes. Wash a few sticks of Celery, chop them up (having sufficient to fill a breakfast- cup), boil them for ten minutes, and then strain off all the water. Mix ljoz. of warmed butter with 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir it into the boiling stock to thicken it, and pass the whole through a fine sieve into another saucepan. Add the Celery and 1 pint of milk, dredg'e in salt and pepper to taste, and simmer gently on the side of the fire for ten minutes; then sprinkle in a pinch of the green leaf of the Celery finely- chopped, pour the soup into the tureen, and serve very hot. The soup should be frequently skimmed while cooking. Celery Brink (American).—Wash three heads of Celery, and chop them up very fine, together with 31b. of lean beef; put this into a saucepan with 3qts. of water, and boil very slowly for about an hour. Sprinkle in salt and cayenne pepper to taste, pass the liquor through a fine sieve or cloth into another saucepan, and skim well. Beat in the whites" of four eggs, boil again quickly for a few minutes, and pass the liquor three or four times through a cloth until it is quite clear. Add a little browning of burnt sugar, let the liquor cool, and beat in the whites of two more eggs to give a froth to the drink. A third of a glassful of this, filled up with boiling water poured from a height, will be sufficient for a good drink. Celery Fritters. — (1) Wash thoroughly a head of Celery, put it into a saucepan of water and boil it until it is quite tender. Take it out, drain it quite dry, and cut the white stalks into pieces about 4in. in length. Dip these into batter, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry until of a good brown colour. Take them out, drain, put them on a napkin over a dish, and serve. See Fig. 396.