284 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Capillaire—continued. following receipts give a variety of modes of preparing it with and without the fern. (1) Boil ^lb. of maidenhair fern in 5 pints of boiling water, and leave to infuse near a fire for twenty-four hours. Press out and filter the liquid; add 4 fluid ounces of orange-flower water, and dissolve in it from 151b. to 201b. of loaf sugar, according to the consistency the syrup is required to maintain. (2) Boil 91b. of loaf sugar in 5 pints of orange-flower water. When the syrup is quite clear, strain it through flannel; dissolve 2 drachms of tartaric acid in ^ pint of strong orange- flower water and mix with the syrup when it is cold; add also i tumblerful of good Rhine wine. (3) Chop in small pieces a large bunch of maidenhair fern, place them in a pan with boiling water, and put a cover on. In a few minutes’ time add to the infusion 4.Ub. of broken loaf sugar, and clarify with the whites of four eggs. Boil the syrup to the pearl (see Sugar-boiling), then pour it through a strainer. When it is cool, add a little orange-flower water and bottle close. (4) Boil lib. of loaf sugar into a syrup of 24deg. strength (see Sugar-boiling). Dissolve 2oz. of picked gum arabic in 2oz. of hot water; infuse Joz. of chopped maidenhair fern in boiling water for one hour, and then strain. Mix the gum and the infusion of chopped fern with the syrup when it is cold. Get some pint bottles and fill them with the syrup, and stand the bottles in cold water for a few minutes until they are quite cold ; dip the nozzles in bottle-wax, and keep them stacked in a reclining position in the cellar until wanted. (5) Put 51b. of caster sugar into a stewpan with lqt. of water, adding two well-beaten eggs as well as their shells ; put the pan on the fire and boil for about twenty minutes, skim thoroughly, pass the liquid through a jelly-bag, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water to flavour. (6) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cold water, lib. of sugar, and the shell and white of one egg into a thick saucepan on the stove, keep stirring till the white of egg hardens and the sugar is melted, let it then boil for five minutes, let it cool very slightly, and strain. When quite cold, add a wineglassful of curaijoa to it and bottle. About 2 teaspoonfuls of this in a glass of cold water make a good “ eau sucrA” (7) Put loz. of maidenhair fern into an enamelled pan, pour over it §gall. of boiling water, set the pan on some warm ashes, and let the fern infuse for twelve hours. Strain it off; it will then be a strong infusion of Capillaire. Dissolve in this infusion 41b. of sugar, put it into a preserving-pan, place over the fire, and clarify with white of egg. Let the syrup continue to get hot, and when it is at the pearl degree (see Sugar-boiling) put coarsely-chopped, fresh maidenhair fern into a pan and pour the boiling syrup over it. Put a cover over the pan, and let it stand till the syrup is cold. Then, if other flavouring be desired, is the time to add it. Put the syrup into bottles, and cork them well so that no air can possibly get at it. CAPILOTADE.—This is literally the French term for a hash or ragout, consisting usually of giblets and pieces of cold meat or poultry. See Fowls, Plovers, &c. Italian Capilotade.—Cut a cold roasted bird in small pieces; cut in slices an equal quantity of carrots and onions, and chop some mushrooms. Put a lump of butter into a stewpan, make it hot, then put in the vegetables; dredge a small quantity of flour over and fry them until beginning to brown, then pour in £ pint of white wine, and boil very gently for fifteen minutes. Put in the pieces of bird, leave them until hot, then take them out and lay them on a hot dish. Mix i teacupful of oil with the gravy, stir it well at the side of the fire for a minute or two without letting it boil again, then pour it over the meat, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. CAPONS (Fr. Cliapons ; Ger. Kapanns; Hal. Cappone). —These are young male fowls which have been castrated, secluded, and fatted in order to improve the delicacy and flavour of their flesh. They have their female counterpart in the young hen from which the oviducts have been removed, and which are known upon the Continent as poulardes. In either case the superiority over the ordinary fowl is so marked as to demand special culinary treatment, preference being given by Continental cooks to the For details respecting Culinary Processes, Capons—continued. poularde for flavour, although the Capon is generally by far the larger bird. The ordinary fowl, or chicken, is not considered by them of sufficient importance to be treated separately, being more often consigned to the stockpot than the spit. A very important feature about the Capon and poularde is that in consequence of their treatment they grow much larger and fatten more readily than do ordinary fowls, which, added to their superior flavour, renders them not only worthy of Shakespeare’s Justice, “ in fair round belly, with good Capon lin’d,” but fit in every way to set before a king, especially during September and October. The instructions for preparing Capons for cooking are as follow: For Cleaning and Trussing.—Pluck all the feathers off and singe a Capon, chop off the head close to the back, remove the crop, and loosen the liver and other inside parts at the breast end. Cut round the vent, draw it clean, flatten the breast-bone with a cutlet-bat, cut off the toe-nails, and tuck the feet down close to the legs. For Boiling.—Put the forefinger through the inside under the skin of the legs, raise it, make holes in them, and push the logs into them. Pass a skewer into the first joint of the pinion, bringing the middle of the leg close to it; push the skewer through the middle of the leg into the body, and repeat this operation on the other side. Place the liver and gizzard in the pinions, turn the ends or points on the back, and fasten the legs into position by tying them with string. For Roasting.—Cut off the first joint of the pinions, beat the breast-bone flat with a rolling-pin or cutlet-bat, push a skewer through the pinion, bringing the middle of the legs close. Pass a skewer through the legs, body, and remaining pinion, twist the neck, and secure the head on the skewer with the bill pointing forwards ; pass another skewer through the sidesman, and fasten the legs close on either side of the sidesman. Run a skewer through all, and the Capon is ready for cooking. For roasting, braising, or baking tbe breast of the bird should be covered with a bard of bacon-fat tied round it (see Fig. 322), which must be removed before the bird is finished cooking, so that the skin under it may brown. They are usually served in pairs and admit of very artistic arrangement and garnishing. For mode of Carving, see under that heading. Boiled Barded Capon with Mushrooms.—Take a young Capon, singe and draw it, filling its inside with bread stuffing or veal forcemeat, with the stems of some mushrooms finely chopped. Put a large slice of fat bacon over the breast, score it a little, and tie it on (see Fig. 322). Put it into a stewpan with sufficient unskimmed broth to cover it, adding some spices and aromatics to flavour. Put the pan on a slow fire, and boil for from fifty to sixty minutes. When the Capon is cooked, remove it from the pan, skim off the fat from the stock, and make a little white sauce, reduced with the liquor in which a few mushrooms have been boiled, adding the yolks of two eggs to thicken it. When ready to serve, remove the string and bacon, put it on a dish, pour over the sauce, and garnish with the cooked mushrooms. Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads.