455 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Cracknels—co ntinu ed. loz. of bicarbonate of soda, and five eggs. When the dough becomes quite elastic, put it on a plate, cover with a cloth, and put it in a cool place for a day. Roll it out on a floured board to about jin. in thickness, cut it into shapes with a scalloped cracknel-cutter, prick them all over with a fork, and proceed as for No. 1. Dutch Cracknels.—Warm |lb. of butter and beat it lightly with Jib. of sugar ; when creamy, mix in Jib. of finely-sifted flour, the beaten yolks of two eggs, 1 table-spoonful of bruised coriander seeds, and 1 table-spoonful of sour cream. Work the mixture well, then divide it into small portions and cut into various shapes, such as rings, twists, etc. Dredge a baking-sheet with flour, lay the cracknels on it, and bake them in a moderate oven. When cooked, leave them until cold, then keep them in biscuit tins for use. Philadelphia Cracknels. —Blanch Jib. of sweet almonds, put them in.a mortar and pound them, and mix in gradually six well-beaten eggs. Slightly warm lib. of butter, and beat it well with lib. of caster sugar ; grate the yellow rind of two lemons, add them to the butter and sugar, and then mix the whole with the pounded almonds. Sift lib. of flour on to a paste-board, then mix the almond paste in with it, and knead it well. Dredge a little flour over the paste and roll it out, cut it into any shapes liked, brush them over with a paste- brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, and dust them over with caster sugar. Lay the Cracknels on a buttered baking-tin and bake them in a moderate oven. When lightly browned, take them out of the oven. Care must be taken that they do not burn. CRA.CKNUTS.—This term is popularly applied to the common Spanish or Barcelona nuts, but it is also the name given to some very delicious cakes or wafer biscuits that are made according to the following receipt: Sift Jib. of caster sugar and lib. of biscuit flour together, and into that rub ^lb. of fresh butter until it is entirely taken up. Beat up six fresh eggs with a wineglassful of raisin or other sweet wine, pour this into a well made in the flour, and work it gradually in, adding water should more liquid be required to make a stiff paste. Roll the paste out as thin as paper, and cut it into rounds with a pastry-cutter. Dust over with caraway-seeds, brush over with white of egg, dust with caster sugar, and slip them for a minute or two into a quick oven. As these Cracknuts would be too thin to move from a paste- board, it is usual to roll the paste on a sheet of greased paper, removing the pieces of paste from between the rounds. CRADLE-SPIT.—This is one of the most valuable of all roasting apparatus for poultry, small birds, game, or small pieces of meat that it would be better to cook without transfixing with the ordinary spit. Unfortunately there are not many small modern kitchens fitted with a smoke-jack, hence the value of the Cradle-spit is not sufficiently appreciated. A very good imitation can be arranged by tying the bird or meat with string and hanging it on to a bottle-jack. Fig. 547. Cradle-spit. The illustration (Fig. 547) shows two screw arrange- • ments, one at each end, by which the cradle can be opened for the purpose of charging it, or removing the cooked article. Some of these spits are 5Aft. long, and are worked by a chain round the wheel. See Roasting. CRAMBAMBOLI.—The precise meaning of this word is not quite clear, although to the German student it has a charm quite unknown to the uninitiated. At one time it may lie said to have ruled German feasts and festivities, and its preparation was the cause of con- siderable rivalry and duels. Two receipts for manufac- turing the famous bowl are given hereunder, and as they For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Crambamboli -continued. differ considerably it is probable that there have been as many modifications as professed makers. (1) Take lib. of loaf sugar in one large lump; pour 1 pint of rum into a punch-bowl, and set fire to it. Hold the sugar immediately over the flame with a pair of tongs until it has all melted into the bowl. If the rum burns away before all the sugar has melted, put what sugar remains into the bowl. Serve without delay. (2) Empty a bottle of Rhine wine into a punch-bowl, and - place iron skewers across the bowl. Procure a solid lump of sugar, about lib. in weight, baste it well with rum, then stand it on the skewers over the bowl. Set fire to the sugar, and let it burn until all is melted into the bowl. If the flame goes out before all the sugar has burnt, baste it with a few drops more rum. At the last empty in a bottle of champagne, and serve the bowl immediately. Arrack may be used instead of rum. CRANBERRIES (Fr. Airelles; Ger. Moosbeeren; Sp. Arandanos).-—There are two plants that bear this fruit, the one growing to a fine tree, and the other a very Fig. 548. Low or Marsh Cranberry-plant. small shrub (see Fig. 548): the former is commonly known as the High Cranberry (Viburnum Opulus), and the latter as Low, or Marsh Cranberry (Oxycoccus palustris) They are so exceedingly prolific that it has been computed a piece of ground about 18ft. square planted with either kind will produce enough fruit to make one hundred or more large pies. Cranberries grow abundantly in America, France and England, the smaller kind nourishing best in fenny districts and running water. There is a kind of Cranberry grown in Northern Russia which, notwithstanding its extreme acidity, is much used for making soups and sauces. According to Dr. Prior, they derive the name from the crane, which returns to the marshlands in spring when the Cranberries are ripe, and ready for it to feed upon. For making tarts, marma- lade, jelly, and certain sauces, they are higlily esteemed by epicures. Bottled Cranberries.—Gather the fruit in dry weather, and carefully remove the stalks. Put the berries into bottles, packed closely together but without bruising them, fill up the bottles with 26deg. syrup, cork up tightly, and tie them down. Cranberry Compote.—Pick the stalks off about lqt. of Cran- berries. Put Jib. of crushed loaf sugar in a saucepan with li pints of water and the thinly-pared rind of half a lemon, place the saucepan over a slow fire, and boil the contents until reduced to a thick syrup. Put in the Cranberries, and stir them constantly over the fire with a wooden spoon for ten minutes. At the end of that time take the Cranberries off the fire, leave until cold, then turn them into a compote- dish, or any kind of fancy dish, dust caster sugar over them, and serve. dec., r^'erred to, see under their special heads.