THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 247 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ice., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. Cakes—continued. 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in cream. Mix all together, and bake in a greased Cake-ring, on a baking- sheet. Nourmalial Cake. —Cut four or five slices from the bottom of a large round sponge Cake. Spread over the. slices rasp- berry, strawberry, greengage, or any other jams, each one different. Put the slices back into their original form, covering the top layer over with a thin slice more of the Cake, press them all gently, and with a sharp knife out out the centre, leaving rather a thick rim. Put the part taken out from the centre into a basin, pour over 1 wineglassful each of brandy and white wine, and add the thin peel of a lemon. Let it soak; thoroughly mix in 1 breakfast-cupful each of milk and cream, the yolks of three eggs, and 2oz. of sugar, put this in the centre of the Cake, and cover over with another thin layer of the sponge Cake. Prepare an icing with the whites of three eggs and 12oz. of powdered loaf sugar, cover over the Cake with it, smoothing with a knife; form a design or scroll at the top and bottom, colouring the icing for this with a little cochineal, put the Cake in a dry closet to set the icing, decorate with fruits, leaves, or any thing else desired, and serve. Nun’s Cake.—Cream 8oz. of fresh butter, and mix with it ilb. of sifted flour, Jib. of caster sugar, a grated nutmeg, 1 table- spoonful of cold water, and the yolks of four eggs, pre- viously beaten. Whisk to a stiff froth the whites of two eggs, and add to the other. Butter a mould, turn so much of the mixture in that it shall not quite reach the top of the tin, and bake for about one hour in a steady oven. Fig. 285. Parliament-cake Cutter (Win. Smith and Co.). bicarbonate of sc da, 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and 1 saltspoonful of ground mace. Beat the whites of the eggs stiff and let stand; add 3 breakfast-cupfuls of pastry-flour and J pint of milk to the mixture. Then put in the whites of the eggs, and mix all well together. Put into a greased tin, and bake in a moderate oven until the Cake shrinks from the tin. Parliament Cakes.—Put lib. of treacle and 2oz. of butter in a basin, set it near the fire until the butter is dissolved. Mix up with lib. of flour 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar and 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder—some use alum and pearlash, but these are not advisable. Beat in the warmed treacle and butter until quite smooth, and set in a cool place until next day. Boll the paste out rather thin, and cut into oblong squares with a cutter (see Pig. 285). Butter a baking-sheet, place the Cakes on, and bake for about a-quarter-of-an-hour in a moderate oven. Parson’s Cake.—Bub into 4 breakfast-cupfuls of flour 1J break- fast-cupfuls of butter ; add 1 large teacupful of brown sugar, a little ginger and spice, five eggs well beaten, 3 teacupfuls of molasses, and 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in a little milk. Mix all together, put in a greased tin, and bake. Passover Cakes.—Get some of the flour used by the Jews for this; put Jib. into a basin, and mix with it 1 teaspoonful of caster sugar and 1 pinch of salt. Beat four eggs in a tea- cupful of milk and a teacupful of warm water; stir it in with the flour. When well beaten, pour the mixture in equal quantities on a baking-sheet, and bake in a very quick oven. Plain Cake.—Take J quartern of bakers’ dough and knead in Jib. of butter, Jib. of moist sugar, Jib. of chopped candied peel, lib. of currants, one grated nutmeg, a little ground ginger, and four eggs ; mix well. Set it in a warm place for one hour to rise, and then bake in a greased tin. Polish Cakes.—Boll puff paste very thin, cut into pieces 3in. square, wet the centre, turn each corner over, press the points down in the centre, and put a very small round of paste over them. Bake, and when cool, put dots of jelly on each corner. Polka Cakes.—Beat together in a basin 21b. of butter and an equal quantity of sifted crushed loaf sugar; add twenty eggs, one at a time, and beating continuously, 2Jib. of flour, gradually, as many well-washed and dried currants as desired, and a flavouring of lemon-peel. Turn the preparation into papered hoops, set on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven. Let them get cold before using. Parisian Cake. -— Put lib. of blanched filberts into a pan over the fire and roast them, stirring them continually with a wooden spoon. Let them get cold, put them into a mortar, and pound to a pulp, adding a little cream to prevent oiling. Turn them into a basin with 1 qt. of cream, pouring in a little at a time, and strain the whole through a fine sieve or cloth. Have ready peeled and cut into halves 6oz. of pistachio-kernels, also 4oz. of candied orange-peel, cut the same length as the nuts and about Jin. in thick- ness. Prepare a sponge with 12oz. of flour, ljoz. of yeast, and 1 breakfast-cupful of warm milk, and set it to rise. Cream ljlb. of butter, add Jib. of warmed butter, and mix in two at a time, ten eggs and ten more yolks, beating each lot in separately for about two minutes. Then add 18oz. of flour and 1 breakfast-cupful of the liquor from the kernels mixed up with 2 handfuls of flour, put another equal quantity of flour on the table, form a bay, mix in the sponge and 6oz. of crushed loaf sugar together, with more milk if re- quired, and form the whole into a rather soft paste. Should the paste be too stiff, more eggs should be added. Now mix in the filberts and candied orange-peel, taking care that they are well incorporated, put the paste into a well-buttered mould, decorating the top and sides with more pistachios, put the Cake into a moderate oven, and bake. When done, turn it out, and serve either hot or cold. Park - Street Cake.—Work Jib. of butter in a warm bowl until like a cream, then add 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar gradually; beat four yolks of eggs with 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar until very light, and add to the butter; put in 1 teaspoonful of vanilla or lemon flavouring, J teaspoonful of Portuguese Cake.—Beat in a basin until quite frothy the yolks of six eggs and Jib. of caster sugar ; pound Jib. of blanched almonds with the white of an egg to prevent oiling, rub them through a sieve into a kitchen basin (ground almonds will do as well), and mix with them 1 pinch of grated orange- peel (zest) and the juice of four oranges. When the yolk3 of eggs and sugar are frothy, mix gradually in Jib. of potato- flour and the whites of six well-whisked eggs. Butter and paper a baking-sheet, pour the mixture on this about lin. thick, and bake in a slack oven. When the Cake is done, set it to cool, trim the surface, and mask first with a thin layer of apricot marmalade and then with a layer of orange-flavoured icing. Pound Cakes.— (1) Take 20oz. of sugar and 12oz. of butter and work to a cream ; then add twelve well-beaten eggs, ljlb. of sifted flour, and mace and nutmeg to suit the taste. Make into a dough, put into small buttered tins, and bake in a moderately quick oven. (2) Wash all tho salt out of fib. of butter, squeeze all the water out, and rub it into Jib. of flour ; beat the whites and yolks of eleven eggs separately ; beat Jib. of sugar with the yolks, then rub Jib. of sugar and Jib. of flour together. Mix all these ingredients, part at a time, first one, then another. Beat well, and flavour with 1 wineglassful of brandy and the grated peel of one lemon, or wine and nutmeg. Put into small greased tins, and bake. (3) Bub fib. of butter into lib. of flour; beat the yolks of ten eggs well, and add by degrees to the butter and flour, and then the whites beaten to a stiff froth and lib. of caster sugar. Flavour with 1 teaspoonful of mace and 1 wine-glass- ful of wine. Bake in large cups well greased.