THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 258 For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. let it stand to cool, and then turn it on to an oval dish; pour the custard over it, and serve hot. Spanish Cakes. — (1) Large. — Mix Jib. of ground sweet almonds and 1 table-spoonful of bitter ones into Jib. of flour, 6oz. of caster sugar, and Joz. of cinnamon ground to a powder. Then whisk up six eggs, and put them into a chocolate mill, adding very slowly all the other articles, and also 2 table- spoonfuls of any light wine and the same quantity of rose- water. After every separate ingredient has been added, they should be milled before another is put in, so as to get it well mixed, and, when all is added, mill it once or twice again until it is quite light. Put the Cake in a buttered pan, and bake in a slow oven until quite done. (2) Small.—Place a clean saucepan over the fire and put into it Jib. of well-washed butter, 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, 1 pint of water, and a little salt; stir until it begins to boil, then take it off the fire and sift into it 5oz. of dry flour, stirring it well until a moderately stiff, smooth paste is formed. Beat in three well-whisked eggs, one at a time, and any kind of flavouring desired. Take the paste out in small pieces, and form them with the hand into round balls about the size of a walnut; wipe them over with beaten egg, and sprinkle over some finely-chopped almonds which have been tossed in a little of the white of an egg and caster sugar. When ready, bake in a slow oven until of a light brown colour. Before being sent to table they should be cut open, and a spoonful of any kind of jam put in, which is a great improvement. (3) Rub 6oz. of butter into lib. of flour, and mix in 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, J teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, and 1 pinch of salt. Work in two well-whisked eggs, and form a stiff dough. Roll out to Jin. in thickness, and cut it with biscuit-cutters into various shapes, and bake for fifteen minutes in a steady oven. Special Cakes.—Take Jib. of baked flour and put it into a basin with the same amount of caster sugar, 2oz. of ground almonds, and 2oz. of chopped citron-peel; moisten these with six well-beaten eggs, and add for flavouring about 30 drops of essence of vanilla, and J wineglassful of cura^oa, mixed in the first place with Jib. of warmed butter, and then with the other materials in the basin, and beat all together for a few minutes. Wash Jib. of currants, wipe them dry in a cloth, and while mixing the other ingredients sprinkle them in. Partly fill some small fluted moulds, buttered, and put them in a very quick oven as soon after being made as possible. When they are nearly done, ice the tops over with a mixture of 2 table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, one egg, and 4 or 5 drops of vanilla. Leave them in the oven for twenty minutes altogether. They may be served either hot or cold. Spider Cake.—Sift lqt. of flour with 1 teaspoonful each of salt and bicarbonate of soda, and 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar; or, in place of the soda and cream of tartar, use 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. Chop Jib. of butter into the flour, and then quickly make it into a dough stiff enough to mould with about 1 pint of milk or cold water. If sour milk is used, the baking-powder or cream of tartar should be omitted, and 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in the sour milk. Have ready two old-fashioned iron spiders, or a large griddle, well buttered, and placed over the fire; make the dough into two round Cakes, put it in the buttered pans, and slowly brown the under-side over a moderate fire; the Cake must be frequently lifted from the pan with a Cake- turner or a broad-bladed knife to prevent burning, and enough butter must be used to keep it from sticking to the pan; when the under-side is browned, turn the Cake, and brown the other side. When the Cake is done, split it, butter it, lay it together again, cut into quarters, and serve hot. Spider Cake with Bilberries.—Pick over lqt. of bilberries, wash in cold water, drain quite dry, and dust them with flour; sift together lib. of flour, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and 2 tea- spoonfuls of baking-powder. Into the flour chop Jib. of butter, and add the berries. See that the fire is good, and put an iron spider over it, with 1 table-spoonful of butter in it; next mix the flour and berries to a soft dough, with just enough sweet milk to form it; put the dough into the spider, making the Cake about fin. thick, and set it over a moderate fire to bake. Unless the spider is large, a second one must be used, Cakes—continued. in order to have the Cake the proper thickness. Bake the Cake slowly for about ten minutes on each side, shaking it about in the pan, and turning it to prevent burning; before serving try it to be sure it is done, and then serve it hot with plenty of butter. Spider-Cake Toast.—While cold spider Cake is being toasted a delicate brown, make a sauce as follows; For each Cake allow a full pint of sauce, and for each pint of sauce mix together over the fire 1 table-spoonful each of butter and flour until they bubble ; then mix smoothly into them 1 pint of milk and | pint of cream ; let this sauce boil for a moment, season with salt, and then pour it over the toasted spider Cake, and serve at once. Sponge Cakes.—(1) Large.—Boil fib. of lump sugar in 1 teacupful of boiling water; when boiling pour it over six eggs, whisk for half-an-hour, sift in gradually 2 table-spoonfuls Fig. 293. Moulds used for large Sponge Cakes (Mathews and Son). of flour, grate the rind of one lemon and mix in. When well worked together put in a greased mould of any suitable shape (see Fig. 298) and bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour, or a little longer if required. (2) Beat well the yolks of seven eggs and add lib. of caster sugar; then add the whites of fourteen eggs, and stir in very lightly Jib. of Vienna flour. Beat very little after putting in the flour. Put in a buttered mould and bake quickly. (3) Ten eggs, 2J breakfast-cupfuls of sugar, 2J breakfast- cupfuls of pastry-flour, the juice and grated rind of one lemon. Beat the yolks and sugar together until very light, add the lemon, beat the whites to a stiff froth, and stir the flour and the whites of eggs alternately into the beaten yolks and sugar. Pour the batter about 3in. deep in a baking-tin, sprinkle with sugar, and hake for three-quarters-of an-hour in a moderate oven. If the batter is not so deep in the pan it will not take so long to bake. (4) The yolks of a dozen eggs, the whites of eight, lj breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar, the same quantity of flour, the rind of one lemon, and the juice of two. Beat the yolks and sugar together, add the lemon rind and juice, and beat a little longer; beat the whites to a stiff froth, and add them to the mixture. Gradually stir in the flour, pour the mixture into a Cake-tin to the depth of about 2in., and bake from thirty-five to forty minutes in a slow oven. (5) Beat the yolks of three eggs ; add 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar, 1 table-spoonful of lemon juice, and 1 table- spoonful of cold water, or a lump of ice melted in the lemon juice to make 2 table-spoonfuls of liquid. Add the whites,