471 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Cream—continued. dish closely, and put it in the oven for two or three minutes before serving. (2) Cut up half-a-dozen stale Trench rolls into slices, and into slips lin. by 2jin. long, put them on a dish, pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of Cream and 1 teacupful of milk, and dust over the top some cinnamon sugar. Let the bread soak well in the Cream, then dip in egg, pop them into a frying- pan with boiling oil or butter, and fry for ten minutes, or until they are a light brown colour. Serve on a folded napkin after allowing them to drain. Cream Toffy.—Put 4j-lb. of sugar into a saucepan with lqt. of rich Cream or milk, boil to the ball degree (see Sugar- boiling), add lOoz. of butter, and stir well until the latter is dissolved and thoroughly incorporated. Boil to the crack degree, turn it out on to a buttered marble slab, and when sufficiently cool turn in the edges, cut it up into the required shapes, let them get cold, and they are ready for use. Cream Trifle.—(1) Sweeten lqt. of Cream with powdered white sugar, and add to it the grated peel of a lemon. Put 1 gill of white wine into a bowl, pour over the sweetened Cream, and whisk to a froth, which as it is formed lay to drain on a sieve turned upside down; return the Cream that drains from it to the bowl, and whisk it to froth. Take a deep glass dish, and at the bottom of it put a layer of the frothed Cream ; cut some Naples biscuits as thin as possible, arrange a layer of them lightly over the froth, and put some red currant jelly over; then begin again with the froth, put over it biscuits sliced as before, red currant jelly next, and finish with a layer of froth. Pour what may remain of the Cream gently into the dish, and garnish with some candied orange- and citron-peel cut into thin shreds. (2) Beat the yolks of three eggs and the white of one, and stir in gradually 1J- pints of milk. Mix 4 table-spoonfuls of best wheat-flour with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and the grated peel of one lemon; stir the beaten eggs and milk in with this, pour all into a saucepan, and stir over a slow fire. Put idb. of small ratafias at the bottom of a shallow dish, and when the Cream is sufficiently boiled pour it through a fine hair sieve upon the cakes. When cold, dust some finely- powdered cinnamon over the top, and serve. Cream a la Versailles.—Put 1 teacupful of sugar into a saucepan on the fire, and stir gently until it is of a light brown. Pour in 2 table-spoonfuls of water, stir for a minute, and mix in lqt. of milk. Add ^ teaspoonful of salt, beaten up with seven eggs, and ^ teaspoonful of vanilla extract; turn the whole into a charlotte-russe mould, after slightly buttering it, set it in a pan of warm water, and bake in a moderate oven for about forty minutes. Push a knife down the centre to test it, and if the custard is not milky, it is done. Put it in a cool place, let it remain until quite cold, turn it out on to a dish, and serve with caramel sauce poured over. Cream Whey.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of skimmed milk into a saucepan, make it hot without boiling, add 1 dessert-spoonful of vinegar, and let it remain until it curdles; then strain the milk through muslin into a bowl, add 2 table-spoonfuls of Cream, and sugar to taste, and serve. Cream Whips.—Put 1 pint of Cream into a bowl or basin, and mix in with it J- pint of pale sherry, the juice and grated rind of a lemon, 1 teacupful of sugar, and the whites of two eggs lightly beaten. When the sugar is dissolved, whip the mixture well, skim off the froth, and put it on a sieve for a few minutes. Take the Cream left in the bowl and put it into jelly glasses, and fill up with the froth. Cream with White Wine.—Put the thinly-pared rind of one lemon into a stewpan with 3 table-spoonfuls of sugar, a small piece of stick cinnamon, and a small quantity of coriander seeds; pour in lj pints of white wine, and boil the mixture for fifteen minutes. Put the yolks of six eggs into a basin with \ teaspoonful of flour, and beat them well; then stir in gradually the boiling wine. Leave the mixture until half cold, then strain it through a fine hair sieve into a mould. Place the mould in a stewpan three-quarters full of boiling water, stand it over a slow fire, and let it simmer gently until the Cream has set; then take the mould out of the water, and keep it in a cool place. When ready to serve, turn the Cream out of the mould on to a dish. Cream—continued. Devonshire Cream.—Put some new milk into a Cream-pan, and place it on a hot stove, without allowing the milk to boil. If left for from twenty minutes to lialf-an-hour, the scum will have risen very considerably, and then the pan should be removed, and the milk left to get cold. When cold, it must be skimmed, and the Cream is ready for use. If butter is to be made from it, although it may be converted by working slowly with a stick or the hand for a few minutes or so, the best and cheapest plan is the churn. But what is generally known as Devonshire Cream is the above put into jars. Devonshire Cream White Pot.—Beat up eight eggs in lqt. of Cream, add a little sugar and nutmeg to flavour, and put the mixture on some thin slices of bread. Place these in a pie-dish, put small pieces of butter on the top, cover the dish over tightly with paper, and bake for about an hour in a moderate oven; or it may be made by merely mixing flour, milk, or Cream, and eggs to a batter, baking slightly, and serving with lemon-juice and sugar. Fairy Cream.—Put l^oz. of gelatine into a basin with lj wine- glassfuls of maraschino, and let it soak. Line a fancy mould with any kind of fruit—such as currants, cherries, or even blanched almonds—by dipping them into the dissolved gelatine, to make them adhere. When they are set, well whip two breakfast-cupfuls of Cream, pour into this 1 wine- glassful of lemon syrup, and the remainder of the gelatine and maraschino, and pour the whole into the mould. Serve at once. Floating1 Islands of Cream.—Put 1 teacupful of jam or jelly into a' basin with the whites of two eggs, and beat them well. Whip 1 pint of Cream, and when well frothed turn & > ^ \,, r ?' "'y -'" ' r. j ; j j t \ { f j J J Fig. 570. Floating Islands of Cream. it into an oval- or round-shaped glass dish. With a table- spoon drop the whipped jelly about on the Cream (see Fig. 570). It is then ready for serving, and makes a really very pretty dish. French Cream Ice.—Boil lqt. of Cream with a long vanilla bean, and then cool and strain it. Beat the yolks of twelve eggs smooth with fib. of sugar, mix the flavoured Cream with the eggs, stir over the fire, take it off directly it begins to thicken, and stir for five minutes; then cool and freeze it. Fried Creams.—Boil in a stewpan 1 pint of milk, with a stick of cinnamon. Beat well together 4oz. of sugar, 2 table- spoonfuls of cornflour, 1 table-spoonful of wheat-flour, the yolks of three eggs, i teacupful of Cream, and a saltspoonful of salt, and pour over this the boiling milk. Pass the whole through a strainer into a double-boiler, and boil for a quarter-of-an- hour, stirring frequently; then add 1 teaspoonful of butter and one of vanilla extract, pour it into a buttered cake- tin, put it to cool, and when it is very hard turn it out on to a board sprinkled with breadcrumbs, and cut it into pieces 2|in. long and lin. wide, or into square- or diamond- shaped slices. Roll these first in breadcrumbs, then dip them into egg, roll in the crumbs again, and put them into a frying-pan with boiling lard, and fry to a nice brown colour. Dust sugar over them, and serve hot. German Cream.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Cream into a saucepan with fioz. of sugar and the thin rind of a lemon; bring it to the boil, remove the pan at once from the fire, and let it remain until the contents are nearly cold. Squeeze in the juice of two lemons, add 1 wineglassful of brandy, pour the whole into a jug, and turn it from one jug to another for about fifteen minutes, by which time it should be ready to be served ; but it should always be made at least twelve hours before being used.