TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 453 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <ic., referred to, see under their special heads. Crab-apples—continued. in any way. Fill the jar to the shoulder, lay an inverted saucer over the top, and put it in a moderately hot oven. When the Crab-apples have stewed quite soft in their own steam, put them into a coarse canvas cloth and squeeze all the pulp and moisture that can be got out of them through the cloth. Weigh the result, and mix with it (stirring thoroughly) three-quarters of the weight of the pulp in caster sugar. Put the whole into an enamelled stewpan or pre- serving-pan, and boil gently for half-an-hour, removing the scum as it rises. When done, pour this into a mould or plain jar, and when it is set, it can be turned out on to a glass dish and served. (2) To make a clear cheese, the fruit must be cooked as for No. 1; but instead of being pressed it should be poured on to a cloth spread as for straining broth, and allowed to drain through. The fruit can afterwards be pressed to form a separate quantity. Proceed as before. Fig. 543. American Crab-apples. American Crab-apple Jam.—Remove all stalks and unsound parts from the fruit, well wipe it, and spread it out before a fire to make quite sure that the skins are thoroughly dried. Weigh the fruit, and put into a preserving-pan an equal quantity of preserving sugar, with sufficient white wine (of any kind) to moisten. Let this boil well, skim thoroughly, and whilst it is boiling, put in the fruit, and with it a few chopped slices of lemon-peel, or a small quantity of cloves. Continue to boil until the fruit begins to break, then put it into large glass jars. Tie down when cold. American Crab-apple Jelly. —Prepare the apples by removing the stalks and unsound parts, and wipe dry;'cut them into halves, and put them into a preserving-pan with sufficient water to cover the bottom. When the fruit is quite soft, pour off the water, and to every pint allow lib. of preserving sugar. Put this into a preserving-pan with some slices of lemon-peel, and let it boil' slowly for half-an-hour or so, removing the scum as it rises. Have ready dissolved in a little water loz. of gelatine to every quart of the liquor, and just before removing it from the fire, stir the gelatine in rapidly. Fill moulds or glasses with the jelly, and place them on ice to set. It will keep for some time. When required, dip the mould to the rim for an instant in hot water, wipe dry, and turn out the jelly on to a glass dish. If put into jelly-glasses they can be served' in them. The | fruit left can be used for a variety of purposes. Crab-apples—continued. Crystallised Siberian Crab-apples.—Prepare the Apples precisely as for Preserved American Cra-b-Appi.es, but leave the stalks long-. Partly boil, and pour hot syrup over them again and again, and then have ready a strong crystal- lising syrup. Lay the apples on the trays of the crystallising tin, plunge under the syrup, and leave until a hard crust forms over the top ; then pour off the loose syrup, take the apples out, and lay them on a sieve to stand in a drying- closet until they are dry and crisp. For decorative purposes ‘these crystallised Siberian Crab-apples are invaluable. Preserved American or Siberian Crab - apples. — Some enterprising American firms have been introducing the American Crab-apples in jars of thin syrup. The mode of preserving either these or the Siberian Crabs is as follows : Gather the apples just before ripe, carefully select, cut the stalks short, and then plunge the fruit into boiling water for a few minutes until the skin of any one of them begins to crack. Remove from the fire, strain through an earthenware colander, and they may then be easily peeled. Great care must be taken when peeling the apples to keep them scrupu- lously clean, and perfect in shape. Before starting to peel make a thin syrup of lib. of loaf sugar to 1 pint of water, and keep it boiling hot until all the apples are peeled and dropped into a large glass jar. When sufficient are peeled, pour the hot syrup over them, and put by in a cool pantry. The next day, strain off again, put the syrup into a stewpan with lib. more sugar to each pint; boil and skim. Return the apples to the jar and pour the hot syrup over a second time. If on the day following the syrup looks clear, and the fruit is soft, they may be considered ready for tying down. But there will be no harm in repeating the boiling process once or twice more so as to ensure immunity from mould. CRACKERS. — These are described as thin, dry biscuits, often hard or crisp; but as a matter of fact they are sometimes made thick. The ingredients are simple, being chiefly flour and water, and the quality of the Cracker depends principally upon the quality of the flour. In America they are used more commonly than bread, and the “ dust ” (or finely-rolled crumbs) is invaluable in some kinds of cooking. The following re- ceipts for their manufacture are somewhat similar : (1) Take 1 table-spoonful of lard and butter mixed in equal proportions, 1 pinch of salt, and work this into lqt. of biscuit- flour until the greasiness has all crumbled away. Make a stiff paste of this flour with water, and work the dough under the break (see Biscuits) until it blisters. Roll out thin, cut into biscuit shapes, dock, and bake quickly. (2) Rub l|oz. of butter into lib. of flour with 1 p'nch of salt in it, and add sufficient water to form a stiff dough; work it well with a biscuit-break, and roll it out to about -ijin. in thickness. Cut it into shapes, and bake on a sieve in a moderate oven. (3) Prepare a dough with lib. of flour, 2oz. of sugar, 2oz. of butter, 1 pinch of salt, and sufficient water to make it stiff. Work it well with a biscuit-break until it blisters, roll it out to Jin. in thickness, cut it into shapes, dock, and bake on a sheet in a moderate oven. Crackers in Cream.— Break up some Crackers and spread them over with butter, mustard, salt, and pepper, and put them into a buttered pudding dish; cover over with milk, or milk and cream, and bake in a moderate oven for half-an- hour. Serve hot. Cracker Pudding-.—(1) Put half-a-dozen or so of large soda Crackers into a basin and add jib. of cooking butter, 1 tea- cupful of sugar, and the strained juice and grated rind of two lemons, and pour over only as much boiling water as the Crackers will absorb. Put the yolks and whites of three eggs into separate basins, beat them well, and stir both gently in with the Crackers. Should the pudding re- quire sweetening, add sugar to the eggs before mixing them in. Pour the pudding into a buttered pie-dish, and bake in a moderate oven until done and of a light golden brown; then take it out, and serve. (2) Mix lOoz. of finely-pounded Crackers with 1 wineglassful of sherry, a little salt, half a grated nutmeg, 3 or 4 table- spoonfuls of moist sugar, and 2 table-spoonfuls of warmed