408 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cocoa-nuts—continued. added to it, is a delicious dish. The mature nut is used by confectioners for many purposes of their art, and when rasped and dried, or desiccated, it will keep many years, if stored in a dry place. The notion that the flavour is destroyed lay drying has long since been proved erroneous. The oil expressed from the oily nut (Cocoa-nut oil) can be burned in lamps. Cocoa-nut Balls.—Put 21b. of caster sugar in a saucepan with the milk of a Cocoa-nut, stir, boil until it begins to granulate, then stir in the finely-grated Cocoa-nut, and boil for a few minutes. Turn it into buttered dishes, and when sufficiently cool make it into balls with the hand. Cocoa-nut Biscuits.—Put the whites of two eggs into a basin, beat them to a froth, and stir in gently 4oz. of caster sugar and 2oz. of desiccated Cocoa-nut. With a teaspoon place the mixture on sheets of white paper spread over a baking-sheet, and bake in a cool oven until quite hard, which will take about half-an-hour. Take them out, remove the paper by damping it, and use the biscuits when cold. Cocoa-nut Buns.--Mix with fib. of best flour, by sifting, 1 teaspoonful each of bicarbonate of soda and cream of tartar. Beat 3oz. of warmed butter until creamed with Jib. of caster sugar, add the flour, and mix well; then add one egg, 5 pint of milk, and Jib. of grated Cocoa-nut. Shape the paste into buns, arrange these on buttered sheets, and bake for twenty minutes. Cocoa-nut Cake.—(1) Large.—Beat (-lb. of warmed butter with 1J breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar, and when it is creamy, beat in 3 5 teacupfuls of flour With which has been mixed 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar and 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda; then add a little essence of lemon, the whites of ten eggs firmly beaten, and | pint of milk. Spread the paste about lin. thick on greased tins, and cover the tops with an icing in which the grated Cocoa-nut has been stirred. Pile one layer on the other, allowing a short time for drying, ice the top with plain icing, and sift a little grated Cocoa-nut over it. Bake in a quick oven. (2) Cream fib. of butter with Jib. of caster sugar, by warming and beating; then add eight well-beaten eggs, one small grated nutmeg, and 1 table-spoonful of essence of lemon. When these are well mixed, stir in lightly Jib. of flour and Jib. of grated Cocoa-nut alternately. Butter a tin, pour the mixture in, and bake quickly. (3) Put 1 piled table-spoonful of grated Cocoa-nut on to a sheet of paper, and let it dry for a couple of days, or use Cocoa-nuts—continued. that which is already desiccated. Put .(lb. of caster sugar and Jib. of butter into a basin, warm and beat them to a cream with the hand, and add 1 table-spoonful of milk; then add three eggs beaten quite light, and next Jib. of flour with 1 table-spoonful of baking-powder and 1 tea- spoonful of essence of vanilla mixed in. Beat all these thoroughly, and then add the Cocoa-nut, working this in. Pour the mixture into a buttered and papered tin, bake it in a gentle oven for about an hour, and turn it out. Serve when cold. (4) Beat together Jib. of butter and lib. of caster sugar, mix with them eight eggs which have been previously beaten, and sift in lib. of flour. Dissolve 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar and 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in a little milk, and mix it with the flour and other things. Flavour with essence of lemon or vanilla. Spread a layer of the cake in a buttered tin, then a layer of icing in which there is Jib. of grated Cocoa-nut, put another layer of cake on the top of that, cover the top with icing, and bake in a quick oven. (5) Small.—Work lOoz. of butter and 12oz. of sugar to a cream, add five eggs, and beat well; then add 21b. of flour with Joz. of cream of tartar and Joz. of bicarbonate of soda mixed in; next stir in 4oz. of grated Cocoa-nut, work it well until thoroughly incorporated, and pour in sufficient milk to form a dough. Put this into hoops with paper round the sides, and bake in a moderate oven until done. Serve when cold, with a little grated Cocoa-nut dusted on the tops. (6) Grate two Cocoa-nuts, mix with them the same bulk of caster sugar, 1 breakfast-cupful of flour, and the whites of two eggs. Shape the paste into balls, and bake them for twenty minutes. Cocoa-nut Candy.—(1) Put a little more than 1 teaspoonful of gum arabic into 1 pint of warm water, and dissolve it; then pour it into a saucepan, and add 21b. of sugar and 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and boil for about twenty minutes, or until the sugar is quite brittle, without stirring. Remove the saucepan from the fire, work in lib. of desic- cated Cocoa-nut, and stir well to thoroughly mix them ; then turn the preparation out on to a slightly-buttered baking- dish, spreading it very thin, and let it cool. If desiccated Cocoa-nut is used, about fifteen minutes will be sufficient for the boiling. (2) Put lib. of sugar and a little water into a saucepan over the fire, and boil it for about five minutes ; then add Jib. of grated Cocoa-nut, stir it in, and cook until the sugar arrives at the crack degree (see Sogar-boiling). Turn the preparation out into a tin, mark it in shapes when a little cool, and when it is quite cold, break it into pieces; it is then ready for use. Cocoa-nut Candy Drops.—Boil lib. of caster sugar with about J teacupful of water for five minutes, or till the syrup hangs in threads from the spoon; then put in Jib. of grated Cocoa-nut. Take up table-spoonfuls of the candy, and drop it on a buttered baking-sheet; when cold, take them off the tin by slipping a knife underneath them. Cocoa-nut Caramels.—(1) Put 2qts. of cream or milk into a saucepan on the fire, add the grated pulp of a Cocoa-nut, and boil for a few minutes, stirring continually ; then pour it into an earthenware bowl, cover it over, and let it remain until nearly cold. Strain and press it through a fine sieve into a saucepan, add 81b. of sugar, place the pan on the fire, and stir well until the sugar is dissolved: then add 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar and 6oz. of paraffin-wax, and bring the mixture to the crack degree (see Sugar-boiltng), stirring continually with a spatula or wooden spoon. Pour the mixture on to a greased marble slab, fitted with iron bars, to the thickness desired, and let it stand until quite cold; cut it into bars and again into cubes, wrap these up in waxed paper, and keep them in a cool place until wanted. (2) Put in a saucepan Jib. of chocolate, 21b. of moist sugar. Jib. of butter, and 1 teacupful of milk, and let it stew until thick ; then add one grated Cocoa-nut, and stir until it boils up again; move it from the fire, flavour with 1 table-spoonful of vanilla, and pour into buttered dishes. When it has cooled a little, shape it into balls, and put these on buttered baking- sheets to dry.