308 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Carving—continued. but it may be as well to state bere that as the limbs of all vertebrates, whether beasts, birds, or fishes, are joined to the trunk by ball-and-socket joints (see Fig. 349), they require a dexterous twist of the point of the knife to separate the internal ligament that holds the ball in its place. Other joints of the limbs are hinge joints (see Fig. 350), and some are merely slightly cupped or flat; but the most complicated and troublesome of all to divide are the joints of the vertebra in the backbone, from Fig. 349. Ball-and-socket Joint. head to tail. It is not often that the Carver is called upon to sever these joints, but as it may happen now and then, it is advisable that he should be familiar with their construction. The joints of all animals, whether beasts, birds, or fishes, admit of these types, but, with few exceptions, the Carver is not often required to interfere. Fig. 351 shows one form of vertebrate backbone, and will serve to give some notion how the vertebra bodies are locked together and the overlapping projections called spines, which distract the edge of the knife from the joint underneath. Although these backbones may differ greatly in birds, animals, and fish, yet the principle is the same throughout. The Carver should acquaint himself with what are con- sidered the choice or prime parts of meats, and should then endeavour to give each guest an equal proportion; or, if these parts are limited, as the breast of a chicken, he should serve that to the principal guests, as far as it will go. The Carver should ascertain, before starting to work, that his knives are sharp ; but in order that lie may not be at a loss in this respect at any time of his labours, it is advisable that he should be supplied with a sharp steel, that will act on the edges of the knives, and not pretend to do so only. The sound of knife-sharpening is very un- pleasant to some persons, and by no means pleasing to an}?, excepting as indicating the presence of good cheer and hospitality; but although it might be satisfactorily dispensed with, and not missed in good company, it is, nevertheless, often taken advantage of by John Bull to j call attention to the Carver, and give the host an oppor- tunity of welcoming his guests with a few cordial words, to the tune of the “ switz-switz ” as he stands before the uncovered dish. For cutting horizontal slices it is usual to use a two- pronged fork—all carving forks should be two-pronged— fitted with a spring guard, which should be raised, so as to prevent the knife slipping—as it might easily do in carving Fig. 3S0. Hinge Joint. thin slices—and playing havoc with the Carver’s fingers. The usual spring-guard carving-fork lias the drawback of wearing out. so easily, that whilst the fork is still in its prime, the guard falls spontaneously, or refuses to, stand Carving—continued. up. Several efforts have been made to invent a fork fitted with a guard that should not be subject to this defect; all of these may possess more or less merit, but there are not many that have found their way into the market. One scheme for maintaining the guard in its upright position is a sliding tongue that fits into a nick at the base of the guard, and upon which the finger rests in carving, thus securely keeping it in its place. It is just one of those simple little arrange- ments that have been overlooked for generations, in spite of the glaring defects that have been making themselves painfully conspicuous ever since the first introduction of forks; and then, at a happy moment, the remedy enters the brain of some ingenious gentleman, and the past is wiped out in a new era, and one more step in advance—towards the millennium, perhaps—is made. The foregoing instructions are, of course, incomplete without reference to the special article to be carved; but by consulting the details given hereunder, and bearing in mind the advice we give here, there should be nothing except nervousness or modesty to prevent either man or woman acquiring the knowledge necessary for carving. Practical experience is the next feature to be sought after, and that is generally forthcoming to those who are socially and obligingly inclined. When carving joints, remember that most meats should be cut across the grain of the flesh, and that beef must at all times be cut thin—hot, about Jin., and cold Jin.; mutton should be about Jin. thick, pork and veal a trifle less, and lamb and Fig. 351. Joints of Backbone. sucking-pig as mutton, or thicker, depending to some extent upon the width of the joints. The practice of carving at a sideboard by professional Carvers is now almost universally adopted at banquets or large private houses; but, although this has the great advantage of ensuring the proper handling of the meats, it is not much approved of by artistic cooks, for the orna- mentation of the viand upon which so many pride them- selves is no longer of any use, as the joints, &c., do not come under the immediate view of the diners. For their consolation it may be urged that the diners themselves are also affected per and contra: if they lose the appetising appearance of the dish, concerning which Mr. Corblet amongst other professional cooks sets so much store, they have the advantage of partaking of them neatly and scientifically carved, and quite free from the dangers and perspiring agonies that attend the course of the amateur and incompetent Carver. Let the cook lay out his decorative art on the dishes that grace the table, such as entrees and sweets; then let him be thankful to the professional Carver, who makes the most of the meats, and economises as well: let him honour the Carver as he ought to be honoured, for the Carver holds the credit of the cook in his hands. Beef.—There is not much difficulty in carving large joints of Beef, the cuts being of the very simplest character, and mostly in one direction. For instance, the aitchbone and round require carefully slicing in a horizontal direction, as shown in Fig. 352, a plan that should be carried out so long as there is any of either to carve. When the lower portions are reached, the