356 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Cherries—continued. Put some preserved Cherries on each biscuit, and glaze them over with some rose-pink transparent icing that has been flavoured with kirschenwasser. Set the bouchees on a baking-sheet, put it in a screen of moderate heat, and dry for about ten minutes. The bouchees are then ready for serving on an ornamental dish (see Pig. 438). Cherry Bounce.—(1) To 2jgalls. of Cherry-juice add lgall. of strong syrup. Into jgall. of proof spirit put 2 drachms of oil of bitter almonds, 1 drachm of oil of cloves, and the same of oil of cinnamon; let these dissolve in the spirit, then add the other ingredients and mix well together. This is a grand cordial if well made of good ingredients, and allowed to stand a considerable time. The essential oils have then a chance of blending and confirming the flavour of the com- bination. (2) Take } peck of Morello Cherries and -j- peck of Black- hearts. Stone the Morello Cherries and crack the stones. Put the cracked stones and all the Cherries into a large jar with ljlb. of powdered white sugar, and pour over them a gallon of double rectified whisky. Cork the jar tightly, and in six months it will be ready to pour off and bottle for use, but the longer Cherry bounce is allowed to stand in the jar before bottling, the better. Cherry Brandy. — (1) Francatelli was accustomed to make this cordial as follows : Take the fruit, cut off the stalks to about jin. in length, and put it into glass jars. When the jars are full, take equal proportions of cold 28deg. syrup and brandy and fill up the bottles; cork, tie down tightly with bladder, and put in a cool place to keep. . (2) Take 31b. of Morello Cherries; stone half, and prick the rest. Put them into a jar, adding the kernels of half the stones slightly bruised. Add lib. of white sugar, cover with brandy, and let it stand for a month. (3) Well wipe the Cherries—Morello are best—see that they have no blemishes, not even the slightest scratch or spot, and cut the stalks to half their length. To 3 pints of Cherries allow lqt. of good brandy or rectified spirit of wine, stack the Cherries in bottles, and pour the spirit over them. Keep in a warm place for the first fortnight or three weeks. Sometimes sugar and spices are added, but they are not necessary if the Cherries are ripe. (4) Take 161b. of black Cherries and mash them in a mortar with their stones; add 5galls. of 95 per cent, alcohol. Let the fruit macerate for fourteen days, and then add 101b. of caster sugar dissolved in 3|galls. of water. Filter for use. (5) Carefully pick over the desired amount of Cherries (the Morello variety being by far the best), and see that ripe, sound fruit only is used. Cut off the stalks with scissors to about .jin. from the fruit; do not pull them off or cut the fruit, or the shape and general appearance will be spoiled. Prick the Cherries here and there with a needle. Then stow them layer upon layer in wide-mouthed bottles up to the shoulder, sifting caster sugar over each layer, and drop in a clove as each quarter of the bottle is filled. Fill up the bottles with brandy, and cork down tightly. At the end of a month it will be well to take out the cork, pour off the brandy into a jug, and pour over the fruit j pint of strong syrup. Then return the brandy and cork down again. Some confectioners add a little cochineal colouring to the brandy, to give a brighter hue than could be obtained in the natural way. Gin is sometimes substituted for brandy, but the production is then of a very inferior quality. (6) Mix ingredients in the following proportions : German Cherry-juice, 15 fluid ounces ; pure rectified spirit, 20 fluid ounces; simple syrup, 5 fluid ounces, and a flavouring of bitter almonds. (7) Put into a tub sufficient black Cherries so that when mashed and strained there will be 5galls. of juice. Pour this into a cask and add 2galls. of strong spirits of wine. Put 261b. of sugar into a bowl, pour over 2galls. of boiling water, let the sugar dissolve, and add j pint of brandy- colouring and 1 drachm of oil of cloves mixed with j pint of spirits of wine ; pour this into the cask, and fine by adding first 2oz. of alum dissolved in boiling water, and afterwards loz. of salts of tartar also dissolved. Stir well, and it will soon be ready for bottling. (8) Take some perfectly sound, ripe Morello Cherries, wipe each one separately with a clean cloth, prick each in • Cherries—continued. several places with a fine needle, and cut off the stalks within lin. of the fruit. Put the fruit into quart glass jars or bottles, but only half fill each bottle. Crush some rock-candy quite fine, and blanch some bitter almonds; add to each bottle six of these blanched almonds and 3oz. of the crushed candy then fill up the bottles with the best brandy, cork well, and seal the corks. This will not be ready for use for a month at least. The Cherries may be served for dessert and the brandy as a liqueur. (9) Select large ripe Cherries, cut off part of their stalks, leaving about lin. of it adhering to the Cherry; pack them in jars with a few cloves and small pieces of stick cinnamon in each. Sweeten lqt. of pale brandy, judging the quantity of sugar to be used by the sweetness of the fruit. Pour the brandy over the Cherries, and tie a piece of bladder over each jar. Keep the jars for a fortnight in the sun or in a warm place; at the end of which time the Cherries will be about right for eating. (10) For this, acid, juicy Cherries, such as the Morello, should be selected, and care must be taken to use only quite ripe fruit. Cut off the stalks about jin. from the Cherries, prick the fruit, and put them into wide-mouthed bottles, in layers; sprinkle each layer with finely-crushed loaf sugar, or pour over a little syrup, and to each bottle add a few cloves. Fill up the bottles with brandy, cork down tightly, and let them stand for a month ; pour off the brandy, add about 11b. of sugar-candy to each bottle, pour back the brandy, cork up again, and use when required. (11) Take the stalks from lqt. of Cherries, put them in a jar, and add to them lib. of sugar and a dozen cloves; then pour over them lqt. of whisky. Cover the jar closely, and let it stand for four weeks in a cool place; it must be stirred every day, and covered closely again. After it has stood four weeks, strain it through fine muslin, bottle, and cork it well. (12) Take some large and perfectly ripe Cherries, cut half the stalk off, leaving about lin. to each. Put them into very cold water, let them remain in it for about half-an-hour, take out and lay on a sieve to drain. Allow to every lib. of fruit 4oz. of sugar, clarify it, boil it to large pearl, or to that degree of heat at which little raised balls form on the surface of the sugar (see Sugar-boiling) ; when it gets to that state, put the Cherries into this syrup, and let them boil for a minute or two, stirring them gently. Then take the pan from the fire, and when the syrup cools a little take the Cherries out very carefully with a skimmer, and put them into bottles. Let the syrup in the pan get almost cold, and mix with it 1 j pints of brandy to each lib. of fruit. Put into each bottle twelve cloves and -joz. of stick cinnamon tied in a muslin bag, and fill up with the mixed syrup and brandy. Cork the bottles well. Let them stand for two months; at the end of that time uncork the bottles and taste the Cherries, and if they are sufficiently flavoured with the spice take out the cinnamon and cloves. (13) Put 2qts. of syrup into a saucepan with lib. of Morello Cherries, scald them without cooking, put them into a jar with lqt. each of common rough gin and concentrated essence of Cherries, mix well, and the brandy is ready for immediate use. (14) Wholesale.—Mix 7jgalls. of Cherry-juice with lOgalls. of pure rectified spirit, 2jgalls. of syrup, and j drachm of oil of bitter almonds. For the rectified spirit, whisky that has been deodorised by filtering through charcoal is generally used. The whisky should contain at least 50 per cent, of alcohol. Cherry Bread.—Take about ljlb. of Cherries (Kentish preferred) and pound them in a mortar so as to break the stones. Put the pulp into a preserving-pan witli nearly 1 pint of claret or port, and Jib. of sugar. Allow this to boil upon the stove for fifteen minutes, then rub it through a sieve and pour into a souffle-case. Next, shape out a dozen pieces of crumb of bread into the shape of eggs, and fry to a light brown in clarified butter; drain well, and place them in rows in the puree of Cherries. Shake some fine sugar over the top, put the dish upon a baking-sheet in the oven, and let it simmer for half-an-hour; when done, drop the case on to the souffle-dish, and send to table. Cherry Bread Pudding1.—Take lqt. of milk, put it into a 3-pint jug, and stir into it £ saltspoonful of bicarbonate of