TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 337 Charlottes—continued. (4) Flavour 1 pint of cream with 1 teaspoonful of vanilla and 1 table-spoonful of wine, and whip to a stiff froth. Beat the whites of eig'ht eggs stiff, add fib. of caster sugar, and mix it lightly with the whipped cream ; fill fancy paper cases with cream, ornament each with thin triangles of sponge cake, and a cube of wine jelly. A small part of the cream may be coloured with melted chocolate or cochineal, and used for decoration. (5) Soak foz. of gelatine in f teacupful of cold water till softened. Chill 1 pint of cream in the ice-chest, line a three- pint mould with one dozen of lady’s fingers, or narrow slices of sponge cake, crust side out; leave a little space between the slices, and have the cake even at the bottom of the mould, which will be the top. Whip the cream and skim off into a metal pan set in pounded ice. Sift 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar over the whipped cream, and add 1 teaspoonful of vanilla extract and 1 table-spoonful of wine. Dissolve the gelatine in a teacupfnl of boiling water, and strain through a fine strainer over the whipped cream; then stir (not beat) rapidly with the bowl of the spoon resting on the bottom of the pan. Turn the pan with the left hand while stirring with the right. If it feels lumpy lift the pan from the ice and place it in warm water to melt the gelatine. Stir till the gelatine is well mixed with the cream, and when nearly stiff enough to drop turn it into the mould. Keep it on ice, and when ready to serve turn out, and garnish the top with jelly- (6) Put £ pint of cream in a small saucepan with l|oz. of gelatine and 7oz. of sugar, set over the fire, and beat with a wire egg-whisk till the gelatine is all dissolved; the quicker the better. Pour 1 teacupful of maraschino into 2 pints of cream, then strain in the contents of the saucepan, set the whole in a pan of pounded ice with salt in it, and whip Fig. 410. Charlotte Russe with Whipped Cream. the cream mixture till it begins to set, then pour it into the prepared mould. The mould should be made ready before- hand. A 2qt. jelly or cake-mould will do. Line it with lady’s fingers placed edge to edge, the edges wetted with white of egg. Ornament the top on turning out and garnish round the dish with whipped cream or meringue decorated with half-cherries (see Fig. 410). (7) Place all the ingredients in an ice-chamber, chest, or closet until wanted. Put lOoz. of granulated sugar and thirteen whites of eggs into a brass pan, and beat them together with a wire egg-whisk for about twenty minutes. If beaten rapidly in a cool place the mixture will then be like good cake frosting. Add 2 large teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar and a little vanilla extract, and beat a minute longer; then lay aside the whisk and stir 6oz. of flour in with a spoon. As soon as the flour is quite mixed in the batter is ready, and should be baked forth- with. Lay a sheet of tissue-paper on the largest baking- sheet, spread the cake batter on it just deep enough to hide the paper, and bake about five minutes. Lay the cake downwards on the table, wet the paper, and take it off. Cut the cake into strips that will fit inside some tin muffin-rings and serve as linings, and small pieces to form the bottoms. Small tumblers or cups may answer as well when there are no suitable rings. Fill with whipped cream. (8) Put a little warmed jelly at the bottom of a plain round Charlotte-mould, pack it in ice, and when the jelly commences For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, U M1 v b n; siT Y LiBRARY LEEDS Charlottes—continued. to set decorate that part of the mould with any fruit that may be desired. Pour in more of the warm jelly to cover the fruit and let it set firm. Cut a few savoy biscuits into various shapes, dip them in sweet jelly, and decorate the sides of the mould with them. Put lib. of ripe strawberry puree or jam into a basin, and mix in 1 pint of sweet cream and loz. of dissolved gelatine. Pour this mixture into the cavity in the mould, cover the top over with a tin, pack icc on the top, and let it remain until the whole is set and firm. Turn the Charlotte out of the mould when ready, and serve. (9) Soak Joz. of gelatine for ten minutes in just enough water to cover it. Put 1 pint of rich cream into a bowl and whip it with a whisk into a stiff froth, add to this loz. of powdered white sugar and 1 teaspoonful of essence of vanilla ; then melt the soaked gelatine over the fire, and very carefully pour it into the whipped cream; now beat the white of an egg to a stiff froth, and stir this in, taking care not to beat down the froth. Then take lib. of savoy biscuits or lady’s fingers, split them apart if they are joined, cut the sides of each so that they may fit evenly together, and line a pint Charlotte-mould with them, placing them perpendicularly. Take a dozen candied cherries, dip them in water, and arrange in any pattern at the bottom of a tin. When the whipped cream and gelatine begin to get a little firm, pour them very carefully into the mould so as not to disarrange the wall of biscuits, and put it away in a cool place to harden. When it has become sufficiently firm turn out on to a dessert-dish, being careful not to spoil its shape or to disarrange the cherries on the top. (10) Bake some sponge cakes in very thin sheets, cut them into pieces about lOin. long and 4in. wide, roll these into small cups, and fasten the edges together with white of egg slightly beaten. Soak ^oz. of gelatine for ten minutes in just sufficient water to cover it. Put ^ pint of rich cream into a bowl and whip it with a whisk to a stiff froth, add to this loz. of powdered white sugar, and 1 teaspoonful of essence of vanilla; then melt the soaked gelatine over the fire, and very carefully stir it into the whipped cream. Now arrange the cake-cups on a platter, put a round of ornamental paper under each, and two-thirds fill them with the whipped cream ; when this gets firm, fill up the cups with white of egg beaten to a stiff froth, and put on top of each a lozenge cut from the thin sponge cake. Cover them with a sheet of paper, and put them in the oven for a minute to set the white of egg. Garnish the top of each with candied cherries (see Fig. 411), and serve. (11) Line the bottom and sides of a dome-shaped mould with thin strips of sponge cake or lady’s fingers. Line the bottom first, arranging the pieces to form a star or rosette, then arrange them in an upright position all round the sides of the mould, packing them closely together. Sweeten 1 pint or more of cream, according to the size of the mould, with caster sugar, flavour it to taste with any kind of essence, and whip it to a stiff froth. Pour the cream carefully over the biscuits, pack the mould in thoroughly pounded ice, and leave it for two or three hours. When ready to serve, turn the contents of the mould carefully out on to a fancy dish, and decorate it according to taste with icing, or it may be left plain. (12) Decorate a Charlotte-mould, using for the sides lady’s fingers, with the ends cut square, or small slices of sponge 2 H Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. ^ \