472 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Cream—continued. Harlequin. Cream.—Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of cornflour with a small quantity of cold milk until quite smooth, turn it into a saucepan with J a pint of boiling milk, sweeten it with 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until thick and boiling. Binse out a mould with cold water, and pour in the Cream. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of cornflour into a saucepan, mix it smooth with a little cold water, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of tinned-apricot juice, add 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, and stir it over the fire until thick. Colour the cornflour yellow with a small quantity of saffron dissolved in hot water, and turn it into the mould with the Cream. Prepare more cornflour as last described, sub- stituting red fruit-juice for the apricot, and if not sufficiently coloured using a small quantity of cochineal, and turn it on to the top of the other. Make another lot of cornflour with greengage juice, colour it with spinach green and pour it into the mould with the rest. When quite cold and set, turn the cream out of the mould into a fancy dish, and serve. Harlequin Cream Bars.—Cover the inside of a tin (with edges 2in. deep) with well-greased paper, pour in the required quantity of Cream (prepared as for cream for Chocolate Creams, and flavoured with vanilla), covering the tin to about Jin. thick; let this set, and pour over an equal quantity of the Cream, coloured red and flavoured with raspberry essence, and when this is set pour over more Cream, coloured yellow and flavoured with lemon. Let the cake of Cream thoroughly set, turn it out of the tin, carefully removing the paper, and mask it top and bottom with melted chocolate paste. Put it away to dry and harden, cut it up into bars, and it is ready for use, or it may be packed away in boxes. Imitation Cream.—(1) A fresh egg well beaten up in a basin, and a little hot tea or water poured over it slowly, resembles Cream in flavour and richness. (2) Put | pint of milk into a basin, and beat up with it the yolks of two eggs. Pass this through a sieve into a saucepan and place it on the fire, but do not let it boil; continue stirring, and after a while add 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar to sweeten, and let the mixture cool. It is then ready for use. (3) Put 1 pint of milk and two lumps of sugar into a stewpan, and place it on a slow fire ; when it is warm add the yolks of two eggs, and stir well one way only until quite thick, when it is ready for use. Imperial Cream.—Squeeze the juice of three large oranges into a basin, keeping back the pips, sweeten with 1 table- spoonful of caster sugar, stir until dissolved, and pour it into a glass dish. Put 1 pint of thick Cream into a saucepan, sweeten it with caster sugar, and stir over the fire till just warm. Pour the Cream into a teapot or a similar article, add 1 table-spoonful of orange-flower water, and pour the Cream slowly on to the juice from as high a position as possible, thus making it curdle and look like honeycomb. Serve the Cream as soon as possible, or it will get flat. Indian Cream (Mallie).—Put any quantity of milk into a saucepan over a slack fire, and boil until it is reduced to rather less than half its original quantity. Let it get cold, and it will be as strong and thick as blanc-mange. All the best sweetmeats made in India have this for an in- gredient. Italian Cream.—(1) Add loz. of gelatine to a hot custard made with the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, 3 table- spoonfuls of sugar, and a little salt; put it into the double- boiler, with 1 pint of milk, and place on the fire until it thickens. Well beat the whites of three eggs in a basin, and pour over them the milk and gelatine, which should have been previously strained through a fine sieve. When the ingredients are all properly mixed, add lemon, vanilla, or other flavouring, and pour the mixture into moulds. Then set on ice, or in the cold; turn out when set, and serve. (2) Put the yolks of six eggs into a stewpan, with Jib. of ratafias, the grated rind of a lemon, 1 pinch of powdered cinnamon, J gill of curaijoa, sufficient sugar to sweeten, and 1 pint of Cream. Stir this upon the stove to set the egg yolks, then strain it all through a tammy into a basin, and add another I pint of whipped Cream and loz. of dissolved isinglass; Cream—continued. mix well, pour into a mould, and set upon ice to get firm. Garnish with sweet biscuits (see Fig. 571). (3) Put J pint of milk into a saucepan with 1 pint of Cream, and when it boils add the peel of a lemon or orange to infuse with Jib. of sugar and a little salt; let this remain until the flavour is thoroughly imparted to the Cream, then stir in the yolks of eight eggs, beat all well, and put on the fire again to make it of an equal thickness. When thick enough, and the eggs quite done, add a little isinglass that has been melted in water, and pass it all through a fine cloth or tammy. Put a little in a mould to try, and if it sets well it is done ; if not, a little more isinglass must be added. Pour it into a mould when quite ready, and put it on the ice to freeze. If preferred, the Cream may be whipped before it is put into the moulds, and in that case the isinglass must not be added until the Cream is nearly done. When wanted to be served, dip a cloth into warm water, wipe round the sides of the mould, and turn it out. Fig. 571. Italian Cream. (4) Put the thinly-pared rind of a lemon into a stewpan with J table-spoonful of coriander-seeds and a small piece of stick cinnamon, pour in lqt. of milk, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, boil until reduced to half the original quantity, and leave until cool. Beat the yolks of six eggs and mix with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, stirring in the boiled milk. Strain the mixture through a fine hair sieve into a basin, stand this in a saucepan of water, and stir over the fire. When the Cream is cooked, turn it out of the basin on to a dish, brown it under a salamander or in a brisk oven, and serve. (5) Break two eggs into a stewpan, and gradually beat in 1 teacupful of thick, rich Cream and 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar; then add a few drops of orange-flower water, and stir the mixture over the fire until thick, without letting it boil, or the eggs will curdle. Pour the Cream into a dish that will bear the heat of the oven and can be served at table, place another dish on the top of that, and pack them in hot ashes. When the Cream has quite set, dredge it with caster sugar, and serve when cool. (6) Put loz. of gelatine into a small saucepan, pour over it 1 teacupful of milk, and let it soak for ten minutes; then put the saucepan over a slow fire, stir till the gelatine is com- pletely melted, and draw the saucepan on one side. Into a larger saucepan put lqt. of good, rich Cream, add to it the grated rind of two lemons, about 2in. of stick cinnamon, and Jib. of sugar; let the Cream boil, and then take it from the fire. Put the yolks of twelve eggs into a large bowl, beat them well, and add the milk and gelatine; pour it all into the saucepan with the Cream, and put it on the fire for three minutes, stirring all the time. It must not be allowed to boil, or it will be spoiled. Take the saucepan from the fire, remove the cinnamon, and continue stirring till quite cool. Wet the inside of a mould with cold water, pour the Cream into it, and let it set. When firmly set, turn it out, and serve.