306 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Carrots—continued. Carrots Stewed in Sugar and Cream.—Scrape and clean half-a-dozen or so large, sound Carrots, put them into a saucepan of water, and boil until they are done and nearly all the water is absorbed or evaporated. Mash the Carrots, pour in a little milk, and add 1 table-spoonful of potato-flour, a few dried orange-flowers, and a very little sifted crushed loaf sugar ; stir in sufficient eggs to thicken, using three yolks to two whites, and whipping them well with warmed butter. Heat the mixture in the oven until it is of the required consistence, then turn it out on to a dish, and serve very hot with caster sugar sprinkled over. Curried Carrots.—Scrape and clean the required quantity of Carrots, blanch them, dry them, cut them up into slices, put these in a frying-pan with dripping or butter, and fry them; then sprinkle over a little curry powder, and let them remain until it is all absorbed. Put a little curry paste and milk, or rich broth, into a saucepan, and stir well; put the Carrots in this, and simmer gently until they are quite tender, and all the liquor is absorbed. Turn them out on to a dish, and serve with boiled rice as a garnish or in a separate dish. Fried Carrots.—Clean four or five Carrots, cut them up into slices, and blanch them. Take them out, drain them quite dry, put into a frying-pan with a little butter or dripping, and fry until done. Take them out, drain on a cloth, put them in a vegetable-dish, and serve. Glazed Carrots.—Scrape and wash a few young red-coloured Carrots, cut them up into balls or other shapes, put these into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil them for five or six minutes. Take them out, drain, put them close together into a saucepan with a little butter, pour over sufficient rich gravy or stock to moisten, and dust them over with a little each of mace, sifted crushed loaf sugar, salt, and pepper. Set the saucepan on the fire, boil up, cover the whole over with greased paper, then with the lid, and simmer gently on the side of the fire until the Carrots are quite tender. Boil the liquor quickly for a few minutes, to reduce it, then turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. Hashed Carrots.—Scrape and wash a dozen or so young Carrots, put them for a few minutes in boiling water, take them out, and cut up into slices. Put a slice or two of bacon at the bottom of a saucepan, add a little chopped shallot and parsley, salt and pepper, and pour in sufficient stock or gravy to moisten. Place the Carrots in this, and cook until they are tender ; then put them on a dish. Reduce the liquor, pour it over, and serve. Mashed Carrots.—Scrape some Carrots, cut them in quarters lengthwise, and boil them till tender in broth. When they are done, strain them, rub through a sieve, and season with pepper and salt, and add a piece of butter. Fill some cups or moulds with the pulp, press it down tightly, and then turn them out. This is a very tasty manner of serving Carrots. Plainly-served Carrots.—Scrape some young Carrots, very lightly boil them until they are tender, and then rub off the skins with a cloth. Put them into the saucepan again with a piece of fresh butter, shake them about over the fire until the butter is melted, and sprinkle in a little finely-chopped parsley and salt. Turn them out on a hot dish, and serve. Preserved Carrots.—-Put lib. of ginger into a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil until the water is strongly impregnated with it; then add 31b. of Carrots cut into slices, and boil until they are done and quite tender. Take them out with a skimmer, put them into a deep earthenware pan or dish, pour over the ginger-flavoured water, and let them soak for five or six days, stirring constantly. Put 31b. of sugar and 3 break- fast-cupfuls of water into a saucepan with the juice of three lemoDs, the thin rind of four, and a few thin slices of ginger, and boil to a syrup, skimming well. Remove the skin from the Carrots, wipe them on a cloth, and cook in this syrup for about ten minutes; then remove the saucepan from the fire, and set it on one side for six or seven days. Drain off the syrup, and boil it up, adding another 8oz. of sugar; then boil the Carrots in it for another fifteen minutes or a little longer. Put the Carrots carefully into pots or jars, pour the syrup over them, cover the jars over first with paper dipped in brandy and then with coarse paper, put them in a cool dry place, and let them remain until wanted. Carrots—con tinued. Souffle of Carrots. — Make a thick puree of Carrots, but instead of broth use water to boil them in, with plenty of sugar to sweeten thoroughly, ^ table-spoonful of flour, a little salt, and a pat of butter ; let all this boil till very thick, then add the yolks of six eggs, and mix well together. Before serving, beat the whites of the eggs to a froth, and add to the Carrots, put on a dish, pop into the oven for a few minutes to warm up, and serve very hot. Stewed Carrots.—(1) Scrape some young Short-horn Carrots (frame-grown ones are the best) and put them into cold water for a few minutes ; then put them into a stewpan, and cover with good well-seasoned beef or veal broth. When the broth boils, remove the lid. and let it boil until the stock is reduced and the Carrots are tender, stirring occasionally to prevent them from sticking to the bottom of the stewpan. When done take the Carrots carefully out, put them into a deep vegetable- dish, and pour the sauce over. (2) Take a bunch of young Carrots, or as many as may be required, turn them (that is, trim them), keeping them in their natural shape, and make them all as near the same size as possible, then boil in water for five minutes. Remove them, place them in a stewpan with a pat of butter, a little salt and sugar, moisten with 1* pints of consomme, and set them upon the stove to cook. When done, boil the liquor down quickly to a glaze, and arrange the dish they are intended to garnish. Stewed Carrots and Green Peas.—Scrape, clean, and blanch the required number of Carrots, cut them up into small cubes or dice, put them into a saucepan with a large lump of butter and a little water, and half cook ; then add an equal bulk of green peas, and cook until they are done. Mix in more butter and a little flour, turn the whole into a vegetable-dish, and serve very hot. Young Carrot Soup.—Put three or four dozen young Carrots of an equal size in a basin, pour boiling water over them, and leave for five or six minutes; this done, drain, rub their skins off, and put them in a saucepan with a pinch of sugar, a little salt, and a small piece of butter, and cover them with broth. Let this mixture boil until the Carrots are done and the broth is reduced to a glaze, then pour into them 3qts. of good vegetable broth, and add a small leaf of chervil. Serve very hot in a soup-tureen. CARTON-PATE.—This is literally “ card-paste,” or paste-board, a paste made with cardboard and other ingredients, such as bole, chalk, glue, and size. Being in its fresh state remarkably plastic and pliable, it is used by cooks and confectioners for moulding, being easier to work, and, when dry, much tougher and more durable than plaster, which has obtained for it the name of carton- pierre, or card-stone. Carton-pate can be purchased of any manufacturer of confectioners’ requirements, or may be prepared as follows: Soak in water 21b. of thick white paper or cardboard trimmings until it is quite soft and pulpy ; then drain off the water, put the paper into a large mortar, and work it well with the pestle. Dissolve -jib. of Scotch glue in J pint of warm water, and mix up with the paper ; then turn it out of the mortar into a large crock, and work in by hand 61b. of Spanish white, softening when required with a little olive oil. This paste can be made quite soft by adding more water or oil should it be required for moulding into depressions. Vases, baskets, cups, and a variety of ornamental vessels can be made from this paste by rolling it out on a floured board, as for any other paste, and working either in, upon, or arqund tin moulds previously lightly oiled, and of the desired shape, then dried until hard in the hot closet. Sugar-icing, gum-paste, and an infinite variety of ornamental material can be worked upon Carton-pate. CARVING.—The mere mention of the word “carving” sets the cook to prick his ears; in it he recognises the bete noir of his existence, the destroyer of his peace of mind and the productions of his skill. What boots the beauty and excellent arrangement of his dishes ! To the eye they are beautiful and grand for the moment, but, there comes the ruthless weapon of the amateur Carver— “ Carver,” forsooth !—and then woe to the works of the