416 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Codfish —continued. the flavour as well. Send to table with oyster sauce in a boat. The whole fish or part of it can be served the same way. Curried Cod. —Take off the skin from lib. of Cod, remove the bones, and cut up the flesh into pieces about lin. square. Melt 2-oz. of butter in a saucepan, add a finely-chopped onion, and fry it; then add 1 teaspoonful each of curry-powder and chutney, stir well for a few minutes, pour in I5 tea- cupfuls of white stock, season with \ teaspoonful of salt, and boil gently for twenty minutes, stirring frequently. Now put in the fish, cover over the pan, and toss it over the fire for ten minutes longer, or until the fish is cooked. Care must be taken not to break up the pieces in cooking. Take out the pieces of fish, and put them on a dish; add 1 table- spoonful of cream and 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice to the liquor, pour it over, and serve hot with boiled rice as an accompani- ment. Fillets of Cod a la Hollandaise.—Take as many fillets of Cod as may be required, place them in a well-buttered sauttl- pan, add 1 gill of stock, season with pepper and salt, sprinkle a little finely-chopped parsley over (or lobster coral rubbed through a wire sieve may be sprinkled over half the fillets, the remainder of them being sprinkled with the parsley), and put in the oven with a buttered paper over them (or they can be cooked upon the stove). When ready, dish them up upon a border of mashed potatoes, one green-coloured fillet and one red, in the form of a circle, so that they overlap each other, pour | pint of Dutch sauce over them, and serve. Fried Cod.—Take any piece of a Cod, cut it into slices not thicker than |-in., dust over these a little salt and pepper, and let them remain for two or three hours. Wipe the slices dry with a cloth, dip them first into yolk of egg and then into finely-sifted breadcrumbs mixed with an equal quantity of flour, and well seasoned with salt and pepper, put them into a frying-pan with plenty of boiling fat, and fry them quickly. The tail piece of the Cod is the best for frying, and after the skin and bones are removed cut it into slices and press them flat with a cutlet-bat. Caper or piquant sauce is usually served with this. Fried Cod a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Take as many fillets of Cod as may be required, trim them, and dip them in flour. Next rub some breadcrumbs through a wire sieve, and whisk up two or three eggs, adding a pinch of salt; dip the fillets of Cod in the eggs, pass them through the breadcrumbs, and fry them a golden brown. Build them round upon a fancy dish-paper so that they overlap each other and form a circle, garnish with a bunch of fried parsley in the centre and one at each end, and serve with maitre-d’hotel sauce in a boat. Fried Cod Cutlets.—(1) Take about 2Jlb. of Cod cut into fin. slices across the fish, cut each slice into strips about ljin. wide, and wipe them dry with a clean cloth. Beat up an egg, and have some fine breadcrumbs ready. Bub the pieces of fish lightly with a mixture of salt and pepper, dip them in the beaten egg, roll them in the breadcrumbs till covered, and fry in lard, taking care that they are covered with it, and that the lard is boiling hot when they are put into it. Lard does not boil till the bubbling goes off and it becomes quite still. When the cutlets are done, lay them on a sheet of paper to drain, put them on a dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve at once, garnished with fried parsley. (2) Procure the tail end of a fish, cut off slices about lin. thick, rub them well with lemon, season with salt and pepper, ] dry on a cloth, dip them into yolk of egg, and sprinkle over breadcrumbs seasoned with dried and sifted parsley. Put the cutlets into a frying-basket, and place this in a frying- pan with boiling fat. When the cutlets are done—this can be ascertained by sticking a skewer or fork into one ; if the flesh is firm, it is done—take them out, put them on a strainer to drain, and they are then ready for serving. A little egg sauce may be dished up with them. Fried Cod Cutlets a la Heine.—First prepare the sauce : To 1 breakfast-cupful of good brown beef-gravy, add 1 wine- | glassful of brown sherry, the strained juice of half a lemon, I 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a very little chopped onion (not more than a saltspoonful), 1 teaspoonful of mush- room ketchup (or if preferred, 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sluice), I Codfish—continued. and pepper and salt to taste. Blend in smoothly 1 table- spoonful of browned flour, put the mixture into a saucepan over the fire, stir till it boils, and let it boil for ten minutes, stirring occasionally. Take about 211b. of Cod cut into Jin. slices across the fish, cut each slice into strips about l|in. wide, and wipe them dry with a clean cloth. Beat up an egg, and have some fine breadcrumbs ready. Bub the pieces of fish lightly with a mixture of salt and pepper, then dip them in the beaten egg, roll in the breadcrumbs till covered, and fry in lard, using sufficient to cover them. Take care that the lard is boiling hot when the cutlets are put into it. When the cutlets are fried, lay them evenly over the bottom of a stewpan, pour the sauce over them, and let all get thoroughly hot slowly together, but not allowing them to boil. Take the cutlets up carefully, arrange them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve at once. Fried Cod and Haddock.—Use equal quantities of fresh Cod and haddock. After the fish have been scaled and drawn, split them down the backs, take out the backbones, cut the fish into pieces about 2in. square, season with salt and pepper, and roll in corn-meal. For 31b. or 41b. of fish, slice jib. of salted pork, put it into a frying-pan and brown it, then lay it on a dish and keep hot. If the pork does not yield sufficient dripping, add enough lard to the fat in the pan to cover the bottom to a depth of fin; set the pan over the fire, and when the fat is smoking hot put in the fish and brown it on both sides. Serve it with the fried pork. Fried Cod Steaks. -Choose either the tail or head part of a good-sized fish, cut it up into steaks, dust over a little salt and breadcrumbs, and fry to a light brown in boiling fat; or they may be fried covered with batter. Fried Salted Cod.—Take a clove of garlic, a bay-leaf, and 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced onion, and put them into a stewpan with a little oil; place this on the fire, and fry its contents until the onion is of a light colour; then take out the garlic, and pour in pint of tomato sauce (not very thick). Cut a dry salted Cod in halves, take one half and cut it into good-sized squares, flour these well, and fry them in oil; when done, take them out, drain, put them into the saucepan with the sauce, place the pan by the side of the fire, and let the whole simmer for fifteen minutes, when it will be quite ready to be served. Grilled Cod.—Put 1 pint of sweet oil into a dish, with two onions cut in slices, two bay-leaves in small pieces, a few sprigs of parsley, a little thyme, the strained juice of two lemons, and grated nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste. Clean a Cod, lay it in the above marinade, and let it soak for two or more hours. Take up the fish with as little of the marinade as possible, rub it well with oil, put it on a gridiron, dust it slightly with salt, and broil it on both sides until done. Place it on a dish, and serve with fish sauce. Hashed Cod (American).—Take about 1 teacupful of cooked Cod, pick it to pieces, and put it to soak in cold water for about twelve hours. Boil some potatoes, and mash and work them until they are quite soft. Take the fish out of the water, put it into a chopping-bowl, and mince it very fine ; then add the potato a little at a time, work this well until about five parts of potato are well mixed in with one of fish, season to taste, put it into a pan, and warm it, stirring continually. Have some butter heated in the spider, put the hash into it, press it in firmly, and let it cook gently. When it is brown, turn it out, being careful not to break it, and serve on a dish. Matelote of Cod.—Take a fish weighing about 51b., remove the head and bones, and fill the inside with a stuffing made with j pint of oysters, 1 pint of breadcrumbs, teaspoonful of pepper, 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, one egg, half a large onion, and j table-spoonful of parsley finely chopped. Cut off six good slices of fat bacon, put three of them on the top and the remainder underneath the fish, put the fish on a pan, and bake it in a good oven for an hour, basting frequently with butter and gravy made from the bones boiled in 1 pint of water. Have a little season- ing in the corner of the baking-pan. Take out the fish, put it on a dish, and with its stock make a good gravy, which pour round on the dish.