448 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Cow-heels—continued. Pickled Cow-heels.—Directly the cow has been killed, cut off the feet, throw them into cold water, and let them soak during the night. In the morning, drain and put them in a saucepan, cover with cold water, and boil them till the hair and hoof can be easily removed with a knife. More boiling water should be poured in as the other boils away, so as to keep the feet well covered. Make some brine, strong, but not strong enough to float an egg, and it should not be boiled. When the feet are stripped, put them in the brine at once, and let them remain all night; in the morning, pour the brine away, and cover them with a fresh pickle containing a small quantity of vinegar. Leave them in this brine for two or three days ; they will then be ready for use. Stewed Cow-heel.—Put a nicely-cleaned Cow-heel in a saucepan with four onions, one bay-leaf, two or three cloves, a little salt and pepper, and stew it gently until done; when it is done take off all the meat from the bones, cut it into small pieces, egg and breadcrumb them with highly-seasoned bread- crumbs, and fry them a light brown in butter. Serve the heel with a puree of tomatoes or mushrooms. COWSLIPS.—As a British plant this spring primula (Primula veris) requires but very little description; it can be gathered in April and May. It is not, however, so generally understood that it has any culinary value excepting for the manufacture of the old-fashioned wine. In America there is a species of marsh marigold known by this name, but it more nearly resembles a buttercup in shape and flower. The leaves are sometimes used as herbs for the pot. Cowslips and Cream. —Half fill a small basin with petals of fresh-gathered Cowslip-flowers, and pour over them a thick cream which has been flavoured with sugar and orange-flower water. When well mixed, this is very nice spread on bread or cake. Cowslip Cup.—Put the thin rind of half a lemon into a basin or bowl, strain in the juice, and mix in 2oz. of crushed loaf sugar; then add 1 table-spoonful of brandy, next lqt. of Cow- slip wine, and let it stand for an hour or so. Strain it into another bowl, add 1 pint of broken ice, and a few minutes before serving pour in a bottle of soda water. Cowslip Mead.—This may be called an imitation mead, as honey and not the comb is used in preparing it. Dissolve 51b. of honey in 5galls. of water, and concentrate by boiling until nearly 7i per cent, has evaporated. Skim well, and pour a little of the boiling liquid over five lemons cut in slices. Pour the remainder of the liquid into a tub over 2| pecks of Cowslips and let it remain for at least twelve hours. Now mix the two liquors together, and stir in a little fresh yeast and a small quantity of sweetbriar. Stir frequently for three or four days, strain it, pour it into a clean cask, let it stand for six months, bottle, and use as required. Cowslip Pudding.—Procure J peck of Cowslips, cut off the flowers, put them in a mortar with 6oz. of Naples biscuits, and pound well. Put them in a stewpan with 1 pint of cream and ^ pint of milk, and stir over the fire. Boil them for five minutes. Beat four eggs well with J teacupful of cream and a few drops of rose-water, then stir them in with the . above mixture, moving the stewpan to the side of the fire; sweeten to taste with caster sugar. Butter a pie-dish, pour the mixture into it, and bake until set. When cooked, sift caster sugar over the top, and serve. Cowslip Syrup.—Put Jib. of fresh Cowslip flowers into 1 pint of boiling water and let them infuse for a day; then take them out, strain, add 8oz. of caster- sugar to the liquor, and boil it gently until it is about the consistence of thick syrup. A pleasant mild flavouring. Cowslip Vinegar.—Put lqt. of Cowslip pips into a jar with 3 pints of white-wine vinegar, cork and seal the jar, and let it remain for ten days. Strain, bottle, and cork, and it is ready for use. An excellent addition to the flavour may be obtained by putting in a few sweetbriar-tops, say about three to 2 breakfast-cupfuls of the liquor. Cowslip Wine.—(1) Put 1 bushel of Cowslip pips into a tub with twelve lemons very thinly sliced and a handful or so of the tops of sweetbriar. In the meantime boil 101b. of -glucose For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Cowslips—continued. in 6galls. of water, stir and skim it well, letting it boil for fully thirty minutes, then pour it while boiling into the tub over the Cowslip pips ; let it cool, add 1 breakfast-cupful of sweet white yeast to ferment it, stirring the yeast well up with the water, cover over with a cloth, and leave for a few days, or until it ceases to work. Skim well, drain the liquor into a cask, stir in Joz. of saffron flowers, fine with 2oz. of soaked and dissolved gelatine, bung up the cask, and in about six months’ time the wine will be fit for bottling. (2) Boil 351b. of lump sugar in lOgalls. of water for half-an- liour, with a handful each of borage, balm, and sweetbriar. Let this cool, then take out the briar, balm, and borage, put the liquor into a cask with the rinds of twelve oranges and twenty-four lemons, thinly peeled, squeeze in the juice of the oranges and lemons, and add 2galls. of fresh or 3galls. of dried Cowslip-heads. Stir the wine each day for a week, dip a piece of toast in yeast, put it in the wine, and leave it for a week to ferment; add lqt. of brandy, cork the cask tightly, and let it remain untouched for two months. Draw it off and bottle for use. Crystallised Cowslips.—Gather the Cowslips when full-blown, wash gently, and then place them in a screen to dry. Cut the stems to within 2in. of the heads, and put the heads on the wire tray of a crystallising-tin, pushing the stalks through the holes so that the flowers shall be upright: when the tray Fig. 535. Crystallised Cowslips. is full, put it in the tin, and fill up with crystallising syrup, pouring it in round the sides and not over the flowers, and proceed as described under Crystallising. When dry the flowers may be arranged in baskets (see Fig 536), or used for ornamenting sweets and other dishes. Dried Cowslips.—Let the flowers be freshly gathered whilst the heat of the midday sun is upon them, and then by slow degrees of heat they can be dried in an oven. In this state they will keep in a dry place for a considerable time, and answer quite as well every purpose of the freshly-gathered flowers. Infusion, of Cowslips.—Take loz. of fresh, or half the quantity of dried, Cowslips, and put them into a vessel containing li pints of boiling water. Close the vessel tightly and let it remain for thirty minutes, and then it will be ready for use. It makes a plqasant tea. CRABS (Fr. Crabes ; Ger. Krebs).—The important tribe of sliell-fish to which Crabs belong is one of the largest described in natural history, and its varieties are legion. Happily for this Encyclopaedia, the tastes of men have not led them beyond the utilisation for food of a very few kinds, and these are the hard-shell red (see Fig. 536) and hard-shell blue (see Fig. 537), the first being found on British shores, and the second (the more highly prized) on the coast of the Atlantic. When these Crabs lose their shells, as they do periodically, they have soft shells for a time, and are then subject to special culinary treatment. The oyster-crab (see Fig. 538) is almost too small to be of any value as food, although epicures have pronounced the flavour very delicious. It Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads.