395 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. tor details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Citron—continued. Clams—continued. Turn it into a mould and pack it in pounded ice and rock- salt for a few hours. When ready to serve, dip the mould into warm water, wipe it, then turn the cream out on to a glass dish. White Citron Cake.—Warm 12oz. of butter with 14oz. of caster sugar, and add the whites of fourteen eggs, one at a time, and lib. flour. Beat all thoroughly together, and mix in the grated rind and juice of one lemon, and ^ teacupful of milk; then mix in lib. of candied Citron cut in fine shreds. Line a cake-tin with buttered paper, pour the mixture in, and bake for about one hour. CITRONAT.—This very delicious liome-made liqueur is made extensively in France, and may be prepared here with advantage to the lover of such drinks. The following is an excellent receipt for it: Put 2oz. of lemon-peel into a stone jar or bottle, and add 5 drops of oil of orange, 3 drops of oil of bergamot, 5 drops of oil of amber, and 1 pint of spirits of wine. The oils should be dissolved in the spirits of wine before adding. Let it macerate for from three to five weeks. Filter it, and then add 2 pints of water and 1 pint of capillaire. Colour with a little infusion of sunflower or French berries and the tinctures of saffron and turmeric, to make it a strong yellow, and bottle. CITRONELLE.—-The French name for a herb com- monly known as “ Balm-gentle,” which probably at one time entered into the composition of the cordial known by this name. Modern custom has apparently rendered its omission or substitution unimportant. The two follow- ing receipts for making the Citronelle cordial vary considerably in their ingredients. (1) Put the peel of thirty-four oranges and £ drachm each of nutmegs and cloves into stone jars or bottles with 4qts. proof spirits of wine, and let them macerate for four or five weeks, giving the jar a shake frequently. Distil or filter it, dissolve 2 jibs, of sugar in it, add lqt. of water, colour it by adding an aqueous infusion of sunflower, French berries, and the tinctures of turmeric and saffron, and bottle it. (2) Peel some vegetable marrows, cut them into halves, scrape out the seeds, and cut as many small square pieces as will weigh Gibs; then take 3jlbs. of powdered white sugar, and put this and the vegetable marrow into a basin or large bowl in alternate layers, letting them stand all night. By the next day the sugar will have become syrup ; pour this from the marrow into a preserving-pan, put it on the stove, and stir it till it boils; then pour it over the marrow again, and let it stand all night. Next day grate over the rind of three lemons, and add also the strained juice of the lemons. Put all into a preserving-pan, and add a teaspoonful of essence of ginger; place the pan on the fire, and stir till it boils; then draw to the side, and boil very slowly for thirty minutes. When cool, pour it into bottles and cork tightly, waxing and capsuling them if required to keep. CIVET.—A French term evidently derived from cives (small onions), and applied to savoury ragouts of bare and other game, rabbit, &c., into the composition of which wines and onions enter amongst other savoury ingredients. For receipts see Hare, Rabbit, Venison, &c. CLAMS.—Technically, this familiar name applies to j a very large assortment of bivalves, all probably more or less of the same species, but varying in shape, size, and colour more from circumstance of place and con- dition than from distinction of family. Almost, if not quite, all Glams are edible, passing from the giant Clam of the Pacific (Tridacna gigas), which has been known to weigh with its shells over 5001b., and the fish upwards of 201b., to the humble British mussel. The common Clam of America (Unga arenaria) (Fig. 477) chiefly demands our attention, as it is that to which the following receipts refer. As a food, when nicely and tastily prepared, it is pronounced very delicious, and although it is occasionally met with on the British coast, those supplied to us in tins from America answer every purpose, and fill up what would otherwise prove a serious gap in our culinary supplies. The Clam submits graciously to every form of cooking that the clever cook can devise for shell-fish, but far above all in the estimate of a true-born American stands the immortal Clam chowder. Fig. 477. Clam. The following receipts have been carefully collected from the best American and other sources, and although the terms “soft,” “hard,” and “little-necked” Clams are mentioned, the same style of cooking will answer for all, or any; but the little-necked Clams are usually eaten raw, like oysters. Clam Cliowcler.—(1) Take i peck of bard or soft Clams, remove them from their shells, cut the soft parts free, and chop the rest quite fine. Put the chopped parts into a deep kettle, with water enough to cover them, and boil them gently until they begin to grow tender. In the meantime peel and slice two onions, six potatoes, and 1 pint of tomatoes, and soak lib. of hard biscuits in milk, or crackers may be used without being soaked. When the chopped Clams are tender, take them out of the kettle with the skimmer, and put in all the other ingredients in layers, alternating with the Clams, and using the soft parts in addition. Season each layer with salt, pepper, and a little powdered thyme, savory, and sweet marjoram, and pour over enough cold water to entirely cover the chowder. Place the kettle over the fire where the chowder will boil gently for about twenty minutes; then see if the potatoes and onions are tender. As soon as they are done, test the seasoning of the chowder, make it to taste, and serve. (2) Take about Goz. of pork, cut it up into small slices, put these into a 2qt. stew-pan, and either fry or bake until they are of a light-brown colour. Put about 21b. of raw and sliced potatoes, Rb. of onions cut into slices, and 2 breakfast- cupfuls of Clams in layers on the pork; add 1 pint of milk and Clam-liquor (which has been previously strained) in equal parts, a teaspoonful of salt and half the quantity of pepper; then put a breakfast-cupful of broken crackers on the top, and bake until the potatoes are done, which will take a little more than an hour. Moisten the top with a few table-spoonfuls of the Clam-liquor, and put a piece of oiled or buttered paper on the top, to prevent burning. Clain-Cliowcler Soup. -(1) Take four or five dozen fine Clams, open them, cut up the flesh, and put them into a well- buttered stewpan ; then add six minced blanched onions, tw-elve potatoes, peeled and cut into dice, a bunch of sweet herbs, a taste of nutmeg, pepper, cayenne, mace and salt, pour in sufficient fish-broth and wine to cover the whole. Put the pan on a brisk fire, and boil for thirty minutes; then remove it to the side of the fire, and add a bottle of red wine to the broth. Thicken with a piece of butter