372 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, (be., referred to, see under their special heads. Chiffonnade—continued. same, and so also is Spring Soup, or Potage Prin- TANIER EN CHIFFONNADE. Cliiffonnade (for Soups).—Chop well together half a head of lettuce, | handful of sorrel, a few branches of chervil, and a little parsley. Put it in soups five minutes before serving. Chiffonnade Soup.—Wash well, drain, and chop up very fine lqt. of sorrel with the green leaves of a lettuce-head. Brown in a saucepan, with 2oz. of butter and a sliced onion, seasoning with | table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Moisten with 3 pints of white broth, add a handful each of peas, string beans, and asparagus-tops, and boil for three- quarters-of-an-hour with loz. of butter. Serve with five or six slices of toasted bread. CHILIAN WINES. — Although hut little known in the markets of the world, there are few better wines than those produced in the New World. The Spanish settlers first introduced the vine into Chili, and it suc- ceeded so well that the consumption of wine became general, and wine-making a very important branch of com- mercial industry. To the French the Chilians are much indebted for the introduction of cuttings of the Burgundy and Bordeaux vines, which have succeeded so well that large quantities of the estimable wines of those names are now produced in Chili in preference to the Spanish introduction. White wine is not much in demand in Chili, although the quality when produced is admittedly superior to the red; but the working-classes are much addicted to a species of lightly-fermented wine called Chacoli, which is either white or red. Mosto is a purely native wine, and finds a ready sale along the coast. CHILLIES.—See Capsicums. CHINA CHILO.—See Mutton. CHINE.—The origin of this word is due in a measure to the French echine, signifying the spine or that part of the bony back of an animal that contains the spinal marrow. In trimming ribs, or a loin, it is usual to chop off what butchers call the chine-bone; but as they are also in the practice of weighing the meat before removing this chine, it is only just that the bone should be delivered with the meat, as a contribution to the stockpot. CHINESE TEAS.—See Tea. CHINESE WINES.—A variety of alcoholic liquors are manufactured in China, which may either be classified as wines or beers; they are made from rice, millet, wheat, beans, and kwe-kwa flowers, and of these the rice-wines are by far the more important. These may be either light or dark-cploured, according to kind and quality. See Rice. CHINGARA, A LA—This is a corruption of the word Zingara, signifying gipsy. Chingara Cutlets.—Flatten the cutlets and trim them neatly, put them into a stewpan with a lump of butter and some pieces of ham, season, and fry them. Cut some slices of tongue, a l’ecarlate, the same size as the cutlets, and glaze them. When ready, arrange the cutlets on a hot dish, with a piece of the glazed tongue on each, pour over them some brown gravy made with the glaze from the cutlets, and serve. CHINGTJIRITO. —A common Mexican beverage, upon which the natives are easily intoxicated, very much to their bodily hurt. It has been affirmed that no alcoholic drink in the world is so injurious. CHIPOLATA.—This term is derived from a species of onion known in this country as Chibbal, and in France as Ciboule, a sort of chives, and applied to a very delicious ragout. In the Italian language the ci is sounded as chee, hence the transition from Cipolla, as Chipolla to Chipolata is easy. A favourite Italian dish Chipolata—continued. is Perdreaux a la Chipolata, a kind of highly-seasoned game sausage, which is used for dressing other dishes of game; but the fact that some cooks have introduced chestnuts into the Chipolata stuffing for turkeys has caused some confusion in the signification of the term. CHITTACKS.—The name given to certain American cakes, or biscuits, at one time held in high favour. CHITTERLINGS.— Correctly speaking, these are the small intestines of any animal, those of the pig being used chiefly as skins for small sausages. In this way the term has come to be applied to some sausages, but it is not often used amongst high-class cooks. Chitterlings a la Pranpaise.—Steep in water an equal quantity of calf’s pluck and pig’s pauncli, wash them well, and boil them in plain water for two hours. When cooked, drain, refresh, and wipe them ; then cut them into small pieces, put them in a basin, add some cooked fine herbs, season highly with spices and salt, and moisten with a small quantity of white wine. Have ready some well-soaked and washed fat pig’s intestines, fill them with the above mixture, and tie up the Chitterlings in Vin. or 8in. lengths. Prick the Chitterlings, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, with some salt, vegetables, and a bunch of sweet herbs, and simmer gently for two hours ; then take the saucepan off the fire, and leave the Chitterlings in their cooking liquor till half cold. Drain them, wrap them in a cloth, and press them between two dishes till quite cold. Broil the Chitterlings over a clear fire for nearly half-an-hour, turning them constantly; then put them on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. CHIVES.—Another name for this very useful flavour- ing is Cives, which gives to it the idea of an Italian origin. It was formerly called Cive in the French language, but it is known by more modern French Fig. 453. Chives. cooks as Ciboulette and Civette, and in Italian as Stame, a sort of chipolette, or small onion. Spanish cooks give Great Britain the credit of the origin of its production, and in pursuance of this idea—which is not strictly