275 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tic., referred to, see under their special heads. Calf—continutd. with salt and pepper, plunge into well-beaten egg and then into breadcrumbs, and fry in a stewpan with a little butter until done. Put a mince of mushrooms in the centre of a dish, place the slices of kidney round, cover over with a few table-spoonfuls of Colbert sauce, and serve. (2) Cut a Calf’s Kidney in slices, season it with salt and pepper, put it into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry quickly until set. Remove the pan from the fire, add a little lemon-juice, a few table-spoonfuls of glaze, and a little chopped parsley, and toss the pan frequently to thoroughly mix them. In the meantime mince six onions, and fry them over a moderate fire with a little butter and a bay-leaf; when they are a good colour, season with salt and pepper, add a little pinch of sugar, sprinkle over with flour, add £ pint of gravy, and finish cooking. Put this onion ragout on a hot dish, leaving a hollow in the centre, pour the kidney mixture in the centre, and garnish with a few croutons of fried bread, glaze with a paste-brush, and serve. Minced Calf’s Kidneys on Crofttons.—Cut some slices of bread, about |in. thick, from a household loaf, and fry them in a little butter. When done, take them out, drain them, and cut out a little of the centre. In the meantime remove the skin from a Calf’s Kidney, and put into a stewpan to cook. When done, remove all the fat, and cut it up into small pieces. Put an equal bulk of cooked mushrooms, with a little bechamel sauce, in a small pot, add a little minced ham and melted glaze, and reduce this to a thick cream. Work in the kidney mince, warm it up, grate a little nutmeg over, and fill the croutons with it. Smooth the tops with a knife, then sprinkle them with breadcrumbs, pour a little warmed butter over, and glaze with a salamander. They should be arranged on a folded napkin laid on a dish, and served very hot. Omelet of Calf’s Kidney.—Chop up what is left of the kidney of a cold roasted loin of veal. Put eight eggs into a basin, season with pepper and salt, pour in a few drops of water to melt the salt, and beat well. Mix the chopped kidney with the eggs. Put a lump of butter in an omelet-pan, melt it, and then pour in the omelet mixture. Tho pan should be continually turned, and not kept too close to the fire. Gather up the edges of the omelet, and roll it before it is too much cooked: the middle part should always be mellow. Turn tho omelet quickly on to a hot dish, and^ serve. Calf’s Lights or Lungs.—It cannot be said that there is much demand or culinary use for this offal, unless it be for invalids whose tastes are occasionally governed by faith and eccentricity. For those whose inclinations lead in this direction, two famous receipts are appended, and others will be found under Calf’s Pluck. Calfs-Iiig-lits Broth, for Invalids.—This medicinal broth is of very ancient notoriety. Well wash the lights (lungs) of a freshly-killed Calf; cut them in largo pieces, put them into a saucepan with 6 breakfast-cupfuls of water, and cook until reduced to one-third the original quantity. Now add six dates, four large figs, |oz. of raisins, and six jujubes, and boil for ten minutes longer. Remove the pan from the fire, put (in £oz. each of the following medicinal herbs: maidenhair fern, ceterach, polytrichum, scolopendrium, and polypody; let these infuse for about ten minutes, with the pan covered over; pass the liquor through a fine cloth, and it is ready for use. Taken warm, a little in the morning and evening, this broth is considered to be a capital drink for diseases of the chest. It may not always be possible to get the herbs named, in which case it is probable others might be substituted. Stewed Calf’s Lights and Liver.—Boil half of a Calf’s Lights in salted water; drain it, wipe with a cloth, and cut in thin slices. Cut half a Calf’s Liver in the same way. Finely chop three large onions, put them into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry gently; season the onions with salt and pepper, and when they are nicely browned, add the lights, and cook them over a slow fire till all tho moisture is reduced ; then put in the liver, season it, and fry over a quick fire. When cooked, put in with the liver, &c., 1 teaspoonful of finely-minced parsley and a small quantity of the best vinegar. Turn the stew on to a hot dish, and serve. Calf—continued. Calf’s Liver.—Those who are addicted to the eating of liver will appreciate that of the Calf above all others. It should be cut into slices about ^in. thick, and thoroughly washed, dried, and floured before using. The flesh is close and dry when cooked, and therefore requires some qualifying material to be served with it, such as bacon. Baked Larded Calf’s Liver with Onions.—Take about one-third as much bacon or salted pork as you have liver, cut it in thin strips tho size of a pencil, and draw it through the liver with a larding-needle; the strips should be very close together, and done in such a manner that the slices can be cut across them after cooking. Put the liver in a baking-dish with plenty of veal- or beef-dripping, lay a sheet of greased paper on the top, and bake for half-an-hour or more, according to size. When cooked, cut the liver in slices, put them on a hot dish, pour onion sauce over, and serve. Bewitched Calf’s Liver. — Chop finely 31b. of liver with lib. of salted pork. Mix with it 1 breakfast-cupful of grated breadcrumb, 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, 2 teaspoonfuls of black pepper, 1 saltspoonful of red pepper, and two well-beaten eggs. Mix all together, put it into a tin mould, and tie a cloth over the top; stand it in a saucepan with some cold water, and let it boil for two hours. Take the mould out of tho water, put it in a moderate oven to dry. When cold, turn the contents on a dish, and serve. Braised Calf’s Liver. — (1) Remove the skin, spleen, and gall from a very white Calf’s Liver; interlard it inwardly with some well-seasoned fillets of ham and fat bacon: the larding should be done in such a way that tho fillets do not cross the top surface. Put the liver in a basin with some trimmings of truffles, a bay-leaf, a few sprigs of parsley and thyme, and a little salt and spices. Let it remain in this for two hours, then wrap the liver and seasonings up in a large piece of pig’s caul, and tie it securely with string. Place a good-sized lump of lard in a stewpan, and when boiling put the liver in ; fry it for fifteen minutes, then put the lid on the stew- pan with some live embers on the top, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and braise the liver for one hour, turning it every now and then. Peel and scald two dozen small onions and two dozen small carrots, put them in with the liver, the onions on one side and the carrots on the other, sprinkle in a little salt, put the lid on the stewpan again, with a fresh supply of live embers on the top, and finish cooking by tho side of a moderate fire for another hour. Take out the liver, drain it, put it on a hot dish, and arrange tho vegetables tastefully round it. Skim the fat off tho cooking-liquor, mix with it 1 wineglassful of white wine and a little gravy, boil quickly till reduced to half, then mix with it a little brown sauce, and stir over the fire a few minutes longer. Sprinkle in a little pepper and salt, strain the sauce, pour it over the liver, and serve. (2) Procure a fine white Calf’s Liver, lard the upper side of it with well-seasoned strips of bacon, and put it in a sauce- pan with some trimmings of veal, turnips, carrots, two or three thin slices of bacon, two or three shallots, a clove of garlic, bottle of white wine, and some broth. Cover with thin slices of bacon, put on the lid, with some live embers on the top, and let it cook slowly. When done, put the liver on a hot dish, strain the gravy through a colander, then boil it till reduced to one-half; thicken it with a little flour, pour it over the liver, and serve. Broiled Calf’s Liver -with. Bacon.—Take a white, tender, fresh Calf’s Liver weighing l|lb., pare and trim off the hard portions, cut it into six equal-sized slices, and put them on a dish. Season with 1 table-spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of sweet oil; mix well together. Broil for a few minutes on each side, arrange the slices on a hot dish, and decorate with six thin, crisp slices of broiled bacon. Spread over the whole 1 gill of maitre-d’hotel butter, and serve very hot. Calf’s Liver a la Brochette.- Cut lib. of liver into thin slices, then take the same number of slices of bacon, and cut all in square dice; arrange them on skewers, a piece of liver and a piece of bacon alternately, till the skewers are full. Sprinkle pepper over them, put them in a dripping- pan in the oven, and turn them over several times while 2 D 2