THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 433 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Cfee., referred to, see under their special heads. Cooks and Cooking—continued. in the confusion that often exists between the words roast and roost. The “ ruler of the roast ” might be the ruler of the roost, according to Chaucer, for he has written, “ A fat swan loved he best of any roost.” Whether, therefore, the name “ Cook ” is synonymous with “ cock ” or not, or roast with roost, concerns us no longer. The term Cook and “ to cook ” conveys to our modern intelligence such a profundity of meaning that we need to consider the art and its professors as we find them to-day, rather than waste precious time in seeking for their origin. Athenseus describes a Cook in very absolute terms. He wrote : To waste some beef, to carve a joint with neatness, To boil up sauces, and to blow the fii-e, Is anybody’s task; he who does this Is but a seasoner and broth-maker. A. Cook is quite another thing-. His mind Must comprehend all facts and circumstances, Where is the place, and what the time of supper; Who are the guests, and who the entei-tainer ; What fish he ought to buy, and where to buy it. From which some idea may be gathered of the duties ascribed to the chef de cuisine; but, with the exception of those whom we may consider masters of their art, such accomplishments are rarely to be found. It would be out of place here to declaim against the sad ignorance that exists amongst Cooks; we should rather sympathise with those from whom big things are expected from slender means and still slighter attain- ments. How are our Cooks to learn ? Not from the multitude of cookery books, surely, for they can but convey confusion to the student ; not from classes, for in these the members are generally taught that which is beyond either their abilities or necessities, omitting the plain elementary instruction which is so lamentably lacking amongst the Cooks who are entrusted with the care of our kitchens and the providing. It must not be supposed from the foregoing remarks that there are no such practitioners as “ good plain Cooks ” to be found, for experience tells us that there are some about if you can manage to find them; but the difficulty is to define a good plain Cook, hence the title has been assumed by those who know little or nothing of the art, to the detriment of those who are better informed. By the establishment of a system of examinations and diplomas, good Cooks would be speedily sorted out and the duffers exposed. Such a system should be supported by all those who employ Cooks, and then none should be engaged unless they are duly certificated, either as first, second, or third class. Professional Cooks have been treated with great defer- ence in this and all other civilised countries, and have reached honours and incomes that provoke much jealousy. Some have accordingly invested their art with a cloak of mystery, lest others should learn it, and, perhaps, sur- pass them; and others have used the same garb to conceal their own ignorance. Happily a much better state of culinary affairs is being developed by such genuine professors as those numbered on the staff of this Ency- clopaedia, and the desire to improve the tone of the profession by freely imparting to others the knowledge they have spent lives in acquiring, marks an era in the advance of Cookery. Cookery has not been developed in a day: it has had its infancy, like every other giant, and has grown to what it now is by careful training and the accumulations of ages. It has had its dark days, when superstition, prejudice, vulgar pretension, and humbug have borne it down; but we may now generously assume that it has at last shaken itself clear, as shown by the teachings given in this book, and may soon be expected to stand forth great and glorious as a full-grown imperishable art. Cooks and Cooking—continued. In spite of the deference paid to the Cook, these worthy persons have not always been treated well. Grimod de la Reyniere observes compassionately of them : “ We enjoy the result of their toils without considering the cost of the ineffable enjoyment they procure for us, and without reflecting that they only derive, from their incessant exer- tions, impaired health and means of subsistence that are often precarious and almost always moderate. They spend their best days in heat and obscurity, and their last in poverty too often bordering on destitution.” Of course, there are exceptions to this rule, and amongst these we may mention Vatel, Laguipiere, Careme, Bernard, Urban Dubois, Gouffe, Ude, Francatelli, Soyer, and many others; but these exceptions only go to prove the rule. Neverthe- less it is within the bounds of possibility that many of our existing culinary artists will soon be enabled to emerge at will from obscurity, and receive the great honours that are due to their extraordinary skill. Of the many triumphs of the culinary art abundant examples will be found amongst the pages of this Encyclopaedia, and it will be observed that simplicity and economy are the spirit of artistic cookery—that some of the very tastiest and most exquisite dishes are the easiest prepared, and the least expensive. Francatelli wrote : “ Simplicity is as essential an element in cookery as it is in other arts.” Excess in the quantity of spices and condiments is the bane of English cookery. Soyer protested strongly against culinary extravagance, though he was in his practice perhaps the most extravagant cook that ever lived, as witness the celebrated hundred- guinea soup. Urban Dubois believes that there is more extravagance and waste in a badly-conducted middle- class kitchen than in the whole array of a royal kitchen, with its numerous and varied demands. This should not be so, nor will it remain so, provided due attention be paid to the numerous articles on the various culinary processes, accompanied by practical receipts, with which we are herein surrounded. In time to come, it is to lie hoped that the words of Brillat-Savarin may find ample verification: “ All should profit by the aid of the cook— except the apothecary.” COOKIES.—A variety of small, flat, sweet cakes, highly esteemed in America. They are there made in almost every household, and give a sort of tone to the family by their quality. The term is evidently derived from the German kuchen or the French Provencal couques. The following receipts have been supplied to us by American pastrycooks. Cookies are best kept stored in tin boxes with closely-fitting lids. (1) Beat 7oz. of warmed butter with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar, and when creamy sift in 5 breakfast-cupfuls of flour. Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of saleratus (ammonia) in Fig. 512. Cookies. 1 table-spoonful of milk, add it tojthe flour, with one beaten egg, and flavour to taste. Boll the dough out thick, divide into little cakes, and bake on buttered baking-sheets (see Fig. 512) for about ten minutes. (2) Cream 4oz. of butter by beating it in a dish, add |lb. of caster sugar, 1 table-spoonful of milk, and one beaten egg; mix 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder with 1 teacupful of flour, sift 2 o