THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 415 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <&c., referred to, see under their special heads. Codfish —continued. chopped mushroom?, four shallots, a handful of parsley, both chopped very fine, a little grated nutmeg, and pepper and salt to taste ; stir the whole on the fire until cooked, and then add 1 gill of thick brown sauce. Having covered the Cod with this, sprinkle over it some breadcrumbs previously browned in a saute-pan, and put it in the oven for three- quarters-of-an-hour ; then take the Cod from the pan and put it on the dish on which you are about to serve it. Add f pint of good fish stock, bring to the boil, strain into a sauceboat, and serve with the Cod. Cod au Gratin with Cream.—(1) Take the tail piece of a fresh Cod, clean and score it, and boil in salted water, with a little parsley. When it is quite done, drain it, wipe it with a napkin, open down the back, and remove all the bones, breaking the meat into pieces. Place these pieces in layers on a gratin-dish, and between the layers put a little bechamel sauce slightly reduced with cream but still pretty thick, and finished at the time with a piece of butter and a little grated nutmeg. Sprinkle a few breadcrumbs or grated Parmesan on the top layer, and brown it, either with a salamander or by putting it into the oven for a few minutes. (2) Put loz. each of butter and flour into a saucepan, stir over the fire until well mixed, add 1 teacupful of milk, and boil for a few minutes ; add a little cayenne, nutmeg, and pepper, and J teaspoonful of salt, and boil up again ; lastly adding the yolks of two eggs, one at a time, stirring vigorously as each one is added. Have ready lib. of Cod’s-flesh picked in flakes, put this into the pan, and toss frequently until it is quite hot. Turn the whole out in a heap on a hot dish, sprinkle over about 3oz. of fried breadcrumbs, and serve. Cod Balls.—Remove the bone from a piece of fish, make the weight up to 6oz., soak it a little while in cold water, put it into a saucepan with water, and boil for half-an-hour. Look it well over when boiled in case of any small pieces of bone being left, and then pound it to a pulp. Boil lib. of potatoes, and when quite done and soft strain and mash them up with the fish, adding 1 table-spoonful of butter (melted) and one egg. Take out some of the fish, &c., make it into balls or flat pieces (having the hands well floured), throw these into a frying-pan with plenty of boiling fat, and fry till of a light brown colour. Cod Broiled as in Turkey.—Rub some slices of Cod over with salt and flour; then grease a gridiron with olive oil, place the fish upon it, and set it over a moderate charcoal fire, turning it constantly till browned on both sides. Put a layer of finely-chopped onions and parsley at the bottom of a hot dish, and when the slices of fish are cooked lay them upon it. Garnish with cut lemons, and serve while very hot. Cod Cake.—Remove the skin and bone from a piece of fish weighing about lib., being careful not to break it up into too small pieces. Put 2oz. of butter in a stowpan ; when it is melted put in 1 teaspoonful of flour, set the pan on the fire, and stir it frequently for about three minutes; then add a teacupful of milk, and salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste, and keep the pan on the fire until it boils, then putting in the fish, stirring constantly. Cut two hard-boiled eggs into eight pieces each, put them in the sauce with lib. of finely- mashed potatoes, stir them all together, pile up on a dish, and put into the oven for a few minutes to brown; or use a salamander. Garnish the dish with slices of hard- boiled eggs. Cod Chowder.—Bone and clean a small fresh Cod, and cut it into thin slices. Put a layer of thin slices of fat pork at the bottom of a stewpan, then a layer of sliced onions with a mixture of sweet herbs, and then some of the slices of Cod, which cover with a layer of biscuits. Nearly fill the stew- pan with alternate layers, season with salt and pepper, and pour in about lqt. of water; then put on the lid, solder round the edges with water-paste to keep it air-tight, put hot ashes on the top, renewing them occasionally, and stand the pan over a slow fire. In about four hours the chowder will be cooked. Skim it well, turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. Cod Omelet. - Break into small pieces the thickest parts of a cooked Cod, and season with a little grated nutmeg and Codfish—continued. pounded mace ; beat up six eggs and mix with this, forming it into paste, which fry as an omelet, and serve as hot as possible. Cod-and-Oyster Pie.—Remove the skin and bone from 21b. of cooked Cod, and divide the flesh into flakes. Scald a dozen oysters in their own liquor, drain (reserving the liquor), beard them, and cut in halves. Put loz. each of butter and flour into a saucepan, stir well over the fire for a minute or two, pour in the oyster liquor and 1 teacupful of fish stock, stir well until they boil, and add 1 teacupful of milk; then boil up once more, taking care to remove any lumps, add ^ table-spoonful each of anchovy sauce and chopped parsley, teaspoonful of salt, and a little pepper. Put this sauce on one side. Put into a pie-dish about half of the fish, cover over with half of the oysters and half the sauce, and sprinkle over a little grated nutmeg, salt and pepper, and next a few breadcrumbs, continuing in this way with the remainder of the ingredients; then cover with a few small lumps of butter, put a thin covering of paste over all, and bake in a slow oven. Take it out when done, and serve hot or cold, as required. The crust may be omitted, and the pie merely covered with breadcrumbs and baked. Cod Pie.—Take a thick slice from the middle of a small Cod, put it in a dish, sprinkle plenty of salt over, and leave it for the night. On the following day wash the fish, rub it well with a mixture of salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, put it in a pie-dish, place two or three small lumps of butter on it, pour in a small quantity of any kind of broth, cover with a good crust, and bake in a moderate oven. Put loz. of butter in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire till well mixed, but do not let it brown; then mix in gradually 1 teacupful of cream and 1 table-spoonful of broth, and season with grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, salt, and pepper, continuing to stir it over the fire till it boils. Oysters may be added to the sauce if liked. When cooked, take the pie out of the oven, and serve it with the sauce in a sauce- boat. Cod with Saffron Sauce (Spanish).—Pour 1 gill of oil into a saucepan and mix in a little chopped parsley and garlic, the juice of a lemon, a blade of saffron, a small quantity of flour, and salt to taste. Let the whole brown slightly, taking care to keep it well stirred. Cut the Cod (or part of one) into slices or pieces, put them into the pan, and continue stirring gently until the fish is evenly and well coloured on both sides. Then pour in a sufficient quantity of water to form the sauce, boil up once, turn the whole on to a dish, and serve. Cod Saute.—Take a piece of fish that has been boiled, but not overdone, remove the skin and bones, pick it into flakes, and put these into a saute-pan with a little butter, pepper, salt, finely-minced parsley, cayenne, and the juice of a lemon. Put the pan on the fire and toss freely, and when the contents are quite hot, the fish is ready to serve. Cod Toast.—Take some pieces of cooked Cod and put them into water for ten or twelve hours to refresh ; then take them out, pick them to pieces, and add some cream with an egg beaten up in it and made quite hot. Have ready some slices of toast, and pour the mixture over them. Beat up two or three eggs, add them to some gravy, seeing that it does not curdle, pour this also over the toast, and serve. Crimped Cod.—Cut a crimped Cod (which should be quite fresh) into rather thick slices, and lay these for about three hours in salted water with a little vinegar. Three-parts fill a fish-kettle with water, put in a large handful of salt, and let it boil quickly ; then put in the Cod, keep it boiling for ten minutes, and it will be done. Take out the slices of fish with care, lay them upon a dish, garnish with sprigs of parsley, sliced lemon, and horseradish scraped into curls, and serve with shrimp and oyster sauces in sauce- boats. Crimped Cod with Oyster Sauce.—Take as many slices of crimped Cod as may be required, put them into boiling water with a handful of salt, and simmer for a-quarter-of-an- hour. When done, drain the fish, and put it on a dish with some pieces of the liver, which should be boiled apart, as the oil spoils the colour of the Cod, and very likely would injure