438 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cordials and Liqueurs—continued. angelica-root, and cloves (all ground or powdered); add 9|- pints of spirits of wine 60deg. over proof, cork the jar securely, and keep in a warm place for a month, shaking it daily. Pour the spirit into a vessel, add to the contents in the jar . 31 pints of water, let it remain for a few days, giving the jar an occasional shake, press out all the liquid, add it to the spirit, together with 2qts. of capillaire and a little rose colour- ing, filter through a flannel bag, and bottle for use. Stomachic Liqueur.—Proceed as for Liqueur des Eveques, using- loz. of lemon-peel, lyoz. of orange-peel, yoz. of aniseed, 6 drachms each of cinnamon, camomile, sweet basil, orris- root, and galanga, foz. each of lavender-flowers and rosemary- leaves, 6 drachms each of vanilla, mace, nutmeg, and cardamom, 9j pints of spirits of wine, 3y pints of capillaire, and 7y pints of water. Usquebaugh.—Put 3oz. of cinnamon, foz. of lavender, yoz. each of aniseed, cloves, and nutmeg, together with joz. of cardamom, into a jar, pour in 9| pints of spirits of wine 60deg. over- proof, cork up the jar securely, put it in a warm place, and shake it frequently for a month. Pour off the spirit, add to the ingredients in the jar 61 pints of water, and let this stand for a few days; press out as much of the liquor as possible, mix it in with the spirit, add 2qts. of capillaire and a little yellow colouring, run the liquor through a flannel bag-, and bottle. Verde.—Take the thinly-pared rind of one and a half lemons, and the thinly-pared rind of two oranges, put these rinds into lqt. of brandy or rum, cork the bottle tight, and leave the peels to steep for twenty-four hours; then to 1 gill of the strained juice of the oranges and lemons (mixed) add lOoz. of sugar and 3 pints of water, stir this well together till the sugar is quite melted, add and stir in the peel and spirits, and 1 pint of cold milk. Bun it through a jelly-bag till quite clear, bottle, and cork it well. It will keep good for a year. A great number of other Cordials and Liqueurs will be found under their specific heads. CORIANDER.—The ripe fruit (see c. Fig. 515) of Conundrum sativum, dried, is much used by confectioners and cordial makers for the sake of its aromatic flavour. It is also an important ingredient in Eastern cookery, and is frequently powdered and put into curry. It derives its name, according to some authorities, from the Greek koris—a bug. The plant grows wild in some parts of Essex, and in the locality of Ipswich. The flowers (b) are white and grow in bunches, shaped like a flat umbrella, and the leaves (a) are not unlike uncurled parsley, growing at intervals on a fluted stem. The seeds are about the same size as white peppercorns, of a yellowish-brown colour. Coriander Cordial.—Put lib. of bruised Coriander-seeds and half the quantity of caraway-seeds into a bottle with 7 pints of proof spirit, and stir frequently for a fortnight; add 3 drops of oil of orange and lib. of sugar dissolved in about 2qts. of water. Bottle and use as desired. Essence of Coriander, or Coriander Flavouring-. -JFill a bottle with bruised Coriander-seeds, and pour proof spirit Coriander—continued. over them until the bottle will hold no more. Let this macerate for a month or six weeks, and then filter off the liquor, pressing the wet seed. Made the same way as the Tincture, but much stronger. Tincture of Coriander.—Put lib. of bruised Coriander-seeds into a jar with lgall. of over-proof spirit, and leave to infuse for three weeks; then filter, bottle, and cork up. CORING.—Some fruits with cores (from the Latin cor—a heart), such as pears, apples, quinces, &c., should be relieved of these inconveniences, as a fish should be rid of its bones. When the cooking process to which they are being subjected directs the fruit to be cut up quarterwise, the cores can be readily removed by means of an ordinary knife; but sometimes it may be desirable to core the fruit whole. This is accomplished by means ft Fig. 516. Corer. of a corer (see Fig. 516). This is a lin. diameter steel tube, with one end sharpened by bevelling the metal to give it a good cutting edge. The fruit is held conveniently in the left hand (see Fig. 517), and the corer forced through by a rotatory motion from the palm of the right hand. It is usual to remove the peel of fruit that is to be cut up before Coring; but when the fruit is to be used whole, the Coring should be finished before peeling. This prevents the fruit from breaking- while being cored. CORINTHIAN SAUCE.—See Sauces. CORKS AND CORKING.—The importance to the butler or caterer, and, indeed, to all concerned in the preservation of liquors or other goods in bottles, of some knowledge of this subject is great. The preservation of the goods so much depends upon the quality of the trusted Cork, that it is advisable to be able to distinguish between good and bad Corks, and to understand from the first the best modes of applying them. Some variety of opinion appears to exist amongst chroniclers as to the date and occasion when Cork was first used to plug the mouths of vessels. As an article of commerce and special service, the bark of the Cork tree has been known for many centuries. It is mentioned by Pliny as cortex—bark, and some reference is made to its use for stopping the mouths of vessels by Cato and Horace; but it is doubtful if this was as an internal stopper ; more probably it was used as we might in these days lay a piece of wood over an opening. Old authorities give directions for closing wine vessels with pitch, clay, gypsum, or potter’s earth, or to fill up the upper part