411 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ifcc., referred to, sec under their special heads. Cocoa-nuts—continued. (8) Break off the shells, and peel off the brown skin of two Cocoa-nuts, and grate the white part as finely as possible ; put half of the grated Cocoa-nut in a basin with half of the milk, 1 teacupful of grated breadcrumbs, the grated rind of a small lemon or half a large one, 1 teacupful of sugar, and Jib. of chopped candied cherries. Beat 2oz. of slightly- warmed butter with two eggs, then add 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and mix them in with the dry ingredients. Stir the whole until well mixed. Pour the mixture into a pudding- basin, and tie a floured cloth over it; put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil it for two-and-a-half to three hours, keeping it well covered with the water. Before the pudding is quite done, prepare the following sauce : Put the remainder of the grated Cocoa-nut into a saucepan with 1 scant teacupful of caster sugar and J pint of water, and boil it for ten or twelve minutes, then strain it through a fine wire sieve into a basin. Put 1 teaspoonful of arrowroot into the saucepan, pour in J pint of milk, and stir it over the fire until thickened and boiling; then pour in the Cocoa-nut liquid, and boil it up again. Take the saucepan off the fire, and stir in quickly the beaten yolk of an egg. When the pudding is cooked, turn it on to a hot dish, sift caster sugar over, pour the sauce round, and serve. (9) Pare and grate a Cocoa-nut, beat up six eggs—the six yolks very light and the six whites to a thick froth. Soak Jib. of sifted breadcrumbs in 1 pint of milk. Beat Jib. of butter to a cream with Jib. of powdered white sugar, mix in with it the beaten yolks, and then beat butter, sugar, and yolks of eggs into the pint of milk with the breadcrumbs ' in it; mix in next 1 table-spoonful of cornflour blended with a little cold water, then the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, grated nutmeg and rose-water to taste, and lastly the grated Cocoa-nut. Continue beating the pudding for a minute after all the ingredients are mixed, pour it into a buttered baking-dish, and bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Dredge powdered sugar on the top, and serve quite cold. Cocoa-nut Pudding -with Sponge Cake.—Remove the shell and brown skin from a Cocoa-nut, and grate it fine; save the milk of the nut, and strain it; put the grated nut into an earthen dish with lib. of stale sponge cake; add to the Cocoa-nut milk 1 table-spoonful of melted butter and enough sweet milk to make a quart, and pour it over the nut and sponge cake. Beat four eggs thoroughly, mix them with the nut and cake, add 4 piled table-spoonfuls of sugar, and put the pudding into an earthen dish. Bake for half-an- hour in a moderate oven, and then serve with powdered sugar sprinkled over. Cocoa-nut and Raisin Cream.—Stone and chop finely 1 breakfast-cupful of raisins, chop 1 teacupful of almonds, and mix them up with 1 teacupful of grated Cocoa-nut and the white of one egg beaten stiff. The cream is then ready for use. Cocoa-nut Rock.—Boil Jib. of grated Cocoa-nut and Jib. of loaf sugar in J pint of the Cocoa-nut milk ; when it begins to return to sugar, add the well-whisked white of one egg, and mix thoroughly together. Grease a tin, spread the mixture on about lin. thick, and stand the tin in a cool oven with the door open, to dry; then cut it into squares, and keep it in a dry place. Cocoa-nut Salad.—Peel the Cocoa-nut as evenly as possible, cut it into small slips, put these into a glass dish, pour a sufficient quantity of brandy over to cover them, and soak them for twenty-four hours. A large plate or dish should bo placed over the glass dish to keep in the goodness of the brandy. At the end of the twenty-four hours dust a small quantity of caster sugar over the Cocoa-nut, and serve it. Cocoa-nut Snow.—Pare a Cocoa-nut, let it steep in cold water for a time, and then grate it. Peel nine or ten good-sized ripe and sweet oranges, scrape off carefully all the inner white rind, divide the oranges into natural sections (do not cut them, pull them apart), then with a spoon tear or cut each of these into three, and remove the pips. Put a layer of these little pieces at the bottom of a glass bowl, pour two or three dessert-spoonfuls of sherry over them and dredge with plenty of powdered white sugar. Add a layer of grated Cocoa-nut, Cocoa-nuts—continued. and a layer of slices of red bananas, laid close together; con- tinue those layers alternately till the bowl is full, always adding wine and sugar to the layers of oranges. The ten oranges will require about two glasses of sherry. When the bowl is filled, heap it high with grated Cocoa-nut, sprinkle sugar on top, and ornament with slices of bananas cut crosswise. Serve at once, or the fruit, especially the oranges, will spoil. Cocoa-nut Sponge Cakes.—Put Jib. of sugar and the yolks of six eggs into a basin, beat them well, and add 4oz. of dried flour, 1 teaspoonful each of essence of lemon and salt, and the half of a nutmeg grated ; then beat in the whites of the six eggs whipped to a froth, and the grated white part of a Cocoa-nut. Have ready some square tins lined with buttered paper, put the mixture in these to about lin. in depth, put them into a sharp oven, and bake for half-an-hour. Take them out when done, cut them up into squares or shapes, and they are ready for use. They may be iced over, or not, as desired. Cocoa-nut Sponge Pudding.—Put 2 teacupfuls of milk into a saucepan, boil it, and pour it while hot over 1 tea- cupful of grated Cocoa-nut and 2 teacupfuls of stale bread- crumbs in a basin, and let it stand for several minutes ; then add a flavouring of nutmeg and 1 teacupful of crushed loaf sugar, stir well, add the yolks of three eggs and 1 table- spoonful of rose-water, and lastly the whites of the three eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Pour the mixture into a dish with a thin coating of puff paste round the edge, and bake in a moderate oven for forty-five minutes, covering it over with greased paper if it should be browning too quickly. Take it out, dust the surface with powdered sugar, and serve hot or cold, as required. Cocoa-nut Stickjaw.—Put 71b. of sugar and Joz. of cream of tartar into a sugar boiler, and boil it to the crack degree (see Sugar-boiling) ; then remove the boiler from the fire, and stir in a small Cocoa-nut cut into thin slices. Hold the boiler in front of the fire for a few minutes until the Cocoa-nut is well mixed in. Turn the mixture out on to a slab divided into squares with small tins, let the sugar get cold, and it is ready for use. The Cocoa-nuts should be slightly dried before being mixed in. Cocoa-nut Sweetmeat.—(1) Break the shell of a large Cocoa- nut, and remove it; peel the nut carefully, and put it in a basin of cold water. Put lib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar in a saucepan with a small quantity of water, and boil it until it is reduced to a syrup; grate the Cocoa-nut, put it into the syrup, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until quite thick. Great care must be taken not to let the Cocoa-nut burn. Butter a dish or marble slab, turn the mixture on to it, and leave it until nearly cold ; then cut it into various fancy shapes, or plain bars. Keep the sweetmeat dry in boxes or jars until used. (2) Peel and grate a Cocoa-nut; put lib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar into a saucepan with a small quantity of water, and boil it until reduced to a thin syrup. Then put in the Cocoa- nut, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon for a few minutes. Beat the yolks of six eggs, then move the Cocoa- nut off the fire, and stir the eggs in. When the sweetmeat is cold, put it into jelly glasses, and serve. Cocoa-nut Tart.—Put 4oz. of powdered loaf sugar into a basin, break in five eggs, and whisk well for three minutes; then add a quart of milk and a - teaspoonful of essence of lemon, work well for two or three minutes longer, and strain through a fine sieve into another basin. Line a deep pie-dish with paste, fill up with the milk preparation, and spread over 6oz. of dried Cocoa-nut. Put the tart in a moderate oven, and bake for thirty minutes ; then take it out, and lot it get cold. Cut it up into six pieces of equal size, put theso on a napkin folded on a dish, dust them over with caster sugar, and serve. Compote of Fink Cocoa-nut. Prepare as for Compote op White Cocoa-nut, adding a few drops of prepared cochineal to the first sugar. Compote of White Cocoa-nut.—Peel off the brown skin of a Cocoa-nut after taking off the shell, and soak the white part in cold water with lemon-juice and a little salt. Chop the Cocoa-nut up finely, and soak it again in lomon-juiee and salted water. Take out the pieces, wash them in fresh water,