354 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Cheese Cakes—continued. excellent cakes, or tartlets, to which other names have been given, and the nearest connection we have to chronicle is the Cheese Cake made with curd. In Kettner’s “ Book of the Table ” there is a very rambling account of Benreddin Hassan’s connection with Cheese Cakes; but whether they should be strewn with grains of pomegranate and sugar, or Benreddin was beaten by his mother “for a pretended fault — that he ought to have put pepper upon them, and did not,” will not influence the flavour of those made in the present day, or the delicious richness of those sold at Richmond, near London, as “ Maids of Honour.” Several other varieties of Cheese Cakes are described under other headings, such as Almonds, Apples, Carrot, Citron, Cornflour, Lemon, Maids of Honour, Oranges, &c. (1) Take lgall. of milk, and stir in some fresh rennet. When the curd is formed, strain it into a large basin or bowl, adding Rb. of butter, and beating up well until quite smooth ; a little more than lib. of butter may be required, according to the quality of the milk. In another basin put the yolks of four eggs, the rinds of four lemons and the juice of two, 4oz. of fine biscuit powder, and lib. of finely-sifted caster sugar, and beat them up well until a stiff cream is formed ; then pour it into the curd, and mix all well together. Butter some tartlet-pans, line them with thin puff paste, pour in the mixture, and bake in a quick oven until done. (2) Take about jib. of pressed curd, rub it through a wire sieve, and mix with it 2oz. of butter and jib. of sugar; add gently the yolks of three eggs, a little grated nutmeg, and the grated rind of a lemon. Line a dozen tartlet-pans with tart-paste, put a little of the mixture in each, with a strip of candied lemon-peel, and bake in a moderately heated oven, upon a greased baking-sheet, until of a nice golden colour. When done, dish upon a fancy paper, and serve either hot or cold. (3) Beat the yolks of six eggs with 6oz. of caster sugar for twenty minutes, then mix in the grated rind and juice of one large lemon or two small ones. Butter a dozen small patty-pans, and line them with puff paste; put some of the above mixture in each and a small piece of butter on the top, and bake them in a brisk oven. When cooked, turn the cakes out of the tins, pile them on a dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve ; or they may be served cold. (4) Beat well with the hand (in a warm pan) before the fire jib. of butter, and add Jib. of caster sugar. When thoroughly mixed, add the yolks of two eggs, and beat again; then put in a little milk. Beat all well together, and mix in 4oz. of well-washed and dried currants. Line some patty- pans with puff paste, half fill them, sift a little sugar over, and bake in a hot oven. (5) Put the yolks of six eggs into a saucepan with 2oz. of caster sugar and beat well; pour in 1 pint of milk and a small quantity of lemon-juice. Place the saucepan over the fire, and stir the contents until they curdle. Spread a clean cloth over a sieve, pour the curdled milk on to it, and let the whey run through. Warm 4oz. of butter, and beat until creamy ; mix with it 3 table-spoonfuls of cold mashed potatoes, 2 table- spoonfuls of sultanas, 2 table-spoonfuls of well-washed currants, three well-beaten eggs, and breakfast-cupfuls of milk. Mash the curd with a wooden spoon until quite smooth, put it in with the above mixture, and well stir the whole. Butter a shallow tin and line it with plain tart-paste, pour in the mixture, ornament the top with some thin fillets of blanched almonds, strew coarsely-crushed loaf sugar over, and bake in a moderate oven. The cake should be of a rich yellow colour when cooked, but not brown. It can be eaten either hot or cold. (6) Put about lqt. of milk in a saucepan with 1 table- spoonful of rennet, and stand it near the fire until it has curdled and set. Break the curds, and let them stand for half-an-hour longer, then turn into a colander and let them drain. When quite dry, pound the curds in a mortar, and mix with them 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and 1 table- spoonful of warmed butter. Beat the yolks of two eggs with £ wineglassful of brandy, then stir them into the curds; add 1 table-spoonful of well-washed currants, the grated peel Cheese Cakes—continued. of half a lemon, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Butter some patty-pans, and line them with puff paste; trim the paste round the edges and notch it. Pill the patty- pans with the mixture, and bake in a brisk oven. In about twenty minutes’ time the Cakes will be cooked. Take them out of their tins, and arrange on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper. They may be served either hot or cold. Cheese-Cake Pudding.—Take the yolks of eight eggs, jib. of moist sugar, and the same quantity of butter, warmed and well creamed together. Beat the eggs light, and well mix all the ingredients; season with nutmeg or essence of lemon, and add 1 table-spoonful of good brandy or rum. Bake in a flat tin dish lined with puff paste. Devonshire Cheese Cakes.—Peel and boil a large carrot till tender, then rub it through a fine hair sieve ; mix with the carrot 2 small table-spoonfuls of flour, ^lb. of well-washed and dried currants, fib. of moist sugar, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Well beat an egg with 1 table-spoonful of milk, and stir it into the above ingredients till well mixed: Butter some small patty-pans, line them with a good puff paste, and fill them with the mixture. Bake the Cheese Cakes in a quick oven, and when cooked take them out of the patty-pans. If to be served hot, arrange the Cakes on a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper on a hot dish. Welsh Cheese Cakes.—Beat 2oz. of butter to a cream, and work it in with fib. of fine dried flour, in which has previously been mixed 2oz. of caster sugar. Beat three eggs, flavour them with a little grated lemon-peel, and mix with the flour, &c. Put the mixture into some patty-pans lined with short-crust, and bake in a quick oven. CHEMISE.—Fr. term for a mask, or envelope; frequently used in Continental cookery, as eti chemise. CHERRIES ( Hr. Cerises; Ger. Kirschen; Sp. Cerezas; Ital. Cirieghie).—The Cherry belongs to the plum tribe (Primus), but is classed as a separate genus (Cerasus), the stones or pits of the fruit being rounded instead of flattened. This distinction does not hold good through- out, for there are several kinds of Cherries with more or less flattened pits. The scientific name is supposed to have been derived from Cerasus, a city in Pontus near the Euxine Sea, whence the tree is said to have been imported into Italy by the Roman general Lucullus; but as Cherry-trees flourish in most temperate countries of the Northern Hemisphere, the probability is that they are also entitled to be classed as natives of Great Britain. In some parts of Herefordshire, a small black wild Cherry is occasionally to be met with, and that they are not more plentiful is due to the advances of cultivation. A wild Cherry is also met with in the mountains of Scotland, which, when cultivated, as it is in localities round about Aberdeen- shire, is known by the name of “ geans,” which is a probable corruption of the French word “ gingues.” As far as can be ascertained, the Romans were acquainted with eight varieties, but about forty sorts or more are known to British gardeners, and possibly there may be in all some 200 varieties cultivated at home and abroad. The French divide their Cherries into three sorts: Griottes, or tender-fleshed; Bigarreaus, or hard-fleshed; and Gingues, or small fruit, a classification which is partially adopted in this country. We have the White-heart or Bigarreau, Black-heart, and Morello or Morelia; the “hearts” are so named from their shape, and the Morello from their supposed resemblance in flavour to the morel fungus. Nicholson tells us in the “ Dictionary of Gardening,” that the Morello, Duke, and Kentish varieties, are supposed to be derived from the wild, or dwarf Cherry, and the Geans, Hearts, and Bigarreaus, from the tall, wild Gean. The origin of the name “ Duke,” or “ May Duke,” is explained as being a corruption of Medoc, where they were first cultivated. The following is a list of the more important kinds in i cultivation.