THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 336 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <I'C., referred to, see under their special heads. Charcoal—continued. Charcoal Biscuits.—At one time a very extensive demand for these existed, they having been strongly recommended by physicians for the relief of indigestion and heartburn. They are made by adding a small pro- portion of finely-powdered charcoal to ordinary biscuit dough, and making up and baking in the usual way. See Biscuits. CHARCUTERIE.—This term has been introduced into this country by foreign tradesmen, but with a different signification to that its original use implied. Charcutier is literally a pork-sausage butcher, or one who chops up flesh (chair); in England Charcuterie is applied to garlic sausages, preserved meats, fish, and other foreign foods, and Charcutier to him who sells them. CHARD. — This is a variety of the white beet, producing large succulent leaves, which are prepared for table use by blanching. Chard Salad.—Cut the leaves off the Chard without cutting the midrib, trim the midrib into equal-sized pieces, tie these in small bundles, and boil them for fifteen minutes. When cooked, drain the bundles, and leave them till cold; then remove the string’s, and place them in a salad-bowl. Mix some oil and vinegar in equal quantities, season with salt and pepper, and pour the mixture over the salad, then serve. The leaves of the Chard can be boiled and served as spinach. CHARLOTTES.—Charlottes Russes and Apple Charlottes are the dishes of this name with which we are most familiar in this country, and these are in their simplicity merely an arrangement of bread or biscuits shaped and set in a mould in such a manner that the interior can be filled up with stewed apples, apple or other fruit marmalade. Fig. 408. Charlotte-moulds. The moulds in use nowadays are simply shaped as in Fig. 408, and they are filled by cutting pieces of bread into such accurate shapes that they fit round the interior like the staves of a bucket. The edges are slightly bevelled to make them fit closely, and then the pieces are stuck together with jelly ; an ornamentally cut round fills the bottom of the mould, and then the interior is filled in with a sort of bavaroise, and the whole set upon ice to freeze. By whom this dish was invented, or after whom it was christened Charlotte, is a disputed point. The French confectioner is disposed to attribute it to Charlotte de Medici, wife of the son of the Prince of Conde ; but British confectioners claim it for the famous queen of George III. Goethe seems to have this idea when he wrote of Werther and this queen, for he says: Werther had a love for Charlotte, Such as world could never utter. Would you know how first he.met her? She was cutting bread-and-butter. Possibly in the preparation of a Charlotte. Be that as it may, the dish is a great favourite, and gives a great charm to a supper- or light dinner-table. Chantilly Charlotte.—Line a dome-shaped mould with lady’s- finger biscuits, arranging them fancifully according- to taste; put 1 pint or more of thick cream into a basin and whisk it with an egg-beater until it is a stiff froth. For 1 pint of cream, mix in gradually 4oz. of caster sugar and £oz. of soaked gelatine. Flavour the cream with a few drops of orange- flower water or essence of violets ; pour it carefully ipto the mould with the biscuits, and pack the mould in pounded ice Charlottes—continued. and salt for an hour or two. When ready to serve, turn the contents of the mould carefully out on to a fancy dish, and serve. Charlottes Glacees.—Take six small Charlotte-moulds, and line them nicely with twelve lady’s-finger biscuits cut cross- wise into halves. Have ready 14 pints of vanilla ice-cream, fill the interiors of the moulds with it, and turn them on to a dessert-dish with a folded napkin over. Divide the remaining ice-cream evenly over the six Charlottes, with one macaroon on top of each; then send immediately to the table. Charlottes Panachees.—Have six Charlotte-moulds lined as for Charlotte Glacees, fill them with I pint of vanilla ice- cream, then turn them on to six cold dessert-plates. Take a pastry-bag, slide down in it a fancy-shaped tube, and pour into it 1 pint of whipped vanilla cream; press a little of this on to the top of the Charlottes, arrange over them six macaroons, press a little more cream, about the size of a nut, on the top of each macaroon, then with the balance of the cream decorate the bottom of the Charlottes all round, and serve. Charlotte Russe.—(1) Soak loz. of gelatine in 1 teacupful of milk. Beat the yolks of ten eggs and |lb. of caster sugar together, and put in the double boiler with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk ; stir until the mixture begins to thicken, then add the gelatine, and strain into a large tin basin. Place this in a pan of ice, and when it begins to cool add the whites of the eggs, well beaten, 4 tumblerful of sherry, 1 table-spoonful of vanilla extract, and 1 pint of whipped cream. Mix thoroughly, pour into moulds that have been lined with sponge Fig. 409. Charlotte Russe. cake (see Fig. 409), and set away to harden. With the quantities given two quart moulds can be filled. The lining may be one piece of sponge cake hollowed out, or sti-ips of it, or lady’s fingers. The wine may be omitted. Charlotte Russe may be filled with any kind of cream. (2) Soak loz. of gelatine in cold water till soft, make a syrup with 41b. of sugar, | pint of lemon-juice, and 1 pint of orange-juice. When boiling, pour it into the beaten yolks of four eggs, stir well, and cook in a double boiler till it thickens; then add the soaked gelatine, stir till dissolved, and strain at once into a tin pan placed in ice; beat occasionally till cold, but not hard. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and then beat all together till it thickens. When almost stiff enough to drop pour at once into moulds lined with cake. Keep on ice, and serve with or without powdered sugar and cream. Vary the fruit by stewing 1 pint of tinned peaches, pine-apple, or apricots in 1 breakfast-cupful each of sugar and water till soft ; then sift, add the yolks of the eggs, and cook till it thickens. Add the gelatine, strain, and when cool add the whites. Grated pine-apple will not require sifting. (3) Mix 1 pint of cream, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla, and 1 tea- cupful of sugar; place the bowl in ice, and when chilled whip to a stiff froth, and skim off the froth into a sieve. Drain, and whip again that which has drained through. When nearly all whipped, line a glass dish with lady’s fingers or slices of sponge cake, fill with the cream, put cubes of wine jelly, or any bright jelly, on the cream, and keep on ice till ready to serve.