450 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Sec., referred to, see under their special heads. Crabs—continued. spoonfuls of flour, then 1 gill of broth, add the Crab-meat, cook, and continue stirring for fifteen minutes longer. Turn the whole out into a basin and let it cool. Put 1 table- spoonful of butter into a saute-pan on a hot stove, mix in 1 table-spoonful of flour, and cook very slowly for three minutes ; add 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese and the same quantity of grated Gruyere cheese; stir all well together. Turn this also into a basin to cool. Spread a layer of the Crab forcemeat on each slice of toast to iin. thick. Divide the cheese mixture into six equal parts, roll each part into a ball, place these in the centre, over the layer of the Crab forcemeat, arrange them on a flat dish,. and bake in a brisk oven for five minutes. When ready, remove the dish from the oven and serve at once. (2) Reduce f pint of good veloute sauce with wineglass- ful of white wine to a glaze ; season with salt, pepper, and a little cayenne pepper, adding 3 table-spoonfuls of grated Par- mesan cheese. Take fib. of shelled Crabs, put them into the saucepan, and boil for ten minutes; remove the pan from the fire and let the preparation cool. Prepare six small oblongs of toasted bread, and with a knife spread some of the mixture smoothly over each slice; sprinkle well with grated cheese, and brush over lightly with clarified butter. Place them on a baking-dish, bake in a very hot oven for five or six minutes, and serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin under. Garnish with parsley. Crab a la Heine.—Pick twelve boiled, hard-shell Crabs into as large pieces as possible ; mix them in a salad-bowl with 5 breakfast-cupful of sliced celery or shredded lettuce, 1 pinch of salt, i pinch of pepper, 1 table-spoonful of olive oil, and H table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Refill six well-cleaned shells with the salad, and on each one lay 1 good teaspoonful of mayonnaise sauce ; sprinkle over with chopped hard-boiled egg, the yolk and white separated, some Crab or lobster coral, and 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, every article to be used separately, so that each colour may be distinct. Serve on a dish with a folded napkin. Crab Cromeskies. -Boil three or four large Crabs, removing the meat from the shells as for Scalloped Crabs. Make a batter as follows, and put a frying-kettle half full of fat over the fire to heat: For the batter, mix together 1 break- fast-cupful of flour, 1 saltspoonful of salt, a dust of cayenne, the yolk of an egg, 1 table-spoonful of salad-oil, and enough cold water to make it thick. Just before using, beat the white of an egg' to a stiff froth, and stir it lightly into the batter. Cut as many very thin slices of fat salt pork as there are to be cromeskies, and smooth them to the thinness of paper with the back of a knife. Mix with the Crab-meat a seasoning of salt and pepper, add the yolks of two eggs, and enough wine or sauce of any kind preferred to permit the Crab-meat to be made up into little rolls, with the hands damped with cold water. Wrap the rolls in the slices of pork, tie them round, dip into the batter so that they are entirely covered with it, and fry a golden brown in the hot fat. Lay them on brown paper for a moment, to free them from fat, and arrange on a napkin with parsley for g'arnish. Crab Croquettes.—Pick the meat out of the shells of two middling-sized Crabs and chop it, but not too fine. Melt in a saucepan 3oz. of butter, and stir into this 3oz. of flour ; add by degrees -j pint of milk, stir till it boils, and then let it boil for ten minutes ; take the saucepan off the stove, and to the hot milk, flour, and butter add the chopped meat of the Crabs, 1 saltspoonful of pepper, 1 teaspoonful of salt, a very little cayenne (about as much as will lie on the end of a small knife), mix well together, turn the ’ whole out on to a plate, and let it cool; when it is quite cold, make it into little rolls nearly 3in. long, and egg and breadcrumb these rolls by brushing them all over with beaten egg and then rolling in breadcrumbs. Fry them in hot lard or clarified fat for two minutes, or till they are a nice golden • brown, let them drain for an instant on a sheet of paper, and serve on a folded napkin with a little fried parsley for garnish. Crab Porcemeat.—Fry an onion, chopped very fine, in loz. of butter until it is a golden colour, adding 1 table-spoonful of flour to make a roux. Moisten with ^ pint of stock, stirring well and continuously until the sauce hardens. Crabs—continued. Season with £ table-spoonful of salt, a scant teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, -i- teaspoonful of mustard, a crushed clove of garlic, and 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Stir well, adding the meat of twelve medium-sized Crabs, chopped very small, with twelve mushrooms also chopped very small. Cook for thirty minutes in a saucepan, then put it back off the hot fire ; add the yolks of four eggs, stir again for a moment, cool, and use as required. Crab Omelet.— Take Coz. of boiled Crab-meat and cut it into small pieces; put them into a saute-pan with 1 wine- glassful of white wine and ^oz. of butter. Moisten with 1 teacupful of strong hot bechamel sauce, and let these cook together for five minutes. Make an omelet with twelve eggs, and with a skimmer place the stewed Crab in the middle, fold over the side opposite the handle, pour in the garnishing, fold the other side up, turn it on to a hot dish, pour the sauce round it, and serve. Crab Pie.—(1) Pick the flesh from the shells and claws of three large Crabs, and cut the meat into small pieces. Put about 3oz. of butter into a clean saucepan, place it over the fire until melted, then stir in 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, J breakfast-cupful of milk, and | breakfast-cupful of cream. Continue stirring the mixture over the fire, and boil it for three minutes, then move the saucepan to the side, and put in the meat from the Crabs, 2 teaspoonfuls of anchovy sauce, and salt and pepper to taste; stir all until thoroughly mixed. Wash the Crab shells clean, dry them on a cloth, and fill with the mixture ; level it off smooth at the top, and strew a thick layer of breadcrumbs over each. Put a few pieces of butter over each shell, and place them in a brisk oven until brown. Put the shells with the Crab mixture on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with parsley, and serve them while very hot. (2) Scrape out the meat from the body part of a Crab, leaving the claws for garnishing. Put loz. or 1 Voz. of butter into a saucepan over the fire, warm it, add the Crab-meat and a mixture of 1 dessert-spoonful each of vinegar and made mustard, 1 teaspoonful each of salad-oil and pepper, and sufficient cayenne to taste. When all the ingredients are quite hot, put them into the Crab shell, smoothing over the surface, place a few small pieces of butter on the top, and bake in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. When done, put it on a napkin on a dish, and serve with the claws and a few sprigs of parsley for garnish. Crab Salad.—(1) Pick the meat from the shells and claws of a dozen- small Crabs, put it in a salad-bowl, add a seasoning of salt and pepper, 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, 2 table-spoonfuls of sweet oil, and a little chopped parsley. Mix well, and decorate the bowl with six small lettuce-leaves, six stoned olives, twelve capers, and two hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters. It is then ready to be served. (2) Pick the meat out of six Crabs, cut the firm parts into equal-sized pieces, and rub the rest smooth in 1 teacupful of salad-dressing, adding a little mustard; mix with the dressing 1 breakfast-cupful of finely-minced white cold boiled cabbage. Add the Crab-meat without