458 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ice., referred to, see under their special heads. Crayfish—continued. Crayfish a la Bordelaise.—This is a very celebrated mode of dressing Crayfish. Put two dozen selected Crayfish into a pan with water and a little milk mixed, and let them soak for two hours; then take them out and put on a strainer to drain. In the meantime, make a good mi- repoix of vegetables with Bordeaux wine, and add to the liquor a bunch of parsley, a slice of uncooked ham, 1 small wineglassful of cognac, 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of Madeira, and a little salt. Put the lid on the stewpan, place it on the fire, and boil for five or six minutes; when boiling hot, put in the Crayfish, and let thorn remain for ten minutes, after which pour the liquor through a sieve; reduce it to half, adding gradually 1 pint of veloute sauce. When suffi- ciently reduced, strain it through a cloth into another pan, and stir in jib. of good butter, a little piece of Crayfish butter, and 1 table- spoonful of finely-chopped parsley. Take off the small claws, place them in a group on a cloth in the centre of the dish, and arrange the bodies round, garnishing all with a few sprigs of parsley. The sauce must be served separately. Tin. 553. Stand for Crayfish. Crayfish served en Buis- son.—A very pretty mode of serving Crayfish is that represented in Fig. 552. For this purpose a stand is re- quired (see Fig. 553), which may vary in shape according to fancy. There is no particular art in the arrangement, the idea bei-ng to show the Crayfish imbedded amongst parsley. A few short pieces of thin bouquet-wire would be found useful to secure the sprigs of parsley; the Crayfish are merely hung on by their tails. Crayfish a la Lorraine.—Take two dozen selected Crayfish, thoroughly clean them, put into a saucepan with suffi- cient white wine to cover them, and boil until done; Crayfish—continued. then take them out, drain, and put the liquor on one side for further use. Take lib. of uncooked ham and cut it into small dice, place it in a stewpan with a little butter to warm, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour. Fry all these together for a few minutes, adding a little boiled milk and the liquor of the Crayfish. Stir until it boils, and reduce till frothy and succulent, when the pan must be removed to the side and a lump of butter and a little parsley added. Remove the small claws, place the fish on a dish, and pour the sauce over them. Crayfish a la Mariniere.—Take a dozen or two of Crayfish, remove the small claws, put them in a stewpan, and boil with wine until done; drain off the liquor, let it settle, and then pass it through a fine cloth to clarify it. Take an onion, chop it up finely, and fry lightly, so that it does not colour at all. Pour in a little of the Crayfish liquor and a little wine, and boil for two or three minutes; next put in a lump of butter worked into some breadcrumbs and finely- chopped parsley to thicken it, and lastly add a little cayenne and the juice of a lemon. Place the Crayfish on a dish and p ur the sauce over. Crayfish a la Polonaise. -Take three dozen selected Cray- fish, wash them well while still alive, and then put them on a strainer to drain. In the meantime take two onions, one large carrot, and a parsley- and a celery-root, chop them up very finely, fry in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and add a bottle of white wine. Place the stewpan back on the fire, and as soon as it begins to boil put in the Crayfish, some peppercorns, cumin-seed, a bunch of parsley and fennel, and a little salt. Put the cover on the pan and boil up quickly for eight minutes; then take out the fish, drain them, and remove their small claws, keeping the fish still hot. Take ilb. of butter, put it into a stewpan, warm it until it gets of a light brown colour, add 2 handfuls of breadcrumbs, and then the Crayfish. Pour in 1 pint of good sour cream, place the pan on the fire again, and toss the fish so as to get them well mixed with the sauce. Take them .out when done, and dust over with a little fresh fennel (chopped finely) and a pinch of pepper, and spread over them a lump of butter broken to pieces. Place on a dish and pour the sauce over. Crayfish a la Poulette. —Take any Crayfish that are too small for other uses, remove the small claws, put the fish in a cloth and shake them well, so that no water remains in them. Make a sauce in the usual way, with 4oz. of butter, 2 table-spoonfuls of veloute sauce, a little chopped parsley, and the juice of a lemon, which, when it becomes thick, put in the fish and serve hot. Crayfish a la Provenpale. -Select two dozen Crayfish and boil them in a pan in a mirepoix with white wine, sweet herbs, and a slice of ham. When done, take out and let them drain. Strain the liquor through a sieve, add a little good gravy, and then reduce it to half-glaze, mixing in 5 or (i table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce. When it is sufficiently reduced, remove the pan to the side of the fire, let it simmer for a few minutes more, and add a little cayenne to season it. Take it from the side of the fire, and add to it 6oz. of butter pulled to small pieces to thicken it. Put the Crayfish on a dish with a folded napkin, and serve the sauce in a boat separately. Crayfish Boiled in Court Bouillon.—Put some butter into a stewpan and add a little celery-root, leek, and onion, all finely minced, place the pan on a rather slow fire, and fry them. Then add a little white wine, salt, a small bunch of parsley, and a few peppercorns. Boil for seven or eight minutes, and then put in twenty-five live Crayfish; cover over the pan, and boil for seven or eight minutes longer. Toss them a little in the pan, take them out, put on a strainer to drain, and place on a dish. Strain the liquid, reduce it by boiling to half its original bulk, add a little piece of butter, and pour it over. Crayfish Butter. -(1) Take the shells and small claws of some Crayfish, put them into a mortar with a large lump of butter, and pound them well until they become a paste. Put this into a stewpan, and put the stewpan into the bain- marie. When the mixture is quite hot, pass it through a tammy into a basin of cold water, and let the butter rise to the top ; it is then ready for use.