THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 309 Carving—continued. Carver may use his own judgment as to whether he will take off another slice; if he decide not to do so, he will complete the work by cutting up into chunks. This is at the best but a slovenly termination. Nevertheless, it is better to adopt it, should the meat be cut away so far, rather than attempt a further slicing when the stability of the remnant is not sufficiently great to resist the pressure of the knife. Carving—continued. by itself. Fig. 355, A, shows the cuts directly across, and in Fig. 355, B, they are in a slanting or diagonal direction. In either case, it is not usual to serve the end or to cut Fig. 354. Carving Middle op Sirloin of Beef with full Under-cut. Fig 355. Carving Fillet of Beef very bony subject, and several plans have been suggested, but the majority of experienced Carvers are in favour of the directions shown in Fig. 356, from a to B. The sweet- bread is generally at the neck end, or round about in pieces as a garnish. The eye should be cut out first with plenty of margin round it: that is, as much as the bony socket Fig. 353. Carving Ribs of Beef. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their svecial heads. Fig. 352 Carving Aitchbone of Beef. The ribs are cut down along the length of the flat bones (see Fig. 353), and a portion of the fat and flap which is turned under may be cut in the same direc- tion, but it is not usual to turn the joint over for this purpose, for, if the long cuts are carried far enough through, the slices will embrace quite as much fat as most persons care to eat. It is also advisable, before slicing, to loosen the meat from the bones by passing the point of the knife about an inch in, and making another cross incision along the part that is rounded by the turning under of the flap just so far down as it is intended to slice. A very little experience will render the Carver proficient in the cutting of what is not gener- ally considered an easy joint to carve. The sirloin requires very similar treatment, but in this joint there is the under-cut, or fillet, to deal with, and as some persons are particularly fond of this very tender part, it is usual to turn the joint on to its back, as it were, and then slice out the meat as shown in Fig. 354. This is, however, very much opposed to the directions given for carving the fillet when it is removed from the loin, the flesh being cut with the grain instead of across it. There are two plans of carving the fillet when served Fig. 356. Carving Half Calf’s Head will allow. The palate, which will be found underneath, is reckoned a delicacy; and the tongue is usually served as a dish by itself, and carved transversely. the meat right through, but to supplement the downward cuts by a horizontal cut, severing the slices within an inch or so of the under-surface. Calf’s Head.—This is sent to table in halves, therefore the directions given are for one half only. The object of the Carver is to obtain the largest slices of meat from a