THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 384 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Christinas Pare—continued. saturated in some sort of spirit, placed in his beak, and lighted before the carver commenced operations. What could be more simple and plain ! But we are informed by one who pronounces the peacock “food for lovers, and meat for lords,” that the interior of the bird was stuffed with spices and sweet herbs, basted with yolk of egg, and served with plenty of rich gravy, which would be made, on great occasions, of as many as three fat wethers, bruised and boiled down to make gravy for a single bird. Fig. 468. Peacock dressed for Christmas Banquet (Old Style). The peacock was not served by common hands—the privilege was reserved for the lady guests “ most dis- tinguished by birth or beauty,” the due selection of whom was not calculated to produce harmony, especially as the queen of all was entrusted with the bearing of the dish, and those who were detailed for carrying portions to the guests followed in a troop behind her. After setting the peacock down before the master of the house, or his most honoured guest, the ladies stood round to receive portions for all; and as one peacock often was made to serve a hundred or more guests, the piece at the dis- posal of each would have been very small, but this would be made up with an ample supply of thick, soupy gravy. Perhaps this custom accounts for our first dinner service of soup, the peacock being conspicuous by its absence. On some occasions, however, the bird was served in a pie containing a variety of other things as well. This would increase the quantity for serving, and afford some greater substantiality to an otherwise very meagre dish. At one end of this peacock pie the plumed crest ap- peared above the crust, and at the other his tail was unfolded in all its glory. It was a handsome dish, no doubt, and knight errants took the opportunity of swearing in the presence of so much feminine beauty to undertake any perilous enterprise that came in their way, and succour lovely women in distress after the most J approved chevalier fashion. The oath was generally j taken as “ by cock and pie,” an expression which would now-a-days render the oath absurd. “ Geese, capons, pheasants drenched with amber grease, and pies of carp’s tongues ” helped to furnish the table ; but there was one other dish which was held indispen- sable, and that was frumante, frumenty, or furmety, as it was indiscriminately called. It was concocted in this way: “ Take clean wheat and bray it in a mortar, that the hulls be all gone off, and seethe it till it brn’st, and take it up, and let it cool; and take clean, fresh broth, and sweet milk of almonds, or sweet milk of kine, and temper it all; and take the yolks of eggs. Boil it a little, and set it down, and mess it forth with fat venison or fresh mutton.” Christmas Pare—continued. Venison was seldom served without frumenty, but, sweetened with sugar, frumenty was at one time a favourite dish of itself, and is not unknown at the pre- sent time in some parts of the country, where it is cus- tomary to flavour with lemon, or spices, and add chopped raisins and candied peel to the softened wheat. Mince pies were popular at Christmas so early as the | fifteenth century, when they were known as “ mutton pies ”; but the custom of making the mince with neat’s tongue instead of mutton prevailed somewhere about the end of the sixteenth century, and the old mutton pie got mixed up with Christmas pie, or one with the other in some manner or other, until we have both mince pies and Christmas pies. Let Christmas boast her customary treat, A mixture strange of suet, currants, meat, Where various tastes combine, the greasy and the sweet. The Christmas pie has, since it attained its majority, been a favourite savoury, and a convivial poet sings of it: Without the door let sorrow lie, And if for cold it hap to die, We’ll bury it in a Christmas pie, And evermore be merry! A very amusing custom was that of watching the Christmas pie, which doubtless gave rise to many an alarming manifestation, especially as the company con- cerned were sure to select the most timid of their set for the task, and the most out-of-the-way place for the guardianship of the pie. Herrick’s jovial vicar sings: Come guard the Christmas pie, That the thief, though ne’er so sly, With his flesh hooks don’t come nigh To catch it From him who all alone sits there, Having his eyes still in his ear, And a deal of nightly fear To watch it. About this time, too, we read of plum porridge—the infant plum pudding—for the same author writes: At Christmas time— Then if you would send up the brawner’s head, Sweet rosemary and bays around it spread; His foaming tusks let some large pippin grace, Or ’midst these thund’ring spears an orange place; Sauce, like himself, offensive to its foes, The roguish mustard, dangerous to the nose; Sack, and the well-spiced Hippocras the wine, Wassail the bowl with ancient ribbands fine, Porridge with plumbs, and turkeys with the chine. Plum pottage then was an indispensable of the Christ- mas table, and was made of chopped raisins, currants, prunes, figs, spices, candied peels, and bruised wheat, milk, butter, and eggs. The mutton-broth constituent of it disappeared, and wheat-flour gave place to bruised wheat, and minced suet crept in as well, making a stiff pudding, or “ potting,” which certainly agrees with modern tastes better than a savoury-sweet slop. In almost every comity—nay, almost every district— are to be found local dishes and customs. In most parts of Yorkshire “ goose-pie” is a favourite food of the season, and it is very good eating too, as may be proved by manufacturing a sample from one of the receipts for this pie given under its special heading. The Yule Dough, or Dow, is one of those ancient em- blems that have been outgrown by custom. It was a cake made in the shape of a flattened baby, with currants, cloves, or peppercorns for eyes, which bakers used for- merly to manufacture, and present to their customers as little remembrances of the time of year, just as tallow- chandlers used to present coloured Christmas candles. But the great revolution of time now requires a Christmas- box for the servant, and nothing less—a compliment