272 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fee., referred to, see under their special heads. Calf — continued. an-hour. Cut two boiled potatoes, a boiled beetroot, and a boiled carrot into small pieces, and chop a bunch of cress. Drain the meat, then mix all the vegetables in the marinade. Arrange the meat in the centre of a salad-bowl, and put the vegetables in a circle round it to form a border. Mix 2 table- spoonfuls of thick mayonnaise dressing with a little tarragon vinegar, pour it over the salad, and serve. Calf’s-Kead Soup.—The head, liver, tongue, and brains of a Calf should be boiled together the day before it is required for use. Take them, when perfectly tender, out of the liquor, and set them away to cool; skimming the liquor while boiling. Take all the bones from the meat, cut it in small pieces, put it back into the liquor in a saucepan with salt, pepper, sweet marjoram, cloves, and a little cayenne ; boil two hours, and add 1 pint of red wine. Boil ten eggs hard, pound five of them with a little flour and butter to thicken the soup, and cut the remaining five into slices to garnish the soup. While the head is cooking keep up the quantity of water by adding more as it boils away. Calf’s Head en Tortue.—(1) Cut the meat of half a cold boiled Calf’s Head into small pieces. Mix 1 wineglassful of sherry with ^ pint of stiffly-reduced stock, add the whole yolks of six hard-boiled eggs and the whites cut into small pieces, three chopped gherkins, six quenelles of veal force- meat, the pieces of head, and a little cayenne pepper. Stand the saucepan over the fire till the contents are hot. Pile the pieces of head in the middle of a hot dish, pour the sauce and eggs round it, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. (2) Prepare and cut into six equal pieces (as for Boiled Calf’s Head No. 1) half a Calf’s Head; place them on a hot dish, pour over £ pint of hot tortue garnishing, decorate with three pieces of heart-shaped, fried croutons, a little fried parsley, and send to the table very hot. (3) After a Calf’s Head has been cleaned and boiled until tender, it is to be separated into four or six large pieces, the ears being cut into a fancy shape, or nearly severed. One large piece from the cheek should be larded, and the brains should be blanched. Four large crayfish should be boiled and some chicken quenelles prepared. When all these are finished, make lqt. of brown mushroom sauce; boil six eggs hard, and remove the yolks entire. Brown the larded head in a hot oven, heat the rest of the head in the mushroom sauce, and then arrange the dish, using a small dish set in a large one for a border, or make the border of freshly-baked puff paste. The quenelles, brains, and egg yolks are heated with the head, and form the ragout which surrounds the large pieces. Collared Calf’s Head. — Scald the head, then scrape it to remove all the hairs; clean it, split it in halves lengthwise, and remove the brains. Boil the head till the bones can be easily separated from the flesh; then take them out, and flatten the head on the table. Sprinkle a thick layer of chopped parsley over the inside of the head, cover it with slices of ham, and then with slices of hard-boiled eggs ; season each layer with salt, pepper, and spices. Boll up the head, then bind it tightly in a cloth; put it in a saucepan with some broth, and boil gently for four hours. When cooked, drain the head, put a heavy weight on the top, and let it be till cold. When ready to serve, remove the cloth, cut the head into slices, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a dish, garnish with some neat little sprigs of well-washed parsley, and serve. Curried Cold Calf’s Head.—Cut 2 Jib. of cold boiled Calf’s Head into thin slices, and trim them. Cut into thin slices a large onion, two cooking apples, and a piece of shallot; put them into a saucepan with a lump of butter and fry till brown. Put in 1 table-spoonful of flour and the same quantity of curry powder; stir them over the fire while pouring in gradually 1 pint of broth. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire and keep the contents simmering for half-an-hour, stirring frequently. Put in the pieces of Calf’s Head, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and when the meat is thoroughly hot turn the curry on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve with a dish of plain- boiled rice. Fricassee of Cold Calf’s Head.—Cut off all the meat from a cold boiled Calf’s Head, put the bones into a saucepan with lqt. Calf— continued. of the stock in which the head was boiled, and add a bunch of savoury herbs, a browned onion, a blade of mace, and salt and pepper to taste. Simmer gently for about an hour, then strain into another saucepan, add the meat from the head, cut into slices, and a thickening of flour and butter, and let the liquor come to the boil. Take out the meat, stir in gradually 2 dessert-spoonfuls of lemon-juice and the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, and be careful that the liquor does not boil again, otherwise it will curdle and spoil. Put the meat on a hot dish, strain over the liquor, and serve. A few forcemeat balls placed round the dish will be a good garnish. H desired, a sweetbread cut in pieces may be added to the Calf’s Head, the onion and herbs removed when the stew is done, and 1 teacupful of cream added, but take care not to boil again after the cream is added. Fried Scallops of Calf’s Head. — Cut some cooked Calf’s Head into nice-shaped pieces, rub them over with pepper and salt, brush over with beaten egg, and cover with a thick sprinkling of cracker or breadcrumbs. Put a lump of dripping or lard into a frying- or saute-pan; when it is hot, put in the pieces of meat and fry them quickly till lightly browned. When done, drain them, put on a folded napkin or on an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of tomato sauce. Haslied Calf's Head.—(1) Cut any quantity of cold boiled Calf’s Head into pieces, keeping them about the size of a small apple. Put 2oz. or 3oz. of butter into a saucepan, melt it, stir in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, and add 1 breakfast-cupful or so of veal-stock. When well incorporated, add a few small mush- rooms, salt and pepper to taste, and boil well for about ten minutes. Bemove the saucepan to the side of the fire, add the hashed meat, and let it get hot without boiling ; take the pan from the fire, stir in the yolks of two eggs, beaten up with the juice of a lemon and strained, and also add a little chopped parsley or tarragon. Turn the hash out on to a dish, and serve. (2) Clean the head, put it in a saucepan with water to cover, and boil it until nearly cooked; then drain it and cut the meat as carefully as possible off the bone. Season some finely-grated breadcrumbs with finely-minced parsley, onion, tarragon, salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Take the best and largest pieces of meat, roll them in beaten yolks of eggs, and then in the seasoned breadcrumbs, covering them thickly ; then lay them on a tin dish and brown in front of a clear fire. Peel the tongue and cut it with the remainder of the meat in small pieces, lay them in a stewpan, and dredge flour over. Peel and cut an onion into quarters, put it in a saucepan with a small bunch of sweet herbs, a shallot, 1 wineglassful of sherry, and the liquor from a dozen oysters; pour in 1 pint of clear gravy, and boil the whole for fifteen minutes. Strain the gravy when sufficiently boiled over the pieces of meat in the stewpan, put in a few peeled and chopped truffles and morels, about 1 wine- glassful of mushroom ketchup, salt, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Put 2oz. of butter in a basin, slightly warm it, then mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and half the brain, and beat all well together with a wooden spoon. Stir the brain mixture in with the other ingredients, and keep the whole simmering at the side of the fire, stirring them occasion- ally. Mix with the remainder of the brains the finely-minced peel of a lemon, 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, J- teaspoonful of pounded mace, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; bind them together with beaten egg, shape it into small cakes, and fry them in butter until lightly browned. Dip the twelve oysters in beaten yolk of egg, and fry them also in butter until lightly browned. When the pieces of meat in front of the fire are nicely browned, arrange them on a hot dish, pour the boiled mixture over them, garnish with the fried oysters and brain cakes, and serve while very hot. Roasted Calf’s Head.—Trim the head, wash it in plenty of water, and parboil it. Then bone it, and cut out the brains and tongue ; prepare sufficient veal forcemeat, seasoned well with pepper, salt, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg, to stuff the head, and make several small balls. Stuff the head with the forcemeat, fasten it with skewers, and bind it round with tape. Fix the head on a roasting-jack, and finish cooking it in front of a clear fire, basting frequently with butter. Put the brains in a basin with the yolk of an egg and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of cream, and beat them well; season