246 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. dc., referred to see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Cakes—continued. smooth, beat in the whites of eight eggs and 1 teacupful of milk. Mix thoroughly and flavour with lemon. Turn the mixture into shallow baking-tins well buttered, and bake. When cold, ice each Cake over, and cover them with jelly. Build up into one large Cake and ice over top. Mousseline Cake.—Prepare a Cake mixture as follows : Take ■Jib. of flour, Jib. of powdered sugar, flavoured with orange- flower water, 2oz. of potato-flour, the well-whipped yolks and whites of eight eggs, the peel of an orange grated on sugar, and a little salt. When made, put it into a buttered shallow mould and bake. The mould should be of the same shape and diameter as the bottom of the dish upon which the Cake is to be formed. When this Cake is done, turn it out of the mould and let it cool. Then put 4 or 5 table-spoonfuls of purde of strawberry and raspberry mixed into a small pan, and add quickly sufficient sugar, flavoured with orange-flower water, to make it of the thickness of a batter. Warm it gently, but do not let it boil, and continue stirring all the time. Whip the whites of four eggs until quite stiff and add it to the fruit preparation, then add the juice of a lemon, and put the mixture into a silk bag. Scoop out some of the Cake from the top and put in the hole thus formed a few table-spoonfuls of curacoa, fill the hollow with the preparation of whipped eggs and fruit by means of the bag, raising it up like a pyramid, and forming it into the shape of a pine-apple. Mask the preparation as well as the Cake with a glaze made with 2 table-spoonfuls of puriie of strawberries and raspberries, finely-powdered sugar, and a little water, and let them dry for half-an-hour. When wanted for use, dish on a folded napkin or ornamental dish- paper. Napoleon Cake.—Lay in a Napoleon-cake pan (see Fig. 283) a layer of puff paste, spread over that a layer of pastry Fig. 283. Napoleon-cake Pan (Mathews and Son). cream, cover with puff paste, glaze the top with sugar, and bake. Serve either hot or cold. Neapolitan Cake.—(1) Pound lib. of blanched and dried, sweet almonds in a mortar, and moisten with the white of an egg ; mix with them lib. of caster sugar, ljlb. of flour, the grated peel of one orange, and 1 small pinch of salt. Mix to a stiff paste with the yolks of twelve eggs, and let it rest for one hour. Boll the paste out to fin. in thickness, cut it with a plain round 5Jin. diameter cutter, place them on baking- sheets, and bake a golden brown ; when done, trim them with the cutter. "When cold, pile on top of each other, spreading alternately between them red-currant jelly and apricot jam. When all the rounds are stuck together trim the outside with a knife, and spread apricot jam over. Boll to about Jin. thick some twelve turns puff paste, cut into small fancy shapes with cutters, lay on a baking-sheet, sift some caster sugar over them, and bake lightly so as not to colour them. Decorate the Cake with these patterns, which may be made to adhere with apricot marmalade or jelly (see Fig. 284). (2) Pound to a smooth paste 6oz. of sweet almonds and loz. of bitter, adding occasionally a little orange-flower water to prevent the mass oiling. Mix with the almonds Jib. of fresh butter, 1 pint of flour, the grated rind of one lemon, Jib. of caster sugar, and 1 pinch of salt; beat the yolks of six eggs, mix with the others, and let them remain in a cool place for half-an-hour. Dust a little flour over a slab, put the paste on it, and roll it out to about Jin. thick ; cut into 2Jin. diameter rounds with a cutter or teacup, flour a baking-sheet, lay the rounds on it, and bake in a good oven a light yellow colour. When done trim the edges, and when quite cold spread the rounds with different jams, and pile on top of each other. Sift a little sugar over the top before serving. Cakes—continued. (3) Get some jelly-cake pans and put in first a layer of pound Cake and then a layer of jelly, and so on until the size required. Trim and ornament. (4) Put Jib. of flour on the table, make a bay or well in the centre, put into that Jib. of caster sugar, Jib. of butter, two whole eggs, two yolks, a little chopped lemon-rind, and 1 pinch of salt; mix the butter, eggs, sugar, and almonds first, and lastly the flour ; keep it on ice for one hour, when very stiff sift a little flour on the table, put the paste on it, divide it into twelve pieces about the size of an egg, roll them out into thin round flats, 6in. wide, take them up on a flat lid, and put them on baking-sheets ; cut them round with a great charlotte-mould (so as to trim them) of the diameter which is to be given to the Neapolitan Cake ; then cut out the flats in the centre with a smaller cutter, so as to form flat rings. Bake- the flat rings in a steady oven, taking care to bake them all the same colour. When done take them up with a flat tin without breaking, place them one over the other in sixes, and cover them with a charlotte- mould so as to lightly press them. When cool mask the flats one by one on one side with apricot marmalade; raise one above the other so as to get a nice shape and quite straight. Slightly cut the Cake all round, smooth its surfaces, put it on a solid flat of office-paste, and mask with tepid transparent marmalade ; when the marmalade has cooled and dried, ornament the sides of the Cake with almond paste or white puff paste, or else with cut preserved fruits, and, lastly, with icing sugar squeezed through a cornet; the decoration is entirely dependent upon artistic taste and ability This Cake is better served on the second day. Dish the Cake, fill the hollow with whipped cream flavoured with vanilla, and sugared. Nelson Cake.-—Boll out lib. of puff paste, cover it with 1 Jib. of well-washed currants, Jib. of sugar, and a little spice; sprinkle over a little water to make the currants and sugar bind, cover with another pound of rolled paste, and bake. When done, ice it, let it set, and serve. New-Year Cakes.—Put lib. of powdered loaf sugar and 12oz. of butter into a basin, and beat them to a cream. Add three well-beaten eggs, 2oz. of caraway-seeds, one grated nut- meg, and lib. of flour. When well mixed, stir in J pint of milk and 1 gill of rose-water, and mix well again ; add 21b. more flour, and work the whole to a smooth dough. Boll it out, cut it into Cakes, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve when cold. Norfolk Cake.—Beat to a cream Jib. of butter, then add six eggs, Jib. of sugar, 1 teaeupful of cream, 1 pint of flour, half a nutmeg, 1 wineglassful of brandy, lib. of stoned raisins, and