294 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads Carbonic-acid Gas—continued. that it is not a supporter of life or combustion, but can be used in our foods without the slightest fear of deleterious consequences. Indeed if this were not so, its use, whether generated from marble, alkalies, or yeast would render bread and all leavened food injurious to life. It has probably been confounded with the terribly disastrous carbonic-oxide gas, or choke-damp of the mine. GAEDAMOMS. — The seeds of the Cardamom- plant (Cardamomum), known to brewers as “ Grains of Paradise,” are much used by cooks and confectioners, for the peculiarly agreeable but pungent aromatic flavours afforded by them. In curry powders their presence is considered essential. The Cardamom is a native of the East Indies, and grows abundantly in India, Ceylon, Madagascar, and especially along the Malabar coast. There are several kinds, but that from which the seeds of commerce are usually obtained throws out a flower- stalk, about 1 Aft. long, direct from the roots, which creeps along the ground, and bears numerous small white flowers. These flowers give place to triangular capsules, containing several small, irregular-shaped, dark-coloured seeds. Cardamom Cakes.—Work into a smooth paste the yolks of five eggs, with sufficient flour to make it stiff, add 1 teacupful of caster sugar, 1 teacupful of cream, and 1 tsaspoonful of bruised Cardamom-seeds. Roll out the paste, cut it into shapes with ornamental cutters, and fry in hot butter. It is sometimes advisable to add a small quantity of water to the butter. Cardamom Comfits.—Put the Cardamoms into the oven to dry them, break the skins, and pick out all the seeds. Have ready a large copper preserving-pan, about 2ft. wide, with two handles and two iron rings, one at each side. Sling this pan to a beam by means of a long cord over a pulley fixed to the beam, with a hook at each end, to hook into the iron rings attached to the pan. Under this hanging pan have an iron pot with a charcoal fire in it, not a very hot fire, only enough to keep the pan warm. Boil in another pan some syrup for a-quarter-of- an-hour, and mix with it some fine white starch crushed to powder, the starch should be the whitest obtainable. In another pan warm some gum arabic and water. Put into the large pan slung to the beam the Cardamom-seeds, and a ladleful of the warmed gum arabic and water. Rub the seeds with the hands till they are dry. Again add gum arabic and rub till dry, then add a ladleful of starch and syrup, and rub and shake them over the charcoal fire till all are dry. Repeat this two or three times, boiling the syrup more as the seeds begin to get coated with it, and do not use so much starch. When they have been dried seven times put them in a sieve, and leave them in the stove till next day. Repeat this process every day for a week. Cardamom Flavouring1.—This very powerful aromatic, used in the form of essence, is greatly used for flavouring bitters, cordial-i, and other like beverages. It is made by soaking bruised Cardamom-seeds in proof spirit for a month, and then straining, or filtering off the fluid. The tincture, which is not so highly concentrated, is more generally used. Tincture of Cardamoms.—Put lib. of whole (not ground) Cardamom-seeds into a jar containing a gallon of over-proof spirits, and let it infuse for fully three weeks, when it may be filtered and bottled. CARDINAL.—This name is given to dishes and sauces coloured bright red or carmine, taking its signifi- cation from the dress of that dignitary, which abounds in scarlet. The name is also applied to drinks, as a comparative degree rising from Bishop to Cardinal, and thence to Pope. The following receipts give a very faithful idea of the application of the term. Cardinal.— (1) Pierce some holes in the rind of a lemon, stick a few cloves in it, and roast it before a slow fire. Put a little cinnamon, mace, cloves, and allspice into a saucepan with ? pint of water, and let it boil to half its quantity. Boil 1 bottle of claret; burn a portion of the spirit out of it by applying a lighted paper to the saucepan. Put the roasted lemon and Cardinal—continued. spice into the claret, stir all up well, and let it stand near the fire for ten minutes. Rub a few lumps of sugar on the peel of a lemon, and put them into a jug with the juice of half a raw lemon; pour the claret upon it, grate in some nutmeg, and sweeten to taste. Serve the Cardinal up with the lemon and spice floating on it. Oranges can be used instead of lemons, and are very nice. This drink is delicious and re- freshing when cold and iced. (2) Moisten lib. of loaf sugar with some cold water; when dissolved, add 1 bottle of Rhine wine, I bottle of champagne, a few pieces of orange- or lemon-peel, and the juice of two oranges. Strain the liquid through a cloth, and let it cool on ice previous to serving it. Cardinal of Bitter Oranges.—Put the thinly-pared outer rind of two Seville oranges in a jug, pour over it 3 bottles of white wine, cover the jug, and let the peel infuse until the wine is well flavoured with it. Scrape off all the white pith round the oranges, cut into thin slices, put them in a china bowl, and strew fib. of caster sugar over them. Cover the bowl, and leave the oranges until the peel-liquor is ready. Strain the wine off the peel on to the oranges, empty in a bottle of champagne, and serve the Cardinal at once. Cardinal Bssence.—Put the thinly-pared rind of one Seville orange and one sweet one into a bottle with 2oz. of caster sugar, a very small piece of vanilla, Joz. of stick cinnamon broken into small pieces, and the juice of the two oranges. Pour in 1 pint of arrack, cork the bottle, and let the contents infuse for a week. At the end of that time the essence will be ready for use. A wineglassful of the essence sweetened with loaf sugar, and mixed with a bottle of Madeira wine, will make a good and quickly prepared Cardinal. Cardinal of Fine-apple.—Peel and cut a pine-apple into thin slices, put them into a china bowl, strew plenty of caster sugar over them, and let them stand an hour or two. Put the trimmings of the pine-apple into a saucepan with a small quantity of cold water, and boil them until the flavour is extracted; then take them off the fire, and leave until cold. Strain the water off the peel, and sweeten it with a small quantity of sugar; mix with it 1 pint of white wine, and pour the whole over the slices of pine-apple. Cover the bowl and let the contents remain for an hour or two. When ready to serve, mix in 1 bottle of champagne. Cardinal of Strawberries.—(I) Rub about 1 teacupful of loaf sugar on the peel of some oranges ; put it into a basin with |lb. of loaf sugar, dissolve it with a little cold water, and squeeze in the juice of five oranges through a sieve; then add Fig. 331. Cardinal Bowl and Glasses. 1 bottle of good moselle and a little rum. Stir all well, and then add I handful of fresh strawberries ; pour the mixture into a glass vessel, and stand it on ice for one hour. When you serve it, put the vessel on a tray with a silver ladle, and surround it with glasses (see Fig. 331). (2) Select lqt. of ripe and fully-flavoured strawberries; pick off their stalks and tops, and put them into a china or fancy bowl; strew about 6 table-spoonfuls of