412 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tkc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cocoa-nuts—continued, and put them on a sieve to drain. Boil lib. of loaf sugar to the blow degree, stand it oil the fire, add the prepared Cocoa- nut, and give it another boil up on the fire, stirring lightly with a fork ; then take out the shreds of Cocoa-nut with a fork and put them on a sieve. Boil the sugar again, put in the Cocoa-nut, give it another boil, take it out, and drain it; squeeze a few drops of lemon-juice in the sugar, keeping the pips out, boil it to the pearl degree, put in the Cocoa-nut, stir it lightly about, and then drain it on a sieve. Separate the shreds carefully with two forks. When cold, dish it up in a pile in the compote dish, and pour round it some clear syrup flavoured with citron liqueur. Crystallised Cocoa-nut Chips.—Remove the dark skin from one or two Cocoa-nuts, and cut them up into thin slices. In the meantime, boil some sugar to a syrup, put in the slices of Cocoa-nut, and boil for about ten minutes, stirring con- tinually ; then remove the pan from the fire, stir well once more, and pour the contents on to a wire sieve, placing a vessel underneath to catch whatever syrup may run through. When the syrup is well drained, turn the chips of Cocoa-nut into a vessel with crystal sugar, mix them thoroughly up in it, and let them remain for an hour, by which time they will be ready for use. Care must be taken not to let them drain too long, or they will become too dry to take up the crystal sugar sufficiently. They should never be packed away when made, but should be left exposed to the air as much as possible. A part, or the whole, may be coloured red by mixing liquid cochineal in the sugar. Grated Cocoa-nut.—Cut off the dark outside part of a large Cocoa-nut, throwing the pieces into cold water as fast as they are peeled; take them out, drain them, rub through a coarse grater on to a dish, and serve with raspberry or other jelly for garnish. Portuguese Cocoa-nut Pudding. -Prepare a syrup with fib. of sugar, stir in |lb. of ground rice, pour in a breakfast- cupful of Cocoa-nut milk, made from two Cocoa-nuts, and stir well over the fire until the mixture thickens. Turn it out into a well-buttered dish, bake to a light brown, and serve. CODFISH {Fr. Cabillaud; Ger. Kabeljau).—This well- known fisli (Morrhua vulgaris) inhabits northern latitudes, and is caught in large quantities along the coasts of Newfoundland, millions being taken annually on the Grand Bank. The flesh forms an excellent and whole- some food, provided it is fresh and sound. To judge of this, the eye should be examined: if recently caught this will be found rising from the head and surrounded with a transparent and red substance. The gills also should be bright red, not brown, nor turning so, and the flesh should be firm and transparently white. A thick neck and well-marked yellow spots indicate good quality. See Fig. 493. Cod imported as “Newfoundland Fish” have been beheaded, split open, gutted, and salted, and are therefore somewhat coarser than the fresh Cod brought in by our own boats from the North Sea. Besides the numerous modes of cooking Cod sound, roe, liver, and tongues (described hereafter), the spawn is made into caviare, and the liver pressed and boiled for its oil, which is sufficiently familiar to certain unfortunate invalids. Young Cod, or codlings, are apt to be watery and tasteless as compared with the matured fish, which are best from about September to March. Codfish —continued. Cleaning Codfish. —It is usual first to remove the gills by cutting through their connection with the rest of the head and shoulders, and pulling them out. Then lay the fish on its back, open the belly by a straight cut down the centre, and remove the inside, carefully preserving the liver and roe, and leaving the sounds uninjured. If the fish is to be cooked whole, it should be “ scored ” to the bone transversely at intervals of 2in.; but if it is to be cooked in pieces, cut it into slices 3in. thick, and soak the fish in water for a quarter-of-an-hour. Cod is crimped by being cut up and notched with a knife whilst partly alive; but some cooks consider this to be a cruelty, and object to its practice. The following receipts for cooking Cod are carefully selected as likely to give sufficient variety to suit all tastes, and for all purposes. The fish is usually divided by the fishmonger into “head and shoulders,” “middle,” and “ tail ”; but although preference may be given to the middle cut, the tail is quite as good although not so fleshy, and the head yields in quantity the gelatine that makes such excellent soup. Codling are for the most part amenable to the same treatment on a smaller scale. See Bacalao, Beandade, Coal-fish, &c. Baked Cod.— (1) Carefully skin a large piece cut from the middle of a Cod; partially boil the roe of the fish, then pound it in a mortar with two hard-boiled eggs and sufficient grated breadcrumbs to make enough stuffing for the fish; season to taste with pepper, salt, and grated lemon-peel, and mix in loz. of butter and the unbeaten white of one egg ; stuff the fish with this mixture, sew it in with white thread, and bake in a Dutch oven in front of the fire, turning it frequently and basting with butter. When cooked, place the fish on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish it with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of oyster sauce. A tin baking-dish is best for cooking this fish in. (2) Get a fresh Cod not too large, clean, trim, and stuff it with good veal stuffing, sew up the aperture, truss the fish in the shape of the letter S, place it in a deep baking-dish previously spread with fresh butter, season with pepper and salt, chopped parsley, and mushrooms, add i bottle of sherry and the liquor from two dozen oysters, put it into the oven, and baste it frequently with the liquor. When it is nearly done, shake some fine raspings of bread over it, and finish baking; when done, remove the strings and place the fish upon a dish. Put £ pint of good stock into the baking- pan, warm it up, and strain the whole through a fine strainer; reduce it for ten minutes, add some brown sauce, a pat of anchovy butter, a little cayenne and lemon-juice, and put in the oysters (bearded); then pour the sauce round the Cod, and send it to table. (3) Take a small Cod, or the middle part of a large one, and let it lay in cold water with a teacupful of salt for half-an-hour; then take it out, wipe dry, and stuff with forcemeat made as follows: Take 2 table-spoonfuls of boiled salted pork chopped fine, 1 table-spoonful of a mixture of chopped thyme, parsley, sweet marjoram, with just a very little chopped onion, and a teacupful of breadcrumbs; stir all this well together, and with a beaten eg'g mix it to force- meat. When the Cod is stuffed, put it in a baking-dish, pour over it J teacupful of melted butter seasoned with 1 tea- spoonful of Harvey’s sauce, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, pepper and salt to taste, and the strained juice of half a lemon, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour, or longer if necessary; baste it frequently to prevent its browning too quickly. Should the sauce thicken too much in the course of the baking, add a little butter and hot water to it. When the Cod is done, put it on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. A few capers may be added to the sauce when dishing. Baked Cod’s Head. -Take the head of a large Cod, trim and wash it well, fill the gills with veal stuffing, put the head into a deep baking-dish, season with pepper and salt and a little chopped parsley, moisten with pint of sherry and a little ketchup, put a well-buttered paper over it, and set in the oven to bake. The fish must be well basted with the liquor while it is baking, and i pint of stock may be added to keep it moist. When the head is nearly done, sprinkle it over with fine raspings of bread, and when it is quite done put it upon a