TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 292 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Caraway—continued. of Caraway-seeds, and six eggs. Let it rise again, and when twice its original bulk turn into a buttered cake-tin, and bake in a sharp oven. (4) Warm 6oz. of butter in a basin and rub it to a cream, then add gib. of flour, 6oz. of moist sugar, 1 teaspoonful of Caraway-seeds, and 1 pinch of salt. Mix all these well together, and then add three well-whisked eggs and sufficient milk to make a smooth batter. Line a tin with buttered paper, pour in the batter, and bake in a steady oven. (5) Put Jib. of butter in a basin, warm it, and beat to a cream; then add very slowly 1 teacupful of orange- or rose- water. Mix well in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of best flour, 2 table- spoonfuls of ground rice, lib. of caster sugar, gib. of ground sweet almonds, eight eggs well whisked, and 1 table-spoonful of Caraway-seeds. All these ingredients should be added and well mixed a little at a time. Pour the mixture into a tin or mould lined with buttered or oiled paper, and bake in a steady oven. (6) Irish.—Sift through a wire sieve gib. of ground rice. Break nine eggs and beat them for twenty minutes. Put 11b. of butter into a large basin, and with the back of a wooden spoon beat it to a cream ; add to it a little at a time 1 tea- cupful of rose-water and lib. of powdered white sugar, and continue beating till all is well mixed. Then gradually add the beaten eggs, and sprinkle in the sifted ground rice a little at a time. Put gib. of almonds into a bowl, pour boiling water over them, and let them stand for a few minutes, then slip them out of their skins, chop finely, and add to the ingredients in the large basin; at the same time add 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and sprinkle in 1 teaspoonful of Caraway-seeds. Mix well together again, and pour into a buttered cake-tin. Bake for an-hour-and-a-half in a quick oven. (7) Rich.—Beat lib. of warmed butter to a cream, and then put in lib. of caster sugar. Break eight eggs into two basins, separating the yolks from the whites, beat them up separately, and then add to the butter and sugar. Beat in lglb. of dried flour, a grated nutmeg, i teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, and 2oz. of Caraway-seeds. Mix well together, put in a buttered tin, and bake in a quick oven. (8) Scotch.—Weigh out lib. of bread dough in the early morning, work up in it 6oz. of butter and 6oz. of caster sugar, and leave it in a warm place to prove. About two hours after work it together, and beat in two eggs and a small teaspoonful of Caraway-seeds. Knead it until smoothly blended (about half-an-hour); then work in gib. of flour, and continue breaking for about five minutes. Set it in a warm place for two hours to rise, and then break again. Butter a cake-mould, put in the batter, and let it rise for another hour, and then bake like bread in a quick oven. Caraway Candy. — Pound Joz. of Caraway-seeds to a fine powder, and boil it with lib. of loaf sugar and a breakfast- cupful of water to the crack (see Sugar-boiling). Pour out on a greased slab to cool, or the sugar when boiled may be flavoured with the essence of Caraway. Caraway Comfits.— (1) Take a table-spoonful of Caraway-seeds and put them in a comfit-pan, and heat them by stirring with a wooden spoon over a chafing-dish containing live embers of charcoal. Take 6oz. of gum arabic and dissolve it in water, but not to make it too thin, and have ready 3jlb. of syrup of 32deg. (see Syrup), which must be kept as hot as possible without boiling. Put a little of the syrup into the pan with a little of the dissolved gum, place the pan over the chafing- dish, and stir until the seeds are quite hot, and then add another table-spoonful of the gum, and continue to stir until the gum has dried on the seeds; put in a little more of the gum, and sprinkle over a little starch powder to give them another coating. Put a little of the boiled sugar and gum into a bag, and with a beading funnel give them another coating. Separate the seeds as much as possible, and put them on a sieve to remove any particles of sugar that do not adhere. Repeat this operation five times more, taking care to clean out the comfit-pan each time, and when they are done put them in a warm place for a day, to dry. Give them another coating, and continue this six times in all, when they will be ready for use. A table-spoonful of seeds is used at a time: with more than that quantity one is not likely to succeed. Caraway—continued. (2) Have a large copper preserving-pan, about 2ft. wide, with two handles and two iron rings, one at each side. Sling this pan to a beam by means of a long cord over a pulley fixed to a beam, .with a hook at each end of the cord to hook into the iron rings attached to the pan. Underneath this hanging pan have a charcoal fire in an iron pot, not a very hot fire, only sufficient to keep the pan warm. Boil in another pan some syrup for a-quarter-of-an-hour, and mix with it some tine white starch crushed to powder, the starch should be the whitest obtainable. In another pan warm some gum arabic and water. Take some large Caraway-seeds, sift the dust from them, and put them into the large hanging pan; add a ladleful of the warmed gum arabic and water. Rub the seeds with the hands till they are dry. Add gum arabic and rub till dry, then add a ladleful of starch and syrup, and rub and shake this over the charcoal fire till all are dry. Repeat this three or four times, boiling the syrup more as the seeds begin to get coated with it, and using less starch. When they have been dried seven times, put them in a sieve, and leave them in the stove till next day. Repeat this process every day for a week. Caraway Cordial.—Take loz. of the oil of Caraway (or 21b. of the bruised seeds), dissolve the oil in 1 pint of spirits of wine, put it into a cask, and add 2galls. more of spirits of wine. Dissolve 341b. of lump sugar in 4galls. of boiling water, and add to the other mixture. Fill up the 40gall. cask with water, and fine with 2oz. of alum dissolved in a little boiling water, the solution being put into the cask whilst hot. A little after- wards add loz. of salts of tartar, and shake or stir well together. Smaller quantities can be made in proportion, and cooks often add cassia oil, and essence of orange or lemon. Caraway Dragees.—Sift the dust thoroughly from the Cara- ways, and put them into a preserving-pan. When the seeds are quite warm, add to them some clarified sugar. Keep adding the sugar by degrees, and stirring occasionally till the dragees are of the desired size ; then lay them on sieves, and keep them in a warm place, that they may dry thoroughly before they are put away. Caraway Liqueur.—Put lib. of lump sugar into a saucepan with 1 pint of water, and boil until reduced to a syrup. Put 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of Caraway-seeds into a large jar or bottle, pour in 2qts. of brandy and the syrup, well cork the bottle, and stand it in a warm place. In a week’s time filter the liqueur through flannel, or through a jelly-bag, and bottle for use. Caraway Sauce.—Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of flour in a saucepan with ^ pint of water till smooth; put in a good-sized lump of butter, and stir over the fire until boiling. Put in the sauce 1 teaspoonful of Caraway-seeds, a small quantity of sugar, and sufficient lemon-juice to make it acid. Boil it up again, then move it off the fire, stir in quickly the beaten yolks of two eggs, and serve it. Caraway Soup.—(1) Put five or six slices of brown bread in a saucepan with lqt. of water and 1 teaspoonful of Caraway- seeds, and boil them for half-an-hour. Slightly warm 3oz, of fresh butter, and beat it until creamy; then break three eggs into it, and continue beating for five minutes. Turn the beaten eggs and butter into a soup-tureen, strain the soup through a fine hair sieve, and then, stirring them at the same time, season to taste with salt, and serve while hot. (2) German.— Put 3 table-spoonfuls of flour in a saucepan with 3oz. of butter, and stir it over the fire until nicely browned; then pour in 5 pints of water. Peel a carrot, a turnip, and an onion, cut them, as well as two or three sticks of celery, into slices, put the vegetables into the water, and boil. When they are tender, put 1 teacupful of Caraway-seeds in with them, season the soup with salt and pepper to taste, and boil for fifteen minutes longer. Toast some thin slices of brown bread, trim off the crusts, and cut them into nice- shaped pieces; put them in a soup-tureen, pour the soup over, and serve. Caraway-water Cakes.—Sift Soz. of flour into a basin, together with 3oz. of crushed loaf sugar; add the required quantity of Caraway-seeds, and form the whole into a stiff paste by adding cream. Roll this out very thin, cut it with a biscuit-cutter into rounds, dock with a docker, put them on a baking-sheet slightly sprinkled with flour, place them in a moderate oven, and bake. The cakes will only require a few minutes to bake,