TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 357 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ic., referred to, see under their special heads. Cherries—continued. soda. Beat four eggs with 1 teacupful of sugar, and stir them into the milk in the jug. Cut some thin slices of bread-and-butter, trim them neatly, put a layer in the bottom of a pudding-dish, and pour in a little of the mixture of milk, soda, eggs, and sugar; strew over this a layer of stoned Cherries, then more bread-and-butter, then pour in more of the milk and eggs, then add a layer of Cherries, and so on till the dish is full; let the last layer be bread-and-butter, thickly buttered. Cover it with a dish turned upside down and let it soak for one hour, then set it in a pan of hot water in the oven, still keeping it covered, and bake it for an hour; uncover it and let the top ( brown. Serve hot with sugar. Cherry Cakes. — (1) Prepare lib. of tart-paste, cut into halves, and roll it out thin. Put small groups of preserved Cherries all over the paste, leaving a short space between each; brush all round them with beaten egg, then put the other half of the paste on the top, and press it gently round each group of Cherries. Cut out the cakes, prick them, and brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg. Butter a baking-sheet, place the cakes on it a short distance from each other, and bake in a quick oven. When cooked, take the cakes off the tin, arrange on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve. They may be served cold if preferred See Pig. 439. (2) Well beat six eggs, mix with them Jib. of crumb of bread that has been soaked in milk, Jib. of sugar, 4oz. of butter that has been slightly warmed, 2oz. of blanched and pounded almonds, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Work the ingredients until well mixed, and add 1 Jib. of Cherries. Thickly butter the interior of a shallow tin, and put in the mixture; ornament it tastefully on the top with a few split almonds, sift caster sugar and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon on the top, and bake in a moderate oven. Turn the cake out of the tin before it gets cold. (3) Butter a tin and line it with plain paste ; cover it with Cherries that have been freed from their stalks. Well beat two eggs, mix with them 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, 2 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, and sufficient milk to bring the whole to the consistency of thick cream. Well stir the mixture, pour it over the Cherries, and bake the cake in a moderate oven. Serve hot or cold. Cherry Caramel Tablets.—Boil Jib. of sugar in a teacupful of water, and just before it comes to the crack (see Sugar- boiling) stir in 8 drops of acetic acid and 1 table-spoonful of Cherry-juice. Boil up again until it comes to the crack, let it cool, and then turn it out on an oiled marble slab ; mark the surface of the caramel deeply with the back of a knife into lin. square tablets; when quite cold, they can be easily snapped asunder. Cherries en Chemise.—Cut off the stalks rather short from lib. or so of ripe Cherries, and dip them into white of egg beaten to a froth. Cover them over with caster sugar, shaking well so that there is none on them but what adheres, put them on a sieve in the dry-closet, and let them remain until wanted. Cherry Cordial. — (1) Extract the juice from ripe Morello Cherries by taking out the stones and pressing ; strain it through a cloth, sweeten to taste, and when perfectly clear boil it up. Put 1 teacupful of brandy in each bottle, and cork and seal tightly. This cordial will keep all the summer in a cool place. It is very nice and refreshing with iced water. (2) To 1 pint of Cherry-juice add lib. of caster sugar, and stir together until the sugar is dissolved ; then add 1 pint of good brandy, and in a week or ten days filter through filtering- paper. Cherries—continued. Cherry Cream Ice.—(1) Carefully remove all the stones from about 21b. of ripe Cherries, put them into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of water, and boil to a pulp. Bub this through a fine sieve into a basin, mix in 8oz. of powdered loaf sugar, a little cochineal colouring, and lastly 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cream. When thoroughly incorporated, turn the mixture into the freezer, and put it into a mould packed in ice ; turn it out when set, and serve. (2) Take the stalks from Jib. of ripe red Cherries, put them into a mortar and pound them, stones and all. Then add to them the juice of one lemon, J pint of syrup, mix this together, and add and stir in by degrees 1 pint of cream. Strain all this through a sieve, put it in a freezer till thoroughly set, and serve in glasses. Cherries 'with Crohtons.—(1) Take Jib. of Cherries, remove the stalks and stones, place them in a sugar-boiler with a little sugar and 1 wineglassful of wine, and let this boil gently for a few minutes. Then with a skimmer take out the Cherries and put them in a basin ; take out a little of the liquid and add a little lemon-zest (grated peel) and 2 handfuls of powdered caster sugar. Boil this up quickly to reduce it to the required consistency, put in the Cherries, and let it bubble up once more only ; then pour them out into a deep dish. Cut eight or ten slices of household bread about Jin. in thickness, cut them into an oval shape with a biscuit-cutter, and with the point of a knife make an incision all round near the edge. Put them into a frying-pan with butter, and fry to a nice colour on both sides; then drain and scoop out the inside contained by the cut ring, fill the hollow with 1 table-spoonful of almond paste, smooth the surface, dust over a little powdered sugar, and glaze the sugar with a red-hot shovel or salamander. Place the crusts on the top of the Cherries in the dish, and serve. (2) Turkish.—Take 21b. of fine raw Cherries, remove the stalks and stones, and put them into a preserving-pan with 1 Jib. of finely-powdered preserving sugar. Toss in the pan over a slow fire until the sugar is melted, then put on a quick fire for two minutes in order to boil the Cherries; when done, turn them out at once into a basin. Let them remain for two hours, pour the syrup back again into the pan, and reduce it to one-third its original bulk, when it should be rather thick; then pour it over the Cherries. Now take a loaf of household bread and cut off some slices about Jin. in thickness ; with a biscuit-cutter cut out some croutons of a round shape, put them in a saute-pan close together, and fry them in a little clarified butter; turn them over so as to do both sides, and when they are of a nice colour pour in some of the warm syrup from the Cherries to half their height. Put them on the fire again, and boil until all the syrup is absorbed in the bread. Put the Cherries on a dish and arrange the crusts round them. Cherry Crusts.—(1) Stone and cut off the stalks of about 21b. of Morello Cherries, put them in a saucepan with about a pint of boiling syrup, and boil till tender. Cut some slices off a tinned-loaf, shape them into hearts, crescents, stars, or rounds, toast them, lay them in a saucepan, pour the Cherries and syrup over, with a small quantity of water, making sufficient liquor with the syrup to cover them, and simmer at the side of the fire until the bread is soft. Put the slices of bread and Cherries in layers on a dish, dusting caster sugar between each layer. Serve hot or cold. (2) Cut off the stalks and stone about 21b. of Morello Cherries. Put lib. of loaf sugar in a saucepan with 1 pint of water, place it over the fire until boiling, then skim it, put in the Cherries, and stir them with a wooden spoon until they begin to get tender. Cut two stale French rolls, length- wise, into rather thin slices ; put a lump of butter in a frying- pan, and make it hot. Dip the slices of French rolls in yolks of eggs that have been beaten with a small quantity of milk, put them in the hot butter and fry until nicely browned on both sides. When done, drain the slices, lay them in a pie-dish, and pour the Cherries and syrup over them, adding a small quantity of water to the syrup if it is too thick. But the dish in a moderate oven, or over a charcoal fire, and leave it until the slices of roll have absorbed all the syrup. Then turn it over on to a hot dish, and serve. Cherry-and-Currant Syrup.—Take lib. of sugar, convert it into syrup of 32deg. (see Sugar-boiling), and put it into a pan_ with 1 pint of filtered Cherry-juice (made by pounding