335 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, die., referred to, see Under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Chantilly Baskets and Cups—continued. moulds well buttered or oiled both inside and out, to prevent the sugar sticking. The choux may also be made in any shape—round, square, triangular, &c., but must be of uniform size. (4) Boil some clarified sugar to caramel (see Sugar-boiling), dip some ratafias into it and lay them all round the inside of a dish, take some more ratafias and cut them into squares, dip them too into the caramel and stand them cornerwise on the under row, then dip some more uncut ratafias in caramel and pile them on top of the square-cut cakes, and so on piling the basket two or three storeys high. Line the inside with wafer-paper and put into it sponge biscuits, sweetmeats, a few blanched almonds, and on top of all a lightly-piled whipped cream ; garnish the froth with rose- leaves, candied violets, coloured comfits, or caramel sugar. (5) Cut through the rinds of thoroughly sound well-shaped oranges in such a manner that when the intermediary parts are removed a pattern will remain on the orange representing Fig. 406. Chantilly Basket or Petits Choux. a basket, such as is shown in Pig-. 406. Carefully remove all the fruit of the orange by means of a vegetable-scoop or small spoon, and trim up the basket of peel where any irregularities or want of finish may appear. A very sharp- pointed penknife answers best for cutting the rind. Have ready some thin syrup in a broad pan over the fire, and into this place the baskets, taking care that each shall stand | perfectly upright on the bottom of the pan. Boil up gently for an hour, or until the peel baskets become transparent: then lift each one out separately and stand on a perforated sheet or sieve, carefully oiled, to drain. Lift occasionally so that the bottoms shall not stick. Let the baskets stand in a drying-closet, or near a low fire until the sugar is thoroughly set upon them, then fill with whipped cream (Chantilly cream as it was originally styled), and use to garnish pieces montees, or serve alone ; arrange on a glass or other ornamental dish, covered with an ornamental paper. CHANTILLY CREAM.—This name is given to whipped cream generally, but somewhat ostentatiously and erratically, seeing that whipped cream is of universal fame, and probably used before the Castle of Chantilly was erected. CHAFONS.—Fr. for Capons. CHAPFATEE (CHAPATI), or INDIAN HAND- BREAD. — This native Indian food is prepared by making a simple paste of flour and water, taking a piece about the size of an egg, rolling it out to about lOin. in circumference, and liaking crisp on a griddle over a clear fire. CHAR.—The trout of the Alps (Salmo alpinus, or S. salvelinus) is found commonly in the lakes of Lapland, and in some of the English, Welsh, and Scotch lakes. The lake of Geneva is celebrated for its Char, which is there styled “ Ombre chevalier ” ; and it is not altogether unknown in other parts of Switzerland and in Sweden. The name “ Char ” refers to the colour of its belly, from the Gaelic cear, ceara, blood, which also obtains for it in Scotland the cognomen of “Cardhui,”or red-black (Loch- leven trout), and in Wales “Torgoch,” both terms having Char—continued. the same signification. The finest of these fish weigh about lib. The body is elongated, tail forked, and fins small (see Fig. 407). The back is a dark olive colour, with the sides a shade or so lighter, and spotted with red or white. The belly is light-coloured, and may lie pale, or even deep orange, the particular tint varying with the seasons. The flesh is greatly esteemed, and Francatelli used to observe that treated as trout it was excellent eating, and made by far the best “ waterzootje.” Potted Char.—Clean and scale a dozen large fish, washing them twice in cold water, and each time wiping them dry with a cloth. Then well rub in 1 table-spoonful each of pepper, saltpeter, and very finely - powdered salt. Leave them for about twelve hours raised on a slab or dish a little on one side to drain, then remove the first pickle and put the fish into a large stewpan with 1 teaspoonful of cloves, same quantity of mace, 2 grated nutmegs, 1 dessert-spoonful of pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of salt; all of these being very finely pounded. Put a little butter over the fish, and then several layers of thick paper. Cover over with the lid, and put a weight on top to keep it close; put the pan in a moderate oven, and bake for from four to five hours. Take out the pan, and when it has cooled a little strain away the liquor, and place the fish belly downwards into a suitable pan or dish. They should be put quite close together, so that they will not break. Then spread butter, a little warmed, over the top to about lin. in thickness, and smooth as it cools with a spatula. The stock may be used for soups, &c. CHARCOAL. — There are two kinds of Charcoal, both having some valuable uses in cookery. Animal Charcoal, which is made by calcining bones or other animal matter such as blood, and Vegetable Charcoal, which is made by burning wood. Animal Charcoal is generally sold in powder, and is much used for decolouring and deodorising syrups and other foods. It has the remarkable property of abstracting from those liquids with which it comes into contact any sulphuretted hydrogen, organic colourings, or odorous matter; the gas being condensed in its pores. It should be used quite freshly burned, and then it is much more effective, and might be used to restore tainted meats, and purify putrid water. The Charcoal prepared from calcined blood is generally deemed superior to all other for the purposes of the distiller and sugar-boiler. The following mode is usually adopted for preparing animal Charcoal: Make a paste of 71b. of powdered bone Charcoal, lib. of hydrochloric acid, and 1 pint of water; let this stand for two or three days, and then stir into it lqt. of boiling water. On the next day let the acid be washed out by successive waters until the liquor passing from it no longer reddens litmus ; then collect it in a cloth, drain, squeeze, press, and dry it. When this is done, heat it once more to redness, and it is then ready for use. Vegetable Charcoal is generally used as a cleanly fuel, and one which throws out a fine steady heat; but as the vapour teems with carbonic-acid gas it is danger- ously poisonous, hence the use of Charcoal in cooking has fallen into disuse; but with a sufficiently large chimney- escape provided for the burning fuel there is no danger.