379 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Chocolate—continued. be pulled into various shapes, as is frequently done by the Americans. Chocolate Roll Pudding'.—Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, and then put in the yolks and 1 breakfast-cupful each of sugar and flour, beating all together; as soon as they are thoroughly well mixed, stir in 1 teacupful of cold water, with a little bicarbonate of soda, about the size of a pea, dissolved in it. Take a baking-pan, pour in the mixture in a thin layer, put it in the oven, and bake from twelve to fifteen minutes. When done, sprinkle 2 table-spoonfuls of milk over the top, then take it out of the pan, put it on a flat tin or dish, and spread over it the following' icing mixture: Take six eggs and beat the whites to a stiff froth; take half of this, and add 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and to the other half 1 teaspoonful of sugar and 3 teaspoonfuls of finely- powdered Chocolate. Spread half of each mixture over the top of the pudding, and put it back in the oven for five minutes to harden; then take it out, roll it up, put the remainder of the icing on the top and sides, and harden again in the oven ; now take it out and put it on to a flat dish. Next prepare the following sauce: Take the white of an egg beaten to a stiff froth, and 1 teacupful of caster sugar added gradually, and beat well up ; add the yolk of the egg, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla extract, and 5 table-spoonfuls of boiling milk. Pour this round the pudding, and serve. Chocolate Sauce. -Put loz. of Chocolate into a lined saucepan with J pint of milk and a few drops of essence of vanilla; sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and stir over the fire until boiling. Well beat the yolks of four eggs, then stir them quickly in with the boiling sauce at the side of the fire until the eggs have thickened ; but it must not boil again, or the eggs will curdle. Chocolate Snaps.—Put the whites of three eggs in a basin, taking care none of the yolks get mixed with them, and whisk to a stiff froth; then mix in 6 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of grated Chocolate, and 2 table- spoonfuls of blanched and pounded almonds. Stir the mixture with a spoon until all the ingredients are incor- porated. Cut some strips of wafer-paper about tin. long and 2in. broad, spread them with the mixture, lay them on a baking-sheet, and put in a cooled oven. When the snaps I are dry, take them out, and leave them until cold. Chocolate Souffle. (1) Put If breakfast-cupfuls of milk into a ! double boiler, or in a pan in a bain-marie, put it on the fire, and boil it. Then with % breakfast-cupful more milk mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of cornflour, aud add it to the boiling milk. Dissolve lloz. of Chocolate and 1 teacupful of sugar with 2 table-spoonfuls of boiling water, and add it also to the milk. Next beat the yolk of three eggs, add j saltspoonful of salt, put this in, and boil for two minutes longer. Put the boiler in iced water or pounded ice, and beat until cold. Flavour with 4 teaspoonful of vanilla extract, and pour it whole into a dish. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff I froth, put in ^ teacupful more sugar, and heap it on the mixture in the dish. Sift a little sugar on the top, and brown with a salamander. Fig. 459. Chocolate Souffles. (2) Grate three or four cakes of Chocolate into a stewpan, with 2 table-spoonfuls of warm water, and stand it at the side of the fire until the Chocolate is melted ; then remove it from the fire, and work it with a wooden spoon. Flavour 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar with vanilla, add it to the Chocolate, and when it is thick beat in with it the yolks of five eggs and the whipped whites of two, sweetened with sugar. Whip the whites of three eggs, and pour the above preparation Chocolate—continued. on them; then turn it into a souffle-case, and bake for a-quarter-of-an-hour in a moderate oven. (3) Whip the whites of four eggs until they are stiff, then add slowly 12oz. of caster sugar, 2oz. of grated Chocolate, and 1 table-spoonful of vanilla sugar. Work this to a paste, and then three-parts fill small paper souffle-cases with it. Bake in a slow oven. See Fig. 459. (4) Grease a band of paper and fasten it round a lj-pint souffle-tin, so as to form a wall of paper above the tin and confine the souffle as it rises. Grease the inside of the tin also. Warm loz. of butter in a saucepan till it is molted, then stir lTiz. of flour into it, also 1 teacupful of milk, and continue to stir till it has boiled ten minutes; then take the saucepan from the stove, keep on stirring, and throw in 1 table-spoonful of sugar, 3oz. of g'rated Chocolate, and the yolks of three eggs, one at a time. Have ready beaten to a stiff froth the whites of three eggs, and stir this in very lightly. Pour sufficient mixture into the souffle-tin to about two-thirds fill it, put the tin in a deep saucepan in which there is enough boiling water to reach half-way up the sides of the tin, cover the saucepan, gently draw it to the side of the fire whore the water will only simmer, and let the souffle remain in it for half-an-hour, keeping the saucepan covered. Then take it up and slip it quickly from the tin into a souffle dish, or fold a hot napkin round the tin in which it was cooked, and serve at once. If the room in which it is to be served is far from the kitchen, carry it there in a hot box. (5) Glazed.—It is only such cooks as Dubois who attempt dishes of this kind, and he says : “ If such Souffles are to be prepared, there must be at one’s disposal a round box in copper, tin, or zinc, the interior arranged so as to receive one or two lattices in iron tin-wire, that is, very light; the box must be closed hermetically previous to preparing the souffles, and placed on a thick layer of salted and saltpetred ice.” Pour into a stewpan nearly ^ pint of syrup at 38deg. (see Sugar-boiling), drop in half a bean of vanilla, and stand it on the fire. Put six or seven yolks of eggs in a sugar-boiler, and directly the syrup bubbles pour it in with the eggs, and whip them well, holding the pan over the fire for two minutes. Take it off, and continue whipping until it is cool; then stand it on ice, and whip for five or six minutes longer, adding at the same time J pint of whipped cream mixed with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, flavoured with vanilla. Get fifteen pretty little cases in plaited paper, fill them with the preparation, place the cases in the metal box, put a lid on, and cover it with a thick layer of ice, salted and saltpetred, and let them be for half-an-hour. Take the souffles out, sift some biscuit powder mixed with vanilla sugar over them, range them on a folded napkin, and serve. Chocolate Soup. -Put 2oz. of Chocolate powder into a sauce- pan with a stick of vanilla or cinnamon, pour in lqt. of milk, sweeten to taste with sugar, and boil it. Beat the yolks of five or six eggs to a stiff froth; move the soup to the side of the fire, leave it for two minutes, and then stir the beaten eggs in quickly. Cut some stale, small buns in halves, toast them, put them in a soup-tureen, pour in the soup, and serve while very hot. Chocolate Spongeade.—Put into a basin 4 teacupfuls of whipped cream, add 9oz. of sugar, and let it dissolve. Put 9oz. of Chocolate into a saucepan on the side of the fire, melt it, add 3 teacupfuls of water and 1 teacupful of whites of eggs (not whipped) ; then add the cream and sugar. Pass the whole through a fine sieve into a freezer, work it well, and serve in small glasses. Chocolate Sweetmeats.—Put lib. of sweet almonds into a basin, pour over sufficient boiling water to cover them, slip them out of their skins, and throw them, as they are blanched, into cold water. Drain the water from them, dry them thoroughly, and pound a few at a time to a fine paste, adding a little water during the pounding to prevent the almonds oiling. Put this paste over the fire in a preserving-pan with lib. of finely-powdered white sugar, and stir and work it to- gether well -with a wooden spatula. Break up 2oz. of Chocolate into a very little warm water, stir it over the fire in a small saucepan till the Chocolate is quite melted, and mix it with the pounded almonds and sugar in the preserving-pan; then lay it on wafer-paper in any shapes that may be desired,