THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 346 For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cheese—continued. The curd is obtained by rennet from milk, or milk and cream, at a temperature not exceeding 95deg\ Fahr. When set, the curds may be collected with an ordinary fish-slice, and a rush shape, covered with a cloth, filled. Lay a Jib. weight in a saucer, and set this on the top of the strained curd for a few hours, and then increase the weight to about Jib.; change the cloths daily until the Cheese looks mellow, then put into the rush shape. The formula in use in France, where willow heart- shape baskets are sold for making this Cheese, is as follows : Add J pint of new warm milk to 1 pint of freshly-skimmed cream. Dissolve in this 1 teaspoonful of fine sugar, and 1 table-spoonful of common rennet or 30 drops of Hansen’s extract of rennet. Let it remain in a warm place until the curd sets. Bush and straw mats are easily made by cutting the straw into lengths and stringing them with a needle and thread. The mats or baskets should not be used a second time. Sage Cheese or Green Cheese.—This is a species of cream Cheese made by adding sage-leaves and greening to the milk. A very good receipt for it is given thus: Bruise the tops of fresh young red sage-leaves with an equal quantity of spinnach-leaves and squeeze out the juice. Add this to the extract of rennet, and stir into the milk as much as your taste may deem sufficient. Break the curd when it comes, salt it, fill the vat high with it, press for a few hours, and then turn the Cheese every day. Sapsago Cheese.—See Schabzeiger. Schabzeiger Cheese (Sapsago).—This Swiss Cheese is pre- pared from the solids of the whey, chiefly sugar of milk. It resembles the Myseost of Norway, and is insipid to the taste, and not likely to become an article of general consumption. The odour is strong, and the taste somewhat powerful and coarse. It is made up into balls about 4in. in diameter. Slipcoat Cheese.—A very rich fresh curd Cheese, buttery and white. Snow Cheese.—Although this can scarcely be included amongst the Cheeses it is often supplied to table as a sweet substitute. Blanch and pound ljoz. of sweet almonds and mix with them by degrees lqt. of cream well sweetened with powdered white sugar; add 2 table-spoonfuls of rose-water, 1 table-spoonful of ratafia, and the strained juice of three lemons. Taste it and if not sweet enough add more sugar. Whisk all together till quite thick. Put a piece of muslin into a sieve; then put the Cheese into the sieve and let it stand for twelve hours. Take it out, lay it on a dish, and serve. Stilton Cheese.—The king of British Cheeses, and therefore, as it commands a high price, one of those most subject to spurious imitations. Although Stilton takes its title from a town of that name in Huntingdon, it is chiefly manufactured near Melton Mowbray, in other parts of Leicestershire, and in Nottinghamshire. It is cylindrical in shape, twice as long as broad, weighing about 121b., and having a very rough, irregular whitish rind. When cut the substance should be white, friable yet mellow, and marked with greenish blue veins. According to the prevalence of these the Cheese will be judged; but as Stilton takes some three to six months to ripen many expedients have been resorted to to give the appearance of age to young Cheeses. Bich new milk, to which a proportion of cream is added, the quality varying in proportion to the skill with which it is manufactured. The milk is set at OOdeg. Fahr., the curd is broken down in an hour, removed into large strainer cloths, from which the whey gradually escapes. As the curd becomes firm, it is broken up and aired until sufficiently acid for salting and vatting. The vats, hoops, or moulds are filled by hand and turned regularly until the Cheese can be removed, it is then enveloped in a clean binder every day until the crust begins to form, when it goes into the curing-room, and ripens better when the temperature is well maintained at from 53deg. to 55deg. Stracchino Cheese.—A rich Cheese made in Italy. Tao-foo Cheese.—This is prepared by the Chinese from peas as follows : The peas are ground and steeped and the paste boiled, causing the starch to dissolve with the casein, and when strained it is coagulated by adding a solution of gypsum. This is then worked up in the same way as sour milk for other j Cheese—continued. Cheeses, salted, pressed into moulds, and used as desired. In the streets of Canton it is a common article of merchandise. Westphalian Cheese.—The Cheese known by this name receives its title from the country in which it is made. It is produced in the shape of small balls or rolls, each weighing about lib. The secret of its peculiar flavour is due to the curd being allowed to partially putrefy before the Cheese is put under the press. Wiltshire Cheese.—This Cheese may be regarded as a loaf-shaped Cheddar. York Cheese.— A variety of curd Cheese that is too rich to keep, and is therefore better known in its own locality, where it is a general favourite. When buying Cheese it is well to have some indica- tions to go by that shall insure the purchaser from fraud, and these will be found described in the foregoing list; but as the retail purchaser buys by taste it is usual to take out a plug from the Cheese by means of a Cheese-taster—a sort of gouge (see Fig. 425)—which is thrust into the Cheese and by a circular motion brings out with it a long piece from the interior, proving the quality throughout. The outside part of the plug should be returned to corlc up the hole made lest the air injure the substance of the Cheese. In some districts it is usual to buy new Cheese and store it; but this is not a good plan, as the quality of a Cheese depends so much upon the changes that take place in it during ripening, and these changes are due to and caused by microbic influences that may not be formed in any other store than the original. The peculiar flavours of Cheeses are said to be due to some such inlluence, as well as to the character of the milk, which depends upon the cow and its food. When a Cheese has been cut, if it is desired to keep it fresh and soft, it is advisable to take off no more than is required for immediate use, and then to wipe butter over the cut surface or protect it with a buttered or oiled paper. Before starting on the following receipts let it be remembered that hard Cheeses, like Parmesan, are best for grating, and that buttery Cheeses, like Gloucester, are best for cooking. Cream and milk Cheeses may be served with sweets or salads, but not with strong flavours or pungent condiments. American Rarebit (sometimes called Gherkin Buck).—Put into a saucepan Jib. or so of Cheese, sprinkle over pepper to taste, pour over J teacupful of ale, and convert the whole into a pulp or mass over the fire, stirring- continually. In about two minirtes it should be done. Pour it over slices of hot toast, place a piece of broiled bacon on the top of each, and serve as hot as possible. Baked Cheese.—(1) Grate 3oz. of Parmesan Cheese, or any Cheese hard enough and dry enough to grate, put it in a basin and add to it J saltspoonful of pepper, nearly as much dry mustard, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and 3 table-spoonfuls of breadcrumbs. Mix together and then moisten it with 1 tea- cupful of milk, stirring it well together. Grease a flat dish with dripping, put in the mixture, and bake in a quick oven for a-quarter-of-an-hour, or in a Dutch oven in front of the fire for half-an-hour. Serve immediately. (2) Put Jib. of butter into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of slightly-salted water, and place the pan on the fire; as soon