THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 323 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c.t referred to, see under their special heads. Cauliflowers—continued. in a frying-pan of boiling fat. When done, take them out, drain off the fat, put them on a dish, and serve. Gratinated Cauliflowers. - Trim off the leaves of two or three Cauliflowers, leaving only the centres, and boil them in water until they are about two-thirds done; then take them out, drain them, and divide into sprigs or natural sections. Put a layer of these at the bottom of a gratin- dish, cover them over with a sauce made of melted butter mixed with grated Parmesan and G-ruyere cheese, and continue in this way with the layers until the dish is full. Sprinkle a little cheese on the top, then a few breadcrumbs or grated bread, pour a little warmed butter over the top, and bake in a moderate oven until done, and of a good colour. If the cheese is objected to, it may be altogether discarded; but if it is used, it should be mixed with the sauce and not simply grated on the top. Care must be taken that every portion of the Cauliflower is covered with the sauce. Pickled Cauliflowers.—(1) Take two Cauliflowers cut up, 1 pint of small onions, and three medium-sized red peppercorns; dissolve 4 pint of salt in water enough to cover the vegetables, and let them stand in this all night, in the morning draining them. Boil 2qts. of vinegar with 4 table-spoonfuls of mustard and 3 table-spoonfuls of turmeric, then add the vegetables, and boil for about fifteen minutes, or until a fork can be thrust through the Cauliflower. Put the Cauliflowers into wide- mouthed bottles or jars, and pour the hot vinegar over them. (2) Divide one or two Cauliflowers into sections, soak these in salted water for twelve hours, and afterwards boil them in salted water for about four minutes, then put them on a sieve and let them cool. Boil them again in milk-and-water for four minutes longer, and drain. Put them into bottles or jars, pour over boiling vinegar seasoned with mace and white peppercorns, and cover securely. In a few days the pickle will be ready for use. (3) Break two or three dry white Cauliflowers into natural branches, and plunge these into boiling salted water to scald, taking care that they do not colour; then cover them over and let them cool. Put them on a sieve, dust over with salt and pepper, and let them drain for about twenty- four hours. Put them into jars, pour over boiling salted water, and let them stand for ten or twelve hours longer ; drain, and put back into the jars. Prepare a pickle by boiling vinegar with ginger, nutmeg, coriander-seeds, tur- meric, and mustard. When cold, pour this over the Cauliflowers, tie them up closely, and use as required. Puree of Cauliflowers.—(1) Boil two Cauliflowers, and cut the heads up into small branches. Put 1 teaspoonful of chopped onion into a saucepan with a little butter, and place the pan on a moderate fire for about five minutes; then add the Cauli- flowers, and beat well with a wooden spoon; put in 10 table- spoonfuls of good white broth, and 1 table-spoonful of flour, and boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour, adding 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and teaspoonful of salt. Pass the mixture through a sieve into another stewpan, add 5 pint of cream or milk, and serve. If it is too thick, add more milk. (2) Select one or two white Cauliflowers, and wash them ; then separate the branches, put them into a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of salt, and boil for five minutes. Drain the Cauliflowers, return them to the saucepan with a small bunch of parsley and a lump of salt, cover with broth, and boil gently until tender. When cooked, turn the Cauli- flower on to a fine wire sieve, and remove the bunch of parsley. Bub the Cauliflower through the sieve with a wooden spoon, return it to the saucepan with a small lump of butter, season with salt and pepper, and stir over a slow fire for fifteen minutes. Serve very hot. Scalloped Cauliflower.—(1) Prepare and cook a Cauliflower one hour in salted water ; then drain and break the sprays apart. Put a layer of these in a scallop-dish, moisten with bechamel or cream sauce, and sprinkle in a little grated cheese ; then put in another layer of Cauliflower, and continue as directed before until all of it is used. Cover with breadcrumbs and cheese, dot with bits of butter, and bake half-an-hour in a moderate oven. There should be 2 table-spoonfuls of grated cheese, and 1 pint of sauce to one head of Cauliflower. (2) Select a firm white Cauliflower; trim off the outside leaves and stalks, and wash it. Put the Cauliflower in a saucepan, cover it with milk and water in equal quantities, Cauliflowers—continued. add a lump of salt, and boil it until tender, but taking- care not to overcook it, or it will break. Take the Cauliflower gently out of the saucepan, place it on a sieve, cover with a clean cloth, and leave it until cold. Put the cold Cauliflower in a baking-tin. pour 4oz. of warmed butter over it, and strew it thickly with sifted breadcrumbs. Put it in a brisk oven until nicely browned, basting it occasionally with the butter in the pan. When ready place the Cauliflower carefully on a hot dish and serve. See Fig. 390. Scrambled Cauliflowers.—Trim off the leaves from one or two Cauliflowers, and boil them in slightly-salted water. Take them out when done, drain them, divide into branches or natural sections, put these into a frying-pan with a little butter, sprinkle them over with a little grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes. When done, put them on a dish, and serve with pieces of toast or fried bread for garnish. CAVERSHED FISH.—See Soles. CAVIARE.—This word is spelled variously in dif- ferent countries; thus, Caviar, Caviale, Kaviar, Kaveer, and probably in other ways. I11 Turkey it is known as Haviar or Havyar. Caviare is essentially a preparation made from the roe of the sturgeon, chiefly in Russia, along the shores of the Caspian Sea, in which localities several hundred tons are produced yearly. At the mouth of the Volga, and along the coasts of the Danube where the rivers Dnieper and Don empty themselves into the sea, sturgeon are caught in immense numbers for their roes about the month of March, as they journey up the rivers in shoals to deposit their eggs ; and as a single sturgeon is said to hold upwards of 3,000,000 eggs in its roe, it is not only very prolific, but yields a great quantity of Caviare. The exportation of Caviare forms an important branch of commerce in those parts which centre round Astrakhan, and there is also some produced along the shores of the Sea of Azov; but this is not so good as that from the shores of the Caspian. Excellent Caviare is extensively manufactured in Norway, too, especially in the neighbour- hood of Bergen, but, as it is generally flavoured with cloves, it is readily distinguishable from the Russian make. A black Caviare of a particularly delicate flavour comes from Hamburg. In spite of its great reputation and costly rarity, a liking for Caviare is but an acquired taste after all, and one that the average Englishman is very slow to develop. The Russians are the first in order of great Caviare con- sumers, and then come Orientals generally; but in France it is not so much favoured, although imported largely, principally to send on to Italy and Germany in the way of trade. Those who are uninitiated into the beauties of Caviare, pronounce it to be oily, indigestible, unwhole- some, and exceedingly disagreeable to the taste; but epicures find flavours in the concoction that are unappre- ciated by the rest of mankind. 2 g 2