THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 399 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£c., referred to, see under their special heads. CLARIFYING. — Every cook, confectioner, and liqueur-maker knows tlie importance of producing an attractive brightness in the liquid or syrup he is pre- paring. It may also he taken for granted that very few productions after undergoing boiling, fermentation, or combination, remain quite bright and clear. Straining through a fine cloth, or filtering through paper specially prepared for the purpose (see Filtering), although in a measure clarifying, do not embrace the extended mean- ing of the term; hence it follows that some other process is necessary to bring about that which straining or filtering cannot of themselves accomplish. Clarifying is, broadly speaking, a process by which some harmless matter is added to, or some harmless process acts upon, a liquid body in such a manner that a fine insoluble network is formed throughout, which either settles down or rises as scum, entangling the opaque particles, however minute, that are floating about and constituting the cloudiness; these the network bears with it in its upward or downward progress. The process of clarifying is therefore purely mechanical. Whether the upward or downward process of clarify- ing should be adopted, depends upon the nature of the liquid requiring clarifying, but more especially upon its density, technically termed “specific gravity.” The operator must first ascertain or determine whether the density is so great that the downward process of clari- fication would be impeded or almost prevented by the resistance of the fluid. Some fluids are so thin, owing to the presence of a large proportion of alcohol, that if allowed to stand for a while any particles floating in them would settle unaided; but others again are so dense that the inclination of the floating particles is to rise to the surface, such as in brine, for instance, which will float an egg. These gummy, glutinous, gela- tinous or syrupy liquids are the most difficult to clarify, and excite the ingenuity of the operator to an unlimited extent, especially when it is of importance that they should be bright and clear. Sometimes boiling and straining through a tammy-clotli will be sufficient for the purpose, or filtering; but as these are treated under their own headings, our attention here is directed chiefly to clarifying by the use of clarifiers, or “ finings.” There are various materials used in clarifying, such as albumen (white of egg), gelatine, acids, salts, lime, plaster of Paris, Spanish earth, alum, heat, alcohol, pounded meat, and blood. The last two owe their clarifying properties to the albumen they contain in such large proportions, which coagulates upon the application of sufficient heat, and, together with the fibrine, carries floating particles with it as it rises to the .top as scum, or subsides as sediment. Blood possesses the valuable property of this double action of rising and falling, but it has some disadvan- tages that in the majority of cases would prohibit its use. In the first place it is not at all times procurable sufficiently fresh to be trustworthy, and secondly the slightest divergence from the line of purity will more than probably communicate a taste to the liquid with which it is mixed. Albumen is generally used under the form of white of egg for the clarification of syrups, as it mixes so well with the liquid in its cold state, but upon the applica- tion of heat it rapidly coagulates and rises to the surface as a dirty-looking, frothy scum, which can be easily removed with a skimmer. The dirtier the scum, the more effectual has been the clarifying process. Albumen is generally used for fining wines and liqueurs, especially red wines and wine cordials; but gelatine dissolved in a small quantity of water, or weak vinegar, or of the liquid to be clarified, gives the best results in fine white wines, beer, cider, and other liquids containing alcohol or tannin in sufficient quantity to coagulate the gelatine and lead to precipitation. Certain deleterious “ finings ” are sometimes used by Clarifying—continued. those who prefer appearance to quality. Sulphuric acid (oil of vitriol) is frequently added to cheap alcoholic liquors, after white of egg or gelatine has been stirred up and dissolved in it, both of which it speedily coagu- lates and causes to precipitate. Other unprincipled manufacturers use salts of lead and potash to clear liquors, but with these we- have no business. Lime, alum, alcohol, acids, and heat all act by coagulating or curdling the floating particles, and thus, by increasing their density, causing them to subside. Plaster of Paris and Spanish earth act somewhat similarly, although other virtues are accorded to them which arc insufficiently verified. Sand is sometimes sifted into liquors to hurry down the coagulated particles, but of itself it is com- paratively useless, as its passage is too rapid ; and marl or clay is used for cider and perry in cider-making counties. Fruit juice and some vegetable juices can be clarified by boiling. The albumen they contain coagulates with the heat, and rising to the top can be removed as scum. Pounded meat is used by cooks in the same way, but with the advantage of a double action, as previously described; but this should only be employed when there is no harm done to the liquid by com- municating the flavour of the meat. CLARY (Salvia Sclarea).—A plant of the sage genus. Not much used in British cookery, though it sometimes finds its way among the herbs used by Continental cooks. Clary Water. — A cordial composed of Clary-flowers macerated in brandy, with a small proportion of cinnamon and a little ambergris. After straining, the liquor is sweetened with syrup. The proportion of the ingredients used vary according to taste. Considered a good aid to digestion. Clary Wine.—Boil Ggalls. of water, 121b. of sugar, the juice of six lemons, and the whites of four well-beaten eggs for half-an-hour, skimming carefully ; then pour this liquor whilst boiling hot on a peck of fresh Clary-flowers, with the peels of the six lemons, stirring it well, adding a thin dry toast covered with yeast. When it has worked two or three days, add to it 6oz. of syrup of lemon, and a quart of Rhenish wine. Squeeze the Clary through a cloth; strain the liquor through a flannel bag into a cask, lay the bung on loosely, and if in the course of a few days it ceases working, bung it quite close. The wine may be bottled in three months. CLEAVERS .—It is sometimes necessary for cooks to divide large joints into parts, or it may be in a