TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 281 Fur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Candy—continued. divide them into sections, and dry them on a sieve, or in a warm room, or in the open air. Cherries should be stoned. Walnuts are especially nice prepared in this way. Cream Candy.— Put 1 table-spoonful of butter, 2 table- spoonfuls of vinegar, 1 teacupful of water, and 21b. of lump sugar into a saucepan and boil for twenty minutes. Before removing it from the fire, add a little vanilla extract or essence of lemon, and pour it into a flat tin dish, stirring until quite cold. It is then ready for use. Digestive Candy.—Take 1 drachm each of best powdered Turkey rhubarb and bicarbonate of soda; powdered ginger, If drachms; powdered cinnamon, 20gr. ; heavy magnesia, loz.; powdered sugar, 2oz.; mucilage of tragacanth, enough to form a lozenge mass. Divide into small squares of 18gr. or 20gr. each. Rock Candy.—This is crystallised sugar in the simplest form. Put some clarified syrup into a sugar-boiler and boil to the feather (see Sugar-boiling), and add a few drops of acetic acid or spirits of wine in order to facilitate the separa- tion of the crystals from the more aqueous portions of the syrup. Pour the syrup into moulds, and let it remain in the hot closet at from 90deg. to lOOdeg. of heat; leave it there for eight or ten days, according to the size of the crystal desired. In the process of crystallising, the impurities contained in the sugar are left behind in the water, and the sugar is rendered as nearly pure as possible. When the crystallisa- tion is complete, pour off the surplus syrup, turn the mould upside down, and let it remain until quite drained. The moulds are made of stout tin or copper, and must be considerably smaller at the bottom than at the top, and pierced with small holes round the sides in uniform rows, tier above tier, and sewn with coarse thread across the mould from side to side, after which they must be pasted up with paper, or covered with potter’s clay all over the outside, in order to effectually close the holes and prevent the syrup from running out. When quite drained, remove the paper or clay from the sides, warm the mould equally round the outside, and strike the edge of it with a sharp hard knock upon the table, when the sugar will relieve itself from the mould. Place it upon a sieve or board, and set it in the hot closet until perfectly dry. This Candy may be tinted a rose or scarlet colour by adding a little prepared carmine or cochineal to the syrup after boiling. The purer the sugar used for making the syrup the whiter the Candy will be. Rose Candy. — Boil some sugar to the ball (see Sugar- boiling), and work it with a spatula against the sides of the pan until it turns white. While still hot colour it with a little carmine or cochineal, and flavour with a few drops of attar of roses ; oil some tins, turn the Candy into them, and put into a slow stove to set. CANNELONS.—In Marseilles these are commonly purveyed in the streets. They are composed chiefly of nouille paste in the shape of small pipes about 3in. long and fin. in diameter. They are generally made by rolling Fig. 317. Plan of making Pastry Cannelons the paste out very thin, cutting into strips 3in. by 2in., and rolling up round small pieces of wood, which are removed after baking (see Fig. 317). Cannelons d la Reine. — Get some pieces of cold chicken or cold game, some mushrooms, and, if possible, truffles. Chop all up fine, and mix with German sauce reduced to stiffness; roll out some puff paste to about fin. thick, and cut into strips Cannelons—continued. about lin. wide. Dip a brush in water and moisten the edge farthest from you. Take some of the above mixture and place on the paste, in an equal roll about lin. wide. Turn the paste over, and roll it tightly; press the edges of the paste together and cut into 2in. lengths. Boll the Cannelons on the board to a cork shape, fry them in warm fat, drain, and dish on a folded napkin (see Fig. 318) or dish-paper; garnish with fried parsley, and serve; or the Cannelons may be prepared by twisting paste round a wooden or tin column, as for others, and the forcemeat pressed in. Cannelons with Cream. —Cut puff paste in strips about lin. wide, and roll it round a floured stick to form the Cannelons, and bake upon the sticks. After the Cannelons are cool the Fig. 319. Cannelons with Cream or Preserves. sticks can be slipped out, and the centres filled with whipped cream, or any preserve or jelly can be used to fill them (see Fig. 319). They are served upon a folded napkin. Cannelons Garnished with Fruit Jelly or Jam.—Prepare Jib. of puff paste, giving it ten rolls, then roll it out to about 18in. square, and cut into strips about jin. in width. Arrange the paste round two dozen round sticks, about Gin. long and jin. in diameter, having them a little thinner at one end. The paste when wrapped round the sticks will have the appearance of cork-screws. When all are done, put them on a slightly damped baking-sheet, keeping them about 2in. apart, dust over with egg, and bake in a quick oven. Take them out when done, brush over with egg, dust with caster sugar, and glaze in the oven or with a salamander; take them out, remove the sticks, fill them with apple or other fruit jelly, or jam, and serve. Cannelons with Preserves.—For making these, little wooden or tin columns 3in. long and very slightly tapering are required. Boll out thin, and in a rather long shape, lib. of puff paste, then cut some strips of this, fin. by 6in., and pointed at one end. Butter ten of the columns, twist the paste round them spirally, beginning with the smallest end— that is to say, forming with the paste circles a cheval, one upon the other; the paste must be floured a little. End the spiral at lin. from the thick end of the column, slightly moistening the paste. Lay them on a baking-sheet a short distance from each other, brush with egg, and bake in a slow oven. When nearly done, sprinkle some caster sugar over them, and finish cooking. When nearly cold, fill them with either currant, quince, apple, or apricot jelly, jam, or mar- malade, or with clotted flavoured sweet cream, or with plain cream and preserve. These Cannelons form the most delicious pieces of light sweet pastry that can be imagined. If the paste is too puffy they are not so good.