371 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sattces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Chick-Peas—continued. or, as along the coast of the Mediterranean, Garavance or Garvanzos; and those grown in this latter country are generally regarded as the best for cooking. “These seeds,” says Rhind, “do not, like most other pulse, become of a soft, pulpy consistence by boiling, and therefore they never constitute a dish by themselves, but are strewed singly, as a garnish, over certain savoury viands, and form part of the olla—a dish composed of bacon, cabbage, pumpkin, and garvanzos—with which a Spanish dinner almost invariably commences. The Chick-Pea, when parched, has been much esteemed among many nations from the earliest periods of history, and in these days even it continues an article of great consumption. According to Bellonius, this pea was the parched pulse which formed the common provision of the Hebrews when they took the field; and Cassianus supposes it to have been the torrified seed mentioned by Plautus and Aristo- phanes. The Frictum cicer seems also to have constituted a part of the usual food of the lower orders at Rome. “ In those warm and arid countries, where travellers are constrained to carry their scanty provisions with them across vast desert tracts, they gladly supply themselves with small dried substances which require much masti- cation, and thus stimulate the salivary glands. Under these circumstances, parched Chick-Peas, or Teblebby, are in great demand, and are as common in the shops as biscuits in those of England. In Grand Cairo and Damascus, there are many persons who make it their sole business to fry peas for the supply of those who traverse the desert.” Boiled. Chick-Peas.—This is a Spanish dish of great repute, and is prepared as follows: Put the peas into a little tepid water in a basin, add a little salt, and place the basin in a warm oven or closet where it will retain the same degree of heat for fifteen hours. Stir the peas frequently, and when they are quite tender, take them out, drain and wash several times in cold water, put into a saucepan with sufficient boiling salted water to cover them, and boil gently over a moderate fire for three or four hours—that is, until they are cooked soft. If the peas are not good cooking peas, a little sal-ammoniac added to the water will help to soften them; but care must be taken not to use more than is required, or the peas will taste of it unpleasantly. Take them out, drain them, and serve with parsley and butter sauce or a rich gravy. Chick-Pea Soup.—First scald the Chick-Peas, then trim off their skins, put them in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil till soft. Drain the peas, mash and pass them through a fine wire sieve into a stewpan, then pour in enough clear broth to make the required quantity of soup, and boil gently till somewhat reduced. When ready, pour the soup into a soup-tureen, dust powdered cinnamon over it, and serve with a dish of small croutons of fried bread. CHICORY.—Some confusion is likely to arise between this plant (Cichorium Intybus), which is used to adulterate coffee,' and the French salad Chicoree (Cichorium Endivia), which answers to our Endive. The latter will be described under the heading best known to us; but of the Chicory, so commonly added to coffee, there is much to be said here. We have the authority of I)r. Pereira (a celebrated chemist) for asserting that the addition of Chicory to coffee is depreciating to the quality of the beverage, and injurious to health. He writes : “ There can be no doubt that roasted Chicory must, when taken largely, have a tendency to excite diarrhoea”; and yet another authority informs us that roasted Chicory, used in any very large proportion, renders the coffee comparatively insipid, tasting something between treacle and licorice, whilst its continued use seldom fails to weaken the powers of digestion. In small quantities it does not seem to exert any very serious influence, but rather finds favour amongst the less refined drinkers of coffee. The roots are the parts used, and these are gathered Chicory—continued. when full grown, cut into slices, and exposed to heat in an iron cylinder, having been previously dressed with warmed lard. After the roasting is completed, the Chicory is ground in a mill, and in that state constitutes the article which grocers sell with cheap coffee. “ The addition,” says a technical writer, “ of one part of good, freshly-roasted Chicory to ten or twelve parts of coffee Fig. 452. Chicory-Plant. forms a mixture which yields a beverage of a fuller flavour and of a deeper colour than that furnished by an equal quantity of pure or unmixed coffee. In this way a less quantity of coffee may be used, but it should lie remembered that the article substituted for it does not possess in any degree the peculiar exciting, soothing, and hunger-staying properties of the more valuable product.” It is advisable to warn those who are inclined to use Chicory with their coffee that it is, when sold ground, almost invariably adulterated. We are informed that some pigments are worked up with it to give a strong colour, and various other roasted vegetable matters, not so innocuous as Chicory, are also added to it in order to reduce its prime cost. According to the report of an analyst, the following dangerous substances have been discovered in inferior samples: Venetian red, reddle, and red clay; roasted acorns, horse-chestnuts, beans, carrots, damaged dog-biscuits, damaged bread, damaged wheat, mangel-wurzel, parsnips, peas, rye, and burnt sugar; coffee husks, roasted lupins, roasted peas (coloured with reddle called “ Hambro powder”), dried coffee grounds, bark, logwood dust, mahogany dust, and other things equally useless or injurious. Some say that the scorched livers of various animals (such as bullocks, horses, and dogs) have been ground up with Chicory, and perhaps ingredients less pleasant to contemplate than these; but if Chicory is desired, it may generally be obtained quite pure if purchased of a reliable tradesman. The best plan, of course, is to buy it whole and grind it in the coffee- mill at home. Roasted Chicory absorbs moisture very readily, so that when pm-chased in quantity for future use, it should be stored in tightly-closed bottles. Should the lumps become moist or soft to the touch, or the powder cake together, it is not fit to use; although, if not too far gone in decom- position, it may sometimes be revivified by drying it on a hot plate in an oven. See Coffee. CHIFFONNADE.—This term is literally an appli- cation of the word “ chiffon ”—a rag—to the art of cookery. By some it is described as a sort of Julienne soup, made, so far as vegetables are concerned, with carrots, turnips, and celery only. Brunoise is another name for the 9 ir 9 U ix