TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 365 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Chestnuts—continued. Chestnuts—continued. Italy. In France the better kinds are known as “marrons,” and the Continental cook prefers the best in the many flavoursome dishes to which they are adapted. Candied, Fig. 446. Chestnuts in Shells. and boil it to the blow (see Sugar-boiling), that is, when raised on the skimmer, and blown through, it will burst into bubbles. On the following day prepare some more syrup as before, boil it until when a little of it is dropped into cold water it will harden, and can be made into a ball; drain the Chestnuts from the first syrup, dip them carefully one by one into the fresh syrup, and put them on a wire sieve in a warm place to dry. Chestnut Auflauf.—(1) Put l;|lb. of Chestnuts denuded of their outside skin into a saucepan of water, and boil them until they are quite soft. Take off the inner skin, and pound the nut^in a mortar to a pulp, adding 2oz. of butter and 1 table- spoonful of cream. Beat the yolks of eight eggs in a basin with 11b. of caster sugar, adding gradually the whites of the eggs whipped to a froth and next the Chestnut mixture ; put all into a well-buttered mould, bake .in a moderate oven, and serve. (2) Boil lib. of sweet Chestnuts till they are quite soft; then skin them and witli the back of a spoon rub them through a sieve. Have ready the whites of four or five eggs beaten to a stiff froth, together with lib of loaf sugar rubbed Fig. 447. Chestnut Auflaup. and as a stuffing or sauce for boiled turkey, appear to be the chief culinary uses to which they are applied in this country. Boiled Chestnuts.—Well wash 21b. or 31b. of Chestnuts, cut through the stem end of the shells with two cuts, crossing each other, so that the shells can be easily stripped off, tie the nuts in a napkin, and boil them tender in boiling salted water. Take them up, turn them into a fresh napkin laid in a salad-bowl, and serve hot with fresh butter and salt. Bordeaux wine should accompany them. Boiled Chestnuts served as a Vegetable.—Peel off the outside skin of the Chestnuts and steep them in boiling water until the inner skin can be easily removed, throwing them as they are peeled into a bowl of cold water. Put 2oz. of butter in a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir it over the fire until well mixed ; then pour in f2 pint (or 1 pint, according to the quantity of Chestnuts) of clear broth, and continue stirring over the fire until boiling. Season the sauce with salt, put in the Chestnuts, and keep them simmering at the side of the fire until soft. Served in this way they make a good vegetable for roasted meats or poultry, especially turkey. Candied Chestnuts.—Peel off the outer skin of some large Chestnuts, and boil them until the inner skin comes off when rubbed ; then put them in another pan and boil till tender, but not too much done. Squeeze the juice of two lemons into a basin of warm water and let the Chestnuts remain in this until cold. Boil 61b. of loaf sugar in a sugar-boiler with lqt. of water, and keep stirring the sugar in the boiler over the fire, each time it rises adding a little cold water until 1 pint of water has been used up, and the sugar will no longer rise. Remove the dark scum from the top. Dip a cloth in water, squeeze it, and strain the syrup through. Clean out the boiler that the syrup was in, turn the syrup back again, and boil it until it comes to the thread (see Sugar-boiling). Dry the Chestnuts and pour the hot syrup over them. The next day boil all together for five minutes, turn them out, and let them be for another day. Strain off the syrup on the third day, on the yellow rind of a lemon and pounded in a mortar. Pile up the mashed Chestnuts while still hot on a hot dish, quickly spread the frothed egg over them, and serve at once. See Pig. 447. Chestnut Biscuits.—Take off all the skin from about three dozen large Chestnuts, which should weigh about Goz., put them into a mortar with 2oz. of butter, and pound to a pulp. Put 4oz. of flour on a board, make a bay, and work in 2oz. of slightly-warmed butter and 3oz. of crushed loaf sugar; then add the Chestnut pulp and work it well in with the other ingredients, so as to form a stiff paste. An egg may be added should the paste be too stiff. Boll the paste out, cut it into quarters, roll them all out again, but keeping them of uniform thickness, cut off pieces about the size of a walnut, roll them out until they are about 3|in. in length, put them on a well-buttered baking-sheet, brush them over with egg, put them into a slack oven, and bake until they are of a light colour. Take them out, let them remain in the hot closet until they become quite crisp, and they are then ready for use. Chestnut Bonbons.—Peel the outer skin off forty Chestnuts, put them in a 2qt. stewpan with 3 pints of water, and stand them on the fire until hot; then take the Chestnuts out and peel off the second skin. When they are quite clean, put them in a large copper boiler, so that all the Chestnuts may lay flat at the bottom, cover them with syrup at 16deg., stand the boiler on the fire, and let them simmer gently for twenty minutes. Drain the Chestnuts, strain the syrup, and reduce it to 30deg. Put the Chestnuts back in the reduced syrup; then press them through a hair sieve. Shape this puree into Chestnuts, stick a wooden splint in each, and put them by until they are dry. Glaze them with chocolate icing, and dry in the hot closet. Chestnut Cakes. — (1) Put a hundred or so of Chestnuts on a fine gridiron over a clear fire, and cook them until the skins will easily come off. Skin them, put them into a