TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 383 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Chow-Chow—continued. a pan, and place this over the fire; when it comes to the boil, mix all the vegetables together and pour the liquor over them. Let it get cold, and then put into jars; cover these over, and tie down. (2) Take i peck each of onions and green tomatoes, and sixty gherkins, or small cucumbers, cut them up into very fine slices, and put these into a pan, adding a few more gherkins (whole), together with 1 pint of red and green peppers, and dust salt freely over all, letting them stand for twelve hours ; then add loz. each of mace, mustard-seed, celery-seed, turmeric, and whole cloves, 21b. of coarse brown sugar, 3 table-spoonfuls of mustard finely ground, and a stalk of horse- radish very finely grated. Pour over these 0 pints of strong vinegar, set the pan on the fire, and boil for half-an-hour. Put the Chow-Chow into jars, and tie down. (3) Put lgall. of chopped red cabbage and four large onions, minced, into a pan with strong salted water, and let them remain for two hours ; then put them into a brass kettle or enamelled pan, and add 5gall, of strong vinegar, 21b. of brown sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls each of allspice, celery-seed, and black pepper, 1 breakfast-cupful of mustard-seed, and 1 table-spoonful of ground mustard. Put the pan on to boil, and let it remain until its contents thicken. Allow it to cool, then place in jars to preserve. (4) Mince 1 peck of green tomatoes, mix \ pint of salt in with them, put them in a pan with a little water, let them stand for twelve hours, and then pour off the water. Chop six small onions and a large head of celery, and mix with lib. • of brown sugar, 1 teaspoonful of white pepper, and 1 table- spoonful each of mustard, allspice, and cinnamon. Put these into an enamelled pan in the following order: first a layer of tomatoes, next one of onion and celery, and then one of the spices ; continue this order of laying till all the materials are used up, and then pour over all lgall. of good vinegar. Put the pan on the fire, and cook the tomatoes slowly until they are done. Cauliflower, cabbage, or cucumbers may also be added, and a little grated horseradish gives a nice flavour to it. If to be kept, it must be put into jars and tied down. CHOWDER. — It is probable that this term was introduced into America by the Chinese, and has there- fore some analogy to Chow-Chow. By some authorities Chowder is said to be compounded of salted pork, fried with onions, arranged in alternate layers with mashed potatoes, and having slices of turbot, or other fish, in the centre, the whole having been well seasoned and flavoured with aromatic and savoury spices, wine (claret especially) and ketchup, and stewed. Another authority declares that Chowder is made in a hundred different modes, but the boatmen of the Harlem River are generally accredited with the production of the best dishes of it. Biscuits and various other ingredients are occasionally added, according to the taste of the maker. For receipts see under the special headings, as Clams, Fish, Lob- ster, &c. CHRISTMAS PARE.—The times change, and we change with the times, but there are certain land-marks still left which, in a modified form, indicate and preserve the memory of times that were, although the practices and customs of that time are toned down to suit modern tastes and acquirements. The “ brave days of old,” if rude and unrefined, were at least distinguished by a hearty and profuse hospitality. During the Christmas holidays the barons and knights kept open house, and for a fortnight and upwards nothing was heard of but revelry and feasting. The grand feast of the occasion, however, given by the feudal chief to Lis friends and retainers, took place, with great pomp and circumstance, on Christmas Day. Among the many dishes served upon this occasion would be, first and foremost, the boar’s head. See Fig. 467. Wild boars are said to have been denizens of the huge forests of Great Britain up to about the reign of Henry II.. after which time they appear to have been annihilated. Charles I. made some sort of an attempt to re-stock the New Forest with them, but signally failed. William Christmas Fare—continued. the Conqueror passed a very stern decree, that any person killing a wild boar without the royal consent was liable to the penalty of having his eyes put out. But in this country wild boars are of the past, and the tame boar is deemed an acceptable substitute, contribut- ing its head with much pomp, ceremony, and fictitious Fig. 467. Boar’s Head with Rosemary. admiration to the flattering guests. His paler face is duly blackened with soot and fat, to give him the ferocious aspect of an uncivilised native; but the slaughter of the innocent tame sucking-pig may be considered to have reduced the wild boar and its dangerous hunting to an absurdly low ebb. The pageant of serving the boar’s head is amusingly described in some of our old books, as heralded by a jubilant flourish of trumpets and accompanied by strains of merry minstrelsy; it was carried on a dish of gold or silver — no meaner metal would suffice — into the banqueting-hall, borne in the sacred hands of the carver, who, as he advanced with stately step at the head of an impressed procession of nobles, knights, and ladies, sang “ The Boar’s Head Chant,” accompanied in a solemn chorus by his followers. The words of the first verse are as follow: The boar's head in hand bring I, With garlands gay and rosemary; I pray you all sing merrily, Que estis in convivio. Be glad both more and less, For this hath ordained our steward So cheer you all this Christmas— The boar’s head and mustard. Chorus—Caput apri defero, Reddens laudes Domino. As the leader of the procession, bearing the “ brawner’s head,” approached the table, he deposited the noble dish in its place with great gravity, whilst the “nobles, knights, and faire ladyes,” arranged themselves at the board. Mustard sauce was an indispensable of the Christmas table, for we find in an ancient book of instruction for the service of the royal table at this season, “ first set forth mustard with brawn; take your knife in your hand, and cut brawn in the dish as it lieth, and lay on your sovereign’s trencher, and—see there he mustard.” Next in importance to the boar’s head came the peacock. To prepare this for the table as then dii'ected was a task entailing no little labour and skill; but this was an evident necessity, for, except as an ornament, or excuse for something more savoury within it, the flesh does not at any time appear to have commanded much admiration. The directions for its preparation as given in a very ancient book on cookery, directs that the skin shall be first carefully stripped off with the plumage adhering. The bird is then roasted as an ordinary fowl. When done and partially cooled, it was sewn up again in its skin and feathers, its beak gilt, and thus sent to table. See Fig. 468. Sometimes the whole body was covered with leaf gold, and a piece of cotton,