410 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cocoa-nuts—continued. Cocoa-nuts—continued. the pan, pour over more boiling’ water, and continue in this way until the required quantity of milk has been extracted. It may be put into bottles, and kept in a cool place until wanted. Cocoa-nut Milk Sauce.—For all sorts of blunc-manges and light puddings this sauce is much esteemed. It can be made either from the milk drawn from the cocoa-nut or from a liquor or cocoa-nut milk prepared as described above. With a small quantity of this milk mix quite smooth 2 table- spoonfuls of best flour, and stir into the remainder of 1 pint of the cocoa-nut milk. Warm and stir together a teacupful of cream and 2oz. of fresh butter ; when these are thoroughly incorporated without boiling, add them to the milk and flour. Continue stirring over the fire, and sweeten well with caster sugar. When the sauce is quite thick and creamy, take it off the fire, and just before pouring it into the sauceboat, stir in quickly a wineglassful of Madeira or sherry. Cocoa-nut and Orange Cream for Cakes.—Beat well one egg, add 1 breakfast-cupful of whipped cream, 1 breakfast- cupful of grated Cocoa-nut, Jib. of caster sugar, the grated rind of half and the juice of one orange, and beat all well together. This makes a nice cream for spreading between and on the tops of cakes. A little grated fresh Cocoa-nut should be sprinkled over as well. Cocoa-nut Fatties.—Rub 2oz. of lard into lib. of flour and 41b. of ground rice, and add J saltspoonful of baking powder and 1 heaped table-spoonful of caster sugar. Beat the yolks of two eggs with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, then stir them with the above ingredients, and knead the mixture well. Dredge flour over the table, lay the paste on it, and roll it out to about Jin. in thickness. Butter some patty-pans, line them with the paste, prick them here and there with a fork, and bake them in a brisk oven until half cooked. Mean- while prepare the following mixture : Beat the white of one egg to a stiff froth with 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, Fig. 491. Cocoa-nut Patty. and mix with it J table-spoonful of grated Cocoa-nut and J table-spoonful of powdered almonds. Dredge flour over the table, divide the mixture into as many portions as there are patties, roll them into balls on the floured table, then roll them flat. When the patties are half-cooked, put 1 table- spoonful of any kind of jam in each, and put the flats of paste on them. Stick here and there on the tops a few blanched almonds or pistachios (see Fig. 491), and put them in the oven. When quite cooked, take the patties out of the tins, place them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve hot; or they may be served cold. Cocoa-nut Pies.—Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of milk into a sauce- pan, boil it, and sprinkle in 1 table-spoonful of starch mixed with 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar; when these are incorporated, add a small lump of butter, 1 pinch of salt, and two or three ounces of grated Cocoa-nut. Pour the mixture into a basin, and let it get cold ; then add the whites of three or four eggs beaten to a stiff froth, put the mixture into pans lined with puff paste, and bake until done and of a good colour. Take them out, and serve either hot or cold. Cocoa-nut Found Cakes.—Put Jib. of butter into a basin, warm it, beat it to a cream, and mix in lib. of caster sugar, the grated rind of half a lemon, 1 teacupful of milk, and four eggs beaten up separately. When these are thoroughly mixed, add 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda or powdered saleratus, and sufficient flour to make the mixture of the required consistence; then mix in lightly the grated white part of a Cocoa-nut, put the preparation to about lip. in depth into tins lined with buttered paper, place them in a sharp oven, and bake for about half-an-hour. Take them out when done, and serve cold. They may be frosted or iced if desired (see Fig. 492), or baked in one tin, allowing a little longer time for cooking. A teaspoonful of essence of lemon may be used instead of the lemon- peel. Cocoa-nut Fudding.—(1) Mix well together Jib. of butter, Jib. of caster sugar, 1 wineglassful of wine, and six well-beaten eggs; then add lib. of grated Cocoa-nut, and crumble in a little stale cake or breadcrumbs. Turn the mixture into a dish, and bake it. (2) Beat Jib. of warmed butter and Jib. of caster sugar to a cream, and add 1 wineglassful of wine and rose-water mixed. Beat the whites of twelve eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them with the sugar and butter, adding grated Cocoa- nut alternately. Line a pie-dish with puff paste, put the Cocoa-nut mixture in it, cover with more puff paste, and bake in a slow oven. (3) Boil Jib. of grated Cocoa-nut in J pint of milk, and while it is cooking beat 2oz. of warmed butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar until they are creamy; beat the yolks of six eggs separately, and then beat them with the sugar and butter. Take the saucepan, with the milk and Cocoa-nut in, off the fire, and stir in the sugar, butter, and eggs; when these are well mixed, add 2 table-spoonfuls of biscuit crumbs, or bread and biscuit crumbs mixed, the whites of three eggs whipped to a froth, and flavour with 2 teaspoonfuls of essence of vanilla. Turn the mixture into a pie-dish, and bake it for half-an-hour. A few minutes before the pudding is done, take it out of the oven, spread on the top the whites of three eggs whipped to a firm froth with 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and a few drops of essence of vanilla, put it in the oven again, and brown it lightly. (4) Grate a large Cocoa-nut very finely, add to it an equal weight of caster sugar and half that weight of butter, the latter having previously been beaten to a cream; when these are well mixed, add the yolks of four eggs and the milk of the Cocoa-nut; then whip the whites of the four eggs to a stiff froth, and beat in with the rest. Line a pie- dish with puff paste, put in the Cocoa-nut mixture, cover the top with buttered paper, and bake slowly for one hour. (5) Put 4oz. of grated Cocoa-nut into a saucepan, pour in 3 teacupfuls of milk, bring it gradually to the boil, and let it boil for five minutes. In the meantime, beat 2oz. each of butter and sugar to a cream, add 2oz. each of breadcrumbs and stale sponge-cake crumbs, pour over slowly the boiling milk, and stir well; then add the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, stir them well in, add the well-whipped whites of two eggs, and 1 teaspoonful of vanilla essence. Butter the inside of a shape or mould, sprinkle it with powdered loaf sugar, decorate the top and side with halves of preserved cherries, pour in the pudding mixture, and steam for an-hour- and-a-half. Turn it out carefully, and serve with or without sweet or wine sauce. (6) Have ready six small pudding-moulds buttered and dusted with sugar, and distribute evenly in them Jib. of dried Cocoa-nut. Put into a basin 4oz. of powdered sugar, break in three eggs, mix well for two minutes with a whisk, and add 1J pints of cold milk; then flavour with 1 tea- spoonful of vanilla flavouring, and mix two minutes longer. Strain the mixture through a sieve into another basin, fill up the moulds, arrange these in a deep pan, fill this to half the height of the moulds with warm but not boiling water, put the pan in the oven, and steam for thirty-five minutes. Take the pan out, turn the puddings on to a hot dish, pour over cream sauce flavoured with J gill of brandy, and serve. (7) Grate a very small Cocoa-nut; boil 1 pint of milk with 1 teaspoonful of butter in it, pour it while boiling over the grated Cocoa-nut, and let it stand till cool; then mix in three eggs beaten with Jib. of white sugar and J saltspoonful of salt. Line a baking-dish with some rich pastry, pour the pudding into it, and bake it.