249 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. 'Cakes—continued. (3) Cream lib. of butter by warming' it and working with the hand. Stir lib. of caster sugar with the butter for five minutes, and add slowly eight eggs and 2 table-spoonfuls of water; beat until well mixed, and then sift in gradually 20oz. of flour and a handful of currants that have been washed and dried. Butter some heart-shaped tins, fill with the mixture, dust a little caster sugar over the tops, and bake in a moderate oven. (4) Bub 12oz. of lard into 31b. of flour, and add loz. each of cream of tartar and bicarbonate of soda. Make a hollow in Queen-cake Tins the centre, mix in ljlb. of caster sugar, a flavouring of essence of lemon, and sufficient milk to form a dough. With this three-parts fill some greased tins (Fig. 287, b), bake in a moderate oven, turn out when done, and let them get cold. (5) Melt 21b. of butter, cream it by beating when warm with the hand, and add 21b. of caster sugar, the grated peel of four large lemons, and mix thoroughly with a wooden spoon oi whisk. When it is well frothed, add twenty-eight eggs, stirring for a few minutes after every four or five have been broken in. Wash and dry £lb. of currants, and mix them with Cakes—continued. 31b. of flour; stir this slowly into the eggs, &c. When thoroughly mixed, drop it in small lumps on several sheets of stout paper, and bake. (6) Bub 6oz. of butter into 8oz. of flour; add 6oz. of caster sugar, 2oz. of currants, washed and dried, and the grated peel of two lemons ; then beat in four eggs. Butter some small heart-shaped tins, fill with the paste, dust a little castor sugar over the tops, and bake until a light colour. When done, turn them out upon a wire tray. These Cakes may be iced if desired. (7) Beat to a cream lib. of butter and lib. of sugar in a basin, add and beat in ten well-beaten eggs and 1 table-spoonful of rose-water. Mix 2oz. of cornflour with lloz. of flour, add a little at a time, and beat it in with the creamed butter; add 41b. of dried and floured currants, and stir thoroughly. Have a quantity of small round or other shaped tin moulds (see Fig. 287, A, b, c, d, e, f) well buttered, two-thirds fill them with the mixture, dust a little sugar over the tops, place them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven. Take them out, and serve cold. (8) Butter some small heart or other shaped queen Cake-tins (see Fig. 287, A, b, c, d, e, e). Put lib. of butter into a basin, beat with the back of a wooden spoon till it comes to a cream, and add to it 14oz. of powdered white sugar. Break and beat up eight eggs. Take lib. of flour, and add to the beaten butter first 1 table-spoonful of the flour and then a little of the egg, and so on alternately, flour and egg, stirring until all the eggs and flour are mixed in. Then add and stir in fib. of washed and dried currants, half fill the buttered tins, and bake for a-quarter-of-an-hour in a quick oven. Railroad Cake.—Mix together 2 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of flour, 6 table-spoonfuls of butter, 2 table-spoonfuls of milk, six eggs, 1 teaspoonful of powdered carbonate of ammonia, 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Make into a dough, and bake in shallow pans in a quick oven. Ramazan Cakes.—Moisten £lb. of very fine ground rice with 1 pint of milk, strain through a sieve into a stewpan, and dissolve in it 1 teacupful of caster sugar; stir over a moderate fire for several minutes, turn it out on a baking-sheet which has been damped with cold water, roll it to about lin. in thickness, and smooth the surface. Sprinkle caster sugar over the top when cold, and divide it into small Cakes with fancy cutters. Regatta Cake.—Mix thoroughly together 21b. of bread dough, 1 pint of sugar, ^lb. of butter, four eggs, 1 wineglassful of wine, 1 teaspoonful of ammonia salt, and lib. of stoned raisins. Put in deep pans that have been greased, and let it prove for half-an-hour. If in cold weather, let it be for fifteen minutes longer. Bake in a moderate oven. Ribbon Cake. — (1) Make a dough with the following ingre- dients : 1 breakfast-cupful of butter, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar, four eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately, i pint of milk, 3* breakfast-cupfuls of pastry-flour, % teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Fig. 288. Ribbon Cake. Have three long shallow pans of equal size, divide the dough into three parts, and bake two parts as plain Cake ; add to the remaining dough breakfast-cupful of raisins, stoned and chopped, 1 breakfast-cupful of currants, ^fh. of sliced citron (flour all the fruit), 2 teaspoonfuls of molasses, 2 teaspoonfuls