THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 465 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <t-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Cream—continued. on a sieve, so that all the fat may run from them. Have a saucepan of boiling syrup by the fire, and as the cakes are drained, immerse them in it; take them out immediately. Lay half of them on a baking-dish, one over the other, mask them with a thick layer of clotted Cream, and cover with the remaining pieces of paste. Moisten them with f pint of milk, stand the tin over a slow fire, and let the milk boil until the cakes are soft. Pour a few drops of essence of rose-water over them, dust with powdered cinna- mon, and serve. Cream Candy (Marbled).—Put over the fire lib. of white sugar, 1 gill of cold water, 2 table-spoonfuls of Cream, foz. of butter with a very little bicarbonate of soda rubbed into it (not quite as much as will lie on a threepenny-piece), and 1 dessert-spoonful of vinegar; stir all together, and boil very fast till it is a thick syrup. Mix 3 dessert-spoonfuls of grated chocolate with 2 table-spoonfuls of Cream, flavour with vanilla, put it over the fire in another saucepan, and stir till quite thick; then add pint of the thick syrup. Pour the rest of the syrup on a flat dish, and pour over it here and there spoonfuls of the chocolate syrup. As soon as it is cool enough to touch, pull it into ropes with the fingers. If well managed it will be streaked white and brown. Cream Caramel.—(1) Take 2 handfuls of caster sugar, put it into a sugar-boiler, and put the pan on a very slow fire until the sugar becomes a dark colour; then pour it into the bottom of a charlotte-mould, and let it get cool. Take seven or eight eggs, and put them into a kitchen basin with two or three more yolks added, mix them well, and add lqt. of milk, lOoz. of caster sugar, and a little lemon flavouring. Let them remain for ten minutes or so, and then pour them into the mould, having previously buttered the sides. Put the mould into a stewpan on a small stand, and pour boiling water round it to about half the height of the mould. Place the pan on the fire, and boil the water up once; then take it off, and leave it at the side of the fire so as to keep the heat in, without boiling. Then put the cover on the pan, pile hot ashes on it, and let the mixture poach for an hour. Let the Cream cool, and turn it out on to a dish. (2) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Cream, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, about lin. of stick cinnamon, the thinly-pared rind of a lemon, and a small quantity of coriander-seeds into a sauce- pan, and let all these simmer gently for fifteen minutes. Boil ^Ib. of sugar in ^ tumblerful of water till it is a dark brown, then take it from the fire, and stir into the Cream ; put the Cream over the fire again till the sugar is thoroughly mixed with it, and strain into the dish in which it is to be served. Then stand it in a saucepan of hot water over some hot ashes, cover the saucepan closely, put fire over the lid, let it boil till the Cream is set, and serve while it is hot. Cream witli Chocolate.—Put 4oz. of the best chocolate into a saucepan with 2oz. of caster sugar and J teacupful of water, place the saucepan over a slow fire, and stir the contents with a wooden spoon until the chocolate has thoroughly dissolved; then stir in gradually lj pints of milk, and boil it for eight Fig. 563. Cream with Chocolate. or ten minutes. Beat the yolks of four eggs and the white of one ; take the milk, &c., off the fire, and mix in the beaten eggs, stirring well; then pass the whole through a fine hair sieve. Pill some small Cream-cups with the mixture (see Fig. 563), and place them in the bain-marie or a stewpan with hot water to three-parts their height. When the Cream Cream—continued. thickens, take the cups out of the pan, dust them over with caster sugar, and when cooled a little, place them on ice until wanted for use. Cream flavoured with Cinnamon.—(l) Put 2oz. of caster sugar into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of Cream, and add |oz. of cinnamon broken in pieces; place the pan on the fire and boil for fifteen minutes. In the meantime beat up the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and while the Cream, &c., is boiling, pour them in; boil gently for a minute or two longer, strain it on a dish, sprinkle a little sugar over, and add a little orange-flower water; salamander it to give a light 'brown colour, and serve. (2) Put fib. of sugar into a stewpan with 1J pints of Cream, the yolks of eight eggs, and a large stick of cinnamon slightly bruised; place the pan over a good fire, and stir continually until the mixture begins to thicken, then pass it through a strainer into a basin, put on the ice, and freeze it. It is then ready for use. (3) Put 1 heaped table-spoonful of potato-flour into a basin with 1 toaspoonful of ground cinnamon and 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar ; beat four eggs with 1 pint of milk, then stir it in gradually with the above ingredients. Pour the mixture into either a plain or fluted mould, then stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and boil gently. Care must be taken not to let the water enter at the top of the mould. When cooked, take the mould out of the saucepan, and leave it until cooled, then place it in a bowl, surround it with broken ice and salt, and leave until wanted for serving. Dip the mould in warm water to loosen the contents at the sides, wipe it, then turn the Cream on to a fancy dish. Cream flavoured with Coffee.—(1) Separate the yolks and whites of four eggs ; put the yolks in a basin with 4oz. of caster sugar, whip them well, then mix in sufficient strong fresh-made coffee to flavour. Put 1 pint of milk in a sauce- pan over the fire until on the point of boiling, then stir it in gradually with the beaten eggs. Strain the mixture through a fine wire sieve, and pour it into Cream-cups. Put them in a stewpan, with boiling water to three-parts their height (not more, or it will enter the cups and spoil the Cream), and boil gently until the Cream is firm, with the exception of a little spot in the middle. When cold, turn the Cream out of the cups on to a glass or fancy dish, and serve. (2) Beat the yolks of eight eggs with Jib. of caster sugar and sufficient strong fresh-made coffee to flavour. Put lqt. of milk in a saucepan over the fire until boiling, then stir it in gradually with the beaten eggs, mixing all thoroughly. Put 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of pulverised sugar in a mould, place it over a slow fire, and as the sugar melts and browns, turn the mould about to give the whole of the interior a good coating. Pour the Cream into the mould, stand it in a pan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and let it simmer for a-quarter-of-an-hour. At the end of that time, put the pan with the mould into a brisk oven, and finish cooking. When cooked, turn the Cream carefully out of the mould on to a dish, and leave it until cold before serving. Cream Cuite.—Put 2 table-spoonfuls of flour into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, then break in two eggs and beat all well. Stir in gradually 1 pint of boiling milk, place the saucepan over a moderate fire, and continue stirring the mixture until thick, but it must not boil or the eggs will curdle. Flavour the Cream to taste with any kind of essence, leave it until cold, when it will be ready for use. It is generally used for filling confectionery or cakes. Cream Flawn.— (1) Put four eggs into a basin with 4 table- spoonfuls of flour and the same quantity of sugar, mix well, and pour in 1 pint of milk ; strain this through a sieve into a saucepan, adding a lump of butter, 2 table-spoonfuls of finely- chopped almonds, and a small pinch of salt. Place it over the fire and stir until it becomes thick. Let it boil for a few minutes, then remove from the fire and add 3oz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of lemon sugar. Take a flawn-mould, butter it well, line it with a little short-paste, and pour in the Cream mixture, which must be cool. Put the flawn into a moderate oven and bake for half-an-hour. When done, turn it out of the mould and let it get cool; mask it first with orange marmalade, and then with some sugar icing; or it may be masked with a meringue, when the surface must be decorated 2 q