THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 355 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cherries—continued. Bigarreaus.—Black Bohemian, Biittner’s Black Heart, Biittner’s Yellow, Downton, Elton, Florence, Frogmore Early, Gascoigne’s Heart or Hertfordshire Bleeding Heart, Governor Wood. Graffion or Ambree, Jaboulay, Late Black, Monstrous Heart, Napoleon, Tradescant’s Black Heart, Adams's Crown, Belle de Orleans, Black Eagle, Early Amber, Early Purple Guigne, Early Rivers, Hogg’s Red Gean, Late Purple Gean, Rose de Lyons or Early Lyons, Waterloo, and Werder’s Early Black. Dukes or May Dukes. -Archduke, Belle Magnifique, Biitt- ner’s October, Carnation, Duchesse de Pallnau, Imperatrice Eugenie, Late Duke, May Duke, Nouvelle Royale, Reine Hortense, Royal Duke, Transparent. Morello and Kentish Cherries.—Kentish or Flemish, Mor- ello, Ostheim, Weeping or Pendulous Morello. To cooks and confectioners tlie Cherry is a very useful fruit, and it enters into many combinations, to which it adds greatly by the delicacy of its flavour and the beauty of its appearance. Not only is it in season for a considerable time, commencing somewhere about the middle of summer with imported fruit, follow- ing closely with Kentish varieties, and terminating late in winter with the Yellow Spanish and Morello. When crystallised and preserved, Cherries are available all the year round, and where they are grown in profusion several tasty liqueurs are made from them. Thus, kirsclienwasser is a spirit distilled from the fermented pulp of a small black Cherry; a large black Cherry helps to make the famous Ratafia of Grenoble; and the maraschino of Zara is prepared from a particular species extensively cultivated for that purpose in Dalmatia. Noyeau also is sometimes flavoured with the kernels of a variety of Cherry. Sometimes it is necessary to stone the whole Cherries before using them. This can be done by pushing a smooth goose quill through the fruit from the stalk end in such a manner that the stone, or pit, is driven out before it. Cherry Juice.—In countries where Cherries are more plentiful than they are in this country, Germany being especially favoured in this way, it is usual to express the juice from the common black Cherry and use it for many purposes where rich colouring and flavour are desired. That prepared in the neighbourhood of Magdeburg is particularly good. This juice is a richly coloured, dark red liquid, glutinous, but perfectly bright and clear. The taste is pleasant, fruity, slightly acidulous and alcoholic. It is very inexpensive, and mixes well with syrups or alcohol without making the fluid turbid. Without giving full details of the many purposes to which German Cherry-juice can be applied, it will only be necessary to give a few instances. For colouring syrups and cordials, and any kind of confectionery requiring a crimson hue, it is supreme, and is therefore frequently employed to colour or increase the colouring of fruit syrups and imitation or poor class red wines, especially ports. It can also be used for making Cherry Brandy, Cherry Wine, Cherry Sauce, and a variety of delicious Cherry drinks. Black-Clierry Wine.—Put 101b. of sugar and 2oz. of citric acid crystals into a pan with 3galls. of water, and boil well, skimming as required. Have ready 2galls. of black or wild Cherries, mashed and put into a tub, pour over the boiling syrup and stir in lib. of ground malt, and let it get cold. Now add a little yeast to ferment it, and when the fermentation has ceased, skim well, and pour it into a cask over 4oz. each of bruised cinnamon and allspice, and loz. of cloves. Let the after-fermentation go off, then add loz. of dissolved and soaked gelatine to clarify it, bung up securely, and let it remain for nine or twelve months before bottling. The addition of the malt will prevent the wine going flat. Bottled Cherries.—Take as many bottles or jars as required, fill them with dry and whole Cherries, and put them in a large pan of cold water. Place the pan on the fire and boil until the fruit sinks and the skins crack. The bottles or jars must be well covered over. Then take them singly out of the water and pour into them boiling water up to the neck. Tie them down tightly with bladders and put in a cool dry place until wanted for use. Bottled Cherries must Cherries—continued. not be disturbed until wanted : if they are, the Cherries will ferment. Brandied Cherries.—The Cherrios must bo perfectly sound, and ought also to be large and sweet; either take the stalks off or else clip them within lin. of the fruit. Put into a preserving- pan lib. of sugar with lqt. of water, let it boil till it is quite clear, taking off any scum that may rise ; then scald the Cherries in this for about two-minutes-and-a-half, but not long enough to break the skins. Take them carefully out of this syrup and spread on plates to cool. Then make the syrup to cover the Cherries. To every breakfast-cupful of water, or the thin syrup in which the Cherries were scalded, add lib. of sugar, and boil till clear, taking off the scum as it rises; then take it off the stove and let it cool. When it is cold mix with it the same quantity of brandy. Put the Cherries into wide-mouthed bottles, pour the syrup over them, cork tightly, and put sealing-wax over the corks to keep them air-tight. Canadian Cherry Pie.—Butter a pie-dish and line it with paste; pick and stone the Cherries, and put them in the dish ; for each pint of Cherries, pour over 4 table-spoonfuls of molasses, and dust 1 table-spoonful of flour over them. Cover the pie with a flat of rich puff paste, trim it neatly round the edges, and moisten them and press together. Bake the pie for half-an-hour in a moderate oven. When cooked, dust it over with white sifted sugar, and serve. Candied Cherries.—(1) Take the stalks from 21b. of ripe red Cherries—the larger the Cherries are the better. Stone them, getting the stone out at the stem end of the Cherry, breaking the fruit as little as possible. Put lib. of loaf sugar over the fire with a teacupful of water, and boil it to a syrup thick enough to pull as for candy, stirring it frequently ; move it to the side of the fire and stir it constantly till grains or crystals begin to form on the spoon, then drop in the Cherries a few at a time, let them remain in for two minutes, take them out, lay on a sieve set on a dish, drop a few more Cherries into the sugar, and so proceed till all have boiled two minutes in the syrup and are on the sieve. Then shake the sieve gently for a good while, turn the Cherries on to a large dish, and dry them in a sunny window. (2) Gather the Cherries before they are quite ripe, take the stalks from them, stone, and prick them. Boil sufficient clarified sugar to almost cover them, and pour it over. Cherryade.—Take 31b. of Cherries (Morello are the best), pound them in a mortar, and put into- a pan; add the juice of three lemons, the whites of five eggs, 1 pint of syrup, a little cochineal, and £gall. of water. Beat all well, place the pan on the fire, and boil. When done, strain it through a flannel bag into a pan, put the pan on the ice, and let it remain until wanted. This Cherryade should be used fresh. The kernels may be pounded in with the Cherries and will give a nice flavour to it. Cherry Bouchees.—Prepare a savoy-biscuit batter, fill a biscuit-forcer with it, and push it out in pieces about 2|in. Fig. 438. Cherry Bouchees. in length, arranging them in rows on a sheet of foolscap paper. When the sheet is full, sift some caster sugar over the biscuits, shaking off all that is superfluous. Lay the sheet of paper on a baking-tin, put in a moderate oven, and bake about fifteen minutes. When cooked, pass a wet cloth underneath the sheet of paper to facilitate the removal of the biscuits, which take off carefully without breaking them.