THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 291 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, referred to see under their special heads. Caramel—continued. . Caramel for Sweetmeats.—Melt £lb. of double refined sugar with J pint of water and 1 pinch of citric acid. Put this melted sugar over the fire in a copper skillet (it should be a tinned one), and when the sugar has boiled thick dip the handle of a spoon first into the boiled sugar then into a pint bowl of cold water, and press the sugar from the spoon into the water. Repeat this process till all the sugar is in the water. If a bit taken out of the water snaps and is easily broken when cold, it is done ; if the sugar is not brittle, pour the water off and return the sugar to the skillet, and boil it as long as necessary. When the sugar is sufficiently boiled and has all been trans- ferred to the pint of cold water, and has three-parts cooled, then pour off the water and run the sugar in the pattern of a maze on to a well-oiled copper mould. It ought to look thick like treacle, but of a light, bright gold colour. Caramel Syrup.—Melt I breakfast-cupful of moist sugar in a sugar-boiling pan over a moderate fire ; stir the sugar with a spatula until it is quite fluid, then mix with it 1 breakfast- cupful of water and 1 teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring, adding afterwards lib. or lilb. of caster sugar. Boil until it is a strong syrup, and then take it off the fire. Use either hot or cold. Diamond Caramels.—Put 101b. of glucose into a round- bottomed, copper basin, add 2£lb. of granulated sugar, and boil to the crack (see Sugar-boiling) ; add a few drops of oil of lemon to flavour. Turn the whole out on to a marble slab rubbed well all over with olive oil, and let it run between iron bars to about §in. in thickness. Let this remain until quite cold, cut it into cubes, wrap them separately in waxed paper, and they are ready for use. Philadelphia Caramels.—Put 6 (lb. of sugar into a sugar- boiler, with ^lb. of butter, £ teaspoonful of cream of tartar, £lb. of cocoa paste, and 2oz. of white wax of paraffin; pour in lqt. of rich cream, and boil over a clear fire to the crack (see Sugar-boiling). Have ready a well-greased marble slab with iron bars on it, pour over the mixture, and let it get cold. Cut it into cubes or other shapes, wrap them up separately in waxed paper, and put them away in boxes. Sponge Caramels.—Put 21b. of strained honey into a bright copper basin, and add 41b. of powdered loaf sugar. Put the basin on a very slow fire (one covered with ashes for preference), and boil or rather evaporate to the ball degree (see Sugar- boiling), stirring constantly with a spatula. Flavour with a few drops of lemon or orange oil, stir in the whites of twelve eggs whipped to a stiff froth, and continue to stir and cook until the mixture is of such a consistence that it will not stick to the back of the hand when placed upon it. Turn it out on to a marble slab that has been well rubbed with olive oil, and let it cool; flatten it with the hands slightly oiled, and let it remain until it is stiff enough to be cut. Cut it into cubes, wrap them separately in waxed paper, put them away in boxes, and use as required. CARAFUECA.—This is essentially a Spanish dish, containing the usual national assortment and combination of pork, oil, almonds, and other things. There is no difficulty whatever in its preparation, so should those who have Spanish friends desire to provide an accept- able dish, they cannot do better than prepare the following; Take a couple tf fillets of pork, and cut them up in good- sized squares; put them into a stewpan with a little lard, two dozen small onions, and a piece of raw ham cut into large squares or dice. Place the pan on the fire, fry until the meats are nearly done, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, and add sufficient broth to cover. Let all boil for a few minutes, and then remove the pan to the side of the fire to let the meat finish cooking. Pour the mixture into an earthen- ware pan, selecting one that will stand the fire, put four or five sausages, cut in small pieces and fried, on the top, and the same number of eggs hard boiled and cut up into quarters. Dust them over with salt and pepper, and sprinkle the meats and eggs over with almonds that have been cut into pieces, fried in oil, and crushed with a rolling-pin. Place the pan on the fire and boil up quickly, and then remove it to a moderate oven to dry the contents for thirty minutes or so. Serve the Carapulca in the pan in which it is cooked. CARAWAY*.—The plant (Carum Carvi, Fig. 330) which produces Caraway-seeds grows wild in Southern Europe and some parts of Asia; but it is usually culti- vated in extensive fields for the sake of its prolific crops. Rhind pronounces the Caraway to be a native of England, “ growing wild occasionally in meadows and pastures.” The under-leaves of the plant about spring-time are occasionally used in soups, and the spindle-shaped roots were at one time eagerly sought after as a delicious vegetable, greatly superior to parsnips. The seeds and essential oil are largely imported into Great Britain, and in Essex some extensive factories exist for distilling Caraway with spirits. The familiar “ Caraway Comfit ” and “seed-cake” owe the favour in which they are held to this delicate aromatic. Caraway Biscuits.—Warm |lb. of butter and beat it to a creamy consistence with sib. of caster sugar; then mix it with two well-beaten eggs and sufficient flour to make a stiff paste, and sprinkle some Caraway-seeds in it. Dust some flour on to a table, turn the paste on to it, and roll out thin. Cut the paste into rounds with a tin cutter, about 2in. in diameter, and dock them. Arrange the biscuits on a baking- sheet a short distance from each other, and bake them in a slow oven for ten minutes. When lightly coloured, take the biscuits off the tin, and leave them till cold. Caraway Cakes.—(1) Whisk three eggs and )lb. of caster sugar in a bowl, and stand it in a larger bowl containing boiling water; keep whisking until it is a thick batter, renewing the boiling water in the outer bowl. Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan, dissolve it, but do not let it oil, pour the batter in with it, and stir all slowly together. Add gradually (rib. of sifted flour, and teaspoonful of Caraway-seeds. Butter a cake-tin, add a small teaspoonful of baking-powder to the mixture, turn it into the tin, and bake for half-an-hour. (2) Rub 4oz. of butter in lib. of flour, and when quite smooth mix in ilb. of caster sugar and 1 table-spoonful of Caraway- seeds. Stir in sufficient water or well-beaten eggs to form the whole into a stiff paste, and flavour with a few drops of rose- water. Dredge a little flour on a paste-board, put the paste on it, and roll out thinly; with a tin cutter about 2in. in diameter cut it into small cakes, prick them lightly with a fork, lay them on floured baking-sbeets, and bake in a brisk oven. (3) Set 1 quartern of bread dough in a warm place to rise. When well risen add a little salt and work ^lb. of butter well into it, then add (lb. of caster sugar, 1 table-spoonful 2 E 2