329 the encyclopedia of practical cookery. For details respectiny Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tfec., referred to, see under their special heads. Celery—continued. a little nutmeg', and \ table-spoonful of salt. Boil well for forty-five minutes; then strain through a sieve, add 1 tea- cupful of cream, and serve with small croutons. Cream of Celery a l’Espagnole.—Put two stalks of Celery cut into fine strips in a covered saucepan, with loz. of butter; add 1 pint of good broth, J table-spoonful of salt, and 1 tea- spoonful of pepper, and boil for thirty minutes. Hub through a sieve, moisten with lqt. of broth, and before serving thicken with two egg yolks diluted in a teacupful of cold consomme. Add 3 table-spoonfuls of boiled rice, and, two minutes before serving, loz. of butter. After the egg yolks have been added to the soup it should not be allowed to boil again. Cream-of-Celery Soup. —Boil a trimmed head of Celery in 1 pint of water from thirty to forty-five minutes ; boil a piece of mace and a large slice of onion in 1 pint of milk: mis 1 table- spoonful of flour with 2 table-spoonfuls of cold milk, add to boiling milk, and cook ten minutes. Mash Celery in the water in which it has been cooked, stir into the boiling milk, add 1 table-spoonful of butter, and season with salt and pepper ta taste. Strain, and serve immediately. The flavour is improved by adding 1 teacupful of whipped cream when the soup is in the tureen. Fried Celery.—(1) Boil two or three good and well-trimmed heads of Celei'y till half-cooked or a little more; take them out, drain thoroughly, cut them into short lengths, dip them in batter, and fry in hot fat to a light brown. This dish, if well done, is excellent; but it is useless to attempt it without a deep frying-pan, and plenty of oil or fat to fry in. (2) Trim off the green and discoloured parts of the Celery, wash it well, then drain and cut it into pieces of an equal length. Prepare a frying-batter, and put a good-sized lump of fat into a flat stewpan. Make the fat hot, dip the pieces of Celery into the batter, then put them into the pan of fat, and fry until nicely browned. Drain the Celery, letting as much of the fat run off as possible, then put it on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper; dust a small quantity of salt over, and serve. Frizzled Celery.—Select one large head of fine Celery, pare off the green stalks and cut off the root, which can be used for salad. Cut the stalk lengthwise into four equal parts : wash them well in cold water and cut each one into pieces about 3in. long, by doing which all the branches will be separated. With the aid of a small keen knife pare the thin sides a little, making five or six slits in each piece, starting from the top, downwards, leaving Jin. to fin. uncut, and put them in cold water with plenty of ice, letting them remain there for about two hours. Take them out from the ice-water, artistically arrange them on a round glass dish, and serve. Celery arranged and served in this way makes a beautiful effect on the table, but requires time and patience in its preparation. Pickled Celery.—Cut the stalks from two or three heads of Celery into nice equal lengths ; wash these thoroughly in plenty of water, put them in a bowl, cover them with brine strong enough to bear an egg, and leave them for a week or ten days. At the end of that time refresh the Celery in plenty of clean water, and place it on a sieve where it may drain until di'y. Boil sufficient vinegar to cover the Celery, with any kind of spices cared for. Put the Celery in a jar, pour the boiling- vinegar over it, and leave until the vineg'ar is cold; then cover the top of the jar with stout brown paper, and tie it down tightly. Place in a dry store cupboard, and use as required. Stewed Celery.—(1) Trim a few heads of Celery, blanch them in boiling water, drain, and put in cold water. Take them out when cold, and drain all the water from them without pressing. Put them into a pan with a little consomme or stock broth and 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar, and let them stew for an-hour-and-a-half; then pour in upon them 4 table-spoonfuls of bechamel or veloute sauce; strain the whole through a strainer, and set in the bain-marie. When ready to serve, add to the sauce a little thick cream, which will enrich it and make it white. (2) Trim off all the coarse outside leaves of the required amount of Celery, wash and pick carefully, to get rid of Celery—continued. any grit that may have insinuated itself between the leaf- stalks, soak in cold water for an hour or so. and then boil steadily for about half-an-hour in a little salted water. When quite tender, pile it neatly on the dish, and pour over it a thick white sauce, rich with cream or butter, and made with the stock in which the Celery was boiled. (3) Take a good head of Celery, wash it well, and cut off the outer stalks. Cut it into pieces, not quite a finger long, lay them in a stewpan, pour over them a teaeupful of white stock, and let them stew gently for half-an-hour. Take loz. of butter and work it into Jib. of flour; after it has stewed for half-an-hour, add this with 1 saltspoonful of salt, J salt- spoonful of ground white pepper, J saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, and J teacupful of cream to the Celery. Stir all till it boils, let it boil gently for five minutes, and serve. (4) Take a good head of Celery, wash it well, cut into pieces lin. long, put them into a saucepan, pour on sufficient boiling water to cover, and let them boil till tender. Mix 2 table- spoonfuls of flour with 1J breakfast cupfuls of milk, and into this mix 1 teaspoonful of salt and J teaspoonful of ground white pepper. Pour the water off the Celery, and pour on instead the flour and milk seasoned with the pepper and salt; stir till it boils, then add 2oz. of butter, and serve. (5) Wash the required quantity of Celery, and trim off all decayed leaves and outside pieces ; cut the heads lengthwise into quarters, and boil them in enough water to cover till tender. They will take from a-quarter-of-an-hour to half-an-hour, according to size and age. Serve in a vegetable-dish with white sauce poured over, and thin slices of lemon placed round. CELESTINES.—A fanciful name given by a French cook to a mode of serving some sorts of game, probably in commemoration of Pope Celestine V., who founded a very austere branch of the Franciscan order. See Partridges. CELLARING.—The difference between the modern cellar and the Roman cellarium is marked, notwithstand- ing the fact that for an underground store-room we claim no other origin. Natural caves and cells hollowed out of rocks were at one time used for storing provisions, amongst which were enumerated drinks as well as solids; but since the introduction of the pantry for solids, to the cellar has been delegated the preservation and stor- ing of wines, beers, and other choice liquors. In selecting caves for cellars, the Romans showed great discretion— that is, if it were not more a matter of convenience than choice, and it would have been well if such a choice could have remained with us, for in the cave are to be found liquor-preserving qualities of no mean order; such, indeed, as it is almost impossible to secure in the under- ground chambers we have built for ourselves. In the wine districts of the Continent, cave-stores are very much prized by vintners. In this article it would be impossible to enter upon all the details of what are termed “ cellaring,” that is the art of treating various liquors by fining, racking, bottling, or what not; but as all these are exhaustively described and worked out under their various headings, it remains for us here to consider the apartment; its suitability for the several purposes required of it; fittings, and management. Every good cellar should be divided into at least two compartments—one for beer, and the other for wines These might undergo some further sub-division, but this is not material, because very good results can be obtained from a double cellar. This two-fold arrangement is advisable for wines and beers, because the temperatures required differ considerably. Beers are better at a uniform temperature as nearly 55deg. Fahr. as possible; wines will take as high as 60deg. to 65deg. if stored for ripening. When merely racked for immediate use, they will do very well in the beer-cellar, provided the butler takes the precaution to warm them before uncorking. Experienced cellarmen have determined the various