265 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ice., referred to, see under their special heads. CALAIiQTJ.—This is the name of a favourite dish amongst the Creoles in the Antilles, to which it is said newcomers soon accustom themselves. It is eaten all over the East, as well as in India, and is supposed to have been introduced into Marseilles by the Greek families who established themselves there, and thence it has spread all over the South of Prance. The gumbo or gombo, which has of late years been introduced into Prance, forms one of the indispensable elements of its preparation. Calalou a l’Orientale.—Chop off both ends from a couple of dozen gumbos or gombos, put them in a basin, sprinkle freely with salt, and let them macerate for fifteen minutes or so. Take them out, well wash them in warm water, put into a saucepan of salted water and boil, taking care to preserve their green colour. Take them out when done, and drain. Have ready 2 or 3 handfuls of French beans, likewise boiled in salted water. Cut two egg-plant fruits or mad- apples into oblong squares, and let them macerate to extract the water. Cut five or six large tomatoes in pieces, and take out all the seeds or pips. Cut off the stems of a few green sweet peppers, core them, slice the flesh lengthwise, and fry them for five minutes. Put two sliced onions into a frying- pan with a little oil, and fry them gently without allowing them to take colour ; add the peppers, toss the pan until they are partly cooked, then add the egg-plant fruits or mad- apple3. Cook for a few minutes longer, add the tomatoes, and cook until all the moisture has evaporated. Now add the French beans, sprinkle over a little salt, cayenne, and chopped parsley, with a small clove of garlic, cook for a minute or two, put in the gumbos, which should have been warmed in a frying-pan with a little oil, cook for two minutes longer, turn the whole out on a dish, and serve. If the gumbos are large they should be cut in thick slices before being warmed in the oil. CALF.—This Anglo-Saxon word, correctly spelled Cealf, suggests a history cleverly explained by Sir Walter Scott in his novel of “ Ivanhoe,” where Wamba, the jester, expounds to Gurtb, the Saxon swineherd, the change that the animal undergoes when it leaves its Saxon guardian to be slaughtered for the table of the Norman master— Saxon Calf becomes Norman Veal. This distinction has become a custom of the country, and will therefore be respected in the instructions given for preparing the many splendid dishes to which the delicate white meat Veal can be subjected; but, when dealing with those dishes which are prepared from the “offal,” or those parts which would formerly probably fall to the lot of the slave, we retain the Saxon Calf. It must not be supposed, however, that the term is now applied in any sense of disparagement; quite the reverse, for since modern cooks have, by the exercise of culinary tact and seasoning skill, directed their attention to those parts, such as the head, brains, liver, sweetbread, and feet, some dishes are now so prepared that no longer fall to the lot of the lowly, but rank high amongst the luxuries of the gourmet’s table. So much for the modern cooks’ art, which has raised refuse or “offal” into dainties, as displayed in the clever receipts given under this heading. Calf’s Brains.—As a matter of fact, very little difference exists in brain-tissue, from whatever animal it may be extracted; nevertheless there is a decided leaning in culinary quarters towards the brains of the Calf, as more marrow-like and mellow. Ancient writers were of opinion that an individual’s disposition was affected by the nature of his food, hence it was not considered a good policy to eat Calf’s, sheep’s, or pig’s brains; but even that prejudice appears to have died a natural death in the general advancement of science and understanding, and the greatest philosophers no longer disdain such dishes as those described hereunder. Calf’s Brains are prepared for cooking as follows: After they have been removed from the skull they should be soaked and well washed, to cleanse away any Calf—continued. blood that might be diffused through them, and then dipped into scalding water with a little vinegar and salt in it, and just boiled up for a few minutes so as to slightly harden them. Then the membranes can be stripped off easily, and the brains drained and dried, when they are ready to be treated in various ways, and are capable of almost any amount of artistic manipulation. Boiled Calf’s Brains with Black or Brown Butter.— Take three Calf’s Brains that have been cleaned, blanched, and prepared, put them in a stowpan, and cover over with water. Add 2 pinches of salt, ^ breakfast-cupful of vinegar, one medium-sized sliced carrot, one sprig of thyme, one bay-leaf, and twelve whole peppers. Boil for five minutes, drain well, and cut each brain into halves. Arrange on a dish, and serve with 1 gill of very hot black or brown butter. Boiled Calf’s Brains with Fried Parsley and Black or Brown-Butter Sauce.— Take three Calf’s Brains, put them in a saucepan over slices of fat bacon, a bouquet garni, a little butter, and sufficient broth to cover. Cook over a slow fire for thirty minutes, by which time they should be sufficiently done; put them on a hot dish with a little fried parsley in the centre, and black or brown-butter sauce poured round. Boiled Calf’s Brains a la Poulette.—Put a large piece of butter in a saucepan, melt it, and gradually add 1 teacupful of flour; mix well together, and add 1 gill of clear broth, taking care to stir well all the time; then add gill of white wine or Madeira and water in equal parts. Next add a few small onions and mushrooms, and boil until they are done, adding a little grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper to taste; when these are soft put in the brains, and boil again for twelve or fifteen minutes. Take out the brains and put them on a dish. Add the yolk of an egg to the sauce, with the juice of a lemon, and pour it over the brains. This dish must be served very hot. Boiled Calf’s Brains with Ravigote Sauce.—In Igall. of hot water put a small handful of salt, 1 wineglassful of vinegar, a bunch of parsley, a finely-chopped onion, a piece of celery, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, and a few peppercorns and cloves; boil for five minutes, then put in the brains and boil again for twelve or fifteen minutes. Drain the brains, butter with a paste-brush, and serve them with hot ravigote sauce. The brains can also be dished with a garnish of sorrel, the roots being placed towards the centre of the dish, or with brown butter. Boiled Calf’s Brains with Vinaigrette Sauce.—This is prepared the same as for Boiled Calf’s Brains with Black ob Brown Butter. Serve on a folded napkin on a dish, garnishing with a few green parsley-leaves, and 1 gill of vinaigrette sauce in a sauceboat. Brochettes of Calf’s Brains.—(1) Take two or three Calf’s grains and boil them for a few minutes; when cold divide them into halves, and cut each half into squares |-in. in thickness. Place these in a basin; add salt and mixed spices to taste, with a little finely-chopped parsley and mixed herbs sprinkled lightly over them. Cut some pieces of fat bacon the same size as the pieces of brain and arrange them alternately upon skewers, then dip them into melted butter and rasp some breadcrumbs over them. Broil them over a moderate fire for fifteen minutes, and turn them so that they may be cooked all round. When done, dish them up in heaps like pyramids. (2) Cut some boiled Calf’s Brains, boiled udder, and truffles into pieces similar in shape and equal in size. Fix the pieces of brains, udder, and truffles alternately on ■' some small skewers. Prepare a small quantity of veloute sauce and mix with it a lump of butter about loz. in weight, the strained juice of a lemon, and the beaten yolks of two eggs. Dip the skewers into the sauce and leave them till cold; then dip them in some warmed butter, and cover with breadcrumbs. Repeat the operation of dipping the skewers in butter and breadcrumbs, then lay them on a grid- iron, and broil over a clear fire till nicely browned, turning them so that they may colour equally. When cooked, put the brochettes on a hot dish, pour some highly-seasoned sauce over, and serve.