264 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. apples when cooked, stir the whole over the fire for a few seconds, then take it off before it boils. Turn the apple mixture into a basin, stir in a wineglassful of rum, and leave it until cold. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper on a round dish, and when the Cakes are cooked and cold, pile them on it, with a layer of the apple preserve on each of them, but do not put any on the top of the last Cake. Trim the Cake neatly round the edges, cover it thickly with caster sugar, and serve. (5) Small.—Take any kind of plain Cake, and cut it into small squares; with a smaller cutter cut half-way through, and take the piece out from the middle of each square and fill the cavity with any marmalade, a variety is best; put the piece that was removed back on the marmalade, and cover with icing. (6) Put Jib. of flour into a basin with Mb. of caster sugar, the grated peel of half a lemon, and half a grated nutmeg; then stir in gradually sufficient well-beaten eggs to form the whole into a paste. Work it well, then lay the paste out on a floured table, and roll it as thin as possible. Thickly butter a baking-sheet and lay the paste on it. Blanch and finely chop about 3oz. of sweet almonds, and strew them over the paste with some caster sugar mixed with a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Bake the Cakes in a slow oven, not letting them get too brown. When cooked, cut the Cakes in strips, roll them quickly round the handle of a wooden spoon, and slip them off on to a glass dish. Washington Cake.—Heat lqt. of milk and dissolve loz. of butter in it; when lukewarm, work this into 21b. of flour, 1 gill of yeast, three eggs, and 1 teaspoonful of salt; make a good dough, put it in a greased tin overnight, and bake in the morning in a quick oven for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Water Cakes.—Bub Mb. of butter into lib. of flour; then add |lb. of sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of caraway-seeds, and sufficient milk to make it into a paste. Boll it out very thin, prick (dock) it well over, cut into Cakes, and put them on well-buttered iron plates. Bake in a slack oven until they become very light. The Germans make these without the caraway-seeds. Water-Melon Cake (Imitation).—This Cake is made from the receipts given for gold and silver Cakes, with the exception of red sugar being used instead of white in the gold Cake, and Jib. of raisins, stoned, quartered, and rolled in flour, being added. Put the red Cake in the centre of a round pan and the white or silver round the edge; or the red can be put at the bottom, and the white at the top. This can be baked in a large round tin, and is supposed to resemble a water- melon. White Cake.—(1) Bub 6oz. of butter into Jib. of flour and add lib. of powdered white sugar, a little ground mace and chopped citron-peel, and the whites of fourteen well-beaten eggs. Make into a dough and bake in a buttered tin. This Cake should be iced over. (2) Mix 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar with fib. of sifted flour, and sift them three or four times. Then mix 5oz. of corn- flour in a basin with J pint of milk. Take the whites of twelve eggs, and put them in a whipping-bowl ready for use, and dissolve a small teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in 2 table-spoonfuls of milk in a cup. Next put 18oz. of oaster sugar with Jib. of butter into a mixing-pan, warm them a little, and work to a cream, then adding the dissolved soda. When well mixed, stir in the cornflour and milk. Whip the whites of the eggs to a firm froth, and mix them in with the flour alternately, that is, first a little flour and then a little of the eggs. Add a little vanilla extract to flavour, and bake, either in a mould or laid out on a baking-sheet. When cold ice over. White Mountain Cake.—(1) Mix with 4 breakfast-cupfuls of flour 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar and 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Bub in with the flour 1 breakfast-cupful of butter which has been creamed by warming and beating with the hand and 3 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar. Beat ten whites of eggs with J pint of sweet milk, mix with the other ingredients, and bake in small flat Cake-tins. Lay them one upon the other, and ice when cold. Sift grated cocoa-nut over each. (2) Beat with the hand Jib. of butter warmed to melting and lib. of caster sugar into a thick cream; then add the Cakes—continued. whites of ten eggs, whipped very stiff, Jib. of flour, sifted in slowly; flavour with 1 teaspoonful of ground bitter almonds. When well mixed, bake. (3) Warm Jib. of butter with lib. of caster sugar, and cream by beating with the hand; add the whites of sixteen well- beaten eggs, stir in gradually lib. of sifted flour, and when quite smooth add 1 wineglassful of brandy. Put this mixture into a Cake-tin and bake. When cold cut into thin slices. Beat the whites of four or five eggs to a stiff froth, and mix with as much sugar as for icing ; stir in two grated cocoa- nuts, and spread it between the layers of Cake. Ice it over. Wreath Cakes.—Put ljlb. of sifted flour in a bowl and warm it. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of dried yeast in 1 breakfast-cupful of warm milk, and stir it into the centre of the flour, mixing in only sufficient to make a light batter. Cover the bowl with a cloth, and leave it in a warm temperature until the contents have well risen. Warm Jib. of butter with 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, then beat in three eggs ; add a small quantity of salt, stir it in with the flour, and work the whole into a smooth soft dough. Divide the dough into six equal-sized portions, flour a paste-board, and roll the dough out into long strips about Jin. in thickness. Twist the strips, plait the twists together in twos, and lay them in rings on a buttered baking-tin. Moisten the end of the rings with water, and stick them together. Keep them in a warm temperature until risen, then brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg; strew coarsely-powdered loaf sugar and a few chopped almonds over them, and bake in a moderate oven. The Cakes should not be too much browned, and care should be taken that the almonds do not burn. Yorkshire Cakes.—(1) Bub 3oz. of butter into 21b. of flour, and then add four well-whipped eggs and 1 table-spoonful of sugar. Work all well together, and add J pint of warmed milk with loz. of German yeast dissolved in it ; put in 1 pinch of salt, and work vigorously for five minutes. Make it smooth in the pan, put a cloth over it, and let it ferment for half-an-hour before the fire. Turn it out on to a slab, knead well, and cut it into twelve equal parts. Boll them in the hands into balls, and then put them on baking-sheets and flatten; place again near the fire to prove, and when sufficiently risen brush them over with beaten egg and bake in a quick oven. These Cakes are usually cut into two or three slices, toasted and buttered, and served hot. (2) Bub Jib. of butter into 71b. of flour, and moisten with lqt. of lukewarm milk and J pint of fresh yeast mixed with 1 pint of warm water. Let it stand to prove for about twenty minutes, then make it into Cakes and put them on warmed baking-sheets ; push a finger through the centre before putting them on the baking-sheets. Bake in a hot oven until done a light brown, and then brush over with a little warmed butter. Yorkshire Spice Cake.—Take 81b. of flour, put it in a basin and mix with it 1 table-spoonful of salt, and then rub in 1 Jib. of butter and 21b. of lard. Make a bay in the centre, but not to the bottom, and pour in J pint of fresh yeast diluted in J pint of water. Stir in the flour until it becomes like batter. Sprinkle a little more flour on the top and put in a warm place to rise. When the bubbles rise through the flour knead it thoroughly, and let it rise again until quite light. When it has thoroughly risen work in Gib. of currants, washed and dried, 31b. of raw sugar, half a grated nutmeg, and eight well-whisked eggs. Make it into loaves of various sizes and put them into tins, the tins being only half filled. Bake until done in a quick oven. Yule Cakes. — Dissolve Joz. of German yeast in 1 break- fast-cupful of warm water, and stir into this lib. of sifted flour and 1 saltspoorjful of salt. Cover with a cloth, and put it before the fire to rise into a sponge. Then add Jib. of butter beaten to a cream, Jib. of moist sugar, 2Joz. of grated nutmeg, Jib. of washed and dried currants, Jib. of mixed candied peel, finely chopped, and two eggs. Mix all well together and put into buttered tins, but only half fill them. Bake for an-hour-and-three-quarters or two hours in a moderate oven, and turn out to get cold. For receipts of other Cakes not described above see Biscuits and Special Headings.