TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 366 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, see tinder their special heads: Chestnuts—continued. mortar with 2oz. or 3oz. of butter and a little well-whipped cream, and pound well; then rub the mass through a fine sieve, taking care that the puree is not too wet. When all has been rubbed through, put it into a basin and mix in half its weight in sifted crushed loaf sugar, very slightly flavoured with vanilla. Form the mixture into small cakes, putting them on a well-buttered baking-sheet, make a slight incision on the top of each, brush them over with yolk of egg, and bake them to a good colour in a hot oven. When done, take them off the baking-sheet, and serve. (2) Boil lib. of Chestnuts until soft, peel them, removing both skins, put them in a mortar, and pound until quite smooth. Mix with this mass 4oz. of sugar, 4oz. of flour, and four well-beaten eggs, working the mixture into a smooth paste; put this on a floured paste-board, roll it out rather thin, and cut it into a variety of small fancy shapes. Butter a baking-sheet, lay the cakes on it, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake them in a slow oven. When the cakes are cooked, leave them until cold before packing them in biscuit-tins. (3) Put lib. of roasted Chestnuts into a mortar and pound them to a pulp, adding gradually the yolks of four eggs. Sift 12oz. of flour on to a board, make a bay, and work in 6oz. of finely-crushed loaf sugar, 12oz. of butter, two eggs, the Chestnut pulp, and Joz. of salt. Form this into a cake about 6in. in diameter, put it on a well-buttered baking-sheet, surrounding' it with paper, and bake for two-hours-and-a-half in a very moderate oven. Chestnut Cream.—(1) Peel the dark skins off twenty Chestnuts, parboil them, and rub the light skins off; then pound them in a mortar, and pass them through a sieve. Dilute lloz. of gelatine in 1 pint of milk, blanch and bruise six sweet almonds, and add, with the thin rind of half a lemon and a little sugar; put these in a stewpan, and when the milk comes to the boil move to one side until it is cool; then strain it, and mix with the Chestnut purde. When it is worked smooth add 1 wine- glassful of dry curatjoa and 5 pint of whipped cream, pour it into a mould, and stand it on ice. Whip some more cream and sugar to a froth, and when the Chestnut cream is set, turn it out, and put the whipped cream round it. (2) Boast two dozen large Chestnuts, peel and skin them, and pound in a mortar with a very little milk, using only just sufficient to moisten the Chestnuts to a paste. Beat loz. of butter to a cream with Jib. of powdered white sugar, and mix the yolks of two eggs with the beaten butter ; add to this by degrees 1 pint of hot milk, and mix all this gradually into the Chestnut paste. Boil all together for ten or fifteen minutes, strain, and let it stand on ice till cold. Chestnut Cream Ice.—(1) Put in a saucepan 12oz. of caster sugar, 6oz. of Chestnut-flour, 1 stick of chopped vanilla, If pints of single cream, and the yolks of eight eggs ; beat all thoroughly together, and stir it over the fire until thick; then strain it, rub it through a coarse hair sieve, freeze it, add 1 pint of whipped cream, and freeze the ice in a mould. (2) Put into a mortar lib. of skinned and blanched Chestnuts, and pound them to a smooth paste, adding- a little cream and sugar. Turn this into a saucepan, add 2qts. of cream, twelve eggs, and 1 dessert-spoonful of extract of vanilla. Set the saucepan on the fire, and bring the contents to the boil, stirring constantly; then strain it at once through a fine sieve into an earthenware pan, let it cool, put it into the freezer to freeze, and it is then ready for use. Chestnut Croquettes.—Put four or five dozen Chestnuts in front of a clear fire and roast them; then take off the shells and husks, and cut off all the outside coloured part, using only the white. Put half of them, including all the pieces, into a mortar, and pound them well with loz. of butter ; then rub the mass through a fine sieve into a saucepan, and mix in 1 teacupful of cream, 2oz. of butter, loz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, and a little salt. Set the saucepan in the bain- | marie, stir in the yolks of five or six eggs, remove the saucepan, •) and let the mixture set. Form it into small balls with a whole Chestnut dipped in cream and placed in the centre, dip each ball into egg, then breadcrumb-and-egg again, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry them. When done and of a light golden colour, take them out, drain them, put on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with caster sugar sprinkled over. Chestnuts—continued. Chestnut Custard.—Take 31b. of well-roasted Chestnuts, peel and skin them, and cut off any parts that are coloured by the fire. Put them into a mortar and pound to a smooth paste, together with lib. of blitter; then add the yolks of twelve eggs well beaten with Jib. of powdered white sugar and a small quantity of salt; mix in by degrees 1 pint of whipped cream, and, lastly, the whites of twelve eggs beaten to a stiff froth; this froth must be added very gradually and stirred in very gently. When all is mixed, put the custard into a saucepan, place it over a slow fire, and stir till it thickens, but do not let it boil. Chestnut Garnish (Chipolata).—Take twenty pieces of carrot and the same of turnip, “turn” into cork shapes, throw them into boiling water to blanch, take out, drain, and put them into some good stock, adding a pinch of sugar. Then take twenty Chestnuts, cut the outside skin, roast them white, and take off the peel. “ Turn ” twenty mushrooms. Take some Chipolata sausages and boil them, and when they are quite done take off the skin; then put all (Chestnuts, carrots, turnips, &c.) into a stewpan, cover over with some reduced Spanish sauce, and put into a cool place until wanted for use. Chestnuts Glaces with Caramel.— Pick out lqt. of Chest- nuts, slit the skins with a knife, put them in a frying-pan on a moderate fire, and roast them, but do not let them get brown; then peel off the skins. When they are quite cold, stick a wooden splint or peg in each Chestnut (see Fig. 448). Boil' lib. of loaf sugar in a pint of water, and dip each Chestnut into it. Try the sugar by dipping a skewer first in the sugar and then in cold water; if it comes off easily it will not stick to the teeth. Put some brown sugar in a broad, flat basin, and stick the ends of the skewers in it, Fig. 449. Chestnuts Glaces with Caramel. the Chestnuts uppermost, to drain (see Fig. 449); and when they are cold, arrange them in a compote-dish. Chestnuts Glaces with Sugar.—Put lib. of crushed loaf sugar in a stewpan with a small quantity of water, not more than it will absorb, and boil it to the crack. Boil the requi- site quantity of Chestnuts until soft, and then peel, taking care not to break them. Take them up one at a time on the point of an iron skewer; dip them first into the syrup, and then, quickly, into cold water. Slip the Chestnuts as they are done off the skewer on to a wire-sieve, and dry them in a warm place. Chestnut Mousse.—Mix with 1-lb. of Chestnut puree about 6oz. of sugar flavoured with vanilla, beat it well with a spoon until it is quite smooth, and then add 3 wineglassfuls of whipped cream sweetened. Pour the preparation in a dome- shaped mould .previously embedded in salted ice, cover the mould, solder its joins with flour-and-water paste, and keep it in the ice for one hour. To serve, dip the mould in hot water, wipe it, and turn the Mousse out on a folded napkin.