THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 321 For details respectina Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cauliflowers—continued. Cauliflowers for Garnishing. — (1) Cut as many heads of Cauliflowers as may be required into small sprigs; trim these, and put them into a stewpan ; add a little salt, pepper, and butter to the water, and set it upon the fire to boil. When done, take them out and drain upon a sieve, put them into a stewpan with a little bechamel sauce, warm up, and they are ready to use. (2) Take a good Cauliflower and cut it into small heads of about 2in. in diameter; throw these into boiling water to blanch. Let them cool, drain, put them into a pan of water, and boil, adding a little salt and butter. They should be a little underdone so that they will not break into pieces when being dished up for garnishing. (3) Wash the Cauliflower, trim off the outside leaves, then put it into a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of salt, and boil until tender. When cooked, drain and plunge the Cauliflower into cold water; drain it again, pressing out as much of the water as possible, and chop it finely, throwing away the pieces of hard stalk. Put a large lump of butter into a stewpan, then put in the Cauliflower, dredge a small quantity of flour over it, and stir over a brisk fire. When the Cauliflower is nicely browned, pour a few table- spoonfuls of broth over it. Season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and boil until the liquor has sufficiently reduced, then use for a garnish. Fig. 388. Cauliflower Fritters, Cauliflowers au Gratin. — (1) Take two Cauliflowers, and pick, wash, and clean them. First cut off the stalks, and then cut them into quarters, removing the rough skin round the stalk. Put the pieces into a large basin of water with 1 pint of vinegar added, so that in the event of there being worms of any sort in them the vinegar will remove them; then put them into 2qts. of boiling water to blanch for a few minutes, take them out, put them into 2qts. of fresh water with Joz. of salt, and boil. As soon as they are done remove them from the water at once, as they continue to cook as long as they are in the water. Now take a 2qt. stewpan, put in loz. of butter and 1-joz. of flour, and stir this over the fire to make a roux; then add 1£ pints of water, 2 small pinches of salt, and 3 pinches of pepper, and boil for ten minutes, next adding loz. each of grated Gruytre and Parmesan cheese ; let it remain for five minutes longer to reduce. Cut the Cauliflowers in pieces, put a layer at the bottom of a vegetable-dish, then a layer of the sauce, heaping up the remaining Cauliflowers and pouring the rest of the sauce over them. Sprinkle loz. of grated Parmesan cheese over all and 1 table-spoonful of bread raspings, baste with |oz. of melted butter, place the dish in the oven for a- quarter-of-an-hour, brown the top with a salamander, and serve. (2) Put two or three Cauliflowers into a saucepan of water and boil them until they are tender ; then take them out, drain, cut off all the stalk, and put them in a heap in a gratin-dish previously well rubbed with garlic. Bone and wash a couple of anchovies, chop them up with a few capers, and mix in 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, with salt and pepper to taste. Sprinkle the Cauliflowers over with this mixture, pour over sufficient clarified butter to moisten, put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake for from ten to twelve minutes. When done, and lightly coloured, take out the dish, and serve. Cauliflowers—continued. (3) Put a Cauliflower into a saucepan of water, boil it until it is about three-parts done, and then separate it into natural sections. Prepare a melted-butter sauce, mixing in a little grated Gruyi-re and Parmesan cheese. Put a layer of the Cauliflower on a baking-sheet, cover over with the sauce, and continue in this way until the whole is used up. Sprinkle a little more grated cheese over the top, then a few breadcrumbs, pour over a little hot butter, and bake. When done, put it on a dish, and serve very hot. Care must be taken to cover the Cauliflower with the sauce. Should the cheese be objected to, it may be omitted. (4) Bare, pick, cook, and drain one large or two medium- sized Cauliflowers; then cut off the roots, place the Cauli- flowers on a buttered baking-dish, and cover them with 1 pint of bechamel sauce, to which 3 table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese have been added. Sprinkle the top with 3 more table- spoonfuls of grated cheese and a few breadcrumbs, place the dish in the oven, and let the Cauliflowers get a golden- brown colour. It will require about twenty minutes for cooking, but care must be taken to turn the dish frequently, so that the Cauliflowers will be equally well browned all over. (5) Select a large, white, firm Cauliflower; trim off the outside leaves and round the stalk, then put it into a bowl of water with a large lump of salt, and leave it for half-an- hour or so. Drain the Cauliflower, rinse it in more water, then put it, flowerpart downwards, into a saucepan with boil- ing water to cover; add 1 table-spoonful of salt, and boil quickly for fifteen minutes, removing the lid of the saucepan when the water begins to boil quickly. At the end of that time di-ain the Cauliflower and wrap it tightly in a thick towel to keep it hot and absorb the moisture. Put loz. of butter into a saucepan, melt it, then mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and 1 teacupful of water; stir over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side and mix in 3 heaped table- spoonfuls of grated Parmesan or any strong old cheese, and £ teacupful of thick cream. Season the sauce to taste with salt, white pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Remove the towel and place the Cauliflower on a gratin-dish, or any dish that will stand the heat of the oven and can be served at table (the flower part should be upwards); pour the sauce over it, sprinkle a small quantity more of grated cheese over it, and bake in a brisk oven. When the Cauli- flower is nicely browned on the top, take it out of the oven, and serve without delay. Cauliflowers en Mayonnaise.—Take some large cold boiled Cauliflowers and break them into small branches, adding a little vinegar, salt, and pepper to season them ; then heap them on a dish, making them come to a point. Surround the dish with a garnish of cooked carrots, turnip, and green vegetables, pour plenty of white mayonnaise sauce over all, and serve. Cauliflower with Parmesan Cheese. —(1) Take a Cauliflower and break it into tufts ; wash these thoroughly, and put them into salted water to boil, but not to cook too soft. When they are done, strain them, and put each piece into warmed butter first and then into grated Parmesan cheese, seasoned with dry mustard, salt, and pepper. Put the pieces neatly together on a dish, pour over a little warmed butter, and put the dish in the oven for five minutes to bake. When done, serve at once. (2) Boil the Cauliflowers, mask the top with Mchamel sauce, and grate Parmesan cheese over. Melt a small quantity of fresh butter, of which pour a little here and there. Then strew the Cauliflowers over with breadcrumbs and more grated cheese, and colour with the salamander. Wipe the border of the dish, mix a little Parmesan cheese with some veloute sauce and a little fresh butter, warm the sauce, season it well, and pour it gently round the Cauliflower. If it should happen that you have neither bechamel nor any other sauce ready, a little melted butter (butter sauce) with some glaze in it will answer the same purpose. (3) Trim off the discoloured outside leaves of the Cauliflowers, wash them in plenty of water and clean them thoroughly. Place a saucepan of water over the fire with a lump of salt, and when it boils put in the Cauliflowers, dredge a small quantity of flour over them, and boil until cooked. Mix about 2oz. of 2 Or