THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 361 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cherries—continued. the centre with flour, and bake for half-an-hour in a moderate oven. Then make a biscuit-paste of brown bread, with a little cinnamon powder added. The paste in the mould being nearly done, take it out of the oven, remove the flour and paper, and fill up with the biscuit-paste put in layers, and over each a sprinkling of the Cherries, which must have been previously well drained. Keep a little of the biscuit-paste for later use. Put the mould in the oven and bake for three-quarters-of-an- hour. About a-quarter-of-an-hour before removing it from the oven, cover over its surface with the remainder of the biscuit- paste, smoothing with a knife or spatula, and sift over some caster sugar. Put it back in the oven to glaze the sugar, take off the mould, and serve. See Pig. 443. Cherry Pudding1.—(1) Put Jib. of butter into a warm basin and work it well with a spoon, adding, one at a time, the yolks of twelve eggs, and lastly Jib. of caster sugar. When it begins to froth, put in Jib. of brown breadcrumbs, a little cinnamon, and lastly the whites of seven or eight eggs well whisked. Then take a large and rather thick timbale-mould, butter it well, and on the bottom pour a layer of the mixture ; then put in a layer of preserved and well-drained Cherries, keeping them from the sides of the mould, and continue in this way until full. Cover the mould with a baking-sheet upon which are live embers, put it in the oven, and bake for twenty-five minutes. Then turn out on to a dish, cover the bottom with Cherry sauce, and serve. (2) Take the stalks off some ripe Cherries, and remove the stones without breaking the fruit more than necessary; as they are picked and stoned, put them into a breakfast-cup. When the cup is full of the Cherries, take lib. of flour, mix into it very thoroughly 1 dessert-spoonful of cream of tartar, and roll the Cherries in it. Then add and mix in two eggs, Jib. of sugar, and 2 table-spoonfuls of butter warmed till melted. Put the pudding into a pudding-mould and let it boil for three hours. Serve cream and sugar with it. Cherry Pulp for Ices.—For this half Morello and half Kentish Cherries should be used. Put them into a copper saucepan with a small quantity of water, and boil quite soft. Rub the pulp through a fine sieve into a basin, add .Jib. of sifted loaf sugar to each pound of pulp, and stir well. Put into wide-mouthed bottles, cork and tie down, set the bottles in a deep saucepan with hay packed between them to prevent them from jarring or cracking, pour in water to half the height of the bottles, place the saucepan on the fire, and let them steam gently for fully fifteen minutes. Remove the pan from the fire, let the bottles cool, take them out, seal the corks, and set in a cool place until wanted. Cherry-and-Raspberry Jam.—To lib. of raspberries add Jib. of stoned Cherries, put them into a preserving-pan, and boil for fifteen minutes. Skim and weigh, and to every pound add Jib. of preserving sugar. Put it on again to boil for an hour, stirring well, when it should hang or drape on the spoon. Then put the jam into pots, wipe some white paper over with the white of egg beaten to a froth, cover over the jars with the egged side next it, and when the paper is dry it will be quite air-tight. See Jams. Cherry Ratafia.—(1) Take 41b. of Morello Cherries and stone them ; pound the kernels in a mortar, and add them with the Cherries to Jgall. of brandy or proof spirit, putting in lastly 21b. of caster sugar. Let this remain for a fortnight to mace- rate, and then strain through a flannel jelly-bag. Cherries—continued. (2) Take 101b. of Cherries, remove the stalks from them, stone, and crush them. Put them into a jar and pour over lqt. of brandy, and cover the jar close. Crack the stones and save the kernels. When the Cherries have stood in the brandy six days, put them into a cloth and squeeze the juice through. Boil together 51b. of currants with 31b. of sugar, and put this also in a cloth ; squeeze out the juice and mix it with the Cherry-juice. Measure the quantity of juice, and add to every pint of it 1 pint of brandy. Put into a jar lib. of the kernels of the Cherry-stones pounded, a little mace, some clones and cinnamon, and Jib. of coriander-seeds, all well pounded, and pour over them the mixed juice and brandy. Cover the jar close, and let it stand for six weeks ; then strain it through a jelly-bag, bottle it, and cork it well. Cherry Sauce. — Take 2 largo handfuls of sour Cherries, remove the stalks and stones, pound them in a mortar with their kernels, and put them in a stewpan. Then add a glass of claret, a lump of sugar, a little lemon-zest and cinnamon, and boil until the Cherries are nicely done ; then strain them through a sieve, return to the pan, and thicken with 1 table-spoonful of potato-flour diluted with a little cold water. Boil it up again, and add G table-spoonfuls of preserved Cherries, previously dipped in warm water. Cherry Schmarn.—Pick the stalks off 21b. or 31b. of Cherries, put them in a stewpan with sugar and a small quantity of water, and stew gently until nearly cooked. Put Jib. of flour into a basin, and mix with it 3 table-spoonfuls of sugar, 1 salt- spoonful of salt, and a small quantity of either grated lemon- peel or nutmeg. Stir into the flour the beaten yolks of four eggs and sufficient milk or cream to form a stiff batter; strain the Cherries, put them in the batter, and when well mixed add the beaten whites of the four eggs. Put about 3oz. of butter into a stewpan, make it hot, then pour in the batter, cover with the lid, and set it over a brisk fire. When the bottom of the schmarn has caked and is lightly browned, tear it into small pieces with an iron fork, and then leave it to set and brown again. Put on a hot dish, dust caster sugar and powdered cinnamon over, and serve immediately. Cherry Soda-water Syrup.— Put lqt. of Cherry-juice and lqt. of water into a vessel with 7Jib. of crushed sugar and Joz. of citric acid, and boil; strain and bottle. It is then ready for use. Cherry Souffle.— (1) Put 4oz. of flour in a saucepan, pour in gradually 1J pints of milk, and stir it over the fire until thick and smooth. When cooked, take the mixture off the fire and continue stirring it until nearly cold. Warm 4oz. of butter and beat it until. creamy; then mix in six well- beaten eggs, 4oz. of sugar, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Mix all the ingredients together with 1 Jib. of black Cherries. Butter a souffle-mould, and dust in some grated breadcrumbs, shaking out the superfluous crumbs. Pour the mixture into the mould, cover it with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the souffle out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve it immediately. (2) Trim the crusts off two French rolls, put the crumb in a basin and soak in milk. Blanch 4oz. of almonds and pound them in a mortar. Warm 4oz. of butter and beat it until creamy with Goz. of sugar ; then beat in gradually the yolks of six eggs. Mix all the above ingredients together with the grated peel of half a lemon and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and mix them with the other ingredients. Pick off the stalks of about lib. of Cherries, and stir them into the mixture. Butter a souffle-mould, strew in grated breadcrumbs, then shake out all those that do not adhere to the butter, pour in' the mixture, and bake it in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the souffle on to a hot dish, sift caster sugar over, and serve at once. Cherry Souffle Pudding1.—Mix Jib. of flour with J pint of cold milk, and then stir into it 1 pint of scalding hot milk ; put it into a farina-kettle over the fire, stir it well, and let it boil for one minute ; then take it from the fire, stir in the yolks of seven eggs beaten light with 4Joz. of sugar and a flavouring of essence of ratafia, and let it stand till quite cold. Beat the whites of seven eggs to a stiff froth, and whisk it well and quickly into the custard. Butter a pudding- tin, cover the inside with crystallised Cherries, pour the