373 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, (Sic., referred to, see under their special heads. Chives—continued. correct, for it grows wild almost anywhere in Europe, Asia, and Western North America—they have christened it Cibollino di Ingleterra—the little onion of England. In many kitchen gardens Chives (Allium Sclaenoprasum) are used for forming borders, which purpose they fulfil to perfection, for they are not only hardy, but ornamental and useful. Rhind describes the plant thus :—The bulbs are very small, connected in clusters of an elongated form, and the leaves are long, slender and pointed. The flower- ing stem, when it is allowed to rise, is slightly curved, and seldom attains to more than a few inches in height. The flowers are white, with a purple tinge; they grow crowded together, and are, even in the most cold and moist situations, followed by capsules and seeds. When culti- vated, the plants are, however, seldom allowed to run to seed, as they are not usually drawn to be eaten entire, but have the leaves and young tops cut off to be used as a pot-herb. When the leaves are gathered for use, if they are cut close, others will shoot up in succession, and in this manner a bed lasts three or four years, after which period it must be renewed. When fresh cut, these leaves are by some persons considered as an improve- ment to salads and seasonings. Their flavour suffers greatly if they are kept after gathering, even for* a very short time, and their produce is but small in proportion to the labour of gathering. On these accounts they are not much cultivated in places where vegetables are suqiplied to the markets; and they seldom find a place in the garden of the English peasant, who, partly from ignorance and partly from prejudice, does not live much upon those soups and savoury dishes which, while they are more wholesome and nourishing than the food which he usually consumes, are also considerably cheaper. The dishes called Civets, as of hare, rabbit, roebuck, &c., are derived from the French Civettes, or Chives. Chives Sauce.—!(1) Put 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs into a saucepan with 2oz. of butter, and stir over the fire until of a pale golden colour; then pour in £ pint of broth with 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced Chives, and season to taste with salt. Stir the sauce over the fire till boiling, keeping it very smooth. It is then ready for serving. (2) Put 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs in a sufficient quantity of broth, and boil them until thick and smooth ; then mix in 3 table-spoonfuls, or more, of finely-minced Chives and a lump of butter. Season the sauce with salt, and boil it gently for five or ten minutes previous to serving. (3) Put the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs in a mortar with 1 teaspoonful of dry mustard and 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and pound them until quite smooth. Finely chop a handful of fresh green Chives, and mix them with the pounded eggs; then stir the mixture to a smooth, creamy sauce with 1 tea- cupful of vinegar and 1 table-spoonful of salad-oil, and it is ready for serving. CHLORIDE OP SODIUM. —The chemical term for common table- or kitchen salt. CHOCA.—This beverage is better known in America than in England; it is made by mixing in equal quan- tities freshly-made coffee and freshly-made chocolate; then one-third of boiling milk is poured in and the drink sweetened with sugar, and served very hot. CHOCOLATE (Fr. Chocolat; Ger. Tchocolate; Sp. Chocolate; Ital. Cioccola).—This word appears to have had a peculiar derivation, which has not stood in the way of its adoption all over the civilised world. It takes its name direct from the Aztec words schoco, meaning “ noisy,” which we have corrupted into Cocoa, and latte, “ water,” thus giving one the idea that the Aztecs were familiar with its use as a beverage, and that the liquid was prepared by boiling the cocoa-bean in water; and this, according to reliable chroniclers, appears to have been the case. “ This is, without an exception,” writes an authority, Chocolate—continued. “ of all domestic drinks, the most alimentary ”; and there is no reason to doubt it, for by analysis it shows a high rate of nitrogenous, or flesh-forming, material. The Spaniards are reported to be the greatest consumers of cocoa or Chocolate in the world, and to them it has become so necessary for the support of health and phy- sique that it is considered an extremely severe punishment to withhold it, even from criminals. Chocolate is prepared from cocoa, under which heading the process is fully described, and at one time the Spanish manufacture was acknowledged to be the best; but in later years England, France, and Holland have vied with Sq>ain in this art, and, according to the opinion of con- noisseurs, have managed to surpass her. Indeed, it may be safely asserted that there is no better Chocolate made than that manufactured in France and England. Messrs. Cadbury, Fry, and others have done much to improve the quality of British-made Chocolate, and have adapted this sweetened preparation of cocoa to so many exquisite purposes, that it may now be regarded as a separate and special branch of confectionery. In Mexico a Chocolate paste is made by adding long pepper, a little annatto, and vanilla; some add cinnamon, cloves, and anise; and those who esteem perfumes add also musk and ambergris. In this country Chocolate enters into innumerable combinations, many of which will be found incorporated hereunder; but for any further information that may be desired, it will be necessary to refer to Cocoa. (1) Chocolate may be bought in cakes, and may be had either sweet or black. Allow about loz. to a breakfast-cup. Grate the Chocolate, or cut it into shavings, and melt it over the fire in ^ breakfast-cupful of water, stirring all the time, till the Chocolate is quite dissolved; then add 1 breakfast- cupful of milk, and keep on stirring till it boils, when it is ready for use. Should the Chocolate be too thick, a little water or a little boiled milk may be added. (2) Boil lqt. of equal parts of milk and water in a small, bright saucepan ; then scrape down loz. of common Chocolate, throw it in, and beat with a wire egg-whisk about one minute, or till the Chocolate is all dissolved. Serve it in cups as soon as made, if practicable, with sugar. If necessary to keep it for a time, set it where it will keep hot without boiling. (3) Scrape fine loz. of Chocolate, add 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and put it into a small saucepan with 1 table- spoonful of hot water, stirring over a hot fire for a minute or two until it is perfectly smooth and glossy, and then stir it all into lqt. of boiling milk, or half milk and half water. Mix thoroughly, and serve at once. If the Chocolate is wanted richer, take twice as much Chocolate, sugar, and water. Made in this way, Chocolate is perfectly smooth, and free of oily particles. If it is allowed to boil after the Chocolate is added to the milk it becomes oily, and loses its fine flavour. (4) Cut up a loz. square of Chocolate, and 'with 2 table- spoonfuls of flour mix it with 2 table-spoonfuls of hot water and 1 pinch of salt. Put this in a small saucepan, and boil until smooth, stirring constantly. Add gradually 1 pint of boiling water, and when ready to serve add 1 pint of hot milk. Use all milk and two squares of Chocolate, if desired very rich ; or thicken with 1 teaspoonful of cornflour rubbed smooth in a little cold water, and boil five minutes before adding the milk. (5) Put 2oz. of Chocolate into a pot with a muller, and pour over slowly 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk. Work well for ten or twelve minutes over the fire, and the Chocolate is then ready for use. (6) Mix in a saucepan loz. of finely-grated Chocolate with a little hot water or milk, pour over sufficient to fill a breakfast- cup, boil for two or three minutes, and it is ready. It may be made entirely with milk or milk-and-water. (7) Select fib. of good Chocolate, break it into pieces, and put these in a saucepan on the stove with ^ pint of boiling water; stir well with a wooden spoon, and when the Chocolate is thoroughly dissolved pour lqt. of boiling water over it, using lqt. of milk instead of the water when Chocolate and milk is desired. Let it cook well for ten minutes, then serve.