320 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cauliflowers—continued. may also be served with a variety of other sauces, and is prepared in many ways, either as a vegetable, pickle, or for garnish, as the accompanying large variety of receipts will testify. Small Cauliflowers look well piled on a folded napkin (see Fig. 3S7). Baked Cauliflowers.—Boil the Cauliflowers whole in the usual way until nearly done, then drain well, and arrange them as close together as possible on a dish that will stand the fire. Pour over them a thick sauce made of good broth, butter, flour, and nutmeg, with egg-yolks stirred up smoothly in it; dust over all some grated Parmesan cheese, and bake half- an-liour in a not too fierce oven. On serving, the rim of the dish may be garnished with slices of smoked tongue or fried sausages. Boiled Cauliflower.—Trim off the leaves of a firm head of Cauliflower, and thoroughly wash it in plenty of cold water in which a handful of salt has been dissolved. If any insects are visible between the branches of the Cauliflower, let it soak in the salted water, with the flowerets down, for an hour : the salt will kill the insects, and they will fall down into the water. About three-quarters-of-an-hour before serving, put 2 table- spoonfuls of butter, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and j saltspoonful of white pepper into a saucepan large enough to hold the Cauli- flower ; take it from the salted water, put it at once into the saucepan without draining it, cover it closely, set over a gentle fire, and let it simmer and steam until tender, which will be in about half-an-hour. Then, without breaking the Cauli- flower, take it up on a hot dish; let the butter and water in which it was cooked boil very fast for a minute, and then pour it over the Cauliflower, and serve. If a thick sauce is liked, mix 1 teaspoonful of flour or corn-starch, dissolved in 1 tea- cupful of cold water, with the butter and water, boil it for two minutes, stirring constantly, and then serve it with the Cauliflower. After it is carefully washed, the Cauliflower may be boiled until it is tender, and then drained, and served with white sauce; or covered with sauce and breadcrumbs, and browned in a hot oven ; or when the heads are small and defective, either boiled or served in branches instead of entire, or mashed through a colander, and heated with salt, pepper, and butter. Cold boiled Cauliflower is very good fried plain in butter, or broken in branches and fried; or mashed and fried, with the addition of an egg, and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Boiled Cauliflower in American Style.— (1) Pick off the outside leaves and soak in cold salted water, top downwards, for an hour to cleanse it thoroughly; then tie it in a twine bag to prevent breaking, and cook in boiling salted water for fifteen or twenty minutes, or until tender. If not boiled in a bag, remove the scum before it settles on the Cauliflower. Serve in a shallow dish, and cover with a cream or hollandaise sauce ; or add a little grated cheese, cover with cracker-crumbs moistened in melted butter, and bake until the crumbs are brown ; or, when cold, serve as a salad with mayonnaise dressing. (2) Take a large white Cauliflower, trim off the outer leaves, and boil it in a pan with water, with a little bicarbonate of soda and 1 table-spoonful of salt added. Place it on a dish, and pre- pare the following sauce : Put 3oz. of butter into a saucepan, let it warm on the fire (but not enough for the butter to oil), and then add 1 dessert-spoonful of cornflour, 1 gill of boiling water, and a little cream. Put it on the fire and let it boil, then add 1 teaspoonful of finely-minced parsley and i tea- spoonful of chopped onion. Boil for one minute more, then add the yolks of two or three well-beaten eggs, 1 table-spoonful of chilli vinegar, and a little salt to taste. Cut the Cauliflower into small branches, put them on a dish, and pour the sauce over. Boiled Cauliflower with Butter.—Take one large or two small Cauliflowers, and pare, pick, and examine them well to see if anything adheres which should be removed. Wash them thoroughly in fresh water, and then put in a saucepan, cover with cold water, season with 1 handful of salt and J pinch of pepper, and add loz. of kneaded butter. After cooking about thirty minutes, drain them through a colander and lay them on a dish, pouring over them a sauce made of loz. of butter, 3 pinch each of salt and pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of vinegar. They are then ready to be served. Cauliflower-and- Asparagus Salad.—Boil a head of Cauliflower in some salted water, keeping it rather underdone than other- Cauliflo wer s —continued. wise, and boil also some points of asparagus. When ready, drain the Cauliflower, break the branches apart, place them in the centre of a salad-bowl, and arrange the asparagus points round as a border, putting the cut ends close to the Cauliflower. Sprinkle some chopped capers on the top, and serve the salad with a plain cream dressing. Cauliflower in Batter.—Put a breakfast-cupful of cooked Cauliflower branches into a double boiler with 3oz. of butter; season to taste with salt and pepper. Beat four eggs well with 1 table-spoonful of flour and 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and pour them over the Cauliflower. Place the double boiler over the fire and stir the mixture until set. Turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of bread fried brown in butter, and serve. Cauliflower with Crayfish.—Take twenty-five small cray- fish and ten larger ones, and cook them. Pick the tails and claws out of the small ones, and keep them covered over ; then take the ten large ones and serve them the same way, but these latter are to be kept hot. Put a good Cauliflower into salted water and boil it; then with a little of the crayfish liquor and a little of the Cauliflower liquor make some butter sauce, adding the yolks of a few eggs to thicken it, and then putting in the tails and claws of the twenty-five small cray- fish. Take out the Cauliflower, put it on a strainer to drain, dish it up, mask it with the sauce, and put the large tails and claws round it. Cauliflower with Cream Sauce.—In the usual way Cauli- flower takes from half to three-quarters of-an-hour to cook, and it should not boil rapidly or it will destroy the small flowerets. Try the stems with a fork, and remove as soon as tender. Put a piece of bicarbonate of soda the size of a bean into the water, and this will hasten the cooking without injuring the vegetable. Divide the Cauliflower into portions of convenient size before cooking, and when drained and dished up pour 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of good strained cream sauce over each portion. Cauliflower Cream Soup.—(1) The clear white broth that has had an old fowl boiled tender in it is best for such a soup as this, and any pieces or bones from the breakfast or dinner meats may be put into the stockpot with it to make it richer. Take lqt., more or less, of stock, 1 pint of rich milk, 1 pint of cooked Cauliflower sprays, 1 table-spoonful of butter, salt, and white pepper, 1 table-spoonful of minced parsley, half a blade of mace, and a small allowance of any vegetables at hand, Cauliflower being the principal one. If cooked for the purpose, pick the Cauliflower into little branches, and boil it separately in salted water for half-an- hour. Strain off lqt. of the stock clear and free from grease into a saucepan, and boil it with 1 table-spoonful of minced onion; then mash 1 breakfast-cupful of cooked Cauliflower, and put it in; boil 1 pint of rich milk, and add that; season with a little white pepper and salt; thicken, if not thick enough already, till it looks like thin cream, with flour-and- water thickening; then add 1 table-spoonful of butter, and the other breakfast-cupful of cooked Cauliflower branches, and sprinkle with 1 table-spoonful of minced parsley. (2) Pull the Cauliflower into separate branches, and boil them for half-an-hour in salted water. Strain lqt. of stock into a saucepan, and skim off all the fat; mash about half of the Cauliflower, put it into the soup with a finely-minced onion, and boil it. Put a lump of butter into another sauce- pan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, ■and stir it over the fire for a few minutes; then pour in gradually 1 pint of new milk, season with pepper and salt, and boil it. Pour the thickened milk into the soup, add the remainder of the Cauli- flower branches, not mashing them, and 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley. Serve in a tureen with a plateful of sippets of toast, or of croutons of fried bread. Some clear chicken broth is best for the above soup, and any pieces of meat or bones may be put into it to make it richer. Cauliflower Fritters.—Cut into equal-sized pieces two well- boiled Cauliflowers, dip each piece into thick yellow or white sauce, and set them aside to cool. Take them up with a spoon, put them into a basin of frying batter, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry to a good colour. Serve very hot on a napkin spread over a dish (see Fig. 3S8). If preferred, the pieces of Cauliflower may be dipped into a mixture of vinegar, oil, salt, and pepper in place of the batter, and then fried.