THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OE PRACTICAL COOKERY. 277 For details respecting Culmary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred, to, see under their special heads Calf—continued. small pieces of either bacon-, beef-, or mutton-fat. Eub ilb. of dripping in lib. of flour till quite smooth, then gradually stir in sufficient water to make a stiff dough. Sprinkle a little flour on the table, and roll the dough out three times. Butter a pudding-basin and line it with the paste ; fill it with the liver and fat, well mixing, pour in whatever is left of the cooking-liquor, and cover with a flat of the same crust. Tie the basin in a cloth, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for two hours. When cooked, turn the pud- ding out of the basin on to a hot dish, and serve it without delay. A little paftially-boiled onion may be put into the pudding before it is cooked. Calf’s-Liver Eag'ofi.t.—Put 111b. of Calf’s Liver into a sauce- pan with sufficient cold water to cover it; let it come to the boil and let it boil for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Then take it out of tbe water, and when it is nearly cold grate it on a grater. Chop fine ^lb. of bacon and mix it with the grated liver ; mix with it also 1 teaspoonful of mixed herbs, 1 tea- spoonful of pepper, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Beat well the yolks of two eggs and 1 gill of cream, and mix these in. Put the mixture into a saucepan and stir it over a slow fire till it is very hot, but do not let it boil. Serve it on a hot dish. Calf’s-Liver Bolls.— Cut a Calf’s Liver in long, even slices; scald them, and strip off the skin. Lay the slices of liver on the table, and season them with salt and pepper. Season 5lb. of sausage-meat, or chopped raw veal, with salt, pepper, and any powdered sweet herb except sage ; mix a raw egg with it, and then spread it over the slices of liver ; roll the slices, and tie them with string. Put into a frying-pan over the fire enough butter or beef-dripping to cover the bottom, and let it heat; when it begins to brown, put in the rolls of liver and brown them. While the liver rolls are browning, carefully wash lqt. of small potatoes, and when the rolls are brown put them into an earthen baking-dish with the potatoes. Stir 2 table-spoonfuls of flour into the frying-pan, and brown it; then gradually stir in lqt. of boiling water, season this highly with salt and pepper, let it boil, and then pour it into the dish with the liver and potatoes. Set tbe dish in a moderate oven, bake its contents for about half-an-hour, or until the potatoes are done, and serve hot in the same dish. After the liver rolls have been browned, as directed above, they can be dusted over with flour and again browned, and covered with boiling water and stewed until tender in the gravy thus made. When they are tender and seasoned, they may be served with a dish of plain-boiled potatoes. Calf’s-Liver Salad.— Put lib. of Calf’s Liver in a baking- dish, with a small quantity of butter to baste it with, and bake. When cooked, leave the liver till cold, then cut it into pieces lin. square. Wash some cabbage lettuces, put in the pieces of a Calf’s Liver, pour a remoulade dressing over, and serve. Calf’s-Liver Saute a la Provenpale.—Proceed as for Stewed Gale’s Liver a l’Italienne, adding two crushed cloves of garlic and the juice of half a lemon. Serve, with 1 table- spoonful of chopped parsley sprinkled over. Calf’s-Liver Saute.— Cut some liver in thin slices, and dust them with salt and pepper. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter in a frying-pan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir over the fire till well mixed ; then lay in the slices of liver and brown them on both sides. Sprinkle a little chopped parsley over the liver, pour in 2 table-spoonfuls of water and 1 table- spoonful of wine. Boil up, then arrange the slices of liver on a hot dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. Calf’s-Liver Saute with Piquant Sauce.—Cut some liver in slices about Jin. thick ; put them in a frying-pan with enough beef- or pork-dripping to prevent them from sticking; cook slowly for eight minutes, turning constantly. When done, put the slices of liver on a hot dish, pour a piquant sauce over them, and serve. Calf’s-Liver Souffle.—Take one-third of a Calf’s Liver and cut it in thin slices ; put them in a frying-pan with some melted fat bacon, a few trimmings of truffles, 1 pinch of pounded sweet herbs, and a sprinkling of pepper and salt, and fry. When done, take off the fire and allow to cool. Put the cooked liver in a mortar with one-fourth of its bulk of panada and a piece of butter; pound all well together, sprinkle pepper and salt Calf—continued. over, and pass the preparation through a sieve. Reduce 1 teacupful of Maieira sauce with a little meat-glaze and mix it with the forcemeat, beat in the yolks of six eggs, one by one, and at the last four whipped whites of eggs. Butter a souffle- pan, fill it with the preparation, put it in a moderate oven and bake for half-an-hour. Turn the souffle on to a hot dish, and serve at once. Curried Calf’s Liver.— (1) Cut 21b. of liver into small, thin pieces. Fry two small, sliced onions in a little butter, then put in the pieces of liver and fry them, adding more butter as required. Mix 2 teaspoonfuls of curry powder with 4 table-spoonfuls of flour, mix it in with the liver, sprinkle salt, pepper, and a little cayenne over; stir all over the fire for two or three minutes, then add slowly 1J breakfast-cupfuls of stock. Boil up, then turn all on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. (2) Indian Mode.—Woll wash and parboil lib. each of Calf’s Liver and udder, cut them in small pieces, pound to a pulp in a mortar, and mix in 1 teaspoonful each of powdered sweet herbs, salt, and pepper. Form the whole into a mass by adding an egg, using also a little broth should the mixture be too stiff. Make it into balls and roll them well in breadcrumbs. Put 3oz. or 4oz. of fat or mustard oil into a pan on the fire, boil it, add the curry mixture, composed of 1 table-spoonful of ground onions, 1 teaspoonful each of ground turmeric and chillies, ^ teaspoonful each of ground ginger and peppercorns, i teaspoonful of ground garlic, and 1 dessert- spoonful of finely-minced or powdered sweet herbs. Sprinkle over a little water, brown the mixture, add the liver balls, sprinkle them over with salt to taste, brown them also, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of weak broth or water, and simmer gently on the side of the fire until done, which will take about two hours. Put the preparation, when ready, on a dish, and serve very hot. Forcemeat of Calf’s Liver and Bacon.—Take a Calf’s Liver, weigh it, and for every pound use 4oz. of fat bacon. Keep them separate and chop them very fine. Put a shallot, an onion, and a small clove of garlic (or the garlic may be omitted) into a stewpan with a little butter and stew them, but not enough to brown them. Put the cover over the pan, and let it remain until the onions are tender. Put some crumb of bread into a basin with a little water or milk, and let it soak ; when sufficiently soaked, take it out, squeeze it as dry as possible, and add it to the mixture in the pan; mix to a thick paste, putting in a little more butter if wanted. Put the paste in a mortar, and mix in with it the liver and bacon and a little grated nutmeg, ground allspice, pepper, salt, and the yolks of two eggs, well beaten. Pass this mixture through a fine sieve, and it is ready for use. Fried Calf’s Liver.—(1) Lay a Calf’s Liver in vinegar for twelve hours to render it firm; dip it in cold spring water, and wipe it dry; cut it in slices, sprinkle sweet herbs crum- bled finely over it, add popper and salt, and dredge with flour ; fry in boiling lard or butter, the latter being preferable. Remove it when fried a good brown, pour away a portion of the fat, and add 1 breakfast-cupful of water, with a lump of butter well rolled in flour, in which a table-spoonful of vinegar and cayenne or lemon-juice has been stirred; boil it up, keeping it stirred all the while, and serve the liver in it. Slices of fried bacon should be served with it. (2) Procure a very white Calf’s Liver, cut it into equal-sized slices, dip them in flour, and fry in boiling butter till browned. When done, put the liver on a hot dish, and set it where it will keep hot while the gravy is being prepared. Finely mince some sweet herbs and parsley, and put it in the frying-pan with a little more butter, the juice of a lemon, 1 teaspoonful of flour, a little water, and pepper and salt to taste ; stir and let it boil gently till the herbs are cooked, then pour it over the liver and serve. Fried Calf's Liver and Bacon served with Spinach.—- Thoroughly wash 2qts. of spinach, trim away the roots and tough stalks, and let it stand in cold water. Slice 21b. of Calf’s Liver about iin. thick; pour boiling water upon it. let it stand until cool enough to permit the skin to be stripped on, then dry it on a cloth, and roll it in flour seasoned with salt and pepper. Slice very thin 41b. of bacon, put it over the fire in a frying-pan, and fry it until it begins to crisp; as soon as the bacon is put over the fire drain the spinach, put