THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 437 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <&c., referred to, see under their special heads. Cordials and Liqueurs—continued. ground coriander, and loz. each of ground mace and carda- mom. Pour this off, and add f drachm of oil of bergamot, 1 drachm of oil of neroli, 4qts. of capillaire, and 7qts. of water. Eau des Favorites.—Put 4oz. each of ground aniseed and cinnamon into jars or bottles with 3oz. each of orange-flowers and juniper-berries, half the quantity each of orange-peel and rosemary-leaves, |oz. of thyme, and loz. each of mint, penny- royal, and sage, and add 91qts. of spirits of wine; proceed as for Eau Cordiale, adding 2qts. of orange-flower water, 5qts. of water, and 4qts. of capillaire. Eau Forcifiere.—Prepared as for Eau Cordiale, substituting for the other ingredients 4oz. of camomile, 3oz. each of juniper- berries and orange-peel, 2oz. of rosemary-leaves, loz. of cinnamon, loz. of cloves, foz. of cardamom, and a similar quantity of spirits of wine 60deg. over proof, capillaire, and water. Eau de Lisette.—Prepared the same as for Eau Cordiale, using lib. of lemon-peel, lfoz. of cinnamon, fib. of dates, 4oz. each of figs and raisins, foz. of mace, 9fqts. of spirits of wine, 7fqts. of water, 5qts. of capillaire, and a little red colouring. Eau Miraculeuse. —The same as for Eau Cordiale, using- fib. each of chopped orange- and lemon-peel, 3oz. each of cinnamon and ginger, loz. of rosemary-leaves, loz. each of cloves, galanga, and mace, and foz. of orris-root. Use also 9fqts. of spirits of wine, 7qts. of water, and 4qts. of capillaire, and colour the liqueur with a little red colouring. Eau Musettier.—Prepared the same as for Eau Cordiale, using 3oz. of dry lemon-peel, 2oz. of cinnamon, loz. each of sage, rosemary-leaves, and lavender-flowers, 6oz. of cloves, 9fqts. of spirits- of wine, 4qts. of capillaire, 2fqts. of water, 7£qts. of rose-water, and a little green colouring. Eau d’Or.—(1) With 31b. of sugar and lqt. of water prepare a syrup, clarify it with white of egg, and filter through a jelly- bag into a bowl. Float in two gold leaves, and as soon as they rise to the surface pour a little of the syrup over them with a spoon. Now add foz. each of lemon essence and orange-flower water, loz. of essence of almonds, and 2 tumbler- fuls of rum or spirit (plain), pour the whole into a glass bottle, and give it a shake before using. (2) Blanch and pound 4oz. of bitter almonds, adding gradually 8oz. of sugar; turn into a f gall. bottle or jar, add foz. of orange-flowers and 2oz. of lemon-peel thinly cut, fill up the bottle with over-proof spirits, and let it stand for a couple of weeks. Put two gold leaves into lqt. of syrup, as in No. 1, break them up, then add the spirit, which must first be filtered. Bottle, and use as required. (3) Prepared the same as for Eau Cordiale, with 12oz. of fresh lemon-peel and 5oz. of fresh orange-peel, loz. each of cinnamon and aniseed, foz. of juniper-berries, foz. each of nutmeg, orris-root, and rosemary-flowers, foz. each of cloves and cardamom, a similar quantity of spirits, water, and capil- laire, and a little yellow colouring. Eau de Faix.—The same as for Eau Cordiale, substituting for the other ingredients 3oz. each of orange- and lemon-peel, 2oz. each of rosemary-root, angelica-root, and sweet almonds, foz. each of aniseed, cardamom, cinnamon, cloves, and nutmeg, 9fqts. of spirits of wine, 4qts. of capillaire, and 3fqts. of water. A little violet colouring should be added. Eau des Prelats.—Prepared the same as for Eau Cordiale, by steeping 8oz. of orange-peel, 6oz. of lemon-peel, lfoz. each of cinnamon and marjoram, loz. each of lavender and nosegay, loz. of vanilla, all finely chopped or powdered, in 9fqts. of spirits of wine, straining off the spirits, and adding to the jars or bottles 2oz. of essence of vanilla, lfqts. of Medoc wine, 2qts. each of water and orange-flower water, and 4qts. of capillaire. Filter and bottle as before. Eau de Pucelle.—Prepared in the same way as for Eau Cordiale, using 12oz. of juniper-berries, 2oz. of fennel-seed, lfoz. each of angelica-seed and cinnamon, foz. of cloves, and 9fqts. of spirits of wine, and adding 7fqts. of water, 5qts. of capillaire, and a little yellow colouring. Gaite Franqaise.—Pour 4qts. of proof spirits of wine into stone jars or bottles, and add the thin peel of thirty oranges, fib. of pounded cardamom, and foz. each of ground cloves Cordials and Liqueurs—continued. and cinnamon. Let these macerate for four or five weeks, and mix in lqt. of water, 51b. of sugar, and a slight rose colouring. Filter and bottle. Golden Wasser Liqueur.—Add twelve drops of oil of aniseed to lqt. of spirits of wine in a bottle, shake it well, then add six drops of oil of cinnamon, three of oil of roses, and eight of oil of citron, shaking the bottle as each oil is added, and until they are all dissolved. Pour in lqt. of syrup, strain the liquid throug’h filtering-paper, add a few squares of gold leaf cut up into small pieces, put the liquid into small bottles, and it is ready for use. Liqueur d'Amour.—Bruise in a mortar 4oz. of lavender-flowers, 2oz. of red rose petals, and loz. of blanched bitter almonds, adding a little sugar ; put them into a jar with lgall. of over-proof spirit, cork up securely, and shake vigorously daily for a month. Strain and filter, and if necessary fine with alum and salts of tartar ; draw off again into a bowl, add 2qts. of syrup, and twenty-five or thirty drops of spirit of geranium or musk to perfume, put in three gold leaves, damp them with the syrup, and break them up with a fork or skewer. Now add a little colouring, so as to give a delicate pink colour, and bottle off for use. Liqueur d’Arg-ent. -Mix loz. each of the tinctures of clove, coriander, and lemon, with lgall. of proof spirit, then add foz. each of orange-flower water and rose-water, and pour in 2qts. of clarified syrup. Break in two or three silver leaves, colour a light blue, and bottle off for use. Liqueur ties Eveques.—Put ljlb. of finely-chopped orange- peel and 5oz. of ground cinnamon into bottles or jars with 5qts. of Medoc wine and 9fqts. of spirits of wine 60deg. over proof, cork up the bottles securely, and let them remain for a month in a warm place, if possible, shaking the bottles daily. Turn the spirit into a bowl, and add to the bottles 3qts. of water; let this stand for a few days, shaking as before. Pour it off, pressing out as much as possible, add the liquor to the spirit, together with 4qts. of capillaire, mix well, filter, and bottle. A flannel bag should be used for filtering. Liqueur de Girofle.—This is prepared in the same way as Liqueur des Eveques, with lib. of crushed cloves, 9fqts. of spirits, 7fqts. of water, 3fqts. of capillaire, and a little pink colouring added before filtering. Liqueur de Muscade. — Use lfoz. each of mace, orris-root, nutmeg, and cinnamon, all finely ground; loz. each of rosemary- leaves, orange- and lemon-peel, finely chopped, foz. each of bruised marjoram, fennel-seed, and aniseed, and 2oz. each of cardamom and camomile, and proceed in the same way as for Liqueur des Eveques, with 9fqts. of spirits of wine, 7fqts. of water, and 3fqts. of capillaire. Liqueur de Sante.—Put fifty freshly-gathered young bay-leaves and loz. of red sage-leaves into a jar with 2oz. of juniper- berries, pour over 2qts. of white rum, and leave them to infuse for fourteen days; strain and filter, add loz. of essence of peppermint, and lgall. of clarified syrup (white sugar syrup), mix in sufficient saffron to colour, stir well, and bottle in three days’ time, when the sediment will have settled at the bottom. Masonic Liqueur.—Put into a jar loz. each of essence of barberry, distilled lavender-water and orange-water, also foz. of essence of syringa; pour over lgall. of spirit (60deg. over proof); when well mixed, add 2qts. of syrup and loz. of essence of cloves, also sufficient saffron to give it a bright colour. Bottle and use. Parfait Amour.—This is prepared the same as for Liqueur des Eveques, using lib. of lemon-peel, 3oz. of cinnamon, 2oz. of orange-flowers, loz. of rosemary-leaves, foz. of mace, Joz. each of cloves, saffron, and cardamom, 9fqts. of spirits of wine, 7qts. of water, 4qts. of capillaire, and a little rose colouring. Persicot.—This liqueur is prepared in the same way as Liqueur des Eveques, with lib. of bitter almonds, 9fqts. of spirits of wine, and 7qts. of water, but without using capillaire. Railroad Liqueur.—Dissolve foz. each of the oils of absinthe and peppermint, and 10 drops of oil of roses, in 5galls. of spirits ; add lgall. of white syrup, and sufficient blue orchid to colour, and use as required. Rosolio.—Put 2foz. of finely-chopped rind of lemon into a jar with foz. of cinnamon, and foz. each of aniseed, cardamom,