332 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Champagne—continued. of that time mix in some isinglass that has been dissolved in some of the liquor, using \oz. for every 5galls. of the wine. Leave it for three days, stirring it once a day, and on the last day stir in some brandy, using' lqt. for every' 5galls. of the wine. In three or four days bung it down closely, and leave it for six months. Draw off the wine, bottle and cork it, wire or tie down the corks tightly, and keep in a cool, dry cellar. Fig. 399. Iced Champagne. British Champagne.—Put 6galls. of water into a saucepan, add [ 181b. of sugar, boil for half-an-hour on a moderate fire, and skim it well. Put 2galls. of white currants, whole and not bruised, into a bowl, pour over the boiling syrup, and let it remain j until it comes to the temperature of new milk ; then add a j little yeast to ferment it, and let it work for a couple of days. Strain it through flannel, and pour into a cask that holds it exactly. As soon as the fermentation has ceased, add |oz. of bruised isinglass, and bung up securely. Keep the cask in a cool place until the Champagne is clear; then pour it off into bottles, adding a lump of sugar to each, and cork these down securely. It will soon be ready for use. Champagne Cup.—(1) Pour a large bottle of Champagne into a bowl, stir in 1 wineglassful of brandy or curaijoa, 2 wineglassfuls of caster sugar, and 2 large bottles of soda water, all well iced. Put a few lumps of ice to float about, and a sprig of green borage. (2) Put a bottle of iced Champagne, with 2 wineglassfuls of sherry, 1 liqueur-glassful of maraschino, the juice of a lemon or Seville orange, and the peel of the same rubbed with sugar, into a bowl, and add lastly a bottle of seltzer water, with caster sugar to taste. (3) Pour a quart bottle of iced Champagne into a pan on the juice and peel (cut off thinly) of a lemon, 2oz. of caster sugar finely powdered, and a sprig of borage and balm. Cover over the pan, place it into ice until the sugar has dissolved, and then add a bottle of soda water also iced, when it will be ready for use. (4) Pour 1 pint of Champagne into a bowl, add two slices of cucumber, a little borage, and 1 teacupful of water, and let this stand for two hours or more. Strain it into a jug, pour in 1 wineglassful of sherry, 5 liqueur-glassful of maras- chino, and add also a little syrup. Turn the whole into a freezer, work it well, and serve in glasses. (5) Squeeze the juice of half a good-sized lemon into a fancy bowl large enough to contain 5 pints, and sweeten with 1 table-spoonful of powdered sugar; then add 2 liqueur- glassfuls of red cura9oa, one bottle of soda water, and two slices of cucumber-rind. Pour in 3 pints of any brand of Champagne, add about jib. of ice, and then mix thoroughly with a spoon, ornamenting the cup nicely with strawberries, very thin slices of pineapple, a finely-sliced, medium-sized Champagne—continued. orange, and half a bunch of fine fresh mint. Send the cup to the table with Champagne glasses. (6) Put into a large claret-jug | pint of any good water ice, and throw in quickly two bottles of Champagne and two bottles of seltzer water or soda water. Champagne Ice. —(1) Prepare a strong, sweet lemonade, half freeze it, and pour into it a quart bottle of Champagne; shut the freezer quickly, and freeze. The Champagne must be opened as quickly as possible and thrown into the half- frozen lemonade all at once (not slowly poured in), and the freezer immediately shut without waiting to stir, as the mixer inside the freezer will do as much stirring as is necessary. Keep turning the freezer until the ice is sufficiently hard. It is most essential that the Champagne be opened and thrown into the lemonade in the freezer very quickly indeed, as the effervescence goes off so soon; it is also necessary to keep the freezer shut and well packed with ice until serving the ice. (2) Rub off the zest of four lemons with pieces of loaf sugar, put them into a basin with the strained juice of the lemons, pour in 1 pint of Champagne, and add sufficient syrup to sweeten. When well mixed, pour the whole into the freezer, and work well. As soon as frozen, it is ready for use. Champagne (Imitation) for Cooking.—Bruise with a wooden mallet 71b. of green gooseberries and double the quantity of red- fleshed rhubarb, put them into a cask with the head out, pour over 5galls. of boiling water, and leave for four or five days, or until a thick crust is formed on the top. From a tap at the bottom of the cask draw off the liquor, pour it into a mash-tub, and add 3|lb. of sugar to each gallon. Mix well, wash out the cask, and return the liquor to it; add and thoroughly mix in a good supply of beer-finings. Let it stand for a day, then draw it off into bottles, cork, and wire down, and store away in a cellar at about 50deg. Fahr. until wanted for use. To give the wine a good Champagne flavour, add lqt. of elder-flower water to it. Champagne Jelly.—(1) Dissolve 2oz. of gelatine in lqt. of cold water, pour it into a saucepan, and add the juice of two lemons and three oranges, the whites of two new-laid eggs, and all the shells, and 12oz. of sugar; mix well, pour in another pint of water, set the saucepan on the fire, and stir constantly until the liquor boils. Remove it to the side of the fire, and let it keep hot without boiling for fifteen minutes longer. Run it through a jelly-bag, adding a pint of Champagne, pour it into moulds, and let it set. Turn it out, and serve. (2) Put lqt. of cold water into a saucepan with ilb. of granu- lated sugar, add 2oz. of gelatine in small pieces, and grate in the rind of a medium-sized lemon, squeezing in the juice as well. Mix well, and place the saucepan on the hot stove. Beat up in a basin the whites of two eggs, add them to the other ingre- dients, grate in 1 saltspoonful of nutmeg, add six cloves, and one bay-leaf, and mix well with a whisk for one minute. Have ready a jelly-bag- tied on to a jelly-stand. Stir the preparation,