TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 368 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Chestnuts—continued. Chestnut Rout Cakes.—Prepare the paste as directed for Compote of Chestnut Paste, using Jib. of Chestnut-flour instead of roasted Chestnuts. Mix the Chestnut-flour with pint of hot water, and hold it oyer the fire until thoroughly mixed; then pass it through a wire sieve, make into a paste, roll out, and cut with biscuit-cutters into various shapes. Chestnut Salad.—Make a slight incision in the outer skin of thirty Chestnuts, put them in a saucepan of hot water, and boil for twenty minutes. When cooked, drain the Chestnuts, plunge them into cold water, and then peel off both skins. Cut the Chestnuts into quarters, and dust some pepper and salt over them. Peel four sour cooking apples, core them, and cut them in pieces of a similar size to the nuts. Cut some of the dark meat off a cold roasted turkey, into pieces of the same size. Wash some lettuces, pull the leaves apart, and arrange them in a salad bowl; put in tastefully the above ingredients, sprinkle over them about 2 table- spoonfuls of chopped mixed pickles, pour a plain dressing over the salad, and serve. Chestnut Sauce.—(1) Boil 1 pint of peeled Chestnuts in water for about three minutes, plunge them into cold water, and rub off the dark skins with a cloth; then put them on to cook in lqt. of stock. Boil gently until they will mash readily (say about an hour), and mash as fine as possible. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour in a saucepan, and cook until a dark brown; then stir into the sauce, and cook two minutes. Add, as seasoning, 1 tea- spoonful of lemon-juice, salt, and pepper, and rub all through a sieve. This sauce is for roast turkey. When to be served with boiled turkey, use only 1J pints of stock; rub the butter and flour together, and stir into the boiling mixture ; rub through the sieve as before, add J pint of cream to the sauce, return to the fire, boil up once, and serve. The Chestnuts used should be very large and ripe. (2) Peel and blanch Jib. of large Chestnuts. Put them into a stewpan with a breakfast-cupful of good gravy and a couple of strips of lemon-peel; let them simmer till quite soft, then rub them through a fine hair sieve; put them back into the stewpan, shake in a very little cayenne pepper, a little salt and pounded spice to taste, a little more gravy or brown sauce, and let it simmer for five minutes longer. Chestnut Sauce for Turkey. — Remove the outer husk from four dozen Chestnuts, and put them on a Chestnut roaster (a sort of warming-pan riddled with holes) over a clear fire, continually stirring and shaking them until the second skin will come away easily; then put them into a stewpan with a wineglassful of white wine, as much good stock as will cover them, a good lump of butter, a heaped teaspoonful of pounded lump-sugar, and a little grated nutmeg. When boiled quite tender, but still remaining entire, put the Chestnuts into a hot sauce-tureen; reduce the liquor, by boiling it a minute or two longer, and pour it over them. They are then fit to be sent up with the turkey. Chestnut Shape.—Peel, boil, and pound some chestnuts, and mix with Jib of these four bitter almonds pounded fine, 3oz. of caster sugar, 2oz. of butter, and the yolks of six eggs; when these are thoroughly beaten together, add the whites of four eggs whipped to a froth. Steam the mixtur.6 in a well-buttered mould, and serve with 1 pint of wine sauce. Chestnut Souffles.—(1) Slit the skins of three dozen large Chestnuts and roast them, but do not let them brown; then peel them, pound in a mortar and rub through a sieve. Put the puree back into the mortar, with half its weight in sugar, a part of which has been flavoured with vanilla, and add the white of an egg ; mix all thoroughly together, and then shape the paste into little balls. Dip each ball into whisked white of egg, let them drain, and then roll them one by one in caster sugar until they are completely covered with it; arrange them on a baking-sheet a little distance from each other, and bake them for twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven. When done, put them in a group on a folded napkin. (2) Boil ljlb. of Chestnuts in water until soft, peel off both the outer and inner skins, put them into a mortar with 2oz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of cream, and pound them until smooth. Separate the yolks and whites of eight eggs, beat the yolks well with 4oz. of caster sugar, and mix them Chestnuts—continued. with the pounded Chestnuts, beating the whole well. Whip the whites of the eight eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them lightly with the mixture. Butter a souffle-mould, pour in the mixture, and bake it in a moderate oven. When cooked, stand the mould with the souffle on a dish, pin a napkin round it, and serve very hot with caster sugar. (3) Throw 1 pint of Chestnuts into boiling water and let them boil till the shells begin to open; then take them up and remove their shells and inner skins; after peeling and skinning, pound them in a mortar and rub through a sieve. Add to this Chestnut-flour 6 table-spoonfuls of milk, stir well, and let it boil over a slow fire for ten minutes ; then melt loz. of butter in a separate saucepan, stir into it loz. of flour, and when it is well mixed pour into it the milk and Chestnuts. As soon as it boils, remove it from the stove and beat well in the yolks of three eggs and loz. of powdered white sugar. Have ready the whites of four eggs whipped to a stiff froth; stir this in very lightly. Grease a pint-and-a-half souffle-tin, pour the mixture into it, and bake in a moderately quick oven for twenty minutes. Serve on a silver souffle- dish, or in the tin the souffle was baked in, with a hot napkin folded round it, and as quickly as possible. Chestnut Soup.—(1) Boil Jib. of Chestnuts until the peel can be easily removed, and then peel them, removing the inner skin at the same time. Rub the Chestnuts through a fine wire sieve. Put Joz. of butter in a saucepan, place it over the fire until it has melted, then put in a small quantity of finely-chopped mush- rooms and onions, and stir them over the fire until lightly browned, dredging occasionally with flour; then put in the Chestnuts, and pour in sufficient clear broth to form a thick cream. Boil up the soup, then turn it into a soup- tureen, and serve it with a plate of croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. (2) Have ready some good broth or consomme, that of game or fowl being best. Peel the brown skin from a quantity of raw Chestnuts, and boil them a minute or two in water, to make the under-skin come away easily. Pound the Chestnuts in a mortar, boil in water till tender enough to be crushed through a sieve with a spoon, throw into the broth, and boil it up again. Pour into a tureen with a few crusts or dice of toasted bread, and a slight sprinkling of sugar at the bottom. Chestnut Stuffing.—(1) Peel a good-sized, sound shallot, chop it up very fine, place it in a saucepan on the hot range with 1 table-spoonful of butter, and heat it for three minutes without browning ; then add Jib. of sausage-meat, and cook for five minutes longer. Add ten finely-chopped mushrooms and twelve well-pounded cooked peeled Chestnuts, and mix all well together, seasoning with 1 pinch of salt, J pinch of pepper, J saltspoonful of powdered thyme, and 1 teaspoonful of finely- chopped parsley. Let this come to a boil, add Joz. of sifted breadcrumbs and twenty-four whole cooked and shelled Chest- nuts, and mix all well together, being careful not to break the Chestnuts. Let it cool, and it is then ready for use. (2) Shell lqt. of large Chestnuts, pour boiling water on them, remove the inner brown skin, and boil in salted water or stock till soft; then mash them fine. Take half for the stuffing, mix with it 1 breakfast-cupful of fine biscuit-crumbs, and season with 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, moistening with 2oz. of butter warmed to melting. Professional cooks some- times use a little apple sauce, flavoured with wine, lemon, and sugar, with a Chestnut stuffing. Chestnut Stuffing with Truffles.— Peel the dark skins off some Chestnuts, immerse in boiling water for a few minutes, remove the light skins, and boil for twenty mintues. Put in a saucepan lib. of fat bacon and two shallots, and hold these over the fire for a short time; then add the Chestnuts, Jib. of truffles, previously cut into small pieces, pepper, spices, salt to taste, and a little powdered marjoram and thyme. Hold it over the fire a little longhr, turning it about, and it is ready for use. Chestnut Stuffing for Turkey.—Put a dozen or so large Chestnuts into a saucepan of water, and boil them until quite tender; then remove the shells and husks, put them into a mortar and pound them. Put 4oz. of shred beef-suet into a basin, mix in Jib. of breadcrumbs, season with salt and pepper, and squeeze in a slight flavouring of lemon. Mix in the pounded Chestnuts, and the stuffing is ready for use.