327 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <irc., referred to, see under their special heads. Celery—continued. stewpan with trimmings of bacon, put the heads of Celery in, just cover them with broth, and add a few cloves and peppercorns; then butter some paper and cover the heads with it, and let them simmer gently until they are tender. When they are done, drain, trim, and pile them up in pyramids on a dish. Strain the gravy, skim off all fat, and reduce it to half-glaze ; work up a small piece of butter to a cream, put it in with the gravy, and when it is incorporated pour the whole over the Celery, and serve. Celery—continued. (2) Cut oft' the tops of twelve heads of Celery, leaving about 6in. attached to the root, wash well without part- ing the sticks, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and scald them for about a-quarter-of-an-hour ; then plunge them into cold water, take them out, drain, and tie three of them together. Put sufficient thin slices of fat bacon at the bottom of a saucepan to cover it, place the Celery on this, add a little parsley and salt, a few onions or scallions, and sufficient good broth to moisten. Cover over the whole with more slices of bacon, and then with a piece of buttered paper; boil up, and then simmer until the Celery is done. Take out the bundles of Celery, drain them, cut them apart, put them into a frying-pan with a good supply of butter, and fry. When done, take them out, drain them, put on a dish, and serve. (3) Cut half-a-dozen white stalks of Celery into pieces about 2in. long, boil until tender in boiling salted water, dip them in batter, and fry a golden-brown in smoking-hot fat. To make the batter, mix together smoothly the yolk of an egg. 1 table- spoonful of salad-oil, a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg, ilb. of flour, and sufficient cold water to make the batter stiff enough to hold the drops from a spoon. A few minutes before using stir into it the white of the egg beaten to a stiff froth. Fry the fritters just before they are required for use, laying them on brown paper- for a moment after taking them from the hot fat, in order to free them from grease, and sprinkling them lightly with salt. Celery with Gravy.—Cut off the tops of six heads of Celery, leaving each head 6in. long, trim the outside leaves, and cut the roots to a point. When well washed, put them for ten minutes in boiling water to blanch them, and when they are cool rinse them in cold water. Tie the heads in two bundles, put them in a stewpan with one small carrot, one small onion, one bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, a pinch each of salt and pepper, 1 gill of stockpot fat, 2 gills of water, and 3 gills of broth ; cover some paper over the top, put the lid on, and let it simmer for two hours. When done, take the heads of Celery out very carefully, drain them, and arrange on a dish: three heads at the bottom, then two, and then one. Put 1 table-spoonful of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour in a stewpan, stir it over the fire for three minutes, and then add 11 pints of stock ; stir, and boil quickly until reduced to 1 pint; then strain and pour it over the Celery. Celery with Gravy a la Bonne Femme.— Procure two bunches of well-blanched Celery, and if there should be four heads in each bunch reserve two for table Celery, as hors- d’oeuvres. Pare the outer branches, and clean thoroughly, cutting off the hard and green leaves; then cut them into equal lengths, blanch them in boiling water for five minutes, drain, and add ^ pint of broth to the water. Put the Celery with a gill of white roux in a saute-pan, and season with 1 pinch of salt, twelve whole peppers, and j pinch of nutmeg. When the Celery is sufficiently cooked, or after twenty-five minutes, finish the sauce with a gill of clear gravy or |oz. of butter. Place the Celery on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Celery with Half-Glaze. Wash and trim eight or ten heads of Celery, cut them into lengths of 5in. or Gin. each, and trim their roots to a point (see Fig. 397). Wash them thoroughly in several waters, and put them into boiling salted water ; then drain them, and dip into fresh water. Line a Fig. 397. Glazed Celery. Celery au Jus.—Cut a head of Celery into pieces about 4in. long, wash these well, put them into a saucepan of water, and parboil them. Take them out, drain them, put into another saucepan with a small quantity of oil, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes. Add a large tomato cut in slices, pour over sufficient beef or mutton gravy to moisten, and simmer gently at the side of the fire until the whole is quite done. Take out the pieces of Celery, put them on a dish, pour over the sauce through a fine sieve, and serve. Celery and Onion Soup.—Cut four heads of Celery into pieces about 2in. long; wash them thoroughly free from grit, and boil them for about ten minutes. Take them out, drain, put them into another saucepan with Jib. of onions cut in slices, and add a little each of chervil and tarragon, 1 pinch of salt, a small quantity of sugar, and the required quantity of rich stock. Put the saucepan on the fire, and boil gently until the Celery is quite done; then pour the soup into a tureen, and serve very hot. Celery with Ox-marrow.—Wash and trim ten heads of Celery, cut them into 7in. lengths, and put them in boiling water for ten minutes to blanch; then drain them, put them into a stewpan, cover with a white stock, and let them boil g-ently until they are tender. Drain again, put them on some thin slices of toasted bread on a dish, with four large pieces of boiled marrow round, and pour over 1 pint of good brown sauce. Previously reduce the sauce with J pint of the stock in which the Celery was stewed, adding a little sugar to season it. Celery Puree.—Prepare half-a-dozen heads of Celery as for Celery with Gravy, drain and wipe them, and cut into small pieces ; put these in a glazing-pan with an equal quan- tity of bechamel sauce ; reduce this well, and then pass all through a sieve by rubbing with the back of a spoon. Add loz. of butter and 1 teacupful of double cream to the puree, with salt and pepper to taste. Celery Salad.—(1) Pare off the green stalks from one or two heads of Celery, trim the roots, and cut them into short shreds; wash these thoroughly in cold water, lift them up with the hands, and drain in a cloth. When well drained, place the Celery in a salad-bowl, and season with 1 pinch of salt, J pinch of pepper, and 1J salad-spoonfuls each of vinegar and oil. Mix well, and serve. (2) Trim off the green tops and outside leaves of one or two heads of Celery; wash the white part and cut it into pieces between lin. and 2in in length, put them in a salad- bowl, dredge salt over, pour in sufficient vinegar to cover, and leave them for an hour or two. At the end of that time, stir the Celery and mix in 1 teaspoonful of mustard, a small quantity of white pepper, and half as much oil as there is vinegar. Stir the Celery well, and then serve. (3) Well wash and trim two. medium-sized heads of Celery, cut them into small pieces about Jin. long. Mix the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs to a paste with 1 table-spoonful of the best salad-oil, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and 1 saltspoonful