TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 364 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Sec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cherries—continued. Preserved Cherries.—(1) The large, red kind of Cherries usually used for pies and the Morello Cherry make the best preserves. The fruit should be good and sound, and the larger the better. Take the stalks off the Cherries, and stone them, being careful not to bruise them. This done, weigh the Cherries, and allow their own weight of sugar; shake the sugar over the Cherries and among them, and let them stand all night, in order to allow the sugar to slightly harden the fruit. In the morning put it all into the pre- serving-pan, place on the stove, let it get hot gradually, and boil gently till the Cherries look clear, skimming off the scum as it rises. When the Cherries have become quite clear, remove the pan from the stove, cover it over, and let the preserve cool; when cold, put it into glass jars, place pieces of white paper dipped in brandy on top, and cover the jars tightly, so as to exclude the air. Keep in a cool, dark place. (2) Take a quantity of good Cherries, remove the stalks, wipe the fruit clean with a napkin, and dust a little sugar over them. Weigh them, and take an equal quantity of sugar, and to every 31b. put 1 pint of water. Put the sugar and water into a sugar-boiler, boil it, and clarify it with the whites of eggs; then pass it through a sieve, and boil it again to candy height (see Sugar-boiling). Let it remain for a day, and then put in the Cherries and boil for five minutes ; let these remain for another day, when take out the Cherries, strain the syrup, boil it again to the second degree, and pour it over the Cherries. Let it stand for another day, then take out the Cherries again, and boil the syrup to the third degree. With a small piece of wood dip each Cherry in separately, and put them on a strainer to drain. Leave them on the sieve, and put in a warm place to get dry. (3) Take 251b. of fine, sound, ripe White-heart Cherries, pick off the stems neatly, and should there be any unripe or spoilt fruits amongst them, throw them away, as they would be likely to ruin the rest. When ready there should be about 201b. of sound Cherries suitable for preserving. Have ready ten quart glass jars, divide the picked Cherries evenly into them, fill up with 30deg. syrup, cover them tightly and care- fully, and then arrange in a large saucepan with water up to their shoulders; boil for half-an-hour, and then cork or tie down tightly whilst still hot. (4) Cherries may be preserved cither with or without the kernels of the stones; but the stones give a richer flavour. To each pound of Cherries allow Jib. of sugar. Put the sugar in the preserving-pan, with J pint of water to 31b. of sugar, and stir it until dissolved. When boiling, put in the Cherries and cook for throe minutes; then put them in the jars, and cover in the usual way. (5) Wash, pick, and stone the Cherries, being careful to save the juice ; allow lib. of sugar to each pound of fruit. Boil the juice and sugar to a thick syrup, then put in half the Cherries and stew till nearly done. Take them out with a perforated spoon and lay on dishes. Put in the other half, and treat them in the same way. Meantime, boil the syrup gently. When the Cherries are cool, put them again in the syrup, and boil for a short time ; then pour all into a large bowl and set to cool. When ready, put the jam in jars, and cover tightly. Preserved Pulp of Black Cherries.—Remove the stalks of some Cherries and place the fruit in a mortar. Pound them well, seeing that every stone is broken ; then take out the mass with a large spoon and put it into a preserving-pan. Place the pan over the fire for ten minutes, stirring all the time, and then with a vegetable-masher pass the fruit through a hair sieve (not very fine). When all the fruit is through, weigh it, and to every pound add Jib. of caster sugar. Mix thoroughly, fill the bottles, and tie them down to keep out the air. Reel-Cherry Ice.—Wash lqt. of sweet red or black Cherries, pound them thoroughly so as to break the stones, and strain the juice through a strainer into a freezer. Boil the Cherry- pulp with some of the sugar and water, to extract the flavour from the kernels, and rub that also through the strainer ; add the other pint of water and balance of the sugar to fib., and freeze. Use no white of eggs in this ice, as the colour is not good unless frozen natural. This makes a good ice for the third colour in a Neapolitan. Cherries—continued. Stewed Cherries.—Pick'out the largest and best from 41b. of Morello Cherries ; bruise the smaller fruit, press them well to extract all the juice, and pass it through a fine hair sieve into a stewpan ; put in l|lb. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar, and place it over the fire to boil. Put the large Cherries into a saucepan with water to cover, and boil them gently until tender. When cooked, leave these in the liquor until partly cold, then take them out, being careful not to bruise them. Put lqt. of the liquor in which the Cherries were boiled into a glass bowl, sweeten to taste with the Cherry syrup, previously prepared as described, and flavour with a few drops of essence of rose-water, orange-flower water, or essence of almonds. Put the larger Cherries in the liquor with a few lumps of ice, and serve. A bottle of champagne added to this makes a royal drink. White-Cherry Sherbert.—Remove the stones from 4 break- fast-cupfuls of ripe white Cherries, put them into a mortar, pound well so as to break the stones, and strain the juice into a freezer. Put the pulp into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of sugar and 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and boil for a few minutes to extract the flavour from the kernels ; rub the whole through a sieve into another saucepan, and add 1 breakfast- cupful each of sugar and water. Boil for a minute or two, let the mixture cool, pour it into the freezer with the juice, add the whites of two eggs whipped to a froth, and the sherbert is then ready for use. A few whole Cherries that have been cooked in syrup may be added to the mixture while in the freezer. Wild-Cherry Syrup. — Put 5oz. of coarsely-powdered wild Cherry bark into a basin, moisten with water, and let it stand for a day with a tightly-fitting cover on the basin. Put it into a percolator, pour over about 1 pint of water, and after it has run through mix in ljlb. of sugar. CHERVIL.—Amongst the sweet herbs used in the kitchen there are few, if any, more deserving of respect than Chervil. Three varieties are known to us, all of which may advantageously find a place in the kitchen garden. The common or garden Chervil (Anthriscus cerefoliuni) is a hardy annual, grown for its leaves, which impart a flavour of combined fennel and parsley, and enter nicely into the preparation of salads. Curled Chervil is a variety of the common Chervil; but the bulbous-rooted Chervil (Chcerophyllum bulbosum) differs in that it is a biennial, and flourishes best in Southern Europe. The roots (see Fig. 445) are about the size of Early Horn carrots, and are sometimes cooked and eaten as a vegetable, in spite of the fact that in some old-fashioned cookery books the roots are pronounced poisonous. As green Chervil is only procurable during a part of the year, the leaves should be gathered and dried as described under Herbs. CHESTNUTS—Here we have another instance of the ingenuity exercised in the corruption of a simple word, possibly with a view to its greater simplification. The technical name for the Chestnut-tree is Castanea, which requires no great alteration in pronunciation to produce “ Chestnut ”; and although the word in its purity has been accepted in most Continental languages, the Germans and French have not failed in a slighter degree to follow our lead. The nuts are produced in prickly shells (see Fig. 446). There are several kinds known to us, but those grown in England are admittedly inferior to those of Spain and