TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 352 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Cheese—continued. 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar finely powdered, and 1 tea- spoonful of mace ; then pour over 4 wineglassfuls of sherry, and pound well together after it has stood for two or three minutes to soak. Work it into a smooth paste, and place in jars, putting clarified butter over the top. Pounded Cheese.—Chop about lib. of good dry Cheese, put it in a mortar with 3oz. of butter, and pound to a smooth paste. Mix with it 1 teaspoonful each of made mustard, curry powder, and ground spice, and % tea- spoonful of black pepper. Stir 1 wineglassful of sherry into the mixture. Cut some slices of bread about iin. in thickness, then cut each slice into halves lengthwise; spread the Cheese mixture over them, and dust a small quantity of cayenne pepper on the top of each. Arrange them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve. This makes a good luncheon or supper dish. The Cheese mixture can be kept for several days in a cool place if pressed down into jars and covered with paper. Roasted Cheese.—Put 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of chopped Cheese in a mortar with a breakfast-cupful of grated bread- crumbs and 3oz. of butter ; pound them well, and then mix in i table-spoonful of mixed mustard and the beaten yolks of two eggs; season with salt and pepper. Cut some slices of bread about iin. thick, toast them, then cut them into strips. Spread each piece of toast thickly with the Cheese mixture, and fix them in a Dutch oven; put them in front of a clear fire and roast until lightly browned. The oven must not be placed too close to the fire at first, or the Cheese will take colour before it is hot. Arrange the bars of toast, crossing each other, on a hot dish over which has been laid a folded napkin on an ornamental dish-paper, and serve while very hot. A small quantity of cayenne pepper may be sprinkled over the Cheese if it is liked. Roquefort-Clieese Sandwich. — Grate 2oz. of Boquefort Cheese, work it to a paste with loz. of butter, using a knife for the purpose, and season with salt and pepper. When quite smooth, spread the paste on some slices of bread, cover with more slices of bread, press them gently together, and cut into fingers. If liked, chopped parsley, or chives, or both, may be mixed with the Cheese ; and it may be spread on crackers instead of bread. It is generally served as a course after salad. Stewed Cheese.— (1) Put 1 table-spoonful of butter into a Cheese-stewer fitted with a hot-water bath (see Fig. 433), dissolve it, mix in 4 table-spoonfuls of cream, stir well, add 2 table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan or other Cheese, and one well-beaten egg. Season with a pinch of cayenne, let this keep hot at the side of the fire until the whole is quite Fig. 433. Cheese-stewer. smooth, then turn it out on to pieces of toast on a dish, and serve at once. A Cheese-stewer divided into compart- ments is sometimes used (see Fig. 434), and then the Cheese mixture should be prepared in a basin and put in after. These stewers are sent to table. (2) Grate as finely as possible 8oz. of a good mellow Cheese; put a lump of butter, a little less than 2oz., in a Cheese-stewer with 1 breakfast-cupful of cream, and stir over the fire until dissolved; then put in the grated Cheese, and Cheese—continued. beat them all together. Toast some slices of bread, put them on a hot dish, pour the Cheese mixture over, and brown under a salamander. Serve while very hot. Stewed Cheese and Rice.—Thoroughly wash lib. of rice, tie it loosely in a cloth, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil until three-parts cooked, drain the rice, and turn it into a basin; mix with it -Jib. of thinly-sliced Cheese, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of chopped onion, loz. of butter, and 1 table-spoonful of flour; stir in gradually J pint of milk, mixing it smoothly at the same time ; season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Stand the basin in a saucepan of boiling water, put it over the fire, and cook the rice until reduced to a pulp. When cooked turn the stew into a hot dish; garnish with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve while very hot, or it may be spread over slices of hot buttered toast. “ Strohl ” Cheese.—Bub 6oz. of butter into 6oz. of flour, and add 6oz. of grated Parmesan Cheese and a little cayenne ; when this is well mixed add the yolks of three eggs and 1 table- spoonful of raw cream, and work all well together. Boll the paste out thin, divide it into strips 5in. long, put these on a baking-sheet, and bake in a hot oven. When they are done, put them in a dish with a folded napkin in it, and serve. Talmouses with Cheese.—Have ready 6oz. of choux-paste, without sugar or zest, keeping it a little stiller than is usually done. Cut some Gruyere Cheese in little dice, and mix it with the choux-paste and a pinch of pepper. Divide Jib. of rolled-out puff paste into rounds with a paste- cutter, put in the centre of each round a little piece of choux-paste, damp the edges a little round this paste, egg it, then fold over the edges of the puff paste flat on three sides, so as to obtain a kind of three-cornered cocked hat (see Fig. 435); dust grated Parmesan Cheese over them, put them on a greased baking-sheet, leaving- a little space between each, and- bake in a slow oven for twenty minutes. Serve while hot. Turkish Cheese Fritters.—Prepare a paste with 8oz. of flour and two eggs, roll it out as thin as possible, and over it spread grated Cheese and minced parsley; double the paste over once, cut it into shapes with a round biscuit-cutter or cup, put these into a frying-pan with a little butter, and cook until well browned. Take them out, drain off as much of the fat as possible, and serve immediately. Turkish Mode of serving- Cream Cheese.—Break about lib. of cream Cheese into small pieces, put them in a saucepan,