400 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£c., referred to, see under their special heads, Cleairers—continued. country house that a quarter side or whole animal may have to he cut up for distribution. In such cases it is absolutely imperative that a heavy Cleaver (see Fig. 478) should be used for cutting large bones, and a smaller Cleaver (see Fig. 479) is often found useful when the bones are young or small. Cleavers with wooden handles are not recommended for hard work, as the handles, although rivetted through, are apt to work loose and come oft'. The Cleavers shown in the illustrations are of solid metal, with sharp hardened steel edges. The projection at the end of the handles is to prevent the weapon slipping should the hand become greasy during the cutting up of the meat. A large block of wood—a slice off an elm-tree answers admirably—is necessary to rest the bones that are to be cleaved, and as the force used is sometimes very great, blocks on legs are not recommended. For chopping up bones for stock or soups these instruments are very useful. Fig. 479. Small Cleaver. CLIFTON PUDDING.—See Puddings. CLOCHETTES. — Tasty French confections or pastes, moulded in the shape of “ little bells ”; from the French word Cloche—a bell. CLOD.—The upper part of a bullock’s shoulder. See Beef. CLOVES.—This name is derived from the Latin clavus, a nail, from which the French take clou, and the Spanish clavo, and this very accurately describes the ' Fig. 480. Clove-plant. shape of the spice (Fig. 480). The term Clove is also used to indicate one of the pieces of garlic into which a whole bulb splits up when the outer skin is removed; but this has a distinct derivation, coming from the verb to cleave, or split up. A “ Clove of cheese ” or butter was at one time a familiar expression for a piece weigh- ing 81b., and it may have had a similar derivation to the “ Clove of garlic.” The Clove, as we know it, is the dried unexpanded flower-bud of the Caryophyllus aromaticus, a shrub or small tree of the myrtle tribe, which grows wildly and Cloves—continued. profusely in the Molucca Islands. As imported into Europe, Cloves should be hard and tough, and exceedingly hot to the taste; but this, is not always found to be the case, for ingenious merchants who buy and sell by weight or measure have discovered a little peculiarity in the Clove that enables dishonest traders to increase their profits almost unknown to, and hence undiscovered by, inexperienced retailers. This peculiarity is that Cloves absorb moisture greedily, gaining weight and size thereby, but at the cost of aroma. These “ damped ” Cloves are usually very large, and soft in texture, lacking much of their natural pungency, and the trick can therefore be easily detected by biting the Clove. The Clove-tree itself is of a very thirsty nature, and absorbs so much of the moisture of the ground in which it is planted that no other vegetable life will grow near to it. Clove Candy Tablets.—Boil lib. of loaf sugar with j pint of water to the ball degree, add a few drops of acetic acid, and work the sugar against the sides of the boiler with a spatula or the back part of a spoon, so that every portion may acquire a whitish colour. Flavour with essence of Cloves, which should be added while the sugar is boiling. When cool, turn it out on to an oiled sheet, and mark it with the back of a knife in small squares, which can then be easily snapped asunder when cold. Clove Cordial.—(1) Put joz. of pure silica, or joz. of magnesia, into a mortar with 40 minims of oil of Cloves and 5 minims of oil of pimento, and rub them down; then add them to lgall. of plain syrup at 31deg. Fahr., containing 41b. of sugar to the gallon, whisk well, add 1 drachm of sugar colouring, filter through paper pulp and felt, and bottle for use. (2) Put foz. of oil of Cloves into a jar with 1 gill of strong spirits of wine, mix well, and pour it into a cask that holds exactly 2jgalls.; pour in also 3qts. of rectified proof spirit, and stir well. Dissolve 71b. of loaf sugar in 3qts. of boiling water, add this to the cask, and fill up to within about lin. of the top with water. Dissolve joz. of alum in boiling water, and put it into the liquor to fine it; next add joz. of salts of tartar, and stir well. In a day or so the cordial will be perfectly bright, and ready for use. It may be coloured red or pink, but is usually coloured brown with burnt sugar. (3) Put into a bottle joz. each of bruised Cloves and cassia- buds with twelve peppercorns ; pour in hot water to more than half fill the bottle, stopper or cork it up securely, and keep in front of the fire for forty-eight hours; then strain it into a vessel with 3 pints of proof spirit, sweeten to taste by adding syrup, filter, and add a little colouring of burnt sugar or a small piece of cochineal. Bottle, and use when required. Bruised nutmeg, or mace, may also be added. Clove Drop Biscuits.—Beat- 4oz. of warmed butter in a round-bottomed basin to a cream, using a ivooden spoon, and sift in gradually 4oz. of crushed loaf sugar, beating Fig. 481. Clove Drop Biscuits vigorously ; then add three eggs, beating one well in before another is added, and lastly, add gently loz. of ground Cloves, mixed in with 6oz. of sifted flour. Have ready a baking- sheet with several thicknesses of paper spread over it, put