409 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cocoa-nuts—continued. Cocoa-nut Cheesecakes.—(1) Cut off the brown outside skin of one or two Cocoa-nuts, grate them into a tinned or porcelain- lined pan, add the milk from the Cocoa-nuts, 1 pint of milk, and 12oz. of sugar, and stir well over the fire until the Cocoa-nut is quite tender. Remove from the fire, let it get cold, add six well-beaten eggs and Jib. of almond macaroons, broken up to a powder, and mix well. Should it be too thick, add a little cream to reduce it. Fill some patty-pans, lined with puff paste, with the mixture, sprinkle over a few washed and dried currants, and bake for about twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Serve when cold. (2) Put 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar in a lined saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of water, and put it over the fire until dissolved; then put in 1 teaspoonful of grated Cocoa-nut, and boil it for six or seven minutes, stirring at the same time. Take the mixture off the fire, leave it until nearly cold, then stir in the beaten yolks of three eggs and the white of one. Butter some small patty-pans, and line them with puff paste; put some of the Cocoa-nut mixture in each, and strew over them a few blanched and chopped almonds. Bake them about half-an-hour in a brisk oven. When cooked, take the cakes out of the tins, and lay them on a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper. Serve them hot. Cocoa-nut Conserve.—Cut off the rind of half an orange, mince it very fine, put it into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of milk or water, and Jib. of sugar, and boil; then add Jib. of finely-grated Cocoa-nut, 2oz. of butter, and the well-whipped whites of four eggs. Stir well until the mixture thickens, remove the pan from the fire, turn it out, and it is ready for use. Cocoa-nut Cookies.—See Cookies. Cocoa-nut Cream Balls.—Put 1 teaspoonful of finely-powdered gum arabic into a basin with 5 table-spoonfuls of warm water, and dissolve it; then add gradually lib. of caster sugar, 1 teaspoonful of extract of lemon, and 2 table-spoonfuls each of finely-minced Cocoa-nut and currants, and work it into a stiff paste. Form this into small balls, dust them well with caster sugar, and put them into the hot closet. When dry, they are ready for use. Cocoa-nut Cream Ice.—(1) Heat over the fire lib. of grated Cocoa-nut and 1 pint of cream, pour it in a basin, and add lib. of caster sugar. When cold, stir in 3 pints of cream, and freeze it. (2) Beat together three eggs and the grated rind of a lemon, put them in a double boiler or bain-marie with 1 pint of milk, and stir until the mixture begins to thicken ; then put in 1 breakfast-cupful of grated Cocoa-nut, let it cool, and add fib. of caster sugar and the juice of one lemon. Put the mixture into the freezer and freeze it. Cocoa-nut Cream Pies.—(1) Pour lqt. of milk into a sauce- pan, with 3 table-spoonfuls of flour or cornflour, Jib. of sugar, three eggs, and Jib. of grated Cocoa-nut, and stir well over the fire until it thickens, then letting it cool. Have ready baked crusts or shapes of paste, fill these with the mixture, and serve with sugar dusted over the tops. (2) Put 2oz. of butter and 6oz. of sugar into a basin, beat them to a cream, stir in four eggs, Jib. of grated Cocoa-nut, and 3oz. of flour. Put this into a saucepan, pour in lqt. of milk, and stir over the fire till it thickens slightly ; then pour it into tins lined with rich puff paste, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve hot or cold, as desired. Cocoa-nut Custard Pies.—Put three eggs into a basin, and beat them up with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk and 4oz. of sugar; when these are well mixed, add 1 breakfast-cupful of grated Cocoa-nut and 1 teaspoonful of extract of lemon. Put the mixture into pans lined with puff paste, and bake in a moderate oven until done. Take them out, and serve. Cocoa-nut Drops. -Mix together one grated Cocoa-nut, Jib. of caster sugar, and the well-beaten whites of four eggs, flavour- ing with rose-water or lemon, and beat all well together until thick. Butter a baking-sheet, put the preparation in little heaps a short distance from each other, and bake in a hot oven till a pale yellow. Cocoa-nut "Eclairs.—See Eclairs. Cocoa-nut Fondants.—Grate a Cocoa-nut, put it into a sauce- pan with sufficient water to cover it, and boil for five minutes Cocoa-nuts—contmued. without a cover on the pan. Put on the cover, remove the pan from the fire, and let it stand until it becomes lukewarm ; then strain, and pour it through a fine sieve. To each quart of this add 41b. of sugar, put it into a saucepan, and boil to the feather degree (see Sugak-boiling). Turn it out on to a well-oiled marble slab, let it get nearly cold, turn in the edges, work it well with a spatula and then with the hands, and cut it into shapes ; it is then ready for use. Or the sugar may be boiled to the ball degree, and after being turned out on to the slab and cooled, grated Cocoa-nut sprinkled over and worked in; and should it be required for casting bonbons, it must be re-melted by gentle heat. Cocoa-nut Frost on Custard.—Pare a Cocoa-nut, and let it steep in cold water for some time. Blanch Jib. of sweet almonds and pound them in a mortar with a little rose-water to prevent their oiling. Put 1 pint of milk over the fire, let it boil up, and then stir in Jib. of white powdered sugar ; when this is melted, add the almond paste. Beat up four eggs till they are quite light, and when the almond paste has boiled for three minutes in the milk, pour it on the eggs by degrees, and mix them well together. Put the mixture over the fire, and boil it gently till pretty thick; then let it cool, and when quite cold, pour it into a deep glass dish. Take the Cocoa- nut from the water,, dry it, grate it, and then heap it high over the custard. Sift some powdered sugar on top, and serve. Cocoa-nut Hardbake.—Put the thin slices from half a Cocoa- nut before the fire or in the oven to dry, arrange them on an oiled marble slab, keeping them about ^in. apart, sprinkle a good quantity of nonpareils in the cavities, and over all pour a sufficient quantity of sugar boiled to the crack degree (see Sugar-boiling), with cream of tartar in proportion, and coloured with cochineal, to coat to the required thickness— say about Jin. Let it cool, mark it into squares or other- wise, break it asunder when cold, and pack away in boxes. Care must be taken in pouring over the sugar not to disturb the nonpareils or Cocoa-nut more than possible. A quarter - of-an-ounce of cream of tartar is sufficient for 71b. of sugar. Cocoa-nut Ice.—Put three finely-grated Cocoa-nuts and their milk into a saucepan with 3qts. of filtered water, set the pan on the fire, and boil for about ten minutes. Pour the whole into a pan, cover it over, and let it infuse until it is nearly cold ; then strain it through a fine sieve into a freezer packed in ice, squeezing through as much as possible, and mix in thoroughly 20oz. of powdered loaf sugar and the whites of three eggs. Work the freezer vigorously, and when the ice is set, use as required. Cocoa-nut Jap.—(1) Put 41b. of finely-grated Cocoa-nut into a copper kettle or basin, add 2Jlb. of jiowdered sugar, and place the vessel on the fire to boil to the ball degree (see Sugar-boiling). Have ready a slightly-greased marble slab, with iron bars on it to regulate the thickness, pour the syrup over, and let it get cold. Cover it over with a good supply of caster sugar, and with a sharp knife cut it into cubes; it is then ready for use. (2) Proceed as for No. 1, using 21b. of cornmeal and 21b. of Cocoa-nut instead of all Cocoa-nut. Cocoa-nut Lozenges.—Put ilb. of gelatine in water to soak, and sift 281b. of crushed loaf sugar on to a board, forming a bay in the centre. Put 2Jib. of glucose into a sugar-pan on the fire, bring it to the boil, remove from the fire, add the soaked gelatine, and stir well until dissolved. Turn it into the bay of the sugar, add also ljlb. of desiccated Cocoa-nut, and work the whole into a paste. Divide it into five equal parts, colour one of them a pale pink (using carmine), one yellow, one brown (using melted chocolate), and one a bright red, leaving the remaining part white. Each part must be flavoured, some with vanilla, others with lemon, and so on, according to taste or fancy. Roll out each part separately, cut them into fancy shapes with cutters, dust slightly with cornflour, and set them away to dry. The hot closet will not be required for these, as they will dry of themselves. Pack away in boxes and use as required. Cocoa-nut Milk. -Scrape or rasp two or three Cocoa-nuts, put them into a saucepan, pour over sufficient boiling water to cover, and let it stand for ten or fifteen minutes. Strain the liquor through a napkin or cloth, return the pulp to