THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 273 Calf—continued. with finely-chopped parsley, pepper, and a small quantity of salt. Shape the remainder of the forcemeat into small balls ; blanch the tongue and cut it into thin slices, fry them in hot dripping with the forcemeat balls, some thin slices of bacon, and the brain mixture, the latter being dropped into the pan in small quantities with a spoon. When the head is nicely roasted (it will require about an-hour-and-a-half), put it on a hot dish, garnish with the brain cakes, bacon, force- meat balls, and cut lemons, pour a small quantity of thick brown gravy round, and serve with more in a sauceboat. Soused Calf’s Head.—Clean a Calf’s Head, put it into a sauce- pan of hot water, and boil it for five minutes, then drain and bone it. Soak the head for several hours in cold water, which should be changed occasionally. Dry the head on a cloth, rub it all over with salt and bruised garlic, roll it up, and bind it tightly round with tape. Put the head in a saucepan with a lump of salt, ■§■ pint of white wine, and sufficient water to cover it, and boil gently until tender. When cooked, put the head in a jar, pour the liquor over, and cover it. When ready to serve the head, put it on a dish, either whole or cut into slices, and pour a dressing of oil, vinegar, and pepper over it. Stewed Calf's Head.—(1) Bone a Calf’s Head, cut out the tongue and brains, and steep them with the meat in cold water for a few hours. Finely chop 21b. of lean veal and lib. of beef- suet, and mix with them 1 breakfast-cupful of grated bread- crumbs, the grated peel of one lemon, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of mixed or powdered sweet herbs, and pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg in small quantities. Mix these ingredients well, and bind them together with the beaten yolks of four eggs. Wash the head, dry it on a cloth, stuff it with some of the forcemeat, and bind it round securely with tape. Put the head in a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, 2qts. of clear gravy, and ^ pint of white wine. Put the saucepan over the fire until the liquor boils, then move it to the side, cover it tightly, and keep the contents simmering until the head is tender. Boil the tongue in a little water, and when cooked, drain it and cut it into thin slices. Chop the brains with a small quantity of parsley, dredge them with about 1 table-spoonful of flour, and season with finely-minced lemon- peel, salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; then mix two well-beaten eggs with them. Shape the re- mainder of the forcemeat into small balls, put a large lump of dripping into a frying-pan, make it hot, and fry the force- meat balls in it, also the brain mixture, which should be dropped in in small quantities with a spoon. When fried, drain the forcemeat balls and brain cakes on a wire sieve in front of the fire. When the head is cooked, remove the tapes and place it on a hot dish, strain the cooking liquor through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan with loz. of butter that has been kneaded with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir it over the fire until thickened; more salt and pepper may be added if required. Make the slices of tongue hot in the gravy, then pour it over the Calf’s Head; garnish with slices of lemon, the forcemeat balls, and brain cakes, and serve while very hot. If there is too much liquor to go on the dish with the head, serve the remainder in a sauce- boat. (2) Put half a well-cleaned Calf’s Head (with the skin on) into a saucepan, and add a knuckle of ham and a few onions and sweet herbs. Pour in sufficient water to cover them, and place the pan on the side of the fire to simmer slowly until the flesh can be easily separated from the bones. When this is so, take the half-head out, drain it, and cut it up into large squares. Add gill of white wine to half the liquor, and reduce it over a quick fire to half its original bulk. Put the pieces of meat in a large basin, pour over the reduced liquor, and add a few mushrooms, small onions, a little pork cut up into small pieces, and the tongue cut in slices. Put these into a saucepan, and let them simmer at the side of the fire until all are thoroughly cooked. Add a few forcemeat balls, and serve. The trimmings and remainder of the liquor with a little wine, thickened with flour, will make a good mock-turtle soup. (3) Put half a Calf’s Head in a basin of salted water and a little vinegar, and let it soak for two hours. Take out the brain and tongue, and put the half-head in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover it; dissolve in the water 1 table- lfor details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, C alf—continued. spoonful of salt, and boil up. When it has been boiling for ten minutes, pour off the liquor, cover again with water, and add two onions with a clove stuck in each, 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, a small bunch of parsley with a sprig of thyme, and 1 table- spoonful of salt. Place the pan on the fire and boil for two hours, when the meat should be easily removed from the bones. Take out the head, remove the flesh from the bones, and put it on a dish; cover with white sauce or rich brown gravy. Boil the tongue, skin it, cut in small pieces, and put on a separate dish. In the meantime put the brains in a saucepan with a little of the stock in which the head was boiled, and boil until they are quite firm; chop them up, and put them into a saucepan with about loz. of butter, a squeeze of lemon-juice, 2 table-spoonfuls of parsley (dried and rubbed very fine), and salt and pepper to taste. Place the pan over the fire, and stir until the butter is melted ; then work in smoothly 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and cook again for five minutes. When this is done, put it in little piles on the dish round the tongue, alternately with small rolls of "cooked bacon. Stewed Calf’s Head and Potatoes.—Thoroughly clean the head, put it in a bowl with a lump of salt and water to cover, and leave it for two or three hours. Peel two or three small onions, cut them in quarters, and put into a large saucepan. Chop the head into small portions, put it in with the onions, pour in water to cover, and place it over the fire until boiling ; then move the saucepan to the side, and keep it simmering, gently for nearly three hours. Half-an-hour before dishing up the head, put some peeled potatoes in a saucepan with a lump of salt, and boil them. When cooked, turn the stew and potatoes on to a hot dish, and serve. Calf’s Heart.—This is a part of the internal animal that does not often meet with a favourable reception at high-class tables. The flesh is hard and juiceless, and the fat oily and rich; but there are some persons who have a great taste for a heart, cooked nicely, and are not particular as to whether it is a bullock’s heart or a Calf’s Heart so long as it is stuffed with a savoury stuffing, and roasted, or baked right through. All hearts should be blanched before cooking; that is, they should be soaked and well washed in water, the hard tubes cut away to their roots, and the heart plunged into scalding water and kept in this over the fire for twenty minutes or more; then, take it out and plunge it into cold water for a minute, and the heart will be ready to be stuffed. For roasting or baking, no special directions are needed, but the best way to cook a Calf’s Heart is as follows: Braised Calf’s Heart.—Wash the heart, and remove the veins and arteries. Mix some onion-juice and sweet herbs with some biscuit-crumbs; season with salt and pepper, and bind the ingredients together with a small quantity of warmed butter. Stuff the heart with this mixture, lard it with bacon or salted pork, and dredge it well with salt and flour. Fry an onion in salt-pork fat, or dripping, till nicely browned, then put in the heart and brown that. Put the meat and onion into a braising- Fig. 311. Calf’s Heart. pan, with a bunch of sweet herbs, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and 1 saltspoonful of pepper ; pour in stock or water to half their height. Put the lid on the pan, place it in a moderate oven, and cook the contents for an-hour-and-a-half, basting often. When cooked, put the heart on a hot dish, strain the cooking liquor over through a fine hair sieve, and serve it at once while very hot. Garnish with Brussels sprouts and potato-balls (see Fig. 311). Calf’s Kidneys.—These are generally styled “Veal Kidneys,” and there is no reason why they should not 2 D ices, (fcc., rejerred to, see under their special heads.