382 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces d‘C., referred to, see under their special heads. Choux—continued. Choux—continued. When quite cold shape the paste into small balls, and lay them on a buttered baking-sheet, leaving a short space between. Brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, put them in a moderate oven, and bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Blanch and chop coarsely fib. of pistachio-kernels, and mix them with 4oz. of well-washed and dried currants and 4oz. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar. Put fib. of caster sugar into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire until browned ajid somewhat like treacle in consis- tency. When the Choux are cooked, take them on the point of a skewer, one at a time, dip them in the caramel, and then roll them in the pistachio mixture, giving' them a good coating. Lay them out of hand on a wire sieve and leave until cold. Arrange them on a dish over a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve. Choux with Coffee Icing (a la Comtesse).- Butter a baking-sheet, with a fork drop on it pieces of Choux paste about the size of fowls’ eggs, and bake them in a quick oven till crisp. When cooked, cut a small piece out of the bottom of each piece of paste, and scoop out a little of the paste to form a hollow. Prepare some very stiff coffee icing, and dip the pieces of paste in it, giving them a good coating; then stand them on a wire tray, and dry in the screen. Whip f pint of cream to a stiff froth, mix some of the coffee icing with it, fill a paper cornet with the mixture, and force it into the hollow of each piece of pastry; then fix in the pieces that were cut out, pile them pyramid fashion on a fancy dish, and serve. Sfiil Clioux Crisped (Pralines) with Almonds or Filberts.— Pour 1 breakfast-cupful each of water and milk into a sauce- pan with 2oz. of butter, and bring them to the boil; then remove the pan from the fire, and work in sufficient flour to form a softish paste. Place the saucepan back on the fire, stir until all the lumps are broken up and the paste is per- fectly smooth, and let it dry over the fire for a few minutes ; then mix in loz. of butter and two eggs, and stir these well in, next adding 3oz. of crushed loaf sugar, two eggs, a little salt, 1 table-spoonful of orange-flower water, and 2 table-spoonfuls of whipped cream. Form the paste into small cakes, decorate them with blanched and chopped al- monds or filberts (see Fig. 465), brush them over with egg, dust with powdered sugar, put them into a slack oven, and bake to a light colour. Serve at once. In mixing the paste care must be taken not to make it too thick. Fig. 465. Chou Crisped (Pralines) with Almonds or Filberts. it off in small pieces, and Choux either Crisped (Pralines) or Glazed.—Boil 4 pint of water in a stewpan, and then stir in 3 table-spoonfuls of butter, 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and a small pinch of salt; move the stewpan to the edge of the fire, mix in 4|oz. of flour, and stir it with a wooden spoon till quite smooth. Place the stewpan over the fire, and boil the paste for five minutes, stirring all the time. (Remove the paste from the fire, leave it two or three minutes, then beat in (one at a time) four or five whole eggs, 2oz. of butter (in small pieces), and 1 table- spoonful of lemon or orange sugar. Put the paste in a biscuit- forcer and squeeze it out, cutting placing these a short distance from each other on a baking- sheet. Brush the Choux over with a paste-brusli dipped in beaten egg, and then, if de- sired, put a pinch of chopped almonds or other kernels on each (see Fig. 465), sift a small quantity of caster sugar over them, and bake in a slack oven for fifteen or eighteen minutes. When the Choux are baked a golden brown, pass a knife underneath to disengage them from the baking-sheet, and then leave to cool. To glaze the Choux (see Fig. 466), dip them in syrup boiled to tli§ crack, and drain on a fine hair sieve They may be opened and Fig. 466. Glazed Chou. filled with flavoured cream, jelly, or marmalade. Serve on a glass dish covered with a fancy dish-paper or a folded napkin. Choux Croutons for Soup.—Make some Choux paste, spread it out to about jin. thickness, and cut it with a knife into the size of large peas; put these in a sieve, sprinkle them -with flour, shake them well, and then fry in hot lard. When done (they will take about five minutes), drain them in a cloth, and serve with the soup for which thejr are pre- pared. Choux Filled with Cream.— (1) Put 2oz. of butter in a sauce- pan, melt it, and then stir in 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water ; mix a very small quantity of sugar with jflb. of flour, and when the water boils throw this in, and stir it very quickly with a wooden spoon. When thoroughly mixed, take the saucepan off the fire, and continue stirring the contents for two minutes ; if done very quickly the mixture will not stick to the saucepan. Leave it for a few minutes, then mix in (one at a time) four eggs, stirring vigorously after each egg is added ; let the paste stand for half-an-hour. Butter a baking-sheet, stir the paste again, then drop it in small quantities all over the buttered sheet, using a table-spoon for the purpose. Brush the Choux over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake them in a brisk oven ; when baked, lay the Choux on another dish or plate until cold. In the meantime, prepare the following cream : Put I pint of milk in a saucepan, and place it over the fire until boiling; crush three macaroons, put them in a basin, and mix with them 3oz. of caster sugar, loz. of flour, and three well-beaten eggs. When the milk comes to the boil, stir in gradually the beaten egg mixture, and continue stirring it a minute or two over the fire, but without letting it boil again ; then take it off, flavour with a few drops of any kind of essence preferred, and turn it out to get cool. Blanched and finely-chopped sweet almonds may be used in place of the macaroons. When cold, cut the Choux (with a pair of scissors) on one side about two-thirds through, the cut to be horizontal, a little above the middle; then, by raising the top a little, hollow out the cakes, and fill them with the prepared cream. Arrange them tastefully on a glass or fancy dish, dust caster sugar over them, and serve. (2) Put i pint of water in a saucepan with a piece of butter the size of a walirat, a small grating of lemon-peel, 1 tea- spoonful of sugar, and 1 pinch of salt; boil these together, then mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir till thick and cooked. Leave the paste till cold, then work into it (one at a time) sufficient eggs to make it thin enough to drop from a spoon. Put a lump of lard into a deep frying-pan and make it hot, but not quite boiling; then with a spoon drop the paste into it in lumps about the size of a fowl’s egg. When lightly browned and well swollen, take the cakes out, drain them, scoop out a little of the top of each to make a small hollow, and leave them till cold. Whip some cream to a stiff froth, put a small quantity in the hollow of each piece, arrange them in a fancy dish, and serve. Croquenbouclie of Petit Choux Gam is.—Put some Choux paste in a biscuit-bag or paper funnel with the point cut off, leaving a largish hole for the paste to come through; squeeze it out on to a buttered baking-sheet in pieces the size of a large nut, flatten the tops, brush them over with egg, and bake. When they are done, make a small hole in each, and fill it with apricot jam. Boil some sugar to the crack, and line a plain mould (previously oiled) with the Choux dipped in it. When cold, turn the croquenbouclie out of the mould on to a dish with a folded napkin on it, fill with vanilla whipped cream, and serve. CHOW-CHOW.—The meaning of this term, whether Chinese, or from whatever source it may have been derived, is best defined as a blending together of various kinds of foods in pieces. The nearest approach ive have to it is the pickle called “ Piccalilli.” (1) Cut two heads of white cabbage into small pieces, and boil them until quite tender; then take two heads of cauliflower, cut them up, put them into a separate pan, and boil; also lqt. of small onions, £gall. of small tomatoes, twelve small cucumbers, and six roots of celery chopped, all cooked in separate pans. Then put 2galls. of vinegar, 4oz. each of ground mustard and mustard-seed, a small pot of French mustard, 2oz. of turmeric, and loz. of cloves into