405 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cockles—continued. be hard and unpalatable. The liquor at the bottom of the saucepan may be strained through a cloth and used for making sauce or moistening other dishes. Pick the Cockles out of the shells with a fork. Cockle Ketchup.—(1) Pound 2 breakfast-cupfuls of boiled Cockles to a pulp, put this into a lined saucepan with a pint of very strong old ale or sherry, season with loz. of salt, foz. of mace, and 1 drachm of pepper, and set the saucepan on a slow fire to simmer gently for ten minutes. Pass the ketchup through a strainer or cloth, bottle it when cool, and to each bottle add a little brandy. Cork the bottles up securely, put them away in a cool place, and use as required. (2) Fill a pint measure with Cockles, and put them with- out their liquor into a mortar with ^oz. each of ground mace, cloves, and cayenne, also 1 dessert-spoonful of salt and three boned anchovies, and pound them well. Put this into a saucepan with the Cockle liquor, add 2 wineglassfuls of brandy and 1 pint of any red wine, boil up once, strain through a fine sieve, and bottle. Cockle Salad.—Boil the fish slowly for half-an-hour with a little water and 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Cut 6oz. of fat bacon into small pieces, put these in a frying-pan, and fry them till the oil turns a pale golden colour. Take the pan from the fire, and mix in one-third of vinegar to two- thirds of the bacon oil. When cooked, drain the Cockles, pick them out of their shells, and put them in a salad-bowl, with some chopped dandelion-leaves. Season the salad with salt and pepper, pour the bacon dressing over it, and serve. Cockle Sauce.—Bub down until smooth 1 table-spoonful of flour with | pint of the strained liquor from the boiled Cockles, add a pat of butter, a sprinkle of pepper and ground mace, and plenty of grated nutmeg. Warm this over the fire until it thickens, and then put in a handful of boiled Cockles ; simmer again for a few minutes to heat the Cockles through, and serve. Cockle Soup.—Trim as many boiled Cockles as you may require—say 1 pint for the following receipt—and put them into a soup-tureen. Melt ilb. of butter in a saucepan, stir in 1 breakfast-cupful of flour, and let it stand on one side to cool; then add 2qts. of white stock, lqt. of milk, and the strained liquor and trimmings of the Cockles, and stir this over the fire until it boils; add 1 dessert-spoonful of anchovy essence, 2 saltspoonfuls of salt, six peppercorns and one blade of mace, and boil for ten minutes longer. Skim, add j pint of cream, and strain it over the Cockles in the tureen. Serve hot. Hustled Cockles.—Put the Cockles in a large tin saucepan, without any water, and set the pan without its lid on a brisk fire. The Cockles will let out enough liquid to prevent burning. As ' they begin to warm, shake them about in the saucepan. When the shells open, they are done enough. Turn them into a deep dish with the hot liquor strained throrrgh a tammy over them, and serve immediately. Pickled Cockles.—Take as many as may be required of Hustled Cockles, pick them out of their shells, put them into a preserving-jar, and shake a little pepper over them. Strain the liquor from the Cockles through a tammy, mix it with a similar quantity of vinegar, and pour it over the Cockles. Tied down in the usual manner, these can be kept for several days, and form a nice little dish for incidental use. Cold Cockles cooked in any way can be preserved as above. Scalloped Cockles.—(1) Cook the Cockles as for Hustled Cockles, add to them while in the saucepan a piece of butter, a little pepper and grated nutmeg, and a very little flour. Line some scallop shells with breadcrumbs, on these put a layer of Cockles, sprinkle over them more breadcrumbs, and add another layer of Cockles. Moisten with a few tea- spoonfuls of the Cockle liquor, cover thickly with breadcrumbs, lay a few little pieces of butter on each, sprinkle chopped parsley over, and put them in the oven until the outsides are crisp and brown. Serve while very hot, with lemons cut into quarters to be squeezed over them. Cayenne pepper should be served with these. (2) Open sufficient live Cockles that have been well washed in several waters, put them into a stewpan on the stove, and just warm them; drain them on a sieve, reserving their I Cockles—continued. liquor, wash them in cold water, and put them to drain again. Put into a stewpan 2oz. of fresh butter and a piled table-spoonful of flour, and mix thoroughly over the fire with a wooden spoon; pour in the strained Cockle liquor and a gill of cream, and stir the sauce upon the fire until it boils. Let it boil for ten minutes ; by that time it will be greatly reduced. Put the Cockles into it, add the juice of half a lemon, and season with pepper and salt. Put this mixture into scallop or oyster shells, cover over with fried bread- crumbs, and about fifteen minutes before they are wanted put them into the oven. Dish them upon a folded napkin, ’ and serve very hot. (3) Wash the shells several times till they are quite clean, but do not soak them in water or let them lie in it. Plunge them into boiling water, but only just sufficient to cover, and keep the water boiling till the shells open; while they are boiling keep the saucepan closely covered, and shake it frequently. When the Cockles are done, that is, when the shells open, pick them out of the shells and save the liquor that runs from them. If there are a pint of Cockles when taken out of their shells, add to them 5 pint of their liquor, and put them in a saucepan over the fire, together with a blade of mace and a bit of butter rolled in flour, and let them stew gently for a few minutes. Have some clean scallop shells ready and well heated, pour the stewed Cockles into them, cover the top with fine breadcrumbs, stick little bits of butter over them, brown them in front of the fire, and serve hot. COCKTAILS.—American beverages under this name are prepared by icing, sweetening, and flavouring in various ways mixtures of spirits, liqueurs, or wines with water. The following are good examples, although the mode of preparation and ingredients used are varied very much according to tastes and circumstances: Bourbon Cocktail.—Put 2oz. each of the tinctures of orange and lemon into a jar with loz. each of the tinctures of gentian and dandelion, and 3 drachms of the tincture of buchu-leaves, also 50Z. each of the tinctures of cardamoms and coriander-seed. Pour over lgall. of Bourbon whisky, mix well, then add vgall. of syrup, and solferino or turmeric colouring, strain or filter, and bottle off for use. Brandy Cocktail.—To -|oz. (fluid) each of the tinctures of orange-peel, lemon-peel, tansy-leaves, cloves, allspice, and cinnamon, add lgall. of pale brandy, and mix thoroughly. Pour in lgill of curaijoa and 2fqts. of thin syrup, agitate vigorously, bottle in small bottles, cork, and seal or capsule. Champagne-Cider Cocktail.—Half-fill a glass bowl with shaved ice, seeing that there is room for a bottle of cider. Add 2 drops of essence of lemon, 10 drops of tincture of gentian, and 1 table-spoonful of dandelion-juice. Mix these thoroughly with the ice, and pour in the champagne cider. Serve in glasses. Champagne Cocktail. —Take a pint glass, half fill it with broken or shaved ice, then add 2 drops each of the essences of orange, lemon, and gentian, next 1 table-spoonful each of syrup and orange-flower water; mix well, add 1 gill of dry champagne, and serve with straws. Gin Cocktail.—Put loz. each of the tinctures of cardamom, coriander, gentian, lemon, and quassia into a jar with lqt. of gin ; mix well, add a little caramel and saffron colouring, stir in lgall. of syrup, and Ingalls, more of gin. Strain through filtering paper, and bottle. Bye Whisky Cocktail.—Mix |oz. each of the tinctures of lemon, coriander, cardamom, and gentian in a jar with 1 pint of rye whisky, add also loz. of tincture of bitter oranges, 25 drops of tincture of Turkey rhubarb, and 1 breakfast- cupful of tincture of chillies; when these are well mixed, add to them 2galls. more of the whisky (less the pint previously used), work them well together, pour in 3galls. of syrup, bottle and cork. COCOA.—Almost throughout the European Continent the food prepared from the Cocoa-nib is known generally as chocolate, obtained from the Mexican word chocolate, the term used in South America for a drink made from the delicious fruit of the cacao-tree, for it grows there in abundance. The cacao (Theobromq Cacao), or as it is more commonly called, the Cocoa-tree, is largely