282 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. CANNING.—A mode of preserving meats, fruits, and vegetables, mucb practised in America and Canada, chiefly for exportation. tSee Food-preserving. CANVAS-BACK DUCK—Unfortunately, this, the most delicious of all water-fowl, is only met with in this country as an importation. In some parts of North America Canvas-Back Ducks are very plentiful, especially along the coasts of Chesapeake and Delaware Bays. The bird is omithologically known as Aythya vallisneria, because of its exceeding partiality for the vallisneria plant, or wild celery. To its free consumption of this aromatic food it owes much of its epicurean virtue. It is a large bird, standing some 20in. high, and extending something more than that from tip to tip of wing. The plumage is very striking, being diversified with black, white, chestnut-brown, and slate-colour. The back of the male is ashy-white crossed by broken zigzag lines, from which peculiarity it obtains its popular name. The best ducks are those which are heavy in proportion to their size, and have full bright eyes and soft, pliable feet. They deteriorate with long keeping, and must not be drawn until just before using them, and should not be washed. The more quickly they are cooked, the finer flavoured they will be; and the bot dish for serving and hot plates should always be ready before the ducks are done. The ducks should never be overdone. When served, the breast only is carved. Stick the fork straight and firmly into the middle of the breast-bone. Commence from the neck down to the back, straight to the backbone, and around the back; then from the point of starting, around the collar-bone. Cut the joint off the wing. Commence cutting again from the point of starting; carefully and gently carving off the whole breast so that no meat l-emains. Proceed precisely the same with the other side. When finished, there will remain only the carcase. Broiled Canvas-Back Ducks.—(1) Take two fine, fat Canvas- Back Ducks; pick, singe, draw, and wipe them thoroughly. Split them through the back without detaching the pieces, lay on a dish to season with 1 pinch of salt, £ pinch of pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of oil. Boll them well in it, and put them to broil for seven minutes on each side. Dress them on a hot dish, spread over 1 gill of maitre-d’hotel butler, decorate with a little watercress, and serve. (2) Pluck, singe, and wipe the duck; split it down the back, and remove the intestines; put it between the bars of a buttered double gridiron, and broil it over a hot fire, leaving the inside turned to the fire for twelve minutes; then turn the skin to the fire just long enough to brown it; season the duck with salt and pepper, and serve it at once. The flavour of the birds is best preserved by cooking them quickly by an intense fire, and serving them on very hot plates. The usual garnishes are red-currant jelly, fried hominy, or celery. Sometimes a mayonnaise dressing is served with the celery. Canvas-Back Duck—continued. Boasted Canvas-Back Ducks.—(1) Procure two fine, fat Canvas-Back Ducks, pick, singe, draw well, and wipe them; throw a light pinch of salt inside, run in the head from the end of the neck to the back, truss them, and place in a roasting-pan. Sprinkle over a little salt, put them in a brisk oven, and cook for eighteen minutes; arrange on a very hot dish, untruss, throw 2 table-spoonfuls of white broth into each duck, and serve with six slices of fried hominy for garnish, and currant jelly on a dish. (2) Pick, singe, and draw two or three Canvas-Back Ducks, wipe them well both inside and out, but without washing them. Do not stuff them, but simply pepper-and-salt them well all over, both inside and out. Have ready a hot baking-pan, put in the ducks, moisten with a little water and fat from the stockpot, or a little sweet lard slightly salted. Place the ducks at once into a hot oven and roast for from twenty to thirty minutes, taking care that they are not overdone. If they are cooked five minutes too long’, they are said to be unfit for the table. Put them on a hot dish, pour round the liquor or serve it in a sauceboat, and serve with fried potato cakes or croquettes, or fried hominy cakes for garnish. A bunch of watercress may also be used for garnish if desired. (3) Dress a Canvas-Back Duck, put it before a very hot fire, and quickly brown it; let it cook twenty minutes, then season with salt and pepper, and serve it hot, with celery and red-currant jelly. (4) Pluck, singe, and draw the duck, wipe it on a wet towel, truss the head under the wing, put the bird in a dripping-pan in a very hot oven, and bake it for half-an- hour. Have ready a lighted chafing-dish; when the duck is done, transfer it quickly to the chafing-dish, season it with salt and pepper, pour over it the gravy which it has yielded in baking, and serve it at once. (5) Pluck, singe, and draw a Canvas-Back Duck ; truss it, wrap it round with paper, and roast in front of a clear fire, basting continually with gravy. In the meantime fry six sliced yams (sweet potatoes) to a light colour, dust them over with salt and pepper, arrange on a dish, put the bird on them, and add 1 winoglassful of port wine to the gravy; boil up once, and pour round. CAPE BRANDY—A spirit distilled from grapes and aromatic herbs and spices in the Cape Colony. It is much used for fortifying inferior European wines, and cheap champagnes. CAPERCAILZIE. — This bird (Tetrao urogallus) sometimes also called Capercailie, Wood-grouse, or Cock of the Woods, is not often met with, although it is occa- sionally shot on the Scottish moors and highlands. The male is very handsomely plumaged, being variegated with black, brown and white, and dark green over the chest. Above the eyes are scarlet patches of naked skin; these serve to distinguish it from all others, especially when taken in conjunction with the appearance of the feet, which are freely feathered down to the tips of the toes. The flesh is considered exceedingly delicate and fine- flavoured, and, as the Capercailzie is a large bird, fre- quently weighing as much as 141b. or 151b., it is usually treated, cooked, dressed, and carved the same as a turkey. At one time the Capercailzie was commoner in the north of Great Britain than partridges or pheasants are in the south; but whether from disease, incontinent slaughter, or some other cause, it has become comparatively scarce. CAPERS (Fr. Capres; Ger. Kapern; Ital. Capriole ; Sp. Cabriolas).—The plant is cultivated in Spain, Italy, South of France, and Barbary, from which countries chiefly Capers are imported into Great Britain; although, accord- ing to the opinions of some of our great horticultural authorities, there is no reason why Capers should not be cultivated equally successfidly in this country. The plants are addicted to sheltered spots, but are not dainty as to soil, growing something like our blackberry brambles, and draw in ample nourishment for their growth from the interstices of old brick and stone walls. This peculiarity of growing from walls is mentioned in ancient history, the plant being therein spoken of as “hyssop.”