467 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£c., referred to, see under their special heads. Cream—continued. ing of vanilla, and to the white gelatine the strained juice of a lemon. Wet the inside of a deep, fluted mould with cold water, lay in the bottom of it a row of crystallised cherries, then pour in a layer of white gelatine ; let it set, and put over it a layer of slices of crystallised apricots or peaches, pour over them a layer of the yellow gelatine, then a border of cherries, then white gelatine, and so on alter- nately till the mould is filled. Set the mould on ice, and when quite firm, dip a cloth in hot water, wring it out, wrap it round the mould for an instant, and turn it out on a glass dish. Serve Cream with it. (2) Mix 1 table-spoonful of preserved raspberries, the same quantity of preserved strawberries, and the same of red-currant jelly, with as much Cream as will nearly fill a quart mould. Rub the mixed Cream and preserves through a sieve. Soak and dissolve foz. of isinglass in £ pint of hot water; when this is nearly cold, stir it into the Cream, mixing all well together, and pour it into the mould. Put it in an ice-closet or other cold place, let it stand all night, and turn it out the following day. Cream flavoured with Lemon.— Put 1 pint of milk and the thinly-pared yellow rind of a small lemon into a sauce- pan, place it over a slow fire, and boil for five minutes. Put 5 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar into a basin, with the yolks of four eggs, and beat them well, then stir in gradually the boiling milk, removing the lemon-peel. Pour the Cream into small cups, stand them in a flat stewpan with boiling water to half their height, and simmer gently at the side of the fire for fifteen minutes. If the water comes above the half of the cups, it is likely to enter them and spoil the Cream. Leave the Cream until cold, then turn it out of the cups on to a dish, and serve. Cream Meringues.—(1) Take the whites of six eggs, and whip them to a white froth, and until they are very light and dry; then mix in |lb. of caster sugar quickly but gently. Take some paraffin-paper, and spread it over three boards, about 9in. by 12in. in measurement; next with a spoon take the mixture out and drop it in oblong shapes on to the paper, say about twelve on each piece. Put them into a warm place or closet to dry for two hours ; then take them from the board, and remove the soft part with a spoon. In the meantime take 1 breakfast-cupful of Cream, and season it with 1 table-spoonful of wine or a little vanilla, and 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar. Whip it until it becomes a stiff froth, then fill the shells with it, and join them together. These meringues must not be exposed to any very great heat, or they will spoil. (2) Have ready a large thick board, which will go into the oven, covered with glazed letter-paper. Beat the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, and gently mix with them £lb. of pulverised sugar, taking care not to break down the eggs; work very quickly and lightly, and as soon as the sugar is incorporated with the eggs, heap the meringue so made upon the paper, either in two large mounds or in an even number of small ones, and push the board containing them into a very slow oven, where the meringues will dry out rather than bake. If the oven is too hot, leave the door open, and shift the board frequently, so that the heat may affect the meringues evenly. When they are light brown, cool them a little, take them off the paper, turn them over on the hand, and, without breaking, take out the soft centre, and press the rest back with the bowl of a spoon to form a hollow shell; dust the inside with powdered sugar, lay the shells, bottom upwards, on clean paper on the board, and place in a cool oven to dry. Meanwhile, either prepare whipped Cream to fill them, or make an Italian Cream, as follows: dissolve lfoz. of isinglass over the fire in 1 gill of hot water, and keep it hot enough to remain liquid ; prepare 1 pint of whipped Cream; put in a thick saucepan over the fire 1 pint of Cream, the yolks of eight raw eggs, ^lb. of macaroons, Jib. of powdered sugar, and 1 wineglassful of curaijoa; stir these ingredients constantly until they begin to thicken, then take them off the fire, and beat in the dissolved isinglass. While the Cream is still liquid enough to run through a wire sieve, strain it; after straining, mix in very gently the pint of whipped Cream, reserve enough of an Italian Cream to fill the meringues, and pour the rest into a mould to be Cream— continued. cooled and iced ; serve the cold Italian Cream with a border of whipped Cream. Cream Meringues, Iced.—Prepare some meringues as for Cream Meringues, and when they are done and filled with whipped Cream and closed together, take them up on a fork, and dip them in transparent icing. Cream Meringues, Iced with Preserves.—These are pre- pared the same as for Cream Meringues, Iced, with the exception of being masked on the inside with any kind of preserve before the whipped Cream is added. Cream with Orange.—Put the thinly-pared rind of an orange in a saucepan with 1 pint of milk, and place it over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side, and let it simmer for ten minutes. Put 5 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar in a basin with the yolks of four eggs, and beat them well; then, while still beating, pour in by degrees the boiling milk. Strain the whole through a fine hair sieve, fill small cups with it, and stand them in a pan with boiling water to three-parts their height. Keep simmering at the side of the fire until the Cream thickens. Take the cups out of the water, leave them until slightly cooled, then stand them on ice until wanted for serving. Cream Pancakes.- -Make a batter with the whites of three eggs and the yolks of four; put them into a basin, and whisk them well, then add 1 teacupful of Cream, a little sugar, and enough flour to make the batter ; a piece of butter about the size of an egg may be added with advantage. Put this, in small quantities at a time, into a frying-pan with plenty of boiling fat in it, and fry for about five or six minutes, first one side and then the other, turning when the top is set. When done, take them out, and serve with lemon and caster sugar. Cream Paste flavoured with Coffee.—Put 6oz. of coffee to roast; when it becomes oily, put it into a saucepan with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of boiling milk, cover over the pan, let it remain until nearly cold, and strain through a cloth. A small quantity should now be mixed with the yolks of six eggs and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour with a little salt in it, the whole put into a saucepan, and boiled slowly until it is of such a consistence that it adheres to the spoon while being stirred. Add 3oz. of butter very slightly coloured in a sauce- pan, also ilb. of crushed loaf sugar and the same quantity of powdered macaroons; stirring the whole until smooth and compact. Cream Paste flavoured with Lemon.—Prepare a paste in a saucepan with the yolks of six eggs and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour; mix in gradually 3 breakfast-cupfuls of boiling Cream and a little salt, stir well with a wooden spoon over a slow fire until the mixture sticks to the spoon, remove from the fire, and work for two or three minutes, or until it is per- fectly smooth, then stir over the fire for ten or twelve minutes longer. Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan, melt it, and let it slightly colour, and mix this in with the Cream. Rub 4oz. of sugar on half a rind of lemon, scrape it into the saucepan containing the Cream, and work in 4oz. of powdered sweet macaroons, with a few bitter ones, and stir well until the Cream is stiff. Should it be too thick, add a little more Cream, and if the reverse, add the yolks of one or two eggs. Cream Pie.—(1) Mix |lb. of sugar, lqt. of milk, 3 table- spoonfuls of flour, and the yolks of six eggs together, and put them into a saucepan ; season with a little wine, grated nutmeg, vanilla, or lemon, and boil for twenty minutes. Pre- pare some rich pastry, line a shallow dish, bake lightly, and fill up with the Cream, then bake again until quite done.