261 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Cakes—continued. Stuffed Cakes.—Boll out fib. of puff paste to about fin. in thickness, cut out twelve pieces with a round plain paste- cutter, 3|in. in diameter, then roll out the trimmings, and cut twelve more rounds out with a 3in. paste-cutter. Make a stiff marmalade of apples, and put a small piece in the centre of the smaller rounds, and a preserved cherry on the top; moisten the edges lightly, then put the larger round over, and press it down round the edges with the rim of the smaller cutter, and cut them round with it; sprinkle water lightly over, put a small ring of puff paste on the top of each, sprinkle some coarsely-ground loaf sugar on the top, and bake them in a moderate oven, taking care to keep them as light a colour as possible. When cold, put a preserved cherry in each ring, arrange them on a dish, and servo. Sully Cakes.—(1) Mix with 8 breakfast-cupfuls of flour fib. of butter warmed to melting and fib. of lard; add 1 tea- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda, lflb. of caster sugar, and 1 table-spoonful of bruised coriander-seeds to the flour before working in the butter and lard. Make into a dough with 2 table-spoonfuls of milk and six eggs beaten together. Divide into small Cakes, set on a greased baking-sheet, and put into a quick oven. (2) Put fib. of butter into a basin, warm it, and work it with the hand to a cream; then sift in lib. of flour, fib. of caster sugar, and add three well-whisked eggs. Use sufficient milk to form a dough. The milk and flour should be added a little of each at a time, and well mixed before another lot is put in. Boll out the paste, and cut it into rounds with a biscuit-cutter. Flour a tin, put the Cakes on it, and bake in a moderate oven until done. Sultana Cake.—Before making the Cake a tin should be lined with greased paper and the oven should be ready, so that there may be no delay in baking the Cako as soon as it is mixed. Put lib. of flour into a basin, and with the hands rub into it fib. of butter, add the grated rinds of two lemons and 2oz. of candied citron cut small. Bub fib. of sultana raisins in a cloth till they are quite clean and perfectly free from stems, then mix them also into the flour in the basin, mixing in at the same time 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. Put four eggs and fib. of powdered white sugar into a basin and beat them until they are very light; mix with them 1 teacupful of milk, and with this mix the flour, &c., in the other basin, beating it well together; then, as quickly as possible, pour it into the paper-lined tin, put it into not too hot an oven, and bake for an-hour-and-a-quarter. Sunshine Cake.—(1) Make the same as for Angel Cake, but using 1 teaspoonful of essence of orange-peel instead of vanilla/ and adding the well-beaten yolks of six eggs to the beaten whites and sugar before adding the flour. (2) Have ready the whites of eleven eggs and yolks of six, If breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar, 1 breakfast-cupful of flour, and 1 toaspoonful each of cream of tartar and essence of orange. Whip the whites to a stiff froth, and gradually beat in the sugar. Beat the yolks in a similar manner, and add to them the whites, sugar, and flavouring. Finally stir in the flour. Mix quickly and well. Put into a shallow baking-dish and bake for fifty minutes in a slow oven. Surprise Cygnet Cake.—To the groat Soyer we are indebted for many marvellous dishes, but the following is not less worthy of attention than others: Make a large sponge Cake, using forty eggs, and bake about two-hours-and-a-half in a large shallow tin dish or dish-cover; the next day shape it with a knife to resemble the body of a swan, leaving a space down the front of the breast for the neck. Cut out the interior from the bottom to within lin. of the surface; :ce it over with white royal icing, and when the icing is almost set mark it in imitation feathers with the prongs of a fork. Shape the neck and head out of confectioners’ paste, cut the neck in halves lengthwise and lay it, the cut sides down, on a buttered baking-sheet. Model each half of tho head separately, and lay it the same way as the neck, that is the flat side downwards. Bake these in a moderate oven. When done, join them together with a paste made of white of egg and flour, scrape the bottom of the neck quite flat, ice it over with white icing, and, when on the verge of setting, ruffle it to look like feathers with the prongs of a fork, and keep it in a warm temperature till dry. Mix with lqt. of jelly, 4 wineglassfuls of maraschino, and four ripe peaches Cakes—continued. cut in quarters; pour it into the dish, filling it to tho inner rim, and stand in a cool place till set. When ready to serve, pour 3 wineglassfuls each of brandy and maraschino into the body of the swan, and fill it up with vanilla cream ice, in which has been previously mixed 2oz. of an- gelica and 2oz. of citron cut in small squares, 2oz. of currants washed, and 2oz. of Smyrna raisins. The angelica, currants, raisins, and citron should have been soaked for three hours in maraschino and brandy. Turn it over on the dish with the jelly in, fix tho neck with paste made of flour and white of egg, form the wings and tail with spun sugar, and fix them on. Whip lqt. of jolly on ice until on the point of setting; when set use it to form a foam at the breast of the duck, diminishing it at the sides by degrees, to imitate waves caused by the bird swimming. The spun sugar is made by boiling some sugar to the seventh degree (see Sugar-boiling). Oil the handle of a wooden spoon, tie two forks together, tho prongs turned outwards, dip them lightly into the sugar, take them out and shake them to and fro; the sugar running from them over the spoon forms fine threads. Continue this until you have sufficient sugar threads, then take it from the spoon and shape the wings and tail. Surprise Peacock Cake.—Prepare a sponge-cake batter of thirty eggs, put it into an old tin dish-cover, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the Cake out on to a sieve and leave it until cold. Shape the Cake like tho body of a peacock, hollow out the inside, and coat it over with an icing slightly tinged with pink. Blanch 41b. of very green pistachios, shape tho neck and head out of office-paste, making them in halves, lengthwise; bake them till lightly browned, then stick them together with a little flour mixed with the whites of eggs. The bird should be fixed on a dish with some of the same flour and eggs. Coat the head and neck with the same icing, cut the blanched pistachios in flat fillets, and stick them in the neck to form feathers. Mix some red and green sugar together, and sprinkle it thickly over the body of the bird. Moisten tho interior of the bird when dry with Malaga wine and brandy, turn it over on the dish, fix the head and neck on, and form tho wings and tail with spun sugar ; fix the skin of some cherries to imitate feathers. Prepare a clear jelly, mixing with it a little water coloured with gold leaves; chop it into small pieces, and lightly cover the body of the bird with it. Imitate the eyes with sugar, using small black currants for the balls; also imitate the crown of the head with sugar. Put some croutons of the above jelly tastefully round, and serve. Surprise Pheasant Cake a la Soyer.—Put 21b. of caster sugar into a bowl, which should be stood in a pan containing hot water, and break in twenty eggs, taking care to see that they are all quite fresh; whisk them till rather thick and just warmed, then take the bowl out of the hot water and continue whisking them till quite cold ; mix in the chopped peel of a lemon and 21b. of finely-sifted flour. Lightly mask the interior of two oval-shaped moulds with butter, dredge in a small quantity of flour, and shake out the superfluous ; pour the batter into the two moulds, and bake them. When cooked, leave the Cakes till cold, then shape them like two pheasants; cut out a large piece of Cake from the interior of the birds, leaving a wall about lin. thick, then put the pieces of Cake back again to keep them in shape. Make tho legs and pinions of the wings with office-paste or confectioners’ paste ; glaze the Cakes over with chocolate icing, imitating as nearly as possible the appearance of roasted pheasants; stick some thin fillets of blanched sweet almonds about the breasts, to look like barding. When quite dry, remove the cut Cake from the interior of the birds, line the hollow with currant jelly, and fill it up with chocolate cream ice, or coffee cream ice can be used if preferred. Turn the birds carefully over on to a dish, garnish round them with flavoured sweet calf’s-foot jelly, chopped and in croutons, and serve them. Swan’s Nest Cakes.—The similarity between these Cakes and swans’ nests does not appear on the surface. Having been introduced by a great chef, they have found favour and popularity. Beat up 41b. of caster sugar with six eggs, and add a few drops of essence of lemon to flavour. When the eggs and sugar are thoroughly incorporated, beat in Jib. of sifted flour so as to form a stiff paste. Boll this out very thin, and then cut it into ribbons about |in. wide by