328 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, <L-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Celery—continued. of mixed pepper and sugar, add and mix in gradually 3 table- spoonfuls of vinegar. When this dressing is quite smooth, pour it over the freshly-cut Celery, and serve at once. Celery Salad with Mayonnaise Dressing.—Prepare the Celery as for Salad, and when in the salad-bowl season with J pinch of salt, J pinch of pepper, and 3 table-spoon- fuls of mayonnaise dressing. Mix well just before serving. Celery Salad with Remoulade Sauce.—Carefully trim the white stalks of Celery, wash in cold water, cut into lin. lengths, and serve with remoulade sauce made as follows : Peel and grate a medium-sized white onion; rub the yolks j of two hard-boiled eggs through a sieve with a masher, add I to them 1 teaspoonful of dry mustard, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of oil, the grated onion, 4 table- spoonfuls of vinegar, and a seasoning of salt and cayenne. Mix all these ingredients smoothly, and use them with the Celery. Celery Sauce.—(1) Clean well, nicely pare, and cut into dice- shaped pieces, and then wash thoroughly in fresh water, three roots of fine Celery, using only the white parts. Lift them out with the hand, so that the sand and dirt remain at the bottom of the pan, place them in a saucepan, and cover with fresh water, adding 2 pinches of salt and Joz. of butter. Put on the lid, and cook on the hot stove for twenty-five minutes ; then drain, place in the saucepan again with 1 pint of hot German sauce, toss well for a little while, and serve. (2) Cut some heads of Celery into pieces lin. long, let them stew gently in a little butter till they begin to get tender, then shake over them a little salt and pepper, and add 1 table- spoonful of brown roux and 1 breakfast-cupful of good gravy. Let this simmer gently, skimming as any scum rises, till the Celery is cooked perfectly tender, then serve. (3) Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir over the fire until mixed, then pour in gradually 1 pint of broth, and continue stirring until boiling. Wash three or four stalks of Celery, chop them finely, put them into the sauce, season to taste with salt, and boil for ten or fifteen minutes longer. Beat the yolk of one egg with two or three drops of cold water, move the sauce off the fire, stir the egg in quickly, and serve. (4) Wash and trim two heads of good white Celery. Cut them into pieces about lin. long, put them into a saucepan with 1 pint of water and a teaspoonful of salt and stew till tender. Bub 1 table-spoonful of flour into loz. of butter, boil this in a breakfast-cupful of cream, add the Celery to it, and serve in a sauce-tureen. Celery Sauce for Boiled Fowls.-(1) Well wash and trim a head of Celery. Put it into boiling water with 1 table- spoonful of salt, and let it boil till tender. Then drain it in a colander, and cut it in pieces Jin. long. Blend a good table- spoonful of flour with J pint of the broth in which the fowls are boiling. Mix it quite smooth, add loz. of butter, a little grated nutmeg, and salt to taste, and mix with it J pint of milk. Put it into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire till it boils; let it boil ten minutes, and put in the pieces of Celery; when quite hot again, pour it into a sauce-tureen, and serve. (2) Take 1 pint of the young part of Celery chopped very fine, and stew till tender in enough boiling salted water to cover it. Drain, add enough hot water to that in which the j Celery was cooked to make 1 pint, and use it in making- 1 pint of butter sauce (melted butter) ; then add the cooked Celery and seasoning, and serve very hot in a tureen. Celery Sauce for Game.—(1) Take a large bunch of Celery, wash it clean, cut it fine, and boil slowly in a little water till it is tender, then add 1 pinch each of powdered mace, grated nutmeg, pepper and salt, and thicken with 1 table-spoonful i of butter rolled in flour. Boil it up, and pour it in the dish. Half a pint of cream and 1 wineglassful of white wine may be I added with advantage. (2) Cut the white part of some Celery into Jin. lengths, and boil these till tender in veal broth. Take out the Celery when tender, and mince it fine on a dish, so as to retain all the liquor that comes from it. To the liquor in which the Celery has been boiled, add milk or cream and a little flour, to make a white sauce, and season slightly with pepper and salt, allowing the flavour of the Celery to predominate in the sauce. Put in Celery—continued. the minced Celery, stir well, warm up for a minute or two, and serve in a sauceboat. Celery Saute served with. Ox-marrow.—Take six heads of fine Celery, cut off the green leaves, pare neatly, wash thoroughly, drain, tie each head near the end where the green part has been cut away, and blanch them in salted boiling water for ten minutes; then remove, drain, put them in a saute-pan with 1 pint of Madeira sauce,' and cook for fifteen minutes. Arrange the heads on a hot dish, and remove the sti'ings. Add to the sauce in the pan eighteen slices of ox- marrow Jin. thick, and cook for one minute, being careful not to break the pieces of marrow. Pour the sauce over the Celery, and serve. Celery Soup.—Trim and wash thoroughly three heads of Celery, and boil them in 2qts. of white broth. Take them out of the broth when tender, and pass through a sieve. Mix 1 dessert- spoonful of flour and 1 dessert-spoonful of cornflour with 1 pint of new milk, stir it into the broth, add a lump of sugar, and season with 1 pinch of salt. Put the Celery in again, stir it until quite thick over the fire, and then put in 2 table-spoonfuls of butter; when it is melted and blended, pour the soup into a tureen, and serve hot. Celery with Spanish Sauce.—(1) Cut a head of Celery into pieces about 6in. long, wash these thoroughly, blanch them, put them into a saucepan over a few slices of bacon, pour over 4 table-spoonfuls of Spanish sauce, mixed with an equal quantity of rich broth, and simmer gently on the side of the fire for about forty-five minutes. When the Celery is done, place it on a dish, pour round the sauce, and serve. (2) Trim a dozen small heads of Celery the length of the dish upon which they are to be served, blanch them, put them in a stewpan between two layers of fat bacon, moisten with 1 table- spoonful of broth, and let them boil slowly. When done, drain off the fat, put the Celery on the dish, and pour over them some Spanish sauce. If the Celery is warmed up after the sauce is poured over, for about half-an-hour, it will have a richer flavour. Celery on Toast.—Trim the outsides and the roots of three heads of Celery, thoroughly wash them, cut them into 8in. lengths, tie together, put into a saucepan of boiling water, and let them boil for a few minutes. Lay some thin slices of bacon in a saucepan, put the Celery on this, add a bunch of sweet herbs, a chopped carrot and onion, a blade of mace, and a little pepper and salt, cover it with broth, and let it simmer until done. Mix some flour and a little butter with some of the liquor that the Celery, &c., has been boiled in (having first skimmed off all the fat), boil it until thick, then pour it on a dish. Cut some slices of bread to a uniform shape, fry them in butter, arrange on a dish, and put the Celery on them (see Fig. 398). Celery Vinegar.—Pour lqt. of the best vinegar over loz. of Celery-seeds dried and pounded, and let them steep ten days, shaking every day; then strain, and bottle in small bottles. Very useful for flavouring. Celery with White Sauce.—Trim a dozen heads of Celery, and stew them in a little butter, salt, and water. When tender, drain them, and serve with the white sauce. If it is desired that the Celery shall be very white, blanch it in boiling water to take out the green. Cream of Celery.—Heat J pint of mirepoix in a saucepan with loz. of butter, adding 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, and moisten with 3 pints of white broth ; then put in half a bunch of Celery,