THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 269 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c.% referred to, see under their special heads. Calf—continued. wet a clean towel in hot water, fold it double, and lay it in the colander ; pour the boiling jelly into the towel, and let it strain through without stirring the egg or disturbing the folded towel in any way. Do not squeeze the towel, or try to hasten the straining, because that might allow some of the particles of egg to escape into the jelly, thus clouding it. A flannel jelly-bag may be used for the straining if one is at hand. After the jelly is strained, it can be cooled in cups, moulds, or glass jars, and kept in a cool place until wanted for use. (5) Clean four Calf’s Feet; chop them up and boil them in 4qts. of water until soft, and only Iqt. of liquor remains. Let it become perfectly cold, then take off all the fat and scrape off all the dregs that adhere to the jelly. Put the jelly in a preserving-kettle, set it on a slow fire, and when the jelly melts take it from the fire, and mix with it J pint of white wine, the juice and grated rinds of two lemons, and a little ground cinnamon or mace. Beat the whites of six eggs to a froth, stir them into the jelly when it is cool, bruise the shells, and mix them with the jelly, and set it on the hot ashes. Sweeten it while hot with loaf sugar. Let the whole boil slowly for fifteen minutes without stirring it, and strain through a flannel bag into a deep dish. If it is not clear the first time, let it pass through the bag until it is. The bag should not be squeezed, otherwise the jelly will not look clear. When trans- parent, turn it into glasses, and set the glasses, if the weather is hot, into cold water, and keep them in a cool place. This kind of jelly will keep but a few days in warm weather. (6) Anglo-Indian Style.—Well wash twelve feet, break them up, put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them, and boil until quite tender. Skim off all the fat, strain the liquor into another saucepan, add lib. of sugar, the thin rinds of one orange and two lemons, and 1 table- spoonful of mixed spices such as cardamoms, cinnamon, cloves, mace, and nutmeg’. Simmer gently for about half-an-hour, add the juice of eight limes and two oranges, six blades of lemon-grass, and a handful of isinglass. Continue to simmer until the liquor thickens, then strain it. Boil it up to reduce, skim off the fat, add the whites of six eggs, beaten to a light froth, tossing the jelly from one pan to another to clarify it; pour in 2 wineglassfuls of sherry, and strain the whole through a jelly-bag several times until quite clear. Turn it into glasses or moulds before it congeals, and serve when cold. Calf’s Feet as Mock Terrapin. — Boil eight feet till tender; take the meat off the bones, and put it in a stewpan with £ pint of the liquor in which they were boiled, and 2 large table-spoonfuls of butter. Mash the yolks of three hard- boiled eggs, with 1 teaspoonful of dry mustard, and a small pinch of cayenne, and add salt to taste. Mix the egg in with the meat, and stir over the fire for fifteen minutes ; add 2 wine- glassfuls of white wine. Dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. Calf’s-Feet Pudding1.—Clean two Calf’s Feet, put them in a saucepan of water and boil till tender. When ready, pick the meat off the bones, and chop it very finely. Mix in equal quan- tities with the chopped meat, some chopped beef-suet, grated breadcrumbs, and well-washed currants; add a peeled and chopped apple, and a small grated nutmeg. Bind all the ingre- dients together with six well-beaten eggs. When well mixed, turn the pudding into a baking-dish and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, take the podding out of the oven and serve it either hot or cold. Calf’s-Feet Salad.—Thoroughly wash and clean two Calf’s Feet, wrap each one in a separate piece of muslin, put them in a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of salt and 2 table- spoonfuls of vinegar, and boil them. When cooked, drain the feet, leave them till cool, then remove the muslin and bone them. Cut the meat into small square pieces. Wash two lettuces, pull their leaves apart, and arrange them in a salad- bowl ; put in the pieces of feet, sprinkle over some chopped beetroot and cress, arrange some slices or quarters of hard- boiled eggs tastefully about in Ihe dish, pour a mild vinai- grette sauce over all, and serve. Crepinettes of Calf’s Feet.—Separate the flesh from the bones of two cooked Calf’s Feet; cut the flesh into small pieces, and if cold put it into a basin with a quarter of their quantity of raw truffles, also cut up; season with pepper, salt, cayenne pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg ; cover them with Madeira, and let them steep for two or three hours. Calf—continued. "When ready, add to the above mixture an equal quantity of finely-minced raw pork that has been seasoned, and mix them well together. Divide the mixture into small equal parts, and shape them into oblong squares. Wrap up the squares in pieces of pig’s caul, taking care that there is no opening; brush them well with a paste-brush dipped in warmed butter, put them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear, but not too fierce, fire. When cooked, arrange the crepinettes on a hot dish, and serve. Fricassee of Calf’s Feet.—Soak four Calf’s Feet for three hours in cold water, simmer them in equal proportions of milk and water until they are sufficiently tender to remove the soft parts from the bones, dip them in the yolk of egg, cover them with fine breadcrumbs, pepper and salt them, and fry to a light brown in butter. Serve with white sauce. Savoury Calf’s-Foot Jelly.—See Aspic. Calf’s Head.—There are very few genuine epicures who can withstand the attractions of a well-cooked Calf’s Head surrounded by its garnish and trimmings. Nor is this to be wondered at seeing that few dishes can be made to offer such a variety of meats and flavours under one cover. An extensive assortment of receipts for pre- paring Calf’s-head dishes have been presented to us by our distinguished cooks, and from these some at least may be found to meet the requirements of even the most fastidious gourmet. Apropos of the Calf’s Head, a certain chronicler tells us of a club called “ The Calf’s-licad Club,” which flourished, to some extent, after the Restoration of Charles II. Its membership consisted of extreme Puritans, who dined together every year on January 30—the anniversary of the execution of Charles I. The club was not so named out of any disrespect that its members might entertain for each other, but because the death of the king was commemorated in their fanatical imaginations by one of the members dressed as an executioner advancing into their midst and throwing a fresh Calf’s Head on to a bonfire. To this day, amongst certain advanced Re- publicans, January 30 is celebrated as “ Calf’s-head Day,” and they are then accustomed to dine with their friends off this delicate dish, which shows them to be fraught with excellent culinary taste if not political judgment. Before being submitted to the cook, a Calf's Head requires considerable attention on the part of the butcher. It should be cleansed thoroughly by soaking in cold water and then scalding so that all the hair can be readily scraped off, the bones cut down, and the eyes removed. In this state the cook can deal with it, which he does by at once removing the brains and tongue. The brains are to be blanched, as already described under that sub- head, and the tongue left to soak in strongly salted water. The head is next soaked in salted water until all the blood is disgorged, and then it is usual to plunge it into scalding water containing salt and vinegar. After a few minutes in this, it can be taken out again and plunged