362 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensilst Sauces, etc., referred to. see under their special heads. Cherries— continued. pudding in, allowing plenty of room for swelling, and boil for an-hour-and-a-half. When done, dip it into cold water for an instant, take the lid off, let it stand for quite a minute, Fig. 444. Cherry Souffle Pudding. and turn it out on a hot dish (see Fig. 444). Serve wine or lemon sauce with it. Cherry Soup.—(1) Pick off the stalks of lib. of Cherries, put them into a saucepan with a few cloves and sufficient water to cover them, and boil till very soft. Pass the Cherries through a fine wire sieve, return them to the saucepan, and pour in lqt. -of water. Crack the stones, and put the kernels into the soup with a few more whole Cherries. Flavour and sweeten the soup to taste with wine and sugar, and boil it gently until the last added Cherries are tender, but not broken. When cooked, turn the soup into a soup- tureen, and serve with a dish of sponge biscuits or macaroons. (2) Pull the Cherries from their stalks, and boil them in water (l pint of water to 1 pint of Cherries), with a stick of cinnamon, and the peel and juice of half a lemon. Then add 1 teacupful of wine and sugar to taste, and serve poured over dice of bread fried in butter. A few Cherries may also be pounded small, boiled in water, and passed through a sieve. This soup may likewise be made with dried Cherries and pearl-barley boiled several hours in water, passed through a sieve, and then served as above. (3) Use fine ripe Cherries, remove the stalks, put the Cherries in a lined pan, with sufficient water to cover them, sweeten to taste, add a small quantity of vanilla, and stew them gently. Cut some slices of bread about Jin. thick, and cut them into small croutons ; put a lump of butter in a flat stewpan, and when melted put in the pieces of bread, and fry until nicely browned all over. Afterwards drain them, put in with the Cherries, and serve while hot. Cherry Syrup. — (1) Bruise a sufficient quantity of sour Cherries in a strong mortar, so as to break up the stones. Press out the juice, and set it aside to ferment in a large open crock, covered by a cloth, at a temperature of 75deg. to 80deg. Fahr., stirring occasionally. To every pint of the fruit juice add 1 wineglassful of brandy, and filter. Then to every pint of the fermented juice and brandy combined add lilb. of preserving sugar, and boil steadily until the sugar is thoroughly syruped; skim, and as it cools pour into clean bottles rinsed out with brandy. See Bottling. (2) Dissolve by heat 7lib. of best loaf sugar, crushed small in lqt. of water. Add before boiling lqt. of German Cherry-juice and Joz. of citric acid. Strain and bottle for use as a drink with soda-water. (3) Put ripe Cherries into a mortar, crush them with the pestle, and break the stones. Squeeze the fruit in a straining- cloth till all the juice is out of them ; add Jib. of sugar to each pint of juice; put the sugar and juice into a preserving- pan, and boil for ten or twelve minutes, taking off the scum as it rises. Let the syrup cool, then put it into bottles and cork it up. It makes a nice flavouring for pudding sauces. (4) Put the required quantity of Cherries into a mortar and pound them well, breaking the stones; squeeze out the juice, and set it aside to ferment for three days. For each fluid pound of juice, add loz. of spirit of wine ; mix well, set it aside for another day, and then filter. For each lib. of this add ljlb. of the best sugar, and bring to the boiling- point, taking care to remove it from the fire immediately it boils. Skim it, put it into bottles, and cork down. (5) Take some Cherries (the black sour ones are the Lest for this purpose), remove the stalks, and stone them ; squeeze Cherr ie s—con tinned. the juice from them,- put it into an earthen pan, and let it stand in a cool place for twenty-four hours. Then pour the juice gently into a preserving-pan. Add to the juice double its weight of powdered white sugar, and allow to each pound of sugar 1 drachm of cinnamon. Infuse the cinnamon in J pint of water, tie it in a muslin bag, and put it into the preserving- pan together with the water it has been infused in. Let all boil together for thirty minutes, taking off all scum as it rises. When done, take out the bag of cinnamon, and strain the syrup till it is clear. Let it get quite cold, and then bottle it. Cherry Tart.—(1) Make a paste as follows : Lay Jib. of butter in a bowl of very cold water, and work it for five minutes with the hands, touching it very quickly and lightly, so that it may be quite smooth and yet firm; then wrap it in a cloth dusted with flour, lay it on a plate, and place it in the re- frigerator, or in an equally cool place. Put lib. of flour into a bowl with 1 teaspoonful of salt, add to it the yolk of one egg, and sufficient very cold water to mix it to a medium soft paste; work quickly and very lightly, and then roll the paste out about as large as a dinner-plate; cut the butter into rather thick slices, lay them irregularly about on the paste, dust it with dry flour, and fold the paste in such a way as to enclose the butter. Boll the paste out two or three times very quickly and lightly, and then use it at once ; or, if it is to be kept any time, wrap it in a floured cloth, lay it on a plate, and set it in a refrigerator or a very cold place. Stem and stone plenty of Cherries. Use rather a deep earthen dish, line it down the sides with strips of pastry, or use an under-crust if preferred, being very careful not to press the cut edges of the pastry; heap the fruit hig-h in the dish, and sprinkle over sufficient sugar to sweeten it. Lay a top-crust lightly on the fruit, after slightly wetting the under-crust near the edge to make it adhere, still without crushing down or pressing the edges of the crust, because that would make it heavy and soddened. About Jin. within the edge of the upper-crust lay the forefinger, curved in such a way as to form a groove by slightly pressing it down ; cut four or five places diagonally across the groove so that the fruit-juice may boil out into the groove instead of escaping from the dish. Bemember to touch the crust always lightly and delicately, so that it may be tender and crisp. Brush the crust with beaten egg, and then bake in a rather hot oven until evenly browned. .Use it either hot or cold, and dusted with powdered sugar. Whipped cream is very good with this. (2) Line a tart-dish with good Italian paste. Take 21b. of Cherries of some acid variety, such as Morello, cut them in halves, and remove the stalks and stones. Spread the Cherries all over the tart, except round the edge reserved for the rim, and dust them with Jib. of caster sugar. With the rest of the paste form the rim of the tart and the little strips which cross each other over the fruit. Finish off by glazing- the whole of the paste with a paste-brush dipped in yolk of egg. Bake in a lively oven. (3) Procure 21b. of fine Cherries, pick off the stalks, stone them with the hands, and place in a basin with 4oz. of powdered sugar, mixing well. Have ready a lined pie-dish, fill it with the Cherries, arrange a strip of paste round the edge, moisten with beaten egg, and bake in a moderate oven for fifty minutes. Dust the tart over with powdered loaf sugar, melt this in the oven, spread over 2oz. or 3oz. of sweet jelly, and serve. Cherry Tartlets.—Line six scalloped tart-moulds with 11b. of puff paste, press down the bottom and sides to get the im- pression of the moulds, mask them with 3oz. of apple mar- malade equally distributed over this, put in lib. of stoned Cherries, dust them with powdered loaf sugar, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Sprinkle the edges with more powdered sugar, and glaze or melt it in the oven for two minutes; then take out the tartlets and let them get cool. Turn them out of the moulds, cover with a thin coating of apple jelly, and serve in a napkin folded on a dish. Cherry Vineg-ar.—For each 81b. of Cherries put in a sauce- pan 2qts. of vinegar, 41b. of loaf sugar, a stick of cin- namon, and about thirty cloves; boil these ingredients for ■ ten minutes. Pick the stalks off the Cherries, wipe them on a clean cloth, and put in a deep stone jar; pour the syrup over them and cover the jar with paper. On the