267 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ,ic., referred to, see under their special heads- Calf—continued. with chervil sauce, or in the gravy in which they were cooked, thickened and seasoned. A sauce may be made of melted butter, with chervil washed and strained with the butter through a sieve, and a little white sauce added. White sauce is sometimes sent up alone with the ears; in that case it should be flavoured with mushroom powder. Calf’s liars a la Financiere.—Cut off four ears, blanch, and put into a saucepan with a little stock or water, and boil until quite tender. In the meantime, cut a crouton of bread, 2in. square at the base and 3in. high, fry in lard, and put in the centre of a dish. Take out the ears, dry them on a cloth, and stand them on the dish leaning against the bread ; put a heap of financiere ragout in the spaces between the ears, with a truffle and cock’s comb in the ragout. Put four cocks’ combs on the top of the bread and a large truffle on the top of them, and serve with some financiere sauce separate in a boat. Calf’s Ears, Bordeaux Style.—Cut off four ears, plunge them first into boiling water and then into cold, to blanch them. Wipe dry, and put them into a saucepan with a little stock or water and boil them; when done, let them remain in their stock until nearly cold, take them out, and wipe dry on a cloth. Take four or five good mushrooms, skin them, and chop them up ; put them into a stewpan with a little oil or butter, and set them on the fire to fry. When they are done and their moisture is evaporated, add a little seasoning; take them off the fire and put in 1 or 2 table- spoonfuls of breadcrumbs, a handful of raw finely-chopped ham, a little parsley, and 2 table-spoonfuls of shallots; add a few sweet herbs to season, and bind the mass together with an egg. Take the ears, score them round the edge, and stuff with the mixture. Put them into a flat saucepan, in an upright position, with a couple of dozen small heads of mushrooms. Pour in sufficient thick gravy, with a little tomato sauce and cayenne added, to about half the height of the ears. Put the pan over the fire, and let it boil; take it off, and place it at the entrance of an oven to simmer for twenty minutes. Baste frequently, and when quite done put them on a dish, garnish with the mushrooms, and pour the sauce over all. Calf’s Ears in Marinade. — Take two ears and put them into a little warm water to extract the blood; then boil them in some good stock until quite tender. Cut each one lengthwise into five or six pieces, and put them into a bowl with a little parsley and thyme, a bay-leaf, two onions, a little pepper, eight or nine cloves, 2 table-spoonfuls of oil, 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and a little salt, and let them soak for six or seven hours. Take each piece out separately, and wipe dry with a cloth. In the meanwhile, prepare some frying batter, and dip each piece into it, seeing that every part is covered ; then plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling lard, and fry for five minutes. Take them out and put on a dish with a little tomato sauce under them, and surround with parsley dipped in boiling fat. Calf’s Ears with Tomato Sauce. — Prepare and blanch twelve ears; put them into a saucepan with slices of fat pork or bacon and veal under them, add a seasoning of thyme, parsley, spice, bay-leaf, and carrots (in slices), pour in 1 wineglassful of white wine and about 1 pint of rich white broth. Cook the ears over a moderate fire until quite tender; take them out, and drain thoroughly. With a sharp knife slit part of the gristle all round, and cut the thickest side very flat. Arrange them on a dish, over a little tomato sauce, standing them upright; turn the thinnest part of the ears over,, bind them down, and slit them several times at equal distances. Should the ears be at all coloured in cooking, they should be stuffed and fried, as the white effect would be spoiled. Calf’s Ears with Tortue Sauce. — Take four ears, cut, blanch, and put them into some wrarm water to extract the blood, &c.; then put them into a saucepan with a little stock and boil until quite tender. Place a crouton of fried bread- crumb, 3in. high and 2in. square at the base, in the middle of a dish, and put one ear on each side. Prepare a ragout of truffles, mushrooms, quenelles, and gherkins, the gherkins having been previously steeped in cold water and made into a ball shape with a vegetable-cutter, and the whole mixed Calf—continued. with some tortue sauce. Put the yolk of a hard-boiled egg in each ear, and put the ragout in small heaps in the space left between the ears; on each of the heaps place a crayfish with the claws downwards, and a larded sweetbread on the Fig. 301 Calf’s Ears with Tohtue Sauce. top of the crouton of fried bread (see Fig. 304). Serve with a little of the sauce in a boat. Calf’s Ears with Truffles (a la Perigord).—Prepare these the same as for Calf’s Ears with Tomato Sauce. Have ready a pain of veal forcemeat, baked in a hoop with the top slightly domed. Fasten an ornamental raised pie-paper round the pain, and set the ears round, one at the top, and into each ear put a small truffle. Dress over the forcemeat with sprigs of fried parsley and small attelettes garnished with truffles (see Fig. 305). Calf’s Ears with Villeroy Sauce.—Take four ears, blanch them, and cook in some good stock; when nearly done, take them out, drain, wipe dry, and when cold cut each one into three pieces, lengthwise. Season with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of sweet herbs, previously cooked. Take the pieces up separately and dip them into a little hot villeroy sauce, and put them on a plate or dish a little apart, and when the sauce is cold and has set, lift the pieces of ears up with a knife and dip them first into breadcrumbs, then into beaten egg, and then into breadcrumbs again. Put them into a frying-pan of boiling lard, a few at a time, and fry. When done, take them out, put on a strainer to drain, and place them on a dish with a napkin spread over it. Serve with a little parsley, previously fried, put round for garnish. Fried Calf’s Ears with Tomato Sauce.—Boil four ears, let them cool in the liquor, drain, wipe, and cut up into quar- ters. Put them into a basin, and dust over with chopped parsley, salt, and pepper; flour them separately, dip into well- beaten egg, and then into sifted breadcrumbs. Plunge them into a frying-pan with plenty of boiling lard, putting in a few at a time, and fry for about ten minutes; take them out and drain, pile on a dish, pour round tomato sauce, and serve. Stuffed Calf’s Ears.-—(1) Put twelve ears into a bowl of lukewarm water, and let them disgorge. Blanch them,