301 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details resoectiny Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tic., referred to, see under their special heads. Carp—continued. not cutting- quite through, take away the inside, and preserve the roe. Put the roe and Carp in milk, and let them steep for a few minutes ; then drain them, sprinkle over a little salt, sift some flour over, put them in a frying-pan with hot fat, and fry until crisp and a pale brown colour —say about ten minutes. Spread a napkin over a dish, put the Carp on it, and place the roe on the top of the fish. Surround the dish with fried parsley and a lemon cut in halves for garnish, and serve. Fried Carp a l’Allemande.—Clean and prepare a Carp as for Carp en Matelote, but cutting it up in smaller pieces ; put them into a marinade for fish, and let them remain for an hour. Take them out, remove every particle of the marinade, flour them well, dip them into egg and then into breadcrumbs; put the larger pieces first into the frying-basket, and fry them in boiling fat, then fry the smaller pieces. When all are done, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, dust them over with salt, and squeeze over a little lemon-juice. Garnish the dish with halves of lemons and fried parsley, and serve. The fish should be replaced as nearly as possible in its original shape. Marinaded Carp.—Take a large-sized Carp, clean and cut it into thick slices or steaks; then take a stewpan, put the pieces in, and add the juice of a lemon, some sweet basil, a few cloves, a little grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper to taste. A little vinegar may be used in place of the lemon-juice. Mix all well together with a spoon, so that the pickle will enter the fish and distribute its flavour. An hour before wanted remove the Carp, place it on a strainer to drain, then dry it, sprinkle over a little flour, and fry to a light brown colour. Put the pieces on a dish, and garnish with fried parsley. The pieces of Carp may be also dipped in egg-and-breadcrumbs, or in batter, and then fried, but in either case should be three-parts cooked in the marinade first. Matelote of Carp and Eel.—Scale and clean two Carp, having one male and one female, take out the entrails, cut off the fins and tips of the tails, and remove the ears and yellow stones from the heads. The roe and milt should be prepared and cooked separately. Skin a large eel, hold it over the fire to stiffen it, chop off the head and tail, remove the entrails, and cut it up into pieces; put these into a saucepan, with a few onions and carrots cut in slices, one or two shallots, a little each of thyme, spice, salt and pepper, a clove of garlic, a few sprigs of parsley, and pour in 2 pints of champagne. Place the saucepan on the fire, and cook until the eel is about half done; then add the female carp. Boil for a few minutes longer, and when that is about half done add the male Carp, and cook until all are done, then take out the fish and keep them hot. A few minutes will suffice to cook the Carp. In the meantime, put thirty small onions into a frying-pan with a little butter, brown them, take them out, strain in the liquor from the fish, thicken with flour, boil for a few minutes, strain into another saucepan, add the onions and a few button mush- rooms, and reduce the liquor over a quick fire. Put the fish (both Carp and pieces of eel) on a dish, skim off the fat from the liquor, add a few artichoke bottoms to it, boil for a few minutes, pour it all over the fish, and serve with the roes placed on pieces of toast. Pickled Carp.—Clean a Carp, making as small an opening as possible, tie up the head, put the fish in a fish-kettle, pour over boiling vinegar, and after a few minutes add 1 tumblerful of red wine and a seasoning of two carrots and three onions cut into slices, and a small quantity each of thyme, sage, parsley, laurel-leaves, cloves, and garlic. Set the kettle on the fire, and simmer gently for about an hour. Let the fish remain in this until it is quite cold, when it will be ready to be served. Boasted Carp.—Take a Carp, draw it, remove the gills and roe, but not the scales, and wash it thoroughly. Then prepare a stuffing of 2 breakfast-cupfuls of breadcrumbs, 1 teacupful of ground almonds, 1 teacupful of currants, 1 teacupful of cream, grated nutmeg, yolks of two new laid eggs, mixed candied peel, a little lemon, and salt to taste ; put this in the fish, but not to fill it too full, neither should the stuffing be too stiff. Place the fish on a grating over a baking-tin, put it in the oven, and roast. Turn the tin over. Let the gravy drop into the tin, but do not baste. When the fish is done, put grating and all on a dish, and garnish with slices of lemon, potatoes, and mushrooms. Add some lemon- or orange-juice to Carp—continued. the gravy, mix in a little butter, and a dust of cinnamon. Strain, and serve over the fish. Scalloped Carp.—Prepare a quenelle mixture of cold Carp and eel-flesh cut up into pieces and warmed up in a white thickening; turn the mixture into shells, sprinkle over breadcrumbs, brown them in the oven or with a salamander, and serve on a napkin. Stewed Carp.—(1) Take a large Carp, cut out the gills, but do not remove the tongue ; then make as small an opening as possible in the under-edge to empty it, and wash it out thoroughly. Boil £ pint of vinegar, and when boiling pour it over the fish that the scales may come off easily. Wrap the Carp in a cloth, and stew it in a court-bouillon. When done, drain it, and serve with anchovy sauce and capers, or without sauce after soup. (2) Scale and clean a Carp and cut it into steaks. Make a brown roux with butter and flour, and put a few small onions in it to brown; then add a clove of garlic, a bay-leaf, a little grated nutmeg, a few sprigs of parsley and thyme, and a few button-mushrooms, adding sufficient good broth and white wine to moisten it. Put the pieces of Carp in this, place the pan on the fire, and boil briskly. Then lay some pieces of toasted or fried bread on a dish, put the pieces of Carp on them, and pour over the sauce. (3) Scale and clean a Carp, dust it over with flour, and brown it in a frying-pan with beef-dripping or suet. Take it out, drain off all the fat, put it into a saucepan, and add 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls each of lemon pickle, walnut ketchup, and browning, a small quantity of mushroom powder, an onion stuck with cloves, a little horseradish, and pour over 2 breakfast-cupfuls each of water and port wine. Cover over the saucepan, place it on the fire, and cook gently until the fish is done and the liquor reduced to about one-half its original quantity. Take out the Carp, put it carefully on a dish, add a little butter rolled in flour to thicken the liquor, boil it for a few minutes, pour it through a strainer over the fish, and serve very hot. (4) Clean two Carp, put them into a deep pan with two or three sliced onions, a bunch of sweet herbs composed of parsley, basil, marjoram, and thyme, three or four cloves, and a small quantity of mace; dust them over with salt and pepper, and pour 1 pint of vinegar over them. Let the fish steep in this marinade for an hour or two. Chop the livers very fine, put them in a large saucepan with lqt. of white wine and lqt. of veal broth ; put in the fish with their marinade, and stew the whole gently until tender. When cooked, take the fish carefully out of the saucepan and keep them hot. Strain the cooking liquor through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, and mix with it the yolks of four eggs beaten with 1 teacupful of thick cream and 2oz. of butter that has been kneaded with 1 table- spoonful of flour. Stir the sauce over the fire with a wooden spoon until thick, but it must not boil again, or the eggs will curdle ; then move it off the fire, and squeeze in the juice of a lemon. The roe of the Carp should be fried in butter until lightly browned, or, if preferred, it can be merely boiled. Put the Carp on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, garnish with the roe and cut lemon, and serve. Stewed Carp a la Boi.—Scald a good-sized Carp to remove the scales, or do this with a knife, commencing at the tail end, passing it between the scales and the skin, thus taking them off. Cut off the gills, remove the entrails by making an incision 2in. or 3in. in length along the belly, and drain out all the blood. Care must be taken not to break the gall. Put the fish into a bowl of cold water and soak it; then chop off its fins, sprinkle the Carp over with salt, and let it remain for an hour. Wash off all the salt and wipe it, stuff it with Carp or other fish forcemeat flavoured with essence of mushrooms, sew up the belly, and tie up the head ; then put it on a drainer, and cover it with more of the forcemeat to about lin. thick, leaving the head uncovered; put it in a fish-kettle with a strong mirepoix moistened with 3 pints of champagne and 2 pints of stock, all squeezed through a cloth, put a buttered paper over the fish, bring the liquor to the boil, and cook very slowly for two hours. Take it out when done, put it on a dish over croutons of fried bread, and serve with fish sauce. Carp’s Boes.—These are considered by Carp-eaters a very great delicacy; but very much of their quality