293 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ifce., referred to, see under their special heads. Caraway—continued. and must then be taken out and packed away in boxes if not wanted for immediate use. The size of the cakes will depend upon fancy. Essence of Caraway.—Put 2oz. of freshly-bruised Caraway- seeds into a bottle with 1 pint of spirits of wine; cork the bottle down, and place it in a warm place for about ten days. Pass the essence through a fine cloth to filter it, put into smaller bottles, and keep them well-stoppered until wanted for use. Tincture of Caraway.—Infuse for three weeks lib. of caraway-seeds (not ground) in lgall. of over-proof spirit; filter and bottle. CARBOInIC ACID. — This powerful disinfectant, distilled from coal tar, is not suitable for kitchen use owing to its powerful pungent exhalation, which is cer- tain to taint any food that may come in contact with it. Some cooks like to use it for pouring down sinks and drains, but it is not recommended when other less offen- sive disinfectants are within reach. See Disinfectants. CARBON.—It would be entering on a vast field of interesting matter—but outside the practical intentions of this Encyclopaedia—to treat of Carbon in its multi- farious associations with food and cookery. Suffice it to state broadly that Carbon is the essential basis of all organic matter, and, in combination with other elementary bodies, has to be considered and dealt with by the cook and confectioner in each and every stage of their practices. From the fuel or gas that provides by its combustion heat for cooking, to the finest entremet or ragout, Carbon either sensibly or insensibly occupies the prime post. The most highly concentrated and purest condition in which Carbon can be found is the diamond, a form of crystallised Carbon; then we find Carbon in coal, gas (as carburetted hydrogen), lamp-black, charcoal, soot, and carbonic-acid gas as the product of decomposition. But besides all these useful compounds of Carbon, it exists in foods to an extraordinary extent, and makes its presence unpleasantly conspicuous whenever incineration or “burning” of food occurs, which is neither more nor less than the driving off by excessive heat of watery matters with which the Carbon is in combination, and leaving it to destroy by its unfettered presence the coarsest or the most delicate dish. Of this we have samples in caramel or “ burnt ” sugar, in baking, roasting, frying, or any other similar process—continue the heat indefinitely, and Carbon will show itself by browning, then “ burning,” giving off lots of carbonaceous smoke, and leaving nothing behind but a black cinder. Carbon then should be treated by the cook as an excellent servant and friend, and feared as a terrible foe. Treated with care and consideration it is the most trustworthy slave of the kitchen, its influence being felt everywhere, whilst its presence is unrecognised; but neglect will assuredly bring the cook face to face with the grievous fact that the neglected slave is his master. Carbon is chemically stable, that is to say, although it enters into combination with other matters as an ele- mentary body it never changes; it loses its identity for the time being, but is ever unchangeably present. This stability of character it communicates to other matters with which it may be incorporated, hence it is an opponent of decomposition. For this reason it is largely employed as a purifier and preventer of putrefaction, although it is now acknowledged that its influence as a disinfector has been greatly over-rated, and that it exercises its preventive powers only in chemical combination. The table given by Dr. Parkes gives some interesting details, indicating that in a measure the greater proportion of Carbon a body contains the less liable is it to de- composition. For instance, every cook knows that cooked flesh keeps better than uncooked flesh, they will not be surprised therefore to learn that the proportion of Carbon in cooked meat greatly exceeds that in uncooked meat. The difference is brought about, not by any addition of Carbon—continued. Carbon to the uncooked meat, but by the unavoidably driving off of other matters with which the Carbon was in combination, by the application of heat, causing a decided waste in cooking. Butter contains a large pro- portion of Carbon, hence butter should be very stable and free from decomposition. It is so when carefully clarified, but there are very few samples of butter sent into the market that are not mixed up with butter-milk, curds, and other substances which so readily decompose as to turn the entire mass rancid. Taking loz. to contain 437 '5 grains, the following table will be found instructive ; loz. of Uncooked Lean Beef contains 64 grs. of Carbon. „ Pat Cooked Meat )> 98-3 „ 117 7 Bread 119 Wheat-flour 168 „ Biscuit 183 Rice 176 Oatmeal >> 172 Corn-flour ,, 176 Peas 161 Potatoes „ 49 Carrots „ 18 Butter 5> 315 Eggs ?> 7P5 Cheese 162 „ Milk 30-8 Sugar 5 J 187 also Carbonic-acid Gas, Charcoal, Fuel, &c. CARBONADES.—As in many other instances, the modern meaning of this term has been gained from one of the processes of its original preparation. Thus, the original signification being that of a grill or broil over the coals (carbon)—“ a rasher on the coals ”—it was usual to score the meat across with a sharp knife, and rub into the cuts hot peppers, seasoning, and spices. To carbonade signifies now to hack and cut meat as for broiling, and so to cut up cold meat for a stew, and then to the stew itself, a spiced ragout. In France the term is used in this latter sense, to denote a special stew made with scraps of cold meat, garlic, and onions. See Mutton, Pike, &c. CARBONIC-ACID GAS.—This combination of car- bon and oxygen (C02) is of very great service to cooks. It is the gas by which bread and other materials are leavened, and it is produced either by yeast, as a result of sugar fermentation, or by the admixture of an alkali with an acid, such as bicarbonate of soda or ammonia with tartaric or citric acid, cream of tartar, or sour milk. Carbonic-acid Gas is also obtained for extensive use by submitting powdered marble, whiting, or chalk to the action of oil of vitriol (sulphuric acid); it is prepared in this way for aerating water for drinking and bread. The apparatus required for either purpose being elaborate, does not recommend itself to domestic use, but a system of supplying this gas in a highly condensed form has been so successfully carried out that in course of time it is probable that a mode of aerating or “ leavening ” dough and pastry in small quantities will be designed, and supersede the use of yeasts and baking-powder, which have the unfortunate fault of remaining in the bread after the work of aerating is completed. In the use of yeast this is especially noticeable', for it is not at all times any too pure, and invariably communicates an undesirable flavour to the bread, or whatever it has been employed to aerate (see Yeast). Carbonic-acid Gas can be liquefied at a pressure of thirty-six atmospheres, and in this limpid state is very portable if confined in strong iron retorts, from which a little can be taken at a time. The idea that Carbonic-acid Gas is poisonous has been effectually contradicted by skilful chemists, who declare