THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 464 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cream—continued. paste, fastening with icing sugar. Fix on tha tops of the buckets little handles made with the same paste, and pierced through; surround the bodies of the buckets with two or three thin strips for hoops, fix them on the centre of a dish, and, when ready to serve, fill them with whipped Cream (see Fig. 562). Cream with Burnt Sugar.—Put 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar into a small saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of water, and stir it over the fire until lightly browned. Put 1 pint of milk into a saucepan with 5 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and the burnt sugar, flavouring to taste with orange-flower or rose-water. Stir the milk over the fire and boil for eight or ten minutes, then move it to the side ; beat the yolks of four eggs, and stir them gradually into the above ingredients. Strain the mixture through a fine hair sieve, and fill some small cups with it; stand them in a stewpan with hot water to three-parts their height, and leave them at the side of the fire until the Cream is thick. Take the cups out of the stewpan, dust caster sugar over them, and when a little cooled, stand them on ice. In lialf-an-hour’s time they will be ready for serving. Cream Cakes.—(1) Grease well with butter eight jelly-cake tins, and have a hot oven ready, so that the cakes may be put into it as quickly as possible when they are mixed. Mix 2 breakfast-cupfuls of flour with 1 breakfast- cupful of sugar, and rub them together; put 2 teaspoonfuls of bicarbonate of soda and 2 dessert-spoonfuls of cream of tartar on a plate, with the back of a spoon rub out the lumps, and mix them with the sugar and flour. Make a hole in the centre of the flour, and drop in and mix, one at a time, the yolks of eight eggs ; whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir this into the batter. Put an equal portion of batter in each of the eight cake-tins, and bake in the oven for seven minutes. While the cakes are in the oven, put 1 pint of milk and 1 teaspoonful of salt into a saucepan, and let it boil; beat two eggs very light, stir into them 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and 4 table-spoonfuls of powdered white sugar. When the milk boils, take it from the fire, let it cool for a minute, then pour it over the mixture of eggs, flour, and sugar, stir together, and pour back into the saucepan ; keep stirring, and let it boil for one minute. Take the saucepan from the fire, and diop into it twelve drops of essence of almonds. Take the cakes from the tins, put them on a dish one on top of the other, with a layer of Cream from the saucepan between them, sprinkle a little powdered white sugar over the top, and serve. (2) Butter well some small cup-tins; put 3 teacupfuls of flour, 3 teacupfuls of sugar, and Jib. of butter into a basin, and rub the butter ar.d sugar into the flour with the hands ; when thoroughly mixed, take * teaspoonful of cream of tartar and J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, put them on a plate, rub them quite smooth with the back of a spoon, then mix them with the flour, &c., in the basin. Beat three eggs till they are very light, add to them 1 tea- cupful of sour Cream and 1 teaspoonful of essence of vanilla; when this is well mixed together, add it to the dry ingredients, and mix quickly and thoroughly. Then half fill the buttered tins, and bake in a rather quick oven for ten minutes. (3) Put 4oz. of butter into a saucepan with 4oz. of caster sugar, the thinly-pared rind of one lemon, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and 1 pint of Cream. Place the ingredients over the fire until beginning to boil, then move the saucepan to the side, and take out the lemon-peel. Stir in gradually snflflcient Cream—continued. flour to form a stiff paste, then put it over the fire again, and continue stirring for a few minutes. Turn the mixture into a basin, and mix in gradually, one at a time, as many eggs as will make the paste stick to the fingers. Put the paste on a pastry-slab, divide it into small equal-sized quantities, and mould them into round cakes. Lay the cakes a short distance from each other on floured baking- sheets, and bake in a brisk oven. (4) Sift lib. of flour on to a paste-board, and make a well in the centre, in which put a small quantity of salt and i pint of clotted Cream; work the flour in gradually with the Cream until all is mixed, then cover the dough with a cloth, and let it stand for half-an-hour. Slightly warm Jib. of butter, and beat it until creamy, then work it into the paste ; fold and roll the paste out five times, as for puff paste, then with a tin cutter, about ljin. in diameter, cut the paste into small cakes. Lay them on floured baking- sheets, brush over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of eggs to glaze them, and bake in a brisk oven. (5) Beat well together 4 breakfast-cupfuls of flour, 2 break- fast-cupfuls of sugar, and 3 breakfast-cupfuls of Cream. Pour into square tins, and bake in a quick oven; when done, take them out; and when cold, cut into squares. (C) Put 1 teacupful of butter into J pint of hot water in which J teaspoonful of salt has been dissolved, add 1J breakfast-cupfuls of flour when boiling, and stir for five minutes; allow it to cool, then add five eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately, and mix with the hand. Butter a baking-sheet, and drop the mixture on it in table-spoonfuls at a little distance from 'each other. Bake until they are brown and nicely puffed, which will take about thirty minutes. When cool, split them, and fill with sweet Cream. (7) Separate the yolks and whites of eight eggs; put the whites in a basin with 8oz. of caster sugar, and beat them well, then add the grated rind of one lemon. Spread a sheet of white paper over a baking-tin, and drop the mixture on it in small quantities, allowing a short space between them; sift caster sugar over them, and put in a moderate oven. When lightly coloured, take the cakes out of the oven, mask the bottom of each with a small quantity of raspberry jam, and stick them together in twos. Put the Cakes in a cool oven to dry, then take them out, and serve. (8) Put 11b. of sifted flour in a basin, and make a round bay or well in the centre ; warm Jib. of butter, put it into the flour with three eggs, 3 table-spoonfuls of Cream, 3 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, and. 1 teaspoonful of salt; work all the ingredients together until well mixed. Divide the paste into small quantities, and give them any shape preferred; lay the cakes on a buttered baking-tin, brush over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, put them in the oven, and bake till delicately coloured. Arrange the cakes in a pyramid on a dish that has been covered with a lace-edged dish-paper, dust them with caster sugar, and serve. (9) Put Jib. of butter into a saucepan, and set it over the fire until melted; then mix in a little over lib. of flour, and stir it over the fire until lightly browned. Mix J pint of water gradually in with the browned flour, and continue stirring over the fire until -reduced to a paste; then trrrn it into a basin, and leave until cold. Mix eight or nine eggs with the paste, and knead it with the hands until soft; then divide it into small equal- sized pieces, and mould them into round cakes. Lay the cakes on a buttered baking-sheet, make a dent in the centre of each with the tip of the finger, and bake in a moderate oven until of a light golden colour. When cooked, take the cakes out of the oven, put a small quantity of clotted Cream in the hollow of each, arrange them on a dish that has been covered with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve. (10) Sift lib. of flour on to a pastry-slab, and make a bay in the centre, in which put 1 teaspoonful of salt, the whites of six eggs, and the strained juice of two lemons. Stir the above ingredients until well mixed, then knead the mix- ture to a soft paste with the hands, dipping them occasionally in olive oil or warmed butter; divide the paste into small equal-sized pieces, then roll them out. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, and when it is hot, put in the cakes, and fry them until nicely browned. As the cakes are cooked, put them