334 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OE PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. CHANTAB.ELLES.— There are several species of mushrooms known by this name, only one of which, how- ever, is recognised as edible (Cantharellus cibarius). By Continental cooks it is much prized, and as it cannot easily Fig. 402. Chantarelles. be mistaken may be used without fear of evil results. See Fig. 402. Stewed in rich gravy they form a splendid accompaniment for delicate meats. CHANTILLY BASKETS AND CUPS.—Con- fectioners now use this title for a very extended class of manufactures prepared from marzipan and a variety of pastes, sugar, orange-peel, and other materials; but Fig. 403. Chantilly Basket of Savoy Cake with Preserved Fruit and Whipped Cream. the original was a Savoy cake scooped out (see Fig. 403), dried in the oven, masked with jelly or marmalade, and filled with preserved fruits and whipped cream. Chantilly is an ancient castle in the department of Oise, in France, and was at one time the abode of the great Prince Henry II. of Conde, and his wife Charlotte, to whose culinary tastes we are indebted for the dishes prepared a la Conde. and others. Chantilly Baskets and Cups are made in all manner of shapes and sizes. Chantilly Baskets and Cups—continued. (1) Line some small breakfast cups with almond paste rolled out very thin, dry them in the hot closet, turn them out, and ornament with scrolls, wreaths, or other design, fixing them in position with gum water ; or they may be made to represent china cups or baskets by fixing a handle surmounted by a bow of ribbon (see Fig. 404), or other decoration, painting flowers, &c., on them. Arrange them on a dish, fill them with whipped cream, and put a few ripe strawberries on the top, if in season. In the illustration crystallised violets are dotted about on the cup, made to adhere by means of jelly. (2) Dip the edges of the required quantity of soft macaroons into.-some syrup, arrange them in the shape of a basket by putting one on top of another, and form a rim or handle of gum-paste, with a piece of stiffish paste-board to keep it in its place. When they are di'y, fill them with cream, and serve. (3) Take some royal paste and make into small choux; roll these out on a board sprinkled over with flour, and bake them, but without glazing. Dip them singly into some hot sugar, boiled to the crack or casse (see Sugar-boiling), by sticking a small skewer in the centre of them; place them round a mould, and stick the edges together, so as to form a basket, taking care that the top rim is well stuck and firm, as it is very liable to break. To form the handles, a half- hoop of tin or stiff cardboard will be required. Stick a chain of the choux together on this and let them set. Fix the handles to the baskets by dipping the ends into the hot sugar after they have been turned out of the moulds, and when they are quite firm and set, fill the baskets with cream, and arrange them on a dish. See Fig. 405. They may be made in any shape, and care must be taken to have the