THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 456 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, referred to, see under their special heads. Cranberries—continued. Cranberry Jam.—Take some berries, wash them well, weigh them, and allow an equal weight of sugar. Put the sugar with some water—say £ pint to lib. of berries—into a pre- serving-pan, place it on the fire, and boil for ten minutes, continually skimming. Add the berries, and finish boiling until they are quite soft and of a nice colour. When done, warm some glasses or jars, put in the preserve, and tie down with pieces of paper steeped in brandy laid on the top of each. The jars should be opened only when wanted, and be covered up again if all is not required at once, as exposure to the air spoils the jam. Cranberry Jelly.—(1) Take some Cranberries, wash them well, and pick them over. Measure them, and to every quart add lib. of sugar and 1 breakfast-cupful of water. Place this in a preserving-pan, and set it on the side of the fire to simmer for thirty minutes. Then pass the jelly through a strainer, and when quite cool put into pots ready for use. (2) Put |oz. of gelatine into sufficient water to cover it, and let it remain for thirty minutes. Put 4oz. of sugar into a pan with 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and boil until it becomes a syrup ; then put in lib. of berries, and let them simmer by the side of the fire until quite tender. Add the gelatine and 2 wineglassfuls of sherry, Madeira, or any other white wine, a few drops of cochineal, and the juice of a lemon, and boil again for five minutes longer. Take a mould, put a jelly-pot in the centre, and pour round it the fruit; when it is cold and set, turn it out, removing the pot first, and fill the hollow in the centre with whipped cream. (3) Pick and wash 3qts. of Cranberries, put them on the stove in an enamelled saucepan with cold water enough to cover them, and let it simmer slowly till the berries are soft enough to be pressed through a hair sieve with a masher or the back of a wooden spoon. When all the pulp is pressed through, measure it, and to each breakfast-cupful add Rb. of finely- powdered white sugar ; put sugar and pulp together into a saucepan on the stove and let it boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour, stirring all the time. If at the end of that time a little, put into a saucer to cool, jellies, it is sufficiently boiled, and may be taken from the stove and poured into moulds wetted with cold water. Let the jelly stand till it is firm ; it is then ready for use, and may be turned out of the moulds when required. It is served with chicken pie ; or it may be used for Cranberry tart, or for sauce. Cranberry Jelly with. Sago.—Wash and pick 2qts. of fresh Cranberries, put them into a good thick saucepan, pour on only just enough cold water to cover them, set on the stove, and let them cook. Break or bruise them with the back of a wooden spoon as they become tender, and let them stew till all the juice is extracted. Squeeze in a clean straining-cloth or a muslin jelly-bag, and measure the juice. To each pint of juice when strained add Rb. of sugar and loz. of sago, and boil till the sago is perfectly transparent. Pour the jelly into glasses or moulds wetted inside with cold water, let it get quite cold, then turn out, and serve. Cranberry Patties.—Take lqt. of Cranberries, wash them, put them in a pan, and stew them. When done, take them out, strain, and add £lb. of sugar. Take some patty-pans, line the bottom with some light paste, fill up with fruit, cover with paste, and bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Cranberry Pie.—Take lqt. of Cranberries, plunge them into a pan of cold salted water, and let them stand for twelve hours, when they will require washing in several waters to remove the salt flavour ; then take them out, drain, and put on a cloth to dry. Pick them over carefully, and put into a basin with 4oz. of caster sugar and the juice of half a lemon squeezed over them. Mix well, and add, if thought desirable, a wine- glassful of any white wine. Fill up a pie-dish with the fruit, cover the top with a light paste, put the pie in the oven, and bake until done. Dust over with caster sugar, and serve either hot or cold. Cranberry Roll.—Put lqt. of Cranberries into a saucepan with sufficient water to prevent them from burning, and stew them ; press through a fine sieve, sweeten to taste, and let them cool. Roll out some good paste, spread the stewed Cranberries over, roll it up, tie in a cloth, and boil in plenty of water for about two hours. Turn the roll out when done, and serve with sweet or wine sauce. Cranberries—continued. Cranberry Sauce.—Take 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Cranberries, wash them well, and put into a saucepan with 4 pint of water ; sprinkle I teacupful of moist sugar over the top, cover over the pan, and cook for thirty minutes; then mash the berries with a spoon, remove the pan from the fire, and stir up well; it is then ready for use. Cranberry Tart.—Put lqt. of Cranberries into a saucepan with 1 gill of water and 3oz. of powdered sugar, place it on a hot stove, stir lightly with the spatula, and cook for fifteen minutes. Remove from the fire, rub the fruit through a sieve into a basin, and pour it into a flat dish lined with paste. Place it in the oven and bake for twenty minutes ; take it out and let it cool. Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, and mix in 3oz. of powdered sugar; spread half of this over the tart, flatten the surface with a knife, put the remainder into a pastry-bag, and decorate with any design. Sprinkle over a good supply of caster sugar, brown the tart for about ten minutes in the oven, let it get cold, and serve. Cranberry Tartlets.—Line six fluted tart-moulds with 41b. of puff paste, mask them with 3oz. of apple marmalade, over this put 12oz. of Cranberry sauce, dust them over with powdered sugar, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Take them out, dust the edges with more sugar, and glaze it in the oven. Take them out again and let them cool, turn them out of the moulds, cover with a thin coating of apple jelly, and serve. Cranberry Water.—Pick about 1 breakfast-cupful of Cran- berries, put them in a mortar, bruise, and mix with them | pint of cold water. Mix 1 table-spoonful of oatmeal with a small quantity of water, then put it in a saucepan with nearly 2qts. of water and the thinly-pared rind of a lemon. When boiling, stir the Cranberries in with the oatmeal, mix in 3 table-spoon- fuls of caster sugar and 2 wineglassfuls of white wine. Stir the above mixture and let it simmer for fifteen minutes, then strain through a fine hair sieve, and leave it till cool before serving. CRANES.—These beautiful birds, of the genus Grus, like peacocks and herons, have occasionally, in this country, found their way to the tables of the wealthy. The American Crane, of which there are two or more varieties, is frecpiently made the mark of the sportsman ; but although its flesh has been pronounced delicate and fine flavoured, it probably derives more merit from rarity than from real quality. The following is considered the best mode of cooking it, although it is doubtless amenable to receipts given for other large birds, such as the turkey and bustard: Broiled Crane.—Cut the fillets off the breast of a Crane into two large pieces ; mix together in equal proportions some oil and vinegar, and season with salt and pepper. Dip the pieces of bird in this mixture, and wrap a thin slice of larding-pork round each piece ; pack them in an ice-box and leave them till the following morning. When ready, take the pieces of Crane out of the pork, put them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire. When cooked, arrange the meat on a hot dish, put a few small xheces of butter over it, squeeze over the juice of half a lemon, and serve. CRAP AUDINE.—This term is applied to a maimer of preparing partridges, quails, and pigeons for broiling, by flattening them and arranging the legs and wings in such a way as to make them in shape something like a crapaud or toad. CRAPE-FISH.—Salted codfish hardened by pressure. This was at one time considered a good method of pre- serving codfish for the use of travellers. CRAPIVA SOUP.—This is a favourite Russian dish that is worth knowing, but not likely to become much of a favourite in this country. The first thing to do is to procure a large bundle of young nettles, and the same quantity of spinach and sour sorrel, all of which grow plentifully in Russia. Wash them in several waters, and boil with a little salt until soft enough to rub through a coarse wire sieve. Slice an onion thinly, and chop it into lengths; fry these in butter, and when taking colour