THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 435 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauce$} <kcreferred to, see under their special heads.. Cordials and Liqueurs—continued. In England many attempts have been made to make Liqueurs, but for some cause or another, perhaps preju- dice as much as any other, the efforts of the British Liqueurists hare not been crowned with success. Some- thing may be due to the superiority of French spirit, and the great attention paid by Frenchmen to the manufacture of the flavouring essences, which are gener- ally prepared from fresh and green herbs; but there are instances in which this excuse cannot be urged for our being left so hopelessly in the rear, having nothing better to boast of than cherry and ginger brandy, orange and gentian bitters, rue gin, and raspberry vinegar. In writing of foreign Liqueurs, Professor Simmonds, who may be acknowledged as an authority in these matters, and to whom we are indebted for much useful information, tells us in his book on “ Popular Beverages ” that ordinary and fine Liqueurs have improved much in quality during the past ten years, and this he attri- butes to an increase in the consumption, “ which has enabled the manufacturers to carry out the production on a larger scale, and to substitute spirits perfumed with Benzoin for the essential oils formerly used,” the flavour being greatly improved by this means. To obtain superfine qualities in Liqueurs, long keeping is recommended; but, as only a very few producers have space or capital sufficient to enable them to store a quantity for any length of time so as to acquire this advantage, the bulk of the Liqueurs sent into the market are neither perfect nor, in many cases, genuine. It is said by experts that the best Liqueurs, or those from which the fixed oils have been eliminated by maturing, are not offered for con- sumption under twelve months from the date of their making; but this cannot be said to apply to the great bulk of Liqueurs imported into this country. Liqueurs made in France to the extent of £6,000,000 sterling are, with the very small exception of 500,000galls. (at l2s. a gallon) sent over to us, consumed in the country; and those imported by France are insignificant in comparison; being chiefly curaeoa from Holland, maraschino from Italy, and kiimmel from Russia. The chief centres of production for distilling French Liqueurs are Paris and Lyons for all sorts, Marseilles for absinthe, Grenoble for its ratafias, and Dijon for cassis. The names usually applied to distinguish qualities are “ Elixir,” given to those of a yellowish hue, strongly aromatic; “ Eau,” or “ Creme,” to white Liqueurs; and “Ratafia,” to those darker ones which contain infusions of fruit or syrup. For further details of the standard foreign Cordials and Liqueurs it will be necessary to refer to their special headings, such as Absinthe, Alkermes, Benedictine, Centerba, Chartreuse, Crambamboli, Curaeoa, Falernum, Hogplum, Juleps, Kummel, Kirsch or Kirschen- wasser, Maraschino, Nectar, Negus, Noyeau, Punch, Raki, Ratafia, Shrub or Santa, and others. In America the Cordials and Liqueurs are more original and pronounced, but many a tasty Liqueur is served to the feminine - portion of the population under the dis- guise of a temperance name: as “ French Strawberry Cream Soda,” “ French Sherbet,” and “ Chocolate Ro- maine,” the latter being a mixture of sherry and chocolate, which a witty writer observes must be a marvellous cure for headache, as that ailment is generally alleged as the excuse for partaking of the beverage. r' For the use of such as may desire to manufacture Cordials or Liqueurs for themselves the following hints and suggestions should be useful: All dry substances, as cloves, cinnamon, mace, and nutmeg must be ground or pounded very fine, and leaves, flowers, peel, figs, and similar ingredients should be previously cut up into the smallest possible pieces, and used quite fresh if possible; but if dried, probably nearly double the quantity in bulk will be required. Almonds and other kernels will have to be pounded to a paste in a mortar with a small Cordials and Liqueurs—continued. quantity of spirits or water, added to prevent them oiling. When the prescribed ingredients are ready prepared as above, they are to be put into a jar large enough to hold them with the quantity of spirit ordered, and the jar well corked down for a month. Give the jar a thorough shaking every day, and let it stand in a moderately warm place. When the month has ex- pired, pour off the spirit into an- other vessel, and pour on the spices, &c., the quantity of water ordered in the receipt, and let it stand upon them for a week, shaking as before. Then pour this water off, press out, and mix with the spirit, adding at that time what sugar and colouring- matter is ordered, and then strain the lot through a flannel bag. If essential oils are used, they must be diluted with some part of the spirit before being added to the other ingredients. Filtering through paper (see Filtering) is advisable if the macerated spirits, and those with essential oils dissolved in them, are not bright and clear. See Fig. 514. Besides those Liqueurs which are most generally known, and worthy of being treated separately (see above), there are many others which have their valuable qualities, and which require no special knowledge or experience for their manufacture. Amongst these are to be found the productions of various countries, including our own sweet Cordials, and many can be equally well produced if French spirit is used for macerating. Aimable Vainqueur.—This is the name of a French Liqueur not much known, but for the preparation of which the follow- ing receipt is given : J drachm of the essential oil of lemon, I drachm each of the essential oils of neroli and angelica, 5 drops of the extract of vanilla, and lib. of loaf sugar pre- viously boiled to a syrup in I pint of water. Shake well together, and leave for a month to blend. Fig. 514. Straining Cor- dials and Liqueurs. Amer d’AngTeterre.—A Dantzic Liqueur of a brown colour, and of an exceedingly aromatic flavour, not much known in this country, in spite of its name, though standing- high in local esteem. The ingredients and proportions used in its preparation are: lemon-peel, 10oz.; cumin, 6oz. ; cinnamon, 4oz.; thyme, sage, and galanga, 2oz. each; cloves, ljoz.; and nutmeg, loz., macerated for a fortnight in lflqts. of spirits of wine. When this is filtered off, add 18qts. of water with 8qts. of capillaire, and a little burnt sugar to colour. Amour sans Fin.—Take two lemons and two oranges, chop them up fine, and macerate in 3qts. of proof spirits of wine. Dissolve 51b. of loaf sugar in 3qts. of water to which J pint of rose-water has been added, and colour either yellow or red. Aqua Bianca.—This is a German Liqueur, made by dissolving 10 drops each of oil of bergamot, oil of citron, oil of lemon, 011 of amber, and oil of peppermint, in 3qts. of spirits of wine : adding after lqt. of rose-water, 3 pints of pure water, and lqt. of capillaire. Barbados Cream.—(1) Put the thin rinds of three lemons and oranges into stone jars or bottles with 3 drachms each of cloves and cinnamon, and 1 drachm of mace; pour in 5qts. of spirits of wine 60deg\ over proof, and let this remain for four or five weeks ; filter, mix in 4qts. of water and 2iqts. of capillaire, and bottle when mixed. (2) This is made in the same way as No. 1, using the peel of three oranges, 2oz. of cinnamon, 1 drachm of mace, § drachm of cloves, |oz. each of bitter almonds and coriander, i- drachm of nutmeg, 7^qts. of proof spirits of wine, 7Iqts. of water, and 5qts. of capillaire. Barbados Water.—This is a favourite Liqueur in Scotland, and is made by infusing 2oz. of orange-peel, 4oz. of lemon-peel, O 9 -J U H