TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 449 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tbe., referred to, see under their special heads. Crabs—continued. Crabs—contimied. takes its name from tlie circumstance of its early days being spent in the gills of large ocean oysters. Crabs are in season from April to September, and about May lose entirely the dryness of flesh after cook- ing for which they are notorious during the winter months. They are caught in traps like lobster-pots, on Fig. 536. Crab. rocky shores, and sometimes attain extraordinary sizes; the richest flavoured being those of a medium size, say from Gin. to lOin. in their broadest diameter. They should be boiled alive, being plunged into cold water, and as the water warms a handful or two of salt should be thrown in upon them, and when the water has boiled for twenty minutes or half-an-liour, according to size of Crabs, they may be considered sufficiently cooked. If put into hot water at first, which the inclination of humanity might suggest, they are apt to throw off their claws by a violent jerk, and then the water would soak into the flesh and render it sloppy. After the salt is thrown in, the scum rising to the top of the water should be carefully skimmed off. The claws of large Crabs should be tied to prevent them opening and pinching or injuring each other. Crabs are usually sold ready boiled, which is a great con- venience to the cook, whose next care is that of selection. The best Crabs are always heavy according to size; the claws and legs should be all on. They should be stiff and firm, and the eyes should be bright rather than dull. The male Crab has larger claws than the female, but less body in proportion, therefore selection should depend on whether the taste leans towards white j meat, or to the more mellow liver and creamy fat surrounding it. The liver is the soft yellow substance which nearly fills the interior of the body. The female also has a much broader tail than the male. It so happens that lobsters and Crabs are in season at the same time, giving a choice that it is sometimes difficult to decide. Many prefer the Crab on account of the abundance of soft interior ; but the white meat of the lobster is far superior to that of the Crab. They are equally indigestible, but as the Crab is cheaper according to quantity, and yields more eatable parts than a lobster of the same weight, the preference, if any, is more often given to the Crab. Hard-shell Crabs may be dressed and served as follow: (1) Open the Crab, a hen for preference, at the tail, by raising its body or under-shell from the carapace or upper- shell, taking care not to break either ; pick out all the good parts from the body and claws, and chop it finely; mix it Fig. 539. Dressed Hard-shell Crab. with some vinegar, oil, mustard, and pepper; clear out the back shell and put the mixture into either, and garnish with sprigs of parsley, chopped hard-boiled eggs, and lobster coral, or caviare if preferred. Serve with salad (see Fig. 539). (2) Pick out the meat and mix the soft part with bread- crumbs, flavour with a little pepper and salt, and return it to the centre of the shell; pick the flesh from the large claw of the Crab, fill up the two ends, separating it from the other with some red spawn, put it on a dish, surround with a circle of small claws, garnish with parsley, and serve. (3) Remove the meat from the shells and claws, and cut it into small pieces; mix it with 1 table-spoonful of bread- crumbs, a little oil, vinegar, and mustard. Clean the shells by washing them in warm water, put the meat into them, make a bed on a dish with either shredded lettuce, sliced celery, watercress, or parsley, put the Crabs on, and serve. Besides tlie directions for serving Crab plainly dressed there are numerous methods of making Crabs Lip into tasty dishes, and of these the following may be con- sidered very select: Buttered Crab.—Take out the meat of a large boiled Crab, cutting it up small, and mix with a mixture of breadcrumbs and finely-chopped parsley to about a third of the bulk of the Crab-meat. Season well with salt, pepper, cayenne, and put a few pieces of butter over it ; pack it back in the shell, pour over a little vinegar, or lemon pickle or juice, cover over with a thick layer of sifted breadcrumbs, place a few more lumps of butter on the top, set the Crab in a slow oven, and cook until done. Take it out and serve hot. Canapes of Crabs.—(1) Cut from a loaf of bread six slices Bn. thick, trim off the crusts and fry the slices to a light brown in a saute-pan with a pat of butter. Remove the lower shell from the upper of a few good Crabs, and with a pointed knife pick out the meat from body and claws; place the whole of the meat on a plate, season with 1 teaspoonful of salt and 1 saltspoonful of cayenne, and mince up well. Put loz. of butter in a saucepan with half a medium-sized peeled and very finely-chopped onion, and cook over a moderate fire for a few minutes, but do not let the onion brown. Stir in 2 table- 2 p