243 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respective/ Culinary Processes Utensils Cakes—continued. Cakes—continued. being made, remain permanent, or not cool below 90deg. Fahr. Change the water in the outer basin every few minutes. Beat the eggs and sugar together for a-quarter-of-an-hour, or until a very thick batter is made, and then let it stand for a few minutes. Whisk it again, and should there bo no settling of the eggs add 4oz. or 5oz. of warmed finely-sifted flour. Sift it in lightly and mix well. Put 2oz. of butter into a stewpan, warm it very slowly so that it will not oil, and then pour the batter into it, beating while so doing. Take a mould, line it with buttered paper, and sift a little sugar over it; pour in the Cake mixture to about half way up the mould, and bake in a hot oven for a-quarter-of-an- hour, but care must be taken not to let the outside brown. When it has been in the time stated draw it to the door of the oven, sift a little sugar over, and place some large slices of citron-peel on top. Put it back in its original place in the oven, shut the door, and bake again, making the time for baking altogether about thirty-five minutes. Take it out of the tin when done, and let it stand upon a sieve to cool. (2) Slightly warm 6oz. of butter, then beat it to a white cream with 6oz. of caster sugar, using a wooden spoon for the purpose. Beat five eggs for ten minutes, then mix them with the sugar and butter, and beat the whole thoroughly together. Sift 8oz. of the best wheaten-flour in with the mixture, mix it well, then add a few drops of essence of almonds and beat it for five minutes longer. Line the bottom and sides of a Cake-tin with strips of buttered paper, allowing the paper to come Jin. above the edge of the tin ; pour in the batter, put a broad strip of citron-peel on the top, and bake in a moderate oven. (3) Beat 5oz. of butter and 5oz. of sugar to a cream in a warm basin; then add a little grated lemon-peel and four eggs, one at a time, and sift in sufficient flour to make a light batter. Mix well together, and pour the mixture into a buttered baking-tin; smooth the top over with a knife, and lay a few slices of citron on the top. Put it into a moderate oven, and bake for forty minutes. (4) Break four eggs into a large basin and whisk them well; then add gradually 6oz. of caster sugar, 6oz. of flour, Jib. of butter, warmed enough to melt but not to oil it, the grated rind of a lemon, and lastly J teaspoonful of bi- carbonate of soda. Beat all well together, and bake for an hour in a tin lined with buttered paper. The ingredients must be added in the order given, and the butter thoroughly incorporated before the next is added. (5) Scotch Mode.—Work ljlb. of fresh butter on a marble slab to extract the water, then put it into a basin, warm slightly, taking care not to let it oil, and work it with the hand to a cream. Thoroughly mix lflb. of caster sugar with the butter, then add, one or two at the time, twenty eggs, working the mixture well after each addition. Beat the mixture till it begins to rise in the pan, then sift in gradually 2Jlb. of flour in which has been mixed a small pinch each of tartaric acid and bicarbonate of soda. Lino a Cake-tin with buttered paper, allowing it to rise a little above the edge of the tin, then pour in the batter, and bake in a slow oven. (6) Small.—Work lflb. of butter on a marble slab to extract the water, then put it into a basin, warm it slightly, taking care not to let it oil, then beat it till creamy with 21b. of caster sugar. Mix in gradually with the butter and sugar twenty-four eggs, adding them only one or two at the time, and beating well after each addition. When the mixture begins to rise in the pan, sift in 21b. of flour and lib. of patent flour; work it till quite smooth. Line some small tins with sheets of buttered paper, allowing the paper to rise a little above the edge of the tins ; three-parts fill with the Cake mixture, put one or two strips of citron-peel on the top of each, and bake them in a slack oven. Wken cooked, take the Cakes out of the tins, and stand them up till cold. Madeleine Cakes.—Put 9oz. of orange or lemon sugar into a saucepan on the fire, work in Jib. of flour, the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of two, 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy, and a little salt. When the paste begins to thicken, work it for a minute only. Well butter about two dozen madeleine- moulds (see Fig. 281), fill them with the mixture, put them into a moderate oven, and bake the Cakes for about twenty-five minutes, or until they are firm to the touch. Turn them out of the moulds, and serve. Madeleine Cakes a la Frintaniere.—Bub the rinds of two small lemons on a lump of sugar ; crush it very fine with a roller, mixing 3oz. of powdered sugar with it. Put 2oz. of this into a saucepan with 2oz. of sifted flour, the yolk of one egg and two whole eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy, and J saltspoonful of salt. Stir all together with a spatula, and after two minutes, when the paste is well mixed, stir it again for one minute only. Put the saucepan containing the preparation on a very slow fire, stir slightly to prevent it ad- hering to the bottom of the saucepan, and as soon as it becomes liquid take it off. Butter twelve small madeleine-moulds (see Fig. 281), fill them with the preparation, lay them on a baking- sheet, and place them in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Eemove, let them cool, and turn them out; cut a piece from the thinnest part of the top of each to serve as a cover, and with Fig. 231. Madeleine Cake and Mould. a dessert-spoon scoop out of each a cavity lin. deep. Put into a saucepan the yolks of eight eggs, Jib. of powdered sugar, a piece of vanilla bean lin. long and split in halves, also 1 pint of sweet cream, and 6oz. of finely-grated cocoa. Mix well with the spatula for two minutes, place the pan on the hot stove, and stir constantly while heating, but under no circumstances must it boil. Bemove it from the fire, and lay the pan in a cool place on the table for thirty minutes, strain it through a sieve into a freezer, and freeze. Fill the cavity of each madeleine with this, replace the covers, lay them on a wire grating, and, with a brush, gently glaze with a glacfi il l’eau made as follows: Put into a sugar-pan loz. of granu- lated sugar with 1 table-spoonful of cold water, and let it come to the boil; remove, and add immediately 2 table- spoonfuls of strawberry-juice, mixing well together, and sprinkle over -with 3oz. of well-chopped pistachios. Glaze the Cakes with this, and place them in the oven for one minute more; dress on a dish with a folded napkin, and serve. Madeleine Cakes without Butter.—Put six eggs in a basin with Jib. of caster sugar and beat them until frothy, then mix in gradually 5oz. of dried and sifted flour, and grate in a small quantity of lemon- or orange-peel. Grease some small madeleine-moulds (see Fig. 281), fill them with the mixture, and bake in a slack oven. When the Cakes are cooked take them out of the moulds, and keep dry in biscuit-tins until wanted. Madeleine Cake served with Cream and Port-wine Sauce.—Put 6oz. of fresh butter into a stewpan, melt it then put in lOoz. of flour, Jib. of caster sugar, and a few drops of orange-flower water. Stir the ingredients with a wooden spoon over the fire until well mixed, then move to the side and stir in six large well-beaten eggs. Thickly butter the inside of a cylinder mould, pour the mixture into it, and bake until lightly browned in a moderate oven. In the meantime prepare the following sauce : Put 1J breakfast- cupfuls of port wine into a small, lined saucepan; mix 1 tea- spoonful of arrowroot quite smooth in a little wine then stir it in with the rest, and add 1 teaspoonful of cloves and a small piece of cinnamon. Sweeten the sauce to taste with loaf sugar, and stir it over the fire until boiling. When cooked, turn the madeleine out of the mould on to a fancy 2 B 2