428 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tic., referred to, see under their special heads. Coltsfoot—continued. paste out to the thickness of (in.; if a ribbed rolling-pin can be procured, roll the surface of the paste over with it in cross directions, to imprint a diamond pattern. Stamp out the lozenges with a tin cutter Jin. in diameter, place them out of hand on baking-sheets that have been dusted over with caster sugar, and dry them in the screen. When quite hard, pack the lozenges in well-stoppered glass jars, and keep them in a dry store cupboard. Coltsfoot Rock.—Boil 21b. of loaf sugar in 1 pint of water until the syrup reaches the candy height (see Sugar-boiling). Then as it cools stir in 1 teaspoonful of Coltsfoot essence, and pour the sugar on to an oiled slab. Let it get cold, and then cut it into convenient pieces. Sometimes 1 teaspoonful of paregoric is also added, to increase the cough-relieving properties. Coltsfoot Wine.—Gather sufficient of the Coltsfoot flower to fill a gallon measure, and dry it for three or four days in the sun; then put it in a vessel, and pour over 2galls. of boiling water, mixing in 81b. of sugar, and stirring till dissolved. When cold, pour this into large stone bottles, and let them stand in a warm place with the cork loose for two or three weeks, when fermentation will have subsided; then drive the corks in quite tight, and leave the wine for about six months. At the end of that time it may be drawn off into small bottles, but care must be taken not to disturb the sediment. Essence of Coltsfoot.—(1) Gather the leaves and flowers with the midday sun on them, and leave for two or three days to dry. Fill a large wide-mouthed bottle or jar with them, and pour over sufficient proof spirit to cover. Let them stand for a week, and then strain off the spirit and press the leaves. (2) Imitation.—This essence is made of balsam of tolu, loz., and compound tincture of benzoin, 3oz., dissolved in 3oz. of rectified spirits. Leave this to stand for a few days, and then decant the clear portion. The Coltsfoot plant is not used in this. COMFITS.—This word, formerly spelt Confit or Con- fite, is derived from the Old French confit (meaning confected or prepared), which in its turn may be traced to the Latin conficere, to put together. Full directions for the manufacture of Comfits will be found under the various names which distinguish them. COMFREY.—This herb (Symphytum officinale) is very seldom used in cookery. It is occasionally mentioned, however, in the preparation of wine cups and some soups, but may be justly regarded as unnecessary. COMMANDERIA.—A famous wine of Cyprus, so called from a commandery once possessed by the Knights Templars at Colossi, near Limasol. It is described as a sweet Malmsey variety, very strong in alcohol. When newly made it is as dark as brown sherry, growing paler as it matures, and then darkening again with age until it becomes almost black. This wine rarely reaches our coast, the greater quantity being supplied to Austria, France, and Italy. COMPOTES.—A very extensive use of this ex- pressive term is made by Continental cooks; whereas among our native cooks Compotes signify little more than dishes of stewed fruits and syrup. Savoury Com- potes are not much practised by them, although many of our small birds, some kinds of fish, and tasty meats can be turned to good account in this way. Compotes of fruit and other things are fully described under their various headings, but there are a few special Compotes that will be better given here. Compote de Seville.—Put in a basin the yolks of twelve eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, and 2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla sugar, and beat them well. Put some syrup of about 20deg. in a saute-pan, and let it simmer ; drop in 1 dessert-spoonful at a time of the cream mixture, thus making small round pats ; turn them, and when done on both sides, drain them. Stick two of these pats together with orange marmalade, stamp them out with a circular tin cutter, and place each one as it is done on a clean baking-sheet. Dust some cinnamon sugar over the top, lightly colour them with a red-hot Compotes—continued. salamander, arrange them spirally on a Compote-dish, and pour round a little orange syrup, flavoured with rum to taste. Cremona Compote.—Boil 1 pint of syrup to 28deg., mix in 1 teacupful of vinegar, boil up again, and let it cool. Drain off the syrup from 41b. of mixed newly-preserved fruits, and put them in a jug. Mix 1 teaspoonful of powdered mustard with not quite i pint of water, stir it in gradually with the syrup, pour the whole over the fruit, and let it remain for twenty-four hours. Pour out when required, and serve in a Compote-dish, Golden Compote.—Turn a small fancy mould of either currant, quince, raspberry, or other jelly into the middle of a dish, and make a circle round it of preserved peaches and apricots, cut in halves and trimmed, and boiled in syrup coloured with saffron. Cut some imitation leaves out of candied angelica, arrange them on the top of the circle of fruit, surround the base with a wreath of preserved cherries (see Fig. 509), and serve. The jelly can be decorated if desired, and the summit crowned with crystallised fruit. Grecian Compote.— Cut some stale cake of any kind into pieces about the size and shape of small fowl’s eggs, put them in a saute-pan with a little thick syrup, warm up sharply so that the syrup shall come to the caramel degree, and glaze one side of the cakes only. Take them out before the sugar burns, and drain them on a wire sieve, with the glazed side upper- most. In the centre of a Compote-dish pile some Spanish Compote (Branco), and build the caramelled pieces of cake round the branco, sticking them together with apricot mar- malade. Strew cinnamon sugar over the tops of the cakes, pour strongly-flavoured orange syrup round the Compote, and serve. Russian Compote.—Peel and core two large pears and apples, and cut them up into thin slices. Cut up a quarter of a pine- apple, without the peel, also into slices, and divide two or three oranges, without the rinds, into sections, and remove the pips. Arrange these fruits in layers in a Compote-dish, varying them as much as possible, and sprinkling each layer over with sugar flavoured with vanilla. Cover over the dish, pack it in the ice, and let it remain for an hour or so. Drain off the syrup, adding 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of kirschen- wasser or brandy, pour it over the Compote, and serve. Savoyard Compote.— Blanch some small pears, green almonds, oranges or lemons, and gooseberries; also blanch some carrots, French beans, cucumbers, and gherkins. Boil the fruit and vegetables in water, cut them in little slices, colour the almonds and the vegetables green, separate the fruits and vegetables, and put them into several little basins, pouring over them syrups at 15deg. Ten hours later drain the syrup off each, mix it, add a little sugar, and boil it, making it 3deg. stronger. As soon as it is a little cooled, pour it on the fruit and vegetables, repeating this operation ten or twelve hours afterwards. Drain, the fruit and vegetables, mix them all up in a large bowl, moisten to height with vinegar syrup, and serve with either roasted meat or game. Spanish Compote.—Remove the fat and skin of the white part of the breast of a fowl, pound it in a mortar, add 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, and rub the paste through a fine sieve on to a plate. Put the fowl puree in a sugar-boiler, and add 8oz. of ground rice, 6oz. of caster sugar, i saltspoonful of salt, and 1 gill of cream ; stir this over the fire until it becomes a firm paste, then take it off, and let it get cold. Divide the