DISSECTION OF THE CHEST. 93 a number of branches, which are distributed, some to the greater, others to the lesser crus of the muscle.* Having studied these dry anatomical details, consider for a moment what kind of symptoms are likely to be produced by an anem-ism of the ai'ch of the aorta, or any of the primary branches. A glance at the important pai-ts in the neighbourhood will answer the question. The effects will vary according to the part of the artery which is the seat of the anemism, and, according to the volume, the form, and the position of the tumor. One can understand that compression of the vena cava superior, or either of the brachio- cephalic veins, would occasion swelling and congestion of the parts from which it returns the blood; that compression of the trachea or one of the bronchi might occasion dyspnoea, and thus simulate disease of the larynx f; that compression of the oesophagus would give rise to symptoms of stricture. Nor must we forget the imme- diate vicinity of the thoracic duct and the recurrent nerve J, and the effects which would be produced by their compression. Can one, then, be surprised that a disease which may give rise to so ■ many different symptoms should be a fertile source of fallacy in diagnosis ? You can easily see how aneurisms of the aorta prove fatal, by bursting into the contiguous tubes or cavities; for instance, into the trachea, the oesophagus, the pleura, or the pericardium. You will see too, -^hj an anem-ism of the first part of the arch is so much more dangerous than elsewhere. The reason is, that in this part of its course the aorta is covered only by a thin layer of serous membrane: now if an aneurism take place here, the coats of the vessel soon become distended, give way, and allow the blood to escape into the pericardium; an occurrence which is speedily fatal. * Does the phi-enic ever send filaments to the pericardium ? In some cases it unquestionably does; hence possibly the pain in the arm and shoulder in some diseases of the heart. 1- In the Museum of *Guy's Hospital there is a preparation, No. 1487 in wliieh laiyngotomy was performed under the cii-cumstanees described in the text ' I See Med. Gaz., Dec. 22nd, 1843. A case in which loss of voice was produced by the pressure of an aneunsmal tumor upon the left recurrent nerve.