IfJBONT OF TUE LEG. 442 Eemove the fascia, leaving enough of the annular ligaments to retain the tendons'in their places. , The muscles on the front of the leg a,re:—1, the Muscles ou o ' the front of tibialis anticus ; 2, the extensor communis digitorum the leg. peroneus tertius ; 3, the extensor proprius pollicis. The tibialis anticus arises from the upper two-thirds of Tibialis ^j^g outer side of the tibia, from the interosseous membrane, anticus. ^ and from the fascia which covers it. About the lower third of the leg the fibres terminate on a strong flat tendon, which descends obliquely over the front of the ankle to the inner side of the foot; here it becomes a little broader, and is inserted into the in- ternal cuneiform bone and the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The synovial membrane, which lines the sheath of the tendon beneath the annular Jigament, accompanies it to within an inch of its insertion; consequently it is opened when the tendon is divided for club-foot. The action of this muscle is to draw the foot up- wards and inwards.* When the foot is the fixed point, it assists in balancing the body at the ankle. This muscle lies along the fibular side of the pre- commimis ceding. It arises from the head of the tibia, from the digitonun. ^pp^r two-thixds of the fibula, from the interosseous membrane and the fascia. Its fibres terminate in a penniform manner iipon a long tendon which descends over the ankle and divides into four. These diverge from each other, and are inserted into the toes thus: —On the first phalanx, each tendon (except that of the little toe) is joined on its outer side by the correspond- ino- tendon of the extensor brevis. The united tendons then expand, and are inserted as on the fingers; that is, the middle part is inserted into the base of the second phalanx; the sides run on to the base of the third. Immediately below the ankle the anterior annular ligament forms a beautiful pulley through which the tendon of this muscle plays. It is like a sling, of which the two ends are attached to the * It is generally necessary to divide this tendon in distortion of the foot inwards, called " talipes varus."