FRONT OF THE THIGH. 432 double advantage; for it acts upon two joints simultaneously, "bending the thigh while it extends the knee, as when we advance the leg in walking: it also contributes to balance the pelvis on the head of the thigh bone, and thus prevents the body from falling backwards. We cannot have a better proof of the collective power of the extensor muscles than when the patella is broken across by their contraction; an injury which sometimes happens when a man slipping backwards makes a violent effort to recover his balance. To facilitate the play of the extensor tendon there are two bursse. One is placed between the ligamentum patellse and the tubercle of the tibia, the other between the crurasus and the lower part of the femur. This last is of very considerable size. In early life it is, as a rule, distinct from the synovial membrane of the knee-joint; but after a few years of friction we generally find a wide commu- nication between them. We must here say a few words respecting the struc- ttiTttella ^^"^^^ patella. The skin over it is e pa e a. exceedingly loose, and in the subcutaneous tissue is a bursa of considerable size. Since this bursa is apt to enlarge and inflame in females who are in the habit of kneeling, it is generally called "the housemaid's bursa." Observe that the biirsa is not seated exactly on the top of the patella, but that it extends some way down the ligamentum patellse; indeed, in some cases it is entirely confined to this ligament. This quite corresponds with the position of the tumor which the bursa occasions when enlarged. Generally speaking, in subjects brought for dissection, the wall of the bursa is more or less thickened, and its interior intersected by numerous fibrous cords, which are remnants of the original cellular structure altered by long-continued friction. Again, the wall,of the bursa does not always form a complete sac; sometimes there is a wide opening in it; this explains the rapidity with which inflammation, in some cases, extends from the bursa into the sur- rounding cellular tissue. Below the bursa is a layer of fascia lata, and under this is a beautiful network of arteries. The immediate covering of the bone, or what may be called its periosteum, is a strong expansion