DISSECTION OP THE ORBIT. 167 mination of the ophthalmic. It leaves the orbit on the nasal side of the eye, and inosculates with the angular artery (termination of the facial). It supplies the side of the nose and the lachrymal sac. This commences at the inner angle of the eye, by a Ojhthalnuc (;QJJJJJJ^]2ication with the angular and frontal veins. It runs backwards in a more straight course than the artery, receives corresponding branches, and finally passes between the two origins of the external rectus to terminate in the cavernous smus. Ophthalmic '^^i^ ^^^^^ ganglion (o, p. 160), about the size of a or lenticular pin's head, is situated at the back of the orbit, between ganghon. ^-^^ optic nerve and the external rectus. It receives a branch (sensitive root) from the' nasal nerve, another (motor root) from the lower division of the third nerve,^and it also receives {sympathetic) filaments from the plexus round the internal carotid artery. The ganglion' thus fui-nished with motor, sensitive, and sympathetic roots, gives off the ciliary nerves. These, from ten to twelve in number, run forward very tortuously with the optic nerve, pass through the back of the sclerotica, and are distributed to the iris. Since the ciliary nerves derive their motor influence from the third nerve, we see that the iris must lose its power of motion when this nerve is paralysed. m,- '^^^^ before it enters the sphenoidal fissure, the third Third uerve, j • ■ j • j ■, motor ocuH. nerve divides into two branches, both of which pass between the origins of the external rectus. The upper division has been already traced into the superior rectus and levator palpebrae. The lower division supplies a branch to the internal rectus, another to the inferior rectus, and then runs along the floor of the orbit to the inferior oblique muscle. What is the result of paralysis of the third nerve ? falling of the upper eyelid (ptosis), external squint, dilatation and immobility of the pupil. Sixth nerre, This nerve enters the orbit between the origins of motor ex- the external rectus, and terminates in fine filaments, which axe exclusively distributed to the ocular surface of this muscle.