scaiipa's triangle. 426 side of the thigh consists of the adductors; that in the middle,- of the extensors; the long muscle which crosses ohliquely over the front is the sartorius. This we will take first, being a sort of land-mark to the rest. „ ^ . This muscle arises from the anterior superior spine of Sartomis. .-i .i. , the ilmm and the ridge below. It passes obliquely, like a strap, over the front of the thigh towards the inner side, and then descends almost perpendicularly on the inner side of the knee, where it terminates in a tendon which expands and is in- serted into the inner and front part of the tibia just below the tubercle. The tendon appears all the wider on account of its broad connection with the fascia of the leg. A large bursa* is interposed between the tendon and the internal lateral ligament. The chief action of the muscle is to fix the pelvis steadily on the thigh. It also crosses one leg over the other, as tailors are in the habit of doing when sitting at work.f The sartorius forms with the adductor longus the two ^^tfJitrl sides of a triangle, which has the crural arch for its base. This triangle is called " Scarpa's," in compliment to the anatomist who fii'st tied the femoral artery in it, for popliteal aneu- rism. You should carefully display the contents of this important surgical space, and study well their relative position. I have attempted to give some idea of them in fig. 96. It contains all the parts which come under the crural arch, namely: the external cutaneous nerve; the psoas and iliacus; the anterior crural nerve and its divisions, especially the long saphenous; the femoral artery with its great branch " the profunda," X which runs down behind it and gives off the "internal" and "external circumflex;" the femoral vein, joined by the profunda vein and internal saphena ; the pec- tineus muscle. * In persons, females especially, who are in the habit of riding, this bursa some- times becomes enlarged. t Hence the name given to it by SpigeHus (De corporis hum. fabric), "Quern ego sartorium musculum Tocare soleo, quod sartores eo maximfe utuntur, dum crus cruri inter consuendum impouunt." I In Kg. 96, " the profunda" is drawn more on the outside of the femoral than it is in nature; the internal circumflex cannot be seen because it sinks down between the pectineus and psoas.