QUADRATUS LUMBORUM. 325 Y 3 Iluicus iu- '^^"^ muscle occupies the iliac fossa, and is covered by eruus and a fascia, which first claims attention. This iliac fascia, as it is called, is attached to the crest of the ilium, and indirectly to the brim of the pelvis through its connection with the sheath of the psoas. But its most important attachment is to the outer half of the crural arch ; here it is directly continuous with the fascia transversalis (p, 297), so that together they present an eflfectual barrier to the escape of intestine beneath this part of the arch.* To return to the muscle. It arises from the iliac fossa, from the ilio-lumbar ligamentf, also from the capsule of the hip joint. The fibres pass beneath the crural arch, and are inserted into the tendon of the psoas. Thus the two muscles, so far as their action goes, may be considered as one. The combined action of the psoas and iliacus is to assist in rais- ing the body from the recumbent position, and to fix the pelvis steadily on the thigh: this supposes the fixed point to be at the trochanter minor. But supposing the fixed point to be at the spine, then the muscle can raise and rotate the femur outwards. It is this action which is so troublesome to counteract in fractures of the upper third of the femur. Quadratus '^^i^ muscle extends from the crest of the ilium to the himbonm ^^st rib, aud is contained in a sheath formed for it by the sheati. aponeurotic origin of the transversalis (p. 290). The anterior layer" of its sheath is attached to the roots of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebree, and the posterior layer to their summits. The muscle arises from about an inch and a • half of the crest of the ilium and from the ilio-lumbar ligament: it ascends nearly perpendicularly, and is inserted into the last rib, * The iUae fossEe are very Hable to be the seat of suppiiration, and the eoxu-se which the matter takes depends upon its position with regard to the iliac fascia If the matter be seated in the loose cellular tissue between the peritoneum and the fascia it usuaUy advances just above the crest of the iUum, or else towards the groin tliroiU the inguinal canal; but, if seated beneath the fascia, the chances are that the matter will make its way under the crural axch towards the upper and outer part of the thigh thiilkm ^""^ °^ tlie last lumbar vertebra to