422 PARTS CONCERNED IN FEMOKAL HERNIA. the coverings {fascia propria) of the hernia. 3. It contains in its substance bands of fibres running in the same direction as the crural arch, but quite independent of it, as shown in fig. 94 ; these bands lie over the neck of the sac, and are often the seat of the stricture; it is therefore necessary to divide them before the in- testine can be returned. Practical ap- From what has been said, you ought now to under- plication of stand —1, at what point a femoral hernia escapes from tlie subject. ^-^^ abdomen; 2, the course which it takes, and its relations to the surrounding parts ; .3, the proper mode of attempt- ing the reduction; 4, the structure and arrangement of its coverings ; and lastly, where the stricture will probably be situated. The hernia escapes from the abdomen through the femoral ring, —that is, under the weak part of the crural arch, between the femoral vein and Grimbernat's ligament. Here is the mouth of the hernial sac, or that part of it which communicates with the abdomen. It descends for a short distance nearly perpendicularly, and projects as a small tumour in front of the pectineus muscle. Its progress downwards, however, is soon arrested by the very close adhesion of the subcutaneous structures to the lower margin of the saphenous opening. Consequently, if the hernia in- crease in size, it must rise over the crural arch, where the subcu- taneous tissue offers less resistance; and the bulk of the hernia extends outwards towards the ilium, assuming more or less of an oblong form, with the long axis parallel to the crural arch. Since, then, the body of the hernia forms a very acute angle with the neck, the right mode of attempting its reduction is, to make the hernia retrace its steps, — that is, to draw it first down from the o-roin, and then to make pressure on it backwards in the direction of the femoral ring. Now what are its coverings ? The hernia protrudes before it the peritoneum, technically called the hernial sac* It next pushes before it the sheath of the femoral vessels, which forms an invest- » In some cases the fascia propria so mncli resembles the hernial sac, that it is not easy to distinguish between them. Generally speaking they are sepaxated by a small quantity of fat.