PAUTS CONCEliNED IN FliMOltAL IlKUNIA. 418 d. The so-called sheatli of the vessels. e. The practical application of the subject. The lower border of the aponeurosis of the external Crural arch. ^-^Yique muscle extends from the spine of the ilium to the spine of the pubes, and forms, over the bony excavation beneath, what is called the " crural arch." (It is marked by the dark line in fig. 93.) A glance at the relative position of its attachments is sufficient to show that the direction of the arch is oblique; besides which, in consequence of its intimate connection with the muscular fascia of the thigh, the line of the arch describes a gentle curve with the convexity downwards. The pubic insertion of the arch is a point which we must thoroughly understand. Not only is the arch attached to the spine of the pubes, but also for some distance along the linea ilio-pectinea (fig. 93). This additional attachment, called after its discoverer, Gimbernafs ligament*, is of material importance, for it is the seat of the stricture in hernia. The best view of Grimbernat's ligament is obtained Gimbemat's £j.q^ within the abdomen. All that is necessary is to ligament. ^.^^^^g peritoneum. You then see that it is triangular, with the apex at the pubes; that the base, directed outwards, is a little curved. Its breadth is from three-quarters of an inch to one inch; but it varies in- different subjects, and is always broader in the male than in the female; this is one among many reasons why femoral hernia is less frequent in the male. Put your finger into the femoral ring and make yourself familiar with the sharp and wiry feel of this ligament: observe, especially, that, as the body lies on the table, the plane of the Hgament is perpendicular, and therefore that it recedes from the surface. The crural arch transmits from the abdomen into rfthef'StT* the thigh (proceeding in order from the outer side) wMclipaBs the following objects, shown in fig. 93: 1. The ex- iindertheajcli. ^^^^^^ cutaueous nerve; 2. The iliacus and psoas muscles, with the anterior crural nerve between them; 3. The femoral artery and vein with the crural branch of the genito-crural * Don Antonio de aimbernat was a Spanish surgeon, who published, in 1793, " A New Method of Operating for the Femoral Hernia," Madrid.