420 PARTS CONCERNED IN TEMORAL HERNIA. The hollow under the crural arch is completely occu- Femoral pjg^ except for a small space on the inner side of the ring. jr X r vein. This weak part is called the " femoral ring," through this a femoral hernia protrudes. Now in order to form a correct idea of the size of this opening, you should remove the peritoneum, and introduce the end of the little finger into it from the abdomen. This can be done without much force. You find that the finger is girt pretty tightly on all sides: in front, is the crural arch ; behind, is the bone ; on the outer side, is the femoral vein; on the inner side, is the thin wiry edge of Grimbernat's liga- ment. Such are the boundaries of the gap which the finger makes. Such are the boundaries of the femoral ring. Eemember, how- ever, that, in the undisturbed condition of the parts, there is no gap ; there is only a weak place here, which, when a hernia escapes through it, feels very much like a ring; hence the name " femoral ring. * The femoral ring is surrounded on all sides by unyielding struc- tures. This accounts for the little benefit afforded by the warm bath in cases of strangulation. Mr. LawTence says he never saw a strangulated femoral hernia where the warm bath was of any avail. „, ^ The femoral vessels do not descend naked beneath the Sheath of i i • i the femoral crural arch, but come down enclosed m a membranous vessels. gheath. This sheath appears to be derived immediately from the arch itself, but it is not so: it is a continuation of the fascia transversalis of the abdomen. Now this continuation, uniting with the muscular fascia behind the femoral vessels, forms a funnel, with the wide part uppermost, into which the femoral vessels enter. This is what is meant by the funnel-shaped sheath of the femoral vessels. To examine this sheath satisfactorily, it is necessary to reflect from its attachment to the crural arch, the upper horn of the sa- * The femoral ring is naturally occiipied by a Uttle fat and ceUular membrane, by absorbent vessels, and often by a small absorbent gland. But have never met with anything deserving the name of a " diaphragm" or membranous septum, such as is described by Cloquet as the " septum crurale."