490 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. the surface, and surrounds all the nerves down to the foramina, through which they pass. One sees this water oozing through the ear, in some cases of fracture through the base of the skull, where the fracture runs across the meatus auditorius internus and the petrous portion of the temporal bone. This symptom is the almost certain presage of a fatal result. Arteries of "^^^ hram is supplied with blood by the two internal the brain, carotid and the two vertebral arteries. This artery enters the skull through' a canal in the caTOtid ^ petrous portion of the temporal bone, mounts up very tortuously by the side of the body of the sphenoid, and, after giviag off the ophthalmic, diAddes into the anterior and middle cerebral arteries, for the supply of the anterior and middle cerebral lobes. a. The antenor cerebral artery sinks into the longitudinal fis- sure between the hemispheres, curves round the front part of the corpus callosum, and then runs backwards along the upper surface of it. It distributes branches in all directions. The anterior cerebral arteries of opposite sides run close together, and at the base of the brain are connected by a short branch called the " anterior communicating " (fig. 116). h. The middle cerebral artery runs deep in the fissure of Silvius, distributing large branches to the anterior and middle lobes. This artery, after winding backwards along the arch Vertebral atlas, enters the skull through the foramen maer- artery. ' _ ° o num, and unites with its fellow at the lower border of the pons to form the " basilar^ ' This single vessel proceeds along the middle of the pons, and divides at the upper border of it into the two posterior cerebral arteries for the supply of the pos-r terior cerebral lobes (fig. 116). In its course along the pons, the basilar gives off on either side — a. The little auditory artery, which enters the meatus audi- torius with the auditory nerve. h. The superior and inferior cerebellar arteries, for the supply of the upper and lower surfaces of the cerebellum.