MALE PERINEUM. 345 others consider the anterior layer only as the triangular ligament, and the posterior layer as part of the pelvic fascia, which I think is the proper view to take of it. The triangular ligament, as shown in fig. 72, is a strong and resisting membrane stretched across the pubic arch. What are its connections ? On each side it is firmly attached to the 'posterior lip of the rami of the pubes and ischium; superiorly, i. e. towards the symphysis of the pubes, it is connected with the sub-pubic ligament; inferiorly, it does, not present a free border, but is re- flected forwards under the transversus perinei and becomes identi- fied with the superficial perineal fascia (p. 340). The membranous part of the urethra runs through the triangular ligament about one inch below the symphysis pubis. The aper- ture for it does not present a distract edge like a round hole, be- cause the ligament is prolonged forwards over the bulb and serves to keep it in position. Points of sur- The triangular ligament is very important in a sur- gical interest, gjcal point of view for these among other reasons : — 1. Here the young hand meets with difficulty in introducing a catheter, unless he can hit off the right track through the ligament. The soft and spongy tissue of the bulbous part of the urethra in front of the ligament readily gives way, if violence be used, and a false passage is the result. 2. By elongating the penis, you are much more likely to hit ofif the proper opening through the ligament. 3. When, in retention of urine, the urethra gives way anterior to this ligament, it is this which prevents the lu-ine from travelling into the pelvis. Its connection with the superficial perineal fascia prevents the urine from getting into the ischio-rectal fossa. Neither can the urine make its way into the thighs. The only outlet for it IS mto the cellular tissue of the scrotum and penis. 4. When suppuration takes place behind the ligament, the matter is pent up and should be speedily let out; if not, it will find its way mto the cellular tissue of the pelvis and may burst into the urethra or the rectum. 5. We have to cut through the ligament in lithotomy.