262 DISSECTION OF THE BACK OP THE EOREAKM. fibrous expansion, which covers the sides of the joint. Over the first phalanx of the finger, each'tendon again spreads out, receives the expanded tendons of the lumbricales and interossei muscles, and divides at the second phalanx into three portions, of which the middle is inserted into the upper end of the second phalanx; the two lateral, reuniting over the lower end of the second phalanx, are inserted into the upper end of the third.* Observe the oblique aponeurotic slips which connect the tendons on the back of the hand. They are subject to great variety. The tendon of the index finger is commonly free ; it is situated on the radial side of the proper indicator tendon, and becomes united with it at the metacarpal joint. The tendon of the middle usually receives a slip from that of the ring fingen. The tendon of the ring finger generally sends a slip to the tendons on either side of it, and in some cases entirely furnishes the tendon of the little finger. It is not only a general extensor of the fingers, but it can extend some of the phalanges independently of the rest: e.g. it can extend the first phalanges while the second and third are flexed; or it can extend the second and third phalanges diuing flexion of the first. This long slender muscle arises from the common Extensor tendon from the external condyle, from the septa be- niSfor' tween it and the contiguous muscles. Its slender auricdaris. ^^^^^^ ^^^^ beneath the annular ligament immediately behind the joint between the radius and ulna, in a special sheath lined by synovial membrane. At the first joint of the little finger, the tendon is joined by that of the common extensor, and both expand upon the first and second phalanges, termmatmg m the same manner as the extensor tendons of the other fingers. , This muscle arises from the common tendon from tlie external condyle, from the septum between it and the ex- tensor minimi digiti, and from the aponeurosis of the fore- nans. * The extensor tendons are only inserted into the periosteum, -^^^^ f tendons are inserted into the substance of the bone. This accounts the facimy ^th which the former will tear off the bones in cases of necrosis, while the latter wui adhere so tightly as to require cutting before the phalanx can be removed.