328 COMMON ILIAC AllTEEIES. The„spermatic arteries arise from the front of the Spermatic " , mi i t i arteries and aorta a little below the renal. They descend along the psoas muscle, and then through the inguinal canal to the testicle. In the female, the corresponding arteries proceed between the layers of the broad ligament to the ovaries. Each artery is accompanied by two very tortuous veins, which unite and then empty themselves, on the right side, into the vena cava; on the left, into the renal vein. Lumbar There are five of these arteries on either side: four artoieTand arise from the aorta, the fifth comes from the arteria branches. ^^^^^ media. They are strictly repetitions of the inter- costal arteries on a small scale, so that "lumbar intercostals" would be an appropriate name for them. They proceed outwards over the bodies of the vertebras towards the inter-vertebral foramina, and then, like the thoracic intercostals, divide into dorsal and abdominal branches. The dorsal branches pass between the transverse processes to the muscles of the back, and are of a size proportionate to the large development of these muscles. They also send arteries into the spinal canal. The abdominal branches all run outwards behind the quadratus lumborum, except the last, which commonly runs in front. After supplying the quadratus and psoas, they are lost in the waU of the abdomen.* The lumbar veins empty themselves into the vena cava. The two common iliac arteries resulting from the L™"a^^' bifurcation of the aorta opposite the fourth kmibar ■VT3INS. vertebra, diverge from each other at an acute angle, towards the sacro-iliac sy^nphysis, and, after a course of about two inches, divide into the external and internal iliac. They lie close to the vertebrae, and each, at or near its point of division is crossed by the ureter: the left one is also crossed by the colon. * Just as the thoracic intercostals, by communicating ^rith the internal mamTnary, form a yascdar ring round the chest, so do the lumbar, by communicatmg with he epigastric, form a vascular ring, though a less perfect one, round the walls of the abdomen.