518 SPINAL CORD. substance of the cord ; it contains a fold of pia mater full of blood- vessels for the supply of the iaterior. At the bottom of this fissure is a transverse layer of white substance, named the anterior commissure, connecting the two anterior halves of the cord. The poster ior fissure is so much less apparent than the anterior that some anatomists altogether deny its existence; but it can be demonstrated by a careful preparation, and, indeed, penetrates to a greater depth than the anterior, so that it reaches quite down to the grey matter in the centre of the cord. Besides the anterior and posterior fissures, there run down each half of the cord two very superficial grooves, from which the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves respectively emerge. These constitute the anterior and posterior lateral grooves. The posterior leads down to the posterior horn of the grey matter in the interior of the cord; the anterior is less distinct than the other, and does not reach down to the anterior horn of grey ° ™^®' matter. By these lateral grooves each half of the cord is divided into three longitudinal columns—an anterior, a posterior, and a lateral. The anterior are motor columns, the posterior sensitive, the lateral probably contain both motor and sensitive filaments. A transverse section through the cord (fig. 127) shows Intenor. ^^^^ interior contains grey matter, arranged in the form of two crescents placed one in each half of it, and connected across the centre by a portion called the " grey commissure^ * The posterior horns of the crescents are long and narrow, and extend to the posterior lateral fissure, where they are connected with the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. The anterior horns are short and thick, and come forwards towards the line of attach-, ment of the anterior roots of the nerves, but do not reach the surface. * The grey matter in the interior of the cord of man and animals presents some- what different appearances in its different parts. These have been accurately des- cribed and figured by Eolando, Eicherche Anatomiche sulla Struttura del Midollo Spinalc, con Figure, art. Tratto dal Dizionai-io Periodico di Medicina, Torino, 1824, 8vo. p. 55.