43 BRANCHES Or THE SUBCLAVIAN. of the head. After passing thi'ongli the foramen of the atlas, the vessel curves backwards along the groove upon its posterior arch, enters the skull through the foramen magnum, and unites with its fellow near the lower border of the " pons Varolii," to form the basilar artery. The vertebral artery is accompanied by slender nerves from the inferior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. These nerves com- municate with the spinal nerves forming the brachial plexus. Being intended for the brain, the vertebral gives off no branches in the neck, except a few small ones to the deeply-seated muscles; it furnishes, however, to the spinal cord and its membranes small arteries which pass through the inter-vertebral foramina. The vertebral vein does not come out of the skull with the vertebral artery, but is formed by small branches from the muscles near the foramen magnum. It descends in front of the artery through the foramina in the transverse processes, and joins the brachio-cephalic vein. It receives the veins from the cervical portion of the spinal cord. In some subjects it communicates with the lateral sinus by a branch through, the posterior condyloid foramen. The thyroid axis arises from the subclavian near the Tliyroid ^qj^q^ edge of the scalenus anticus, and after a course of axis. ° ' a quarter of an inch divides into four branches which take different directions; namely, the inferior thyroid, the pos- terior scapular, the supra-scapular, and the ascending cervical. The inferior thyroid artery ascends tortuously behind the sheath of the common carotid artery and the sympathetic nerve, to the deep surface of the thyroid body, in which it commvmicates freely with the superior thyroid. It gives small branches to the trachea, the oesophagus, and the larynx. The ascending cervical often arises from the inferior thyroid. It ascends in the interval between the scalenus anticus and the rectus capitis anticus major, and terminates in small branches, some of which supply these muscles; others enter the inter- vertebral foramina and supply the spinal cord. The supra-scapular artery (transversalis humeri) runs outwards