SUBMAXILLARY REGION. 24 bone and the internal pterygoid m., to supply the mylo-hyoideus and the-anterior belly of the digastricus. The submaxillary absorbent glands receive the absorbent vessels of the face and the tongue. We often see them enlarged in cancer of the tongue and cancer of the lower lip. It is worth remem- bering that there are absorbent glands in the mesial line below the chin. The mylo-hyoideus arises from the mylo-hyoid ridge hyoideus. lower jaw, and is inserted into the body of the os-hyoides. Between this and the symphysis of the jaw, it joins its fellow in a mesial tendinous line, termed a " raphe." Observe the posterior fibres only of the muscle are inserted into the os-hyoides { the anterior fibres successively decrease in length, and meet their fellow in the mesial line. Thus the muscles of opposite sides form a muscular floor for the mouth. It is supplied with nerves by the mylo-hyoid branch of the dental, with blood by the submental a. The muscles of opposite sides conjointly elevate the os-hyoides and the floor of the mouth, — as in deglutition. Stylo- This is simply a deep layer of the cervical fascia, ex- maxillary tending from the angle of the jaw to the styloid process, ligament, ^ broad sheet of fascia, and separates the sub- maxillary gland from the parotid. It is continuous with the fascia covering the pharjoix; this gives it a surgical interest, because it prevents accumvdations of matter formed near the tonsils and upper part of the pharynx from coming to the surface. The remaining objects seen in the sub-maxillary triangle, namely, the parotid gland, the external carotid, the hypoglossal nerve, and the hyo-glossus muscle will be described presently when they can be better seen. I wish now to call your attention to a little piece of surgical anatomy, which will enable you readily to find and tie the lingual artery. It is this : Suppose a horizontal incision to be made along the bodj'^ and greater cornu of the os-hyoides through the skin, the platysma, and the cervical fascia, you will come at once upon the lower edge of the submaxillary gland. Lift tip the gland, which can be easily