MUSCLES OV THE BACK. 185 lines of the occiput, near the vertical crest. In the centre of the muscle there is generally tendinous tissue.* The muscle is perfo- rated by the posterior branches of the second (the great occipital), thir-d, and fourth cervical nerves. Its action is to keep the head erect. Eeflect the complexus to see the " arteria cervicalis profunda" (p. 45), and the posterior branches of the cervical nerves. This is the mass of muscle which lies in the vertebral spinalis. groove after the reflection of the complexus and the erector spinse. It consists of a series of fibres which extend between the transverse and spinous processes of the dorsal and cervical vertebras, and is usually divided into the " semispinalis colli," and " semispinalis dorsi." a. The seviispinalis colli arises from the transverse processes of the five or six upper dorsal vertebras, and is inserted into the spines of the axis and the thi-ee or four succeeding vertebrse. b. The semispinalis dorsi arises from the transverse processes of the lower dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into the spines of the upper dorsal and the two or three lower cervical vertebrje. Now reflect part of the semispinalis dorsi in order to expose the "multifidus spincer This may be considered a part of the pre cedmg muscle, since its fixed points and the direction of its fibres are the same. It consists of a series of little muscles which extend between the spmes and transverse jDrocesses of the vertebrae from the sacrum to the second cervical vertebra. Those in the lumbar region are the largest. They arise by tendinous slips' from the transverse processes in the sacral and dorsal region, and from the articular processes in the lumbar and cervical region. They aD ascend obliquely, and are inserted into the spines and laminae of aU the vertebra excepting the atlas. It should be observed that their fibres are not of uniform length; some extend only from vertebra ZZ^Z^" - three ~s as a sepa^a.' tissue in the ceutre of it. ' ^ ^ ^"<=h tendinous t ^--tl^tl^-ultifidusspin.wefi.d,intWorsalregionofthespineonly elo.en