CERVICAL PLEXUS. 33 r, . T This plexus is formed by the anterior branches of the Cervical ^ •' plexus of four upper cervical nerves. It consists of a series of nerves. loop-like communications w^hich take place betvs^een these nerves, close to the transverse processes of the four upper cervical vertebrte. The plexus is situated behind the internal jugular vein, and lies in front of the scalenus anticus and the levator anguli scapulae muscles. The plexus gives off superficial and deep branches. The superr ficial branches are very extensive; these you have already traced, page 4. The deep branches are distributed to eleven muscles, as follow: The sterno-mastoid, the trapezius, the levator anguli Applied by scapulse, the rectus capitis anticus major and minor, the cervical the rectus capitis lateralis, the longus colli, the sterno- plexus. byoid, stemo-thyroid, and omo-hyoid, and lastly, the diaphragm. The cervical plexus communicates with the hypoglossal nerve, the nervus accessorius, and the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. But the dissection of all this requii-es much time and care, and is of no practical value. Posterior '^^^ boundaries of the posterior triangle of the neck triangle of are, the sterno-mastoid, the trapezius, and the clavicle, t e neck. rjij^-^ ^j-jr^j^gig (jiyided by the omo-hyoid into two lesser triangles, an upper and a lower. When the platysma and cervical fascia are cleared away, you will find in the upper triangle (posterior superior) the following muscles proceeding from above (fig. 2, p. 9),—the splenius capitis, the levator anguli scapulae and the scaleni. You also find the de- scending branches of the cervical plexus, the nervus accessorius, the posterior scapular a. (transversalis colli), and its branch the super- ficialis colli, which chiefly supplies the trapezius. The posterior inferior triangle is by far the more important of the two, because it contains the subclavian vessels and the brachial plexus of nerves. To this triangle let us now address our- selves.