14 INTEENAL JUGULAR VEIN. 2. It is crossed by the left vena innominata. 3. It is in close relation with the oesophagus. 4. It is in close relation with the left recui-rent nerve. 5. It is in close relation with the thoracic duct. ^. . .^^ The common carotid at its division is often a little of the bulbous. / This dilatation is in some instances so marked, e^tid^ that during life I have seen it mistaken for an incipient aneurism. It is necessary to be aware that the carotid sometimes divides much lower than usual. Several times I have seen the division as low as the level of the cricoid cartilage. Internal '^^^ internal jugular vein returns the blood from the jugular brain. Leaving the skull at the foramen jugulare, the vein d'escends on the outer side of the carotid, but in the sheath with it, and joins the subclavian vein at nearly a right angle to form the vena innominata. In its course down the neck it receives the pharyngeal, occipital, lingual, facial, superior and inferior thyroid veins. Previous to its termination the internal jugular advances slightly to meet the subclavian vein, so that it lies on a plane a little ante- rior to the carotid. Besides which, the direction of the vein being perpendicular, and that of the artery oblique, there is necessarily a small interval between them at the lower part of the neck, more especially on the right side. In this interval we find the pneumo- gastric nerve, and, deeper, the vertebral artery. Here, too, on the left side, we look for the thoracic duct. The descendens noni (page 11), a branch of the nonr^'^^°^ hypoglossal, runs down obliquely over the sheath of the carotid to supply the depressor muscles of the os- hyoides. Trace the nerve upwards, and you will see that it leaves, the hypoglossal where this nerve curves round the occipital, or perhaps the mastoid artery. For a short distance the descendens noni lies within the carotid sheath ; but about the level of the os- hyoides it comes through the sheath, and crosses obliquely the carotid, from the outer to the inner side. Now the descendens noni is reinforced by one or more nerves termed communicantes noni (derived from the second and third cervical nerves). These