MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 511 Eespecting the function of the cerebellum, the ai-gu- Functiou. xaents furniwhed by comparative anatomy render pro- bable that it is a co-ordinator of muscular movements, — e. g. in the action of walking, flying, swimming, &c. -P, This convex eminence (p. 491), is situated at the Pons v^uioLn , ^\ OR TOTER AN- base of the brain, immediately above the medulla NULABE. oblongata. It corresponds with the basilar groove of the occipital bone. In its antero-posterior diameter it measures rather more than one inch. Down the middle runs a furrow which lodges the basilar artery. If the pia mater be carefully removed, we see that its fibres proceed transversely from one hemi- commissiu-e sphere of the cerebellum to the other: hence it is called of the cere- i]^q commissure of the cerebellar lobes. Throughout the bellnm. ,. . . , . . mammalia its size bears a direct ratio to the decree of o development of these lobes; therefore it is larger in man than in any other animal.* Understand that only the superficial fibres are transverse; if these be tm'ned off, we see that the anterior fibres of the medulla run under them at right angles into the crura cerebri, like a river under a bridge. Besides the transverse and longitudinal fibres just described, the pons contains grey matter which probably gives origin to fresh nerve-fibres; so that it appears reasonable to consider the pons a source, as well as a mere conductor of power. Medulla This term is applied to that part of the cerebro-spinal OBLONGATA. ^^^^ which follows immediately below the pons Varolii^ and is continuous with the spinal cord. It is one of the most important divisions of the nervous system. It is not only the highroad for nerves to and from the brain, but it contains the nerve centres which preside over respiration, deglutition, and speech. It is sometimes called the " vital knot." Injury to the medulla oblongata is immediately fatal. It is about an inch and a quarter long. It lies above the basilar groove of the occipital bone; and descends obliquely backwards to the foramen magnum, * Birds, reptUes, and fishes, have no pons, because there are no lateral lobes to the cerebellum.