339 MALE PEKINKUM. Z 2 and more, aud on either side of the rectum it is found in re^cVid^f*s»' shape of large masses, filling up what would other- wise be two deep hollows in this situation, namely the ischio-rectal fossK. The purpose of this accumulation of fat on each side of the anus, is to permit the easy distention and contrac- tion of the lower end of the bowel during and after the passage of the faeces.* Again, over the tuberosity of the ischia we meet with large masses of fat, separated by tough fibrous septa passing from the skin to the bone, so as to make an elastic padding to sit upon. Occasionally, too, there are' one or more large bursce in- terposed between this padding and the bone. ^ So much respecting the general characters of this subcutaneous tissue of the perineum. Some anatomists describe it as consisting of three, four, or even more layers, but in nature we do not find it so. We may, indeed, divide it into as many layers as we please according to our skill in dissection ; but this only complicates what is, in itself, simple. Now examine the cutaneous sphincter muscle of the anus, and the superficial vessels and nerves of the perineum. Cutaneous .^^^ cutaneous sphincter of the anus arises from the sphmcter point of the coccyx, and from the ano-coccygeal liga- ment. The muscular fibres surround the anus, and are lost in a pointed manner in the tendinous centre of the perineum (p. 342). It is called the cutaneous sphincter to distinguish it from a deeper and more powerful band of muscular fibres which surrounds the last inch or more of the rectum, and is situated nearer to the mucous membrane. Cutaneous cutaneous vessels and nerves of the perineum vessels and come from the internal pudic artery and nerve and _ ■ _ chiefly from that branch ef it called the superficialis perme^. This we shall trace more fully presently. Besides this, a cutaneous nerve is sent to these parts from the lesser ischiatic, * It is this fat in the ischio-rectal fossae which renders them so liable to ^h. n rence of pec^iliarly fcBtid gangrenous abscesses. These should Z . . possible, lest they burst into the rectum • and one t J ^ \ """'^^ introduced in order to reach the seat oJl ^Tef. " ''"^'^