296 PARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL, HERNIA. we should therefore turn down a triangular flap of the abdominal wall, just as was done with the aponeurosis of the external oblique. On the inner surface of the flap, thus reflected, is the peritoneum. If the parts be all kept together and made tense, we notice that the peritoneum is raised into a fold by a thick fibVous cord, which runs up obliquely towards the umbilicus. This cord is the impervious remains of the umbiHcal artery. If the peritoneal fold be well marked, it appears triangular with the base below, and occasions two pouches, one on either side of it. The depth and distmctness of these pouches will be iu proportion to the prominence of the fold itself; but if it happen that the cord be closely attached to the abdominal wall, then there will be no fold or pouch.* Take care not to confound the remains of the umbilical artery with what is called the "uro^hus:' This is another cord, a remnant of em- bryonic life, which ascends from the bladder directly behmd the linea alba to the umbilicus. Haying examined the remains of the umbilical artery and the urachus, now reflect the peritoneum from the abdominal flap. This is done easily enough, for it is loosely connected to the abdominal wall by an abundance of soft cellular tissue, which generally con- tains a considerable quantity of fat. A tissue of a connects the peritoneum to the iliac region; and this accounts for the facility with which the peritoneum can be extended so as to envelop even the largest hernise. T Jfasoia lining the under surface of the transversals .ausck ,as first accurately described by Sir A. Cooper, and ca led by Inm r "/a.« tr««& " (fig. 58). New what are the connec- tions of this important fascia? Speaking generally, one may say Ot it is attached to the crural arch thence ^^^f'^-^gf^l diminishing in thickness, is lost on the under surface of the tiaits. W muscle. Its inner border is connected to the margin of the Zt^Z also to the lower margin of the conjomed tendon. trusion takes place in the outer or the inner fossa.