KIDNEY. 403 readily stripped off; if not, the presumption is, that its adhesion is the result of disease. The best way to display the anatomy of the kidney is to make a longitudinal section throuarh it. This shows two distinct structures. o o The superficial structure, called the " cortical,'^ is of a uniform red colour, because the blood vessels are most copiously distributed in it; it is the secreting part of the organ. The deeper structure, called the " tubular," consists of the minute tubes which carry off the urine. These tubes, converging from the cortical part, are col- lected into from ten to sixteen pyramidal bundles (fig. 88) : their nipple-like points (termed papillcB), consisting of the terminations of a great number of coalesced tubes, project into the pelvis of the kidney; the common receptacle of the secretion, from all parts of the organ.* The pelvis of the kidney is the dilated beginning of the ureter. It is funnel-shaped, and its broad part divides into two principal channels, which again branch out and form from eight to twelve cup-like excavations (called the calices). Into each of these calices one, sometimes two, papillae project. The renal artery runs to the kidney between the vein in front, and the ureter behind, and divides into five or six branches, which, again subdividing, make their way between the pyramids to the cortical substance. Their minute ramifications terminate in one of two ways,—either in plexuses round the tubes, or in the Malpighian bodies. Examine with a microscope a portion of a minutely Malpighian ^, , , bodies. mjected kidney. Observe that the cortical substance is full of red round knots, formed by the coils of minute blood-vessels; these are the Malpighian■f bodies (fig. 89). * Each pyramid represents what was, in the early stage of the kidney's growth, a distinct and independent lobe. In the human subject the lobes gi-adually coalesce, and no trace of theii- primordial state remains, except the pjTamidal arrangement of the tubes. But in the Iddiieys of the lower mammaUa, of birds and reptiles, the lobes are permanently separate. t So named after Malpighi, a celebrated. Italian anatomist who Uved during the middle and latter part of the seventeenth eentuiy.