36 PHRENIC NERVE. Scalenus The scalenus posticus arises from the posterior posticus. tubercles of the transverse processes of the two or three lower cervical vertebrse, and is inserted into the second rib between its tubercle and angle. The scalene muscles are important agents in raising the thorax, in a deep inspiration. Take a deep breath, and you can easily feel them contracting in your own person. They can bend forwards the cervical portion of the spine, if their lower attachment be the fixed point, as in rising from the recumbent position. The scalenus anticus is just one of those muscles about which we ought to know well all that lies in front of it, and all that lies behind it. In front of it, then, you see the phrenic nerve, the subclavian veiti, the supra-scapular and posterior scapular arteries. Behind it you see the subclavian artery and the five nerves which form the brachial plexus. Make your finger familiar with the feel of the tubercle on the first rib, to which the scalenus anticus is attached. This tubercle is the best guide to the subclavian artery, for it guides you to the outer edge of the scalenus anticus, where you are to look for the vessel. Is the scalenus anticus entirely concealed from view by the sterno-mastoid or not ? This will depend upon the breadth of the clavicular attachment of the sterno-mastoid. As a general rule, it may be said, that the scalene muscle is concealed by the sterno- mastoid, and that consequently, in tying the subclavian artery, it will greatly facilitate the operation, if the clavicular origin of the muscle be partially divided. The phrenic nerve runs perpendicularly upon the Phrenic scalenus anticus. Trace it upwai-ds, and you will find that it arises from the third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves; but chiefly from the fourth. It enters the chest between the subclavian artery and vein, close to the inner border of the scalenus, and continues its course between the pericardium and the pleura, in front of the root of the lung, to the diaphragm, which muscle it supplies. When the spinal chord is injured above the fourth cervical vertebra, the origin of the phrenic is implicated, and therefore the