443 FRONT OF THE LEG. 03 calcis, while the loop serves to confine the tendon. The play of the tendon is facilitated by a synovial membrane, which is pro- longed for a short distance along each of its four divisions. Besides its chief action, this muscle extends the ankle-joint.* This appears like a portion of the preceding. Its Peroueus fibres arise from the lower part of the shaft of the fibula, and terminate on their tendon like barbs on a quill. The tendon passes through the same pulley with the long extensor of the toes, and, expanding considerably, is inserted into the tarsal end of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. The peroneous tertius and the tibialis anticus are important muscles in progression. They raise the toes and foot from the gTound. Persons who have lost the use of these muscles are obliged to drag the foot along the ground, or to swing the entire limb outwards in walking. This muscle lies partly concealed between the tibialis Extensor i t • t • proprius anticus and the extensor longus digitorum. It arises poUicis. j.^^^ rather more than the middle third of the fibula, and from the interosseous membrane. The fibres terminate in a penniform manner on the tendon, which runs over the ankle, along the'top of the foot, to the great toe, where it is inserted into the base of the last phalanx. It has a special pulley beneath the angular ligament, lined by a synovial membrane, which accompanies it as far as the metatarsal bone of the great toe. ^ This muscle is situated on the top of the foot, beneath Extensor ' brevis digi- the long extensor tendons of the toes. It arises from torum. front part of the os calcis, and from the ligaments uniting this bone to the astragalus. The fibres run obliquely over the foot, and terminate on four tendons, which join the fibular side of the long extensor tendons of the four inner toes. Now examine the course, relations, and branches of the anterior * There is often a large bursa between the tendon of the extensor longus digitorum and the outer end of the astragalus. There is much friction here. What is of more importance, this bursa sometimes communicates with the joint of tho head of the astragali^; it did so in the last foot I examined.