MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDEK. 254 A bursa of large size is situated between the deltoid, tiiTdelS'^ and the bead of the humerus. It extends for some ^ ^ ' distance beneath the acromion and the coraco-acromial ligament, and covers the great tuberosity of the humerus. I have seen it communicating by a wide opening Avith the shoulder-jomt, but this is a rare exception. Its use is to facilitate the movements of the head of the bone under the acromial arch, -r, , . This arterv is given off from the axillary: it runs be- Poftenor jo circumflex hind the surgical neck of the humerus, through a quaan- lateral opening, bounded above by the subscapularis, below by the teres major, externally by the neck of the humerus, and internally by the long head of the triceps (p. 210). Its branches terminate on the under surface of the deltoid, anastomosing with the anterior circuhiflex and acromial thoracic arteries. From the posterior circumflex, a branch descends in the substance of the long head of the triceps, to inosculate with the superior pro- funda : this is one of the channels through which the circulation would be carried on, if the axillary were tied in the last part of its course. This nerve, a branch of the axillary plexus, runs with Circumflex ^-^^ posterior circumflex artery. It sends a branch to the teres minor, one or two to the integuments of the shoulder, and terminates in the substance of the deltoid. The proximity of this nerve to the head of the humerus explains the occasional occurrence of paralysis of the deltoid, after a dislocation or fracture of the humerus. The nerve is apt to be injured, if not actually lacerated by the pressure of the bone. In the summer of 1840 a man was admitted into the hospital with a severe injury to the shoulder and died of delirium tremens. On exammation- the humerus was found broken high up, the capsule of the joint opened and the circumflex nerve torn completely across.* The muscles on the dorsum of the scapula are covered by a strong aponeurosis, which is firmly attached to the spine and bor- ders of the bone. At the posterior edge of the deltoid, it divides * See preparation in Museum of St. Bartholomews Hospital, series 3, number 42.