452 GLUTiEAL EEGION. Losser "^^^^ comes from the lower part of the sacral plexus. It isehiatic leaves the pelvis with the greater ischiatic nerve, but on the inner side of it, and in company with the ischiatic artery. The only muscular branches which it gives off are, one or more, which supply the glutaaus maximus. All its other branches are cutaneous. One turns round the lower border of the glutseus maximus, and supplies the skin of the buttock. Another, called the long pudendal, turns inwards towards the perineum, to supply the skin of that region and the scrotum. The continued trunk runs down tfie back of the thigh beneath the muscular fascia, as low as the upper part of the calf, supplying the skin all the way down. This branch of the internal iliac leaves the pelvis Ischiatic ijgio^ the pyriformis, and then descends between the tiiber ischii and the great trochanter, along the inner side of the great ischiatic nerve. It gives off,—1, Two or more considerable branches to the glutaeus maximus; 2, A coccygeal branch, which runs through the great sacro-ischiatic hgament, and then ramifies in the gluteus maximus, and on the back of the coccyx; 3, The comes nervi ischiatici; 4, Branches to the several'external rotator muscles; lastly, branches which supply the upper part of the hamstring muscles ; and others which mos- • culatewith the internal circumflex and obturator arteries (p. 437). The course of this artery and nerve has been fully Pudic artery described (p. 348). All that we have to observe and nerve. ^^^^^ ^hem now is, that they pass over the spine of the ischium, and that in a thin subject it is possible to com- press the artery against the spine. The rule for finding it is this: rotate the foot inwards, and draw a line from the top of the great trochanter to the base of the coccyx; the junction of the inner with the outer two-thirds gives the situation of the ai-tery. * Mr. Trayers succeeded in aiTesting hemorrhage ^'^^'^''^'^^'f'Xl^ glans penis hy pressing the pudic artery with a cork against the spine of the ischium.