546 DISSECTION OP THE EAK. panic scale of the cochlea, but is closed in the recent state by mem- brane. Immediately behind the foramen ovale is a small conical eminence, named the "pyramid: " there is a minute aperture in the summit of it, from which the tendon of the stapedius emerges. Lastly, at the back part of the tympanum is the opening which leads into the air-cells of the mastoid process. The tympanum is supplied with blood by a branch of the in- ternal maxillary, which runs in through the fissura Griasseri; 2, by the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular; 3, by small branches which enter with the Eustachian tube. This, in consequence of its complexity, is very appro- Internai. pj-ja^^giy termed " the labyrinth." In a general way we may say that it consists of cavities excavated in the most compact part bf the temporal bone. These cavities may be divided into three—a middle one, called " the vestibule," as being a centre in which all communicate with each other; an anterior, named, from its resemblance to a snail's shell, the cochlea; and a posterior, consisting of three semicircular canals. These cavities are filled with a clear fluid, called the endo-lymph, and contaia a mem- branous expansion (the membranous labyrinth), upon which the filaments of the auditory nerve are expanded. The vestibule, or central chamber, communicates in Vestibule. ^^^^^ cochlea, through the scala cochleae; behind, with the semicircular canals ; on the outside with the tym- panum, through the foramen ovale ; on the inside, with the bottom of the meatus auditorius internus.* The semicircular canals, three in number, are situated camlf above and rather behind the vestibule. Each canal forms the greater part of a circle, and opens at each extremity into the vestibule: therefore, there should be six aper- tures for them; but, in point of fact, there are only five, since one of the apertures is common to the extremity of two canals. The canals are not precisely of equal diameter throughout; each pre- * In some instances there is the opening of a small canal into the vestibule, termed the "aqueduetus restibuH." It leads to the posterior surface of the temporal bone, and contains a small vein.