19 CENTRAL LINE OP THE NECK. C 2 after a short interval, the pomum Adami, or notch of the thyroid cartilage. Below the thyroid cartilage is the cricoid. These two cartilages are connected by the crico-thyroid membrane. Below the cricoid c. is the trachea. This is crossed by the isthmus of the thyroid body, and lower down it is covered by the middle thyroid veins. Now the chief surgical interest lies just above and below the cricoid cartilage. We can feel this cartilage very plainly in the living subject. In laryngotomy, the crico-thyroid membrane is divided transversely. Eemember that the membrane should be divided close to the edge of the cricoid c, for two reasons:—1. In order to be far from the vocal cords. 2. To avoid the crico thyroid artery which crosses the middle of the membrane. If more room be required, the cricoid cartilage should be divided longi- tudinally. In tracheotomy, we open the trachea by a perpendicular in- cision, either above the isthmus of the thyroid body, or below it. The operation above the isthmus, if there be space enough for the introduction of the canula, is the easier and safer of the two ; for here the trachea is nearer to the surface, and no large blood- vessels are, generally speaking, in the way. The space available measiires from a quarter to half an inch ; and the isthmus is not so firmly adherent to the trachea as to prevent its being drawn downwards for a short distance. However, it is fair to state, that in one case out of every eight or ten, there is no available space. Tracheotomy below the isthmus, is neither an easy nor a safe operation, for many reasons. 1. The trachea recedes from the surface as it descends, so that just above the sternum it is nearly an inch and a half from the skin. 2. The large middle thyroid veins are in the way. 3. A middle thyroid artery may run up in front of the trachea, direct from the arteria innominata. 4. The arteria innominata itself lies sometimes Upon the trachea higher than usual, and may, therefore, be in danger. 5, The left vena inno- minata in some cases crosses the trachea above the edge of the sternum instead of below it. The celebrated French surgeon