FRONT or THE THIGH. 428 put on the stretch by separating one thigh from the other. It arises by a broad ribbon-like tendon from the pubes close to the symphysis, and from the border of the pubic arch nearly as low as the tuber ischii. The muscle descends perpendicularly on the inner side of the thigh, and terminates on a tendon which spreads out and is inserted into the inner side of the tibia below the tubercle ; in fact, just like the sartorius, only below it, so that the one overlaps the other. Both tendons play over the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, and there is a bursa common to both. This muscle assists in fixing the pelvis, and in adducting the thigh, it also helps to bend the knee. A strong group of muscles extends along the inner ^soL^r ^^^^ °f ■t^^^' fro^ pelvis to the femur. Their chief action is to co-operate in balancing the pelvis steadily on tAe thigh,—as, for instance, in standing on one leg; or, if the fixed point be reversed, they can draw the thighs together —for example in riding. Physiologically, they might be consi- dered as one, for they are supplied by the same nerve,—namely the obturator ; but anatomically they are divided into three—the adductor longus, brevis, and magnus. There is also the " pecti- neus." Since they lie one above the other, you should reflect them from their origin and examine each in succession, taking care not to divide the branches of the obturator nerve which supply them. This mu-scle arises by a tendon from the front of the longus*°^ pubes just below its spine, and, gradually becoming- broader, is inserted into the middle third of the linea aspera of the femur. It forms with the sartorius a triangular space, in which are contained the several objects described (p. 426). This muscle lies close to, and on the same plane with the adductor longus (p. 426). It arises from the tri- angular surface of the pubes in front of the linea ilio-pectinea, and is inserted into the ridge leading from the lesser trochanter to the linea aspera. The adductor longus and pectineus must now be reflected from their origins. Under the pectineus you will see the " obtm-ator