TEMPOEAL REGION. 66 This is one of the terminal branches of the external "-^^^"^ carotid. Arising in the substance of the parotid gland near the neck of the jaw, it passes over the root of the zygoma close to the meatus auditorius, ascends for about an inch and a half upon the temporal fascia, and then divides into an ante- rior and a posterior branch. Above the zygoma it is superficial, and is only covered by the attrahens aurem muscle. It gives off the following branches : —- a. Several small branches to the parotid gland. b. Sometimes the transversalis faciei (p. 60). c. The anterior auricular branches ramify upon the pinna of the ear, inosculating with the posterior auricular. Of the two branches into which the temporal divides, the ante- rior is usually chosen for ar'teriotomy. It ascends tortuously towards the external angle of the frontal bone, from which it is distant generally about an inch. Its ramifications extend over the forehead, supplying the orbicularis and frontal muscles, and inos- culate with the other arteries of the scalp. The postei^or runs towards the back of the head, and inosculates freely with the occipital and posterior auricular arteries. This nerve supplies the temples and side of the head SriS' with common sensibility. It arises from the third divi- nerve.. ^-^^ gft]^ pair by two roots (between which the arteria meningea media runs). From its origin it proceeds out- wards between the neck of the jaw and the internal lateral liga- ment, to the root of the zygoma, over which it runs Avith the temporal artery. Its ramifications correspond with those of the artery. Near the condyle of the jaw the temporo-aiuicular nerve sends branches to the upper division of the facial nerve, endowing it with common sensibility. Above the zygoma it gives filaments (auricular) to the pinna of the ear. Lastly, in the subcutaneous tissue of the temple we find the temporal branches of the facial nerve, which supply the frontahs, the attrahens, and attollens aurem.