488 DISSECTION or THE BRAIN. These lead from tlie cavernous to the lateral. There Petrosal gg^^j^ g^^jg^ ipj^g supeHov ruBS aloup- the smuses. ■'■ ^ , ° Tipper edge of the petrous bone ; the inferior along the suture between the petrous and the occipital bones. This extends from one inferior petrosal to the other, TrfljDSA'GrsG sinus. across the basilar process of the occipital bone. These are very small. They run round the margin of Occipital ^.j^e foramen magnum, and open into the divergence of smuses. • * the lateral sinuses.* This second investment forms the smooth sm-face of ■Arachnoid ^j^g brain exposed after the removal of the dura mater. It is named " arachnoid " from the delicacy of its tissue, which gives it a resemblance to a spider's web. It is a serous membrane, and,,like all others of the kind, forms a closed sac, one part of which, called the " parietal" layer, lines the under surface of the dura mater ; the other called the " visceral," is reflected over the brain ; this reflection takes place along the nerves which leave the base of the skull. The inner surface of this membrane is perfectly smooth, and lubricated by sufficient moisture to prevent friction, since the brain is alternately rising and falling with a slight pulsating movement caused in part by the action of the heai't, in part by the process of respiration. The parietal layer is of such extreme tenuity that it can only be demonstrated in very early life : indeed, it consists of little more than a layer of epithelium; but the visceral layer is sufficiently obvious. Observe that it is colourless and transparent, and that it is spread uniformly over the surface of the brain, with- out insinuating itself between the convolutions. On account of its extreme tenuity, and its close adhesion to the pia mater, it cannot * The meeting of the several sinuses opposite the spine of the occipital bone is termed the " torcular HeropMU," after the celebrated anatomist who first described it. It is a kind of triangular reservoir, with the base below, and presents six open- ings — namely, that of the superior longitudinal sinus, those of the two lateral and of the two occipital, and that of the straight sinus. The term " torcular" is an incorrect version of the original word awAV (a canal or gutter), employed by Herophilus.