LOBES OF THE CEREBRUM. 493 ^ ^ The cerebrum, in man, is so much more developed than the other parts of the brain, that it completely overlays them. It is of an oval form. It is divided, in the middle line, by a deep " longitudinal fissure," into two equal halves, termed the right and left Bemispheres.* This fissure is occupied by the falx cerebri (p. 484), The surface of each hemisphere is mapped out by tortuous eminences, termed " the convolutions," which are separated from each other by deep furrows. Many of these furrows are occupied by the larger veins in their course to the sinuses; others are filled by sub-arachnoid fluid. In old age, or in cases of disease where the convolutions are shrunk and atrophied, this fluid sometimes accumulates in considerable quantity. The convolutions themselves are merely folds of the brain for the purpose of increasing the extent of surface upon which may be laid the grey or vesicular nerve substance, now generally admitted to be the source of power. They are not precisely alike on both sides. Their number, disposition, and depth, vary a little in different individuals, and, to a certain extent, may be considered as an index of the degree of intelligence.! The under surface of each cerebral hemisphere is not only con- voluted like the upper, but presents in addition three lobes (fig. 117), an anterior middle and posterior, which fit into the base of the skuU. The anterior lobe rests upon the roof of the orbit, and is separated from the middle by a cleft called the "fissure of Sylvius," which receives the lesser wing of the sphenoid bone. The middle lobe occupies the middle fossa of the skull formed * Examples are now and then met witli where the longitudinal fissure is not exactly in the middle line; the consequence of which want of symmetry is, that one hemi- sphere is larger than the other. Biehat (Eecherches Physiologiques sur la Vie et la Mort, Paris, 1829) was of opinion that this anomaly exercised a deleterious influence on the intellect. It is a remarkable fact that the examination of his own brain after death, went to prove the error of his own doctrine. t Those who wish to investigate the cerebral convolutions in their simplest form in the lower classes of mammalia, and to trace them through their successive compHca- tions and aiTangement into groups as we ascend in the higher classes, should consult M. Leuret, Anatomie Comparde du Systfeme Nei-veux consideree dans ses Eapports avec rintelligence: Paris, 1839; also M. FoviUe, Traits de I'Anat. du Systfeme Ner- veux, &c.: Paris, 1844.