DISSECTION OF TUE EYE. 538 pencil, and then, in an injected eye, the web formed by the vessels can be distinctly seen. The larger branches, however, are visible without injection : one of them runs round the free margin of the retina. But the part of the retina most remarkable for the Jacd^L^* siugularity of its organisation is the structure which forms its external layer. It is termed the " membrana Jacohi." * When carefully examined with the high powers of a microscope, it is found to be composed of minute cylindrical, trans- parent rods, arranged like bristles in a brush, at right angles to the surface of the retina. Their outer extremities are imbedded, to a greater or less depth, in the dark pigment of the choroid; so that, when viewed from without, the rods have the appearance of a mosaic paven^ent-f 1 , These structures are best seen when the globe has Ciliary body . ... , . j and pro- been divided by a vertical section into an anterior and a posterior half, the vitreous humour being left undis- turbed. We then see a beautiful black disk, about three lines broad, surrounding the lens: it may be regarded as a continuation of the choroid. The posterior boundary of this ring is smooth and flat, and defined by a dentated line. The anterior part presents a number of longitudinal plaits or folds, from sixty to seventy in number, alternately long and short, and arranged in a radiated manner round the circumference of the lens. One of these is seen in the diagram p. 531. The entire ring is called the ciliary body; and the folds of it in front, the ciliary processes. The processes are kept in place by being attached to the ciHary ligament: they fit into corresponding depressions in the vitreous humour, and their free ends project for a short distance into the posterior chamber. They consist of convolutions of minute arteries, and their dark colour arises from the pigment on their surface. Their use is unknown. * After its discoverer, Dr. Jacob, of Dublin, who described it in the PhUosophieal Transactions, 1819. t See Hannover, Eecherches Microseop. siir le Systime Nerveux, 1844.