349 MALE PERINEUM. rhoidal and superficial perineal branches have been already de- scribed (p. 341). Thearteiy of the bulb is of considerable size : it runs through the substance of the compressor urethrte, and before it enters the bulb divides into two or three branches. It also sends a little branch to Cowper's glands. From the direction of this artery it will at once strike the attention that there is great risk of dividing it in litho- tomy. If the artery run along its usual level, and the incision be not made too high in the perineum, then indeed it is out of the way of harm. But, supposing the reverse, the artery cannot escape; and its size is such that it might occasion fatal haemorrhage. If it be asked, how often does the artery run along a dangerous level ? I answer, about once in twenty subjects; and there is no possi- bility of ascertaining this anomaly beforehand. The artevT/ of the cms penis is given off after that of the bulb. It ascends for a short distance under cover of the ai-ch, but soon enters the crus. To see the dorsal artery of the penis, we must dissect the penis from its attachment to the symphysis pubis. The artery should be traced down to the glans. We find that it forms a complete artenal cu-cle round the corona glandis, giving off numerous rami- fications to the papillae on the surface. Pudic nerve. I^especting the pudic nerve little need be said, except that It corresponds both in its course and branches with the artery. It gives off its external hgemorrhoidal, and its super- ficial perineal branches,-a small one to the bulb, and another to the crus penis; but the main trunk of the nerve runs with the artery along the dorsum of the penis to the glans, and we cannot fail to be struck with its large size (p. 347). In its passage it supplies the integuments of the penis, and sends one or two branches into the corpus cavernosum. This part of the penis also receives nerves Irom the sympathetic system. iscHio- This is the deep hollow on each side between the ann^ '^"^ When all the fat is removed from J 'observe that it is lined on all sides by fascia In troduce the finger into it to form a correct-idea of L extent and