DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. 229 long-US. In the upper third of the forearm the nerve is at some distance from the artery; in the middle third it approaches nearer to it; but in the lower third, the nerve leaves the artery, passes imderneath the tendon of the supinator longus, perforates the fascia on the outer side of the forearm, and divides into branches, which supply the back of the thumb, fore, and half the middle finger. Ulnar artery. ^^'^ ^^^^'^ ^^'^^^^ ^^^^ brachial at the middle of the elbow, runs obliquely inwards along the ulnar side of the forearm to the wrist, passes over the annular ligament near the pisiform bone, and entering the palm, forms the superficial palmar arch, by inosculating with the superficialis volae. In the upper half of its course the artery describes a gentle curve with the concavity towards the radius, and lies deep beneath the superficial layer of muscles—the pronator teres, flexor carpi ra- dialis, palmaris longus, and flexor sublimis digitorum. In the lower part of its course it descends between the flexor sublimis and flexor carpi ulnaris, of which the tendon partially overlaps it at the wrist. The artery Hes for a short distance on the brachialis anticus; in the remainder of its course it lies on the flexor pro- fundus digitorum. The ulnar nerve is at first separated from the artery by a consi- derable interval: but about the middle of the forearm it joins the artery, and accompanies it in the rest of its course, lying close to Its mner side. Both pass over the anterior annular ligament of the carpus, lying close to the pisiform bone,—the nerve beino- nearer to the bone. A strong expansion from the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris protects them in this exposed situation. Observe particularly the depth of the ulnar artery under the many muscles which cover it in the upper third of its course In the middle thii-d it is partially overlapped by the flexor "carpi ulnaris. In the lower third it lies under the radial border of the flexor carpi uhiaris, which is the proper guide to the vessel The ulnar artery furnishes the following branches in the fore e arm: — The anterior and posterior ulnar recun-ent arise immediately below the elbow-joint,-sometimes by a common trunk, sometimes <i 3