438 PEONT OP THE TIIiaH. The second* passes through the tendon of the adductor brevis and magnus. The third through the tendon of the adductor magnus. They not only supply the hamstring muscles — namely, the biceps, semi-tendinosus, and semi-membranosus; but some of their branches turn horizontally round the back of the femur to reach the vastus externus, in the substance of which they communicate by a series of ai'ches. To test your knowledge of the arterial mosculations Arterial in- ^ j.^. ^high, reflect on the answer osculations. jrr i -m ,t r ^ t-x^A to the following questions. . If the femoral were tied above the origin of the profunda, how would the circulation be carried on? The ascending branch of the external circumflex communicates with the glutseal; the internal circumflex commu- nicates with the obturator and ischiatic (see fig. 98). Again — how is the circulation maintained when the femoral is tied below the profunda? The descending branch of the external circumflex and the perforating branches'of the profunda communicate with the articular branches of the popliteal and the tibial recurrent.f The continuation of the profunda, much reduced in size, passes through the tendon of the adductor magnus, and is distributed to the short head of the biceps. The anastomotica magna arises from the femoral artery just before it leaves its tendinous canal. It runs in front of the tendon of the adductor magnus, in company with the long saphenous nerve to the inner side of the knee. Here it ramifies extensively over the capsule, and communicates with the other articular joj^ The anterior crural nerve is the largest branch of the cB™^ lumbar plexus (p. 332). It comes from the third and ZC™"" fourth lumbar nerves. It passes under the crui-al * This perforating branch usuaUy furnislies the nutritious ^. , t Bead the account of the dissection of an aneurismal limb by Sii- A. Cooper, Med. ^Tl^^'-^e'^o-- the thigh the femoral artery gives off several smaU branches to the sartorius, and one of considerable si.e for the supply of the ^t™. We may trace this branch through the substance of the vastus do^^•u to the patella, where it joins the beautiful network of vessels on the surface of that bone.