f 12 DEPRESSORS OE THE OS-HYOIDES. Action '^^^ stemo-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and omo-hyoid mus- of tlio de- cles, co-operate in fixing the larynx and os-hyoides, e. g. muLTes. sucking, or they depress the larynx after it has been raised in deglutition. Again, they depress it in the utterance of grave notes. That the larynx is raised or depressed according to the height of the note may be ascertained by placing the finger upon it while we go through the gamut. Now these depressor muscles are all supplied with nerves (fig. 3 p. 11) by the " descendens noni " (a branch of the ninth, or hypoglossal), and by the " communicantes iioni " (branches of the cervical plexus). The descendens noni sends a separate branch to each belly of the omo-hyoid. They are supplied with blood by the stiperior thyroid artery. The thyro-hyoid arises from the oblique line on the ala hyOTd°' thyroid cartilage, and is inserted into the body and half the great cornu of the os-hyoides. This muscle is a continuation of the sterno-thyroid. It is supplied by a special branch from the hypoglossal nerve. It covers the thyro-hyoid membrane, and the superior laryngeal nerve and artery as they enter the larynx. We are now about to examine the course and relations of the common carotid artery. But before we do so, you must particu- larly notice the strong layer of fascia which lies under the sterno- mastoid, and forms the imder part of its sheath. It is attached to the angle of the jaw, thence descends over and protects the great vessels of the neck, and is firmly connected to the clavicle and first rib. This fascia prevents matter from coming to the surface, when suppuration takes place by the side of the pharynx.' Eemove this fascia, taking care not to remove with it the de- scendens noni and communicantes noni nerves, which cross the sheath of the common carotid. Dissect out any absorbent glands which lie about the sheath of the great vessels. Course and The Common carotid arises on the right side from relations of ^]^g arteria innominata; on the left, from the arch the common t-p.j-.itj- r carotid ar- 01 the aorta. It ascends m front oi the bodies oi the cervical vertebrae, by the side of the trachea,