VENA CAVA INFERIOE. 327 y 4 The vena cava inferior is formec^ by tlie junction of Ju^oi^^ the two common iliac veins. It ascends on the right of the aorta, close to the spine in the greater part of its course. As it approaches the diaphragm, the vena cava passes off a little to the right, to go through its tendinous opening in the diaphragm, and so reach the right side of the heart. Its relations, beginning from below, are: 1. the mesentery; 2. the left renal artery which runs behind it; 3. the duodenum and head of the pancreas; 4. the liver. It receives the lumbar veins, the right spermatic, (the left joins the left renal,) the renal, the capsular, the phrenic, and lastly the hepatic. The branches of the aorta we have still to examine arise from it in pairs, namely—the phrenic, capsular, renal, spermatic, and lumbar. See diagram, p. 312. These arteries supply the diaphragm, and arise from arteries. ^""^ aorta as soon as it comes through the pillars. The right phrenic passes behind the vena cava, the left behind the oesophagus, and both ramify extensively on the correspond- ing sides of the muscle (p. 321). Their first branches, however, are sent to the renal capsules. Their ultimate ramifications extend to the circumference of the chest, and inosculate with the internal mammary and intercostal arteries. The phrenic veins terminate in the inferior vena cava. The capsular arteries proceed to the renal capsules. The capsular veins terminate on the right side in the vena cava, on the left in the renal. Eenal The renal arteries come from the aorta at right arteries and angles, and run transversely to the kidneys. Both are covered by their corresponding veins. The right is necessarily longer than the left, and crosses beneath the vena cava. Each enters its kidney, not as one trunk, but by several branches, corresponding to the original lobes of the organ. The renal veins lie in front of the arteries, and join the vena cava at right angles. The left is longer than the right, and has to cross over the aorta; it receives the spermatic and capsular veins of its own side.