449 GLUTiEAL REGION. Glutivjal '^^^ glutJBal artery is the largest branch of the vessels and internal iliac (p. 437). Emerging from the pelvis nenes. through the great ischiatic notch above the pyriformis muscle, it at once divides into large branches for the supply of the glutceal mitscles. Of these, some proceed forwards between the glutseus maximus and medius; others run in curves between the glutceus medius and minimus, towards the anterior part of the ilium. Many of them inosculate with branches of the external circumflex. The nerve which accompanies the glutseal artery is a branch of the lumbo-sacral nerve (p. 451). It subdivides to supply the glutseus medius and minimus, and the tensor fasciae ; in some subjects it sends a branch to the glutseus maximus; but this muscle is chiefly supplied by the lesser ischiatic nerve. A practical sm-geon ought to be able to cut down and tie the gluta;al ai-tery as it emerges from the pelvis. The following is the best rule for finding it: — the toes are supposed to be turned inwards. Draw a line from the posterior superior spine of the ilium to the midspace between the tuber ischii and the great trochanter. The artery emerges from the pelvis at the point where the superior third joins the two inferior thirds of this line.* Now examine the series of muscles which rotate the thigh out- wards — namely, the pyriformis, the obturator internus, the gemelli, the quadratus femoris, and the obturator externus. Pyriformis. "^^^^ muscle arises from the front surface of the sacrum between the holes for the sacral nerves, and from the margin of the great sacro-ischiatic notch. The fibres converge to a tendon which is inserted into the upper border of the trochanter major. Its nerve comes from the sacral plexus. Obturator "^^^^ muscle, of which we can at present see very little internus. more than the tendon, arises within the pelvis from the ischium between the great ischiatic notch and the obtu- rator foramen; also from the obturator membrane. The fibres * The operation of tying the glutseal artery was first performed by John BeU See his "Principles of Surgery," yol. i. p. 421. a Or