DISSECTION OP THE EYE. 528 portio mollis, or proper auditory nerve. The apparent origin of both is from the lower parts of the pons Varolii (p. 512). The real origin of the portio dura is in the lateral columns of the medulla. The real origin of the auditory nerve is from the floor of the fourth ventricle by several filaments. The seventh pair emerges from the skull through the meatus auditorius internus. For the further description of the portio dura, see p. 63. The auditory nerve is distributed to the internal ear. Eighth air '^^^^ comprises three nerves — the glosso-pharyn- geal, the pneumogastric, and the nervus accessorius, (p. 512). The first two arise by several filaments from the restiform tract of the medulla close to the olive. The nervus accessorius arises by a series of roots from the lateral coliunn of the spinal cord, as low down as the fifth cervical nerve. It then ascends into the skull through the foramen magnum, and leaves it, with the other two nerves, through the foramen jugulare. The glosso- pharyngeal is distributed to the mucous membrane of the pharynx and the back of the tongue (p. 77). The pneumogastric is distri- buted to the pharynx, the larynx, the heart and lungs, the oeso- phagus, and the stomach. The nervus accessorius supplies the sterno-mastoid and the trapezius. For the further description of these nerves, see pp. 78 and 8. Ninth pair This nerve arises by several roots from the medulla or hypo- oblongata, along the groove between the pyramid and glossal. ^j^^ olive. It leaves the skull through the anterior condyloid foramen, and is distributed to the muscles of the tongue and the depressors of the os hyoides and larypx. DISSECTION OF THE EYE. Since the human eye cannot be obtained sufficiently fresh for anatomical purposes, we must have recoiu'se to the eyes of animals —say of the sheep or the pig. The first thing to be done is to remove the conjunctival coat together with the loose connective tissue which unites it to the sclerotica.