204 DISSECTION or THE AXILLA. ^y^^ The axillary glands form a continuous chain beneath absorbent the clavicle, with the cervical glands. They are from glands. 15 to 20 in number, of a reddish brown colour and variable size. Most of them lie near some large blood-vessel; others are imbedded in the loose tissue of the axilla; sometimes one or two small ones are observed along the lower border of the pectoralis major. They are supplied with blood by a branch {thoracica alaris) of the axillary artery, and by branches from the thoracic and infrascapular arteries. These glands receive the absorbents from the arm, from the front and side of the chest, and from the outer half of the mammary gland. You should'now reflect the pectoralis major from its insertion, to expose the pectoralis minor and the ramifications of the short and long thoracic arteries. Preserve the arteries as much as possible in connection with the main trunks. This muscle arises from the third, fotu-th, and fifth Pectoralis j.-|^g_ rjj^g fibres riin upwards and outwards, and con- verge to a strong tendon, which is inserted into the anterior surface of the coracoid process. The tendon is connected to that of the coraco-brachialis by a strong fascia which forms a protection for the siibjacent axillary vessels and nerves. The action of this muscle is to draw the scapula downwards and forwards. ^ This muscle forms the posterior margin of the axilla. Latissimus ^^^^^g fj-o^i the crest of the ilium, from the spines of all the lumbar, and six lower dorsal vertebrae, and by digitations from the three lower ribs. It is inserted by a broad flat tendon (which runs behind the axillary vessels and nerves), into the bottom of the bicipital groove of the humerus. This muscle lies behind the latissimus dorsi, closely Teres major, ^.^j^^e^ted with it, and assists in forming the posterior boundary of the axilla. It arises from the lower angle of the back of the scapula, and is inserted by a broad flat tendon mto the posterior margin of the bicipital groove of the humerus. A bursa or sac containing water to prevent friction intervenes between tins tendon and that of the latissimus dorsi. The action of this and