506 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. layer of grey matter about half an inch in breadth. This is the Middle mid-die commissure: it is sometimes called the soft, on account of its delicate consistence: in most brains it is generally torn before we have the opportimity of examining it,* The optic thalami are also connected by a round white cord, called ^ ^ . the posterior commissure. It is situated immediately in Posterior. r r front of, and rather below the pineal gland. The corpora striata are connected by a round white cord, called the anterior commissure : it lies immediately in front of the anterior crura of the fornix. If this commissure were traced throughout, we should find that it extends transversely through the corpus striatum of each side; then arching backwards, its fibres are lost near the surface of the middle cerebral lobe. ^. I I T^iis '^^ry vascular heart-shaped body, is situated immediately in front of the corpora quadrigemina. It is wrapped up in the velum. It has two white peduncles or crura, which extend forwards, one on the inner side of each optic thala- mus, and terminate by joining the crura of the fornix. In its interior is some gritty matter, consisting of phosphate of lime. Although the pineal gland is found in all mammalia, birds, and reptiles, in the same typical position, its functions are entirely unknown. These are fovir eminences, situated, two on each side, Tubercula behind the pineal gland. Though white on the sur- quadrigemma. , . ,, • , n • , ■ j_i • face, they contain grey matter m the interior: this grey matter is accumulated here for the purpose of giving origin to the optic nerves. A more appropriate term for them would be the " optic lobes," instead of the vulgar name of " nates and testes," handed down from the old anatomists.f * The soft commissure does act appear to be a veiy essential constituent part of the brain. It is not found before the ninth month of foetal life; and in some instances, according to our observation, is never developed. The brothers Wenzel state that it is absent about once in seven subjects (De plenitiori Struct. Cerebri Horn, et Brut. Tubingen, 1812). t Eminences homologous to the corpora quadrigemina are found in all vertebrate animals: they are the meso-cephalic lobes; tlicy invariably give origin to the optic