492 DISSECTION OP THE BRAIN. The circle of Willis, as seen in fig. 116, is completed (circle of • x> J. I, J.1 , . . . ■'■ Willis. iront, by tlie anterior communicating artery (between the two anterior cerebral); behind by the posterior communicating (from the posterior cerebral to the carotid). The tortuosity of the large arteries before t^ey enter the brain is in- tended to mitigate the force of the heart's action; and the circle of Willis provides a free supply of blood from other quarters, in case any accidental circumstance should stop the flow of blood in any of the more direct channels.* PecuUarities ^^sides the remarkable " circle of Willis " just al- of the cere- luded to, we have other peculiarities in the circulation br^circula- ^he brain: namely; the tortuosity of the four great vessels as they enter the skull — their breaking up into minute arteries in the pia mater before they enter the sub- stance of the brain — the formation of the sinuses, p. 485 the great minuteness of the capillaries, and the extreme thinness of their walls; a fact which accounts for the slowness with which a congested brain recovers itself. Genebai '^^^ collective mass of nervous matter, designated DIVISION OF under the common term brain, is divided into three THE BEAiN. partg — ci cerebrum,'^ or intellectual brain, which occupies the whole of the upper part of the cranial cavity; the " cerebellum," or little brain, which occupies the lower and back part beneath the tentorium ; and the " medulla oblongata,^'' situated at the base beneath the cerebellum. This last part passes out of the skull through the foramen magnum, and is continuous with the spinal cord. * In many of the long-necked herbivorous quadrupeds a beautiful provision has been made, in the disposition of the internal carotid arteries, for the purpose of equalising the force of the blood supplied to the brain. The arteries, as they enter the skull, divide into several branches, which again unite, so as to form a remarkable net-work of arteries, called by Galen, who fh-st described it, the " rete mirabUe." The object of this evidently is to moderate the rapidity with which the blood would other- wise enter the cranium, in the diiferent positions of the head, and thus preserve the brain from those sudden influxions to which it would under other circumstances be continually exposed.