ANATOMY or THE PENIS. 375 the glans to the prepuce is called " frenum preputii." If the glans be habitually covered by the prepuce, its svuface partakes more of the appearance of mucous membrane than of common skin ; but if the reverse, the cuticular covering of the glans thickens and dries. In a well-injected glans, we observe that the surface is covered by minute papilte, just like the end of the finger, which are endowed with keen sensibiHty by the great dorsal nerves of the penis. Bound its margin — " corona glandis" — are a number of minute sebaceous glands which secrete an unctuous matter called " smegma preputU:' In cases of congenital phimosis, this is apt to collect in considerable quantity, and becoming rancid, irritates and ex- coriates the glans and prepuce, particularly in summer and in hot countries. The chief bulk of the penis consists of erectile structure, named from the appearance of its interior, " co7p)us eavernosum" In a groove along its under surface runs the urethra, which is itself surrounded by a vascular spongy tissue called the corpus spongio- sum ; an accumulation of this at the end of the organ forms the glans. These two structures, then,—the corpus eavernosum, and the corpus spongiosum, — together form the penis; though they appear closely united, yet they are quite distinct from each other, as may be easily ascertained by making a transverse section, as shown, p. 376. The corpus eavernosum constitutes more than two-thirds of the bulk of the penis. It commences posteriorly by two gradually tapering portions, called the am, which are attached, one on each side, along a groove in the descending ramus of the pubes.* The crura converge, come into apposition at the root of the penis and then run on, side by side, to form the body of the organ.* phymosis." The neck of the glaus becomes tigMy girt, great distension and inflam- beteXcel '''"^ ^"""^ ^"'^^"'^ "^^^^^ may ensue unless the foreskin * While spealdng of the attachments of the penis, it should be mentioned that its upper part :s connected to the symphysis pubis by an elastic ligament caUed tS ligamentum suspensorium penis."