166 DISSECTION OF THE OBBIT. the eye, which it enters on the nasal side of its axis. It is invested by a fibrovis coat derived from the dura mater. At the optic foramen it is surrounded by the tendinous origins of the recti; in the rest of its course, by loose fat and by the ciliary nerves and arteries. This artery arises from the internal carotid. It enters OpMliaJinic ^^^^^ through the optic foramen, outside the optic artery. ° ^ • t i n tj- nerve ; occasionally through the sphenoidal fissure, its coui'se is remarkably tortuous. Situated at first on the outer side of the optic nerve, it soon crosses over it, and runs along the inner side of the orbit to inosculate with the internal angular artery (a branch of the facial). Its branches arise in the following order: — a. LachrynHal artenj.—This branch proceeds along the outer side of the orbit to the lachrymal gland. After supplying the gland, it terminates in the upper eyelid. 6. Supra-orbital artery.—This branch runs forwards with the frontal nerve along the roof of the orbit, and emerges on the forehead through the supra-orbital notch. c. Arteria centralis retince.—This small branch enters the optic nerve, and runs in the centre of this nerve to the interior of the eye. d Ciliary arteries. — These branches proceed tortuously forwards with the optic nerve. They vary from fifteen to twenty in number, and perforate the sclerotic coat at the back of the eye, to supply the choroid coat and the iris. They are sometimes called "pos- terior ciliaryr to distinguish them from others named "anterior ciliaryr which proceed with the tendons of the recti muscles, and enter the front part of the sclerotica. In inflammation of the ins the vascular zone round the cornea arises from enlargement and congestion of the anterior ciliary arteries. , . e. Ethmoidal arteries.-ThBs^ branches pass through the fora- mina on the inner wall of the orbit to supply the mucous membrane of the nose. • t. • • • /. Muscular arteries.—These are uncertain m their ongm. g. Palpebral arteries.-These branches proceed from the lachrymal, nasal, and supra-orbital arteries. h. Nasal arte7'2/.-This branch maybe considered as the ter-