34 ANATOMY OF THE SUPEA-CLAVICULAR REGION. The arm should be placed by the side of the body, ttirsupra-°^ that the clavicle and shoulder may not be raised above clayicxilar their natural position. The space we propose to examine region. bounded by the clavicle, the outer border of the sterno-mastoid, and the posterior portion of the omo-hyoid muscle. The area of the triangle thus formed will vary in proportion to the obliquity of the omo-hyoid muscle, and the extent to which the sterno-mastoid is attached to the clavicle: the trapezius must also be taken into the account, for in some j^nstances it comes so far forwards as almost to meet the sterno-mastoid. The depth at which the vessels and nerves contained in this space are situated depends not only upon the degree to which the clavicle arches forwards, but varies, as one may ascertain in one's own person, with the elevation and depression of the shoulder. Immediately beneath the skin covering this region we find the ■platysma myoides, some cutaneous branches of the cervical plexus, and a layer of fascia which binds down the omo-hyoid muscle to the clavicle. Beneath this is a deeper layer of fascia, which covers the subclavian vessels and the brachial plexus of nerves, and descends with them beneath the clavicle into the axilla. Between these two layers we meet with more or less fat and areolar tissue, and absorbent glands continuous with those in the axilla. It will be easily understood how a collection of matter, originating in the axilla, may ascend in front of the vessels and point above the clavicle, or, vice versa, matter formed in the neck may ti-avel under the clavicle and point in the axilla. Near the border of the sterno-mastoid muscle the external jugular vein passes through both layers of the fascia, and termi- nates in the subclavian: but before its termination it is commonly joined by the supra-scapular, the posterior scapular, and other un- named veins proceeding from the surrounding muscles; so that we have in this particular situation a confluence of veins, which are under any circumstances troublesome, and, when large or distended, exceedingly embarrasing.