BRANCHES OF THE EXTERNAL CAROTID. 32 trachelo-mastoid. Arrived at the back of the head, the artery runs superficial to the complexus and divides into wide-spreading branches for the supply of the scalp. Observe that in the first part of its course, the occipital artery crosses the internal jugular vein, and is itself crossed by the hypo-glossal nerve. It sends off the three following branches : — 1. The sterno-mastoid, which enters the muscle with the nervus accessorius. 2. The posterior meningeal ascends along with the internal jugular vein, and enters the cranium to supply the dura mater. 3. The princeps cervicis, wliich we shaU see better hereafter, runs down the back of the neck under the complexus, supplies this muscle and the semi-spinalis coUi. The occijpil^al vein usually terminates in the internal jugular. The posterior auricular artery is the fifth branch of Si'cX the external carotid. It arises above the digastric muscle, artery. ^^^^^ under cover of the parotid gland, to the furrow between the cartilage of the ear and the mastoid process. It supplies the back of the scalp and the cai-tilage of the ear. Its only named branch is the stylo-mastoid, a very constant little artery, which runs through the stylo-mastoid foramen to the tympanum of the ear. We find the posterior auricular nerve close to the r^tcSa°r artery of the same name. It is the first branch of the facial after its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen. It runs behind the ear and sends motor filaments to the little muscles which move the ear, and to the posterior belly of the occipito- frontalis. This is what we should expect, considermg that the facial nerve supplies all the muscles of expression. This artery arises near the division of the common ph^wal carotid. It ascends towards the base of the skull by artery. ^^^^ of the pharynx, the upper part of which ifc supplies, as well as the Eustachian tube and the tonsils. The examination of the two remaining branches of the external carotid, namely, the internal maxillary and the temporal, must for the present be postponed. Meantime let us notice the cervical plexus and its branches, and then tm-n our attention to the posterior triangle of the neck.