Ill DISSECTION OF THE HEART. But it is, not an easy matter to trace the nerves into the sub- stance of the heart. For this purpose a horse's heart is the best, , and previous maceration in water is desirable. The nerves in the substance of the heart are peculiar in this respect; that they pre- sent minute ganglia in their course, which are presumed to preside over the rhythmical contractions of the heart. Constituents ^^^^ ^side the margin of the right lung; divide the SeacYl^.. ^^P^"^^ cava above the vena azygos, and turn °- down the lower part. Eemove the layer of pericardium which covers the pulmonary veins, and the constituent parts of the root of the right lung will be exposed. They lie from before backwards in the following order:—In front are the two pulmonary vems: behind the veins are the subdivisions of the pulmonary arteiy; and behind the artery are the divisions of the bronchus. From above downwards they are disposed thus :—On the right side we find — 1st, the bronchus; 2nd, the artery; 3rd, the veins. On the left, we find: —1st, the artery; 2nd, the bronchus; 3rd, the vems, as shown in fig. 21. DISSECTION OF THE HEAET. It is presumed that you are familiar with the general form of the heart, described at page 94. You should notice the longitudinal grooves on the upper and lower surfaces of the heart, indicating the dmsions of the ventricles, and the circular groove near the base, mdicatmg the separation between the ventricles and auricles or leTsSr'' coronary vessels, and by mor^ The heart is a double organ; that is, it is composed of two hearts, a nght and a left, separated by a septum. Each consists of an auneie and a ventricle, which commmiicate by a wide or fice he nght heart propels the blood through the lungs, and is calLd the pul^omc; the left propels the blood through L body andt called the systemic. True, these two hearts are not placed anar because important advantages result from their miion b. 1^ ' enclosed in a single bag they occupy less room in the"hest ani precisely synchro-