39 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. D 4 In the second part of its course, the artery lies between the scalene muscles. It is covered by the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid, the cervical fascia, and the scalenus anticus, which separates it from the subclavian vein. In the thii'd part of its course, the artery lies upon the surface of the first rib* Here it is covered only by the platysma, and two layers of cervical fascia: and, what is of much more consequence, it is here crossed by the external jugular and (often) the supra and posterior scapular veins; so that we have a confluence of large veins in front of the artery. The subclavian vein is situated below the artery, but on a plane anterior to it. Above the artery are the trunk nerves of the brachial plexus. One of these nerves (the con- joined fifth and sixth cervical), runs so nearly pai-allel with the artery, and on a plane anterior to it, that many a surgeon has mistaken the nerve for the artery, in the operation of tying it. I once heard a hospital surgeon of great experience say, that he had seen the subclavian tied four times during life, and that in three out of the four cases, the nerve in question had been tied instead of the artery. The left subclavian is the last of the three great Leflsubcla- ijj-anches which arise from the arch of the aorta. It vian artery. ascends nearly vertically out of the chest, and then arches in front of the apex of the lung, so as to reach the inner border of the scalenus anticus, behind which it runs over the first rib. In the first part of its course, the left subclavian lies deep in the chest near the spine. It is covered on its left side by the pleura. On its right side are the thoracic duct and the oesophagus: the pneumogastric, phrenic, and sympathetic nerves run nearly parallel with it: the left vena innominata crosses in front of it. "^Tien the left subclavian reaches the level of the upper part of the chest, it arches, like the right, over the apex of the lung, and has similar relations ; namely, in front, it is covered by the sternal end of the clavicle, the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno- thyroid muscles, and by the confluence of the internal jugular aud subclavian veins, and also by the vertebral vein : behind it, are the apex of the lung and the pleura.