80 SYMrAXnETIC NERVE IN THE NECK. the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. The branches of this ganglion are: — • i,- i 1. The pharyngeal, which descend either in front of or behind the internal carotid to join the pharyngeal plexus (p. 77). 2. The superior laryngeal, which descends behind the external carotid to the interval between the os-hyoides and the thyroid car- tilage, where it enters the larynx through the thyro-hyoid mem- brane, and is distributed to the mucous membrane of the larynx. Eemember that this superior laryngeal gives off the " external laryngeal" which supplies the crico-thyroid muscle (p. 57). 3. The cardiac, two in number, which descend behind the sheath of the carotid to the cardiac plexus. They vary much as to the situation of their origin,-proceeding either from the ganglion, or from the main trunk of the nerve in its course down the neck. On their passage to the heart, the right cardiac nerves run behind the arch of the aorta, the left in front of it, to the great cardiac ganghon This cardiac ganglion is situated between the arch of the aorta and the trachea; and from it the nerves of the heart are given off. _ The inferior laryngeal or recurrent branch of the pneumogastric turns on the right side, under the subclavian artery (p. 38) and runs up to the larynx between the trachea and the bodies of the cervical vertebra; on the left side, it turns under the arch of the aorta, and ascends to the larynx between the trachea and the CBSophagus. On both sides it enters the larynx beneath the lower border of the inferior constrictor. ' The remaining branches of the pneumogastric, to the lungs the cBSophagus and stomach will be examined in the dissection of the We now pass on to examine the cervical gangha of the Sympatte- ^^athetic system of nerves. Speaking in general '''' ™- terms of this system, it may be said that it consis^^s of a series of ganglia arranged on either side of the spine, from the first :W ?o thelast sacral vertebra. The successive ^^^^ same side are connected by intermediate nerves, so as to fonn a • continuous cord on each side of the spine; ^Ins constitiites w^^^^^^^^^ called the trunk of the sympathetic system. This system of nerves