PECTORAL REGION. 200 Thoracic axis. ment for the subclaviiis muscle. It presents a crescent-shaped edge which arches over, and protects the axillary vessels and nerves: from this edge is prolonged a fascia which accompanies the vessels into the axilla, enclosing them in a kind of sheath. This is the first branch of the axillary artery. It comes off above the pectoralis minor and soon divides into three branches—the superior or short thoracic, the thoracica humeraria, and the thoracica acromialis (p. 208). The ewperior or short thoracic, runs between the pectoralis major and minor, supplying ramifications to both. The thoracica humeraruc descends with the cephalic vein, in the interval between the pectoralis major and deltoid, and ramifies in both. The thoracica acromialis passes over the 'coracoid process to the under surface of the deltoid, which it supplies, and communicates with the circumflex branches of the axillary artery. All these arteries are accompanied by veins, which most frequently empty themselves into the cephalic, but occasionally into the axillary vein itself. The cephalic vein is one of the principal cutaneous Ceplialic ygi^g of the arms. Commencing on the back of the Tern. ° thumb and forefinger, it runs up the radial side of the fore-arm over the front of the elbow-joint; thence ascending along the outer edge of the biceps muscle, it runs up the interval between the pectoralis major and deltoid to reach the axillary vein.* In the space now before us are the great vessels Stion'ofthe and nerves of the axilla in the first part of their axillary course. They lie at a great depth from the surface, lervi'''"^ They are surrounded by a sheath of fascia, which descends with them beneath the clavicle, and are situated with regard to each other in the following manner: — The axillary vein lies in front of the artery, and rather to its sternal side. The axillary plexus of nerves is situated above the artery and on a posterior plane. ' The plexus consists of two or sometimes three large cords, which result from the union of the * The cephalic vein sometimes rnns over the clavicle to join the external jiigiilar; or there may be a communication over the clavicle between these veins.