STRUCTURE OP THE LUNGS. 123 lungs of infants who have never breathed, or after death from profuse haemorrhage: it was particularly observed by the French sm-geons in the lungs of individuals who were executed by the guillotine.* Upon or near the surface of the lung we observe black spots, which do not depend upon the blood, since they are seen in the palest lungs. They vary in number and size, and increase with age. The source of these discolorations is not exactly known. Some consider them as deposits of minute particles of carbon which have been inhaled with the air; others, as masses of black pigment cells. Trachea "^^^^ ^ partly membranous partly cartilaginous tube, which proceeds from the larynx opposite the fifth cervical vertebra, and divides about the third dorsal vertebra into two tubes, called the right and left bronchi, one for each lung. Its length is from four to four and a half inches. Its diameter is about eight or ten lines in the adult, but it vaiies according to the age of the individual and the natural volume of the lungs. It is kept constantly open by a series of cartilaginous rings, from sixteen to twenty in number, which extend round two-thirds of its circumference. At the posterior part ol the tube the rings are deficient. This deficiency is for the puipose of allowing the trachea to expand or contract; and the membranous part of the tube is provided with transverse muscular fibres which can ap- proximate the ends of the rings. Bronchi. bronchi differ in length, direction and dia- meter. The right is shorter than the left, and passes more horizontally to the root of its lung. It is larger in all its diameters than the left; hence, foreign bodies which have acci- dentally dropped into the trachea are more likely to be carried into the right bronchus by the stream of the air. The left bronchus is about two inches in length, and descends more ob- liquely to its lung than the right. At the root of the lung each bronchus divides into two branches, * Bichat, Anat. descript. torn, iy, p. 12.