386 CONTENTS OF FEMALE PELVIS. that the contiguous coats of the bladder and the vagina give way, and that there remains a fistulous communication between them, which continues to be a depending drain for the urine. At the present stage of the dissection slit open the ■^'^g^"^- whole of the vagina along the side, and then you will obtain a clear idea of the manner in which it embraces the lower end of the uterus, and of the extent to which the neck of the uterus projects into it. This proceeding will also make more in- telligible what is to be observed respecting the length, axis, and width of the vagina. The length of the vagina, in an unimpregnated healthy adult, is, on an average, about 4^ inches. It may be more, or it may be less: the difference in each case depending upon the depth ot the pelvis, the stature and age of the individual. Owing to the curved direction of the vagina, the anterior wall is about three-quarters of an inch shorter than the posterior. The vagina, however, is never so long that we cannot, during life, feel the neck of the uterus projecting at the top of it; higher up, or lower down, according to circumstances. For instance, it is a little lower in the erect than in the recumbent position: again, in the early months of utero- gestation, the uterus descends a little into the vagma, so that this Lai becomes shorter : the reverse holds good when the uterus beo-ins to rise out of the pelvis. The axis of the vagina is slightly curved with the concavity up- wards : for all practical pin-poses it may be said to f ^--^P^^^ ^ ^ the axis of the outlet of the pelvis ; whereas the axis of the uterus corresponds with that of the brim of the pelvis. The width of the vagina is not uniform throughout The nai- rowest part is at the orifice: it is also a little constricted round the nelk of the uterus. The widest part is about the middle: sup- posing atransverse section to be made through it m this situation ' would present the appearance of a bro.d horizontal f^sure If therefore, you would insert the bivalve speculum upon --^^^^ principles, consequently with the least amount of Pa-, the W^^^ of the speculum should be vertical when introduced into the orifice of the vagina, and afterwards turned horizontally.