5 CERVICAL FASCIA. the occiput, where it supplies the back of the scalp. Beneath the sterno-mastoid this nerve commonly forms a loop which embraces the nervus accessorius, and sends a branch to it. The transverse branch, called the n. superficialis colli, comes from the second cervical nerve. It passes forwards over the sterno-mastoid muscle, and supplies the front of the neck. Some of its filaments ascend towards the jaw, and join the cervical branch of the facial nerve. The descending branch is derived from the fourth cervical nerve. It subdivides into three branches, which cross over the clavicle, and supply the skin of the front of the chest and shoulder. Of these, one, called the sternal, supplies the skin over the upper part of the sternum: another, the clavicular, passes over the middle of the clavicle, and is distributed to the skin over the pectoral muscle, the mammary gland, and the nipple; the third, named acromial, crosses over the acromion to supply the skin of the shoulder. Eeviewing these cutaneous branches of the cervical plexus, we find that they have a very wide distribution: for they supply the skin covering the following parts, viz., the ear, the back of the scalp, the parotid gland, the front and side of the neck, the upper and front part of the chest and shoulder. . Look for this branch beneath the fascia near the angle Cervical - •iii in branch of 01 the jaw. It icaves the parotid gland, and divides into the facial filaments which curve forwards below the iaw : some of nerve. . . j ^ these join the transverse branch of the cervical plexus; others supply the platysma. Now turn your attention to the membranous invest- Cervical fascia^^ ment, called " cervical fascia," which encloses the several structures of the neck. In some subjects this fascia is very thin; in others, with strong muscles, it is proportionably dense and resisting. It is always relatively stronger in particular situations, for the more effective protection of the parts beneath; for instance, in front of the trachea, in the fossa above the clavicle, and below the angle of the jaw. It not only covers the soft parts of the neck collectively, but, by its inflections, forms separate sheaths for the muscles, vessels, and glands. It isolates them, and B 3