18 CENTRAL LINE OE THE NECK. crico-thyroid membrcane. These glands, if enlarged by disease, might be mistaken for a small bronchocele. jjg^p 111 the areolar tissue which surrounds the great cervical vessels of the neck, we meet with a series of absorbent gknds''"* glands, called the deep cervical. They form an uninter- rupted chain (whence their name glandulce concatenatce), from the base of the skull, along the side of the neck, to the clavicle, beneath which they are continuous with the thoracic and the axillary glands. Notice that some of these glands lie anterior to the common carotid artery, others, between it and the spine. This disposition explains the well-known fact, that, when these glands are enlarged, the great vessels and nerves of the neck are liable to beconle imbedded in their substance. The glands are particularly numerous near the division of the common carotid, by the side of the pharynx, and the posterior belly of the digastricus. The absorbents connected with them come from all parts of the head and neck. These vessels unite, to form, on both sides of the neck, one or more absorbent trunks, called the jugular. On the left side this jugular trunk joins the thoracic duct, or opens by a separate orifice into the left subclavian vein : on • the right it always opens into the subclavian vein. The contiguity of the glands to the great vessels and nerves of the neck explains the symptoms produced by their enlargement. The tumour may be so situate'd as to be raised and depressed by the pulsation of the carotid, and thvis simulate an aneurism. A careful examination, however, will distinguish between a real and an apparent pulsation. By grasping the tumour we become sensible that the rising and falling does not depend upon any variation of its magnitude, but upon the impulse derived from the artery; consequently, if we lift the tumour from the vessel, all feehng of pulsation ceases. Study well the parts in the central line of the neck the cen-°^ (fig. 3., p. 11). Beginning at the cliin, we observe the tral line insertions of the digastric muscles. Below these is the neck. junction or "raphe," of the mylo-hyoid muscles. Then comes the os-hyoides. Below the os-hyoides conies,