STRUCTURE OF THE LARGE INTESTINES. 409 very thickly distribxxted over both the small and the large intestines. With a microscope, — for they are invisible to the naked eye,— we see their orifices between the villi, like so many minute dots, as if the sm-face had been pricked with needles. In a vertical section we should observe their depth, and that they are lined by a columnar epithelium. The glands of Brunn * are found only in the duodenum. They are just visible to the naked eye, and may be seen to the best advantage by removing the muscular coat. Their structure exactly resembles the pancreas, on a diminutive scale. The glands of Peyer\ abound most in the ileum. Their chief peculiarity is, that they are arranged in gTOups on that part of the intestine most distant from the attachment of the mesentery. These groups are from one to two inches long, of an oval form. Observe that they increase in size and number as we approach the lower part of the ileum. If a group be examined by dissecting away the muscular coat, you find that the glands are imbedded in the submucous tissue, that they are rather opaque, about three- fourths of a line in diameter, and in shape not unlike a Florence flask. They have no discoverable orifices. When full and ripe they come to the surface, burst, discharge their contents, and die, — for what purpose is not precisely known. These are the glands which are so liable to be ulcerated in fever. But the glands of Peyer are not confined to the ileum. Grlands in all respects like them, except that they are solitary, are found scattered in all parts of the small intestine, also in the large. The principal external characters of the large intestine ^testine pouched or sacculated, and that it has, attached to it, little pendulous portions of fat covered by peritoneum, called "appendices epiploicce." Now the pouches are obviously produced by a shortening of the longitudinal mus- cular fibres, and by their being collected into three bands, about half an inch wide, nearly equidistant from each other. One of * J. C. Brunn, Gland, duoden. seu pancreas secm:darhim, 1715. t Peyer, De glandulis intcstinoriim, 1682. But these glands were described by our countryman, Netemian Grew, in 1681.