222 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER ARM. anticus, it supplies both these muscles. Consequently if the external cutaneous nerve were divided in the axilla, the result would be inability to bend the forearm.* This nerve arises from the plexus in common with the internal cutaneous, and the inner root of the median. It descends along the inner side of the brachial artery, as far as the insertion of the coraco-bracTiialis. The nerve then diverges from the artery, perforates the internal intermuscular septum, and rvms with the inferior profunda artery, behind the internal condyle. The eventual distribution of the nerve is to the flexor carpi ulnaris, half the flexor profundus digitorum, all the interosseous muscles of the hand, both sides of the little finger, and the uhiar side of the ring finger, also'to the muscles of the ball of the little finger. Previous to the examination of the musculo-spiral nerve we should have some knowledge of the great muscle which occupies the whole of the posterior part of the humerus—viz. the triceps. This muscle has three distinct origins, named from extensor their position the external, internal, and middle or loTig cubiti. ^^^^ 210). The middle or long hesid arises by a flat tendon from the inferior border of the scapula, close to the glenoid cavity. The external head arises from the humerus, immediately below the great tuberosity. The internal head arises from the humerus below the insertion of the teres major. The three heads of the muscle unite near the middle of the arm to form a single fleshy mass, which covers the posterior part of the elbow-joint, and is inserted by a thick tendon into the summit and sides of the olecranon. * In some instances tlie external cutaneous nerve descends on the inner side of the coraco-brachiaHs without perforating the muscle; in these cases it often sends a larger branch than usual to the median nerve. ^ -^f The trunk of the external cutaneous nerve may come from the median at any pomt between the axiUa and the middle of the arm. In some subject6 the nerve is absent aU its branches are then suppHed by the median, which is lai-ger than usual. anomaUes are easily explained by the fact of the two nerves having always a common origin.