103 THORACIC DUCT. CESOPHAGUS. The thoracic duct (fig. 18) is the canal through which duct''"'' contents of the lacteal vessels from the intestines and the absorbent vessels from the lower limbs are conveyed into the blood. These vessels converge to a general receptacle, termed receptaculum chyli, situated in front of the body of the second lumbar vertebra. From this receptacle, the duct passes through the aortic opening of the diaphragm into the chest, and runs up the posterior mediastinum along the right side of the aorta. Near the third dorsal vertebra, it passes under the oesophagus, and ascends on the left side of this tube between it and the left sub- clavian artery as high as the level of the seventh cervical vertebra, where it describes a curve with the convexity upwards, and opens into the back part of the confluence of the lefb internal jugular and subclavian veins. The orifice of the duct is guarded by two valves which permit fluid to pass from the duct into the vein, but not vice versa. Valves too, disposed like those in the venous system, are placed at short intervals along the duct, so that its contents can only pass one way. The duct is not much larger than a crow-quill; its walls are thin and transparent.* (Esophagus. " cesophagus " is that part of the alimentary canal which conveys the food from the pharynx to the stomach. It commences about the fifth cervical vertebra, that is, nearly opposite the cricoid cartilage, runs down the posterior mediastinum in front of the descending aorta, and passes through a special opening in the diaphragm to the stomach. It is from nine to ten inches long. Its course is not exactly vertical: in the neck, it lies to the left of the trachea; in the chest, i.e. about the fourth dorsal vertebra, it inclines towards the right side, to make way for the aorta; but it again inclines to the left before it perforates the diaphragm. * It is right to state that the thoracic duct varies in size in different individuals I have seen it of all sizes, intermediate between a crow-qiiiU and a goose-qum ' It may divide in its course into two branches, which subsequently reunite • instead of one, there may be several terminal orifices. Instances have been obsei-v^d in which the duct has terminated on the right instead of the left side (Fleischman, Leichon ^ffiiungen, 1815). It has been seen to terminate in the vena azygos (MiiUer's Archies, U 4