540 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. In the foetus, a branct. of the retinal artery rang through the centre of the vitreous humour, and ramifies on the back of the capsule of the lens. It is lodged in a tubular canal in the hyaloid membrane, termed the hyaloid canal; but little or nothing of this is seen in the adult. The vitreous humour presents in front a deep depres- sion, in-which the crystalline lens is imbedded; arormd this depression is the " zone of Zinn.'" * This zone is best exposed by peeling off the ciliary body. It then appears like a dark disk and extends from the front margin of the retina nearly to the capsule of the lens: its surface is marked by prominent ridges which correspond with the intervals between the ciliary pro- cesses (fig. 133). Various opinions are entertained of the nature of this zonebut it does not appear to be anything more than the impresssion left by the pigment of the ciliary body upon the hyaloid membrane. If the transparent membrane between the zone of Zinn Petif °^ margin of the lens be carefully punctured, and the point of a small blow-pipe gently introduced, we may succeed in inflating a canal which encircles the lens, and, when inflated, resembles a circle of small glass beads: this is the canal of Petit, or " canal godronne " (fig. 131, p. 531). How this canal is formed, whether by the separation of the hyaloid membrane into two layers or not, and what is its use, are questions not easily answered. The crystalline lens (fig. 131) is a perfectly trans- Ceystai- ej^t solid body, situated immediately behind the ILrNlS LENS* It pupil, and partly imbedded in the vitreous humour, it is convex on both surfaces, but more so behind. Its shape and consistence vary at difierent periods of life. In early life it is nearly spherical and soft, but it becomes more flattened and firmer with advancing age. In the adult, its transverse diameter is about do not quite react the centre, but leave a cylindrical space in the axis of the humour. Up this space the central artery runs in the foetus. * Zinn was Professor of Anatomy at Gottingen about the middle of the eighteenth century, and author of " Descriptio Anat. Oculi Humani."