FRONT OF THE THIGH. 431 the vastus externus, tlie crura3us, and the vastus internus. The vastus externus arises by a very strong aponeurosis from the outer side of the base of the great trochanter, and from the outer lip of the linea aspera nearly down to the external condyle. The crurceus arises from the upper three-fourths of the front surface of the shaft. The vastus internus arises from the upper two-thirds of the inner surface of the shaft, and also from the inner lip of the linea aspera. Common "^^^ tendon of the rectus, gradually expanding, becomes extensor connected on its under surface with the tendon of the crurseus *, and on either side with that of the vasti, and is firmly fixed into the upper part and sides of the patella. From this bone the common extensor tendon, under the name of " liga- onentum patellce" descends over the front of the knee-joint, and is inserted into the tubercle of the tibia. But besides this, the lower fibres of the vasti terminate on a sheet-like tendon, which runs wide of the patella on either side, and is directly inserted into the sides of the head of the tibia, so that the knee is completely pro- tected all round. The patella is a great sesamoid bone, interposed to facilitate the play of the tendon over the condyles of the femur; it not only materially protects the joint, hnt adds to the power of the extensor muscles, by increasing the angle at which the tendon is inserted into the tibia. Action of extensor muscles of the thigh are among the the extensor most powerful in the body. A great power to extend the knee is one of the essential conditions of the erect attitude. Without it, how could we rise from the sitting to the upright position ? When erect, how could we walk, run, or spring without it ? The rectus, by taking origin from the pelvis, gains a * A few of the deeper fibres of the crurseus are inserted into the fold of the sjnovial membrane of the knee joint which rises above the patella. These are described as a distinct muscle, under the name of the " sub-crurcsiis." Theii- use is to raise the synovial membrane, so that it may not be injured by the play of the patella. Since the triceps is connected to the lower part of the shaft of the femur only by loose cel- lular tissue, there is nothing to prevent the distension of the synovial membrane, in cases of inflammation, to the extent of several inches above the patella.