424 FRONT OF THE THIGH. Cutaneous '^^^ course of tlie saphena vein, its tributary branches, veins and and the confluence of veins at the saphenous opening, ■ have been described at p. 414. I would merely observe here, that all the larger cutaneous veins of the thigh, and the same obtains of the leg generally, are so situated as to be out of the way of harm. Eespecting the cutaneous nerves, a general account is sufficient, since they are not exactly alike in any two subjects. They are usually divided, according to their situation, into external, middle, and internal. All, directly or indirectly, proceed from the lumbar plexus, and may be seen coming through the muscular fascia. a. The external cutaneous nerve is a distinct branch of the lumbar plexus (p. 332). It enters the thigh beneath the crural arch, near the anterior spine of the ilium, and can be traced down the outer side of tke thigh to the knee, giving off numerous branches, which subdivide to supply the skin. b. The middle cutaneous nerves, two or more in number, are derived from the anterior crural (which itself is a branch of the lumbar plexus). They perforate the sartorius four or five inches below the crural arch, and descend along the front of the thigh to the knee, distributing branches on either side (p. 427). c. The internal cutaneous nerves, two or more, also branches of the anterior crural, perforate the fascia, one about the middle, another about the lower third of the thigh, and supply the skin on the inner side.* By careful dissection, you will find that these cutaneous nerves communicate here and there with each other, especially over the patella.f . , , Eemove the subcutaneous structure to examine the Pascia lata r -l • i mi. or muscular muscular fascia, or "fascia lata" of the thigh. The fascia. purpose of this fascia is to clothe the muscles of the thigh collectively, and to form separate sheaths for each; so that * Besides these, there is the little eniral branch of the'genito-cmral nerre (p. 332), which perforates the fascia about two inches below the cinu-al arch. This is seldom found except by an experienced dissector. t Some authors speak of a " patellar plexus " of jiervea.