LATERAL VENTRICLES. 499 K K 2 rates the ventricles from ecacli other. We soon come into these Ccavities, and, by means of a director, they should be fully laid open. Notice their general form, and then the several objects to be seen in them. The lateral ventricles are two cavities in the general What are j^^ss of the brain, occasioned by the enormous enlarge- tliey ? I/O ment and folding backward of the cerebral lobes over the other parts of the central nervous axis. They contain a serous fluid, which, even in a healthy brain, sometimes exists in consider- able quantity, but, when preternaturally accumulated, constitutes one form of the disease termed hydrocephalus. The very delicate lining membrane which secretes this fluid is quite distinct from the arachnoid on the outside of the brain, and the epithelium on the surface of it is provided with cilia, of which the vibratile movement may be distinctly seen, especially in the embryo. With regard to the general shape of the ventricles, they may be compared to two crescents with, their backs to each other. Each ventricle extends into the three lobes of which the cerebral hemi- sphere is composed. That part which extends into the anterior lobe is called the anterior horn; it slightly diverges from its fellow on the opposite side. The "posterior horn may be traced into the posterior lobe; this converges to its fellow.* The middle horn runs into the middle lobe, descends towards the base of the brain making a very curious curve like a ram's horn,—that is, in a direction backwards, outwards, dovmwards, forwards, and inwards; the initial letters of which make the memorial word " bodfi." We can easily follow its windings by cutting through the substance of the middle lobe. ^, Suppose the roof of the lateral ventricles—in other VVnat they | contain. words the corpus callosum—to be removed, what have * The posterior horns are not always equally developed in both hemispheres, and sometimes they are absent in one or in both. They are only found in the brain of man and the quadrumana. In the carnivora, ruminantia, solipeda, pachydermata, and rodentia, the lateral ventricles are prolonged into the largely developed olfactory lobes. This is the case in the human fcetus only at an early period.