PISSECTION OF THE EYE. 534 case; for, under this ligament, it extends forwards round the cir- cumference of the crystalline lens' in a series of plaited folds, called the " ciliary processes." This is the colouring matter of the choroid. It is aili^.*'^"^ merely adventitious, for, if the choroid be washed in water or spirit, the colour is entirely removed, leaving the membrane of a greyish tint. In man this pigment is dark brown, but in most animals it is jet black. Under the microscope, it is found to consist of coloured granules contained in minute hexagonal cells. It exists on both surfaces of the choroid, but chiefly on the inner, where it forms a continuous stratum.* The use of the pigment is to absorb the rays of light which pass through the retina, and prevent their being reflected. It serves the same purpose as the,black paint with which the inside of optical instru- ments is darkened. Albinos, in whom the choroid has little or no pigment, are consequently dazzled by daylight, and see better in the dusk. I The ciliary ligament (fig. 132) is a whitish grey ring, H^^nt ^^^^ broad, situated just beneath the union of the sclerotica and the cornea. It serves as a connecting medium between several structures—namely, the cho- roid, iris, ciliary processes, and sclerotica.^ * Dalrymple speaks of a very delicate membrane as lining the inner surface of tie choroid, for the purpose of keeping the dark pigment ia its place. A similar mem- brane maybe detected on the posterior surface of the iris; otherwise the pigment there would be apt to be washed away by the aqueous humour. t In many of the nocturnal carniyorous quadrupeds, the inner surface of the choroid at the bottom of the eye, presents a briUiant colom- and metaUic lustre. It is called the tapetum. By reflecting the rays of light a second time thi-ough the retina, it probably causes the animal to see better in the dusk. It is the cause of the weU- known glare of the eyes of cats and other animals; and the gi-eat breadth of the luminous appearance arises from the dilatation of the piipil. X Some anatomists describe a ciliari/ muscle. They say its point of attachment is at the line of junction of the sclerotic and cornea; from thence it radiates backwards over the outer surface of the ciliary ligament, where its fibres are lost. Its action would be to approximate the ciliary processes and lens towards the cornea. Sir Philip Crumpton has noticed that this muscle is weU developed in birds. In them its fibres are of the striped kind, just as the circular fibres of the iris arc.