CONTENTS or FEMALE PELVIS. 383 dages. First, study their position in a general way ; secondly, their special anatomy. Looking into the female pelvis, we see the uterus Sicmonhe interposed between the bladder in front and the rectum uterus and behind. From each side of the uterus a broad fold of dages!''^" peritoneum extends to the side of the pelvis. These folds are called the broad ligaments of the uterus fig. 84, p. 393. On the posterior surface of the ligament are the ovaries, one on each side. They are completely covered by peri- toneum, and suspended to the ligament by a small pex'itoneal fold. Along the upper part of the ligament we find between its layers a tube about four inches long, called the Fallopian tube. A better name for it is the oviduct, since its oflfice is to convey the ovum into the uterus. For this purpose, one end of it terminates in the uterus, while that nearer to the ovary expands into a wide mouth, furnished all round with prehensile fringes, which, like so many fingers, grasp the ovum as soon as it is ready to escape from the ovary. Lastly, there run up to the ovary, between the layers of the broad ligament, the spermatic, or rather the ovarian vessels and nerves which arise from the aorta in the lumbar region, just as they do in the male, because the ovaries are orginally formed in the loins. Look on the anterior surface of the broad ligament, and you will see on either side between its layers what is called the round liga- ment of the uterus. This is a cord which proceeds from the fundus of the uterus, through the inguinal canal, just like the spermatic cord in the male, and terminates in the " mons Veneris." Besides one or two small blood-vessels, it contains muscular fibres analogous to those of the uterus: these increase very much in pregnancy, so that, about the full term, the cord becomes nearly as thick as the end of the little finger. Side tiew of After the removal of the innominate bone, as de- THE FEMALE scrlbcd at p. 350, the vagina, rectum, and bladder should PELVIS • 1 be moderately distended, and a catheter passed into the urethra. This done, trace the reflections of the peritoneum.