430 FRONT OF THE THIGH. whicli it is almost inseparably connected. Any one may convince himself of this by placing the hand on the hip and rotating the thigh inwards. There are no other muscles to do it, and both are supplied by the same nerve,—namely the superior glutaeal. In order to form an adequate idea of the strength, extent, and connections of the aponeurosis on the outer side of the thigh, we ought to separate it from the vastus externus muscle upon which it lies. There is no diflSculty in doing so, for it is united to the . muscle by an abundance of loose cellular tissue.* With a little perseverance you can trace the aponeurosis to the linea aspera, the head of the tibia and the fibula. See how completely it protects the outer side of the knee-joint. The powerful muscles situated between the tensor MUSCLES.^ fasQise on the outer, and the sartorius on the inner side, are extensors of the leg: all are supplied by branches of the anterior ci'ural nerve. One of them—the "rectus" — arises from the pelvis ; the other — the " triceps " — arises from the shaft of the thigh bone by three portions, called the cruraeus, the vastus externus, and internus. This muscle arises from the pelvis by two strong Eeetus. tendons, which soon unite; one from the inferior spine of the ilium, the other from the rough surface of the ilium, just above the acetabulum. To see them, dissect between the sartorius and the tensor fasciae, and in doing so be careful not to injure the branches of the external circumflex artery. The muscle descends perpendicularly down the front of the thigh, and is inserted into the common extensor tendon. Its structure is very beautiful. A tendon runs down the centre, and the muscular fibres are implanted on either side of it, lik6 the vane on the shaft of a feather. This mass of muscle surrounds the greater part of tilT ^^^"^^' ^^^ei'efoi'e the whole extent of it cannot be seen without completely dissecting the thigh. It consists of an outer, middle, and inner portion, called respectively * When tliia tissue becomes the seat of suppuration, tlie matter is apt to extend aU dovn the outside of the thigh, not heing able to make its way to the surface by reason of the dense fascia.