461 CALF OF THE LEG. posterior tibial arteries. In its descent it lies, first, upon the lower part of the femur, and here it is slightly overlapped by the semimembranosus ; next it lies upon the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, and lastly upon the popliteus. The vein closely ac- companies the artery, and is situated superficially with regard to it, and rather to its outer side in the fii'st part of its course. The popliteal nerve runs also in a similar direction with the vein, but is still more superficial and to the outer side (fig. 101). The vessels and the nerve are surrounded by fat, and we generally find one or two absorbent glands in the immediate neighbourhood of the artery, just above the joint. The branches of the popHteal artery are the articular and the sural. There are five articular branches for the supply of the knee- joint and the articular ends of the bone : the two superior run, one above each condyle, close to the bone; the two inferior run one beneath each lateral ligament of the joint; and all four proceed towards the front of the capsule. The fifth, called the " azygos," enters the joint through the posterior ligament. These articular arteries form, over the front and sides of the joint, a beautiful net- work of vessels, which communicate superiorly with cSations"^°^' descending branch of the external circumflex and the anastomotica magna, and inferiorly with the an- terior tibial recurrent. It is mainly through these channels that the collateral circulation is established in the leg after ligature of the femoral artery. The sural arteries proceed one to each head of the gastroc- nemius, and are proportionate in size to the muscle. One or two branches are distributed to the soleus. These arteries are accom- panied by branches of the popliteal nerve for the supply of the muscles. You can now examine more fully the insertion of the semi- membranosus into the head of the tibia, alluded to p. 454. This muscle arises from a depression on the outside of the external condyle by a thick tendon which nms beneath the external lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The