SIDE VIEW or THE PELVIC VISCERA. 363 /. The pudic artery supplies the perineum and the penis. It passes out of the pelvis through the great ischiatic notch, below the pyriformis, crosses the spine of the ischium, and re-enters the pelvis through the lesser notch. It then ascends on the inner side of the obturator internus muscle towards the pubic arch, where it gives branches to the several parts of the penis. In its passage over the obturator muscle it is enclosed in a strong tube of - fascia, 7^ and is situated about one inch and a quarter above the tuberosity of the ischium. Here it might for a time be effectually com- pressed. The branches of the pudic artery were described in the dissection of the perineum (p, 349). Unfortunately for operative surgery, the pudic artery sometimes takes a very different course. Instead of passing out of the pelvis, it may run by the side of the prostate gland to its destination; or, which comes to nearly the same thing, one of the lai-ge branches of the pudic may take this unusual course, while the pudic itself is regular, but proportionably small. All practical anatomists are familiar with these varieties, and we seldom pass a winter session without meeting with one or two examples of them. It need hardly be said that lithotomy, under such conditions, might be followed be fatal hemorrhasre. g. The vesical* and middle hemorrhoidal arteries are variable as to their number and origin. They come from the pudic or the ischiatic, and ramify on the side of the rectum, the bladder, the vesiculse seminales, and the prostate. h. The middle sacral artery is a very diminutive prolongation of the aorta down to the coccyx. It becomes gradually smaller as it descends, and finally inosculates with the lateral sacral artery. In animals this is the artery of the tail. Eespecting the veins in the pelvis they correspond with the arteries. The remarkable plexus of veins about the prostate, neck of the bladder, and rectum, has been described (p. 353). * mile on the subject of arteries supplying the bladder, it should bo mentioned that the ivpper part of this organ is generaUy supplied by what is caUed the superior vesica . This is a smaU artery proceeding from the obHterated umbiHcal; and from it a still smaUer is given off, which accompanies the vas deferens.