392 CONTENTS or FEMALE PELVIS. the epithelium of the cervix is tessellated like that of the vagina. The chief pecuharity, however, about the membrane is this; —every part of it is covered with minute follicles or tubes arranged at right angles to its surface. These tubes become greatly developed shortly after impregnation, and are presumed to take an active part in the formation of the " membrana decidual The greater portion of the walls of the uterus consists of muscular fibres of the unstriped or involuntary kind, like that of the bladder and alimentary canal. The texture of the fibres is so close, that it is exceedingly difficult to ascertain their precise arrangement; indeed, in the unimpregnated uterus it is useless to make the attempt, for they are comparatively atrophied. But in pregnancy, when aU the component structures of the organ undergo simulta- neous development, the fibres run either longitudmally or in con- centric circles. The longitudinal fibres form a thick outside stratum, of which the direction is from the fundus to the neck of the uterus. The concentric circles form the deeper strata, and surround the orifices of the oviducts. Again, there are others which take a more oblique course, so that, upon the whole, theu- collective disposition is such as to exert equal pressure on all sides when called into operation. At the same tune that they expel the fcetus, the muscular fibres perform another very unportant function; they close the large venous sinuses developed for its nutrition. Therefore, very little hemorrhage accompanies the expulsion of the placenta, provided it have been attached to the fundus or the side of the uterus. But every one knows the danger of what is called a « placenta praevia. Here the placenta, planted as it were over the orifice of the uterus, is attached to a part of the organ which must of necessity expand durina labour : thus the reverse of what is common takes place, and every pain increases, instead of checking, the flooding. For the same reason, paralysis of the muscular fibres in immediate con- nection with the placenta, be it where it may, is likely to be a source of serious hemorrhage in parturition. The Fallopian tubes or oviducts are situated, one on FaUopian tubes. .^^^^ ^.^^^ ^^^^^ ^^ppe,. ^Qj-der of th6 broad liga-