181 MUSCLES OF THE BACK.- N 3 ceed to examine two' muscles, named from their appearance "senxoti,'" which extend from the spine to the ribs. Serratns '^^^^ muscle is situated beneath the rhomboidei. It posticus arises from the ligamentum nuchse*, the spines of the superior. -j^^^ cei-vical, and two or three tipper dorsal vertebrse, by a sheet-like aponeurosis which makes up nearly half the muscle: the fibres run obliquely downwards, and are inserted by fleshy slips into the second, third, fourth, and sometimes the fifth, ribs beyond their angles. Its action is to raise these ribs, and therefore to assist in inspiration. Serratus ^his muscle is situated beneath the latissimus dorsi. posticus It ai^es from the strong aponeurosis called "fascia lumborum,'' ascends obliquely, and is inserted by fleshy slips into the four lower ribs external to their angles. The tendency of its action is to pull down these ribs, and therefore to assist in expiration. Vertebral "^^^^ aponeurosis extends from the spines of the ver- aponeurosis. tebrse to the angles of the ribs, and serves to confine the " erector spinse" in the vertebral groove. Observe that it pi'oceeds from the upper border of the serratus posticus inferior, and that it is continued beneath the upper serrate muscle, so as to bind down the splenius. Splenius. ^^^^ arises from the spines of the four or five upper dorsal and the last cervical vertebra, and from more or less of the ligamentum nuchse. The fibres ascend and divide into two portions, named, according to their respective insertions, sple- nius capitis and splenius colli. a. The splenius capitis is inserted into the mastoid process, and .the superior curved ridge of the occipital bone beneath the sterno- mastoid. b. The splenius colli is inserted by tendinous slips into the transverse processes of the three upper cervical vertebrse. * The ligamentum nuch^ is a mcUuient of the great elastic ligament of quadrupeds (termed the pac e.as) which supports the weight of the head. It proceeds fitm he Bpme of the occput to the spines of aU the cervical rertebrfe exceJZ lZ. V wise it would interfere with the free rotation of the head, ^ '