400 GALL BLADDER, AND SPLEEN. surface of the right lobe of the liver (p. 396). Observe that it is shaped like a pear. Its size varies a little in different subjects; generally speaking,, it is about four inches long, and will hold about 11 oz. of fluid. Its narrow end, or neck, makes a bend downwards, and terminates in a duct, called the " cystic,''' which, after a course of about one inch, joins the hepatic. The common duct, " ductus communis choledochus," formed by their union, is about three or four inches long. Eemember that it opens into the back of the descending part of the duodenum, after running very obliquely through the coats of the bowel. Exclusive of its partial peritoneal covering, the gall-bladder has only two coats. The outer, consisting of fibro-cellular tissue, con- tains organic muscular fibres; the inner is the mucous coat. The mucous 'coat is generally tinged yellow by the bile. Its chief peculiarity is that it is gathered into ridges which give it a honeycomb appearance. It is covered by a columnar epithelium, which secretes an abundance of viscid mucous. Furthermore, observe that, at the bend of the neck of the gall-bladder, both its coats project very much into the mterior, making the opening con- siderably narrower than it appears to be outside. Lastly, in the cystic duct, the mucous membrane presents a series of folds, so arranged, one after the other, as to form a complete spiral valve. The probable use of this is to prevent the too rapid flow of the bile. Besides acting as a reservoir for bile, the gall-bladder adds a bitter principle to it, which makes it keep. The bile in the liver is sweet; that in the gall-bladder is intensely bitter. The spleen is a very vascular spongy organ, varying in Spleen. ^.^^ according to the quantity of blood in it, and fluc- tuating in weight, consistently with health, between 5 and 12 oz; Under ordinary circumstances it is of a reddish blue colour, owing to the large amount of blood in it. But the proper colour of the siibstance of the spleen is a yellowish grey. This is well seen m cases of cholera, where the organ is bloodless and collapsed ; it is also proved by injecting the splenic artery with water, which returns freely by the veins, and washes out all the blood. Its shape is elliptical. In its natural position it is so placed