PHRENIC NERVES. 91 With the anatomy of the parts before you, it is easy to under- stand that an aneurism of the innominate artery might be distin- guished from an aneurism of the aorta — 1. By a pulsation in the neck between the sterno-mastoid muscles, i.e. in the fossa above the sternum; 2. By occasional dyspnoea owing to pressure on the trachea; 3. By venous congestion in the left arm; 4. By the aneurismal thrill being confined to the nght arm. This artery arises from the arch of the aorta close to mtoy?^°*^*^ the arteria innominata. It ascends obliquely behind the first bone of the sternum to the neck. In the first part of its coiu-se it lies upon the trachea, but it soon passes to the left side of the trachea, and then lies for a short distance upon the oesophagus. In the rest of its course it resembles the right carotid (p. 12.) This is the third branch of the arch. It ascends out vi^ artery." chest to the inner border of the first rib, and then ciu-ves outwards behind the scalenus anticus. In the first part of its course it is deeply seated, and is covered on its left side by the plerua. Close to its right side is the oesophagus; be- tween it and the cesophagiis we find the thoracic duct. Like the other primary branches of the arch it is crossed by the left brachio- cephalic vein. The upper part of its course, where the vessel passes in front of the apex of the lung, has been described with the anatomy of the neck (p. 39.) Course of '^^^ phrenic nerve comes from the third, fourth, and the phrenic cervical nerves. It descends over the scalenus tWgh the enters the chest between the subclavian chest. vein and artery. It then descends in front of the root of the lung between the pleura and the pericardium to the diaphragm (fig. 15) which muscle it supplies. In what respects do the phrenic nerves differ from each other in their course ?—The right phrenic runs along the outer side of the innominate vein and superior vena cava; the left crosses in front aUuded to tlie hc.t that it occasionally gives oif a middle tliyroid artery (p 16) which ascends m front of the trachea to the tliyroid l>ody, and is therefore directly in the way in traclieotoniy.