463 CALF OF THE LEG. ankle, and, running through the same groove with the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, then enters the sole, and is inserted into the scaphoid bone. Its action is to bend and turn the foot inwards. The precise situation of the tendon of the tibialis posticus is interesting in a surgical point of view, because the tendon has to be divided for the relief of talipes varus. It lies close to, and parallel with, the inner edge of the tibia, so that this is a very good guide to it. It is necessary to relax the tendon, while the knife is introduced between the tendon and the bone. 'Its synovial sheath commences about 1^ inch above the end of the internal malleolus, and is consequently opened in the operation. ^ This artery is one of the branches into which the NATIONS OF THE popHtoal dlvldcs at the lower border of the po- posTERioB Ti- pliteus. It descends over the deep niuscles at the back of the leg to the interval between the internal malleolus and the os calcis, and, entering the sole, divides into the external and internal plantar arteries. It lies first for a short distance, upon the tibialis posticus, then on the flexor longus digi- torum ; but behind the ankle it is in contact with the tibia, so that here it can be felt beating during life, and effectually compressed. In the upper part of its course, it runs nearly midway between the bones, is covered by^the great muscles of the calf: to tie it, there- fore, in this situation, is very difficult. But in the lower part of its course, it gradually approaches the inner border of the tibia, from which, generally speaking, it is not more than ^ or | inch distant. Here, being comparatively superficial, it may be easily tied. Immediately behind the internal malleolus, we find it between the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum, on the inner side, and the flexor longus pollicis on the outer. It has two vense comites, which communicate at intervals. Its branches are as follow: — a. Numerous unnamed branches to the soleus and the deep muscles. b. The 'peroneal is a branch of very considerable size; often as large as the posterior tibial. Arising about l^inch below the division of the popliteal, it descends close to the inner side of the