289 ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. The internal oblique should be detached from the ribs, and from the crest of the ilium; but that portion of it connected to the crural arch must not be disturbed. In removing the internal oblique, we are very apt to cut away the transversalis. To avoid this mistake you should dissect near the crest of the ilium, and endea.vour to find an artery which runs between the muscles, and serves as a guide. This artery, called the deep " circumflexa ilii" proceeds from the external iliac, and supplies the abdominal muscles. Beneath the internal oblique, too, you will bring into view the continuations of the intercostal nerves and vessels. These it is desirable to preserve. Transversalis "^^^^ muscle arises from the outer half of the crural arch, from the anterior two-thirds of the crest of the ilium, from a^fascia attached to the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and, lastly, from the inner surfaces of the six or seven lower costal cartilages, by digitations which correspond with those of the diaphragm. From this manifold origin the fibres proceed horizontally forwards, and terminate in the abdominal aponeurosis. Eectus. "^^^^ muscle lies perpendicularly along the front of the belly, aud is enclosed in a sheath formed by the aponeu- roses of the lateral muscles of the abdomen. To expose it, therefore, we must slit up its sheath. It arises by a flat tendon from the symphysis, and from the upper part of the pubes; and is inserted into the fifth, sixth, and seventh costal cartilages. You notice the tendinous intersections across the muscle called " linece transversce;' which are only incomplete repetitions of the ribs in the wall of the abdomen.* Their number varies from three to five, but there are always more above than below the umbilicus. Ob- serve, moreover, that these tendinous intersections adhere closely to the sheath in front, but not behind; consequently, matter formed between the front of the rectus and its sheath, would be confined by two intersections; not so on the back of the muscle, for matter might travel down the entire length of it. * Some animals-c.<7. the crococIUe-laave bony abdommal ribs. U