SPINAL CORD. 517 Fig. 126. a time in water. It is prolonged upon the spinal nerves, and forms their investing memhrane or " neurilemma." The pia mater sends off from each side of the cord^ along its whole length, a series of ligaments to steady it. They are triangular, their bases being attached to the cord, and their points to the inside of the dura mater (fig. 126). Thus they look like a series of teeth down the side of the cord: hence dentSa!^^'^ the name "ligamenta dentata" There are from eighteen to twenty-two of them on each side, and they lie between the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves. The spinal cord is that part of the Spinai, coed. 1 • t • . 1 ■ cerebro-spmal axis contained m the diagbam of the , i , 1 Tj. • j-l. J.' J.- r J-T, LIGAMENTA BEN- vertebral canal. It is the continuation oi the me- ^ata. dulla oblongata, and extends from the foramen magnum down to the upper border of the second lumbar vertebra, where it terminates in a pointed manner, after having given off the great bundle of nerves termed the " cauda equina " for the supply of the lower limbs.* The general form of the cord is cylindrical, slightly flattened in front and behind. It is not of uniform dimen- sions throughout, but presents a slight enlargement in the lower part of the cervical region; another in the lower part of the dorsal, just where the great nerves of the upper and lower limbs are given off. The cord is divided into two symmetrical halves by a fissure in front and behind (fig. 127). The anterior fissure is the most distinct, and penetrates about one-third of the 1. Dura mater. 2, 2, 2. Ligamenta dentata. Cauda equina. Fissures. * Although the nerve substance of the cord itself terminates at the second lumbar vertebra, yet the pia mater is continued as a slender filament, called '■' filum ierminale" down to the base of the coccyx. The explanation of this is, that, at an early period of foetal life, the length of the cord corresponds with that of the vertebral canal; but after the third month, the lumbar and sacral vertebrae grow away, so to speak, from the cord, in accordance with the more active development of the lower limbs. See Tiedemann, Anatomic und Bildungsgcschichte des Gehiims im Fcetus des Menscheu, &c.; Niiremberg, 1816. I, L 3