LIGAMENTS OF THE CLAVICLE. The superior ligament, ca broad band of ligamentous fibres, strengthened by the aponeurosis of the trapezius, extends from the upper surface of the acromion to the upper surface of the clavicle. The inferior ligament, of less strength, extends along the under surface of the joint from bone to bone. An inter-articular fibro-cartilage is sometimes foimd in this joint: but it is incomplete, and seldom extends lower than the upper half. There is only one synovial membrane. Goraco-clavicular ligament — The clavicle is connected to the coracoid process of the scapula by two strong ligaments—the conoid and trapezoid, which, being continuous with each other, might fairly be considered as one. The trapezoid ligament is the move anterior. It arises from the back part of the coracoid pro- cess, and ascends obliquely outwards to the clavicle, near its outer end. The conoid ligament is fixed at its apex to the root of the coracoid process, ascends vertically, and is attached by its base to the clavicle, near the posterior border. Eemember that when the clavicle is fractured in the line of the attachment of the coraco- clavicular ligament, there is no displacement of the fractured ends ; these being kept in place by the ligament itself. Ligaments proper to the scapula.—There are only two: the coracoid ligament, which is attached to the margins of the supra- scapular notch, and the coraco-acromial or triangular ligament, which is attached by its apex to the acromion, and by its base to the outer border of the coracoid process. It is separated from the upper part of the capsule of the shoulder-joint by a large bursa. The articular surface of the head of the humerus, form- Shouxdeb- ijjg rather more than one-third of a sphere, moves upon the shallow glenoid cavity of the scapula, which is of an oval form, with the broader end downwards, and n^he long diameter nearly vertical. It is obvious that the security of the joint does not depend upon any mechanical contrivance of the bones, but upon the great strength and number of the tendons which surround it. To admit the free motion of the head of the humerus upon t le glenoid cavity, it is requisite that the capsular ligament of the