415 DISSECTION OF THE GROIN. Postponing, for the present, the general muscular fascia of the thigh, called "fascia lata," let us now examine the opening in it which transmits the saphena vein. Immediately below the crural arch is an opening in the openfiig'ia muscular fascia of the thigh, which, as it gives passage 1 ita^'^^"^ to the saphena Vein, is appropriately called " saphenous." Now since this opening is one of the parts concerned in the anatomy of femoral hernia, the mode in which it is formed, its shape, dimensions, borders,—in short, everything connected with it, — is described by anatomical writers with very minute precision. He who dissects these parts for the first time can hardly expect to make them out satisfactorily, still less to make his dissection tally with the description usually given. Understand that the edge of the saphenous opening does not naturally exist as a defined margin, until the fascia which covers the opening and is blended with the margin has been removed. The term " cribriform " has been given to this fascia, because it is riddled with holes for the passage of the. superficial vessels and absorbents: of this we will say more anon. At present let us confine our attention to the saphenous opening itself. Supposing the cribriform fascia to have been removed so as to display the saphenous opening in its simplest form, the opening would appear as represented in fig. 92. We observe that it is situated just below the- crural arch, not far from the pubes; that it is oval with the long axis vertical, and about one and a half or two inches long. In respect to its borders, we find that on the inner or pubic side it is not at all defined, for here the muscular fascia ascends under the femoral vessels, and is continuous with the iliac fascia of the pelvis.* But the outer or iliac border is defined clearly enough. This lies in front of the femoral vessels, and is crescent-shaped, with the concavity towards the pubes. The lower horn of the crescent curves under the saphena vein, and is lost in the fascia on the inner side of the * On the iimer side of the fo.norul veas.-ls the pubic portion of the ftaseia is attached to the linea ilio-pectiiiea.