371 STEUCTUKE OF THE PROSTATE. Modern observations prove that the prostate is more of a muscular than a glandular body. Nearly two-thirds of it is made up of mus- cular fibre of the non-striped variety. The great mass of this mus- cular fibre is arranged in a circular manner round the urethra, so as to form a sphincter. The prostate is remarkable for its dilatability. This has been long known to lithotomists, distinguished for their skill and success. If a small incision be made through the anterior part of the gland, the base being left entire, the gland may be dilated by the finger to such an extent as to admit of the extraction of even large calculi. It will naturally suggest itself, that any change in the dimensions of the prostate gland must affect the canal which runs through it and more or less obstruct the flow of urine. For instance, if the entire gland be uniformly enlarged, the length of the prostatic urethra wUl be increased; if the enlargement preponderate at one part more than another then the canal will deviate more or less from its natural track and assume a more angular or a lateral cm-ve according to the part enlarged. When the middle lobe becomes enlarged, there arises, at the neck of the bladder, a tumor, which wdll, in proportion to its size, more or less obstruct the passage of the urine. In the efforts made to introduce a catheter mto the bladder, it sometimes happens that the end of the instru- ment is pushed through this hypertrophied lobe.* Vesiculjfi Respecting the internal structure of the vesicul^ semi- seminales. nales. We need only observe that their mucous membrane is lined by a scaly epithelium, and that it presents a beautiful honeycomb structure, not unHke that of the gall-bladder; the purpose of this is to increase the extent of the secreting surface.' Cowper's . ^^^^^^ Cowper have already been examined in glands. Situ in the dissection of the perineum, p. 348. We find them close to the urethra, one on either side, immediately behind the bulb. They consist of an aggregation of smaller glands • of which the collective size is somewhat larger than a pea Each pours Its secretion by a single and very minute duct into the * See the Museum of St. Bartholomew's, Prep. 8 and 21, Series xxix. B n 2 hUa^ ^^jBty->/P , . ^ .