PARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. 298 that it has a defined margin on the pubic side, but none on the iliac, and that on the whole it looks like a little funnel. In its passage through the internal abdominal ring the spermatic cord receives from the margin of it its first covering, thin and delicate, termed the infundibuliform fascia. (This is not seen in the diagram.) But the chief point of interest concerning the internal ring is that the epigastric artery ascends close by its inner border. Having examined the several strata through which the spermatic cord passes, you will do well to replace them in their natural position, and build them up so as to examine the inguinal canal as a whole. You will perceive that its direction is obliquely down- wards and inwards. Its length in a well-formed adult male is from one and a half to two inches. Now, what are its boundaries ? It is bounded in front by the aponeurosis of the external oblique; behind, by the fascia transversalis; above, by the lower fleshy fibres of the internal obHque and, transversalis; below, by the crural arch. In a practical point of view this is one of the most im- rektfonrof portant arteries in the body. It arises from the external fte l^gaa- iliac, j ust before this vessel passes under the crm-al arch, trie artery. ^scends inwards, forms a gentle curve round the inner side of the internal abdominal ring, and consequently on tbe inner side of the spermatic cord, and then enters the rectus muscle, in which it is gradually lost. In the fii'st part of its course rt lies between the peritoneum and the fascia transversalis; afterwards it enters the sheath of the rectus. The artery is accompamed by two veins of which the larger is constantly found on the inner side of it They terminate by a single trunk in the ihac vem Of the branches of the epigastric artery the most im- KetpV portant is the ":pxc&ic." It runs inwards just behind the gastric. l^^^^i arch, towards the pubes, and derives its chiet practical interest from the fact that it is liable to be wounded m dMding the stricture in femoral hernia.* But its size varies in different subjects, and is sometimes so small as to escape observa- . There is a prepaa^tion (No. 83, Ser. 17) in the Mnseur. of St. ^-^^J-;^^^;^ pital quite to the point. The patient had profuse hemoi-rhage, which conamenced five hours after the operation. He died mth peritonitis.