ELBOW-JOINT. 276 The lower part of the collar is narrower than the upper, in order to fit the neck of the radius, and maintain it more accurately in its position. Some anatomists speak of an anterior and a posterior ligament for the elbow-joint. But what they describe as ligaments consists merely of a few thin ligamentous fibres spread over the capsule of the joint in front and behind. There is no need of ligaments to limit flexion and extension in this joint: for the coronoid process limits the one, and the olecranon the other. The preceding ligaments collectively form a continuous capsule for the elbow-joiat. Synovial membrane of the elbow-joint.—Open the joint by a transverse incision through the anterior ligament, and observe the relative adaptation of the cartilaginous surfaces of the bones. The synovial membrane lines the interior of the capsule, and forms a cul-de-sac between the head of the radius and its orbicular ligament. It is widest and most loose under the tendon of the triceps. Where the membrane is reflected from the bones upon the ligaments, there is more or less adipose tissue, particularly in the fossse on the front and back part of the lower end of the humerus. This is an aponeurotic septum, which is stretched Hg^ment o^f between the bones of the fore-arm, and of which the membrane, ^j^.^^ purpose is to afford an increase of surface for the attachment of muscles. The septum is deficient above, in order to permit free rotation of the radius. Its fibres extend obHquely downwards from the radius to the ulna. The name of round or oblique ligament is given to a thin band of ligamentous fibres, which extends obHquely between the bones of the fore-arm in a direction contrary to those of the interosseous membrane. It is attached, superiorly, to the front surface of the ulna, near the outer side of the coronoid process; inferiorly, to the radius immediately below the tubercle. A bursa intervenes between it and the insertion of the tendon of the biceps. The use of this ligament is to limit supination of the radius.