DISSECTION or THE PALM OF THE HAND. 240 But what protects the joints of the fingers where the flexor tendons play over them? Look into an open sheath, and you will see that in front of the joints the tendons glide over a smooth fibro-cartilaginous structvire, called the "glenoid" ligament. To facilitate the play of the tendons, the interior of the sheath, as well as the tendons, are lined by a synovial membrane, of the extent of which it is important to have a correct knowledge. With a probe you may easily ascertain that the synovial membrane is reflected from the sheath upon the tendons, a little above the metacarpal joints of the fingers ; that is, nearly in a line with the transverse fold in the skin in the lower third of the palm. Towards the distal end of the finger, the synovial sheath stops short of the last joint, so thf^t it is not injured in amputation of the ungual phalanx. In dissecting the sheaths of the tendons, I have frequently observed little hernia-like protrusions of the synovial membrane through the sheath, varying in size from a pin's head to a pea, very hard and incompressible : when punctured a reddish substance like apple jelly escapes,'and the tumor subsides. I have seen these little tumours in the living hand; they interfere with the proper- use of the finger: so far as my experience goes, the best mode of treating them is to evacuate their contents by a' subcutaneous puncture, and keep the finger on a splint for a few days after- wards. And now notice how beautifully the tendons are adapted to each other in their course along the finger. The superficial flexor, near the root of the finger, becomes slightly grooved to receive the deep flexor • about the middle of the first phalanx it splits mto two portions, through which the deep flexor passes. The two portrons reunite below the deep tendon so as completely to embrace it, and tody of the phalanx, and extend transversely from one side of the bone to the other The " ligamenta cruciata" are two slips, wHeh cross obliquely over the tendons, ihe ^'ligamenta annularia" are situated immediately in fi-ont of the joints,_ and may be considered as thin eontinuations of the ligamenta yaginalia. They eonsist of dcbcate fibres, which are attached on either side of the joints to the glenoid bgaments, and pass transversely over the tendons.