BRACHIAL PLEXUS OF NERVES. 46 intercostal branclaes of the aorta: 5. By the communications between the superior intercostal and the aortic intercostal. These inoscu- lations are shown in the diagram, page 45. Again, if the subclavian were tied in the third part of its course, the circulation would be carried on by the communications: 1. Between the supra-scapular and dorsalis scapulae (branch of sub- scapular) : 2. Between the posterior scapular and the subscapular : 3. Between the long and short thoracic on the one hand, and the internal mammary and aortic intercostals on the other. The subclavian vein does not form an arch like the Subclayian g^j-tery, but proceeds in a nearly straight line over the first rib to join the internal jugular. Throughout its whole course the vein is situated on a plane anterior to and a little lower than the artery, from which it is separated by the scalenus anticus,the phrenic and pneumogastric nerves. It has a valve iust before its junction with the internal jugular. It receives the external jugular, anterior jugular, supra-scapular, and posterior- scapular veins. , The large nerves forming the plexus which supphes the SrS"^ upper extremity are the anterior divisions of the four nerves, i^^^ cervical nerves and the first dorsal. Emergmg from the inter-vertebral foramina they appear between the anterior and middle scalene muscles, and pass with the subclavian artery into the axiUa. To this bundle of nerves the name " p exus is ' given, on account of their mutual communications. The plexus ft its root is wide, and situated higher than the subcla^aan artery and nearly on the same plane ; but as the plexus de-nds — the clavicle its component nerves converge, and m the axilla, com- ^^tLXtaS^^^ muscle and by the supra-scapular and posterior scapular arteries.^ The a"an^ of the nerves in the formation of the plexus xs usually thus?- The fifth and sixth cervical imite to form a single Td; L eighth cervical and the first dorsal unite to form anc>the^^^ the seventh cervical runs for some distance alone and then dmdes so as to unite with the other two cords.