101 PLEURA. In health the internal surface of the pleura is smooth, polished, and lubricated by moisture sufficient to facilitate the sUding of the lung. When this surface is thickened and roughened by inflam- mation, the moving lung produces a " friction " sound. When the pleural sac is distended by serum, it constitutes hydro-thorax; when by pus, " empyema." Take an opportunity of introducing your hand iAo the pleural sac, and ascertain that the reflection of the pleura on to the dia- phragm corresponds with an imaginary line commencing at the lower part of the sternum, and sloping along the cartilages of the successive ribs down to the lower border of the last rib. Now suppose a musket ball were to lodge in the pleiual sac, it would fall upon the dome of the diaphragm, and roll down to the lowest part of the pleural cavity. The place, therefore, to extract it would be in tlie back, at the eleventh intercostal space. This operation has been done during life with success. Posterior "^^^ posterior mediastmum (p. 87) is formed by mediasti- the reflection of the pleural sac on each side, from co"^tente/'' of the lung to the sides of the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae. It is bounded in front by the pericardium. To obtain a view of it, draw the right lung out, and fasten it to the left side. This mediastinum contains the aorta; in front of the aorta, the oesophagus, with the pneumogastric nerves; on the right of the aorta is the vena azygos; between this vein and the aorta is the thoracic duct. To expose all these we have only to remove the pleura, and a layer of tolerably firm fascia which lines the chest outside the pleura. Thoracic ^^^^ already traced the arch of the aorta to the aorta. ^^ft side of the body of the third dorsal vertebra. From this point the aorta descends on the left side of the spine, gradually approaching towards the mesial line. Oppo- site the last dorsal vertebra it passes between the crm-a of the diaphragm and enters the abdomen. Its left side is covered by pleura: on its right side run the vena azygos and thoracic duct; in front of it, and nearer to the mesial line, is the oesophagus. Its branches will be described presently. H 3