495 WHITE AND GREY SUBSTANCE. anticus.''* In front of the locus perforatus medius are two round white bodies, called the " corpora mamviillaria or alhicantia: " in front of these is a simple elevation of the surface, consisting of grey matter, called the " tuber cinereum," upon which the com- missure of the optic nerves seems, as it were, to ride. From the tuber cinereum, and just behind the optic commissure, a conical tube, of a reddish colour, termed the " infundibulum" descends to the pituitary gland which occupies the sella turcica of the sphenoid bone. In front of the optic commissure the tuber cinereum is continued forwards under the form of a thin grey layer {lamina cinerea) so as to join the anterior end of the corpus callosum. Now these several objects—namely, the locus perforatus medius, mammillary bodies, tuber cinereum, infundibulum, optic commis- sure, and lamina cinerea—collectively constitute the floor of the thii-d ventricle of the brain. Lastly, by gently separating the anterior lobes of the cerebrum, we see the anterior extremity of the corpus callosum, or great transverse commissure which connects the two hemispheres of the cerebrum. Examination brain be laid upon its base. We have already of the inte- noticed that the hemispheres of the cerebrum are di- vided by a deep longitudinal fissure. By gently sepa- rating the hemispheres, we observe at the bottom of this fissure a white band of nervous matter: this is the great transverse com- missure of the cerebrum, termed " corpus callosum." White a ^^^'^^ hemispheres doAvn to the level of the grey matter. ^'^^P^^^ callosum.f The ' cut surface presents a mass of white substance surrounded by an undulating layer of grey matter of about one-eighth of an inch thick. Since this grey matter forms a sort of bark round the white, it is often called the * The large number of arteries which enter the brain in these respective situations are destined to supply the two great masses of grey matter in the interior — namely the optic thalamus and the corpus striatum. The former con-esponds with the locus perforatus medius, the latter with the locus perforatus anticus. t The section of the brain at the level of the corpus caUosum was caUed by the old anatomists "centrum ovale majus : " at a higher level, the section was called ceu- trum ovale minus.