198 PECTORAL KEGION. nerve sends a filament to the skin over the sternum, and a larger one which supplies the skin over the pectoral muscle. Branches of the internal mammary artery, for the supply of the mammary gland, accompany these nerves. During lactation they increase in size, ramifying tortuously over the surface of the gland. I have seen them nearly as large as the radial at the wrist. They would require a ligature in removal of the breast. The lateral cutaneous branches of the intercostal nerves come out between the digitations of the serratus magnus on the side of the chest. They will be more fully described presently. Now remove the superficial fascia with the mammary gland from the pectoralis major, by dissecting parallel to the course of its fibres. When the muecle has been fully exposed, observe its shape, the coiu-se of its fibres, their origin, and insertion. The pectoralis major is the great muscle on the front Pectoralia ^j^g ^^^^^^ j^. arises from the sternal half of the major. t r ±n clavicle, from the front of the sternum, and from the cartilages of all the true ribs except the first and last. The fibres converge towards the arm, and terminate in a flat tendon, about two inches in breadth, which is inserted into the anterior margin of the bicipital groove of the humeTus. Their arrangement, as well as the structure of their tendon, is peculiar. The lower fibres which form the boundary of the axilla are folded beneath the rest, and terminate upon the upper part of the tendon, i. e. nearer to the shoulder joint; whereas the upper fibres descend in front of the lower, and terminate upon the lower part of the tendon. Consequently the upper and lower fibres of the muscle cross each other previously to their insertion. Now what is the object of this arrangement? It enables all the fibres to act simultaneously when the arm is extended. The upper part of the tendon sends off an aponeurosis, which straps down the long head of the biceps, and is attached to the great tuberosity of the humerus. The lower part is intimately connected with the fascia of the upper arm, and the tendon of the deltoid. The chief action of the pectoralis major is to draw the humerus