423 PARTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA. E E 4 ment called the "fascia propria." In front of this is the cribri- form fascia. Lastly, there is the subcutaneous tissue and skin. The seat of stricture is at the femoral ring, and the position of the neighbouring blood-vessels indicates that the proper direction in which to divide the stricture is, either directly inwards, through Grimbernat's ligament, as recommended by Mr. Lawrence, or up- wards through Hey's ligament, as recommended by Sir A. Cooper. There is no risk of wounding an artery, supposing the vessels to take their ordinary course. But it occasionally happens (as observed p. 362), that the obtiirator artery runs round the inner side of the femoral ring; in such a case, the neck of the sac would be en- circled by a large blood-vessel.* From the examination of two hundred bodies, I conclude that the chances are about seventy to one against this unfavourable distribution. But the possibility of it has given rise to this rule in practice,—not to cut deeply in any one place through the strictiure but rather to notch it in several. By this proceeding we are much less likely to wound the abnormal artery, because it does not ran at the base of Grimbernat's ligament, but about a line and a half from the margin of it. Such is a brief outline of the anatomy of the parts concerned in a femoral hernia. The normal anatomy in each case being nearly the same, one might suppose that all operations for the relief of this kind of hernia would be straightforward and pretty much alike ; but this is very far from being the case ; indeed, most experienced surgeons will agree that they never take the knife in hand without the expectation of meeting some peculiarity. To proceed with the dissection, the incision should be prolonged down the thigh, over the knee, to the tubercle of the tibia. The skin should be reflected, so that the subcutaneous tissue over the whole front of the thigh be fairly exposed; our present object being to examine the cutaneous veins and nerves. * The museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital contains two examples of double fe- moral hernia in the male, with the obturator arising on each side from the epigastric. In three out of the four hernice the obtiu-ator rims on the inner side of the mouth of the sac. See Prep. 55, 69, Series 17.