131 DissECTioisr or the pharynx. neath its lower border the recurrent laryngeal nerve enters the larynx. The middle constrictor arises from the upper edge of the gi-eater cornu of the os-hyoides, from its lesser cornu and part of the stylo-hyoid ligament. Its fibres take different directions, so that with those of the opposite muscle they form a lozenge. The lower angle of the lozenge is covered by the inferior constrictor; the upper angle ascends nearly to the basilar process of the occiput, and -terminates upon the pharyngeal aponeurosis. The external surface of the muscle is covered at its origin by the hyo-glossus. The swperior constrictor arises from the hamular process of the sphenoid bone; from the pterygo-maxillary ligament (which con- nects it with the buccinator); from the mylo-hyoid ridge of the lower jaw, and from the side of the tongue. The fibres pass inwards to the mesial line: some of them are inserted through the medium of the pharyngeal aponeurosis into the basilar process. ^ The upper border of the superior constrictor presents on either side a free semilunar edge with its concavity upwards, so that between it and the base of the skull a space is left in which the muscle is deficient (fig. 26). Here the pharynx is strengthened and walled in by its own aponeurosis. The space is called the " sinus of Morgagni;" and in it, with a little dissection, we get at the muscles which raise and tighten the soft palate: i. e. the levator palati, the tensor palati. The Eustachian tube opens into the pharynx just here. Observe that the fibres of the stylo-pharyngeus pass in between the superior and middle constrictors, and expand upon the side of the pharynx; some of them mingle with those of the constrictors, but most of them are inserted into the posterior margin of the thyroid cartilage. Pharyngeal ^he pharyngeal aponeurosis, intervenes between the "poneSoL" "'^"^^^ membrane of the pharynx. It IS attached to the basilar process of the occiput, and to the pomts of the petrous portions of the temporal bones It maintains the strength and integrity of the pharynx at its upper part, where the muscular fibres are deficient; but it gradiially dimmishes m thickness as it descends, and is finally lost on the