EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 329 But tlie most important relation of these arteries, in a practical point of view, is their position with regard to their correspond- ing veins. In consequence of the vena cava lying on the right of the aorta, you see that the right common iliac artery crosses over both the common iliac veins. It is also very closely connected to them. For these reasons it is easier to pass a ligature round the left artery than the right; for though its vein lies on its inner side, it is sufficiently far off to be out of the way of danger. With the parts now before you, consider what would be the easiest way of performing this operation. Several modes have been recommended. Upon-the whole, the best authorities* agree that the artery is most accessible from behind. An incision should be made perpendicularly from the end of the last rib to the ilium; another transversely along the margin of this bone nearly to its spine. We then cut, layer after layer, through the abdominal muscles till the peritoneum is exposed; this is easily raised from the iliac fascia, and with it the ureter is raised too. The applica- tion of the ligature is, after all, the most delicate part of the ope- ration. It ought to be placed, as near as possible, midway between the origin and the division of the artery, so that there may be room enough for the formation of a clot on either side.f ExTEENAi This artery passes along the brim of the pelvis, on the ILIAC inner side of the psoas, and then running under the AETERY. Ill crm-al arch about midway between the spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis, takes the name of femoral. The corresponding vein lies close to its inner side, and on a posterior TOl. » Consult some obaeryations in point by Sir P. Crampton, in Med. Cbir Trans '1 XTl. t It IS important to be aware that the length of the common iUae artery is apt to Tay. in different persons. I have seen it from three-fourths of an inch to three and a half mches long. These varieties may arise either from a high division of the aorta or a low division of the common ihac, or both. It is impossible to ascertain beforehand what wiU be its length in a given instance, for tLe is no nocess'i^ relation between i s length and the height of the adult individual. It is often IZ short in men of tall stature, and vice vcrscl Anatomists generally describe th e t"3 rather longer han the right; but, from the examination of 100 bodies, I conclude tha their average length is the same. i-ouuuae inai