410 STRUCTURE Or THE LARGE INTESTINES. these bands corresponds with the attached part of the circumference of the bowel; another with the front part; a third with what may be called its concavity. If at any given part the three bands be divided, the pouches immediately disappear. The rectum differs from the rest of the large intestine in that its longitudinal muscular fibres are not collected into bands, but distributed equally over its whole circumference. Moreover, both the longitudinal and circular fibres are of considerable strength, like those of the oesophagus, as one might expect from the parti- cular functions which these parts of the alimentary canal have to perform. Lastly, for one inch and a half, or thereabouts, above the anus, the circular fibres are remarkably developed, and constitute the internal " sphincter anV The mucous njiembrane of the large intestine differs materially from that of the small. It is altogether more simple. There are no valvules conniventes or villi; but there' are plenty of Lieber- kiihn's glands; plenty also of the flask-like solitary glands* like those in the ileum. Peyer well describes these glands as studding the mucous membrane, " tanquam stellse firmamenti." As regards the arrangement of the blood-vessels, it* deserves to be remarked that a piece of well-injected mucous membrane from the large intestine presents the same hexagonal arrangement on the surface as that of the stomach. That the mucous membrane of the large bowel may be temporarily used as a substitute for the stomach, is proved by the fact of persons having been nourished for six weeks or more, solely by injections. At the junction of the small with the large intestine valve ^'^^^ the mucous membrane is folded so as to form a valve: but it is not a perfect one, as is proved by pouring water into the large intestine, or by the occasional vomiting of injections. The arrangement of the valve is best examined in a dried prepara- tion. You observe that the opening is a transverse fissure like a button-hole; and that the two flaps are arranged like an upper * The solitary glands are more abundant in tlie caecum and in tlie appendix vemu- formis than in any other part of the alimentary caniil.