POSITION OF THE HEART. 95 directed upwards towards the right shoulder ; its apex points down- wards and to the left, between the fifth and sixth ribs. It is main- tained in its position by a membranous bag termed the "peri- cardium ; " which is lined by a polished membrane to facilitate its movements. It is supported by the tendinous centre of the dia- phragm. Cut open the pericardium, and observe that the heart is conical in form, and convex every where except upon its lower surface, which is flat, and rests upon the tendinous centre of the diaphragm. But this general observation is not sufficient. You must notice the several objects exposed, when the pericardium is thus laid open; they are as follow: —1. Part of the right ventricle ; 2. Part of the left ventricle; 3. Part of the right auricle with its appendix over- lapping the root of the aorta; 4. The appendix of the left auricle overlapping the root ofthe pulmonary artery; 5. The aorta; 6. The ptilmonary artery; 7. The vena cava superior. The heart then is placed behind the lower half of the sternum, occupies more of the left than the right half of the chest, and rests upon the central tendon of the diaphragm, which is nearly on a plane with the lowest part of the fifth rib. At each contraction the apex of the heart may be felt beating between the fifth and sixth ribs, about two inches below the nipple, and one inch on its sternal side. Prsecordial " pr<BCorclial region » is the outline of the heart region. traced upon the front wall of the chest. We ought to be able to define this region with something like pre- cision. We should know how much of this region is covered and separated from the wall of the chest by intervening lung (fig. 17. p. 96). Here then is the rule:—Let the middle of the^'fiftli costal cartilage be the centre of a-circle two inches in diameter- ■this ch-cle will define well enough for all practical purposes, that part of the precordial region which is naturally less resonant to percussion than the rest; for here the heart is uncovered excent bv pericardium and loose cellular tissue, and is very near the wdl of the chest. In the rest of the precordial region the heart is cov ed and separated from the chest by the intervening kmc- Where must we put the stethoscope when we listen to the valves