141 DISSECTION or THE LAKYNX. Cricoid . "''^"^ cartilage, named from its resemblance to a cSge. ring*, is situated below the thyroid. It is not of equal depth all round. It is narrow in front where it may be felt about one quarter of an inch below the thyroid cartilage: from this part, the upper border gradually rises, so that, pos- teriorly, the ring is a full inch in vertical depth, and occupies pai't of the interval left between the al^ of the thyroid cartilage. In the middle of this broad posterior surface is a vertical ridge, on either side of which observe a superficial excavation for the origin of the crico-arytenoidei postici. On its upper part are two oval slightly convex surfaces for the articulation of the ai-ytenoid car- tilages. In front, its upper border presents a broad excavation to which the crico-thyi-oid ligament is attached. The lower border IS connected by elastic membrane to the first ring of the trachea. The thyi'oid is connected to the cricoid cartilage in front by the crico-thyroid membrane, and laterally by its two inferior horns Between these two cartilages there is a perfect joint on either side provided with a synovial membrane, and secured by ligaments! The object of this joint is to permit the approximation of the cartilages You will understand presently how the movement between them regulates the tension of the vocal cords. Arytenoid ^^''f cartilages are situated, one on either side, at cartilages. the back of the Cricoid. In the fresh state, before the membranes and muscles have been removed, the space between them resembles the lip of a ewer f; from this resemblance their name is derived Each is triangular with the apex upwards. Its posterior surface is concave, and gi.es attachment to the ary- tenoid muscle. Its base presents an o.al surface, which articulates ^vlth the cncoid cartilage. This joint has a very loose capsular and synovial membrane, and permits motion in all directions Tike he first jointo the thumb. In front^of the base is atubel (antenor tubercle), which gives attachment to the vocal cord Ind contributes to form part of the boundary of the rima gbttTdis' At the outer and back part of the base is another tubercle (point * KpiVor, a ring. ,, , 7 ApvTaiva, a ewer.