DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 541 three-eighths of an inch; its antero-posterior, one-sixth of an inch. The lens is kept in place by a capsule equally transparent as itself. The capsule is composed of tissue exactly similar to the elastic layer of the cornea. It is at least four times thicker, in front than behind, as one might expect, for the sake of more effective support. No vascular connection whatever exists between the lens and its capsule.* The lens protrudes directly the capsule is suffi- ciently opened. How, then, is the lens nourished? By means of an extremely delicate layer of nucleated cells on its surface, which absorb nourishment from the capsule. Some anatomists speak of a layer of fluid {liquor Morgagni) as existing between the lens and its capsule; but no such fluid can be detected during life, and if there be any after death, it is, in all probability, imbibed by the capsule from the aqueous humour. The minute structure of the lens is very remarkable, ste^^toe. gelatinous in consistence outside, but grows gradu- ally denser towards the centre. After immersion in nitric acid, alcohol, or boiling water, it becomes hard and opaque. One may then see that it is divided into three equal parts, by three lines which radiate from the centre to within one-third of the circumference. Each of these portions is composed of hundreds of concentric layers, arranged one within the other, like the coats of an onion. But this is not all: if we examine any single layer with the microscope, we find that it is made up of fibres about sVoT*^ of an inch in thickness, and connected together by finely serrated edges. This beautiful dovetaibng of the fibres of the lens was first pointed out by Sir David Brewster; and, to see it in per- fection, one ought to take the lens of the common cod-fish. * The vessels of the capsule of the lens are derived from the arteria centraUs retinse and, m mammaHa, can only be injected in the fcetal state. In the reptiUa, however' the posterior layer of the capsule is permanently vascular. According to Quekett' the membrana pupillaris of authors is nothing more than the anterior layer of the capsule. In taking the eye to pieces, it is quite a matter of accident whether the membrane adhere to the iris, or remain in its proper place in front of the lens See Quekett's paper in the " Transactions of the Microscopic Society of London " vol iii