11 DISSECTION OF THE HEART. I 4 Thus the coronary arteries form two circles about the heart: the one, horizontal, runs round the base of the heart, in the furrow between the aui-icles and ventricles. The other, perpendicular, runs in the furrow between the ventricles. The veins corresponding to the coronary arteries terminate in a single trunk, which opens into the right aiu-icle between the remains of the Eustachian valve and the aiu-iculo-ventricular open- ing. The orifice of the vein is guarded by a valve, to prevent regurgitation of blood. Most of the fibres are attached by both extremities Arrange- j. i r-n ment of the the fibrous rings of the heart. The fibres of the • SireS/tte ^^^^^^^^ distinct from those of the ventricles. They heart. consist of a superficial layer common to both cavities, and a deeper layer proper to each. The superficial fibres run transversely across the auricles; some pass into the septum. The deeper fibres run in circles chiefly round the auricular ap- pendages and the entrance of the great veins, upon which a few may be traced for a short distance. Of the ventricular fibres, some are common to both ventricles, others proper to each. The septum is formed principally by the fibres of the left. All the fibres take a more or less spiral course fi-om the base towards the apex of the heart, where they coil round, pass into the interior of the ventricle, and form either ''carneae cokimnse" or "musculi papillares."* Eeduced to their simplest expression, the ventricles consist of two muscular sacs, enclosed in a third equally muscular. The same may be said of the auricles. Weight. average weight of the heart is from ten to twelve ounces in the male, and from eight to ten in the female • but much depends upon the size and condition of the body gene- rally. We have seen the heart so reduced in size by dic4etic disease, that it weighed only 51 ozs. As a general rule, it may be stated that the heart gradually increases in length, breadth, and thickness, from childhood to age.f * For further information upon this subject, see the article in Todd', Ovnln. /i- t Consdt Bizot, Mem. de b Soc. Med. d'Obser. de Paris, torn, i 1836