DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 502 anterior crus of the fornix; behind, it is lost in the middle horn of the lateral ventricle. This is a thin and almost transparent partition, which hi^idum. descends vertically in the middle line from the under surface of the corpus callosum, and separates the anterior part of the lateral ventricles from each other. What are its at- tachments ? Above, to the corpus callosum ; below, to the reflected part of the corpus callosum and the fornix, p. 498. It is not of equal depth throughout. The broadest part is in front, and cor- responds with the knee of the corpus callosum. It grows narrower behind, and altogether disappears where the corpus callosum and the fornix become continuous. Thin as it is, yet the septum con- sists of two layers which inclose a space called the " fifth ven- tricle " (fig. 1?2). Each layer is made up of white substance inside, and of gre}- outside; the little ventricle between them is closed in the adult, and lined by a delicate serous membrane, which secretes in it a minute quantity of fluid ; but in foetal life it communicates with the third ventricle between the pillars of the fornix.* Now cut transversely through the corpus callosum and the septum lucidum, and turn forwards the anterior half. In this way the ventricle of the septum will appear as in fig. 122. By turning back the posterior half of the corpus callosum we obtain a view of the fornix. This proceeding requires care, or the fornix will be reflected also, since these two arches of nervous matter are here so closely connected. This, as implied by its name, is a layer of white matter Fornix. arranged in the form of an arch from before backwards, beneath the corpus callosum. It is the great longitudinal com- missure and lies over the velum (fig. 120, p. 498). Viewed from its upper surface it is triangular, with the base behind, as shown in diagram 122. The broad part is connected to the corpus callosum. From its anterior narrow part proceed two round white cords, * The development of the septum lucidum commences about the fifth month of foetal life, and proceeds from before backwards pari passu with the corpus callosum and fornix.