DISSECTION OP THE EYE. 529 The conjunctiva is the mucous memhrane which. SSva Jiiies the eyelids. From the back part of the tarsal cartilages it is reflected over the sclerotic coat of the eye by loose folds, so as not to impede the motions of the globe. The palpebral portion of it is very vascular, and provided with fine papillEe.* The ocular portion has no papillae, and is nearly colour- less, except when inflamed; it then becomes intensely vascular and red, like a piece of scarlet cloth. An abundant supply of nerves, has been bestowed upon the membrane for the purpose of giving it that exquisite degree of sensibility necessary to guard the eye (p 52). Continuecl I&JBY of Conjunctiva covers the cornea or over the transparent part of the eye. True, it cannot be sepa- cornea. ^^^^^ dissection in recent eyes ; but the corneal con- junctiva possesses the same acute sensibiUty as the rest of it; changes produced by inflammation of the conjunctiva are often continued over the cornea: we see red vessels injected on its surface, and its texture becomes thickened.f The human eye is very nearly spherical. It would be quite so, but that the transparent part in front—the cornea—forms a seg- ment of a smaller sphere than the rest. Consequently, the antero- posterior diameter of the ball exceeds the transverse by about one line. The convexity of the cornea, however, varies in different persons, and at different periods of life; this is one cause of the several degrees of near-sight and far-sight. Coats and globe is composed of three coats arranged one HnMouBs OF within the other. The external coat, called the "scle- THE ETE. rotic," is fibrous, thick, and strong, so as to form a case to protect the delicate structures within it. The second coat, called the " choroid,^'' is composed almost entirely of blood-vessels, * These papillse were first pointed out by Eble, Ueber den Bau und die Kranlc- heiten des Bindehaut des Auges. t The facts of comparative anatomy confirm this view. In the serpent tribe, which annually shed their skin, the front of the cornea comes off with the rest of the external surface of the body. In the eel the surface of the cornea is often drawn off in the process of skinning. In some species of rodents which burrow under the ground like the mole, the eye is covered with hair Hke other parts. M M