83 DISSECTION OF THE CHEST. barrel of a conical shape, broader in the lateral than in the antero- posterior direction. The lower aperture or base of the cavity is closed in the recent state by a muscle called the diaphragm, which forms a partition between the chest and the abdomen. The partition is not flat, but arched, so that it constitutes a vaulted floor for the chest, and moreover by its capability of alternately falling and rising can increase or diminish the capaciousness of the chest. The spaces between the ribs are filled by the intercostal muscles. In each intercostal space there are two layers of these muscles, arranged like the letter X. The fibres of the outer layer nm obliquely from above downwards, and forwards; those of the inner layer in the reverse direction. The upper aperture of the chest gives passage to the trachea, the oesophagus, the great vessels of the neck and the arms, and also to certain muscles and nerves; the interspaces between these parts being occupied by a dense fibro-cellular tissue. Such, in outline, is the frame-work of the cavity, closed on all sides, which contains the heart and lungs. Observe that its walls are made up of difierent structures, bone, cartilage, and muscle, admirably disposed to fulfil two important conditions. By their solidity and elasticity they protect the important organs contained in them; by their alternate dilatation and contraction they act as mechanical powers of respiration. For they can increase the cavity of the chest in three directions : in height, by the descent of the diaphragm; in width, by the turning outwards of the ribs; and in depth, by the elevation^ of the sternum. The cliest of the female differs from that of the male in the following points: —Its general capacity is less; the sternum is shorter; the upper opening is larger in proportion to the lower ; the upper ribs are more moveable, and therefore permit a greater V enlargement of the chest at its upper part, in adaptation to the condition of the abdomen during pregnancy. In the dissection of the chest let us take the parts in the following order: — 1. Triangidaris stei-ni, with tlie internal mammanr arteiT. 2. Anterior mediastinum. O 2