553 DISSECTION OF THE TESTIS. vessels, which some anatomists have described as a distinct coat under the name of tunica vasculosa. The tunica vaginalis is a serous sac, one part of which va^dis (tunica vaginalis proi^ria) adheres closely to the testicle ; the other (tunica vaginalis reflexa) is reflected loosely around it. If the sac be laid open, you see that it completely covers the testicle, except behind, where the vessels and duct are placed (fig. 134); and that it also covers part of the outer side of the epididymis. The interior of the sac is smooth and polished, like all other serous membranes, and lubricated by a little fluid. An excess of this fluid gives rise to.the disease termed " hydrocele." The tunica vaginalis was originally derived from the peritoneum. In some subjects it still communicates with that cavity by a narrow neck, and is therefore liable to become the sac of a hernia. Such hernise are termed congenital — a bad name, since tbey do not, as a matter of course, take place at birth, but often in adult age. Sometimes the communication continues through a very contracted canal, open to the passage of fluid only; or the communication may be only partially obliterated, and then one or more isolated serous sacs are left along the cord. Such an one, when distended by fluid, gives rise to hydrocele of the cord. This tunic is a dense, inelastic membrane, composed albuginea. fibrous tissue, interlacing in every direction, analogous to the sclerotic coat of the eye. It completely invests the testicle, but not the epididymis. At the posterior part of the gland it penetrates into its substance for a short distance, and forms an incomplete vertical septum, termed, after the anatomist who first described it, " corpus Highmori," and subsequently, by Sir A. Cooper, the " mediastinum testis " (fig. 134). This septum trans- mits the blood-vessels of the gland, and contains, also, the net work of seminal ducts, called the rete testis, shown in diagraiu 134. From the mediastinum testis are given off in all directions a number of slender fibrous cords, which traverse the interior of the gland, and are attached to the inside of the tunica albuginea. They serve to maintain the general shape of the testicle, to support the numerous lobules of which its glandular substance is composed.