BRANCHES OF THE BEACniAL PLEXUS. 47 The plexus gives off above the clavicle the following nerves: — a. Nerve to the subclavius muscle. — This proceeds from the fifth and sixth cervical, and crosses the subclavian artery in the third pai-t of its com-se. It frequently sends a filament which passes in fi.-ont of the subclavian vein to join the phrenic. b. Nei^es to the scalene and the longus colli muscles. c. Nei^e to the rhomboid muscles. — This arises from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves, and accompanies the posterior scapular artery beneath the levator anguli scapulfe, which, as well as the rhomboid muscles, it supplies. d. The supra-scapular nerve arises from the fifth and sixth cervical, runs to the notch in the scapula, where it meets with the corresponding artery, and terminates in the supra-spinatus and infra-spinatus. e. The nerve (called exteimal respiratory by Sir C. Bell) to the serratus magnus, arises from the fifth and sixth cervical, appears between the middle and posterior scalene muscles, then descends behind the plexus and the subclavian vessels to the outer surface of the serratus magnus, to which it is exclusively distributed. /. Nerves (called anterior thoracic) to the pectoral muscles. Generally two from the fifth and sixth cervical; they pass beneath the clavicle in front of the axillary ai'tery. g. A branch forming one of the roots of the phrenic, arises from the fifth cervical nerve. It only remains to be observed that the upper chord of the brachial plexus receives a branch from the lower chord of the cervical plexus, and that each of its component nerves communi- cate by slender filaments with the sympathetic system. Below the clavicle the plexus divides into branches for the supply of the arm ; namely, the subscapular (three in number, to the subscapularis,- the latissimus dorsi, and teres major), the cir- cumflex (to the deltoid), the median, the radial, the ulnar- the external cutaneous, the internal cutaneous, and the lesser internal cutaneous (nerve of Wrisberg).