175 DISSECTION OP THE NOSE. of the mastoid process and the meatus auditorius^ and is distributed to the cartilage of the ear, and the meatus auditorius. Immediately below this its first ganglion the pneumo-gastric nerve is joined by two branches from the nervus accessorius, and consequently becomes after this jrmction a compound nerve. The second or inferior ganglion of this nerve below the base of the skull has been already examined (p. 79). Portio dura portio dura or facial nerve, having arrived at through the the bottom of the meatus auditorius internus, enters the t^emporal » aqueductus Fcdlopii."* This is a tortuous canal ex- cavated through the substance of the temporal bone, and terminating at the stylo-mastoid foramen. When exposed throughout its whole course, we observe that the nerve proceeds from the meatus internus for a short distance outwardly, then makes a sudden bend backwards along the inner wall of the tym- panum above the fenestra ovalis, and lastly, curving downwards at the back of the tympanum, it leaves the skull at the stylo-mastoid foramen. Its branches in the temporal bone are : a. The great petrosal nerve (vidian) which runs to the spheno- palatine ganglion (p. 169). b. The lesser petrosal nerve, which runs to the otic ganglion. c. Chorda tympanl—This nerve arises from the facial about ^ of an inch before its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen, ascends for a short distance in a bony canal at the back of the tympanum, and enters that cavity below the pyramid and close to the mem- brana tympani. It then runs forwards along the tympanum, across the handle of the malleus, to the fissura G-laseri, through which it emerges at the base of the skull, and joining the gustatory nerve, finally proceeds to the sub-maxillary ganglion. DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. Presuming that the learner is familiar with the bones composing the skeleton of the nose, we shall now describe—]. The nasal * FaUopius was a distinguished Italian anatomist, and professor at Pavia, 1651.