FRONT OF THE THIGH. 433 derived from the extensor tendon. This is practically interesting for the following reason : in ordinary fractures of the patella from muscular action the tendinous expansion over it is torn also; the ends of the bone gape widely, and never unite except by ligament. But in fractures from direct mechanical violence, the tendinous expansion, being entire, maintains the fragments in apposition, so that there is commonly a bony union. The femoral artery is a continuation of the external Course ANB -r. • i EELATioNs OF liiac. rassiug boueath the crural arch at a point about THE FEMORAL midway between the spine of the ilium and the ARTERY. ^ symphysis pubis, it descends nearly perpendicularly along the front and inner side of the thigh. At the junction of the upper two-thirds with the lower third of the thigh, it goes through an opening in the tendon of the adductor magnus, and, entering the ham, takes the name of " popliteal." A line drawn from the point specified of the crural arch to the tubercle of the internal condyle would pretty nearly indicate the course of the artery. Its distance from the surface increases as it descends. In the next place, as to the muscles over which it lies. Imme- diately under, and for a short distance below the crural arch, it is supported by the inner border of the psoas; lower down it runs in front of the pectineus; still lower, in front of the adductor longus. In the upper third of the thigh the artery is comparatively superficial, being covered only by the muscular fascia. About the middle third it is more deeply seated, and is covered by the sar- torius: here, being situated among powerful muscles, it is pro- tected from pressure by a tendinous canal, which we shall presently examine. At the crural arch the femoral vein is on the inner "side of the artery, but as the vein descends it gradually passes behind the artery. Both lie close together, and are enclosed in a common sheath. The anterior crural nerve passes beneath the crural arch about ith of an inch on the outer side of the artery, and soon divides into branches, some of which are cutaneous, but the greater p F