FRONT OF THE THIGPI. 429 nerve," which supplies all the adductors, except the pectin eus, which is supplied by the anterior crural. It leaves the pelvis through the upper part of the obturator foramen, and soon divides into an anterior and posterior branch; the anterior runs in front of the adductor brevis and supplies it, as well as the adductor longus and the gracilis; the posterior runs behind the adductor brevis, and supplies the obturator externus and the adductor magnus. This muscle arises from the front surface of the pubes Adductor j^gg^p ^^le symphysis, widens as it descends, and is in- brevis. j r j ' ^ ' serted into the upper third of the linea aspera. By reflecting it from its origin we expose the following: *— This muscle arises from the lower two-thirds of the Adductor T,\\b\G arch and from the tuberosity of the ischium. Its magnus. ^ fibres spread out, and are inserted, behind the other adductors, into the whole length of the linea aspera; also into the ridge leading from it to the inner condyle. Observe that all the adductor muscles are inserted into the femur by flat tendons which are more or less connected with each other. About the junction of the upper two-thirds with the lower third of the thigh, the femoral artery passes through an oval opening in the tendon of the adductor magnus. As these muscles have been fully described in niacTXnL''^' dissection of the abdomen (p. 324), it is unnecessary to repeat the description here. This muscle is situated at the upper and outer part SmorTs.^''''''' of the thigh. It arises from the crest of the ilium, close to the anterior spine, descends with a slight inclination backwards, and is inserted between two layers of the strong aponeurosis which is generally described as part of the fascia lata (p. 425). Its chief -use is to fix the pelvis steadily on the thigh, and also to rotate the thigh inwards: in this last respect it co-operates with the anterior fibres of the glutseus medius, with * Beneath the adductor brevis, and just above the upper border of the adductor magnus, is seen the obturator externus. But we reserve the description of this muscle till the dissection of the external rotators of the tliigh (p. 460).