BRACHIO-CEPHALIC VEINS. 87 in the middle where the edges of the lungs nearly meet; but it is wider above and below, where the lungs diverge. What parts are contained in the anterior mediastinum ?—The remains of the thymus gland, the origins of the sterno-hyoid, sterno- thyroid, and triangularis sterni muscles, the left brachio-cephalic vein (which crosses behind the first bone of the sternum), and a few absorbent glands. The 'posterior mediastinum {fig. 14), contains the oesophagus, the two pneumogastric nerves, the aorta, the thoracic duct, and the vena azygos. Before we examine the brachio-cephalic veins, we must remove a layer of the cervical fascia which descends from the neck over these veins and is lost upon the pericardium. The coats of all the great veins ai-e closely connected to this fascia; and its chief use appears to be to keep these veins always wide and open for the free return of the blood to the heart. Brachio- right and left brachio-cephalic (innominate) cephalic veins are formed, near the sternal end of the clavicle, reins. -^^ confluence of the internal jugular and subclavian. They differ in their course and relations, and must, therefore, be described separately. The left brachio-cephalic vein- passes behind the first bone of the sternum from the left towards the right side, to join the vena cava superior. It is about two inches and a half in length, and its direction inclines a little downwards. It crosses over the trachea and three primary branches of the arch of the aorta (p. 38). We are reminded of this fact in some cases of aneurism of these vessels; for what happens ? The vein becomes compressed between the aneurism and the sternum; hence the swelling and venous con- gestion of the parts from which it returns the blood; namely, of the left arm and left side of the neck. Observe, moreover, that the upper border of the vein lies not far from the upper border of the sternum; ia some instances it lies even higher, and I have seen it crossing in front of the trachea a full inch above the sternum. Eemember this in the performance of tracheotomy. The right brachio-cephalic vein descends nearly vertically to G 4