76 STYLOID MUSCLES. of the facial nerve), wliich emerges from the glenoid fissure,, and eventually runs to the submaxillary ganglion. We have now a good opportunity of examining this latS^^ so-called ligament. By some anatomists it is not re- Hgament cognised as a Hgament, and with reason, because it is of the jaw. ^^^^^^ g^^^ ^ distance from the joint. It proceeds from the spinous process of the sphenoid bone, and is attached to the jaw on the inner side of the foramen dentale. Between this ligament and the neck of the jaw we find the internal maxillary artery and vein, the temporo-auricular nerve, the middle meningeal artery, the dental nerve and artery, and a portion of the parotid gland. ' At this stage of the dissection you will be able to trace the course and relations of the internal carotid artery. But before you do this, examine the several objects which intervene between the external and internal carotid. These objects are, 1. The stylo- glossus, 2. The stylo-pharyngeus, 3. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve, 4. The stylo-hyoid ligament. This arises from the. styloid process near the apex, and Stylo- the stylo-maxillary ligament, and is inserted into the side of the tongue, external to the hyo-glossus. Its action is to retract the tongue. Its nerve comes from the hypoglossal This arises from the styloid process near the base, and Stylo-pha- inserted into the posterior edge of the thyroid cartilage. It descends along the side of the pharynx between the superior and the middle constrictor. Its nerve comes from the ;Wngealplex.is. Its acHon is to raise the larynx with the '^Z^Z't^-^os.u. and stylo-pharyngeus, and nearly para eTwith both, is the stylo-hyoid ligament. It extends from lltpex of the styloid process to the lesser cornu of the os-hyoides. It is often more or less ossified. The mcending palatine artery, a branch of the externa maxillary or facial (p. 23), runs np between the stylo-glossus and Zlo pllryngeus, and divides into branches which supply these muscles, the palate, the side of the pharyn.x, and the tonsils.