CONTENTS OF FEMALE PELVIS. 391 panded, but gradually disappears with the increasing size of the embryo. The shape of the cavity in the body of the uterus is triangular, with the apex towards the cervix. In a virgin uterus the cavity is remarkably small, and its sides are convex; but in a uterus which has borne many children, the cavity has lost the convexity of its sides, and has increased in capacity. Each angle at the base is somewhat produced, and leads to the minute opening of the ovi- duct. This production of the angles is noticed more or less in different females, and is the last indication of the two horns of the uterus in some orders of mammalia, ^ The interior of the uterus is perfectly smooth at the fundus, but just the reverse at the cervix. Here you remark that there is a central longitudinal ridge, both in front and behind, (just as in the vagma,) and from these, other closely set ridges curve off laterally like the branches of a palm-tree. The old anatomists called it " arhor vit<B." The roughness produced by these ridges, occasions an impression as though we were touching cartilage whenever a metallic sound is introduced into the uterus. The neck of the uterus is provided with small glands, of which the mmute ducts open in the furrows between the ridges referred to The secretion of these glands is glairy, albuminous, slightly alkaline, and sometimes comes away in such abundance as to be exceedingly troublesome. Soon after conception, the secretion dries up so as to plug the mouth of the uterus, but shortly before and during parturition it is poured out in great quantity, to facilitate the passage of the child. It happens, occasionally that one or more ot the ducts of these glands become obstructed, and then dilate into small transparent vesicles, which gradually rise to the surface and burst. These were first described by Naboth* and supposed to be true ova : hence their name " ovula NahotU:' The mucous membrane of the uterus is much more delicate than that of the vagina, and is scarcely separable from the subjacent tissue. The greater part of it is Uned by a ciliated epithelium bu * De SterilitatG mulierum. Lips., 1707. c c 4