DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. 151 panies the sensation of taste. In scarlatina, and some exanthe- matous fevers, these papillse become elongated, and of a bright red colour; as the fever subsides, their points acquire a brownish tint, giving rise to what is called " the strawberry tongue." The papillce filiformce are the smallest and most numerous. They are so closely aggregrated that they give the tongue a velvet- like appearance. Their points are directed backwards, so that the tongue feels smooth, if the finger be passed over it from apex to base ; but rough, if in the opposite direction. ^ All the papillse are covered with a layer of tessellated epithelium. That which covers the filiform is thicker than the rest, and with a microscope is seen to project from theii- sides like haii-. The various kinds of " fur " on the tongue consist of thickened and soddened epithelium. Eespecting the use of the papillae, it is probable that they enable the tongue to detect impressions with greater delicacy; and that they are instrumental in detecting different kinds of sensation, whether of taste or touch. From the density and arrangement of their epithelial coat, the filiform papiUee give the surface of the tongue a roughness which is useful in its action upon the food. An apparatus of this kind, proportionately stronger and more developed, makes the tongue of ruminant animals an instrument by which they lay hold of their food. In the fehne tribe, the lion and tiger for instance, these papillse are so shai-p and strong that they act like rasps, and enable the animal to lick the periosteum from the bones by a single stroke of his tongue. In some mam- malia, they act like combs for cleaning the skin and the hair. • If the papillse be injected, and examined under the microscope, it is found that they ai-e not simple, Hke those of the skin, but that each is composed of secondary papilla : for instance, analyse a "papilla circumvallata " and you will see that it consists of an aggregation of smaller papillse arranged parallel to each other • agam, a filiform papilla consists of a central stem, from which mmute secondary papillae shoot off. This elaborate structure escapes observation because it is bmied beneath the epithelium.* * See Bowman and Todd's Physiological Anatomy.';