THIRD VENTEICLE.—COMMISSURES. 505 flat bands, one on each side, termed the " processus a cerehello ad testes." 6. Between these bands extends a thin layer of grey substance, called the " valve of Vieussens," beneath which lies the fourth ventricle. Lastly, there are three commissures, anterior, middle, and posterior, connecting the opposite sides of the brain. This is the square elevation seen on the floor of the opticu™ lateral ventricle immediately behind the corpus striatum. Though white on the surface, its interior consists of alternate layers of white and grey matter, like the corpus striatum.* The under surface of the thalamus forms the roof of the descendiner or middle horn of the lateral ventricle. Beneath the posterior part of the thalamus are two small eminences^ termed the " corpus geniculatum internum, and externum."'f ^ This is the narrow fissure which exists between the ventricle, optic thalami, and reaches down to the base of the brain. Its boundaries are rather complicated:—The roof is formed by the velum interpositum ; the floor by certain parts at the base of the brain—namely, the locus perforatus medius, corpora mammillaria, tuber cinereum, infundibulum, commissure of the optic nerves, and lamina cinerea: all of which are best seen in a vertical section, as shown p. 498. In front it is bounded by the anterior crura of the fornix; behind, it communicates with the fourth ventricle through the " iter a tertio ad quartum ventri- culum; " a long canal beneath the corpora quadrigemina. Commissures. gently Separate the optic thalami in a fresh brain, you see that they are connected by a transverse *• The elevation called the optic thalamus is occasioned by the interposition of a quantity of grey matter among the fibres of the crus cerebri. Gall termed it the inferior ganglion of the cerebrum, in opposition to the corpus striatiun, which he termed the superior ganglion (Anat. et Phys. du Systfeme Nerv.: Paris, 1810). The epithet " optic " applied to the thalamus might lead us to suppose that it'presides over vision ; but that it exercises very little influence over sight is rendered probable by comparative anatomy, by experimental physiology, and by pathology. t The slight eminences, termed " coiyora ffenicula/a," are produced by small accu- mulations of gi-ey matter beneath the surface. A narrow band of white matter con- nects the external one with the nates, and a similar band connects the intorn^il one with the testes. These bands are faintly marked in man, but more apparent in the lower animals.