539 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. The aqueous humour consists of a few drops of clear tumour. watery fluid, which fills up the space between the cornea and crystalline lens. The iris floats freely in it, and divides the space into two chambers of unequal size — an anterior and a posterior. The posterior is much the smaller of the two: indeed, the iris is so close to the lens that they are separated by a mere film of fluid. This accounts for the frequent adhesions which are apt to take place, during inflammation, between the pupil and the capsule of the crystalline. Some anatomists describe the anterior chamber as lined by a serous membrane, which they call the membrane of the aqueous humour. It is true that there is a delicate layer of epithelium on the posterior surface of the cornea, hut nothing like a continuous serous membrane can be demon- strated on the iris or the capsule of the lens. The anterior chamber is remarkable for the rapidity with which it absorbs and secretes, as is proved, in the one case, by the speedy removal of extrava- sated blood ; in the other, by the rapid reappearance of the aqueous humour after the extraction of a cataract. The vitreous humom- is a beautifully transparent, humoiir and gelatinous-looking substance, which fills up nearly hyaloid fouT-fifths of the interior of the globe (p. 531). It consists of a watery fluid contained in the meshes of a cellular structure, called the " hyaloid membrane" from its perfect translucency: the cells communicate freely with each other; for, if any part of it be punctured, the humour gradually drains off. The membrane itself is so delicate that it is dijBficult to obtain it separately; but it may be rendered slightly opaque by strong spirit or diluted acids. It is of somewhat firmer consistence on the surface, so that it answers the purpose of a capsule for the vitreous humour, and is sufficiently strong to keep it in shape after the stronger tunics of the eye have been removed.* * The cells of the Titreous humour may sometimes be demonstrated hj freezing the eye and then dividing it. The figure and size of the cells is shown by the por- tions of ice which they contain. Again, by macerating the eye in chromic acid, it is found that the vitreous humour is intersected by 180 delicate partitions, disposed like those in the pulp of an orange—with this difference, however, that the partitions