380 FEMALE PERINEUM. it has a peculiar dimple-like feel, which assists us in iiading it when we pass a catheter. You should practice the introduction of the catheter in the dead subject, for the operation is not so easy as might at first be imagined, provided the parts are not exposed. The point of the fore-finger of the left hand should be placed at the entrance of the vagina ; and then the catheter, guided by the finger, slips, after a little manoeuvring, into the urethra. The canal is about one inch and a half in length, and runs along the upper wall of the vagina, p. 384 ; indeed the two canals adhere so closely that you can feel the urethra through the vagina like a thick cord. Strictly speaking the urethra is slightly curved with the concavity upwards; but for aU practical purposes it may be considered straight. It is necessary, however, to be aware that its direction is not horizontal! In the unimpregnated state of the parts it runs nearly in the direction of the axis of the outlet of the pelvis; so that a probe pushed on in the course of the urethra would strike against the promontory of the sacrum. But after impregnation, when the uterus begins to rise out of the pelvis, the bladder is more or less raised also in consequence of their mutual connection ; therefore the urethra, in the latter months of utero-gestation, acquires a much more perpendicular course. The female m-ethra is provided with a "compressor muscle, essentially similar, both in origin and arrangement, to that which surrounds the membranous part of the urethra in the male It also passes through the triangular ligament, fig. 83, p. 384; indeed we cannot convey a better idea of it than by raying that it is just like the male would be if cut short immediately behind the bulb. Though the prostate gland is wanting, yet there are minute glands scattered all round it, especially near the neck of the bladder At the same time it should be observed, that, m consequence of the wider span of the pubic arch, and the more yielding nature of he surrounding structures, the female urethra is much more dila^ble than the male. By means of a sponge tent, it may be ^- fj^^J-^^ so as to admit the easy passage of the fore-finger into the bladder We avail ourselves of this great dilatability m the extraction of calculi.