292 PARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. The testicle, originally formed in the loins, subsequently passes through the wall of the abdomen into the scrotum: its^ blood- vessels and nerves and excretory duct, drawn down after it, con- stitute the spermatic cord; and the passage through which it comes through the abdomen is called the " inguinal canal." This canal is not direct, but oblique, that the abdominal wall may the better resist protrusion of the viscera. We have seen that the wall of the abdomen is composed of strata of different structures; and we shall presently find that the spermatic cord, as it passes through each stratum, derives from each a covering similar in structure to the stratum itself. Of these strata there are three: the first-that is the aponeurosis of the external oblique, — we shall call the "aponeurotic stratum ; " the second — that is, the internal oblique and transverse muscles,—we shall call the "muscular stratum;" the third—namely, the fascia transversalis which lines the under surface of the transverse muscle, —we shall call the "fascial stratum." The most intelligible way of investigating the subject is to examhae each stratum as it appears on dissection, and then to consider the inguinal canal as a whole. First, then, of the aponeu- rotic stratum, . ^ ^ i The lower border of the aponeurosis of the external Aponeurotic ^^lique, extending from the spine of the ilium to the SrTai ab- spine of the pubes, constitutes Poupart's Hgament, or dominal crural arch. We have now to examine more m detail the opening in the aponeurosis which gives passage to the spermatic cord ; in other words, the " external abdominal rinqr or thedower aperture of the inguinal canal. This ring, then, is situated immediately above and to the outer side of the spine of the pubes: its size and shape vary a little in different mdividuals. It is an oval opening, with the long axis directed obliquely down- wards and inwards, and will admit the passage of a finger. These remarks apply to the male; in the female the opening is smaller, » To ascertain in the Hying subject whether the ring be free or otherwise, the best plan is to push the tHn skin of the scrotmn before tl- finger; then, by ^-^^^^^ cord, we can readUy pass the finger into the ring behmd the fat which covers the pubes.