ANATOMY OJF THE LIVER. 393 The ramifications of the' ovarian artery through the ovary are remarkable for their convolutions: they run in parallel lines, as in the testicle. DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMINAL VISCERA. Having already studied the position and relations of the several abdominal viscera (p. 301), you should now examine their parti- cular configuration and structure. LiTEE. ^^^^^ largest gland in the body. In an adult male it weighs between four and five pounds. In shape we hardly know what to compare it to. It is thick and round at the back; towards the front it gradually slopes to a thin border. Its surface is entirely covered by peritoneum, except a small part behmd, which IS connected to the diaphragm by cellular membrane, and just m the hollow for the gall-bladder. On the upper surface of the liver, which is convex, in adaptation to the diaphragm, there IS nothing deserving of notice beyond the indication of the division of the organ into a right and a left lobe, the right being the larger. But If the liver be turned on its back, you see that the under surface IS u-regidar, and that there are several fissm-es in it for the passa<.e of vessels. First, there is the « longitudinal fissure;^ dividing Fissures. "^^^ ^^^"^ the left lobe ; it contains the round liaa- ment or the obliterated umbilical vein of the foetus The continuation of the longitudinal fissure to the posterior border of the hver contains the remains of what was in the fcetus, the ductus venosus," it is therefore called the « fissure of the ductus venosus." Secondly, there is the « transverse fissure;^ where the great vessels enter the liver. Thirdly, there is the hollow for the gall-bladder. Lastly, in the same line with this, is the channel for the vena cava. Now the relative position of these parts may perhaps, be best impressed on the memory by comnarino- X collectively to the letter H. The transverse'fisIirHe^ cross bar of the letter, the longitudinal fissure represents the bar; the gall-bladder and vena cava together make"h^!^bal