GLUTiEAL REGION. 448 it for the first time is almost sure to damage the subjacent parts. The numerous nutrient vessels which enter its under-surface must necessarily be divided. Supposing the object accomplished, what have we exposed beneath ? the muscle covering the ilium is the glutBBus medius. At the posterior border of this are the several objects which come out of the pelvis through the great ischiatic notch—namely, the pyriformis muscle, above which is the trunk of the gluteal artery with the glutseal nerve, and below which are the greater and lesser ischiatic nerves, the ischiatic artery and the pudic artery and nerve. Coming throiigh the lesser ischiatic notch, we see the tendon of the obturator internus, and tacked on to it are the gemelli muscles, one above, the other below it. Extending from the tuber ischii to the great trochanter is the quadratus femoris. Lastly, where the tendon of the glutaeus maximus plays over the trochanter major, there is a large bursa, simple or multilocular. I have seen it in some subjects sufficiently capacious to hold half a pint of fluid. This muscle arises from the surface of the ilium, be- mldhir tween the crest and the upper curved line ; also from the strong fascia which covers it towards the front. The fibres converge to a tendon which is insert-ed into the upper and outer surface of the great trochanter: some of the anterior fibres in immediate connection with the tensor fascia) — terminate on the aponeurosis of the thigh. Eeflect the glutseus medius to see the third glutaeal muscle. The line of separation between them is marked by a large branch of the glutseal artery. This muscle arises from the surface of the ilium below Gluteus ^j^g upper curved line. Its fibres pass over the capsule of the hip-joint, and converge to a tendon which is inserted into a depression on the front part of the great trochanter. The chief action of this and the preceding muscle is to assist in balancing the pelvis steadily on the thigh, as, when we are standing on one leg; with the fixed point at the ilium, it is an abductor of the thigh. The anterior fibres of the glutseus medius co-operate with the tensor fascite in rotating the thigh inwards.