243 DISSECTION OF THE PALM OP THE HAND. third metacarpal bone. It is inserted by two strong tendons into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. A sesamoid bone is found in each of the tendons. The lower portions of the muscle are separated by the long flexor tendon of the thumb and the arteria magna pollicis. Its action is to bend the first phalanx of the thumb. Adductor ^^^^ muscle anses from the shaft of the metacarpal poUicS"'' middle finger; its fibres converge and are inserted, along with the inner portion of the flexor brevis pollicis, into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. Its action is to draw the thumb towards the palm, as when we bring the tips of the thumb and little finger into contact. The adductor pollicis should be considered as one of the palmar interosseous muscles. It is supplied by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve, which we know supplies all the other interossei. The other muscles of the ball of the thumb are suppHed by the median nerve. Muscles of muscles of the little finger correspond in some the ball of measure with those of the thumb. Thus we have an fiuger"^ abductor, a flexor brevis,. and an opponens minimi digiti. Abductor This is the most superficial of the muscles of the little minimi finger; it arises from the pisiform bone, and is inserted by a flat tendon into the base of the first phalanx of the little finger. Its action is to draw this finger from the rest. . This slender muscle may fairly be considered as a Plexor brens r . i t ^ . minimi digiti. poition ot the precedmg. It arises from the unciform bone and annular ligament, and is inserted with the tendon of the abductor into the base of the first phalanx of the little finger. Its action is similar to that of the abductor Be- tween the origins of the abductor and flexor brevis minimi diaiti the deep branch of the ulnar artery and nerve sinks down to form' the deep palmar arch. Opponens The last two muscles must be reflected from their mSL. '""'^'^T' 'P^''''''' "^'Oiii mAM. It amses from the unciform bone and the annular ligament, K 2