DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. 129 — that is, at the back of the mouth : thence it gradually contracts to the oesophagus. The pharynx, therefore, may be compared to a funnel communicating in front by wide apertures with the nose, the mouth, and the larynx; while the oesophagus represents the tube leading from its lower end. The upper part of the funnel forms a cul-de-sac at the basilar process of the occipital bone. At this part there is, on each side, the opening of a narrow canal, called the "Eustachian tube," through which air passes to the tympanum of the ear.* Before we can examine the muscles of the pharynx, we must remove a layer of condensed cellular membrane, called by some anatomists the "pharyngeal fascia.''' It is only a layer of cervical fascia behind the pharynx, and must not be confounded with the proper phaiyngeal "aponeurosis," which intervenes between its muscular and mucous walls. At the back of the pharynx, near the base of the skull, we find some absorbent glands. They sometimes enlarge, and form a per- ceptible tumor in the pharynx. In removing the fascia from the pharyngeal muscles, notice that a number of veins ramify and communicate in all directions. They constitute the "pharyngeal venous plexus,'' and termi- nate in the internal jugular. Constrictor "^^^^ ^^^^^ ^"^ number, and arranged so that they muscles of Overlap each other, — i. e. the inferior overlaps the the pharynx, n^jjjjjjg^ ^j^g middle the superior (fig, 26). They have the same attachments on both sides of the body; and the fibres from the right and left meet together, and are inserted in. * Observe that the pharynx conducts to the oesophagus by a gradual contraction of its channel. This transition, however, is in some cases sufficiently abrupt to detain a foreign body, such as a morsel of food more bulky than usual, at the top of the ojsophagiis. If such a substance become fii-mly impacted in this situation, one can readily understand that it will not only prevent the descent of food into the stomach, but that it may occasion, by its pressure on the trachea, alarming symptoms of suffocation. Supposing that the obstacle can neither be removed by the forceps, nor pushed into the stomach by the probang, it may then become necessary to extract it by making an incision into the cesophagus on the left side of the neck. K