535 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. M M -t Between the sclerotic, the cornea, and the ciliary liga- r^"tenl ^^^^ placed a minute circular canal, termed " Fon- '°" '''''^ tana's canal " (fig. 131). It is probably a venous sinus, for it can always be injected from the arteries. The iris is a moveable curtain suspended freely in the clear fluid, which occupies the space between the cornea and crystalline lens. The iris divides this space into two unequal parts, called the anterior and posterior chambers (fig. 131); these communicate with each other through a circular aperture in the centre, called the pupil* Its use is to regulate the amount of light which shall be admitted into the eye: for this purpose its itmer circumference is capable of dilating and contracting according to circumstances, while its outer circumference is immoveably connected to the ciliary ligament. The colour of the iris varies in different individuals, and gives the peculiar tint and brilliancy to the eye. The colouring matter or pigment is contained in minute cells. The posterior surface of the iris, called the uvea-f, is in all cases covered by a layer of black pigment. When the iris is laid under water, and viewed with a low mag- nifying power, its front surface looks shaggy; a number of fine fibres are seen converging from all sides towards the pupil: many of them unite and form arches. When the pupil is contracted these fibres are stretched, and vice ver^^.-.Whether they co-operate in producing the dilatation of the pupil is uncertain. The contractile power of the iris depends upon muscular fibres of the non-striped kind, arranged some in a radiating, others in a circular manner. The radiating converge towards the pupil; the circular are aggregated round the pupillary margin.^ * The size and shape of the pupil vary in different animals. In the bullock, sheep, horse, &c., it is oblong; in carnivorous quadrupeds it is often a mere vertical slit during the day, but dilates into a large circle at night. f Strictly speaking, the term uvea was applied by the old anatomists to the choroid and iris collectively, which they very properly considered as one coat, and called the " ^iTwu payo€iSi}s," because its dark colour made it lilce the berry of the grape. J The circidar fibres of the iris in the bird are of the striped variety, and discernible without difficulty. /