ARTERIES OF THE FACE. 58 buccinator into the mouth, near the second molar of the upper jaw. The chief use of the buccinator is to keep the food between the teeth during mastication. It can also widen the mouth. Its power of expellmg au- from the mouth, as in whistling or playing on a wind instrument, has given rise to its peculiar name. It is supplied by the facial nerve, and is, therefore, affected in facial paralysis. The buccinator muscle is covered by a layer of fibrous tissue, which adheres closely to its surface, and is attached to the alveolar border of the upper and lower jaw. This structm-e is thin over the anterior part of the muscle, but more dense behind, where it is continuous with the aponeurosis of the pharynx. It is called the «bucco-pharyngeal" fascia, since it supports and strengthens the muscular walls of these cavities. In consequence of the resistance of this fascia abscfesses do not readily burst into the mouth or the pharynx. The molar glands, not more than three or four m number, situated immediately outside the posterior part ^ of the buccinator, are about the size of a split pea, and their secretion is conveyed to the mouth by separate ducts neai- the last molar teeth. Between the buccinator and the masseter there is, m almost aU subjects, an accumulation of fat. It is found, beneath the 27goma especially, in large round masses, and may be turned out with the handle of the scalpel. It fills up the zygomatic fossa, and bemg soft and elastic, does not present the least obstacle to the free move- ments of the jaw. Its absorption in emaciated individuals occasions the sinking of the cheek. The facial (external maxillary) artery is the third Facial ao:- -branch of the external carotid. It rims tortuously be- neath the hypoglossal nerve, the posterior belly of the digastricus, and the stylo-hyoideus, next t/.rou^;/t the substance of the submaxillary gland, and mounts over the base of the jaw at the anterior edge of the masseter muscle. Up to this point we traced it in the dissection of the neck (page 23.) It now ascends tortuously near the corner of the mouth and the ala of the nose, towaxds the