441 FllONT OF THE LEG. The outside of the little toe is supplied by the external saphenous nervre, which runs behind the outer ankle with the corresponding vein. The contiguous sides of the great toe, and the toe next to it, are supplied by the termination of the anterior tibial nerve.* , , . . This is remarkably thick and strong. Besides its Muscular fascia n . , i r i ^ and anniilar general purpose of forming sheaths for the muscles, ligaments. straps for the tendons, it gives origin, as in the forearm, to some of the muscular fibres; so that it cannot be removed from the surface of the muscles, near the knee, without leaving them ragged. Observe that the fascia is attached to the head of the tibia and the fibula; that it is identified on the inner side with the expanded tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and semi- tendinosus; on the outer side with that of the biceps; conse- quently, when these muscles act, the fascia is rendered tense. Following it down the leg, you find that it is attached to the edge of the tibia, and that it becomes stronger as it approaches the ankle, in order to form the ligaments which confine the tendons in this situation. Of these ligaments, which are called " anmdar," there are three, as follow : — a. The anterior extends obliquely across the front of the ankle joint and confines the extensor tendons of the ankle and toes. It consists of two straps which cross each other over the front of the ankle-like braces. One brace goes from the malleolus externus to the scaphoid and internal cuneiform bones; the other runs from the cuboid and os calcis upwards and inwards to the inner border of the tibia : it is the excessive strain of this ligament which occasions the pain in sprains of the ankle. You will see presently that it makes a beautiful pulley for the extensor longus digitorum. h. The external extends from the outer malleolus to the os calcis, and confines the tendons of the peronei muscles, which dra\Y the foot outwards. G. The internal extends from the inner malleolus to the os calcis, and binds down the flexor tendons of the foot and toes. * Such is tlio most common distribution of the nerves to the upper surface of the toes. But deviations from this arrangement are frequent.