STRUCTURE OF THE SMALL IKTESTINES. 408 they are the most largely developed in the duodenum and the upper part of the jejunum. Below this part of the tube they gra- dually decrease in size, and become less closely packed, till they finally disappear near the middle of the ileum. The use of the valvula3 conniventes is to increase the extent of surface for the absorption of the chyle, and also for secretion. Next examine what are called the "villi" of the small intes- tine, and afterwards the different kinds of glands with which it is provided. If a portion of the small intestine be carefully washed and placed in water, the surface of the mucous membrane appears like the soft fur or pile upon velvet. This appearance is produced by the villi. Now these are nothing more than extremely vascular projec- tions of the mucous membrane, about a fourth of a line in length, and so close to each other that a square line contains from forty to fifty of them. Their size, however, and their number, bear a direct ratio to that of the valvule conniventes. Their structure is exceedingly simple. In a well-injected specimen, you will find that each is furnished with an artery which forms a beautiful net- work of inosculations all over it, and then returns its blood by a single vein. Each, too, contains in its interior a lacteal or absorb- ing vessel, which commences, not, as was formerly supposed, by an open mouth, but .by a closed end near the summit of the villus. Lastly, they are covered by a layer of cylindrical epithelium, like the rest of the intestinal mucous membrane. It is generally believed that these cylindrical cells are the agents in the ab- sorption of the chyle, and that they possess the power of selection. There are three kinds of glands* in the small intestines named after their respective discoverers, the glands of Lieberkiihn, Brunn, and Peyer. The first are distributed over the whole tract of the mucous membrane ; the last two over particular parts. The glands of Lieherkuhn^ are minute tubes with blind ends, * A satisfactory examination of the intestinal glands can be made only in specimens quite recent, taken from young persons who have died suddenly, or from a rapidly fatal disease. t J. N. Lieberkiihn, Diss, de fabric, et actione -vdllorum intestin. tenuiiun, 1782.