NERVES OF THE Jb'ACE. 63 „ ,. , This is the motor nerve of the face. It supplies all Poi-tio dura _ ^ ^ or facial the muscles of expression except those which move the T^cvre. Qjes. It arises immediately below the " pons VaroHi," from the lateral tract of the medulla oblongata. The nerve enters the meatus auditorius internus, traverses a canal {" aqueductus Fallopii ") in the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and leaves the skull at the stylo-mastoid foramen. Its course and connections in the temporal bone will be investigated hereafter : at present we are interested in the facial part of the nerve. Having emerged from the stylo-mastoid foramen, the nerve enters the parotid gland, and' soon divides into two primary branches, named, from their distribution, the tem'poro-facial and the cervico-facial. These primary branches cross over the external carotid, and the external jugular vein; they then form, by their communications within the substance of the parotid, the plexus to which the term " pes anserinus" has been applied, from its resemblance to the skeleton of a goose's foot. You ought to trace this plexus and the direction of its ramifications carefully ; for you may be called upon to remove tumours formed in the interior of the parotid; you may find the nerves spread over the tumour, and you must dissect between the nerves without injm-ing them. Close to the stylo-mastoid foramen the facial nerve sends off its posterior auricular branch (p. 32), which supplies the muscles of the ear and the posterior portion of the occipito-frontalis; also a branch to the posterior belly of the digastricus, and another to the stylo-hyoideus. The tem'poro-facial division crosses the external carotid and the neck of the jaw, receives two or more communications from the temporo-auricular (branch of the fifth), and subdivides into temporal, malar, and infra-orbital branches. The temporal branches ascend over the zygoma, supply the frontalis, the attrahens, and attollens aurem, and communicate with filaments of the supra^-orbital nerve. The ma^ar branches cross the zygoma, supply the orbicularis oculi, and communicate with filaments" of the lacrymal nerve. The infra-orbital branches proceed forwards beneath the" zygo-