DISSECTION 01? THE GEOIN. 414 ficial. There are others more deeply seated close to the great vessels of the thigh: these are much smaller, and sometimes cannot be found. Eespecting the superjicial epigastric, pudic*, and cireumflexa ilii arteries, we have only to observe that their particular ramifica- tions vary in each case, though their general distribution is nearly the same in all. In a surgical point of view they are of importance, since they are exposed to injury in opening abscesses in these parts. The pudic is liable to be cut in the operation for femoral hernia; also in the operation for phimosis, since it runs along the penis to supply the prepuce. Arising, as they all do, directly from so large an artery as the femoral, we cannot wonder if they sometimes bleed profusely; for it is an admitted fact, that when even a small branch, coming directly from a principal artery, is divided near its origin, it will sometimes pour out as much blood as if an opening were punched out of the trunk as large as the area of the divided branch. I This is the chief subcutanequs vein of the lower limb. Saphena roots, arising on the inner side of the foot, unite into a sinde trunk, which ascends over the inner ankle, along the inner side of the leg and knee, and then along the mner and front part of the thigh, where you see it passing through an opening in the " fascia lata " to join the femoral vein immediately below the crural arch (fig. 91). In this remarkably long course it receives several tributary veins some of which are often as large as itself; and, just before its termination, it is joined by the superficial veins of the groin already alluded' to. Like all subcu- taneous veins, it is provided at intervals with valves to support the column of the blood; when these, from any cause, become ineflScient, the veins become enlarged and varicose. * The pudic iDranch referred to in the text is quite superficial. There is another, which runs for some distance beneath the muscular fascia covei-ing the pectmeus, and supplies that muscle and the scrotum or the labium pudendi. t Mr. Liston had occasion to tie the external iliac arteiy for a supposed injury (by a pistol-ball) to the femoral. It was discovered, after the death of the patient, that the baU had injui-ed only one of the superficial branches of the femoral, aboutan mch from its origin. See his paper in the Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. xxix. 1846.