SOLE OF THE FOOT. 469 H H 3 Having traced the principal vessels and nerves. Deep mubtles. must divide them with the flexor tendons near the OS calcis, and turn them down towards the toes, so as to expose the deep muscles in the sole. These are, the flexor brevis and the adductor pollicis, the flexor brevis minimi digiti, the transversalis pedis, and the interossei. This muscle arises from the external cuneiform pomds.^"^^™ and the cuboid bone. ^ It proceeds along the meta- tarsal bone of the great toe, and divides into two portions, which run one on each side of the long flexor tendon, and are inserted by tendons into the sides of the first phalanx of the great toe. In each tendon there is a large sesamoid bone. These bones not only increase the strength of the muscle, but both together form a pulley for the free play of the long flexor tendon. This very powerful muscle arises from the cuboid ^*lUc^*°^ bone and the third and fourth metatarsal bones. Passing obliquely across the foot, it is inserted through the ex- ternal sesamoid bone into the outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. This muscle greatly contributes to support the arch of the foot. Like the adductor of the thumb it should be considered as an interosseous muscle. This little muscle arises from the base of the SSmi^^ti. ^^^^ metatarsal bone, proceeds forwards along it, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. This slender muscle runs transversely across the Si"^edis distal ends of the metatarsal bones. It arises by little fleshy slips from the four outer toes, and is inserted into the first phalanx of the great toe with the adductor pollicis, of which it ought to be considered a part. These muscles are arranged nearly like those in the IntGrosssi. * palm; that is to say, they occupy the intervals between the metatarsal bones, and are seven in number, four being on the dorsal aspect of the foot, and three on the plantar. They arise from the sides of the metatarsal bones, and terminate in tendons which are inserted, some into the inner, others into the outer side