484 DISSECTION OF THE BKAIN. (p. 71). Entering the skull through the foramen spinosum, it winds along a deep groove in the sphenoid, and the anterior infe- rior angle of the parietal bones, to the top of the skull, giving off branches in all directions. It is accompanied by two veins. The other meningeal arteries are of insignificant size. The anterior come from the ethmoidal branches of the ophthalmic ; the postenor come from the occipital, and enter the skull through the foramen jugulare. The position of the meningeal arteries renders them liable to injury in fractures of the skull: hence extravasation of blood be- tween the skull and dura mater is one of the common causes of compression of the brain. Three parti partitions formed by the dura mater for the tions formed by support of the lobes of the brain, two are vertical, dura mater. separate the two hemispheres of the cerebrum and those of the cerebellum; the third is nearly horizontal, and supports the posterior cerebral lobes. The great vertical partition is named, from its Falx cerebri. resemblance to the blade of a sickle, "falx cerebri" It divides the cerebrum into two hemispheres—a right and a left. It begins in a point attached to the crista galli, and gradually penetrates deeper as it extends backwards. From its base or broadest part proceeds the horizontal partition, named " tentorium cerebelli." This forms an arch for the Tentorium support of the posterior cerebral lobes, so that they ^ ' may not press upon the cerebellum beneath them. Observe that the tentorium is attached to the transverse ridge of the occipital bone, to the petrous part of the temporal, and to the posterior clinoid processes of the sphenoid. The little partition which separates the lobes of the cerebellum is called Falx cerebeUi. y^^^ cerebelH." It is placed vertically in the same line with the falx cerebri, and its point is attached to the edge of the foramen magnum. It is one of the peculiarities of the cerebral circulation THE DURA that the blood is returned through canals or smuses formed by the dura mater. These canals are produced