SHOULDER-JOINT. 273 joint be very loose and capacious. Accordingly we find that the head of the bone, when detached from its muscular connections, may be separated from the glenoid cavity to the extent of an inch, or even more, without laceration of the capsule. This explains the elongation of the arm observed in some cases in which effusion has taken place into the cavity of the joint; also in some cases of paralysis of the deltoid muscle. The capsular ligament is attached, above, round the circum- ference of the glenoid cavity; and below, round the surgical neck of the humerus. It is strengthened on its upper and posterior part by the tendons of the supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, and teres minor muscles; its inner part is strengthened by the broad tendon of the subscapularis, and its lower part by the long head of the triceps. Thus the circumference of the capsule is surrounded by . tendons on every side, excepting a small space towards the axilla. If the humerus be raised, it will be found that the head of the bone rests upon this unprotected portion of the capsule; that is, between the tendons of the subscapularis and the long head of the triceps; and through this part of the capsule the head of the bone usually protrudes in dislocations into the axilla. At the upper and inner side of the joint, a small opening {fora- men ovale) is observable in the capsular ligament, through which the tendon of the subscapularis passes, and comes in contact with the synovial membrane. The upper surface of the capsule is, moreover, strengthened by a strong band of ligamentous fibres, called the coraco-humeral or accessory ligament. It is attached to the root of the coracoid process, expands over the upper surface of the capsule, with which it is inseparably imited, and is fixed into the greater tuberosity of the humenis. Open the capsule to see the tendon of the long head of the biceps. It enters the joint through the groove between the two tuberosities, becomes slightly flattened, and passes over the head of the bone to be attached to the upper border of the crJenoid cavity. It IS loose and moveable within the joint; and^t acts like a strap, keeping down the head of the bone. In some cases