439 FRONT OF THE THIGH. F F 4 arch, in a groove between the iliacus and psoas, about one quai-ter of an inch from the outer side of the femoral artery. It soon divides into a number of branches, some of which supply the skin, — others, the extensor muscles of the thigh. The cuta- neous branches, — namely, the long saphenous, the middle and internal cutaneous, have been already described (p. 433). Its mus- cular branches you should trace into the extensors of the leg; namely the rectus, the two vasti, the crurseus, and subcrurseus. But it cannot be said that it supplies them only, for it sends a branch (beneath the femoral vessels), to the pectineus ; one also to the sartorius. The obturator nerve, also a branch of the lumbar plexus (p. 332), supplies the addvictor muscles. It enters the thigh through the upper part of the obturator foramen with the corresponding artery, and immediately divides into two branches, of which one passes in front of, the other behind the adductor brevis. The front branch* subdivides for the supply of the gracilis, the adductor longus and brevis; the hind one supplies the obturator externus and the adductor magnus. In some bodies you can succeed in tracing a filament of the obturator nerve through the notch of the acetabulum into the hip-joint, and another, which runs near the popliteal artery, into the back part of the knee-joint. I have frequently seen cutaneous branches from the obturator on the inner side of the thigh. This is interesting practically, since it helps to explain the great pain often felt on the inner side of the knee in cases of disease of the hip-joint. The obturator artery after passing through the foramen, divides into two branches, which form a circle round the obturator mem- brane. These supply the external obturator and adductors of the thigh, and inosculates with the internal circumflex and ischiatic arteries (p. 437). It usually gives off also the little artery to the ligamentum teres of the hip-joint. * Near the lower border of the adductor longus: a filament from this branch gene- rally commimicates with one of the internal cutaneous branches of the anterior crural nerve. This communication takes place over the femoral artery in Hunter's canal