ANATOMY OF THE LIVER, 397 or hepatic duct; of the ramifications of the hepatic veins, which return the blood from it, and of nerves and absorbents. Now, it will facilitate the understanding of the subject, if you bear in mind, —1, that the portal vein, hepatic artery, and hepatic duct, ramify together from first to last. They are enclosed in a sheath of loose fibro-cellular tissue, called. « Qlisson's capsuU;' which enters with them at the transverse fissiu-e : this explains why the portal vein when cut transversely, does not gape, but partially collapses: 2, that the hepatic vems run from first to last by themselves, and terminate m the vena cava as it passes through the liver. These, havino- no cellular sheath, always appear, on transverse section, with open mouths. ^ Now come the questions, What is the distribution of the minute branches of the portal vein ? what that of the hepatic vein ? These questions are determined by injecting each set of vessels simid- taneously with a fluid of a different colour,-say a blue fluid for the portal vein, and a yellow for the hepatic. Afterwards, sections in_ difi-erent directions must be made, and examined under the microscope. In answer to the first question, it may be stated that the minute ramifications of the portal veins map out the substance of the Hver into small spaces caUed the lobules. The boundary veins are termed ^nter-lobular:' The spaces can be seen even with the naked eye They have a different shape according to the direction m which they axe cut: on the surface of the liver, or which comes to the same thing, in a transverse section, they look like mosaic pavement, fig. 86; but in a perpendicular section they some- what resemble an oak leaf. From the circumference of the lo- bule, the capillaries of the portal vein penetrate into its arei mmutely inosculating with each other, and then freely commu- nicate towards the middle of the lobule with the radicles ofZe hepatic vein. The second question maybe answered thus:-The radicle, nf the hepatic veins commence within the lobulp bv fr.. • V with those of the „„rt.d vein., IZZT'^'T veia termed «which ruu. dt^The ctu^e't;