STRUCTTJKE OF THE SMALL INTESTINES. 407 membrane is made up of these tubular glands. It is presumed that, during digestion, they generate a number of cells containing the gastric juice. As fast as formed, the cells pass into the stomach, discharge their contents, and disappear. "While examining the arrangement of the tubes of the stomach, you should observe how richly they are supplied with blood. The arteries -form a stratum of minute inosculations in the submucous tissue, in which the bottoms of the tubes are set: from this stratum the vessels run up between the tubes to the surface of the stomach, where they again inosculate, and form the hexagonal spaces above alluded to. The mucous membrane of the stomach, and also of the interior of the tubes, is lined by a columnar epithelium. It is exceedingly thin and delicate, and can only be seen in the stomach of an animal recently killed. Tlie small intestines, consisting of the duodenum, je- fj^g'^^"^*®^'junum, and ileum, form a tube from sixteen to twenty- eight feet in length, according to the height of the individual. As regards their external character, remark that the duodenum and jejunum are much more vascular than the ileum, and that they may feel much thicker in consequence of the peculiar arrangement of their mucous membrane. The reason of this difference is, that the upper part of the small intestine is more concerned in digestion than the lower. Their peritoneal and muscular coats are the same throughout. The muscular coat con- sists of an outer longitudinal and an inner circular layer. The mucous coat requires especial notice. When the small intestines are cut open from the upper end, the first thing that attracts notice is that the mucous membrane is arranged in close folds, or plaits, technically called "valvuloi conni- ventes." Now these differ from other folds in the alimentary canal, e. g. in the oesophagus and stomach, in that they are not obliterated when the tube is distended. Each fold extends about one-half or two-thirds round the intestine ; but they are not all of equal size. Observe that they do not commence at the pylorus, but immediately below the openings of the biliary and pancreatic ducts, and that D 1) 4