29 EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. edge of the hyo-glossus it ascends to the tmder-surface of the tongue, and is continued forwards to the apex of the tongue under the name of " ranine." The curves thus made by the artery are obviously for the purpose of allowing the elongation of the tongue. Observe that, imder the hyo-glossus, the artery lies upon the middle constrictor of the pharynx; under the tongue, it lies between the hyo-glossus and the lingualis m. Its branches are as follow: — 1. The hyoid, a small artery wliich runs along the hyoid bone, supplying the muscles. 2. The dorsales UngucB, two or more, which run iip under the hyo-glossus to the back of the tongue. 3. The sublingual, which arises near the anterior border of the hyo-glossus, and supplies the sublingual gland. .This artery generally gives off the little artery of the " freenum linguse," which is sometimes woimded in the operation of cutting the freenum in children who are tongue-tied, especially when we neglect the practical rule of pointing the scissors downwards and backwards. The lingual vein runs over the hyo-glossus, and empties itself into the internal jugular. I have already mentioned (p. 24) the best place for finding and tying the lingual artery. Of course, the rule laid down is trustworthy, only when the artery runs its normal course. I have known an instance in which a good anatomist failed in an at- tempt to tie the lingual artery, because the vessel arose from the facial behiud the submaxillary gland, and then passed throuo-h the mylo-hyoideus to reach the tongue.- The next object of study should be the course and relations of the external carotid artery, and its branches in the neck. In preparing a view of them, you will observe, that nearly all the veins lie in front of their corresponding arteries. Course alnd external carotid arises from the common carotid o?tlSi°ex- ^^^""^ "PP^^ °f tlie thyi-oid car- ternal ca- tilage. It ascends beneath the hypoglossal nerve the roticlar- posterior belly of the digastricus and stylo-hyoideus enters the parotid gland, and terminates near the neck of the jaw-by dividing into the temporal and internal maxillax-y arteries. ^ Notice the relative position which the external and internal