307 PERITONEUM. X 2 an arch, of which the concavity enabraces the convolutions of the small intestines. Length of "^^^ small intestines, including the duodenum, vary the alimen- from sixteen to twenty-eight feet, according to the height taiy canal. ^-^^ individual. All this coil of bowel is sustained and kept in place by a simple pedicle of mesentery, which extends from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra, to the right iliac fossa. In a man five feet high, I found that the small intestines measured twenty-four feet; the large, five feet nine inches. In round numbers we may say that the small and large intestines are from five to six times the length of the body. A certain range of motion being necessary to the Jreritoneum. . . ° j abdominal viscera, they are provided with a serous membrane, called the "peritoneum." This membrane not only facilitates their movements, but maintains each in its proper place. Although its texture is thin, and apparently delicate, yet it is so tough, that if a portion of it were removed and stretched across a hoop, it would support a weight of from forty to fifty pounds with- out giving way. That it is elastic too, is ^proved by the rapidity with which it recovers itself after being distended by dropsy, pregnancy, hernia, &c. The plan of the peritoneum is like that of all other serous membranes; that is, it forms a closed sac, one part of which lines the containing cavity, the other is reflected over the contained organs. These are respectively termed the parietal and the visceral layers. There is nothing between them, —or, in other words, inside the sac, but just sufficient moisture to lubricate its smooth and polished surface. The viscera, then, are all outside the sac. Some lie altogether behind it, e. g. the pancreas and kidneys; others push the visceral layer before them, so as to give rise to membranous folds; and the greater the fold, the greater is the mobility of the viscus which occasions it. The vessels and nerves of the viscus must run up to it through the fold, for they can get to it in no other way. First let us examine the several folds which connect the viscera