PNEUMOGASTRIC NERVE. 78 very tortuously by the side of the body of the sphenoid, and terminates in branches which supply the orbit and the brain. In the first part of its course, it is situated immediately outside the external carotid, near the inner border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. But it soon gets beneath the external carotid, and lies deeply seated by the side of the pharynx. In its course it is crossed suc- cessively by the hypoglossal nerve and the occipital artery; still higher, it is crossed obliquely by the styloid process, by the stylo- glossus and pharyngeus muscles, by the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and the stylo hyoid-ligament, all of which intervene between it and the external carotid. The internal.jugular vein runs along the outer side of the arterj^ Behind the artery are the pneumogastric nerve and the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. The rectus capitis anticus major separates it from the cervical vertebra?. But after all, the most important relation of the artery in a surgical point of view is, that it ascends close by the side of the pharynx and tonsils. In opening an abscess, therefore, near the tonsils, or at the back of the pharynx, be careful to introduce the knife with its point inwaids towards the mesial line: observe this caiition the more, because, in some subjects, the internal carotid makes a curve, or even a complete curl upon itself, in its ascent near the pharynx. In such cases the least deviation of the instrument in an outward direction would injure the vessel; an occurrence of which instances have been recorded. This artery generally arises from the angle of the t^:^ell common carotid, or from the commencement of the ^■t^^7- external carotid ; it ascends by the side of the pharynx, towards the base of the skull. It gives off branches which supply the pharynx, the tonsils, the Eustachian tube, and the muse es m front of the spine. A very constant branch runs down with the levator palati, above the superior constrictor of the pharynx, and supplies the soft palate. . The pneumogastric nerve is one of the three divisions gS°' of the eighth pair of cerebral nerves. It ai-ises from the iierve. medulla oblongata by a series of roots along the groove