DISSECTION OF THE BACK OE THE FOREARM. 265 sinks into the palm, between the first and second metacarpal bones, and is a good guide to the vessel. The action of the three ex- tensors of the thumb is implied by their names. Extensor ^his muscle aHses from the posterior surface of the indieis, or ulna, and from the interosseous ligament. The tendon indicator. , , . , passes beneath the posterior annular ligament, in the same groove on the back of the radius with the tendons of the extensor digitorum communis. It then proceeds over the back of the hand to the first phalanx of the index finger, where it is united to the ulnar border of the common extensor tendon. By the action of this muscle, the index finger can be extended independently of the others. Posterior ^his artery comes from the ulnar by a common trunk interosseous with the anterior interosseous (p. 218), and supplies the muscles on the back of the forearm. It passes between the radius and ulna above the interosseous membrane, and appears between the supinator radii brevis and the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. After supplying branches to all the muscles in this situation, the artery descends, much diminished in size, between the superficial and deep layer of muscles to the wrist, where it inoscu- lates with the carpal branches of the anterior interosseous and those of the radial and ulnar arteries. But the largest branch of this artery is the recurrent. It ascends beneath the anconeus muscle to the space between the external condyle and the olecranon, where it inosculates with the branch of the superior profunda, which descends in the substance of the triceps. In the lower part of the back of the fore-arm, a branch of the anterior interosseous artery is seen passing through the interosseous membrane, to reach the back of the wrist (see p. 232). Posterior The nerve which supplies the muscles on the back of mterosseous the forearm is the posterior interosseous, a branch of _ the musculo-spiral. It passes obliquely throuo-h the supmator radn brevis, and descends between the superficial and deep layer of muscles on the back of the forearm, sending o e"h a filament, generally in company with a branch of the posterior