37 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. diaphragm, as well as all the other muscles of inspiration, are pai'alysed. Death is the immediate result.* COUESE AND EELATIONS OF THE SUBCLAVIAN AETEEIES. The left suhclavian artery differs from the right, not only in its origin but in the relations of the first part of its course. Let us therefore examine the right subclavian first, and then consider the differences which exist between it and the left. Eight sub- right subclavian artery is one of the two great clavian branches into which the arteria innominata divides ^t^^- behind the sterno-clavicular joint. It runs outwards behind the scalenus anticus, and then inclines downwards over the first rib, at the outer border of which it takes the name of " axillary." The artery describes a slight curve, of which the greatest convexity is between the scalene muscles. The height to which the arch ascends varies. Grenerally, it rises higher in women than in men, on the right side than on the left. To study its relations more precisely, .we divide the course of the subclavian artery into three parts: 1. the part which intervenes between the trachea and the scalene muscle: 2. the part which lies behind the scalene muscle: 3. the part which intervenes between the outer border of the scalenus, and the outer border of the first rib. The first portion of the artery is covered by the sternal end of the clavicle, the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid * The phrenic nerve is frequently joined by a filament fr-om that branch of the brachial plexus which supplies the subclavius muscle. It is important to be awai-e that cases sometimes occur in which this seemingly insignificant filament is a branch of considerable size, and forms the greater portion of the phrenic itself. I have met vnth. many instances in which this accessoiy branch was larger than the regular trunk; in all of them it crossed over the subclavian artery in the thii-d part of its coTirse, and would probably have been injured in the operation of tying this vessel That such an accident has actuaUy happened is recorded by Bransby Cooper in his surgical lectures. With his usual candour, he speaks of having injured this accessory branch of the phrenic in tying the subclavian artery. The patient had incessant ^ spasm of the diaphragm till he died. P 3