168 SUPEUIOK MAXILLARY NERVE, Respecting the motor nerves in the orbit, observe that they all enter the ocular surface of the muscles, with the exception of the fourth. Inferioi- '^^^^ muscle arises by a flat tendon from the superior oblique maxillary bone, near the lower part of the lachrymal muscle. groove. It runs outwards and backwards between the rectus inferior and the orbit, then curves upwards between the globe and the external rectus, and is inserted by a broad thin tendon into the outer and back part of the sclerotic coat, close to the tendon of the superior oblique. ^ The use of the oblique muscles is to rotate the eye the oblique upon its antero-posterior axis, so that, however much muscles of ^j^g j^g^d be moved obliquely to one side or the other, the image of the object may be always kept stationary upon one and the same point of the retina. This was first ex- plained by Hunter. He says,— " When the head is moved towai'ds the right shoulder, the superior oblique muscle of the right side acts and keeps the right eye fixed on the object, and a similar effect is produced upon the left eye by the action of its inferior oblique muscle. When the head moves in a contrary direction, the other oblique muscles produce the same efi'ect." * This is at all times of small size, and sometimes branch of Eihsent. It comes from the trunk of the superior the superior maxillary in the spheno-maxillary fossa (see diagram), maxiUary gj^^-g^s the orbit and divides into two branches. Of these, one communicates with the lachrymal branch of the ophthalmic; the other, called the " temporo-malar;'f usually divides into two branches, both of which pass through foramina in the malar bone, one to join the temporal branches of the inferior maxillary nerve, the other to supply the sHn of the cheek. „ ,. In order to trace this nerve and its branches, we m^smii^ must remove the outer wall of the orbit, so as to expose spSno'paia- the spheno-maxillary fossa. ■ tinegangUou. The superior maxillary nerve is the second division « Obsci'vations on Certain Parts of the Animal Economy, t " Subcutaneus make" pf Soemmerring and Meckel.