388 CONTENTS OF FEMALE PELVIS. vagina and the uterus, let us pass on to the vessels and nerves of these organs. In addition to the branches given off m the male Z- (p. 361), each internal iliac artery, in the female, furnishes tcries. ^ branch to the iiterus, another to the vagina. ^ The uterine artery proceeds from the anterior division of the internal iliac towards the neck of the uterus, and then ascends tortuously by the side of the uterus, giving off numerous branches to it. The fundus of the uterus is chiefly supplied by branches from the ovarian arteries. The vaginal artery ramifies along the side of the vagina, and sends branches to the lower part of the bladder and the rectum. The nerves of the uterus are derived from the sacral Nerves of ^^33.^^8, and from the hypogastric plexus (p. 365). They the uterus. ^^^^^^^^^ blood-vessels to the neck of the uterus, and ascend with them along the sides of the organ. The greater part of the nerves soon leave the vessels, and, sub- dividing sink into the substance of the uterus, chiefly about its neck and the lower part of its body. But some very small filaments continue with the vessels, and form around them plexuses, upon which, according to the dissections of Mr. Beck*, minute gangha are found. , . The question whether the nerves of the uterus enlarge diu-ing preo-nancy like the arteries, has given rise to much discussion and'is still " sub judice." Great names might be quoted m support of the most opposite opinions. However, in a surgical point ot view,the OS uteri maybe said to have no nerves, for it is insensible to the cautery and to the knife. The absorbent vessels of the uterus are very small m its un- impregnated state, but greatly increase in size when it is gravid^ Those from the fundus and the ovaries proceed mth the spermatic vessels to the lumbar glands; and this is the reason why the lumbar glands are sometimes affected m ovarian disease. Ihose from the body and the lower part of the uterus accompany the * Philosophical Transactions for 1846.