214 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER ARM. The fascia which invests the muscles of the upper arm MuscivlM ig a continuation of the fascia from the trunk and the axilla. This membrane varies in density : thus it is thin over the biceps, stronger on the inner side of the arm to protect the brachial vessels and nerves, and strongest over the triceps. What are its connections ? At the upper part of the arm it is con- nected with the coracoid process and the clavicle; it is strengthened at the axilla by an expansion from the tendons of the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi : posteriorly it is attached to the spme of the scapula. The fascia surrounds the brachial vessels with a sheath, and furnishes partitions which sepai-ate the muscles from each other. Of these partitions the most marked are the external and internal intermuscular septa, which divide the muscles on the anterior from that on the posterior surface of the upper arm. These septa are attached to the projecting ridges of the humerus and to the condyles. The internal septum, the most promment of the two, beo-ins at the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, and separates the triceps extensor from the brachialis anticus. The external septum commences from the insertion of the deltoid, and separates the brachiaHs anticus, the supinator longus, and the extensor carpi radialis longior in front, from the triceps behind. At the lower paxt of the upper arm the fascia is remarkably strong, especially where it covers the brachialis anticus and the brachial vessels, and is continued over the muscles on the inner side of the forearm. At the -back of the elbow, the fascia is attached to the tendon of the triceps and the olecranon. Now remove the fascia in order to study the muscles on the front of the arm; namely, the biceps, the coraco-brachiahs, and the brachialis anticus. . , The biceps, as its name imphes, arises by two heads— a long and a short. The short or internal Jiead arises from the point of the coracoid process of the scapula, by a flat tendon which is common to a slender muscle on it. mner side called the coraco-brachialis. ^The long head of the biceps arises from the upper border of the glenoid cavity of the scapula by a long flat tendon, which traverses the shoulder-joint and passes over