DISSECTION OF THE UPPER ARM. 219 diately below the tendon of the teres major.* It winds round the posterior pai-t of the humerus, between the outer and inner heads of the triceps, with the musculo-spiral nerve (6, p. 210), and a little above the middle of the arm divides into two branches, which run for some distance on either side of the nerve. One of these runs in the substance of the triceps to the olecranon, and anastomoses with the ulnar and interosseous recm-rent arteries: the other branch accompanies the musculo-spiral nerve to the outer side of the arm, descends deep in the fissure between the brachialis anticus and supinator radii longus, and terminates in numerous ramifications, some of which pass in front of the external condyle, and others behind it, to inosculate with the radial and interosseous recurrent arteries. Before its division the superior profunda sends several branches to the triceps, some of which inosculate minutely with the circum- flex arteries. These would assist in establishing a collateral cir- culation if the brachial artery were tied above the origin of the profunda. The profunda inferior arises from the brachial, opposite to the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, or sometimes by a common trunk with the superior profunda. It runs with the ulnar nerve along the inner border of the triceps behind the internal condyle of the humerus, where it inosculates with the posterior ulnar recurrent artery. The inferior profunda gives branches to the triceps and brachi- alis anticus, some of which inosculate with the anastomotica magna. The medullary artery of the humerus usually arises from the profunda inferior. It pierces the tendon of the coraco-brachialis, runs obliquely downwards through the bone, and in the medullary canal divides into ascending and descending branches, which anas- tomose with the other nutrient vessels of the bone derived from the periosteum. The anastomotica magna arises from the inner side of the the* ZuT '"T ^'V'' Pl=^«e, look for it above the tendon of