SOFT PALATE. 135 K 4 causes considerable irritation, a tickle in the throat, and harassing cough. When you have to remove a portion of it, you should cut off only the redundant mucovis membrane. Ai-cliesof "^'^^ ^^^^ continued into the tongue and the palate, pbarynx by two folds of mucous membrane on each side, enclosing muscular fibres. These are the anterior and posterior half-arches or pillars of the palate. The anterior arch describes a curve from the base of the uvula, to the side of the tongue. It is well seen when the tongue is put out. The pos- terior arch, commencing at the side of the uvula, curves along the free margm of the palate, and terminates on the side of the pharynx. The posterior arches, when the tongue is depressed, can be seen through the span of the anterior. The tonsils are situated on each side between ^he arches. Now what are the uses of these arches? They are chiefly concerned in the mechanism of deglu- tition. The anterior, (enclosing the "palato glossi" muscles,) contract so as to prevent the food from coming back into the mouth : the posterior (enclosing the "palato pharyngei " muscles ) contract hke side curtains, and co-operate in preventing the food from passing into the nose. True, in vomiting, food does some- times escape through the nostrils, but one cannot wonder at this considering the violence with which it is driven into the pharynx. Muscles of The muscles of the soft palate, lie immediately under palatf membrane. There are foui- pairs, namely, the "levatores palati," the " circumflexi or tensores palati " the " palato glossi," and "palato pharyngei: " the « azygos uvulas'" is single. Levator P^^^'O^s portion of the palati. temporal bone and from the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. Its fibres spread out, and are inserted alon^ the npper surface of the soft palate (fig. 27). Its action is to raise the palate, so as to make it horizontal in deglutition. Circum- J'^;^^ « situated between-the internal pterygoid or and the interna pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bone chian tube. Thence it descends perpendicularly, ends in