DISSECTION OF THE EAR. 547 N N 2 sents cat one end a dilatation termed the " amjpulla.'" This dila- tation is the most important part of the canal, because it corresponds to a similar dilatation of the membranous sac upon which the auditory nerve expands. Each canal differs in its direction : they are named accordingly superior, posterior, and external. The supenor s. c. is also the most anterior of the three : its direction is vertical, and rims across the petrous bone : the ampulla is at the outer extremity. The posterior s. c. is also vertical, runs parallel to the posterior surface of the petrous bone, and, consequently, at right angles to the preceding: the ampulla is at the lower end. The external s. c. is horizontal in position, with the convexity of the arch directed backwards: the ampulla is at the outer end. The cochlea is the most anterior part of the internal ear: it very closely resembles a common snail's shell, and is placed so that the base of the shell corresponds to the bottom of the meatus auditorius internus, while the apex is directed forwards and outwards. It consists of the spii-al convolutions of two parallel and gradually tapering tubes. The partition by which they are separated is termed the " lamina spiralis" In the dry bones this partition is only partial; but, in the recent state, it is completed by a membrane. At the very apex of the shell {/lelicotrema) the partition is altogether absent, so that here the tubes communicate with each other. These tubes are called the scales of the cochlea, and are filled with fluid. The one opens into the vestibule, and is therefore called the vestibular scale ; the other leads to the membrane which closes the foramen rotundum of the tympanum, and is termed the tympanic scale. If unwound, they would be about inch long. Each makes two turns and a half round a central pillar, from left to right in the right ear, and vice versa in the left. The central pillar of the cochlea is called the " modiolus." It is of considerable thickness at the base, but gradually tapers to- wards the apex. Its interior is traversed by numerous canals, for the purpose of transmitting the filaments of the auditory nerve. One of these canals, larger than the others, runs down the centre of the modiolus nearly to the apex.