BRANCHES OF THE EXTERNAL CAROTID. 30 carotids bear to each other. The external lies at first nearer to the side of the pharynx than the internal. But the external soon changes it position and crosses obliquely in front of the internal to reach the space between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process. The internal carotid, bear in mind, ascends perpendi- cularly by the side of the pharynx to the base of the skull. The external is separated from the internal carotid by the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and the stylo-hyoid ligament. The external carotid gives off the following branches — 1. The superior tliyi-oid. 6. The posterior auris. 2. The'lingual. 6. The internal maxUlary. 3. The facial. 7. The temporal. 4. The occipital. 8. The ascending pharyngeal. The superior thyroid is the first branch of the external Superior carotid. It runs beneath the omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, wte^'^ and sterno-thyroid muscles to the upper and front surface of the thyroid body, in which it terminates. Its branches are the four following : — 1. The hyoid, a small muscular branch, runs horizontally in- wards below the greater cornu of the os-hyoides. 2. The superior laryngeal branch, accompanied by the superior laryngeal nerve, runs beneath the thyro-hyoid muscle, perforates the thyro-hyoid membrane, (sometimes the thyi-oid cartilage,) and supplies the muscles and the mucous membrane of the larynx. 3. The sterno-mastoid, a small branch variable as to origin and size, descends over the sheath of the carotid artery to the mastoid muscle. 4. The crico-thyroid, an artery of great interest in reference to the operation of laryngotomy, crosses the crico-thyroid membrane, and communicates with a corresponding branch on the opposite side (fig. 3, p. 11). One or two small branches pass through the membrane to the interior of the larynx. It is important to know that the crico-thyroid artery often varies in direction and size. In most cases it is small, and runs across the centre of the mem-