LIGAMENTS OF THE ANKLE. 478 lateral displacementj since they cross each other like braces, as shown in fig. 108. Ligaments con- There is a distinct j oint between the upper ends of NECTiNG THE the tibia and fibula, although it admits of but little TIBIA AND FIBULA. j. Ti • r> l IT IT T j. movement. It is firmly secured by oblique ligaments in front and behind (p. 476). The contiguous surfaces of the bones are crusted with cartilage. In the great majority of instances its synovial membrane is independent; but we now and then meet with cases in which it communicates with the synovial membrane of the knee. The shafts of the bones are connected by the inter- Interosseoiis osseous membrane. The chief purpose of this is to membrane. ^ ^ r i afford additional surface for the attachment of muscles Its component fibres cross each other like the letter X, and have openings here and there for the passage of blood-vessels. The lower ends of the tibia and fibula are most firmly connected, for it is essential to the solidity of the ankle-joint that there be no motion between them. They are secured by an oblique ligament in front and behind, and by strong ligamentous fibres which con- nect their contiguous surfaces, and answer the purpose of rivets. Besides these, a strong fibro-cartilaginous ligament proceeds from the end of the fibula, and is attached along the posterior border of the articular surface of the tibia. The object of it is to deepen the excavation of the tibia, and enable it to adapt itself more accurately to the articular surface of the astragalus. From the form of the bones, it is obvious that the Ligaments . . ,i ti n r OF THE ankle is a hinge joint; consequently, hke all others ot ANKiE-joiNT. j^.^^^ p^-gf security depends upon the great strength of its lateral ligaments. However, the hinge is not so perfect but that it admits of a slight rotatory motion, of which the centre is on the fibular side, and therefore the reverse of that in the case of the knee. T . 1 This ligament, sometimes called, from its shape, " del- Internal o ' n i r lateral. toid," is exceedingly thick and strong, and makes up lor