155 DISSECTION OP THE SCALP. There are several little muscles to move the cartilage areM-! °^ *^®y tbin and pale; but in animals who possess a more delicate sense of hearing they are much more developed, for the purpose of quickly directing the cartilage of the ear towards the pulse of the air. M. attrahens aurem and attollens aurem.—These little muscles are triangular, and attached by their bases to the aponeurosis of the scalp. The fibres of each converge, and are inserted, those of the former into the front of the helix, those of the latter into the back part of the concha. M, retrahens aurem.—This proceeds from the base of the mastoid process to the lower part of the concha. All the muscles of the ear are supplied by the auricular branch of the facial nerve. Nerves of "^^^^ supra-orbital nerve is a branch of the ophthal- tie scalp. division of the fifth pair. It emerges from the orbit through the notch of the frontal bone, and sub- divides into branches which are covered at fii-st by the fibres of the orbicularis and occipito-frontalis; but they presently become subcutaneous: some of them may be traced over the top of the head as far as the occipital bone. The siijperficial temporal nerves ramify in company with the arteries of the same name. Some of them are derived from the inferior maxillary,.or third division of the fifth pair; others from the facial nei-ve (p. 63). ^ The posterior auricular nerve is a branch of the facial, and runs with its corresponding artery behind the pinna of the ear (p. 63). The great occipital nerve is the posterior branch of the second cervical nerve. After passing through the complexus, it appeals on the occiput with the occipital artery, and divides into wide spreading branches. The lesser occipital nerve, a branch of the cervical plexus (p. 3), runs near the posterior border of the in- sertion of the sterno-mastoid. Points of liaise the aponem-osis of the scalp and observe the Sel { 1°^^^ tissue which intervenes between It and the pericranium. Tliis tissue never contains fat. Ihere are many points of surgical interest concerning it • — 1 Its