543 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. b. The m. minor helicis lies over that part of the helix, which comes up from the bottom of the concha. c. The m. tvagicus lies vertically over the outer surface of the tragus. d. The m. anti-tragicus proceeds transversely from the anti-tragus to the helix. e. The m. transversus is on the back of the pinna: it passes from the back of the concha to the heHx. The arteries of the pinna are derived from the posterior auri- cular and the temporal. The nerves are furnished by the auriculo- parotidean branch of the cervical plexus, and the temporo-auricular branch of the inferior maxillary. This passage leads down to the membrana tympani, or ditorius.^^^' drum of the ear. It is formed partly by a tubular con- tinuation of the concha, partly by an osseous canal in the temporal bone. It is not a straight tube, but inclines at first upwards and forwards, and then curves a little downwards.* Its length is rather more than an inch. It is not throughout of the same calibre; the narrowest part is about the middle: hence the difficulty in extracting foreign bodies which have gained access to the bottom of it. The true skin and the cuticle are continued down it; and, becoming gradually thinner, form a cul-de-sac over the membrana tympani. Only the outer portion is furnished with ceruminous glands, of which the peculiar bitter secretion is for the purpose of keeping the passage moist, and preventing insects from lodging in it. Tympantim. tympanum, or middle ear, is an irregular cavity scooped out of the petrous part of the temporal bone, and lined by mucous membrane. It is filled with air, which is freely admitted through the Eustachian tube; so that the atmo- spheric pressure is equipoised on both sides of the membrana tympani. It contains a chain of small bones, of which the use is to communicate the vibrations of the membrana tympani to the * In order to obtain a correct knowledge of the length and dimensions of tlie meatus we ought to make sections through it in different directions, or a cast of it in common plaster.