279 INTERCARrAL JOINT. T 4 from the rcidius, the consequence is a preternatural projection of the lower end of the ulna. The synovial membrane of this joint is distinct from that of the wrist, except in the case of a perforation through the fibro-carti- lage. On account of its great looseness, necessary for the free rotation of the radius, it is often called the " memhrana sacci- CoKiTECTioN The bones of the carpus are arranged in two rows, an OF THE CAR- upper aud a lower, adapted to each other, so as to form PAL BOJTES WITH EACH between them a joint, connected by anterior, posteriori OTHEE. internal, and external lateral ligaments. The bones, constituting each row, are united by ligaments placed on their palmar and dorsal surfaces, and by others, placed between the bones, and hence called interosseous. Their contiguous sur- faces (those of the pisiform and cuneiform excepted) are covered by the reflections of one synovial membrane. The upper row is imited by transverse ligaments proceeding from the scaphoid to the semilunar bone, and from the semilunar to the cuneiform, both on their dorsal and palmar surfaces: also by interosseous ligaments, proceeding from the semilunar to the bones on either side of it (fig. 52). The pisiform hone is articulated to the palmar surface of the cuneiform bone, to which it is united by a fibrous capsule. In- feriorly it is attached by two strong ligaments, the one to the unciform bone, the other to the carpal end of the fifth metacarpal bone. This little articulation has a distinct synovial membrane. The lower row of carpal bones is connected precisely in the same way as the upper. The dorsal and palmar ligaments pass transversely from one to the other. There are only two inter- osseous ligaments, one on either side of the os magnum ; they are much thicker and stronger than those of the upper row, and unite the bones more firmly together (fig. 52). The upper row of carpal bones is arranged in the Intebcabpai, f„_™ „f -u J. . , ""tjcu m me of an arch, so as to receive the corresponding con- vex surfaces of the os magnum and unciforme'' Ex- ternally to the OS magnum, the trapezium and trapezoid bones