DISSECTION OF THE AXILLA. 203 scalpel the loose connective tissue, fat, and absorbent glands, wbich occupy the cavity. You will soon discover some cutaneous nerves coming out between the ribs. These nerves are the lateral cutaneous branches of the intercostal nerves; they perforate the intercostal spaces between the digitations of the serratus magnus, midway be- tween the sternum and the spine, and divide into anterior and posterior branches. The anterior turn over the pectoralis major, to supply the skin on the front of the chest and the mammary gland. The posterior pass backwards over the latissimus dorsi, and are distributed to the skin covering this muscle and the scapula. Intercosto- "^^^ perforating branch of the second intercostal nerve humeral requires a special description; it is larger than the others, and is called the " intercosto-humeral nerve," because it supplies the integuments of the arm. It comes through the second intercostal space, traverses the upper part of the axilla, where it receives a branch of the lesser internal cutaneous nerve (nerve of Wrisberg), and terminates in filaments, which are distri- buted to the skin on the inner side of the arm, as low as the in- ternal condyle. The perforating branch of the third intercostal is also an " intercosto-humeral" nerve. It receives a branch from the second, and runs a similar course. The distribution of these nerves may account for the pain down the arm which is sometimes experienced in pleurisy. Boundaries ^^^^^^ described as a conical space, of of the axilla, which the summit is beneath the clavicle, and the base between the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi muscles. Now what are its boundaries ? On the inner side, it is bounded • by the ribs, covered by the serratus magnus ; on the outer side by the humerus, covered by the coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles; m front by the pectoralis major, behind by the latissimus dorsi' teres major, and subscapularis. Its anteribr and posterior boun- daries converge from the chest, so that the axilla becomes narrower towards the arm. With a full view of the axilla before you, think what senous consequences may follow suppuration here • the matter may burrow under the pectoral muscles; or under the scapula- or It may run up beneath the clavicle and point in the neck '