DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE rOEEARM. 231 ,^ ,. This nerve, at the bend of the elbow, lies on the inner Median ' nerve. Side of the brachial artery. It then passes between the two origins of the pronator teres, and descends along the middle of the forearm, between the flexor sublimis and the flexor profundus digitorum: it enters the palm beneath the anterior annular ligament, and divides into five branches for the supply of the thumb, both sides of the fore and middle fingers, and the outer side of the ring finger.* Immediately below the elbow, the median nerve sends branches to the pronator and all the flexor muscles of the forearm, except the flexor carpi ulnaris and the inner half of the flexor profundus, which are supplied by the ulnar nerve. The interosseous branch of the median runs with the anterior interosseous artery, and supplies the flexor profundus digitorum, the flexor longus poUicis, and the pronator quadratus. Before the median nerve passes beneath the annular ligament, it sends off its superficial palmar branch, which passes over the annular ligament and divides into small filaments to supply the skin of the palm and ball of the thumb. You should now reflect the superficial layer of muscles, to see those more deeply seated. Preserve the principal vessels and nerves. The deep-seated muscles are the flexor digitorum profundus, and the flexor long-us poUicis; beneath both, near the wrist, lies the pronator quadratus. Close to the interosseous membrane run the anterior interosseous artery and nerve. Flexor pro- ^^^^ thickest muscle of the forearm. It ao^ises ftindus from the upper two-thirds of the anterior sm-face of the digitorum. i r- xi Ulna, trom the same extent of its internal surface, from the aponeurosis attached to the posterior edge of the ulna, and from the inner two-thirds of the interosseous ligament. About * In the upper tliree-fourtlis of the forearm the median nerve lies deep between the muscles ; but in the lower fourth it is more superficial, and runs very nearly down the centre of the m-ist. Its exact position at the wrist is between the fleshy border of the outer tendon of the flexor sublimis and the inner border of the tendon of the flexor carpi radiaUs, and it lies upon one of the tendons of the flexor profundus. If the tendon of the pahnaris longus happen to bo broader than usual", it may par- tiaUy cover the mecUan nerve near the wrist; but most frequently the nerve is imme- diately beneath the fiiscia, the tendon lying to its ulnar side. Q 4