532 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. CoHNEA '^^^ cornea is tlie brilliant and transparent coat whicli occupies about one-fifth of the front part of the globe, and is, as it were, the window of the eye. However delicate it appears at first sight, yet it is quite as tough and thick as any part of the sclerotica. It ■ is connected to this coat in the firmest possible manner: the margin of the sclerotica is beveled on the inside; that of the cornea on the outside; so that the one overlaps the other (fig. 131). As to the structure of the cornea, it consists of con- Structure. -IP • centric layers of transparent tissue; by squeezing it be- tween the finger and thumb, you can make the layers glide on each other. But these layers are not all composed of the same kind of tissue. The first stratum is conjunctival. The second stratum consists of a remarkably elastic tissue. The third stratum consists of transparent fibrous tissue; upon this the thickness and strength of the cornea mainly depend. The fourth * stratum is again elastic. The fifth and last stratum consists of epithelium. Such is the beautiful structure of the cornea. In its healthy state it contains no blood-vessels; they run back in loops as soon as they reach its cii-cumference.f After the removal of the sclerotic and cornea, we ex- Choeoid p^g^ ^-^^ choroid coat |, — a white ring, called the " cilimy ligament," which bounds its anterior part; also the iris, of which the outer circumference is attached to this ring (fig. 132.) The choroid is the soft and flocculent tunic of the eye, remark- able for its dark colour and great vascularity. When properly in- jected, and examined with the microscope, it is found to consist almost wholly of arterial and venous ramifications; the arteries being chiefly arranged on the inner, the veins on the outer surface. * The great peculiarity of this layer is, that it is perfectly structureless ; and when peeled off, it has a remarkable tendency to curl up. Maceration or boiLuig, or the action of acids, do not render it opaque, like they do the other layers of the cornea. Dr. Jacob calls it the " elastic cornea." — Med. Chu\ Trans, vol. xii. p. 503. t For a very elaborate investigation of the structure of the cornea, see Todd and Bowman's Physiological Anatomy, Part. iii. p. 17. \ So caUed because its outer flocculent surface somewhat resembles the chorion or external investment of the ovum. COAT.