MUSCLES OF THE BACK CONNECTED WITH THE ARM. 251 the artery to the inferior angle of the scapula, where it terminates in the rhomboid and serratus magnus. Numerous muscular branches arise from this artery. One, the superficialis colli, is given off near the upper angle of the scapula for the supply of the trapezius. The 'posterior scapular vein terminates in. the su.bclavian or in the external jugular. Divide and reflect the latissimus dorsi below the inferior angle of the scapula, and draw the scapula forcibly outwards, in order to have a more perfect view of the extent of the serratus magnus than you had in the axilla. The great abundance of cellidar tissue in this situation is necessary for the free play of the scapula on the side of the chest. This broad flat muscle intervenes between the scapula SjnS ^^"^ arises.by fleshy digitations from the eight or nine upper ribs. The four lower digitations correspond with those of the external oblique muscle of the abdo- men. All the fibres pass backwards and converge to be inserted along the posterior border of the scapula, chiefly near the upper and lower angles. This is one of the most important of the muscles which regu- late the movements of the scapula; it draws the scapula forwards — and thus gives additional reach to the arm ; it counteracts all forces which tend to push the scapula backwards; for instance, when a man falls forwards upon his hands, the serratus magnus sustains the shock, and prevents the scapula from being driven back to the spine. Supposing the fixed point to be at the scapula, some anatomists ascribe to it the power of raising the ribs; hence Sir Charles Bell called it the external respiratory muscle, as opposed to the internal respiratory muscle, the diaphragm. The nerve which supplies the muscle is a branch of the fifth and sixth cervical nerve: it descends along its outer surface fnaffe 206). Now divide the serratus magnus near the scapula, and remove the arm by sawing through the middle of the clavicle, and cutting through the axillary vessels and nerves. These should subsequently