EXTERNAL ILIAC AKTERY. 330 plane. After the removal of the peritoneum, notice that the artery is not bai-e, but covered by a thin layer of fascia which binds it down to the psoas. There are only two other circumstances of practical interest respecting this artery; 1st, a slender nerve, the genito- crural, runs close to its outer side; 2dly, just before it leaves the pelvis it is crossed by the circumflexa ilii vein. The branches given off by this artery are — The epigastric, already described (p. 298). The circumflexa ilii, which arises just above the crural arch, and runs towards the spine of the ilium in a sheath formed for it by the fascia iliaca.* In the dissection of the-abdominal muscles (p. 289), we saw the continuation of it skirting the crest of the ilium be- tween the internal oblique and the transversalis, and sending a branch upwards between these muscles for their supply. The main trunk, much reduced in size, inosculates with the ilio-lumbar derived from the internal ibac. How to tie '^^^ easiest way of tying the external iliac is to make a the external curved incision at the lower part of the belly, beginning a little above the middle of the crural arch, and ending a little beyond the spine of the ibum. The' strata of the abdominal muscles, with the fascia transversahs, should then be divided to the same extent; after which, the peritoneum can be readily raised by the finger from the iliac fossa. It is necessary to make a small incision through the sheath of the vessel, in order to facilitate the passage of the needle. Eemember that the vein is closely con- nected to its inner sidef, and that the genito-crural nerve is not far off. * The course of this artery shoiild 1)6 borne in mind in opening iliac abscesses. t This relative position of the vessels must not always be taken for granted. In old subjects, less frequently in adults, it is sometimes found that the external iHac artery runs very tortuously, instead of nearly straight, along the bnm of the pelvis. Eut the vein does not foUow the artery in its windings, and may possibly Ue outside the artery just where we iDropose to place the Hgatm-e. The mode of performing the operation described in the text is recommended by Sir~A. Cooper. Mr. Abernethy, however, who first set the example of tying this artery, in 1796, adopted a somewhat different proceeding. He says: "I first made an incision about three inches in length through the integuments of the abdomen, m the direction of the artery, and thus laid bare the aponeurosis of the extexnal oblique