459 CALF OF THE LEG. which receives the insertion of their fibres, and transmits their collected force to the tendo Achillis. You observe also the large sural vessels and nerves which supply each head of the muscle. Moreover, to facilitate the play of the inner tendon over the condyle, there is a bursa, which generally communicates with the knee-joint; and in the substance of the outer tendon is commonly found a small piece of fibro-cartilage. Lastly, between the gastrocnemius and soleus is the tendon of the plantaris. ^ This little muscle * arises from the rough line just above Plantaris. ^^^^^ condyle of the femur (fig. 101). It descends close to the inner side of the outer head of the gastrocnemius, and terminates, a little below the knee, in a long tendon, which we trace down the inner side of the tendo Achillis to the calcaneum. This muscle arises from the head and upper third of the ° posterior surface of the fibula, from the oblique ridge on the back of the tibia f, and from about the middle third of the inner border of this bone. The fibres swell out beneath the gas- trocnemius, and terminate on a broad tendon, which, gradually contracting, forms a constituent part of the tendo Achillis. The soleus is svipplied with blood by several branches from the posterior tibial: also by a large branch from the peroneal. Its nerve comes from the popliteal and enters the top of the muscle. This is an important muscle in a surgical point of view, for two reasons, —1, by reflecting its tibial origin, we reach the posterior tibial artery : 2, by reflecting its fibular origin we reach the peroneal. The tendo Achillis begins about the middle of the leg, and is at first of very considerable breadth, but it gradually contracts and becomes thicker as it descends. The naiTowest part of it is about * This is the representative of the palmaris longus of the forearm. In man it is lost on the calcaneum, but in monkeys, who have preKensUe feet, it is the proper tensor muscle of the plantar fascia. It is remai-kably strong in bears and plantigi-ade mammals. t The tibial and fibular origins of the soleus constitute what some anatomists de- scribe as the two heads of the muscle. Between them descend the popliteal vessels, protected by a tendinous arch.