75 INFEKIOR MAXILLARY NERVE, muscle loses its power of contraction when the facial nerve is paralysed; and that it retains its power of contraction when the muscles of mastication are paralysed. The temporo-auriculo/r branch arises by two roots which embrace the middle meningeal artery before it enters the skull. The nerve runs outwards behind the neck of the jaw, ascends over the root of the zygoma with the superficial temporal artery, and ramifies with this artery upon the temple and side of the head, supplying the skin. While behind the condyle it sends filaments to the skin liniag the meatus auditorius. Lastly, branches proceed from this nerve to the upper division of the facial, and endow it with common sensibility. The inferior dental branch descends between the ramus of the jaw and the internal lateral ligament of .the jaw to the dental foramen, which it enters with the dental artery. It then runs in the canal in the diploe of the jaw below the fangs of all the teeth. It furnishes filaments which ascend through the canals in the fangs of the teeth to the pulp in their interior. Opposite the foramen mentale the mental branch is given off. Observe that the same nerve which supplies the teeth supplies the gums; hience the sympathy between these parts. The mylo-hyoid branch, apparently originating from the dental, and so described, is derived from the motor root of the fifth, and may, with careful dissection, be traced to it. It leaves the dental nerve near the foramen in the jaw, and runs in a gi-oove on the inner side of the ramus to the lower surface of the mylo-hyoid, which muscle, together with the anterior portion of the digastricus, it supplies (p. 23). ' The gustatory branch descends first between the ramus of the jaw and the internal pterygoid muscle, then for a short distance between the jaw and the superior constrictor of the pharynx. In this situation it lies close to the mucous membrane of the mouth near the last molar tooth of the lower jaw. The gustatory n. then ■ runs along the hyo-glossus muscle to the tongue, and is distributed to the papillse of the tip and sides of that organ. The gustatory nerve is joined by the chorda tympani (a branch