10 DEPRESSORS OP THE OS-IIYOIDES. hyoides sterno-thyroid, and omo-hyoid.* Eemove the and fascia which covers them; disturb them as little as pos- laiynx. gi^jig, and take care of the nerves (branches of the de- scendens noni), which enter their outer borders. At this stage of the dissection, reflect the sternal portion of the sterno-mastoid from its origin : you will thus obtain a better view of your work. The sterno-hyoid arises from the back part of the hyoid?' sternum and sterno-clavicular ligament, and is inserted into the body of the os-hyoides. This is the most super- ficial of the muscles in front of the neck. Notice that opposite the cricoid cartilage and the two or three upper rings of the trachea, it is in contact with its fellow of the opposite side. We cut in the mesial line between these muscles in laryngotomy. The sterno-thyroid arises from the back part of the thyroid steruum and the cartilage of the first rib, and is inserted into the oblique ridge on the thyroid cartilage. This muscle is situated immediately under, and is much broader than, the sterno-hyoid. It covers the thyroid gland, and for some distance above the sternum is in contact with its fellow of the other side; the result of which is, that the trachea is completely covered by muscular fibres. The omo-hyoid arises from the notch in the scapula Omo hyoid. ligament over it: and is inserted into the body of the os-hyoides near the great cornu. ' - .'"" This muscle is digastric; that is, it consists of two fleshy por- tions connected by a tendon. Pay attention to its direction (fig. 3). From the scapula it comes nearly horizontally forwards across the lower part of the neck, and passes beneath the sterno-mastoid, over the sheath of the great vessels of the neck; then, changing its direction, it ascends nearly vertically close to the outer border of the sterno-hyoid. Observe, therefore, that the muscle does not proceed straight from origin to insertion, but that it forms * The sterno-tyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles often present slight transTcrse tendinous lines. These tendinous intersections are quite rudiment,iry in man; but in some animals with long necks, e. g. the giraiFe, they are so developed that each depressor muscle is composed of alternations of muscle suid tendon.