FRONT OF THE THIGH. 436 Profunda "^^^ profunda is the chief branch of the femoral, and itrtery and is the proper nutrient artery of the thigh. It arises from brandies. ^-^^ y^^^^ p^^^ ^^le femoral, about one and a half or two inches below the crural arch, and runs down behind the femoral till it reaches the tendon of the adductor longus; here the profunda passes behind the adductor, and is finally lost in the hamstring muscles. In most subjects, the profunda, for a short distance after its origin, lies rather on the outer side of the femoral and on a deeper plane, over the psoas muscle : in this situation it might be mistaken for the femoral itself,—indeed, such an error has actually occurred in practice. It soon, however, gets behind the femoral, but is never in actual contact with it, for the two arteries are separated by their corresponding veins.* The brancheis of the profunda generally arise in the following order :—1, the internal circumflex; 2, the external circumflex ; 3, the perforating. The internal cireumflex sinks deep into the thigh between the psoas and pectineus. Here you lose it; but you will find it again in the dissection of the back of the thigh, between the adductor magnus and the quadratus femoris.. It supplies branches to the muscles in its neighbourhood, — namely, to the pectineus, psoas, the adductors, and the quadratus femoris: and inosculates with the obturator and ischiatic arteries, as shown in the diagram, p. 437. It also sends branches to the hip-joint, and sometimes the one which runs through the notch in the acetabulum to the Uga- mentum teres. The external circumflex runs transversely outwards beneath the sartorius and rectus, and subdivides into three sets of branches, — « ascending," " transverse," and " descending." The ascending run up to the outer side of the ilium, beneath the tensor fascioe and glutajus medius, supply these muscles, and inosculate with the terminal branches of the glutseal artery. The transverse are chiefly * The point at which the profunda is given oflP below the crui-al ardi varies very much even in the two limbs of the same body. We have measured it in 19 bodies, or 38 femoral arteries. It varied from ^ to 3 inches. In 22 cases the proftinda came off between If and 2 inches; in 9 this distance was exceeded; in 7 this di,stauce was less.