CALF OF THE LEG. 460 one incli and a half above the heel; here, therefore, it can be most conveniently and safely divided for the relief of club-foot. There is no risk of injuring the deeper-seated parts, because they are separated from the tendon by a quantity of fat. Its precise inser- tion is into the under and back part of the os calcis. Observe that the tendon previously expands a little, and that between it and the bone there is a bursa of considerable size. The action of the gastrocnemius and soleus is to raise the body on the toes. Since the gastrocnemius passes over two joints, it has the power (like the rectus), of extending the one while it bends the other, and it is, therefore, admirably adapted to the purpose of walking. For instance, by first extending the foot it raises the body, and then, by bending the knee, it transmits the weight from one leg to thp other. Supposing the fixed point to be at the heel, the gastrocnemius is also concerned in keeping the body erect, for it keeps the tibia and fibula perpendicular on the foot, and thus counteracts the tendency of the body to fall forwards. The tendo Achillis in raising the body on tiptoe, acts with great power and under the best lever- age ; for it acts upon a lever of the first order. The fulcrum (which is a ' movable one), is at the ankle-joint F, fig. 102 ; the weight, W, is at the toes ; the power is at the heel, p. All the conditions are those of a lever of the first order. The power and the weight act in the same direction on opposite sides of the fulcrum. The pressure upon the fulcrum is equal to the sum of the pressures applied: -i. e. P x F + w x F. After passing through the opening in the tendon of the adductor magnus, the main artery of the lower limb takes the name of " popliteal." It then descends nearly perpendicularly behind the knee- joint, between the origins of the gastrocnemius, as far as the lower border of the popliteus, where it divides into the anterior and Fig. 102. CotlESE AND EELATIONS OP THE POPLITEAL ABTEEY.