191 LIGAMENTS OF THE SPINE. the Test, are described by some anatomists as sepai'ate ligaments, imder the name of supraspinous. Their use is to limit the flexion of the spine. These are called, on account of their colour, ligamenta between" ^ suhflciva.—To obtain a good view of them, we ought to the arches remove the arches of the vertebrae with a saw. We then 01 the Ter- tebra. see that they extend from the arch of one vertebra to that of the next, filling up the intervals between them. Their strength increases with the size of the vertebrte. But the chief peculiarity about them is that they are exceedingly elastic. This elasticity answers a double pm-pose: it not only permits the spine to bend forwards, but materially assists in restoring it to its curve of rest They economise muscular force, like the ligamen- tum nuchas in animals. Posterior ^^^^ extends longitudinally in a similar manner to U ament anterior common ligament, along the posterior sur- ^^^^"^ • face of the bodies of the vertebrse, from the occiput to the sacrum. Interverte- This substance is by far the strongest bond of connexion cartnage°" ^^^'^^'^^ vertebrae, and fulfils most important pur- poses in the mechanism of the spine. Its peculiar structure is adapted to break shocks, and to render the spine flexible and resilient. The best way to see the structure of an intervertebral fibro-cartilage is to make a horizontal section throuo-h one of them : say in the lumbar region. We then observe that°it IS firm and resisting near the circumference, but soft and pulpy towards the centre. The circumferential portion is composed of concentric layers of fibro-cartilage, placed vertically. These layers are attached by their edges to the vertebrae; they gradually de- crease m number from the circumference towards the- centre and the mterstices between- them are filled by the soft pulpy tissue The central portion is composed almost entirely of this pulpy tissue • and It bulges when no longer under pressure. Practically it comes to' this ; the bodies of the vertebra,, in their motions upon each other revolve upon a baU of fluid tightly girt all round by bands o^ fibrous tissue. These motions are regulated by the articula processes.