340 MALE PERINEUM. called the long ^pudendal nerve (p. 342). It comes through the muscular fascia of the thigh a little above the tuber ischii, and ascends, dividing into filaments, which supply the skin of the peri- neum and scrotum. As we remove the fat from the ischio-rectal fossa, we observe that a number of vessels and nerves run through it in a transverse du-ection from the ramus of the ischium towards the anus. These are the external or inferior hcemorrhoidal, and proceed from the pudic, which may be felt on the inner side of the ischium. They sometimes bleed freely in layiilg open a fistula. When the subcutaneous structure is fairly cleared ofi, or mSculL we come to the fascia which invests the muscles of the wrof the perineum, and is, in every sense, analogous to muscular pei-ineum. ^^^^^ p^^^^^ Only covers the muscles collectively, but provides each with a distinct sheath. At the same time it is much less dense, though more elastic than the strong fascia, - say, for instance, of the limbs: there is, indeed, so much resemblance between it and the deeper strata of the subcutaneous tissue, that you will hardly recognise any distinct demarcation be- tween them. Now what are its connections? 1, It is attacliea on either side to the anterior lip of the rami of the pubes and ischium: 2, traced forwards it is found to be directly continuous with the tunica dartos of the scrotum; 3, traced backwards, we find that, at the base of the urethral triangle, it is reflected beneath the tran^versus perinei muscle, and joins the " deep perineal fascia " or " triangular ligament." This connection explain why, then uxine is effSsed info the perineum, it does not make its way into the ischio-rectal fossa. Remove the tacia in order to see the nimcles which over he bulb of the urethra and the crura of the penis The bulb of the urethra lies in the middle of the perinemn, and is covered by a strtrmuscle. called the accelerator urin«. The crura penis are Sed, one'to ea.h side of the pubic arch, and - -0-^ -=^ ■ by a muscle, called the erector penis. A namj slip o muscle cdled the transversus perinei, extends on either side from tte tube ischii to the central tendmous point of the permcum. This pomt