CONTENTS OJT FEMALE PELVIS. 385 Pelvic fascia. ^° description of the fascia already given in the dissection of the male pelvis (p. 351), nothing need here be added except that from the side of the pelvis it is reflected over the side of the vagina and the uterus as well as the bladder. It is this fascia which in great measure supports and slings up the uterus in its proper level in the pelvis. Of its efficacy in this respect any one may be convinced by trying to pull down the uterus through the vagina. When, from any cause, the fascia becomes relaxed, there is consequently a greater liability to " pro- lapsus uteri." Levator ani. For the description of this muscle see p, 360. Bladder female bladder is broader transversely, and, upon the whole, more capacious than the male. The vesical plexus of veins, as might be expected, is not so large, and there is no prostate gland. But the short urethra has a constrictor muscle, as in the male, and is supported in a similar manner by the pelvic fascia. Venous Though the veins round the neck of the bladder are P^^s abo.t comparatively small in the female, attention will be im- mediately attracted by the plexus of large veins which surround the vagina and the rectum. They seem out of all pro- portion to the size of the arteries. Their congestion in preo-nancy sufficiently accounts for the dark colour of the vagina and the ex- ternal organs, and the frequent occurrence of hemorrhoidal tumors * It is necessary to remove these veins, with the cellular tissue in which they are imbedded, before a clear view of the parts can be obtained. TTrethxa. Urethra we have already spoken at p. 379. But _ in the side view of the parts we have the opportunity of observmg how closely the bladder and urethra are connected to the iipper wall of the vagina, and we can have no difficulty in under- standing why in cases of .protracted delivery, it sometimes happens * During pregnancy, varicose tumors may form evon it, fl,„ ^„ • t , Mod Zoitung, 1840, No. 11, a case is related "a woman I TL T ^"'I" bled to death from the biirstinn-nf n 1.„.„„ „ • • ^^°> 'i* "lo sixth mouth, are related by Siebold' ' ^ther cases of the land c c