MALE PERINEUM. 348 of its membranous part. To obtain the best perineal view of the muscle, cut through the spongy part of the urethra about three inches above the end of the bulb, and dissect it from the corpus cavernosum penis. Thus, the upper fibres of the constrictor will be exposed; to see the lower, it is only necessary to raise the bulb. The most perfect view, however, of the muscle is obtained by making a transverse section through the rami of the pubes, so as to get at the muscle from above, as shown in fig. 74. We find that it forms a complete muscular covering for the urethra between the prostate and the bulb. It is chiefly through its agency that we are enabled to retain the urine. It is also this muscle which causes spasmodic stricture of the urethra. These glands are imbedded, one on either side, imme- glands. diately behind the bulb, in the substance of the com- pressor urethrae.* Each consists of a cluster of little glands. Their collective size is about that of a pea, but it varies in diffe- rent individuals. From each a slender duct runs forwards, and, after a course of about one inch, opens into the under surface of the spongy part of the urethra (p. 351). Their use is to furnish a secretion accessory to the function of generation. Pudic axtery "^^^ pudic artery is a branch of the internal iliac, and its It leaves the pelvis through the great ischiatic notch, branches. crosses the spine of the ischium, re-enters the pelvis through the lesser ischiatic notch, and then runs along the inner side of the tuber ischii up towards the pubic arch. About an inch and a half above the tuber ischii, we can feel the trunk of the pudic artery; but we cannot see it, nor draw it out, for it is securely lodged in a fibrous canal. As we trace it upwards, we find that it nms behind the triangular ligament and divides into three prin- cipal branches; the artery of the bulb, the artery of the crus, and the dorsal artery of the penis (fig. 73). Its external hsemor- * The compressor uretlirse w&s first accurately described and delineated by Santorini (septemdec. tabulae), and afterwards by Miiller in his monograph (Ueber die organ. Nerv. der mannlich. Geschlechtsorgane), and by Guthrie in his work on the anatomy and diseases of the neck of the bladder. These authors agree in essentials respecting the muscle, though they differ in minor points.