DISSECTION or THE ORBIT. 163 M 2 All the muscles of the orbit, except the inferior oblique, arise from the margin of the foramen opticum, and pass forwards, like ribands, to their insertions. Levator '^^^^ muscle arises from the roof of the orbit, imme- palpebL. diately in front of the optic foramen. It gradually increases in breadth, and terminates in a thin aponeu- rosis, which is inserted into the upper surface of the tarsal cartilage beneath the palpebral ligament. It is constantly in action when the eyes are open, in order to counteract the tendency of the lids to fall. As sleep approaches, the muscle relaxes, the eyes feel heavy, and the lids close. ObU uus "^^^^ muscle arises from the inner side of the foramen supenor opticum. It runs along the inner side of the orbit, and terminates in a round tendon, which passes through a cartilaginous pulley attached to the roof of the orbit. From this pulley the tendon is reflected outwards and backwards to the globe of the eye. It graduaUy expands, and is inserted into the outer and back part of the sclerotica, between the external and superior recti. The pulley is Kned by a synovial membrane which is con- tinued upon the tendon. The action of this muscle is to roll the eye on its own axis. The frontal nerve and levator palpebrge should now be reflected to expose the superior rectus muscle. Eecti ^^^^^ muscles have a tendinous origin round the muscles. foramen opticum, so that collectively they embrace the optic nerve. They diverge from each other, one above one below, and one on either side of the optic nerve; and are' named, accordingly, rectus superior, inferior, externus, and internus Their broad thin tendons are inserted into the opposite sides of the sclerotic coat of the eye, about a quarter of an inch from the margin of the cornea (fig. 36). The extervnl rectus not only arises from the circumference of the optic foramen, but has another origin from the inner maroin of the sphenoid fissure. Between these origins pass the thld nerve, the nasal branch of the fifth, the sixth, and the ophthalmic