DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 508 wliich covers the fourth ventricle. This layer is called the valve of Vieussens. The fourth nerve arises from it by several filaments. Iter a tcrtio third ventricle is connected with the fourth by ad quartum means of a canal large enough to admit a probe, ^ ■ which runs backwards beneath the posterior commissure and the corpora quadrigemina (p. 498). This passage together with the third and fourth ventricle, are persistent parts of the central canal, which, in early foetal life, extended all down the back of the spinal cord. This cavity is situated between the cerebellum and the Fom-tli posterior part of the mediilla oblongata, and pons Varolii. ventricle. i Jr & ' x- It is only a dilated portion of the primordial canal alluded to in the last paragraph. To obtain a perfect view of its boundaries you should mal^e a vertical section as in diagram p. 498. It appears triangular: its boundaries are as follow: — The front or base is formed by the medulla oblongata and pons Varolii; the upper wall by the valve of Vieussens; the posterior wall by the cerebellum itself, and the continuation of the arachnoid membrane on to the back of the spinal cord. The pia mater is prolonged for a short distance into the lower part of the cavity, and forms the " choroid plexus of the fom-th ventricle." * On the anterior wall of the fourth ventricle, — that is. Calamus ^j^g back of the medulla oblongata and pons,— are scnptorius. ° '■ several objects to be noticed (p. 514). 1. A median furrow, the remains of the primitive axis canal. 2. From the lower part of the furrow two white cords (the restiform columns or infe- rior crura cerebelli) pass off from the medulla oblongata, diverging like the branches of the letter V, and enter the lateral lobes of the cerebellum. The divergence of these cords with the median furrow was called by the old anatomists the " calamus scriptonus." 3. The floor of the fourth ventricle is covered by grey matter, which is nothing more than the grey substance of the medulla exposed by * Tiedemann proposes to call the fourth ventricle the first; because, in the foetus, it is formed sooner than any of the others; because it exists in all vertebrated animals, whereas the lateral ventricles are absent in all osseous fishes ; and because the ventricle of the septum hicidum is absent in all fishes, in reptiles, and in birds.