350 SIDE VIEW or the pelvic viscera. boundaries. Externally, it is bounded by the tuber ischii and obturator internus muscle; internally, by the rectum and levator ani; posteriorly, by the gluteus maximus; anteriorly, by the transversus perinei. The fossa is crossed by the external hsemor- rhoidal vessels and nerves. These deep recesses on each side of the rectum explain the great size which abscesses in this situation may attain. The matter can be felt only through the rectum. Nothing can be seen outside. Perhaps nothing more than a little hardness can be felt by the side of the anus. These abscesses should be opened early; else they form a large cavity and possibly may burst into the rectum. ANATOMY 'OF THE SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. To make a side view of the pelvic viscera, the left innominate bone should be removed in the following manner: — Detach the peritoneum and the levator ani from the left side of the pelvis; saw through the pubes about two inches from the symphysis, and cut through the sacro-iliac symphysis; then, by drawing the legs apart, and cutting through the pyriformis, sacro-ischiatic ligaments, and ischiatic nerves, the innominate bone comes away easily. This done, the rectum should be distended with horse-hair, and the bladder blown up through the ureter. A staff should be passed through the urethra into the bladder. You have already seen how the peritoneum passes from the front of the rectum to the lower, part of the bladder (forming the recto- vesical pouch), and thence over the back of the bladder to the wall of the abdomen. You see where the distended bladder is bare of peritoneum, and that it can be tapped either through the rectum or above the pubes without injury to the serous membrane, as shown by the arrows , in fig. 75. ■p.. y The peritoneal connections of the bladder are called mil ofthe its false ligaments ; false in contradistinction to the true, which are formed by the fascia of the pelvis, and really do fasten the neck of the bladder in its proper position.