SUBMAXILLARY REGION. 23 c 4 Saliva, collected in the dilated portion, is sometimes spirted to a considerable distance out of the narrow orifice, in consequence of the sudden contraction of the neighboming muscles. An abnormal dilatation of the submaxillary duct is called a "ranula." It makes a tumor with semi-transparent walls, per- ceptible beneath the tongue. In some cases, however, what appears to be a " ranula" is in reality a cyst formed in the loose areolar tissue under the tongue, or an enlargement of one of the small bursas which are normally placed here. The facial vein does not accompany the facial artery. Facial leaves the face at the anterior edge of the masseter m., vein. ° . and then nms over the submaxillary gland, the digastncus and stylo-hyoideus and the carotid artery, to join the internal jugular. This is the rule, — but there are frequent exceptions. The principal point to remember is, that the vein runs superficial to the gland, and that we must be cautious in opening abscesses under the jaw. The facial artery is the third branch of the external Steiy carotid. It runs tortuously under the hypoglossal nerve, the posterior belly of the digastricus and stylo-hyoideus, and underneath or through the substance of the submaxillary gland to the face, where it appears at the anterior border of the masseter. Below the jaw the facial gives off the four following branches : — 1. The ascending palatine runs up between the stylo-glossus and the stylo- pharyngeus m. to the soft palate and tonsils, and inosculates with the descending palatine, a branch of the internal maxillary. 2. The tonsillar runs up between the internal pterygoid and the stylo-glossus m, to the tonsil. 3. Glandular branches to the submaxillary gland. 4. The submental runs forwards upon the mylo-hyoideus m., turns over the chin, and inoscidates with the terminal branches of the inferior dental. It supplies the mylo-hyoideus, the anterior belly of the digastricus, and the sublingual absorbent glands. Mylo- Look for the mylo-hyoidean nerve near the submental hyoidean artery. The nerve comes from the inferior dental nerve. (before its entrance into the dental foramen), and running along a groove on the inner side of the jaw, advances between the