STKUCTUKE OF TIIJD LUNGS. 125 On the outer surface of the membranous part of the glauds^*^ trachea and bronchi are small glands, of which the minute excretory ducts open into the tube. In health, their secretion is clear, not tenacious, and just sufl&cient to lubricate the air-passages. In bronchitis, they are the sources of the abun- dant viscid expectoration. After removing the glands and the fibrous membrane fibre! ^ hack of the trachea, we expose a thin stratum of non-striped muscular fibres, which extend transversely between the cartilages. By their contraction, they approximate the ends of the c^^rtilages, and diminish the calibre of the tube. The mucous membrane lining the air-passages is a continuation from that of the larynx. Its colom- in the natm-al state is nearly white, but in catarrhal affections it becomes bright red, in conse- quence of accumulation of blood in the capillary vessels. Its surface is lined by a layer of epithelium of the ciliated kind, of which the vibratile movement is directed in such a way as to favom- the expectoration of the mucus. The mucous membrane ceases at the commencement of the air-cells: in them there is no ciliated epithelium. The surface of the healthy lung is mapped out by Lobviles of r • J. T 1 . , . , the lung. ^^^^^ White Imes, which circumscribe spaces of various form and size. These spaces indicate the lobules of the lung. Each lobule is a lung in miniature. \\Tioever understands the structure of a single lobule, understands the structure of the entire lung. The lobules are connected by fine areolar tissue, caUed "interlobular," which is everywhere soft and elastic to allow the free expansion of the organ. The ceUs of this tissue have no communication with the air-vesicles unless the latter be ruptm-ed by excessive straining, and then this intermediate tissue becomes inflated with air, and gives rise to "interlobular emphysema." When infiltrated with serum it constitutes "anasarca" of the lungs. _ Each lobule receives a small bronchial tube, which subdivides into smaller branches. Thus reduced in size, the walls of the tubes no longer present traces of cartilaginous tissue, but are composed