GLUTEAL REGION. 447 I have often seen a large bursa between the cushion and the bone. These are derived from several sources. Some de- Cutaneous g^end over the crest of the ilium, near the origin of the nerves. " erector spinas; they are the posterior divisions of the first and second lumbar nerves. Over the middle of the crest comes the lateral branch of the twelfth dorsal nerve, and often a smaller one from the fii-st lumbar. Other cutaneous nerves come up from below; they are branches of the lesser ischiatic, and proceed from beneath the lower border of the gluteus maximus. Lastly, the skin of the sacrum and coccyx is supplied by the posterior branches of the sacral nerves. Three powerful muscles are situated on the buttock, l^^^r^'^t^ one above the other, named, according to their relative size, the glutaeus maximus, medius, and minimus. -This is the largest muscle in the body. Its great Gluteus size is characteristic of man, in reference to his erect ui ttxiin.li s. position. Its texture is thick and coarse. It arises from the posterior fifth of the crest of the ilium, from the lower part of the sacrum, the coccyx, and the great sacro-ischiatic liga- ment. The fibres descend obliquely forwards, and are inserted thus: — the anterior two-thirds terminate on a strong broad tendon which plays over the great trochanter, and joins the aponeurosis on the outside of the thigh (p. 425) ; the remaining third is inserted into the femur, along the ridge leading from the linea aspera to the great trochanter. This muscle extends the thigh bone upon the pelvis, and is therefore one of those most concerned in raising the body from the sitting to the erect position, and in maintaining it erect. It also propels the body — in walking, running or leaping. It is well supplied with blood by the gluteal and ischiatic arteries; with nerves by the lesser ischiatic. What is seen . "^'l® glutteus maximus should be reflected from beneatli the its Origin, The best way to do so is to beo-in at the gluteus maxi- fro^t ^^^.^^^^ ^^-^-^^ overlaps the gluteus medius. This dissection is difficult, and he who undertakes