CAVERNOUS SINUS. 157 The sixth passes through the dura mater behind the body of the sphenoid bone. The seventh, consisting of the facial and auditory nerves, passes through the meatus auditorius internus. The eighth, consisting of th.e glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric, and spinal accessory, passes through the foramen jugulare. These three divisions do not all pass through the same tube of dura mater. The glosso-pharyngeal has a separate tube anterior to the other two, which have a common one. The ninth, or hypo-glossal nerve, passes through the anterior condyloid foramen. On the inside of the skull, between the dura mater and the bones, observe the ramifications of the arteria meningea media., with its two veins. This artery, a branch of the internal maxillary (p. 69), enters the skull through the foramen spinosum, and divides into two principal branches; one runs in a groove along the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone; the other curves backwards over the temporal bone, and subsequently ramifies on the parietal. It supplies the dura mater and the bones. The position of these arteries renders them liable to be injured in fractures of the skull. As a result of their injury, extravasation of blood may take place between the dura mater and the bones, and cause compression of the brain. We must now examine the cavernous sinus, and the nerves which course through its walls to the orbit; namely, the third, the fourth, the first division of the fifth, and the sixth. CaTemous . ^""^ peculiarities of the cerebral sinus. circulation is, that the returning blood flows through fibrous canals formed by the dura mater, called "sinuses.-" The general anatomy, the course, and names of these canals will be considered with the anatomy of the brain. But the cavernous sinus, for reasons which will appear presently, should be examined immediately before the dissection of the orbit This sinus, then (fig. 33), lies by the side of the body of the sphenoid bone. In front it receives the ophthalmic vein which comes through the sphenoidal fissure; behind, the superior and inferior petrosal