53 STKUCTUKE Or THE EYELIDS. E 3 The orbicularis palpeb7'arum has been already described (p. 51). It is supplied mth nerves by the facial. The levator palpebrce arises from the back of the orbit, gradually becomes broader, and terminates in a thin aponeurosis, which unites with the broad tarsal ligament, and is lost on the outer surface of the tarsal cai-tilage. These are plates of fibro-cartilage which support and tUages. ' S^'^^ figure to the eyelids. There is one for each lid, and they are connected at the angles (commissures or canthi) of the lids through the medium 6f fibrous tissue. One can best examine them by everting the lids. Each cartilage resembles its lid in form. The upper is the larger of the two, is broad in the middle, and gradually becomes narrower at either end. The lower -is nearly of uniform breadth throughout. Both are thicker on the nasal than the temporal side. They are connected to the margin of the orbit, and maintained in position by the tendo oculi, and by what are called the broad tarsal ligaments: these ligaments are continuations from the periosteum of the orbit to the tarsal cartilages. There are two of them, termed upper and lower, and proceeding to each cartilage respectively. When an abscess forms, which is not uncommon after erysipelas, in the areolar tissue of the lids, these ligaments prevent the matter from making its way into the orbit. The ciHary margin is the thickest part of the tarsal cartilages. It is generally stated that the inner edge of each is sloped or beveled off; and that, consequently, when the lids are closed, there is formed, with the globe of the eye, a triangular channel. This channel is said to conduct the tears to the puncta lacrymalia. According to my observation, this triangular channel does not exist: for when the lids are closed, their margins are in such accurate apposition, that not the slightest interstice can be discovered between them. The pimcta lacrymalia are two pin-holes apertures, easily dis- covered at the inner angles of the lids. They are the orifices of the canals which convey the tears to the lachrymal sac. Observe that their orifices are directed backwards. In the introduction of probes for the purpose of opening the con^