406 STRUCTURE OF THE STOMACH. margin, or the lesser curve; of the lower margin, or the greater curve ; of the anterior and the posterior surface. Of the muscular coat of the stomach, some fibres take a longi- tudinal, others a circular direction; a few only are oblique. The longitudinal fibres are the most superficial; they are continuous with the longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus, and spread out over the stomach. The circular come next: they are well marked about the middle of the stomach, but most abundant at the pylorus where they form a powerful sphincter muscle. The oblique fibres are nearest the mucous membrane : they are scattered over the sides of the stomach. Examined with the high powers of a micro- scope, we find that they all belong to the involuntary or non-striped variety. The same observation applies to the muscular coat of the intestines generalj^y. When the stomach is laid open, observe that the mucous mem- brane is of a pale colour, and gathered into longitudinal folds; these disappear when the stomach is full. If a piece of the membrane be cut away, you see beneath it a distinct stratum of fibro-cellular tissue, sometimes called the " submucous coat." The object of it is to permit the muscular and mucous coats to move freely on each other, and to serve as a bed, in which the blood- vessels ramify minutely before they enter the mucous membrane. This observation applies not only to the mucous membrane of the stomach, but to that of the alimentary canal generally. What is the apparatus for the secretion of the gastric juice ? If a portion of well-injected mucous membrane, taken from the stomach of any mammalian animal, be examined with one of the low powers of a microscope, you observe that the capillary blood-vessels present an hexagonal arrangement, and that they map the surface into little pits, giving it rather a honeycomb appearance. The pits are, on an average, ^Q-th part of an inch in diameter. At the bottom of them you see a number of minute pores. These are the orifices of the gastric tubes. In a perpendicular section, we find that the tubes are arranged in parallel bundles at right angles to the surface, and that they terminate in blind sacculated ends set in the submucous tissue. The entire thickness of the mucous