378 FEMALE PERINEUM. the dorsal vein of the penis with wax. In this way we not only fill the spongy body, but also the glans and the large veins which form the plexus rovind the corona glandis.* The cUei nerves of the penis are the pudic. The largest branches run along the dorsum to the outside of the glans: a few only enter the erectile tissue of the organ. This, it has already been men- tioned (p. 365), is supplied by filaments of the sympathetic nerve proceeding from the hypogastric plexus. The absorbent vessels proceeding from the glans and the in- tegument of the penis join the inguinal glands. The absorbents of°the glans communicate freely all round it: this explains why a venereal sore on one side, sometimes affects the inguinal glands on the other. THE DISSECTION OF THE FEMALE PERINEIBI. The pudenda in the female consist of folds of the integu- ment, called the labia. Between these is a longitudinal fissure which leads to the orifices of the urinary and genital canals. The pubic region is generally covered by an accumu- ^'^^^^ lation of fat, called the mons Veneris. From this, two thick folds of skin descend, one on either side, consti- tuting the " labia majora." Their junction, about one inch above the anus, is called the commissure, or "fremilmn labiorum : ' it is generally torn in the first labour. The inner layer of the skin of the labium is thinner, softer, and more like mucous membrane than the outer: for this reason, whenever matter forms m the labium, the abscess is almost sm-e to burst on the imier side, mere the labia are in contact, they are provided with a number of small sebaceous glands, of which the minute ducts are observable on the surface. These glands sometimes inflame and secrete an acrid, purulent matter which creates great irritation and pruritus of the mucous surface of the vulva, often difficult to allay. * In the Museum of the Eoyal CoUege of Sux-geons there is a beautify pr^^atk-n in which the glans penis is injeeted with quicksilver, cleai-ly showing it to consist of a plexus of veins. —Physiol. Series, No. 2588 A.