257 TKICEPS. the teres major, and in front by the long head of the triceps (p. 210). Having reached the dorsum of the scapula, it ascends, close to the bone, and anastomoses with the supra-scapular artery. The frequent communications about the scapula, between the branches of the subclavian and axillary arteries, would furnish a free current of blood to the arm if the subclavian were tied above the clavicle. (See fig. 7, p. 45.) Triceps ex- This muscle, which was only partially seen in the dis- Subiti section of the upper arm (p. 210), should now be more fully examined. The long head arises immediately below the glenoid cavity of the scapula, by a strong tendon which is connected with the capsule of the shoulder-joint. The second or external head anses from the posterior part of the humerus, below the insertion of the teres minor; the third or internal head arises from the posterior part of the humerus below the teres major. The precise origin of these heads from the hu- merus may be ascertained by following the superior profunda artery and musculo-spiral nerve, which intervene between them. The three portions of the muscle terminate upon a broad tendon, which covers the back of the elbow-joint, and is inserted into the summit and sides of the olecranon; it is also connected with the fascia on the back of the fore-arm. The reason of this connection is, that the same muscle which extends the fore-arm may at the same time tighten the fascia which gives origin to the extensors of the wrist and fingers. This is just what we observed in the case of the biceps, and its semilunar expansion in the fascia of the forearm. Between the tendon and olecranon is placed a bursa, commonly of small size, but sometimes so large as to extend upwards behind the capsule of the joint. You must not confound this bursa with that which is always found between the skin and the olecranon, and is so often injured by a fall on the elbow. By dividing the triceps transversely a little above . the elbow and turning down the lower portion, it will be observed that some of the muscular fibres terminate upon the capsule of the joint They have been described by some anatomists as a distinct muscle imder the name of - subanconeus their use is to draw up the c'apsule