89 ARCn OF THE AORTA. sternum, about the level of the third intercostal space. It ascends forwards and to the right as high as the first intercostal space on the right side; it then curves backwards towards the left side of the body of the second dorsal vertebra, and turning downwards over the thii-d, completes the arch. The direction of the arch, therefore, is from the sternum to the spine, and rather oblique from the right towards the left side. For convenience of description, we divide it into an ascending, a transverse, and a descending portion. Ascending portion. — To see this portion of the acJrta you must open the pericai-dium. You then observe that this part of the artery is covered all round by the serous layer of the pericardium, except where it is in contact with the pulmonary artery. Now what are its relations ? Its commencement is covered by the pulmonary artery, and overlapped by the appendix of the right auricle. On its right side, but on a posterior plane, descends the superior vena cava; on its left is the division of the pulmonary artery; behind it is part of the auricle, the right pulmonary artery, and the right bronchus. Transverse portion. — This portion of the aorta crosses in front of the trachea a little above its bifurcation. Near its summit runs the left vena innominata; within its concavity are the left bronchus, the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery, and the remains of the ductus arteriosus. The transverse part of the arch is crossed by the left phrenic and the left pneumo-gastric nerves; and the recurrent branch of the left pneumo-gastric ascends behind it to the larynx. ^ Descending portion. — This part of the arch lies upon the left side of the body of the third dorsal vertebra. On its right side are the oesophagus and thoracic duct; on its left is the pleiu-a. What parts are contained within the arch of the aorta?—The left bronchus, the right pulmonary artery, the left recurrent nerve the remains of the ductus arteriosus, and the great cardiac ganglion. The arch of the aorta presents partial dilatations in certain situations. One of these, called the sinus or bulge of the aorta, is observed on the right side of the arch about the junction of he