16 THYROID BODY. where the ticachea is free; this space therefore is the more prefer- able situation for tracheotomy. But the vertical measurement of this isthmus is sometimes of very considerable length. I have seen it covering the trachea almost down to the sternum.* The thyroid body is closely connected, by fibrous tissue, to the sides of the trachea and cricoid cartilage. This explains why it rises and falls with the larynx in deglutition. Taken as a whole, the thyroid varies in size in different indi- viduals and at different periods of life. It is relatively larger in the child than the adult, in the female than the male. In old age it diminishes in size, becomes firmer, and occasionally contains earthy matter. But by far the most notable considerations in respect to the thyroid body are the number, the large size, and the free inoscula- tions of its blood-vessels. In fact, it appears to be composed of a tissue of arteries and veins. The superior thyroid arteries come from the external carotid and enter the front surface of the apex of each lobe; the inferior thyroid come from the subclavian, and enter the under surface of the base. An artery, called the middle thyroid, is observed in some subjects; it comes from the arteria innominata, or the arch of the aorta, and ascends directly in front of the trachea to the isthmus. Its veins are equally large, and form a plexus upon it. The superior and inferior thyroid veins cross the common carotid, and open into the internal jugular. The middle thyi-oid veins.descend over the front of the trachea, communicate freely with each other, * From the upper part of the istlimiis, or from the adjacent border of either lobe, most commonly the left, a conical prolongation of the thyroid body, called " the pyramid," fi-equently ascends in front of the crico-thyroid membrane, as high as the " pomnm Adami," and is connected to the body of the os-hyoides by flbrons tissue. In some subjects we may observe a few muscular fibres passing ft-om the os-hyoide3 to the pyramid. This constitutes the "levator glandule thyroidea;" (see preparation in Museimi of St. Earth. Hosp., Patholog. Series, No. 14,) of some anatomists. There are instances in which the pyramid is double ; and lastly, I have seen a considerable portion of this thyroid substance lying over the crico-thj-roid membrane, completely isolated from the rest of the organ. These vai-ieties deserve the notice of the surgeon, because any one portion of this structui-c may become enlarged independent of the rest, and occasion a bronchocele.