PNEUMOGASTRIC NEUVE. 79 between the olive and the restiform tract. It passes out of the skull with the nervus accessorius through the foramen jugulare. Very soon a ganglion is observed in its substance analogous to the posterior or sensitive roots of all the spinal nerves, and it is joined by a branch from its companion the nervus accessorius. Thus, the pneumogastric, probably only sensitive at its origin, becomes in consequence of this reinforcement from the nervus accessorius a compoimd nerve, and in all respects analogous to a spinal nerve. Leaving the skull, then, at the foramen jugulare, the nerve descends in front of the cervical vertebra, lying successively upon the rectus capitis anticus major and the longus colli muscles. In the upper part of the neck it is situated behind the internal carotid artery; in the lower, between and behind the common carotid and the internal jugular vein. It enters the chest, on the right side crossing in front of the subclavian artery nearly at a right angle ; on the left running nearly parallel with it. In their course thi-ough the chest, the pneumogastric nerves have not similar relations. The right nerve descends by the side of the trachea and then behind the right bronchus to the posterior part of the oesophagus. The left nerve crosses in froAt of the arch of the aorta, and then passes behind the left bronchus to the anterior part of the oesophagus. Both nerves accompany the oesophagus into the abdomen, and are eventually distributed to the stomach. In their long course from the medulla oblongata to the abdomen, the pneumogastric nerves supply branches to most important organs : namely, to the pharynx, the larynx, the heart, the lungs, the oesophagus, and the stomach. Within the foramen jugulare, a small ganglion (Arnold's ganglion) is formed upon the pneumogastric nerve. This ganglion will be described hereafter. But soon after leaving the skull, the pneumo- gastric nerve , sweUs considerably, and forms a second ganglion (inferior gangUon) of a reddish-grey colour. This ganglion occupies a,bout an inch of the nerve. It is united to the hypoglossal nerve, from which it receives filaments. It also receives filaments from the first and second spinal nerves, and from