244 DISSECTION OF THE PALM OE THE IIAKD. and is inserted along the shaft of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Its action is to draw this bone, the most moveable of all the metacarpal bones of the fingers, towards the thumb. Thus it greatly strengthens the grasp of the palm. Now you must cut through all the flexor tendons, and remove the deep fascia of the palm, to see the deep arch of arteries and its branches. The radial artery, enters the palm at the angle radial°ar- between the first and, second metacarpal bones (be- teryinthe tween the inner head of the flexor brevis and the adductor pollicis), and gives ofi" three branches—the arteria magna pollicis, the radialis indicis, and the palmaris pro- funda, which unites with the ulnar to form the deep arch. The arteria magna pollicis runs in front of the abductor indicis (first dorsal interosseous), close along the metacarpal bone of the thumb: in the interval between the lower portions of the flexor brevis pollicis, the artery divides into two branches, which proceed, one on either side of the thumb, and inosculate at the apex of the last phalanx. Their distribution and mode of termination are similar to those of the other digital arteries. The arteria radialis indicis runs along the radial side of the index finger to the extremity, where it forms an arch with the other digital artery, a branch of the ulnar. Near the lower margin of the adductor pollicis, the radialis indicis generally receives a branch from the superficial palmar arch. The palmaris profunda is considered as the continuation of the radial artery. It enters the palm between the inner head of the flexor brevis and the adductor pollicis, runs across the upper ends of the metacarpal bones, and inosculates with the deep branch of the' ■ulnar artery, thus completing the deep palmar arch. From the curve of the arch small branches ascend to supply the bones and joints of the carpus, inosculating with the other carpal arteries. From the convexity of the arch four small branches, called palmar interosseous (p. 235, 1, 2, 3, 4), descend to supply the interosseous muscles, and near the clefts of the fingers communicate wth the digital arteries. These palmar interosseous branches are sometimes