425 FRONT OF THE THIGH. it not only packs them together, but maintains each in its proper position. A knowledge of these sheaths is practically important, because they interfere with the progress of deep-seated matter towards the surface, and cause it to biUTOW in this or that direction according to the part in which it forms. The fascia is not of equal strength all round the thigh. As one Fig. 95. might expect, it is strongest in the most exposed parts; e. g. it is comparatively thin and trans- parent on the inner side, but exceedingly thick and strong all down the outer side : here, indeed, it has the appearance of a dense expanded tendon, strapping down the vastus externus muscle ; and it certainly performs the office of a tendon, for we shall presently see that it gives insertion to two powerful muscles,—namely the tensor fasciae femoris, and the glutaeus maximus (fig. 95). But what are its attachments ? In a general way, it may be said that it is attached to the margin of the bones which constitute the frame- work of the lower extremity. Beginning from above, we could, if the parts were exposed, trace its attachment along the crest of the ilium, thence along the crural arch to the body of the pubes, and so on down the rami of the pubes and ischium. Proceeding down the thigh, we should see that it penetrates, on either side of the limb, to the linea aspera, forming what are called the " intermuscular septa," which separate the extensor from the flexor muscles. Below we trace it all round the knee joint, where it is particularly strong, especially on the outer side, and find that it is attached to the head of the tibia and the fibula. Here let us leave it for the present. The ^lext stage of the dissection consists in removing the muscular fascia from the front of the thigh, without disturbing the muscles from their relative position. The mass of muscles on the inner FASCIA. ON THE OUT- SIDE OF THE THIGH. 1. Tensor fascice femoris. 2. Glutfeus maximus. 3. Lower fibres of ditto. 4. Fascia lata.