MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 188 spinse. The inteimal, by far the larger, proceed towards the spines of the vertebrae ; those of the third, fourth, and fifth between the complexus and the semisplnalis * ; those of the sixth, seventh, and eighth between the semisplnalis and the multifidus spinse: after supplying the muscles they terminate in the skin. The posterior divisions of the spinal nerves in this Dorsal region come out between the transverse processes and region. tendons attached to them. They soon divide into external and internal branches. The external pass obliquely over the levatores costarum, between the sacro-lumbalis and the longis- simus dorsi; and successively increase in size from above down- wards. The upper six terminate in the erector spinse and the levatores costarum ; the rest, after supplying these muscles, pass through the latissimus dorsi, and become the cutaneous nerves of the back. The internal successively decrease in size from above downwards. They run towards the spine between the semisplnalis and the inultifidus spinse. The upper six, after giving branches to the muscles, perforate the trapezius and become cutaneous nerves. The lower ones terminate in the muscles of the vertebral groove. The general arrangement of the nerves in this region Liimbar resembles that of the dorsal. Their external branches region. the multifidus spinse; their internal, after sup- plying the erector spinse, become cutaneous. The posterior divisions of the spinal nerves in this ^■^"^r^^ region are small. They come out of the spinal canal region. foramina in the back of the sacrum. The upper two or three divide into external and internal branches. The imternal terminate in the muscles; the external become cuta- nous. The last two sacral nerves proceed, without dividing, to the integument. . . The coccygeal nerves are exceedingly small, and termmate in the skin.f * The posterior branches of the second, third, and fourth nerves are generally con- nected, beneath the complexus, by branches in the form of loops. This constitutes the posterior cervical plexus of some anatomists. t The branching of the posterior divi.sions of the several spinal nerves has been accurately described by Mr. Ellis, Med. Gazette, Feb. 10th, 1843.