67 TEMPOKAL REGION. This muscle ames from the lower edge of the zygoma, musde'^'^ and is inserted into the outer side of the ramus and coro- noid process of the jaw. The masseter is composed of a superficial and a deep layer of fibres which cross each other like the letter X. The superficial fibres, constituting the principal part of the muscle, arise from the anterior two-thirds of the zygoma by a strong tendon which occupies the front border of the muscle, and sends aponeurotic partitions into its substance. The fibres incline back- wai'ds, and are inserted into the angle and part of the ramus of the jaw. The deep fibres arise from the posterior part of the zygoma, incline forwards, and are inserted into the upper half of the ramus and the coronoid process. Besides these, a few fibres, taking origin from the inner surface of the zygoma, are inserted into the coronoid process and the tendon of the temporal muscle. Its action is to masticate the food : it closes the jaw with great force. The following objects lie upon the masseter: 1. Grlandula socia parotidis, and parotid duct; 2, Transversalis faciei artery; 3. Facial artery and vein ; 4. Branches of the facial nerve. Keflect the masseter from its origin. Observe the dii-ection of the superficial and deep fibres, and the tendinous partitions of which the object is to augment the power of the muscle by increasing its extent of origin. The masseteric nerve and artery enter the under surface of the muscle through the sigmoid notch of the jaw; the artery comes from the internal maxillary, the nerve from the motor division of the inferior maxillary. This is the strong shining membrane which covers the aponeurosis, temporal muscle. It is attached, above, to the temporal ridge, below, to the zygoma. Its chief ixse is to give additional origin to the temporal muscle. It increases in thickness from above downwards, and near the zygoma divides into two layers, which are attached to the outer and inner surfaces of the zygoma. These layers are separated by a small quantity of fat. The density of this aponem-osis explains why abscesses in the temporal fossa rarely point outwards; the matter makes its way beneath the zygoma, into the mouth. Keflect'the aponeurosis from the temporal muscle. Notice that F 2