URETHRA. 373 see how it looks in the different parts of its course. Through the glans it is flattened vertically, its two sides being in contact; through the prostate, also, it is nearly flat, except at the lower part, where its sides are kept asunder by the verumontanum, which projects upwards, leaving a furrow on each side. But throughout the rest of its course the lining membrane is disposed in longitudinal folds, which project into and accurately close the canal, .precisely on the same plan as that by which nature closes the (esophagus, p. 376. These longitudinal folds are plainly seen even when the urethra is sht open; indeed, they do not disappear unless the canal be forcibly stretched contrary to their direction.* If the urethra be laid open from end to end, you will see that the canal is not of uniform calibre throughout. The external orifice is the nan-owest, and the least dilatable part of the urethra; of which the object is that the urine may be expelled in a jet.' Therefore, any instrument which will enter the meatus ought to pass through into the bladder, if there be no stricture. The junc- tion of the membranous with the bulbous part is almost as narrow. The centre of the prostatic and the bulbous part are the largest. In the centre of the glans penis, the canal widens into a little sinus, termed "fossa navicularis." The most dilatable part of the urethra is the prostatic. Even the narrowest parts of the canal must admit of considerable dilata- tion, smce calculi of from 3 to 4 lines in diameter have been known to pass through it. The seminal ducts open into the prostatic part of the urethra by the side of the verumontanum. The ducts of Cowper's o-lands open mto the bulbous part. Besides these glands, a number of ducts open into the urethra, proceeding from Httle glands situated in the submucous tissue. These ducts, called the lacunar, are iust large enough to admit a bristle, and they all run in the same direction as the stream of the urine. Most of them are on the Diooa yesse s, while the furrows between them are exceedingly vascular fl demonatration of this fact the author is indebted to Mr. Quckett ' B B 3