6 CERVICAL FASCIA. keeps them in their proper relative position. A lengthened description of its numerous layers would be not only extremely tedious, but unintelligible, without considerable knowledge of the anatomy of the neck. I propose, therefore, to give only a general outline of the fascia, and to describe, — first, its attachments at the upper part of the neck; secondly, its attachments at the lower part; and lastly, its intermediate attachments. At the upper part of the neck, the cervical fascia is attached along the base of the jaw, and especially to the angle, from which it extends backward to the styloid process and forms what is called the « stylo-maxillary ligament." It is also attached to the mastoid process, and the superior curved line of the occipital bone. At the lower- part of the neck, the fascia presents two clearly defined layers, a superficial and a deep one. The superficial layer is attached to the front of the sternum, and along' the clavicle. The deep layer is attached to the hack of the sternum and along the edge of the first rib: from thence we trace tiiis deep layer under the clavicle along with the axillary vessels and nerves into the axilla. The interval between these two layers is especially manifest immediately above the sternum; here it contains more or less fat and one or two small absorbent glands. The intermediate attachments of the fascia are to the os hyoides, to the transverse and the spinous processes of the cervical vertebrae. A correct knowledge of the attachments of the principal layers of the cervical fascia is essential to a right understanding of the course which pus takes when it forms in the neck. For instance, suppose the pus to be formed at the lower part of the neck. If it be seated immediately under the superficial layer (which is ' attached to the clavicle), it may burrow beneath the clavicle into the axilla. But if it be seated beneath the deep layer (which is attached to the first rib), then it becomes a much more serious affair, since the pus may readily travel through the loose tissue by the side of the pharynx, and make its way into the chest, where it will probably burrow down the anterior or the posterior mediastinum, and produce the most disastrous results by bursting into the trachea or the oesophagus.