METACARPAL JOINTS. 281 finger has also two, proceeding from the os magnum, and the unciform bone. That of the little finger has one only, from the unciform bone. The palmm^ ligaments are arranged nearly upon a similar plan. The metacarpal bone of the forefinger has one, from the trapezoid bone. That of the middle finger has three, proceeding from the trapezium, the os magnum, and the unciform bone. Those of the ring and little fingers have each one, from the unciform bone. Besides the preceding ligaments, there is another of considerable strength, called the interosseous. It arises from the adjacent sides of the OS magnum and the os unciforme, descends vertically, and is fixed into the radial side of the metacarpal bone of the ring finger (fig. 52). This ligament isolates the synovial membrane of the two inner metacarpal bones from the common synovial mem- brane of the carpus. Separate the metacarpal bones from the carpus, and observe the relative form of their contiguous surfaces. The metacarpal bones of the fore and middle fingers are adapted to the carpus in such an angular manner as to be almost immoveable. The metacarpal bone of the ring finger, having a plane articular surface with the unciform bone, admits of more motion. But a still greater degree of motion is permitted between the unciform bone and the meta- carpal bone of the Httle finger ; the articular surfaces of each being slightly concave and convex in opposite directions. The greate? freedom of motion of the metacarpal bone of the little finger is obviously essential to the expansion and contraction of the patm. The carpal extremities of the metacarpal bones of the fingers are connected with each other by transverse ligaments, both on their dorsal and their palmar siurfaces. They are also connected by interosseous ligaments, which extend between the bones, imme- diately below their contiguous cartilaginous surfaces. The digital extremities of these bones are loosely connected on their palmar aspect by the transverse metacarpal ligament. Synoyiai There are six distinct synovial membrlnes, proper to the lower end of the radius, and the several bones of the ■WBIST. carpus: see the diagram (p. 278).