326 RELATIONS OF ABDOMINAL AORTA. and into the front of the transverse processes of the four upper lumbar vertebrJB by as many tendinous slips. In addition to these we commonly find that a few fibres take origin from the transverse processes, and run up to the last rib, crossing the front of the other part of the muscle. The principal use of the muscle is to steady the spine; it also steadies the last rib, and enables it to serve as a fixed point for the action of the intercostal muscles and the diaphragm.* " . . „ By raising the quadratus, we observe the aponeurotic origin ot the transversalis from the summits of the transverse processes: this constitutes the posterior part of its sheath, and separates the muscle from the great erector spinse; Before you examine the course of the aorta and its great primary divisions, do n'ot omit to notice that a chain of absorbent glands extends along the brim of the pelvis and the bodies of the lumbar vertebra, following pretty nearly the course of the great blood- vessels. Generally speaking they are small, and only one here and there attracts observation. They transmit the lymphatics from the lower limbs, the abdominal wall, and the testicle; and all eventually lead to the receptaculum chyli, or the begmmng of he thoracic duct (p. 103). This is usually found on the right of the aorta, close to the second lumbar vertebra. The aorta enters the abdomen between the crura f£tZi of the diaphragm about the last dorsal vertebra, and nal aorta. descends nearly perpendicularly in front ot the spme as low as the fourth lumbar, where it divides rather to the Mt o . the mesial line, into the two common iliac arteries. The point oi tiZ cannoi be specified with precision, because vanes m d f^Brent subjects. But for all practical purposes it is sufficient to "at its division takes place about the level of the highest point of the crest of the ilium. The aorta is crossed m front by the pancreas, the duodenum, and the right renal vem. * The respective attachments of the quadratus himborum, the crossing of "res :r;;Li:::;^«—^^^^^ thit we can cut down to open the lai-ge bowel without wounding the peritoneum.