215 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER ARM. P 4 the head of the humeruSj and down the groove between the two tuberosities. The tendon is retained in the groove by a fibrous bridge derived from the capsule of the joint, and connected with the tendon of the pectoralis major. Divide this bridge and you will see that the synovial membrane of the joint is reflected round the tendon, and accompanies it for about two inches down the groove, thus forming a sort of synovial fold. The object of this is to facilitate the play of the tendon, and to carry little arteries (from the anterior circumflex) for its supply. The two heads imite about the middle of the arm, and form a single muscle, which ter- minates in a strong flat tendon of considerable length; this sinks deep into the triangular space at the bend of the elbow, and, after a slight twist upon itself, is inserted into the posterior part of the tubercle of the radius. The anterior part of the tubercle, over Avhich the tendon plays, is crusted with cartilage, and a bursa mucosa intervenes to prevent friction. The most internal fibres of the muscle are inserted into a strong broad aponeurosis, which is prolonged from the inner border of the tendon to the fascia on the inner side of the forearm. This aponeurosis, called the semi- lunar fascia of the biceps, protects the brachial vessels and the median nerve at the bend of the elbow. The action of the biceps is twofold. 1. It is a flexor of the forearm: 2. It is a supinator of the forearm, 'in consequence of its insertion into the posterior part of the tubercle of the radius. Its power of supination is greatest when the arm is bent, because its tendon forms a right angle with the radius. Why does the lono- tendon pass through the shoulder-joint ? It acts like a strap, and confines the head of the humerus in its proper centre of motion. But for this tendon, the head of the bone, when the deltoid acts would be pulled directly upwards and strike against the under surface of the acromion. When the tendon is ruptm-ed or dislo- cated from its gi-oove a man can move his arm backwards and lorwards, but he cannot raise the smallest weight. The bicens is suppbed with blood by an artery (from the brachial), which runs mto the middle of it, and then divides into ascending id descend mg branches. Its nerve comes from the external cutaneous