334 CONTENTS OF MALE PELVIS. lower limbs, and to give origin to the muscles wliich move them. In adaptation to these functions, the form of the pelvis is that of a perfect arch, with broadly expanded wings at the sides, and pro- jections in appropriate situations to increase the leverage of the muscles. The sacrum, impacted between the iha, represents the key-stone of the arch, and is capable of supporting not only the trunk, but great burdens besides. The sides or pillars are repre- sented by the ilia; these transmit the weight to the heads of the thigh bones, and are thickest and strongest just in that line, i. e. the brim of the pelvis, along which the weight is transmitted. Moreover, to effect the direct transmission of the weight, the plane of the arch is obhque. This obliquity of the pelvis, its hollow expanded sides, its great width, the position and strength of the tuberosities ®f the ischia, are so many proofs that man is adapted to the erect posture. The general conformation of the pelvis in the female is modified, so as to be better adapted to utero-gestation and parturition. Its breadth and capacity are greater than in the male. Its depth is less. The alae of the iliac bones are more expanded. The pro- jection of the sacrum is less perceptible, and consequently the brim is more circular. Above all, the span of the pubic arch is wider. The bones, too, are thinner, and the muscular impressions less strongly marked. The cavity of the pelvis being curved, the axis, or a central line drawn through it, must be curved in proportion. For all practical purposes, it is • sufficient to remember that the axis of the pelvis corresponds with a line drawn from the anus to the umbilicus.* Contents '^^^ male pelvis contains the last part of the intestinal OF THE MALE canal, named the " rectum," the bladder with the pros- tate gland at the neck, and the vesiculse seminales. If PELYIS. * In a well-formed female tlie base of the sacrum is about four inches higher than the upper part of the symphysis pubis, and the point of the coccyx is rather more than half an inch higher than the lower part of the symphysis. The obliquity of the pelvis is greatest in early life. In the fcetus, and in young children, its capacity is small; and the Tiscera, which subsequently belong to it, are situated in the abdomen.