SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 331 Eespecting the general plan upon whicli the sympa- Tic^Bvu" thetic nerve is arranged, refer to what has already been said of it in the dissection of the neck (p. 80). Our present business is with the lumbar portion of it. The abdominal part of the sympathetic nerve descends, on either side, in front of the bodies of the lumbar vertebrje, along the inner border of the psoas. The nerve has a ganglion opposite each lumbar vertebra, so that there are five on each side. Each of these ganglia receives two branches from the corresponding spinal nerve, just as in the chest; and, on the other hand, gives off fila- ments, of which some twine round the aorta, and accompany the inferior mesenteric and spermatic arteries to the large intestine and the testicle; but the greater number terminate in the hypogastric plexus. The hypogastric plexus is situated between the" com- ^exuf^^*^^" ili^c arteries on the last lumbar and first sacral vertebra. It consists of an inextricable interlacement of nerves, partly sympathetic and partly spinal, and is a sort of nerve- centre for the supply of the pelvic viscera, like the solar plexus (round the coeliac axis) is for the abdominal. The minute fila- ments proceeding from it accompany the visceral branches of the internal iliac artery, and supply the bladder, prostate gland, rectum, and, in the female, the uterus and vagina. Thus we have the vesical, heemorrhoidal, uterine, and vaginal plexuses. Of these, however, none are seen in an ordinary dissection. Ltjmbab This plexus is formed by the union of the four upper PLEXUS OF lumbar nerves (fig. 67). It lies over the transverse NEEVES. - ,, processes ol the correspondmg vertebrse, imbedded in the substance of the psoas, so that this muscle must be scraped away before it can be seen. Like the brachial plexus, the nerves com- muscle, whicli I next divided from its connection with Poupart's ligament in the direction of the external wound, for the extent of about two inches. The margins of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles being thus exposed, I introduced my finger beneath them for the protection of the peritoneum, and then divided them Next, ^v-ith my hand, I pushed the peritoneum and its contents upwards and inwards! and took hold of the artery." '