4 CUTANEOUS NERVES OE THE NECK. The size of the anterior jugular vein is inversely proportionate to that of the external jugular. When the external jugular is small, or terminates in the internal jugular, then the anterior jugular becomes an important supplemental vein, and attains considerable size. It is not uncommon to find it a quarter of an inch in diameter, and I have seen it nearly half an inch. These varieties should be remembered in tracheotomy. Suj)eTfiGial absorbent glands are sometimes found near the cutaneous veins of the neck. They are small, and escape observa- tion unless enlarged by disease. One or two are situated over the sterno-mastoid muscle; others about the mesial line. Cutaneous "^^^ cutaueous nerves of the neck are superficial nerves of branfches of the cervical plexus : the plexus itself cannot ^^'^ ' at present be seen. It lies under the sterno-mastoid muscle, close to the transverse processes of the four upper cervical vertebrae, and is formed by the communications of the anterior divisions of the four upper cervical nerves. The cutaneous branches of the plexus emerge beneath the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid, and take different directions. We divide and name them thus: (fig. 1), Cutaneous branches of , the cervical plexus. rAscending branches . . . j Am-ioiJo-pai-otidean. ° I uccipitalis nunor. Transverse branch .... Superficialis colli. / Sternal. Descending branch ... J Clavicular. (.Acromial. The aunculo-parotidean n. comes from the second and thii-d cervical nerves, and ascends obliquely over the sterno-mastoid muscle, near the external jugular vein, towards the jDarotid gland. Near the gland it divides into two principal branches, of whicli the anterior is distributed to the skin over the gland and the side of the cheek; the posterior ascends to the cartilage of the ear, and ramifies chiefly upon its occipital surface. Other filaments communicate in the substance of the parotid gland with branches of the portio-diu'a, or facial nerve. The n. occipitalis minor comes from the second cervical nerve. _ It runs near the posterior border o.f the sterno-mastoid muscle to