356 SIDH VIEW OF THE TELVIC VISCERA. the cTtit. About one and a half or two inches from the anus the finger comes upon the prostate gland; this is in close contact with the gut, and is readily felt on account of its hardness; by moving the finger from side to side we recognise its lateral lobes. StiU higher up, the finger goes beyond the prostate, and reaches the «tri<-one " of the bladder : the facility with which this can be examined depends not only upon the length of the finger and the amount of fat in the perineum, but upon the degree of distension of the bladder ; for the more distended the bladder, the better can the prostate be felt. These several relations are practically im- portant. They explain why, with the finger in the rectum, we can ascertain whether the catheter is taking the right direction,— whether the prostate be enlarged or not. We might even raise a stone from the bottom of the bladder so as to bring it m contact with the forceps. The rectum is supplied with blood by the superior, middle, and inferior hemorrhoidal arteries. The superior come from the inferior mesenteric (p. 319); the middle and mferior fi-om the pudic artery. The corresponding veins jom the inferior mesenteric, and consequently the portal system They are very large and form a very tortuous plexus about the lower part of the rectum As they have no valves, they are liable to become dilated and congested from various internal causes; hence the frequency of hemorrhoidal affections. , . ,n • ,.4. This viscus, being a receptacle for the urme, must Bladder. ^g^ggg^rily vary in size, and accordingly the nature of its connections and coats are such as to permit this variation _ When contracted the bladder sinks into the pelvis behmd the pubic ai- h, and is completely protected from injury. But, as it gradually dltends it rises out of the pelvis into the abdomen, and, m cases 'rextreme distention, may reach nearly up to the umbilicus.* Its . W.en.eHadder.e^p;.« there seems to bo no limit to its distension. Vesica.) Frank bladder distended nearly as liigh as the ensiform eaxtilage.