BACK OF THE THIGH. 455 ham-string muscles. half to two inches long. The chief point of interest concerning it is, that it occasionally communicates with the synovial membrane of the knee-joint, not directly, but through the medium of another bursa beneath the inner head of the gastrocnemius. From an examination of 150 bodies, I infer that this communication exists about once in five instances; and it need scarcely be said that the proportion is large enough to make us cautious in interfering too roughly with this bursa when it becomes enlarged.* Action of tlie These muscles produce two different effects, ac- cording as their fixed point is at the pelvis or the knee. With the fixed point at the pelvis, it is obvious that they bend the knee; with the fixed point at the knee, they form a very im- Kg. lOO. portant pait of the machinery which keeps the body erect. For instance, if, when standing, you bend the body at the hip, and feel the muscles in question, you find that they are in strong action, to prevent the trunk from falling forwards: they, too, are the chief agents concerned in bringing the body back again to the erect . position. In doing this, they act upon a lever of the first order as shown in fig. 100 ; the acetabulum being the fulcrum F, the trunk w, the weight to be moved, and the power p, at the tuber ischii. To put the action of the muscles of the; thigh on the pelvis in the clearest point of view, let us suppose we are standing upon one leg: the bones of the lower ex- tremity represent a pillar which supports * "When the buraa in question becomes enlarged, it occasions a fluctuating swelling of greater or less dimensions on the inner side of the popliteal space. The swelling bulges out, and becomes tense and elastic when the knee is extended, and vice vcrsd. As to its shape, it is generally oblong; but this is subject to variety, for we know that the bursaj, when enlarged, are apt to become multilocular, and to burrow between the muscles where there is the least resistance.