548 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. The lamvna spiralis—the partition between the two tubes or scales of the cochlea—is made up, on the inner half, of bone, on the outer half, of membrane. The bony part has a number of minute canals in it, which come off at right angles from the modi- olus. They are for the lodgment of the filaments of the auditory nerve in their course to the membranous part, which is the most important element of the cochlea, since it receives the undulations of the fluid in the interior.* The osseous labyrinth is lined throughout by a delicate fibro- serous membrane, which secretes the fluid called the " peri-lymph." If the bony labyrinth just now described be properly Membranous understood, "we can have no difficulty in comprehending labyrinth. ' . , . ^ , the membranous labyrmth m its mterior—a structure intended to isupport the ultimate ramifications of the auditory nerve, and to expose them to the undulations of the fluid in the internal ear. The membranous labyrinth, then, is nothing more than a sac, situated in the vestibule f, and from this there pass ofi" three mem- branous semicircular canals within the bony ones. What was said of the bony canals applies equally to the membranous. They pre- sent the same dilatations or ampulla at one end, and just at this part they nearly fill their bony cases; but in the rest of their .* There is an extremely delicate little muscle, termed the " eochlearis," for the purpose of tightening or relaxing, according to circumstances, the membranous part of the lamina spiralis. It is placed along the outer circumference of the membrane, and, in fact, forms an integrant part of it. Its fibres are of the non-striped kind, like the ciliary muscle of the eye. See Todd and Bowman, Phys. Anat. Part iii. p. 79. t Strictly speaking, the sac in the Testibule is constricted, so as to appear like two sacs of unequal size. The larger of the two is generaUy caUed the common sinus, is nearer to the semi-circular canals, and communicates with them. The smaUer, called the saccule, is nearer to the cochlea, and communicates with its vestibular scale. Both sacs are fiUed with the endo-lymph, besides which, each contains a minute quantity of calcareous matter, caUed by Breschet the otoUthes. These masses of cretaceous substance seem to be suspended in the fluid contained in the sacs by the intermedium of a number of nerve-filaments proceeding from the auditory nerve. From the universal presence of these chall^y bodies in the labyrinth of aU the mammaha, and from their much greater hardness and size in aquatic animals, there is' little reason to doubt that they perform some office of great importance in the physiology of hearing.