ANATOMY OF TPIE TENIS. 377 component septa altogether thicker, at the root than they are towai-ds the glans. All the cells communicate freely with the arteries, men the penis is flaccid, they are empty; but when they become distended with blood, the penis.becomes erect. Here two questions arise, — 1. how does the blood get from the arteries into the cells ? 2. how does it return from the cells ? With regard to the first question. If the arteries of the penis be well injected, we find that the artery of the corpus cavernosum enters the inner side of the crus, and proceeds forwards near the septum, distributing numerous ramifications. These are supported m the middle of the fibrous threads, and after making several spiral turns, as it were for the purpose of being able to accommo- date themselves to the varying size of the penis, discharge their blood at once into the cells. Besides the ramifications which feed the ceils, there is a capillary system for the nutrition of all the parts concerned. _ With regard to the second question. If a coloured fluid be in- jected mto the corpus cavernosum, near the glans, it instantly fills all the cells, and returns partly through veins which pass out at the upper surface of the penis and join the great dorsal vein, partly through the deep veins of the penis which leave the inner side of each crus. Corpus spon- spongiosum is the erectile tissue which giosum. sm-rounds the urethra as it runs along the penis It commences in the middle of the perineum, in a bulb- hke form, and at the end of the penis it is continuous with the glans This IS proved by the fact, that if we inject the spongy body, we fiU the glans also ; not so if we inject the cavernous body. ObLve that the urethra does not pass precisely through the middle of the spongy body, but that it runs nearer to its upper surface. The bulb hangs more or less pendulous from the urethra, p. 336 In old persons it hangs lower dowa than in children, and is Conse- quently more exposed to injury in lithotomy. The corpus spongiosum has a much thinner external coat than the corpus cavernosum. Its interior is composed of a plexus of minute tortuous veins. This is plainly demonstrated b^^Ceting