DISSECTION OF THE EAR. 549 N N 3 extent the diameter of the membranous canal is not more than one-third that of the bony one. The membranous labyrinth is protected, inside and out, by fluid. There is the proper fluid in the interior, termed the " endo-lymph," and the thin layer of fluid, the "peri-lymph," between it and the bone. D' ti-'b f on '^^^ auditory nerve, or portio mollis of the seventh of the audi- pair, passes down the meatus auditorius internus, and, tory nerve. bottom of it, divides into an anterior and a pos- terior branch: in other words, a branch for the cochlea, and a branch for the vestibule. These nerves then break up into nume- rous fasciculi, which pass through the foramina at the bottom of the meatus into the osseous labyrinth. Here the filaments are grouped into six bundles, corresponding to the parts which they supply—namely, .two for the vestibular sac, one for each of the ampullae of the semicircular canals, and one for the cochlea. The cochlear nerve divides into filaments, which run through the canals of the modiolus, and then along those of the lamina spiralis, in order to terminate upon the membranous part of this lamina. The precise manner in which the filaments terminate is still dubious : according to Breschet*, they communicate and form ■a series of minute arches. Eespecting the other nerves, little more need be said than that their ultimate ramifications are lost upon the vestibular sac and upon the ampullae of the semicircular canals : some of them, how- ever, pass into the sac, and come into contact with the otoconies, or ear-dust, in its interior. Blood ves "^^^ internal auditory artery—a branch of the basilar selsofthe —runs with the auditory nerve to the bottom of the labyrinth, j^gj^^^g^ qj^^ divides into branches corresponding with the divisions of the nerve. Its ultimate ramifications terminate, in the form of a fine network, on the membranous labyrinth, and on the spiral lamina of the cochlea. The auditory vein pours its blood into the superior petrosal sinus. * Eecherches Anat. et Phys. siir I'Organe de rOuie, &c. (Mdm. de I'Acad. de Med. t. V. fasc. iii. 1836.)