362 SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. b The lateral sacral descends perpendicularly in front of the sacral foramina, and near the coccyx inosculates with the middle sacral artery. It gives branches to the pyriformis, the hladder, and rectum, and others which enter the sacral foramma for the supply of the cauda equina. c The gMmal is the largest branch. It passes immediately out of the pelvis through the great ischiatic notch above the pyriformis muscle, and then divides into branches for the supply of the great muscles of the buttock. These we dissect with the thigh. d The obturator artery runs along the side of the pelvis, below the corresponding nerve, to the upper part of the obturator foramen, through which it passes to be distributed to the muscles of the thigh. , In the pelvis it gives off a small branch to the iha- cus muscle,'and another which ramifies on the back of the pubes. But the obturator artery does not, in all subjects, take the course above stated. It may arise from the external iliac near the crural arch or by a short trunk in common with the epigastric Under tht circumstances, in order to reach the obturator foramen, xt generally descends on the outer side of the femora ring. Instances lowever! every now and then occur, where it makes a sweep round the L r side of the ring; so that three-fourths of the nng, or, whaHomes to the same thing, of the mouth of a femoral hernia, would in such a case be surrounded by a large artery.f T The isckiatic artery is smaller than the gluteal. It proceeds ovei the pyriformis and the sacral plexus, to the lower border of Z greatTchiatic notch, through which it passes out of the pelvis to the buttock, where it runs with the great ischiatic nerve. common mth the epigastric IS external iliac it "?TrMS:itr S-SoWs Hospital eonta.s^^^^P- of^^- femoral hernia in the male, with the obturator ™S ^ J ^^et^^^^^^^^^ of In three out of the fom- ruptures the obtm-ator runs on the innei side the sac. (See Preparations 66, 69, Series 17.)