49 MUSCLES 01* THE PACE. cuius risorius." It produces the smile, not of good humour, but of derision. It is convenient to arrange the muscles of the face under three heads; appertaining respectively to the mouth, the nose, the eye- brows and lids. It matters little which group be first selected. Begin with those of the mouth. The muscles of the mouth are arranged thus: there is an orbi- cular or sphincter muscle surrounding the lips ; from this, as from a common centre, muscles diverge and are fixed into the surrounding bones. They ai-e named elevators, depressors, &c., according to their respective action. Orbicularis '^^^^ muscle, nearly an inch in breadth, sm-rounds the orig_ mouth. Its size and thickness in different individuals, produce the variety in the prominence of the lips. Observe that its fibres do not surround the mouth in one unbroken series, but that those of the upper and lower lip decussate at the angles of the mouth, and intermingle with the fibres of the bucci- nator and other muscles which converge from different parts of the face. The cutaneous surface of the muscle is intimately connected with the lips and the surrounding skin; the deep surface is separated from the mucous membrane by the labial glands and the coronary vessels. The " orbicularis" is the antagonist of all the muscles which move the lips. Upon a nice balance of their opposite actions depends the play of the mouth with which every one is familiar.* This muscle arises from the oblique line of the lower anguU oris. J^"^ '^^^^'^ ^"^^ foramen mentale, and is inserted into the angle of the mouth, intermingling with the zygomatic muscles. It is an important muscle in the expression of sorrowful emotions. We see its action remarkably well when children cry. * In strong musculai lips the upper pai-t of tlie orbiciilai-is sends a smaU sub- cutaneous slip of muscle from each side along the septum nasi neai-ly to the apex. The interva,! between the two slips con-esponds to the fimw which loads from the ■ noseto thehp. This is the ■'iia.o-labiaKs" or "depressor septi narium" of some anatomists, e.ff. Haller, Albinus. E