DISSECTION OF THE UPPER ARM. 211 p 2 terminates in the under surface of the deltoid, where it inosculates vnih the posterior circumflex artery. The most remarkable branch of the anterior circumflex artery is one which runs with the long tendon of the biceps up the groove of the humerus. It is called, on that account, the bicipital artery; it supplies the shoulder-joint and the neck of the humerus. The alar- thoracic artery is a small branch, variable in its origin. It may come from the axillary, or the subscapular, or the inferior thoracic. It supplies the axillary glands. AxiUary oxUlary vein is formed by the junction of the vein.' 'y^'Jiog comites of the brachial artery, near the lower border of the subscapularis. It receives the subscapular and the other veins corresponding to the branches of the axillary artery, with the exception of the circumflex, which usually join, either the subscapular, or one of the vense comites. The axillary also receives the cephalic, and sometimes the basilic vein. Dissection of iucisiou be continued down the inner side of tbe^upper the arm as low as two inches below the elbow. Eeflect the. skin, and trace the following cutaneous nerves : Cutaneous filaments of the intercosto-humeral nerves run nerves. dowu the inner and posterior part of the arm to the olecranon. The branches of the internal cutaneous nerve perforate the fascia about the middle of the inner side of the arm, and subdivide luto filaments which supply the anterior and posterior surface of the fore-arm. The lesser internal cutaneous, (nerve of Wrisherg,) perforates the fascia about the lower third of the arm, and supplies the skin over the mternal condyle and olecranon. The internal cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve sometimes wanting, and always small, comes through the fascia near the middle of the inner side of the arm. The nerves which perforate the fascia near the middle of the outer part of the arm, are the external cutaneous brccnchcs of the mu.culo-sp^raL They are accompanied by a small blnch torn