DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 165 M 3 very possible that the lower part may be left undivided in the operation, being more in the background than the rest. The tendon of the internal rectus is nearer to the cornea than either of the others. The superior rectus must now be reflected: in doing so, observe the branch of the third nerve, which supplies it and the levator palpebral. After the removal of a quantity of fat, we expose the following parts : —1. The optic nerve. 2. The nasal nerve, the ophthalmic artery and vein, all of which cross over the optic nerve from without inwards. 3. Deeper towai-ds the back of the orbit, between the optic nerve and the external rectus, is situated the " lenticular " ganglion. Nasal uerve. ^^^^ divisions of the Ophthalmic branch of the fifth pair (p. 160). It enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure between the two origins of the external rectus, and then crosses over the optic nerve towards the inner wall of the orbit. After giving off the infra-trochlear branch, the nerve runs out of the orbit through the foramen orbitale anterius, into the cranium, where it lies beneath the dura mater, upon the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. However, it soon leaves the cranium through a slit near the "crista galli," and enters the nose. Here it sends filaments to the mucous membrane of the upper part of the septum, and upper spongy bone ; but the main continuation of the nerve runs behind the nasal bone, be- comes superficial between the bone and the cartilage, and, under the name of naso-lobular, is distributed to the skin of the end of the nose. The nasal nerve gives off the foUowing branches in the orbit: — a. One or two slender filaments to the lenticular ganglion, h. One or two long ciliary nerves. They run to the back of the globe of the eye, and pass through the sclerotic coat to supnlv the ins. ^ c. Infra-trochlear nerve.—This runs below the pulley of the supenor oblique, and divides into filaments, which supply the skin of the eyelids and the lachrymal sac. :/ ^ ^ ^J-m Optic noxTo. H^^^'^g passed through the optic foramen, this nerve proceeds forwards and a little outwards to the globe of