PHARYNGEAL PLEXUS. INTEKNAL CAROTID. 77 Glosso-pha- -^^^ guide to the glosso-phar3mgeal nerve is the ryngeal lower border of the stylo-pharyngeus muscle. This nerve neiTe. ^j^^ divisions of the eighth pair. It arises by four or five filaments from the medulla oblongata in the groove between the olive and the restiform tract. At its origin it is purely a sensitive nerve. Leaving the skull through the foramen lacerum posterius, it descends in front-of the internal carotid artery, and then proceeds along the lower border of the stylo-pharyngeus. But now it curves forwards over the stylo-pharyngeus (p. 26) and disappears beneath the hyo-glossus, where it divides into its terminal branches for the supply of the mucous membrane of the pharynx, the back of the tongue, and the tonsils. According to the present state of our knowledge, the glosso- pharyngeal is, at its origin, purely a sensitive nerve. But soon after its exit from the skull it receives communications from the facial and the nervus accessorius, so that it soon becomes a compound nerve, i. e. composed of both sensitive and motor filaments. More- over, at the base of the skull it is provided with a ganglion, called the ganglion of " Andersch." The minute branches given off by this ganglion will be noticed in their proper place; at present we are more concerned with what is called the pharjTigeal plexus of nerves, Ph al ^^^^ middle constrictor of the pharynx, ple^^*" intricate interlacement of nerves, constituting the plexus which presides over deglutition. Its dissection requires much time and care, and a pliarynx prepared exclusively for the purpose. The nerves which enter into its composition are derived from the glosso-pharyngeal, the pneumogastric, the spinal accessory, and the sympathetic. Consequently it possesses nerves of three different kinds — ganglionic, sensitive, and motor. Its minute ramifications supply the pharynx, the back of the tongue, and tonsils. ' Course and The internal carotid artery, proceeding from the divi- SSter- ^^^'^^^^d' to the base of the nai cai-otid skuU, by the side of the pharynx close to the transverse artcrj-. processes of the three upper cervical vertebrae. It enters the skull through the carotid canal in the temporal bone, runs