51 MUSCLES or THE FACE. E 2 This muscle arises from the tendo oculi, and from oculi'^'^^^^^ the inner margin of the orbit, for some distance above and heloiv this tendon. It is inserted into the skin of the browj temple, and cheek. This broad sphincter muscle surrounds the margin of the orbit and eyelids. Its circumferential fibres take a wide sweep, and mingle, on the forehead, with the occipito frontalis, on the cheek, with the zygomaticus minor, and the levator labii superioris. The fibres which belong to the eyelids (orbicularis palpebrarum), are thin and pale. They arise from the tendo oculi, and form, over each eyelid, a series of elliptical curves which meet at the external canthus of the lids. The degree of their curvature becomes less as they approach the margin of the lids, so that some fibres proceed close to the lashes. This was first pointed out by Eiolanus*, and described as " musculus ciliaris."t You will observe that no fat is ever found on the eyelids: nothing intervenes between the skin and the muscle but a quantity of loose areolar tissue, that there may be no impediment to the free play of the lids. The orbicular muscle not only shuts the eye but protects it. For instance, suppose the eye to be threatened by a blow, the muscle suddenly contracts, presses the eye back into the orbit, and contracts the skin of the brow and cheek so as to form a soft cushion in front of the orbit. The cushion itself may be severely bruised, as is seen in a " black eye "; but, how rarely the globe itself is injured ! When the eye is simply closed, as in winking, the palpebral portion of the muscle contracts. Observe this movement attentively, and you will see that the lids are dra^vn slightly inwards as well as closed. Now this inward motion is to direct the tears towards the inner angle of the eyelids, where they are absorbed by the lachrymal ducts. Since the orbicular muscle is supplied" by the facial nerve, it is affected in facial palsy, and the patient cannot shut the eye. * Antkropologia, lib. v. cap. 10. t Strictly speaking the ciliary muscle arises from tlie two little divisions of Ibe tendo ooiili, and is inserted, at the external canthus, into the fibrous tissue which unites the two tarsal cartilages.