509 CEREBELLUM. the divergence of its posterior or restiform cohimns. On its sm- face we remark a number of transverse white lines, some of which form part of the origin of the auditory nerves. This portion of the brain is situated in the occipital fossa, beneath the posterior lobes of the cerebrum, from which it is separated by the tentorium. Its form is elliptical, with the broad diameter transverse. When the arachnoid membrane and the pia mater are removed, you observe that its sm-face is not arranged in convolutions like those of the cerebrum. It is laid out upon a plan beautifully adapted to produce a much greater superficial extent of grey matter. It consists, in fact, of a multitude of thin plates, disposed in a series of concentric curves, with the concavity forwards. By a little careful dissection it is easy to separate some of the plates from each other, and to see that the intervening- fissures increase in depth from the centre towards the circumference of the cerebellum. The fissure at the circumference itself is the deepest of all, and nearly horizontal, so that it seems to divide the cerebellum into an upper and a lower segment. ^ ^ The upper surface of the cerebellum slopes on Upper siixface. i ■ i ti i p each side like the roof of a house. The ridge along the middle line is called the "superior vermiform eminence." Comparative anatomy proves that this is really the fundamental part of the cerebellum. The sides, called the " hemispheres,'" are merely offsets or wings, superadded for special purposes, and in- crease in size as we ascend in the vertebrate series, till in man they form by far the largest part of the organ. They are separated poste- riorly by a perpendicular fissure, which receives the " falx cerebelli." Under surface under Surface of the cerebellum its division into two hemispheres is clearly perceptible. The deep furrow between them is called "the valley." The front-part of it is occupied by the medulla oblongata. Therefore, to examine the surface of the valley, you must raise the medulla and separate the hemispheres from each other. Along the middle line of the valley, we observe the " inferior vermiform eminence/' which is, in point of fact, the under surface of the fundamental part of the