JOINTS OF THE FINGERS. 282 a. One between the lower end of the radius and the ulna. h. One between the radius and the first row of carpal bones. c. One between the trapezium and the metacarpal bone of the thumb. d. One between the cuneiform and pisiform bones. e. One between the first and second rows of carpal bones, (the intercarpal joint). This extends to the metacarpal bones of the fore and middle fingers. /. One between the unciform bone and the metacarpal bones of the little and ring fingers. FmsT JOINT The first phalanx of the finger presents a shallow OF THE oval cavity, crusted with cartilage, with the broad riNGEEs. (jiametpr in the transverse direction, to articulate with the round cartilaginous head of the metacarpal bone, of which the articular surface is elongated in the antero-posterior direction, and of greater extent on its palmar than its dorsal aspect. This formation of parts permits flexion of the finger to a greater degree than extension; and also a slight lateral movement. Each joint is provided with two strong lateral, and a palmar or glenoid ligament. The lateral Ugaments arise from the tubercles on either side of each metacarpal bone, and inclining slightly forward, are inserted into the sides of the base of the first phalanx of the finger. The palmar or glenoid ligament. This name is applied to a thick, compact, fibro-cartilaginous structure, which extends over the palmar surface of the joint. Its lower end is firmly attached to the base of the first phalanx of the finger; its upper end is loosely adherent to the rough surface above the head of the meta- carpal bone. On either side it is inseparably connected with the lateral ligaments, so that with them it forms a strong capsule over the front and sides of the joint. Its superficial surface is slightly grooved, to receive the flexor tendons ; its deep surface is adapted to cover the head of the metacarpal bone. Two sesamoid bones are found in the glenoid ligament belonging to the joint between the metacarpal bone and the first phalanx of the thumb.