LIGAMENTS 01' THE PELVIS. 470 of the first phalanges of the toes and their extensor tendons. Their use is to draw the toes to or from each other, and they do this or that according to the side of the phalanx on which they act. Now, if we draw an imaginary longitudinal line through the second toe, we find that all the dorsal muscles draw from that line, and the plantar towards it. This is the key to the action of them all. A more detailed account of these muscles is given in the dissection of the palm, p. 267. Between the tendons of the interossei, that is, between the distal ends of the metatarsal bones, there are little bursas to facilitate movement. These bursse are not without interest. They sometimes become enlarged and occasion painful swellings between the roots of the toes. I have seen two instances: both yielded to iodine. It now only A'emains to trace the tendons of the peroneus longus and the tibialis posticus. The tendon of the peroneus longus is the deepest in the sole. We find it running through a groove in the cuboid bone obliquely across the sole towards its insertion into the outer side of the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The tendon is confined in a strong fibrous sheath, which is lined throughout by synovial membrane. The tendon of the tibialis posticus may be traced over the in- ternal lateral ligament of the ankle, and thence \mder the head of the astragalus to the scaphoid bone into which it is chiefly inserted. One or two slips are sent off to the cuneiform bones. Observe that the tendon contributes to support the head of the astragalus, and that for this purpose it often contains a sesamoid bone. This is one of the many beautiful provisions for the solidity of the arch of the foot. DISSECTION OF THE LIGAMENTS. Ligaments '^^^ sacrum is united to the last lumbar vertebra in the ov THE same manner as one vertebra is to another. The same PELVIS. observation applies to the union between the sacrum and the coccyx. Eefer, therefore, to the description of the liga- ments of the spine, p. 190.