DISSECTION OP THE PALM OF THE HAND. 238 superficial and deep flexor tendons of the fingers, the long flexor tendon of the thumb, and the median nerve. The tendon of the flexor carpi radialis does not run with the other tendons, but is contained in a distinct sheath, lined by a separate synovial mem- brane, formed partly by the annular ligament and partly by the groove in the trapezium. In its passage under the annular ligament, the Median nerve jj^gdian nerve is enveloped in a fold of synovial mem- m the palm. -^^^^^^ ^ies between the tendons of the flexor sublimis and those of the flexor profundus, and is rather nearer to the radial than the ulnar side of the wrist. As soon as it appears in the palm, the nerve lies superficial to all the tendons, gives a branch to the muscles of the ball of the thumb, and then divides into five branches, two for the thumb, the rest for the fore and middle fingers and the radial side of the ring finger. The two nerves of the thumb proceed, one on each side of the long flexor tendon, to the last phalanx. The first digital nerve runs along the radial side of the index finger. The second descends towards the cleft between the index and middle fingers, and subdivides into two branches, which supply their opposite sides. The third is joined by a filament from one of the ulnar digital nerves, and then subdivides above the cleft between the middle and ring fingers, to supply their opposite sides. About an inch and a quarter above the clefts between the fingers, each digital nerve subdivides into two branches, between which the digital artery passes and bifurcates lower down; there- fore a vertical incision down the cleft would divide the artery before the nerve. In their com'se along the fingers and thumb, the nerves lie superficial to the arteries, and nearer to the flexor tendons. About the middle of the first phalanx each nerve sends a branch, which runs along the back of the finger nearly to the extremity, commu- nicating with the dorsal branches derived from the radial and ulnar nerves.* Near the ungual phalanx another branch is distributed to * We find upon the cutaneous nerves of the hands and feet Httle bodies termed, after their discoverer, corpuscles of "Pacini." Some of them wiU be found, by care-