352 SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. evidently for the purpose of callowing the bladder to distend with facility. Whenever urine gains access to this cellular tissue, it is sure to produce the most disastrous consequences; therefore, in all operations on the perineum, it is of the utmost importance not to injure the fascia in question. Examine, first, to what parts of the pelvis the fascia is attached; secondly, the manner in which it is reflected on the viscera. Beginning, then, in front, we find that the fascia is attached to the body of the pubes; thence we trace its attachment along the side of the pelvis, just above the obturator foramen, to the greater ischiatic notch; here it becomes gradually thinner, covers the pyriformis muscle, and is lost on the sacrum. Now let us follow it on to the viscera. From the'pubes the fascia is reflected over the prostate and the neck of the bladder, so as to form on either side of the sym- physis a well-marked band, called the anterior true ligament of the bladder. From the side of the pelvis it descends as low as the line of origin of the levator ani, and here divides into two layers, inner and outer ; the inner is reflected on to the side of the bladder, forming what is called its lateral true ligament; the outer Imes the external surface of the levator ani. So far there can be no difBculty. But the most important pai-t of the fascia still remains to be examined. The fact is, that it forms a complete capsule for the prostate gland and neck of the bladder. Now how is this capsule constructed ? In front, the fascia takes its point of departure from the sides of the pubic a.-ch : from thence it passes backwards, and is gradually lost round the prostate and the neck of the bladder (p. 347). Taking it as a whole, it forms a case, which encloses not only the prostate and neck of the bladder, but also the prostatic plexus of veins, and the beginning of the membranous part of the urethra. Towards the permeum he case is closed by the triangular ligament. In the operation of Mhotorny the greatest care should be taken not to injure the capsule alluded to, for reasons already assigned. If we were to describe this capsule piecemeal, we should say that it consists of so many ligaments: its upper pai-t would be