13 COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. thyroid gland, and larynx, as high as the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and then divides into the external and internal carotid. Thus a line drawn from the sternal end of the clavicle to the angle of the jaw will nearly indicate its course. It is contained in a sheath of cervical fascia. In the same sheath are the internal jtigular vein and the pneumogastric nerve. The vein lies on the outer side of, and parallel with the artery: the nerve lies behind and between the artery and vein. Behind the sheath is the sympathetic nerve. Lastly, along the vertebral column the sheath lies successively upon the longus colli _and the rectus capitis anticus major muscles, hf- , %^*t^ et^>^^ ^ Co^ At the lower part of the neck the carotid artery is deeply seated:—it is covered by the sternal portion of the sterno-mastoid, the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles, and about two inches above the clavicle it is crossed by the omo-hyoid. Above this point the artery becomes more superficial, and is covered by the pla- • tysma, cervical fascia, and only slightly overlapped by the sterno- mastoid. Lying immediately upon the sheath of the artery we find the descendens noni and communicantes noni nerves. Above all, observe that the sheath is crossed by three veins, namely, the facial, the superior, and inferior thyroid, which empty themselves' into the internal jugular. This is the general rule, and we draw especial attention to it, because these veins are so liable to be overlooked and injured in the operation of tying the carotid. It is plain that it is easier to tie the common carotid above the omo-hyoid than below it. "We make an incision (three inches long) down the inner border of the sterno-mastoid; we cut through the pla- tysma and cervical fascia, draw aside the overlapping edge of the sterno-mastoid, and expose the sheath of the vessel. We then make a small opening in the sheath large enough to admit the aneu- rismal needle, and tie the vessel, taking care not to include the pneumogastric or descendens noni nerves in the ligature. In what In the first part of its course the left carotid differs left'carotM^ from the right in the following particulars : — differs from 1. It arises from the arch of the aorta, is therefore the right. longer and deeper seated than the right, and is covered by the first bone of the sternum.