SUBCLAVIAN AETERY. 40 Behind the scalenus {inticus, and on the surface of the first rih, the relations of the left subclavian are similar to those of the right (page 39). The left subclavian, then, differs from the right only in the first part of its course. Now what are these differences ? 1. The left subclavian comes direct from the arch of the aorta, and is therefore longer, deeper in the chest, and more vertical than the right, which comes from the arteria innominata. 2. The left subclavian is in close relation with the oesophagus and the thoracic duct: the right is not. 3. The left subclavian is crossed by the left vena innominata. 4. The left subclavian has the phrenic, pneumogastric, and sym- pathetic nerves nearly parallel with it; on the right side, these nerves cross the artery at right angles. 5. The left subclavian is not embraced by the recurrent laryngeal nerve, like the right subclavian. The thoracic duct bears an important relation to the left subcla- vian artery. It ascends from the chest between the oesophagus and the artery, forms an arch with the convexity upwards behind them- ternal jugular vein, and terminates in the subclavian vein at its junction with the jugular. The duct is so thin and transparent that it easily escapes observation : you will most readily find it by searching with the handle of the scalpel in the loose tissue on the inner edge of the scalenus anticus, in front of the vertebral vein. Before we trace the branches of the subclavian artery, let us consider some points relating to the operation of tying it. To tie the artery in the first part of its course, namely, on the inner edge of the scalenus anticus muscle, is an opefation of great difficulty and danger, even with the parts in a normal position. The great depth at which the artery is placed, the size and close proximity of its numerous branches, the large veins by which it is covered, its connexion with the pneumogastric, recurrent laryngeal, phrenic, and sympathetic nerves, and above all its close contigmty with the pleura, form a combination of circumstances so forimdable that one cannot be sui-prised the operation has never been per- formed with a favourable result.