OEIGIN OP THE CEREBRAL NERVES. 526 The inner root arises from the posterior extremity of the internal convolution of the anterior cerebral lobe. « The middle or grey root arises from the posterior extremity of the farrow in which the olfactory nerve is lodged; to see it, there- fore, you should turn the nerve backwards. The olfactory nerve is triangular, that it may fit into a furrow between the convolutions. It proceeds straightforwards under the anterior lobe, and terminates in the olfactory ganglion, which lies on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. The olfactory ganglion is of an olive-like shape, of a reddish grey colour, and very soft consistence. It gives off from its under siu:- face the true olfactory nerves.* For the description of these, see p. 180. ^ ^ . These nerves arise chiefly from the corpora quadrige- or optie^^'^' niina; also from the geniculate bodies and the thalami optici (p. 525). They wind round the crura cerebri to the base of the brain, and, uniting in the middle line, constitute the optic commissure. This commissure rests on the sphenoid bone, in front of the cella turcica. From the commissure each nerve passes through the foramen opticum into the orbit, and terminates in the retina. At the commissure some of the nerve fibres cross from one side to the other. This decussation affects only the i^ddle fibres of the nerve; the course of the other fibres is shown in the diagram (p. 497). The purpose of this partial crossing is not thoroughly understood. It was ingeniously supposed by Dr. Wollastonf to * Strictly speaMng, the olfactory nerve and its ganglion are integral parts (the prosencephalic lobe) of the brain. What in human anatomy is called the origia of the nerve is, in point of fact, the crus of the olfactory lobe, and is in every way homo- logous to the crus cerebri or cerebelli. In proof of this, look at the enormous size and connections of the crus in animals which have veiy acute sense of smell. Throughout the vertebrate kingdom there is a strict ratio between the sense of smeU and the de- velopment of the olfactory lobes. Again, in many animals, these lobes are actually larger than the cerebral, and contain in their interior a cavity which communicates with the lateral ventricles. According to Tiedemann, this cavity exists even in tlie human foetus at an early period. t Philosophical Transactions of the Eoyal Society, 1824.