7 STERNO-CLEIDO-MA STOIDEUS. Besides forming sheaths for tlie several structures of the neck, there are other piu-poses to which the cervical fascia is subservient. The firm attachment of its layers to the sternum, the first rib, and the clavicle, forms a fibrous barrier at the upper opening of the chest, which supports the soft parts, and prevents their yielding to the pressure of the atmosphere during inspiration. Dr. Allan Biu-ns* first pointed out this important function of the cervical fascia, and has recorded' a case exemplifying the results of its de- struction by disease. Moreover, the great veins at the root of the neck, namely, the internal jugular, subclavian, and innominate, are so closely united by means of the cervical fascia to the adjacent bones and muscles, that when divided they gape. They are, as the French express it, " canalisees," and are therefore better able to resist the pressure of the atmosphere, which tends to render them flaccid and imper- vious during inspiration. But this anatomical disposition of the great veins renders them more liable to the entrance of air when wounded. The danger of this occurrence is well known. Many deaths are recorded, resulting from the sudden entrance of air into the veins during operations about the neck, or even the axilla. Sterno '^^^ sterno-cleldo-mastoideus arises by a flat tendon . cleido-mas- from the upper part of the sternum, and by fleshy fibres, toideus. froiia the sternal third of the clavicle. It is inserted into the mastoid process, and about the outer half of the superior semi- circular ridge of the occipital bone. Observe that the sternal origin of the muscle is at first separated from the clavicular by a slight interval: subsequently the sternal fibres gradually overlap the clavicular. The muscle is confined by its strong sheath of fascia, in such a manner that it forms a slight ciurve, with the convexity forwards. Observe especially that its front border overlaps the common carotid artery; along this border we make the incision in the operation of tying the vessel. Action of When both sterno-mastoidei act simultaneously, they etemo- draw the head and neck forwards, and are therefore °^ ■ especially concerned in raising the head from the recum- * Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Neck. J3 4