250 MUSCLES OF THE BACK CONNECTED WITH THE ABM.' This muscle extends from the scapula to the os deus"^^°^" hyoides, and consists of two long narrow muscular por- tions, connected by an intermediate tendon beneath the sterno-mastoid. The posterior portion only can be seen in the present dissection. It arises from the scapula, close behind the notch, and from the ligament above the notch. From thence the slender muscle passes forwards across the lower part of the neck, beneath the sterno-mastoid, where it changes its direction and ascends nearly vertically, to be attached to the os hyoides at the junction of the body with the greater cornu (p. 9). Thus the two portions of the muscle form beneath the sterno-mastoid an obtuse angle of which the apex is tendinous, and of which the angular direction is maintained by a layer of fascia, proceeding from the tendon to the first rib and the clavicle. Its action is to depress the OS hyoides. This artery (transversalis humeri), a branch of the Siipra-scapu- thyroid axis, runs beneath and parallel with the clavicle ar artery. supra-scapular notch, through which it passes to supply the supra-spinatus and infra-spinatus, and then inosculates freely with the dorsalis scapula;, a branch of the subscapular. It sends off the supra-acromial branch, which ramifies upon the acromion, anastomosing with the other acromial arteries derived from branches of the axillary. The supra-scapular vein terminates either in the subclavian or in the external jugular vein. The supra-scapular nerve, a branch of the fifth and sixth cer- vical nerve, runs with the corresponding artery, and is distributed to the supra-spinatus and infra-spinatus. This artery is a continuation of the " transversalis bZI^S colli," which is usually described as arising from the thyroid axis, but comes just as often from the sub- clavian in the third part of its course. It runs across the lower part of the neck, above, or between the nerves of the brachial plexus, towards the posterior superior angle of the scapula. Here it takes the name of posterior scapular, and pursues its course beneath the levator anguli scapulse and the rhomboid muscles. If you divide the rhomboid muscles near their insertion, you can trace