305 POSITION OF ABDOMINAL VISCERA. neum in front, and are immoveably fixed, for good reasons, to the back of the abdomen.* Pursuing its course from the left side of the second Ueiuu^^"^^ lumbar vertebra, the intestinal canal forms a number of convolutions, which are loosely connected to the spine by a broad peritoneal fold termed the mesentei'^." Of these convolutions, the upper two-fifths constitute the " intestinum jejunum;" the lower three-fifths the " intestinum ileum.'''' This is an arbitrary division; for there is no definite limit between them; but the character of the bowel gradually changes — that is, it becomes less vascular, has fewer folds of the lining membrane, and its coats are therefore less substantial to the feel. Commence- right iliac fossa, the small intestine opens into ment of large the left side of the colon: here the large intestine ®' begins : here is the ilio-caecal valve (fig. 59). Imme- diately below the junction we observe that the large intestine is expanded into a blind pouch, called the ccecum or caput coli. Into the back part of this pouch opens a little tube closed at the other end, called the "appendix vermiformis.'" This tube is generally three inches long, about as thick as a tobacco-pipe, and is either coiled up behind the cascum, or connected to it by a peritoneal fold, so as to hang loose in the pelvis. The commencement of the large intestine is generally con- fined by the peritoneum to the iliac fossa, in which it lies.t Tra- cing it from this point, we find that it ascends through the right lumbar region in front of the right kidney, and then, crossing the umbilical region towards the left side J, descends in front of the * There are two reasons -why the second and third parts of the duodenum should be fixed and have no mesentery: first, if the duodenum had been loose, it would have fallen down like the other intestLaes, and have disordered the stomach by dragging it down with it; secondly, had it been loose, it would have been apt to have stretched the bUe and pancreatic ducts, and the flow of bUe through them would every now and then have been obstructed. t But this is not invariably so. The bowel is, in some subjects, connected to the fossa, by a fold of peritoneum or a " mcso-cmcum." I have often seen this fold suf- ficiently loose to aUow the caput coli to travel quite over to the left iliac fossa t This transverse part of the colon, in some instances, makes a coH behind the X