372 UllETURA. bulbous part of the urethra. The use of these glands appears to be like that of the vesiculae seminales and the prostate, namely, to pour into the urethra a fluid accessory in someway, not yet under- stood, to the function of generation. They are found more or less developed in all mammalia, and in some, e.g. in the mole, they increase in size periodically with the testicle. The urethra is the tube which leads from the bladder TJretlira. p^^-g^ ge^^es not only as the excre- tory duct of the bladder, but transmits the secretion of the testicles and the several glands accessory to generation. It is surrounded by different structures in different parts of its course. The first inch or thereabouts, is surrounded by the prostate gland (p. 379); the second inch, which passes under the pubic arch, is surrounded by the compre'ssor urethra (p. 360); the remamder of its course alona the penis, is surrounded by erectile tissue, termed ' corpus spongiosum." Hence anatomists divide it into the prostatic he muscular or membranous, and the spongy. The length of the whole is about seven or eight inches, but of course, this will vary according to the condition of the penis. The general direction of the urethra, when the penis hangs flaccid is like the letter S reversed; but if the penis be held straig-ht, the canal forms only one curve through the pubic arch with the concavity upwards. The degi'ee of this curvature varies different periods of life. In the child, the bladder being more in the abdo- mTthan in the pelvis, the cm:ve forms part of a much smaller circle than it does in the adult; but it graduaUy widens as age in- creases and our catheters are shaped accordingly.* However he Tarts when in a sound state, will yield sufficient^ to admit the Ltrokuction of a straight instrument into the bladder. Aston K.y always used a straight staff in lithotomy. In its contracted state, the sides of the urethra are in close appo^ sition. When opportunity offers, make transverse sections of it, to Anat. Patliol. lib. ii. p. 13.