PARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. 300 In all cases, or at any rate with very few exceptions, the immediate investment of the intestine is the peritonemn. This constitutes the sac of the hernia. The opening of the sac, com- municating with the abdomen, is called its mouth, then comes the neck, and lastly, the body or expanded part of the sac. The spermatic cord is generally situated behind fpoSmatic co?d and on the outer side of the hernial sac. But in- in reference to gtances sometimes occur in which there is a different the erma. arrangement, and such deviations are easily explained. Since the spermatic vessels and the hernial swelling are more or less connected, by cellular tissue, and included, as it were, in a common sheath, we can have no difdculty in understanding that the hernia may separate the component parts of the cord, so that one or other of them may come to lie on the front of the swelling. A similar displacement is sometimes produced by an old and large hydrocele on the same principle; the increase of the watery tiTmour affecting the spermatic vessels and the vas deferens in the same way as the growth of the rupture. For this reason we ought always, in large hernise, to be cautious in cutting down upon the sac tiiat we do not divide any of the displaced components of the cord. Mr. Hey mentions, as a warning, that he once divided the vas deferens.* The stricture may be seated either at the external Seat of stricture. ^.^^^ internal ring, or at any intermediate part. Sometimes there is a sort of double stricture, one at the external, the other at the internal ring. The stricture, however, may be caused by the mouth of the sac itself, independently of the parts outside it; for the peritoneum may become thickened and indurated, and sufficiently unjaeldmg to strangulate the protruded parts. Such changes are liable to be produced by the pressure of a truss. ■We cannot do better than adhere to the golden rule STcf theatric- laid down by Sir A. Cooper, namely, to divide the ture should be stricture, in all cases, directly upwards. In this direc- tion, we are least likely to wound the epigastric artery. * Practical Observations, p. 146.