489 MEMBRANES OP THE BRAIN. be readily separated from this membrane; but there are certain parts at the base of the brain termed "sub-arachnoid" spaces, where the arachnoid membrane c£^n be seen distinct from the subjacent tunic. This is the immediate investing membrane of the Pid mater. extremely vascular: indeed, its chief use is to form a bed in which the blood-vessels may divide and sub-divide before they enter the brain.* It sinks down to the bottom of all the convolutions, and penetrates into the lateral ventricles for the supply of their interior, forming what is called the " velum inter- positum " and the " choroid plexus." Sub araeli- "^^^ arachnoid membrane is separated in certain noid spaces situations from the pia mater by a watery fluid con- and fluid. Gained in the meshes of very delicate areolar tissue. Such interspaces are termed " sub-arachnoid." There is one of these in the longitudinal fissure of the cerebrum, because the arachnoid does not go down to the bottom of it, but passes across below the edge of the falx, at a little distance above the corpus callosum. Again, at the base of the brain there are two of con- siderable size:—one, called the "middle sub-arachnoid space," is situated between the pons Varolii and the commissure of the optic nerves ; the other, termed the " posterior," is situated between the cerebellum and the medulla oblongata. In the examination of the spinal cord, too, it will be seen that there is a considerable interval between the arachnoid and the pia mater, also occupied by fluid. The purpose of this fluid is not only to fill up space like fat in other parts, but mechanically to protect the nervous centres from the violent shocks and vibrations to which they would otherwise be liable. The base of the brain may, in truth, be said to be supported by a bed of water, which insinuates itself into all the inequalities of * It is one of the protectiye provisions of the circulation in the delicate substance of the brain, that the arteries break up into small ramifications on the surface before they penetrate its interior. When ciirefully injected, it is seen that the blood-vessels of the pia mater form minute angidar spaces, from which the vessels pass off at right angles into the brain.