PERITONEUM. 311 X 4 tudinal section. But there are certain lateral reflections which would not be seen except by a transverse section, e. g. from the great end of the stomach two layers proceed to the spleen, forming the gastro-splenic omentum; from the transverse meso-colon it is reflected on either side over the ascending and descending colon. Wliat parts "^^^ descending and transverse portions of the duo- of the ali- denum, the caecum, the ascending, and descending colon ranal'^aJe (with exceptional cases), and the lower part of the rectum only par- g^j-g covered by the peritoneum only in front. These vered by points are not without practical interest. For instance, peritoneum? gjj^ce the descending colon is closely connected to the lumbar region by loose cellular tissue, and has' not, in the majority of cases, any peritoneal covering behind; this part of the alimen- tary canal is available for the purpose of making an artificial anus.* The gut can be reached by a longitudinal incision near the outer border of the quadratus lumborum. Again, the caecum being very liable to the accumulation of hardened faeces, is apt to engender the formation of an abscess in the cellular tissue which connects it to the right iliac fossa. The matter thus formed may either burst externally, or make its way into the bowel, f To give another instance. The absence of peritoneum from the posterior part of the caecum explains how a hernia may take ■ place without a peritoneal sac. That part of the caecum bare of peritoneum may protrude through the inguinal ring first; then, if more caecum should come down, this is likely to be denuded of its peritoneal covering, which is but loosely connected to the gut at the sides. In this way, then, it is possible to have a large caecal * The proposal of opening the intestinal canal, as a last resource, at some point in the abdomen, so as to evacuate its contents and establish an artificial anus, was first made by Littre (M6m. de I'Acad. des Sciences, 1720). He proposed to open the sig- moid flexure of the colon in a case of imperforate anus. A successful case of the kind is recorded as having been performed on a boy twenty-four hoiu-s after birth by Duset. (Eecueil period, de la Soc. de M^d. de Paris, t. iv.) The same child was reported at the age of twelve to be in good health, with an artificial anus in the left iliac fossa. (Diet, des Sciences M6d. t. xxiv. See also cases in vol. xxxv. of Med,-Ch. Transactions.) t The best account of iliac abscesses is to be found in the " Le9ons Orales " of Dupuytren.