434 FRONT OF THE THIGH. number supply the extensor muscles. Those branches which more directly concern the artery, and are liable to be injured in the operation of tying it, are as follow: —1. The long saphenous. This descends close to the outer side of the artery, and enters the tendinous sheath with it, in the middle third of the thigh (p. 427). Here the nerve crosses over to the inner side of the artery, and leaves it just before it becomes popliteal. The nerve then runs in company with the anastomotica magna artery to the inner side of the knee, where we find it nearly superficial between the gracilis and the sartorius. Finally, joining the saphena vein, it descends with it to the inner side of the foot. 2. Besides the long saphenous, there are one or two internal cutaneous branches, which cross over the sheath of the artery just where the sartorius begins to overlap it, and therefore in the situation where it is usually tied. They lie so close to the sheath that they would run great risk of being injured unless specially looked after (p. 427). Both * supply the skin on the inner side of the thigh. You are already aware that in the middle third of Hunter's canal. ^^.^^ femoral artery is contamed in a ten- dinous canal f under the sartorius, called " Hunter's canal." This canal at its upper part is rather indistinct; but it gradually becomes stronger towards the opening in the tendon of the triceps. Its boun- daries are formed by the tendons of the muscles between which the artery runs. On the inner side are the tendons of the adductor longus and magnus ; on the outer side is the tendon of the vastus internus; in front the canal is completed by an aponeurotic ex- pansion thrown obliquely across from the adductors to the vastus internus, as shown in the annexed diagram. In a horizontal section the canal would appear triangular. The adaptation of this shape to the exigencies of the case is manifest when we reflect that the * One of these nerves generaUy joins a branch of the obturator near the lowr border of the tendon of the adductor magnus. t CaUed " Hunter's canal," because it was in this pai-t of its coursp that John Hunter first tied the femoral artery for aneurism of the popliteal, in St. George's Hos- pital, A.D. 1785. The particulars of this interesting case are published in the Trans, for the Improvement of Med. and Chir. Knowledge.