202 DISSECTION OF THE AXILLA. Eeflect the skin from the axilla and the side of the Sebaceous ^-^^^^^ taking care not to remove with it the subjacent ^' fascia. In close contact with the skin, near the roots of the hair in the axilla, are numerous sebaceous glands. They are of a reddish-brown colour, and rather larger than a pin's head. This tough membrane lies immediately beneath the ^^"^ skin of the axilla, and is nothing more than a continu- ation of the general investment of the muscles. It closes in and ^orms the floor of the cavity of the axilla. Now what are its connections ? Externally it is strengthened by fibres from the tendons of the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi, and is con- tinuous with the fascia of the arm; internally, it is prolonged on the side of the chest, over the serratus magnus muscle: m front and behind, it divides so as to enclose between'its layers the muscles ^hich form the boundaries of the axilla. Thus the anterior layer encloses the two pectoral muscles, and is connected with the cora- coid process, the costo-coracoid ligament, and the clavicle: the posterior layer encloses the latissimus dorsi, and passes backwards to the spine. ,, . a. A subcutaneous artery, sometimes of considerable size, often runs in the substance of the axillary fascia. It generally arises from the brachial, or from the lower part of the axillary, and runs across the floor of the axilla towards the lower edge of the pectorahs maior. So far as I know, it has not been hitherto named; but it is worth remembering, because it would occasion much hemorrhage if wounded in opening an abscess. The next thing to be done is to remove this axillary fascia and to display the boundaries-and contents of theaxilla. The dissechon of this cavity is difficult. You must proceed cautiously. Bear m mind that the trunk blood-vessels and nerves run through the upper V^^ of the axilla; that the long thoracic artery runs along the anterior border, and the subscapular artery along the posterior. Commence working, therefore, in the middle: break down mth the handle of the