SCALENE MUSCLES. 35 D 2 The fascia and the glands should be carefully removed. The cla- vicle should be sawn through the middle, and the sternal half raised with the sterno-mastoid attached to it, so that the bone can be replaced from time to time in order to see its bearings to the parts beneath. Behind and nearly pai-allel with the clavicle is the supra-scapular (transversaUs humeri) artery, a branch of the thyroid axis. A little higher is the transversalis colli, or posterior scapular (commonly a branch of the thyroid axis) which crosses the lower part of the neck towards the posterior superior angle of the scapula. But both these ai'teries, the last particularly, are very irregular in respect to their origin. The scalene muscles descend from the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae to the first and the second ribs. The phrenic nerve is observed upon the surface of the scalenus anticus. The subclavian artery comes into Adew behind the outer border of the scalenus anticus, and continues its course over the surface of the first rib. The subclavian vein also lies upon the rib, but in front of the scalenus anticus. The large nerves constituting the brachial plexus emerge between the scalene muscles, higher than the subclavian artery. The scalene muscles, so called from their resemblance to a scalene triangle, extend from the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae to the first and second ribs. They may be con- sidered as intercostal muscles, since the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae are but rudimentary ribs. Anatomists describe them as three separate muscles— an anterior, a middle, and a posterior; the anterior and middle are attached to the first rib, the posterior to the second. In plan and purpose these three muscles form but one. Scalenus The scalenus anticus arises from the anterior tubercles anticus. of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae, and is inserted by a flat tendon into the tubercle on the inner border of the first rib. Scalenus The scalenus medius ao^ises from the posterior medius. tubercles of the transverse processes of the six lower cervical vertebra3, and is inserted into the first rib behind the scalenus anticus.