320 KIDNEYS AND URETER. abundantly supplied with blood: it receives numerous branches from the splenic artery, which runs along its upper border ; some from the superior mesenteric, which lies beneath it, and others from the gastro-epiploica dextra. Its duct runs through it from end to end,''and opens into the back part of the descending portion of the duodenum, close to the opening of the bile duct. Sometimes the two ducts terminate by a common orifice; so that nature intends the fluids to mix. The use of the pancreatic fluid is to dissolve and form an emulsion with the fatty matters of the food. The liver, stomach, duodenum, pancreas, and spleen, should now be collectively removed. For this purpose it is necessary to cut through the ligaments of the liver, the venEB cavse hepatic^, and the branches of the celiac axis. These viscera, as well as the remainder of the intestinal canal, should be macerated m water, while-you examine all that is to be seen at the back of the abdomen; namely, the deep-seated muscles, the aorta and vena cava, the kidneys, the lumbar plexus of nerves, and the sympa- thetic nerve. , , • The kidneys are placed in the lumbar region, one on Kidneys and ^^^^ ^^^^ of the spine. They lie imbedded in more or less fat, on the quadratus lumborum and the psoas muscles pretty nelrly opposite the two lower dorsal and the two up;t UiLar'verteb; J On the top of each is a little body, hke ■I cocked hat, called the renal capsule. We have no difiiculty in acing the ureter, or excretory duct of the kidney. It descends almost v'ertically on the psoas muscle, enters the peh.. over h division of the common iliac artery, and empties itself mto the lowe part of the bladder, after running obliquely through its coats. Eemember that in front of the right kidney is he liver, the as- cen"olon, and the vertical portion of the duodenum ; m front of theleft, the descending colon, part of the spleen and pancre^. This explins how it is that a renal abscess or a calculus is some- times evacuated by stool.* . Th. p^xMt, o. fte colo. to ti. ™.e» il™ ... . P»"l. ^^'^^^l ^