DISSECTION OF THE HEART. 113 centre of the diaphragm, makes a slight curve to the left before it opens into the auricle: and the reason of this is that the stream of its blood may be directed towards the auriculo-ventricular opening. The orifice of each vena cava is nearly circular, and is surrounded by a few muscular fibres continuous with those of the auricle. The left wall of the auricle is formed by the " septum auricu- larum." Upon this septum, above the orifice of the vena cava inferior, is an oval depression {fossa ovalis), bounded by a pro- minent border (annulus ovalis), (fig. 22). This depression marks the position of the opening (foramen ovale) through which the auricles communicated in foetal life. After birth this opening closes; but if the closure is imperfect, the stream of dark blood in the right auricle mixes with the florid blood in the left, and occa- sions what is called "morbus coiruleus.'''' Extending from the anterior margin of the vena cava inferior to the anterior border of the fossa ovalis, is seen in young subjects a thin fold of the lining membrane of the heart: it is the remains of what was, in foetal life, the Eustachian* valve. The direction of this valve in the foetus is such that it directs the current of blood from the inferior cava towards the foramen ovale. It is a valve of considerable size in the foetus, and contains a few muscular fibres ; but after birth it gi-adually disappears, being no longer required.' To the left of this — that is, between the remains of the Eustachian valve and the auriculo-ventricular opening —is the orifice of the coronary vein; it is covered by a semicircular valve, called «valvula Thebesii." Here and there upon the posterior wall of ^e auricle may be observed minute openings called "foramina Thebesii:" they are the orifices of small veins returning blood from the substance of the heart. Lastly, to the left and rather in front of the orifice of the vena cava inferior is the auriculo-ventri- cular opening. It is oval in form, and admits the passage of three fingers. ^ Eight yen- '''^^^ ^^^^^^ about twO-thirds of tricle. the upper surface of the heart. To examine its interior a triangular flap should be raised from its anterior walh * Eustaeliius, Libell. de yena aine pari.