68 8PHEN0-MAXILLARY REGION. the aponeurosis is separated from the muscle near the zygoma hy fat. The absorption of this fat, and the wasting of the muscle, occasion the falling in of the temple in the aged and those ema- ciated by disease. This muscle arises from the temporal fossa and the mS^^ temporal aponeurosis. It is inserted into the inner sm- face and anterior border of the coronoid process. The fibres of this muscle converge from their wide origin, pass under the zygomatic arch, and terminate upon their tendon, the outer surface of which is partially concealed by the insertion of those fibres which come from the temporal aponeurosis; remove them, and you will see how admirably this tendon is adapted to the muscle, and radiates into its substance like the ribs of a fen. Thus the whole force of the muscle is collected into one focus.* ^ Eemove with a small saw the zygomatic arch ; this mil expose the coronoid process of the jaw, the insertion of region. temporal muscle, and the loose fat which surrounds it Now saw through the coronoid process in a direction downwards and forwards, so as to include the insertion of the temporal muscle ; turn it upwards with the muscle without injuring the subjacent vessels and nerves. Then ask your demonstrator how much of the neck and ramus of the jaw should be removed in order to obtam a o-ood view of the spheno-maxillary region. In the spheno-maxillary region we have to examine the two pterygoid muscles, the internal maxillary artery, and the inferior maxillary nerve.. i . i This muscle arises by two heads, one from the external External ^.g^^^o-oid plate, the other from the great wing of the pterygoid. I -^^^ i^to the neck of the jaw, and sUo-htly into the inter-articular fibro-cartilage of the joint of the jaw. The object of the insertion of some of its fibres into the inter- * The power possessed by the muscles which close the jaw is quite ^f^;^^^, Haller (eW. Phys. Ub. xi. sect. 2, ยง 26) mentions that one Thomas Topham Sed Jth his lowe'r jaw a table six feet in length, ^vith 60 lbs. attached to .ts low r encl. It is riot uncommon to see mountebanks balance on theu-chins a ladder so heavy that they can liai-dly lift it.