117 DISSECTION OF THE HEART, and receives the pulmonaiy veins, two on either side, which return the purified blood from the lungs. From its upper and left side the auricular appendage projects towards the right, curling over the root of the pulmonary artery. The auricle should be opened by a horizontal incision proceeding from one pulmonary vein to another: from this a second should be made into the appendix. Its interior is smooth and flat, excepting in the appendix, which con- tains the " musculi pectinati." Notice the openings of the four pulmonary veins. Upon the septum between the auricles is a depression indicating the remains of the foramen ovale. At the lower and front part of the auricle is the auriculo-ventricular opening. It is oval, with its long axis nearly transverse, and in the adult admits the passage of two fingers. This occupies the left border, and forms the apex Sder^'" heart. One-third of it only is seen on the upper surface. To examine the interior, raise a triangular flap from its front wall, with the apex of the flap below. Then ob- serve that it is about three times as thick as that of the right ventricle, and that this thickness gradually diminishes towards the apex. The interior of the left ventricle is so much like that of the right that one need not describe it in detail. Observe that the auriculo-ventricular valve consists of only two principal flaps : hence^ its name "mitral" or "bicuspid." The lai-ger of these flaps is placed between the aortic and auricular orifices. There are only two " musculi papillares; " one attached to the anterior, the other to the posterior surface of the ventricle. They are thicker, and their " cordcB tendinece" stronger than those of the right ventricle, but their plan is precisely similar. From the upper and back part of the ventricle a smooth passage leads to the orifice of the aorta. This orifice is placed rather in front and to the right side of the auriculo-ventricular opening; but the two orifices are close together, and only separated by the larger flaiD of the mitral valve. The aortic orifice is guarded by three semi- lunar valves, of which the arrangement, structure, and mode of action are precisely like those of the pulmonary artery. Their iramework is proportionately stronger, consistently with the I .3