390 CONTENTS OF FEMALE PELVIS. into the vagina more than the front; but this merely arises from the vagina being attached higher up behind it. Supposing that the vagina were entirely cut away from the cervix, the anterior lip of the uterus would appear to project a trifle more than the pos- terior. For this reason, as well as on account of the natural slope forwards of the uterus, the front lip is always felt first in an exami- nation per vaginam.* The length, however, and the general ap- pearance of the vaginal part of the cervix varies according to the age of the individual, and it is also considerably altered by partu- rition. In the adult -virgin it is smooth, plump, round, and projects about half an inch : its mouth is a small transverse fissure. But after the stretching which it undergoes in labour, one cannot wonder that it loses its plumpness, that the lips become flaccid and fissm-ed, and the mouth larger than it was before.t The uterus must now be laid open by a longitudinal incision, to examine its interior. The first thing that attracts attention, is the great thickness of the walls. Before you come into the proper ca%aty in the body of the uterus, you have to slit up a long narrow channel which leads up into it through the neck. This channel is not of the same dimensions throughout: it is dilated in the middle, and gradually narrows towards each end. The upper end, which leads into the body of the uterus, is called " os internum;' the lower end, which leads into the vagina, " os externum:' The pas- sage itself is called the cavity or the neck. It remains unchanged in pregnancy for some time after the cavity in the body has ex- * THs is the only way to reconcUe the discrepancies one meets with in anatomical works respecting the comparative length of the Ups of the uterus Kx-aus Weber, Buseh, and others, say the anterior is the longer; Mayer, Meckel, Quaan, and others, *7lnstlnces are recorded in which the neck'of the uterus is pretematurally long. It hal been known to project, even as much as an inch and a half H.to the va^. In such cases it graduaUy tapers, and terminates in a very nai-row mouth. This is said to be one call of sterility, and it is ^^^ora^'^^'^e.^ e.ti... to M.U^^^^^^ cut off a portion of the neck. In support of this opinion, it is s ated tl^^* ^upuj tr n was onee consulted by a lady on account of barrenness; finding the neck f f^, unusuaUy elongated, he removed a portion of it, and in due time the lady became pregnant. (Hyrtl, Handbuch der top. Anatom.)