466 SOLE or THE FOOT. and proceed forwards to the toes.* The central one is the flexor brevis digitorum; the two lateral are the abductor pollicis, and the abductor minimi digiti. This muscle arises from the inner and back part of AMiictor calcis, and from the internal annular ligament. polllClS. ' 1 J Its origin arches over the plantar vessels and nei-ves in their passage into the sole. The fibres run along the inner side of the sole, and terminate on a tendon which is inserted into the inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, through the medium of the internal sesamoid bone. Abductor "^^^^ muscle has a very strong origin from the under- minim i surface of the os calcis; also from its external tubercle, digiti. Some of its fibres terminate on a tendon which is inserted into the proximal end of the metatarsal bone of the little toe; but the greater part run on to a tendon which is inserted into the outer side of the first phalanx of the little toe. This muscle arises from the under-surface of the os J? iGxor brevis digi- calcis, between the two preceding. It passes forwards torum. divides into four tendons, which run superficial to those of the long flexor. Cut open the sheath which contains them; follow them on to the toes, and you will find that each bifurcates over the first phalanx, so as to allow the long tendon to pass; . then the two slips, re-uniting, are inserted into each side of the second phalanx. In fact, the same arrangement prevails as in the fingers. The three superficial muscles should be reflected from their insertions only, so that they can be replaced if necessary. This done, you bring into view the plantar vessels and nerves, the long flexor tendon of the great toe, and that of the other toes, as well as the flexor accessorius. Tendon of the Tracing this tendon into the sole, you find flexor longiis that an accessory muscle is attached to it. The digitorum. muscle arises from the inner side of the os calcis, Mu.sculus ac- • • r j.-u and has often a second tendmous ongm from the cessonus. * They are separated from each other by strong perpendicular partitions, proceeding from the fascia.