27 SUBMAXILLARY KEGION. tongue back again. When every part of the muscle acts, it draws down the whole tongue, and is therefore one of the chief muscles concerned in suction. The stylo-glossus arises from the apex of the styloid glossus process and the stylo-maxillary ligament, and is in- serted along the side of the tongue. This is a long and slender muscle. It runs outside the hyo- glossus nearly to the tip of the tongue. Its nerve comes from the hypoglossal. Its action is to retract the tongue, gypg The hypoglossal or ninth cerebral nerve, is the motor glossal nerve of the muscles of the tongue. It arises (by several roots) from the front of the medulla oblongata between the pyramid and the olive. It leaves the skull through the anterior condyloid foramen, and runs down obliquely between the internal carotid and the internal jugular vein. Just below the posterior belly of the digastricus, the nerve curves forwards over the occi- pital, both carotid, and the facial arteries; it then crosses the hyo- glossus muscle, and divides into branches which supply all the ' muscles of the tongue, namely, the stylo-glossiis, hyo-glossus, genio-hyo-glossus, lingualis, and the genio-hyoideus. As it curves round the occipital artery, the hypoglossal n. sends the " descendens noni " to the depressors of the os-hyoides, (page 11.) Besides this, it sends a separate nerve to the thyro-hyoideus. Wliile crossing the hyo-glossus, it communicates with the gustatory nerve. (Fig. 5.) The hjrpoglossal at its origin is purely a motor nerve. But soon after it leaves the skull, it receives communications from the first cervical nerve. These communications are important phy- siologically for two reasons : 1. They account for the hypoglossal nerve containing sensitive fibres: 2. They contribute the greater part of the filaments of the " descendens noni." Sublingual '^^^ sublingual gland lies immediately beneath the salivary mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. Itjshape gland. oblong, with the long axis, (about an inch and a half) directed from before backwards. It rests upon the upper surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle, and towards the mesial line it is in contact with the hyo-glossus and the genio-hyo-glossus.