435 FRONT OF THE THIGH. F F 2 muscles keep the side of the triangle always tight, and thereby prevent any compression of the vessels. Hunter's canal contains not only the femoral artery and vein, but also the internal saphenous nerve. The vein lies behind the artery, the nerve ^^S- 97. on its inner side, as shown in fig. 97. After an examination of the course and relations of the femoral artery, it is plain that a ligature can be placed around it, in the upper thii'd of the thigh, with com- parative facility; not so easily in the section through hunteb's middle third. The artery is tied for an cj^al. aneurism of the popliteal, just where the i. vastus intemus. , . T . . n r ji 2. Adductor longus. SartormS begins to overlap it for three 3. Aponeurosis thrown across. reasons :— 1, it is more accessible ; 2, the coats of the artery at this distance are less likely to be diseased; 3, the origin of the profunda is sufficiently far off to admit of the formation of a coagulum. An incision, beginning about three inches below the crural arch, should be made about three inches over the line of the artery. The muscular fascia should be divided over a director to the same extent. Then, by gently drawing aside the inner border of the sartorius, we discover the artery enclosed in its sheath with the vein. An opening should be made into the sheath just sufficient to admit the passage of the aneurismal needle, which should be turned round the artery from within outwards. The nerves to be avoided are.— the long saphenous, which runs along the outer side of the artery, and the cutaneous nerves which cross obliquely over it.* Having already traced the superficial branches of the femoral artery in the gi-oin, namely, the superficial epigastric, pudic, and circumflexa ilii, (p. 412,) we pass on now to the profunda. * The nerve (sometimes called tlie short saphenous) which supplies the vastus in- temus is so far out of the way, that it could not be included in the ligature, except by a very careless operator.