313 BRANCHES OF ABDOMINAL AORTA. the great omentum becomes adherent to the arch of the colon; and thus the proper sac of the omentum is closed. But the cavity behind the stomach is permanent. Brandies of ^^^^ ^^^^ subject should be the examination of the the abdo- arteries which supply the viscera. The aorta enters the abdomen between the pillars of the diaphragm, and then descending in front of the spine, divides opposite the fourth lumbar vertebra into the two common iliac arteries. In this course it gives off its branches in the following order (fig. 61) : — 1. The phrenic, for the supply of the diaphragm. 2. The cceliac axis, a short thick trunk which immediately subdivides into three branches for the supply of the stomach, the liver, and the spleen. 3. The superior mesenteric, for the supply of all the small intes- tines and the upper half of the large. 4. 5. The supra-renal and the o^enal arteries. 6. The spermatic, for the testicles in the male, and the ovaries in the female. 7. The inferior mesenteric, for the supply of the lower half of the large intestine. 8. The lumbar, a series of branches, analogous to the inter- costals, for the supply of the back part of the abdomen. Now we shall trace these branches throughout in such order as is most convenient. Let us take the caeliac axis first. To dissect this artery and its branches the liver must be well raised, as in fig. 62, and a layer of peritoneum removed from the gastro-hepatic omentum. You will soon find that there is a close network of very tough tissue about all the visceral branches of the aorta. This tissue consists almost entirely of plexuses of nerves, derived from the sympathetic system. Of all these plexuses, the largest surrounds the cseliac axis Uke a ring. It is called the solar plexus * or, more appropriately, the brain of the abdomen, for it contains' a large quantity of ganglionic matter. From this, as from a root, other secondary plexuses branch off, and twine round the arteries; * This plexus IS formed by the junction of the two semilunar gangUa described in the Dissection of the Thorax, p. 106.