510 DISSECTION OF THE BEAIN. cerebellum. Traced forwards, this eminence terminates in a tongue-like body, called the "uvula;"* traced backwards, it ter- minates in a small conical projection, called the '^pyramid." Each hemisphere presents on its under surface certain secondary lobes, to which fanciful names have been applied. That portion which immediately overlays the side of the medulla oblongata is called the " tonsil" (amygdala) : at the anterior part of each hemisphere, near the middle line, is a little lobe called the " floc- culus," or pneumo-gastric lobe. Appearance examine the internal structure of the cerebellum, of the a longitudinal section should be made through the interior. thickest part of one of the hemispheres. There is then seen in the centre a large nucleus of white matter, from which branches radiate into the grey substance in all directions. Each of these branches corresponds to one of the plates of the cere- bellum, and from it other smaller branches proceed and again subdivide. This racemose appearance of the white matter in the substance of the grey has been likened to the branches of a tree deprived of its leaves, and is generally known as the " arbor vitce," it is a beautiful contrivance for bringing an extensive surface of the two kinds of nervous matter into connection with each other. In the centre of the white nucleus of each hemi- Corpus rhom- , . , . -i i i • t boideum. sphere IS an oval space, circumscribed by a zigzag ime of grey matter. To this the name " corpus dentatum or rhomboideum " has been given. It is displayed both by a vertical and by a horizontal section. The cerebellum is connected with the cerebro- Connections of gpi^^l axis as follows : — With the medulla oblongata, cerebelluin. „ . „ p by means of the restiform or sensory tracts oi nervous matter: these are called its inferior crura; — with the cerebrum, by means of the processus a cerebello ad testes : these are called its superior crura. The transverse fibres of the pons constitute the middle crura. * From either side of tlie uvula may be traced a tbin valve-like fold of wHte sub- stance, whicb proceeds in a semicirqular direction to the little •pneumogastric lobes. These folds are called the semicircular valves, or " valves of Tarim," by whom they wero fii'st pointed out. (Advers. Anat. prima: Paris, 1750.)