2 EXTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN. It is also a muscle of expression* It is supplied with nerves by the cervical plexus, and by the cervical branch of the facial nerve. Eeflect the platysma. Beneath it lies the general investment of the neck, called the " cerviccd fascia." Upon this fascia we trace the superficial branches of the - cervical plexus of nerves, the external jugular vein, and a smaller vein in front called the anterior jugular. These superficial veins are so variable in size and course, that a general description only is applicable. External '^^^ external jugular vein is formed within the sub- jugular stance of the parotid gland, by the junction of the tem- poral and internal maxillary veins. After receiving the transverse facial and posterior auricular veins, it appears at the lower border of the gland, crosses obliquely over the sterno- mastoid muscle (fig. 1), and joins the subclavian vein. A line drawn from the angle of the jaw to the middle of the clavicle would indicate its course. To trace the vein, during life, press upon it just above the clavicle; but do not be sm-prised if you fail to find it; it is sometimes wanting. Near the angle of the jaw the external jugular vein communi- cates by a large branch with the internal jugular : hence bleeding from the external jugular relieves congestion of the brain. Before its termination the external jugular vein generally re- * If the entire muscle be permanently contracted it may occasion wry-neck, though distoi-tion from such a cause is an exceedingly rare occurrence. A case in point is related by Mr. Gooch (Chirurg. Works), in which a complete cure was effected, after the failure of aU ordinary means of relief, by the division of the platysma a little below the jaw. The platysma myoides belongs to a class of muscles called " cuiancoits," from their ofl&ce of moving the skin. There are not many in man, except upon the neck and face, and there is a little one (jpalmaris brevis) in the palm of the hand. To under- stand their use thoroughly we must refer to the lower orders of animals, in whom they fulfil very important functions, by moving not only the skin, but also its append- ages. Por instance, by muscles of this kind the hedgehog, porcupine, and animals of that family can roll themselves up and erect their quiUs : we are all familiar with the broad " panfiiculus carnosus " on the sides of herbivorous quadrupeds, which enables them to twitch their skins, and thus rid themselves from insects. In birds, too, these cutaneous muscles are extremely numerous, each feather having appropriate muscles to move it.