STRUCTURE OP THE STOMACH. 405 ramifications of the arteries. The tubes contain a few nucleated cells, but chiefly minute granules. The central part is of a very dark brown colour, and so soft in texture that one might mis- take it for a cavity. It appears to consist almost entirely of a plexus of minute veins.* Of late years, the minute structure and functions of the renal capsules have been much investigated, in consequence of the dis- covery, made by Dr. Addison, of the close relation which exists between disease in these bodies and a brown discoloration of the skin. But their precise function is still unknown. Stomach '^^^ alimentary canal is composed of three coats, dif- AND iNTEs- fering in structure, and connected together by cellular tissue. First, is the serous or peritoneal coat, described at p. 307. Secondly, under the serous is a muscular coat, upon which the chief strength of the canal depends. It consists of two distinct strata of fibres; the outer stratum is longitudinal, the inner circular. This arrangement not only makes the bowel stronger, but regulates its peristaltic action; for the longitudinal fibres, by their contraction, tend to shorten and straighten the tube, while the circular fibres contract upon and propel its contents to greater advantage. Lastly, is the internal or mucous lining. This is the most complicated of the three, for it presents different cha- racters in difi"erent parts, according to the functions which it has to perform. Stomacli "^^^ stomach should be distended with air, that we may see its size and shape. Its size will vary in different in- stances, according to the habits of the individual; and its shape, for want of a better comparison, is likened to the bag of a bag- pipe. The great bulge of the organ on the left of the 03sophagus, is called the oesophageal or the cardiac end; while the smaller part, at which the food passes out, is termed the pyloric end. Just before the pylorus, the stomach bulges into a pouch, called " antrum pylori." It is analogous to that stomach in the rumi- nant in which the runnet is found. Again, we speak of the upper » Consult " A Physiological Essay on the Thymus Gland," by Simon, London, 1845. D D .3