SOLE OF THE FOOT. 467 outer side of the bone. Its fibres run straight forwards, and are inserted into the fibular side of the tendon, so that their ac- tion is not only to assist in bending the toes, but to make the common tendon pull in a straight line towards the heel, which, fi'om its oblique direction, it would not do without this accessory muscle. The common tendon then divides into four, one for each of the four outer toes. These run in the same sheath with the short tendons, and after passing through them are inserted into the base of the ungual phalanx. Eespecting the manner in which the tendons ai"e confined by fibrous sheaths, and lubricated by a synovial lining, what was said of the fingers (p. 239) applies equally to the toes. ^ . ^ These fom* little muscles are placed between the long flexor tendons. Each, excepting the most inter- nal, arises from the adjacent sides of two tendons, proceeds forwards, and then sinking between the toes, terminates in an aponeurosis which joins the extensor tendon on the dorsum of the toes. Con- cerning their use refer to p. 242. Now trace the long flexor tendon of the great toe. From the groove in the astragalus it runs along the groove in the lesser tuberosity of the OS calcis, and then straight to the base of the last phalanx of the great toe. Observe that it crosses the long flexor tendon of the toes, and that the two tendons are connected by an oblique slip ; so that we cannot bend the other toes without the great toe. f The posterior tibial artery, having entered the sole aeteh:^. between the origins of the abductor pollicis, divides into the external and internal plantar arteries. The internal plantar artery is very small: it passes forwards between the abductor pollicis and the flexor brevis digitorum to the base of the great toe, where it terminates in small inosculations with the digital arteries. Its chief use is to supply the muscles between which it runs. The external plantar is the principal artery of the sole, and alone forms the plantar arch. It runs obliquely outwards across the sole towards the base of the fifth metatarsal bone; then, sinking deep from the surface, it bends inwards across the bases of