CONTENTS OF TEMALE PELVIS. 394 It also explains what is said to have taken place, namely, the escape of the water in di-opsy through the Fallopian tubes. The ovaries are the most important parts of the female OvAMEs. generative organs, since they contain the ova or the germs. They were called by Gralen " testes muliebres." We have already seen that they are suspended to the back of the broad ligament of the uterus by a short peritoneal fold, which transmits their proper vessels and nerves: besides this, they are connected to the uterus by a thin cord, called the ligament of the ovary. They are of an oblong form, with the long axis transverse, and a little smaller than the testicles. In females who have not often menstru- ated, their surface is smooth and even: in after life it becomes wrinkled and scarred by the repeated escape of the ova. The ovary has'nearly the same coverings as the testicle. There is first the serous coat, and beneath it the proper fibrous coat, or what is called the " tunica alhnginea" If a section be made through the ovary, you find that it contains transparent vesicles, bedded in a soft fibrous-looking tissue, remarkably vascular when properly injected, called the " stroma'' of the ovary. The transparent vesicles just alluded to are the ovisacs, or " Graafian " * vesicles. They vary in number from eight to twelve, and in size from that of a pin's head to a pea. The smallest are near the centre; but as they advance towards maturity, they gra- dually approach the surface, increasing at the same time in size. They contain a transparent albuminous fluid. If after puncturing one of the larger vesicles you examine its contents under a micro- scope, you find suspended in ft the true ovum or germ.f It is this minute body which, escaping from the Graafian vesicle on the surface of the ovary, is grasped by the Fallopian-tube and con-" veyed into the uterus. The ruptured vesicle is converted soon afterwards into a yellowish-looking mass called " coripxis luteum;' which persists for a while, and degenerates afterwards into a small fibrous cicatrix. * So caUed after De Graaf, a Dutch anatomist, who discovered them in 1672, and believed they were the true ova. t This was fii'st distinctly pointed out by Von Baer in 1827.