12STEKOSSEOUS MUSCLES. 269 The third and fourth, occupying the corresponding metacarpal spaces, are inserted, the one into the ulnar side of the middle, the other into the ulnar side of the ring finger. If an imaginary line be drawn longitudinally through the middle finger, as represented by the dotted line in fig, 48 we shall find that all the dorsal interosseous muscles are abductors from that line; consequently, they separate the fingers from each other. Palmar i I'equires a careful examination to distinguish this set teroTseo^." muscles, because the dorsal muscles protrude with them into the palm. They are smaller than the dorsal, and each arises from the lateral surface of only one metacarpal bone, that, namely, connected with the finger into which the muscle is inserted (fig. 49). They terminate in small tendons, which pass between the metacarpal joints of the fingers, and ai-e inserted, like the dorsal muscles, into the sides of the first phalanges and the extensor tendons on the back of the fingers. The first palmar interosseous muscle arises from the ulnar side of the second metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the ulnar side of the index finger. The second and third arise, the one from the radial side of the fourth, the other from the radial side of the fifth metacarpal bone, and are inserted into the same sides of the ring and little fingers. The fourth interosseous muscle is the adductor poUicis. The palmar interosseous muscles are all adductors to an imaoi- nary hne drawn through the middle finger (fig. 49) They are therefore, the opponents of the dorsal interosseous muscles, and move the fingers towards each other. DISSECTION OF THE LIGAMENTS. ,Too.T .E- ^""^ ^^^^^^^ articulates with a shallow T^.-EEN THE excavatiou on the upper and outer part of the sternum ' '''' f ^ °f -^-ticular surfaces of the bones, il STEBNUM. plain that the security of the joint must depend unon the strength of its ligaments. There are two synovial membranes, and an intervening fibro-cartilage.