172 DISSECTION OF THE EIGHTH PAIR OF NERVES AT THE BASE OF THE SKULL. In this dissection we propose to examine the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric, and spinal accessory nerves in the jugular fossa, and the little ganglia and nerves belonging to them in this part of their course. These are very minute points of anatomy, and can- not be followed out with success unless the nerves have been previously hardened by spirit, and the bones softened by acid. The first thing to be done is to remove the outer wall of the jugular fossa. ' This nerve passes through a separate tube of dura ?^°'e°a?^*" mater in front of that for the other two nerves. Look- rynge . _^ ^^^^ interior of the skull we observe that it is situated immediately in front and rather to the inner side of the jugular fossa. In its passage thi-ough the fossa, the nerve presents two gan- glionic enlargements, named respectively the jugular and the petrous. The jugular ganglion (ganglion superius) has been particularly filament from the temporo-auricular nerve. Its communication with the sympathetic is estabUshed by filaments which proceed from the "nervi moUes " round the inter- nal maxillajy artery. It communicates also with the facial and glosso-pharjoigeal nerves by a branch commonly caUed the lesser petrosal nerve. This nerve passes backwards either through the foramen ovale or the foramen spinosum, or through a sman hole between the two, and runs beneath the dura mater along a nrmute groove on the petrous bone (outside the great petrosal nerve). Here it divides into two filaments, one of which joins the facial nerve in the aqueductus Eallopu, the other joins the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal. These nerves are exceedin^y difficult to trace, not only on account of their minute size, but also because they frequently run in canals in the petrous portion of the temporal bone._ _ The otic ganglion appears to send a branch to the tensor tympani and to the cir- cumflexus palati muscles. • i » it It may fairly be asked why Arnold called the gangUon "otic or auricular. He states that by means of a filament from the lesser petrosal it commimicates with tue auditory nervo. But tHs must be doubtful, to say the least, since uo other anatomist has, so far as wo know, traced any conuectiou of the kind.