SUBMAXILLARY REGION. 20 Beclard used to relate in his lectures the following occurrence : — A student had fallen into the Seine, and was nearly drowned. As he Avas recovering very gradually, some kind friends attempted to accelerate the process by making an opening into the trachea. In so doing they unhappily wounded the vena innominata. Blood poured into the trachea, and the result was instantly fatal. Some siu-geons advocate the practice of dividing the isthmus vertically, in order to get at the trachea beneath it. Let such surgeons remember that an artery, which would bleed freely if divided, generally runs along the upper edge of the isthmus. The artery is a branch of the superior thyroid, and inosculates with a corresponding branch on the opposite side. Whoever paj^s attention to this subject in the dissecting-room will soon be convinced of the fact, that not only large veins but large arteries occasionally cross the crico-thyroid membrane as well as the trachea. Every winter session convinces me more and more of the necessity of cutting cautiously down to, and fairly ex- posing the air tube, before we venture to open it. When the platysma and the cervical fascia have been Dissection removed from their attachment to the iaw, the most of the , _ J ' submaxil- conspicuous object is the submaxillary gland. Ob- ^n^or serve that the fascia forms for it a complete case. the digas- Beneath the jaw we find several absorbent glands, of a"gle^" which some lie superficial to the salivary gland, others beneath it. These glands receive the absorbents of the face, the tonsils, and the tongue. A little dissection will expose a muscle called the digastricus, consisting of two distinct portions connected by a tendon. They form, with the body of the jaw, a triangle, of which we propose to examine the contents. And first of the digastric muscle itself. D" "Ifetricus "^^^ digastricus arises from the digastric fossa of temporal bone, and is inserted close to the symphysis of the lower jaw. .Raise the submaxillary gland to see the intermediate tendon of the digastricus, the angle which it forms, and how it is fastened