280 CARPAL JOINT OF THE THUMB. present a slightly concave surface, which articulates with the scaphoid. In this way a joint capable of flexion and extension only is formed between the upper and lower row. It is secured by anteri or, posterior, and two lateral ligaments. The anterior ligament consists of strong ligamentous fibres, which pass obliquely from the bones of the upper to those of the lower row. The posterior ligament consists of oblique and transverse fibres, which connect the dorsal surfaces of the bones of the upper with the lower row. The lateral ligaments connect, externally, the scaphoid and trapezium ; internally, the cuneiform and unciform bones (fig. 52). Divide the ligaments, in order to see the manner in which the carpal bones articulate with each other. Their surfaces are crusted with cartilage, and provided with a common synovial membrane. This membrane expends, superiorly, between the three bones of the upper row, so as to form two culs-de-sac; inferiorly, it is prolonged into the joint between the carpal and the second and third meta- carpal bones. The trapezium presents a cartilaginous surface, con- Jw^n^'tea- vex in the transverse, and concave in the antero-poste- PBzruM AND . (direction, (i. e. somewhat saddle-shaped), which THE FIRST ±i.\jj- ^ y \ r i.! i- METACARPAi articulates with a cartilaginous surface on ttie meta- carpal bone of the thiimb, concave and convex in just the opposite directions. This peculiar adaptation of the two sur- faces permits the several movements of the thumb, viz., flexion, extension, abduction, and adduction; consequently cii-cumduction. Thus we are enabled to oppose the thumb to all the fingers. The ioint is surrounded by a fibrous capsule sufficiently loose to admit free motion, and stronger on the dorsal than on the palmar aspect. The security of the joint is also increased by the muscles which . surround it. It has a separate synovial membrane. The metacarpal bones of the fingers are connected to SIoIepa. the second row of the carpal bones by ligaments upon JOINTS. ^^g-^ palmar and their dorsal surfaces. The dorsal ligaments are the stronger. The metacarpal bone of the fore-finger has two; one from the trapezium, another from the trapezoid bone. That of the middle finger has also two, proceedmg from the os magnum, and the os trapezoides. That of the nng