jacobson's nerve. 174 the lower part of the jugular fossa. It is oval, and about ^ of an inch long. It is connected by filaments to the pneumo-gastric and sympathetic nerves, and it gives'off the tympanic or Jacobson's nerve.* This tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal ascends through a minute canal in the bony ridge which separates the carotid from the jugular fossa, to the inner wall of the tympanum, and terminates in several filaments. One traverses a bony canal to the plexus of sympathetic nerves round the carotid artery; a second goes to the fenestra ovalis ; a third to the fenestra rottmda; a fourth is distributed to the mucous membrane of the Eustachian tube; a fifth ascends in front of the fenestra ovalis, and joins the great petrosal nerve in the hiatus Fallopii; a sixth takes nearly a similar course, and under the name of the lesser petrosal nerve proceeds along the front surface of the petrous bone to the otic ganglion. Thus it would appear that this tjnnpanic branch is distributed to the mucous membrane of the tympanum and the Eustachian tube, and that it communicates with the spheno-palatine ganglion through the great petrosal nerve, and with the otic ganglion through the lesser petrosal. This nerve leaves the cranium with the nervus acces- g^steS sorius, through a canal in the dura mater behind that nerve. ^j^g glosso-pharyngeal. At its entrance into the canal it is composed of a number of separate filaments ; but these soon become imbedded in a small ganglion. This ganglion, first described by Arnold f, is about j\ of an inch in diameter. It is connected by filaments to the sympathetic and to the petrous gan- glion of the glosso-pharyngeal. But its most singular branch is one named by Arnold "the auricular," because it is distributed to the pinna of the ear. This branch enters a minute foramen in the jugular fossa, near the styloid process, and then proceeds through the substance of the bone to the aqueductus Fallopii, where it divides into two branches; one joins the facial nerve, the other passes to the outside of the head through a canal between the front * This nerve, though commonly called Jacobson's, was fuUy described by t Der Kopftheil. des veget. Nei-ven Systems. Heidelberg, 1831.