LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE. 477 on his shoulders to carry his load with greater ease ; they equalise pressure and prevent shocks. They are thickest at the cir- cumference, and gradually shelve off to a thin margin: thus they fit in nicely between the bones, and adapt a convex surface to a flat one, as shown in fig. 106. Their form is suited to the condyles; the inner being oval, the outer more circular. The ends of each are firmly attached to the pits in front and behind the spine of the tibia; but the ends of the internal one are attached further from the spine than the external. Besides this, the cartilages are mutually connected in front by a thin " transverse " ligament; and their circumference is attached round the head of the tibia by fibrous tissue (called the " coronary " ligament), yet not so closely as to restrict their range of motion.* The action of the ligaments of the knee-joint is a t^lm£^^ study of itself. Their respective points of attachment are such, that when the joint is extended, all the liga- ments are tight, to prevent extension beyond the perpendicular; thus muscular force is economised. But when the joint is bent the ligaments are relaxed, enough to admit a slight rotatory move- ment of the tibia. This movement is more free in an outward than an inward direction; and it is effected, not by rotation of the tibia on its own axis, but a rotation of the outer head Fig. 108. round the inner. Eotation outwards is produced by the biceps; rotation inwards by the popliteus. It is curious tha,t the crucial ligaments, though placed inside the joint, answer the same purposes that the coronoid process and the olecranon do, in the construction of the elbow. They make the tibia slide properly for- wards and backwards. The anterior, especially limits extension; the posterior, flexion. They not only pre- vent dislocation in front or behind, but they prevent * Of the two cartDages the external has the greater freedom of motion, because in rotation of the knee the outer side of the tibia moves more than the inner. Conse- quently, it is not in any way connected to the lateral Ugament; so far from this, it is separated from it by the tendon of the popliteus, of which the play is facilitated' by a bursa communicatiaig freely with the joint. For this reason the external cartilage is more liable to dislocation.