234 DISSECTION or THE PALM OIT THE HAND. Examine any one of these four portions of the fascia, and"you will find that it splits into two strips which embrace the corre- sponding flexor tendons, and are intimately connected with the transverse metacarpal ligament. The effect of this is that the flexor tendons of each finger are kept in place in the palm, by a fibrous ring. Between the four divisions of the palmar fascia the digital vessels and nerves emerge, and descend in a line with the clefts between the fingers. In the hands of mechanics, in whom the palmar fascia is usually very strong, we find that slips of it are lost in the skin at the lower part of the palm, and also for a short distance along the sides of the fingers. The chief use of the palmar fascia is to protect the vessels and nerves from pressure when anything is grasped in the hand. It also confines the flexor tendons in their proper place. Between the interdigital folds of the skin, we find aponeurotic fibres to strengthen them, constituting what are called the trans- verse ligaments of the fingers. They form a continuous ligament , across the lower part of the palm, in front of the digital vessels and nerves. Now turn down the palmar fascia towards the fingers, and you will expose the vessels, nerves, and tendons in the palm. The vessels lie above the nerves, and the tendons still deeper. There is an abundance of loose cellular tissue to allow the free play of the tendons. When suppuration takes place in the palm, it is seated in this tissue. Reflect for a moment, what mischief is likely to ensue. The matter cannot get to the surface through the dense palmar fascia, or on the back of the hand ; it wiU therefore runup under the annular ligament, and make its way deep amongst the tendons of the forearm. This small cutaneous muscle is situated on the mner Palmaris gj^je of the palm. It arises from the inner edge of the central palmar fascia, and terminates in the skin on the inner side of the palm. Its use is to support the pad on the inner edge of the palm : it acts powerfully as we gi-asp; it raises the edge of the palm and hollows it, forming the « cup of Diogenes."