MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 182 The action of the splenius, taken as a whole, is to draw the head and the upper cervical vertehrse towards its own side: so far, it co-operates with the opposite sterno-mastoid muscle. When the splenii of opposite sides contract, they extend the cervical portion of the spine, and keep the head erect. The permanent contraction of a single splenius may occasion " wry neck." It is necessary to be aware of this, otherwise one might suppose the opposite sterno- mastoid to be affected, considering that the appearance of the distortion is alike in either case. The mass of muscle which occupies the vertebral Erector groove on either side of the spine, is, collectively, called sprnse. ttgrector spinffi," since it coimteracts the tendency of the trunk to fall forwards. We observe that it is thickest and strongest at that part of the spine where it has the greatest weight to support, namely, in the lumbar region; and that its thickness gradually decreases towards the top of the spine. The dense and shining aponeurosis which covers the f^^f'' erector spinse is called "fascia lumborum." Observe lumborum. ^ J:^ , , r j^i •^• 4.„ +1,^ that it is attached to the crest of the ilium, to the spines of the lower dorsal, all the lumbar, and sacral vertebra. Its use is, not only to form a sheath for the erector spinse, but to give origin to the latissimus dorsi, the serratus posticus inferior,' the internal oblique and transverse muscles of the abdomen. If you make a vertical incision through it and reflect it, you will see that on the outer side of the erector spinse it is inseparably connected with the tendinous attachments of the internal oblique and transversalis to the transverse processes of the lumbar ver- The fascia lumborum having been reflected, we observe that the erector spinse arises tendinous from the sacrum and iHum and the spines of the lumbar vertebrae. From this extensive origin the muscular fibres ascend, at first as a single mass. Near the last nb, however, this mass divides into two; an outer, called the "sacro- lumhalis;" an inner, the " longissimus dorsi." These two portions should be followed up the back; and there is no difiiculty in doing so, because the division is indicated by a longitudinal groove, in