DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE FOEEAEM. 263 ai-m. The fibres terminate upon a strong broad tendon, which tra- verses a distinct groove on the back of the ulna, close to the styloid process, and is inserted into the carpal end of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Below the styloid process of the ulna, the tendon passes beneath the posterior annular ligament, over the back of the wrist, and is here contained in a very strong fibrous canal, which is attached to the back of the cuneiform, pisiform, and unciform bones, and is lined by a continuation from the synovial membrane in the groove of the ulna. The action of this muscle is to extend the hand, and incline it towards the ulnar side. In pronation of the forearm, the lower end of the ulna projects between the tendons of the extensor carpi ulnaris and the extensor minimi digiti. A subcutaneous bursa- is sometimes found above the bone in this situation. Anconeus "^^^^ ^^^^^ triangular muscle is situated at the outer and back part of the elbow. It is covered by a strong layer of fascia, derived from the tendon of the triceps, and appears like a continuation of that muscle. It arises tendinous from the posterior part of the external condyle of the humerus, and is inserted into the triangular surface on the upper fourth of the outer part of the ulna. Part of the under surface of the muscle is in contact with the capsule of the elbow-joint. Its action is to assist in extending the forearm. Deep seated ^^tach from the external condyle the extensor carpi muscles on radialis brevier, the extensor digitorum communis, the tteforiS. extensor minimi digiti, and extensor carpi ulnaris. Preserve the vessels and nerves which enter their under surface. The deep-seated muscles now exposed are,—1. The supinator radii brevis; 2. Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis; 3. Ex- tensor primi internodii pollicis; 4. Extensor secundi internodii pollicis; 5. Extensor proprius indicis or indicator. Supinator ^ embraces the upper third of the radius, radii brevis. It arises from the external lateral ligament of the elbow- joint, from the annular ligament surrounding the head of the radius, from an oblique ridge on the outer surface of the ulna below the msertion of the anconeus, and by fleshy fibres from a tri (3 4