STRUCTURE OP THE EYELIDS. 52 , . Tliis muscle has been particularly described by Tensor tarsi. . -,, i i j i Horner*, an American anatomist. It should be con- sidered not as a distinct muscle, but as a portion of the orbicularis. The best way to see Horner's muscle, is to cut perpendicularly through the middle of the upper and lower lids, and to evert the inner halves towards the nose. After removing the mucous membrane you will see this little muscle arising from the ridge on the lachrymal bone. It passes outwards and divides into two portions which are inserted into the upper and lower tarsal cartilages, close to the orifices of the lachrymal ducts. It is probable that the tensor tarsi draws backwards the open mouths of these ducts, so that they may absorb the tears at the inner angle of the eye. ' This arises from the superciliary ridge of the frontal Si'^S'' 'boi^e and is inserted into the under surface of the ^"'^'"'"^ ■ orbicularis oculi. It lies concealed beneath the orbi- cularis, and is the proper muscle of frowning. This is situated on the bridge of the nose, on each nST™''^''^' side of the mesial Une, and is regarded as a prolongation of the occipito-frontalis. It mingles with the fibres of the triangularis nasi, and its action is to elevate the skin of the nose; for instance, in the expression of surprise. The present being a fitting opportunity to examine the structure of the eyelids, let us postpone for the present the dissection of the remaining muscles of the face. Strtjctube of the Eyelids. — The eyelids are composed, of different tissues arranged in successive strata one beneath the other. There are — 1, the skin; 2, the orbicularis palpebrarum; 3, the expanded tendon of the levator palpebrse (in the upper lid only) ; 4, the tarsal cartilage ; 5, Meibomian glands; 6, mucous membrane. These structures are separated by areolax tissue, which for very good reasons never contains fat. The skin of the eyelids is remarkably smooth and delicate. It is abundantly supplied with sensitive nerves by branches of the fifth pair, namely, by the supra-orbital, supra-trochlear, infra- trochlearj lachrymal, and infra-orbital nerves. * PliUadelpUa Journal, Nov. 1824. But this muscle was accui-ately desa-ibcd by Roscnmiiller in his Handbuch der Anatomic. Leipzig, 1819.