PAROTID GLAND. 61 digastric muscles; behind, by the meatus auditorius and the mastoid process; in front, it lies over the ascending ramus of the jaw, and is prolonged for some distance over the masseter. It is separated from the submaxillary gland by the stylo-maxillary liga- ment ; sometimes the two glands are directly continuous. The superficial surface of the gland is flat, and covered by a strong layer of fascia, a continuation of the cervical fascia. It not only envelopes the whole gland in a common sheath, but sends down numerous partitions which form a frame-work for the indivi- dual lobes. The density of this sheath explains the pain caused by inflammation of the gland, the tardiness with which abscesses within it make their way to the surface, and the propriety of an early opening. The deep surface of the gland is irregular, and moulded upon the subjacent parts. Thus, it extends inwards between the neck of the jaw and the internal lateral ligament; it reaches the styloid process and the muscles attached to it, and sometimes penetrates deep enough to be in contact with the internal jugular vein. That portion of the gland which lies on the masseter muscle is called the " glandula soda parotidis." It varies in size in different cases. The greater part of it is situated above the parotid duct, into which it pours its secretion by one or two smaller ducts. The duct of the parotid gland (ductus Stenonis *), is thick and strong. In this respect it differs much from the duct of the sub- maxillary gland, which is less exposed to injury. It runs forwards over the masseter muscle, perforates the buccinator obliquely, and opens into the mouth opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. Near its termination it is crossed by the zygomaticus major and the facial vein. After perforating the buccinator, the duct passes for a short distance between the muscle and the mucous membrane. Its orifice is small and contracted when compared with the diameter of the rest of the duct, which will admit a crow- * Nio. Steiio, Dc glaudulis oris, &e. Liigcl. Bat. 1661.