266 DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE FOKEARM. interosseous artery. It sends a branch to the extensor carpi radialis brevier, and supplies the supinator brevis in passing through its substance. The supinator radii longus and the extensor carpi radialis longior are supplied by distinct branches from the musculo- spiral. The continuation of the posterior interosseous nerve descends beneath the tendons of the extensor digitorura communis to the back of the wrist. In this situation the nerve forms a kind of wano-liform enlargement, from which filaments are sent to the carpal and metacarpal joints. Trace the continuation of the radial artery over the St onThe external lateral ligament of the carpus, beneath the back of the extensor tendons of the thumb, to the upper part of the interval between the first and second metacarpal bones, where it sinks between the origin of the abductor indicis muscle, and entering the palm, forms the deep palmar arch. In this part of its course it is crossed by filaments of the radial nerve ; observe, also that the tendon of the extensor secundi internodu pollicis passes over it immediately before it sinks into the palm. It sup- plies the following small branches to the back of the hand: - a Posterior cm^al artery/.—This branch passes across the carpal bones, beneath the extensor tendons. It inosculates with the termination of the anterior interosseous artery, and sometimes mth a corresponding branch from the ulnar artery. The carpal artery sends off small branches, called the dorsal interosseous, which descend along the third and fourth interosseous spaces, beneath the extensor tendons, inosculating near the carpal ends of the meta- carpal bones with the perforating branches from the deep palmai h ' The dorsal interosseous artery of the second space is generally larger than the others. It descends over the second .^or^al inter- osseous muscle to the cleft between the middle fingers and terminates in small branches, some of which proceed along the back of the fingers, others inosculate with the palmar digital arteries. „ i r,f c. The dorsalinterosseousartmnj of the first space, ot