59 ARTERIES OF THE FACE. inner angle of tlie eye, where, much diminished in size, it inosculates Avith the terminal branch of the ophthalmic, a branch of the in- ternal carotid. In the first part of its course on the face, the facial artery is covered only by the platysma; above the corner of the mouth it is crossed by a few fibres of the orbicularis oris and the zygomatici; still higher it is covered by some of the fibres of the elevators of the upper lip and the nose. It lies successively upon the buccinator, levator anguli oris, and levator labii superioris muscles. In its course along the face it gives off the following branches: — The inferior coronary artery comes off near the angle of the mouth, runs tortuously along the lower lip, between the mucous membrane and the orbicularis muscle, and inosculates with its fellow. The superior coronary proceeds along the upper lip close to the mucous membrane, and inosculates with its fellow; thus a complete arterial circle is formed round the mouth. These arteries can be felt in one's own person pulsating on the inner side of the lip, not far from the free border. From this circle numerous branches pass off to the papillae of the lips, and the labial glands. The superior coronary gives off a small branch (artery of the septum) which ascends along the septum to the apex of the nose. The lateral artery of the nose, a branch of considerable size, arises opposite the ala nasi, and ramifies upon the external surface of the nose. The angular artery, which may be regarded as the termina- tion of the facial, inosculates on the inner side of the tendo oculi with the ophthalmic. The facial artery supplies numerous branches to the muscles of the face, and inosculates with the transversalis faciei, infra-orbital, and mental arteries. The facial artery and its branches are surrounded by a minute plexus of nerves (nervi molles), scarcely visible to the naked eye. They are derived from the superior cervical ganglion of the sym- pathetic, and exert a powerful influence over the contraction and dilatation of the capillary vessels, and thus occasion tliose sudden