DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 536 When minutely injected, the iris appears to be composed almost entirely of blood-vessels *; so much so that some anatomists con- sider it to be a kind of erectile tissue, and that its power of con- tracting and expanding depends upon this property alone. Its i blood-vessels are derived from two sources—the posterior Its Dlood- -1 J , . , .,. . Tessels. 0^ J^ong, and the anterior or short ciliary arteries. The posterior perforate the sclerotica round the optic nerve, and then run on upon the choroid to the iris; the anterior pro- ceed from the tendons of the recti, p. 530, and perforate the sclerotica round the margin of the cornea. It is from the enlarge- ment of these latter vessels that the red zone round the cornea is produced in inflammation of the iris. The nerves of the iris, twelve or thereabouts in num- Its nerves. . . „ i n ■ i ber,^ proceed irom the lenticular ganghon, and from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth pair, p. 160. They perforate the back of the sclerotica Hke the arteries, and run along the choroid to the iris. Until the seventh or eighth month of foetal life, the pupfflaris. pupil is closed by a delicate membrane, termed " rmm- brana pujpillaris" Its vessels are arranged in loops, which converge towards the centre of the pupil. It has been lately discovered that this membrane, which has always been regarded as a distinct structure, is identical with the anterior layer of the cap- sule of the crystalline lens.f ^ To obtain a view of the retina, the choroid coat must be removed while the eye is imder water; this is readily done with the forceps and scissors. The optic nerve, having entered the interior of the globe through the sclerotic and the choroid, expands into the delicate nervous tunic called the retina. In passing through the coats of the eye, the nerve becomes sud- denly constricted, and reduced to one third of its diameter; just * In -weU-injected preparations one may see that the chief blood-vessels are dis- ■posed in two circles on the front surface of the iris, one near the outer, and the other near the inner circumference. ■ t See a paper hy John Quekett in the Transactions of the Microscopic Society of London, vol. iii. p. 9.