CONTENTS or FEMALE PELVIS. 389 Uterine artery, and join the glands in the pelvis; some, however, run along with the round ligament to the groin: hence in certain conditions of the uterus, the inguinal glands may be affected. Structiu-ooftbe ""^S^""^' ovaries, and oviducts should vagina, uterus, HOW be Collectively removed from the pelvis for the ovaries, and ovi- purpose of examining their internal structure. And first of the vagina. Supposing the vagina to be laid open, we observe that it is lined by a mucous membrane of a pale rose colour: and that this mem- brane IS rough and forrowed, especially near the orifice. A more or less prominent ridge runs along its anterior, and another alono- Its posterior wall. From either side of these, which are called cohcmnce rugarum," proceed a series of transverse ridges with rough jagged margins directed forwards. They are well marked m young females who are still virgins, but repeated parturition and mcreasmg age gradually smooths them down. The use of the vaginal rug^ is to excite the sensibility of the glans in coition. They themselves also possess keen sensibility, for they are richly provided with papillse. The mucous membrane has a thick epithelial Hning, and in the submucous tissue is an abundant supply of muciparous glands! They increase m number and size towards the uterus, for the pro- the child This secretion is thick, creamy, slightly acid, and differs altogether from the secretion of the uterine glands, Uich xs glairy, albuminous, and slightly alkaline, ^en ;oured oTt n :rd'" —s what t The chief strength of the vagina depends upon a fibro-cellular coa which IS about one-twelfth of an inch in thickness. T tM coat be minu e y injected, we find that it is made up almost entirelv of the inosculations of blood-vessels. So much so th.f ! ^ tomists regard it as erectile tissue. ' '""^^ Before the uterus is laid open, examine a little more fullv fh shape of that portion of the neck which proiects iZ Z ^ F.st, then, it appears that the back pai^ rt^e'c^-J.^^^::^*