SPINAL CORD. 516 Cut through the nerves which proceed from the spinal cord on each side, and remove it with the dura mater entire. Then slit up the dura mater along the middle line, in order to examine the arachnoid membrane. The " arachnoid membrane " of the cord is a continu- ^embrane. ^^ion from that of the brain. It is not in immediate contact with the pia mater underneath, but is separated from it by a transparent watery fluid contained in the meshes of the subarachnoid tissue: therefore the cord may truly nal flidd.'^'' said to float in a fluid (p. 519). This cerebro-spinal fluid cannot be demonstrated xmless the cord be ex- amined very soon after death, and before the removal of the brain.* The nerves proceeding from the cord are loosely surrounded by a sheath of the auachnoid; but this only accompanies them as far as the dura mater, and is then reflected upon that membrane. The pia mater of the cord is the membrane which Pia mater. • j^^^g^j-g^^gjy invests it. It is quite different from that of the brain, since it does not form a bed in which the arteries break up, but serves rather to support and strengthen the cord: consequently it is much less vascular, more/&rows in its structure, and more adherent to the substance of the cord. The fibres of which it is composed are rendered very evident by immersion for * The existence and situation of the cerebro-spinal fluid was first discovered by HaUer (Element. Phys. vol. iv. p. 87), and subsequently more minutely investigated by Magendie (Eecherches Phys. et Cliuiques sur le Liquide Cephalo-rachidien, in 4to. avec atlas : Paris, 1842). This physiologist has shown that if, during life, the arches of the vertebrae are removed in a horse, dog, or other animal, and the dura mater of the cord punctured, there issue jets of a fluid which had previously made the sheath tense The fluid communicates, through the fourth ventricle, with that m the general ventricular cavity. The coUective amount of the fluid vai-ies from 1 to 2 oz. or more. It can be made to flow from the brain into the cord, or vice versd. This is proved by experiments on animals, and by that pathological condition of the spme in children termed " spina bifida. In the latter instance, coughing and crying make the tumour sweU; showing that fluid is forced into it from the ventricles. Again, if pressure be made on the tumour with one hand, and the fontaneUes of the child examined with the other, in proportion as the spinal sweUing decreases so is the brain felt to sweU up, accompanied by symptoms resulting from pressure on the nervous axis generaUy. See some remarks very much to the point, by Dr. Burrows, On Diseases of the Cerebral Circulation, p. 60, 1846.