64 NERVES OF THE FACE. matici over the masseter, and supply the elevators of the upper lip and the muscles of the nose. One large filament accompanies the parotid duct, and supplies the buccinator. Beneath the levator labii superioris we find a free communication with the infra-orbital branches of the second division of the fifth nerve. The cervico-facial division, joined by filaments from the auriculo- parotidean (branch of cervical plexus), descends towards the angle of the jaw, and subdivides into supra and infra-maxillary branches. The swpra-maxillary branches advance over the masseter and facial artery, and run under the depressor muscles of the lower lip, all of which they supply. Some of the filaments communicate with the mental branch of the dental nerve. The infra-maxillary or cervical branches, one or more in number, were dissected with the neck (page 5). They arch for- wards below the jaw, covered by the platysma, and communicate with the superficialis colli, a branch of the cervical plexus. Eespecting the function of the facial nerve, it is necessary to remember that though at its origin it is purely a motor nerve, yet after leaving the stylo-mastoid foramen it becomes a compound nerve, in consequence of the filaments which it receives from the temporo-auricular branch of the fifth, and from the auriculo-paro- tidean branch of the cervical plexus. These communications explain the pain which is often felt in facial paralysis along the track of the facial nerves. These are the supra-orbital, the infra-orbital, and the Sensitive r ,^ nci.\. nerves of mental, all branches ot the fiith pair, the face. rpj^g swpra-orUtal nerve is a branch of the first division of the fifth pair. It leaves the orbit through the supra-orbital notch, and is at first covered by the orbicularis, and occipito- frontalis. But it presently divides into wide-spreading branches, which supply the sldn of the forehead and scalp. The supra- orbital artery is a branch of the- ophthalmic. The infra-orbital nerve is the terminal branch of the superior maxillary or second division of the fifth nerve. It emerges with its artery from the infra-orbital foramen, covered by the levator labii superioris. The nerve immediately divides into several