MEMBRANES OE THE SPINAL CORD. 515 not their internal periosteum as it is in the skull. There intervenes between the bones and this membrane a space filled by a soft, reddish-looking, fat, and watery cellular tissue, and by the ramifi- cations of a plexus of veins. A few words about these veins before we proceed. The spine is remarkable for the number of large and ton^of Treins. tortuous veins which ramify about it, both inside and outside the vertebral canal.* One cannot form an ade- quate idea of them unless when properly injected, 1. There is a plexus of tortuous veins, both outside and inside the arches of the vertebra. 2. Two large veins extend all down the spinal canal behind the bodies of the vertebrge: they may with strict analogy be termed the " sinuses " of the spinal canal. They communicate by cross branches like a ladder, and receive the large veins which emerge from the cancellous texture of the bones. 3. There are the proper veins of the spinal cord which lie within the dura mater. All discharge themselves through the intervertebral foramina in the several regions of the spine, as follows: — in the cervical, into the vertebral veins; in the dorsal, into the intercostal veins; in the lumbar, into the lumbar veins. Note that this complicate system of veins is wholly unprovided with valves; hence it is they are so liable to become congested in diseases of the spine. PecuHarities of The membranes of the spinal cord, though con- of th^'^c^d ""^^ tinuous with those of the brain, differ from them in certain respects, so as to require a separate notice. Dura mater. " ^^^^ mater" of the cord is a tough fibrous membrane like that of the brain, but does not adhere to the bones, because such adhesion would impede the free movement of the vertebrae upon each other. It forms a complete canal, which loosely sm-rounds the spinal cord, and sends off prolonga- tions over each of the spinal nerves. These prolongations accom- pany the nerves only as far as the intervertebral foramina, and are then blended with the periosteum. * A Tery acciu-ate description and representation of these veins has been given bv Breschet, Essai sur los Veines du Eachis, 4to.; Traits Anatomique sui-le Systime Veineux, fol. avec planches. L L 2