99 THE LUNGS. The dimensions of the right lung are greater than those of the left in all directions except the vertical; the reason of this excep- tion is the greater elevation of the diaphragm on the right side, by the bulk of the liver. On an average, the right lung is to the left, in point of size, as 11 to 10. To understand rightly the shape and play of the lungs in in- spiration and expiration, cut away the intercostal muscles and the pleura, without wounding the lungs, and then distend the lungs by blowing into the trachea with bellows. By this proceeding you will learn much that is worth knowing. Thus, you will ascertain how far the front edge of the lung overlaps the peri- cardium; how low the lung descends between the ribs and the diaphragm on the side and at the back of the chest. You will see the great gap in the left lung for the point of the heart. By making the lung expand and contract, you will observe how it sHdes along the pleural lining of the chest. This sliding takes place in health without the least noise. But when the naturally smooth and polished surface of the pleura becomes roughened by inflammatory deposit, a sound of greater or less distinctness (friction sound) is occasioned by the rubbing of the opposite surfaces. The practical result of this investigation should be to enable us to trace upon a Hving chest the outline of the lungs, that we may know what parts are naturally resonant on percussion. Commencing, then, from above, (fig. 17, p. 96), we find that the apex of the lung rises into the neck from half an inch to an inch above the sternal end of the clavicle. This part of the lung mounts up behind the subclavian artery and the anterior scalene muscle, and deserves especial attention, because it is, more than any other, obnoxious to tubercular disease. From the sternal end of the clavicles the lungs converge towards the mesial line, where their edges almost meet opposite the junction of the second rib There is little or no lung behind the first bone of the sternum. From the level of the second costal cartilage to the level of the fourth the inner margins of each kmg run parallel and almost close behmd the middle of the sternum ; consequently they over- lap the great vessels at the root of the heart.