520 SPINAL CORD. The compound nerve formed, by the junction of the two roots divides, outside the intervertebral foramen, into an anterior and a posterior branch, for the diagram of which see p. 108. Variation in "^^^ direction and length of the roots of the nerves the^roote ^^^^ different regions of the spine, because the respective parts of the cord from which they arise are not opposite the foramina through which the nerves leave the spinal canal. In the upper part of the cervical region, the origins of the nerves and their point of exit are nearly on the same level: therefore the roots proceed transversely, and are very short. But as we descend from the neck, the obliquity and length of the roots gradually increase, so that the roots of the lower dorsal nerves are at least two vertebra higher than the foramina through which they emerge. Again, since the cord itself terminates at the second lumbar vertebra, the lumbar and sacral nerves must of neces- sity pass down from it almost perpendicularly through the lower part of the spinal canal.' To this bundle of nerves the old anato- „ , . mists have given the name of cauda equina," Cauda equina. n • n i 3. j from its resemblance to a horse s tail. In brief, then, it appears that the spinal cord consists of two precisely symmetrical parts, separated in front and behind by a deep median fissure; that the two parts are connected at the bottom of the anterior fissure by an anterior or white commissure — at the bottom of the posterior fissure by the posterior or grey commissure; that each part of the cord is divided into three tracts or columns of longitudinal nerve-fibres — an anterior, a posterior, and a lateral.— the boundaries between them being the respective lines of origin of the roots of the spinal nerves; that the interior of the cord contains grey matter disposed in the form of two crescents placed with their convexities towards each other, and connected by a transverse bar of grey matter, which is the posterior commissure. The cord is supplied with blood by—1, the an- of the cord t^'^^'^OT sjpinal artery, which commences at the meduUa oblongata by a branch from the vertebral of each side, and then runs down the cord, receiving, through the inter- vertebral foramina, numerous branches in its course from the