183 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. which we observe the cutaneous branches of the intercostal vessels and nerves. Tracing the sacro-lumbalis upwards, we find that it balis°"'"™" terminates in a series of tendons which are inserted into the ansfles of the six lower ribs. By tiu-ning outwards the sacro-lurabalis, we observe aeeessorhis. continued upwards under the name of " mus- culus accessorius ad sacro-lumbalem." This arises by a series of tendons from the angles of the seven or eight lower ribs, and is inserted into the angles of the five or six upper ribs. This is the cervical continuation of the musculus Mcendens ^ccessorius. It arises by tendinous slips from the four or five upper ribs, and is inserted into the transverse processes of the four or five lower cervical vertebrae. The longissimus dorsi (the inner portion of the erector mus^orsi spinse) terminates in tendons which are inserted into the tubercles * at the root of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, also into the transverse processes of all the dorsal vertebrae, and into the greater number of the ribs (varying from eight to eleven) close to their junction with the transverse processes. This is the cervical continuation of the longissimus dorsi. saHs colH. arises by tendinous slips from the transverse processes of the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth dorsal vertebra, and is inserted into the transverse processes of four cervical vertebrae. This muscle, situated on the inner side of the pre- mlstoid?' ceding, is the continuation of the transversalis colli to the cranium. It arises from the transverse processes of the three or four lower cervical vertebrae, and is inserted by a flat tendon into the back part of the mastoid process beneath the splenius.f * Called " anapophyses " by Professor Owen> ■ t Those who are familiar with the transcendental nomcnclaturo of the vertebrate skeleton, will understand, from the following quotation, the plan upon whicli tlie muscles or the back are arranged : — "The muscles of the back are either longitudinal or oblique; that is, they either N 4