220 DISSECTION OP THE UPPER ARM. brachial, about two incbes above the elbow, runs tortuously inwards across the bracbialis anticus, and divides into branches, some of which pass in front of, others behind the internal condyle, anasto- mosing with the inferior profunda and the anterior ulnar recui-rent arteries. Numerous unnamed muscular branches arise from the outer side of the brachial artery; one of these, more constant than the rest, supplies the biceps; another runs transversely beneath the coraco-brachialis and biceps, over the insertion of the deltoid, supplying this muscle and the bracbialis anticus. The two veins which accompany the brachial Ven^ eomites. ^^^^^^ continuations of the deep radial and ulnar veins. The infernal is usually the larger, since it generally receives the veins corresponding to the principal branches of the artery. In their com-se they are connected at intervals by transverse branches either in front of, or behind the artery. Near the sub- scapularis, the vena comes externa crosses obliquely over the trout of the axillary artery to join the v. c. interna, which then taJ^es the name of " axillary." Let us now trace the gi-eat nerves of the upper arm, which pro- ceed from the brachial plexus near the tendon of the subscapularis: namely, the median, external cutaneous, ulnai-, and musculo-spiral or radial. , The median nerve arises by two roots, whicH con- Mediannerre. ^^^^^ ^^^^^ axillary artery (p. 206). The external root is derived from a trunk in common with the external cutaneous nerve, the internal root from a trunk in common with the ulnar, and internal cutaneous nerve. In its course down the arm, the nerve is situated at first on the outer side of the brachial artery, between it and the coraco-brachialis muscle : about the mdddle of the arm the nerve crosses obliquely over the vessel, or perhaps beneath it, so that at the bend of the elbow it is found on the inner side of the artery, covered by the semilunaa- fascia from the biceps.* * I have obserred tlie followiBg varieiie. relating to the median nerve, and its course in regard to the artery: — . ,