258 DISSECTION Ol^ THE BACK OE THE FOREAEM. SO that it may not be injured during extension of the arm. The subanconeus is in this respect analogous to the subcrurseus muscle of the thigh. Observe the bursa under the tendon, and the arterial arch formed upon the back part of the capsule by the superior profunda and the anastomotica magna (fig. 45, p. 218). Trace the continuation of the superior profunda artery (page 218), and musculo-spiral nerve round the posterior part of the humerus. They lie close to the bone, and are protected by an aponeurotic arch thrown over them by the external head of the triceps. Observe that the nerve is here placed between the two principal branches of the artery: therefore in amputation of the arm in this situation, you would have to tie two large arteries, one on each side of the musculo-spiral nerve. Trace the branches given off by the nerve ti each of the three portions of the triceps, and follow the long branch of the superior profunda artery through the substance of the triceps to the olecranon. DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE FOREARM. Eemove the skin from the back of the forearm, hand, and fingers. Observe the subcutaneous bursa over the olecranon. It is com- monly of considerable size, and, if distended, would appear nearly as large as a walnut. Another bursa is sometimes found a little lower down upon the ulna. A subcutaneous bursa is generally placed over the internal condyle, another over the external. A bursa is also situated over the styloid process of the uhia; this sometimes communicates with the sheath of the extensor carpi nlnaris. Small burscB are sometimes developed m the cellular tissue over each of the knuckles. The cutaneous veins from the back of the hand and forearm ioin the venous plexus at the bend of the elbow (see p. 212). They are the external cutaneous branches oi the Cutaneous musculo-spiral nerve, branches of the internal cutaneous S'oflhl" nerve, and of the external cutaneous. The greater forearm and ^^^^^ber of these nerves maybe traced down to the back hand. of the wrist.