SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 41 In the second part of its course, namely, between the scalene muscles, the artery is more acccessible. It would be necessary to divide the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid, the cervical fascia, and the scalenus anticus muscle, in order to reach the vessel; the iphrenic nerve and the subclavian vein would be the chief objects exposed to injury. This operation was performed first and with success by Dupuytren in the year 1819. More recently it has been performed by Dr. Warren, of Boston. The patient recovered, though the pleura was wounded.* But in the last part of its course, that is, on the outer side of the scalenus, the artery may be tied with comparative facility. The incision should be made from three to four inches in length, parallel with the upper border of the clavicle. We divide the platysma, some of the supra-clavicular nerves, and the cervical fascia. The external jugular vein must be drawn to the outer side, or divided and tied at both ends. With the finger and the handle of the scalpel we then make our way down to the outer edge of the scalenus anticus muscle, behind which the artery will be found lying upon the first rib. Eemember the tubercle on the inner edge of the rib which indicates the insertion of the scalenus: this tubercle is the best guide to the artery. It will be necessary to divide a layer of fascia which immediately covers the vessel before the needle can be introduced around it. Mr. Kamsden of St. Bartholomew's Hospital was the first who tied the subclavian in the third part of its course, in the year 1809; since that time the operation has been repeatedly performed and often with a favom-able result. In the hands of a surgeon possessed of a practical knowledge of anatomy the operation is easy, provided all circumstances be favourable; but circumstances are often very unfavourable. It often happens that the aneurismal or other tumour, on account of which the operation is performed, raises the clavicle beyond its natural level, and so disturbs the parts, that to expose the artery and place a ligature around it becomes exceedingly difficult. * Med. Chirurg. Trans., vol. xxix. p. 25.