504 DISSECTION or THE BRAIN. Reflect the fornix in order to expose the " velum in- Vehini inter- j? i . , • mi • • positiim and terpositum, which supports it. This is a portion of the plexus*^ pia mater which penetrates into the ventricles through the fissure beneath the posterior border of the corpus callosum, as shown p. 498.* The shape of this vascular veil is like that of the fornix itself, and its borders are rolled up so as to form the red fringe called the " choroid plexus" These plexuses consist almost entirely of the tortuous ramifications of minute arteries.f In front they communicate uninterruptedly with each other through the foramen of Monro; behind they descend with the middle horns of the lateral ventricles, and become continuous with the pia mater at the base of the brain, between the middle lobe of the cerebrum and the crus cerebri. Down the Gal^i. Gentry of the veil run two large veins called " vence Ocdeni," which return the blood from the ventricles into the straight sinus. The velum interpositum, with the choroid plexus, must now be reflected to expose the following parts shown in diagram 123.— 1. We have a full view of the thalamus opticus. 2. Between the thalami optici is the " third ventricle of the brain,^^ a deep vertical fissure, precisely in the middle line. 3. Behind the fissure is the '^pineal gland," a vascular body, about the size of a pea. From the gland you trace forwards two slender white cords, called its " peduncles," — one along the inner side of each optic thalamus. 4. Immediately behind the pineal gland are four elevations, two on each side, called the "corpora quadrigemina" or "nates and testes." 5. These bodies are connected to the cerebellum by two in reptiles and bii-ds : bnt all mammalia have them in greater or less perfection, acr cording to the degree of development of the cerebral hemispheres. * The great iissure beneath the corpus caUosum, where the pia mater enters the ventricles, is called the " transverse fissure" or the " fissure of Bichat." It extends do-wnwards on each side to the base of the brain, and terminates between the eras cerebri and thS middle lobe. Taken as a whole, it has a horse-shoe shape, with the concavity forwards. t In preparations where the choroid plexus is well injected, wo see that they are covered with beautiful vascular vilH. The viUi themselves are covered with epi- thelium.