DISSECTION OF THE AXILLA. 207 , This plexus is formed by the anterior branches of the Axillary or , . ^ n brachial lOur lower cervical and first dorsal nerves. The plexus is plexus of broad at the lower part of the neck, between the scaleni muscles; but it gradually contracts as it descends beneath the clavicle into the axilla. The arrangement of the nerves in the formation of the plexus is generally as follows:—the fifth and sixth cervical unite to form a single cord: the eighth cervical and the first dorsal unite to form another; the seventh cervical runs for some distance alone, and then divides so as to unite with the two other cords. Thus, the plexus consists at the lower border of the first rib of only two large nerves; the one being situated behind the axillary artery, the other above it, and on its acromial side. Now these two large nerves, by theii- subdivisions, form a plexus round the axillary artery, where it lies upon the tendon of the subscapularis, and give off the nerves to the arm in the following manner:— Arrange- The median nerve arises by two roots, which lie in meut of front of the artery, and converge like the branches of the round the better V. Uu the outer side of the artery is the external aSj?" root of the median, and the external cutaneous nerve; on its inner side is the internal root of the median, the ulnar, and the internal cutaneous: heUnd the artery is the circumflex, and the musculo-spiral or radial nerve.* The axillary plexus gives off some branches above the clavicle, namely, the supra-scapular, posterior scapular, anterior thoracic' long thoracic, &c. : these were dissected with the neck (p. 47)! Below the clavicle, it gives off the following: — 1. The external cutaneous. 6. The lesser internal cutaneous. 2. The median. 6. The musculo-spiral. 3. The uhiar. 7_ The circumflex. 4. The internal cutaneous. 8. The sub-scapular. * From this arrangement there are occasional deviations. Pop instance, the two roots of the mecban may embrace the artery higher up in its course, or lower doZ than usual: or both its roots may lie behind the artery. ' A deyiation, one which I observed once only in 300 ams, may occur in which all the nerves are situated above the axtery, and on its acromial^J^/.r '^'^^]''^ entirely free in the whole of its course. ^'''^^ ^^^"S