474 LIGAMENTS OF Tllii KNIiE. femur. It is a branch of the obturator, and enters the acetabulum through the notch at the lower part. The chief use of the ligamentum teres is to assist in steadying the pelvis on the thigh in the erect position. In this position, the ligament is vertical, and quite tight, fig. 105 : it therefore prevents the pelvis from rolling towards the opposite side, or the thigh from being adducted beyond a certain point. Another purpose served by this ligament is to limit rotation of the thigh, both inwards and outwards. To satisfy yourself of this you must prepare a joint for the purpose. Make a hole through the bottom of the acetabulum large enough to see the working of the ligament; leaving the capsule entire. Thus, then, it is evident that the ligaments of the hip are so arranged, that ,when we " stand at ease," the pelvis is spontaneously thrown into a position in which its range of motion is the most restricted; for the accessory ligament of the capsule prevents it from rolling backwards, and the ligamentum teres prevents its rolling towards the opposite side. This arrangement economises muscular force in the balancing of the trunk. The synovial membrane extends down to the base of the neck of the femiu- in front, but only two-thirds down behind. It is laid upon a thick periosteum. The head of the thigh-bone is kept in the acetabulum by at- mospheric pressure; the amount of this is, of itself, sufficient to keep the limb suspended from the pelvis, supposing all muscles and ligaments to be divided. When fluid is effused into the hip- joint, the influence of the atmospheric pressure is diminished in proportion; and the corresponding surfaces of the bones being no longer maintained in accurate contact, it sometimes happens that the head of the femur escapes from its cavity, giving rise to what is called a spontaneous dislocation. j^^^j^^^^^g Looking at the skeleton, one would suppose that the OF THE knee-joint was very insecure. But nature has amply ™-roiNT. ^^^^ ^^.g appj^j.g^|; insecurity by powerful liga- ments, and by surrounding the joint on all sides with a thick capsule formed by the tendons of the muscles which move it.