227 DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. by a strong tendon into the base of the fifth metacarpal bone and the OS unciforme. The tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris is the guide to the ulnar artery, which lies close to its radial side, and is overlapped by it. As it passes over the annular ligament, the tendon furnishes a fibrous expansion to protect the ulnar artery and nerve. Having finished the study of the superficial muscles on the inner side of the forearm, you must notice one of those on the outer side, named supinator radii longus, before you trace the vessels and nerves of the forearm. This muscle forms the external boundary of the racUUongus. triangular space a£ the bend of the elbow. It arises from the external condyloid ridge of the humerus, com- mencing a little below the insertion of the deltoid. The muscular fibres terminate about the middle of the forearm in a flat tendon, which is inserted into tbe base of the styloid process of the radius. The inner border of the muscle is the guide to the radial artery. It supinates the hand, but acts most powerfully as a flexor of the forearm. Eadial artery. ^^^^^^ ^^^^^y ^'"^s down the radial side of the forearm to the wrist, where it turns over the external lateral ligament of the carpus, beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb, and sinks into the space between the first and second meta- carpal bones to form the deep palmar arch. Thus, a line drawn from the middle of the bend of the elbow to the front of the styloid process of the radius indicates its course. In the upper third of the forearm, the artery lies between the pronator teres on the inner, and the supinator longus on the outer side; the fleshy border of the latter overlaps it in muscular subjects. In the lower . two-thirds of the forearm the artery is more superficial, and is placed between the tendons of the supinator longus on the outer and the flexor carpi radialis on the inner side. In its coiu-se it lies successively on the follomng: first upon the tendon of the biceps; secondly, upon the supinator radii brevis; thirdly upon the tendon of the pronator teres; fourthly, upon the radial'origin . of the flexor subhmis: fifthly, upon the flexor longus poUicis; and, ' Q 2 *