184 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. This is a long narrow muscle, situated close to the SpinaUs ^^[jyes of the dorsal vertebra3, and apparently a part of the longissimus dorsi. It arises from the spines of the two lower dorsal and two upper lumbar vertebrae, and is inserted also by little tendons into the spines of the six or eight upper dorsal vertebrae. The muscles of the spine hitherto examined are all longitudinal in their direction. We now come to a series which run obliquely from the transverse to the spinous processes of the vertebrae. And first of the complexus. This powerful muscle arises from the transverse pro- Complexus. ^^^^^^ dorsal and the last cervical vertebrae, also from the articular processes of the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae. It is inserted between the two curved pass YerticaUy cWwards from spinous process to spinous process, from diapopl^sis to diapophysis, fromribtorib(plem-apophyses), &c., or they extend obliquely from diapopliYsis to spine, or from diapophysis to pleurapopliysis, &e. ''The erector spin» is composed of two planes of longitudinal fibres aggregated together below, to form one mass at their point of origin, from the spines and pos- terior siu-faceof the sacrum, from the sacro-iliac ligament, and from the posterior third of the iliac crest. It diyides into two portions, the sacro-lumbahs and the ^°°^Thrformer arising from the Hiac crest, or from the pleurapopliysis (rib) of the first saeral vertebra, is inserted by short flat tendons into (1.) the apices of the stunted lumbar ribs close to the tendinous origins of the traoisversalis abdominis; (2.) the angles of the eight or nine inferior dorsal ribs; (3.) it is inserted, through the medium of the musculus accessorius, into the angles of the remaining superior ribs and into the long and occasionally distinct pleurapophysial element of the seventh cervical Tertebra- and (4.) through the medium of the cervicaUs ascendens, into the pleura- pophysial elements of the third, foiu.th, fifth, and sixth cervical vert.br^. In^her wordl the muscular fibres extend from rib to rib, from the sacrum to the third cemcal ""'"Jbe longissimus dorsi, situated nearer the spine than the sacro-lumbalis, is in- serted (1 ) Lo the metapophysial spine of the lumbar diapophyses; (2.) into the Cophyses of aU the dorsal vertebra, near the origin of the levatores costarum; )Trough the medium of the transversaUs colli into the diapophyses of the second^ tod, fo Jh. fifth, and sixth cervical vertebra; and (4.) through the medium of the trachelo-mastoid into the mastoid process, or the only element f-^l^-^^;: possessed by the parietal vertebra. In other words, its fibres extend fronidiapophj sis to diapophysis, from the sacrum, upwards, to the parietal revtehr.."-Hovtoloffus of ihe Huvian Skeleton, by H. Coote, p. 76.