462 CALE OF TliK LJiG. muscular fibres gradually spread out, and are inserted into the posterior surface of the tibia above the oblique ridge on this bone. Its action is to rotate the tibia inwards. Notice that the tendon plays over the articulation between the tibia and fibula, that a bursa intervenes to prevent friction, and that this generally communi- cates by a wide opening with the knee-joint. Eeflect the soleus from its origin, and remove it from the deep- seated muscles, observing at the same time the numerous arteries which enter its under surface. This done, notice the fascia which binds down the deep muscles. It is attached to the margin of the bones on either side, and increases in strength towards the ankle, in order^ to form an annular ligament to confine the ten- dons and the vessels and nerves in their passage into the sole of the foot, t There are three:—1, the flexor longus digitorum Deep muscles ' ° °. . ON THE BACK ou tho tibial sldc; 2, the flexor longus pollicis on OF THE LEG. fibular ; 3, the tibialis posticus upon the inter- osseous membrane, between and beneath them both. This arises from the posterior surface of the tibia Flexor longus commencing below the popliteus, and extending to digitorum. ° i ^ c J.^ within about four mches of the lower end oi the bone. The fibres terminate on a tendon which runs through a groove on the back of the inner ankle, and entering the sole, divides into four tendons for the four outer toes. This is a remarkably powerful muscle. It arises Flexor longus ^^^^ lower two-thirds of the posterior surface of ^° the fibula. The fibres terminate on a tendon which runs through a groove on the back of the astragalus, and thence along the sole to the great toe. The action of this muscle is, to raise the body on the tip of the great toe. It is essential to the propulsion of the body in walking. This is so concealed between the two preceding muscles Tibialis ^-ija^i^ cannot properly examine it without reflecting posticus. ^-^^^^ arises from the interosseous membrane and from the tibia and fibula. The muscular fibres terminate on a tendon which comes into view a short distance above the inner