523 SPINAL CORD. The lateral columns (9), on reaching the medulla ob- SunL of longata, are disposed of in three ways, as follows:—Some the cord. pQ^g forward between the diverging anterior columns, decussate in the middle line, and then form the pyi-amid of the opposite side ; others ascend with the restiform tract into the ce- rebellum ; athii-d set ascend along the floor of the fourth ventricle* (concealed by its superficial grey matter), and then along the upper part of the crus cerebri into the cerebrum. The posterior columns (10) ascend tinder the name SiJmBrof of the restiform tracts at the back of the medulla oblon- the spinal g^ta, diverge from each other, and are, for the most part, continued into the cerebellum, forming its inferior crura; but some of their fibres run on along the floor of the fourth ven- tricle (external to the fibres from the lateral columns), then along the upper part of the crura cerebri into the cerebrum. The horizontal fibres in the medulla oblongata and fibrS°''*'^ the pons were first accurately described and delineated by Stilling.f Some of them form a raphe, and divide the medulla oblongata and pons into symmetrical halves; others, arising apparently from the raphe, pass outwards in an arched manner through the lateral halves of the medulla; so that, when seen in a transverse section by transmitted light, they describe a series of curves, with the convexity forwards, throughout the entire thickness of the medulla. Some of these transverse fibres appear on the surface over the pyramid and the olive ; these have received the name of "arciform fibres " (p. 512). It is difl&cult to deter- mine the object of this system of transverse fibres, or what parts they connect. Stilling and Kolliker j, who have deeply studied the subject, are both of opinion that they originate in the restiform tracts, and thence arch forwards, — some on the surface, others through the substance of the medulla, and that they eventually join the fibres of the raphe. * These fibres constitute what are sometimes called the " round cords " of the fourth ventricle. t Ueber die Mediilla Oblongata. Erlangen, 1843. \ Mikroskopische Anatomie, p. 454.