17 THYROID BODY. and terminate in the left vena innominata. When you perform tracheotomy, bear in mind the size of these middle thyroid veins, and the possible existence of a middle thyroid artery. Its nerves are furnished by the laryngeal branch of the pneumo- gastric and the cervical ganglia of the sympathetic. They accom- pany the ai'teries. Structure of '^'^^ thyroid body is invested by a thin covering of the thyroid condensed areolar tissue, which penetrates into it and '^°^y- divides it into lobes. It consists of a multitude of vesicles which do not communicate with each other, and vary in size. Some of them may be recognised with the naked eye ; but the greater number require the aid of the microscope. In hyper- trophy of the gland we sometimes see them as large as a horse- bean, or even larger. They contain a glairy transparent fluid, full of nucleated cells. The arteries ramify most minutely upon their walls. Of its function nothing is with certainty known. The presumption is that it is concerned in the elaboration of the blood. An enlargement of the thyroid body is termed a " Bronchocele." If the relation of its lobes to the trachea and oesophagus be properly understood, it is easy to predicate the consequences which may result from their enlargement. The nature and severity of the symptoms will to a certain extent be determined by the part of the organ affected. For instance, if the isthmus be enlarged, difficulty in breathing will probably be the prominent symptom; and an enlargement of the left lobe is more likely to produce a difficulty in swallowing, on account of the inclination of the oesophagus towards the left side. An instance is related by Allen Burns in which the isthmus was placed between the trachea and the oesophagus. It must be obvious that enlargement of a part so situated would occasion most fearful difficulty in swallowing. I have seen two cases in which the lateral lobes projected so far inwards that they completely embraced the back of the cesophagus. Small absorbent glands are observed about the thyroid body, especially in front of the trachea; one is often situated over the 0