550 DISSECTION OF THE MAMMARY GLAND. The form, size, position, and other external characters of the mammary gland, are sufficiently obvious. We would merely observe that the longest diameter of the gland is in a direction upwards and outwards towards the axilla; that the thickest part is at the centre; and that the fullness and roundness of the gland depend upon the quantity of fat which is situated about it and between its lobes. Its deep surface is flattened in adaptation to the pectoral muscle, to which it is loosely connected by an abun- dance of areolar tissue. It is enclosed by a fascia which not only supports it as a whole, but penetrate's into its interior, so as to form a framework for its several lobes: hence it is that, in cases of marhmary abscess, the matter is apt to be circumscribed, not diffused. The nipple projects a little below the centre; it is surrounded by a coloured circle termed the " areola : " this circle is of a rose- pink colour in virgins, but, in those who have borne children, of a dark brown. It begins to enlarge and grow darker about the second or third month of pregnancy, and these changes continue till parturition. The areola is also abundantly provided wdth papillae, and with subcutaneous sebaceous glands, for the purpose of lubricating the smface during the sucking of the child. ^ The gland itself consists of distinct lobes held together by iirm connective tissue, and provided with separate lactiferous ducts. Each lobe divides and subdivides into lobiiles, and the duct branches out accordingly.* Traced to their origin, we find that the ducts commence in clusters of minute cells, and that the blood-vessels ramify upon these cells in xich profusion; altogether, then, a single lobe might be compared to a bunch of grapes, of which the stalk represents the main duct. The main * It is observed, in some cases, that one or more lobiiles ran oflf to a considerable distance from the main body of the gland, and lie imbedded in the subcutaneoiis tissue. One should remember this when it is necessary to remove the eutii-e gland.