DISSECTION OF THE UrPER ARM. 217 hordes of the coraco-brachialis and biceps, to the front of the elbow, where it divides near the coronoid process of the ulna into the radial and ulnar arteries. Thus its direction corresponds with a line drawn from the anterior part of the axilla to the central point between the condyles of the humerus. In the upper part of its course it lies on the triceps (from which it is separated by the musculo-spiral nerve and superior profunda artery): in the.middle, it Hes on the tendon of the coraco-bra- chiahs; in the lower pai-t, on the brachialis anticus. The artery is accompanied by two veins (vence comites), and the median nerve, all of which are invested in a common sheath of fascia. The median nerve crosses obliquely in front of the artery lying, near the axilla, on its outer side, near the elbow on its inner side. The ulnar nerve runs along the inner side of the artery, and is separated from it below by the intermuscular septum. Superficial to the artery, we find the internal cutaneous nerve and the basiUc vein. _ Observe particularly that the artery is more or less overlapped, m the first part of its course by the coraco-brachialis,-lower down by the fleshy belly of the biceps ; these muscles in their respective situations are the best guides to the vessel. _ About the middle of the humerus, the artery lies for nearly two inches on the tendon of the coraco-brachialis, and is so close to the bone hat it can here be effectually compressed; here too it is crossed by the median nerve. At the bend of the elbow the artery is protected by the semi- lunar fascia from the tendon of the biceps. It enters a triangular space, bounded by the pronator radii teres internally, and b^ the supinator i-adu longus externally. It sinks into this space, with he tendon of the biceps to its outer side, and the median nerve to its inner side; all three rest upon the brachialis anticus muse Opposite the coronoid process of the ulna it divides into fh. . i and ulnar arteries. ^^^lal Two veins, of which the internal is the larger, lie in close con-