LIGxVMENTS OF THE HIP. 472 greater sacro-ischiatic ligament, one of enormous strength, whicla extends from the sacrum and coccyx to the tuberosity of the ischium, fig. 104 ; and 5, the lesser sacro-ischiatic, which extends from the sacrum and coccyx to the spine of the ischium. The two last not only connect the bones, but also, from their great breadth, contribute to block up the lower aperture of the pelvis. Supposing all the preceding ligaments be divided, we still find that the ilium adheres most firmly to the sacrum. If they be forcibly separated, it is then seen how they are connected in front by a layer of cartilage, of which the shape is not unlike that of the ear: above and behind this, is the strong interosseous ligament, fig. 105, which contributes powerfully to the security of the sacro- iliac joint. Ligaments joint is secured by the form of the bones, and by OF THE HIP- the strength of the powerful muscles which surround it. JOINT. Being a perfect ball and socket, one might suppose that it would admit of universal motion; but it is not so : for the dis- position of its ligaments restricts its range of motion to those di- rections only which are most consistent with the maintenance of the erect attitude, and the requirements of this part of the skeleton. The most important ligament, and that which presents Ugament most interesting peculiarities, is the capsular. It is attached above, to the circumference of the acetabulum at a little distance from the margin; below, to the base of the neck of the femur; but observe, to the base of the neck in front only : posteriorly the capsule is not attached to the neck, it merely passes round it like a collar. The reason of this is, that there may be no hindrance to the free flexion of the femur. Another important point about the capsule is that it is not of equal thickness all round. It is made exceedingly thick and strong in front by a broad ligament which extends from the upper margin of the acetabulum down to the anterior inter-trochanteric line. Now this ligament is the thickest in the body: it is called the accessory ligament of the hip. I have shown the direction of its