SOLE OF THE FOOT. 465 artery and nerve running directly through one of these sacs, and this explains the acute pain produced by their inflamma- tion. The skin of the heel is supplied by a branch of the Srves!°^^ posterior tibial nerve: the remainder of the sole by small branches of the plantar nerves which come through the fascia, just as in the palm of the hand. This is remarkably dense and strong. It extends from fasda!^ back part of the os calcis to the distal ends of the metatarsal bones : it not only protects the plantar vessels and nerves, but is also one among the many structures which support the arch of the foot. It acts like the string of a bow (p. 479). One sees this exemplified in some cases of distor- tion, where an unnatural contraction of the plantar, fascia makes the arch of the foot too convex, and it is necessary to divide the fascia in order to relieve the deformity. The arrangement of the fascia is just like that in the palm. The central part, where there is the greatest strain, is very strong. The external part, which is attached to the proximal end of the'fifth metatarsal bone is also very strong. Near the distal ends of the metatarsal bones, the central part divides into five portions; each of these subdivides into two slips, which embrace the corresponding flexor tendons, and are attached to the metatarsal bones and their connecting ligaments. Between the primary divisions of the fascia, — that is, in a line between the toes, —we trace the digital vessels and nerves. In the interdigital folds of the skin, there are also ligamentous fibres, which run from one side of the foot to the other, and answer the same purpose as those in the hand. The plantar fascia must be partially removed to examine the muscles. You soon discover that towards the os calcis its removal is not accomplished without some difficulty, because the muscles arise from it. SupERFiciAi, After the removal of the fascia three muscles are Musci.Es. exposed. All arise from the os calcis and the fascia, H H