264 DISSECTION or THE BACK OP THE FOREARM. angular excavation below the lesser sigmoid notcli of the ulna. The muscular fibres turn over the neck and upper part of the shaft of the radius, and are inserted into the upper third of this bone, as far forwards as the ridge leading from the tubercle to the insertion of the pronator teres. The muscle is perforated obliquely by the deep branch of the musculo-spiral nerve, and its upper part is in contact with the capsule of the elbow-joint. It is a powerful supinator of the fore- arm, some of its fibres acting at nearly a right angle to the axis of the radius. This muscle arises from the posterior surface of the Sis meta- ulua below the supinator brevis, from the posterior carpi pol- surface of the radius, and from the interosseous ligament. The muscle crosses the radial extensors of the wrist about three inches above the carpus, and terminates in a tendon, which passes along a groove, lined by synovial membrane, on the outer part of the lower end of the radius, and is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. This muscle arises from the posterior surface of the prtmi'in- radius, from the interosseous ligament, and from the teruodii ulna. It tums over the radial extensors of the wiist, and polUcis. terminates upon a tendon which passes beneath the an- nular ligament, through the groove on the outer part of the radius, and is "inserted into the radial side of the first phalanx of the thumb. Arises from the posterior surface of the ulna, and SmKu"" from the interosseous ligament. The tendon receives internodii fleshy fibres as low as the wrist, passes beneath the poUicis. ^^^^^i^y. ligament in a distinct groove on the back of the radius, proceeds over the metacarpal bone and the first phalanx of the thumb, and is inserted into the base of the last phalanx. The tendons of the three extensors of the thumb may be easily distinguished in one's own hand. The extensor ossis metacarpi, and primi internodii pollicis, cross obliquely over the radial artery, where it lies on the external lateral ligament of the carpus; the extensor secundi internodii pollicis crosses the artery just before it