8 TRIANGLES OF THE NECK. bent position. When one sterno-mastoid acts singly, it turns the head obliquely towards the opposite shoulder; in this action it co-operates with the splenius of the other side.* On emergency, the sterno-mastoid acts as a muscle of inspiration, by raising the sternum, its fixed point being, in this case, at the head. The sterno-mastoid is supplied with nerves by the n. accessorius and by a branch of the cervical plexus. It has three nutrient arteries r an upper mastoid, a middle, and a lower. The upper mastoid, a branch of the occipital artery, enters the muscle with the n. accessorius ; the middle mastoid is a branch of the superior thyi'oid; the lower mastoid is a branch of the supra scapular. Anatomists avail themselves of the sterno-mastoid Triangles of ij.t-i,i ^ the neck. muscle, to divide the neck on each side into two great triangles, an anterior and a posterior (fig. 2). The base of the anterior triangle is formed by the jaw, its sides by the mesial line and the front border of the sterno-mastoid. The posterior has the clavicle for the base, while the sides are defined by the hind border of the sterno-mastoid, and the free border of the trapezius. The omo-hyoid muscle, which crosses the neck under the sterno- mastoid, subdivides these great primary triangles into four smaller ones, (1, 2, 3, 4. fig 2), of unequal size: an anterior superior, an anterior inferior, a posterior superior, and a posterior inferior. The direction of the omo-hyoid muscle renders their boundaries at once obvious. The upper part of the sterno-mastoid is traversed cessorius°" obliquely by a large nerve called the spinal accessory.! This nerve, one of the three diAd.sions of the eighth pair of cerebral nerves, arises from the cervical portion of the spinal * The single action of the muscle is well seen when it becomes rigid and causes a wry neck. Other means of relief failing, the division of the muscle near its origin is sometimes beneficial in curing the distortion. In deciding as to the propriety of this operation, we should be careful to examine the condition of the other muscles, lest, after having divided the sterno-mastoid, we should be disappointed in removing the deformity. t Nervus accessorius of "Willis ("WilUs, nervor. descr. cap. xxiii.; Opera omnia, Amst. 1682).