SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. 365 nerves of the plexus lie on the pyriformis muscle, beneath the branches of the internal iliac artery, and coalesce to form the great ischiatic nerve, the chief branch of which passes out at the back of the pelvis for the supply of the flexor muscles of the inferior extremity. The other branches of the plexus are as follow a. The sujpeHor glutceal nerve proceeds from the lumbo-sacral, leaves the pelvis with the glutsBal artery, and suppHes the glutsens medius and minimus, and the tensor fascite femoris. b. The lesser ischiatic supplies the glutaeus maximus, the skin of the buttock, the perineum, and back of the thigh. c. The jpudic nerve runs with the pudic artery, and, Hke it, supplies the rectum, perineum, and penis. The pudic commonly gives off the branch for the obturator internus, but this is often a distinct branch from the plexus. Under any circumstances the branch m question leaves the pelvis with the artery, and re-enters with it to reach the muscle. d. The branches for the pelvic viscera are very small. They proceed chiefly from the third and fourth sacral nerves, and form an intricate plexus about the bladder, prostate, and rectum. e. Lastly, the sacral plexus supplies the levator ani, the coccy- geus, the cutaneous sphincter of the anus, the pyriformis, gemelli and quadratus femoris. Sympathetic "^'"'''^ ''^^^^^ ^^'^^^^ Sympathetic nerve. nerve into the pelvis, along the inner side of the sacral foramina. In this part of its course its ganglia vary in number from three to five. The nerves of opposite sides unite in front of the coccyx : here we find the "ganglion impar." The plan upon which the sympathetic nerves are distributed in the pelvis is similar to that in the abdomen. Each ganglion receives one or two filaments from a spinal nerve, and then gives off Its branches to the viscera. The visceral branches are ex- ceedingly delicate, and cannot be traced unless the parts have been previously hardened in spirit. They accompany the arteries sup- plying the respective organs, and are called the vesical, prostatic and inferior hemorrhoidal plexuses. ' According to the accurate dissections of Miiller, the vesical