189 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. The vessels which supply the back are: — 1. Small the back. branches from the occipital; 2. Small branches from the vertebral; 3. The deep cervical; 4. The posterior branches of the intercostal and lumbar arteries. The occipital artery furnishes several small branches to the muscles at the back of the neck: among others, one (called the princeps cervicis) descends beneath the complexus, and in some subjects inosculates with the deep cervical artery. The deep cervical artery is the posterior branch of the first in- tercostal artery. It ascends between the complexus and the semi- spinalis muscles. The posterior branches of the intercostal and lumbar arteries accompany the corresponding nerves, and are in all respects similar to them in distribution. They all send a branch into the spinal canal. The veins correspond to the arteries. Pb^-yeb- have, lastly, to examine three muscles situated in TEBRAL front of the spine ; namely, the longus colli, the rectus capitis anticus major, and the rectus capitis anticus minor. In order to have a complete view of the two latter, a special dissection should be made before the head is removed from the first vertebra. Longus com. ™^ muscle is situated in front of the spine, and extends from the third dorsal to the first cervical ver- tebra. For convenience of description it is divided into two sets of fibres, of which one extends longitiulinally from the body of one vertebra to that of another; the other extends obliquely between the transverse processes and the bodies of the vertebra\ The longitudinal portion of the muscle arises from the bodies of the two or three upper dorsal and the two lower cervical ver- tebra, and is inserted into the bodies of the second, third, and fourth cervical vertebrae. The oblique portion, arising from the transverse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebra, ascends inwards, and is inserted into the front part or body of the first cervical vertebra. Other oblique fibres proceed from the bodies of the three upper