DISSECTION OF THE TESTIS. 556 hence these glands become affected in malignant disease of the testicles. The nerves of the testicle are derived from the sympathetic. They run down from the abdomen with the spermatic arteries (p. 331). This accounts for the stomach and intestines sympathizing so readily with the testicle, and for the constitutional effects of an injury to it. The testicle is originally developed in the lumbar Se'Ticles. region, immediately below the kidneys; and it is loosely attached to the back of the abdomen by a fold of peritoneum, termed the " mesorchium,'" along which its vessels and nerves run up to it, as to any other abdominal viscus. From the lower end of the gland there proceeds to the bottom of the scrotum, a contractile cord termed the " gubernaculum testis:'* By the gradual contraction of this, the organ is brought into the scrotum. It begins to slide down from the loins about the fifth month, reaches the ring about the seventh, and about the ninth has entered the scrotum. Its original peritoneal coat is retained throughout; but, as it enters the inguinal canal, the peritoneal Uning of the abdomen is pouched out before it, and eventually becomes the tunica vaginalis reflexa. Immediately after the descent of the testis, its serous bag communicates with the abdo- men, and in the lower animals continues to do so through lifcf But in the human subject the canal of communication soon begins to close. It begins to close at the top first, and the closure is generally compfete in a child born at its full time. The final purpose of this is to provide against the occurrence of ruptures, to which, man, from his erect attitude, is so much more exposed than animals. At the end of the first month after birth, the canal is * Mr CurUng considers the giibernacidiim testis to be a muscular cord See his Obseryations on the Structure of the Gubernac^ilum, and on the Descent of the Testis in the Foetus: Medical Gazette, April 10, 1841. , „. . , , ^ . n • ti,. t According to Professor Owen, the African orangoutan (Smta troglodytes) s the only exception to this rule. In this anin^al it is interesting to observe that the lower extremities are more fully developed as organs of support, and there is a hgamentum teres in the hip-joint.