DISSECTION OF THE PALM OE THE HAND. 236 the ball of the thumb. How are we to ascertain its exact position in the hand? — most commonly its greatest convexity descends as low as a horizontal line drawn across the junction of the upper with the middle third of the palm. In its passage over the annular ligament^ the artery is protected in a furrow between the pisiform and unciform bones, and by an expansion from the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris to the pal- maris longus. The ulnar nerve lies close to its inner side. In the palm, before it crosses the flexor tendons, the artery lies for a short distance upon the muscles of the little finger, and is covered by the palmaris brevis. . Immediately below the pisiform bone, the ulnar Branches ol _ . /• 7 i • t_ • i ulnar artery artery gives off the ulnaris profunda, which sinks in the palm. ^^^^ ^^^m between the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti, to assist in forming the deep palmar arch. It is accompanied by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve. From the concavity of the arch small branches ascend to the carpus, and inosculate with the other carpal branches of the radial and ulnar arteries. From the convexity of the arch arise four digital arteries, which supply all the fingers, excepting the radial side of the index finger. You should observe carefully the course of these arteries, because you may have to open abscesses in the palm. The first descends over the muscles on the inner side of the palm, to the ulnar side of the little finger, along which it runs to the apex. The second, third, and fourth descend nearly vertically between the tendons, in a line with the clefts between the fingers, and about half an inch above the clefts each divides into two branches, which proceed along the opposite sides of the fingers nearly to the' end of the last phalanges, where they unite to form an arch with the convexity towards the end of the finger; from this arch numerous branches supply the papillae of the skin. In the palm of the hand the digital arteries before they divide are joined by a small branch from the corresponding interosseous artery, (a branch of the deep palmar arch). The digital arteries freely communicate, on the palmar and