256: ■ MUSCLES or the shoulder'. This muscle occupies the subscapular fossa. It arises Subscapu- from the posterior three-fourths of the fossa, from three or four tendinous septa attached to the oblique ridges on its surface. The fibres converge towards the neck of the scapula, where they terminate upon three or four tendons, which are concealed amongst the muscular fibres, and are inserted into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus. Its broad insertion is closely connected with the capsule of the shoulder-joint, which it com- pletely protects upon its inner side. Its action is to rotate the humerus inwards. The nerve which supplies it is derived from the great cord, which gives off the circumflex and musculo-spiral nerves. The coracoid process, with the coraco-brachialis and short head of the biceps, form an arch, under which the tendon of the sub- scapularis plays.' There are several bursa} about the tendon. There is one of considerable size on the upper surface of the tendon, to facilitate its motion beneath the coracoid process and the coraco-brachialis: this sometimes communicates with the large bursa under the deltoid. Another is situated between the tendon and the capsule of the joint, and almost invariably commu- nicates with it. Now reflect the muscles from the surfaces of the scapula, to trace the arteries which ramify upon the bone. This artery, a branch of the thyroid axis, runs under tbnofsum-a- and parallel with the clavicle, and passes above, or, less scapular frequently, through the notch of the scapula, into the supra-spinal fossa: it sends a branch to the supra- spinatus, another to the shoulder-joint, and then descends over the neck of the scapula into the fossa below the spine where it inos- culates directly with the dorsalis scapula. Its branches ramify, upon the bone, and supply the infra-spinatus and teres mmor The supra-scapular nerve passes most frequently through the notch of the scapula, accompanies the corresponding artery, and supplies the supra and infra-spinatus. . - The dorsal branch of the sub-scapular artery (dorsalis fcjS scapula), passes backwards through a triangular space ^'"""y- bounded , superiorly by the subscapulans, mferioriy Dy