417 PARTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA. is materially lessened. This explains the position in which a surgeon places the leg- before he attempts to reduce a rupture.* To return to the cribriform fascia. This is simply a fesoia^°™ thin covering over the saphenous opening. It is pro- longed from the outer edge of the opening over the sheath of the femoral vessels, and adheres on the inner side to the fascia lata, over the pectineus muscle. As before observed, it is riddled with holes for the passage of the superficial vessels and absorbents of the groin. Some writers describe this fascia as only a portion of the " superficial fascia; " but I think the more correct view is to consider it as a thin prolongation of the fascia lata itself across the opening. Its chief surgical importance is derived from the fact that it forms one of the coverings of a femoral hernia. ANATOMY OF THE PAETS CONCEENED IN FEMORAL HERNIA. The anatomy of the parts concerned in femoral hernia cannot be thoroughly understood without the assistance of special dissections ; indeed, one cannot reasonably expect to make oneself master of the subject, if it be taken in hand merely as something to be in- vestigated by the way in the dissection of the thigh. The following demonstration, therefore, takes for granted that we have the oppor- tunity of seeing the parts, not only on their femoral, but also on their abdominal side. We propose to treat the different parts of the subject in the fol- lowing order: — a. The formation of the crural arch. b. The arrangement of the parts which pass under the arch. c. The femoral aperture or ring. * We must always bear in mind, tliat tbougli tlie cniral arch and the adjacent fascije have received particular names, they are not, on that account, distinct and separate but aU are intimately connected, and portions merely of one continuous expansion' Thus all the parts are kept in a condition of mutual tension, which depends very much on the position of the thigh. ■ ^ ^^^u^ E E