404 KIDNEY AND KENAL CAPSULES. They are, on an average, about j^th of an incli in diameter. Ac- cording to tlie recent researches of M. Bowman *, each is loosely surrounded by a flask-like capsule, formed by the dilatation of the urinary tube. The continuation of the tube passes off from that part of the capsule oppo- site to where the artery entered; after making many convolutions, it enters one of the pyra- mids, and discharges its contents into the pelvis. The vein returning the blood from the Mal- pighian body leaves the capsule close to where the artery entered ; but instead of going at once out of the kidney, as in other organs, it forms a capillary plexus round the convolutions of the tube. The special purpose of this plexus appears to be the secretion of the solid matter of the urine ; while the Malpighian body filters the watery part of the urine into the capsule, and washes the more solid part down the tube.f Lastly, the minute urinary tubes, the pelvis of the kidney, and the ureter, are lined by tessellated epithelium. This body is situated at the top of the kidney, and in shape resembles a cocked hat. It is surrounded by a thin fibrous covering, which sends down partitions into the interior through furrows observed on the surface. If a perpendicular section be made through it, we find that it consists of a pretty firm exterior or cortical part, and of an interior soft pulpy substance. The cortical portion is of a yellow colour-, and forms the principal part of the organ, men examined with the high powers of the microscope, it is found to be composed of independent closed tubes, about ^th of an inch in diameter, arranged perpendicular to the surface, and covered by the minute a. Artery, V. Vein. c. Capsule. d. Urinary tube. Stjpea- EBNAL CAPSULE. * See Ms paper in the PMosoph. Trans, for 1842, Part I. t That the vessel leaving the Malpighian body is a vein, and that a constituent part of the urine is secreted by venous blood, is inferred from two reasons: 1, from the analogous case of the vena portse, out of which the bUe is elaborated in the liver ; 2, from the fact that in reptiles the iirine is secreted from venous blood.