I'RONT OF THE LEG. 445 ankle, supplying the joint, the articular ends of the bones, and the sheaths of the tendons around them. d. The tarsal branch arises near the scaphoid bone, passes beneath the extensor brevis digitorum towards the outside of the foot, supplies the bones and joints of the tarsus, and inosculates with the arteries in the sole. e. The metatarsal branch generally runs towards the outside of • the foot, near the bases of the metatarsal bones, and gives off the three outer interosseous arteries. These pass forwards over the corresponding interosseous muscles, supply them, and then sub- divide to supply the opposite sides of the upper surface of the toes. They communicate by perforating branches with the plantar arteries. /. The dorsalis hallucis is, strictly speaking, the artery of the first interosseous space. It comes from the anterior tibial just before this sinks into the sole, and runs forwards to supply the opposite sides of the first two toes. These muscles are situated on the outer side of the MusoLM fibula, and are named respectively the peroneus longus and brevis. This arises from the outer surface of the fibula along Im^r^ its upper half. The fibres terminate in a penniform manner upon a tendon, which runs through a groove behind the outer ankle, then along the outer side of the os calcis, and lastly, through a groove on the under surface of the os cu- boides deep into the sole. You will see presently that it crosses the sole obliquely, and is inserted into the tarsal end of the meta- tarsal bone of the great toe. In its course through these several bony grooves the tendon is confined by a fibrous sheath, lined by a synovial membrane. In removing the metatarsal bone of the great toe, you ought if possible to leave the insertion of this tendon. Peroneus "^^^^ muscle lies beneath the preceding. It arises from brevis.'^ the lower half of the outer surface of the fibula. It ter- minates on a tendon which runs behind the outer ankle through the same sheath with the peroneus longus, then proceeds