450 GLUTEAL KEGION. terminate on four tendons which converge towards the lesser ischi- atic notch, pass round it as round a pulley, and then uniting into one, are inserted into the top of the great trochanter. Divide the . tendon about three inches from its insertion, to see the four tendons which play over the smooth cartilaginous pulley. There is a large synovial bursa to prevent friction. The nerve of this muscle comes from the sacral plexus; sometimes from the pudic nerve. These muscles are accessory to the obturator internus, GemeUi. situated, one above, the other below it. The gemellus superior arises from the spine of the ischium: the gemellus inferior from the upper part of the tuberosity. Their fibres are inserted into the tendon of the obturator internus. Both muscles derive their nferves from the sacral plexus. This muscle arises from the ridge on the outer part of Quadratus ^}^q tuber ischii. Its fibres run horizontally outwards, and are inserted into the back of the great trochanter, in a line with the linea aspera. Notice that the lower border of the quadratus femoris runs parallel with the upper edge of the ad- ductor magnus ; in fact, it lies on the same plane. Between these muscles is generally seen a terminal branch of the internal circum- flex artery. The nerve of this muscle comes from the sacral plexus. muscle you must reflect the quadratus Obturator femoris. It arises from the front surface of the ramus of externus. ^^^^^ ischium, ahd from the obturator mem- brane The fibres converge to a tendon which runs horizontally outwards over a groove in the ischium, and is inserted into the deepest part of the pit of the great trochanter. Its nerve js a branch of the obturator (p. 439). . ^ .^ i This larc^e nerve is formed by the union of the sacrai Satic nerves (fig. 99), and is destined to supply all the flexor muscles of the lower extremity. Emerging from the pelvis through the ischiatic notch, below the pyi-iformis, it descends over the external rotator muscles of the thigh, along the interval between the tuber ischii and the trochanter major, but rather nearer