DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF TITE FOREARM. 267 variable size, passes over the first interosseous muscle to the radial side of the back of the index finger. d. The dorsal arteries of the thumb are two small branches which arise from the radial opposite the head of the first metacarpal bone, and run along the back of the thumb, one on either side. They are often absent. These dorsal interosseous arteries silpply the extensor tendons and their sheaths, the interosseous muscles, and the skin on the back of the hand, and the first phalanges of the fingers. Now remove the tendons from the back and from the palm of the hand : observe the deep palmar fascia which covers the inter- osseous muscles. It is attached to the ridges of the metacarpal bones, forms a distinct sheath for each interosseous muscle, and is continuous inferiorly with the transverse metacarpal ligament. On the back of the hand the interosseous muscles are covered by a thin fascia, which is attached to the adjacent borders of the meta- carpal bones. Transverse This consists of strong bands of ligamentous fibres, ligamT^*^^ which pass transversely between the digital extremities of the metacarpal bones of the fingers. These bands are intimately united to the fibro-cartilaginous ligament of the metacarpal joints, and are of sufficient length to admit of a cer- tain degree of movement between the ends of the metacarpal bones. Eemove the fascia which covers the interosseous muscles, and separate the metacarpal bones by dividing the transverse meta- carpal ligament. A bursa is frequently developed between their digital extremities. These muscles, so named from their position, extend Slsder"'^^ ^^'^"^ ^^^^s of metacarpal bones to the first pha - langes and the extensor tendons of the fingers. In each interosseous space there are two, one of which is an abductor, the other an adductor of a finger. According to this arrangement there are eight in all, inclusive of the adductor pollicis, which is really an interosseous muscle: four of which, situated on the back of the hand, are called dorsal; the remainder, seen only in the palm, are called palmar.