MUSCLES OP THE BACK CONNECTED WITH THE ARM. 247 origin of the deltoid, and the two muscles are connected by a thin aponeurosis over the spine and acromion. If both the trapezius muscles be exposed, you will see that, between the sixth cervical and the thii-d dorsal vertebra, their origin presents an aponeurotic space of an elliptical form. The fixed point of the muscle being at the spine, all its fibres tend to raise the shoulder. The deltoid cannot raise the humerus beyond an angle of sixty degrees: beyond this the elevation of the arm is principally effected by the action of the trapezius upon the scapula. It is in strong action when a weight is borne upon the shoulders: again it acts powerfully in drawing the scapula back- wards, as in preparing to strike a violent blow. It is supplied by the nervus accessorius and by the superficialis colli artery. This broad flat muscle occupies the lumbar and lower Latissunus ^^^^^y region, and thence extends to the arm, where it forms part of the posterior boundary of the axilla. It arises from the posterior third of the crest of the ilium, from the "fascia luraborum," from the spinous processes of the six lower dorsal vertebrae beneath the trapezius, and, lastly, from the three or four lower ribs by digitations, which correspond with those of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. All the fibres converge towards the axilla, where they form a thick muscle, which is folded beneath the teres major, and inserted by a broad flat tendon into the bottom of the bicipital groove of the humerus. The tendon is about two inches broad, and lies in front of that of the teres major, from which it is separated by a large bursa.* The latissimus dorsi draws the humerus inwai-ds and backwards: it also co-operates with the pectoralis major in pulling any object towards the body: if the humerus be the fixed point, it raises the body, as in climbing. What is the object of the muscle arising so high up the back? It is that the transverse fibres of the muscle serve the important purpose of strapping down the inferior angle of the scapula. It sometimes happens that the scapula slips above the muscle: this displacement is readily recognised by the un- * The latissimus dorsi sometimes receives a distinct accessonr sUp from the inferior angle of the scapula. B 4