DISSECTION OF THE BKAIN. 494 Fig. 117. I, 2, 3. Anterior, middle, and poste. rior lobes of the cerebrum. 4. Cerebellum. 5. Pons Varolii. 6. Medulla oblongata. by the sphenoid and temporal bones. The posterior lobe rests on the arch of the tentorium. Between this and the middle there is no evident boundary; indeed some anatomists, among whom may be mentioned the illustrious Haller, enu- merate only two lobes. By separating the middle from the an- terior lobe, we see, deep in the fissure of Sylvius, what is called the "^island of Beil" It is merely a portion of the under surface of the hemisphere, mapped out by small and deep convolutions, which dove-tail with those adjoining. It corresponds with the under surface of the corpus striatum, and might, therefore, be called the lobe of that ganglion. We must now notice the several objects seen at S°thrpartrat the base of the brain in the middle line, proceeding the base of jQ order from the back part (fig. 116, p. 491). In the bram. ^^.^ description we omit the cerebral nerves. These will be examined hereafter. Immediately above the medulla oblongata is a square protu- berance called the " Pons Varolii" This is a transverse commis- sure which connects the two lobes of the cerebellum, and lies over the basilar groove of the occipital bone. From the anterior border of the pons two round cords of nervous matter, about half an inch thick, diverge from each other,—one towards each hemisphere of the cerebrum. These are the " crura cerebri." Winding round the outer side of each crus is a white band—the "tractus opticus," or root of the • optic nerve. These tracts converge, and uniting in the middle line, constitute the commissure of the optic nerves. Between the crura cerebri the surface is perforated by a number of blood-vessels ; hence this spot is called the " locus per- foratus medius,"—medius, as contra-distinguished from another part of the brain's base presenting siniilar perforations, situated at the root of the fissure of Sylvius, and caUed the " locus perforatus