FEMALE PERINEUM. 379 Labia mi Separating the external labia, we expose two smaller nora. and thinner folds of skio, one on either side, termed " labia minora," or, by the old anatomists, the nymphce. These folds converge anteriorly, and form a hood for the clitoris, called "preputium ditoridis;" posteriorly they are gradually lost on the inside of the labia majora. They never contain fat, like the labia majora, but are composed of a minute plexus of veins. Be- tween the nymphse and about the clitoris are a number of glands which secrete the same kind of unctuous matter as those about the corona glandis in the male. ^ In young persons, in whom the nymphse are protected from the air and from friction by the external labia, they are soft, moist, and of a rose-red colour: but when hypertrophied, so as to project beyond the labia, they become like the common integument, and acquire a bluish colour from the distension of theii- veins. Between the labia minora, and about a thumb's breadth below the clitoris, is the orifice of the urethra, or "meatus m-inarius." Immediately below this is the vagina, of which the orifice is par- tially closed in the vii-gin state, by a thin fold of skin called the " hymen." CHtoris. clitoris resembles in form and structure the penis, but on a very diminutive scale. Like the penis, it is at- tached to the sides of the pubic arch by two crura, fig. 82, p. 381 each of which is grasped by its own little erector clitoridis. The crm-a unite to form the body of the organ, which is tipped by a small glans. The glans is provided with extremely sensitive papilla, and covered by a Httle prepuce. Its dorsal arteries and nerves are exceedingly large in proportion to its size, and have precisely the same course and distribution as in the penis. Its in- ternal structure consists of a plexus of blood-vessels, which freely communicate with those of the labia minora, for one cannot be injected without the other. Uretlira. ^ '"^^^^^ '^^'^^^^l ^^^^^^ the vestibule, three-quarters of an mch in length, leads from the clitoris down to the orifice of the urethra. This orifice is not a perpendicular fissure like that of the penis, but rounded and puckered, and during life