LIGAMENTS OP THE SPINE, 192 Dissect au intervertebral substance layer after layer in front, and you will find that the circumferential fibres extend obliquely between the vertebrae, crossing each other like the branches of the letter X. The thickness of the intervertebral cartilages is not the same in front and behind. It is this difference in their thickness, more than tbat in the bodies of the vertebra;, which produces the several curves of the spine. In the lumbar and cervical regions they are thicker in front; in the dorsal region behind.* Each joint between the articular processes has a cap- CapsiUar ^^^aT lio-ament and a synovial membrane. The surfaces Ligaments. o of the bones are crusted with cartilage. Though but little movement is permitted between Motionsj)f vertebree (the atlas and axis excepted), yet the e spine. ^,jj||gQ|.j^^g motion between them all is considerable. The spine can be bent forwards, backwards, or on either side; it also admits of slight rotation. In consequence of the elasticity of the intervertebral cartilages and the ligamenta subflava it returns spontaneously to its natural curve of rest like an elastic bow. Its mobility is greatest in the cervical region, on account of the thick- ness of the fibro-cartilages, the small size of the vertebrae, the oblique direction of their articulations, and, above all, the hori- zontal position and the shortness of their spines. In the dorsal * The structure of the interyertebral cartUages explains the weU-kno^ fact, that a man becomes shorter after standing for some hours; and that he regains his usual height after rest. The difference between the morning and evening stature amounts to more than half an inch. . ' It also explains the fact that a permanent lateral curvature of the spine may be produced (especially in the young) by ttie habitual practice of leaning to this or that side Experience proves that the cause of lateral curvature depends more frequently upon some alteration in the structure of the flbro-cartllages than upon the bones From an examination of the bodies of one hundred and thii-ty-four indmduals with crooked spines, it was concluded that in two-thirds the bones were perfectly healtliy, that the most frequent cause of curvature resided in the invertebral substances; these being, on the concave side of the curve, almost absorbed, and on the convex side pre- ternaturally developed. As might be expected in these cases, the muscles on tne convex side become lengthened, and degenerate in structure. — On this subject see Jlildebrandt's Anatomie, B. ii. s. 155.