LATERAL VENTRICLES. 501 K K 3 are nothing more than deep convolutions which project into the ventricles. By cutting through the white matter on their surface we soon come to the cortical substance of the brain. If a perpendicular section were made across the perpcn-^ middle of the brain, the lateral ventricles would appear dicularsec- ^s represented in fig. 121. Together with the third or middle ventricle, their shape slightly resembles the letter T. Such a section shows well the radiating fibres of the corpus callosum, the fornix, and the velum interpositum beneath it: also the bee'innincf of the .transverse fissure at the base of the o o brain, between the crus cerebri and the middle lobe. Having learned the names of the parts in the lateral ventricles, now consider them a little more in detail, and also the transparent septum (septum lucidum) by which the two lateral ventricles are separated. The corpus striatum is so called, because, when cut rtriatan. it presents alternate layers of white and grey . matter.* It is a much larger mass of grey substance than it appears to be, for only a portion of it projects into the ventricle, cropping out on the surface. What we do see of it looks pear-shaped, with the large end forwards : it tapers gradually to a point as we trace it backwards on the outside of the optic thalamus (p. 507). The under part of the corpus striatum corresponds with the convolution at the base of the brain known as the island of Eeil, and also with the locus perforatus anticus, — a spot, we remember, at the root of the fissure of Sylvius, so called on account of the number and size of the blood-vessels which pass in there to supply the mass of grey matter in question. This is a narrow semi-transparent band of white circulari™ fibres, which skirts the posterior border of the corpus striatum, fig. 123. In front it is connected with the * The white lines in the corpus striatum are produced by the fibres of the crus cerebri, which traverse this mass of grey matter before they expand to form the hemi- sphere. The grey matter itself is sometimes called the anterior cerebral ganglion. It is found in all mammalia, in birds, and, to a certain extent, in reptiles. Its precise function is still unknown.