444 FRONT or THE LEG. tibial artery. Since it lies deep between the muscles, it is neces- sary to separate tbem from each other: this is easily done by pro- ceeding from the ankle towards the knee. The anterior tibial artery is one of the two branches CouESB AND j^Q^Q which the popliteal divides at the lower border of BTSLATIONS ^ •■• • i -i 1 OF THE ANTE- the popHteus. It comes forward about 1^ inch below EioB TIBIAL ^jjg £ fibula, and then descends, lying in rather more than the first half of its course upon the interosseous membrane, afterwards along the front of the tibia. It runs beneath the annular ligament over the front of the ankle, and over the instep to the interval between the first and second meta- tarsal bones, where it sinks into the sole and joins the deep plantar arch. Thus, a line drawn from the head of the fibula to the interval betwen the first and second metatarsal bones would nearly coincide with its course. In the upper third of the leg it lies deep between the tibialis anticus and the extensor communis digitorum; in the lower two-thirds, between the tibialis anticus and the extensor proprius pollicis. But in front of the anlde the artery is crossed by the extensor proprius pollicis, so that on the top of the foot it runs along the outer side of this tendon. Again, just before it sinks into the sole, it is crossed by the short extensor tendon of the great toe. The artery is accompanied by the anterior tibial nerve (a branch of the peroneal), which runs for some distance on its fibular side, crosses it above the ankle, and lies on the top of the foot on its tibial side."^ It is accompanied by two veins, one on either side, which communicate at intervals by cross branches. The best guide to the artery in the upper part of its course is the inner edge of the fibula; on the top of the foot, the outer border of the long extensor tendon of the great toe. The branches of the anterior tibial are as follow : — a. The recurrent branch ascends close by the outer side of the head of the tibia to the knee-joint, where it inosculates with the other articular arteries derived from the popliteal. b. Irregular muscular branches. c. The malleolar branches, external and internal, ramify over the ^' ^ ''''