271 LIGAMENTS OF THE CLA.VICLE. of the first rib, that a well-marked bursa is commonly found between them. Inter-articular fibro-cartilage.—In order to see this we must cut through the rhomboid, the anterior and posterior ligaments of the joint, and then raise the clavicle. It is nearly circular in form, and thicker at the circumference than the centre, in which there is sometizues a perforation. Inferiorly, it is attached to the cartilage of the first rib, close to the sternum ; superiorly, to the upper part of the clavicle and the inter-clavicular ligament. Its circumference is inseparably connected with the fibrous capsule of the joint. The.joint is provided with two synovial membranes: one is placed between the articular surface of the sternum and the inner surface of the fibro-cartilage; the other, between the articular surface of the clavicle and the outer sm-face of the fibro-cartilage. This interarticular fibro-cartilage is a structure highly elastic, without admitting of any stretching. It equalises pressure, pre- vents shocks, and also acts as a ligament, preventing the clavicle from being driven inwards towards the mesial line. Observe the relative form of the cartilaginous surfaces of the bones: that of the sternum is slightly concave in the transverse, and convex in the antero-posterior direction; that of the clavicle is the reverse. The form of the articular surfaces and the ligaments of a joint being known, it is easy to understand the movements of which it is capable. The clavicle can move upon the sternum in a direction either vertical or horizontal: thus it admits of circumduction. These movements, though very limited at the sternum, become very considerable at the apex of the shoulder. coKNECTioN, .^^^ clavicle articulates with the acro- OF THE CLA- miou, aud is connected by strong ligaments to the ™™A. Process of the scapula. Joint between the acromion and the clavicle. The clavicle and the acromion articulate with each other by means of two flat oval cartilaginous surfaces, of which the planes slant inwards, and the greater diameters are in the antero-posterior direction.