127 STKUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. yoVo-t^ of an inch in diameter. The blood and air are not in actual contact. Nothing, however, intervenes but the wall of the cell and the capillary vessel, which are such delicate structures that they oppose no obstacle to the free interchange of gases by which the blood is purified. This purification is effected by the taking in of oxygen, and the elimination of carbonic acid. The most complete purification takes place in the single layer of capillaries between the folds of membrane projecting into the cell; for in this situation both sides of these vessels are exposed to the action of the air. The blood, circulating in steady streams through this capillary plexus, returns through the pulmonary veins. These, at first extremely minute, gradually coalesce into larger and larger branches, which accompany those of the artery, and finally emerge from the root of the lung by two large trunks which carry the pure florid blood to the left auricle of the heart. From this outline of the anatomy of the limg, we see that the organ is so constructed as, in a given space, to allow the largest possible quantity of impure blood to be brought in communication with the largest possible quantity of atmospheric air. It is diffi- cult to conceive how any apparatus could be better adapted to the object in view. A stratum of blood of great superficial extent is exposed to an equal stratum of air, and these strata of contiguous fluids are contained in the interior of an organ so smaU as to He within the compass of the chest. Bronchial "^^^^^ ^^^^^ arteries, two or more in number for TesTels."" ^^^^ ^^S' They arise from the concavity of the arch of the aorta, and enter the lung in company with the divisions of the bronchi. They are the proper nutritive vessels • of the organ. The old anatomists called them the " vasa privata pulmonum;' to distinguish them from the "vasa publica pul~ monum " - namely, the pulmonary arteries. The former provide "pro existentia privata pulmonum;" the latter "pro bono pub hco totms organismi." The bronchial vessels are distributed in various ways; some of their branches supply the coats of the air- passages and the large blood-vessels, others the interlobular tissue and a few reach the surface of the lung, and ramify beneath the