237 DISSECTION OF THE PALM OF THE HAND. dorsal aspect of the fingers, by transverse branches, which supply the joints and the sheaths of the tendons. Near the ungual phalanx, a considerable branch passes to the back of the finger, and forms a network of vessels round the root of the nail. The idnar nerve passes over the annular ligament i?the paS,*! P''^^™' ^^^^^ side of the ulnar artery. It lies in a groove between the pisiform and unciform bones, so that it is perfectly secure from pressure in this apparently exposed situation. Immediately below the pisiform bone, the nerve divides into a superficial and a deep palmar branch. The dee;p branch supplies the muscles of the little finger, and accompanies the uhiaris profunda artery into the palm, to supply all the inter- osseous muscles. The superficial branch divides into two digital nerves*, for the supply of both sides of the little finger and the ulnar side of the ring: finger. Anterior ^^^^ exceedingly strong and thick ligament confines annular the flexor tendons of the fingers and thumb, and fastens Ser^uf together the bones of the carpus. It is attached exter- nally to the scaphoid and trapezium ; internally to the pisiform and unciform. Its upper border is continuous with the aponeurosis in front of the wi-ist; its lower border terminates in the palmar fascia; its anterior surface receives the expanded tendon of the palmaris longus, and gives origin to most of the muscles constituting the ball of the thumb and little finger. Cut vertically through the ligament, and observe, that, with the carpal bones, it foi-ms a complete elliptical canal, with the broad diameter transversely. This canal is lined by a synovial mem- brane which is reflected loosely over the tendons. It transmits the * The more internal of these two nei-ves sends filaments to the palmaris brevis to the integument on the inner side of the palm, and is joined by a filament from'the dorsal cutaneous branch of the ulnar nerye; it then rims along the uhiar side of the palm internal to its coiTcsponding artery, and is continued along the inner side of the little finger to the extremity. The other nerre descends internal to its coiTosnond ing artery, and passes obHquely over the flexor tendons of the little finger towards tlio eleffc between the little and ring fingers, w].ore it subdivides into two bivanches wh h run along the opposite sides of these two fingers to their exti-emities. It also Lends a filament to communicate with the median nerve, behind the superficial palmar ai-ch