440 DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE LEG. Continue the incision from the knee down the front of the leg, over the ankle, along the top of the foot to the great toe. Another incision must be made at right angles to the first, on either side oi the ankle, that the skin may be reflected from the front and sides of the leg and foot. Cutaneous Having already traced the internal saphena vein veins and (p. 414) to the inner side of the knee, you must now nerres. follow it down the inner side of the leg, over the inner ankle* to the top of the foot. On the top of the foot notice that the principal veins form an arch, with the convexity forwards, just as on the'back of the hand. This arch receives the veins from the toes. From the inner side of the arch the internal saphena originates; from the outer side, the external saphena. The latter vein runs behind the external ankle, up the back of the calf of the leg to join the popliteal vein. The skin on the inner side of the leg is supplied by the long sa- phenous nerve (p. 434). This nerve becomes subcutaneous on the inner side of the knee, between the gracilis and sartorius. Here it meets the saphena vein, and accompanies it down the leg, distri- buting its branches on either side, till it is finally lost on the inner side of the foot. The largest branch curves round the inner side of the knee, just below the patella, to supply the skin in this situation. External '^^^^ ^ branch of the peroneal nerve. It comes cuten^ous through the fascia about the lower thii-d of the outer side of the leg; and descending over the front of the ankle, divides and subdivides over the top of the foot. Trace its subdivisions and you will find that one runs along the inner side of the great toe ; the others supply the outside of the second toe, both sides of the third and foui'th, and the inside of the little toe. * The Prencli commonly bleed from tlie internal saphena as it runs oyer the inner ankle, this being a convenient and safe place for venesection.