285 SUPERFICIAL VESSELS OP THE GROIN. skin s'&ould then be dissected from the subjacent adipose and are- olar tissue, called the " superficial fascia." Su erfi "al "^^^^ subcutaneous tissue of the abdomen presents the fascia. ' Same general characters as that of other parts, and varies in, thickness according to the condition of the individual. At the lower part of the belly, it admits of separation into two layers ; the subcutaneous vessels and nerves ramify between them. Eespecting the superficial layer, there is nothing to be observed, except that it contains the fat. The deeper layer is intimately connected with Poupart's ligament or the crural arch; but it is very loosely continued over the spermatic cord and the scrotum, and becomes identified with the superficial fascia of the perineum. These points deserve attention, because they explain how urine, when extravasated into the perineum and scrotum, readily makes its way over the spermatic cord on to the surface of the abdomen ; but from this it cannot travel down the thigh, on account of the connections of the fascia with Poupart's ligament. ' Superficial Between the layers of the superficial fascia on the ai°d^r^ ^""^ ""PP^^ P^^*^ «f ^^ig^' ^-re several ab- sorbent glands a,nd small blood-vessels (fig. 54). The glands are named, according to their situation, inguinal and femoral. The inguinal are often smaU enough.to escape observation. They are of an oval form, with their long axis corresponding to the line of the crural arch (represented by the dark line in fig. 54). They receive the absorbents from the wall of the abdonten, from the scrotum and penis, and are therefore generally affected in venereal disease. The superficial arteries in the neighbourhood arise from the femoral. One, the epigastric, ramifies over the lower part of the abdomen; another, the^wdic, crosses the spermatic cord, and is distributed to the skin of the penis and scrotum; a third the circnmflexa Hid, ramifies towards the spine of the ilium These subcutaneous arteries, the pudic especially, often occasion a free hemorrhage m the operation for strangulated hernia ^ The corresponding veins join the saphena vein of the thio-h Under ordinary circumstances they do not appear in the livTno