DISSECTION OF THE EAR. 545 transmit.the vibrations of the membrana tympani to the mem- brane of the fenestra ovalis, and, through it, to the fluid contained in the internal ear. But they have another use, which would be incompatible with a single bone — namely, to permit the tighten- ing and relaxation of the membrana tympani, and thus adapt it either to resist the impulse of a very loud sound, or to favour a more gentle one. Muscles of These little muscles, by moving the tympanic bones, THE TYHPA- tighten or relax the membrane of the tympanum. The " tensor tympani " runs above and parallel to the Eus- tachian tube, from the cartilaginous part of which it arises. It passes backwards, and terminates in a round tendon, which enters the fore part of the tympanum through a special bony canal, and is inserted into the short process of the malleus. Its action is to draw the membrana tympani inwards, and thus render it tense. The " laxator tympani " arises from the spine of the sphenoid, and is inserted into the long process of the malleus. The " stapedius " arises from a tube in the pyramid, and its tendon is inserted into the neck of the stapes. Its precise use is not thoroughly understood. A branch of the portio dura ("chorda tympani") panL ^ crosses the tympanum between the handle of the malleus and the long process of the incus (see p. 175). On the inner wall of the tympanum — that is, opposite to the membrana tympani — observe iu the dry bone the following objects: — Beginning from above there is an opening, called the "foramen ovale: " it leads into the vestibule of the internal ear, but is closed in the recent state by a membrane to which is at- tached the base of the stapes. Below the foramen ovale is a bony prominence called the "promontm'^"* Still lower is another opening, called the "foramen rotundum:" it leads into the tym- ■wardfl, and its point is fixed in a small hollow at the commencement of the mastoid cells. The stapes is horizontal, and its base is attached to the membrane covering the fenestra ovalis. * This promontory is occasioned by the first turn of the cochlea. Upon it ramifies the tympanic plexus of nerves formed by the sympathetic and the glosso-phai-yngeal. N N