223 DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. Musculo- This, the largest of the brachial nerves, arises, in corn- spiral or mon with the circumflex, from the posterior part of the ra 1 nciTo. axillary plexus (p. 206). It descends at first behind the axillary artery, and then winds obliquely round the posterior part of the humerus, between the external and internal heads of the triceps, in company with the superior profunda branch of the bra- chial artery. About the lower third of the outer side of the arm, the nerve runs deeply imbedded between the brachialis anticus and the supinator radii longus. A little above the elbow-joint it divides into its two principal branches,—the radial, which accom- panies the radial artery along the forearm,—and the posterior interosseous, which perforates the supinator brevis, and supplies all the muscles on the back of the forearm. What is the distribution of this great nerve? In a word, it sup- ph'es all the extensors of the forearm, wrist, thumb, and fingers; and all the supinators except one, namely, the biceps (supplied by the external cutaneous). DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FOEEAEM. Prolong the incision down to the wrist, reflect the skin, and trace the cutaneous nerves and veins (p. 212). On the radial side of the forearm are the superficial ^^es^"^^ radial veins, with filaments of the external cutaneous nerve. On the ulnar side are the superficial ulnar veins, with filaments of the internal cutaneous nerve. The ex- ternal cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve runs along the outer and back part of the forearm. About the lower third of • the radial border of the forearm, the radial nerve becomes super- ficial, and turns over the radius to supply the back of the hand and fingers. Near the styloid process of the ulna, the superficial branch of the ulnar nerve perforates the fascia to reach the back of the hand. Cutaneous ^^'""^ ^"""^^ ''''^ ^^^""^^ Surface, veins. out of the way of pressure. Commencing at the extremity of the fingers, the veins run up between the