260 DISSECTION 01^ THE BACK OE THE EOREAKM. attached to the ridges on the back of the radius, so as to form six distinct sheaths for the passage of the extensor tendons. Counting from the radius towards the ulna, the first sheath contains the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi and the extensor primi internodii pollicis ; the second contains the tendons of the extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior; the third contains the tendon of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis; the fourth contains the tendons of the indicator and the extensor communis digitorum; the fifth contains the tendon of the extensor minimi digiti; and the sixth, the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris. All the sheaths are lined by synovial membranes, to facilitate the play of the tendons. In a few instances, one or more of them communicate •with the wrist-joint. The fascia of the metacarpus consists of a thin fibrous layer, continued from the posterior annular ligament. It separates the extensor tendons from the subcutaneous veins and nerves, and is attached to the radial side of the second metacarpal bone, and the ulnar side of the fifth. „ „ . T The fascia must be removed from the muscles, so far miiscles on as this can be done without mjurmg the muscular hbres the forearm which arise from its under surface. Preserve the pos- terior annular ligament. The following muscles are now exposed, and should be examined in the order in which they* are placed, proceeding from the radial to the ulnar side of the fore- arm : — 1. The supinator radii longus (already described, p. 227). 2. The extensor carpi radialis longior. 3. The extensor carpi radi- alis brevior. 4. The extensor communis digitorum. 5. The extensor minimi digiti. 6. The extensor carpi ulnaris. 7. The anconeus. A little below the middle of the forearm, the extensors of the • wrist and fingers diverge from each other, leaving an interval, in which are seen the three extensors of the thumb—the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, the extensor primi internodii pollicis, and the extensor secundi internodii pollicis. The two former cross the radial extensors of the wrist, and pass over the lower third of the radius. Between the second and third extensors of the thumb, we observe