MEDULLA OBLONGATA, 513 the pons. The fibres of which they are composed are continuous with the anterior columns of the spinal cord, and consist, therefore, of motor fibres. They may be traced through the pons into the lower part of the crura cerebri. By gently separating the pyramids about one inch below the pons, you observe that their fibres on each side decussate (fig. 124). This is the explanation of " cross paralysis;" i. e. when one side of the brain is injured the loss of power is manifested on the opposite side of the body. The decus- sation takes place only between the inner fibres of the pyramid; the outer fibres run straight on without decussating. We shall presently find that these decussating fibres are prolongations of the deep fibres of the lateral columns of the cord which here come forward to the surface, pushing aside the proper anterior columns. The olivmy bodies or olives are two oval eminences situated on the outer side of the pyramids. They consist, externally of white substance; when cut into, their interior presents an undulating line of grey matter, called, from its zig-zag shape, " corpus denta- tum.'' This gi-ey line forms a circuit, interrupted only on the inner side, so that it nearly isolates the white matter in its centre. The restiform tracts are situated to the outer side of and behind the olives; to see them well, you should look at the back of the medulla. There you observe that they diverge from each other, and pass into the cerebellum, constituting its inferior crura (p. 514). In consequence of this divergence the grey matter in the interior of the medulla oblongata is exposed; hence it is that the floor of the foiurth ventricle is grey. The restiform bodies contain in their interior- a considerable portion of grey matter, which is continuous with that in the posterior part of the spinal cord. The fibres of which they are composed are conductors of sensation.* When a longitudinal section is carefully made through the mid- dle of the pons and the medulla oblongata, a number of white fibres are seen passing in a horizontal direction, constituting a kind * Two slender columns are marked off from the back part of the restiform bodies one on either side the median fissure (fig. 125). These ai-e the posterior pyramid's of some anatomists. They proceed with the restiform tracts to the cerebellum. L L