44 BRANCHES OF THE SUBCLAVIAN. over the scalenus anticus, then directly beneath and parallel with the clavicle towards the notch of the scapula. Here it is joined by the supra-scapular nerve, and divides into branches, some of which ramify above, others below, the spine of this bone. It in- osculates freely in the infra-spinous fossa with the "dorsalis scapulae," a branch of the subscapular artery. The posterior scapular (transversalis colli) artery, though gene- rally described as a branch of the thyroid axis, more frequently arises from the subclavian in the last part of its course. It runs tortuously across the side of the neck (higher than the supra- scapular), over the scalene muscles and the great nerves of the brachial plexus (sometimes between them), and disappears beneath the trapezius and the levator anguli scapulae to reach the posterior angle of the scapula. It then runs beneath the rhomboid muscles, in which it is lost. In the space between the sterno mastoid and trapezius, the posterior scapular gives off the " superficialis colli." This vessel proceeds tortuously across the posterior triangle of the neck to the under surface of the trapezius, which, with the levator anguli scapulfe, it principally supplies. You will very often find that the superficialis colli comes direct from the thyroid axis, while the posterior scapular comes from the last part of the subclavian. The veins corresponding to the supra-scapular and posterior scapular arteries terminate in the external jugular, sometimes in the subclavian. The inferior thyroid vein crosses in front of the common carotid artery, and joins the internal jugular. This artery arises from the subclavian opposite to the Internal thvToid axis. It enters the chest behind the subclavian mammary. ■, ■, , -i xi -i vein, and descends behmd the cartilages ot the ribs, about half an inch from the sternum. Its further progress wiU be , examined in the dissection of the chest. The corresponding vein most frequently terminates in the vena innominata. This artery is given off by the subclavian behind the StercoTtal scalenus anticus, so that you must divide the muscle to ^ ' see it. It descends into the chest, passing over the necks of the first and second ribs, and furnishes the arteries of the two