31 BRANCHES OF THE EXTERNAL CAROTID, brane; we should therefore be least likely to wound it in laryng- otomy, by dividing the membrane close to the cricoid cartilage. But it is by no means infrequent to find this artery of consider- able size, taking an oblique or a perpendicular direction in front of the membrane, and finally distributed to one of the lobes of the thyroid body. I have even seen several instances in which the membrane was crossed by the main trimk of the superior thyroid. These facts should establish the practical rule in la- ryngotomy, not to make an opening into the larynx until we have fairly exposed the parts, and ascertained whether any large artery lies in the way. Among the many arterial inosculations about the th3iToid body are two which deserve notice; the one is formed between the two superior thyroid arteries along the upper border of the isthmus, the other takes place along the back part of the lateral lobe between the superior and inferior thyroid. The superior thyroid vein crosses the sheath of the common carotid, and joins the internal jugular. The superior laryngeal nerve, mentioned as accompanying the superior laryngeal artery, comes from the ganglion of the pneumo- gastric. It descends behind both carotid arteries, enters the larynx through the thyro-hyoid membrane, and supplies the mucous membrane of the larynx with common sensation. It is this nerve'which presides over the exquisite sensibility of the " rima glottidis." Before it enters the larynx, the nerve sends the " external laryn- geal " branch to supply the crico-thyroid muscle. Lingual The lingual artery and its branches have been de- artery, scribed (p. 28). Facial The facial artery and its branches below the jaw have arteiy. -been described (p. 23). The occipital artery is the fourth branch of the ex- aHe^^''^ ternal carotid. It runs backwards along the lower border of the digastricus towards the mastoid process. It then passes under all the muscles inserted into the mastoid process, namely, the sterno-mastoid, the splenius capitis and the