rECTOEAL REGION. 199 o 4 towards the chest: as in placing the hand on the opposite shoulder, or in pulling an object towards the body. When the arm is raised and made the fixed point, the muscle assists in raising the trunk, as in climbing. Between the pectoralis major and the deltoid, the great muscle of the shoulder, there is an interval varying in extent in different subjects, but always more marked towards the clavicle. It contains a small artery — the tlioracica-humeraria — and the cephalic vein, which ascends along the outer side of the arm, and empties itself into the axillary vein. This interval is the proper place to feel for the coracoid process. In doubtful injuries about the shoulder this point of bone is a good landmark in helping us to come to our diagnosis. The pectoralis major is supplied with nerves by the anterior thoracic branches of the brachial plexus; with blood by the long and short thoracic branches of the axillary artery. Anatomy of I^eflect from the clavicle the clavicular portion of the infra- the pectoralis major. Beneath the portion so reflected reS^n'!^'^ P^^^ pectoralis minor will be exposed. Now between the upper border of this muscle and the clavicle there is an important space, in which you must dissect out and examine the relative position of the following objects: — a. A strong ligamentous expansion, called the costo-coracoid fascia, which extends from the cartilage of the first rib to the clavicle. b. The axillary vein, artery, and plexus of nerves. c. The subclavius muscle enclosed in its fibrous sheath. d. A short arterial trunk, (the thoracic axis,) which divides into several radiating branches. e. The termination of the cephalic vein in the axillary. /. Two or three nerves, (the anterior thoracic,) which descend from the axillary plexus beneath the clavicle, cross in front of the axillary vessels, and subdivide to supply the pectoral muscles. Costo-cora- • extends from the cartilage of the first coid fascia. coracoid process; between these points it is attached to the clavicle, and forms a complete invest-