PAROTID GLAND. 60 changes in the countenance indicative of certain mental emotions: e. g., blushing or sudden paleness.* The facial vein does not run with the artery, but takes a straight course from the inner angle of the eye to the anterior edge of the masseter. In this course it descends beneath the zygomatic muscles, over the termination of the parotid duct, and at the ante- rior border of the masseter passes over the jaw, behind the facial artery, and joins the internal jugular vein. The facial vein is a continuation of the frontal, which descends over the forehead, and, after receiving the supra-orbital, takes the name of angular at the corner of the eye. It communicates with the ophthalmic tvein, receives the veins of the eyelids, the external parts of the nose, the coronary veins, and others from the muscles of the face. Near the angle of the mouth it is often increased in size by a large vein which comes from a venoiis plexus deeply seated behind the superior maxillary bone. Aj^eria This artery arises from the external carotid, or the transversa- temporal in the substance of the parotid gland. It runs lis faciei. fQj-^ards across the masseter above the parotid duct, and is distributed to the glandtila socia parotidis, but chiefly to the masseter itself. The transverse facial artery is seldom of large size, except when it supplies those parts which usually receive blood froin the facial. I have seen it as large as a goose-qu.ill, furnishing the coronaiy and the nasal arteries; the facial itself not being larger than a sewing thread. Now direct your attention to the parotid gland ; its boundaries, its deep relations, the course of its duct, and the objects contained within the gland itself. / The parotid salivary gland occupies the space between the gw'ramus of the jaw and the mastoid process. It is bounded above by the zygoma, below by the sterno-mastoid and * M. Bernard and Brow S6qiiai-t have proved by experiment that if the branches of the sympathetic, -which accompany the facial artery, be divided, tlie capillary vessels of the face, being deprived of their contractile power, become immediately distended with blood, and the temperature of the face is raised.