POPLITEAL SPACE. 456 the weight of the trunk on a ball-and-socket joint; the weight is nicely balanced on all sides, and prevented from falling by four groups of muscles. In front, are the rectus and sartorius; on the inner side, the adductors; on the outer side, the glutaeus medius and minimus; behind, the ham-strings and glutaeus maximus. The ham-string muscles are supplied with blood by the per- forating branches of the profunda, which come through the tendon of the adductor magnus close to the femur. Their nerves are derived from the great ischiatic. Since the ham-string muscles diverge from each Popliteal Q^][^er to reach their respective insertions, they leave between them a space, called the "popliteal." Now this space is bounded below by the converging origins of the gas- trocnemius ; i|;s shape is, therefore, that of a lozenge. It is filled up by a large quantity of fat, which permits the easy flexion of the thicrh, and in this fat we find imbedded the popliteal vessels and nerves in the following order: nearest to the surface are the neiwes, while the vessels lie close to the bone, the vein being superficial to the artery (fig. 101). If the ischiatic nerve be traced from the biittock, we PopHteal £^^j ^Yia,t it descends upon the adductor magnus, and that, after being crossed by the long origin of the biceps, it then runs along the outer border of the semimembranosus. Having given branches to the three great flexor muscles, it divides, about the lower third of the thigh (higher or lower in difi'erent subjects), into two large nerves—the peroneal and the popliteal. The peroneal runs close by the inner side of the tendon of the biceps* towards the head of the fibula, below which we have already traced it (p. 446), dividing into branches for the peronei and all the extensors of the foot and the toes. The popliteal accompanies the popliteal artery, and is destined to supply the flexor muscles on the back of the leg. and the sole of the foot. By clearing out all the fat, we observe that the popliteal vessels * The nerve is, therefore, very Hahle to be injured in the operation of dividing the outer hamstring.