302 POSITION OF ABDOMINAL VISCERA. the ascending part of tlie large intestine in the right lumbar- region, and the descending part of it in the left, are not visible unless distended; they lie contracted at the back of the abdomen. Such and so much of the viscera are usually seen on opening the abdomen ; but a certain latitude must be allowed to this statement. Sometimes more of one organ appears and less of another, accord- ing as this or that is distended or hypertrophied. Much depends also upon the amount of pressure which the ribs have undergone during life; so that, all things considered, we seldom see the parts in any two bodies precisely in the same position. Particular position You should next examine the position of each of each viscus. viscus separately ; and, first, that of the liver. The liver occupies the whole of the right hypo- The liver. 'chondrium, and extends over the epigastric region more or less into the left. Unless the individual be very corpulent, we can ascertain during life the extent to which the liver projects below the costal cartilages, and the general dimensions of the organ may be tolerably well told by percussion. Its under surface overlays part of the stomach, of the duodenum, of the right kidney, and of the transverse colon: its upper surface is convex, and accurately adapted to the arch of the diaphragm. To this muscle the liver is connected by folds of peritoneum, called « ligaments." One of these, nearly longitudinal in direction, and called the " suspensory," or, from its shape the "falciform'' ligament, is situated a little to thelnghtpt the mesial line. The free edge of it in front contains the impervious remains of the umbilical vein called the "round'' ligament. The suspensory ligament, if traced backwards, leads to another broad fold extending horizontally from the diaphragm to the posterior border of the liver; this constitutes the " lateral " ligament nght or left, according as we trace it on one or other side of the falciform ligament. gall-bladder is the reservoir for the bile. It is GaU-bladder. ^^^^^^^ confined by the peritoneum in a sUght depres- sion on the under surface of the liver. Its lower end or fundus * The junction of the lateral and the falciform Hgamenta is described by some authors as the coronary ligament.