DISSECTION or THE NOSE. 177 {septum naviiLm) by which they are divided. We notice that the greatest perpendicular depth of each nasal fossa is about the centre, and that from this point the depth gradually lessens, both towards the anterior and the posterior openings of the nose. Laterally, each fossa is very narrow in consequence of the projection of the spongy bones towards the septum : this narrowness in the transverse direction explains the rapidity with which swelling of the lining membrane from a simple cold obstructs the passage of air. The boundary of the nasal fossae is formed by the following bones: Superiorly, are the nasal, the ethmoid, and the body of the sphenoid; inferiorly, are the horfzontal plates of the maxillary and palate bones; internally, is the smooth and flat septum formed by the ethmoid, the vomer, and the cartilage; externally, are the maxillary, the lachrymal, the ethmoid, the palate, and the ptery- goid plate of the sphenoid. Meatus of" '^^^ ""^^^^ ""^"^^^ divided by the the nose, turbinated bones into three compartments (meatus) of unequal size ; and in,, these are orifices leading to air-cells (sinuses) in the sphenoid, ethmoid, frontal, and superior maxillary bones. Each of these compartments we should individually examine. The suj)eTior meatus is the smallest of the three, and does not extend beyond the posterior half of the wall of the nose. We find in it one wide opening, which leads into the posterior ethmoidal and sphenoidal cells. The middle meatus is larger than the superior. At its anterior part is a long narrow passage (infundibulum), which conducts upwards to the frontal and the anterior ethmoidal cells. About the middle is a small opening which leads into the antrum of the superior maxilla: this opening in the dry bone is large and irregular ' but m the recent state it is reduced nearly to the size of a crow- quill by mucous membrane, so that a very little swelling of the membrane is sufficient to close the orifice entirely Notice that the orifices of the frontal and ethmoid cells are so nor But'thf"7!r the nose. But this is not the case with the sphenoid and maxillary