DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 159 Follow the fifth nerve forwards, that you may see how its sen- sitive root spreads out into a great ganglion, termed after its dis- coverer, the " Gasserian " ganglion. From this ganglion proceed the primary divisions of the nerve; namely, the ophthalmic which passes through the sphenoidal fissure; the superior maxillary, through the foramen rotundum; and the inferior maxillary, thi-ough the foramen ovale. The small motor root of the fifth lies beneath the ganglion, with which it has no communication, and accompanies the inferior maxillary division- to supply the muscles of mastication. Curves of removal of the cavernous sinus, a good view the^carotid is obtained of the remarkable curves, like the letter S,, made by the carotid artery by the side of the sella' turcica. The vessel enters the cranium at the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, makes its sigmoid curves, and then passes through the diu-a mater between the anterior clinoid process and the optic nerve: here it gives off the ophthalmic ai-tery. Cavernous superior cervical gangHon of the sympathetic plexus. sends up with the carotid artery filaments, which form a plexus round it in its tortuous course throuo-h the carotid canal, and by the side of the sphenoid. After a careful dissection we may discover with the naked eye in this plexus very small ganglia called carotid or cavernous; but they vary in number, size, and situation. Through these nerves a communi- cation IS established between the sympathetic and the nerves which enter the orbit. (Fig. 34, p. 160.) DISSECTION OF THE OEBIT. The roof of the orbit should be removed as far back as the optic foramen. In doing this, be careful not to injure the little pulley on the inner side for the superior oblique. Periosteum , roof being removed, we expose the fibrous mem- of the orbit, brane which lines the walls of the orbit It is a tinuation of the dura mater through the ',r.hL7^\ fissure. Traced forward, we find that at the mt^t ofthHtt