DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 537 at tbis point too it projects slightly into the interior of the globe, forming a little prominence to which the term "papilla conica" has been applied.* In front the retina ter- minates in a thin serrated border (om ser- Fig^lSS^ rata), which fits into corresponding denta- tions in the posterior margin of the ciliary body. Precisely opposite the pupil there is a bright yellow spot in the retina, about l-24th of an inch in diameter, fading off ^^^^^^ ^^^^^ gradually at the edges, and having a black canai of Petit (inflated.) . . ,, , rni • J. ^ j. ^one of Zinn (exaggerated.) spot m the centre. Ihis central spot was believed by its discoverer, the celebrated Soemmering f, to be a perforation; but it is now ascertained to depend upon the absence of the yellow colour in the centre: so that the dark pigment of the choroid becomes conspicuous. These appearances are lost soon after death, and are replaced by a minute fold, into which the retina gathers itself, reaching from the centre of the spot to the prominence of the optic nerve. The use of this yellow spot is not understood.^ Although to the naked eye the retina appears nothing organisation. iQore than a soft semi-transparent membrane, yet, when examined with the microscope, it is found to be most minutely and elaborately organised. It consists of three layers,— an internal vascular layer, an external, termed "membrana Jacobi;" a middle or truly nervous layer. In the middle layer, the delicate fibres of the optic nerve spread out and ramify through a stratum, of nerve-cells: how they ultimately terminate, whether by loops or in free extremities, is still doubtful. The internal layer is formed by the ramifications of the arteria centralis retinse, which form a close network of blood-vessels throughout the nervous sub- stance, for its nutrition. After a short maceration in water, the nervous substance can be brushed off with a delicate camel's-hair * This prominence is remarkable, in that it is insensible to the rays of light, t De foramine centrali, &c., retinse humanse; in Comment. Soc. Getting, t. 13. I In birds the retina has throughout the yellowish colour seen only at one part in the human eye.