CARDIAC PLEXUS. 109 Bronciual Small arteries, arising from the concavity of the and oesopha- arch of the aorta, accompany the bronchial tube into ge. areue. substance of the lung. Their distribution and office will be considered with the anatomy of the lung. Other arteries proceed from the front of the descending aorta to supply the oesophagus. Having finished the posterior mediastinum, replace the lung and turn your attention once more to the great vessels at the root of the heart. This vessel carries the impure blood from the heart arter^.^*^ lungs. It proceeds from the right ventricle, crosses obliquely in front of the root of the aorta, and on the left side of that vessel divides into two branches, one for each lung. The right branch passes through the arch of the aorta to the right lung; the left is easily followed to its corresponding lung by removing its investing layer of pericardium. Draw towards the left side the first part of the arch of the aorta, and dissect the pericardium from the great vessels at the base of. the heart. Thus a good view wiU be obtained of the trachea and its bifurcation into the two bronchi. Below the division of the trachea the right puhnonary artery is seen passing in front of the right bronchus. The superior vena cava is seen descending in front of, and nearly at right angles to, the right pulmonary artery. The vena azygos is also seen arching over the - right bronchus and terminating in the vena cava. Notice, especially, a number of absorbent glands called « bronchial," at the angle of birfurcation of the trachea. The.situation of these glands in the rStof so many tubes explains the variety of symptoms which may be pro- duced by their enlargement. Cardiac The nerves of the heart are derived from the pneu- plexus of mogastric and from the cervical ganglia of the sympa- thetic. A general description of them will suffice The cardiac nerves of the right side descend chiefly behmd the arch of the aorta; those of the'right} chiefly in front of the ai'ch The nerves from both Sides, however, converge towards the posterior part of the arch of the aorta. Here they form a plexus called the