446 GLUTiEAL REGION. along the outside of the foot, and is inserted into the tarsal end of the metatarsal bone of the little toe.* The action of the peronei is to raise the outer side of the foot-j This movement regulates the bearing of the foot in progression, so as to throw the principal part of the weight on the ball of the great toe. Its action is well exemplified in skating. Again, supposing the fixed point to be at the foot, they tend to prevent the body from falling on the opposite side, as when we balance ourselves on one leg. Near the inner side of the tendon of the biceps flexor nerve"'''^ of the leg, is a large nerve called the peroneal^ a branch of the great ischiatic. By reflecting the upper part of the peroneus longus, you will find that this nerve runs round the outer side of the fibula immediately below its head. Here it divides into several bj-anches, as follow: — 1. A small ai-ticular branch, which accompanies the recurrent artery to the knee-joint; 2. The anterior tibial, which accompanies the corresponding artery; 3. The external cutaneous (p. 440), which comes through the fascia be- tween the peroneus longus and the extensor longus digitorum; 4. Branches which supply all the muscles in front of the leg, namely, the extensors of the foot and the toes and the peronei. DISSECTION OF THE GLUTEAL REGION. The incision through the skin should commence at the coccyx, and be continued in a semicircular manner along the crest of the ilium. Another incision should be made from tbe coccyx down- wards and outwards for about six inches below tbe great trochanter. In reflecting the skin, notice the thick cushion which the sub- cutaneous adipose tissue forms over the tuberosity of the ischium. * On the outside of the os calcis there is a slight ridge which separates the tendons of the peronei. Each has a distinct sheath. The short tendon runs above, the long one below the ridge. t In distortion of the foot outwards, caUed "taHpes valgus," it is generally neces- sary to divide the tendons of the peronei.