THE SKULL AS A WHOLE. 53 and give attachment at their extremities to the stylo-hyoid ligaments. The}' continue for a long time movable, as the cartilage which connects them remains unossified till an advanced period of life. THE SKULL AS A WHOLE. Fig. 48.—Front View op the Skull op a Young Man of about Twenty Years of Age. \ Placed with the anterior nasal spine and the middle of the meatus auditorius externus in the horizontal plane. (In this, as in most other figures, the figures and letters of indication are placed only on one side.) 1, frontal eminence ; 2, middle of the lower part of the frontal bone, or glabella, between the superciliary eminences, and above the transverse suture of union with the nasal and superior maxillary bones ; 3, supra-oi-bital ridge at its middle—to the inside of the figure is the supra-orbital notch ; 4, the orbit — the figure is placed on the orbital plate of the sphenoid bone, between the foramen lacerum orbitale and the spheno-maxillary fissure ; 5, the anterior opening of the nares, within which are seen in shadow the nasal crest of the superior maxillary bones, the vertical plate of the eth- moid bone, and on each side the turbinated bones; 6, su- perior maxillary bone at the canine fossa—above the figure is the infra-orbital foramen; 7, myrtiform, or incisor foramen ; 8, malar bone ; 9, symphysis menti and median ridge ; 10, body of the lower jaw, above the outer oblique ridge and the mental foramen ; 11, vertex, immediately over the coronal suture ; 12, temporal fossa, at the meeting of the frontal, parietal, temporal, and sphenoid bones; 13, zygoma; 14, mastoid process; 15, angle of the jaw ; 16, mental angle. In this skull there are fourteen teeth in each jaw, the wisdom teeth having not yet appeared. THE SUTURES. The sutures of the skull are best distinguished when named from the bones between which they lie, as, for example, occipito-parietal, occipito- mastoid, fronto-ethmoid, parieto-sphenoid, &c. Those which occur in the arch of the skull require more particular notice, The cranium is intersected superiorly by three great serrated sutures, two of which, placed transversely, correspond to the anterior and posterior margins of the parietal bones, while the third lies in the middle line and passes between them. On each side also there runs an irregular longitudinal line of suture from the malar to the