1, 2, 3, 5, the same parts as in A ; 4, the external nasal DEVELOPMENT OF THE SKULL. c>r> the gullet passes out and becomes continuous with that of the integument. In a human embryo of three weeks of age all the arches are visible (Thomson). The first or highest visceral arch is the first to appear, and it is likewise the first to unite with its fellow of the opposite side: it forms by its lower part the outline of the lower jaw. The posterior or upper part of the first branchial cleft remains as the external aperture of the ear, the tympanic cavity and the Eustachian tube, while its anterior part together with the whole of the other branchial clefts are filled up. Connected with the upper edge of the first visceral arch, at its origin, a process is developed, the maxillary lobe, which passes forwards beneath the eye, forming the side part of the face. The eyes are formed in connection with the sides of the anterior cerebral vesicle, and, in front of them, a quadrilateral mesial lobe, the middle frontal process, passes down and forms the nose and middle part of the upper lip. At the angles of the extremity of the middle frontal process are two slight lobes, the internal nasal processes of Kolliker; above these are two notches, the rudimentary nostrils, and between the nostrils and eyes another pair of lobes, the external nasal processes of Kolliker, or lateral frontal processes of Reichert. The maxillary lobe becomes united to the internal and external nasal processes; but between it and the latter there is left the nasal duct. About the ninth week the inferior parts of the maxillary lobes, having sent projections inwards, are united in the middle line and form the palate. Fig. 56.—A. Magnified view from before of the Head p. and Neck of a Human Embryo of about three weeks (from Ecker, Icones Physiol. Tab. xxix. fig. I.). ^flU^-2 1, anterior cerebral vesicle or cerebrum ; 2, middle ditto ; 3, middle or naso-frontal process ; 4, superior maxillary pro- cess ; 5, eye ; 6, inferior maxillary process or first visceral arch, and below it the first cleft; 7, 8, 9, second, third, and fourth arches and clefts. B. Anterior view of the Head of a Human Fostus of about the fifth week (from Ecker, as before, fig. IV.). or lateral frontal process ; 6, the superior maxillary process ; 7, the lower jaw ; x , the tongue ; 8, first branchial cleft becoming the meatus auditorius externus. Formation of the cranium.—The chorda dorsalis passes into the base of the skull, as far forwards as the sphe- noidal region. According to the observations of H. Miiller on the calf (Leber das Vorkommen von Chordaresten, &c, in Zeitschr. fiir Rat. Med. 3rd series, vol. ii.), it extends from the odontoid process of the axis through the basilar process of the occipital bone to the back of the dorsum sellse, which it pierces, and is lost behind the pituitary body. Before attaining the osseous state, the cranium passes through a membranous and cartilaginous condition, in which it is termed the primordial cranium. In the membranous cranium, the blastema, immediately beyond the extremity of the chorda dorsalis, presents two thick bars, the lateral trabecidce of Rathke, with a very thin part in the middle line between them, corresponding to the position of the pituitary body (see fig. 57, 4). These trabecule unite in front in the ethmoidal region, and it is to be remarked that in the cartilaginous stage the ethmo-vomerine cartilage or mesial septum of the nose is continued directly forwards from the region containing the chorda dorsalis. In the cartilaginous stage of the cranium the cartilage can only be traced in the basilar parts, and corresponds in extent to the occipital bone below the level of its protuberance, the petrous and mastoid portions of the temporal bone, the sphenoid and the ethmoid, while the part of the wall in which the frontal and parietal bones, the upper part of the occipital, and the squamous portions of the temporals appear, remains membranous. The extent, however, over which the cartilage of the primordial cranium extends differs in different animals, and is greater in many mammals than in man (Kolliker). The nasal bones are derived from the middle F A