132 ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK AND HEAD. muscles. It is sufficient at present to state that the elevation and rotation of the ribs in inspiration are the main causes of the anteroposterior and transverse enlarge- ment of the chest. The angular movement is greatest in the upper and least in the lowest ribs. TEMPORO-MAXILLARY ARTICULATION. The lower jaw articulates by its condyle on each side with the smooth surface of the temporal bone, extending over the part of the glenoid fossa Fig. 121. Fig. 121. —A PORTION OF THE Skull and Lower Jaw with half the hyoid bone, seen from the right and outer side (after Arnold). ^ 1, the external lateral ligament of the temporo-maxillary articula- tion ; 2, a part of the capsular ligament of the joint; 3, styloid process ; 4, stylo-maxillary liga- ment ; 5, stylo-hyoid ligament ; 6, the lesser cornu of the hyoid bone with some short ligaments attach- ing it to the body and great cornu ; 7, the body ; 8, the extremity of the great cornu. in front of the Glaserian fissure and the anterior root of the zygoma. The joint is divided by an interarticular fibro-cartilage into an upper and lower synovial cavity. The external lateral ligament is a short fasciculus of fibres, attached Fig. 122. 7 and form an irregular capsule round Fig. 122.—A portion of the Skui.l and Lower Jaw with half the hyoid bone, seen from the inside. ^ The indications where marked are the same as in Fig. 121 ; the styloid process, 3, is detached from the skull; the body of the hyoid bone, 7, is represented as cut through in the middle, so that the posterior and inner surface of the right half of the bone is seen ; 9, the internal lateral liga- ment of the temporo-maxillary joint ; 10, the upper opening of the inferior maxillary canal. above to the external surface and the tubercle of the zygoma; and below, to the external surface and poste- rior border of the neck of the lower jaw, its fibres being directed downwards and backwards. Thin and short additional ligamentous fibres cover the synovial membrane the joint.