394 ULNAR AND RADIAL ARTERIES. latter and the index finger. The thumb and the radial side of the index finger are supplied from the radial artery. Fig. 276. Fig. 276.—Superficial Dissection of the Lower Part of the Forearm and the Hand, showing the Radial and Ulnar Arteries, the Super- ficial Palmar Arch, and the accompanying Nerves (from R. Quain). g a, placed on the deep fascia of the forearm, between the tendons of the palmaris longus and flexor carpi radialis muscles; b, points by a line crossing the pisiform bone to the ulnar nerve ; c, points to the styloid process of the radius and twigs of the radial nerve ; 1, radial artery lying on the flexor longua pollicis ; 1', the radial artery passing behind the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and extensor primi internodii pollicis ; 2, superficialis volse branch piercing the short muscles of the thumb and emerging below to join the superficial palmar arch; 3, external branch of the princeps pollicis ; 4, radialis indicis ; a branch from the superficial arch is seen joining the internal branch of the princeps pollicis; 5, ulnar artery lying upon the flexor digi- torum profundus ; 5', the same descending on the anterior annular ligament to form the superficial palmar arch ; 6, deep branch of the ulnar artery passing between the abductor and flexor minimi digiti to join the deep arch, accompanied by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve ; 7, branch of the super- ficial arch to the ulnar side of the little finger ; 8, division of the common branch to the 4th and 5th fingers ; 9, the same to the 3rd and 4th fingers ; 10, the same to the 2nd and 3rd fingers ; 7 and 8, are accompanied by the digital branches of the ulnar Derve, and 3, 4, 9, and 10, by the branches of the median nerve. The digital arteries are placed at first super- ficial to the tendons, and then lie between them, accompanied by the digital nerves as far as the clefts of the fingers, where they are joined by the anterior interosseous arteries, branches of the deep arch. On the sides of the fingers, each artery lies beneath the corre- sponding nerve, and gives branches which supply the sheaths of the tendons and the joints, some of them anastomosing across the front of the bones with similar branches from the opposite side. At about the middle of the last phalanx, the two branches for each finger converge and form an arch, from which proceed numerous small offsets to supply the matrix of the nail and all the structures at the tip of the finger. [The peculiarities observed in the branches of the superficial palmar arch will be noticed after the description of the deep arteries of the hand.] RADIAL ARTERY. The radial artery appears by its direction to be the continuation of the brachial, although it does not equal the ulnar in size. It extends along the front of the forearm as far as the lower end of the radius, below which it