DUCTLESS GLANDS. ccxxvi or, at any rate, outside the mucous coat, there is in some ducts a deposit of non-striated muscular tissue. The epithelium is usually composed of spheroidal or polyhedral cells at the commencement of the ducts, and is columnar in the rest of their length, though sometimes flattened or scaly, as in the mammary gland. DUCTLESS OR VASCULAR GLANDS. There are certain bodies which have received the name of glands on account of their resemblance in general appearance and structure to the ordinary secreting organs. They differ, however, from the latter in the fact of their possessing no ducts for the discharge of secretion ; so that the products of secretive action, if finding any outlet, are compelled to do so by rupture, by filtration through the tissues, or by re-absorption into the circulating current. The bodies in question have been termed " ductless" for this obvious anatomical reason : and " vascular," on certain physiological or theoretic grounds, as they are supposed to effect some change in the blood which is transmitted through them. To this class belong the following bodies :—the spleen, the thyroid body, thymus gland, supra-renal capsules, pituitary body; and, according to various authorities, we ought to place in the same category the solitary closed follicles of the stomach and intestines, the Peyerian glands, the follicular glands at the root of the tongue, and also the lymphatic glands. The peculiar structure of each of these organs (except the lymphatic glands, already treated of) will be considered in its proper place in that portion of this work which is devoted to special anatomy ; and we have here to give only a general outline of those structural provisions which are, with more or less modification, common to them all. The following may be taken as a general account of the mode in which their constituent elements are arranged. The form of the gland is deter- mined by a fibrous, and in some instances dense and firm, investing mem- brane, which in the larger organs is furnished with prolongations projecting inwards as septa, giving considerable firmness to the texture, and either forming loculi or rounded cavities within them, or merely leaving spaces between the septa, in which the peculiar substance of the gland is placed. The investing membrane consists of both white and elastic fibres, in vary- ing proportion, and, in many instances in the lower animals, of non-striated muscular fibres. Each gland is abundantly supplied with blood-vessels, both arterial and venous ; the former commonly dividing frequently, but entering into no anastomosis until they have arrived at their ultimate rami- fication in a capillary plexus ; the latter (the veins) are usually large, valve- less, and in some situations appear dilated into sacs ; but this appearance has been questioned. Lymphatic vessels, proceeding from lacunse within the gland, and nerves exist in very varying proportions. The blood-vessels as they pass through these glands are in some cases closely surrounded by a peculiar pulpy substance, varying in amount and colour at different periods, but generally existing in considerable quantity. This pulp consists of corpuscles, granular matter, and fat-molecules. The corpuscles are of very different kinds and vary widely in size ; some, and those are the best established, resemble lymph, chyle, or pale blood- corpuscles ; others, free nuclei; some, of more questionable existence, are said to be large compound cells, containing in their interior globules closely