PRODUCTION OF CELLS. xviii So far the process is the same as before ; but now a species of capsule is formed round each of the young cells (b), whilst the old one inclosing them becomes blended with the intercellular matrix, and is no longer traceable (c). Fig. XII. A B C D E Fig. XII.—Ideal Plan of the Multiplication op Cells of Cartilage. A, cell in its capsule; B, divided into two, each with a capsule ; C, primary capsule disappeared, secondary capsules coherent with matrix ; D, tertiary division ; E, secon- dary capsules disappeared, tertiary coherent with matrix. The new cells, in turn, divide in the same way, so as to make a group of four, each of which is surrounded by its own capsule (d), whilst the capsules of the first descent (secondary) blend with the matrix (e) like their predecessor. In certain cases the whole series of capsules may remain visible ; in others, and especially in morbid conditions, the young capsules may not be formed, or may all disappear, leaving the young cells surrounded by the still conspicuous original capsule, like the yelk-segments in the ovum. The multiplication of cells in the ovum and in cartilage, seeing that it takes place within an enclosing envelope, has been named " endogenous;" but it will be per- ceived that the difference between this and the division of a free cell is unimportant. d. Multiplication of Nuclei in Cells.—Irregularly shaped cells have been found in the medullary cavities of bone (Robin and Kolliker), containing many nuclei, and such cells afford an example of the multiplication of nuclei within a cell without separation into new cells. Other multi- nucleated cells are formed in the spleen and pass into the blood of the splenic vein (Kolliker) ; but if these eventually divide into uninucleated cells, as seems most probable, the case falls under b, 2. e. Multiplication of free Nuclei.—Bodies having the characters of nuclei and designated as such, commonly make their appearance in large numbers where growth or new formation of tissue is going on. There can be little doubt that these are produced by division of previously existing nuclei, uninclosed in cells but yet originally descended from cells, and probably associated with an inconspicuous amount of shapeless protoplasm. The new nuclei may continue in the same condition as those from which they imme- diately sprung, or it may happen that the protoplasm grows and accumulates round the groups of multiplying nuclei, each of which assumes its distinct share, and there thus results a group of new cells. The nuclei lying on the