467 SUPERFICIAL AND DEEP VEINS OF THE ARM. the fascia below the middle of the arm, and finally unites with one of the venae comites of that vessel, or with the axillary vein, which it chiefly forms. Fig. 318.—View op the Superficial Veins at Fig. 318. the bend of the Arm (from. R. Quain). ^ The full description of this figure will be found at p. 383. The following numbers indicate the veins :—At 1 and 2, the fascia is opened in front of a part of the brachial artery and its accom- panying veins ; the inner vena comes, marked 1, has been divided, the outer marked 2, is entire ; + , the median nerve; 3, the basilic vein ; o, the ulnar veins ; 4, the cephalic vein ; 4', one of the radial veins ; 5, the median vein ; 5 to 4', median cephalic ; 5 to 3', median basilic. The median cutaneous vein results from the union, on the anterior part of the fore- arm, of several branches. It is a short trunk of variable length, which ascends between the ulnar and radial cutaneous veins on the front of the forearm, and terminates beneath the hollow in front of the elbow by dividing into the median- basilic and median-cephalic branches which diverge upwards from each other. Close to its bifurcation it receives a short branch, the deep median vein, which pierces the fascia to meet it, and forms a communication between it and the deep veins accompanying the arteries. The median-basilic vein, inclining in- wards to join the basilic vein, passes in front of the brachial artery, from which it is separated by the fibrous expansion given by the tendon of the biceps muscle to the fascia covering the flexor muscles ; it is crossed by branches of the internal cutaneous nerve. The median-cephalic vein, directed outwards, unites with the cephalic vein. Branches of the external cutaneous nerve descend behind it. DEEP VEINS OP THE UPPER LIMB. The brachial artery and its various branches in the arm, forearm, and hand, are each accompanied by two veins, named vence comites. These companion veins lie one on each side of the corresponding artery, and are connected with each other at intervals by short cross branches, which in some places surround the artery. Their distribution so closely corresponds with that of the arteries that they need not be more particularly described. The brachial veins, or companion veins of the brachial artery, terminate at the lower margin of the subscapularis muscle by joining the axillary vein ; not unfrequently, however, one of them will be found to come forward and unite with the basilic, which soon after becomes continuous with the axillary vein. Between the several veins of the upper limb numerous communications