INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 428 short; arising from the pudic between the layers of the sub-pubic fascia, and passing transversely inwards, this artery reaches the bulb a little in front of the central point of the perinseum, and ramifies in the erectile tissue. It gives a branch to Cowper's gland. (e) The artery of the corpus cavernosum (profunda penis), one of the terminal branches of the internal pudic, runs a short distance between the crus penis and the ramus of the pubes, and then continuing forward penetrates the crus, and ramifies in the corpus cavernosum. (/) The dorsal artery of the penis runs between the crus and the pubic symphysis: having pierced the suspensory ligament, it continues along the dorsum of the penis immediately beneath the skin, and parallel with the doi'sal vein, as well as with the corresponding artery of the opposite side. It supplies the integument of the penis, and the fibrous sheath of the corpus cavernosum, anastomosing with the deep arteries; and, near the corona glandis, divides into branches, which supply the glans and the prepuce. Peculiarities.—Origin. The pudic artery is sometimes small, or it is defective in one or two, or even three of its usual branches, which, in those circumstances, are sup- plied by a supplemental vessel, the " accessory pudic" The defect most frequently met with is that in which the pudic ends as the artery of the bulb, whilst the arteries of the corpus cavernosum and the dorsum of the penis are derived from the acces- sory pudic. But all the three arteries of the penis may be supplied by the accessory pudic, the pudic itself ending as the superficial perineal. A single accessory pudic has been seen to supply both cavernous arteries, whilst the pudic of the right side gave both dorsal arteries. On the other hand, cases have occurred in which only a single branch was furnished by the accessory artery, either to take the place of an ordinary branch altogether wanting, or to aid one of the branches which was diminutive in size. The accessory pudic, the occasional artery above alluded to, generally arises from the pudic itself, before the passage of that vessel from the sacro-sciatic foramen, and descends within the pelvis, and along the lower part of the urinary bladder. It lies on the upper part of the prostate gland, or it may be, for a short space, likewise on the posterior margin, and then proceeding forwards above the membranous part of the urethra, reaches the perinaeum, by piercing the fascia of the sub-pubic arch. The accessory pudic sometimes arises with the other branches from the internal iliac, and is not unfrequently connected with the prostatic or other branch of the inferior vesical artery. A vessel having a similar distribution may spring from the external iliac, through an irregular obturator, or through the epigastric artery. Branches.—Artery of the bulb. This vessel is sometimes small, sometimes wanting on one side, and occasionally it is double. But a more important deviation from the common condition is one sometimes met with, in which the vessel, arising earlier, and crossing the perinaeum farther back than usual, reaches the bulb from behind. In such a case there is considerable risk of dividing the artery in performing the lateral operation for stone. On the other hand, when this small vessel arises from an accessory pudic artery, it lies more forward than usual, and out of danger in case of operation. The dorsal artery of the penis has been observed to arise from the deep femoral artery and to pass obliquely upwards and inwards to reach the root of the penis. Tiedemann gives a drawing of this variety. The pudic artery in the female.—In the female this vessel is much smaller than in the male. Its course is similar, and it gives the following branches; The superficial perineal branch is distributed to the labia pudendi. The artery of the bulb supplies the mass of erectile tissue above and at the sides of the entrance of the vagina, named the bulb of the vagina. Whilst the two terminal branches, corresponding to the artery of the corpus cavernosum and the dorsal artery of the penis, are distributed to the clitoris, and are named the profunda and dorsal arteries.