281 EXTENSOR MUSCLES OF THE TOES. each side, and from the fascia of the leg. The fleshy fibres from this exten- sive origin pass obliquely into a tendon placed on the anterior part of the muscle. This subsequently divides into four slips, which descend through the lower part of the annular ligament, in the same sheath as the peroneus tertius, and on the dorsum of the foot pass respectively to the four outer toes. Not unfrequently the slip belonging to the fifth toe is separated with that of the peroneus tertius from the rest considerably higher up. The three inner tendons are each joined at the outer side, on the first phalanx, by a tendon from the extensor brevis digitorum : all the four tendons are continued into expansions, which are joined on the first phalanx by tendinous processes from the lumbricales and interossei muscles, and have their middle fibres inserted into the second phalanx ; while their lateral parts unite together and are inserted on the third, in a manner exactly similar to the arrangement of the extensor tendons on the fingers. Fig. 214.—Superficial Muscles and Tendons on the Dorsum op the Foot and Lower Part op the Leg anteriorly (after Bourgery). ^ a, lower part of the tibia; b, lower part of the fibula above the malleolus externus ; c, inner side of the scaphoid bone; d, internal cuneiform bone; 1, lower part of the tibialis anticus muscle; V, its tendon descending in the groove of the internal cuneiform bone ; 2, extensor longus pollicis; 2', its expansion on the dorsum of the great toe ; 3, extensor communis digitorum dividing into its four tendons for the toes ; 3', the expansion, and 3", the final insertion of the same upon the second toe ; 4, peroneus tertius ; 4', its expanded insertion on the base of the fifth meta- tarsal bone ; 5, small part of the fibres of the soleus on the inner side of the tibia ; 6, small part of the peroneus brevis; 7, extensor brevis digitorum, seen below the tendons of the extensor longus and perctoeus tertius ; 7', T', on a band of aponeurosis crossing the toes, the first and fourth tendons of the extensor brevis muscle passing to join those of the long ex- tensor ; 8, 9, anterior annular ligament, chiefly in its lower part, or ligamentum cruciatum ; between 8 and c, the inner and lower band enclosing the extensor longus pollicis and tibialis anticus; below 9, the outer part of the same enclosing the tendons of the ex- tensor communis and peroneus tertius ; 10, 11, dorsal transverse band of the aponeurosis of the foot, uniting the heads of the metatarsal bones. The peroneus tertius arises, in continuity with the lower part of the extensor longus digitorum, from the lower fourth of the inner surface of the fibula, from the lower part of the interosseous membrane, and from an aponeurosis which connects it on the outer side with the peroneus brevis. The muscular fibres end in a tendon, which, after passing through the annular ligament with the long extensor of the toes, is inserted into the upper surface of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, and likewise in some instances into the fourth. There is often scarcely any line of demarcation between the two preceding muscles. The peroneus tertius is sometimes as large as the extensor longus digitorum, some- times its tendon is as large as those of that muscle combined; it has been observed to terminate on the fourth metatarsal bone ; and it is sometimes altogether wanting.