J 108 BONES OF THE LOWER LIMB. the neck, consists of a middle and two lateral parts. The middle part, looking upwards to the tibia, is convex from before backwards, broader in front than behind, with its outer margin higher and longer than the inner, and curved, while the inner is straight. The inner lateral part is narrow, and articulates with the internal malleolus; the outer lateral part, muchdeeper, articulates with the external malleolus. Inferiorly, there are two smooth surfaces, which articulate with the calcaneum. The posterior of these, the largest, concave from within outwards and forwards, is separated by a rough depression for the interosseous ligament from the fiat anterior sur- face, which rests on the sustentaculum bali. The anterior margin of this surface is continuous with the rounded surface of the head, which articulates with the scaphoid bone. The posterior border of the bone lies behind the sustentaculum tali, and, like that process, is grooved by the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. Fig. 101. Fig. 101.- -Rtght Foot viewed from below, showing the Plantar aspect, A The indications are the same as in the preceding figure ; the middle and external cuneiform bones are not lettered; the sesamoid bones are not represented ; they will be seen in the view of the articulations of the foot. THE CUBOID BONE. This bone is situated at the outer side of the foot, between the calcaneum and the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. It deviates from the cuboid form and becomes rather pyramidal by the sloping of four of its surfaces towards the smaller ex- ternal border. The posterior surface articulates with the os calcis, the anterior surface, also covered with cartilage, is divided into an internal quadri- lateral and an external triangular facet, articu- lating with the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. On the internal surface, in the middle, and touch- ing its superior border, is a smooth surface, which articulates with the external cuneiform bone, and behind this, in some instances, a smaller surface articulating with the scaphoid, while the remainder is rough for ligaments. The external border pre- sents a vertical groove, in which the tendon of the peroneus longus lies ; and the inferior surface is traversed obliquely near its anterior margin by a continuation of the same groove ; behind this there is a thick ridge, which, with the rest of the inferior surface, gives attachment to the calcaneo- cuboid ligaments. The superior surface looking outwards and upwards, is on the whole even, but rather rough. THE SCAPHOID BONE. The scaphoid or navicular bone is placed at the inner side of the foot, between the astragalus and cuneiform bones. It is short from behind forwards, and broad from side to side. It presents posteriorly an articular concavity for the head of the astragalus, and anteriorly a convex surface divided, by two lines converging below, into three facets which articulate