EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL JUGULAR VEINS. 459 THE EXTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN. The external jugular vein commences on a level with the angle of the lower maxilla, at the end of the temporal vein, and descends perpendicu- larly between the platysma and fascia, crossing the sterno-mastoid muscle. In consequence of the oblique direction of that muscle, the vein gets to its outer border, and continues behind it down to the lower part of the neck, where it pierces the fascia to terminate either as a single trunk, or by two or three branches in the subclavian vein. It is provided with a valve at its lower end, and in most cases with another about the middle of its course. Tributaries.—The external jugular vein receives some large branches from behind, and superficial branches from the fore part of the neck. The largest branches are the following :— (a) The posterior branch, lying at first between the splenius and trapezius muscles, passes down at the outside of the jugular vein, and below the middle of the neck opens into that vessel. (b) The supra-scapular and posterior scapular veins, corresponding to the arteries of the same name, pass transversely inwards to join the external jugular vein close to its termination. The anterior jugular vein arises from the convergence of some superficial branches in the submaxillary region. This vessel lies along the fore part of the neck, sometimes near the sterno-mastoid muscle, and either terminates by inclining outwards to join the external jugular vein, or, after giving to it a branch of communication, sinks beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle, and ends in the subclavian vein. The lower ends of the two anterior jugular veins are frequently united by a transverse branch placed behind the sterno- mastoid muscles and top of the sternum. The external jugular vein is very variable in size. It is frequently very small, and may be absent altogether. The anterior jugular vein is likewise very variable. INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN. The internal jugular veins, receiving the blood from the brain and cranial cavity, are continuous at their upper extremities with the lateral sinuses within the cranium, and terminate inferiorly in the innominate or brachio- cephalic veins. The commencement of each internal jugular vein at the wide part {jugular fossa) of the foramen jugulare, is somewhat enlarged, and has been named the sinus or gulf of the internal jugular vein. Beneath the skull, the vein is supported by the rectus lateralis muscle, and lies close to the outer side of the internal carotid artery, as far as the cornu of the os hyoides. It is joined at this point by the common facial vein, and becomes considerably enlarged ; it then descends parallel with the common carotid artery, lying at its outer side and enclosed in the same sheath, together with the vagus nerve. At the root of the neck it joins nearly at a right angle with the subclavian vein, and so forms the innominate or brachio-cephalic vein. Close to the lower termination of the jugular, or from half an inch to an inch above it, is placed a double valve as in other veins. (" Struthers, Anat. and Phys. Observ.," p. 173.) Tributaries.—Previously to its junction with the facial vein, the internal jugular receives the lingual, pharyngeal, and occipital veins; one or more of which, however, very frequently end in the common facial trunk. (a) The lingual vein begins at the side and upper surface of the tongue, and passes backwards, receiving branches from the sublingual gland; occasionally the ranine vein joins it, and sometimes also the pharyngeal. h h 2