xcvi BONE. of fibres, which pass through them in a perpendicular, or more or less oblique direction, and, as it were, bolt them together. These perforating fibres may be seen, with the aid of the microscope, in a thin transverse slice of a decalcified cylindrical or cranial bone, on pulling asunder the sections of the lamellae (as in fig. xlvi.). In this way some lamellae will generally be observed with fibrous processes attached to them (fig. xlvi. b) of various lengths, and usually tapering and pointed at their free extremities, but sometimes truncated—probably from having come in the way of the knife. These fibres have obviously been drawn out from the adjacent lamellae, through several of which they must have penetrated. Sometimes, indeed, indications of perforations may be recognised in the part of the section of bone from which the fibres have been pulled out (fig. xlvi. c). The pro- cesses in question are thus, so to speak, viewed in profile ; but they may frequently also be seen on the flat surface of detached lamellae, projecting like nails driven perpendicularly or slantingly through aboard (fig. xlvii. a); whilst the lamellae at other parts present obvious apertures of considerable size, through which the perforating fibres had passed (fig. xlvii. b, b). Fig. XLVI. Fig. XLVI.—Magnified View of a Perpendicular Section through the External Table of a Human Parietal Bone, decalcified. At a, perforating fibres in their natural situation ; at b, others drawn out by separa- tion of the lamellae ; at c, the holes or sockets out of which they have been drawn (H. Miiller). These perforating fibres, since first noticed by me, have been shown by Kolliker to exist very generally in the bones of fishes, and to a certain extent in those of amphibia. * I had myself found them abundant in the turtle, and had no doubt of their general existence in vertebrata. The late lamented Henry Miiller, of Wiirzburg, has supplied many details respecting their arrangement in man and mammalia.^ Kolliker considers them to be connected with the periosteum, and this, no doubt, is the case with some of them—some of those, for example, which penetrate the external table of the cranial bones ; but in cross sections of cylindrical bones they often appear to spring, with their broad ends, from the deeper lamellae, and taper outwards into fine points, which do not reach the periosteum ; although without doubt they must, like the bony layers in which they occur, have been formed by subperiosteal ossification. They are * Wurzburger Naturw. Zeitschr. vol. i. p. 306. + Ibid., vol. i. p. 296.