THYROID AXIS. 371 The posterior cerebral artery is occasionally given off on one side from the internal carotid artery. II. THYROID AXIS. The thyroid axis springs from the fore part of the subclavian artery, close to the inner side of the anterior scalenus muscle. It is a short thick trunk, and receives the name of " axis," because, at a line or two from its origin, it divides into branches, which diverge in different directions, viz., the inferior or ascending thyroid, the suprascapular, and a third branch, which is either the transverse cervical, or one of the branches into which that artery, when present, divides, viz., the superficial cervical. Peculiarities.—The thyroid axis has been known to arise beyond the scalenus anticus muscle. It may be associated at its origin with another branch; thus, it sometimes gives origin to the internal mammary, and has been known to give origin to the vertebral, superior intercostal, or deep cervical arteries. 1. The Inferior Thyroid Artery passes directly upwards, resting on the longus colli muscle, and after a short course bends inwards and down- wards behind the sheath of the large cervical vessels, and also behind the sympathetic nerve (the middle cervical ganglion of which, when present, often rests upon this vessel). The artery then makes another curve in the opposite direction, and is distributed to the under part of the thyroid body. Its branches communicate freely with those of the superior thyroid artery, and with the corresponding artery of the other side. Branches.—(a) The ascending cervical branch arises at the point where the inferior thyroid turns inwards behind the carotid artery ; it proceeds upwards, close to the phrenic nerve, on the line of separation between the scalenus anticus and rectus anticus major, giving muscular branches to both, and a few which pass trans- versely outwards across the neck. These muscular branches communicate with others sent outwards from the vertebral artery. To the spinal canal the ascending cervical artery sends one or two branches {spinal branches), which enter the intervertebral foramina along the cervical nerves, and assist in supplying the bodies of the vertebrae, and the spinal cord and its membranes. (b) A laryngeal branch of irregular size is usually supplied by the inferior thyroid artery; it ascends on the trachea and the back of the larynx, and is distributed to the muscles and mucous membrane in that situation. (c) Tracheal branches ramify over the trachea, and anastomose below with the bronchial arteries. (d) (Esophageal branches are given off, and one or more descend upon the trachea into the chest. Peculiarities.—Origin.—The inferior thyroid artery occasionally arises as an independent branch from the subclavian artery, and rarely from the common carotid or the vertebral. Instances have occurred—very rarely, however—of the presence of two inferior thyroid arteries, one passing over the common carotid artery. The ascending cervical artery is occasionally derived from the subclavian or from one of the branches of that vessel, as from the transverse cervical or the suprascapulai', or from a trunk common to those two arteries. It is sometimes much larger than usual, and takes the place of the occipital artery. A branch from it not unfrequently compensates for the small size of the deep cervical artery. 2. The Suprascapular Artery (transverse scapular, or transverse humeral), a smaller vessel than the transverse cervical, arises almost constantly from the thyroid axis, and runs from within outwards deeply at the root of the neck. At first it descends obliquely towards the clavicle, resting upon the scalenus anticus, and covered by the sterno-mastoid