BLOOD-VESSELS. clxxvi different textures. Their prevalent size in the human body may, speaking generally, be stated at from to soV0 °f an incD> as measured when naturally filled with blood. But they are said to be in some parts consider- ably smaller, and in others larger than this standard : thus, Weber has measured injected capillaries in the brain, which he found to be not wider than -i-y^Q- of an inch, and Henle has observed some still smaller,—in both cases apparently smaller than the natural diameter of the blood corpuscles. The capillaries, however, when deprived of blood, probably shrink in calibre immediately after death ; Fig. XCIV. — Capillary Blood- vessels in the Web of a Frog's Foot, as seen with the Micro- scope (after Dr. Allen Thom- son). The arrow the blood. indicate the course of fact that their distension by artificial in- jection may exceed or fall short of what is natural, should make us hesitate on such evidence to admit the existence of vessels incapable of receiving the red par- ticles of the blood. The diameter of the capillaries of the marrow, or of the medul- lary membrane, is stated as high as -j^qq of an inch. In other parts, their size varies between these extremes : it is small in the lungs, small also in muscle ; larger in the skin and mucous membranes. According to Mr. Toynbee, the extreme branches of the arteries and the com- mencing veins in certain parts of the synovial membranes are connected by loops of vessels, which are dilated at their point of flexure to a greater size even than the vessels which they immediately connect. There are differences also in the size or width of the meshes of the capillary network in different parts, and consequently in the number of vessels distributed in a given space, and the amount of blood supplied to the tissue. The network is very close in the lungs and in the choroid coat of the eye, close also in muscle, in the skin, and in most parts of the mucous membrane, in glands and secreting structures, and in the grey part of the brain and spinal cord. On the other hand, it has wide meshes and comparatively few vessels in the ligaments, tendons, and other allied tex- tures. In infants and young persons, the tissues are more vascular than in after-life ; growing parts, too, are more abundantly supplied with vessels than those which are stationary. The figure of the capillary network is not the same in all textures. In many cases the shape of the meshes seems accommodated to the arrange- ment of the elements of the tissue in which they lie. Thus in muscle, nerve, and tendon, the meshes are long and comparatively narrow, and run con- formably with the fibres and fasciculi of these textures (fig. xcv.). In other parts the meshes are rounded or polygonal, with no one dimension greatly predominating (fig. xcvi.). In the smaller-sized papillse of the skin and mucous membranes, the vessels of the network are often drawn out into prominent loops. Structure of the small-sized vessels and capillaries.—The capillary vessels have real coats, and are not mere channels drilled in the tissue which they pervade, as has sometimes been maintained. In various parts they are readily separable from the surrounding substance, as in the brain and