SUPERIOR MESENTERIC VEIN. 481 rately from the fissure of the spleen, and soon join to form a single vessel. It is directed from left to right beneath the pancreas, in company with the splenic artery, below which it is placed. On reaching the front of the spine it joins the superior mesenteric vein, nearly at a right angle. It receives Fig. 327. —Diagramm a- Fig. 327. tig Outline of the Portal Vein and its relation to thellver, &c. k The liver is supposed to be turned upwards so as to present a portion of its under surface. a, gall-bladder; b, square lobe; c, left lobe; 1, trunk of the vena portge ; 2, great or superior me- senteric vein; 2', its middle colic branch, form- ing loops of communica- tion between the right and left colic veins; 3, intestinal branches ; +, small pancreatico-duode- nal branch; 4, right colic branch ; 5, ileo- colic ; 6, coronary vein of the stomach ; + + , right gastro-epiploic ; 7, sple- nic vein ; 7', its branches to the spleen; 7", its branches to the stomach ; 8, inferior mesenteric vein ; 9, left colic branch ; 9', its communication with the middle colic; 10, sigmoid ; 11, hemorr- hoidal ; 12, the right, and 13, the left division of the vena portse in the trans- verse fissure of the liver ; 14, the obliterated cord of the umbilical vein passing through the an- teroposterior fissure to join the left division of the vena portse ; 15, the obliterated cord of the ductus venosus passing from the left division of the vena portse to one of the hepatic veins connected with 16, the vena cava inferior, of which a part is represented in shade. gastric branches (vasa brevia) from the left extremity of the stomach, the left gastro-epiploic vein, some pancreatic and duodenal branches, and also the inferior mesenteric vein. Mesenteric Veins.—The superior mesenteric vein lies to the right side, and somewhat in front of the artery of the same name. The distribution of its branches corresponds with that of the superior mesenteric artery, and it returns the blood from the several parts supplied by that vessel, viz., from the small intestine, and from the ascending and transverse parts of the