HAIR-FOLLICLES. ccxi mucous or Malpighian layer of the epidermis in general, and contains soft growing cells, including pigment in the coloured races, which at the lower part form a much thinner stratum and pass continuously into those of the hair-knob ; the internal layer or inner root-sheath represents the superficial or horny layer of the epidermis according to some authorities ; but others maintain that it is not continuous with that part of the skin, but ceases abruptly a little below the orifices of the sebaceous ducts. When detached from the hair it is found to be covered internally with imbricated down- wardly-projecting scales, forming the cuticle of the root-sheath, which is applied to the cortical scaly cuticle of the hair proper, to whose upwardly- directed scales it fits like a mould. Its scales, as well as those of the hair-cuticle, pass, at the bottom of the follicle, into the round cells of the hair-knob. Now, after reckoning off this cuticular lining, the inner root- sheath still consists of two layers, which towards the bottom of the follicle become blended into one. The innermost (that next the cuticula) is known as Huxley's layer ; it consists of flattened polygonal nucleated cells, two or even three deep. The outer layer is composed of oblong, somewhat flat- tened cells without nuclei, in which fissures and holes are liable to occur from accidental laceration, so as to give it the aspect of a perforated or fenestrated membrane. At the lower part both layers pass into a single layer of large polygonal nucleated cells without openings between them. The soft bulbous enlargement of the root of the hair is attached by its base to the bottom of the follicle, and at the circumference of this attached part it is continuous with the epidermic lining. At the bottom of the follicle it, in fact, takes the place of the epidermis, of which it is a growth or extension, and this part of the follicle is the true matrix of the hair, being, in reality, a part of the corium (though sunk below the general surface), which supplies material for the production of the hair. This productive part of the follicle is, accordingly, remarkably vascular; in the large tactile hairs on the snout of the seal and some other animals it is raised in form of a conical vascular papilla or pulp, which fits into a corresponding excavation of the hair root, and Kolliker states that a vascular eminence of similar structure exists in the hairs generally, both small and large, of man as well as quadrupeds. As the follicle, in short, is a recess of the corium, so the hair-papilla is a cutaneous papilla sunk in the bottom of it. The papilla is described as being commonly of an ovoid shape and attached to the bottom of the follicle by a narrow base, or a sort of pedicle (fig. cxiv., i). Nervous branches of considerable size enter the follicles of the large tactile hairs referred to, but their final distribution has not been traced ; the pain occasioned by pulling the hair seems to indicate that the human hair- follicles are not unprovided with nerves. Fine muscles, each formed of a slender bundle of plain muscular tissue, are connected with the hair-follicles (fig. cxvi.). Their mode of attachment is described by Kolliker and Lister to be the following : they arise from the most superficial part of the corium, and pass down obliquely to be inserted into the outside of the follicle below the sebaceous glands. They are placed on the side to which the hair slopes, so that their action in elevating the hair is evident. Some anatomists have also recently described a layer of circularly-disposed muscular cells as applied immediately to the outside of the follicle. Growth of hair.—On the surface of the papilla or vascular matrix, at the bottom of the follicle, there is a growth of nucleated cells. The cells for the most part lengthen out and unite into the flattened fibres which compose