181 MUSCLES OF THE JAW. MUSCLES OF THE JAW. The masseter, temporal, and two pterygoid muscles form a group of muscles of mastication, which may be properly considered together. The masseter is a thick quadrate muscle, whose fibres are arranged so as to form two portions differing in size and direction. The superficial part arises from the anterior two-thirds of the lower border of the zygomatic arch, chiefly by thick tendons projecting down between the muscular fasciculi, to which they afford an extensive surface of origin : its fibres proceed downwards and a little backwards to be inserted into the lower half of the ramus of the jaw, extending as far as the angle. The fibres of the deep part of the muscle, much shorter than those of the superficial part, and directed downwards and forwards, arise from the posterior third of the lower border and from all the deep surface of the arch, and becoming united with the superficial part, are inserted into the upper half of the ramus of the jaw, including the coronoid process: only the upper and back part of this portion of the muscle is left uncovered by the superficial portion. The external surface of the masseter muscle is covered for the most part only by the skin and fascia; it is, however, overlapped behind by the parotid gland, and crossed by its duct; the branches of the facial nerve and the transverse facial artery also rest upon it. Its inner surface is towards the buccinator, from which it is separated by some soft adipose tissue; it is in intimate contact with the ramus of the jaw, and covers a nerve and vessels which enter it over the sigmoid notch of that bone. The temporal muscle (crotaphite—Winslow) is fan-shaped, occupies the temporal fossa, and arises from the whole surface of that fossa, with the exception of the anterior or malar wall; it likewise takes origin from the deep surface of the temporal fascia, which passes down over it to the zygoma, and some of its posterior fibres arising from this fascia are blended with the deep fibres of the masseter muscle. The direction of the anterior fibres is nearly vertical, that of the middle fibres oblique, and that of the posterior fibres at first horizontal. The fasciculi from this extensive origin converge as they descend, and all terminate in a tendon, which, emerging from the interior of the muscle, is implanted into all the inner surface as well as the anterior border of the coronoid process of the lower jaw-bone, as far down as the union of the body and ramus of the jaw, where they are blended with the origin of the buccinator muscle. The upper part of the muscle is in contact with the temporal fascia; the lower and anterior part is imbedded in fat continuous with that which lies between the masseter and buccinator muscles; the insertion of the tendon is mainly concealed by the lower jaw. Between the muscle and the temporal fossa are the deep temporal arteries and the temporal nerves, which penetrate its substance. In contact with the deep surface of the muscle near its insertion the buccal nerve descends, and at the posterior border of the insertion the masseteric nerve and artery emerge. The internal pterygoid muscle is related to the inner surface of the ramus of the jaw, somewhat in the same manner as the masseter is to the outer. It arises from the pterygoid fossa ; its fibres, tendinous and fleshy, being attached mostly to the inner surface of the external pterygoid plate, and that portion of the tuberosity of the palate-bone which is situated between the pterygoid plates. Thence it is inclined downwards, with a direction