STRUCTURE OF CELLS. existence as a natural structure is (as already remarked, p. x) at best but doubtful. Fig. VII. Fig. VIII. Fig. VII.—Diagram of Vegetable Cells. a, a', cellulose wall; &, cell-contents; c, c', nucleus; d, contents shrunk away from cell-wall. Fig. VIII.—Diagram op Animal Cells (op Cartilage). a, a', capsule; b, cell-contents; c, nucleus; d, cell-contents shrunk away from the capsule. Certain animal cells have a structure comformable throughout with that just indicated as belonging to vegetable cells. Thus, the cartilage cell has an outer envelope or capsule (fig. viit. , a, a'), not indeed composed of cellulose but of animal matter, comparable nevertheless with the vegetable cellulose- wall, and in like manner continuous with the intercellular substance. The cell-contents (&), nucleus (c), and nucleolus or nucleoli, correspond. Finally, it has been held that there is here also a fine interior envelope correspond- ing to the primordial utricle of the vegetable cell, and it may be added that the agreement extends to the doubt entertained of the reality of such a membrane in either case. But many animal cells have no exterior capsule answering to the cellulose vegetable cell-wall, and accordingly represent only the parts of the vegetable cell which are within that enclosure ; that is, the nucleus and the mass of cell-contents. The chyle- lymph- and pale blood-corpuscles, the mucus- and salivary corpuscles, and the cells that first appear in the embryo, may be adduced as examples. Some cells of this description have or acquire a fine membranous envelope closely investing their surface, and corresponding to the supposed primordial utricle ; but many of them appear to be naked, and to consist of a nucleus surrounded by a mass of soft matter—the so- called cell-contents—often containing solid granules which are held together by a tenacious substance. In these cases the matter at the surface is more condensed than in the interior, where not unfrequently it is more or less fluid. There is moreover a well-defined superficial outline, but there is wanting an internal contour-line marking off an envelope distinct from the contained substance. Such bodies, it is true, may sometimes show appear- ances indicating the presence of an envelope, when they are treated with certain chemical re-agents ; but in such cases the apparent envelope may be produced by the action of the substances employed. At the same time it must be borne in mind that various cells which in their young state have no envelope, distinctly acquire one at a later stage of their existence ; and this occurrence is especially to be observed in cells which are destined to form consistent structures, such as epidermis and epithelium. In these