BONES OF THE HEAD. Fig. 61. Fig. 61.—Separate parts op the Temporal Bone OS and produces a triangular depression at the site of the posterior fontanelle, which is easily recognised by the finger of the accoucheur. The temporal bone, considered in respect of its development, consists of the squamous and petro-mastoid parts, the tympanic plate, and the styloid process. The squamous part, inclusive of the zygomatic process, is ossified from a single nucleus. The petrous and mastoid portions are also formed from only one centre : bone is first deposited on the anterior surface, over the cochlea, and there afterwards appear one or two nuclei on the posterior surface, in connection with the formation of the semicircular canals; the different nuclei soon unite, and ossification extends into the mastoid process. The tympanic plate appears in the membranous wall of the tympanum and external ear as a slender arch of bone forming three-fourths of a ring, inclosing the membrana tympani. The styloid process is formed, as already stated, of a Child at Birth. a, squamous part with the zygoma ; b, the tym- panic bone forming an imperfect ring open superiorly; c, the petrous and mastoid part; c being placed on the mastoid part : part of the cavity shown is the tympanum. The sphenoid bone presents in infancy traces of a natural division into a posterior or post- sphenoid part, to which the sella turcica and great wings belong, and an anterior or pre-sphenoid part, to which belong the body in front of the olivary process and the small wings,—a division which is found in many animals complete and persistent through life. The first osseous nuclei of the post- sphenoid division occur in the great wings, one on each side, between the foramen rotundum and foramen ovale, and spread thence outwards into the wing and downwards into the external pterygoid process. The internal pterygoid processes arise from distinct nuclei, and, although in the human subject they soon unite with the external pterygoid, in other animals they remain separate, and are named by comparative anatomists the pterygoid bones. Fig. 62. s Fig. 62.—Ossification op the Sphenoid Bone. A, sphenoid bone from a foetus of three months, seen from above; 1, 1', the greater wings ossified ; 2, 2, the lesser wings, in which the ossification has encircled the optic foramen, and a small suture is distinguishable at its posterior and inner side ; 3, two round granules of bones in the body below the sella turcica, the rest being cartilaginous. B, copied from Meckel (Archiv, vol. i. tab. vi. fig. 23), and stated to be from a foetus in the second visceral arch.