SKELETON IN GENERAL. 3 ossification proceeds. The following is an enumeration of those usually- reckoned as distinct in middle life :—■ Single Bones. The spinal column consists of twenty-four free vertebras, the sacrum, and the coccyx . . . . .26 The skull consists of twenty-two bones : of these eight are cranial, viz., four single bones, the occipital, frontal, ethmoid and sphenoid; and two pairs, the parietal and temporal. Fourteen are facial, viz., two single bones, the vomer and inferior maxillary bone; and six pairs, the nasal, lacrymal, superior maxillary, malar, palatal, and turbinated .... 6 There are twelve pairs of ribs, a sternum, and a hyoid bone 2 The superior extremities consist each of a clavicle and scapula, humerus, radius, ulna, eight carpal bones, five metacarpal, and fourteen digital The inferior extremities consist each of a pelvic bone, femur, patella, tibia, fibula, seven tarsal bones, five metatarsal, and fourteen digital .... 34 83 200 Besides the bones above enumerated, there exist, likewise, three pairs of auditory ossicles, and, in addition to the patella, various smaller bones called sesamoid. The auditory ossicles, though enclosed within the temporal bones, may be considered as belonging to the skeleton. The sesamoid bones are only accessories to the tendons in which they are developed. Fig. 1.—First Dorsal Vertebra, First Rib Fig. 1. and Cartilage, and Upper Part of the Sternum, seen from above, giving a view of a Segment of the Vertebrate Skeleton. ^ C, body or centre ; N, vertebral ring or neural arch ; V, cavity of the chest enclosed by the ribs or visceral arch. The segments of the skeleton are so disposed as to surround or partially en- close two cavities of unequal size—the neural and visceral. The neural cavity, comprehending the cranium and vertebral canal, is of great width in the head, and comparatively small in the rest of its length: it is nearly completely bounded by bony walls in its whole extent. The visceral cavity, placed in front of the vertebral column throughout its length, is only imperfectly represented in the head by spaces enclosed by the bones of the face : its walls, which are very incomplete, are most perfect in the thorax and pelvis, and leave large open spaces in the regions of the neck and abdomen. In these several regions, the relative position of the walls of the neural and visceral cavities and of their contained viscera remains the same. 1.—THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. The vertebral column may be considered as the foundation of the whole skeleton, not only because it exists in all animals which possess an osseous system, but because it is the centre round which the other parts are developed b 2 8 22 12 26 32 64 31 62