The popliteal lymphatic glands, LYMPHATICS OF THE LOWER LIMB. 489 usually very small, and four or five in number, surround the popliteal vessels, and are imbedded in a quantity of loose fat. They receive from below the deep lymphatics of the leg, and those which accompany the short saphenous vein ; and from them pro- ceed efferent vessels, which ascend with the femoral artery to the groin. Fig. 333.—View of the Superficial Lym- phatic Vessels and Glands of the Right Groin and Lower Limb, as seen from the Front and Inner Side (founded on Mascagni and others). | 1, 1, upper inguinal glands receiving the lower abdominal, the inguinal, penal, and scrotal lymphatic vessels; 2, 2, femoral or lower inguinal glands receiving the anterior internal and external femoral lymphatic ves- sels ; 2', the internal lymphatic vessels; 3, 3, large plexus of lymphatic vessels in the eourse of the saphenous veins; 4, the same descend- ing upon the leg ; 5, posterior lymphatics of the calf of the leg ; 6, lymphatic vessels of the dorsum of the foot; 7, those of the heel and inner ankle. The superficial inguinal glands vary much in number, amounting on an average to eight or ten : they are divisible into a superior or oblique and an inferior or vertical set. The oblique glands lie in the line of Pou- part's ligament and receive lymphatics from the integuments of the trunk and genital organs, together with a few from the upper and outer part of the limb : the vertical glands surround the upper part of the long saphenous vein, and extend two or three inches down- wards along the course of that vessel ; they receive the greater number of the lymphatics which ascend from the limb. The efferent vessels of the superficial inguinal glands perforate the fascia, come into connection with those situ- ated deeply, pass into the abdomen by the side of the blood-vessels, and ter- minate in a chain of lymphatics which lie along the external iliac artery, and end in the lumbar glands. The deep-seated inguinal glands are placed beneath the others, and surround the femoral artery and vein. K K 4 Fig. 333.