LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. cxc It is not unreasonable to presume that in the proper glandular substance, there is a continual production of lymph-corpuscles, most probably by fissiparous multiplica- tion, which pass into the lymph sinus, and that fresh corpuscles are thus added to the lymph as it passes through a gland ; and this view is supported by the fact, that the corpuscles are found to be more abundant in the lymph or ehyle after it has passed through the glands (see page 1.). It has been alleged, moreover, that the lymph, after passing the glands, is richer in fibrin, and therefore coagulates more firmly. In any case it is plain that the numerous blood capillaries distributed in a gland, must bring the blood into near relation with the elements of the lymph, and the latter fluid, as it must move very slowly through the relatively wide space within the gland, is thus placed in a most favourable condition for some not improbable interchange of material with the blood. Termination.—The absorbent system discharges its contents into the veins at two points, namely, at the junction of the subclavian and internal jugular veins of the left side by the thoracic duct, and in the corresponding part of the veins of the right side by the right lymphatic trunk. The openings, as already remarked, are guarded by valves. It sometimes happens that the thoracic duct divides, near its termination, into two or three short branches, "which open separately, but near each other; more rarely, a branch opens into the vena azygos—indeed the main vessel has been seen terminating in that vein. Again, it is not uncommon for larger branches, which usually join the thoracic duct, to open independently in the vicinity of the main termination ; and this is more apt to happen with the branches which usually unite to form the right lymphatic trunk. By such variations the terminations in the great veins are multiplied, but still they are confined in man to the region of the neck ; in birds, reptiles, and fish, on the other hand, communications take place between the lymphatics of the pelvis, posterior extremities and tail, and the sciatic or other con- siderable veins of the abdomen or pelvis. The alleged terminations of lymphatics in various veins of the abdomen, described by Lippi as occurring in man and mammalia, have not been met with by those who have since been most engaged in the prosecution of this department of anatomical re- search, and accordingly his observations have generally been either rejected as erroneous, or held to refer to deviations from the normal condition.* But, while such (extra-glandular) terminations in other veins than those of the neck have not been generally admitted, several anatomists of much authority have maintained that the lacteals and lymphatics open naturally into veins within the lymphatic glands. This latter opinion which has been strenuously advocated by Fohmann in particular, is based on a fact well known to every one conversant with the injection of the vessels in question, namely, that the quicksilver usually employed for that purpose, when it has entered a gland by the inferent lymphatics, is apt to pass into branches of veins within the gland, and thus finds its way into the large venous trunks in the neighbourhood, in place of issuing by the efferent lymphatic vessels. But, although it, of course, cannot be doubted that, in such cases, the mercury gets from the lymphatics into the veins, no one has yet been able to perceive the precise mode in which the transmission takes place, and, looking to the circumstances in which it chiefly occurs, it seems to be more probably owing to rupture of contiguous lymphatics and veins within the glands, than to a natural communication between the two classes of vessels in that situation. Lymphatic hearts.—Muller and Panizza, nearly about the same time, but inde- pendently of each other, discovered that the lymphatic system of reptiles is furnished, at its principal terminations in the venous system, with pulsatile muscular sacs, * In a communication inserted in Mutters Archiv. for 1848, p. 173, Dr. Nuhn, of Heidelberg, affirms the regular existence of these abdominal terminations, and refers to three instances which he met with himself. In two of these, the lymphatics opened into the renal veins, and in the other into the vena cava.