cxvii FASCICULI. Fasciculi.—The fasciculi are of a prismatic figure, and their sections have therefore an angular outline. The number of fibres of which they consist varies, so that they differ in thickness, and a large fasciculus may be divisible into two or three orders of successively smaller bundles, but of no regularly diminishing magnitude. Some muscles have large, others only small fasci- culi ; and the coarse or fine texture of a muscle, as recognized by the dissector, depends on this circumstance. The length of the fasciculi is not always proportioned to the length of the muscle, but depends on the arrange- ment of the tendons to which their extremities are attached. When the tendons are limited to the ends of a long muscle, as in the sartorius, the fasciculi, having to pass from one extremity to the other, are of great length ; but a long muscle may be made up of a series of short fasciculi attached obliquely to one or both sides of a tendon, which advances some way upon the surface or into the midst of the fleshy part, as in the instance of the rectus muscle of the thigh, and the tibialis posticus. Muscles of the kind last referred to are named " penniform," from their resemblance to the plume of a feather, and other modifications of the arrangement, which can be readily conceived, are named '' semi-penniform " and " compound penni- form." Many short fasciculi connected thus to a long tendon, produce by their combined operation a more powerful effect than a few fasciculi running nearly the whole length of the muscle ; but by the latter arrangement the extent of motion is greater, for the points of attachment are moved through a longer space. Fibres ; their figure and measurement—In shape the fibres are cylindrical, or prismatic, and in the latter case often with some rounded surfaces and angles. Their size is tolerably uniform, although fibres occur here and there in a muscle which differ greatly in size from the prevailing standard. Mr. Bowman gave the average diameter in the male at ^and in the female at of an inch. According to later measurements by Kolliker in different regions of the body, the prevailing size of the fibres in the muscles of the trunk and limbs is from -j^q to of an inch, but is less in those of the head, especially in the facial muscles, in which he found the diameter to range from ^0 down to of an inch. Cross stripes.—When viewed by transmitted light with a sufficiently high power of the microscope, the fibres, which are then clear and pellucid in aspect, appear marked with fine parallel stripes or bands passing across them directly or somewhat obliquely with great regularity (figs. lx. and lxi. a). The stripes are commonly said to be dark, with light intervals ; but it is probably more correct to speak of both light and dark stripes which alter- nately cross the fibre. It must, however, be remembered that the substance of the fibre is quite translucent, and, by changing the focus, the stripes which at first appeared dark become light, and the previously light ones are now dark. In what may be considered the definite or true focus, the dark and light stripes are nearly of equal breadth, and then also may be seen, very generally but not in all cases, a fine dark line passing along the middle of the light stripe and dividing it into two (fig. lxi. a). This intermediate line when closely examined appears to be a row of dark points. About eight or nine dark and as many light stripes may be counted in the length of yoVo" °f an mcnj which would give about -yy^qq inch as the breadth of each. But whilst this may be assigned as their usual breadth, they are in different parts found to be much narrower, so that not unfrequently they are double the above number in an equal space. This closer approxima- tion may generally be noticed in thicker and apparently contracted parts i