DEVELOPMENT OF THE VEINS. 485 in the dorsal region between the posterior vertebral veins a communicating branch passes obliquely across the middle line from right to left. The communicating branch between the primitive jugular veins forms the left innominate vein. The portion of vessel between the termination of the right subclavian vein and the termination of the communicating branch becomes the right innominate vein. The portion of the primi- tive jugular vein below the communicating vein, together with the right duct of Cuvier, forms the vena cava superior, while the cardinal vein opening into it is the extremity of the great vena azygos. On the left side, the portion of the primitive jugular vein placed below the communicating branch, and the cardinal and posterior vertebral veins, together with the cross branch between the two posterior vertebral veins are Fig. 330. A Fig. 330, A and B.—Diagrammatic Outlines of the Vestige op the Left Superior Cava and of a Case of its Persistence (sketched after Marshall). ^ A, Brachiocephalic veins with the superior intercostal, azygos, and principal cardiac veins. B, the same in a case of persistence of the left superior cava, showing its communication with the sinus of the coronary vein. The views are supposed to be from before, the parts of the heart being removed. 1, 1', the internal jugular veins; 2, 2', subclavian veins ; 3, right innominate ; 3', right or regular superior cava ; 4, in A, the left innominate ; in B, the transverse or communi- cating vein between the right and left superior venae cava? ; 5, in A, the opening of the superior intercostal vein into the innominate ; 5', vestige of the left superior cava or duct of Cuvier; 5, 5', in B, the left vena cava superior abnormally persistent, along with a contracted condition of 4, the communicating vein ; 6, the sinus of the coronary vein ; 6', branches of the coronary veins ; 7, the superior intercostal trunk of the left side, or left cardinal vein ; 8, the principal azygos or right cardinal vein; 7', 8', some of the upper intercostal veins ; 9, the opening of the inferior vena cava, with the Eustachian valve. converted into the left superior intercostal and left superior and inferior azygos veins. The variability in the adult arrangement of these vessels depends on the various extent to which the originally continuous vessels are developed or atrophied at one point or another. The left duct of Cuvier is obliterated, except at its lower end, which always remains pervious as the coronary sinus. Even in the adult, traces of the existence of this vessel can always be recognised in the form of a fibrous band, or sometimes even a narrow vein, which descends obliquely on the left auricle; and in front of the root of the left lung there remains a small fold of the serous membrane