xciv BONE. account of the growth and development of bone, to which head, indeed, the subject more properly belongs, although it has seemed expedient to intro- duce it here. All over the section numerous little dark specks are seen among the lamellae. These were named the " osseous corpuscles ;" but as it is now known that they are in reality minute cavities existing in the bony sub- stance, the name of " lacunae" has since been more fittingly applied to them. To see the lacunae properly, however, sections of unsoftened bones must be prepared and ground very thin, and a magnifying power of from 200 to 300 must be employed. Such a section, viewed with transmitted light, has the appearance represented in fig. xliv. The openings of the Haversian canals are seen with their encircling lamellae, and among these the corpuscles or lacunae, which are mostly ranged in a corresponding order, appear as black or dark brown and nearly opaque, oblong spots, with fine dark lines extending from them and causing them to look not unlike little black insects ; but when the same section is seen against a dark ground, with the light falling on it (as we usually view an opaque object), the little bodies and lines appear quite white, like figures drawn with chalk on a slate, and the intermediate substance, being transparent, now appears dark. The lacunae, as already stated, are minute recesses in the bone, and the lines extending from them are fine pores or tubes named " canaliculi," which issue from their cavity. They present some variety of figure, but in such a section as that represented for the most part appear irregularly fusiform, and lie nearly in the same direction as the lamellae between which they are situated ; or, to speak more correctly, the little cavities are flattened and extended conformably with the lamellae ; for when the bone is cut longitudinally, their sections still appear fusiform and length- ened out in the direction of the lamellae. The canaliculi, on the other hand, pass across the lamellae, and they communicate with those proceeding from the next range of lacunae, so as to connect the little cavities with each other ; and thus, since the canaliculi of the most central range open into the Haversian canal, a system of continuous passages is established by these minute tubes and their lacunae, along which fluids may be conducted from the Haversian canal through its series of surrounding lamellae ; in- deed it seems probable that the chief purpose of these minute passages is to convey nutrient fluid from the vascular Haversian canals through the mass of hard bone which lies around and between them. In like manner the canaliculi open into the great medullary canal, and into the cavities of the cancellated texture ; for in the thin bony parietes of these cavities lacunae are contained ; they exist, indeed, in all parts of the bony tissue. As first shown by Virchow, each lacuna is occupied by a nucleated cell, or soft corpuscle, which may be separated from the surrounding substance by prolonged maceration of decalcified bone in hydrochloric acid or in solu- tion of potash or soda ; and later observers (Rouget, Neumann,) state that they are able to detach also the proper osseous wall of the lacuna and its appertaining canaliculi after decalcification, and to obtain it separate with its included corpuscle. The soft corpuscle or cell has an angular outline corresponding to the shape of the lacuna, but it is not proved that it sends branches along the canaliculi, as Virchow supposed, or that it has a mem- branous envelope. Nevertheless it can scarcely be doubted that the proto- plasm of the nucleated corpuscle takes an important share in the nutritive process in bone, and very probably serves both to modify the nutritive