SEROUS MEMBRANES. cxcii cardium adheres to its outer or fibrous part. Such a combination is often named a fibro-serous membrane. The inner surface of a serous membrane is free, smooth, and polished ; and, as would occur with an empty bladder, the inner surface of one part of the sac is applied to the corresponding surface of some other part; a small quantity of fluid, usually not more than merely moistens the con- tiguous surfaces, being interposed. The parts situated in a cavity lined by serous membrane can thus glide easily against its parietes or upon each other, and their motion is rendered smoother by the lubricating fluid. The outer surface most commonly adheres to the parts which it lines or covers, the connection being effected by means of areolar tissue, named therefore " subserous," which, when the membrane is detached, gives to its outer and previously adherent surface a flocculent aspect. The degree of firmness of the connection is very various : in some parts, the membrano can scarce be separated ; in others, its attachment is so lax as to permit of easy displacement. The latter is the case in the neighbourhood of the openings through which abdominal hernise pass, and accordingly when such protrusions of the viscera happen to take place, they usually push the peri- tonseum before them in form of a hernial sac. The visceral portion of the arachnoid membrane is in some measure an exception to the rule of the outer surface being everywhere adherent ; for in the greater part of its extent, it is thrown loosely round the parts which it covers, a few fine fibrous bands being the sole bond of connection ; and a quantity of pellucid fluid is interposed, especially in the vertebral canal and base of the cranium, between the arachnoid and the pia mater, which is the membrane immediately investing the brain and spinal cord. Structure and properties.—Serous membranes are thin and transparent, so that the colour of subjacent parts shines through them. They are tolerably strong, with a moderate degree of extensibility and elasticity. They con- sist of, 1st, a simple layer of scaly epithelium already described and figured (fig. xx.), which, however, is in part ciliated on the serous membrane lining the ventricles of the brain and central canal of the spinal cord. 2ndly, the fibrous layer. This consists of fine but dense areolar connective tissue, which is, as usual, made up^of bundles of white filaments mixed with fine elastic fibres ; the former, when there are two or more strata, take a different direc- tion in the different planes ; the latter unite into a network, and, in many serous membranes, as remarked by Henle, are principally collected into a reticular layer at the surface, immediately beneath the epithelium. The constituent connective tissue of the serous membrane is of course continuous with the usually more lax subserous areolar tissue connecting the mem- brane to the subjacent parts. Where the arachnoid membrane lines the dura mater, and possibly also in some other cases, the fibrous layer usually belonging to the serous membrane is wanting, its place being sup- plied by the fibrous membrane beneath, on which the epithelium is imme- diately applied. Blood-vessels ending in a capillary network with comparatively wide meshes pervade the subserous tissue and the tissue of the serous membrane. Plex- uses of lymphatics also exist in the subserous tissue, but not under every part of the membrane ; in the costal pleura, for example, the lymphatics are confined to the parts which cover the intercostal and sterno-costal muscles. When present the lymphatics extend in form of fine superficial plexuses through the fibrous layer of the membrane to its surface, immediately beneath the epithelium (Dybkowski), and may then open into the serous