DEVELOPMENT OF THE HEART AND VESSELS. 325 the ninth week it appears, growing from above and behind downwards and forwards, and at length cornea to meet and coalesce below with the rising edge of the inter- ventricularseptum. The interauricular sep- P /f II turn, however, remains incomplete during intrauterine life, and leaves an opening in the middle, which forms the foramen ovate. The farther steps in the separation of the auricles are connected with the changes which take place at the entrances of the great veins. There are now three large vessels terminating in the auricular extremity of the heart; of these two correspond with the superior and the inferior vena cava, and the third is the great coronary vein. At first, after the interauricular septum is partly formed above, the inferior cava opens directly into the left auricle, which is the smaller of the two; but about 'the twelfth week a septum, the valve of the foramen ovale, which afterwards forms the floor of the fossa ovalis, rises up on the left side of the entrance of the vein, which thus comes to open into the right auricle; whilst at the same time the separation of the two auricles is also rendered more complete by the gradual advance of the valve over the foramen ovale, leaving, however, the passage open until after birth. Another valvular fold is developed at an early period on the right and anterior border of the orifice of the inferior cava, between it and the auriculo-ventricular orifice; this is the Eustachian valve. It appears to continue the opening of the inferior cava towards the upper margin of the foramen ovale, and directs the blood of the vein through that passage. The left auricle has at first no connection with the pulmonary veins. The manner in which this connection is afterwards established has not yet been ascertained. Originally the heart is composed of a mass of nucleated cells, similar in character to those which primarily constitute the other organs of the body. Muscular tissue is subsequently formed from these cells; but the rhythmic contractions commence and proceed for some time, whilst the heart is yet composed of cells, and before the mus- cular fibres have been developed. The great vessels.—At first the bulbus arteriosus is divided into two arches, which pass upwards and outwards one on each side, then turn downwards and form a right and left root of the aorta, which are at first separate, but afterwards unite behind the heart and in front of the vertebral column to form the single stem of the descend- ing aorta. The distance soon elongates between those arches and the arterial bulb, and four other pairs of arches appear in series from above downwards, passing outwards from the vessel which ascends to the first arch, and opening into that which descends from it. Thus there are on each side five arches, an internal or anterior trunk uniting the origins of the arches, and an external or posterior trunk uniting their terminations, and continued into one of the roots of the aorta. These vascular arches are placed each in one of the branchial processes of the dorsal plates (p. 64), but it is to be noted that the whole five arches do not co-exist; for the highest Fig. 244.—Snows the position and form of the Heart in the Human Embryo from the Fourth to the Sixth week. Fig. 244. A, upper half of the body of a human embryo said to be four weeks old (from Kolliker after Coste) ; B and C, anterior and posterior views of the heart of a human embryo of six weeks (from Kolliker after Ecker) ; a, frontal lappet; b, mouth ; c, below the lower jaw and in front of the second and third branchial arches; d, upper limb; e, liver; /, intestine cut short; 1, superior vena cava; ]■', left superior cava or brachiocephalic connected with the coronary vein ; 1", opening of the inferior vena cava; 2, 2', right and left auricles ; 3, 3', right and left ventricles ; 4, aortic bulb.