315 POSITION m THE THORAX. their cartilages ; 1, placed on the lower part of the manubrium of the sternum, and on the place of the arch of the aorta indicated by dotted lines ; 2, placed in the second left in- tercostal space, on the .stem of the pulmonary artery ; 3, apex of the right auricle ; 3', its most prominent part, behind the third space ; 3", its lower part at the junction of the sixth and seventh right costal cartilages with the sternum ; 4, left auricular appendix ; 5, 5, right ventricle; 6, left ventricle ; 6', apex of the heart : the white line outside the heart is intended to indicate the external pericardium, as if the anterior half were re- moved by a transverse incision ; 7, 7, vena cava superior ; 8, 8, internal jugular veins ; 9, 9, subclavian veins, joining the jugular ; 9, 7, 9, innominate veins ; the right rising behind the sterno-clavicular articulation, the left crossing obliquely behind the upper half of the manubrium. The position of the first parts of the innominate artery, left carotid and left subclavian arteries, is indicated behind and below this vein ; 9', 9', outer part of the subclavian arteries. It is to be observed that in this figure the attachment of the sixth costal cartilage to the sternum is represented a little too high. The auriculo-ventricular openings lie in the line of the auriculo-ventri- cular sulcus. The middle of that of the right side lies behind the sternum, between the fourth costal cartilages, and the anterior cusp of the tricuspid valve, and extends to the fifth left costal cartilage. The middle of the left auriculo-ventricular opening is in the second intercostal space, less than an inch to the left of the sternum ; but as it is placed deeply, and over- laid by the arterial openings, the part immediately over it is unfavourable for auscultation, which is therefore best conducted at the point of impulse. The orifice of the pulmonary artery, according to Luschka, is placed imme- diately to the left of the sternum, opposite the second intercostal space, the free margin of the anterior valve reaching up to the lower border of the second rib. The aortic orifice, behind the insertion of the third left costal cartilage and the sternum, is on a slightly lower level than the orifice of the pulmonary artery, and is covered by it in two-thirds of its breadth. The aortic orifice being thus concealed, the sounds produced within it are best heard at the spot where the aorta approaches nearest to the surface, viz., opposite to the first and second intercostal spaces at the right margin of the sternum. (Luschka, Die Brustorgane, 1857 ; and Anatomie des Menschen, (fee, 1863 ; Walshe, Diseases of the Heart and Great Vessels ; Sibson, On the Normal and Abnormal Situation and Structure of the Viscera of the Chest, in Trans, of the Provinc. Med. and Surg. Assoc., vol. xii., year 1842, and in his Work on Medical Anatomy ; Allen Thomson, Notice of the case of E. Groux, &c, with Observations on the Position and Actions of the Heart, in Glasgow Med. Journ. April, 1858.) The following additional particulars are taken from the observations of Allen Thomson. The summit of the aortic arch is on a level with the middle of the manubrium sterni; and the left border of the innominate artery at its origin from the arch is slightly to the left side of the middle line. The middle of the commencement of the aorta, where it springs from the left ventricle, is behind the left border of the sternum, on a level with the lower edge of the third costal cartilage. The ascending part of the aorta bulges beyond the right border of the sternum to the extent of at least a quarter of an inch; and the vena cava superior extends about half an inch farther in the same direction. The trunk of the pulmonary artery is wholly to the left of the middle line, and its left border is about three quarters of an inch beyond the left border of the sternum. The concavity of the aortic arch is on a level Avith the junction of the manubrium with the body of the sternum. The right auricular appendage covers the lower part of the ascending aorta to the right of the pulmonary semilunar valves, and its point is exactly behind the middle line on a level with the upper border of the third costal cartilages. The most projecting part of the right ventricle with the conus arteriosus lies behind the sternum, between the lower end of the body and the inner part of the left third intercostal space. The right auricle extends to fully an inch beyond the right border of the sternum. Y 2