412 ABDOMINAL AORTA. ing colon have a layer of peritoneum only on their anterior aspect : the others lie between two strata. The superior mesenteric artery is occasionally connected at its origin with the coeliac artery. Not unfrequently it furnishes the hepatic artery. III. INFERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY. This artery, much smaller than the superior mesenteric, supplies the lower half of the colon, and the greater part of the rectum. It arises from the aorta, between an inch and two inches above the bifurcation of that trunk. The inferior mesenteric artery inclines to the left side in the direction of the left iliac fossa, from which point it descends between the layers of the meso-rectum into the pelvis, and under the name of " superior hsemorr- hoidal" artery, runs down behind the rectum. It lies at first close to the aorta, on its left side, and then crosses over the left common iliac artery. Branches.—(a). The left colic artery is directed to the left side behind the peritoneum, and across the left kidney to reach the descending colon. It divides into two branches, and forms a series of arches in the same way as the colic vessels of the opposite side. One of these two branches passes upwards along the colon, and inosculates with the descending branch of the middle colic ; whilst the other descends towards the sigmoid flexure, and anastomoses with the sigmoid artery. (6) The sigmoid artery runs obliquely downwards to the sigmoid flexure of the colon, where it divides into branches ; some of which incline up- wards and form arches with the preceding vessel, while others turn down- wards to the rectum and anastomose with the following branch. Instead of a single sigmoid artery, two or three branches are sometimes present. (c) The superior hozmorrhoidal artery, the continuation of the inferior mesenteric, passes into the pelvis behind the rectum, at first in the meso- rectum, and then divides into two branches which extend one on each side of the intestine towards the lower end. About five inches from the anus these subdivide into branches, about a line in diameter, which pierce the muscular coat two inehes lower down. In the intestine, these arteries, about seven in number, and placed at regular distances from each other, descend between the mucous and muscular coats to the end of the gut, where they communicate in loops opposite the internal sphincter, and end below by anastomosing with the middle and inferior hsemorrhoidal arteries. Anastomoses on the intestinal tube.—The arteries distributed to the alimentary canal communicate freely with each other over the whole length of that tube. The arteries of the great intestine derived from the two mesenteric arteries, form a range of vascular arches along the colon and rectum, at the lower end of which they anastomose with the middle and inferior hremorrhoidal arteries, given from the internal iliac and pudic arteries. The branches from the left side of the superior mesenteric form another series of arches along the small intestine, which is connected with the former by the ileo-colic artery. Farther, a branch of the superior mesenteric joins upon the duodenum with the pancreatico-duodenal artery. The latter, at its commencement, is in a manner continuous with the pyloric artery ; and so likewise, through the coronary artery of the stomach and its ascending branches, a similar connection is formed with the oesophageal arteries, even up to the pharynx.