BRACHIAL ARTERY. 382 midway between the folds of the axilla to the middle point between the condyles of the humerus. To command the flow of blood through the artery at its upper part, pressure should be directed outwards, while over the lower end of the vessel the pressure should be made from before backwards. The brachial artery lies beneath the integument and fascia of the arm as far as the bend of the elbow, where it sinks deeply in the interval between the pronator teres and supinator longus muscles, and is covered by the fibrous expansion given from the tendon of the biceps to the fascia of the fore-arm. It rests at first on the long head of the triceps muscle, the musculo-spiral nerve and the superior profunda artery intervening ; it then inclines forwards over the insertion of the coraco-brachialis muscle, and lies thence to its termination on the brachialis anticus. At its outer side it is in apposition first with the coraco-brachialis, and afterwards and for the ; Fig. 268. Fig. 268.—Dissection op the Axilla and Inside op the Arm to show the Axillary and Brachial Vessels (from R. Quain). 5 The greater and lesser pectoral muscles have been divided so as to expose the axillary vessels: a, the inserted portion of the pectoralis major; b, the pectoral portion; 1, 1, axillary artery ; +, +, the median nerve formed by the two portions of the plexus which surround the artery ; 1', placed on a part of the sheath of the brachial vessels, and 1", on the lower part of the biceps muscle, point to the brachial artery surrounded by its venae comites ; 2, 2, axillary vein ; 3, 3, the basilic vein ; the upper figure is placed on the triceps muscle, the lower on the fascia near the junction of the ulnar vein : on the basilic vein are seen the ramifications of the internal cutaneous nerve ; 4, on the deltoid and 4', on the clavicular part of the great pectoral muscle, mark the cephalic vein joining the acromio-thoracic and through it the axillary vein ; 5, 5, placed on the divided portions of the pectoralis minor, point to the origin and branches of the acromio-thoracic artery ; 6, placed on a group of axillary glands, indicates the alar thoracic and subscapular vessels; 7, placed on the trunk of the axillary vein, points by a line to one of the venae comites of the brachial vein,?which being joined by the other higher up passes into the axillary vein : the ulnar nerve is seen passing from below the basilic vein towards the inner condyle ; near 1, placed on the coraco-brachialis muscle is seen the musculo-cutaneous nerve before it passes through that muscle ; near 2, placed on the tendon of the latissimus dorsi muscle, a portion of the nerve of Wrisberg.