290 MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. Fig. 221. two parts or heads in front, arises by a flat tendinous process, which extends along a great part of its upper surface, from the inner border of the cuboid bone, and from the tendinous band sent to the cuneiform bones from the .tendon of the tibialis posticus. The heads into which the muscular mass divides are intimately connected each with one of the sesamoid bones of the first metafcarso-phalangeal articulation, and are inserted, one into the inner border of the base of the first phalanx in union with the abductor pollicis, the other into the outer border in union with the adductor. The tendon of the flexor longus pollicis runs in the interval between the heads of the short flexor. The adductor pollicis pedis, placed obliquely in the sole of the foot, and forming a thick fleshy mass, arises from the tarsal extremity of the third and fourth metatarsal bones, and from the sheath of the peroneus longus muscle ; narrowing as it passes forwards, it is inserted, conjointly with the external head of the flexor brevis pollicis, into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. The transversus pedis consists of a series of narrow fasciculi of fleshy fibres, placed transversely under cover of the flexor tendons, and arising, beneath the heads of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones, from the ligaments connecting those bones with the phalanges. Its outer ex- tremity is attached usually to the lateral ligament connecting the fifth metatarsal bone with the first phalanx of the little toe ; but it often commences only at the fourth. The fibres of the muscle pass transversely inwards, and are inserted in union with the adductor pollicis into the first phalanx of the great toe. Fig. 221.—Deeper Plantar Muscles, as seen after the REMOVAL OE THE LONG FLEXOR TENDONS AND THE ACCES- SORY AND LuMBRICALES MUSCLES. \ 1, flexor brevis pollicis ; 2, adductor pollicis ; 3, transversus pedis; 4, flexor brevis minimi digiti; 5, 5, part of the thii-d and fourth dorsal interossei ; 6, 6, the second and third plantar interossei ; 7, tendon of the peroneus longus passing round the cuboid bone to enter its groove ; 8, long plantar ligament passing forwards to the ridge of the cuboid bones and spreading over the groove of the peroneus tendon : in the upper part of the figure, on the inner side, the opened sheaths of the flexor longus pollicis and flexor longus digitorum are shown. Muscles of the Little Toe.—The abductor minimi digiti has a wide origin behind, from the front of both tubercles on the under surface of the os calcis, from the external intermuscular septum, and from the upper surface of the process of the plantar fascia which extends from the external tubercle to the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. The fleshy fibres end in a tendon, which, after sliding along a smooth impression on the inferior surface of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, is inserted into the external surface of the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. This muscle is covered by the plantar fascia. Its deep surface is in contact with