AREOLAR TISSUE. Ixxii In certain portions of the areolar tissue, as for instance in that which lies under the serous and mucous membranes of particular regions, the yellow or elastic fibres are abundant and large, so that they cannot well be overlooked; but in other parts they are few in number, and small, and are then in a great measure hidden by Fig. XXXVI. the white filaments ; in such cases, however, they can always be rendered con- spicuous under the micro- scope by means of acetic acid, which causes the white filaments to swell up and become indistinct, whilst the elastic fibres, not being affected by that reagent, come then more clearly into view (fig. xxxvi.). Under the microscope the elastic fibres appeartransparentand colourless, with a strong, well-defined, dark outline. Thej are, moreover, remark- able for their tendency to curl up, especially at their broken ends, which gives them a very peculiar aspect, and in many parts of the areolar tissue they divide into branches and join or anastomose with one another, in the same manner as in the pure elastic tissue (a). They differ among themselves very widely in size, some being as fine as the white filaments, others many times larger. In the immature areolar tissue of the foetus there is a considerable amount of soft, jelly-like matter, of muco-albuminous nature, in the interstices of the formed elements. This amorphous substance is for the most part incon- spicuous in the perfected tissue, but exists abundantly in the umbilical cord, where it forms the well-known Whartonian jelly ; it may also be seen, at all periods, but in smaller quantity, in the areolar tissue within the vertebral canal. A very different view of the structure of areolar tissue from that here stated was taken by Reichert, and adopted by Virchow, Donders, and other distinguished histologists. According to this view the apparent bundles consist of a substance in reality amorphous or homogeneous, and its seeming fibrillation is partly artificial, the result of cleavage, and partly an optical illusion, arising from creasing or folding. In point of fact, however, the bundles readily separate into fibrils after exposure to dilute solutions of chromic acid, or to lime-water, or to baryta-water, by which the uniting matter is dissolved ; so that there can be no doubt of their truly fibrillar structure. At the same time it is not denied that immature fasciculi may probably occur, in which the fibrillation is incomplete. Moreover, a homo- geneous substance, not to be confounded with the soft, jelly-like matter previously noticed, but of firm consistence and agreeing in chemical nature with the fibrils, envelopes the fasciculi in some situations in form of a fine Fig. XXXVI.—Magnified View op Areolar Tissue (from different parts) treated with Acetio Acid. The white filaments are no longer seen, and the yellow or elastic fibres with the nuclei come into view. At c, elastic fibres wind round a bundle of white fibres, which by the effect of the acid is swollen out between the turns.