xliii DIFFERENCES IN DIFFERENT VESSELS. the other hand, the addition of a little water darkens the blood. According to Pro- fessor Stokes, the corpuscles in the former case " lose water by exosmosis, and become thereby highly refractive, in consequence of which a more copious reflexion takes place at the common surface of the corpuscles and surrounding fluid. In the latter case they gain water by endosmosis, which makes their refractive power more nearly equal to that of the fluid in which they are contained, and the reflexion is conse- quently diminished."* But the presence of serum or of saline matter is not indis- pensable to the brightening, for although the clot when washed free from serum scarcely if at all reddens on exposure to oxygen, yet it is found that the red matter when squeezed out of the clot and dissolved in water, still becomes brighter and clearer on exposure to oxygen, whilst the colour is darkened (and the solution becomes turbid from deposition of globulin), on being shaken with carbonic acid. As in this case the colouring matter is extracted from the corpuscles and is reddened by oxygen without the presence of salts, it is plain that the difference of colour of arterial and venous blood essentially depends, not on a difference in the figure or density of the corpuscles, but on an alteration produced in their colouring substance by oxidation and deoxidation, which alters its absorptive effect on the light. 2. Composition. The arterial blood, so far as is known, is uniform in nature throughout; but in passing through the capillary vessels into the veins, whilst it generally acquires the common characters of venous blood, it undergoes special changes in its passage through particular organs, so that the blood of all veins is not alike in quality. Thus the blood of the hepatic veins differs from that of the portal vein, and both are in various respects different from what might be regarded as the common venous blood, which is conveyed by the veins of the limbs, and of the muscular and cutaneous parts of the body generally. Moreover, Bernard has shown that the blood of veins returning from secreting glands differs according to the state of functional activity of the organs. Whilst their function is in abeyance the blood in their veins is dark, as usual, but when secretion is active, the blood, which then also flows much more freely and abundantly, comes through from the arteries to the veins with very little, if any, reduction of its arterial brightness; it also retains nearly the whole of its separable oxygen. Compared with blood from a cutaneous vein, arterial blood is found to contain a very little more water (about five parts in 1000), and to have a somewhat lower specific gravity. The arterial plasma yields more fibrin and coagulates more quickly; the serum is said by Lehroann to contain less albumen and less fat, but more extractive and a little more saline matter. According to the same authority, the corpuscles also contain less fat, but relatively more haematin and salts. Arterial blood yields more oxygen gas, and less of, both free and combined, carbonic acid. Blood of the portal vein, compared with that of the jugular vein, is stated by Lehmann to contain more water in proportion to solid matter, less fibrin and albumen, more fat, extractive matter and salts. Its corpuscles are said to be richer in hasmatin. In the blood of the splenic vein, as compared with that of the corresponding artery, according to the observations of Funke, the red corpuscles are smaller, more spheroidal in form, and more resistant to the destructive effects of water; and when they run together it is in rounded heaps, not in regular piles. Their cruor has a marked tendency to form crystals. The pale corpuscles are vastly more numerous than in the arterial blood, and some of them have a yellowish tint (as if in transition to red disks). Granule-cells occur occasionally and sparingly, twice as large as the pale corpuscles, but otherwise resembling them. The plasma is distinguished by its poverty in fibrin. The blood of the hepatic veins shows, according to Lehmann's statement, the following differences from that of the portal vein. It is richer in both red and pale corpuscles, possibly from loss of water. The red corpuscles present the same pecu- liarities of size, form, resistance to water, and mode of aggregation, as in the splenic venous blood. They contain less fat and salts than in portal blood, less haematin, at least less iron, but somewhat more extractive matter; the proportion of pale cor- puscles to the red is increased. The plasma is more concentrated, but is deficient in * Proc. Royal Soc, vol. xiii. p. 362.