Fig. 29 4. INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. Fig. 294.—Arteries of the Back 430 of the Pelvis and Upper Part Peculiarities.—The iliolumbar artery sometimes arises from the internal'iliac, above the division of that trunk ; and more rarely from the common iliac. The iliac and lumbar portions sometimes arise separately from the parent trunk. of the Thigh (from Tiedeniann). 5 a, crest of the ilium ; h, tuber- osity of the ischium and lower attachment of the great sacro- sciatic ligament ; c, great tro- chanter ; d, integument round the anus; e, great sciatic nerve; 1, trunk of the gluteal artery as it issues from the great sacro-sciatic foramen, the superficial branches cut short, the deep arch seen pass- ing round on the upper part of the gluteus minimus muscle ; 2, placed on the great sacro-sciatic ligament, points to the pudic artery at the place where it winds over the back of the spine of the ischium ; 2', the continuation of the artery towards the perinaeum on the in- side of the tuberosity and ramus of the ischium ; 3, 3, the sciatic artery, the upper figure placed on the pjriformis muscle, the lower on the great sciatic nerve; 4, 4', first perforating artery passing through the upper part of the great adductor muscle and anastomosing with the posterior branch of the internal circumflex artery, which appears between the quadratus and the adductor muscles; 5 and 6, part of the second and third per- forating arteries. When the lowest of the lumbar arteries is wanting it is replaced by a branch from the iliolumbar, which is increased in size, and by a small offset from the middle sacral artery. VJII. LATERAL SACRAL ARTERIES. The lateral sacral arteries are usually two in number on each side, though occasionally they are united into one. The two arteries arise close together from the posterior division of the internal iliac. One is distributed upon the upper, and the other upon the lower part of the sacrum. Both arteries pass downwards, at the same time inclining somewhat inwards, in front of the pyriform muscle and the sacral nerves, which they supply with twigs, and reach the inner side of the anterior sacral foramina. Continuing to descend, the lower one approaches the middle line, and anastomoses with the middle sacral artery. Dorsal Branches.—The lateral sacral arteries give off a series of branches which enter the anterior sacral foramina. Each of these, after having furnished within the foramen a spinal branch, which ramifies on the bones and membranes in the interior of the sacral canal, escapes by the cor- responding posterior sacral foramen, and is distiibuted upon the dorsal surface of the sacrum.