BONE. soft fibres or trabecules which have already stretched across the interval; and the darkish granular opacity indicating the earthy deposit (a, a') may be per- ceived advancing into them and shading off gradually into their pellucid substance without a precise limit. This soft transparent matter, which becomes ossified, may, wherever it occurs, be distinguished by the name of " osteogenic substance," as proposed by H. Muller, or simply of " osteogen." It is or becomes fibrous in intimate structure, and for the most part finely reticular, like the decalcified bone itself, but must not be confounded with fibres which may pre-exist in the membranous tissue in which the bone is growing. The granular corpuscles or cells everywhere cover in a dense layer the osteogenic substance, and lie in its meshes ; most probably they yield or excrete that substance, and hence it has been proposed to call them " osteoblasts." On this view the process might be com- pared to the production, by cells, of the matrix of carti- lage and the intercellular fibrillating substance in grow- ing connective tissue ; also to the excretion of mem- branous, cuticular, and other deposits by cells, and layers of cells, long since pointed out by Kolliker. But some of the granular cells are involved in the ossifying matrix, and eventu- ally inclosed in lacunse. Single cells may accordingly be seen partially sunk in the recent osteogenic deposit, which then gradually grows over them and buries them in its substance ; and the cavity in which the corpuscle is thus inclosed becomes a lacuna. Some observers state that when such a corpuscle is as yet but half sunk in the growing sub- stance, processes may be seen passing from the imbedded side into fine clefts of the matrix, which close in around them and become the canaliculi; and that as the inclosure of the corpuscle is completed, canaliculi are in like manner formed in the rest of its circumference. It is also supposed that the canaliculi are afterwards extended by absorption, so as to anas- tomose with those of neighbouring lacunae. But from all I can see of the process, it seems more probable that whilst the ossific matter closes in around the corpuscle Fig. L.—The Growing End op a Spiculum from the Parietal Bone op an Embryo Sheep at about the same period of advancement as in Fig. XLIX. ; magnified 150 diameters, but drawn under a power of 350 diameters. ct, b, c, and a', parts already calcified; d, d, irre- gular network of soft and pellucid osteogenic sub- stance, on which the calcification is encroaching; a, e, a', a connecting bar or bridge still soft at e, but calcified at a and a' ; /, extremity formed of bundles of soft osteogenic fibres. N.B. The structure repre- sented was covered over and hidden by granular cor- puscles which have been removed. In the calcified part, a, b, c, superficial excavations are seen which are probably commencing or incomplete lacunas, from which the corpuscles have been washed out. From a drawing by Mr. J. Marshall, F.R.S.