427 BRANCHES OF THE PUDIC ARTERY. superficial fascia, between the erector penis and accelerator urinae muscles, supplying both. In this course the artery gradually becomes superficial, and is finally distri- buted to the skin of the scrotum and the dartos. It not unfrequently gives off the following branch. Fig. 293. Fig. 293. — Dissection of the Perineum in a young Male Subject, showing the blood- VESSELS, &C. i This drawing is made from a preparation upon a modification of the plan of R. Quain's 61st and 62nd Plates. The right side shows a superficial, the left a deeper view. a, the anus, with a part of the integument surrounding it; i, left half of the bulb of the urethra exposed by the removal of a part of the bulbo-cavernosus muscle; c, coccyx ; d, right tube- rosity of the ischium ; e, e, the anterior part of the superficial perineal fascia passing forward upon the scrotum, and removed from the surface of the muscles and its reflections into the deep fascia; /, right ischio-rectal fossa from which the fat and fascia have not been re- moved ; g, gluteus maxi- mus muscle ; 1, placed on the right transversus perinsei muscle, points to the superficial perineal artery as it emerges in front (in this case) of the muscle; 1', placed on the left side on the surface of the triangular ligament near its reflection into the superficial fascia, points to the superficial perineal artery cut short; 2, on the right ischio-cavernosus muscle, points to the superficial perineal arteries and nerves passing forward ; 2', the same on the left side, the vessels and nerves having been divided there ; 3, on the triangular ligament of the right side, points to the transverse perineal branch of the superficial perineal artery ; 4, on the left tuberosity of the ischium, points to the pudic artery deep in the ischio-rectal fossa ; 5, 5', the inferior hemorrhoidal branches of the pudic arteries and nerves ; 6, on the left side, placed in a recess from which the triangular ligament or anterior layer of the sub-pubic fascia has been removed to show the continuation of the pudic artery, its branch to the bulb, and one of Cowper's glands. (c) The transverse perineal artery, a very small vessel, arises either from the pudic artery, or from the superficial perineal, near the transversus perinsei muscle. It lies across the perinaeum, and terminates in small branches which are distributed to the transverse muscle, and to the parts between the anus and the bulb of the urethra. (d) The artery of the bulb, is, surgically considered, an important vessel. It is very f f 2