305 INTERNAL STRUCTURE OF THE HEART. The ventricles, on a great part of their inner surfaces, are covered with a number of irregular rounded muscular bands, named columnce carnece, which form quite a network in some parts of the ventricle, and may be classified into three kinds. The first kind form merely slightly prominent ridges on the walls of the ventricle, being attached by one of their sides as well as by the two extremities ; the second are adherent by their two ends only, and are free in the rest of their extent ; whilst the third kind form a few bundles, named musculi papillares, which are directed in general from the apex towards the base of the ventricle, in which they are attached to the muscular wall by their broader bases, and tapering more or less at their free extremities give rise to small tendinous cords, chordos tendineoz, through which they are connected with the segments of the auriculo-ventricular valve. Each ventricle has two orifices, an auriculo-ventricular and an arterial opening. Fig. 229.—View of the Base Fig. 229. of the Ventricular Part of the Heart, showing the relative position of the Arterial and Au- riculo-ventricular orifi- ces. § The muscular fibres of the ventricles are exposed by the removal of the pericardium, fat, bloodvessels, &c; the pul- monary artery and aorta have been removed by a section made immediately beyond the attachment of the semi-lunar valves, and the auricles have been removed immediately above the auriculo-ventricular orifices. The semilunar and auriculo-ventricular valves are in the closed condition. 1, 1, the base of the right ventricle ; 1', the conus arteriosus ; 2, 2, the base of the left ventricle ; 3, 3, the divided wall of the right auricle ; 4, that of the left; 5, the anterior, 5', the posterior, and 5", the left or septal segment of the tricuspid valve ; 6, the anterior or aortic, and 6' the left and posterior segment of the mitral valve. In the angles between these segments are seen the smaller fringes frequently observed ; 7, the anterior part of the pulmonary artery ; 8, placed upon the posterior part of the root of the aorta ; 9, the right, 9', the left coronary artery. Valves.—In order to give to the blood propelled by the contraction of the ventricles its due direction through the arteries, two sets of valves are provided, one of which prevents the regurgitation of blood through the auriculo-ventricular openings into the auricles during the contraction of the ventricles, while the other prevents regurgitation from the arteries back into the ventricles when the contraction has ceased. These valves are mainly formed of folds of the endocardium with some fibrous tissue contained within them. The auriculo-ventricular valves are composed of membranous flaps or segments, which are three in number in the valve of the right side, and two in that of the left. At their bases, the several segments are con- tinuous with one another, so as to form an annular membrane attached round the margin of the auricular opening : they are directed downwards,