BONES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 78 Texture.—The interior of the clavicle contains coarse cancellated tissue in its whole extent. It almost always presents a foramen for a medullary artery on its posterior surface, and sometimes others. THE HUMERUS. The humerus or arm bone extends from the scapula to the bones of the forearm, with each of which it is articulated. It hangs nearly vertically from the shoulder, with an inclination inwards towards the lower end. It is divisible into a superior extremity, including the head, neck, and greater and smaller tuberosities ; the shaft ; and the in- Fig. 69. ferior extremity, including the external and internal supracondyloid eminences, and the inferior articular surface. In general form it is subcylindrical and \ slightly twisted. The superior extremity is the thickest part of the bone. The head is a large hemispherical articular elevation, directed inwards, upwards, and somewhat backwards. The neck, as described by anatomists, is the ring of bone which supports the head; inferiorly, it passes into the shaft; superiorly, If J-6 it is a mere groove between the head and the great tuberosity. The neck, as often described by sur- geons, is the part of the shaft immediately below the tuberosities. The great tuberosity is a thick projection, continued upwards from the external part of the shaft, and reaching nearly to the level of the upper margin of the head ; it is sur- mounted by three flat surfaces, the uppermost of which gives attachment to the supra-spinatus muscle, the lowest to the teres minor, and the intermediate one to the infra-spinatus muscle. Separated from the great tuberosity by the com- mencement of the bicipital groove, the small tuberosity, rounded and prominent, looks directly forwards and gives attachment to the subscapulars muscle. V Fig. 69.—Right Humerus from before. -| 1, the articular head ; 2, lesser tuberosity ; 3, greater tuberosity ; 4, neck of anatomists; 5, bicipital groove ; 6, inner bicipital ridge, and mark of the attachment of the latissimus dorsi and teres major muscles ; 7, outer bicipital ridge, and rough surface of insertion of the pectoralis major, running down into 7', the triangular mark of the insertion of the deltoid ; 8, spiral groove ; 9, inrer ridge of the humerus; 10, trochlear articular surface; 11, capitellura, or radial condyle ; 12, epitrochlear or internal supracondy- loid eminence; 13, capitellar or external supracondyloid eminence ; 14, coronoid depression or fossa. The shaft or body, thick and cylindrical supe- riorly, becomes somewhat thinner as it descends, and in the lower third is expanded transversely and becomes somewhat three-sided. Superiorly on its anterior aspect is the bicipital groove, so named from lodging the long