ccxv CUTANEOUS GLANDS. On the head they are set in groups, on the rest of the skin for the most part singly. Except those of the eyelashes, which are implanted perpendicularly to the surface, they have usually a slanting direction, which is wonderfully constant in the same parts. Chemical nature.—The chemical composition of hair has been investigated princi- pally by Vauquelin, Scherer, and Van Laer. When treated with boiling alcohol, and with ether, it yields a certain amount of oily fat, consisting of margarin, margaric acid, and olein, which is red or dark coloured, according to the tint of the hair. The animal matter of the hair thus freed from fat, is supposed to consist of a substance yielding gelatin, and a protein compound containing a large proportion of sulphur. It is insoluble in water, unless by long boiling underpressure, by which it is reduced into a viscid mass. It readily and completely dissolves in caustic alkalies. By calci- nation, hair yields from 1 to 1^ per cent, of ashes, which consist of the following ingre- dients—viz ., peroxide of iron, and according to Vauquelin, traces of manganese, silica, chlorides of sodium and potassium, sulphates of lime and magnesia, and phosphate of lime. With the exception of the bones and teeth, no tissue of the body withstands decay after death so long as the hair, and hence it is often [found preserved in sepulchres, when nothing else remains but the skeleton. Glands of the skin.—These are of two kinds, the sweat glands, and the sebaceous, which yield a fatty secretion. Fig. CXXIII. Fig. CXXIV. Fig. CXXIII.—Vertical Section op the Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue, from end op the Thumb, across the Ridges and Furrows, magnified 20 diameters (from Kolliker). a, horny, and b, mucous layer of the epidermis ; c, corium ; d, panniculus adiposus,« e, papillas on the ridges ; /, fat clusters; g, sweat-glands ; h, sweat-ducts; i, their openings on the surface. Fig. CXXIV.—Magnified View of a Sweat-Gland with its Duct (after Wagner). a, the gland surrounded by vesicles of adipose tissue ; b, the duct passing through the corium ; c, its continuation through the lower, and d} through the upper part of the epidermis. P 2