9 ATLAS AND AXIS VERTEBRAE. the rings of the succeeding vertebrae ; the narrower anterior part is occu- pied by the odontoid process of the axis, and in the recent state is separated Fig. 6.—The Atlas Vertebra, prom above. \ 1, the anterior arch, with a tubercle in front; 4, the posterior part of the ring, with 5, an indication of a spinous tubercle ; 4', the anterior part of the ring, containing the odontoid process, and indicating in front of 4' the smooth surface on which the process moves in rotation ; 6, the transverse process with a slight indication of division into two tubercles ; 7, the condyloid articulating process ; + inside it indicates the rounded tubercle to which the transverse ligament is attached ; ct, the foramen in the transverse process ; b, the groove on the posterior arch for the vertebral artery. Fig. 6. 5 from the posterior by the transverse ligament of the atlas. In front of the ring is the anterior arch, sometimes called the body, from which projects forwards the anterior tubercle, while its posterior aspect presents an arti- cular surface which glides in rotation of the head upon the odontoid process of the axis. At the sides of the ring are the lateral masses—two stout portions of bone which receive the weight of the head, and present large articular surfaces on their superior and inferior aspects. They are situated in front of the places of exit of the nerves, and in this and other respects differ from the articular processes of the five lower cervical vertebrae. The superior articular surfaces, which receive the condyles of the occipital bone, are of oval form, converging in front, concave from before backwards, and looking'inwards as well as upwards. At the internal margin of each is a rounded smooth tubercle with a rough depression, which gives attachment to the transverse ligament. The inferior articular surfaces are smaller than the superior pair, flat, nearly circular, looking downwards and inclined a little inwards. The laminoz unite behind to form a posterior tubercle, the rudiment of a spinous process. They are thick and round in the greater part of their extent, but at their junction with the lateral masses they are flattened by a smooth transverse groove on the upper border of each, marking the course of the vertebral artery as it passes inwards from the foramen of the transverse process before entering the cranium. This groove is some- times converted into a foramen by a small arch of bone. It transmits the sub-occipital nerve as well as the vertebral artery, and corresponds with the notches of the other vertebrae. The transverse processes project considerably further outwards on each side than those of the vertebrae immediately following ; they are flattened from above downwards and somewhat rough, they are rounded at the ex- tremity, and at the root of each is the foramen which transmits the vertebral artery. The Second Vertebra, Vertebra dentata, or Axis, forms a pivot on which the head with the first vertebra rotates. The body is surmounted superiorly by the odontoid process, and is some- what narrowed and prolonged below to fit into the depression of the body of the third vertebra. In front it presents a low vertical ridge, with a depression on each side, to which the upper part of the longus colli muscle is attached. The odontoid process (p. dentatus) consists of an enlarged