477 FEMORAL AND ILIAC VEINS. In the lower part of its course, the accompany the offsets of the chief ar femoral vein opens into it, having muscles supplied by the deep femoral artery. Near its termination the fe- moral vein is joined by the internal saphenous vein. Fig. 324.—View of the Blood-vessels op the Groin and neighbouring parts (from R. Quain). £ The full description of this figure will be found at p. 436. The following numbers indicate the veins :—2, the femoral veiu ; 3, the large or internal saphenous vein; 3', anterior saphenous ; 4, superficial circumflex veins with twigs to the inguinal glands; 5, superficial epigastric ; 6, superficial pudic. The femoral vein occasionally pursues a course different from that of the artery along the thigh. Extending upwards from the popliteal space, the vein in such cases perforates the adductor magnus above the ordinary position, and joining with the deep femoral vein first approaches the femoral artery at the groin. The same vein is sometimes double in a small part, or mor-e rarely in almost its whole length. receives all the branches which In the upper part, the deep received all the branches from Fig. 324. EXTERNAL ILIAC VEIN. The external iliac vein is the continuation of the femoral vein from Poupart's ligament to the junction of the internal iliac vein, in the neigh- bourhood of the sacro-iliac articulation. It is at first internal to the artery, and on the left side it continues in that position, but on the right side it gradually inclines somewhat behind the artery. It does not possess valves. Tributaries.—Near its commencement at Poupart's ligament, the external iliac vein receives the circumflex iliac and the epigastric veins. INTERNAL ILIAC VEIN. The internal iliac vein is formed by the union of branches which accom- pany the corresponding branches of the internal iliac artery. The umbilical vein of the foetus, however, which in the cord accompanies the corresponding arteries, diverges from these arteries within the body, and passes upwards to the liver. The internal iliac vein lies behind the corresponding artery in front of the sacro-iliac articulation, and, after a short course upwards to the margin of the pelvis, joins with the external iliac vein to form the common iliac. No valves are found in the trunk of the internal iliac vein, but they exist in its branches.