INTERNAL MAXILLARY.—PHARYNGEAL. 357 the upper molar and bicuspid teeth, besides ramifying in the lining membran of the maxillary sinus. Other small branches supply the gums. (b) The infra-orbital artery runs horizontally forwards into the infra-orbital canal, and having traversed that canal along with the superior maxillary nerve, emerges upon the face at the infra-orbital foramen. Whilst still in the canal, it sends upwards into the orbit small branches, which enter the inferior rectus and the inferior oblique muscle of the eye and the lachrymal gland, and others downwards to supply the front teeth. On the face it gives branches upwards, to the lachrymal sac and inner angle of the orbit, anastomosing with the nasal branches of the ophthalmic and facial arteries, and sends other branches down- wards, beneath the levator labii superioris, which join the ramifications of the trans- verse facial, buccal, and superior coronary arteries. (c) The descending or superior palatine artery descends perpendicularly through the posterior palatine canal, with the palatine nerve, and runs along the hard palate. In front it ends in a small vessel which ascends through the incisor foramen, and anastomoses with the artery of the septum. While descending in the canal, this artery sends off twigs through the bone, which communicate on the soft palate with the ascending palatine artery. (d) The Vidian branch traverses the Vidian canal with the nerve of the same name; it is distributed to the Eustachian tube and the top of the pharynx, and sends a small vessel into the tympanum. (e) The pterygopalatine, a very small branch, passes backwards through the pterygo-palatine canal to reach the top of the pharynx, to which, and to the Eusta- chian tube and sphenoidal cells, it is distributed. (/) The nasal or sphenopalatine artery enters the spheno-palatine foramen, and divides into two or three branches, some of which ramify extensively over the spongy bones, while others supply the posterior ethmoidal cells and the antrum. One long branch, the artery of the septum, runs forwards along the septum nasi, ends in a small vessel which enters the incisor foramen, and inosculates with the descend- ing palatine artery. Peculiarities.—Origin.—The internal maxillary artery is very constant in its place of origin. It has, however, been seen to arise from the facial. Course.—The artery often passes under cover of the external pterygoid muscle, crossing the inferior maxillary division of the fifth nerve. It has likewise been observed to issue from under cover of the external pterygoid by piercing the middle of that muscle. When the artery is placed beneath the muscle, it has been found lodged in a notch in the posterior margin of the external pterygoid plate, and bound down by fibrous structure. Branches.—The middle meningeal artery occasionally furnishes the lachrymal artery (usually an offset of the ophthalmic),—a peculiarity which may be looked on as resulting from the enlargement of an ordinary anastomosing branch. In a case in which the internal carotid artery was wanting, two tortuous branches from the internal maxillary entered the skull by the foramen rotundum and foramen ovale, to supply its place. (Quain, " On the Arteries," pi. 13, fig. 8.)] VIII. ASCENDING PHARYNGEAL ARTERY. The pharyngeal artery, long and slender, the smallest branch of the external carotid which has received a distinctive designation, arises most commonly from half an inch to an inch above the origin of the external carotid ; and in its straight course upwards rests on the rectus capitis anticus, close to the surface of the pharynx, between it and the internal carotid artery, and is thus directed up towards the base of the skull. Branches.—These are very small, and may be divided into three sets, viz., those to the pharynx; a set directed outwards; and meningeal branches. (a) The pharyngeal branches pass inwards, for the most part, to the pharynx. One or two small and variable branches ramify in the middle and inferior constrictor muscles. Higher up than these is a larger and more regular branch, which runs