48 BONES OF THE HEAD. ethmoid and sphenoid as far as the frontal bone. This condition results from the union with the palate bone of a separate centre of ossification, more usually united with the ethmoid or sphenoid, and already described with the sphenoidal spongy bone (p. 40). The sphenoidal process curves upwards, inwards, and backwards from the posterior part of the vertical plate. Its superior or external surface is in con- tact with the sphenoidal spongy bone and the base of the internal pterygoid plate, and is grooved for the completion of the pterygo-palatine canal; its internal or under surface looks to the posterior nares ; and at its base a third surface looks forwards and outwards into the spheno-maxillary fossa. Its inner extremity is in contact with the wing of the vomer. The spheno-palatine foramen is formed in greatest part by the deep notch between the orbital and sphenoidal processes, and is completed above by the sphenoidal spongy bone. It leads from the spheno-maxillary fossa into the nasal cavity, and transmits the internal nerves from Meckel's ganglion and the nasal branch of the internal maxillary artery. THE VOMER. The vomer is a thin mesial bone, irregularly quadrilateral, and placed vertically between the nasal fossse. It articulates with the sphenoid, eth- moid, palate, and maxillary bones, and with the septal cartilage of the nose. As it usually becomes united by anchylosis, at an early age, to other bones, and is frequently more or less absorbed and even distorted in some of its parts, it can be studied as a separate bone in certain specimens only. Fig. 41.—The Vomer, § Fig. 41. A, from the right side ; B, from above. 1 ^msd^i. 1 1> the upper everted edges on each side of the hollow which receives the rostrum of the sphenoid ; 2, the anterior or ethmoid border, grooved to receive the septal cartilage of the nose, and prolonged at x into a process which rests upon the nasal crest ; 3, the posterior or free 4 —border ; 4, the inferior or maxillary and pala- tine border. The part of the vomer which lies below the diagonal line extending from its posterior to its anterior extremity is a thin mesial plate, that which lies above this line consists of two a!a>} rising on each side of a mesial groove, in which lies the septal cartilage of the nose. The alee posteriorly are thick and expanded, and form the bifid posterior extremity of the bone, which rests beneath the sphenoid. The superior border of each ala, extending forwards from that point, arti- culates edge to edge with the lamella projecting at the base of the internal pterygoid plate, the sphenoidal process of the palate bone, and the extremity of the rostrum of the sphe- noid ; the anterior border, sloping downwards and forwards, in contact with the septal cartilage, is free in the inferior part, united superiorly by anchylosis on one or both sides with the central plate of the ethmoid. The anterior extremity of the vomer forms a short vertical line which fits in behind the nasal crest of the maxillaries, and from the upper end of which a process projects forwards in the groove and