ciii BONE. corpuscles or elementary cells, united together by a soft amorphous matter. Very soon, however, they become cartilaginous, and ossification in due time beginning in the cartilage and continuing to spread from one or from several points, the bone is at length completed. But while it is true with respect to the bones generally that their ossifi- cation commences in cartilage, it is not so in every instance. The tabular bones, forming the roof of the skull, may be adduced as a decided example to the contrary ; in these the ossification goes on in a membranous tissue quite different in its nature from cartilage ; * and even in the long bones, in which ossification undoubtedly commences and to a certain extent pro- ceeds in cartilage, it will be afterwards shown that there is much less of the increment of the bone really owing to that mode of ossification than has, till lately, been generally be- lieved. It is necessary, there- Fig. XLIX. fore, to distinguish two spe- cies or modes of ossification, which for , the sake of brevity may be called the intramem- branous and the intracartila- ginous. Ossification in membrane. —The tabular bones of the cranium, as already said, afford an example of this mode of ossification. The base of the skull in the em- bryo is cartilaginous ; but in the roof, that is to say, the part comprehending the pari- etal, the upper and greater part of the frontal, and a certain portion of the occipital bones, we find (except where there happen to be commenc- ing muscular fibres) only the integuments, the dura mater, and an intermediate mem- branous layer, which differs from cartilage in its intimate structure as well as in its more obvious characters, and in which the ossification pro- ceeds. The commencing ossifica- tion of the parietal bone, which may be selected as an example, appears to the naked eye in form of a net-work in which the little bars or spicula of bone run in various directions, and meet each other at short distances. By and by the ossified part, becoming * This fact was pointed out and insisted on by Dr. Nesbitt, who distinguishes the two different modes of ossification, and so far his views are quite correct,—See his human Osteogeny, Lond. 1736. Fig. XLIX.—Parietal Bone of an Embryo Sheep. Size of the Embryo, 2| inches. The small upper figure represents the bone of the natural size, the larger figure is magnified about 12 diameters. The curved line, a, b, marks the height to which the subjacent cartilaginous lamella ex- tended. A few insulated particles of bone are seen near the circumference, an appearance which is quite common at this stage.