BONES OF THE HEAD. 34 varying prominence immediately above the margin of the orbit. Between the superciliary ridges is the nasal eminence or glabella. The margin of the orbit, the orbital arch, is most defined towards its outer part; it presents towards its inner third the supra-orbital notch, sometimes converted into a foramen, which transmits the supra-orbital nerve and artery. The ex- tremities of the orbital arch point downwards, and form the internal and external angular processes. The internal angular process is slender ; the external is thick and strong, and articulates with the malar bone. The temporal ridge springs from the external aspect of this process, and arches upwards and backwards to be continued on the parietal bone : it separates the temporal from the frontal part of the outer surface of the bone. Inferior Surface.—The orbital surfaces are somewhat triangular, their internal margins being parallel, while the external are directed backwards and inwards. Close to the external angular process is the fossa lachry- malis, which lodges the lachrymal gland ; and close to the internal angular process is the fovea trochlearis, a small depression to which the pulley of the trochlearis muscle is attached. Between the orbits in front is the serrated surface which articulates with the superior maxillary and nasal bones, and in the middle line a sharp process of variable length, the nasal spine, descends between the latter bones and the central plate of the ethmoid. On the sides of the incisura ethmoidalis, the inner table of the bone extends nearer the middle line than the outer, and the intervening margin is thrown into shallow spaces, which form the roofs of cells in the ethmoid bone. Traversing this margin are two grooves, which complete, with the eth- moid, the anterior and posterior internal orbital foramina. The ante- rior groove transmits the nasal twig of the ophthalmic nerve and the anterior ethmoidal vessels ; the other, the posterior ethmoidal vessels. Further forward, on each side of the nasal spine, is a larger hollow, the opening of the frontal sinus, which extends for a variable distance behind the superciliary ridges, and which communicates with the cavity of the nose. Outside the orbi- tal surface behind the serrated border for the malar bone, there is a large serrated tri- angular area which articulates with the great wing of the sphenoid. Fig. 31.—The Frontal Bone FROM BEHIND AND BELOW, SHOWING THE INTERNAL CERE- BRAL Surface and the Roof of the Orbits. ^ 2, 4, and 5, as in the preceding figure; 9, internal or cerebral surface, slightly marked by cere- bral convolutions and glandular pits ; 10, groove of the superior longitudinal sinus, ending below in, 11, the internal frontal crest, which leads down to, 13, the foramen caecum; 12, the orbital plate, the number is placed in the depression for the lachrymal gland ; 14, the Fig. 31. z