NUTRITION OF THE TEXTUEES. xxvi residuary blastema remains as intercellular substance, or whether a part is again absorbed into the vessels, is not known. In other non-vascular tissues, such as articular cartilage, the nutrient fluid is doubtless, in like manner, conveyed by imbibition through their mass, where it is then attracted and assimilated. The mode of nutrition of these and other non- vascular masses of tissue may be compared, indeed, to that which takes place throughout the entire organism in cellular plants, as well as in polypes and some other simple kinds of animals, in which no vessels have been detected. But even in the vascular tissues the case is not absolutely different; in these, it is true, the vessels traverse the tissue, but they do not penetrate into its structural elements. Thus the capillary vessels of muscle pass between and around its fibres, but do not penetrate their inclosing sheaths ; still less do they penetrate the fibrillse within the fibre ; these, indeed, are much smaller than the finest vessel. The nutrient fluid, on exuding from the vessels, has here, therefore, as well as in the non- vascular tissues, to permeate the adjoining mass by transudation, in order to reach these elements, and yield new substance at every point where renova- tion is going on. The vessels of a tissue have, indeed, been not unaptly compared to the artificial channels of irrigation which distribute water over a field ; just as the water penetrates and pervades the soil which lies be- tween the intersecting streamlets, and thus reaches the growing plants, so the nutritious fluid, escaping through the coats of the blood-vessels, must permeate the intermediate mass of tissue which lies in the meshes of even the finest vascular network. The quantity of fluid supplied, and the dis- tance it has to penetrate beyond the vessels, will vary according to the proportion which the latter bear to the mass requiring to be nourished. We have seen that in the cuticle the decayed parts are thrown off at the free surface ; in the vascular tissues, on the other hand, the old or effete matter must be first reduced to a liquid state, then find its way into the blood-vessels, or lymphatics, along with the residual part of the nutritive plasma, and be by them carried off. But, in certain cases, the mode of removal of the old matter is not clear; as-, for example, in the crystalline lens, which is destitute of vessels, and grows by deposition of blastema and formation of cells at its surface ; here we should infer that the oldest parts were nearest the centre, and if we suppose them to he changed in nutrition, it is puzzling to account for their removal. From what has been said, it is clear that the vessels are not proved to perform any other part, in the series of changes above described, beyond that of conveying matter to and from the scene of nutrition; and that this, though a necessary condition, is not the essential part of the process. The several acts of assuming and assimilating new matter, of conferring on it organic structure and form, and of disorganising again that which is to be removed, which are so many manifestations of the metabolic and plastic properties already spoken of, are performed beyond the blood-vessels. It is plain, also, that a tissue, though devoid of vessels, and the elements of a vascular tissue, though placed at an appreciable distance from the vessels, may still be organised and living structures, and within the dominion of the nutritive process. How far the sphere of nutrition may, in certain cases, be limited, is a question that still needs further investigation; in the cuticle, for example, and its appendages, the nails and hairs, which are placed on the surface of the body, we must suppose that the old and dry part, which is about to be thrown off or worn away, has passed out of the limits of nutritive influence ; but to what distance beyond the vascular surface of the skin the province of nutrition extends, has not been determined. Regeneration.—When part of a texture has been lost or removed, the