Fig. 225. 11, 12, 13, three lobes of the Fig. 225.—A Diagrammatic THE MEDIASTINUM. 299 Fig. 224.—General View op the Principal Organs op Circulation, from before AND FROM THE RIGHT SIDE IN A MALE ADULT. £ A, Eight auricle ; B, left auricular appendix ; C, right ventricle; D, small part of the left ventricle ; I, placed on the first part of the aortic arch; and on the descending aorta; II, trunk of the pulmonai-y artery dividing into its right and left branches, and connected to the aorta by the cord of the ductus arteriosus ; III, vena cava superior; IV, vena cava inferior. 1, innominate artery and right carotid ; 1', left carotid; 2, right and left subclavian arteries ; 3, intercostal vessels marked only in three spaces ; 4, above this figure the inferior diaphragmatic arteries, below it the coeliac axis and superior mesenteric artery ; 5, renal arteries ; 6, above this figure the spermatic arteries, and below it the inferior mesenteric; 6', the farther course of the spermatic vessels, on the right side they are seen to pass through'the outer abdominal ring before descending to the testis ; 7, 7', right and left common iliac arteries ; 8, 8', external iliac arteries ; 9, epigastric and cir- cumflex iliac arteries of the left side; 10, 10', internal iliac arteries; and between these two figures the middle sacral artery; 11, femoral arteries; 12, some branches of the profunda femoris artery of the left side. a, right innominate or brachio-cephalic vein ; a', the left; b, b\ right and left sub- clavian veins ; b", the cephalic vein of the right arm; c, c', internal jugular veins; c", right facial vein joining the internal jugular; d, external-jugular veins formed by the posterior auricular and temporal veins ; d', anterior jugular veins with the transverse joining the external jugular ; e, azygos vein passing over the root of the right lung; /, one of the hepatic veins ; g, placed on the vena cava inferior at the origin of the renal veins; to the sides are seen the kidneys and the suprarenal bodies ; g', right, g", left ureter ; h, right spermatic vein; h', the left, joining the left renal vein; i, i, common iliac veins ; i'} i', external iliac veins; k, femoral veins; Z, saphenous vein of the right side. The part of this septum behind the pericardium is distinguished as the 'posterior mediastinum; it is in front of the bodies of the vertebree, and within its cavity are the trachea, the oesophagus, the thoracic duct, the descending aorta, the vena azygos, and the pneumogastric nerves, with lym- phatic vessels and areolar tissue. The middle mediastinum is the name given to the larger space, which is occupied by the pericardium and its contents. The anterior mediastinum, in front of the pericardium, is narrow and of little depth ; but a knowledge of its situation is important to the phy- Representation op the Heart and Great Ves- sels in connection with the Lungs, a The pericardium has been removed, and the lungs are turned aside. 1, right au- ricle ; 2, vena cava superior ; 3, vena cava inferior; 4, right ventricle ; 5, stem of the pul- monary artery ; a, a, its right and left branches; 6, left auricular appendage ; 7, left ventricle; 8, aorta; 9, 10, two lobes of the left lung ; right lung ; by b, right" and left bronchi ; v, v, right and left upper pulmonary veins. sician, as it is connected with the position of the anterior margins of the lungs relatively to the heart: at its superior part a small interval is left x 2