clxviii BLOOD-VESSELS. moses may occur in tolerably large arteries, as those of the brain, the hand and foot, and the mesentery, but they are much more frequent in the smaller vessels. Such inosculations admit of a free communication between the currents of blood, and must tend to promote equability of distribution and of pressure and to obviate the effects of local interruption. Arteries commonly pursue a tolerably straight course, but in some parts they are tortuous. Examples of this in the human body are afforded by the arteries of the lips and of the uterus, but more striking instances may be seen in some of the lower animals, as in the well-known case of the long and tortuous spermatic arteries of the ram and bull. In very move- able parts like the lips this tortuosity will allow the vessel to follow their motions without undue stretching ; but in other cases its purpose is not clear. The physical effect of such a condition of the vessel on the blood flowing along it must be to reduce the velocity, by increasing the extent of surface over which the blood moves, and consequently the amount of im- pediment from friction ; still it does not satisfactorily appear why such an end should be provided for in the several cases in which arteries are known to follow a tortuous course. The same remark applies to the peculiar arrangement of vessels named a "rete mirabile," where an artery suddenly divides into small anastomosing branches, which in many cases unite again to reconstruct and continue the trunk. Of such retia mirabilia there are many examples in the lower animals, but, as already remarked, the pur- pose which they serve is not apparent. The best known instance is that named the rete mirabile of Galen, which is formed by the intracranial part of the internal carotid artery of the sheep and several other quad- rupeds. Physical Properties.—Arteries possess considerable strength and a very high degree of elasticity, being extensible and retractile both in their length and width. When cut across, they present, although empty, an open orifice ; the veins, on the other hand, collapse, unless when prevented by connection with surrounding rigid parts. Structure.—In most parts of the body the arteries are inclosed in a sheath formed of connective tissue, and their outer coat is connected to the sheath by filaments of the same tissue, but so loosely that when the vessel is cut across its ends readily shrink some way within the sheath. The sheath may inclose other parts along with the artery, as in the case of that enveloping the carotid artery, which also includes the internal jugular vein and pneumo-gastric nerve. Some arteries want sheaths, as those for ex- ample which are situated within the cavity of the cranium. Independently of this sheath, arteries (except those of minute size whose structure will be afterwards described with that of the capillaries) have been usually described as formed of three coats, named, from their relative position, internal, middle, and external; and as this nomenclature is so generally followed in medical and surgical works, and also correctly applies to the structure of arteries so far as it is discernible by the naked eye, it seems best to adhere to it as the basis of our description, although it will be seen, as we proceed, that some of these coats are found by microscopic examination really to consist of two or more strata differing from each other in texture, and therefore reckoned as so many distinct coats by some authorities. Internal coat. This may be raised from the inner surface of the arte- ries as a fine transparent colourless membrane, elastic but very easily broken, especially in the circular or transverse direction, so that it cannot