VEIN'S OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 460 (6) The pharyngeal vein commences at the back and sides of the pharynx, and sometimes ends in the superior thyroid vein, and at other times in the lingual, or sepa- rately in the internal jugular vein. (c) The occipital vein, corresponding in course and distribution with the occipital artery, communicates with a plexus of veins upon the occiput, and terminates occa- sionally in the external jugular vein, but more frequently in the internal. (d) The common facial vein has been already described. {e) The laryngeal vein receives branches from the larynx through the thyro-hyoid membrane, and opens into the internal jugular, the common facial, or sometimes into the superior thyroid vein. (/) The superior thyroid vein commences by branches in the thyroid body, in company with those of the superior thyroid artery, and runs transversely outwards. (g) The middle thyroid vein, likewise derived from the thyroid body, is placed lower than the superior thyroid. VENOUS CIRCULATION WITHIN THE CRANIUM. The part of the venous system contained within the skull consists of veins properly so called, and of certain channels called sinuses, which receive the blood from those veins, and conduct it to the internal jugular veins. The sinuses alluded to are spaces left between the layers of the dura mater, the fibrous covering of the brain. CEREBRAL VEINS. The veins of the brain are divisible into those which ramify upon its sur- face, and those which are placed within its ventricles. The superficial veins upon the upper surface of the hemispheres are for the most part lodged in the tortuous sulci between the convolutions ; but some run over the convexity of the convolutions. Their general direction is towards the middle line ; and on reaching the margin of the longitudinal fissure between the hemispheres, they receive branches from the flat mesial surface of the hemispheres, and, becoming invested by tubular sheaths of the arachnoid membrane, incline obliquely forwards and open in that direction into the superior longitudinal sinus. The veins upon the sides and under surface of the brain are directed outwards, to open into the lateral and other sinuses at each side. The deep veins of the brain commence by branches within the ventricles of that organ. Upon the surface of the corpus striatum, for example, several small venous branches are seen, which for the most part converge to form a slender vein which runs along the groove between the corpus striatum and optic thalamus, and opens into one of the veins of the choroid plexus. The minute veins of the choroid plexus pass backwards, and incline towards the middle line from each side, so as to form, by their union, two veins—vence Galeni. These, lying parallel, run directly backwards, enclosed within the velum interpositum, and escape from the interior by passing through the great transverse fissure of the brain between the under surface of the corpus callosum and the tubercula quadrigemina. In this way they reach the anterior margin of the tentorium cerebelli, at its place of union with the falx cerebri, where they terminate by opening into the straight sinus. The veins of the cerebellum are disposed in two sets. Those of the upper surface incline inwards and forwards for the most part, and run upon the upper vermiform process, over which they ascend a little to reach the straight sinus, in which they terminate ; some, farther forward, open