392 ULNAR ARTERY. place of origin was higher up the artery. (See on this subject the description of the peculiarities of ihe axillary and brachial arteries, pp. 381 and 385.) Fig. 275.. Fig. 275.—Abnormal Superficial Ulnar Artery RISING HIGHER THAN USUAL FROM' THE BRACHIAL. { This figure has been taken from a preparation in A. Thomson's collection ; the drawing being planned after that of a similar case represented by R. Quain. Tab. xxxvi. Fig. 1. a, biceps muscle covered by the deep brachial fascia ; br the same fascia in the fore-arm, which has been opened in a considerable extent to show the radial artery subjacent to it; c, median nerve ; d, ulnar nerve ; 1, on the biceps muscle, points to the brachial artery after having given off an ulnar artery higher up, and dividing at 1', into the radial artery and a deep vessel correspond- ing to the interosseous and a part of the usual ulnar ; 2, on the supinator longus muscle, points to the radial artery ; 3, 3, artery which is given off by the brachial in the arm, and which descending upon the fascia takes the place of the ulnar at the wrist; 3', the same continued into the superficial palmar arch, giving off digital branches nearly in the usual manner, and joined by a branch from the radial, 4, the superficial volar ; 5, digital branches ; towards the thumb a commu- nication of the superficial arch with the princeps pollicis exists. Course.—The position of the ulnar artery in the fore-arm is more frequently altered than that of the radial. When it arises in the usual way, the course of this artery is not often changed; but it has been seen to descend apart from the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, instead of being close to its radial border. In cases of high origin, it almost invariably descends over the muscles arising from the inner condyle of the humerus, only one exception to this rule having been met with. (R. Quain, plate 36, fig. 2.) Most commonly it is covered by the fascia of the fore-arm; but cases also occur in which the vessel rests on the fascia, and either continues in that position or becomes subaponeurotic lower down, while the vessel thus disposed is distributed after the manner of the normal ulnar artery. The vessel from which the high ulnar separates is afterwards divided into the radial artery and the interosseous, the last of which is usually derived from the ulnar ; it appears therefore probable that the abnormal arrangement results from early obstruction of the ulnar artery below the origin of the interosseous, and the development of a superficial vas aberrans, which unites the portion of vessel below the obstruction with the axillary or brachial trunk. The interosseous artery in such cases of abnormality thus comprises not only the ordinary interosseous branch, but likewise the portion of ulnar artery above the obstruction; and, in accordance with this view, we find that the recurrent branches are derived from it. As to size, the ulnar artery presents some peculiarities which, being accompanied by deviations of an opposite and compensating character in the radial artery, will be noticed with that vessel.