Ix CILIATED EPITHELIUM. Fig. XXIX. But the extent and limits of the ciliated epithelium of the human body have been determined chiefly from its anatomical characters. Cilia have now been shown to exist in almost every class of animals, from the highest to the lowest. The immediate purpose which they serve is, to impel matter, generally more or less fluid, along the surfaces on which they are attached ; or, to propel through a liquid medium the ciliated bodies of minute animals, or other small objects on the surface of which cilia are present ; as is the case with many infusorial animalcules, in which the cilia serve as organs of locomotion like the fins of larger aquatic animals, and as happens, too, in the ova of many vertebrate as well as invertebrate animals, where the yelk revolves in its surrounding fluid by the aid of cilia on its surface. In many of the lower tribes of aquatic animals, the cilia acquire a high degree of importance : producing the flow of water over the surface of their organs of respiration, indispensable to the exercise of that function ; enabling the animals to seize their prey, or to swallow their food, and performing various other offices of greater or less importance in their economy. In man, and the warm-blooded animals, their use is apparently to impel secreted fluids or other matters along the ciliated surface, as, for example, the mucus of the windpipe and nasal sinuses, which they carry towards the outlet of these cavities. The cells of the ciliated epithelium contain nuclei, as usual ; they have most generally an elongated or prismatic form (fig. xxix.), like the particles of the columnar epithelium, which they resemble too in arrangement but are often of greater length and more slender and pointed at their lower end. The cilia are attached to their broad or superficial end, each columnar particle bearing a tuft of these minute hair-like processes. In some cases, the cells are spheroidal in figure, the cilia being still, of course, confined to that portion of the cell which forms part of the general surface of the epithelial layer, as shown in fig. xxx., which represents such cells from the epithelium of the frog's mouth. In man this form occurs in the ciliated epithelium of the cerebral ventricles and tympa- num, where the cells form but a single stratum. The columnar ciliated epithelium also may exist as a simple layer, as in the uterus and Fallopian tubes, the finest ramifications of the bronchia, and the central canal of the spinal cord ; but in various other parts—as the nose, pharynx, Eustachian tube, the trachea and its larger divisions—there is a layer of elongated cells beneath the superficial ciliated range, filling up the spaces between the pointed extremities of the latter, and beneath this is an undermost layer formed of small rounded cells (fig. xxxi.). Probably the sub- jacent cells acquire cilia, and take the place of ciliated cells which are cast off; but the mode of renovation of ciliated epithelium is not yet fully understood. The relation of the ciliated, as well as other epithelium cells, to the connective-tissue Fig. XXIX. — Columnar Ciliated Epithelium Cells from the Human Nasal Membrane ; magnified 300 diameters. Fig. XXX. Fig. XXX.—Spheroidal Ciliatkd Cells from the Mouth of the Frog ; magnified 300 diameters.