RELATIONS OF THE COMMON CAROTIDS. 343 longus colli muscle, pointing to the pneumogastric nerve; IV, the uppermost of the nerves of the axillary plexus ; A, the innominate artery; 1, right common carotid artery ; ]'. placed on the left sterno-thyroid muscle, points to a part of the left common carotid ; 2, internal carotid ; 2', upper part of the internal jugular vein, which has been removed between i, and 2' ; 3, and 4, external carotid ; 3, is placed at the origin of the superior thyroid artery ; 4, at that of the lingual : farther up the vessel may be seen the separa- tion of the sterno-mastoid twig and the facial and occipital branches from the main vessel; 5, is placed on the thyro-hyoid muscle between the hyoid and laryngeal branches of the superior thyroid artery ; 5', the thyroid or glandular; 6, the facial artery passing over the base of the jaw; 7, the superficial temporal artery ; 8, the first part, 8', the third part of the arch of the subclavian artery ; 8", the subclavian vein separated from the artery by the scalenus anticus muscle, shown by the removal of a portion of the clavicle; 9, is placed on the scalenus anticus muscle in the angle between the trans- versalis colli and supra-scapular branches of the thyroid axis ; 10, outer part of the supra- scapular artery ; 10', transverse cervical branches passing into the deep surface of the trapezius; 10", the posterior scapular artery, represented as rising directly from the third part of the subclavian artery, and passing through the axillary plexus of nerves and under the levator anguli scapulae; 11, on the scalenus anticus muscle, points to the inferior thyroid artery near the place where the ascending muscular artery of the neck is given off; the phrenic nerve lies on the muscle to the outside ; at i, the supra-sternal twig of the supra-scapular artery is shown. Posteriorly, the artery is supported by the cervical vertebrae, the longus colli and rectus capitis anticus muscles intervening. Hence the flow of blood through it may be commanded by pressure directed backwards against the vertebral column. The inferior thyroid artery crosses behind the carotid sheath. On the inner side the vessel is in juxtaposition with the trachea below, and with the thyroid body (which often overlaps the artery), the larynx, and the pharynx higher up. Along its outer side are placed the internal jugular vein and the vagus ner\re. Relation to Veins. —The internal jugular vein is close to the artery at the upper part of the neck, but in approaching the thorax, the veins of both sides incline to the right, and hence that of the right side is separated from the artery by an angular interval, while that of the left side approaches the artery, and even lies in front of it at the lower part of the neck. Crossing over the upper part of the common carotid artery to join with the jugular vein, are two or more superior thyroid veins, which occasionally form a sort of plexus over the artery. A middle thyroid vein not unfrequently crosses the artery about half way up the neck. The anterior jugular vein, where it turns outwards under the sterno- mastoid muscle to join the subclavian, crosses the lower part of the artery. This vein is generally of small size, but occasionally is rather large, and is placed nearly over the carotid artery along the neck. Relation to Nerves.—The descending branch of the hypo-glossal nerve, descendens noni, usually rests, together with the branches of cervical nerves which join it, on the fore part of the sheath of the carotid artery, and crosses it from the outer to the inner side : in some instances this branch descends within the sheath between the carotid artery and jugular vein. The vagus nerve lies within the sheath of the vessels between the artery and vein posteriorly : it was in one case observed to descend over the artery. The sympathetic nerve is placed along the back of the sheath, between it and the vertebral muscles, and the recurrent laryngeal nerve crosses inwards behind the upper part of the sheath. The common carotid artery usually gives off no branch, and therefore continues of equal size in its whole length, except at its bifurcation, where a slight enlargement is observable.