]xxv FIBROUS TISSUE. true, when the extending force acts slowly and for a long time, as when tumours or fluids slowly gather beneath them ; but perhaps this gradual extension is accompanied with some nutritive change affecting the properties of the tissue. Structure.—The fibrous tissue is made up of fine filaments, agreeing in all respects with the white filaments of the areolar tissue already described. Like these they are collected into bundles, in which they run parallel and exhibit the same wavy character, cohering very intimately. The bundles appear to the naked eye as fine shining threads or narrow flattened bands, for they vary greatly in thickness. They either run all in one direction as in long tendons, or intersect each other in different planes as in some aponeuroses, or they take various directions and decussate irregularly with each other as in the dura mater. And when they run parallel to each other, as in tendon, they do not keep separate throughout their length, but send off slips to join neighbouring bundles and receive the like in turn ; so that successive cross sections of a tendon or ligament present different figures of the sectional areas of the bundles. A sheath of dense areolar tissue covers the tendons aud ligaments on the outside, and a variable amount of the same tissue lies between the larger fasciculi ; little in tendons, more in some fibrous membranes. The filaments swell up and become indistinct when acted on by acetic acid, like those of areolar tissue, and here also the acid discloses the exis- tence of corpuscles and of elastic fibres, intermixed in small proportion with the rest of the tissue. The elastic fibres are fine and generally branched and connected together. The corpuscles, which have no real connection with the elastic fibres, are for the most part lodged where the angles of the fasciculi (which are usually prismatic in form) meet. They are fusiform or lanceolate in figure, pointed at the ends, and lie lengthwise among the bundles. In cross sections there is an appearance of radiating pointed pro- cesses, diverging from the spots where the corpuscles are situated, and these have been taken for branches or offsets extending laterally from these bodies; but it seems to be satisfactorily shown that the apparent branches are merely the crevices between the fasciculi, diverging from the point where their angles meet. But although these fissures do not contain branches radiating from the corpuscles, flat membraneous shreds can here and there be extracted from them, which are by some supposed to be part of a membrane by which each several bundle is eusheathed and separated from its neighbours. The surface of a tendon or of any other part consisting of this texture, appears marked across the direction of the fasciculi with alternate light and dark streaks, which give it a peculiar aspect, not unlike that of a watered ribbon. This appearance is owing to the wavy course of the filaments, for when the light falls on them their bendings naturally give rise to alternate lights and shadows. The fibrous and areolar tissues thus agreeing in their ultimate structure, it is not to be wondered at that sometimes the limits between the two should be but ill defined, and that the one should pass by inconspicuous gradations into the other. Instances of such a transition may be seen in many of the fasciee ; these at certain parts consist of dense areolar tissue, but on being traced farther are seen gradually to take on the fibrous character ; *and fasciae, which in one body consist of areolar tissue, may be decidedly fibrous in another. In chemical constitution also the fibrous tissue is similar to the areolar. It contains about two-thirds of its weight of water ; it becomes transparent^