ARTICULATIONS OF THE LOWER LIMB. 166 are connected by dorsal, plantar, and interosseous ligaments. The dorsal and plantar ligaments are short transverse bands stretching across the* five metatarsal bones from one to another. The interosseous fibres, lying deeply between the bones, occupy the rough parts of their lateral surfaces : Fig. 152. 9 Fig. 152.—Vertical Anteroposterior Section op the Ankle-Joint and Articu- lations op the Foot, a little to the Inside op the Middle op the Great Toe of the Right Foot. \ 1, the synovial cavity of the ankle-joint; 2, the posterior talo-calcaneal articulation ; 3, placed above the talo-scaphoid articulation ; 3', on the astragalus above the anterior talo- calcaneal articulation, which is continuous with the preceding : the interosseous ligament is seen separating 2 from 3'; 4, the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament ; 5, part of the calcaneo-cuboid or long plantar ligament; 6, the scaphoido-cuneiform articulation ; 7, the first metatarso-cuneiform articulation ; 8, the first metatarsophalangeal articulation ; 9, section of the inner sesamoid bone ; 10, the phalangeal articulation ; 11, placed on the calcaneum, indicates the bursa between the upper part of the tuberosity of that bone and the tendo Achillis. they are of considerable strength and firmness. The intermetatarsal arti- cular cavities are lined with synovial membrane, which in each is continued forwards from that lining the joints formed between the bases of these bones and the tarsus. The first and second metatarsal bones do not articulate laterally with each other. Transverse metatarsal ligament.—The digital extremities or heads of the metatarsal bones are loosely connected by a transverse band, which is identical in its arrangement with the corresponding structure in the hand, with this exception, that it is attached to the great toe, whereas in the hand the transverse metatarsal ligament does not reach the thumb. Articulations of the Metatarsal Bones with the Digital Phalanges, and op the latter one with another.—The heads of the metatarsal bones are connected with the small concave articular surfaces of the first phalanges by two lateral ligaments, an inferior ligament, and a synovial membrane, which are closely similar to those which belong to the corresponding parts of the hand. The articulations of the phalanges with one another are also constructed on the same plan as those of the superior extremity. In each, the bones are held in contact by two lateral ligaments and an inferior ligament or fibrous plate ; and each of the cavities is lined by a synovial membrane. Movements, &c.—In the mechanism of the foot three arches are distinguishable, two of them longitudinal and one transverse; all of them capable of being flattened some- what by pressure from above, and combining to secure elasticity of the parts at rest or in motion. The inner arch is formed by the os calcis, astragalus, scaphoid, and