253 TRANSVERSALIS ABDOMINIS MUSCLE. of successively longer loops, descending in front of the spermatic cord, a few of them reaching as low as the level of the testicle : the remaining fibres, the greatest number of which descend from the outer attachment, and a few from the inner, spread out inferiorly and are embedded in the substance of a fascia, termed cremasteric, which adheres to the fascia propria of the testicle. Sometimes the only fibres developed are a bundle descend- ing from the outer attachment. In the female there may be almost constantly detected a small bundle of fibres descending on the round ligament of the uterus, which corresponds with the last- mentioned fibres of the cremaster muscle of the male. The transversalis abdominis muscle, subjacent to the internal oblique, arises from the inner surface of the cartilages of the six lower ribs ; from a strong aponeurosis attached to the lumbar vertebrae ; from the inner margin of the crest of the ilium in the anterior two-thirds of its extent, and from the iliac third of Poupart's ligament. The greater part of the fibres have a horizontal direction, and extend forwards to a broad aponeurosis in front ; the lowest fibres curve downwards like those of the internal oblique, and are inserted into the front of the pubes and into the pectineal line, through the medium of the conjoined tendon already described as common to this muscle and the internal oblique. The anterior aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle commences in the greater part of its extent at the distance of about an inch from the outer border of the rectus muscle ; but at its upper extremity this aponeurosis is much narrower, and there the muscular fibres of opposite sides approach nearly to the middle line behind the recti muscles. In the greater part of its extent it becomes united with the posterior layer of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique forming the rectus sheath, and inferiorly, where that aponeurosis passes entirely in front of the rectus muscle, it remains blended with it, and passes likewise in front of that muscle. The posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle extends backwards between the last rib and the iliac crest, and opposite the outer border of the erector spinse muscle, is continuous with the aponeurotic structure which passes to the vertebral column in three layers, commonly named the pos- terior, middle, and anterior layers of the lumbar aponeurosis. The posterior, or most superficial, of these layers is that previously referred to as being connected with the tendons of the latissimus dorsi and serratus inferior muscles, and which is attached to the spinous processes of the vertebrse. The middle layer, which is the strongest, is attached to the tips and margins of the lumbar transverse processes, and lies between the erector spime and quadratus lumborum muscles. The remaining deepest layer, comparatively thin, passes in front of the quadratus lumborum muscle to the roots of the lumbar transverse processes, and at its upper part, where it increases in thickness and is connected with the last rib, it forms, as already mentioned, the ligamentum arcuatum externum of the diaphragm. The triangularis sterni, when viewed from behind, along with the transversalis abdominis, has the appearance of being a continuation of that muscle upon the wall of the chest, above the diaphragm : hence thename of transversalis thoracis, which has sometimes been given to it. The rectus abdominis is a long flat muscle, consisting of Vertical fibres, situated at the forepart of the abdomen, within a tendinous sheath formed in the manner already described in the account of the aponeurosis of the