CAEPAL BONES. 85 THE PISIFORM BONE. The pisiform bone, or os rotundum, so called from its resemblance to a pea, lies on a plane anterior to the other bones of the carpus. Posteriorly it possesses an articular surface, which rests on the cuneiform bone. The mass of the bone is so inclined from this surface downwards and outwards, that the pisiform bone of one hand is distinguishable from that of the other. Fig. 76.—Dorsal View of the Carpus, with a PORTION OP EACH OP THE METACARPAL BONES. % 1, scaphoid ; 2, semilunar ; 3, cuneiform ; 4, pisiform ; 5, trapezium; 7, trapezoid ; 8, os mag- num ; 9, unciform. THE TRAPEZIUM. The trapezium, or os multangulum majus, is the most external of the second row of carpal bones. It presents a rhombic form when seen from its dorsal or palmar aspect, and has its most prominent angle directed downwards. Its anterior surface is marked by a vertical groove traversed by the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis muscle, and external to the groove by a ridge, or tubercle, one of the four prominences which give attachment to the anterior annular ligament. Of the internal sides of the rhomb, the superior articulates with the scaphoid bone, the inferior with the trapezoid bone, and by a small facet close to the inferior angle also with the second metacarpal bone. Of the external sides the superior is rough, and the inferior presents a smooth surface convex from behind forwards, and concave from without inwards, which articulates with the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and is separated by a rough line at the inferior angle from the surface for the second metacarpal bone. The trapezium articulates with four bones, viz., the scaphoid, trapezoid, and first and second metacarpals. THE TRAPEZOID BONE. The trapezoid bone, or os multangulum minus, is considerably smaller than the trapezium. Its longest diameter is from before backwards. Its posterior surface, which is pentagonal, is much larger than the anterior. The external inferior angle of the anterior surface is distinguished by being prolonged a little backwards between the trapezium and second metacarpal bone. The superior surface articulates with the scaphoid bone; the external with the trapezium ; the internal with the os magnum ; and the inferior by a large surface convex from side to side with the second meta- carpal bone. The trapezoid articulates with four bones, viz., the scaphoid, trapezium, os magnum, and second metacarpal bone. THE OS MAGNUM. The os magnum, or os capitatum, is the largest of the carpal bones. In form it is elongated vertically, rectangular inferiorly, rounded superiorly. The articular surface of the superior extremity or head is prolonged on the outer, but not on the inner side, and is continued further down behind than in front. A neck is formed beneath by depressions on the anterior and posterior surfaces. The anterior surface of the bone is much narrower than the posterior. The posterior surface projects downwards at its