BRANCHES OF THE PROFUNDA. 439 reach, the back part of the thigh, where they anastomose with the internal circumflex and the perforating branches of the deep femoral, and with the gluteal and sciatic branches of the internal iliac. (b) Ascending bx*anches, directed upwards beneath the sartorius and rectus, and afterwards under the tensor muscle of the fascia lata, communicate with the terminal branches of the gluteal, and with some of the external descending branches of the circumflex iliac artery. (c) Descending branches incline outwards and downwai'ds upon the extensor muscles of the knee, covered by the rectus muscle. They are usually three or four in number, some being of considerable size; most of them are distributed to the muscles on the fore-part of the thigh, but one or two can be traced beneath the vastus externus muscle as far as the knee, where they anastomose with the arterial branches surrounding that joint. 2. The internal circumflex artery, smaller than the external circumflex, arises close to that branch from tlie inner and hinder part of the deep femoral artery, and is directed backwards between the pectineus and the psoas muscle to the inner side of the femur, so that only a small part of it can be seen without displacing these muscles. On reaching the tendon of the external obturator, along which the vessel passes to the back of the thigh, it divides into two principal branch.es. (a) The ascending branch is distributed partly to the adductor brevis and gracilis, and partly to the external obturator muscle, near which it anastomoses with the obturator artery. (6) The transverse branch passes backwai'ds above the small trochanter, and appears on the back of the limb, between the quadratus femoris and great adductor muscles, where it supplies the hamstring muscles, and anastomoses with the sciatic artery and with the superior perforating branches of the deep femoral artery. (c) An articular vessel, arising from the transverse branch opposite the hip-joint, enters the joint through the notch in the acetabulum, beneath the transverse ligament, and supplies the adipose tissue and the synovial membrane in that articulation. Some offsets are guided to the head of the femur by the round liga- ment. In some instances the articular branch is derived from the obturator artery; and sometimes the joint receives a branch from both sources. 3. The perforating arteries (perforantes) are branches which, reach, the back of the thigh by perforating the adductor brevis and adductor magnus muscles ; they are four in number, including the terminal branch of the parent vessel. (a) The first perforating artery passes backwards below the pectineus muscle, through the fibres of the adductor brevis and magnus, and is distributed to both these adductor muscles, to the biceps and great gluteal muscle, and communicates with the sciatic and internal circumflex arteries. (b) The second perforating artery, considerably larger than the first, passes through the adductor brevis and magnus; after which it divides into ascending and descending branches, which ramify in the hamstring muscles, and communicate with the other perforating branches : an offset from it, named the nutrient artery of the femur, enters the medullary foramen of that bone. (c) The third perforating artery pierces the adductor magnus muscle, below the insertion of the adductor longus, and is distributed in a manner similar to the second perforating artery. (d) The fourth perforating artery, the termination of the deep femoral artery, passing backwards close to the linea aspera, is distributed to the short head of the biceps and to the other hamstring muscles, and communicates with branches of the popliteal artery, and with the lower perforating arteries. III. Muscular branches of the femoral artery. — In its course along the thigh, the femoral artery gives off several branches to the contiguous