VEINS OF THE TRUNK. 470 that opening through the fibres of the diaphragm, the azygos vein ascends Fig. 320. Fig. 320.—Sketch of the Principal Systemic Venous Trunks, the Azygos, and Intercostal Veins. For the detailed description of this figure see p. 454. The following indications relate to the accompanying part of the text:—8, the right, 8', the left, superior intercostal veins ; 9, the main trunk of the azygos vein ; the uppermost number marks its junction with the superior cava, the lowest its passage into the abdomen ; 9', the left or hemiazgyos ; 10, thoracic duct ; 11, inferior vena cava ; 12, the union of a branch of the left azygos with the left renal vein ; 13, 13', the right and left azygos veins continued down into the abdomen, and joining some of the lumbar veins; 15, union of lumbar, ilio-lumbar, and sacral veins. on the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae, until it arrives opposite the root of the right lung, over which, it arches forwards, and then opens into the upper vena cava, im- mediately above the point at which that vessel is invested by the pericardium. When passing through the opening in the diaphragm, this vein is accompanied by the thoracic duct, both being situated on the right side of the aorta. In the thorax, maintaining the same position with respect to the duct and the oesophagus, it passes in front of the intercostal arteries, and is covered by the pleura. It is joined by the several veins which accompany the aortic intercostal arteries of the right side ; and at about the sixth or seventh dorsal vertebra, by the left or smaller azygos vein. It is also joined by several oesopha- geal and other small veins, and near its termination by the bronchial vein of the %i^yif Wmm 1S right lung ; and it is generally connected with the right superior intercostal vein. As it communicates below with the vena cava inferior through one of the branches of that large vein, while it terminates above in the vena cava superior, it forms a con- nection between those two vessels. A few valves of imperfect formation have been found in the azygos vein ; its branches (intercostal veins) are provided with distinct valves. On the left side of the chest the veins of the three or four upper intercostal spaces are usually united into one trunk, forming the left superior intercostal vein, which (as already mentioned at