exciv SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. line and by their synovial secretion lubricate the cavities of the diar- throdial articulations, that is, those articulations in which the opposed surfaces glide on each other. Tn these cases the membrane may be readily seen covering internally the surface of the capsular or other ligaments which bound the cavity of the joint, and affording also an investment to the tendons or ligaments which happen to pass through the articular cavity, as in the instance of the long tendon of the biceps muscle in the shoulder-joint. On approaching the articular cartilages the membrane passes over their margins, and becoming much more firmly adherent, terminates after advancing but a little way on their surface. This, as already explained (page lxxxiii.), is the condition in the adult, but in the foetus the membrane, closely adhering, is continued over the whole surface of the cartilage, so that it would seem to become oblite- rated or absorbed in consequence of pressure or friction when the joint comes to be exercised. The blood-vessels in and immediately underneath the membrane are sufficiently manifest in most parts of the joint. They advance but a little way upon the cartilages, forming a vascular zone round the margin of each, named " circulus articuli vasculosus," in which they end by loops of vessels dilated at the bent part greatly beyond the diameter of ordinary capillaries. In the foetus, according to Mr. Toynbee, these vessels, like the membrane itself, advance further upon the surface of the cartilage. In several of the joints, folds of the synovial membrane, often containing more or less fat, pass across the cavity; these have been called synovial or mucous ligaments. Other processes of the membrane simply project into the cavity at various points. These are very generally cleft into fringes at their free border, upon which their blood- vessels, which are numerous?, are densely distributed. They often contain fat, and then, when of tolerable size, are sufficiently obvious; but many of them are very small and inconspicuous. The fringed vascular folds of the synovial membrane were described, by Dr. Clopton Havers (1691), under the name of the mucilaginous glands, and he regarded them as an apparatus for secreting synovia. Subsequent anatomists, while admitting that, as so many extensions of the secreting membrane, these folds must contribute to increase the secretion, have, for the most part, denied them the special character of glands, considering them rather in the light of a mechanical pro- vision for occupying spaces which would otherwise be left void in the motion of the joints, and this view is no doubt right as regards the larger, fat-inclosing folds. The smaller and less obvious fringes have, however, been found, on investigation by Mr. Rainey, to be most probably secreting organs as originally supposed by Havers. Mr. Rainey * has found that the processes in question exist in the bursal and vaginal synovial membranes as well as in those of joints, wherever, in short, synovia is secreted. He states that their blood-vessels have a peculiar convoluted arrangement, differing from that of the vessels of fat, and that the epithelium covering them, " besides in- closing separately each packet of convoluted vessels, sends off from each tubular sheath secondary processes of various shapes, into which no blood-vessels enter." Kolliker, who has since taken up the inquiry, also finds that fringed membranes exist in all joints and synovial sheaths, as well as in most synovial bursae, and that they consist of vascular tufts of the synovial membrane, covered by epithelium, and now and then containing fat-cells and more rarely isolated cartilage cells. He also observed the curious " non-vascular secondary processes," described by Mr. Rainey, the larger of which, he says, consist of fibres of areolar tissue in the centre, sometimes containing cartilage cells, and a covering of irregularly thickened epithelium. 2. Vesicular or Bursal synovial membranes, Synovial bursa, Bursoz mucosa. —In these the membrane has the form of a simple sac, interposed, so as to prevent friction, between two surfaces which move upon each other. The sy- * Proceedings of the Royal Society; May 7th, 1846.