179 MUSCLES OF THE ORBIT. neck. It is the only representative of a subcutaneous group of muscles largely developed in most mammals, by which very varied movements of the skin and some superficial parts may be given, as, for example, when the horse communicates a rapid motion to the skin to free itself from insects, or the dog shakes off the water after swimming, or the hedgehog elevates its spines; and which is known collectively as the panniculus carnosus. MUSCLES OF THE ORBIT. In this group will be described seven muscles, namely, the elevator of the upper eyelid already alluded to, and six muscles of the eyeball, viz., the four straight and the two oblique muscles. Of these muscles the inferior oblique alone is confined to the fore part of the orbit, all the rest take their origin at its back part, and pass longitudinally forwards to their insertions in front. The levator palpebral superioris is a slender muscle, which arises, pointed and tendinous, above and in front of the margin of the optic foramen, and passing forwards over the eyeball, ends in a fibrous expansion inserted into the anterior surface of the tarsal cartilage of the upper eyelid. Between this muscle and the roof of the orbit are situated the fourth and frontal nerves, and beneath it are the superior rectus muscle and the globe of the eye. In the lid, it is placed behind the palpebral ligament, close to the membrana conjunctiva. The four straight muscles of the eye surround at their origin the optic nerve, and passing forwards from that point, are inserted into the front of the globe of the eye at four opposite equi-distant parts, by delicate expanded tendons which become blended into one at their termination. The superior rectus arises close in front of the foramen opticum, and beneath the levator palpebrse; the inferior rectus, internal rectus, and external rectus are united in a common tendinous attachment around the circumference of the optic foramen, except above. But the external rectus differs from the others in having two heads of origin ; the upper head unites with that of the superior rectus, the second head arises from a bony point on the lower margin of the sphenoidal fissure close to its wider inner end ; and other fibres are implanted into a fibrous band between the heads of origin. The four recti thus attached posteriorly, pass forwards, one above, one below, and one on each side of the eyeball, becoming flattened as they lie in contact with it, and are inserted by short membranous tendons into the fore part of the sclerotic coat, at an average distance of four lines from the margin of the cornea. In length and breadth there are some differences among these muscles. The external rectus exceeds the internal one in length. On the other hand, the internal rectus has some advantage in width, being broader than any; and the superior appears rather the narrowest of all. Between the heads of the external rectus is a narrow interval, which gives transmission to the third and sixth nerves and the nasal branch of the fifth nerve, with the ophthalmic vein. The superior oblique or trochlearis is a narrow elongated muscle, placed at the upper and inner part of the orbit, internally to the levator palpebrse. It arises about a line in front of the inner part of the optic foramen ; thence it proceeds towards the internal angle of the orbit, and terminates in a round tendon, which passes through a fibro-cartilaginous ring or pulley n 2