ccvi THE SKIK beneath the net of superficial blood-capillaries ; in certain parts on the palm and sole, lymphatics pass into the papillae, but do not reach their summits. Nerves.—Nerves are supplied in very different proportions to different regions of the skin, and according to the degree of sensibility. They pass upwards towards the papillary surface, where they form plexuses, of which the meshes become closer as they approach the surface, and the constituent branches finer, so that the latter come at last to consist of only one or two primitive fibres. The fibres also become more attenuated the further they proceed towards their final destination. In the finest and most superficial part of the plexus, the ultimate fibres, or at least some of them, undergo actual division. Little more can be said of the termination of nerves on the general cutaneous surface. A large share of the cutaneous nerves is dis- tributed to the hair-follicles, whilst some end in special terminal organs, namely, end-bulbs, tactile corpuscles, and Pacinian bodies. The last-named bodies are seated in the subcutaneous tissue. End-bulbs are found on the glans penis and glans clitoridis, and in some of the papillae on the red border of the lips. The tactile corpuscles of the skin are more numerous ; they are found in certain papillae of the palm and sole, more sparingly in those of the back of the hand and foot, the palmar surface of the fore-arm and the nipple. Such papillae commonly contain no blood-vessels, and are named " tactile," as distinguished from the " vascular" papillae which receive no nerves. Sometimes, however, a tactile and a vascular papilla may spring from the same stem. The structure of these different terminal corpuscles has been already described (pages cl to civ). Chemical composition.—The corium being composed chiefly of white fibrous tissue, has a corresponding chemical composition. It is, accordingly, in a great measure, resolved into gelatin by boiling, and hence, also, its conversion into leather by the tanning process. Development of the cutis.—The cutis consists at first of cells which may in animals be traced back to the first formative cells of the embryo. Many of them give rise to connective tissue; others to vessels and nerves; and a third portion is converted into fat-cells. No doubt the muscular tissue also originates from cells. The mode of formation of these several elementary tissues has been already described. Progressive development takes place from within outwards, so that the papillae are formed latest. The cuticle at first differs in no point from the cutis, but consists of the earliest formative cells. Their subsequent metamorphoses and the mode of production of new cells have not been accurately determined; the question has been already considered at page lv. Nails and hairs.—The nails and hairs are growths of the epidermis, agreeing essentially in nature with that membrane ; their epidermic tissue is destitute of vessels and nerves, and separable from the cutis. Nails.—The posterior part of the nail which is concealed in a groove of the skin is named its "root," the uncovered part is the "body," which terminates in front by the "free edge." A small portion of the nail near the root, named from its shape the lunula, is whiter than the rest. This appearance is due partly to some degree of opacity of the substance of the nail at this point,, and partly to the skin beneath being less vascular than in front. The part of the corium to which the nail is attached, and by which in fact it is secreted or generated, is named the matrix. This portion of the skin is highly vascular and thickly covered with large vascular papillae.