cxxxvii NERVE-FIBRES. The axis cylinder, axis band, or axial fibre is situated in, or near, the middle of the nerve-tube, where it may occasionally be seen, on a careful inspection, as a greyish stripe or band, bounded on either side by a very faint, even outline, having no share in the sinuosities of the white substance (fig. lxxiv, c). The axis is of a more tenacious consistence than the white substance, and may accord- ingly be sometimes seen projecting beyond it at the end of a broken nerve-tube, either quite denuded, or covered only by the tubular membrane, the intervening white sub- stance having escaped. Although the name of axis-cylinder would seem to imply that it had actually a cylindrical figure, yet this is by no means certain; and whether naturally cylindrical or not, it certainly very generally appears more or less flattened when subjected to examination. To all outward appearance, usually, it is solid and homogeneous, but sometimes it is striated longitudinally, and towards its termination at the peripheral extremity of the nerve, it very commonly divides into finer filaments. The axis-cylinder consists of a solid albuminoid substance, whereas the medullary sheath or white substance consists mainly of fat and a certain proportion of albu- minous matter, combined with it as a colloid into an oleo-albuminous liquid. Accordingly, whilst water, especially when cold, rapidly produces congelation of the white substance, ether, on the other hand, causes it speedily to disappear as if by solution, and globules of oil then make their appearance both within and without the tube, the remaining contents becoming granular from precipitation of albumen. The existence of an axial fibre is probably universal in nerve-fibres, though it is not generally visible without preparation. To bring it into view, a solution of car- mine or aniline-red (magenta) may be used, which stains it red—first colouring the denuded and projecting ends, but finally also the part still surrounded with the medullary sheath. Glacial acetic acid, chromic acid, iodine, alcohol, chloroform, collodium, and other reagents, are also employed with greater or less advantage. Many of the tubular nerve-fibres, when subjected to the microscope, appear di- lated or swollen out at short distances along their length, and contracted in the intervals between the dilated parts. Such fibres have been named varicose (fig. lxxv). They occur principally in the brain and spinal cord, and in the intra- cranial part of the olfactory, in the optic, and acoustic nerves ; they are occasion- ally met with also in the other nerves, especially in young animals. These fibres, however, are naturally cylindrical like the rest, and continue so while they re- main undisturbed in their place; and the varicose character is occasioned by pres- sure or traction during the manipulation, which causes the soft matter contained in the nerve-tube to accumulate at cer- tain points, whilst it is drawn out and attenuated at others. Most probably the change takes place before the white substance has coagulated. The fibres in which it is most apt to occur are usually of small size, ranging from X2o"o"o^ *° ^g'^gth of an inch in diameter; and when a very small fibre is thus affected, the varicosities appear like a string of Fig. LXXV. Fig. LXXV.—Fibres from the Root of A Spinal Nerve. At a, where they join the spinal cord, they are varicose; lower down at b, they are uniform and larger (from Valentin).