xl THE BLOOD. excess of acid will re-dissolve the precipitate. This globulin is probably the casein of the serum described by various authorities. Fatty Compounds.—It has been already stated that the red corpuscles and the fibrin yield a certain quantity of fat ; but a portion of the fat of the blood remains in the serum, partly dissolved, and partly diffused in the liquid. It may be separated by gently agitating the serum with about a third of its bulk of ether, or by evaporating the serum and digesting the dry residue in ether, or in boiling alcohol. The turbid milky aspect which serum often exhibits, is in most cases due to a redundance of fat, and may accordingly be removed by agitation with ether. The fatty matters of the blood are of various kinds, viz., cliolesterin, serolin, and the ordinary saponifiable fats of the body {margarates and oleates); also, according to Berzelius and Lecanu, a phosphuretted fat, similar to that found in the brain. Berze- lius, indeed, is disposed to think that the blood contains every variety of fat that is found in other parts of the body. Lecanu could not obtain the phosphuretted fat from either the serum or the fibrin, and Berzelius therefore supposes that it is associated with the red corpuscles; he also states that the fat extracted from the fibrin is different from ordinary fat. The usual quantity of fat of all kinds in 1000 parts of blood is stated by Lecanu to be 5*15, by Simon 2*3, and by Nasse 2 0. Extractive Matters.—"When the serum has been freed from albuminous matter by coagulation, and from fat by ether, and is evaporated to dryness, a yellowish or brown mass remains, consisting of organic matters mixed with salts ; the former belonging principally to the ill-defined class of substances denominated " extractive matters." These have now been more carefully sifted, and have yielded several definite and recognisable bodies, generated in the natural process of decomposition of the tissues, or residual matters of nutrition formed in the blood itself, and on their way to be excreted by the kidneys. Several of the substances to be next mentioned belong to this class, and as they are obviously excrementitial and transitory ingredients, they are not allowed to gather in any notable quantity in the healthy state of the economy. Creatin and Creatinin. —Products of the natural '1 wear " of the muscles, or derived from fleshy food. These compounds, which are found in muscular substance and in the urine, together with hypoxanthin (also named sarkiri), obtainable from the same sources, have been stated to exist in excessively small quantities in the blood. Urea.—This substance, which accumulates in the blood of animals after extirpation of the kidneys or ligature of the renal arteries, as well as in certain diseases, has been found in very minute quantity in the healthy blood of the ox and of the calf, by Marchand and Simon, and in that of man, by Lehmann, Garrod, and others. It is, however, in such excessively small quantity, that its estimation is attended with great difficulty. Uric Acid has been shown to exist in healthy blood by Dr. Garrod, and in that of persons suffering from gout it is in such considerable quantity as to be readily detected. In health its proportion is extremely small. Hippuric Acid is found in the blood of herbivora, and according to some observers in that of man. There is, however, much doubt upon this point. Leucin and Tyrosin, which exist in almost all secretions and excretions, probably are present in minute quantity in the blood ; but as yet they have only been detected in it in disease of the liver. Sugar has been found in the blood of dogs, oxen, and cats, also in that