418 ABDOMINAL AORTA—ILIAC ARTERIES. These anastomoses constitute a well-marked vascular plexus, situated in the sub- peritoneal tissue, whence Turner proposes to call them the subperitoneal arterial plexus. It occupies the lumbar region from the diaphragm downwards into the iliac regions and pelvis, and establishes communication between the parietal vessels and those of the viscera, chiefly, though not exclusively, through branches of the arteries of those viscera which are situated behind the peritoneum. It belongs to the renal and suprarenal arteries, those of the pancreas and duodenum, the caecum, and the ascending and descending parts of the colon. It extends also to the vessels of the rectum, and to the spermatic arteries in their descent through the abdomen, and into the inguinal canal and scrotum. In all these situations it was found that the injected material (coloured gelatine) when thrown into the vessels of the viscus, so as to fill them completely, extended through the subperitoneal plexus in various ways, so as to reach one or other set of parietal vessels, such as the lumbar, ilio-lumbar, circumflex iliac, lower intercostal and epigastric arteries ; and in the pelvis, the middle and lateral sacral arteries; and in the scrotum, the superficial pudic and perineal arteries. The more direct inosculations of the hsemorrhoidal arteries on the rectum with the inferior hemorrhoidal branches of the pudic artery are well known, and the importance of these and other similar anastomoses, as well as the more extensive and minute anastomosing plexus investigated by Turner, is obvious, with reference not merely to the nutrition of the subperitoneal tissue, but also to the debated question of the influence exerted by local superficial blood-letting on the state of the vessels of the deeper viscera. III. MIDDLE SACRAL ARTERY. The middle sacral artery, the last of the branches of the abdominal aorta, is a small vessel of about the eize of a crowquill, which, arises from the extremity of the aorta just at the bifurcation. From this point the artery proceeds downwards upon the last lumbar vertebra and over the middle of the sacrum, as far as the coccyx, where it forms small arches of anastomosis with the lateral sacral arteries. Blanches.—From its anterior surface some small branches come forward within the fold of the meso-rectum, and ramify upon the posterior surface of the intestine ; and on each side others spread out upon the sacrum, and anastomose with the lateral sacral arteries, occasionally sending small offsets into the anterior sacral foramina. The middle sacral artery sometimes deviates a little to the side, and proceeds, not from the bifurcation of the aorta, but from one of the common iliac arteries, usually from that of the left side. This artery represents the caudal prolongation of the aorta of animals. COMMON ILIAC ARTERIES. The common iliac arteries, commencing at the bifurcation of the aorta, pass downwards and outwards, diverging from each other, and divide oppo- site the lumbo-sacral articulation into the internal and external iliac arteries. The common iliac arteries measure usually about two inches in length. Both are covered by the peritoneum and the intestines, and are crossed by the ureters near their point of division, as well as by the branches of the sympathetic nerve which are directed towards the hypogastric plexus. They rest on the bodies of the vertebrae, and come into contact with the psoas muscles. The common iliac artery of the right side is separated from the front of the last lumbar vertebra, the two common iliac veins being interposed. The artery of the left side is crossed by the branches of the inferior mesenteric vessels. Relation to Veins.—The left iliac vein, supported on the last lumbar-