xlvi THE BLOOD. invariably, the opposite effect. Impeded aeration of the blood in disease, or in suffocative modes of death, makes it slow to coagulate ; probably from retention of carbonic acid. In cold-blooded animals, with slow circulation and low respiration, the blood coagulates less rapidly than in the warm- blooded ; and, among the latter, the tendency of the blood to coagulate is strongest in birds, which have the greatest amount of respiration, and highest temperature. 7. Coagulation commences earlier, and is sooner completed, in arterial than in venous blood. Dr. Nasse finds that women's blood begins to coagulate nearly two minutes sooner than that of the male sex. In general, when blood coagulates quickly, the clot is more bulky and less firm, and the serum is less effectually expressed from it ; so that causes which affect the rapidity of coagulation will also occasion differences in the proportion of the moist clot to the exuded serum. There is no sufficient evidence of evolution of heat or of disengagement of carbonic acid from blood during its coagulation, which some have supposed to occur. Theory of Coagulation.—Although it is certain that the coagulation of the blood consists in solidification of fibrin, and although it seems tolerably well established that this is the result of the combination of two primarily separate animal principles, it is by no means clearly understood how such combination and solidification do not naturally take place within the living body, and how the several conditions already mentioned as influencing the process operate in promoting or opposing coagulation. According to the explanation proposed a few years ago by Dr. B. W. Richardson,* the blood is kept liquid within the vessels by ammonia, which maintains the fibrin in solution (or, as it may be now expressed, hinders the union of fibrinogen and globulin), and drawn blood coagulates in consequence of the loss of ammonia which escapes from it on exposure. Drawn blood placed in an atmosphere of ammonia remains fluid ; and, according to Dr. Richardson, the natural presence of ammonia in blood may be demonstrated, as well as its extrication from blood on exposure to air or in a vacuum. The more extensive and thorough the exposure, the more speedy is the escape of ammonia, and the quicker is the coagulation. Heat hastens coagulation by hastening the extrication of ammonia, whilst, by retaining it, cold delays or suspends the change. Moreover Dr. R. found that air which had become charged with the volatile element by passing through one portion of blood delayed the coagu- lation of another portion through which it was sent. Nothing could at first sight appear more natural and consistent than this explana- tion ; but of the facts on which it mainly rests, some have since been disputed, and others differently interpreted. Thus after a most elaborate research, a late inquirer (Thiry) has been unable to find evidence of free ammonia in fresh blood. Again, Lister finds that blood may be poured from one piece of a vein into another, in a small stream through the air several times, so as to give ample opportunity for the escape of ammonia, and yet remain fluid for hours after. Lastly, the different effects of heat and cold may be ascribed to their influence in promoting or hindering the mutual reaction of the two constituents of the fibrin. According to another view, which is fundamentally the same as that entertained by John Hunter and some other British physiologists, and which has recently been advocated by Professor Briicke of Yienna,t the blood has a natural tendency to coagulate ; or, if we may use the .language suggested by later researches, the globulin and fibrinogen naturally tend to combine; within the body this tendency is held in check by some inhibitory or restraining influence exercised by the coats of the vessels and the living tissues in contact with the blood ; but when Mood is withdrawn from its natural receptacles, or if these lose their vitality, its intrinsic disposition to * The Cause of the Coagulation of the Blood. 1857. t British and Foreign Medico-Chirurgical Review, vol. xix. 1857.