267 GLUTEI MUSCLES. into an elongated rough impression, extending between the base of the great trochanter and the linea aspera ; and those of the upper two-thirds into a thick tendinous structure, which covers the great trochanter, and joins the fascia lata of the thigh : a few of the lowest fibres terminate also in the fascia. Fig. 206.—Superficial Muscles of the Hip and Thigh, seen from behind. ^ 1, gluteus medius, covered by the strong fascia lata ; 2, middle of the gluteus maximus ; 2', placed on the fascia lata below the place where the gluteus maximus is inserted into it, and above the insertion of the muscle into the femur ; 3, vastus externus; 4, biceps flexor cruris ; 4', tendon of the biceps, receiving on its outer side the oblique fibres of the short part ; 5, senii- tendinosus ; 5', its tendon near the insertion ; 6, semimembranosus, its tendon of insertion is seen between 5' and 7'; 7, gracilis ; 7', tendon of the gracilis near its insertion ; 8, small part of the sartorius ; 9, small portion of the adductor magnus ; 10, outer, and 11, inner head of the gastrocnemius ; 12, placed in the popliteal space, points to the origin of the plantaris. At the upper and lower borders of this muscle, the fascia lata, or aponeurosis of the limb, splits into two thin layers, which are continued, one on the deep, and the other on the outer surface, so as to enclose the muscle. A few fibres on the upper border of the muscle arise from the deeper of those two layers: the lower border, longer and looser, lies in the fold of the nates. The deep surface rests on the gluteus medius and pyriformis muscles, the tendon of the obturator internus, with the two gemelli, the quadratus femoris, a small portion of the adductor magnus, the great trochanter, the ischial tuberosity, and the origins of the hamstring muscles; it covers also the sciatic artery and nerves as they emerge from the pelvis below the pyri- formis, the superficial branch of the gluteal artery passing out above that muscle, and the pudic artery and nerve lying behind the spine of the ischium. Between the tendon of the muscle and the great trochanter of the femur, are placed two or three synovial bursse, or a single multilocular bursa of large size. A bursa is also situated between the muscle and the tendon of the vastus externus, and another separates it from the tuber ischii. 'The great size of the gluteus maximus, and the consequent prominence of the buttock, is a characteristic of man as com- pared with those animals which most nearly approach him in general structure. Fig. 206. The gluteus medius, covered partly by the gluteus maximus, partly by the fascia lata, arises from the surface of the dorsum ilii above the superior