xiii FORMATION OF THE ANIMAL TEXTURES. Fig. V. between the cavities is increased. Now, although in certain cases it would seem that this increase is in part due to deposit of intermediate substance independently of the coalescence of thickened cell-walls, yet the process on the whole may be not unaptly com- pared with the formation of the hard tissues of plants from the thickened sides of vegetable cells. Again, during the growth of most cartilages the cells increase in number, new ones being formed within the old, as happens in many vegetable structures. The instance now given, and others to the same effect, which will be men- tioned as we proceed, tend to show a certain fundamental resemblance in the procevss of textural development in the two kingdoms ; but, when we come to inquire into the various modifications which that process exhibits in the formation of particular textures, we encounter serious difficulties. The phenomena are sometimes difficult to observe, and, when recognised, are perhaps susceptible of more than one interpretation ; hence have arisen con- Fig. V.—Section of a Branchial Cartilage of a Tadpole, showing the Early Condition of the Cells ; magnified 450 diameters (Schwann). Fig. VI.—Cartilage of the Branchial Ray of a Fish {Cyprinus ery- throph(halmus) in dif- ferent Stages of Advancement ; magni- fied 450 diameters (Schwann). flicting statements of fact, and differences of opinion, at present irreconcile- able, which future inquiry alone can rectify, and which in the mean time offer serious obstacles to an attempt at generalisation. In what follows, nothing more is intended than to bring together, under a few heads, the more general facts as yet made known respecting the formation of the animal textures, in so far as this may be done without too much anticipating details, which can only be suitably and intelligibly given in the special history of each texture. Structure of Cells.—A vegetable cell consists of, 1. a containing wall or envelope, surrounding and enclosing the other parts, and named, from the nature of the substance of which it is composed, the cellulose wall (fig. vu. a, a') ; 2. the cell contents—fluid, slimy, or of mixed nature (6) ; 3. the nucleus (c), a rounded corpuscle situated somewhere in the interior, which however disappears from many vegetable cells when they have reached maturity. In the nucleus are commonly to be seen one (c) or two (c'), rarely more, minute spots named nucleoli. Further, some phytologists maintain that within the cell-wall, and distinct from it, there is a delicate membrane or film immediately inclosing the cell-contents, the primordial utricle ; but although the semblance of such an interior inveloping film may be brought into view by the application of certain re-agents (as at d), its Fig. VI. A B c