lxxvii ELASTIC TISSUE. 1. Forming the ligamenta sub/lava, which extend between the arches of adjacent vertebrae ; these ligaments, while they permit the bones to be drawn apart in flexion of the body, aid in restoring and maintaining their habitual approximation in the erect posture—so far, therefore, relieving the constant effort of the erector muscles. 2. Constituting the chief part of the stylohyoid, thyrohyoid, and cricothyroid liga- ments, and those named the vocal cords. Also extending, in form of longitudinal bands, underneath the mucous membrane of the windpipe and its ramifications. 3. Entering, along with other textures, into the formation of the coats of the blood- vessels, especially the arteries, and conferring elasticity on these tubes. 4. Beneath the mucous membrane of the gullet and lower part of the rectum, also in the tissue which surrounds the muscular coat of the gullet externally. 5. In the tissue which lies under the serous membranes in certain parts. 6. In many of the fasciae, where it is mixed with much areolar tissue. 7. Largely in the suspensory ligament and subcutaneous tissue of the penis. 8. In considerable quantity in the tissue of the skin. The elastic tissue in its purest and most typical condition, such as is seen in the ligamentum nuchse of quadrupeds and the ligamenta subflava of the human spine, has a yellow colour more or less decided ; it is extensible and elastic in the highest degree, but is not so strong as ordinary fibrous liga- ment, and it breaks across the direction of its fibres when forcibly stretched. Its fibres may be easily torn separate in a longitudinal direction ; they are often gathered into irregular fasciculi which run side by side but join at short distances by slips with one another, and are further connected by areolar tissue, which is always intermixed with them in greater or less quantity. Elastic ligaments are also covered outwardly with a sheath of areolar tissue. When the elastic fibres are mixed up with a large proportion of some other kind of tissue, their yellow colour may not appear, but they can always be recognised by their microscopic characters. When vie wed under a tolerably high magnifying power, they appear quite transparent, with a remarkably well- defined dark outline (fig. xxxvil). They run side by side, following a somewhat bending course, but with bold and wide curves, unlike the undulations of the white connective filaments. As they proceed they divide into branches, and join or anas- tomose together in a reticular manner. Elastic networks may be composed of fine fibres with wide meshes, and this is the character of all at first ; but while some continue in this state, in others the elastic fibres grow larger and broader and the intervening spaces narrower, so that the tissue may acquire a lamellar character and present the appearance of a homo- geneous membrane, which may be either entire, or with gaps or perforations at short intervals, in which case it constitutes the fenestrated membrane of Henle, found in the coats of the blood-vessels. A re- markable character which elastic fibres exhibit in many specimens, is their singular tendency to curl up at their broken ends ; and these Fig. XXXVII. Fig. XXXVII.—Elastic Fibres from the Ligamenta Subflava, magnified about 200 diameters.