cxlvi NERVOUS SYSTEM. tion, which are not unusual, both nerves commonly give and receive fibres ; so that, after the junction, each contains a mixture of fibres derived from two originally distinct sources. More rarely the fibres pass only from one of the nerves to the other, and the contribution is not reciprocal. In the former case the communicating branch or branches will of course contain fibres of both nerves, in the latter of one only. In other cases the branches of a nerve, or branches derived from two or from several different nerves, are connected in a more complicated manner, and form what is termed a plexus. In plexuses—of which the one named " brachial" or £< axillary," formed by the great nerves of the arm, and the " lumbar " and "sacral," formed by those of the lower limb and pelvis, are appropriate examples—the nerves or their branches join and divide again and again, interchanging and intermixing their fibres so thoroughly, that, by the time a branch leaves the plexus, it may contain fibres from all the nerves entering the plexus. Still, as in the more simple communications already spoken of, the fibres, so far as is known, remain individually distinct throughout. Some farther circumstances remain to be noticed as to the course of the fibres in nerves and nervous plexuses. Gerber has described and figured nerve-fibres, which, after running a certain way in a nerve, apparently join in form of loops with neighbouring fibres of the same bundle, and proceed no further. Such loops might of course be represented as formed by fibres which bend back and return to the nervous centre; and so Gerber considers them. He regards them as looped terminations of sentient fibres appro- priated to the nerve itself—as the nervi nervorum, in short, on which depends the sensibility of the nerve to impressions, painful or otherwise, applied to it elsewhere than at its extremities. The whole matter is, however, involved in doubt: for, admitting the existence of the loops referred to, which yet requires confirmation, it is not impossible that they may be produced by fibres which run back only a certain way, and then, entering another bundle, proceed onwards to the termination of the nerve. Again, it has been supposed, that, in some instances, of nervous conjunc- tions, certain collections of fibres, after passing from one nerve to another, take a retrograde course in that second nerve, and, in place of being distributed periphe- rally with its branches, turn back to its root and rejoin the cerebro-spinal centre. An apparent example of such nervous arches without peripheral distribution is afforded by the optic nerves, in which various anatomists admit the existence of arched fibres that seem to pass across the commissure between these nerves from one optic tract to the other, and to return again to the brain. These, however, are perhaps to be compared with the commissural fibres of the brain itself, of which there is a great system connecting the symmetrical halves of that organ. But instances of a similar kind occurring in other nerves have been pointed out by Volkmann; as in the connection between the second and third cervical nerves of the cat, also in that of the fourth cranial nerve with the first branch of the fifth in other quadrupeds, and in the communications of the cervical nerves with the spinal accessory and the descendens noni. But certain fibres of the optic nerves take a course deviating still more from that followed generally, for they appear to be con- tinued across the commissure from the eyeball and optic nerve of one side to the opposite nerve and eye, without being connected with the brain at all, and thus to form arches with peripheral terminations, but no central connection. In look- ing, however, for an explanation of this arrangement, it must be borne in mind that the retina contains nerve-cells, like those of the nervous centres, and perhaps the fibres referred to may be intended merely to bring the collections of nerve-cells of the two sides into relation independently of the brain. Julius Arnold has found an arrangement of fibres at the junctions of the nerve-plexus of the iris similar to that in the optic commissure.* The disposition of the fibres at the points of division and junction of the branches * Virchow's Archiv. 1863.