SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. 368 it, where it lies on the groove of the atlas, and at that point the artery is covered by the superior oblique muscle. Within the skull it turns round the side of the medulla oblongata, be- tween the origin of the hypoglossal nerve and the anterior root of the sub-occipital, and then lies between the anterior surface of the medulla and the basilar process of the occipital bone. Fig. 263. Fig. 263. — Deep Dis- section of the Sub- clavian Artery on THE right side, showing the origin and course op the Vertebral Artery (from Tiede- inann). | a, Upper part of the sterno-mastoid muscle, its clavicular part divided below; 6, spinous process of the axis; c, superior oblique muscle ; d, placed on the inferior oblique muscle, points by a line to the posterior arch of the atlas vertebra; e, semi- spinalis colli; /, placed on the longus colli, points to the transverse process of the sixth cervical ver- tebra ; g, on the first rib, points to the scalenus anticus muscle cut near its attachment ; 1, inno- minate artery; 2, right common carotid ; 3, right subclavian ; below it, the origin of the internal mammary artery ; above it, 4, the thyroid axis, its branches cut short; 5, vertebral artery, pass- ing up through the canal of the transverse pro- cesses and giving branches to the muscles; 5', placed on the rectus major, points to its horizontal part on the arch of the atlas; 6, placed on the lower part of the divided scalenus medius, points to the trunk of the deep cervical and first intei-costal arteries; 6', placed on the scalenus medius, points to the deep cervical artery ; 7, occipital artery emerging from below the sterno-mastoid and other muscles attached to the mastoid process. Branches. *—A. Cervical branches : (a) In the neck, the vertebral artery sends off at different points of its course several small branches named spinal arteries. Each of these entering the spinal canal through an intervertebral foramen divides into two branches; one of these passes along the roots of the spinal nerves, supplying the spinal cord and its mem- branes, and anastomoses with the other spinal arteries; the other branch ramifies on the back part of the bodies of the vertebrae in the same manner as similar branches derived from the intercostal and lumbar arteries.