307 THE VALVES. Fig. 231. Fig. 231.—The Semilunar Valves of would otherwise force them back through the auricular orifice; the papillary muscles, shortening as the cavity of the ventricle itself is contracted during its systole, are supposed thus to prevent the valves from yielding too much towards the auricle, which might have been the case had the chordae ten- dineae been longer, or fixed directly into the wall of the ventricle. The middle part of each segment is thicker than the rest, whilst the marginal part is thinner, more transparent, and jagged at the edges. In the angles between each pair of the principal segments of the auriculo-ventricular valves there may be found, but not constantly, as many small intermediate lobes. The musculi papillares are arranged in groups as many as there are seg- ments of the valve, and the chordae tendineae from each are distributed to the adjacent sides of two different valves, so as to draw their margins together. According to Kurschner (Wagner's Handworterbuch, art. " Herzthatigkeitthree kinds of cords belong to each segment: a, the first set, generally two to four in number and proceeding from two different sets of papillae, or from one of these and the wall of the ventricle, run to the base or attached margin of the segment, and are there connected also with the tendinous ring round the auriculo-ventricular opening; b, the second set, more numerous, and smaller than the first, proceed also from two adjacent papillary muscular groups, and are attached to the back or ventricular surface of each segment, at intervals along two or more lines extending from the points of attachment of the tendons of the first order at the base of the valve to near its free extremity; c, the third set, which are still more numerous and much finer, branch off from the preceding ones, and are attached to the back and edges of the thinner marginal portions of the valves. A few muscular fibres prolonged from the neighbouring walls penetrate into the segments of the auriculo-ventricular valves. the Aorta and Pulmonary Artery, SEEN FROM THEIR DlSTAL SlDE. A, transverse section of the pulmonary artery immediately above the attach- ment of the semilunar valves: a, the anterior segment; b, the left, and c, the right posterior segments : in each the sinus of Valsalva is seen, and between them the attachment of the ends of the valve-segments to the inner wall of the artery. B, a similar section of the aorta, showing the semilunar valves from their distal side : a, the left, b} the right anterior segments, with the sinuses of Valsalva, from which the corresponding coronary arteries are seen to take their origin; c, the posterior segment ; d, the right, or posterior; e, the left, or anterior coronary arteries. The semilunar or sigmoid valves, placed at the mouths of the aorta and pulmonary artery, consist of three semicircular folds, each of which is attached by its convex border to the side of the artery at the place where it joins with the ventricle, whilst its other border, nearly straight, is free, and projects into the interior of the vessel. They are composed of dupli-