lxxxv ELASTIC OR YELLOW CARTILAGE. Development of hyaline cartilage.—The parts of the embryo which are about to become cartilages are made up at first of the common embryonic cells from which the tissues generally originate. The cell-contents clear up, the nucleus becomes more visible, and the cells, mostly of polygonal outline, appear surrounded by clear lines of pellucid substance, forming as it were a network of bright meshes inclosing them, but in reality consisting of the cohering capsules of the contiguous cells, and consti- tuting all that exists of the matrix at this time. Amyloid matter appears at an early period in the protoplasm of cartilage cells. Rouget found it in the sheep's embryo of two months, both in ossifying cartilage and in the cartilages of the trachea. The subsequent changes consist in enlargement and multiplication of the cells and development of the intermediate matrix. The cells multiply by division. The process is described at page xvii, although all the successive steps there described and represented in the figure (xn.) have not been actually traced. In growing cartilage from the frog-larva, Heidenhain* observed a double {i. e. divided) nucleus in some cells, and in certain of these a straight linear partition running across the cell between the two nuclei. This partition was recognised to be double, and doubtless formed by the contiguous thin capsules of two new cells formed by division of the previously single one. It is doubtful how the capsule or secondary cell-wall is produced; whether excreted by the cell which it afterwards incloses, as held by Kblliker, or formed by conversion of a superficial layer of the protoplasm of the cell-body, as taught by Max Schultze, or a primarily independent deposit round the cells. However this may be, there is at first no matrix but what is made up of the simple capsules. In further growth there is a difference according as the cells do or do not undergo frequent division. In the latter case a cell becomes surrounded by many concentric capsules formed in succession; that is, the first capsule is ex- panded, and the others formed each within its expanding predecessor, so that the cartilage comes to consist of scattered cells, each with a concentric system of capsules, which by means of re-agents may be rendered visible in the neighbourhood of the cells, but further off are inseparably blended into a uniform substance. When, on the other hand, the cells have a tendency to frequent subdivision, the new capsules are produced by the new cells, and are included in and finally blend with those which had belonged to the previous cells, as shown by fig. xn. The matrix, although thus formed of the capsules, becomes to all appearance homo- geneous ; but in sections of cartilage that have been exposed to acids and other re-agents, the contour lines of the capsules round cells and cell-groups may be more or less distinctly brought into view. ut whilst admitting that the capsules have a share in the production of the matrix, Kblliker and some other histologists incline to the opinion that part of it is an independent deposit. Heidenhain, however, has found that when thin sections of cartilage are digested for twenty-four hours in water, at from 112° to 122° P., or in diluted nitric acid with chlorate of potash for a greater or less time according to the degree of dilution, the matrix becomes parted or marked off into polygonal areas corresponding to the larger groups of cells, and these again into smaller groups, or single cells, without any intervening substance; the whole matrix thus appearing to be portioned out into segments, each appertaining to a larger or smaller group of cells, and in all probability representing the aggregated capsules belonging to them. ' The vital changes which occur in cartilage take place very slowly. Its mode of nutrition has been already referred to ; it is subject to absorption, and when a portion is absorbed in disease or removed by the knife, it is not regenerated. Also, when fractured, as sometimes happens with the rib-cartilages, there is no re-union by cartilaginous matter, but the broken surfaces become connected, especially at their circumference, by fibrous or dense areolar tissue, often by a bony clasp. But not- withstanding that normally it is not regenerated, hyaline cartilage occurs in perfectly characteristic form as a morbid product in certain tumours. ELASTIC OB YELLOW CARTILAGE. The epiglottis and cornicula of the larynx, the cartilages of the ear and of the Eustachian tube, differ so much from the foregoing, both in intimate * Studien des Physiologischen Instituts zu Breslau, 2ter Heft, 1863,