221 COMMON EXTENSOR OF THE FINGERS. 16-1 The extensor carpi radialis brevior arises from the outer condyloid eminence of the humerus by a tendon common to it and the other extensor muscles, from the intervening fibrous septa, from a superficial tendinous expansion, and from the external lateral liga- ment of the elbow-joint. Its muscular belly pjg 132, ends in a flat tendon, which descends with that of the extensor longior, passes through the same groove of the radius with it, and is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. A bursa is placed between this muscle and the supinator brevis, and a smaller one between the tendon and the metacarpal bone. Fig. 182.—Superficial Muscles op TnE Forearm and Hand, seen prom behind, i d, olecranon; e, external condyloid eminence ; /, lower end of the ulna ; 8, main tendon of the triceps extensor cnbiti ; 8", its inner head ; 9, anconeus ; 10, part of brachialis anticus ; 11, supinator longus ; 12, extensor carpi radialis longior ; 13, brevior ; 14, extensor communis digitorum ; 15, extensor carpi ulnaris; +, between 14 and 15, extensor minimi digiti ; 16, origin of the flexor carpi ulnaris by an aponeurosis from the back of the ulna; 17, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis ; 17', its insertion into the first metacarpal bone ; 18, extensor primi internodii pollicis ; 18', its insertion into the first phalanx ; + and J, posterior annular ligament of the carpus or retinaculum of the extensor tendons ; at +, the ten- dons of the long and short radial extensors ; at +, the tendon of the extensor minimi digiti ; 19, tendon of the extensor secundi internodii; 20, is placed on the proximal end of the second metacarpal bone, close to the insertion of the radial extensors of the carpus : in the hand, the dorsal interossei muscles are shown, and on the middle finger the insertion of the ex- tensor tendons. This muscle is covered by the supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior, and conceals the supinator brevis and the insertion of the pronator radii teres. The tendon of this muscle and that of the extensor carpi radialis longior are crossed obliquely by the extensors of the metacarpal bone and first phalanx of the thumb. The extensor communis digitorum, placed between the extensor carpi radialis brevior and the extensor minimi digiti, arises by a tendon common to it and the other super- ficial extensor muscles, also from the fascia of the forearm, and the septa between it and the adjoining muscles. Somewhat below the middle of the forearm the muscular part ends in four tendons, which pass between the posterior annular ligament of the wrist and the innermost broad groove on the back of the radius, and diverge as they proceed along the carpus and metacarpus to reach the fingers. Here each is increased by tendinous fibres derived from the lumbricales and interossoous muscles,