404 THORACIC AND ABDOMINAL AORTA. Branches.—The named branches of the intercostal arteries are the following :— (a) The 'posterior or dorsal branch of each intercostal artery passes back- wards to the inner side of the anterior costo-transverse ligament, along with the posterior branch of the corresponding spinal nerve; and having furnished an offset to the spinal canal, reaches the muscles of the back, and divides into an internal and an external branch. The internal branch is directed towards the spinous processes, on or through the multifidus spinse, and ramifies in the muscles and the skin. The external branch turns outwards under the longissimus dorsi, and is distributed between that muscle and the sacro-lumbalis ; some twigs reach the superficial muscles and the integuments. The spinal branches of the aortic intercostal arteries are distributed partly to the cord and its membranes, and partly to the bones, in the same manner as the spinal branches of the lumbar arteries, to the description of which the reader is referred. (6) The collateral intercostal branch, long and slender, arises near the place where the main trunk comes in contact with the upper rib of the space, and inclining downwards approaches the border of the lower rib, supplying the bone and the intercostal muscles, and anastomosing in front with an anterior intercostal branch of the internal mammary artery. There are thus in each intercostal space two terminal branches of the intercostal arteries communicating with the branches of the internal mammary. ABDOMINAL AORTA. The aorta, after having passed the diaphragm, is thus named. It com- mences on the front of the last dorsal vertebra, and terminates below by dividing into two trunks, named the common iliac arteries. The bifurcation usually takes place about half way down the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, a little to the left of the middle line ; a point which is nearly on a level with a line drawn from the one crista ilii to the other, and opposite the left side of the umbilicus. The anterior surface of the abdominal aorta is successively in apposition with the pancreas and the splenic vein, the left renal vein, the third portion of the duodenum, and the peritoneum. The vena cava lies along its right side, the right crus of the diaphragm being interposed at the upper part of the abdomen ; close to the same side are the thoracic duct and the azygos vein, which are placed between the aorta and the right crus of the dia- phragm. The aorta is also covered in front by meshes of nerves derived from the sympathetic, and numerous lymphatic vessels and glands. Fig. 282.—View of the Abdominal Aorta and its Principal Branches (from Tiedemann). £ a, ensiform portion of the sternum ; b, vena cava inferior passing through the tendon of the diaphragm ; c, the oesophagus passing through tbe muscular portion ; d, tendinous part of the right, e, of the left crus ; /, /', the right and left kidneys with their supra- renal bodies ; g, g', the ureters; h, the upper part of the urinary bladder; i, i, the right and left vasa deferentia passing up from the bladder to the internal inguinal apertures ; k, the rectum, divided and tied near its upper part ; 1, 1, the abdominal aorta ; 1', the middle sacral artery ; 2, 2', the right, 3, 3', the left inferior phrenic arteries, represented as arising by a short common stem from the front of the aorta immediately below the meeting of the crura of the diaphragm; 4, the trunk of the coeliac axis ; 5, the superior mesenteric artery ; 6, 6, the renal arteries; 6', &, the suprarenal arteries arising partly