VERTEBRAL COLUMN. the column had the usual direction, and in which the right arm was more muscular than the left. (" Seltene Beobachtungen," part 2, p. 61; see also R. Quain, "Anatomy of the Arteries," p. 19.) Fig. 11.—Vertebral Column of an Adult Male, SEEN FROM BEHIND. | C 1 to above D 1, the seven cervical vertebrse; D 1 to above L 1, the twelve dorsal vertebrse ; L 1 to above S 1, the five lumbar vertebrse; S 1 to above CO 1, the sacrum ; CO 1, and below, the four coccygeal vertebrse. The attention of the reader is called to the transition in the form of the transverse processes and tubercles indicated in this specimen, which is well marked. Form.—On the anterior aspect of the column, the pillar formed by the bodies of the vertebrse is seen to become broader from the axis to the first dorsal vertebra. At this place it ceases to widen, and even becomes slightly narrower from the first to about the fourth dorsal vertebra ; from that level it then becomes gradually wider down to the base of the sacrum. The width between the extremi- ties of the transverse processes is considerable in the atlas ; it is small in the axis, becomes greater as far as the first dorsal vertebra, thence it is again gradually contracted as far as the last dorsal, and becomes suddenly much greater in the lumbar region. On the lateral aspect, the diameter of the bodies from before backwards is seen to in- crease most rapidly in the dorsal region. The tips of the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrse, being directed backwards, describe a greater curvature than the bodies ; while the spinous processes exhibit a smaller curva- ture, on account of the middle dorsal set being most sloped downwards, while those above and below project backwards. On the posterior aspect, the spines occupy the middle line. Those of the dorsal region are in many instances inclined a little, some to one side and some to the other. At the sides of the row of spines are the vertebral grooves, corresponding to the laminae, arid bounded externally in the cervical and dorsal regions by the transverse processes, and in the lumbar by the mammillary processes. They are broad but shallow in the neck, and become deep and narrow lower down ; the narrowest part being at the last dorsal vertebra. Along the grooves is a series of spaces between the laminae, which, in the natural condition, are filled up by the yellow ligaments. The extent