PAPILLA AND VESSELS. ccv thus named, which seem chiefly intended to contribute to the perfectioD of the skin as an organ of touch, seeing that they are highly developed where the sense of touch is exquisite, and vice versa. They serve also to extend the surface for the production of the cuticular tissue, and hence are large-sized and numerous under the nail. The papillae are large, and in close array on the palm and palmar surface of the fingers, and on the corresponding parts of the foot (fig. ex.). There they are ranged in lines forming the curvilinear ridges seen when the skin is still covered with its thick epidermis. They are of a conical figure, rounded or blunt at the top, and sometimes cleft into two or more points, when they are named compound papillae. They are received into corresponding pits on the under surface of the cuticle. In structure they resemble the superficial layer of the corium generally, and consist of a homogeneous tissue, presenting only faint traces of fibrillation, together with a few fine elastic fibres. On the palm, sole, and nipple, where they are mostly of the compound variety, they measure from ^i^- to of an inch in height. In the ridges, the larger papillae are placed sometimes in single but more commonly in double rows, with smaller ones between them (fig. exxm.), that is, also on the ridges, for there are none in the intervening grooves. These ridges are marked at short and tolerably regular intervals with notches, or short transverse furrows, in each of which, about its middle, is the minute funnel-shaped orifice of the duct of a sweat gland (fig. cxi). In other parts of the skin endowed with less sensibility, the papillae are smaller, shorter, fewer in number, and irregularly scattered. On the face they are reduced to from -gi_- to ^-l^- of an inch ; and here they at parts disappear altogether, or are replaced by slightly elevated reti- cular ridges. In parts where they are naturally small, they often become enlarged by chronic inflammation round the margin of sores and ulcers of long standing, and are then much more conspicuous. Fine blood- vessels enter most of the papillae, forming either simple capillary loops in each, or dividing into two or more capillary branches, according to the size of the papilla and its simple or composite form, which turn round in form of loops and return to the veins. Other papillae receive nerves, to be presently noticed. Blood-vessels and lymphatics.—The blood-vessels divide into branches in the subcutaneous tissue, and, as they enter the skin, supply capillary plex- uses to the fat clusters, sweat glands, and hair follicles. They divide and anastomose still further as they approach the surface, and at length, on reaching it, form a dense network of capillaries, with rounded polygonal meshes. Fine branches are sent into the papillae, as already mentioned. The lymphatics are abundant in some parts of the skin, as on the scrotum and round the nipple ; whether they are equally so in all parts may be doubted. They form networks, which become finer as they approach the surface, and communicate underneath with straight vessels, and these, after a longer or a shorter course, join larger ones or enter lymphatic glands. The finest and most superficial network, although close to the surface of the corium, is Fig. CXI. Fig. CXI.—Magnified View op four of the Ridges of the Epider- mis, CAUSED BY ROWS OF Papilla beneath, with short forrows or Notches across them ; also the Openings of the Sudoriferous Ducts (after Breschet).