MUSCULAR TISSUE. cxxvi firmer parts in the neighbourhood. Small tendons are also fixed by blending with the fibrous sheaths investing contiguous muscular bundles. In the gullet Mr. Ellis has found that the longitudinal muscular fasciculi are inter- sected wholly or partially, at intervals of from -J^ to -j-1^ of an inch, by small tendons into which they are inserted, after the fashion of the rectus abdominis, only on a miniature scale, and he thinks it probable that this disposition may exist in other parts. The plain muscular tissue is met with in the lower half of the gullet, the stomach, and the whole intestinal canal ; that is, both in the muscular coat of the alimentary canal, and also as a layer in the tissue of the mucous membrane, and in the villi ; in the trachea and bronchial tubes, in the bladder and ureters and the ducts of the larger glands generally, in the uterus and its appendages, in the corpora cavernosa of both sexes, in the prostate gland, and in the ciliary muscle and iris. The middle coat of the arteries, the coats of many veins and the larger lym- Fig. LXXII. phatics contain plain muscular tissue. It has also been detected in certain parts of the skin, in the dartos or IS ■111 subcutaneous tissue of the scrotum, and in form of minute muscles attached to the hair-follicles. Muscular tissue of the heart. —The fibres of the heart differ remarkably from those of involuntary muscular organs in general, inasmuch as they present transverse striae. The striae, however, are less strongly marked, and less regular, and the fibres are smaller in diameter than in the voluntary muscles. Many of the fibres are attached to the tendinous structure connected with the orifices and valves, and as has been already stated, they are seen to divide and anastomose (fig. lxxii). The tissue of the heart differs also from most other involun- tary muscular structures by its deep colour, but it agrees with them in the interlacement of its fasciculi. Development of muscle.—The form-elements of the plain or unstriped muscular tissue are derived from embryonic nucleated cells, consisting of granular proto- plasmic substance, as usual. These become lengthened out, pointed at the ends, and flattened, with elongation of the nucleus, whilst their substance becomes more uniform in aspect, and acquires its permanent condition and characteristic properties. The striated muscular tissue is also developed in the embryo from cells. Schwann considered each fibre to be formed by the linear coalescence of several cells; and this opinion is still maintained by some authorities. Recent researches, however, for the most part, tend to establish the view originally, I believe, promulgated by Remak, viz., that the fibres are pro- duced by the elongation of single cells, with differentiation of their contents and multiplication of their nuclei ; and Dr. Wilson Fox, who has quite lately investigated the process in the tadpole, the chick, and the mammalian embryo, at very early stages, has arrived at the same conclusion.* Dr. Fox finds that the first elements of the muscular fibres are rounded or oval cells, with a clear nucleus and granular contents, agreeing in all respects with the cells of which the parts of the embryo body originally consist. To form a muscular fibre, a cell elongates, often with pointed ends; the nucleus Fig. LXXII.—Mus- cular Fibres from the Heart, magnified, show- ing their cross- stri.e, divisions and junctions (from Kolliker). * Phil. Trans. 1866, p. 101.