ULNAR ARTERY. 390 branch communicates with the inferior profunda, the anastomotic," and, over the olecranon, likewise with the interosseous recurrent. Fig. 274.—View of the Anas- tomoses op Arteries near the Elbow-Joint : A, from BEFORE ; B, FROM BEHIND (from R. Quain). ^ A. a, brachialis anticus mus- cle ; b, external condyloid eminence covered by the supi- nator radii brevis and the anas- tomoses of the superior profunda and radial recurrent arteries ; c, ulnar nerve ; d, median nerve; e, muscalo-spiral nerve; e', its posterior interosseous branch: its radial branch is cut ; /, oblique line of the radius; 1, brachial artery ; 2, radial artery ; 3, ulnar artery ; 4, inferior profunda; 5, anas- tomotic ; 6, anterior ulnar re- current anostomosing with the anterior descending branches of the anastomotic ; 7, posterior ulnar recurrent passing up be- hind the inner condyloid emi- nence to anastomose with the inferior profunda and posterior branch of the anastomotic ; 8, spiral branch of the superior profunda; 9, placed on the tendon of the biceps muscle, points to the radial recurrent artery ; 10, 10, interosseous artery and its anterior branch, part of the brachialis anticus muscle ; b, external lateral ligament of the elbow-joint; c, ulnar nerve ; d, a small part of the musculo-spiral nerve; 1, superior profunda artery ; 2, its branch to the triceps muscle; 3, its spiral branch to the outer condyle ; 4, its anastomosis with the recurrent radial artery; 5, recurrent of the posterior interosseous artery, passing up to anastomose with the preceding and with the anasto- motic behind the joint; 6, inferior profunda ; 7, posterior branch of the anastomotic artery ; 8, anastomosis of the anastomotic and inferior profunda with the superior pro- funda and the posterior interosseous recurrent; 9, posterior ulnar recurrent artery passing up in the groove of the ulnar nerve to anastomose with the inferior profunda and anasto- motic. B. Interosseous Artery.—The interosseous or common interosseous artery, the next, and the largest branch of the ulnar, is a trunk of considerable size, about an inch in length, which arises below the bicipital tuberosity of the radius, beneath the flexor sublimis, and passes backwards to reach the upper border of the interosseous ligament, where it divides into the anterior and posterior interosseous arteries. The anterior interosseous descends upon the anterior surface of the inter- osseous ligament, accompanied by the interosseous branch of the median nerve and vense comites, and overlapped by the contiguous borders of the flexor profundus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis muscles. It continues its course directly downwards as far as the upper border of the pronator quadratus muscle, then pierces the interosseous ligament, and descends to the back of the carpus.