169 EPICRANIAL MUSCLES. of the occipito-frontal aponeuroses, or the cranial origin of the trapezius muscle. The principal aponeuroses of investment are those which incase the muscles of the limbs, binding them down in a common sheath, and connected in various places by septa with the bones. They are characteristic of the limbs, there being no structure entirely corresponding to them in the rest of the body. MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES. Epicranial Muscles.—Under the title of occipito-frontalis muscle are comprehended a pair of occipital and a pair of frontal muscles, together with a thin aponeurosis extending over the cranium, and uniting the anterior and posterior muscles together. a. The occipitalis muscle, thin and subcutaneous, is attached inferiorly by short tendinous fibres to the external two-thirds, sometimes much less, of the superior curved line of the occipital bone, and to the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, immediately above the attachment of the sterno- mastoid muscle. Its fleshy fibres, from one to two inches in length, are directed upwards, and terminate in distinct tendinous fibres, continuous with the epicranial aponeurosis. Between the muscles of opposite sides is an interval of variable size occupied by a part of that aponeurosis. b. The frontalis muscle, longer and broader and of a paler colour than the occipitalis, arises superiorly in a convex line from the epicranial aponeurosis, while inferiorly its innermost fibres are continuous with the pyramidalis nasi muscle, and the others are blended with the corrugator supercilii and with the orbicularis palpebrarum, as far outwards as the external orbital process of the frontal bone. The fibres are nearly vertical, running slightly inwards ; the margins of the right and left muscle are united for a short distance above the root of the nose, but are separated by an angular interval superiorly. c. The epicranial or occipito-frontal aponeurosis extends over the upper surface of the. cranium uniformly from side to side, without division. Pos- teriorly it is attached to the occipitales muscles, and to the protuberance and superior curved lines of the occipital bone, and anteriorly it terminates in the frontales muscles, while laterally it presents no distinct margin, but below the temporal ridge becomes thinner and less aponeurotic, and gives attachment to the superior and anterior auricular muscles. Its fibres are chiefly longitudinal, and are most distinctly tendinous where they give attachment to the occipitales muscles. Its outer surface is firmly bound to the skin by an abundant network of fibrous tissue, constituting the so- called superficial fascia, by the meshes of which the subcutaneous fat is divided into granules ; while its deep surface glides upon the subjacent peri- cranium, to which it is loosely adherent through the medium of a delicate connective tissue devoid of fat. Actions.—By the contraction of the whole occipito-frontalis muscle, the scalp is drawn, backwards, and the eyebrows elevated; by the contraction of the frontales muscles alone, the eyebrows are elevated, the scalp pulled forwards, and the skin of the forehead thrown into transverse wrinkles; by the contraction of the occipitales muscles alone, the scalp is* drawn backwards; and by the alternate action of the occipitales and frontales muscles, the scalp is moved backwards and forwards. In