xcviii BONE. lamellae presents a corresponding appearance, for as the fibres run more or less obliquely to the axis of the bone, they present cut ends in a longitudinal section also. It thus appears that the animal basis of bone is made up of lamellae com- posed of fine reticular fibres ; but interposed among these lamellse, layers are here and there met with of a different character, viz. :— 1. Strata of amorphous or granular aspect, in which the lacunae are very conspicuous and regularly arranged, and sometimes appearing as if sur- rounded by faintly-defined areolae. These generally incomplete layers often terminate by a scolloped border as if made up of confluent round or oval bodies ; this is indicated also by the occasional occurrence of oval or flattened spheroidal bodies singly or in small groups near the border of these layers, each with a cavity, apparently a lacuna, in the centre. In fact, if the round bodies shown in figure xlviii. had a central vacuity, they would very well represent the objects here referred to. In some parts the granular substance is obscurely fibrous, and transitions may be observed to the well-marked reticular laminae. The layers described principally occur, so far as I have been able to observe, near the surface of the compact tissue, and at the circumference of many of the systems of concentric Haver- sian lamellae." 2. Irregular layers of rounded bodies, apparently solid and without central cavity or mark, well represented in figure xlviii., which is after a drawing from nature by Dr. A. Thomson. I have hitherto met with these layers chiefly near the surface of the shaft of long bones, lying among the circum- ferential laminae, and, so far as I can observe, forming only part of a circuit. They can occasionally be recognised in a transverse section as short curvilinear bands of peculiar aspect, broader in the middle and thinning away at the ends, appearing here and there between the cut edges of two ordinary circumferential laminae. The appearances described under 1 and 2, and especially the last, as represented in fig. XLVIII., suggest the notion of irregular layers of spheroidal bodies, some single, but mostly confluent in groups, adherent to the subjacent surface; and one is especially tempted to this belief by the account given by Gegenbaur * of the deposition of osseous matter in growing bone at certain points in the form of oval or spheroidal globules, which in size and aspect would sufficiently answer to the objects above described. Nevertheless I incline rather to the explanation offered by Professor C. Loven, of Stockholm, to whom I showed the figure and specimens; viz., that the surface covered apparently with globular bodies, single or in botryoidal groups, is really a cast in relief from a contiguous surface of bone that has been excavated by absorption. It is known that in the growth of a bone absorption occurs at various parts, and is often followed by fresh ossific deposition ; as, for example, in the excavation and subsequent filling up of the Haversian spaces. The absorption in such cases is a healthy process, but the absorbed surface is, as in absorption from disease, eroded or scooped out into sinuous hollows, the larger of which are again carved on the inside into smaller rounded pits. New osseous matter deposited on such a surface fills up its hollows, and when the new layer is detached, it exhibits a raised impression corresponding with them.f * Jenaische Zeitschrift fur Medizin und Naturwissenschaft. Vol. 1. p. 353. + Two observations which I have had occasion to make favour this explanation. A cross section of a (large) serpent's rib shows an outer and an inner series of concentric lamellse surrounding the medullary canal, and the inner trenches on the outer by a festooned border such as often bounds a series of Haversian rings. Now, in the decalcified rib, it is easy to peel off the inner from the outer layers, and the detached surface of the former shows a number of oval eminences, some with one, others with two, three, or more lacunae in their substance ; whilst what was the contiguous surface of the outer layers has exca- vations that correspond. Again, in the grinding tooth of the horse, the surface of the