CILIATED EPITHELIUM. Iviii Fig. XXVII. Fig. XXVII.—Cells op Intestinal Epi- thelium op Rabbit, treated with water; magnified 350 diameters. 1 and 2 show striated or porous border, somewhat swollen by imbibition; a, &, pellucid drops of mucus which have escaped from the cells (from Kolliker). way by which it might be conveyed from the cells into the lacteal vessels; but hitherto the search has not been successful. The alleged communication of the cells in question with lacteal vessels, through the intermedium of connective-tissue corpuscles, rests on no sufficient evi- dence. It is true that processes, like roots, have in some cases been observed running down from columnar cells into the subjacent tissue, and in the epithe- lium of the olfactory membrane these radical processes are long and ramified; but the connection of these prolongations with connective-tissue corpuscles is as yet a matter of presumption only; although there is proof of such con- nection in the case of some ciliated epithelium cells ; and it is material to ob- serve that the intestinal epithelium, when examined fresh and without the aid of condensing reagents, shows no such processes. The particles of columnar epithelium are undoubtedly subject to shedding and renovation ; but although various suppositions have been hazarded as to the mode in which this is effected, it must be admitted that no satisfactory account has been given of the process. According to Donders and Kolliker, the columnar cells on the villi appear occasionally to cast off a part from their upper end, with subsequent repara- tion of the loss. That is, a cell enlarges and a second nucleus appears; the upper and broader part, with one nucleus and much of the cell contents, separates, and the lower remaining portion, with its nucleus, grows again to the natural size. The extruded portion is supposed to become a mucus-corpuscle. Spheroidal Epithelium.—In this variety, the cells for the most part retain their primitive roundness, or, being flattened where they touch, acquire a polyhedral figure, in which no one dimension remarkably predominates. Hence the above term was applied to this form of epithelium by Mr. Bowman. But in some places the cells show a tendency to lengthen into columns and in others to flatten into tables, especially when this epithelium approaches the confines of one or other of the preceding varieties ; in such cases it has been named transitional; moreover, when the scaly and columnar varieties border upon one another, the figure of their particles is gradually changed, presenting various intermediate forms ; in other words, the epithelium there puts on the transitional character, though it may be only for a very small space. The spheroidal epithelium is found in the excretory ducts of the mammary, perspiratory, and of many mucous glands, and a modification of the spheroidal epithelium lines the inmost secreting cavities, or commencing ducts of glands generally (fig. xxviii.). In this last- mentioned situation, where it is sometimes dis- tinguished by the name of glandular epithelium, the nucleated cells contain a large proportion of fine granular matter ; in some cases even, the peculiar ingredients of the secretion may be recognised in them ; and it is conceived, that they have a considerable share in preparing or separating these matters from the blood. Ciliated Epithelium.—In this form of epithelium, the particles, which are Fig. XXVIII. Fig. XXVIII.—Cells from the Liver magnified (Dr. Baly).