474 LOWER VENA CAVA. abdominal ring there are numerous convoluted branches forming the spermatic plexus (plexus pampiniform is). These branches gradually unite, and form a single vessel, which opens on the right side into the lower vena cava, and on the left into the renal vein. The spermatic veins sometimes bifurcate before their termination, each division opening separately ; in this case, the veins of the right side may be found communicating with the vena cava and the renal vein. In the female the ovarian veins have the same general course as the ovarian arteries ; they form a plexus near the ovary (ovarian or pampiniform plexus) in the broad ligament, and communicate with the uterine plexus. Valves exist in the spermatic veins in man (Monro) ; and, in exceptional cases, they have been also seen in the ovarian veins (Theile). d. —The renal or emulgent veins are short, but of very considerable size. That of the left side is longer than that of the right, and passes in front of the aorta. They join the vena cava at nearly a right angle. The renal veins usually receive branches from the suprarenal capsules ; the left has also opening into it the spermatic vein of the same side. e. —The capsular or suprarenal veins, though actually small, are, relatively to the organs from which they arise, of considerable size. On the right side the vein ends in the vena cava, and on the left in the renal or phrenic vein. /. —The phrenic veins follow exactly the course of the arteries supplied to the diaphragm by the abdominal aorta. g.—The hepatic veins return from the liver the blood sent to that organ by the portal vein and hepatic artery. They converge to the groove in which the inferior vena cava lies, and pass at once obliquely into that vein. There are usually three sets of hepatic veins proceeding to this common point : those from the right and left lobes are oblique in their direction, those from the middle of the liver and the lobule of Spigelius have an intermediate position and course. The hepatic veins have no valves ; but, awing to their oblique entrance into the vena cava, a semi-lunar fold is seen at the lower border of the orifice of each vein. Peculiarities.—The lower vena cava presents some occasional deviations from its ordinary condition, which may be briefly noticed. In the lower part of its course, it is sometimes placed to the left side of the aorta, and, after receiving the left renal vein, resumes its ordinary position by crossing over the great artery. Less frequently, the vena cava is placed altogether on the left side, and is continued upwards to the heart, without any change in its direction: this occurs in cases of transposition of the thoracic and abdominal viscera and of the great vessels. In a more numerous class of cases, the left common iliac vein, instead of joining the right in its usual position, is connected with it only by a small branch, and then ascends on the left side of the aorta. After receiving the left renal vein, it crosses over the aorta, and terminates by uniting with the common iliac vein of the right side. In these cases, the vena cava inferior can be said to exist only at the upper part of the abdomen, and below this point there is a vein on each side of the aorta. Lastly, the lower vena cava, instead of ending in the right auricle of the heart, has been seen to join the right azygos vein, which is then very large ; so that the blood from the lower, as well as from the upper part of the body, is returned to the heart through the upper vena cava. In this case, the hepatic veins do not join the lower cava, but pass directly into the right auricle, at the usual place of termination of the great vein. The left renal vein has been seen to cross behind the aorta. In a remarkable case, observed by Rothe, one of the hepatic veins ended, not in