MUSCULAR FIBRES. cxix mediate pellucid substance in very sparing quantity ; they may be partially separated and spread out by breaking across a fibre, aud gently bruising the broken end, as at c (fig. lx.), or by splitting up its substance with fine needles ; aud the separation is facilitated by previous immersion of the muscle for some time in alcohol or in a weak solution of chromic acid, Fig. LXII. which either strengthens the fibrils, or, by acting on the uniting substance, weakens their lateral cohesion. But whilst iu this way the fibrillar struc- ture is made apparent, and the fibre may be split up into fine bundles or skeins of fibrils (fig. lxi. b), and threads apparently single may be detached, yet it is by no means easy to say wheu we thus arrive at an insulated ultimate fibril. A thread so separated (fig. lxi. b, c) when viewed in proper focus with a magnifying power of 400 or 600, appears to consist of a row of dark quadrangular particles, named sarcous elements by Mr. Bow- man, with bright intervals between them, as if they were connected by some pellucid substance of less refractive power. For the most part also a dark line may be discovered passing across the middle of each bright space. I am disposed, however, to think that the filaments thus described consist of more than one ultimate fibril ; for I have now and then seen in specimens of human muscle treated with chromic acid, a finer filament (as at d, fig. lxi.) lying alongside one or more of those above described, and, whether itself an ultimate fibril or not, showing at least that those with the quadrangular particles are composite. In such a fine fibril the dark sarcous elements, whilst agreeing in length with those alongside, are slender, rod-shaped, or linear in figure ; and in the middle of the bright intervals between them there is a dark point. In short the fibril looks like a line regularly broken at short distances, with a dot in each of the breaks. From this it may be inferred that the greater breadth of the quadrangular particles is caused by the lateral apposition of several rod-shaped particles ; and it is plain that the appearance of a dark line in the bright interval is produced by a transverse range of the intervening dots. This account corresponds very much with what is seen on a larger scale in the mus- cular fibres of insects, by which I do not mean the fine, naturally separated, fibres of the thoracic muscles, sometimes taken for fibrils, but the larger fibres, in which fibrils answering to the above description are readily separable. In these, the rather long rod-shaped sarcous elements, of which the fibrils consist, give a fluted character to the broad cross stripes or bands which, by mutual apposition, they produce in the fibre (fig. lxiii). The intermediate dotted line was long since noticed by Busk and Huxley, and was considered by them to be produced, most probably, by the interposition of a row of minute sarcous elements; but, as they justly observe, it is not invariably present. Cause of the stripes, and cleavage into disks. —When the fibrillse lie undis- turbed in the fibre, the elementary particles of collateral fibrils are situated in the same transverse plane, and it is to this lateral coaptation of the particles that the transverse striping of the fibre is due. (See fig. lxiv.) Accordingly, the cross stripes are not confined to the surface of the fibre, but may be seen throughout its entire thickness on successively deepening the focus of the microscope. The fibres, moreover, when treated with certain reagents (such as very dilute hydrochloric acid), show a tendency to i 2