COAGULATION. xlv speedy aggregation of the corpuscles ; it is well know, indeed, that blood may be made to show a buffy coat by delaying its coagulation, but buffed inflammatory blood is not necessarily slow in coagulating. Circumstances affecting Coagulation.—Various causes accelerate, retard, or entirely prevent the coagulation of the blood ; of these it will here suffice to indicate the more important and best ascertained. 1. Temperature.—Cold delays, and at or below 40 degrees Fahr. wholly suspends, coagulation ; but even frozen blood, when thawed and heated again, will coagulate. Moderate elevation of temperature above that of the body promotes coagulation. 2. Coagulation is accelerated by contact of the blood with foreign matter, such as the sides of the basin or other vessel into which it is drawn. On the other hand, the maintenance of its fluidity is favoured by retention within its vessels or natural receptacles where it is in contact with the natural tissues of the body ; but when the coats of the vessels or other tissues, with which the blood is contiguous, lose their vitality and are altered in their properties, they become as foreign bodies, and coagulation is promoted. The usual exposure of drawn blood to the air promotes coagula- tion, but according to Lister, by no means so powerfully as has been hereto- fore generally understood. The effect of other gases is the same. Coagulation speedily takes place when blood is subjected to the air-pump, and has therefore been said to occur readily in vacuo, but Lister finds that this is owing to the agitation caused by the bubbling of the blood from the escape of liberated gas, whereby more and more of it is successively brought into contact with the sides of the vessel. 3. Arrest of the blood's motion within the body favours coagulation, probably by arresting those perpetual changes of material, both destructive and renovative, to which it is naturally subject in its rapid course through the system. The coagulation of the stagnant blood after death is also largely to be ascribed to the alteration then ensuing in the coats of the containing vessels. Lister found that, after death, blood remains longer fluid in the small veins than in the heart and great vessels ; and even in these the coagulation is usually slow. Agitation of exposed blood accelerates coagulation by in- creasing its exposure to foreign contact. 4. Water, in a proportion not exceeding twice the bulk of the blood, hastens coagulation ; a larger quantity retards it. Blood also coagulates more speedily when the serum is of low specific gravity, indicative of much water in proportion to the saline ingredients. 5. Almost every substance that has been tried, except the caustic alkalies, when added to the blood in minute proportion, hastens its coagulation ; although many of the same substances, when mixed with it in somewhat larger quantity, have an opposite effect. The salts of the alkalies and earths, added in the proportion of two or three per cent, and upwards, retard, and, when above a certain quantity, suspend or prevent coagulation ; but, though the process be thus suspended, it speedily ensues on diluting the mixture with water. Caustic potash and soda permanently destroy the coagulability of the blood. Acids delay or prevent coagulation. Opium, extract of belladonna, and many other medicinal agents from the vegetable kingdom, are said to have a similar effect when mixed with the blood ; but the statements of experimenters by no means entirely agree respecting them. 6. Certain states of the system.—Faintness occasioned by loss of blood favours coagulation ; states of excitement are said to have, though not