STRUCTURE. cxcix stance of the membrane in which these parts lie is constructed of the variety of connective tissue known as cytogenous or retiform (p. lxxix, fig. xxxvni.), which is formed of ramified and reticularly connected corpuscles, with or without nuclei persistent at the points whence the branches divaricate ; and in the meshes of this tissue is con- tained a profusion of granular bodies having all the characters of pale blood- or lymph-corpuscles. This structure (fig. cvi.), which prevails in the mucous membrane of the stomach and intes- tines, both large and small, is some- times named lymphoid tissue from its resemblance to the interior tissue of the lymphatic glands and of other bodies belonging to or supposed to belong to the lymphatic system, and especially those known as the solitary and agminated glands of the alimen- tary mucous membrane. The tissue forming the last-named bodies, indeed, is often continuous with the lymphoid tissue in their vicinity. The deepest layer of the alimentary mucous mem- brane, from the commencement of the cesophagus downwards, is formed throughout by non-striated muscular tissue, and is named muscularis mucosce. This lies next to the submucous tissue, and consists of bundles running in many parts both longitudinally and circularly, in others in one of these directions only. Prolongations from it pass up between the glands to be distributed in the villi. The free surface of the mucous membranes is in some parts plain, but in others is beset with little eminences named papillae and villi. The papillce. are best seen on the tongue ; they are small processes of the corium, mostly of a conical or cylindrical figure, containing blood-vessels and nerves, and covered with epithelium. Some are small and simple, others larger and compound or cleft into secondary papillae. They serve various purposes ; some of them no doubt minister to the senses of taste and touch, many appear to have chiefly a mechanical office, while others would seem intended to give greater extension to the surface of the corium for the production of a thick coating of epithelium. The villi are most fully developed on the mucous coat of the small intestines. Being set close together like the pile or nap of cloth, they give to the parts of the membrane which they cover the aspect usually denominated "villous." They are in reality little elevations or processes of the superficial part of the corium, covered with epithelium, and containing blood-vessels and lacteals, which are thus favour- ably disposed for absorbing nutrient matters from the intestine. The more detailed description of the papilla) and villi belongs to the special anatomy of the parts where they occur. In some few portions of the mucous membrane the surface is marked with fine ridges which intersect each other in a reticular manner, and thus o 2 Fig. CVI. Fig. CVI. — Lymphoid or Retiform Tissue of the Intestinal Mucous Membrane of the Sheep (from Frey). Magnified 400 diameters. Cross section of a small fragment of the mucous membrane, including one entire crypt of Lierberkiihn and parts of several others : a, cavity of the tubular glands or crypts ; b, one of the lining epithelial cells; c, the lymphoid or reti- form spaces, of which some are empty, and others occupied by lymph-cells as at d.