Ivii COLUMNAR EPITHELIUM. throughout, but are, more frequently, smaller or even pointed at their lower or attached extremity, and broader at the upper (fig. xxv. a). They are mostly flattened on their sides, by which they are in mutual apposition, at least in their upper and broaded part, and have, therefore, so far a prismatic figure, their broad flat ends appearing at the surface of the epithelium in form of little polygonal areas (fig. xxv. b). The nucleus, usually oval, and containing a nucleolus, is placed near the middle of the column, and is often so large in proportion to the cell, as to cause a bulging at that part ; in which case the height of the nucleus differs in contiguous columns, the better to allow of mutual adaptation. This variety of epithelium is confined to mucous membranes. It is found in the stomach ; on the mucous membrane of the intestines in its whole extent ; in the whole length of the urethra, except a small part at the orifice. It extends along the ducts of the greater number of glands, whether large or small, which open on the mu- cous membrane, but not through their entire length ; for, at their extremities, these ducts have for the most part an epithelium of a different character. It covers also the inner membrane of the gall-bladder. In these different situations the cells form but a single layer. On the proper olfactory region of the nasal mucous membrane there is a modification of the columnar epithelium, in which the cells, tinged with brownish yellow pigment, are associated with the terminations of the olfactory nerves, and present other peculiarities, which will be noticed in the special description of the organ of smelling. The substance ordinarily contained in the columnar cells has a faintly granular aspect, and consists chiefly of mucus, which is no doubt produced in the cell. Under exposure to water this mucus swells up and escapes in form of a pellucid drop (fig. xxvn., a, b). During digestion of food containing oil or fat, the cells of the intestinal epithelium are often found to be filled with minute fat-molecules; as if they had some part to perform in the absorption of that aliment. The wall of the cell forming the basis or free end is comparatively thick (fig. xxvi., a), and is marked by fine parallel lines running perpendicular to the surface (fig. xxvn., 1, 2). The thick, striated border is superadded, as it were, to the thin proper wall forming the base of the cell, and is regarded by Kolliker, who first pointed out its striated character, as an excreted product of the cell, deposited upon its outer surface, as occurs in the cuticular structures of many of the inferior animals. As to the striation, it might no doubt be produced by a fine columnar or fibrous structure, but most observers agree with Kolliker in ascribing it to fine tubular passages perforating the cell-wall; and it is further supposed that such porous structure would account for the assumption of fat-molecules or other minutely divided matters into the cell, and may be subservient to an absorptive function in cells so constituted. It must be stated, however, that a thickened striated border has been since observed in various other epithelium cells which are not so obviously connected with the function of absorption, such as those lining the biliary and urinary passages, and the parotid and pancreatic ducts. As fat, in a state of minute division, is undoubtedly taken into the epithelium cells of the intestinal villi and disappears from them again, it was natural to look for some Fig. XXVI. Fig. XXVI.—Epithelium from intestinal villus of a Rabbit ; magnified 3u0 dia- meters. a, Thick border (from Kolliker).