ARTERIES. clxvii occupies an intermediate position between the origin and termination of each, and the capillaries connect the dark and the red set of vessels together at their extremities, and serve as the channels through which the blood passes from the one part of the sanguiferous system to the other, and in which it undergoes its alternate changes of colour, since it becomes dark as it traverses the systemic capillaries and red again in passing through those of the lungs. ARTERIES. These vessels were so named from the notion that they naturally contain air. This error which had long prevailed in the schools of medicine was refuted by Galen, who showed that the vessels called arteries, though for the most part found empty after death, really contain blood in the living body. Mode of Distribution.—The arteries usually occupy protected situations ; thus after coming out of the great visceral cavities of the body they run along the limbs on the aspect of flexion, and not upon that of extension where they would be more exposed to accidental injury. As they proceed in their course the arteries divide into branches, and the division may take place in different modes. An artery may at once resolve itself into two or more branches, no one of which greatly exceeds the rest in magnitude, or it may give off several branches in succession and still maintain its character as a trunk. The branches come off at different angles, most commonly so as to form an acute angle with the further part of the trunk, but sometimes a right or an obtuse angle, of which there are examples in the origin of the intercostal arteries. The degree of deviation of a branch from the direction of the trunk was supposed to affect the force of the stream of blood, but Weber maintains, that it can produce little or no effect in a system of elastic tubes maintained, like the arteries, in a state of distension. An artery, after a branch has gone off from it, is smaller than before, but usually continues uniform in diameter or cylindrical until the next secession; thus it was found by Mr. Hunter that the long carotid artery of the camel does not diminish in calibre throughout its length. A branch of an artery is less than the trunk from which it springs, but the combined area or collective capacity of all the branches into which an artery divides, is greater than the calibre of the parent vessel immediately above the point of division. The increase in the joint capacity of the branches over that of the trunk is not in the same proportion in every instance of division, and there is at least one case known in which there is no enlargement, namely, the division of the aorta into the common iliac and sacral arteries ; still, notwithstanding this and other possible exceptions, it must be admitted as a general rule that an enlargement of area takes place. From this it is plain, that as the area of the arterial system increases as its vessels divide, the capacity of the smallest vessels and capillaries will be greatest, and as the same rule applies to the veins, it follows that the arterial and venous systems may be represented, as regards capacity, by two cones whose apices (truncated it is true) are at the heart, and whose bases are united in the capillary system. The effect of this must be to make the blood move more slowly as it advances along the arteries to the capillaries, like the current of a river when it flows in a wider and deeper channel, and to accelerate its speed as it returns from the capillaries to the venous trunks. When arteries unite they are said to anastomose or inosculate. Anasto- m 2