NERVOUS SYSTEM. clvi An analogous arrangement is described by Axel Key as discoverable in the fungi- form papillae of the frog's tongue. Among non-ciliated columnar epithelium cells are fusiform gustatory cells, having, like the olfactory cells, fine rod-like processes reaching to the surface, and slender, varicose, central filaments, which seem to be continuous with pale fibrils, into which the axis-cylinder of the gustatory nerve- fibres finally divides; and in such way that one axis cylinder may be connected with several cells. d. In epithelium.—Hoyer believes he has seen fine, pale filaments continued from the plexus of the cornea into the epithelium covering its anterior surface, where they appeared to pass between the cells. Von Heusen describes and figures exquisitely fine filaments connected with the nucleoli of epithelium cells on the tadpole's tail. He finds evidence to satisfy him that their filaments are continued from the cutaneous nerves, which he therefore conceives to run out into epithelium cells as their terminal organs, and end in the nucleoli. e. In glands.—The termination of nerves in secreting glands will be most conve- niently given in the account of the structure of these organs. In the meantime it may be stated that Pfluger has traced nerve fibres to the nuclei of the cells which line the terminal saccules of the salivary glands, Termination of nerves in muscles :— A. In plain or unstriped muscle.—Dr. Beale, and, after him, Dr. Klebs, have described the nerves of the muscular coat of the frog's bladder as finally distributed in networks of pale fibres, with nuclei. The networks are at first coarser, with larger grey fibres made up of coalesced fibrils (fibrillar fibres), and from these proceed finer bundles and single fibrils, forming closer reticulations, constituting the intra-muscular plexus, which is disposed among the muscular fasciculi and fibre-cells. A more inti- mate relation to the latter could not be traced with certainty, although Klebs met with a single instance of a nerve-fibril entering a muscular fibre-cell. The nerves distributed to the middle or muscular coat of the arteries are, according to Beale, dis- posed in a similar plexiform manner; and Julius Arnold has since found a terminal pale nervous network of the same kind in the iris of the rabbit. B. In voluntary muscle, a. By Plexuses.—As mentioned in the account of the muscular tissue, the nerves in the voluntary muscles form plexuses, of which the branches grow finer and the meshes closer as they advance further into the tissue. The individual fibres, while still associated in small bundles, undergo division (fig. lxxxv.), and at length single dark-bordered fibres pass ofF to the muscular fibres. These nerve-fibres on approaching or reaching a muscular fibre divide still further. As to their ulterior and final distribution, there is great divergence in the statements of very able observers. Beale and Kolliker agree in opinion that the fibres lose their dark borders and run further on as pale fibres, which do not penetrate the sarcolemma. Dr. Beale describes these pale fibres, in the mouse and frog, as distributed in a fine network, bearing nuclei, adhering to, but outside, the sarcolemma, and extending over a great length of the muscular fibre. Kolliker, whose observations were made on the frog, found the fibres apparently to terminate by free ends; at the same time, having seen, here and there, indications, although imperfect, of a fine network, such as he had observed in the electric organ of the torpedo, he is not disposed to exclude the possibility of such mode of termination. b. By terminal organs.—Since the publication of Beale and Kolliker's observations, a very different account has been given by Rouget—namely, that the muscular nerves end in peculiar terminal organs, which have been named the motorial end-plates, to be seen on the muscular fibres, and his account has been in the main confirmed by various contemporary observers, although some important authorities still hold to a different view. The end-plates are described as small lamelliform objects, of an oval or irregular, and often deeply indented outline; their size varies from ^m to ^ of an inch, according to the size of the muscular fibre, of which the plate may embrace one-third, or more, of the circumference. There is a question whether these organs are situated without or within the sarcolemma. W. Krause, who adopts the former view, describes the end plate as consisting of a thin lamina of connective tissue, attached by its oval or irregular border to the sarcolemma, with clear non-granular nuclei in it, and a finely granular matter underneath, between it and the sarcolemma, in which the axis- cylinder of the nerve-fibre ends, inform of one, or sometimes more, short pale fibres, with free andswollen extremities; whilst themedullary sheath ceases, and the primitive sheath