BLOOD-VESSELS. clxxiv Other veins present peculiarities of structure, especially in respect of muscularity. 1. The striated muscular fibres of the auricles of the heart are prolonged for some way on the adjoining part of the venae cavas and pulmonary veins. 2. The plain muscular tissue is largely developed in the veins of the gravid uterus, and is described as being present in all three coats. 3. On the other hand, muscular tissue* is wanting in the following veins, viz., a, those of the maternal part of the placenta; b, most of the veins of the brain and pia mater; c, the veins of the retina; d, the venous sinuses of the dura mater; e, the cancellar veins of the bones ; /, the venous spaces of the corpora cavernosa. In most of these cases the veins consist merely of an epithelium and a layer or layers of connective tissue more or less developed; in the corpora cavernosa the epithelium is applied to the trabecular tissue. It may be added that in the thickness of their coats the superficial veins surpass the deep, and the veins of the lower limbs those of the upper. The coats of the veins are supplied with, nutrient vessels, vasa vasorum, in the same manner as those of the arteries. Nerves have not been demon- strated in the coats of veins generally, but small branches have been traced on some of the larger veins. Vital properties.—Veins, when in a healthy condition, appear to be almost devoid of sensibility. They possess vital contractility, which shows itself in the same manner as that of the arteries, but is greatly inferior in degree, and much less manifest. The muscular parts of the great veins, near the auricles of the heart, on being stimulated, in recently killed quadrupeds, exhibit quick and decided contractions, somewhat resembling those of the auricles themselves. Mr. "Wharton Jones has discovered a rhythmic pulsation in the veins of the bat's wing, the pulsation occurring from ten to twelve times in a minute ; and it is worthy of note that the muscular tissue of these veins appears to be of the plain or unstriped variety. Valves.—Most of the veins are provided with valves, a mechanical con- trivance beautifully adapted to prevent the reflux of the blood. The valves are formed of semilunar folds of the lining membrane, strengthened by included connective tissue, which pro- ject obliquely into the vein. Most commonly two such folds or flaps are placed opposite each other (fig. xcm. a) ; the convex border of each, which, according to Haller, forms a parabolical curve, is connected with the side of the vein ; the other edge is free, and points towards the heart, or at least in the natural direction of the current of the blood along the vessel, and the two flaps obliquely incline towards each other in this direction. Moreover, the wall of the vein immediately above (or nearer the heart than) the curved line of attachment of the valves, is dilated into a pouch or sinus on either side (fig. xcui. b a), so that when distended with blood or by artificial injection, the vessel bulges out on each side, and thus gives rise to the appearance of a knot or swelling wherever a valve is placed (as in fig. c). From the above description, it is plain that the valves are so directed as to offer no obstacle to the blood in its Fig. XCIII. A H3 C Fig. XCIII.—Diagrams showing Valves o? Veins. A. Part of a vein laid open and spread out, with two pairs of valves. B. Longitu- dinal section of a vein, showing the apposi- tion of the edges of the valves in their closed state. 0. Portion of a distended vein, ex- hibiting a swelling in the situation of a pair of valves.