THE BLOOD. xliv fibrin (or spontaneously coagulating matter), and does not form a true clot. The serum contains less albumen and fat, and much less saline, but more extractive matter. The hepatic venous blood, moreover, yields sugar, derived from glycogen, formed in the liver. The blood of the renal veins is said by Bernard and Brown Sequard not to coagu- late in the normal state of the kidney and its function, from which they infer that it contains little or no fibrin; but it may be that there is something present which prevents the two constituents of the fibrin from reacting on each other. COAGULATION" OF THE BLOOD. In explaining the constitution of the plasma, we have been obliged so far to anticipate the account of the coagulation of the blood. The following are the phenomena which usher in and which accompany this remarkable change. Immediately after it is drawn, the blood emits a sort of exhalation, the ci halitus " having a faint smell; in about three or four minutes a film appears on the surface, quickly spreading from the circumference to the middle ; a minute or two later the part of the blood in contact with the inside of the vessel becomes solid, then speedily the whole mass ; so that, in about eight or nine minutes after being drawn, the blood is completely gelatinised. At about fifteen or twenty minutes, or it may be much later, the jelly-like mass begins to shrink away from the sides of the vessel, and the serum to exude from it. The clot continues to contract, and the serum to escape for several hours, the rapidity and degree of the contraction varying exceedingly in different cases ; and, if the serum be poured off, more will usually continue to drain slowly from the clot for two or three days. The nature of the change which takes place in the coagulation of the blood has been already spoken of ; it is essentially owing to the coagulation of the liquor sanguinis, the fibrin being generated in that liquid by the con- currence of its two constituents in the way already explained, and separating in form of a solid mass, which involves the corpuscles but allows the serum to escape from it in greater or less quantity. But although the solidification of the fibrin and formation of a red clot would undoubtedly take place inde- pendently of any mechanical co-operation on the part of the corpuscles, still it must not be forgotten that the red disks are not altogether indifferent while coagulation goes on ; for they run together into rolls, as already described, and the circumstance of their doing so with greater or with less promptitude materially affects the result of the coagulating process. Thus there seems good reason to believe that, as H. Nasse has pointed out, one of the causes—and in inflammatory blood probably the chief cause—of the production of the buffy coat, is an exaltation of the natural tendency of the red disks to run together, whereby being more promptly and more closely aggregated into compact masses, they more speedily subside through the liquid plasma, leaving the upper part of it colourless by the time coagulation sets in ; and Mr. J ones has drawn attention to another influential circum- stance depending likewise on the corpuscles, in inflammatory blood, namely, the more rapid and close contraction of the network, or spongework as he terms it, into which the little rolls of corpuscles unite, and the consequent expulsion of the great part of the liquor sanguinis from its meshes before the fibrin solidifies, in which case the mass of aggregated corpuscles naturally tends to the lower part of the vessel, whilst the expressed plasma, being lighter, accumulates at the top. Of course it is not meant to deny that more tardy coagulation of the plasma would produce the same result as more