153 THE KNEE-JOINT. position: flexion is limited only by the contact of the neck of the femur with the acetabulum. The round ligament is put upon the stretch when the thigh is partially flexed and adducted; it therefore resists dislocation upwards and backwards on the dorsum ilii, which is, notwithstanding its presence, the most frequent kind of displacement. The round ligament is also put upon the stretch in the position of flexion and external rotation. THE KNEE-JOINT. The articular surfaces of this complicated joint are the condyles of the femur and tibia, with fibro-cartilages interposed, the articulating surface of the patella, and the patellar surface of the femur. The action is mainly that of a hinge-joint. The joint is strengthened superficially by fibrous coverings Fig. 140, A.—Right Knee-Joint, from the inside and anteriorly, i 1, tendon of the rectus muscle near its insertion into the patella; 2, insertion of the vastus internus into the rectus tendon and side of the patella ; 3, ligamentum patellae descending to the anterior tuberosity of the tibia ; 4, capsular fibres forming a lateral ligament of the patella prolonged in part from the insertion of the vastus internus down- wards towards the inner tuberosity of the tibia ; 5, internal lateral ligament of the knee- joint seen spreading on the internal semilunar cartilage ; 6, tendon of the semimembranosus muscle (after Arnold). Fig. 140, B.—Knee-Joint from behind. 1, insertion of the tendon of adductor magnus; 2, origio of the inner head of the gastro- cnemius muscle ; 3, outer head of the same; 4, cord-like external lateral ligament; 5, tendon of the popliteus muscle : a ligament descending from behind the outer condyle of the femur is seen attached to this tendon below, and another descending from the tendon is attached to the head of the fibula, constituting the short external lateral ligament; 6, part of internal lateral ligament; 7, tendon of the . semimembranosus muscle ; 8, pos- terior ligament of Winslow, spreading outwards from the tendon ; 9, expansion of the popliteal fascia downwards from the same, represented as cut short; 10, on the head of fibula, marks the posterior superior tibio-fibular ligament ; 11, upper part of the inter- osseous ligament, with the foramen above it for the anterior tibial artery.