exx MUSCULAR TISSUE. ment of the sarcous elements. In reference to this view I may observe that while it cleave across in a direction parallel to these stripes, and even break np into transverse plates or disks, which are formed by the lateral cohesion of the particles of adjacent fibrils. To make up such a disk, therefore, every fibril contributes a particle, which separates from those of its own fibril, but co- heres with its neigh- Fig. LXIII. A B bours on either side, and this with per- fect regularity. In- deed, Mr. Bowman conceives that the subdivision of a fibre into fibrillse is merely a phenome- non of the same kind, only of more common occurrence, the cleavage in the latter case taking place longitudinally instead of trans- Fig. LXIV. Fig. LXIII. A.—Portion OF A (rather small sized) Muscular Fibre, from a Water Beetle, magnified 730 diameters. a, a, dark cross bands formed by the apposition of slender rod-shaped sarcous elements; b, b, light stripes with inter- mediate line of dark specks ; at a', a', inclined position of rods, as here and there seen. B, a detached bundle of fibrils equally magnified. On one side an apparently single series of elongated sarcous elements, with intermediate dots, possibly a single fibril. itiumtiiiiii! miiiiHiiiiiji miiimiiiiBii iiiliiieiiiitii§ iiiiiisseiiiaiii| iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiij Fig. LXIV.—Diagram to show how the Stripes of Muscu- lar Fibre are pro- duced. versely : according- ly, he considers that the fibrillse have no existence as such in the fibre, any more than the disks ; but that both the one and the other owe their origin to the regular arrangement of the particles of the fibre longitudinally and transversely, whereby, on the appli- cation of a severing force, it cleaves in the one or in the other direction into regular segments. While some consider that the fibrils are composed throughout of the same substance, and that the alternation of dark and light portions is due to unimportant modifica- tions of it, others believe that the light and dark parts differ essentially in nature. In proof of this Briicke adduces observations to show that the dark parts, or sarcous elements, doubly refract the light (or are " anisotropic "), whilst the intermediate light substance is singly refractive (" isotropic "). Moreover, as the sarcous elements and the dark stripes formed by them are variable in size and position—the stripes being sometimes broad and widely apart, at other times narrow and closer together— Briicke infers that the dark, doubly-refracting, or anisotropic substance consists of an aggregation of undistinguishably minute, doubly-refracting molecules, named by him disdiaclasts, imbedded in the isotropic matter; which, by grouping together in various numbers and modes, give rise to the variations in the size, figure, and arrange-