NERVOUS SYSTEM. cxliv Courvoisier describes both fibres as acquiring a medullary sheath, the straight one first. He has found the above described structure in the ganglia of fish, birds, and mammals; but whilst in the frog the cell has never, or scarcely ever, more than one straight and very rarely more than one spiral fibre, he finds that in other vertebrates a cell may give off such twin fibres from two or more parts of its circumference. In the spinal ganglia of the skate, torpedo, and dog fish, there is a different arrangement. In these, as first pointed out by R. Wagner, two fibres are connected with each ganglion-cell, at opposite sides or opposite poles,—one directed centrally toward the root of the nerve, and the other outwardly towards its branches. CEREBROSPINAL NERVES. These are formed of the nerve-fibres already described, collected together and bound up in sheaths of connective tissue. A larger or smaller number of fibres inclosed in a tubular sheath form a slender round cord of no deter- minate size, usually named a funiculus ; if a nerve be very small it may consist of but one such cord, but in larger nerves several funi- culi are united together into one or more bundles, which, being wrapped up in a com- mon membranous covering con- stitute the nerve (fig. lxxxiv.). Accordingly, in dissecting a nerve, we first come to an out- ward covering, formed of con- nective tissue, often so strong and dense that it might well be called fibrous. From this common sheath we trace laminee passing inwards between the larger and smaller bundles of funiculi, and finally between the funiculi themselves, connecting them together as well as conducting and sup- porting the fine blood-vessels which are distributed to the nerve. But, besides the interposed areolar tissue which connects these smallest cords, each funi- culus has a special sheath of its own, as will be further noticed presently. The common sheath and its subdivisions consist of connective tissue, pre- senting the usual white and yellow constituent fibres of that texture, the latter being present in considerable proportion. The special sheaths of the funiculi, on the other hand, appear to be formed essentially of a fine trans- parent membrane, which may without difficulty be stripped off in form of a tube from the little bundle of nerve-fibres of which the funiculus consists. When examined with a high power of the microscope, this membrane presents the aspect of a thin transparent film, which in some parts appears to be quite simple and homogeneous, but is more generally marked with extremely fine reticulated fibres. Corpuscles resembling elongated cell- nuclei may also he seen upon it when acetic acid is applied. The tissue in- vesting a nerve and inclosing its proper fibres, as now described, is named the neurilemma, and the term is for the most part applied indiscriminately to the whole of the enveloping structure, though some anatomists use it to denote only the sheaths of the funiculi and smaller fasciculi, whilst they name the general external covering of the nerve its " cellular sheath " {vagina cellulosa). Some recent writers, believing that the primitive sheath or membranous tube of the nerve-fibre corresponds to the sarcolemma of muscle, have pro- posed to designate it as the neurilemma, and to use the term perineurium for the coarser sheathing of the nerves and nervous cords, to which the term Fig. LXXXIV. Fig. LXXXIV.—Portion of the Tkunk of a Nerve, CONSISTING OF MANY SMALLER CORDS OR F UNICULI WRAPPED UP IN A COMMON SHEATH. A, the nerve; b, a single funiculus drawn out from the rest (from Sir C. Bell).