EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 350 (b) The tonsillar branch, which ascends along the side of the pharynx, and pene- trating the superior constrictor of the pharynx, terminates in small vessels upon the tonsil and the side of the tongue near its root. (c) The glandular branches, a numerous series which enter the substance of the submaxillary gland, whilst the facial artery is in contact with it; and some of which are prolonged upon the side of the tongue. (d) The submental branch, the largest arising from the facial in the neck. Leaving the artery near the point at which it turns upwards to the face, it runs forwards below the base of the maxillary bone on the surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle and subjacent to the digastric. Giving branches in its course to the submaxillary gland and the muscles attached to the jaw, it approaches the symphysis of the chin and divides into two branches; one of these, running more superficially than the other, passes between the depressor muscle of the lower lip and the skin, supplying both ; while the other dips between that muscle and the bone, and ramifies in the substance of the lip, communicating with the inferior labial branch. B. Facial branches.—Of the branches derived from the facial artery upon the side of the face, some are directed outwards to the muscles, as to the masseter and buccinator, and require only to be indicated. Larger branches described with some detail are directed inwards, and are as follows :— (a) The inferior labial branch. This arises soon after the facial artery has turned over the lower border of the maxilla, and running forwards beneath the depressor anguli oris, distributes branches to the skin and the muscles of the lower lip, anasto- mosing with the inferior coronary and submental branches, and with the inferior dental branch of the internal maxillary artery. (b) The coronary artery of the lower lip. Arising near the angle of the mouth, as often in conjunction with the superior coronary as from the facial separately, this branch penetrates the muscular fibres surrounding the orifice of the mouth, takes a transverse and tortuous course between those fibres and the mucous membrane of the lip, and inosculates with the corresponding artery of the opposite side. Small twigs from it ascend to supply the orbicular and depressor muscles, the glands, and other structures of the lower lip ; whilst others descend towards the chin, and communicate there with other branches. (c) The coronary artery of the upper lip. Larger and more tortuous than the preceding branch, with which it often arises, this vessel runs across between the muscles and mucous membrane of the upper lip, and inosculates with its fellow of the opposite side. In addition to supplying the whole thickness of the upper lip, it gives two or three small branches to the nose. One of these, named the artery of the septum, runs along the lower border of the septum nasi, on which it ramifies as far as the point of the nose ; another reaches the ala of the nose. (d) The lateral nasal artery. This branch turns inwards to the side of the nose beneath the common elevator of the nose and lip, and sends branches to the ala and the dorsum of the nose. It anastomoses with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, with the artery of the septum nasi, and with the infra-orbital artery. (e) Angular artery. Under this name is recognised the terminal part of the facial artery, which inosculates at the inner side of the orbit with a terminal branch of the ophthalmic artery. Communication between the superficial and deep branches of the external carotid is established by the anastomoses of the facial artery with the infra-orbital, buccal, inferior dental, and nasal branches of the internal maxillary; and between the exter- nal and the internal carotids by the anastomosis of the facial with the ophthalmic arteries. Peculiarities.—Origin.—The facial artery not unfrequently arises by a common trunk with the lingual. Occasionally it arises above its usual position, and then descends beneath the angle of the jaw to assume its ordinary course. Size.—This artery varies much in size, and in the extent to which it is distributed. It has been observed, very rarely however, to end as the submental, not reaching the side of the face; in some cases it supplies the face only as high as the lower lip. The deficiency of the facial artery is most frequently compensated for by an enlarge-