THE SKIN. cci the mucous membrane which opens on the surface, and which may be simple, as in certain glands at the root of the tongue and in the pharynx, or complex and multilocular, as in the tonsils. On the hypothesis that these bodies are really secreting glands, it has been pre- sumed that they are occasionally opened by dehiscence for the discharge of their contents. According to another view they are dependencies of the lymphatic system, and there are various analogies and indications of relationship which might be adduced in favour of this opinion. On the other hand, it is not easy to see what special connection there can be between the lymphatic system and the collections of these bodies at the root of the tongue and in the tonsils, where, indeed, their presence is more reconcileable with the notion of their being secreting organs; in short, it must be confessed that the question as to their function has still to be answered. Nerves.—The mucous membranes are supplied with nerves, and endowed with sensibility ; but the proportion of nerves which they receive, as well as the degree of sensibility which they possess, differs very greatly in different parts. As to the mode of distribution and termination of their nerves, there is nothing to be said beyond what has been already stated in treating of the nerves in general. Secretion.—Mucus is a more or less viscid, transparent, or slightly turbid fluid, of variable consistency. It is somewhat heavier than water, though expectorated mucus is generally prevented from sinking in that liquid by entangled air-bubbles. Examined with the microscope, it is found to consist of a fluid, containing solid particles of various kinds, viz., 1. Epithelium-particles detached by desquamation; 2. Mucus- corpuscles, which are bodies resembling much the pale corpuscles of the blood ; 3. Granules and molecules occasionally. The viscidity of mucus depends on the liquid part, which contains a peculiar substance, named by the chemists mucin. This ingredient is precipitated and the mucus rendered turbid by the addition of water or a weak acid, but it may be partly redissolved in an excess of water, and completely so in a strong acid. This mucin is soluble in alkalies, and its acid solutions are not precipitated by ferrocyanide of potassium. Little can, of course, be expected from a chemical analysis of a heterogeneous and inseparable mixture of solid particles with a liquid solution, such as we find in mucus, which is, moreover, subject to differences of quality according to the part of the mucous membrane whence it is derived. Examined thus in the gross, however, the nasal mucus has been found to yield water, mucin, alcohol-extract with alkaline lactates, water-extract with traces of albumen and a phosphate, chlorides of sodium and potassium, and soda. Fat has been obtained by analysis of pulmonary mucus, reputed healthy. Regeneration.—The reparatory process is active in the mucous membranes. Breaches of continuity occasioned by sloughing, ulceration, or other causes, readily heal. The steps of the process have been examined with most care in the healing of ulcers of the large intestine, and in such cases it has been found that the resulting cicatrix becomes covered with epithelium, but that the tubular follicles are not re- produced. THE SKIN. The skin consists of the cutis vera or corium, and the cuticle or epidermis. The epidermis, cuticle, or scarf-skin, belongs to the class of epithelial struc- tures, the general nature of which has been already considered. It forms a protective covering over every part of the true skin, and is itself quite in- sensible and non-vascular. The thickness of the cuticle varies in different parts of the surface, measuring in some not more than g-j^h, and in others from -g^th to TLth of an inch. It is thickest in the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, where the skin is much exposed to pressure, and it is not