MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 226 The flexor brevis pollicis arises by two heads, a superficial and a deep. The superficial head is attached to the outer two-thirds of the annular Fig. 186. Fig. 186.—Muscles and Tendons of the PALMAR ASPECT OP THE HAND. £ A portion of the tendons of the superficial flexor has been cut away to show those of the deep flexor and the lumbricales. 1, tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, cut short near the place where it enters the canal in the outer attachment of the annular ligament of the carpus ; 2, tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, inserted into the pisiform bone ; 3, anterior annular ligament of the carpus ; 4, abductor pollicis ; 5, opponens pollicis; 6, 6, flexor brevis ; 7, adductor pollicis ; 8, abductor minimi digiti; 9, flexor brevis minimi digiti; 10, lumbricales, passing to their insertion on the radial side of the four fingers. ligament and to the os magnum : the deep head is attached to the os trape- zoides and os magnum, to the sheath of the flexor carpi radialis and to the bases of the second and third meta- carpal bones. From the superficial and deep heads of origin two strong masses of fibres which, becoming tendinous, are attached to the outer and inner sesamoid bones respectively, and are inserted into the sides of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb ; the outer head is also joined by a con- siderable fasciculus from the deeper origin ; the inner head is inserted con- jointly with the adductor pollicis. The two tendons of insertion, with the sesa- Fig. 187. — Deep Muscles of the Palm of the Hand. | The abductor pollicis and abductor minimi digiti, together with the anterior annular ligament and the long flexor tendons in the palm, have been removed ; in the forefinger the tendons of both the superficial and deep flexors remain ; in the other fingers the ten- dons of the superficial flexor have been removed. 1, pronator quadratus muscle; 2, opponens pollicis ; <3, flexor brevis pollicis ; 4, adductor pollicis; 5, opponens minimi digiti; 6, unciform bone ; 7, 8, interosseous muscles. moid bones, play over the grooved surfaces of the first metacarpal bone. The tendon of the long flexor lies between the heads of origin, and grooves the surface of the muscle as it passes between the tendons of insertion. The adductor pollicis arises from the anterior two-thirds of the palmar surface of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger, and is inserted into the