THE PERICARDIUM. 301 Fig. 226. Fig. 226.—Semi-diagrammatic View op the Pericardium from behind, designed to show the principal inflections of the serous sao round the great Vessels. ^ The drawing is taken from a preparation in which the heart and vessels had been partially filled by injection, the pericardium inflated and dried in the distended state, and the fibrous continuation on the vessels removed. By the removal of a portion of the pericardium from behind the right and left cavities of the heart, the position of that organ is made apparent. A bent probe is passed within the pericardium from behind the right auricle in front of the vena cava inferior to the back of the left ventricle, which may indicate the place where the large undivided sac of the pericardium is folded round that vein. A, posterior surface of the right aui-icle ; A', the same of the left; V, right ventricle ; V, left ventricle ; Ao, the upper and back part of the aortic arch ; b, innomi- nate artery ; C, vena cava superior ; az, azygos vein ; C, vena cava inferior between the diaphragm and its union with the right auricle ; c", great coronary vein ; +, cord of the ductus arteriosus ; P, the right, P', the left pulmonary artery ; p, the right, p', the left pulmonary veins ; D, the back of the central tendon of the diaphragm ; 1, the great undivided sac of the pericardium proceeding from before backwards towards its inflections round the vessels ; 2, portion of this on the right side which partially surrounds the vena cava superior, the upper and lower right pulmonary veins, and the vena cava inferior ; 3, the portion of the left side which partially surrounds the vena cava inferior; 4, the portion which is extended upwards behind the left auricle, and partially folds over the pulmonary arteries and veins, and which meets between these different vessels the extensions of the main sac from the right and left; 5, tubular portion of the pericardium which completely surrounds the aortic and pulmonary arterial trunks. pulmonary vein. This is shown, by Marshall, to be a vestige of the cardiac termi- nation of the great left anterior vein existing in early embryonic life. (Marshall, " On the development of the great anterior Veins in Man and Mammalia," Philosoph. Trans. 1850. Part I. See hereafter the figures of the coronary vein.)