FACIAL ARTERY. 349 bone. Small branches are also distributed to the mucous membrane of the mouth, and the inside of the gums. (d) The ranine artery, which may be considered from its size and direction the continuation of the lingual artery. It runs forwards beneath the tongue, giving numerous branches as it proceeds, covered by the mucous membrane, and resting on the genio-hyo-glossus muscle. Having reached the tip of the tongue, it has been said to anastomose with the corresponding artery of the other side; but this is denied by Hyrtl. In the last part of its course it lies quite superficially at the side of the free num. Peculiarities.—The origin of the lingual artery sometimes takes place from a trunk common to it and the facial artery. It is occasionally joined with the superior thyroid. Branches.—The hyoid branch is often deficient; and it appears that this branch varies in size inversely with the hyoid branch of the superior thyroid. The sublingual branch varies in size. It is sometimes derived from the facial artery, and then perforates the mylo-hyoid muscle. The lingual artery has been seen to give off as unusual branches, the submental and ascending palatine. III. FACIAL ARTERY. The facial artery (art. maxillaris externa), taking origin a little above the lingual artery, is first directed obliquely forwards and upwards beneath the base of the maxillary bone ; then changing its direction, it passes upwards over the base of the lower maxilla, in front of the masseter muscle. Commencing here its course upon the face, it is directed forwards near to the angle of the mouth, and ascends to the inner canthus of the eye, where it ends by anastomosing with the ophthalmic artery. In its whole course the artery is tortuous, a circumstance connected with the great mo- bility of the parts on which it rests. In the neck, the facial artery, immediately after its origin, which is com- paratively superficial, being covered only by the platysma and fascia, is crossed by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and is then concealed in the substance of the submaxillary gland. Emerging from the gland, it turns over the border of the jaw, covered by the platysma : here the pulsation of the artery is easily felt, and the circulation through it may be readily con- trolled by pressure against the bone. In its progress over the face, it is covered successively by the platysma and the zygomatic muscles, and rests upon the buccinator, the levator anguli oris, and the levator labii superioris. The facial vein is separated by a considerable interval from the artery on the face. It takes nearly a straight course upwards, instead of in- clining forwards near the angle of the mouth, and it is not so tortuous as the artery. Branches of the portio dura nerve cross the vessel; and the infra-orbiial nerve is beneath it, separated by the fibres of the elevator of the upper lip. Branches.—A. Cervical branches.—The following branches are derived from the facial artery below the lower jaw :— (a) The inferior or ascemling palatine artery, a branch which ascends between the stylo-glossus and stylo-phai'yngeus muscles, and reaches the pharynx close to the border of the internal pterygoid muscle. After having given small branches to the tonsil, the styloid muscles, and the Eustachian tube, this artery divides near the levator palati muscle into two branches, one of which follows the course of the cir- cumflexus palati muscle, and is distributed to the soft palate and its glands, while the other penetrates to the tonsil, and ramifies upon it with the branch to be next described.—The place of this artery upon the palate is often taken by the ascending pharyngeal.