54 BONES OF THE HEAD. occipital bone, bounded by the frontal and parietal bones above, and the malar, sphenoid, and temporal bones below. Fig. 49. Fig. 49.—Lateral or Profile View of the same Skull as that represented in THE PRECEDING FlGURE. \ Placed so that a horizontal line passes through the anterior nasal spine and meatus anditorius externus. 1, frontal bone ; 2, parietal bone—figures 1 and 2 are placed above the temporal ridge of these bones; x x , coronal suture ; 3, occipital bone—the figure is placed at the lower end of the lambdoidal suture, and at its meeting with the addi- tamentum suturse squamosfe and additamentum sutura? lambdoidalis ; 3', external or pos- terior occipital protuberance; 4, great wing of the sphenoid bone, between the frontal, ante- rior inferior angle of the parietal and squamous part of the temporal bones; 5, the summit of the squamous part of the temporal bone ; 6, at the lower part of the same and at the root of the zygoma immediately over the meatus auditorius externus; 7, mastoid portion of the temporal bone, in front of which is the mastoid process—the figure is close to the mastoid foramen; 8, the left condyloid process of the occipital bone; 9, the anterior opening of the nares or nasal notch ; 10, the inner wall of the orbit, on the lachrymal bone ; 11, the malar bone, close to its junction with the zygoma ; 12, superior maxillary bone—the figure is placed on the body behind the canine fossa ; 13, ramus of the lower jaw, at its middle ; 14, body of the lower jaw, near the mental foramen. The fronto-parietal, or coronal suture, connects the frontal and the two parietal bones. It commences at each side, about an inch behind the external orbital process of the frontal bone, above the great wing of the sphenoid, and mounts upwards and backwards to the vertex. It presents the most marked dentations in the middle of each lateral half; at the summit the serrated surface is oblique, the frontal bone overlapping the parietal, while similarly at the lower part the parietal overlaps the frontal. The occipitoparietal, or lambdoidal suture, situated between the occipital