452 THE VEINS. Course.—The anterior tibial artery, having its usual place of origin, has been found to deviate outwards towards the margin of the fibula in its course along the front of the leg, and then to return to its ordinary position beneath the annular ligament in front of the ankle-joint. This artery has been also noticed by Pelletan and by Velpeau to approach the surface at the middle of the leg, and to continue downwards from that point, covered only by the fascia and integument. Velpeau states that he found the artery to reach the fore part of the leg by passing round the outer side of the fibula. (Pelletan, " Clinique Chirurgicale," &c, p. 101 : Paris, 1810. Velpeau, "Nouveaux Elemens de Medecine Operatoire," &c, t. i, pp.137 and 537 : Paris, 1837.) Size.—This vessel more frequently undergoes a diminution than an increase of size. It may be defective in various degrees. Tims, the dorsal branch of the foot may fail to give off digital branches to the great and second toes, which may be then derived from the internal plantar division of the posterior tibial. In a farther degree of diminution the anterior tibial ends in front of the ankle or at the lower part of the leg; its place being then taken by the anterior division of the peroneal artery, which supplies the dorsal artery of the foot; the two vessels (anterior tibial and anterior peroneal) being either connected together or separate. Two cases are mentioned by Allan Burns, in which the anterior tibial artery was altogether wanting, its place in the leg being supplied by perforating branches from the posterior tibial artery, and on the dorsum of the foot by the anterior division of the peroneal artery. The dorsal artery of the foot is occasionally larger than usual; in that case com- pensating for a defective condition of the plantar branch from the posterior tibial artery. This artery has been repeatedly found to be curved outwards between its com- mencement at the lower border of the annular ligament and its termination in the first interosseous space. VEINS. The systemic veins commence by small branches which receive the blood from the capillaries throughout the body, and unite to form fewer and larger vessels, which end at last by pouring their contents into the right auricle of the heart through two large venous trunks, the superior and in- ferior vense cavse. The blood which nourishes the substance of the heart itself, is returned by the coronary or cardiac veins to the same auricle. The veins, however, which bring back the blood from the stomach, intestines, spleen and pancreas, have an exceptional destination ; not convey- ing the blood directly to the heart, but joining to form a single trunk—the portal vein, which ramifies after the manner of an artery in the substance of the liver, and carries the blood within it to the capillaries of that organ. From these the blood passes into the ultimate twigs of the hepatic veins, and is conveyed by these veins into the inferior vena cava. The veins thus passing to the liver constitute the portal system. The anastomoses of veins are much larger and more numerous than those of arteries. The veins of many parts of the body consist of a subcutaneous and a deep set, which have very frequent communications with each other. In some parts of the body, chiefly the limbs and surface, the veins are provided with valves, whilst in others no valves exist. The systemic veins are naturally divisible into two groups : firstly, those from which the blood is carried to the heart by the superior vena cava, viz., the veins of the head and neck and upper limbs, together with those of the spine and a part of the walls of the thorax and abdomen, with which may be associated also the veins of the heart; and secondly, those from which