463 VENOUS SINUSES OF THE CRANIUM. pital protuberance to the foramen jugulare. The sinus of the right side is usually larger than that of the left ; both commence at the torcular Hero- phili, and terminate in the jugular veins. The lateral sinuses receive the blood transmitted from both the longitudinal sinuses, from the straight and occipital sinuses, from the veins upon the sides and base of the brain, from those on the under surface of the cerebellum, and from some of the veins of the diploe. The petrosal sinuses also join the lateral sinus on each side : and two emissary veins connect these with the veins at the back of the head and neck. Fig. 314.—Sketch of the venous sinuses Fig. 314. in the Base op the Cranium, with the Ophthalmic Vein. a, sella turcica and circular sinus; b, cavernous sinus receiving c, the ophthalmic vein ; d, superior petrosal; e, inferior petrosal sinus; /, transverse sinus; g, occipital ; h, lateral ; i, termination of the superior longi- tudinal in the torcular Herophili. The posterior occipital sinus is some- times a single canal, not unfrequently double, as if composed of two com- partments. It lies along the attached border of the falx cerebelii, extending from the posterior margin of the fora- men magnum to the confluence of the sinuses. It communicates in front with the posterior spinal plexuses of veins. The sinuses placed at the base of the skull are as follows, taking them in their order from before backwards : The circular sinus has the form of a ring, and is placed superficially in the margin of the dura mater round the pituitary body ; it receives the blood from the minute veins of the pituitary body, and communicates at each side with the cavernous sinus. Sometimes it is only partially developed, the part in front of the gland being that usually present : sometimes, however, it is behind the gland. The cavernous sinuses placed one on each side of the body of the sphenoid bone, over the bases of the great wings, and stretching from the sphenoidal fissure to the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bones, are of con- siderable size, and of very irregular form. Each receives the ophthalmic vein at its fore part, and communicates internally with the circular sinus, and posteriorly with the petrosal sinuses. In the wall of each, separated by the lining membrane from the cavity of the sinus, pass forward the third, fourth, and sixth cranial nerves, the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve, and the internal carotid artery. The upper petrosal sinus is a narrow canal running along the upper margin of the petrous part of the temporal bone. Commencing at the back part of the cavernous sinus, it is directed outwards and backwards in the attached margin of the tentorium cerebelli; and descending a little, ends in the lateral sinus where this lies upon the temporal bone. The lower petrosal sinus, wider than the upper, passes downwards and backwards along the inferior margin of the petrous bone, between this and