120 ARTICULATIONS IN GENERAL. are not so tight as to maintain the bones in close contact in all positions of the joint, but are rather tightened in some positions and relaxed in others, so that they may be looked upon chiefly as controllers of the motions. The bones are likewise held together in diarthrodial joints, by atmospheric pressure, and by the surrounding muscles. MOTIONS OF THE BONES IN THE JOINTS. The various movements of the bones on one another in the joints are dis- tinguished by different terms according to their directions, viz., angular movement, circumduction, rotation, and shifting ; but it is proper to remark that although different kinds of motion, answering to these several terms, may readily be recognised, yet there are few of the motions which occur in the joints which are of one sort only, but rather several kinds of movement are frequently combined in one, and they also run into one another in great variety. Angular movement, or opposition, is movement in such a manner as to increase or diminish the angle between two bones, so that they shall lie more or less nearly in a straight line. The different kinds of angular movement are designated by different terms according to the directions in which they take place with reference to the limb or body : thus, flexion and extension indicate angular movements, which have the effect of bending or straightening parts upon one another or upon the trunk of the body ; adduction and abduc- tion indicate angular movement to and from the mesial plane of the body, or, when fingers and toes are referred to, these terms may be used to denote movement to and from the middle line of the hand or foot. Circumduction, is the movement performed when the shaft of a long bone or a part of a limb describes a cone, the apex of which is placed in the joint at or near one extremity of the bone, while the sides and base of the cone are described by the rest of the moving part. Rotation signifies movement of a bone round its axis without any great change of situation. Shifting is a term which may be applied to that kind of movement in which the surfaces of adjacent bones are displaced without any accompanying angular or rotatory motion, as in the sliding of flat surfaces over each other, such as in some of the carpal and tarsal articulations, or in the move- ment of advance and retreat of the lower jaw. The term ginglymus is used to distinguish a hinge joint, or one which admits only of flexion and extension. Enarthrosis (Cruveilhier) is the ball-and-socket form of joint, like the shoulder and hip, allowing motion in every direction. Arthrodia is employed by Winslow and Cruveilhier to signify a joint admitting of very little movement. In the preceding paragraphs attention has been called only to the directions of the movements of the parts united in the joints, but the movements of opposed articular surfaces relatively one to another are likewise worthy of notice. In the movements of the joints, when occurring between separate opposed surfaces, there is generally more or less of a gliding motion of one surface on the other; but it is to be observed that in some joints a small amount of motion may be produced without gliding, by the alternate contact and separation of different parts of the opposed surfaces, to which the name of coaptation (Goodsir) has been applied; and that in other joints the articular surface of one bone may travel over that of another, so as to bring different parts of the surfaces successively into contact, in the manner of a wheel rolling on the ground, with or without this change of place being accompanied by gliding motion. In the various joints provided with synovial cavities, the cartilaginous surface of the bones are so formed as usually to be in close apposition or contact; but it would