BONES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 104 somewhat smaller than the other, is marked posteriorly by a flat surface which articulates with the fibula, while the inner presents a groove for the insertion of the semi-membranosus muscle. Lower down, in front, is situated the anterior tuberosity or tubercle, rough inferiorly, where it gives attachment to the ligamentum patellae, and smooth above, where it is covered by a synovial bursa. Fig. 96.—Right Tibia from before. ^ 1, shaft, and shin or anterior border; 2, inner tube- rosity ; 3, outer tuberosity ; 4, inner, and 5, outer, condyloid articular surface; 6, crucial spine, with fossa at its root in front; 7, anterior tuberosity or tubercle ; 8, lower articular surface for astragalus; 9, malleolus internus. The shaft of the tibia is three-sided, and diminishes in size as it descends for about two- thirds of its length, but increases somewhat towards its lower extremity. The internal sur- face is convex and subcutaneous, except at the upper part, where it is crossed by the tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and semitendinosus muscles. It is separated from the external sur- face by a sharp subcutaneous, slightly sinuous crest, the shin ridge, which descends from the anterior tuberosity, and is smoothed away in the inferior third of the bone. The external surface is slightly hollowed in the larger part of its extent, where it gives origin to the tibialis anticus muscle; but beneath the point where the crest disappears it turns forwards, becomes convex, and is covered by the extensor tendons. The posterior surface is traversed obliquely in its upper third by the popliteal line—a rough mark which extends up- wards and outwards to the external tuberosity, giving attachment to the soleus muscle, and separating a triangular area, in which the popliteus muscle lies, from the space below, II! ill which gives origin to the flexor longus digitorum and tibialis posticus. Internally, the posterior surface is separated from the internal by a smooth rounded border ; while on its external side is a sharp ridge, inclined forwards above, to which the interosseous membrane is attached. Near the popliteal line is a large medullary foramen, directed downwards into the interior of the bone. q The inferior extremity, much smaller than the superior, is expanded transversely, and projects downwards on its inner side, so as to form a thick process, the internal malleolus. Inferiorly it presents for articulation with the astragalus a cartilaginous surface, which is quadrilateral, concave from before backwards, and having its posterior border narrower and projecting