59 EXTERIOR OF THE SKULL. The inferior region, or external base of the skull, extending from the incisor teeth to the occipital protuberance, and transversely from the mastoid process and dental arch on one side to the corresponding points on the other, is divisible, on removal of the lower jaw, into an anterior, middle, and posterior part. The anterior part consists of the palate and the alveolar arch. It is traversed longitudinally by a mesial suture, and transversely by that between the maxillary and palate bones. Anteriorly, in the middle line, is the anterior palatine foramen, with the four smaller foramina contained within it; posteriorly, on each side, at the base of the alveolar border, is the posterior palatine foramen, and external and posterior to that, the posterior and external small palatine foramina. The palate is surrounded in front and on the sides by the alveolar arch and teeth of the upper jaw. The middle part, extending back to the front of the foramen magnum, is the most complicated. Its central portion has been called the guttural fossa. In the middle line is the basilar process of the occipital bone, and in front of that the body of the sphenoid bone, concealed anteriorly by the extremity of the vomer. On each side, the petrous portion of the temporal bone reaches as far forwards as the extremity of the basilar process ; and between the petrous and squamous portions of the temporal is the back part of the great wing of the sphenoid bone. Between this division of the base of the skull and the palate are the posterior nares, separated by the vomer, and bounded above by the body of the sphenoid bone, below by the horizontal plates of the palate bones, and on the sides by the internal pterygoid processes. Between the pterygoid plates is the pterygoid fossa ; and placed in an oblique line back- wards and outwards from this are the foramen ovale, foramen spinosum, and processus spinosus ; while behind and parallel to these is & groove for the Eustachian tube, formed by the margins of the sphenoid bone and pars petrosa, leading into the Eustachian orifice, and in a line with the fissure of Glaser. Between the apex of the pars petrosa, the basilar process, and the sphenoid bone, is the foramen lacerum anterius basis cranii, called also foramen lacerum medium, on the external wall of which opens the carotid canal, and on the anterior the Vidian canal ; it is closed inferiorly by a plate of cartilage, but its area is crossed by the internal carotid artery and by the Vidian nerve. Behind the pars petrosa, and bounded posteriorly by the jugular fossa of the occipital bone, is the foramen juyulare, or foramen lacerum posterius: it is divided into a large external and posterior part, bounded anteriorly by the jugular fossa of the temporal bone, and occupied by the jugular vein ; and a small anterior and inner part, bounded by a portion of the pars petrosa distinct from the jugular fossa, and transmitting the glosso-pharyngeal, vagus, and spinal accessory nerves. The two parts of the foramen lacerum posterius are sometimes completely separated by a spiculum of bone. Anterior to this opening is the carotid foramen, external to it is the stylo-mastoid foramen and styloid process, and internal to it is the anterior condyloid foramen. The posterior part of the inferior region presents on each side of the fore part of the foramen magnum, in a transverse line outwards, the occi- pital condyle, the rough surface for the rectus capitis lateralis muscle, the occipital groove of the temporal bone, the digastric fossa, and the mastoid process. Behind is the inferior division of the expanded part of the occipital bone, with its ridges and muscular impressions.