ARTICULATIONS OF THE UPPER LIMB. 142 THE WRIST-JOINT AND ARTICULATIONS OF THE HAND. The radio-carpal articulation, or wrist-joint, is formed between the radius and triangular fibro-cartilage above, and the scaphoid, semi-lunar and cunei- form bones below. The superior surface, concave both transversely and from before backwards, is subdivided by linear elevations into three parts corres- ponding to the three bones below, the innermost part being formed by the fibro-cartilage. The inferior surface, convex in both directions, is prolonged further down upon the carpal bones behind than in front. The internal lateral ligament is a rounded cord passing directly down- wards from the extremity of the styloid process of the ulna, to be attached to the cuneiform bone ; it also sends some fibres to the anterior annular ligament and the pisiform bone. The external lateral ligament extends from the styloid process of the radius to a rough surface on the outer side of the scaphoid bone, some of its fibres being prolonged to the trapezium, and also to the anterior annular ligament of the wrist. The anterior ligament (radio-carpal), broad and membranous, consists partly of fibres which have a nearly transverse direction, partly of others, which diverge as they descend from the anterior border of the radius to the scaphoid, semi-lunar, and cuneiform bones : some of them are continued to the os magnum. The posterior ligament extends obliquely downwards and inwards, from the extremity of the radius, to the posterior surface of the first row of the carpal bones, especially the cuneiform bone ; its fibres are prolonged some distance on the surface of the carpal bones. The synovial membrane is reflected from the radius and the triangular fibro-cartilage, on the surrounding ligaments, and after lining these, passes to the opposed surface of the carpal bones. The Carpal Articulations.—The bones of the carpus, the pisiform excepted, are so arranged in two rows, that while only slight movement can take place between the members of each row, a considerable amount of movement is possible between the two rows. The surface presented by the first row to the second is concave both transversely and from before back- wards in the greater part of its extent, but at its outer side it is bounded by the convex part of the scaphoid bone. The opposing surface of the second row is concavo-convex from without inwards, the concavity being formed by the trapezium and trapezoid, the convexity by the os magnum and unciform bone. The two rows of carpal bones are united by dorsal, palmar, and lateral ligaments. The lateral ligaments are placed one at the radial, the other at the ulnar border of the carpus ; the former connects the scaphoid bone with the trapezium, the latter the cuneiform with the unciform. The dorsal ligaments consist of fibres passing in various directions ; the palmar ligaments are chiefly composed of fibres converging towards the os magnum. The bones of the first row, the pisiform bone excepted, are united by inter- osseous, and by dorsal and palmar ligaments. The inter-osseous ligaments, placed on the sides of the semi-lunar bone on a level with its superior sur- face, connect it with the scaphoid and cuneiform bones, thus completing the inferior wall of the radio-carpal joint. The dorsal and palmar ligaments, each two in number, extend transversely on the dorsal and palmar surfaces from the scaphoid bone to the semi-lunar, and from the semi-lunar to the cuneiform