EXTERNAL PLANTAR ARTERY. 447 pollicis and flexor brevis digitorum ; (b) offsets which incline towards the inner border of the foot, and communicate with branches of the dorsal arteries ; and (c) cutaneous offsets which appear in the furrow between the middle and inner portions of the plantar fascia. The external plantar artery, of considerable size, at first inclines outwards and then forwards, to reach the base of the fifth metatarsal bone : it then turns obliquely inwards across the foot, to gain the interval between the bases of the first and second metatarsal bones, where it joins, by a com- municating branch, with the dorsal artery of the foot ; and thus is com- pleted the plantar arch, the convexity of which is turned forward. At first the artery is placed, together with the external plantar nerve, between the calcaneum and the abductor pollicis ; further on it lies between the flexor brevis digitorum and flexor accessorius. As it turns forwards it lies in the interval between the short flexor of the toes and the abductor of the little toe, being placed along the line separating the middle from the external portion of the plantar fascia, and covered by that membrane. The re- mainder of the artery, which turns inwards and forms the plantar arch, is placed deeply against the interosseous muscles, and is covered by the flexors of the toes and the lumbricales muscles. Branches.— A. In its course to the fifth metacarpal bone the external plantar artery gives off (a) branches to the skin of the heel; (b) numerous muscular branches; (c) small Fig. 300. Fig. 306.—Deep view op the Arteries in the Sole op the Right Foot (from Tiedemann). ^ All the muscles have been removed, a, the calcaneal tuberosity; b, the scaphoid bone and end of the calcaneo- scaphoid ligament; c, to a, calcaueo-cuboid ligament; d, its deep part; e, scaphoido-cuneiform ligament ; /, one of the sesamoid bones of the great toe ; 1, posterior tibial artery dividing into the plantar arteries ; 2, 2', external plantar artery ; 2', 2", deep plantar arch termi- nating by communication with the dorsal artery of the foot; 3, 3', internal plantar artery ; 3", its com- munication with the internal digital of the great toe ; 4, branches of the internal plantar to the inside of the foot; 5, 5', first digital or external plantar branch of the fifth toe ; 6, second plantar digital artery ; 6', interval of the division of the same between the fourth and fifth toes; 7, third plantar digital; 7', its distribution to the third and fourth toes; 8, fourth plantar digital ; 8', its dis- tribution to the second and third toes ; 9, fifth plantar digital ; 9', its distribution to the first and second toes ; 10, internal plantar digital branch of the great toe ; at the upper numbers, 6, 7, and 8, the posterior per- forating branches of the interosseous arteries are par- tially iudicated ; at 2", the large communication between the plantar arch and the dorsalis pedis artery; above 6', 7', and 8', are situated the anterior perforating arteries, not represented in the figure ; 11, and 12, calcaneal branches of the plantar and posterior peroneal arteries. offsets which run outwards over the border of the foot, and anastomose with the dorsal arteries; and (d) others which appear in the furrow between the middle and outer divisions of the plantar fascia.