ILIAC VEINS—PORTAL SYSTEM. 479 to its muscular coat, but they are particularly rich towards the base of the organ, and are there closely connected with the prostatic and hseniorrhoidal plexuses in the male, and with the vaginal plexus in the female. The prostatic plexus receives two large vessels, one at each side, the divi- sions of the dorsal vein of the penis. These, coursing downwards and backwards on the sides of the prostate gland, expand into a close network at the base of the gland, which is quite encircled by it. The hemorrhoidal plexus consists of enlarged and copiously anastomosing veins in the walls of the lower part of the rectum, immediately underneath the mucous membrane. From it proceed superior, middle, and inferior hemorrhoidal veins accompanying the arteries of the same name, and it communicates freely with the plexuses in front of it. The superior hsemorrhoidal vein being a branch belonging to the portal system, the hemorrhoidal plexus forms a very direct communication beween the portal and general venous systems. The vaginal plexus surrounding the vagina, principally in its lower part, communicates freely with the hsemorrhoidal and vesical plexuses. The uterine plexus pours its blood in greatest part into the ovarian veins, and is not considerable except in pregnancy. The dorsal vein of the penis commences by branches which issue from the glans penis, and form in the first instance two veins, one at each side of the middle line, in the dorsal groove of the penis. These receive branches from the spongy body of the penis, and some superficial veins which accompany the external pudic arteries, and proceeding backwards unite and form a short trunk which enters the pelvis beneath the subpubic ligament. Here it divides into two branches, which are directed obliquely downwards over the prostate and the neck of the bladder, and are united with the prostatic plexus. COMMON ILIAC VEIN. The common iliac vein is formed by the confluence of the external and internal iliac veins. Extending from the sacro-iliac articulation upwards to near the junction of the fifth with the fourth lumbar vertebra, at a point a little to the right of the middle line, the two common iliac veius unite to form the lower or ascending vena cava. The right vein is shorter than the left, and is nearly vertical in its direction. The right vein is placed behind, and then to the outer side of its artery ; whilst the left vein is to the inner side of the left common iliac artery, and then passes behind the right. These veins are destitute of valves. PORTAL SYSTEM OF VEINS. The portal vein differs from other veins of the body in being subdivided into branches at both its extremities. The branches of origin, by the union of which it may be said to be formed, are the veins of the chylo- poietic viscera, viz., the stomach, intestine, pancreas, and spleen ; the other branches, or those of distribution, ramifying after the manner of an artery in the substance of the liver, convey to the capillaries of that organ the blood collected in the main trunk. This blood, together with that of the hepatic artery, after having served for the secretion of the bile and the nourishment of the liver, is withdrawn from that organ by the hepatic veins, and carried by them into the vena cava inferior. The portal vein or vena port^e is about three inches in length. Commencing at the junction of the splenic and superior mesenteric veins, it