359 INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. (b) The external brandies, small and irregular, are distributed to the rectus anticus muscle, the first cervical ganglion of the sympathetic nerve, some of the cerebral nerves as they issue from the skull, and to lymphatic glands. Some of them anasto- mose with the ascending cervical branch of the subclavian artery. (c) The meningeal branches are terminal twigs, which pass through the foramen lacerum posticum to end in the dura mater. Peculiarities.—This artery varies greatly in its place of origin from the carotid. It occasionally springs from another source, as from the occipital or internal carotid, and, in a few instances, it has been seen double. INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. The internal carotid artery is distributed to the brain, to the eye with its appendages, and in part to the forehead. It extends directly upwards from the termination of the common carotid artery, opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, to the carotid foramen of the temporal bone. Entering the cranial cavity through the carotid canal, it crosses the foramen lacerum medium, and turning upwards on the side of the sphenoid bone, it passes forwards on the carotid groove of that bone. Thence it turns abruptly upwards on the inner side of the anterior clinoid process, and divides opposite the inner end of the Sylvian fissure of the brain, into the anterior and middle cerebral arteries. In the neck, the internal carotid artery varies in length according to the height of the division of the common carotid. It rests on the rectus anticus major muscle, and has the pharynx and tonsil on its inner side. The internal jugular vein is in contact with it as far as the base of the skull, lying on its superficial and posterior aspect : and placed more deeply behind it are the vagus nerve and main trunk of the sympathetic. At its com- mencement the artery is covered only by the sterno-mastoid muscle, by the platysma myoides, and by fascia, and lies to the outer side of the external carotid. It soon, however, becomes concealed by the parotid gland, and lies internal and posterior to the external carotid trunk, and is crossed first by the occipital artery, and by the hypoglossal nerve and the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, three structures which lie superficial to both carotid arteries; and higher up, by the styloid process, the stylo-pharyngeus muscle and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, which, together with, in some cases, the pharyngeal branch of the vagus nerve, pass forwards between the external and internal carotid arteries. Within the cranium, the internal carotid artery has a very tortuous course, curving forwards and inwards within the carotid canal, then turning upwards to reach the sphenoid bone, on which it is at first directed hori- zontally forwards, and afterwards resumes the vertical position on the inner side of the anterior clinoid process. In this part of its course the artery is accompanied by the carotid and cavernous plexuses of the sympathetic nerve. After leaving the carotid canal, it lies in the floor of the cavernous sinus, and in contact with it externally are the nerves which pass through the sphenoidal fissure. Opposite the anterior clinoid process it pierces the layer of dura mater which forms the roof of the sinus, and becomes invested with arachnoid membrane. By the winding course of the internal carotid artery in the skull the brain is probably in some degree protected from the force of the pulsations with which the blood is propelled from the heart. Occasionally the artery presents considerable tortuosity before entering the carotid canal, especially in apoplectic subjects, the trunk having probably been elongated by the force of the pulsations.