clxxxix LYMPHATIC GLANDS. adventitious coat round their small brandies, and even on some of th< capillaries (page clxxix). Fig. CV. Fig. CIV. Fig. CIV.—Section of Medullary Substance op an Inguinal Gland of the Ox (magnified 90 diameters.) a, a, glandular substance or pulp forming rounded cords joining in a continuous net (dark in the figure) ; c, c, trabecule; the space, b, b, between these and the glandular substance is the lymph-sinus, washed clear of corpuscles and traversed by filaments of retiform connective tissue (after Kolliker). Fig. CV.—A very small portion op the Medullary Substance from a Mesenteric Gland of the Ox (magnified 300 diameters). d, d, trabecule ; a, part of a cord of glandular substance from which all but a few of the lymph corpuscles have been washed out to show its supporting meshwork of retiform tissue and its capillary bloodvessels (which have been injected, and are dark in the figure) ; b, b, lymph-sinus, of which the retiform tissue is represented only at c, c (after Kolliker). As to the lymphatics of the gland, it seems now to be tolerably well made out, that the afferent vessels, after branching out upon and in the tissue of the capsule, send their finer branches through it to open into the lymph-sinuses of the cortical alveoli, and that the efferent lymphatics begin by fine branches leading from the lymph-sinuses of the medullary part, and forming at the hilus a dense plexus of tortuous and varicose-looking vessels, from which branches proceed to join the larger efferent trunks. The lymph- sinus, therefore, forms a channel for the passage of the lymph, interposed between the afferent and efferent lymphatics, communicating with both, and maintaining the continuity of the lymph stream. The afferent and efferent vessels, where they open into the lymph-sinus, lay aside all their coats, except the epithelium, and the sinus is lined throughout its whole extent with a similar epithelium, consisting, as in the commencing lymph- lacunas, of a single layer of flattened cells.