96 BONES OF THE LOWER LIMB. wards, and between its posterior and superior surfaces there is prolonged outwards from the spine a ridge called the pectineal line, which is the pubic portion of the ilio-pectineal line. The surface in front of the pectineal line is covered by the pectineus muscle ; the inferior surface of the superior ramus presents a deep groove for the obturator vessels and nerve, directed from behind forwards and inwards. Above the acetabulum the concavity of the border extending from the anterior inferior spine of the ilium to the spine of the pubis is interrupted by a slight elevation, the ilio-pectineal eminence, situated at the junction of the os pubis and ilium. The ischium is the posterior and lowest part of the os innominatum, and bounds the obturator foramen in the lower half of its extent. Superiorly it forms about two-fifths of the acetabulum, inferiorly it is enlarged in a thick projection, the tuberosity, and this part, diminishing in size, is continued forwards into the ramus. On its posterior border, behind the acetabulum, a sharp process, the spine, projecting with an inclination inwards, forms the inferior limit of the great sciatic notch, and is separated from the tuberosity by a short interval, the small sciatic notch, against the smooth margin of which glides the tendon of the obturator internus muscle. In front of this, on the external surface, a horizontal groove, occupied by the tendon of the obturator externus muscle, lies between the inferior margin of the acetabulum and the tuberosity. The tuberosity, which is the part on which the body rests in the sitting posture, presents a rough surface con- tinuous with the internal margin of the ramus, and on which may be distinguished four impressions, viz., on its upper and broad part two slight hollows, which are placed side by side, the external corresponding to the attachment of the semimembranosus muscle, and the internal to the con- joined origin of the biceps and semitendinosus; and inferiorly two elongated rough elevations, likewise side by side, the external giving attachment to the adductor magnus muscle, and the internal to the great sacro-sciatic ligament : there is likewise along the outer margin a rough elevated line, marking the place of origin of the quadratus femoris muscle. The ramus of the ischium is flattened like the descending ramus of the pubis, w ith which it is continuous on the inner side of the obturator foramen. The acetabulum is a cotyloid or cup-shaped cavity, looking outwards, downwards and forwards, and surrounded in the greater part of its circumference by an elevated margin, which is most prominent at the posterior and upper part ; while at the opposite side, close to the obturator foramen, it is deficient, leaving the notch or incisura. Its lateral and upper parts present a broad bent riband-like smooth surface, which articulates with the head of the femur, and in the recent state is coated with cartilage, but the lower part of the cup and the region of the notch are depressed below the level of the articular surface, lodge a mass of fat, and have no cartilaginous coating. Rather more than two-fifths of the aceta- bulum are formed from the ischium, less than two-fifths from the ilium, and the remainder from the os pubis. The iliac portion of the articular surface is the largest, the pubic the smallest : the non-articular surface belongs chiefly to the ischium. The obturator or thyroid foramen, also called foramen ovale, is internal and inferior to the acetabulum. In the male it is nearly oval, with the long diameter directed downwards and outwards ; in the female it is more triangular, or narrowed at its lower part. In the recent state it is closed by a fibrous membrane, except in the neighbourhood of the groove in its upper margin.