487 THORACIC DUCT. The general anatomy of the absorbents having been elsewhere detailed, only their coarse and position remain to be here described. They are gathered Fig- 332. into a right and a left trunk, which open into the angles of union of the subclavian and internal jugular veins. The large vessel of the left side traversing the thorax is named the thoracic duct: it receives not only the lymphatics of its own side of the head and arm, but likewise the lym- phatics of both lower limbs, and the whole of the lacteals. The vessel of the right side is named the right lymphatic duct, and receives lymphatics only. 4J Fig. 332.—Sketch of the Thoracic Duct with the Principal Systemic Veins. The full description of this figure will be found at page 454. 10, 10, indicate the thoracic duct; the lower number is close to the receptaculum chyli, the upper is on the fourth dorsal vertebra, above which the duct inclines to the left; 6, on the left subclavian vein, marks the termination of the duct in the angle of union of the subclavian and internal jugu- lar veins ; 5, on the right subclavian vein, indicates the similar termination of the right lymphatic trunk. THORACIC DUCT. The thoracic duct is the common trunk which receives the absorbents from both the lower limbs, from the abdominal viscera (except part of the upper surface of the liver), and from the walls of the abdomen, from the left side of the thorax, left lung, left side of the heart, and left upper limb, and from the left side of the head and neck. It is from fifteen to eighteen inches long in the adult, and extends usually from the second lumbar vertebra to the root of the neck. Its commencement, however, is often as low as the third lumbar vertebra ; and in some cases as high as the first lumbar, or even upon the last dorsal ver- tebra. Here there is usually a dilatation of the duct, of variable size, which is called receptaculum chyli (Pecquet), and is the common point of junction of the lym- phatics from the lower limb with the trunks of the lacteal vessels. The lower part of the thoracic duct is generally wider than the rest, being about three lines in diameter ; it lies at first to the right side of or behind the