324 THE HEART. Fig. 242. Fig. 242.—Diagrammatic Outlines op the Heart and First Arterial Vessels of the Embryo, as seen from the Abdominal Surface. A, at a period corresponding to the 36th or 38th hour of incubation in the chick ; B, and C, at the 48th hour of incubation ; 1, 1, primitive veins; 2, auricular part of the heart; 3, ventricular part ; 4, aortic bulb ; 5, 5, the primitive aortic arches, and their continuation as descending aorta ; these vessels are still separate in their whole extent in A, but at a later period, as shown more fully in C, have coalesced into one tube in a part of the dorsal region; in B, below the upper 5, the second aortic arch is formed, and farther down the dotted lines indicate the position of the succeeding arches to the number of five in all; 5', 5', the continuation of the main vessels in the body of the embryo ; 6, 6, the omphalo-mesenteric arteries passing out of the body of the embryo into the vascular area of the germinal membrane. mence early in the form of a slight constriction on the outer surface, which marks off the future auricles, the left being at first the smaller of the two; but the auricular septum is not begun until after that of the ventricles is completed. About 243. Fig. 243.—Human Embryoes at different early stages of development, showing the Heart in its tubular condition. A, upper half of the body of a human embryo of three weeks, viewed from the abdominal side (from Coste); a, frontal plate ; b, vertebrae, on which the primitive aortas are lying ; 3, the middle of the tube of the heart, below it the place of en- trance of the great veins, above it the aortic bulb. B, lateral view of a human embryo more advanced than that last referred to, and somewhat imperfectly developed (from A. Thomson); a, the frontal part of the head; b, the vertebral column ; v, the wide communication of the umbilical vesicle or yolk sac with the intestine ; u, communication with the allantois or urachus; 2, auricular part of the heart connected with the veins posteriorly ; 3, ventricular part of the bent tube ; 4, the aortic bulb ; near the extremities of the tube the divided peri- cardium is seen.