303 EXTERNAL FORM OF THE HEART. anterior surface is convex in its general form ; it is turned upwards as well as forwards, and is directed towards the sternum and costal cartilages : from these, however, it is partly separated by the lungs, the forepart of these organs advancing over it to some extent, and encroaching still farther during inspiration, so as in that condition to leave usually not more than two inches square uncovered. The posterior, which is also the under surface, is flattened, and rests on the diaphragm. Of the two borders or margins formed by the meeting of the anterior and posterior surfaces, the right or lower border, called margo acutus, is comparatively thin, and is longer than the upper or left border, which is more rounded and is named margo obtusus. A deep transverse groove, the auriculo-ventricular furrow, interrupted in front by the root of the pulmonary artery, divides the heart into the auricular and the ventricular portions ; and on the ventricular portion two longitudinal furrows indicate the position of the anterior and posterior borders of the septum which divides one chamber from the other. Fig. 228. — View of the Heart and G-reat Vessels from behind (from R. Quain). 1, posterior surface of the right ventricle ; 2, the same of the left; 3, placed on the hack of the right pulmonary artery near the division of the primary trunk; 3', branches of the right pulmonary artery passing into the root of the right lung; 3", the same of the left; 4', back part of the arch of the aorta; 4", descending thoracic aorta; 5, part of the right auricle ; 6, is placed on the division between the right and left auricles ; 7, superior vena cava; 7', left vena innominata; 8, trunk of the inferior vena cava; 9, right large hepatic vein; 10, 11, 12, right pul- monary veins; 13, 14, left pulmonary veins ; +, +, pos- terior branches of the right and left coronary arteries. The auricular portion, situated above and behind the transverse furrow, is thin and flaccid, and is immediately connected with the great veins ; it is divided by an internal septum into two distinct cavities, which have received the names of the right and left auricles, from the circumstance that each is provided with an appendage somewhat resembling the ear of a dog. The ventricular portion, placed below and in front of the transverse groove, is somewhat conical, flattened on its posterior or under surface, has very thick walls, and is connected with the great arterial trunks. The two longitudinal furrows, which mark its division into a right and left chamber, situated one on the anterior, the other on the posterior surface, extend from the base of the ventricular portion, in a direct course, and are continuous one with the other a little to the right of the apex, which is thus formed entirely by the wall of the left ventricle. The anterior longitudinal furrow is nearer to