xcvii BONE. rarely found, and when present are smaller, in the concentric systems of Haversian lamellae; in this case they must of course have been formed from the vascular tissue (similar in nature to that under the periosteum) which occupied the Haversian spaces and produced the concentric laminae. Perforating fibres exist abundantly in the crusta petroscc of the teeth. Fig. XLVII. Fig. XLVII.—Lamellae torn off from a Decalcified Human Parietal Bone at SOME DEPTH FROM THE SURFACE. a, a lamella, showing reticular fibres ; b, b, darter part, where several lamellse are super- posed ; c, c, perforating fibres. Apertures through which perforating fibres had passed, are seen especially in the lower part, a, a, of the figure. Magnitude as seen under a power of 200, but not drawn to a scale (from a drawing by Dr. Allen Thomson). The perforating fibres, or rather bundles of fibres, for the most part agree in character with the white fibrous tissue, but some, according to H. Muller, are of the nature of elastic tissue. H. Muller has shown that in some parts the fibres escape calcification, and thus, as they shrink in drying, leave tubes or channels in the dry bone, generally leading from the surface inwardly. In this way he explains the nature and mode of production of the "tubes" described by Tomes and De Morgan as penetrating the bone in certain situations, and conjectured by them to be modified lacunae.* I at one time believed that these tubes had no relation to the perforating fibres, but I have no doubt of the correctness of Miiller's explanation ; at the same time I am satisfied that uncalcified fibres, though numerous at particular spots, are by no means so frequent as might be inferred from Miiller's account of them, and that the perforating fibres may be said to be generally calcified. Finally, these fibres seem to have no physiological significance : they may be regarded as merely a modification of the mechanical structure of the tissue. In a thin transverse section of hard bone, the curved lines, or rather bands which represent the cut edges of the lamellae, generally present, with transmitted light, a dark, granular-like, and a light, transparent, and usually narrower zone. Under a high power of the microscope the former appears thickly dotted over with fine dark points. In a decalcified section the dark part shows a multitude of short bright lines running radially across it, with dark angular particles between them. The lines are probably caused by pores and fine clefts passing through the lamella ; the appearance of dark particles seems to me to be produced by the cut ends of the reticulating fibres of which it is made up. A longitudinal section of a cylindrical bone carried across the Phil. Trans. 1853, p. 116. 9