BONE. xc The phosphate of lime is peculiar, and passes in chemistry under the name of the "bone-earth phosphate." It is a tribasic phosphate, consisting probably of 8 equiva- lents of lime and 1 of water, with 3 eq. of phosphoric acid. Von Bibra and A. Milne- Edwards,* found the proportion of the carbonate of lime to the phosphate, greater in spongy than in compact tissue, and less in infantile bones generally than in those of adults. M.-Edwards considers that carbonate is formed from decomposition of the basic phosphate by the carbonic acid of the blood, and that the proportion must necessarily vary with the state of nutrition; in infancy there is less decomposition and also more rapid elimination of the products of decomposition, hence proportion- ally less carbonate of lime. The fluoride of calcium is found in larger quantity in fossil than in recent bones—indeed, its presence in the latter was lately denied altogether; but since then, the original statements of Morichini and of Berzelius, to the effect that it exists in recent as well as fossil bones, have been satisfactorily confirmed. Structure.—On sawing up a bone, it will be seen that it is in some parts dense and close in texture, appearing like ivory ; in others open and reticular : and anatomists accordingly distinguish two forms of osseous tissue, viz., the compact, and the spongy or cancellated. On closer ex- amination, however, especially with the aid of a magnifying glass, it will be found that the bony matter is everywhere porous in a greater or less degree, and that the difference between the two varieties of tissue depends on the different amount of solid matter compared with the size and number of the open spaces in each ; the cavities being very small in the compact parts of the bone, with much dense matter between them ; whilst in the cancellated texture the spaces are large, and the intervening bony partitions thin and slender. There is, accordingly, no abrupt limit between the two,—they pass into one another by degrees, the cavities of the compact tissue widening out, and the reticulations of the cancellated becoming closer as they approach the parts where the transition takes place. In all bones, the part next the surface consists of compact substance, which forms an outer shell or crust, whilst the spongy texture is contained within. In a long bone, the large round ends are made up of spongy tissue, with only a thin coating of compact substance ; in the hollow shaft, on the other hand, the spongy texture is scanty, and the sides are chiefly formed of compact bone, which increases in thickness from the extremities towards the middle, at which point the girth of the bone is least, and the strain on it greatest. In tabular bones, such as those of the skull, the compact tissue forms two plates, or tables as they are called, inclosing between them the spongy texture, which in such bones is usually named diploe. The short bones, like the ends of the long, are spongy throughout, save at their sur- face, where there is a thin crust of compact substance. In the complex or mixed bones, the two substances have the same general relation to each other ; but the relative amount of each in different parts, as well as their special arrangement in particular instances, is very various. On close inspection, the cancellated texture is seen to be formed of slender bars or spicula of bone and thin lamellae, which meet together and join in a reticular manner, producing an open structure which has been com- pared to lattice-work (cancelli), and hence the name usually applied to it. In this way considerable strength is attained without undue weight, and it may usually be observed that the strongest laminae run through the struc- ture in those directions in which the bone has naturally to sustain the greatest pressure. The open spaces or areolae of the bony network com- * Ann. des Sc. Nat. 4me Serie, vol. xiii. 1860.