Ixv ADIPOSE TISSUE. in whom the black matter of the choroid is wanting, the cuticle and the hair are colourless also. In some situations the pigment-cells become irregular and jagged at their edges, or even branch out into long irregular processes. Such ramified cells are very common in many animals. In the human body pigment-cells of this description are found in the dark tissue on the outer surface of the choroid coat, lamina f 11 sea (fig. xxxiii., a a), and on the pia mater covering the upper part of the spinal cord. The condition of the pigment in the hairs will be afterwards described. When the cuticle of the Negro is removed by means of a blister, it is renewed again of its original dark hue ; but if the skin be destroyed to any considerable depth, as by a severe burn, the resulting scar remains long white, though it at length acquires a dark colour. Uses.—In the eye the black matter seems obviously- intended to absorb redundant light, and accordingly its absence in Albinos is attended with a difficulty of bearing a light of considerable brightness. Its uses in other situations are not so apparent. The pigment of the cuticle, it has been supposed, may screen the sub- jacent cutis from the pungency of the sun's rays, but in many animals the pigment is not only employed to variegate the surface of the body, but attaches itself to deep-seated parts. Thus, in the frog the branches and twigs of the blood-vessels are speckled over with it, and in many fish it imparts a black colour to the peiitoneum and other internal membranes. ADIPOSE TISSUE. The human body in the healthy state contains a considerable amount of fatty matter of different kinds. Fat, as has been already stated, is found in the blood and chyle, and in the lymph, but much more sparingly. It exists, too, in several of the secretions, in some constituting the chief ingre- dient ; and in one or other of its modifications it enters into the composition of certain solid textures. But by far the greater part of the fat of the body is inclosed in small cells or vesicles, which, together with their contained matter, constitute the adipose tissue. This tissue is not confined to any one region or organ, but exists very generally throughout the body, accompanying the still more widely distri- buted cellular or areolar tissue in most though not in all parts in which the latter is found. Still its distribution is not uniform, and there are certain situations in which it is collected more abundantly. It forms a considerable layer underneath the skin, and, together with the subcutaneous areolar tissue in which it is lodged, constitutes in this situation what has been called the panniculus adiposus. It is collected in large quantity round certain internal parts, especially the kidneys. It is seen filling up the furrows on the surface of the heart, and imbedding the vessels of that organ underneath its serous covering ; and in various other situations it is depo- e Fig. XXXIII. Fig. XXXIII.—Ramified Pigment Ceils, from the tissue of the cho- ROID Coat of the Eye ; MAGNIFIED 350 DIAME- TERS (after Kolliker). a, cells with pigment; 6, colourless fusiform cells.