230 FASCIiE OF THE UPPER LIMB. clavicle ; inferiorly it is narrowed like a funnel, and becomes thinner as it descends upon the surface of the axillary vessels, forming the anterior part of the sheath of those vessels, while the posterior part is formed by a deep process of the cervical fascia. The axillary fascia is a strong membrane stretched across the axilla, and so disposed as to maintain the skin in position across that hollow. Beneath the pectoralis major muscle is a layer of fascia attached to the chest in front of the costo-coracoid membrane : it divides into two layers to inclose the pectoralis minor, and these reuniting, it continues to pass outwards, forming a strong membrane in the angle between the pectoralis minor and short head of the biceps muscle ; lower down it is joined by the superficial investment of the pectoralis major, which is folded round the margin of that muscle, and thus strengthened, it slopes outwards and backwards to the inferior border of the scapula, where it is joined by the sheaths of the latissimus dorsi and teres major muscles. The deepest hollow of the axillary fascia is formed where the layer from the surface of the pectoralis major joins that from the pectoralis minor ; and in that part especially it is perforated by numerous lymphatics. At the angle occupied by the large vessels and nerves of the limb, it is continuous with the sheath of the vessels and with the aponeu- rosis of the arm. The density of this fascia offers a considerable obstacle to the progress outwards of axillary abscesses. The aponeurosis of the upper limb is a strong sheath which binds together all the muscles of the arm and forearm. A strong and somewhat isolated portion, bound down to the vertebral and axillary margins and to the lower border of the spine of the scapula, covers the infraspinatus and teres minor muscles as far as they are left uncovered by the deltoid muscle. On reaching the posterior border of the deltoid muscle, this aponeurosis divides into two layers, of which the deeper is continued beneath the deltoid to the shoulder- joint, and the more superficial forms a thin aponeurosis covering of that muscle, becoming more and more slender as it passes forwards. The aponeurosis of the arm is composed chiefly of transverse fibres, held together by others having an oblique or longitudinal direction ; it is thin over the biceps muscle, stronger where it covers the triceps, and particularly dense as it approaches the outer and inner condyloid eminences of the humerus. It is pierced on the inner side of the limb by the basilic vein, at some distance below the axilla. It is attached to the shaft and condyloid eminences of the humerus by the two processes next to be described. The external and internal intermuscular septa are two fibrous partitions which bind the aponeurosis of the arm to the humerus, and with which the neighbouring muscles of the arm are intimately connected. The external inter- muscular septum extends upwards from the outer condyloid eminence along the outer lateral ridge to the insertion of the deltoid, from which it receives tendinous fibres. It is pierced from behind forwards by the musculo-spiral nerve and superior profunda artery. The internal septum, much stronger, extends along the ridge from the inner condyloid eminence to the insertion of the coraco-brachialis muscle. It is traversed from before backwards by the ulnar nerve and by the inferior profunda and anastomotic arteries. At the bend of the elbow the aponeurosis is closely connected with the periosteum covering the condyloid eminences of the humerus and the ole- cranon process of the ulna ; and it is strengthened by tendinous fibres sent from the triceps and biceps muscles. The aponeurosis of the forearm, like that of the arm, is composed principally of circular fibres, strengthened, however, by longitudinal and oblique fibres