231 FASCIiE OF THE FOREARM AND HAND. descending from the condyloid eminences of the humerus, from the ole- cranon, and from the superficial insertion of the biceps muscle. It is attached along the subcutaneous margin of the ulna, and may be conveniently divided into an anterior and posterior part. The anterior part of the aponeurosis of the forearm is much weaker than the membrane on the posterior aspect of the limb. It is continued below into the anterior annular ligament. In the hollow immediately below the bend of the elbow, it presents a small oval aperture for the transmission of a short communicating branch between the superficial and the deep veins of the forearm. It increases in density towards the hand ; and a little above the wrist affords a sheath to the tendon of the long palmar muscle, which passes over the annular ligament to be inserted into the narrow end of the palmar fascia. Several white lines seen on the surface of the fascia mark the positions of the septa between the origins of the muscles descending from the inner condyloid eminence, which are continuous with it. Between the superficial and the deep flexor muscles, another layer of fascia is stretched from side to side ; it is stronger below than above, where it generally consists of little more than thin connective tissue. The anterior annular ligament of the carpus, previously described at p. 144, is continuous at its upper margin with the fascia of the forearm, and receives some fibres from the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris : the lower margin is connected with a deep part of the palmar fascia, and gives origin in part to most of the short muscles of the thumb and little finger. This structure may be considered in some measure as a developed portion of the fascia of the wrist, and also as a ligament. The posterior portion of the aponeurosis of the forearm, much thicker than the anterior, is intimately connected with the strong septa between the several superficial muscles, and sends off transversely a thin membrane to separate the superficial from the deeper group of muscles. Approaching the back of the wrist, the transverse fibres increase in number and strength, and these being stretched from the outer margin of the radius on one side, to the cuneiform and pisiform bones and the palmar fascia on the other, constitute the posterior annular ligament of the carpus (see p. 144). This structure is attached not only to the points now indicated, but is likewise connected to the several longitudinal ridges on the posterior surface of the radius, and thus converts the intermediate grooves into fibro-osseous canals to lodge the tendons of the extensor muscles. There are six separate spaces so enclosed, and each is lined by a distinct synovial sac. The outermost space corresponds with the groove on the outer side of the radius, and gives passage to the extensores ossis metacarpi and primi internodii pollicis ; the next three, placed on the back of the radius, give passage respectively to the two radial carpal extensors, the extensor secundi internodii pollicis and the common extensor of the fingers, with the extensor indicis accompanying it ; between the radius and ulna is the compartment for the extensor minimi digiti, and resting in the groove on the back of the ulna is that for the extensor carpi ulnaris. On the bach of the hand there is only a thin layer of fascia prolonged from the posterior annular ligament over the extensor tendons, and separating them from the superficial veins and nerves. Beneath this are special fibrous membranes stretched over the interossei muscles. On the palm of the hand is the palmar fascia, a strong aponeurosis, consisting of a central and two lateral portions. The lateral parts are very thin ; they afford a delicate but firm covering to the muscles of the thumb