CAPILLARY VESSELS. clxxv onward flow, but that when from pressure or any other cause it is driven backwards, the refluent blood, getting between the dilated wall of the vein and the flaps of the valve, will press them inwards until their edges meet in the middle of the channel and close it up. The valvular folds are usually placed in pairs as above described; in the veins of the horse and other large quadrupeds three are often found ranged round the inside of the vessel; but this rarely- occurs in the human body. On the other hand, the valves are placed singly in some of the smaller veins, and in large veins single valves are not unfrequently placed over the openings of smaller entering branches; also in the right auricular sinus of the heart there is a single crescentic fold at the orifice of the vena cava inferior, and another more completely covering the opening of the principal coronary vein. Many veins are destitute of valves. Those which measure less than a line in diameter rarely, if ever, have them. In man, valves are wanting in the trunks of the superior and inferior venae cavaa, in the trunk and branches of the portal vein, in the hepatic, renal and uterine veins; also in the spermatic veins of the female. In the male, these last mentioned veins have valves in their course, and in either sex a little valve is occasionally found in the renal vein, placed over the entrance of the spermatic. The pulmonary veins, those within the cranium and vertebral canal, and those of the cancellated texture of bone, as well as the trunk and branches of the umbilical vein, are without valves. Valves are not generally found, and when present are few in number, in the azygos and intercostal veins. On the other hand, they are numerous in the veins of the limbs (and especially of the lower limbs), which are much exposed to pressure in the muscular movements or from other causes, and have often to sup- port the blood against the direction of gravity. No valves are met with in the veins of reptiles and fishes, and not many in those of birds. CAPILLARY VESSELS. That the blood passes from the arteries into the veins was of course a necessary part of the doctrine of the circulation, as demonstrated by Harvey ; but the mode in which the passage takes place was not ascertained until some time after the date of his great discovery. The discovery of the capillary vessels, and of the course of the blood through them, was destined to be one of the first-fruits of the use of the microscope in anatomy and physiology, and was reserved for Malpighi (in 1661). When the web of a frog's foot is viewed through a microscope of mode- rate power (as in fig. xciv.), the blood is seen passing rapidly along the small arteries, and thence more slowly through a net-work of finer channels, by which it is conducted into the veins. These small vessels, interposed between the finest branches of the arteries and the commencing veins, are the capillary vessels. They may be seen also in the lungs or mesentery of the frog and other batrachians, and in the tail and gills of their larvae : also in the tail of small fishes ; in the mesentery of mice or other small quadrupeds ; and generally, in short, in the transparent vas- cular parts of animals which can readily be brought under the microscope. These vessels can also be demonstrated by means of fine injections of coloured material, not only in membranous parts, such as those above- mentioned, but also in more thick and opaque tissues, which can be rendered transparent by drying. The capillary vessels of a part are most commonly arranged in a network, the branches of which are of tolerably uniform size, though not all strictly equal ; and thus they do not divide into smaller branches like the arteries, or unite into larger ones like the veins ; but the diameter of the tubes, as well as the shape and size of the reticular meshes which they form, differs in