471 AZYGOS AND SPINAL VEINS. p. 455) is most frequently united with the left innominate vein, but some- times is connected with the main azygos vein. Of the remaining left intercostal veins, one or two, generally about the fifth and sixth, pass directly into the azygos ; while the lowest in greater number unite almost constantly into one trunk, forming the left or small azygos, which crosses to join the main azygos in the neighbourhood of the seventh dorsal vertebra. There is frequently union between these three sets of veins or their intercostal branches, so that a part of one may be replaced by another, and the relative size of the veins may be subject to considerable variation. The left lower or small azygos vein (vena hemiazygos) commences from one of the lumbar veins (ascending lumbar), or from the left renal vein, and having entered the thorax with the aorta, or through the crus of the diaphragm, ascends upon the spine in front of the left intercostal arteries, receiving the lower intercostal veins of the left side; and passing behind the aorta, it opens into the right azygos vein, opposite the sixth or seventh dorsal vertebra. The azygos vein has been seen to receive the lower vena cava, and, in such cases, is of course extremely large. In one instance, Meckel found the azygos ending in the subclavian vein. All the intercostal veins of the left side have been observed in some instances to join a single vein, which ended in the left innominate; the arrangement corre- sponding with that on the right side of the body. The bronchial veins return the blood employed in the nutrition of the lungs. Their course corresponds with that of the bronchi, which support them as they pass towards the root of the lungs. The bronchial vein of the right side opens into the trunk of the azygos vein near its termination, that of the opposite side ends in the superior intercostal vein. VEINS OF THE SPINE. The spinal veins form plexuses of closely anastomosing vessels along the whole length of the spinal column. They have no valves. The veins within and upon the spinal column may be distinguished into the following sets : a. The dorsal, placed deeply in the vertebral grooves, and resting upon the spines and arches of the vertebrae, b. The veins lodged within the bodies of the vertebrae, c. The anterior longitudinal, two long series of veins, or rather venous plexuses, extended behind the bodies of the vertebrae in the whole length of the canal, d. The posterior longitudinal veins, situated within the canal on the fore part of the arches of the vertebrae, e. The veins of the spinal cord. There are like- wise branches of communication, some of which connect all the other sets together, and some which bring them into connection with the general venous system. (Breschet, " Essai sur les Veines du Rachis," 4to ; " Traite Anatomique sur le Systeme Veineux," fol., 1829; Cloquet, " Traite d'Anatomie descriptive," &c.) a.—The dorsal veins. The blood from the muscles and integument along the back of the spine is returned by a series of short veins, which ramify upon the arches and spinous processes of the vertebrae. They run forwards close to the spinous processes, and on reaching the interval between the arches of the vertebrae, pierce the ligamenta subflava, and terminate in a venous plexus within the canal. Towards the outer part of the interverte- bral grooves other veins arise, which pass obliquely forwards, through the intertransverse spaces, in company with the posterior branches of the lumbar