ccxiv HAIRS. face first, and afterwards the hairs of the eyelashes and head, which he finds in process of change in infants about a year old. The new hairs are generated in the follicles of the old (figs. cxxi. and cxxu.). An increased growth of cells takes place in the soft hair-knob, and in the adjoining part of the root-sheath (the outer layer); the growing mass pushes up the hair-knob, and detaches it from its generative papilla. The newly-formed mass of cells, occupying the lower part of the follicle, and resting on the papilla, is gradually converted into a new hair with its root-sheath, just as in the primitive process of formation in the embryo; and as the new hair lengthens and emerges from the follicle, the old one, separated from its matrix by the interposition of the new growth, is gradually pushed towards the opening, and at last falls out, its root-sheath having previously undergone partial absorption. When a hair is pulled out, a new one grows in its place,provided the follicle (from which the growth proceeds) remains entire. Heusinger, who expe- rimentally studied the process in the large hairs situated on the lips of the dog, found that a new hair appeared above the surface in a few days after the evulsion of the old one, and attained its full size in about three weeks. Fig. CXXL Fig. CXXII. e Fig. CXXI.—Two Eyelashes of an Infant, pulled out from their Follicles, - magnified 20 diameters (from Kolliker). A, the new cell-growth forming a cone, m, in the interior (as in fig. cxviii.). In B, the cone has separated into the new hair, /, g, and its inner root-sheath, b; a, outer, and b, inner root-sheath of new hair ; c, pit for papilla ; d and e, the knob and stem of old hair; /, knob; g, stem ; and h, the point of new hair; i, sebaceous glands ; k, 1c, sweat-glands here opening into mouth of hair-follicle. Fig. CXXII.—Eyelash of an Infant, with Young Hair come forth, magnified 20 diameters (from Kolliker). I, epidermis continuous with outer root-sheath ; other letters as in preceding figures. Distribution and arrangement.—Hairs are found on all parts of the skin except the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, the dorsal surface of the third phalanges of the fingers and toes, the upper eyelids, the glans, and the inner surface of the prepuce.