MUSCLES OF THE HEAD A1STD NECK. 176 surface supports the infra-orbital nerve and artery, which separate it from the preceding muscle; the posterior surface lies on the superior maxilla and the orbicularis and buccinator muscles, with which and the depressor anguli oris the fibres are blended. The zygomatici are two narrow and subcutaneous fasciculi of muscular fibres, extending obliquely from the most prominent part of the cheek to the angle of the mouth, one being thicker and longer than the other. a. The zygomaticus minor, a very small muscle, arises from the anterior and inferior part of the malar bone, and inclines downwards and forwards to terminate by joining the outer margin of the levator labii superioris; sometimes near the origin of that muscle. It lies internal to the zygo- maticus major, but distinct from it in the whole length, and is sometimes joined by some fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum : in some instances it is replaced by a fleshy slip from that muscle ; in others it is altogether wanting. b. The zygomaticus major, placed externally to the smaller muscle of the same name, arises from the malar bone near the zygomatic suture, from which it descends to the angle of the mouth, where it is continued into the orbicularis and depressor anguli oris. The risorius or smiling muscle (Santorini), consisting of some very thin fasciculi, commences in the fascia over the masseter, or on the parotid gland, and extending transversely inwards in the fat of the cheek, joins the orbicularis and depressor anguli oris at the angle of the mouth. It is united with the fibres of the platysma close to their termination, and is by many regarded as a part of that muscle. The buccinator muscle consists of a flat and thin but strong set of fibres in contact with the mucous membrane, and forming a considerable part of the wall of the mouth. It is attached by its upper and lower margins to the outer surface of the alveolar parts of the maxillary bones, outside the molar teeth, and between these bones it is fixed behind to a narrow band of tendinous fibres, the pterygo-maxillary ligament, a structure which extends from the internal pterygoid plate to the posterior extremity of-the mylo- hyoid ridge of the lower jaw close to the last molar tooth, and separates the buccinator muscle from the superior constrictor of the pharynx. From these points the fibres of the muscle are directed forwards, approaching each other, so that the muscle is narrowed and proportionally thickened near the angle of the mouth, where it becomes incorporated with the orbicularis. The fibres near the middle of the muscle cross each other, those from above entering into the lower lip, and those from below into the upper one ; but the higher and lower fibres are directed into the cor- responding lip without decussation. The buccinator is covered and supported by a thin fascia, which is closely adherent to the muscular fibres; and is overlapped by the triangularis oris, the terminal fibres of the platysma myoides, and by the facial artery and vein; it is also covered by the masseter and zygomatici, from which it is separated by a quantity of soft adipose tissue of a peculiar character. Opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw, its fibres give passage to the duct of the parotid gland. The depressor anguli oris, or triangularis oris, is broad at its origin from a line on the external surface of the lower jaw near its base ; passing up- wards it is collected into a narrower bundle which is inserted into the orbicularis at the angle of the mouth. This muscle is covered by the skin, and, at its insertion, by the zygomaticus major, under which its fibres* pass; it conceals part of the buccinator and of the depressor of the lower lip.