364 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. The subclavian artery is only the commencing portion of a long trunk which forms the main artery of the upper limb, and which is artificially divided for purposes of description into three parts—the subclavian, axillary, and brachial arteries. The subclavian artery, arising on the right side from the extremity of the innominate stem, and on the left from the arch of the aorta, passes a short way up into the neck, arches outwards over the pleura, and rests between the scalenus anticus and scalenus medius muscles on the first rib. At the outer border of the first rib it ceases to be called subclavian, and is con- tinued into the axillary artery. Each subclavian artery is conveniently divided into three parts,—the first part extending from the origin of the vessel to the inner border of the anterior scalenus muscle ; the second consisting of the portion of the vessel situated behind that muscle ; and the third reaching outwards to the external border of the first rib. In examining each of these portions in detail, it will be necessary in the first part to give separate descriptions for the right and the left sides, as there is a material difference in the anatomy of the two vessels. The first part of the right subclavian artery commences close to the trachea, at the division of the innominate artery, behind the upper part of the sterno-clavicular articulation, and ends at the inner margin of the anterior scalenus muscle. Separating from the carotid artery, it arches up- wards and outwards, and ascends above the level of the clavicle to an extent which varies in different cases. It is deeply placed, being covered by the platysma, the sterno-mastoid, the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and the deep cervical fascia. It is in contact with the pleura inferiorly, and is separated by an interval from the longus colli muscle behind. Relation to Veins.—The subclavian vein lies lower than the first part of the right subclavian artery, close under the clavicle. In its course to join this vein, the internal jugular passes in front of the artery near the scalenus muscle, as do also, nearer the middle line, the anterior jugular and a vertebral vein. Relation to Nerves.—The vagus nerve passes in front of the artery on the inner side of the internal jugular vein, and its recurrent laryngeal branch, turning round below the artery, ascends behind. Some cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve pass down over the artery. The first part of the left subclavian artery arises from the upper surface of the arch of the aorta, at the left end of its transverse portion, and ascends to the margin of the first rib, behind the insertion of the anterior scalenus muscle. It is, therefore, longer than the first part of the right sub- clavian, and ascends at first almost vertically out of the chest, instead of arching, like that vessel, outwards across the neck. It is at first overlapped by the left lung, and is covered in front and on the left side by the pleura; it rests on the longus colli muscle, and lies, for a short space, in front of the oesophagus (here deviating to the left side), and the thoracic duct. To the inner or right side of the vessel are situated the left carotid and trachea, and further up the oesophagus and the thoracic duct. Relation to Veins.—The internal jugular vein is immediately before the artery, where it turns outwards from the thorax, close to the scalenus muscle ; and the left innominate vein is likewise anterior to it.