MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 208 The serratus magnus muscle, by withdrawing the scapula from the spinal column, enables the arm when raised from the shoulder to be still farther outstretched, as in the movement termed extension in fencing. It comes powerfully into action in all movements of pushing; it likewise combines with the trapezius in rotating the scapula. The latissimus dorsi carries the elevated arm downwards and backwards, rotating it at the same time inwards, so as to make the palm look backwards, thus accomplish- ing such a movement as is made by the arm in swimming. By passing over the angle of the scapula it binds that process to the trunk, preventing its projection backwards; and by being folded round the outer border of the scapula, it limits the projection outwards of the same angle when the arm is raised. The pectoralis major muscle, while it combines with the latissimus dorsi in depressing the humerus from the raised position, opposes that muscle by drawing the limb forwards. It is placed upon the stretch when the arms are thrown back- wards, and is most shortened when they are folded across the chest. Considered as acting on the trunk from the upper limb in a fixed condition, these muscles have chiefly the following effect:—They all tend to draw the trunk of the body towards the limb, as in climbing, or other like efforts. The latissimus dorsi, if acting on both sides, carries the body upwards and forwards, as in the use of crutches, or in throwing a somersault from the hands backwards. The pectoral and latissimus dorsi muscles are also muscles of forced inspiration, tending to raise and dilate the ribs, more especially when the arms are elevated. The upper parts of both trapezii muscles acting on the occipital bone aid the sterno-mastoid muscle in throwing forward the chin; and if one muscle only acts, it aids in rotating the head. MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER. The deltoid is a coarsely fasciculated muscle, extending from the most prominent part of the shoulder down a third of the upper arm. It arises by a broad margin in three portions, an anterior from the external third of the clavicle, a middle from the outer edge of the acromion, and a posterior from the lower border of the spine of the scapula as far back as the triangular surface at the inner end of that portion of the bone, and the fasciculi from the extended origin, converging as they descend, are inserted by a comparatively narrow but thick extremity into the triangular rough surface above the middle of the humerus, on its outer side. This rough surface receives the name of the deltoid impression. At its posterior part the origin of the deltoid is thin and tendinous, and in the rest of its extent fibrous septa dip down between the coarse muscular fasciculi. At the insertion it is tendinous on the deep surface, and fibrous septa also project upwards from thence into the substance of the muscle. The muscular fibres are arranged pennately round those septa with such regularity as to have suggested to Albinus the subdivision of the muscles into seven parts, four of them broad above and narrow below, and three intercalated between those parts, which are broad below and narrow above. (Albinus, Histor. Muscul. Horn., p. 423.) At the posterior border of the deltoid, the aponeurosis covering the infraspinatus muscle divides into two thin layers, of which one covers the muscle superficially, and the other lines its deep surface. At its anterior border this muscle is in contact with the pectoralis major, the cephalic vein lying between them. In immediate contact with the deep surface is the large bursa, which separates this muscle and the acromion from the shoulder joint and the muscles supporting it. The deltoid muscle covers the origins of the biceps, coraco-brachialis, and long head of the triceps, and the insertions of the subscapularis, supraspinatus, infraspinatus and teres minor muscles, as also the circumflex vessels and nerve. The subscapularis muscle arises from all the venter of the scapula, with the exception of the neck of the bone and the spaces occupied by the serratus