ARTICULATIONS OF THE LOWER LIMB. 154 derived from the muscular tendons and aponeuroses. The ligaments which have received special names are the following :— The internal lateral ligament, long and flat, connects the internal tuberosity of the femur with the inner tuberosity and the hinder border of the tibia, on the shaft of which it descends for some distance. Superiorly its deep surface rests on the articular synovial membrane ; below the head of the tibia the anterior slip of insertion of the semimembranosus muscle passes between the ligament and the bone. The external lateral ligament is a rounded cord, which extends from the external tuberosity of the femur to the head of the fibula. Its internal surface corresponds with the tendon of the popliteus muscle and the inferior external articular vessels. The tendon of the biceps flexor cruris muscle Fig. 141. A B Fig. 141, A.—The Knee-joint, opened from before ; the Patella, Capsule, and Synovial structures removed, to show the Crucial Ligaments and Semilunar Cartilages, 3 1, external, and 2, internal semilunar cartilage ; 3, on the outer condyloid surface of the femur, points to the anterior external crucial ligament; 4, placed on the elevated line separating the patellar from the inner condyloid surface of the femur, points to the posterior or internal crucial ligament; 5, transverse ligament of the semilunar cartilages ; 6, part of the ligamentum patellae ; 7, on the head of the fibula, points to the superior anteror tibio-fibular ligament; 8, upper part of the interosseous membrane, showing the perforation for the anterior tibial artery. Fig. 141, B.—The Knee-Joint, opened from behind, and its structures removed, so AS TO EXPOSE THE CRUCIAL LIGAMENTS AND SEMILUNAR CARTILAGES. g 1, posterior part of the internal semilunar cartilage ; 2, external semilunar cartilage; 3, upper part of the external or anterior crucial ligament; 4, lower part of the internal or posterior crucial ligament : farther up is seen its accessory band joining the external semi- lunar cartilage ; 8, upper part of the interosseous membrane ; 9, back part of the internal lateral ligament; 10, placed on the head of the fibula, points to the posterior superior tibio-fibular ligament : between the head of the fibula and the external semilunar cartilage (2) is seen the synovial surface of the tibia, upon which the semilunar cartilage descends in flexion, and where a communication sometimes takes place between the synovial cavities of the knee-joint and the tibio-fibular articulation.