Ixiii PIGMENT. being probably a manifestation of that property on which the more conspicuous motions of animals are known to depend, namely, vital contractility; and this view has at least the advantage of referring the phenomenon to the operation of a vital property already recognised as a source of moving power in the animal body. But, assuming this view to be sound, so far as regards the nature of the motile property brought into play, it affords no explanation of the cause by which the contractility is excited and the cilia maintained in constant action. It is true that nothing resembling a muscular apparatus in the ordinary sense of the term, has been shown to be connected with the cilia, nor is it necessary to sup- pose the existence of any such; for it must be remembered that while the organic substance on which vital contractility depends is probably uniformly the same in composition, it does not everywhere assume the same form and texture. The anatomical characters of human voluntary muscle differ widely from those of most involuntary muscular structures, and still more from the contractile tissues of some of the lowest invertebrate animals, although the movements must in all these cases be referred to the same principle. The heart of the embryo beats while yet but a mass of cells, united, to all appearance, by amorphous matter, in which no fibres are seen; yet no one would doubt that its motions depend then on the same property as at a later period, when its structure is fully developed. In its persistence after systemic death and in parts separated from the rest of the body, the ciliary motion agrees with the motion of certain muscular organs, as the heart, for example ; and the agreement extends even to the regular or rhythmic cha- racter of the motion in these circumstances. It is true, the one endures much longer than the other; but the difference appears to be one only of degree, for differences of the same kind are known to prevail among muscles themselves. No one, for in- stance, doubts that the auricle of the heart is muscular, because it beats longer after death than the ventricle; nor, because a frog's heart continues to act a much longer time than a quadruped's, is it inferred that its motion depends on a power of a dif- ferent nature. And the view here taken of the nature of the ciliary motion derives strength from the consideration that the phenomenon lasts longest in cold-blooded animals, in which vital contractility also is of longest endurance. In the effects of heat and cold, as far as observed, there is also an agreement between the movement of cilia and that of muscular parts; while, on the other hand, it must be allowed that electricity does not appear to excite their activity. The effects of narcotics afford little room for inference, seeing that our knowledge of their local action on muscular irritability is by no means exact; but in one instance, at least, an agent, chloroform vapour, which stops the action of the freshly excised heart of a frog, arrests also the ciliary motion. Something, moreover, may depend on the facility or difficulty with which the tissues permit the narcotic fluid to penetrate, which circum- stance must needs affect the rapidity and extent of its operation. Again, we see differences in the mode in which the cilia themselves are affected by the same agent; thus fresh water instantly arrests their motion in certain cases, while it has no such effect in others. The discovery of vibrating cilia on the spores and other parts of certain crypto- gamic vegetables may perhaps be deemed a strong argument on the opposite side ; but it is by no means proved that the sensible motions of plants (such, at least, as are not purely physical), and those of animals, do not depend on one common vital property. PIGMENT. The cells of the cuticle, and of other textures which, more or less resemble it in structure, sometimes contain a black or brown matter, which gives a dark colour to the parts over which the cells are spread. A well-marked example of such pigment-cells in the human body is afforded by the black coating which lines the choroid membrane of the eye and covers the pos- terior surface of the iris. They are found in the epidermis of the Negro and other dark races of mankind, and in the more dusky parts of the