208 MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. Fig. 207. femoris ; 7, tendon of the obturator ex- curved line, and in front of the gluteus maximus, from the strong fibres of the fascia lata covering its outer surface. The muscular fibres converge as they descend, the anterior fibres passing obliquely backwards, the poste- rior fibres obliquely forwards, and terminate in a fan-shaped tendon, which, becoming narrowed and thick, is inserted into the oblique line directed downwards and forwards on the outer surface of the great trochanter. The tendon is separated by a small bursa from the upper part of the trochanter. Anteriorly there is no separation between this muscle and the gluteus minimus on which it lies, the two muscles running into one another at their common anterior border, and separating only at their tendons of insertion. Between this muscle and the gluteus minimus are the gluteal nerve and deep branches of the gluteal artery. Fig. 207.—Deep Muscles op the Hip and Pelvis on the left side, from behind. 4 The gluteus maximus and the muscles ot the thigh have been removed. 1, gluteus medius; 2, pyriformis; 3, gemellus su- perior ; 4, gemellus inferior ; 5, obturator internus, seen partially within the pelvis, and, after issuing by the lesser sciatic notch, between the gemelli muscles ; 6, quadratus ternus between the gemellus inferior and quadratus. The gluteus minimus, covered by the preceding muscle, arises from the whole space on the dorsum ilii be- tween the superior and inferior curved lines. The fibres, converging as they descend, terminate in an aponeurotic expansion, superficial to the muscle, and become narrowed into a tendon which is inserted into an impression on the anterior border of the great trochanter. The tendon is bound down to the prominence of the trochanter by a strong fibrous band which joins it from the upper margin of the capsule of the hip-joint. A synovial bursa is interposed between the tendon and the trochanter. The pyriformis muscle arises within the pelvis by three fleshy digitations from the second, third, and fourth divisions of the sacrum, between the anterior sacral foramina, slightly from the deep surface of the iliac bone, near the sacro-sciatic notch, and from the sacro-sciatic ligament. The muscle passes out of the pelvis by the great sacro-sciatic notch, and is inserted by a rounded tendon into the upper border of the great trochanter, being bound down for some distance from the point of its final insertion to the subjacent tendon of the obturator internus and gemelli muscles. The pyriformis muscle, after escaping from the pelvis, is in contact by its upper border with the gluteus medius and minimus, the gluteal vessels and nerve inter- vening ; and by its lower border with the superior gemellus muscle, the sciatic vessels and nerves, which emerge beneath it, lying between. The muscle is frequently pierced by part of the great sciatic nerve, and is thus divided more or less completely into two parts.