433 BRANCHES OF THE EXTERNAL ILIAC and rising within the sheath, is placed between it and the muscle, and terminates at some distance above the umbilicus in offsets which ramify in the substance of the muscle and anastomose with the terminal branches of the internal mammary and inferior intercostal arteries. The epigastric artery is accompanied by two veins, which unite iuto a single trunk before ending in the external iliac vein. In its course upwards from Poupart's ligament to the rectus muscle, the artery passes close to the inner side of the internal abdominal ring ; and the vas deferens, entering through the ring, turns behind the artery in descending into the pelvis. Branches.—These are small, but numerous. {a) The cremasteric artery, a slender branch, accompanies the spermatic cord, and supplying the cremaster muscle and other coverings of the cord, anastomoses with the spermatic artery. (6) Several muscular branches arise from each side of the epigastric artery, ramify in the rectus muscle, and communicate with the branches of the lumbar and circum- flex iliac arteries. (c) Superficial branches perforate the abdominal muscles, and join beneath the skin with branches of the superficial epigastric artery. (d) The pupic is a small branch, which ramifies behind the pubes, and com- municates by means of one or more descending twigs with a similar branch from the obturator artery. Fig. 297.—View of the relation of Fig. 297. the Vessels of the Groin to a Femoral Hernia, &c. (from 11. —— Quain). \ ^ —r^gg^^psB* In the upper part of the figure a portion of the fiat muscles of the abdomen has been removed, displaying in part the transversalis fascia and peritoneal lining of the abdomen ; in the lower the fascia lata of the thigh is in part removed and the sheath of the femoral vessels opened : the sac of the femoral hernial tumour has also been opened. a, anterior superior spinous process of the ilium ; b, aponeurosis of the ex- ternal oblio1ue muscle above the exter- nal inguinal aperture ; c, the abdomi- nal peritoneum and fascia trans- versalis ; d, the iliac portion of the fascia lata near the saphenic opening; e, sac of a femoral hernia ; 1, points to the femoral artery ; 2, femoral vein at the place where it is joined by the saphena vein ; 3, epigastric artery and vein passing up towards the back of the rectus muscle ; +, placed upon \ the upper part of the femoral vein close below the common trunk of the epigastric and an aberrant obturator artery ; the latter artery is seen in this case to pass close to the vein and between it and the neck of the hernial tumour. 2. The circumflex iltac artery, smaller than the preceding vessel, arises from the outer side of the iliac artery near Poupart's ligament, and is