196 MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. The scaleni muscles are subject to some amount of variation, both in the number of their points of attachment, and in the arrangement of their fibres. A slip from the scalenus anticus sometimes passes behind the subclavian artery. The rectus capitis anticus major arises from the tubercles of the trans- verse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth vertebrae by tendinous slips, its origin corresponding in extent to the superior attachment of the anterior scalenus muscle : it is inserted into the basilar process of the occipital bone, a little in front of the foramen magnum. The muscles of opposite sides converge as they ascend, and their mesial fibres are longest. The anterior surface of the rectus capitis anticus major supports the pharynx, the sympathetic and vagus nerves, and the great cervical vessels. The posterior surface rests upon part of the longus colli and the rectus anticus minor. The rectus capitis anticus minor, under cover of the preceding, arises from the anterior arch of the atlas, and slightly from the root of its transverse process ; it is inserted into the basilar process, between the margin of the foramen magnum and the preceding muscle, half an inch from its fellow. The rectus capitis lateralis is a short thick muscle arising from the upper surface of the anterior division of the transverse process of the atlas, and inserted into the rough surface beneath the jugular eminence of the occi- pital bone. It completes the series of intertransversales muscles. The anterior surface of this muscle is in contact with the internal jugular vein, the posterior with the vertebral artery. The longus colli muscle rests on the front of the vertebral column from the atlas to the third dorsal vertebra : it consists of three sets of fibres, of which two are oblique, and one vertical, a. The superior oblique portion arises, by a narrow tendinous process, from the anterior tubercle of the body of the atlas, and is inserted into the fore part of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebrae, b. The inferior oblique, the smallest part of the muscle, extends obliquely inwards from the transverse processes of the fifth and sixth cervical to the bodies of the first two or three dorsal vertebrae, c. The vertical part, connected by its extremities with the other divisions, is attached superiorly to the bodies of the second, third, and fourth cervical vertebrae, and inferiorly to the bodies of the three lower cervical and two or three upper dorsal vertebrae. Actions.—The sterno-cleido-mastoid muscles, and in a less degree the scaleni muscles, bend forwards the head and neck towards the sternum. The sterno-mastoid muscles, when acting in concert with the extensor muscles of the head, assist in the extension, and project the chin. When the sterno-mastoid muscle of one side only is in action, the head, while it is slightly flexed, is inclined laterally to the side on which the muscle contracts, and rotation is produced, by which the face, and especially the chin, is directed towards the opposite side. This is the position which occurs in wry-neck, depending upon an unequal action of the opposite sterno-mastoid muscles. The scalene muscles, when the vertebral column is fixed, act as elevators of the ribs, and by many are considered as constant aids in the movement of inspiration. It seems certain that when the head is fixed the sterno-mastoid muscles also assist in forcible inspiration by the elevation of the sternum and clavicles. FASCIJE OF THE HEAD AND NECK. The superficial fascia is little developed on the head and neck, and is in great measure blended with structures described under other names. A