16 VERTEBRAL COLUMN. margins of the groove. At the same time there is enclosed within the cavity the medullary substance derived from the upper layer, which constitutes the rudiment of the brain and spinal marrow. It is below and around this tubular cerebro-spinal cavity, and in the substance of the portion of the middle germinal layer immediately adjacent to it, that the cranio- vertebral part of the skeleton takes its origin by steps of which the following is the briefest possible outline. Immediately below the cerebro-spinal groove, previous to its closure, there appears in the substance of the middle layer a linear condensed structure, termed chorda dorsalis or notocJiord ; round this at a later period the base of the skull and bodies of the vertebrae are developed. The chorda dorsalis may be seen in the embryo-chick after eighteen hours of incubation, and at corresponding periods of advancement in the embryoes of mammalia. In the human embryo, although the first origin of this chord has not yet been observed, there is no reason to doubt its existence; and from observations at a later period of development it is certain that the foundation of the human skeleton is laid in a manner essentially the same as in animals. Soon after the extension of the two upper germinal layers in the dorsal direction has given rise, in the manner mentioned, to the neural cavity and its contained cerebro-spinal axis, the incurvation of all the three germinal layers in a downward or ventral direction results in the formation of the walls of the visceral cavities of the body ; and thus from the chorda dorsalis as a centre there proceeds upwards a neural and downwards a visceral arch. In the middle layer itself, which is destined for the production of the most com- plicated parts, the thickened portion which is next to the chorda dorsalis on either side is separated from the part which is more remote, and it is in the inner portion now mentioned that there are produced at a very early period those structures which have been called primitive or primordial vertebral by embryologists, the formation of which constitutes the next stage in the progress of the earliest development of the skeleton. These rudimental structures consist of small dark quadrilateral patches of condensed germinal substance, to the number of three or four, situated on each side of the chorda dorsalis. The anterior of them corresponds to the atlas vertebra, and in the subsequent increase of their number, the new ones make their appearance farther and farther backwards, or towards the caudal extremity. 13. Eig. 13.—This and the three following figures are intended to illustrate the first formation of the vertebral segments, or "primi- tive vertebrae," and some of the changes by which the permanent vertebral and costal arches are produced. Fig. 13 gives in outline a magnified view of the embryo of the chick about twenty-six hours after the commencement of incubation, as it lies prone in the centre of the germinal membrane. 1, 2, 3, cerebro-spinal canal; 1—2, the cerebral part; 2—3, the spinal part, not yet closed in the caudal region; 4—4, seven primitive vertebrae, proto-vertebrse, or vertebral segments ; near 2, the rudiments of the heart. The so-called primordial vertebrae have, however, a more ex- tended destination than to serve as the basis of formation of the elements of the vertebral column ; for each pair of them contains the rudiments, not only of the osseous and cartilaginous parts of a vertebra which cross the middle plane, but also in the thoracic region a portion of a rib, and throughout the whole extent the central parts of a spinal pair of nerves and the cutaneous and muscular parts which cover the whole vertebral region. The process by which these several parts come to be distinct in the progress of development is somewhat intricate. It will be sufficient to mention here that, after a considerable change has occurred in each of the primordial vertebral masses by the rapid formation of cells within them, each becomes cleft into an upper and lower (dorsal and ventral) division or plate. The upper constitutes the basis of the skin and muscles of the vertebral part of the trunk, while the lower or deeper portion undergoes further division in connection with the development of very