MUSCLES OF THE EYELIDS AND NOSE. 173 auricular ; 3, corrugator supercilii; 4, malar portion of the orbicularis palpebrarum ; 4', palpebral portion ; below i, the expanded insertion of levator palpebrse superioris in the eyelid; 5, pyramidalis nasi; 6, insertion of the triangulares nasi on the dorsum of the nose ; 7, levator labii superioris aleeque nasi ; 8, orbicularis oris of the left side; 8', outer part of the same on the right side, the inner part being removed ; 9, levator labii superioris; + , zygomaticus minor; 10, zygomaticus major; 11, depressor anguli oris ; 12, depressor labii inferioris ; d, points to the cut ends of the levatores menti ; 13, placed on the left masseter, points to the buccinator; 13', buccinator, of the right side, a portion of the parotid duct passing through the muscle ; 14, levator anguli oris, seen also on the left side behind the zygomaticus minor. The remaining references which apply to the muscles of the neck will be found described at page 194. horizontally outwards to the inner commissure of the eyelids, where it divides into two thin fibrous lamellae, which diverge as they pass outwards in the substance of the eyelids, and terminate in the tarsal cartilages. One surface of the tendon is subcutaneous ; the other crosses the lachrymal sac a little above the centre, and from it a thin but firm fascia is given off, which spreads over the lachrymal sac, and adheres to the margins of the groove which lodges it. The tensor tarsi—Horner, (musculus sacci lachrymalis,)—consists of very thin fibres resting on the fascia just mentioned. It is only a deep portion of the insertion of the marginal fibres of the ciliary part of the orbicularis muscle : two slips, one from each eyelid, passing behind the lachrymal canals, unite on the surface of the lachrymal sac before reaching their attach- ment on the posterior part of the lachrymal bone. The corrugator supercilii is a small muscle narrower below than above, placed at the inner side of the eyebrow. It arises from the inner extremity of the superciliary ridge of the frontal bone ; thence its fibres proceed outwards and a little upwards, and end, at the middle of the orbital arch, by becoming blended with those of the orbicularis and occipito-frontalis muscles, by which it is concealed. This muscle crosses the supra-trochlear branch of the ophthalmic nerve and the accompanying artery as they emerge from the orbit. The levator palpebral superioris is a muscle occupying the upper part of the orbit, but the insertion of which is seen in the dissection of the upper eyelid, in which it forms a broad fibrous expansion which curves downwards towards its margin, and is inserted under cover of the orbicularis muscle into the forepart of the tarsal cartilage. It will be described along with the muscles of the orbit. Actions.—The orbicularis palpebrarum closes the eyelids. In the ordinary closure of the eye, it is chiefly the upper lid which moves, being depressed by the superior half of the ciliary part of the muscle; but in forcible closure both eyelids move, and not only come together, but are drawn towards the nose at the same time that the eyebrows are drawn downwards and inwards, the whole fibres of the orbicularis being thus contracted and approached towards the tendo palpebrarum. In those circumstances the fibres which form the tensor tarsi, being contracted like the others, compress the lachrymal sac, and prevent the introduction into it of the lachrymal secretion from the conjunctiva. The corrugator muscles draw the skin of the forehead downwards and inwards, raising longitudinal furrows, as in frowning. The upper eyelid is supported by the levator palpebrae, and droops when that muscle is paralysed. On the other hand, paralysis of the orbicularis is attended by an inability to close the eyelids. Muscles of the Nose. —Under this head may be conveniently grouped not only the compressor naris and smaller muscles which act upon the nose alone, but also the pyramidalis nasi which acts on the forehead, and the levator labii superioris alseque nasi whose action is common to the nose and lip.