FLEXOR MUSCLES OF THE NECK. 195 This muscle is placed deeply : in its lower part it is crossed by the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, and in its whole length it is traversed by the phrenic nerve passing obliquely from above downwards and inwards. The subclavian vein and artery pass respectively in front and behind its inferior attachment. The nerves of the brachial plexus emerge from behind its outer border above the subclavian artery. The rectus capitis anticus major arises on its inner side, the ascending cervical branch of the inferior thyroid artery lies in the groove between that muscle and the scalenus, and in front is the internal jugular vein. The scalenus medius is attached superiorly to the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the last six cervical vertebrse ; and inferiorly to a rough elevation on the first rib, extending for an inch and a half forwards from the tubercle. In front of this muscle, between it and the anterior scalenus, are the cervical nerves and the subclavian artery; behind it are the posterior scalenus and levator anguli scapulae muscles. It is sometimes attached to the transverse process of the atlas. The scalenus posticus, smaller than the other scaleni muscles, is attached above by two or three small tendons to the transverse processes of as many of the lowest cervical vertebra?, and inferiorly by an aponeu- rotic tendon to the second rib, in front of the attachment of the levator costse. Fig. 168. Fig. 168.—View op the Deep Muscles connected with the upper part oe the Vertebral Column in front. J The skull has been removed in front of the basilar and mastoid processes, together with the sternum and anterior parts of the first and second ribs, a, cut surface of the basilar process ; b, transverse process of the atlas ; c, trans- verse process of the seventh cervical vertebra ; d, body of the first, d', of the fourth dor- sal vertebra; e, first, and e', second rib ; 1, rectus capitis anticus major muscle ; 2, rec- tus capitis anticus minor ; 3, middle part, 3', upper part, and 3", lower part of the longus colli; 4, rectus lateralis; 4', first pair, and 4", second pair of intertransversales ; 5, scalenus anticus of the right side ; 5', the tendon of attachment to the first rib on the left side, the rest of the muscle having been removed ; 6, scalenus medius of the right side ; 6', lower portion of the correspond- ing muscle of the left side ; 7, scalenus posticus, its superior attachments shown upon the left side ; 8, upper part of the levator scapulas drawn out from its vertebral attachments ; 9, splenius colli, shown in the same manner.