DIGITAL BRANCHES. —PECULIARITIES. 399 lower down than the preceding, and sending branches to the abductor indicis, runs along the radial side of the back of the index finger. c. The branches derived from the radial after it has entered the hand, are, the great artery of the thumb, the radial branch of the index finger, and its large terminal branch, which forms the deep palmar arch. (a) The large artery of the thumb (arteria princeps pollicis,—Haller) arises from the radial, where it is about to turn inwards across the palm of the hand. It descends in front of the abductor indicis, between the metacarpal bone of the thumb and the muscles covering it, to the space between the lower ends of the flexor brevis pollicis. At that point, and beneath the tendon of the long flexor, it divides into two collateral branches, which course along the borders of the phalanges', on the palmar aspect, and unite in front of the last phalanx, to form an arch similar in arrangement to that on the other fingers. (6) The radial branch for the index finger generally arises close to the large artery of the thumb ; but though constantly found, it varies in size and in its mode of origin. It descends between the abductor indicis and adductor pollicis muscles, and continues along the radial border of the index finger, forming the radial collateral branch of that finger, and anastomosing in the usual manner on the last phalanx with the ulnar collateral branch derived from the superficial palmar arch. This artery very frequently gives off a communicating branch to the superficial arch, near the lower border of the adductor pollicis. But the most frequent com- munication between the radial artery and the superficial arch is by means of the small branch which proceeds from the former through the muscles of the thumb. Peculiarities.—Origin.—In the observations of Richard Quain, the radial artery was found to arise higher up than usual in nearly one case in eight. Course.—The radial artery more rarely deviates from its usual position along the fore arm than the ulnar.—It has, however, been found lying upon the fibrous expan- sion from the tendon of the biceps, and over the fascia of the fore arm, instead of beneath those structures. This vessel has been also observed on the surface of the long supinator, instead of on the inner border of that muscle. In turning round the wrist, it has been seen passing over the extensor tendons of the thumb, instead of within them. But these several peculiarities are of very rare occurrence. As was previously stated (p. 387), the vasa aberrantia occasionally derived from the bra- chial or axillary arteries most commonly end by joining the radial, or one of its branches. Branches.—The radial recurrent is sometimes very large, or it may be re- placed by several separate branches. When the radial itself arises high up, the recurrent artery usually comes from the residual brachial trunk, or sometimes from the ulnar artery, or more rarely from the interosseous. When given from the brachial trunk, the radial recurrent has been found crossing beneath the tendon of the biceps. The superficial volar branch is small in a considerable number of cases, and is lost in the short muscles of the thumb, without forming any connection with the palmar arch, or with any of the digital arteries. In some instances in which it is enlarged, it furnishes one or two digital branches, and along with this the anastomosis with the superficial arch may be absent. The superficial volar branch occasionally arises as much as an inch and a half higher than usual. The first dorsal interosseous branch (metacarpal), which descends on the second interosseous space to the cleft between the index and middle fingers, is not unfre- quently so large as to furnish the collateral digital branch to each of those fingers, The carpal and interosseous (metacarpal) branches of the radial are sometimes small, their place being supplied by the perforating offset of the anterior interosseous., apparently by an enlargement of the ordinary anastomosis between them,