THE HEART. 818 from the auricle upon the veins, especially upon the superior vena cava and the pulmonary veins. Fibres of the ventricles.—The muscular fibres of the ventricles have a very intricate disposition, which has received great attention from various anatomists, such as Wolff, Gerdy, Reid, Searle, and most recently Pettigrew, the last of whom has done much to elucidate the nature of the arrangement in animals, although perhaps the whole subject cannot yet be considered as fully understood. Fig. 237. Fig. 237. —Postekior view op THE SAME PREPARATION .AS IS REPRESENTED IN THE PRE- CEDING FIGURE. | a, posterior surface of the right ventricle with its super- ficial muscular fibres dissected ; b, the same of the left ventricle; c, posterior interventricular groove, from which the coronary vessels have been removed ; d, right auricle; e, the left, showing some transverse fibres common to both auricles, and some belonging to each one; /, superior vena cava ; g, g', pul- monary veins cut short; />,, sinus of the great coronary vein covered by muscular fibres; 7i', posterior coronary vein join- ing the principal one; i, inferior vena cava ; i', Eustachian valve as seen from behind. It is chiefly the reticu- lated structure or continual union of the greater part of the muscular fibres with each other which renders difficult the investigation of the course and disposition of these fibres. In order to unravel them with any degree of success, it is best to boil the slightly distended heart for five or six hours, so as to destroy the connective tissue, and then carefully to dissect the heart in part by cutting and in part by tearing asunder the fibres with blunt instruments. According to Pettigrew's observations, made principally upon the hearts of rumi- nating animals, as many as seven layers of fibres may be distinguished in the walls of both ventricles; * three of these being external, three internal, and one situated inter- mediately between them : but it may be remarked that, although some of these layers, such as the external, may be readily separated from the next, others of them run so much into those with which they are in contact, that we must regard the dis- tinction of layers as applying more strictly to the difference of the direction of the majority of the fibres at different depths, than to a real and constant separation of determinate layers, in each of which the fibres are alike in direction. At the same time, for the convenience of description, it may be well to recognise provisionally the seven layers of Pettigrew. One of the most important facts which has been established by Pettigrew's * Wolff conceived that five or six layers might be made out.