400 RADIAL ARTERY, DEEP PALMAR ARCH. The deep palmar arch, the continuation of the radial artery, commences at the upper end of the first interosseous space between the heads of the abductor indicis, turns transversely across the palm towards the fourth metacarpal bone, and inosculates with the communicating branch of the ulnar artery. The convexity of the arch thus formed is directed downwards. It rests on the interosseous muscles and on the metacarpal bones immediately below their carpal extremities, and is covered by the flexor brevis pollicis, the flexor tendons of the fingers, and the muscles of the little finger. It is nearer to the carpus than the superficial arch, and differs from it in retaining its size almost undiminished. It is in part accompanied by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve, which runs from the inner end of the arch outwards. Fig. 280. Branches :— (a) The recurrent branches (rami retrogradi, —Haller), from the upper concave side, ascend and anastomose with the branches from the an- terior carpal arch. (6) The superior perforating branches, three in number, pass backwards through the upper extremities of the last three interosseous spaces to inosculate with the dorsal interosseous ar- teries. (c) The palmar interosseous arteries, usually three in number, but very liable to variation, lie in front of the interosseous spaces, supply the muscles there, and anastomose at the clefts of the fingers with the digital branches from the superficial arch. It is by an enlargement of these small vessels that the deep palmar arch sometimes supplies the corresponding digital arteries in the absence of those usually derived from the superficial arch. Fig. 280.—Dissection op the Left Arm, show- ing an enlarged Median Artery which re- places the Radial and Ulnar Arteries in the supply op Palmar Digital Arteries to halp the Fingers (from Tiedemann). f 1, lower part of the brachial artery; 2, radial artery, not giving any superficial volar branch; 3, recurrent radial branch; 4, ulnar artery passing superficially over the wrist and supplying at 4', digital arteries to half the hand ; 5, the enlarged median artery passing in front of the annular ligament of the carpus, and sup- plying 5', digital vessels to the outer half of the hand. VARIOUS CONDITIONS OF THE ARTERIES OF THE HAND. The arteries of the hand frequently vary from their usual mode of distribution. (a) By far the larger number of deviations consist of a deficiency in either the