cxxxiii CHEMICAL COMPOSITION. operating without our consciousness and without the intervention of the will* The nerves are divided into the cerebrospinal, and the sympathetic or ganglionic nerves. The former are distributed principally to the skin, the organs of the senses, and other parts endowed with manifest sensibility, and to muscles placed more or less under the control of the will. They are attached in pairs to the cerebro-spinal axis, and like the parts which they supply are, with few exceptions, remarkably symmetrical on the two sides of the body. The sympathetic or ganglionic nerves, on the other hand, are destined chiefly for the viscera and blood-vessels, of which the motions are involuntary, and the natural sensibility is obtuse. They differ also from the cerebro-spinal nerves in having generally a greyish or reddish colour, in their less symmetrical arrangement, and especially in the circumstance that the ganglia connected with them are much more numerous and more gene- rally distributed. Branches of communication pass from the spinal and several of the cerebral nerves at a short distance from their roots, to join the sympathetic, and in these communications the two systems of nerves mutually give and receive nervous fibres ; so that parts supplied by the sympathetic may be also in nervous connection with the cerebro-spinal centre. The nervous system is made up of a substance proper and peculiar to it, with inclosing membranes, nutrient blood-vessels, and supporting connective tissue. The nervous substance has been long distinguished into two kinds, obviously differing from each other in colour, and therefore named the white, and the grey or cineritious. CHEMICAL COMPOSITION. The information we possess respecting the chemical composition of nervous matter is for the most part founded on analyses of portions of the brain and spinal cord ; but the substance contained in the nerves, which is continuous with that of the brain and cord, and similar in physical characters, appears also, as far as it has been examined, to be of the same general chemical con- stitution. JSTo very careful comparative analysis has yet been made of the grey and white matter, to say nothing of the different structural elements of the nervous substance ; and indeed it must be remembered, that, in portions of brain subjected to chemical examination, capillary blood-vessels, connec- tive, and perhaps other accessory tissues, as well as interstitial fluid, are mixed up in greater or less quantity with the true nervous matter, and must so far affect the result. The nervous matter may be said to consist of an albuminoid body, in part liquid, with fatty principles, extractive matters, salts, and much water. The water, which forms from three-fourths to four-fifths or more of the whole cerebral substance, may be removed by immersion in alcohol and evapora- tion. When the solid matter which remains after removal of the water is treated with ether and hot alcohol, the fatty compounds are extracted from it by these menstrua, and there remains a mixture of coagulated albuminous matter and salts, with a small remnant due to accessory tissues, chiefly vessels. The albuminoid constituent is not sufficiently known to be characterised specifically. It no doubt belongs, in some small proportion, to the interstitial fluid. Of that which * From the researches of Dr. Augustus Waller it appears probable that ganglions exert some influence over the nutrition of the nerve-fibres connected with them, and serve to maintain the structural integrity of these fibres ; for it has been found that when a ganglionic nerve is cut across in a living animal, the part beyond the section after a time becomes atrophied, while the part connected with the ganglion retains its integrity. k