FORMATION OF BLOOD CORPUSCLES. li In the bird.—In the egg of the bird, the first appearance of blood corpuscles, as well as of blood-vessels, is seen in the blastoderma, or germinal membrane, a structure formed by the extension of the cicatricula in the early stages of incubation. The commencing embryo, with its simple tubular heart, is seen in the middle of this circular membrane, and blood-vessels, containing blood corpuscles, appear over a great part of its area. These first vessels, therefore, though connected with the heart, and intended to convey nutriment to the embryo, are formed in an exterior structure ; but in a somewhat later stage, blood-vessels and corpuscles are developed in various textures and organs within the body. The formation of blood corpuscles in the vascular area of the blastoderma has been sedulously investigated by various inquirers; and from their concurrent statements, we learn that these corpuscles, at a certain stage of their progress, are rounded bodies, larger than the blood-disks of the adult. They contain a granular nucleus, and are quite devoid of colour. These spheroidal colourless corpuscles in their further advancement become flattened, and assume an oval figure. While undergoing these changes of form, they acquire a red colour, which is at first faint and yellowish, but gradually deepens. As to the earlier part of the process—the production of the above-mentioned round cells, whose subsequent conversion into coloured oval disks has just been described— it has been held that the cells which form the substance of the blastoderma and embryo partly pass directly into blood corpuscles, and partly generate the latter by fissiparous multiplication. In man and mammalia.—In the embryo of man and mammalia the primitive blood corpuscles are round, nucleated, colourless bodies, as in the cases above de- scribed. Their substance, originally granular, speedily clears up and acquires colour, and thus they appear as nucleated red corpuscles, of spheroidal shape, and of much larger size than the future red disks. They are embryonic cells, most probably loosened from each other and set free in the excavation of the originally solid vessels in the blastoderma and embryo-body; and, both in their primitive state and after acquiring colour, they increase in number by fissiparous multiplication, as represented in fig. xi., p. xvii. These large nucleated red and colourless corpuscles, continuing to increase in number, constitute the earliest and, for a time, the only corpuscles in the embryo-vessels. But their multiplication is soon arrested, and a new epoch in blood-formation begins with the development of the liver. The blood which returns to the embryo charged with fresh material of nutrition from the maternal system, has then to pass, at first entirely, afterwards in great part, through the vessels of the liver, and it would seem that henceforth colourless nucleated corpuscles are produced in that organ and poured abundantly into the general mass of blood by the hepatic veins. It is probable that the liver continues its hsemapoietic or blood-forming function throughout foetal life; but, in the meanwhile, the spleen and" lymphatic system have also begun to produce pale corpuscles, and in after periods supersede the liver in that office. These corpuscles, either immediately or after fissiparous multi- plication, acquire colour like the first—those from the liver and spleen probably in great part before they leave these organs—and are converted into nucleated red corpuscles. The nucleated red corpuscles thus produced are gradually converted into, or at least succeeded by, smaller disk-shaped red corpuscles without nuclei, having all the characters of the blood-disks ot the adult. This transition or sub- stitution begins early, and proceeds gradually, until at length, long before the end of intrauterine life, the nucleated red corpuscles have altogether vanished. Throughout life the mass of blood is subject to continual change ; a portion of it is constantly expended, and its place taken by a fresh supply. It is certain that the corpuscles are not exempted from this general change, but it is not known in what manner they are consumed, nor has the process been fully traced by which new ones are continually formed to supply the place of the old. With regard to the latter question, it may be stated, that the explanation which has hitherto found most favour with physiologists is, that the corpuscles of the chyle and lymph passing into the sanguiferous system, become the pale corpuscles of the blood; and that these last are converted into red disks. Pale corpuscles are also generated in the spleen, and, after part of them have changed into red disks, pass directly into the blood, independently of those derived from the chyle and lymph. As to the manner in which the pale eorpuscles are transformed into the red, there is considerable difference of opinion. d 2