STRUCTURE OF CAPILLARIES. clxxix and agminated intestinal glands and adjacent mucous membrane, etc., the small blood-vessels and capillaries commonly receive a coating of connective tissue corpuscles, which are similar to those of the retiform tissue and con- nected with the fine trabeculse of the network, by which the vessels are Fig. XCVIII. Fig. XOVIIL—A Small Artery A, with a corresponding!- vein B, treated with Acetio Acid, and magnified 350 diameters (after Kolliker). a, external coat with oblong nuclei ; /3, nuclei of the transverse muscular tissue of the middle coat (when seen endwise, as at the sides of the vessel, their outline is circular) ; 7, nuclei of the epithelium-cells ; o, elastic layers of the inner coat. thus supported. On the smallest capillaries the corpuscles are but sparingly distributed, but nevertheless afford a continuous covering to the vessel by their finely reticulating outrunners. This coating is named by His, who has most fully described and figured it, the adventitia capillaris. Vital properties.—From the share which the capillaries take in many vital actions, both healthy and diseased, and especially from the part they have been supposed to play in the process of inflammation, much pains has naturally been bestowed to find out whether they are endowed with vital contractility. There is still, however, a difference of opinion on this question; and, while this property evidently exists in vessels, however small, provided with a muscular coat, it has not been shown by equally direct evidence, to belong to the more simply constructed capillaries; and it must be confessed, that the proofs commonly adduced of the existence of vital con- tractility in these vessels, are ambiguous and inconclusive. These proofs are chiefly the two following : viz., 1st, That stimulants, such as alcohol, oil of turpentine, pepper, and ice or ice-cold water, applied to the frog's foot or mesentery, cause the capillary vessels to shrink in diameter, and that this contraction is speedily followed by their dilatation beyond their natural capacity ; the shrinking of the vessels being attributed to the direct operation of the stimuli on their contractility, and their sub- sequent dilatation to the temporary exhaustion of that property, consequent on its previous undue excitation. 2ndly, That when the vessels are preternaturally dilated, in the way abovejlescribed, or by the action of ammonia or common salt, they