ci BONE. tebree, and sternum, and in variable number in the scapula, the innominate, and facial bones. The marrow serves the same general purposes in the economy as ordinary fat. Placed within the bones, which are made hollow for the sake of lightness, it serves as a light and soft material to fill up their cavities and support their vessels. In birds, for the sake of still further lightening their skeleton, the^larger bones, instead of being filled with marrow, contain air, which passes into them from the lungs by openings at their extremities. Even in man there are certain hollow bones of the cranium and face which are naturally filled with air. The cavities of these bones are named sinuses ; they open into the adjoining air-passages, and are lined with a pro- longation of the mucous membrane, underneath which is a thin periosteum. The bones do not at first contain fatty marrow; in the foetus their cavities are filled with a transparent reddish fluid, like bloody serum, only more consistent and tenacious, with granular marrow cells. In dropsical subjects also, the marrow, like the rest of the fat, is consumed to a greater or less extent, its place being occupied by a serous fluid. Blood-vessels.—The bones are well supplied with blood-vessels. A net- work of periosteal vessels covers their outward surface, others penetrate to the cavities of the spongy part and the medullary canal, on the sides of which they ramify, and fine vessels, deprived of their muscular coat, run through all parts of the compact tissue in the Haversian canals. The sides of these internal cavities and canals make up together a large extent of inward surface on which vessels are spread. The nutritious fluid conveyed by these vessels no doubt escapes through their coats and permeates the surrounding dense bone interposed between the vascular canals ; and it seems highly probable that the system of lacunse and communicating canali- culi, already described, is a provision for conducting the exuded fluid through the hard mass. When a bone is macerated, its vessels and mem- branes are destroyed, whilst the intermediate true bony matter, being of an incorruptible and persistent nature, remains ; a process which, for obvious reasons, cannot be effected with the soft tissues of the body. The vessels of bone may be recognised while it is yet fresh by the colour of the blood contained in them ; but they are rendered much more con- spicuous by injecting a limb with size and vermilion, depriving the bones of their earth by means of an acid, and then drying them and putting them into oil of turpentine, by which process the osseous tissue is rendered trans- parent whilst the injected matter in the vessels retains its red colour and opacity. Numberless small vessels derived from the periosteum, as already mentioned, pass along the Haversian canals in the compact substance. These are both arterial and venous, but, according to Todd and Bowman, the two kinds of vessels occupy distinct passages ; and the veins, which are the larger, present, at irregular intervals, pouch-like dilatations calculated to serve as reservoirs for the blood, and to delay its escape from the tissue. Arteries, of larger size but fewer in number, proceed to the cancellated texture. In the long bones numerous apertures may be seen at the ends, near the articular surfaces ; some of these give passage to the arteries referred to, but the greater number, as well as the larger of them, are for the veins of the cancellated texture, which run separately from the arteries. Lastly, a considerable artery goes to the marrow in the central part of the bone ; in the long bones this medullary artery, often, but improperly, called "the nutritious artery," passes into the medullary canal, near the middle of the shaft, by a hole running obliquely through the compact substance. The vessel, which is accompanied by one or two veins, then sends branches upwards and downwards to the marrow and medullary membrane in the