229 FASCLE OF THE UPPER LIMB. extensors arising from the outer condyloid eminence, are most advantageously situated for acting on the other joints over which they pass, when the position of the elbow ioint is such as to keep them most on the stretch; but when flexion of those other joints is either completed or opposed, they have also some effect, though not great upon the elbow joint itself. The flexores sublimis and profundus and the lumbricales muscles are the flexors respectively of the second, third, and first phalanges. The lumbricales, while they flex the first phalanx, at the same time, by virtue of their connection with the extensor tendons, extend the other phalanges, thus causing the fingers to pass through the movement which they undergo in making the hair-stroke in writing. They are assisted in this action by the interossei. When the thumb is opposed to the other fingers, the metacarpal bone is drawn forwards, not only by the opponens muscle, but also by the abductor, and by the flexor brevis, acting when the first phalanx is flexed, or when it is fixed by the extensor primi internodii. The precise action of the abductor is to draw the thumb forwards and outwards. The extensor ossis metacarpi is entirely an abductor, as indicated by the name given to it by Albinus. The extensor primi internodii likewise is an abductor as well as an extensor of the first phalanx. The extensor secundi internodii extends both phalanges and draws the metacarpal bone directly backwards. The adductor and the inner fibres of the flexor brevis adduct the thumb. A combination of the actions of the different muscles in succession produces circumduction. The little finger is withdrawn from the others by its abductor, as the ring-finger is withdrawn from the middle finger by the fourth dorsal interosseous muscle; and the abductor acting with the long flexors likewise assists the flexor brevis in keeping the first phalanx firmly down in grasping. The palmaris longus has but little action, and that is exerted in tightening the palmar fascia. The palmaris brevis increases the hollow of the hand by pulling on the integument on the inner side, so as to increase the hypothenar prominence. FASCIiE OP THE UPPER LIMB. The superficial fascia covering the muscles which pass from the trunk to the shoulder and upper limb, forms a complete investment of the upper part of the trunk, being continuous with that of the neck superiorly, and with those of the abdomen and hip inferiorly, and extending from the shoulder and over the arm, forearm and hand, so as to cover the whole limb. In the subcutaneous tissue of the upper limb bursse are usually found placed over the acromion, the olecranon, and the knuckles. The superficial fascia of the pectoral region encloses the mammary gland, covering it both in front and behind, and sending strong septa in between its lobes. Processes likewise extend from the investment of the gland between the masses of fat forwards to the skin and nipple, and these, from the support which they afford to the gland, have been named by Sir Astley Cooper ligamenta suspensoria. (" On the Anatomy of the Breast." London, 1840.) The superficial fascia of the arm is most distinct opposite the bend of the elbow, where the superficial veins contained within its laminae are numerous and large. In the palm of the hand, on the contrary, the subcutaneous tissue forms a firm connecting medium between the skin and a strong aponeurosis named the palmar fascia : it consists of a network of fibres passing between those two structures, dividing the subcutaneous fat into small granules, so as to prevent the skin from shifting to any considerable extent. Of the deep fascia the following parts require special notice. The costo- coracoid membrane is a distinct layer of firm fascia whose strongest fibres, distinguished sometimes as the costo-coracoid ligament, extend from the coracoid process to the first rib at the origin of the subclavius muscle, and which conceals that muscle from view. Superiorly it is attached to the