MUSCLES OF THE PERIMUM. 261 bladder. At the place where it is reflected inwards to the side of the bladder, it forms the lateral true vesical ligament. At the side of the bladder and prostate, the recto-vesical fascia gives a prolongation forwards on the veins (prostatic) which cover the prostate, and is firmly adherent to the capsule of that organ, except at its base, where an angular furrow, occupied by large veins, exists between the prostate and bladder. Into this furrow the incision for lithotomy ought not to extend, on account of the. danger from wounding the veins and from the infiltration of urine. A portion of the recto-vesical fascia invests the vesiculss seminales, and is extended across between the bladder and the rectum ; continuing into the membrane of the opposite side, it supports the bladder, and separates that organ from the intestine. On the rectum the fascia is also reflected upwards and downwards, gradually degenerating into a thin membrane over the surface of the bowel, as it likewise does on the bladder. c. The obturator fascia is a membrane stretched over the lower part of the surface of the obturator internus muscle within the pelvis. It is connected superiorly with the white band before referred to, which consists indeed of its superior fibres, and it is attached in the rest of its circumference to the rami of the pubis and ischium, the ischial tuberosity, and the greater and lesser sacro-sciatic ligaments. It lies between the obturator internus muscle and the ischio-rectal fossa, and presents in its substance towards the muscle a canal, which contains the internal pudic artery and nerve in their course to the perinseum. The obturator fascia is sometimes included in the description of the pelvic fascia while the recto-vesical is considered as an offset from it. It will be found, however, on dissection, that the recto-vesical fascia is always most directly continuous with the pelvic fascia, and that the obturator fascia is only loosely connected with it. Indeed, the fibres of the levator ani muscle in most cases pass upwards to some extent beyond the white line, and thus separate the obturator from the pelvic fascia. The ischio-rectal fossa is a pyramidal space occupied by subcutaneous fat. It is bounded externally by the obturator fascia, posteriorly by the gluteus maximus muscle and great sacro-sciatic ligament, and internally by the recto-vesical fascia ; anteriorly, its base is limited by the margin of the pe.rinseal and the sub-pubie fasciae. In the female the pelvic fascia is connected with the vagina in the same manner as with the other pelvic organs. MUSCLES OF THE PERINEUM. The muscles of the perinseum differ somewhat in the two sexes, and must therefore be separately described in each. In both sexes they may be divided into two groups according as they are more immediately connected with the lower orifice of the alimentary canal or with the genito-urinary outlet. In both groups superficial and deep muscles are to be distin- guished. A.—IN THE MALE. a. Anal Group.-—The internal or circular sphincter is a thick ring of unstriped muscle connected with the lowest circular fibres of the rectum, which will fall more naturally to be considered along with the anatomy of that organ.