DORSAL VERTEBRA. 5 intervertebral foramina, a series of rounded apertures which communicate with the vertebral canal, and transmit the spinal nerves and blood-vessels. The foramen, enclosed by the vertebral ring, is bounded anteriorly by the body, and posteriorly and laterally by the arch. The series of rings united by ligaments constitutes the vertebral eanal, in which the spinal cord is contained. Texture.—The bodies of the vertebrae are almost entirely composed of spongy substance, the surface being covered with only a thin layer of compact tissue. Venous canals, commencing at the larger foramina behind, traverse the cancellated structure. The arch and processes contain a much smaller proportion of spongy substance, being covered with compact tissue of con- siderable density in some places. CHARACTERS PECULIAR TO GROUPS OF VERTEBRAE. The moveable vertebrae are divided into three groups, named from the regions which they occupy, cervical, dorsal, and lumbar. Each of those groups is marked by distinctive characters. The central vertebrae of each group differ so much in all their parts from those of other groups, that any portion, such as the body, ring, or one of the pro- cesses, is alone sufficient to indicate to which they belong. On the other hand, the vertebrae at the extremities of each group are assimilated in their characters to those of the neighbouring group. • In the following description the characteristics of each group, as existing in its central members, will first be given, and then the slighter differences of other members will be stated. DORSAL VERTEBRA. The dorsal vertebrae, twelve in number, support the ribs. They are the simplest in form, and ought to be the first to engage the attention of the student. Their position is between the cervical and lumbar groups, and they are also of intermediate size. Fig. 2.—The Sixth Dorsal Vertebra. ^ A, viewed from above; B, viewed from the right side. 1, the body; 2, the pedicle; 3, the lamina; 4, vertebral ring, nearly circular; 5, spinous process; 6, transverse process; 7, 7', superior and inferior articulating processes; c, c', superior and inferior facets on the body for the articulation of the head of the rib ; d, facet on the transverse process for the articulation of the tubercle of the rib. The body is somewhat narrower in front than behind : its antero-posterior and trans- verse diameters are nearly equal, and it is somewhat heart-shaped, as seen from above or below. It is specially characterized by the presence, at the place where it joins the arch, of depressed articular surfaces for the heads of ribs. In the greater number of instances, there are two costal surfaces on each side,—one on the superior, the other on the inferior border,—so placed that each completes with that of . the adja- cent vertebra a cavity for the head of one