BEANCHES OF THE ANTERIOR TIBIAL. 449 oblique course downwards the anterior tibial artery lies at first close to the Fig. 307. 1 f: Fig. 307.—Anterior view op the Arteries op the Leg and Dorsum op the Foot (from Tiedemann) \ The tibialis anticus muscle is drawn towards the inner side so as to bring the anterior tibial artery into view, the extensor proprius pollicis, the long common extensor of the toes, and the peroneus tertius muscles in their lower part, and the whole of the extensor communis brevis, have been removed. 1, external superior articular branch of the popliteal artery, ramifying on the parts surrounding the knee ; and anastomosing with the other articular branches and with 2, the recurrent branch of the anterior tibial artery ; 3, 3, anterior tibial, giving off muscular branches on each side ; 4, dorsal artery of the foot ; 5, external anterior malleolar artery coming off from the anterior tibial, and anastomosing with the anterior peroneal artery which is seen descending upon the lower part of the fibula : the internal malleolar is represented proceeding from the other side of the anterior tibial artery ; o', the tarsal branch of the dorsal artery, represented in this instance as larger than usual and furnishing some of the branches of the next artery ; 7, the metatarsal branch, giving off the dorsal inter- osseous arteries ; (in the first interosseous space the dorsal artery of the foot is seen to give off the anastomosing branch which unites with the deep plantar arch ;) be- tween 8, and 8, the collateral branches of the dorsal digital arteries. interosseous ligament, and is then at a con- siderable distance from the spine of the tibia ; but in descending it gradually approaches that ridge, and towards the lower part of the leg is supported on the anterior surface of the bone. Relation to Veins and Nerves.—The anterior tibial artery is accompanied by two veins (venae comites). The anterior tibial nerve, coming from the outer side of the head of the fibula, approaches the artery at some distance below the place where the vessel appears in front of the interosseous ligament. Lower down, the nerve for the most part lies in front of the artery, but often changes its position from the one side of the vessel to the other. Branches.—Besides numerous small muscu- lar branches, the anterior tibial artery furnishes the following :—■ (a) The recurrent artery, given off as soon as the anterior tibial reaches the front of the leg, ascends through the fibres of the tibialis anticus, and, ramifying on the outside and front of the knee-joint, anastomoses with the inferior articu- lar and oiher branches of the popliteal artery. (6) The malleolar arteries, two in number, external and internal, are given off near the ankle-joint, but are very variable in size and mode of origin. The internal branch passes beneath the tendon of the 8