FORMATION OF VEGETABLE STRUCTURE. xi other moist surfaces. In this last case, a simple detached cell exercises the functions of an entire independent organism, imbibing and elaborating extraneous matter, extending itself by the process of growth, and continuing its species by generating other cells of the same kind. Even in the aggre- gated state in which the cells exist in vegetables of a higher order, each cell still, to a certain extent, exercises its functions as a distinct individual; but it is now subject to conditions arising from its connection with the other parts of the plant to which it belongs, and is made to act in harmony with the other cells with which it is associated, in ministering to the necessities of the greater organism of which they are joint members. These elementary parts are therefore not simply congregated into a mass, but combined to produce a regularly organised structure ; just as men in an army are not gathered promiscuously, as in a mere crowd, but are regularly combined for a joint object, and made to work in concert for the attainment of it; living and acting as individuals, but subject to mutual and general control. JSTow the varied forms of tissue found in the higher orders of plants do not exist in them from the beginning ; they are derived from cells. The embryo plant, like the embryo animal, is in its early stages entirely formed of cells, and these of a very simple and uniform character ; and it is by a transformation of some of these cells in the further progress of development that the other tissues, as well as the several varieties of cellular tissue itself, are produced. The principal modes, as far as yet known, in which vegetable cells are changed, are the following. 1. The cells may increase in size ; simply, or along with some of the other changes to be immediately described. 2. They alter in shape. Cells have originally a spheroidal or rounded figure ; and when in the progress of growth they increase equally, or nearly so, in every direction, and meet with no obstacle, they retain their rounded form. When they meet with other cells extending themselves in like Fig. II. Fig. III. Fig. II.—Textukes seen in a Longitudinal Section op the Leaf-Stalk of a Flowering Plant. Fig. III.—Stellate Vegetable Cells. manner, they acquire a polyhedral figure (fig.n.,12), by mutual pressure of their sides. When the growth takes place more in one direction than in another, they become flattened, or they elongate and acquire a prismatic, fusiform, or tubular shape (fig. n.,3 4 6). Sometimes, as in the common rush, they assume a starlike figure, by mutual adhesion of their walls at