86 BONES OF THE UPPER LIMB. internal inferior angle. On the external side beneath, the surface for the scaphoid is a short surface for the trapezoid bone ; and on the internal surface is a vertically elongated surface which articulates with the unciform bone. Inferiorly this bone articulates by three distinct surfaces, of which the middle is much the largest, with the second, third, and fourth metacarpal bones. The os magnum articulates with seven bones, viz., the scaphoid, semilunar, trapezoid, unciform, and second, third, and fourth metacarpal bones. THE UNCIFORM BONE. The unciform bone is readily distinguished by the large process projecting forwards and curved slightly outwards on its anterior surface. Seen from the front or behind, it has a triangular form. Its external surface is ver- tical, and articulates with the os magnum ; its inferior surface is divided nto two facets which articulate with the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones ; its superior surface, meeting the cuneiform, is concavo-convex, inclines upwards and outwards towards the head of the os magnum, and is separated internally by a rough border from the inferior surface. The unciform articulates with five bones, viz., the os magnum, semilunar, cuneiform, and fourth and fifth metacarpal bones. THE METACARPUS. The metacarpus, the part of the hand which supports the fingers, consists of five shafted bones, which are numbered from without inwards. These bones are placed in a slightly arched plane, and are nearly parallel one with the other, with the exception of the first, which diverges from the second. Fig. 77. Fig. 77.—The Right Hand prom before, ± s, scaphoid bone ; I, semilunar; c, cuneiform ; p, pisiform ; t, trapezium; next it the trape- zoid, not lettered ; next the os magnum, also not lettered ; u, unciform. I to V, the metacarpal bones ; 1, 3, first and second phalanges of the thumb ; 1, 2, 3, the first, second, and third phalanges of the little fingei', and similarly for the other three fingers, not marked ; *, one of the sesamoid bones of the thumb seen sidewise. The metacarpal bones are slightly curved, so as to present a concavity directed forwards. They are terminated at their carpal extremities by expanded portions of different forms, and at the digital ends by large rounded heads. The first metacarpal bone is thicker and shorter than the others. The remaining four decrease regularly in length, accord- ing to their position from without in- wards, and the second and third are thicker than the fourth and fifth. The shaft of the first metacarpal bone is somewhat compressed from before backwards, flat behind, and transversely convex in front. The shafts of the others are prismatic, presenting a broad surface towards the back of the hand, and towards the palm a rounded margin between the two lateral surfaces. They are most slender immediately beyond the carpal extremity, and become gradually thicker towards the head. They present on their dorsal surfaces each a triangular subcutaneous area, bounded