397 BRANCHES OF THE RADIAL ARTERY. the flexor carpi radialis in the remainder ; and on the outer side, in its whole course along the forearm, is the supinator longus muscle. Relation to Veins.—The artery is accompanied by vense comites, which have the usual arrangement of those veins. Relation to Nerves.—The radial branch of the musculo-spiral nerve is placed on the outer side of the artery in the middle third of its course. At the elbow that nerve is separated from the artery by a considerable interval ; and towards the lower end of the fore arm it turns backwards beneath the tendon of the supinator longus, to reach the dorsal aspect of the limb, and thus loses all connection with the artery. Some filaments of the external cutaneous nerve pierce the fascia to reach the lower part of the artery, which they accompany to the back of the carpus. At the wrist the radial artery turns outwards between the styloid process of the radius and the carpus, beneath the tendons of the extensors of the metacarpal bone and first phalanx of the thumb, and upon the external lateral ligament of the wrist-joint, to reach the back of the carpus. It then runs downwards for a short distance, is crossed by the tendon of the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb, and reaching the upper end of the space between the first and second metacarpal bones, turns forwards into the palm of the hand, by passing between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle. As it turns round below the end of the radius the artery is deep-seated, but afterwards comes nearer to the surface. It is accompanied by two veins and by some filaments of the external cutaneous nerve, and is crossed by subcutaneous veins and by filaments of the radial nerve. Branches.—The branches of the radial artery maybe arranged according as they are given off in the fore arm, on the wrist, and iu the hand. a.. The branches which arise from the radial in the fore arm are the radial recurrent, the muscular branches, the anterior carpal, and the superficial volar. (a) The radial recurrent artery, which varies much in size, arches upwards from the radial soon after its origin, running between the branches of the musculo-spiral nerve. It first lies on the supinator brevis, and then on the brachialis anticus, being covered by the supinator longus. In front of the outer condyle, and in the interval between the two last muscles, it anasto- moses with the terminal branches of the superior profunda. From the lower or convex side of this artery are given off several branches ; one, of considerable size, to the supinator and extensor muscles, and some beneath the latter to anastomose with the posterior interosseous branches. It also supplies the supinator brevis, and brachialis anticus in part. (b) The anterior radial carpal is a small branch which arises from the radial artery, near the lower border of the pronator quadratus, and runs inwards in front of the radius. It anastomoses with the anterior ulnar carpal artery, so as to form an arch above and in front of the radio-carpal articulation, from which branches descend to supply the joints at the wrist. (c) The superficial volar (ramus superficialis volse), arising from the radial artery, near the place where it leaves the front of the forearm, passes on- wards into the hand. In size it is variable ; in most instances it is very small, and ends in the muscles of the thumb ; but in others it attains con- siderable size, and crossing those muscles at their origins, terminates, as it is usually described, by inosculating with the radial extremity of the super- ficial palmar arch, which it thus completes.