INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 362 pierce the sclerotic within a line or two of the margin of the cornea. All these ciliary arteries anastomose together within the eyeball, their distribution in which will be particularly described with the anatomy of the eyeball. (e) The muscular branches, subject to much variety, usually arranged in an upper and lower set, supply the muscles of the orbit. (/) The ethmoidal branches are two in number, a posterior and an anterior. They pass through the posterior and anterior internal orbital foramina, the latter in company with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve; and both arteries, having furnished branches to the ethmoidal cells, enter the skull, supply the adjacent dura mater, and send branches through the cribriform lamella to the nose. {rj) The two palpebral branches, superior and inferior, arise near the front of the orbit, usually together, but soon diverge, one lying above, the other below the tendon of the orbicularis muscle at the inner angle of the eye; they form arches, one in each lid, and send branches to the caruncula lachrymalis and the lachrymal sac. (h) The nasal branch courses forwards above the tendon of the orbicularis muscle to the root of the nose, where it ramifies, maintaining a free communication with the nasal and the angular branches of the facial artery. (i) The frontal branch runs close to the preceding, but on reaching the margin of the orbit turns upwards on the forehead, where it anastomoses with the supraorbital artery. Fig. 261.—View of the Distribution of the Branches of the In- ternal Carotid and Vertebral Arteries to the lower parts of the Brain (altered from Hirschfeld and Leveille'). \ On the left side of the brain a portion of the middle lobe of the cere- brum has been removed so as to open up the fissure of Sylvius and expose the convolutions of the island of Reil; and the left half of the cerebellum has been removed to show the lower surface of the posterior cerebral lobe. 1, placed on the optic commissure, points to the divided stem of the left internal carotid artery where its cerebral distribution begins; 2, anterior cerebral branch, exposed fully by the re- moval of a portion of the left optic nerve; 2', placed on the knee or anterior bend of the corpus callo- sum between its two arteries ; x, placed on the lamina cinerea in front of the optic commissure, marks the anterior communicating artery; 3, middle cerebral artery, passing into the fissure of Sylvius and distributing its branches over the convolutions of the island of Reil and others beyond; 4, placed between the infundibulum and the corpora albicantia, points by a line to the left posterior communicating artery ; 5, basilar artery ; 6, posterior cerebral artery, its distribution exposed on the left side by the removal of half of the cerebellum; 7, placed on the pons Varolii, points to the right superior cerebellar artery; 8, anterior inferior cerebellar artery ; between 7, and 8, one of the largest of the transverse branches of the basilar artery ; 9, 9, right and left vertebral arteries; 10, posterior inferior cerebellar arteries ; 11, anterior spinal arteries. Fig. 261.