180 MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. (trochlea) attached to the fovea trochlearis of the frontal bone ; it is there reflected outwards and backwards, and passes between the eye and the superior rectus, to be inserted into the sclerotic coat midway between the superior and external recti muscles, nearly equi-distant from the cornea and the entrance of the optic nerve. A synovial sheath lines the contiguous surfaces of the tendon and pulley. This muscle is covered by the roof of the orbit, the fourth nerve entering its upper surface; and beneath it lie the nasal nerve and the internal rectus muscle. Fig. 157. Fig. 1^7.—A, View op the Muscles op the Right Orbit, prom the outside, the outer wall having been re- MOVED. \ B, Explanatory Sketch op the Same Muscles. a, supraorbital ridge ; b, lower margin of the orbit formed by the superior maxillary bone ; c, anterior clinoid pro- cess ; d, posterior part of the floor of the orbit above the spheno-maxillary fossa ; e, side of the body of the sphe- noid bone below the optic foramen and sphenoidal fissure ; /, sinus maxil- laris ; 1, anterior part of levator pal- pebrae superioris, where it is inserted into the eyelid ; 2, pulley and tendon of the superior oblique muscle ; 3, tendon of the superior rectus muscle at its in- sertion upon the eyeball ; 4, in A, outer surface of the external rectus ; 4', in B, the anterior or inserted tendon of the same muscle, a part of which has been removed; the double origin of the muscle is shown at the apex of the orbit; 5, the inferior oblique muscle crossing the eyeball below the inferior rectus ; 6, the inferior rectus ; 7, in B, the inside of the internal rectus, seen in cod sequence of the removal of a part of the external rectus, and near it, the end of the optic nerve cut short close to the place of its entrance into the eyeball. The inferior ohlique is the only muscle of the eye which does not take origin at the apex of the orbit. It arises from a minute depression in the orbital plate of the superior maxillary bone, just within the anterior margin of the orbit, and close to the external border of the lachrymal groove. The muscle inclines outwards and backwards between the inferior rectus and the floor of the orbit, and ends in a tendinous expansion, which passes between the external rectus and the eyeball, to be inserted on the external and posterior aspect of the globe. Actions.—The recti muscles turn the eye upwards, downwards and from side to side, thus placing the axis of the eye in these or any intermediate directions. Evidence is against the supposition that the recti muscles are capable of altering the position of the eyeball in an antero-posterior direction, nor is it probable that they can in any perceptible degree change its form. (Jacob, " On Paralytic, Neuralgic, and other Nervous Diseases of the Eye," in " Dublin Med. Press," 1841; G. Johnson, the article " Orbit," in " Todd's Cyclopedia of Anatomy and Physiology.")