20 VERTEBRAL COLUMN. from an additional centre. On the body of each sacral vertebra, epiphysial plates are formed at a later period, as in other vertebrae. To complete the ossification of the sacrum, there are also formed on each side of it two flat and irregular plates, of which one extends over the first three vertebrae, while the other connects the last two. Fig. 19. 0 Fig. 19.—Ossification of the Sacrum. A, sacrum of a foetus before six months, seen from the front, showing the ossific nucleus n the body of each vertebra, from 1 downwards. B, sacrum of a child at birth, showing three pairs of additional nuclei for the lateral masses, 2, 2, close above the sacral foramina. C, sacrum of a person of about twenty five years of age. At 3 & 3, epiphysial plates are still visible above and below the first vertebral piece, and the fissures still remain between the first and second and the second and third lateral pieces; at 4 & 4' are shown the lateral epiphysial plates. Each of the coccygeal vertebrae is usually ossified from a single centre; but occa- sionally one of the first three contains two granules placed side by side. Progress of Ossification in the Vertebral Column.—The deposit of bone in the arches of the vertebrae takes place first in those belonging to the upper end of the column, and gradually proceeds downwards. In the bodies, it first occurs in the lower part of the dorsal region (about the ninth dorsal vertebra); and from that the process is extended upwards and downwards, reaching last of all the atlas and the coccyx, neither of which ossify till after birth. But though the nuclei of the lower dorsal vertebrae are the first to appear, they are soon surpassed in size by those below them; and in the foetus at birth the relative size of the nuclei corresponds with that of the fully-grown vertebrae. In the subjoined table are stated the ages at which the osseous centres of the vertebral column appear and the steps of union take place. But it is to be observed that it is only attempted to state these ages approximately, both because of the great difficulty, in most instances, of determining the age of the human foetus with accuracy, and because of a certain amount of variety which probably exists in the rapidity of the growth of bone in different cases. (See Albinus, " Icones Ossium foetus," p. 68; Meckel, in his "Archiv" vol. i. 1815, p. 648, tab. vi.; Humphry, " On the Skeleton," p. 132 ; Aitken, " Growth of the Recruit," 1862.) PERIODS OP OSSIFICATION OF THE VERTEBRA. In the vertebrae generally— The three primary centres appear in the 7th or 8th week (foetal life). The epiphyses of the processes appear in the 18th year or later. The epiphysial plates of the body appear in the 18th or 20th year. The two centres of the arch unite in the first year.