SECRETING GLANDS. ccxxiv even of a single one, with a duct, minute in size and sparingly branched, to correspond. In fact, a small racemose gland resembles a fragment of a larger one. A great many compound glands, yielding very different secretions, belong to the racemose class. As examples, it will be sufficient to mention the pancreas, the salivary, lachrymal, and mammary glands, with the glands of Brimner already referred to, and most of the small glands which open into the mouth, fauces, and windpipe. From the description given of their structure, it will be understood why the term " conglomerate glands" has been applied especially, though not exclusively, to this class. Their smallest lobules were called acini, a term which has also been used to denote the saccular recesses in the lobules, and indeed the word acinus, which originally meant the seed of a berry or the stone of a grape, or sometimes the grape itself, has been so vaguely applied by anatomists, that it seems better to discard it altogether, Of the tubular compound glands, the most characteristic examples are the testicle and kidney. In these the tubular ducts divide again and again into branches, which, retaining their tubular form, are greatly lengthened out. The branches of the ducts are, as usual, formed of a limitary or basement membrane (membrana propria), lined by epithelium, and in contact, by its opposite surface, with capillary blood-vessels. By the multiplication and elongation of the tubular branches a vast extent of secreting surface h obtained, whilst, to save room, the tubes are coiled up into a more or less compact mass, which is traversed and held together by blood-vessels, and sometimes, also, divided into lobules and supported, as in the testicle, by fibrous partitions, derived from the inclosing capsule of the gland. In consequence of their intricately involved arrangement, it is difficult to find out how the tubular ducts are disposed at their extre- mities. It seems probable, however, that some are free, and simply closed without dilatation, and that others anastomose with neighbouring tubes, joining with them in form of loops ; in the kidney, little round tufts of line blood-vessels project into terminal or lateral dilatations of the ducts, but without opening into them. The human liver does not precisely agree in structure with either of the above classes of compound glands. Its ducts, which are neither coiled nor sacculated, would seem to begin within its lobules, in form of a network occupying the interstices of the reticular capillary blood-vessels, which also are peculiar, inasmuch as they receive and transmit venous blood. Lastly, there are certain little bodies of doubtful nature, connected with the mucous membrane of the intestines, and known as the solitary and the agminated glands, which differ from all those hitherto spoken of, inasmuch as they are small saccules without an opening. Some anatomists are of opinion that they discharge their contents, from time to time, by bursting ; whilst others, without denying the possibility of this, are disposed to take a different view of these glandular bodies, and (as, at any rate there are no ducts) refer them to the class of " ductless glands," under which head they will be again adverted to. The full description of these glands, as well as of the peculiarities in the structure of the liver and kidney above referred to, belongs to the details of special anatomy. Besides blood-vessels, the glands are furnished with lymphatics, which in the compound glands proceed from lacunar lymphatic spaces within, as already stated (p. clxxxiii.). Branches of nerves have also been followed, for some way, into these organs, and the well-known fact, that the flow of