lv SCALY EPITHELIUM. rounded or spheroidal in shape (fig. xxn,, '), and but little larger than their nucleus ; but more commonly the undermost layer is formed (as shown in fig. xxni.) of oblong cells, which are placed vertically, and may be larger in size than the round cells which lie immediately over them. Such oblong vertical cells occur in the undermost layer of the epidermis, and similarly in the epithelium of the cornea and of various parts of the mucous membranes. Sometimes they form two or three successive rows. Higher up in the mass the cells are enlarged ; they have a globular or oval figure, and are filled with soft matter ; they next become flattened, but still retain their round or oval outline ; then the continued flattening causes their opposite sides to meet and cohere, except where separated by the nucleus, and they are at length converted into thin scales, which form the upper- most layers. While they are undergoing this change of figure, their substance becomes more firm and solid, and their chemical nature is more or less altered ; for the cell- membrane of the softer and more deep-seated cells may be dissolved by acetic acid, which is not the case with those nearer the surface. The nu- cleus at first enlarges, as well as the cell, but in a much less degree. The scales near the surface overlap a little at their edges, and their figure is very various ; somewhat deeper it is mostly polygonal, and more uniform. In various parts, the more superficial and denser layers of the scaly epithelium can be readily separated from the deeper, more recently formed, softer and more opaque part which lies underneath ; so that the latter is often distinguished as the Malpighian or mucous layer (stratum or rete mucosimi), although it is now well understood not to be an independent membrane. This point will be again noticed in treating of the skin. Furrowed and spinous cells of epithelium.—It was long since noticed by Henle that the flattened cells sometimes present a striated appearance, and quite recently Max Schultze and Virchow have described cells marked on the surface with parallel ridges and furrows (Riffzellen), and others (Stachelzellen) covered with spines, and therefore presenting a fringed or denticulate border (fig. xxiv.). Both varieties have been found in the epithelium of the tongue, lips, and conjunctiva, and in the epidermis ; and in all cases are confined to the deeper or Malpighian layers. Similar cells have been found in epithelial cancer and in cancroid tumours ; and flattened cells, beset with minute spines on their free surface, have recently been noticed (by BrouefF and Eberth) in the epithelium covering the inner surface of the cat's amnion. In thin vertical sections of the epidermis of the fingers I have seen what appeared to be cells with a deeply serrated outline, in the Malpighian layer, but I have not been able to separate them so as to examine them singly. Growth.—It must be admitted that the continued production of new cells by which this and other kinds of epithelium are maintained, is not yet thoroughly understood. It was at one time commonly believed that the cells which go through the changes of form and position already described, are formed from nuclei arising by independent formation in a blastema supplied by the subjacent vascular membrane; but it is now Fig. XXIII. Fig. XXIII.—Diagram op Section of Epithe- lium, IN WHICH THE UNDERMOST CELLS ARE OBLONG AND VERTICAL.