AXILLARY ARTERY. 380 branches to the subscapularis, serratus magnus, teres major and latissimus dorsi muscles. It soon becomes considerably diminished in size, owing to its giving off a large branch to the dorsum of the scapula. Its final ramifi- cations anastomose with one another and with the branches of the posterior scapular artery. The dorsal branch (dorsalis scapulae) turns back from the subscapular artery, about an inch and a half from its origin, and is sometimes larger than the continuation of the vessel. Descending along the lower border of the scapula, it passes through the interval bounded internally by the sub- scapularis and teres minor, externally by the latissimus dorsi and teres major, and superiorly by the long head of the triceps muscle ; and turning closely round the border of the scapula, which is frequently grooved to receive it, passes between the teres minor and the bone, and ramifies in the infraspinous fossa, where it anastomoses with the suprascapular and posterior scapular arteries. Fig. 267. Fig. 267. — View of the Arteries which ramify and anastomose on the Ventral Surface of the Scapula, and of the an- TERIOR Circum- flex Artery (from R. Quain). ^ a, coracoid process; b, tendon of the long head of the biceps muscle emerging from the bicipital groove ; c, the front of the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint; d, tendon of the latissi- mus dorsi muscle ; e, teres major; 1, supra- scapular artery de- scending to the supra- scapular notch, over the ligament of which the larger part of the artery passes into the supraspinous fossa ; A, A', the axillary and brachial artery ; I', its subscapular branch passing through the notch and ramifying in the subscapular fossa ; 2, 2, posterior scapular artery descending parallel to the base of the scapula ; 2', its subscapular branches ; 3, main stem of the subscapular artery at its origin from the axillary and continuation towards the dorsum of the scapula ; 3', the branch to the ventral surface of the scapula proceeding to anasto- mose with the subscapular branches of the suprascapular and posterior scapular arteries ; 4, descending or thoracic branch of the subscapular artery ; 5, anterior circumflex artery; 6, posterior circumflex passing back through the quadrilateral muscular space. The dorsalis scapulas gives off,—(a) ventral branches, slender vessels which ramify in the subscapular fossa between the subscapular muscle and the bone, and anastomose with twigs from the suprascapular and posterior scapular arteries ; (b) branches to the teres muscles, and particularly a twig which descends between their origins; (c) terminal branches in the infraspinous fossa. Circumflex Arteries.—The posterior circumflex artery, a considerable vessel but smaller than the subscapular, arises opposite the lower border of the subscapular muscle, below the subscapular artery, and is directed back-