123 ARTICULATIONS OF THE VERTEBRA. upper than at the lower part of the spine. In the neck it extends quite across the bodies, but in the back and loins it is broader opposite the inter- Fig. 109.—View op a part of the Vertebral Column, including the 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, and 9th Dorsal Vertebrae, with a part op the 6th, 7th, and 8th Ribs, from the right side and front. J The 5th and 9th ribs have been removed so as to show the articular surfaces of the vertebra? corresponding to them ; 1 to 2, the anterior common ligament of the bodies of the vertebras; at x x , a portion of the ligament is removed so as to expose the inter- vertebral plate between the 8th and 9th vertebrse, in which the diagonal fibres of the external ligamentous plates are represented. (The further description of this figure will be found at p. 129.) vertebral cartilages than at the middle bodies, so that its mar- gins present a series of points or dentations with intervening concave spaces. It adheres firmly to the fibro-cartilages and to the contiguous margins of the bodies of the vertebrae, but it is sepa- rated from the middle of the bodies by the transverse parts of tact with the bones. Between the mater which lines the canal, some Fig. 109. the large venous plexus, which is in con- ligament and the prolongation of the dura loose connective tissue is interposed. Fig. 110.—The Bodies of three Lumbar Vertebra, seen from Fig. 110. behind, with the Posterior Common Ligament. § The arches have been removed by cutting through the pedicles. The contraction of the posterior common ligament opposite the middle of each body, and its greater width and attachments opposite the intervertebral discs, are represented. The joints of the articulating processes present each a synovial cavity surrounded by an irregular fibrous capsule. The fibrous bands of these capsules are longer and looser in the cervical than in the dorsal and lumbar regions. The ligamenta subflava are ligaments consisting of yellow elastic tissue, which connect the laminae of the vertebrse. Their fibres are nearly vertical, and are at- tached superiorly to the anterior surface of the lamina, a little above the inferior margin, and inferiorly to the upper margin and part.of the posterior surface of the lamina beneath. They are most distinctly seen when the arches are detached from the bodies of the vertebras, and they are viewed from the front. Posteriorly they appear short, or in the dorsal region are concealed, being overlaid by the prominent inferior margins of the laminae