416 ABDOMINAL AORTA. In the female, the ovarian arteries, corresponding to the spermatic arteries in the male, are shorter than these vessels, and do not pass out of the abdo- minal cavity. The origin, direction, and connections of the ovarian artery iu the first part of its course are the same as in the male ; but at the margin of the pelvis it inclines inwards, and running tortuously between the layers of the broad ligament of the uterus, is guided to the attached margin of the ovary, which it supplies with branches. Some small offsets can be also traced along the round ligament into the inguinal canal, and others along the Fallopian tube : one, continuing inwards towards the uterus, joins with the uterine artery. In the young foetus the spermatic and ovarian arteries are short, as the testes and ovaries are at first placed close to the kidneys, but the arteries become lengthened as these organs descend to their ultimate positions. Peculiakities.—The spermatic arteries occasionally arise by a common trunk. Two spermatic arteries are not unfrequently met with on one side; both of these usually arise from the aorta, though sometimes one is a branch from the renal artery. A case has occurred of three arteries on one side,—two from the aorta and the third from the renal. B.—PARIETAL BRANCHES OF THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. I, INFERIOR PHRENIC ARTERIES. The phrenic arteries are two small vessels, which spring from the aorta close together on a level with the under surface of the diaphragm. These arteries are, however, somewhat irregular in their origin. When they arise separately from each other, which is by no means a constant arrangement, one is frequently derived from the cceliac artery close to the origin, and the other from the aorta immediately above. They soon diverge from each other, and parsing across the crura of the diaphragm, incline upwards and outwards upon its under surface ; the artery of the left side passing behind the oesophagus, whilst that of the right side passes behind the vena cava. Before reaching the central tendon of the diaphragm, each of the arteries divides into two branches, of which one runs forwards towards the anterior margin of the thorax, and anastomoses with the musculo-phrenic branch of the internal mammary artery, while the other pursues a transverse direction towards the side of the thorax, and communicates with the terminations of the intercostal arteries. Branches.—Each phrenic artery gives small branches (superior capsular) to the suprarenal capsule of its own side ; the left artery sends some branches to the oesophagus, whilst the artery of the right side gives off small vessels, which reach the termination of the vena cava. Small offsets descend to the liver between the layers of the peritoneum. Peculiarities—The phrenic arteries are found to vary greatly in their mode of origin, but these deviations seem to have little influence on their course and dis- tribution. In the first place they may arise either separately, or by a common trunk: and it would appear that the latter mode of origin is nearly as frequent as the former. When the two arteries are joined at their origin, the common trunk arises most frequently from the aorta; though, sometimes, it springs from the cceliac axis. When arising separately, the phrenic arteries are given off sometimes from the aorta, more frequently from the cceliac axis, and occasionally from the renal; but it most commonly happens that the artery of the right side is derived from one, and that of the left side from another of these sources. An additional phrenic artery (derived from the left hepatic) has been met with.