EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 358 upon the upper constrictor, and sends small ramifications to the Eustachian tube, and to the soft palate and tonsil. The last mentioned, or palatine branch, is sometimes of considerable size, and supplies the soft palate, taking the place of the inferior palatine branch of the facial artery, which in such cases is small. It divides into an anterior and a posterior twig, both of which anastomose with their fellows of the opposite side in the middle line. Fig. 259. Fig. 259.—Deep View of the Lingual and Pharyngeal Arteries (frcm R. Quain). | In the preparation from winch this drawing has been taken half the lower jaw has been removed, and the tongue has been drawn forwards between the teeth ; the external pterygoid muscle has been removed and the temporal muscle has been turned up from within the zygoma : a, the root of the zygoma, above the glenoid cavity ; b, placed on the lobe of the ear, points by a line to the styloid process, from which the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus are seen passing downwards and forwards, and the stylo-hyoid detached from the hyoid bone is thrown backwards with the digastric muscle ; c, transverse pro- cess of the atlas ; d, upper surface of the tongue; e, sawn surface of the symphysis of the lower jaw ; /, the angle of the hyoid bone; 1, left common carotid artery; 2, internal carotid artery ; 3, external carotid artery; 3', placed on the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, points by a line to the upper part of the external carotid artery divided where it enters the parotid gland ; 4, superior thyroid artery, its laryngeal branch passing upon the thyro- hyoid membrane; 5, lingual artery about to pass within the hyo-glossus muscle; 5', placed on the genio-hyo-glossus, points to the continuation of the lingual artery in the ranine; 6, the trunk of the facial artery cut short ; 6', its tonsillar and pharyngeal branches ; 7, occipital artery cut short; 8, ascending pharyngeal artery ; 8', its upper part turning down upon the pharynx ; 9, internal maxillary artery as it passes into the spheno-max- illary fossa, and gives the posterior dental and the infra-orbital arteries ; 9', middle meningeal artery ; 10, placed on the deep surface of the temporal muscle, which is turned up and shows some cut branches of the deep temporal arteries.