clii NERVOUS SYSTEM. gig of an inch thick. Within is a core of soft, transparent, homogeneous sub- stance, with sparsely imbedded granules; outside, a capsule of connective tissue, with oblong nuclei directed transversely to the axis (and rendered more conspicuous by acetic acid or coloration with carmine), which, together perhaps with some hori- zontally wound fibres, give the corpuscle somewhat the appearance of a miniature fir-cone. One, two, or even more nerve-fibres, run to the corpuscle, and proceeding straight, or with serpentine windings, approach the summit, up to this point retain- ing their dark borders; they then pass into the core, and, so far as can be seen, end as fine pale fibres. The touch-corpuscles are found in the skin of the hand and foot, and one or two other parts, where they are inclosed in certain of the cutaneous papillae, which usually include no vessels. It may be here observed that loops of nerves are sometimes seen in papillae without touch-bodies, but probably they belong to a nerve on its way to end in the corpuscle of a neighbouring papilla. Fig. LXXXVIII. 3$ C A a. c Fig. LXXXVIII.—Papilla from the Skin of the Hand, freed from the Cuticle AND EXHIBITING THE TACTILE CORPUSCLES. MAGNIFIED 350 DIAMETERS. A. Simple papilla with four nerve-fibres, a, Tactile corpuscle ; 5, nerves, b. Papilla treated with acetic acid; a, cortical layer with cells and fine elastic filaments; b, tactile corpuscle with transverse nuclei; c, entering nerve with neurilemma or perineurium; d, nerve-fibres winding round the coi-puscle. c. Papilla viewed from above so as to appear as a cross section, a, cortical layer ; b, nerve-fibre ; c, sheath of the tactile corpuscle containing nuclei; d, core (after Kolliker). c. Pacinian bodies. In dissecting the nerves of the hand and foot, certain small oval bodies like little seeds, are found attached to their branches as they pass through the subcutaneous fat on their way to the skin ; and it has been ascertained that each of these bodies receives a nervous fibre which terminates within it. The objects referred to were more than a century ago described and figured by Vater,* as attached to the digital nerves, but he did not examine into their structure, and his account of them seems not to have attracted much notice. Within the last few years, their existence has been again pointed out by Cruveilhier and other French anato- mists, as well as by Professor Pacini of Pisa, who appears to be the first writer that has given an account of the internal structure of these curious bodies, and clearly demonstrated their essential connection with the nervous fibres. The researches of Pacini have been followed up by Henle and Kolliker,t who named the corpuscles after the Italian savant; and to their memoir, as well as to the article ''Pacinian Bodies," by Mr. Bowman, in the " Cyclopaedia of Anatomy," and to more recent * Abr. Vater, Diss, de Consensu Pavtium Corp. hum.; Vitemb. 1741, (recus. in Halleri Disp. Anat. Select, torn, ii.) Ejusd. Museum Anatomicum ; Helmst. 1750. t Ueber die Pacinischen Korperchen ; Zurich, 1844.