ADDUCTOR MUSCLES. 277 margin of the linea aspera in its ternus and the adductor magnus. Fig. 212.—Superficial Muscles of the Inner Side of the Thigh, and Muscles on the Inner Wall of the Pelvis. £ 1, iliacus muscle ; 2, part of the psoas magnus muscle; 3, obturator interims, with its fibres converging to- wards the lesser sciatic foramen; 4, pyriformis, with three heads of origin, and its fibres converging towards the great sciatic foramen ; 5, a part of the lumbar aponeurosis covering the erector spinra muscle; 6, gluteus maximus; 7, sartorius, 7', its tendon inserted below the tuberosity of the tibia; 8, a part of the adductor longus ; 9, gracilis, 9', its insertion passing below that of the sartorius; 10, part of the adductor magnus; 11, semimembranosus; 12, semitendinosus, 12', its insertion, and between 9' and 12' the tendon of the semimembranosus passing to its in- sertion in the inner tuberosity of the tibia. This muscle is covered by the fascia lata, the sartorius, and the femoral vessels; the posterior surface rests superiorly on the adductor brevis, and inferiorly on the adductor mag- nus. Externally it is separated by a small interval from the pectineus, and internally it is in apposition with the gracilis. The adductor brevis, thick above and broad below, arises by a narrow origin, about two inches deep, in contact with that of the gracilis, from the anterior surface of the body, and the descending ramus of the pubes; directed obliquely backwards and outwards it is inserted by a flat tendon into the whole of the oblique line leading from the small trochanter of the femur to the linea aspera, immediately behind the insertion of the pec- tineus. whole length, between the vastus in- Fig. 212. The adductor brevis is concealed at its origin by the adductor longus and at its insertion in part by the pectineus; it rests on the adductor magnus, and by its deep surface is in contact superiorly with the obturator externus. The adductor magnus muscle arises from a part of the body of the pubes