AREOLAR TISSUE. Ixxi others the filamentous structure predominates, or even prevails exclusively ; but it does not seem necessary to designate these varieties by particular names, as is sometimes done. When examined under the microscope, the areolar tissue is seen to be principally made up of exceedingly fine, transparent, and apparently homo- geneous filaments, from about 3-0^0 otn *° "23~ooo*n °^ an incn *n thickness, or even less (fig. xxxv.). These are seldom single, being mostly united by means of a small and usually imperceptible quantity of a homogeneous con- necting substance into bundles and filamentous laminae of various sizes, which to the naked eye, appear as simple threads and films. Though the bundles may intersect in every direction, the filaments of the same bundle run nearly parallel to each other, and no one filament is ever seen to divide into branches or to unite with another. The associated filaments take an alter- nate bending or waving course as they proceed along the bundle, but still maintain their general parallelism. This wavy aspect, which is very charac- teristic of these filaments, disappears on stretching the bundle, but returns again when it is relaxed. The filaments just described, though transparent when seen with trans- mitted light under the microscope, have a white colour when collected in considerable quantity and seen with reflected light ; and they not only occur in the areolar tissue strictly so called, but form the chief part of the tendons, ligaments, and other white fibrous connective tissues. They were long sup- posed to be the only fibrous constituent existing in the areolar tissue, but it has been shown (and chiefly through the inquiries of Eulenberg, Henle, and Bowman) that fibres of another kind are inter- mixed with them; these agree in all characters and are obviously iden- tical with the fibres of the yellow elastic tis- sue, and have accord- ingly been named the yellow or elastic fibres, to distinguish them from the white or waved filaments above descri- bed. They were at one time termed nuclear fibres (Kernfasern), on account of their sup- posed origin from nu- clei ; but as it now appears that they have no connection either with nuclei or cells, Fig. XXXV.—Filaments of Areolar Tissue, in larger the latter appellation and smaller bundles, as seen under a magnifying must be abandoned. sower of 400 diameters. Moreover, they differ Two or three corpuscles are represented among them, in chemical nature from cells and nuclei, in as much as they resist the action of boiling alkaline solutions of potash and soda, of moderate strength, which very speedily destroy the cells and nuclei. Fig. XXXV".