FORM OF THE AORTIC ARCH. 335 veins of the right side ; g, kidney, g'f suprarenal body ; h, body of the fourth lumbar vertebra. /, sinus of the aortic arch or ascending part of the arch : below this the semilunar valves are seen closed and distended by injection ; posterior part of the arch, upon which the left pneumo-gastric nerve is seen descending ; descending thoracic part of the aorta ; II, abdominal aorta emerging from between the crura of the diaphragm and descending to near its termination. Branches of the arch and thoracic aorta; 1, right and left coronary arteries ; 2, inno- minate ; 3, left carotid; 4, left subclavian ; 5, bronchial arteries ; 6, 6, oesophageal arteries : the lower figure points by a line to the thoracic duct; 7, intercostal arteries, marked in the sixth and seventh intercostal spaces. Branches of the abdominal aorta ; 8, inferior diaphragmatic arteries cut short; 9, coeliac axis with the gastric, splenic, and hepatic arteries cut short; 10, placed on the aorta below the superior mesenteric artery (cut short) and the origin of the renal arteries ; a little below this the origin of the spermatic arteries ; below II, the inferior mesenteric artery, 11, 11, two of the lumbar arteries. Branches of the carotid arteries ; the greater part of the right carotid artery has been removed to show the ascent of the vertebral artery in the canal of the transverse pro- cesses ; + is placed between the vertebral artery and the recurrent laryngeal nerve; 3', internal carotid artery; 4, commencement of the external carotid artery ; close to this the superior thyroid artery is given off, which is seen descending to the larynx and thyroid body; 5, the lingual and facial arteries; 6, continuation of the external carotid, &c. Branches of the subclavian arteries ; on the right side the middle part of the scalenus anticus muscle is removed ; on the left the figure 4 is placed close to the origin of the four following vessels ; 5, vertebral ; 6, internal mammary; 7, thyroid axis ; 7', its supra scapular branch ; 7", its transverse cervical branch ; 8, superior intercostal artery, supplying two spaces on the right side and one on the left, rising in common with the deep cervical which turns upwards behind the subclavian artery ; 9, a posterior scapular artery rising from the third part of the subclavian. of the second dorsal vertebra. Arrived at that point, it bends downwards, inclining, at the same time, a little towards the middle line; and at the lower border of the body of the third dorsal vertebra, on its left side, the arch terminates in the descending portion of the vessel. At its origin, the arch of the aorta is larger than elsewhere, and presents externally three small bulgings of nearly equal size, corresponding with the dilatations which form the sinuses of Valsalva or of the aortic valves, already described with the heart. Two of these sinuses are placed anteriorly and one posteriorly, and in the two anterior sinuses are seen the orifices of the two coronary arteries of the heart, the first branches given off by the aorta. From the difference in the direction and connections of different portions of the arch it is described as consisting of an ascending, a transverse, and a descending portion. The ascending portion of the arch of the aorta is placed at its commence- ment behind the sternum, on a level with the lower border of the third costal cartilage of the left side ; and it rises as high as the upper border of the second costal cartilage of the right side. Its length is about two inches or two inches and a quarter ; and its direction is curved. In most cases there exists along the right side a dilatation, named the great sinus of the aorta. This dilatation varies in size in different bodies, and occasionally is not to be detected. This portion of the aortic arch is enclosed in the pericardium, and, together with the pulmonary artery, is invested by a fold of the serous layer of that bag, in such a manner that both vessels are covered by the serous membrane, except where they are in contact with each other. At its commencement the ascending part of the arch is concealed by the pulmonary artery, and by the right auricular appendage which overlaps it ; but, further up, the aorta passes to the right side and the pulmonary artery