clxxxiii ORIGIN OF LYMPHATICS. produced by the short distended branches of a very close lymphatic net- work, and transitions are accordingly met with between this and the more usual and regular forms. But whilst the superficial commencement of lymphatics is generally plexiform, the rule is not without exception. The lacteals of the intestinal villi, for example, although they form networks in the larger and broader villi, arise in others by a single vessel beginning with a blind or closed extremity at the free end of the villus, whence it sinks down to join the general plexus of the intestinal membrane. Lacunar origin.—When lymphatics arise deeply, their origin may be hidden from view, and the precise mode in which it takes place unknown. There may be cases in which it is still plexiform ; but another and doubtless more general mode of origin from the interior of organs, long suspected and often upheld on im- perfect evidence, has now been satisfactorily ascertained, which may not inappropriately be termed lacunar. In this case the lymphatic vessels proceed from irregular or shapeless spaces in the internal parts of organs ; the spaces, that is, which intervene between the several struc- tures of which the organ is composed. Thus, in a gland, they are the spaces which lie between or surround the blood-vessels, secreting tubes or saccules, partitioning or inclosing membranes, and the like. Though shape- less, or at least of no regular form, these anfractuous cavities are limited and defined by a lining of epithelium, agreeing in character Avith that of the lymphatic vessels. It may be presumed that their opposite sides are in apposition or in near proximity, as in serous membranes, for the lymph deposited in these recesses is not suffered to accumulate, but is drained off by the lymphatic vessels which lead out of them. The lacunar condition of the lymphatic system at its commencement was shown to exist in the testicle by Ludwig and Tomsa, and has since then been found in the kidney by Ludwig and Z wary kin, in the thymus gland by Frey, in the spleen by Tomsa, in the liver (forming canals which inclose the blood-capillaries) by Mac- Gillivray, and in the salivary glands by Giannuzzi. His has also discovered that the blood-vessels of the brain and spinal cord are surrounded and inclosed by lymph-channels—perivascular canals—which follow their course and eventually terminate in ordinary lymphatic vessels; an arrangement that brings to mind an earlier observation of Rusconi, who found that the aorta and mesenteric arteries of the frog and salamander are inclosed in large lymphatic canals. The spaces which so extensively separate the frog's skin from the subjacent muscles, were recognised by the late Professor Johannes Midler as belonging to the lymphatic system, and von Recklinghausen has shown that the subcutaneous lymph spaces of the frog's leg communicate with lymphatic vessels which envelope the blood-vessels of the foot; also that milk injected into these spaces finds its way into the blood. The lymphatic system of man and the higher animals in being thus partly consti- tuted by lacunae or interstitial receptacles, so far agrees with the sanguiferous system of crustaceans and insects. It has been sometimes maintained that the lymphatics of glandular organs com- municate at their origin with the ducts ; but, although it is no uncommon thing for matters artificially injected into the ducts of glands, as, for instance, those of the liver and testicle, to pass into the lymphatics, a careful examination of such cases n 2 Fig. C. Fig. G.—Ltmphatio Vessels of the Skin op the Breast injected (after Breschet). a, superficial, and b, deeper plexus ; c, a lymphatic vessel, which proceeded to the axil- lary glands.