ARTICULATIONS OF THE CLAVICLE AND SCAPULA. 135 ported above by a thick and broad superior ligament, and below by an inferior ligament which is not so strong. An inter-articular fibro-cartilage is frequently present, but is sometimes wanting. It is usually wedge-shaped, attached by its base to the upper part of the joint, and only partially sepa- rating the small oval articular surfaces. Fig. 124. Fig. 124.—View from before of the Articulations of the Shoulder Bones. ^ 1, acromio-clavicular articulation ; 2, conoid, and 3, trapezoid part of the coraco- clavicular ligament; 4, is near the supra-scapular or coracoid ligament; 5, placed on the coracoid process, points to the coraco-acromial or deltoid ligament ; 6, is placed on the front of the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint ; 7, the coraco-humeral ligament or accessory part of the capsular ; above 6, an aperture in the capsular ligament at the place where a part of the tendon of the subscapularis muscle pierces the capsular liga- ment, and is sometimes connected with a synovial bursa ; 8, tendon of the glenoid head of the biceps muscle issuing between the tuberosities; 9, right half of the interclavicular ligament; 10, interarticular fibro-cartilage of the sterno-clavicular articulation, shown by removing the anterior sterno-clavicular ligament and synovial membrane ; 11, the costo- clavicular or rhomboid ligament; 12 and 13, the cartilage and small part of the second and third ribs attached by their anterior costo-sternal ligaments. (See also Fig. 120.) The coraco-clavicular ligament, which connects the clavicle with the coracoid process of the scapula, is divisible into two parts, each known by a particular name. The conoid ligament, which is the posterior or internal fasciculus, broad above, narrow below, is attached inferiorly to the inner part of the root of the coracoid process, and superiorly to a tubercle on the inferior surface of the clavicle below the convex margin of its outer curve : its fibres are directed backwards and upwards. The trapezoid ligament, the anterior or external fasciculus, slopes upwards, backwards, and outwards from the inner border of the coracoid process to an oblique line extending outwards from the tubercle to which the conoid ligament is attached, and is inserted at right angles to the line of attachment of that ligament to the clavicle. In the angle between the conoid and trapezoid ligaments there is frequently present a synovial bursa.