INNOMINATE BONE. and less strongly marked, extends from the space between the anterior spinous processes to the middle of the great sciatic notch. The space be- tween the crest and the superior curved line has the form of a curved triangle, broad behind and pointed in front, and gives attachment to the gluteus medius muscle, while that between the two curved lines gives attachment to the gluteus minimus. The internal surface of the ilium is divided into three parts. The anterior of these, the largest, is called the iliac fossa ; it is concave and smooth, and towards the middle of it the bone is very thin. The posterior part is subdivided ; presenting inferiorly for cartilaginous articulation with the sacrum the smooth but uneven auricular surface, broad in front and extending to the posterior inferior spine behind; and superiorly a more uneven and rough surface for the attachment of ligaments. The third part, entering into the formation of the true pelvis, is not dis- tinguished by any mark in the adult from the ischium and os pubis ; it is separated from the iliac fossa by a smooth border, the iliac portion of the ilio-pectineal line, which extends from the auricular surface to the pubic spine. Fig. 86.—Right Os innominatum, Fi£- 86> FROM THE INNER OR PELVIC 2, 3, 4, 5, 13, 16, 17, and 18, indicate the same parts as in the preceding figure ; 19, iliac fossa ; 20, ilio-pectineal line or brim of the true pelvis, ending at 24 ; 21, auricular cartilaginous sacro-iliac surface ; 22, rough tuberculated surface for the posterior sacro- iliac ligaments; 23, oval surface of the symphysis pubis ; 24, spinous process of the pubis, terminating the crest of the pubis and the ilio- pectineal line ; between 17 and 20, the pelvic surface of the ilium. The os pubis or os pectinis forms the anterior wall of the pelvis, and bounds the obtu- rator foramen in the upper half of its extent. At its outer and upper extremity it forms a part of the aceta- bulum ; at its inner extremity it presents an elongated oval surface, articulating by fibro-cartilage with the bone of the opposite side, its junction with which is called the symphysis pubis. The part which passes downwards and outwards below the symphysis is called the inferior or descending ramus, the upper part is called the superior (or horizontal) ramus, and the flat portion between the rami may be distinguished as the body. The deep or pelvic surface of the os pubis is smooth ; the outer surface is roughened near the symphysis by the attachments of muscles. At the superior extremity of the symphysis is the angle of the pubis, and extending outwards from this on the superior border is the rough crest, terminating in the projecting spine. The descend- ing ramus is flat from before backwards ; the superior or ascending ramus becomes prismatic, and increases in thickness as it passes upwards and out-