CHEMICAL COMPOSITION. XXXV deprived of iron the haematin retains its colour, and has suffered no appreciable change in character. It would seem therefore that iron, although a constant ingre- dient in the red corpuscle, is not an essential constituent of haematin, and it is, at any rate, clear that the red colour of the blood is not caused by iron. Globulin.—When the heematin has been extracted from the blood- corpuscles by the foregoing method, the globulin and envelopes remain in combination or mixture with sulphuric acid. Globulin is a protein com- pound, agreeing very nearly with albumen and casein in elementary com- position, so far as this has been ascertained, but most resembling the latter substance in its general characters. Globulin is nearly insoluble in pure water, but readily dissolves on a very slight addition of either an alkali or an acid. Weak acids throw it down from its solution in alkali, but when added in slight excess re-dissolve it. In like manner it is precipitated by alkalies from its solutions in acids and re-dissolved by excess. From neither of these solutions is it thrown down by heat. It is dissolved by neutral salts, and from this solution heat throws it down in an insoluble precipitate. From its slightly alkaline solution in water it is thrown down by a stream of carbonic acid, and may be re-dissolved by passing air or oxygen through the liquid. Its precijjitate is distinguished from that of other albuminoids by being always in form of fine granules or molecules. But the most im- portant and distinctive character of globulin is its fibrino-plastic property, to be afterwards further referred to, by which it co-operates with another protein-substance in producing solid fibrin ; this property is destroyed by exposure of the solution to a boiling heat. Globulin forms the greater part of the crystalline lens, and it is no doubt present in the pale blood-corpuscles ; it exists also in the chyle and lymph, the cornea, the aqueous humour, and various other tissues and fluids, if its presence is to be inferred from the manifestation of the fibrino-plastic property. The globulin of the red corpuscles is crystallisable, as will be presently explained. The cruor, or the soluble matter of the red corpuscles, which consists of the globulin and colouring principle (the cruorin of Stokes) together, forms in water a solution (maintained probably by soda and salts) which in its effects with re-agents agrees with solution of globulin. Berzelius reckons the relative proportions of globulin and hsematin as 94*5 of the former, and 5*5 of the latter. Schmidt makes them 87'59, and 12-41 respectively. The corpuscles also contain a solid phosphuretted fat in small quantity, which may be stated at rather more than 2 parts in the 100 of dried corpuscles. 100 parts of dried cruor yield by calcination about 1*3 of brown alkaline ashes, which consist of carbonate of alkali with traces of phosphate 0'3, phosphate of lime 0*1, lime 0-2, subphosphate of iron 0*1, peroxide of iron 0"5, carbonic acid and loss 0*1. Blood-crystals.—In the blood of man and various animals, when drawn from the vessels and set aside for a time, red crystals occasionally appear, consisting of globulin tinted by the colouring matter : and their formation may be promoted by adding water to defibrinated blood so as to set free the cruor from the corpuscles, and exposing the watered blood first to a stream of oxygen and then to carbonic acid. Or a drop of blood, defibrinated or not, is to be mixed with a little water on a slip of glass, exposed for a little to the air, then breathed upon, and finally covered with thin glass and placed in a bright light, which seems to favour the crystallisation. The c 2