275 QUADRICEPS EXTENSOR CRURIS. backwards as they descend, are inserted in a similar manner into the tendon below, the superior tendon being prolonged on the anterior, the inferior tendon on the posterior surface of the muscle. The inferior tendon forms a broad band inserted into the upper surface of the patella. Fig. 211. Fig. 211.—Deep Muscles op the Right Thigh in front. £ a, anterior superior, and &, anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium ; c, outer and upper part of the great trochanter ; d, sym- physis pubis ; e, patella ; /, inner side of the knee-joint and internal lateral ligament; g, head of the fibula and outer side of the knee-joint; 1, front of the gluteus medius ; 2, front of the gluteus minimus, separate in this case from the medius ; 3, tendon of the rectus, dividing above into its two portions, one proceeding from the inferior spine of the ilium, the other passing back over the upper border of the ace- tabulum ; 4,- on the lower part of the anterior inter-trochanteric line and at the lower end of the ilio-femoral part of the capsular ligament, points by a line to the cut tendon of insertion of the ilio-psoas muscle ; 5, part of the obturator externus and quadratus femoris; 6, pectineus; 7, part of the adductor brevis ; 8, adductor magnus; 9, vastus internus ; 10, crureus; 11, vastus externus; 12, tendon of the rectus; 13, lower part of the slip of the fascia lata by which the tensor vaginae femoris is inserted into the tibia and fibula. Superiorly this muscle is overlaid by the tensor vaginae femoris, iliacus, and sartorius muscles; further down it is covered only by fascia. The acetabular tendon lies beneath the gluteus minimus. b. The vastus externus arises by an extensive aponeurosis attached to the base of the great trochanter in front, and to a ridge on its outer side, also to the line extending from that process to the linea aspera, and to the outer border of the linea aspera itself; the aponeurosis is prolonged on the surface of the muscle and gives origin to numerous muscular fibres : further it arises along the line which passes from the linea aspera to the external condyle in its upper two-thirds, by means of muscular fibres attached to the inter- muscular septum lying between it and the short head of the biceps. The supe- rior fibres descend perpendicularly, the lowest are nearly horizontal, and the muscle, forming an expanded sheet applied to the surface of the crureus, is inserted by a broad flat tendon into the tendon of the rectus muscle, the patella, and the fascia lata on the front and side of the knee-joint. t 2