385 BRANCHES OF THE BRACHIAL. — PECULIARITIES. directed to the back part of the inner condyle of the humerus. Descending in company with the ulnar nerve, it pierces the intermuscular septum, then lies on the inner surface of the triceps muscle, to which it gives branches, and entering the interval between the olecranon and inner condyle, it terminates by inosculating with the posterior recurrent branch of the ulnar artery, and with the anastomotic branch of the brachial. (c) The nutrient artery of the shaft of the humerus is a small branch given off by the brachial about the middle of the arm, or by one of its collateral branches. It inclines downwards, enters the oblique canal in the humerus near the insertion of the coraco-brachialis muscle, and is distributed in the interior of the bone. (d) The anastomotic artery (collaterals ulnaris secunda), is a very con- stant branch of moderate size. Arising from the brachial artery about two inches above the bend of the arm, it is directed transversely inwards on the brachialis anticus muscle, above the inner condyle of the humerus, and, after perforating the intermuscular septum, turns outwards behind the humerus, between the bone and the triceps muscle, and forms with the superior pro- funda an arch across the humerus, immediately above the olecranon fossa (arcus dorsalis humeri posticus,—Haller). In front of the humerus the anastomotic artery furnishes a branch which ramifies in the pronator teres, and anastomoses with the anterior ulnar recurrent branch. Behind the inner condyle another offset joins with the posterior ulnar recurrent, and behind the humerus several branches are given to the joint and the muscle. Peculiarities—From their comparative frequency, and surgical interest, the peculiarities of the brachial artery, especially those which affect its trunk, deserve particular attention. Course.—The brachial artery sometimes lies in front of the median nerve, instead of behind it. The brachial artery has been seen, though rarely, to descend, accompanied by the median nerve, towards the inner condyle of the humerus, and regain its usual position at the bend of the elbow by passing forwards underneath a fibrous arch, from which the pronator teres in those cases arises, and which descends to the inner condyle from the occasional prominence called the supra-condyloid process, as has been previously described (p. 80). Sometimes this disposition occurs without the development of any bony prominence. As an extremely rare condition, the artery has been found divided into two vessels near its commencement, the artery being single above and below, as also occurs with the femoral trunk. In a very few cases the three arteries of the fore-arm, radial, ulnar, and inter- osseous, have arisen together from the end of the brachial trunk, at the usual distance below the elbow. High division.—The most frequent change from the ordinary arrangement of the brachial artery is connected with its division into terminal branches. Out of 481 examples recorded by Richard Quain from observations made, some on the right and some on the left side of the body, the vessel was found in 386 to divide at its usual position, a little below the elbow-joint. In one case only (and that com- plicated by another peculiarity, viz., the existence of a vai aberrans proceeding from the axillary to the radial), was the place of division lower than usual, being between two and three inches lower than the elbow-joint. In 64 cases the brachial artery divided above the usual point, at various heights upwards to the lower border of the axilla. The branch prematurely separated from the rest of the trunk in an early division, is, in the proportion of nearly three cases out of four, the radial artery ; sometimes the ulnar is the branch given off; that is to say, a branch corresponding to the ulnar in its distribution below the middle of the fore-arm separates from a trunk which after- wards divides into the normal radial artery and the interosseous of the fore-arm, which last is normally derived from the ulnar artery. Rarely the interosseous of the fore-arm, or a vas aberrans, is the branch given off.