CILIATED EPITHELIUM. Lxi Fig. XXXI.—Ciliated Epithelium from the Human Windpipe : magnified 350 diameters. of the subjacent membrane, has much engaged attention since the importance of the connective-tissue corpuscles has come to be recognised; and a p- XXXI strong impression or belief pre- vails that such epithelium cells are structurally connected by prolongations from their lower ends with these corpuscles, and genetically related to them. As a matter of observation such anatomical connection is affirmed on excellent authority (Lockhart Clarke, Gerlach and others) in reference to the columnar ciliated epithelium of the central canal of the spinal cord and the Sylvian aqueduct, but the evidence in other cases is not so satisfactory. a, I), subjacent membrane; c, lowermost or round The cilia themselves differ cells ; d, middle layer of oval cells; e, superficial or widely in size in different ciliated cells (from Kolliker). animals, and they are not equal in all parts of the same animal. In the human windpipe they measure ^^th to ^^V^th of an inch in length ; but in many invertebrate animals, especially such as live in salt water, they are a great deal larger. In figure they have the aspect, of slender, conical, or slightly flattened fila- ments ; broader at the base and usually pointed at their free extremity. Their substance is transparent, soft, and flexible. It is to all appearance homogeneous, and no fibres, granules, or other indications of definite internal structure, have been satisfactorily demonstrated in it. Motion of the cilia.—The manner in which the cilia move, is best seen when they are not acting very briskly. Most generally they seem to execute a sort of fanning or lashing movement ; and when a number of them perform this motion in regular succession, as is generally the case, they give rise to the appearance of a series of waves travelling along the range of cilia, like the waves caused by the wind in a field of corn. When they are in very rapid action the undulation is less obvious, and, as Henle remarks, their motion then conveys the idea of swiftly running water. The undu- lating movement may be beautifully seen on the gills of a mussel, and on the arms of many polypes. The undulations, with some exceptions, seem always to travel in the same direction on the same parts. The impulsion, also, which the cilia communicate to the fluids or other matters in contact with them, maintains a constant direction; unless in certain of the infusoria, in which the motion is often variable and arbitrary in direction, and has even been supposed to be voluntary. Thus in the windpipe of mammalia, the mucus is conveyed upwards towards the larynx, and if a portion of the membrane be detached, matters will still be conveyed along the surface of the separated fragment in the same direction relatively to that surface, as before its separation. The persistence of the ciliary motion for some time after death, and the regularity with which it goes on in parts separated from the rest of the body, sufficiently prove that, with the possible exceptions alluded to, it is not under the influence of the will of the animal nor dependent for its produc- tion on the nervous centres, and it does not appear to be influenced in any