THE HEART. 310 margin of the inferior vena cava. This valve, which in the foetus is pro- portionally large, and serves, in conjunction with the annulus ovalis,. to direct the blood from the inferior vena cava through the foramen ovale, is in the adult comparatively small, and very variably developed, being often cribri- form or perforated by numerous foramina, and sometimes reduced to a few slender filaments, or even altogether wanting. The mouth of the coronary vein is likewise protected by a semicircular valve, which is sometimes double, and which, though previously figured by Eustachius, is often named the valve of Thebesius. The coronary vein is considerably dilated before it enters the auricle, and this dilated portion, which has muscular parietes, is commonly termed the " coronary sinus." At the junction of the coronary vein with this dilated portion, there is a valve consisting of one or two segments. Other small veins likewise enter the coronary sinus, each of them protected by a valve. The superior and inferior venae cavae being both directed somewhat towards the left side at their terminations, the wall of the auricle pre- sents internally a convexity between them, which has received the some- what misleading name of tubercle of Lower. In the human subject this elevation is slight, but in certain quadrupeds it is more strongly marked. Running upwards from the fossa ovalis, under cover of the annulus, there some- times exists a small slit, which leads beneath the annulus into the left auricle, forming thus an oblique and valved aperture between the two cavities. More rarely the foramen ovale of the foetus remains so patent after birth as to interfere with the proper course of the circulation, and produce the pathological condition known as cyanosis—by the mixture of some dark or venous blood with the bright red or arterial blood of the left auricle. 2. The right or anterior ventricle^ extends from the right auricle towards the apex, and from the upper and anterior part of its base sends upwards, in front and to the left of the auriculo-ventricular opening, a smooth conical prolongation, free from columnae carneae, and named infundi- bulum or conus arteriosus ; from the extremity of this prolongation of the ventricular cavity the pulmonary artery arises. The superficial wall of this ventricle, which is much thicker than that of the auricle, but thinner than that of the left ventricle, is formed by the part of the heart situated to the right of the anterior longitudinal groove, viz., the right border, the larger part of the anterior surface, and a part of the posterior. The internal or left wall is formed by the septum ventriculorum, and is convex, bulging to the right into the ventricle, so that a transverse section of the cavity presents a crescentic figure. The valve guarding the right auriculo-ventricular opening is named the tricuspid valve, from the number of its segments. One of the segments, the smallest, is placed towards the left and rests upon the septum of the ventricles ; the other two are placed more to the right,—one posteriorly against the right wall of the cavity, while the other, the largest of all, lying anteriorly, is interposed between the auricular and arterial openings, and has its ventricular surface directed forwards and upwards. The chordae tendinese arise chiefly from the musculi papillares, but some also from the walls of the ventricle and especially from the septum. Those arising from one papillary muscle or group of muscles run up in the angular interval between two adjacent segments of the valve, and, diverging from each other, are attached to both segments. The semilunar valves at the root of the pulmonary artery are more