311 THE LEFT AURICLE. delicate than those which guard the aorta ; and the sinuses of Valsalva are less strongly marked. 3. The left auricle occupies the left and posterior part of the base of the heart. When distended, the atrium presents from behind, where it is best seen, a quadrilateral appearance. In front it rests against the aorta and pulmonary artery ; behind, on each side, it receives two pulmonary veins, those from the left lung entering very close together ; and on the right it is in contact with the other auricle. The auricular appendage is Fig. 233.—The Left Auricle Fig. 233. and Ventricle opened and a part op their anterior and Left Walls removed so as to show their in- TERIOR. \ The pulmonary artery has been divided at its commence- ment so as to show the aorta : the opening into the left ven- tricle has been carried a short distance into the aorta between two of the segments of the semi-lunar valves ; the left part of the auricle with its appendix has been removed. The right auricle has been thrown out of view. 1, the two right pulmonary veins cut short: their openings are seen within the auricle ; 1', placed within the cavity of the auricle on the left side of the septum and on the part which forms the remains of the valve of the foramen ovale, of which the crescentic fold is seen towards the left hand of 1'; 2, a narrow portion of the wall of the auricle and ventricle preserved round the auriculo-ventricular orifice; 3, the left part, 3', the right part towards the septum of the cut surface of the wall of the ventricle, seen to become very much thinner towards 3", at the apex ; 4, a small part of the anterior wall of the left ventricle which has been pre- served with the principal an- terior columna carnea attached to it; 5, 5, the large posterior columnse carnece ; 5', the left side of the septum within the cavity of the left ventricle ; 6, the right or. aortic seg- ment, and &, the left or parietal segment of the mitral valve ; 7, placed in the interior of the aorta near its commencement and above the three segments of its semilunar valve which are hanging loosely together; 7', the exterior of the great aortic sinus; 8, the upper part of the conus arteriosus with the root of the pulmonary artery and its semilunar valves ; 8', the separated portion of the pulmonary artery remaining attached to the aorta by 9, the cord of the ductus arteriosus ; 10, the arteries rising from the summit of the aortic arch. the only part of the left auricle seen from the front: it extends forwards from the left side of the atrium, and curves towards the right side, resting