cxliii GANGLIA. Dr. Beale's observations have been made chiefly on the ganglia of frogs, the cells of which have very commonly a pyriform shape like the one represented in the figure. In mammalia they are moi*e spheroidal, and the observation of their con- nection with fibres is more difficult; but from examinations in mammalia, so far as they have gone, Dr. Beale infers that the relation of the cells and fibres is essen- tially the same as in frogs. Fig. LXXXII. Fig. LXXXII.—Ganglion-Cell of a Frog, magnified ; according to Beale. Eeduced and adapted from one of his figures, a, a, straight fibre; b, b, coiled fibre; c, smaller one joining it. Fig. LXXXIII.—Magnified Ganglion-Cell, from the Sympathetic of the Frog, according to J. Arnold. Virch. Arch. 1'865. a, straight fibre; b, coiled fibre, arising by a superficial net connected with nucleolus of the cell; c, c, capsule with nuclei. Two subsequent writers, Julius Arnold and L. G. Courvoisier, have confirmed Dr. Beale's original observation in almost every point; but whilst Beale describes the two fibres as connected with the substance of the cell and at its surface only—or, at least, could not obtain satisfactory evidence of its passing into the interior— Arnold, and (after him) Courvoisier describe (as had previously been done by Har- less and others) the straight fibre as traceable into the nucleus, with which Arnold thinks its medullary sheath, here altogether inconsiderable, is continuous, whilst the axial part ends in the nucleolus, which he regards as the knobbed end of the axis cylinder. Then both describe a network of exquisitely fine fibrils, which, springing from the nucleolus as a centre, traverses the substance of the cell and comes to the surface between the cell-body and its sheath, and finally unites into the spiral fibre. According to this account, the nucleolus is, as it were, the end of the straight fibre and beginning of the spiral one, or vice versa; or, at least, the point of organic connection between them in the cell.