453 BRACHIOCEPHALIC VEINS. the blood is carried to the heart by the inferior vena cava, viz., the veins of the lower limbs, the lower part of the trunk, and the abdominal viscera. (For a general representation of the venous system, see fig. 224 at p. 298.) UPPER VENA CAVA. The upper vena cava conveys to the heart the blood which is returned from the head, the neck, the upper limbs, and the thorax. It is formed by the union of the right and left brachio-cephalic veins. It extends from a little below the cartilage of the first rib on the right side of the sternum to the base of the heart, where it opens into the right auricle. Its course is slightly curved, the convexity of the curve being turned to the right side. It has no valves. At about an inch and a half above its termination, it is invested by the fibrous layer of the pericardium, the serous membrane being reflected over it. The upper cava lies immediately in front of the right pulmonary vessels, and between the right lung and the aorta, which partly overlap it. It receives several small veins from the pericardium and the mediastinum ; and lastly, it is joined by the right azygos vein, imme- diately above the place where it becomes invested by the pericardium. .Peculiarity.—In several instances, the two innominate veins, which usually join to form the vena cava superior, have been seen to open separately into the right auricle. This peculiarity is explained by reference to the development of the parts, and is more fully referred to at p. 485, in connection with the description of the great cardiac vein. INNOMINATE OR BRACHIO-CEPHALIC VEINS. The blood returned from the upper limbs through the subclavian veins, and from the head and neck by the jugular veins, is poured into two trunks, named the brachio-cephalic or innominate veins. These vessels, resulting from the union of the subclavian with the internal jugular vein at each side, commence opposite the inner ends of the clavicles, and terminate a little below the cartilage of the first rib on the right side, where, by uniting, they form the upper vena cava. The right vein is very short, and nearly vertical in its direction ; it is in apposition, on the right side, with the pleura and the upper part of the right lung. The vein of the left side, about three times longer than the right vein, pursues a course from left to right, at the same time inclining somewhat downwards : it crosses behind the upper part of the first bone of the sternum, separated from it by the sterno- hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and by the thymus gland or its remains ; it lies in front of the three primary branches given off from the arch of the aorta, and rests upon the highest part of the arch. The innominate veins have no valves. Lateral tributaries.—(a) The inferior thyroid veins emerge from a venous plexus situated on the thyroid body—those of opposite sides commu- nicating by small branches across the trachea. The vein of the left side descends in front of the trachea, behind the sterno-thyroid muscles, and ends in the left brachio-cephalic or innominate vein : that of the right side inclines outwards in some degree, and opens into the corresponding brachio- cephalic vein, or into the angle of union between it and the vessel of the opposite side. (b) The internal mammary veins follow exactly the course of the arteries of the same name—two veins accompanying each of the arteries. The two companion veins of the artery arise by small branches, derived from the