STRUCTURE OF THE CORIUM. cciii from their recesses when the cuticle is detached, appearing then like threads proceeding from its under surface. Chemical composition.—The cuticle consists principally of a substance peculiar to the epithelial and horny tissues, and named keratin. This horny matter is in- soluble in water at ordinary temperatures, and insoluble in alcohol. It is soluble in the caustic alkalies. In composition, it is analogous to the albuminoid principles, but with a somewhat larger proportion of oxygen; like these, it contains sulphur. Besides keratin, the epidermis yields, on analysis, a small amount of fat, with salts, and traces of the oxides of iron and manganese. The tissue of the cuticle readily im- bibes water, by which it is rendered soft, thick, and opaque, but it speedily dries again, and recovers its usual characters. The true shin, cutis vera, derm.a, or corium, is a sentient and vascular texture. It is covered and defended, as already explained, by the insen- sible and non-vascular cuticle, and is attached to the parts beneath by a layer of areolar tissue, named "subcutaneous," which, excepting in a few parts, contains fat, and has therefore been called also the " panniculus adi- posus " (fig. cxxin. d.). The connection is in many parts loose and moveable, in others close and firm, as on the palmar surface of the hand and the sole of the foot, where the skin is fixed to the subjacent fascia by numerous stout fibrous bands, the space between being filled with a firm padding of fat. In some regions of the body the skin is moved by striated muscular fibres, which may be unconnected to fixed parts, as in the case of the orbicular muscle of the mouth, or may be attached beneath to bones or fasciae, like the other cutaneous muscles of the face and neck, and the short palmar muscle of the hand. Structure.—The corium consists of a Jibro-vascular layer, which is sup- posed to be bounded at the surface next the cuticle, by a fine homogeneous basement membrane or membrana propria, like the corresponding part of the mucous membrane. No such superficial film can, it is true, be raised from the corium, but from its distinct presence in small gland ducts, which are continuous with the corium, and from the fact that a thin homogeneous membrane lies between the commencing cutis and cuticle in the embryo, it is presumed that a limitary membrane of this sort ought to be reckoned as an element of the corium, although, as in the analogous case of the mucous membrane, it cannot be shown to exist generally over the surface. The jibro-vascular part is made up of an exceedingly strong and tough framework of interlaced fibres, with blood-vessels and lymphatics. The fibres are chiefly of the white variety, such as constitute the chief part of the fibrous and areolar tissues, and are arranged in stout interlacing bundles, except at and near the surface, where the texture of the corium becomes very fine. With these are mixed yellow or elastic fibres, which vary in amount in different parts, but in all cases are present in smaller proportion than the former kind; also connective-tissue corpuscles, fusiform or ramified, and for the most part reticu- larly anastomosing. The interlacement becomes much closer and finer towards the free surface of the corium, and there the fibres can be discovered only by teasing out the tissue, which often acquires an almost homogeneous aspect. Towards the attached surface, on the other hand, the texture be- comes much more open, with larger and larger meshes, in which lumps of fat and the small sudatory glands are lodged, and thus the fibrous part of the skin, becoming more and more lax and more mixed with fat, blends gradually with the subcutaneous areolar tissue to which it is allied in elemen- tary constitution. Bundles of plain muscular tissue are distributed in the