21 COMPARISON OF VERTEBRiE. In the vertebrae generally— The arch and the body unite in the 3rd year. The vertebra and its epiphyses unite in the 25th year or later. In the atlas— Ossification of the anterior arch appears in the 1st year. The two centres of the posterior arch unite in the 3rd year. The anterior and posterior arches unite in the 5th or 6th year. In the axis— The centre of the body and (a little later) the centres of the odontoid process appear in the 6th month. The body and odontoid process unite in the 3rd year. In the sacrum— The additional lateral centres appear from the 6th to the 8th month. The lateral epiphysial plates appear from the 18th to the 20th year. The body and arch unite in the 5th vertebra in the 2ud year. The body and arch unite in the 1st vertebra in the 5th or 6th year. The lower vertebrae unite with one another in the 18th year. The upper vertebrae unite with one another in the 25th year or later. In the coccyx— Ossification of the 1st vertebra appears about the time of birth. Ossification of the 2nd vertebra appears from the 5th to the 10th year. Ossification of the 3rd vertebra appears from the 10th to the 15th year. Ossification of the 4th vertebra appears from the 15th to the 20th year. THEORETICAL COMPARISON OF THE VERTEBRiE. The study of the correspondence of parts in different vertebrae, or of their homology, involves complicated questions, which cannot be competently discussed without reference to the various forms found throughout the vertebrate classes of animals. But there are some points connected with this subject to which the attention of the student of human anatomy may here be briefly directed. In considering the serial relations of the bodies of the vertebrae, it is necessary to distinguish the masses formed round the chorda dorsalis —the centra—from the angular portions derived by ossification from the arch. The only peculiarities in the series of centra are to be found at or near the extremities of the column. One of these, of less note, is presented by the first coccygeal vertebra, the cornua and lateral projections of which, although ranged in series with pai-ts which in the preceding vertebrae are derived from the osseous nuclei of the arch, are, nevertheless, ossified from the centrum. The other peculiarity presented by the atlas and axis is of a more remarkable kind. The odontoid process of the axis is the true centrum of the atlas, disguised by remaining distinct from the rest of the vertebra to which it belongs, and becoming adherent to the centrum of the succeeding vertebra. The main proofs that this view is correct are, 1st, that the odontoid process originates in cartilage distinct from the proper centrum of the axis; 2nd, that the remains of the chorda dorsalis have been traced through the odontoid process to the occipital bone; and 3rd, that in early life, and in certain animals (especially turtles), the odontoid process is similar in appearance to the succeeding centra. The anterior nucleus of the atlas must, therefore, be regarded as a pre-central or sub-central structure. (Rathke, " Entwicklungsgeschichte der Natter," p. 120; and " Entwickl. der Schildkroten," p. 77.) It is proper to observe that both sets of the articular surfaces of the atlas and the superior pair belonging to the axis are placed upon those parts which in succeeding vertebrae form the angles of the bodies; these articular surfaces, therefore, correspond in position,not with the smooth facets of the articulating processes, but rather with those for the heads of the ribs in the dorsal vertebrae. This is seen not only from their position in front of the trunks of the spinal nerves, and from the superior articular surfaces of the axis actually abutting on the centrum, but also from the condition of parts in many animals. Thus, in birds and reptiles the lateral masses and anterior nucleus of the atlas unite to form a mesial disc, which articulates with the body of the axis in front of the odontoid process and with a single condyle on the occipital bone, while at the same time the axis and atlas are likewise connected by articulating processes placed behind the nerves and in series with those which follow.