COLUMNAR EPITHELIUM. Ivi more generally held that the new epithelium-cells are produced by division of pre- existing cells in the lowermost stratum. In the earliest condition of the embryo there are special layers of cells, derived from the primitive embryonic cells, set aside for the production of the epidermis and of the intestinal and glandular epithelium ; and it is. quite conceivable, and by some histologists considered most probable, that the subsequent generations of epidermic and epithelial cells by which the tissue is throughout life main- tained, are derived by unbroken descent from the original embryonic stratum. At the same time the reproduction of epidermis in cicatrices after wide and deep destruction of the subjacent skin, implies some other source of new cells ; unless indeed it be supposed that the new cuticle grows exclusively from the old at the circumference of the sore. Setting aside this supposition, we might conceive the new cells to come from the connective-tissue corpuscles of the granulating surface of the new-growing skin; and a recent writer (Dr. Otto Weber) describes such mode of reproduction of epidermis as actually observed by him in the healing of wounds; moreover, it may be questioned whether, in certain situations, this may not be the regular process by which the growth of epithelium is maintained. When the lowermost cells are elongated and vertical, it is difficult to conceive that they rise up as such, and take their place in the upper strata ; for the cells next above them are spheroidal in shape and smaller in size. It seems more likely that they divide into or produce the smaller cells. It might be supposed that an oblong vertical cell, by division of its nucleus and separation of the upper portion of the cell-body, produces a new and smaller cell, which rises up, while the parent cell maintains its place, and lengthens out again for a repetition of the process. Dr. Schneider * describes appearances actually observed by him in the epithelium covering the front of the cornea, which seem to indicate a process of this kind; but much more extended observations are required to settle the point. I have seen cells with double or divided nuclei in the epithelium of the bladder, but not confined to the deep strata; on the other hand, I have never Fig. XXIV.—Spinous Cells PROM THE MALPIGHIAN LAYER OP THE HUMAN EPI- DERMIS ; ABOUT INCH in diameter (after M. Schultze, Virch. Arch. vol. 30). Fig. XXV. been able to perceive indica- tions of division in the deep vertical cells of the epider- mis ; at the same time it is plain that the latter are not mere nuclei imbedded in a blastema ;—the nucleus is surrounded by a tolerably well-marked cell-body, which has a deeply denticulate or fringed border at the part turned towards the corium. Columnar Epithelium (Cylinderepithelium of Germ. Anat.).—In this variety (figs. xxv. and xxvi.), the constituent cells are elongated in a direction perpendicular to the surface of the membrane, so as to form short upright columns, which may be of the same thickness Fig. XXV.—A, Columns op Epithelium prom the Intestine magnified ; B, viewed by their broad FREE EXTREMITY ; C, SEEN IN A TRANSVERSE SECTION op an Intestinal Villus (from Henle). * Wiirzb. Naturwiss : Zeitschrift, vol. iii. 1862.