NERVOUS SYSTEM. cxxxviii globules held together by a fine transparent thread. As already remarked, the double contour caused by congelation of the white substance does not appear in the highly-constricted parts. The axis takes no part in this change, indeed it may sometimes be seen running through the varicosities and undergoing no corresponding dilatation. Neither in their course along the nervous cords, nor in the white part of the nervous centres, have these tubular fibres ever been observed to unite or anastomose together, nor are they seen to divide into branches ; it is there- fore fair to conclude that, though bound up in numbers in the same nervous cords, they merely run side by side like the threads in a skein of silk, and that they maintain their individual distinctness throughout the trunk and branches of a nerve ; but in many cases the fibres divide in approaching the peripheral termination of the nerve, as will be again noticed. Grey, Pale, Non-medullated, or Gelatinous Fibres (fig. lxxvi).—The white fibres, at the peripheral extremities of many nerves, lay aside their medul- lary sheath and dark borders, and are prolonged into pale fibres, often Fig. LXXVI. A Fig. LXXVI.—Grey, Pale or Gelatinous Nerve-Fibres (from Max Schultze. Magnified between 400 and 500 diameters). A. From a branch of the olfactory nerve of the sheep; at a, a, two dark bordered or white fibres, from the fifth pair, associated with the pale olfactory fibres. B. From the sympathetic nerve. minutely dividing, which seem to represent the axis-cylinder deprived of surrounding white substance, and either naked or covered with a prolonga- tion of the primitive sheath. But, apart from these pale continuations of white fibres, there are nerve-fibres which exhibit the non-medullated charac- ter throughout their whole length. These are the pale, grey fibres first pointed out by Remak, and commonly designated by his name, which are found, with or without associated white fibres, chiefly in the sympathetic but also in other nerves. The branches of the olfactory nerve of man and mammalia consist wholly of these pale fibres. They were named gelatinous (by Henle) from their aspect, not their chemical nature. They measure from -g-Jg ^th to ^oVo**1 of an inch in diameter, appear flattened, translucent, homogeneous, or very faintly granular, and sometimes finely striated longi- tudinally. At short distances they bear oblong nuclei, which have been supposed to belong to a sheath (Max. Schultze). As these fibres generally end peripherally—and some (olfactory) are known to begin centrally—by a