482 CARDIAC VEINS. colon. The trunk, formed by the union of its several branches, inclines upwards and to the right side, passing in front of the duodenum and behind the pancreas, where it joins with the splenic vein to form the vense portse. The branches of the inferior mesenteric vein correspond with the ramifica- tions of the artery of the same name. They commence at the lower part of the rectum in the hsemorrhoidal plexus, and unite into a single vessel near the sigmoid flexure of the colon. From this point the vein proceeds up- wards and inwards along the lumbar region, behind the peritoneum, crossing between the transverse mesocolon and the spine, or farther to the left, and then passing beneath and behind the pancreas, it reaches the splenic vein in which it terminates. VEINS OF THE HEART. The greater number of the cardiac veins are collected into a large common trunk which pours its blood into the posterior part of the right auricle, in the angle between the inferior vena cava and the right auriculo-ventricular orifice. The terminal part of this vein is considerably dilated, and is named the coronary sinus. The principal veins leading into it are named the great, the posterior, and the anterior or small coronary veins. Among these the first alone deserves the name of coronary, as it surrounds the heart in the left auriculo-ventricular groove. Besides the larger cardiac veins which join the great coronary sinus, there are also small separate veins (vense minimse cordis), which open directly into the right auricle, especially along its right border. The open- ings of these veins, as well as some depressions which do not admit veins, have been named foramina Thebesii. Fig. 328.—View of the Adult Heart, from BEHIND, TO SHOW THE CORONARY VEINS. | a, placed on the back of the right auricle, points to the Eustachian valve seen within the opening of the inferior vena cava ; b, the hack of the left auricle ; c, back of the right ventricle ; d, left ventricle ; vena cava supe- rior ; /, arch of the aorta ; 1, sinus of the great coronary vein ; 2, great coronary vein turn- ing round the heart in the auriculo-ventricular groove ; 3, 4, posterior branches ; 5, one of the small right cardiac veins passing directly into the right auricle ; 6, the vestige of the left superior vena cava proceeding over the left auricle downwards to join the coronary sinus. The veins of the heart are without valves excepting at their terminations. The great cardiac vein (vena cordis magna) is a vessel of considerable size, and from the way in which it coils round the left side of the base of the heart, or rather of the ventricle, it may be named "coronary." Its chief branch runs along the groove upon the fore part of the heart, corresponding with the septum of the ventricles. Commencing at the apex of the heart, it gradually increases in size as it approaches the base of the ventricles, and then inclining backwards and to the left side in the groove between the left Fig. 328.