CIRCUMFLEX ARTERIES.—BRACHIAL ARTERY. 381 wards in company with the circumflex nerve, passing through the space between the teres muscles, the humerus, and the long head of the triceps muscle, and therefore separated by the long head of the triceps from the subscapular artery. It winds round the humerus, and terminates by rami- fying in the deltoid muscle and on the shoulder-joint, and by anastomosing with the anterior circumflex and suprascapular arteries, as well as with the acromial thoracic. The anterior circumflex, much smaller than the posterior circumflex, arises nearly opposite to it er lower down, and from the outer side of the axillary artery. It passes from within outwards and forwards, under the inner head of the biceps and the coraco-brachialis muscle, resting on the fore part of the humerus, until it reaches the bicipital groove. There it divides into two branches, one of which ascends in the groove with the long head of the biceps, to the head of the bone and the capsule of the joint ; the other continues outwards, and anastomoses with the posterior circumflex branch. Peculiarities.—The most important peculiarity in the trunk of the axillary artery consists in its giving off a much larger branch than usual,—an arrangement which has been observed in the proportion of one out of every ten cases. In one set of cases, this large branch forms one of the arteries of the fore-arm; most frequently the radial (about 1 in 83), sometimes the ulnar (1 in 72), and, rarely, the interosseous artery (1 in 506 : R. Quain). In another set of cases, the large branch gives origin to the subscapular, the two circumflex, and the two profunda arteries of the arm; but sometimes only one of the circumflex, or only one of the deep humeral arteries, arises from it. In the second class of cases the divisions of the brachial plexus of nerves surround the common trunk of the branches instead of the main vessel. This dis- position may with probability be explained by supposing that the trunk of the branches is the true brachial artery, but that in early life it has become obstructed below, and that there has become developed in its place, as an apparent brachial artery for the supply of the lower portions of the limb, a vas aberrans, such as is sometimes seen arising from the brachial artery, and uniting with one of its branches. The superior thoracic artery is so frequently given off by the acromio-thoracic, that some anatomists have described that as the normal arrangement, giving the com- mon trunk the name of thoracic axis. The long thoracic artery often arises from the acromial thoracic, or is replaced by enlargement of the normal branches of that artery, and not unfrequently is given off by the subscapular. The dorsalis scapulae sometimes springs directly from the axillary artery. The posterior circumflex artery is sometimes removed from the axillary to the superior profunda branch of the brachial, in which case it ascends behind the tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major. In another class of cases not quite so numerous, the posterior circumflex gives off one or more branches usually derived from other sources: as for example (placing them in the order of frequency), the anterior circumflex, the superior profunda, the dorsal scapular, the anterior circum- flex and superior profunda together, or some other rarer combination of those vessels. The posterior circumflex is sometimes double; and so is the anterior, but more seldom. BRACHIAL ARTERY. The brachial or humeral artery, the continuation of the axillary, extends from the lower border of the posterior fold of the axilla, to about a finger's breadth below the bend of the elbow, or to a point opposite the neck of the radius, where it divides into the radial -and ulnar arteries. The vessel gradually inclines from the inner side to the fore part of the limb, lying in the -depression along the inner border of the coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles ; and its direction may be marked out by a line drawn from