TERMINAL ORGANS. cli LXXXVI. highly complicated in the Pacinian bodies; and therefore in the further account of them it will be convenient to begin with the former, although the Pacinian bodies have been much longer known. a. End-bulbs. Noticed incidentally by Kolliker, but first investigated and recognised as distinct organs by W. Krause, who named them Endkolben. Their figure in man and apes is usually spheroidal (fig. lxxxvi), but oblong in some quadrupeds. They measure about ^igth of an inch in diameter, but may exceed this in length with a less breadth, when of an oval shape. They have a simple outer capsule of connective tissue, bearing nuclei, and within this a core of clear soft matter, in which specks resembling fat-granules become visible after exposure to a solution of soda. To an end-bulb there proceeds usually one, but sometimes two, or even three dark-bordered nerve-fibres; and sometimes an originally single fibre divides into two or three immediately before entering the corpuscle; or several branches of one fibre may each run into a sepa- rate end-bulb. The fibre or fibres pass into the core, lose their dark borders, and appear to end, when their ends can be traced, in a bulbous extremity or knob. The nerve-fibre, when about to enter the corpuscle, is often much coiled, and this may be the case too with its pale continuation within, which contributes greatly to obscure its actual termination. End-bulbs have been hitherto found in the conjunctiva over the sclerotic coat of the eye, and in the mucous membrane on the floor of the mouth, the lips, soft palate, and tongue, being in these last-mentioned situations lodged in papillae, or at their roots; also, more deeply, in the skin of the glans of the penis and clitoris.* Fig. LXXXVI. — Three Nerve-end-bulbs from the Human Conjunctiva, treated with acetic acid, magnified 300 diameters. 1. With two nerve-fibres forming coils within. 2. With one nerve-fibre and fat-gra- nules in the core. 3. Of an oval figure; termination of nerve distinct. Nuclei on the capsules of 1 and 2.— (From Kolliker, after a draw- ing by Ludden). A Fig. LXXXVII. B LXXXVII.—End-bulbs in Papilla, treated with Acetic Acid. MAGNIFIED, A, from the lips; the white loops in one of them are capillaries. B, from the tongue. Two end-bulbs seen in the midst of the simple papillae, a, a, nerves. —(From Kolliker). b. Touch-bodies, or tactile corpuscles {corpus- cula tacttis). Discovered by R. Wagner and Meissner. These are mostly of an oval shape, nearly * W. Krause has lately described peculiar organs in the skin of the penis and clitoris, allied to the end-bulbs, which he proposes to call genital nerve-corpuscles. They are various in form, but present a mulberry-like surface. One, or two, rarely three or four, dark-bordered nerve-fibres enter each of them. They have a delicate sheath of con- nective tissue, with many nuclei, and soft finely granular contents allied to the core of the end-bulbs. I 2 of an inch long, and