ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK AND HEAD. 130 The middle or inter-osseous costo-transverse ligament, or ligamentum colli costai, consists of a series of very short parallel fibres, which unite the neck of the rib to the anterior pja no) surface of the contiguous Fig. 119.—Horizontal section of a Dorsal Vertebra, with the adjacent portions of two Ribs. § 1, the rib ; 2, transverse pro- cess ; 3, anterior costo-centi*al liga- ment ; 5, posterior costo-transverse ligament; 6, interosseous or middle costo-transverse ligament. transverse process. These fibres are seen on removing by horizontal section a por- tion of the rib and transverse process, and forcibly drawing the one from the other. The anterior, superior, or long costo-transverse ligament consists of fasciculi of fibres, passing from the neck of the rib obliquely upwards and outwards to the lower margin of the transverse process next above it. It does not exist in the articulation of the first rib. There are no synovial joints, but only posterior costo-transverse ligaments, between the two lowest ribs and the transverse processes. The costo-sternal articulations, situated between the anterior angular extremities of the cartilages of the sternal ribs, and the corresponding fossse in the margins of the sternum, consist of small synovial capsules covered and supported by anterior, posterior, upper and lower ligaments ; the anterior ligamentous fibres are thin, scattered, and radiated, passing from the extremity of the cartilage to the anterior surface of the sternum, where they interlace with those of the opposite side, and are blended with the aponeurosis of the pectoralis major muscle ; the posterior fibres are similarly disposed, but not so thick or numerous, and connect the thoracic surfaces of the same parts ; the upper and lower ligamentous fibres are inconsider- able, and are placed above and below the joint ; the synovial membranes are interposed between the end of the cartilage of each true rib (excepting the first) and the sternum, and may best be demonstrated by slicing off a little of the anterior surface of the sternum and cartilage ; that of the seventh is single ; the others are usually divided into an upper and lower cavity, be- tween which interarticular fibres are attached to the end of the cartilage and to the sternum. The cartilage of the first rib is directly united to the sternum. A thin fasciculus of fibres connecting the cartilage of the seventh rib, and sometimes likewise that of the sixth, with the xiphoid cartilage, is called the costo-xiphoid ligament. Articidation of the cartilages one with another.—The contiguous edges of the cartilages of some of the ribs, viz., from the sixth to the ninth, have a part of their adjacent borders smoothed into articular surfaces, which are lined by synovial membranes, and are held in connection by ligamentous fibres. Some of the articular surfaces are occasionally found to be wanting. Connection of the ribs ivith their cartilages.—The external extremities of the cartilages are fixed into the oval depressions on the ends of the ribs, and the union receives support from the periosteum.