456 VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. (6) The supra-orbital vein (v. supercilii) runs inwards in the direction of the eyebrow, covered by the occipito-frontalis muscle. Its branches are con- nected externally with those of the external palpebral and superficial temporal veins; in its course it receives branches from the contiguous muscles and integu- ment, and at the inner angle of the orbit inclines downwards to terminate in the frontal vein. Fig. 310. Fig. 310.—View of the Su- perficial Veins of the Head and Neck. 1, sterno-mastoid muscle ; a, facial vein ; b, temporal vein ; c, transverse facial; d, pos- terior auricular ; e, internal maxillary vein ; /, external jugular vein ; g, posterior ex- ternal jugular ; h, anterior jugular; i, posterior scapular and suprascapular veins; Tc, internal jugular vein ; I, occi- pital veins ; m, subclavian vein : above the inner side of the orbit are shown the frontal and su- praorbital veins, and their de- scending branches to anasto- mose with the angular or ter- minal branch of the facial vein. (c) The angular vein, formed by the junction of the supra- orbital and frontal veins, is perceptible beneath the skin as it runs obliquely downwards and outwards near the inner margin of the orbit, resting against the side of the nose at its root. This vessel receives on the inner side the nasal veins, which pass upwards obliquely to join it from the side and ridge of the nose ; whilst some small superior palpebral veins open into it from the opposite direction. On a level with the lower margin of the orbit it becomes continuous with the facial vein. (d) The inferior palpebral veins, two or three in number, are derived from the lower eyelid, from the outer side of the orbit, and from the cheek. They pass in a direction obliquely inwards above the zygomatic muscle, and then turn beneath it previously to their termination. (e) Communicating branches from the pterygoid plexus (deep facial, anterior inter- nal maxillary); and also some branches proceeding from the orbit, furnished by the infra-orbital of the internal maxillary vein, join the facial on a level with the angle of the mouth. (/) Labial, buccal, masseteric and mental branches join the facial below the angle of the mouth. (g) The ranine vein, a small vessel which lies along the under surface of the tongue, close to the frasnum linguae, is in apposition with the artery of the same name : its course is backwards and outwards, between the mylo-hyoid and hyo-glossus muscles, to open into the facial vein, or sometimes into the lingual. (h) The submental vein, larger than the preceding, commences below the chin; it receives branches from the submaxillary gland, and from the mylo-hyoid muscle, and, keeping close under cover of the margin of the jaw-bone, joins the facial vein; but in some instances it enters the lingual or superior thyroid vein. (i) Submaxillary branches from the gland join the facial vein either separately or united into one trunk. (j) The palatine vein returns the blood from the plexus round the tonsil and