INTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. 251 inner border, so as to enclose it in a sheath. The anterior layer, as already mentioned, becomes inseparably united with the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, and the posterior layer is similarly incorporated with that of the trans versalis. The upper border of the posterior lamina is attached to the margins of the seventh and eighth ribs, as well as to the ensiform cartilage. This division, however, of the aponeurosis into layers stops short a little above the middle distance between the umbilicus and the pubis, the aponeurosis below that level remaining undivided, and along with Fig. 198. Fig. 198.—Lateral View op the Muscles of the Abdomen and Trunk, me Internal Oblique Muscle having been exposed by the removal of the external Oblique (modified from Henle). I a, anterior superior spinous process of the ilium; b, trochanter major; c, spine of pubes ; d, lumbar fascia ; VI to XII, the sixth to the twelfth ribs ; 1, lower part of the great pec- toral muscle, where it is attached to the external oblique muscle; 2, 2, lower digitations of the serratus mag- nus from the fourth to the eighth ribs ; 3, lower costal attachments of the latissimus dorsi ; 3', its iliac attach- ment ; 4, trapezius ; 5, divided attach- ments of the external oblique, left in connection Avith the ribs ; 5', aponeu- rosis of the external oblique divided in front of the rectus, where it joins the sheath; 6, internal oblique at its middle ; 6', 6, line where it divides to form the sheath of the rectus; + + + XII, its attachments to the four lowest ribs; 6", the conjoined tendon, and above, and to the out- side, the internal inguinal aperture ; 7, sartorius; 8, rectus femoris; 9, tensor vaginae femoris; 10, gluteus medius ; 11, gluteus maximus. that of the transversalis muscle to which it is united, passing wholly in front of the rectus muscle. The deficiency thus resulting in the posterior wall of the sheath of the rectus muscle is marked superiorly by a well-defined lu- nated edge, whose concavity looks downwards towards the pubes—the semilunar fold of Douglas. The internal oblique muscle is almost entirely covered by the ex- ternal oblique. A small angular portion only near the place where its posterior fibres take their origin, under cover of the latissimus dorsi, is exposed between that muscle and the external oblique, and even this is not constantly found. The cremaster, a muscle peculiar to the male, consists of fibres lying in