EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 356 Branches.—A. Branches of the first part,—The branches of the first part of the artery all pass through osseous foramina. (a) The tympanic branch, of small size and variable in origin, passes deeply behind the articulation of the lower jaw, and enters the fissure of Glasser, supplying the laxator tympani muscle, and the tympanic cavity, where it ramifies upon the membrana tympani. It anastomoses in the tympanum with the stylo-mastoid and Vidian arteries. (b) The middle or great meningeal artery, by far the largest of the arteries which supply the dura mater, passes directly upwards under cover of the external pterygoid muscle, and enters the skull by the spinous foramen of the sphenoid bone. Within the cranium, it ascends to the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, and divides into numerous branches, which ramify in deep arborescent grooves on the inner surface of the bones, some passing upwards over the parietal bone as high as the vertex, and others backwards even to the occipital bone. Immediately on entering the cranium the meningeal artery gives minute branches to the ganglion of the fifth nerve and to the dura mater near the sella turcica, and a small twig which enters the hiatus Eallopii, and anastomoses with the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular artery. It also inosculates with branches of the ophthalmic artery. The middle meningeal artery is accompanied by two veins. (c) The small meningeal artery, usually arising from the preceding branch, enters the skull through the foramen ovale, to supply the dura mater in the middle fossa. (d) The inferior dental artery, passing downwards, enters the dental canal along with the inferior dental nerve, and subsequently escapes on the face by the mental foramen. As it enters the canal, it gives off the mylo-hyoid branch, which, with the nerve bearing the same name, runs in a groove on the inner surface of the jaw, below the dental foramen, and ramifies on the under surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle. In its course through the bone, the inferior dental artery gives off small offsets, which ascend to enter the minute apertures in the extremities of the fangs of the teeth, and supply the pulp of each; and before emerging at the mental foramen, it sends forwards a branch which supplies the incisor teeth and inosculates with its fellow of the opposite side. The terminal or facial branches anastomose with the inferior coronary and submental arteries. B. —Branches of the second part.—The branches of this part are chiefly distributed to muscles, and are named muscular. (a) The deep temporal branches, two in number (anterior and posterior), ascend- ing between the temporal muscle and the cranium, supply that muscle, and anasto- mose with the branches of the other temporal arteries, and with minute branches of the lachrymal artery, through small foramina in the malar bone. (b) The pterygoid, branches, small, short offsets, irregular in number and origin, are distributed to the pterygoid muscles. (c) The masseteric is a small but regular branch which passes from within out- wards, above the sigmoid notch of the lower maxillary bone, to the deep surface of the masseter muscle. It is often joined at its origin with the posterior temporal branch. (d) The buccal branch runs obliquely forwards upon the buccinator muscle with the buccal nerve ; it is distributed to that and other muscles of the cheek, and anas- tomoses with the branches of the facial artery, C. Branches of the third part.—These branches, like those of the first series, enter bony foramina or canals. (a) The alveolar or superior maxillary branch, arising near the tuberosity of the maxillary bone, frequently in common with the infra-orbital branch, runs tortuously forwards upon the surface of the upper jaw, and gives off the superior dental and other branches which enter the foramina of the tuberosity, and supply the pulps of