cliv NERVOUS SYSTEM. lemma, but at the same time has its own proper wall, round which, on the outside, the capsules are attached. Whichever view may be correct, the capsules are, as it were, strung together where the nerve passes through them, and each intercapsular space, with its contained matter, is shut off from the neighbouring ones. The nerve-fibre, the disposition of which must now be noticed, is single as it runs along Fig. XC. a, Magnified View of a Pacinian Body from the Mesentery op a Cat, showing the lamellar structure, the capsules with their nuclei, the inner aud closer series of cap- sules appearing darker in the figure, the nerve-fibre passing along the peduncle, aud pene- trating the capsules to reach the core in the central cavity, where it loses its strong, dark outline, and terminates by an irregular knob at the distal and here dilated end of the cavity. Connective tissue (neurilemma or perineurium) and blood-vessels are repre- sented in the peduncle, and tortuous capillaries are seen running up among the capsules. B and c represent the termination of the nerve with the distal end of the central cavity and adjoining capsules, to illustrate varieties of arrangement. In b the fibre, as well as the core and adjoining capsules, is bifurcated. the peduncle, unless when the latter supports two corpuscles; it retains its dark double contour until it reaches the central cavity, where, diminished in size, and freed from its perineurium, it becomes somewhat flattened, and presents the appearance either of a pale, finely granular, and very faintly-outlined band or stripe, little narrower than the previous part of the fibre, or of a darker and more sharply defined narrow line; differing thus in appearance according as its flat side or its edge is turned towards the eye. The pale aspect which the fibre presents in the centre of the corpuscle has with some probability been ascribed to its losing the white substance or medullary sheath on entering the cavity, Ileule aud Kblliker, however, think that it is more likely the result merely of a diminution in size, together with a certain degree of flattening. It sometimes happens that the fibre regains its original magnitude and double contour for a short space, and changes again before it terminates; this is especially liable to occur while it passes through a sharp flexure in a crooked central cavity. The fibre ends by a sort of knob at the further extremity of the median cavity, which is often itself somewhat dilated. In