THE ABSORBENTS. 486 of the pericardium, the vestigial fold of the pericardium, so named by Marshall, to whom is due the first full elucidation of the nature and relations of the left primitive vena cava. The left duct of Cuvier has been observed persistent as a small vessel in the adult. More frequently a right and left innominate vein open separately into the right auricle,- an arrangement which is also met with in birds and in certain mammalia, and which results from the vessels of the left side being developed similarly to those of the right, while the cross branch remains small or absent. (Quain on the Arteries, plate 58, figs. 9 and 10.) Fig. 331. Fig. 331.—View of the Fcetal Heart and Great Vessels, from the left side, to show the Vestige of the Left Superior Cava Vein in situ. (This figure is planned after one of Marshall's, and slightly altered accord- ing to an original dissection.) a, right auricle; 6, left auricle and pulmonary veins ; c, the conus arteriosus of the right ventricle ; d, the left ven- tricle ; e, descending aorta ; +, vestigial fold of the pericardium ; f, arch of the aorta, with a part of the pericardium remaining superiorly ; g, main pulmonary artery and ductus arteriosus ; g', left pul- monary artery ; 1, 1', right and left in- ternal jugular veins; 2, 2', subclavian veins ; 3, right innominate and superior vena cava ; 4, left innominate or com- municating vein; 5, 5', remains of the left superior cava and duct of Cuvier, passing at + in the vestigial fold of the pericardium, joining the coronary sinus below, and receiving above the superior intercostal vein, 7 ; 7', 7', the upper and lower intercostal vein, joining into one. A case is recorded by Gruber, in which the left vena azygos opened into the coronary sinus, and was met by a small vein descending from the union of the sub- clavian and jugular. (Eeichert and Dubois Keymond's Archiv. 1864, p. 729.) In this case, the jugular veins had been developed in the usual manner, while the left vena azygos continued to pour its blood into the duct of Cuvier. (Consult Kolliker, Entwicklungsgeschichte, p. 414, et seq. ; J. Marshall, on the Development of the great Anterior Veins in Man and Mammalia, in Phil. Trans., part L, 1850; and Wenzel Gruber, Uber die Sinus Communis und die Valvulae der Venae Cardiacse, &c, in Mem. de l'Acad. imper. des Scien. de St. Petersbourg, 1864; and in Virchow's Archiv., Jan. 1865.) THE ABSORBENTS. The absorbent vessels are divisible physiologically into two sets ;—the lacteals, which, convey the chyle from the alimentary canal to the thoracic duct ; and the lymphatics, which take up the lymph from all the other parts of the body, and return it into the venous system. Anatomically con- sidered, however, the lacteals are not different from the lymphatics, and may be regarded as the absorbents of the mucous membrane of the intestine. The larger lacteals and lymphatics are provided with valves, which give them, when distended, a somewhat moniliform appearance; and both are connected in their course with lacteal or lymphatic glands.