BONE. cvii In a long bone these precursory vessels are seen at either end of the ossified portion of the shaft, forming a red zone in that part of the cartilage into which the ossification is advancing. The vessels are lodged in excavations or branching canals in the cartilage, (fig. Li. a,) which also contain granular corpuscles and soft matter. Other vascular canals enter the cartilage from its outer surface, and conduct vessels into it directly from the perichondrium ; at least, this may be seen when the ossification approaches near to the ends of the bones. Dr. Baly has observed that in a transverse section of the ossifying cartilage, its cells appear arranged in radiating lines round the sections of the vascular canals; * and I may also remark that in many of these radiating groups the cells successively diminish in size towards the centre, that is, as they approach the canal. The canals which enter from the surface of the cartilage are probably formed by processes from the vascular subperichondrial tissue, which, excavating the canals by absorption, thus extend themselves through the mass of cartilage; and as the perichondrium affords material for the growth of the cartilage at the surface, so these vascular pro- cesses probably yield matter for the multiplication of the cells in the interior of the mass. The canals which pass into the cartilage from the ossified part are, in like manner, most probably formed by processes of the subperiosteal tissue which pierce the bone and extend through the medullary cavities within it to the cartilage, into which they penetrate for a short way beyond the advancing limit of ossification. To examine the process more minutely, let an ossifying bone be divided lengthwise, as in fig. li. , and then from the surface of the section (as at a, b) take off a thin slice of cartilage, including a very little of the ossified part, and examine it with the microscope. Such a view, seen with a low power, is shown in fig. lii. The cartilage at a distance from the sur- face of the ossified part has its cells uniformly disseminated in the matrix, (as at a, where it appears in the figure as if granular,) but at and near to the limit where the ossification is encroaching upon it, the cells are gathered into rows or oblong groups, between which the transparent matrix appears in form of clear longitudinal lines (often obscurely striated) obliquely intersecting each other (6). Tomes and De Morgan state that these rows are formed by segmentation of the cartilage cells transversely to the line of ossific advance. Turning now to the newly-formed bone (c), which from its dark opaque aspect contrasts strongly with the cartilage, and tracing it towards their mutual boundary, we see plainly the dark lines of ossification shooting up into the clear spaces of the cartilage between the groups of corpuscles. The earthy deposit, in fact, proceeds through the matrix, and affects also those parts of the cartilage-capsules which form the circumference of a group, so that the new osseous substance forms in the first instance oblong areolee or loculi, which inclose the groups of cells. This is further illustrated by a thin transverse section, carried nearly parallel to the ossifying surface, and partly encroaching on it, so as to take off a little of the bone along with the cartilage, as represented in fig. mil In this view we see, at one part, the dark and nearly circular sections of the newly-formed osseous areolae ; at another, sections of the rows of cartilage cells with the clear matrix between and around them, and into this the dark ossification is advancing. On using a higher power, as in figs. nv. and lv., it will be seen that the cells forming the groups are placed with their long diameter transversely, as if they had been flattened and piled upon one another; but in the immediate vicinity of the bone they become greatly enlarged and more rounded. In most of them the outline of the capsule is distinct from that of the mass within. As to the matter they Muller's Physiology, plate I., fig. 16.