cxlv CEREBROSPINAL NERVES. neurilemma has been heretofore applied. The use of the term perineurium is unobjectionable and may sometimes be convenient, but the proposed new and restricted application of the term neurilemma will, I think, lead to am- biguity, and is of doubtful propriety. The funiculi of a nerve are not all of one size, but all are sufficiently large to be readily seen with the naked eye, and easily dissected out from each other. In a nerve so dissected into its component funiculi, ib is seen that these do not run along the nerve as parallel insulated cords, but join together obliquely at short distances as they proceed in their course, the cords resulting from such union dividing in their further progress to form junctions again with collateral cords ; so that in fact the funiculi composing a single nervous trunk have an arrangement with respect to each other similar to that which we shall presently find to hold in a plexus formed by the branches of different nerves. It must be distinctly understood, how- ever, that in these communications the proper nerve-fibres do not join to- gether or coalesce. They pass off from one nervous cord to enter another, with whose fibres they become intermixed, and part of them thus inter- mixed may again pass off to a third funiculus, or go through a series of funiculi and undergo still further intermixture ; but throughout all these successive associations (until near the termination of the nerve) the fibres remain, as far as known, individually distinct, like the threads in a rope. The fibres of the cerebro-spinal nerves are chiefly, in some cases perhaps exclusively, of the white or medullated kind, but in most instances there are also grey fibres in greater or less number. Moreover, it has often appeared to me as if there were filaments of extreme tenuity, like the white filaments of connective tissue, but of doubtful nature, mixed up with well- characterised nerve-fibres within the sheaths of the funiculi. Lying along- side each other, the fibres of a funiculus form a little skein or bundle, which runs in a waving or serpentine manner within its sheath ; and the alternate lights and shadows caused by the successive bendin^s being seen through the sheath, give rise to the appearance of alternate light and dark cross stripes on the funiculi, or even on larger cords consisting of several funiculi. On stretching the nerve, the fibres are straightened and the striped appear- ance is lost. Vessels.—The blood-vessels of a nerve supported by the sheath divide into very fine capillaries, said by Henle to measure in the empty state not more than ^y^th of an inch in diameter. These, which are numerous, run parallel with the fibres, many of them within the funicular sheaths, but are connected at intervals by short transverse branches, so as in fact to form a network with long narrow meshes. Branching mid conjunction of Nerves.—Nerves in their progress very commonly divide into branches, and the branches of different nerves not unfrequently join with each other. As regards the arrangement of the fibres in these cases, it is to be observed, that, in the branching of a nerve, collections of its fibres successively leave the trunk and form branches ; and that, when different nerves or their branches intercommunicate, fibres pass from one nerve to become associated with those of the other in their further progress ; but in neither case (unless towards their peripheral terminations) is there any such thing as a division or splitting of an elementary nerve- fibre into two, or an actual junction or coalescence of two such fibres together. A communication between two nerves is sometimes effected by one or two connecting branches. In such comparatively simple modes of connec-