SACRO-VERTEBRAL AND SACRO-ILIAC ARTICULATIONS. 147 vented by the ligamentous structures in front of the joints. At the metacarpo- phalangeal articulations there is allowed, in addition, a movement of abduction and adduction, but that chiefly in the extended position. In the articulation of the meta- carpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium every movement is allowed except rotation, which is prevented by the shape of the articular surfaces. ARTICULATIONS OF THE PELVIS. ARTICULATION OF THE PELVIS WITH THE LAST LUMBAR VERTEBRA. The fifth lumbar is united to the first sacral vertebra by anterior and posterior ligaments of the body, ligamenta subflava of the arch and interspinous ligaments, and by an intervertebral plate, all of which are similar to those between the vertebrae above. It is also attached to the pelvis by two other ligaments, as follows :— The sacro-vertebral ligament extends obliquely from the tip of the trans- verse process of the last lumbar vertebra downwards to the depressed lateral part of the base of the sacrum ; its form is triangular, and its fibres diverge as they descend, some of them joining the anterior sacro-iliac ligament. The ilio-lumbar ligament is extended horizontally between the summit of the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra and the iliac crest of the innominate bone ; it is inserted into the latter at the back part of the iliac fossa, where its fibres expand somewhat, so as to give it a triangular form. Articulation of the Sacrum and Coccyx, and of the Pieces of the Coccyx.—These articulations are effected by an anterior ligament, consisting of irregular fibres placed in front of the bones, a prolongation of the anterior common ligament of the vertebrae ; by a posterior ligament more strongly marked, composed of fibres which descend upon the bones of the coccyx from the margin of the inferior orifice of the sacral canal; and by intervertebral discs between the contiguous surfaces of the bones, A synovial membrane has been stated by Cruveilhier ("Anatomie descriptive," torn. i. p. 356. Paris, 1834), to be present in those cases in which the coccyx is freely moveable. This is in conformity with the more recent observations of Luschka on the other intervertebral discs. In the male, after middle life, the union between the sacrum and coccyx, and that between the pieces of the latter, is usually ossific. In the female this change does not generally occur till a more advanced age; the pieces of the coccyx uniting one to another in the first place, and the joint between the sacrum and coccyx not ossifying till old age. The mobility seems to increase during pregnancy. The sacro-iliac articulation, often named the sacro-iliac symphysis, or synchondrosis, is formed between the adjacent portions of the sacrum and ilium, the auricular surfaces of which are coated with cartilage, and the remaining parts are united by strong ligaments (see fig. 139). The auricular cartilaginous plate unites the bones with great firmness. When the ilium and sacrum are forcibly torn asunder, this plate usually separates into two layers, one of which adheres to the surface of each bone. In some instances a small cavity naturally exists between these two plates of cartilage. Even when separated in part, however, these plates are very closely applied, and admit only a limited amount of movement. They are then sometimes slightly united by delicate tissue, and in advanced life, small spaces containing glairy fluid are liable to be formed between them. The cavity of this articulation becomes more apparent, and the ligaments some- what looser before parturition. The posterior sacro-iliac ligament, much the thicker, consists of a large number of strong irregular fibres extending across the interval between the posterior rough portion of the lateral surface of the sacrum and that part of l 2