BONES OF THE HEAD. 42 wing, and transmits the optic nerve and the ophthalmic artery. The foramen rotundum is directed forwards through the great wing, below the sphenoidal fissure ; it opens immediately below the level of the orbit, and transmits the superior maxillary division of the fifth nerve. The foramen ovale is a large foramen, external and posterior to the foramen rotundum, situated near the posterior margin of the great wing, and directed downwards; it transmits the inferior maxillary division of the fifth nerve. The foramen spinosum is a small foramen immediately external and posterior to the foramen ovale ; it pierces the posterior angle of the great wing, and transmits the middle meningeal vessels. The Vidian, or Pterygoid canal, passes through the bone horizontally from before backwards at the base of the internal pterygoid plate ; it opens anteriorly into the spheno-maxillary fossa, and posteriorly into the foramen lacerum medium, and transmits the Vidian nerve and vessels. Varieties.—The groove of the internal carotid artery on the inner aspect of the anterior clinoid process is frequently converted into a foramen by a spiculum of bone stretching outwards to that process from the side of the pituitary fossa, and forming what has been called the middle clinoid process ; and in cases where this occurs another spiculum is sometimes found, uniting the anterior and posterior clinoid pro- cesses. In many cases a third spiculum, the lingula (Henle), projects backwards from the posterior extremity of the carotid groove outside the artery. A bridge of bone, or of ligament, sometimes passes from the margin, and sometimes from the extre- mity of the external pterygoid plate to the spinous process. The foramen ovale and foramen spinosum are frequently open behind. ETHMOID BONE. The ethmoid, or sieve-like bone, projectsdownwardsfrom between the orbital plates of the frontal bone, and enters into the formation of the cranium, the orbits, and the nasal fossae. It is of a cu- Fig. 37. boid figure. It is exceedingly light for its size, being composed of very thin plates of bone and a collection of irregular cells. It consists of a central vertical plate, and of two lateral masses, united at their superior extremities by a horizon- tal cribriform lamella. Fig. 37.—The Ethmoid Bone. § A, from the right side. 1, crista galli; 2, vertical plate ; 3, cribriform plate and foramina ; 4, orbital plate or os planum ; 5 5, the uncinate process; 6, the superior, and 7, the inferior tur- binated bone; 8, the anterior, and 9, the posterior ethmoidal groove or foramen. B, the ethmoid bone from behind. The in- dications where marked are the same as in A. 10, the lateral or cellular part of the bone ; 11, its posterior surface of union with the sphenoidal turbinated and palate bones. It articulates with thirteen bones : the frontal, sphenoid and vomer, the nasal, lachrymal, superior maxillary, palatal, and inferior turbinated bones. The central plate lies in the mesial plane, and forms the upper part of the septum of the nose. Its superior margin appears in the cranial cavity, above the cribriform lamella, in the form of a ridge which rises anteriorly into a thick process, the crista galli, to which the falx cerebri is attached.