POPLITEAL ARTERY. 441 internal articular arteries', and with the recurrent branch of the anterior tibial artery. (a) A superficial branch accompanies the saphenous nerve beneath the sartorius muscle to the integument on the inner side of the knee. (b) The external branch, arising from the lower part of the vessel, crosses over the femur, supplies offsets to the knee-joint, and forms an arch a little above the articular surface, by anastomosing with the superior external articular artery. Peculiarities of the Femoral Artery and Branches.—Trunk.—Four instances have been recorded of division of the femoral artery below the origin of the profunda into two vessels, which subsequently were reunited near the opening of the adductor magnus so as to form a single popliteal artery. In all these cases, the arrangement of the vessels appears to have been similar. To one of them (that first observed) special interest is attached, inasmuch as it was met with in a patient operated upon for popliteal aneurism. (This case was treated by Charles Bell, and recorded in " The London Medical and PhysicalJournal," vol. lvi. p. 134. London, 1826.) The femoral artery is occasionally replaced at the back of the thigh by a trunk continuous with the internal iliac. Having passed from the pelvis through the large sacro-sciatic notch, this trunk accompanies the great sciatic nerve along the back of the thigh to the popliteal space, where its connections and termination become similar to those of the vessel presenting the usual arrangement. Four examples of this deviation from the common state of the blood-vessel have been recorded. Refe- rence is made to these in a Paper in vol. 36 of the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, giving an account of a specimen of remarkable deformity of the lower limbs of a man in whom the artery was so transposed on both sides. Branches.—The deep femoral is occasionally given off from the inner side of the parent trunk, and more rarely from the back part of the vessel. Occasionally it arises at a distance of less than an inch, and sometimes of more than two inches, below Poupart's ligament. It was even found by Richard Quain arising, in one instance, above Poupart's ligament, and in another four inches below it; but in the latter instance the internal and external circumflex arteries did not arise from the profunda. The external circumflex branch sometimes arises directly from the femoral artery ; or it may be represented by two branches, of which, in most cases, one proceeds from the femoral, and one from the deep femoral: both branches, however, have been seen to arise from the deep femoral, and much more rarely, both from the femoral artery. The internal circumflex branch may be transferred to the femoral artery above the origin of the profunda. Examples have also been met with in which the internal circumflex arose from the epigastric, from the circumflex iliac, or from the external iliac artery. POPLITEAL ARTERY. The popliteal artery, placed at the back of the knee-joint, extends along the lower third of the thigh and the upper part of the leg, reaching from the opening in the great adductor to the lower border of the popliteus muscle. It is continuous above with the femoral, and divides at the lower end into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. This artery at first inclines from the inner side of the limb to reach a point behind the middle of the knee-joint, and thence continues to descend vertically to its lower end. Lying deeply in its whole course, it is covered for some distance at its upper end by the semi-membranosus muscle ; a little above the knee it is placed in the popliteal space ; inferiorly it is covered for a considerable distance by the gastrocnemius muscle, and at its termi- nation by the upper margin of the soleus muscle. At first the artery lies close to the inner side of the femur ; in descending, o G