75 SCAPULA. teres minor muscle ; and beneath this, extending over the inferior angle, is a raised oval surface, from which the teres major arises. These spaces are separated from that of the infra-spinatus muscle by a rough line, which gives attachment to an aponeurotic septum. The spine of the scapula is a massive plate of bone projecting backwards from the dorsum, and curving slightly upwards. It extends outwards and Fig. 66. Fig. 67. Fig. 66.—Right Scapula from behind. ^ 1, glenoid head ; 2, superior angle ; 3, inferior angle ; 4, spine ; 4, at the base, points by a line to the triangular smooth surface of the spine; 5, acromion ; 6, coracoid process; 7, supraspinous fossa; 7', infraspinous fossa; 1 to 2, superior border; 2 to 3, posterior bor- der or base ; 1 to 3, external or inferior border ; 10, is opposite the oval surface of origin of the teres major muscle; 11, the oblique groove where the teres minor muscle rises ; 12, the rough ridge where the long head of the triceps rises ; 13, supra-scapular notch ; 14, is below the great scapular notch. Fig. 67.—Right Scapula from before. | 1, 5, 6, & 13, as in fig. 66; 5', articular facet on the acromion for the clavicle ; 8, subscapular fossa ; 9, long, narrow surface, and 9', triangular rough surface, separated from the subscapular fossa and giving attachment to the upper and lower parts of the serratus magnus muscle. a little upwards from the internal border near its upper fourth, towards the middle of the neck, and becoming gradually elevated towards its external extremity, it turns forwards and is continued into the acromion process. The upper and lower surfaces are smooth, of a triangular form, concave, and form part respectively of the supraspinous and infraspinous fossee. It presents two unattached borders, the most prominent of which arises from the internal border of the bone by a smooth, flat, triangular surface, on which the tendon of the inferior part of the trapezius muscle glides, as it passes to be inserted into a rough thickening beyond, which projects slightly downwards. In the rest of its extent this border is rough, broad, and subcutaneous, giving attachment by its superior margin to the trapezius, and by its inferior to the deltoid muscle. The other, the external border, short, smooth, and concave, arises near the neck of the scapula, and is con- tinuous with the under surface of the acromion, surrounding thus the great scapular notch between the spine and the neck of the bone.