263 COCCYGEUS—TRANSVERSUS PERINiEI. bladder, the prostate, and the neighbouring part of the urethra, with cor- responding fibres from the muscle of the opposite side, and blend also with those of the external sphincter and deep transverse perinseal muscles. The anterior portion of the levator ani, which arises from the ramus of the pubes, close to the symphysis and above the pubic arch, and also from the adjacent fasciae, is sometimes separated at its origin by areolar tissue from the rest of the muscle. From this circumstance, and from its connec- tion with the prostate gland, it was described by Santorini, and since by Albinus and Scemmerring, as a distinct muscle, under the name of the levator prostatas. Its fibres pass backwards parallel with the middle line. The upper or pelvic surface of the levator ani is in contact with the recto-vesical fascia, the capsule of the prostate, and the lower end of the rectum. The under, or perinseal surface, invested by the thin anal fascia, is covered by the fat which occupies the ischio-rectal fossa. The posterior border is continuous with the coccygeus. Fig. 203.—Left half of the Male Pelvis, to show the Levator Ani and Coccygeus Muscles (after Cloquet). £ a, the promontory of the sacrum ; 5, the crest of the pubis; c, the last bone of the coccyx ; d, the spine of the ischium ; e, the symphysis pubis ; /, a small portion of the anal part of the rectum ; g, half the prostate gland ; h, half the bulb and a portion of the penis with the urethra, &c. ; 1, upper part of the obturator in- ternus muscle exposed by removing from within it the pelvic fascia ; 2, coccygeus muscle, and above it and between it and d, the sacro-sciatic ligaments ; 3, inner surface of the levator ani; the white line extending between d and e, shows the place of its origin from the fascia of the pelvis ; below is shown the descent of its fibres to the anus and to the portions of the perineum before and behind it. Fig. 203. The coccygeus muscle is composed of fleshy and tendinous fibres, forming a thin, flat, and triangular sheet, which arises by its apex from the spine of the ischium and the lesser sciatic ligament, and is attached along its base to the border of the coccyx and the lower part of the sacrum. The fibres of this muscle diverge as they approach the middle line, while those of the levator ani rather converge as they descend. The internal or pelvic surface of this muscle assists in supporting the rectum; its external or under surface rests on the front of the sacro-sciatic ligaments, and on the gluteus maximus muscle. The levatores ani and coccygei muscles together have been named somewhat appro priately by Meyer, the pelvic diaphragm. b. Genito -urinary Group. —Covered by the special fascia of the permoeum are three muscles, placed superficially—the transverse (superficial transverse), the ischio-cavernosus, and the bulbo-cavernosus; while situated more deeply between the superficial and deep layers of the sub-pubic fascia, are the deep transverse muscle and the constrictor of the urethra, sometimes described as one muscle under the name of compressor of the urethra.