clxxxii LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. augment greatly in size, to afford passage to the increased share of blood which they are required to transmit, and by this admirable adaptation of them to the exigency, the circulation is restored. In such cases, an increase takes place in length, as well as in diameter, and accordingly the vessels very commonly become tortuous. ABSORBENT OR LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. Under this head we include not only the vessels specially called lymph- atics, together with the glands belonging to them, but also those named lacteal or chyliferous, which form part of the same system, and differ in no respect from the former, save that they not only carry lymph like the rest, but are also employed to take up the chyle from the intestines during the process of digestion and convey it into the blood. An introductory outline of the absorbent system has already been given at page xlvii. A system of lymphatic vessels is superadded to the sanguiferous in all classes of vertebrated animals, but such is not the case in the invertebrata ; in many of these, the sanguiferous vessels convey a colourless or nearly colourless blood, but no additional class of vessels is provided for conveying lymph or chyle, at least none such has hitherto been detected. Distribution.—In man and those animals in which they are present, the lymphatic vessels are found in nearly all the textures and organs which receive blood ; the exceptions are few, and with the progress of discovery may yet possibly disappear. In the different regions of the body, and in the several internal viscera, the lymphatics are arranged in a superficial and a deep set. The former run underneath the skin or under the membranous coats immediately enve- loping the organs in which they are found ; the latter usually accompany the deep-seated blood-vessels. The principal lymphatic vessels of a part exceed the veins in number, but fall short of them in size; they also anasto- mose or intercommunicate much more frequently than the veins alongside of which they run. Origin.—Lymphatics may arise superficially, i.e. immediately underneath free surfaces, both external and internal, as for example those of the skin and mucous membranes, or deeply, in the substance of organs. Plexiform origin.—When they arise superficially, the lymphatics most generally begin in form of networks or plexuses, out of which single vessels emerge at various points and proceed to enter lymphatic glands or to join larger lymphatic trunks. Such mode of commencement may be termed the plexiform. The plexuses for the most part consist of several strata, becoming finer as they approach the surface, in respect both of the calibre of the vessels and the closeness of their reticulation. This is shown in figure o., which is meant to represent the lymphatic plexuses of the skin. But even the most superficial and finest network is composed of vessels which are larger than the sanguiferous capillaries. The short anastomosing branches of these plexuses are often of very un- equal size, even in the same stratum, some being dilated and almost saccular whilst others immediately communicating with these are narrow, so that the network may assume a varicose character. In some situations the plexuses have much the appearance of strata of intercommunicating cellular cavities, and a characteristic example of this appearance is afforded by the intestine of the turtle after its lymphatics have been injected with mercury ; these vessels are then seen to emerge from what has all the appearance of a dense stratum of small rounded cells filled with mercury and lying beneath the surface of the mucous coat. This appearance, however, may be regarded as