ARTICULATIONS OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 121 appear that in certain positions they are not entirely so, and it can scarcely be doubted that when the surfaces are separated to any extent, doublings of the synovial membrane, or fatty processes connected with it and placed in the immediate vicinity of the joint, contribute to fill up the vacuity. There are even instances in which it would appear that the separation of the surfaces must be considerable, as in the case of the patella, more especially in complete extension of the knee. ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK AND HEAD. ARTICULATIONS OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. The movable vertebrae are connected together by elastic discs interposed between the bodies; by synovial joints between the articulating processes ; and by ligaments. Fig. 107.—A Lumbar Vertebra, seen from ABOVE, WITH PART OF THE INTERVERTEBRAL DlSO ADHERING TO THE BODY. ^ 1, 1, the concentric arrangement of the fibrous laminae ; 2, the central soft cartilaginous or gelatinous substance. The intervertebral discs are plates of composite structure placed one between the bodies of each pair of vertebrae from the axis to the base of the sacrum. Each is composed of a laminar part externally, and of a pulpy substance in the centre. The laminar part forms more than half of the mass, and consists of con- centric laminae of fi.bro-cartilage and fibrous tissue alternating one with another. These laminae are not quite vertical, for if a vertical section of a disc be made, a certain number of the layers nearest to the circumference of the disc will be seen bulging outwards, while others situated more deeply and less closely compacted together are convex towards the centre ; and Fig. 108.—Vertical Antero- posterior Section through two Lumbar Vertebrae, show- ing THE ARRANGEMENT OF THE Intervertebral Disc. § 1,1, the fibrous oblique bands, which are curved outwards; 2, those which are curved inwards ; 3, the central soft cartilaginous or gelatinous substance : the capsule of the joint between the articular processes is represented. when the spine is bent in any direction, the curves of the different layers are aug- mented on the side towards which the column is inclined. The in- dividual layers consist chiefly of fibres extending obliquely between the Fig. 107. Fig. 108.