497 LYMPHATICS OF THE THORAX.—UPPER LIMB. Their number is considerable, but they are sometimes difficult of demon- stration. The deep lymphatics run with the pulmonary blood-vessels. Both superficial and deep lymphatics converge to the root of the lung, and terminate in the bronchial glands. From these, two or three trunks issue, which ascend along the trachea to the root of the neck, and terminate on the left side in the thoracic duct, and on the right in one of the right lymphatic trunks. The lymjyhatics of the heart follow the coronary arteries and veins from the apex of the organ towards the base, where they communicate with each other, and those of each side are gathered into one trunk. The trunk from the right side, running upwards over the aortic arch between the innominate and left carotid arteries to reach the trachea, ascends to the root of the neck, and terminates in the right lymphatic duct. The vessel from the left side, proceeding along the pulmonary artery to its bifurcation, passes through some lymphatic glands behind the arch of the aorta, and ascends by the trachea to terminate in the thoracic duct. The lymphatics of the oesophagus, unlike those of the rest of the alimentary canal form only one layer, which lies internal to the muscular coat. They are connected with glands in the neighbourhood, and after having com- municated by anastomoses with the lymphatics of the lungs, at and near the roots of those organs, they terminate in the thoracic duct. The 'lymphatics of the thymus gland are numerous. According to Astley Cooper, two large vessels proceed downwards from them on each cornu, and terminate in the jugular veins by one or more orifices on each side. (Anatomy of the Thymus Gland, p. 14.) LYMPHATICS OF THE UPPER LIMB, AND OF THE BREAST AND BACK. In the upper limb, as in the lower, the lymphatics are arranged in a deep and a superficial set. These two sets of vessels, together with the lymphatics of the surface of the greater part of the back, and those of the mamma and pectoral muscles, converge to the axillary glands. The lymphatic glands found in the upper limb below the axilla are neither large nor numerous ; a few, however, are found in the course of the brachial artery and even of the arteries of the forearm ; and one or more small glands are found in connection with the superficial lymphatics, lying near the commencement of the basilic vein, a little above and in front of the inner condyle of the humerus. The axillary glands are generally ten or twelve in number : they vary, however, considerably in their number as well as in their size, in different in- dividuals ; they are mostly placed along the axillary vessels, the lower member of this group receiving the lymphatics which ascend from the limb ; but a few lie further forwards on the serratus magnus near the external mammary artery, and beneath the pectoral muscles, and receive lymphatics from the mamma and muscular walls of the chest ; while others incline downwards at the posterior boundary of the axilla, and are joined by the lymphatics from the back. From the glands of the axilla efferent lymphatic vessels, fewer in number, but larger in size than the afferent vessels, proceed along the course of the subclavian artery, in some parts twining round it. From the top of the thorax they ascend into the neck, close to the subclavian vein, and terminate, —those of the left side in the thoracic duct, those of the right side