clxxxvii LYMPHATIC GLANDS. lately, accepted by most anatomists ; but recent researches have shown that the structure of these bodies is more complex. The following account is founded on the descriptions of His and Kolliker. A lymphatic gland is covered externally with a coat composed of con- nective tissue, mixed in certain animals, with muscular fibre-cells. This coat or capsule is complete, except at the part where it gives passage to the efferent lymphatics and the larger blood vessels ; and this part of the gland, which often presents a depression or fissure, may be named the hilus (fig. cii. a). The proper sub- stance of the gland consists of two parts, the cortical, and within this the medullary. The cortical part occupies all the superficial part of the gland, except the hilus, and in the larger glands may attain a thick- ness of from two to three lines. The medullary portion occupies the centre, and extends to the surface at the hilus. It is best marked in the inwardly seated glands, such as the lumbar aud mesenteric, whilst in the subcutaneous glands it is more or less encroached upon by a core of connective tissue, hilus-stroma (His), which enters with the larger blood- vessels at the hilus, and surrounds them together with the lymph-ves- sels, in the centre of the gland, so that the medullary part is reduced to a layer of no great thickness bounding inwardly the cortical part. Throughout both its cortical and medullary part the gland is pervaded by a trabecular frame-work which incloses and supports the proper glandular substance. The trabeculse pass inwards from the capsule. They consist, in the ox, chiefly of plain muscular tissue ; in man, of connective tissue, sparingly intermixed with muscular fibre-cells. In the cortical part they are mostly lamellar in form, and divide the space into small compartments, alveoli, from to of an inch wide, which communicate laterally with each other through openings in the imperfect partitions between them (fig. cm. a). On reaching the medullary part the trabeculae take the form of flattened bands or cords, and by their conjunction and reticulation form a freely intercommunicating meshwork throughout the interior. (In the figures they are represented mostly as cut across.) In these alveoles and meshes is included the proper glandular substance, which appears as a tole- rably firm pulp, or parenchyma. In the alveoli of the cortical part this forms rounded nodules (fig. cm, a d) ; in the trabecular meshes of the medullary part it takes the shape of rounded cords joining in a corre- sponding network (figs. cm. b d ; civ. a a) ; and as the containing meshes communicate, so the contained gland-pulp is continuous throughout. But both in the cortical alveoles and the medullary trabecular meshes, a narrow space (left white in the figs. cm. I ; civ., cv. b) is left all round the gland- pulp, between it and the alveolar partitions and trabecular bands, like what would be left had the pulp shrunk away from the inside of a mould in which it had been cast. This space is both a receptacle and a channel of pas- sage for the lymph that goes through the gland ; it is the lymph-sinus Fig. CII. Fig. CII.—Section of a Mesenteric Gland from the Ox, slightly magni- fied. a, hilus; b, medullary substance; c, cortical substance with indistinct alveoli ; d, capsule (after Kolliker).