MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 218 closely round the tendon of the deep flexor, and are reunited by their margins behind it : the two portions of the tendon thereafter separating, pass to be inserted one on each side into a ridge at the middle of the lateral border of the second phalanx. A large synovial bursa loosely invests the tendons of both the superficial and deep flexors of the fingers behind the annular ligament, extending downwards into the palm of the hand. In the little finger it approaches the synovial lining of the sheath, and in the thumb it usually communicates with it. Fig. 180. Fig. 180.—Metacarpal and Phalangeal Bones op Two Fingers, with the Tendons AND THEIR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. ^ In A, the tendons of the flexor muscles are bound to the finger by the fibrous bands or retinacula. In B, these bands have been removed, as well as the synovial capsules and vincula accessoria : 1, metacarpal bone ; 2, tendon of the flexor sublimis ; 3, tendon of the flexor profundus ; *, perforation of the sublimis by the profundus tendon ; 4, tendon of the extensor digitorum communis; 5, one of the lumbricales muscles ; 6, one of the interosseous muscles. The sheaths of the flexor tendons, by which they are bound down to the fingers, are formed opposite the first and second phalanges by strong ten- dinous bands of transverse fibres (ligamenta vaginalia) attached to the rough margins of the palmar surfaces of the phalanges. Opposite the joints, flexion is secured by the substitution for those bauds of a thin membrane, strengthened by oblique decussating fibres. The tendinous sheath has a synovial lining, which is simple in front, but posteriorly dips between the tendons. A few slender and loose bands (vincula accessoria tendinum, vincula vasculosa) extend from the floor of the sheath to the deep surface of both tendons. Behind each tendon, near its insertion, is a short mem- branous structure (ligamentum breve), which fixes the tendon to the front of the phalanx situated above that into which it is inserted. Superiorly, the flexor sublimis is concealed by the other muscles of the superficial set, and is crossed near the radius by the radial artery ; it rests on the flexor pollicis longu3 and flexor profundus, separated from the latter by the median nerve and the ulnar artery. In the palm of the hand, its tendons are covered by the palmar fascia, the superficial palmar arterial arch, and the branches of the median nerve; and they lie in front of the accompanying tendons of the flexor profundus. A muscular slip is frequently given from this muscle to the flexor profundus, or to the flexor longus pollicis. The tendon for the little finger is sometimes wanting. The deep-seated muscles, on the anterior surface of the forearm, are the flexor profundus, flexor pollicis longus and pronator quadratus.