283 GASTROCNEMIUS MUSCLE. Soemmering), form the bulk of the calf of the leg, and are inserted into the heel by a common tendon—the tendo Achillis; the third, a small muscle, the plantaris, descends between the other two. The gastrocnemius muscle arises by two thick tendinous heads from the condyles of the femur, and ends below in the tendo Achillis. The Fig. 215.—Superficial Muscles of the Lower Leg, seen from behind (after Bourgery). |. 1, lower part of the vastus externus ; 2, tendon of the biceps flexor cruris, passing to its insertion in the fibula; 3, lower part and tendon of the semitendinosus ; 4, lower part of the semimembranosus : its tendon is seen between 3 and 5 passing to its insertion in the tibia ; 5, gracilis; 6, small part of the sartorius ; 7, outer, and 8, inner head of the gastrocnemius on the tendinous part of the calf of the leg; 9, placed in the popliteal space, points to the muscular part of the plantaris; 9', its thin tendon inside the tendo Achillis ; 10, the fibres of the soleus descending to the flat tendon, which, joining with that of the gastro- cnemius, forms + + the tendo Achillis; 11, lower part and tendon of the peroneus longus ; 12, lower fibres of the peroneus brevis, both passing behind the mal- leolus externus below; 13, lower part of the flexor longus digitorum ; 14, small part of the tendon of the tibialis posticus, which, along with 13, descends behind the malleolus internus; 15, is placed near the lower part of the fibula, and points to the lower fibres of the flexor longus pollicis, the tendon of which is seen descending over the tibia at 15'. outer tendon of origin is attached in an oblique line to a depression on the outer side of the external condyle, above the groove for the popliteus muscle. The inner tendon is attached in a horizontal line to an impression above the back part of the internal condyle, and along with it are fleshy fibres connected for a short distance with the ridge running to the linea aspera. The muscular fibres descending from the two heads remain separated by a vertical groove on the surface, but those next the middle meet at an angle on a tendinous structure below. The fibres of the superior tendons spread out upon the surface of the muscle ; the inferior tendon lies on the deep surface of the muscular mass, and is continued upwards in a thin aponeu- rosis with parallel fibres, which glide against the soleus : between the superficial tendon of each head and the deep common tendon, the greater number of the muscular fibres run obliquely downwards and forwards. The lower edge of each muscular part presents a convexity downwards ; the inner descending furthest. A synovial membrane, usually communicating with the knee-joint, lies beneath the inner head of origin, and separates it from