SEROUS MEMBRANES. cxci which serve to discharge the lymph into the veins. These organs, which are named lymph-hearts, have now been found in all the different orders of reptiles. In frogs and toads two pairs have been discovered, a posterior pair, situated in the sciatic region, which pour their lymph into a branch of the sciatic or of some other neigh- bouring vein, and an anterior more deeply-seated pair, placed over the transverse process of the third vertebra, and opening into a branch of the jugular vein. The parietes of these sacs are thin and transparent, but contain muscular fibres of the striated kind, freely ramifying, decussating in different layers, as in the blood-heart. In their pulsations they are quite independent of the latter organ, and are not even synchronous with each other. In salamanders, lizards, serpents, tortoises, and turtles, only a posterior pair have been discovered, which, however, agree in all essential points with those of the frog. In the goose, and in other species of birds belonging to different orders, Panizza discovered a pair of lymph-sacs opening into the sacral veins, and Stannius has since found that these sacs have striated muscular fibres in their parietes: but, although this observer, in some cases, exposed them in the living bird, he was not able to discover any pulsation or spontaneous movement in them. Nerve-fibres, both dark bordered and pale, have been observed in the lymph-hearts of the frog, and also nerve-cells in those of the common tortoise. (Waldeyer.) Development of lymphatic vessels.—Kolliker has observed the formation of lym- phatics from ramified cells in the tails of young salamander-larvae. He states that the process takes place nearly in the same manner as in the case of sanguiferous capillaries; the only notable difference being, that whilst the growing lymphatics join the ramified cells, and thus extend themselves, their branches very rarely anastomose or become connected by communicating arches. The soundness of his conclusions has, however, been called in question and the subject requires further elucidation. New-formed lymphatics have been injected in adhesions between inflamed serous membranes. SEROUS MEMBRANES. The serous membranes are so named from the apparent nature of the fluid with which their surface is moistened. They line cavities of the body which have no outlet, and the chief examples of them are, the peritonseum, the largest of all, lining the cavity of the abdomen; the two pleurse and peri- cardium in the chest ; the arachnoid membrane in the cranium and verte- bral canal ; and the tunica vaginalis surrounding each of the testicles within the scrotum. Form and arrangement—In all these cases the serous membrane has the form of a closed sac, one part of which is applied to the walls of the cavity which it lines, the parietal portion ; whilst the other is reflected over the surface of the organ or organs contained in the cavity, and is therefore named the reflected or visceral portion of the membrane. Hence the viscera in tuch cavities are not contained within the sac of the serous membrane, but are really placed behind or outside of it ; merely pushing inwards, as it were, the part of the membrane which immediately covers them, some organs receiving in this way a complete, and others but a partial and some- times very scanty investment. In passing from one part to another, the membrane frequently forms folds which in general receive the appellation of ligaments, as, for example, the folds of peritonseum passing between the liver and the parietes of the abdomen, but which are sometimes designated by special names, as in the instances of the mesentery, meso-colon, and omentum. The peritonseum, in the female sex, is an exception to the rule that serous membranes are perfectly closed sacs, inasmuch as it has two openings by which the Fallopian tubes communicate with its cavity* A serous membrane sometimes lines a fibrous membrane, as where the arachnoid lines the dura mater, or where the serous layer of the peri-