cxxiv MUSCULAR TISSUE. from different muscles, Kolliker infers that small muscles are destitute of such vessels, and that the few which apparently issue from some of the larger muscles, belong to the sheath and its larger subdivisions, and not to the proper muscular tissue. Nerves.—The nerves of a voluntary muscle are of considerable size. Their branches pass between the fasciculi, and repeatedly unite with each other in form of a plexus, which is for the most part confined to a small part of the length of the muscle or muscular division in which it lies. From one or more of such primary plexuses, nervous twigs proceed and form finer plexuses composed of slender bundles, containing not more than two or three dark-bordered nerve fibres each, whence single fibres pass off between the muscular fibres and divide into branches which are finally dis- tributed to the tissue. The mode of final distribution will be described with the general anatomy of the nerves. Nerves of small size accompany the branches of blood-vessels within muscles, but do not reach the capillaries ; though destined for the vessels these nerves sometimes communicate with the proper muscular plexuses. Involuntary muscles.—The involuntary muscular tissue differs from the voluntary kind, not only in its want of subjection to the will, but also in its external characters ; for whilst in many parts it appears in the form of fibres, these, except in the heart and a few instances of less note, are un- marked by the cross lines so characteristic of the striped fibres ; moreover, they are in reality made up of elongated contractile cells cemented together by some kind of uniting medium. Plain or unstriped muscular tissue (fig. lxix.).—This is generally of a pale colour. The fibres are for the most part roundish or prismatic, but are readily flattened in examination. Some are not above T _ 0f an inch in diameter ; but the larger measure from ■%-jo'o *° ~SJoo" (Ellis). Under the microscope they have a peculiar soft aspect, without a strongly-shaded border; and they are marked at short intervals with oblong corpuscles, which give them a very characteristic appearance, especially after the appli- cation of acetic acid, which renders the corpuscles much more conspicuous. The substance of the fibres is translucent, but clouded or finely granular ; and in the latter case the granules are sometimes arranged in longitudinal lines. There is no sarcolemma. These fibres, as already said, are made up of cells, named contractile Jibre-cells, which were first distinguished as the true elements of the tissue by Kolliker. The cells may form fibres, bundles, and strata, or may be less regularly arranged, or mixed with other tissues in greater or less proportion. They are of an oblong flattened shape (figs. lxx. and lxxi), usually pointed at the ends, but sometimes abruptly truncated, and varying greatly in length according to the part or organ in which they are found. Some occur which are cleft or forked at one end. They mea- sure for the most part from to of an inch or more in length. Their substance is finely granular and sometimes faintly striated, and, with few exceptions, no distinction is visible between envelope and contents. Each has a nucleus (a, a), rarely more than one, which is always elongated and either oval or rod-shaped. Accordingly the nuclei of the fibres above described belong to the constituent cells. By macerating the tissue in nitric acid diluted with four times its weight of water, the separation of the cells is greatly facilitated. It is proper to state that a different view of the structure of the plain muscular tissue is entertained by some authorities. Mr. Ellis, after a very extended inquiry,