Fig. 326.—View of the Prin- PORTAL VEIN. Fig. 326. 480 passes upwards and a little to the right to reach the transverse fissure of the liver. It is placed close behind the hepatic artery and the bile duct : and cipal Branches op the Vena Port,e. i 1, lower surface of the right lobe of the liver ; 2, stomach ; 3, spleen; 4, pancreas ; 5, duode- num ; 6, ascending colon; 7, small intestines ; 8, descending colon ; a, vena portse dividing in the transverse fissure of the liver ; b, splenic vein ; c, right gastro- epiploic ; d, inferior mesenteric ; e, superior mesenteric vein; /, superior mesenteric artery. is surrounded by the fila- ments of the hepatic plexus of nerves, together with nu- merous lymphatics. All these are imbedded in loose con- nective tissue, and enclosed within the layers of the small omentum. Within the trans- verse fissure it is somewhat enlarged, and is there named sinus of the portal vein. Near the right end of the transverse fissure, the vena portse divides into two branches. That of the right side enters directly the sub- stance of the corresponding lobe of the liver, and spreads out into branches, each of which is accom- panied by an offset of the hepatic artery and of the hepatic duct. The left branch, which is smaller, but necessarily longer, passes across to gain the left end of the transverse fissure, where it eaters the liver and ramifies like the preceding branch. Tributaries.—The principal branches which by their union contribute to form the vena portse are the coronary vein of the stomach, the superior mesenteric and the splenic veins. The cystic vein is also sometimes a lateral tributary of the portal vein, but more frequently proceeds from its right branch. The coronary vein of the stomach lies parallel with the artery of the same name. Its size is inconsiderable, and its direction transverse from the cardiac to the pyloric end of the stomach along the small curvature. On reaching the latter point it turns downwards, and opens into the trunk of the vena portee. The splenic vein", a vessel of very considerable size, returns the blood not only from the spleen, but also from the pancreas, the duodenum, the greater part of the stomach and omentum, the descending colon, and part of the rectum. It commences by five or six branches, which issue sepa-