lumborum ; 10, part of the psoas magnus. THE DIAPHRAGM. arched and converging manner to be inserted into the anterior and external margins of the central tendon, d. The central tendon—trefoil, or cordiform, tendon, or phrenic centre, is a strong aponeurosis, forming the central and highest part of the diaphragm. It is elongated from side to side, and consists of three lobes or alaz, partly separated by indentations. The right lobe is the largest; and the left, which is elongated and narrow, is the smallest of the three. The central tendon is surrounded on every side by the muscular portion of the diaphragm, the fibres of which are directly continuous with those of the tendon. The tendinous fibres cross one another, and are interwoven in various directions. Fig. 196.—View op the Diaphragm, from be- Fig. 196. In the preparation from which this figure is drawn, the lower ribs and sternum are thrown upwards so as to expose and stretch the lower surface of the dia- phragm, and the four upper lumbar vertebrae have been exposed by the removal of all the muscles on the right side, and the dissection of the psoas mag- nus and quadratus lumbo- rum on the left side, a, the aorta emerging in the abdomen below the ten- dinous arch formed by the union of the pillars of the diaphragm on the first lumbar vertebra; &, the oesophagus seen entering the abdomen through the aperture in the united muscular crura (this aper- ture should have been represented a little to the left of the middle line) ; c, the aperture for the vena cava inferior situated at the place of union of the middle and right divi- sions of the trefoil tendon; d, the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra ; e, e, the twelfth ribs near their extremities ; /, /, the ends of the eleventh ribs; 1, the tendinous part of the right crus; 2, the left; 3, the tendinous arch formed by their union over the aorta, above which the decussation of muscular fibres is seen ; 4, second decussation of muscular fibres in front of the oesophageal opening ; 5, on the right side, placed near the end of the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra, towards which, arching from above and from within, over the +, is seen the ligamentum arcuatum internum; and from which, passing towards e, is seen the ligamentum arcuatum externum ; 5', on the left side, is in a similar position, but here the quadratus lumborum muscle is seen descending from the twelfth rib behind the ligamentum arcuatum externum, and the upper part of the psoas muscle is within the ligamentum arcuatum internum ; 6, the middle division of the trefoil tendon, from which in front pass the slips of attachment of the diaphragm to the ensiform process ; 7, the left, and 8, the right divisions of the trefoil tendon ; from the outer and anterior margins of these the costal slips of the muscle are seen diverging, and from the posterior border of the tendon the slips of origin proceeding from the ligamenta arcuata and the tendinous arch of the crura ; 9, part of the quadratus