MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 228 The dorsal interossei muscles separate the fingers from the middle line of the hand; they are four in number, each occupying one of the spaces between the metacarpal bones. They are named numerically from without inwards. Each muscle arises from both the metacarpal bones between which it is placed, but most extensively from that supporting the finger upon which it acts, and the fibres converge pennately to a common tendon in the middle. Each terminates in a tendon, which is inserted partly into the base of the first phalanx, and partly into the tendon of the common extensor muscle on the dorsum of the same part of the finger. Two dorsal interossei are inserted into the middle finger and draw it to either side ; of the remaining muscles one passes to the radial side of the index-finger, and the other to the ulnar side of the ring-finger ; they withdraw those fingers from the middle line of the hand. The first dorsal interosseous muscle or abductor-indicis is larger than the others ; its outer and larger head of origin arises from the proximal half of the ulnar border of the first metacarpal bone, the inner is attached to the whole length of the second metacarpal bone, and between these heads there is left superiorly an interval wider than in the other dorsal interosseous muscles. Between the heads of the abductor indicis the radial artery passes forwards to the palm of the hand; between those of the other dorsal interossei small perforating arterial branches are transmitted. The three palmar interossei are adductors, drawing the index, ring, and little fingers towards the middle line of the hand. They are visible only from the palmar aspect of the hand, each one being attached to the metacarpal bone of the finger on which it acts: they terminate, like the dorsal muscles, in small tendons inserted partly into the base of the first phalanx at the side, and partly into the extensor tendon. The first palmar interosseous muscle belongs to the ulnar side of the index-finger ; the others are placed on the radial sides of the ring and little fingers. The interosseous muscles are subject to some variation in their number and form. An additional palmar interosseous muscle, going to the dorsal aponeurosis of the thumb, is described as frequent by Henle and Wood. (See J. Wood, " On some varieties in Human Myology," in the Proc. of the Ivoy. Soc. for 1864, p. 302.) ACTIONS OF THE MUSCLES OF THE FOREARM AND HAND. The muscles of the forearm may be distinguished according to their actions as pronators and supinators, flexors and extensors of the wrist, and long flexors and extensors of the fingers : those of the hand are flexors, adductors, abductors, opposers, and partially also extensors of the fingers. Pronation is effected by the pronator quadratus and pronator teres: the flexor carpi radialis also contributes slightly to this movement. The pronator teres is fitted to flex the elbow when pronation has been completed, or when it is prevented by anta- gonistic muscles. Supination is effected principally by the supinator brevis. The supinator longus is not so advantageously situated to accomplish this action; it is principally a flexor of the elbow, acting, however, only after that movement has been begun by the instrumentality of other muscles: in the extended and supinated condition of the forearm it assists in binding the radius more firmly to the humerus. Flexion of the wrist is produced by the radial and ulnar flexors of the carpus, and is aided by the flexors of the fingers when the action of those muscles on the fingers is either completed, or is opposed by any resistance, as when the over-extended hand is pressed against a surface in pushing, or in the support of the body. Extension of the wrist, in a similar manner, is accomplished not only by the three muscles specially devoted to that function, but also by the extensors of the fingers. The flexors arising from the inner condyloid eminence of the humerus, and the