MUSCLES OF THE PHARYNX. 187 stylo-maxillary ligament, to which, in some cases the greater number of its fibres are attached by a thin aponeurosis : passing forwards slightly downwards, it is inserted along the side and under part Fig' 163. of the tongue as far as the tip, its fibres decussating, and be- coming blended with those of the hyo-glossus and palato- glossus muscles. This muscle lies deeply beneath the parotid gland, and is crossed by the gustatory nerve. It arises occasionally from the inner side of the angle of the lower jaw ; and cases have been observed in which it was altogether absent. Fig. 163.—View of part of the left side of the head and Throat, to show the deep Mus- cles of the Cheek, Pharynx, &o. (modified from Cloquet). ^ The pharynx has been distended by stuffing, a, external pterygoid process; b, styloid process, with short portions of the three styloid muscles attached ; c, body of the lower jaw, which has been divided at the place where the pterygo- maxillary ligament + is attached ; d, body of the hyoid bone; e, thyroid cartilage; /, cricoid carti- lage ; g, interval between the first and second ring of the trachea ; 1, outer part of the orbicularis oris muscle ; 2, buccinator; 3, superior constrictor of the pharynx ; 4, middle constrictor ; 5, inferior constrictor; 6, oesophagus ; 7, points by three lines to the lower parts of the stylo-glossus, stylo-hyoid, and stylo-pharyngeus muscles respectively ; 8, mylo-hyoid; 9, hyo-glossus, of which a small part is removed posteriorly to show the attachment of the middle constrictor ; 10, thyro-hyoid. Actions.—The genio-glossus muscle has a complicated action, one part protruding and another retracting the tongue, while a third depresses the middle portion of the organ. Protrusion is effected by contraction chiefly of its posterior, and retrac- tion by contraction of its anterior fibres, and the middle part, or nearly the whole muscle, acts as the depressor. In deglutition the stylo-glossus muscle raises the sides of the tongue spasmodically backwards and upwards, while the hyo-glossus opposes that action. In pother circumstances the first muscle assists in forming a hollow, while the second tends to producing a convexity in the dorsum of the tongue. MUSCLES OF THE PHARYNX AND SOFT PALATE. The pharynx, the dilated superior part of the alimentary tube, extending from the base of the skull to the oesophagus, presents at the sides and pos- teriorly a continuous wall, in great part formed and supported by distinct muscles resting in front of the vertebral column, and is open in front towards the nasal cavity, the mouth, and larynx. The constrictors of the pharynx are three thin expanded muscles which invest the pharyngeal wall, overlapping one another upwards, so that the lowest is most superficial.