320 THE HEART. left of the heart, pass in part across the anterior longitudinal groove, covering partially the coronary vessels, and in part dip into the groove and ascend obliquely upon the right side of the septum. The anterior fibres of the left ventricle are derived in part from those arising from the roots of the great vessels, in part from those crossing the coronary groove from the right, and in part they come out from the left surface of the septum, into which they dip in front like those of the right ventricle : those of the anterior fibres of the left ventricle which are near the apex pass spirally round this part to enter the whorl posteriorly, while the posterior set of superficial fibres, turning round the apex with a similar spiral, arrive in front and there enter the vortex. These fibres thus carried into the interior ascend upon the posterior and anterior Fig. 239.—View op the Fibres op the Sheep's Heart, dissected at the apex to show the " vortex " in avhich the fibres enter the apex in two sets from the ex- TERNAL Layer (from Pettigrew). a, a, anterior fibres entering the apex of the left ventricle posteriorly at b; c, c, posterior fibres entering the apex anteriorly at d. internal surfaces of the left ven- tricle, forming the almost longi- tudinal innermost layer of fibres, and contribute to form the columnar carneee and musculi papillares. Their direction, as they ascend internally, is nearly the opposite of that in which they made their descent externally. The direction of the fibres in the successive layers gradually changes as we proceed from without inwards; for example on the front of the right or left ventricle it is at first very oblique from right to left of the heart, or indeed in some parts almost longitudinal from base to apex,* it then becomes less and less oblique, until in the middle layer, which is also the thickest, it is transverse; the obliquity, being now resumed and gradually increasing, the direction is changed to that from right to left of the heart and from apex to base upwards, until at last in the interior it is extremely oblique, or nearly longitudinal. Fig. 240.—Dissection op the Ven- tricles op the Sheep's Heart, viewed from behind, a part of the Posterior Wall being removed to show a Dissection of the Fibres of the Septum at a similar depth (from Pettigrew). § a, the superficial layer of fibres of the right ventricle ; b, the same of the left ventricle at the base and apex pos- teriorly ; a4, the fourth or middle layer of fibres of the right ventricle exposed ; &4, the same layer of the left ventricle ; c4, the same of the septum, showing the fibres of that layer continued forward from those of the left ventricle. It is only the three outer layers and part of the fourth layer which are distributed round both ventricles, the three internal layers belong solely to each ventricle. The septum consists of three sets of fibres, viz., 1, those belonging to the right ventricle; 2, those belonging to the left; and 3, those common to both ventricles. The difference of thickness of the walls of the right and left ventricles, which is so * The direction is less longitudinal in the human heart than in that of the sheep. Fig. 240.