LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. elxxxviii (His), or the lymph-channel. It is traversed by retiforni connective tissue (fig. cv. c c), in which the nuclei of the spindle-shaped or ramified cells are mostly apparent, and is filled with fluid lymph, containing many lymph- corpuscles, which may be washed out from sections of the gland with a hair pencil, so as to show the sinus, while the firmer gland-pulp, which the sinus surrounds, keeps its place. The latter, the proper glandular substance, is also pervaded and supported by retiform tissue, mostly non-nucleated (fig. cv. a), communicating with that of the surrounding lymph-sinus, but marked off from it by somewhat closer reticulation at their mutual boundary, not so close, however, as to prevent fluids, or even solid cor- puscles, from passing from the one to the other. This glandular pulp is made up of densely-packed lymph-corpuscles, occupying the interstices of Fig. cm. Fig. CHI.—Section of a Mesenteric Gland of the Ox (magnified 12 diameters). The section includes a portion of the cortical part, A, in its whole depth, and a smaller portion of the adjoining medullary part, B ; c, c, outer coat or capsule sending partitions into the cortical part to form alveoli, and trabecule, tt, which are seen mostly cut across ; d d, the glandular substance forming noclules in the cortical, part, A, and reticulating cords in the medullary part, B ; I, I, lymph-sinus or lymph channel, left white (after His). its supporting retiform tissue, and is traversed by an abundant network of capillary blood-vessels, which runs throughout the proper glandular pulp, both cortical and medullar}', but does not pass into the surrounding lymph- sinus. Arteries enter and veins leave the gland at the hilus, surrounded, in some glands, as already said, with a dense inclosure of connective tissue. The arterial branches go in great part directly to the glandular substance, but partly also to the trabeculse. The former end in the glandular capil- lary network above-mentioned, from which the veins begin, and tend to the hilus alongside the arteries. The branches to the trabeculse run upon these bands, and are in part conducted to the coat of the gland to be there dis- tributed ; some of them in an indirect way reach the glandular substance. The blood-vessels of the gland-pulp are supported by its pervading retiform t:ssue, which is not only connected to them, but forms an additional or