328 THE HEART. and the ventricular portion becomes the larger part of the heart. As to the ventricles themselves, the right is at first the smaller; afterwards it becomes the larger of the two, and at birth their size is about equal. In the right ventricle the infundibulum is at first less marked than afterwards. Structure.—For a time the walls of the ventricles are, comparatively speaking, very thick, and the thickness of both is nearly the same. In approaching the full period, however, the left begins to be the thicker of the two. But the two chief differences in the internal structure of the foetal heart from that of the adult are the communication which exists between the two auricles by the foramen ovale, and the large size of the Eustachian valve. The large oval orifice named the foramen ovale is placed at the lower and back part of the auricular septum, and is said to attain its greatest size at the sixth month. It becomes gradually occluded by a valvular fold already alluded to, which ascends from below and behind, and rises up on the left side of the rim of the foramen ovale. This rim becomes continuous at the sides with the valve, but above its free margin, which is concave and turned upwards, the foramen is left open. At length the valve passes for some distance beyond the upper part of the foramen; and still, owing to its position on the left side of the opening, it permits the passage of blood from the right to the left auricle. In the reverse direction, however, it closes the opening and no blood can pass. Fig. 247.—View op the Posterior and left surface of the heart of a f(etus of four Months, the left Auricle being opened (from Kilian). a, left auriculo-ventricular orifice ; c, inferior vena cava, through which a probe b, is passed from below, and thence by the foramen ovale into the left auricle ; e, left auricular appendage laid open ; o, valve of the foramen ovale seen to be attached to the left side of the annulus ovalis of the septum. The pulmonary artery of the foetus, in leaving the right ventricle, first gives off the branch to the right lung, and then appears to divide into its left branch and the short but wide tube named ductus arteriosus. This vessel, which is nearly as wide as the pulmonary artery itself, is of the thickness of a goose-quill at the time of birth, and about half an inch long. It conducts the chief part of the blood of the right ventricle into the aorta, which it joins obliquely within the termination of the arch, a little beyond the origin of the left subclavian artery. Besides the usual branches of the descending aorta intended to supply the abdominal viscera and the lower limbs, two large vessels, named hypogastric or umbilical arteries, are prolonged from the common iliacs, and passing out of the abdomen, proceed along the umbilical cord, coiling round the umbilical vein, to. reach the placenta. The com- mencement of each of these vessels afterwards forms the trunk of the corresponding internal iliac artery, and, from their size, they might be regarded in the foetus as the continuations of the common iliac arteries into which the aorta divides. From the placenta the blood is returned by the umbilical vein, which, after entering the abdomen, communicates by one branch with the portal vein of the liver, and sends another, named ductus venoms, to join the vena cava inferior, as will be more fully described in the account of the vessels of the liver. Course of the blood in the foetus.—The right auricle of the foetal heart receives its blood from the two vense cavae and the coronary vein. The blood brought by the superior cava is simply the venous blood returned from the head and upper half of Fig. 247.