MUSCLES OF THE LITTLE FINGER. 227 base of the first phalanx of the thumb along with the inner tendon of the short flexor. Muscles or the little finger.—The fleshy mass at the inner border of the hand (hypothenar prominence) consists of three muscles passing to the little finger. The abductor minimi digiti arises by tendinous fibres from the pisiform bone and the inserted tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little finger on the ulnar border. The flexor brevis minimi digiti, separated at its origin from the abductor muscle by a small interval through which pass the deep palmar branch of the ulnar nerve and the communicating branch of the ulnar artery, arises from the front of the annular ligament, and from the tip of the hooked process of the unciform bone, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little finger, in connection with the preceding muscle. This muscle is sometimes absent, or becomes incorporated with the abductor. The opponens minimi digiti (adductor ossis metacarpi digiti minimi,—Alb.) arises from the annular ligament and the unciform process, and is inserted into the ulnar border of the fifth metacarpal bone in all its length. FiS- 188' Fig. 189. Fig. 188.—The Right Hand from behind, showing the Dorsal Interosseous Muscles, f The tendons of the extensor muscles have been removed as far as the distal ends of the metacarpal bones. 1,2, 3, and 4, the interossei muscles, in order from the radial side inwards ; their expanded insertion in connection with the extensor tendons, is shown upon the first phalanges. Fig. 189.—The Right Hand from before, showing the Palmar Interossei Muscles, f 1, 2, and 3, refer to the first, second, and third palmar interosseous muscles. The interosseous muscles occupy the intervals between the metacarpal bones. They are seven in number, all of them more or less visible from the palmar aspect, and they are divided into two sets, viz., those which are best seen on the dorsal aspect of the metacarpus, and those which are seen only in the palm. Their disposition is most easily understood by reference to their action. Q 2