ARTHROLOGY. 118 right angles to the bones on which they act. The os innominatum is principally dis- tinguished from the same bone in animals by the breadth of the iliac portion, which gives support to the viscera and attachment to the greatly developed gluteal muscles, by the shortness and strength of the pillar of bone extending from the auricular surface to the acetabulum, and by the marked nature of the angle which the pubic part forms with the iliac, as it passes inwards from the acetabulum to the symphysis, and thus completes the peculiarly broad pelvis. The strong and expanded sacrum supports the spinal column, while the short coccyx is bent forwards and aids in forming the floor of the pelvic cavity. The spinal column, by its pyramidal form, is fitted to sustain the weight which bears down upon its lower part, and by means of its different curvatures gives elasticity and strength, and allows considerable range of motion to the trunk without removal of the centre of gravity from within its base. The thorax is so formed as to bring the weight of its contents very much over and to the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae rather than in front. Thus, the thorax is broad from side to side, and compressed from before backwards; the transverse processes and proximal parts of the ribs are inclined backwards, so as to enlarge the chest behind the transverse plane of the bodies of the vertebrae, and the axis of the cavity is directed upwards and backwards, so that its contents may thus be supported on the column in the erect posture. The upper limbs are also thrown outwards and backwards by the long clavicles which support them and form the fulcra of their free movements. The blades of the scapulae are thus made to lie more nearly in one transverse plane, with the glenoid fossae looking outwards, a position manifestly unsuited to the support of the weight of the body on the limb. In those animals which habitually use their fore limbs for support, the glenoid fossae look downwards, and rest on the humeri; but if the human body be placed so as to be rested on the hands, the glenoid cavity lies on the inside of the head of the humerus, and the scapula is supported upon the humerus by the acromion process. While stability and strength have been provided in the lower limb, mobility and lightness have been secured in the upper. This is apparent on comparison of the shoulder, elbow, and wrist, with the hip, knee, and ankle. In the hand also, the movable phalanges are as long as the carpal and metacarpal bones taken together, whereas in the foot they are not a third of the length of the tarsal and metatarsal bones. The skull of man differs from that of animals in being nearly balanced on the vertebral column, the condyles of the occipital bone being brought forwards towards the middle of the base, by the comparative shortness of that part of the skull which lies in front of the foramen magnum, and the projection backwards of that which lies behind it. In animals the skull hangs forwards, as it were, from the extremity of the column, and is sustained by an elastic substance (ligamentum nuchae), which is attached on the one hand to the spinous processes of the vertebrae, and on the other to the occipital protuberance. Section IL—ARTHROLOGY. MODES OF ARTICULATION". The name of articulation, synonymous with joint, is given in descriptive anatomy to the connection subsisting in the recent skeleton between any of its denser component parts, whether bones or cartilages. Tn all instances, excepting the bones of the head, which are so closely set together in the sutures as to have no more than the fibrous periosteum between them, some softer intervening substance lies between the bones, uniting them together, or clothing the surfaces which are opposed ; but the manner in which the several pieces of the skeleton are thus connected, or the modes of articulation, vary to a great degree both in the form and nature of the uniting substances and in the extent of motion which they allow between the bones. In some instances, as in that of the cranial bones already referred to, the closeness of the apposition, the unevenness of the fitting surfaces or edges, and the small amount and dense nature of the