162 ARTICULATIONS OF THE LOWER LIMB. One synovial membrane lines the calcaneo-talar joint, and another the calcaneo-talo-scaphoid articulation. Calcaneo-Cuboid Articulation. — The calcaneum is united to the cuboid bone by a synovial joint and ligaments. The inferior ligament consists of two distinct fasciculi of fibres, differing in form and attachments ; of which one is superficial the other deep-seated. The superficial part, called the long plantar ligament, is the longest of the tarsal ligaments. Its fibres, attached behind to the inferior surface of the calcaneum as far as the anterior tubercle, pass forwards, and are attached in greater part to the tuberosity on the under surface of the cuboid bone ; some of them are continued onwards, and terminate at the bases of the third and fourth metatarsal bones, after covering the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle. The short or deep-seated plantar calcaneo-cuboid ligament lies close to the bones, being separated from the superficial part by some cellular tissue. Its breadth is considerable, its length scarcely an inch. One extremity is attached to the calcaneum in front of the long ligament, the other (somewhat expanded) to the under surface of the cuboid bone, internal to the tuberosity. The dorsal or superior ligament is a flat band of fibres which connects the anterior and upper surface of the calcaneum with the adjacent part of the cuboid bone. The internal or interosseous ligament is placed deeply in the hollow between the astragalus and os calcis, and is closely connected with the external calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. Fig. 149. Fig. 149.—Ligaments of the Foot, prom the inner side. | 1, internal lateral ligament of the ankle; x, in front of the sustentaculum tali, showing part of the internal lateral ligament descending upon it; 2, posterior talo-calcaneal liga- ment ; 3, posterior ligament of the ankle joint; 4, part of the long and short calcaneo-cuboid ligaments seen from the inside ; 5, two superior astragalo-scaphoid or talo-scaphoid liga- ments; 6, internal talo-scaphoid ligament; 7, internal scaphoido-cuneiform (first); 8, dorsal or superior cuneiform ; 9, scaphoido-cuneiform (second); 10, intercuneiform, or transverse dorsal cuneiform, between the first and second cuneiform bones ; 11, internal or first tarso-metatarsal ligament; 12, inferior first tarso-metatarsal ; 13, internal lateral metatarso-digital : the internal sesamoid bone is seen below; 1 4, internal lateral digital ligament (of the first toe) : those of the second toe are also seen beyond.