lxxxiii HYALINE CARTILAGE. from that of the synovial membrane, a thin stratum of areolar tissue being interposed ; but the existence of such a covering is certainly not general, at least in the adult. It is easy, no doubt, to peel off a thin film from the surface of the cartilage of the head of the humerus or femur; but this superficial layer is really part of the car- tilage, and its broad patches of cells with the intermediate matrix are not to be mistaken. (See fig. xl.) At the same time, ic is true that near the margin of these car- tilages a layer of fine filamentous tissue, co- vered with epithelium, is prolonged a certain way over their surface from the synovial mem- brane. The matrix of articular cartilage rarely, or perhaps never, be- comes pervaded by fibres like those so often seen in rib-cartilage, nor is it prone to ossify. In the cartilages of the ribs, the corpuscles or cells, which are of large size, are also collected in groups. Near the exterior of the cartilage they are flattened, and lie parallel with the surface, forming a superficial stratum from -gjjj) to -g-^Q of an inch thick. As to those situated more inwardly, we can sometimes observe, in a transverse slice, that they form oblong groups disposed in Hues radiating to the crrcumference ; but this arrangement is not constant, and they often appear quite irregular. The cells, with the exception of those lying upon the surface, commonly contain larger or smaller drops of oil ; and the nucleus being generally undiscoverable, is concealed by the fat or may itself have undergone a fatty metamorphosis. The matrix is tolerably clear, except where fibres have been developed in it, in which parts it is opaque and yellowish. Such fibrous patches are very frequent ; the fibres are fine, straight, and parallel, appearing transparent when few together ; they withstand the action of acetic acid. It is not un- common to find the rib cartilages extensively ossified. It was observed by Herissant * that the costal cartilages, after many months' maceration in putrid water, would sometimes break up into thin plates, directed across the axis of the cartilage ; from which he inferred that these cartilages were naturally made up of such transverse lamellae : but the point does not appear to have been further investigated. The description given of the microscopic characters of the costal cartilages will apply with little variation to the ensiform cartilage of the sternum, to * Mem. de l'Acad. des Sc. de Paris, 1748. Fig. XLI. Fig. XLI.—Vertical Section of Articular Cartilage of the Head of the Humerus. A deep portion near the bone. Magnified 400 dia- meters. Each cell-cavity contains a mass shaped like itself, the shrunken cell body, in the midst of which a round nucleus is probably concealed.