ARTICULATIONS IN GENERAL. 119 intervening substance, are such as to admit of little or no perceptible motion. In other instances the extremities of the bones are placed at such a distance, and the intervening substance (ligament or cartilage) possesses so much of a yielding quality, that bending or other motions may take place, even while the bones are thus mediately but continuously united. But in the greater number of the connections between the bones, and in those which may be regarded as more properly deserving the name of joints, the apposed surfaces of bone are not united either directly or mediately with each other, but are free by solution of continuity, and are covered with plates of smooth cartilage, the surfaces of which fit accurately together, and the bones are held together by ligamentous structures placed iu the vicinity of the joints. In such articulations the bones are capable of gliding or moving upon each other in various extent and directions, according to the shape of the opposed cartilaginous surfaces, and the form and attach- ments of the ligamentous and other bands which unite them. It is upon distinctions such as those now adverted to that the various kinds of joints or articulations have been brought under the three classes of Synarthrosis, Amphiarthrosis, and Diarthrosis. Synarthrosis means direct or immediate union, and comprehends the joints with little or no motion. It is found chiefly in various forms of suture by which the bones of the head, excepting the lower jaw, are united. The suture, properly so called, is serrated or dentated when the contiguous margins of the bones are subdivided or broken up into projecting points and recesses by which they fit very closely to one another, as in the borders of most of the tabular bones of the cranium. The squamous or scaly suture is that in which, as in the union of the temporal with the parietal bone, the edges are thinned and bevelled, so that one overlaps the other to a considerable extent. The term harmonia has been employed to denote simple apposition of compara- tively smooth surfaces or edges, as in the case of the two superior maxillary bones; and the term schindylesis has been used to express that kind of union in which one bone is received into a groove in another, as occurs between the rostrum of the sphenoid bone and the vomer. The impaction of the roots of the teeth in their sockets has likewise been reckoned among the articulations, though with doubtful propriety, and has been designated by the term gomphosis. Amphiarthrosis means the mixed articulation, or that in which there is mediate union by some intervening substance, with partial mobility. The articulations between the bodies of the vertebrae, that between the two ossa pubis at the symphysis, and that between the two first pieces of the sternum, may be taken as examples of this mode of connection. Some of the joints of this kind pass on the one hand into synarthrosis, and on the other into diarthrosis. Diarthrosis includes the complete joints with separate surfaces of the bones and synovial cavities, and is attended with considerable yet varying degrees of mobility. In this form of joint, plates of cartilage cover the articular parts of the bones and present within the joint free surfaces of remarkable smooth- ness, and these surfaces are further lubricated by the synovial fluid secreted from the delicate membrane which lines the fibrous coverings and all other parts of the articulating cavity except the cartilage. This membrane is con- tinuous with the margin of the articular cartilages, and along with the cartilages completely encloses the joint cavity. The bones are further held together by fibrous tissue in the various forms of ligaments, such as mem- branous capsules, flat bands, or rounded cords. These ligaments, it is true3