ADIPOSE TISSUE. Ixvii with opaque and granular contents, but upon minute examination are seen to contain stelliform acicular crystals, though in some cases their aspect is very faintly granular. It is not improbable that the crystals are formed after death. Schwann discovered a nucleus in the fat-cells of the embryo ; the nucleus contains one or two nucleoli, and is attached to the inside of the cell-wall or imbedded in its substance. Although nuclei have rarely been seen in the cells of well-nourished adipose tissue in after-life, they are readily found when the fat has partially disappeared, and hence it may be inferred that they are always present. This is corroborated by an observation of Bruch, that the endosmose of water always renders a nucleus apparent. The common fat of the human body has been represented as a mixture of a solid fatty substance named " margarin," and a liquid oily substance, <£ olein ;" the suet or fat of oxen and sheep, on the other hand, consisting chiefly of a second solid principle, "stearin," associated with olein. These substances, margarin, olein, and stearin, are neutral bodies, and themselves compounded of a base named £C glycerine " with three fatty acids respectively, the margaric, oleic, and stearic. To the above reckoned neutral fats of the animal body a fourth, namely, "palmitin," has now been added ; and they are all considered to be com- pounds of three equivalents of acid,—oleic, margaric, stearic, or palmitic,—■ with one equivalent of glycerine, minus six equivalents of water. They have accordingly been named, ''triolein," " trimargarin," " tristearin," and " tripalmitin." The triolein, or liquid fat, holds the other three in solu- tion ; and the varying consistency of animal fats depends on the relative proportion of the solid and liquid ingredients. During life the oily matter contained in the cells is liquid ; but the acicular crystalline spots which are sometimes seen after death indicate a partial solidification of one of its constituents. This has been supposed to be the margarin ; but it appears from its chemical relations to be most probably margaric acid. The fat being thus contained in closed cells, it will be readily understood why, though liquid or nearly so in the living body, it does not shift its place in obedience to pressure or gravitation, as happens with the water of dropsy and other fluids effused into the interstices of the areolar tissue ; such fluids, being unconfined, of course readily pass from one place to another through the open meshes. The areolar tissue connects and surrounds the larger lumps of fat, but forms no special envelope to the smaller clusters ; and although fine fasci- culi and filaments of that tissue pass irregularly over and through the clusters, yet it is probable that the vesicles are held together in these groups mainly by the fine network of capillary vessels distributed to them. In the marrow the connective tissue is very scanty ; indeed the fat cells in some parts of the bones are said to be altogether unaccompanied by connec- tive filaments. The adipose tissue is copiously supplied with blood-vessels. The larger branches of these pass into the fat lumps, where they run between the lobules and subdivide, till at length a little artery and vein are sent to each small lobule, dividing into a network of capillary vessels, which not only surrounds the cluster externally, but passes through between the vesicles in all directions, supporting and connecting them. The lymphatics of the fat, if it really possess any, are unknown. Nor have nerves been seen to termi- nate in it, though nerves destined for other textures may pass through it c 2