MUSCLES m FRONT OF THE THIGH. 273 The connection of the psoas with the bodies of the bones is effected by means of five distinct parts, each of which is attached to the upper and lower margins of two vertebrae and the interposed fibro-cartilage ; the highest to the neighbouring margins of the last dorsal vertebra and the first lumbar, and the lowest to the edges of the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae with the intervertebral substance. These attach- ments are connected by thin tendinous arches, extending over the middle of each vertebra, covering the lumbar vessels and communicating branches of the sympathetic nerve, and giving origin to other muscular fibres. The psoas muscle, at its superior extremity, passes behind the diaphragm, below the arch of the ligamentum arcuatum internum. Resting on its inner border, along the margin of the pelvis, is the external iliac artery, and deeply in the substance of the muscle is the lumbar plexus of nerves. The ilio-inguinal and external cutaneous nerves cross the iliacus muscle, and the anterior crural nerve descends on the tendon of the psoas. The iliac fascia extends over the surface of the whole ilio-psoas muscle in the abdomen. The muscle emerges from the abdomen beneath Poupart's ligament, and turning over the brim of the pelvis rests on the capsule of the hip-joint, on which it glides by means of a large synovial bursa, which occasionally communicates with the interior of the joint; its outer margin is in contact with the rectus muscle, and its inner margin is separated from the pectineus by the internal circumflex artery. The psoas parvus, an occasional muscle, placed on the surface of the psoas magnus, arises from the bodies of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae, and from the fibro-cartilage between them, and soon ends in a flat tendon, which passes along the front and the inner side of the psoas magnus, to be inserted into the ilio-pectineal line and eminence. This muscle, although it is well developed and constant in animals, is most fre- quently absent in the human subject. It was found in only one of twenty bodies examined by Theile with special reference to its existence. When present, it is liable to many changes in the place of origin; thus, it may be connected only with the first lumbar vertebra, or with the second and the intervertebral substance above it, and it has been observed to commence by two parts or heads separated by an interval. ANTERIOR FEMORAL REGION. The tensor vagince femoris, or ilio-aponeurotic muscle of the thigh, arises by muscular and tendinous fibres from the external surface of the iliac crest close to its fore-part, and from part of the notch between the two anterior iliac spines, external to the attachment of the sartorius ; and passing down- wards and a little outwards it is inserted between two laminae of the fascia lata, about three inches below the great trochanter of the femur. The outer of these laminae is continued upwards on the muscle in its whole extent, being part of the general investment of the limb, the deeper is connected above with the origin of the rectus muscle, and with the fibres attaching the gluteus minimus to the hip-joint. The part of the fascia, made tense by the action of the muscle, forms a strong tendinous band, which descends to the outer and back part of the knee-joint. The sartorius is very long, narrow, and ribbon-shaped, and presents the longest fibres of all the muscles in the body : it arises by a short tendoa. from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and from a small part of the anterior margin of that bone immediately below, and, passing downwards and inwards across the front of the thigh, is inserted by an expanded aponeurosis into the upper and inner side of the tibia, near to the tubercle, and for about an inch below it. In this long course the muscle is directed over the anterior part of the thigh, obliquely inwards in the upper third, and vertically at the inner aspect of the limb T