cxcv MUCOUS MEMBRANES. novial sac in such cases is flattened and has its two opposite sides in apposi- tion by their inner surface which is free and lubricated with synovia, whilst the outer surface is attached by areolar tissue to the moving parts between which the sac is placed. As in the case of articular synovial membranes, the bursal membrane on the rubbing surfaces may be, at parts, obliterated. In point of situation the bursse may be either deep-seated or subcutaneous. The former are for the most part placed between a muscle or its tendon and a bone or the exterior of a joint, less commonly between two muscles or tendons : certain of the bursse situated in the neighbourhood of joints not unfro- quently open into them. The subcutaneous bursse lie immediately under the skin, and are found in various regions of the body interposed between the skin and some firm prominence beneath it. The large bursa situated over the patella is a well-known example of this class, but similar, though smaller bursse are found also over the olecranon, the malleoli, the knuckles, and various other prominent parts. It must, however, be observed, that, among these subcutaneous bursas, some are reckoned which do not always present the characters of true synovial sacs, but look more like mere recesses in the subcutaneous areolar tissue, larger and more defined thau the neigh- bouring areolse, but still not bounded by an evident synovial membrane. These have been looked on as examples of less developed structure, forming a transition between the areolar tissue and perfect synovial mem- brane. 3. Vaginal Synovial membranes or Synovial sheaths.—These are intended to facilitate the motion of tendons as they glide in the fibrous sheaths which bind them down against the bones in various situations. The best-marked examples of such fibrous sheaths are to be seen in the hand and foot, and especially on the palmar aspect of the digital phalanges, where they confine the long tendons of the flexor muscles. In such instances one part of the synovial membrane forms a lining to the osseo-fibrous tube in which the tendon runs, and another part is reflected at each end upon the tendon, and affords it a close investment. The space between the parietal and re- flected portions of the membrane is lubricated with synovia and crossed obliquely by one or more folds or duplications of the membrane, in some parts inclosing elastic tissue. These are named ** frsena," and pass from one part of the membrane to the other. Synovia.—As already stated, this is a viscid transparent fluid; it lias a yellowish or faintly reddish tint, and a slightly saline taste. According to Frerichs, the synovia of the ox consists of 94'85 water, 0'56 mucous and epithelium, 0-07 fat, 3-51 albumen and extractive matter, and 0*99 salts. If a drop of synovial fluid is examined micro- scopically, it is found to contain (in addition to fat-molecules and epithelium cells) small, granular corpuscles, bearing a close resemblance to the pale corpuscles of the blood. It is doubtful whether these bodies have a special nature and purpose, or whether they are merely transitory forms of epithelium particles. MUCOUS MEMBRANES. These membranes, unlike the serous, line internal passages, and other cavities which open on the surface of the body, as well as various recesses, sinuses, gland-ducts and receptacles of secretion, which open into such pas- sages. They are habitually subject to the contact of foreign substances introduced into the body, such as air and aliment, or of various secreted or excreted matters, and hence their surface is coated over and protected by mucus, a fluid of a more consistent and tenacious character than that which moistens the serous membranes.