MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. 250 the thigh, a form which is given to it by its connection with the fascia lata of the limb. Above the crest of the pnbes the fibres of the aponeurosis, separating from the inner part of Poupart's ligament, leave between them an oblique open- ing, the superficial or external abdominal ring, through which passes the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. The direction of this opening is upwards and outwards, its base being formed by the pubic crest, and its sides by the two sets of diverging fibres called the pillars, The upper or internal pillar is attached to the anterior surface of the symphysis pubis, interlacing with the corresponding fibres of the opposite side ; the lower or external pillar is formed by Poupart's ligament, near its attachment to the spine of the pubic bone. A portion of the aponeurosis, which is reflected backwards and outwards along the pectineal line from the attachment of Poupart's ligament to the spine of the pubes, constitutes a small triangular process with a curved external border, not far distant from the femoral ring. This receives the name of Gimbernat's ligament. Some curved fibres, directed across the diverging pillars and uniting them together, are named inter columnar. A few of these, descending upon the spermatic cord from the margin of the opening, are prolonged upon that structure as a delicate fascia, named intercolumnar fascia. The intercolumnar fibres may be regarded as the lowest of a series of tendinous fibres, which cross the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle somewhat obliquely over a considerable extent of its surface, and the strongest of which proceed from near the superior spine of the ilium and upper part of Poupart's ligament. The deep or internal oblique muscle {ascending or small oblique), placed under cover of the external oblique, arises by fleshy fibres from the external half or two-thirds of the inner surface of Poupart's ligament, from the iliac crest for two-thirds of its length, and by some fibres from the posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle, in the angle between the crest of the ilium and the outer margin of the erector spinse muscle. From those attachments the fibres, spreading somewhat, pass to be inserted as follows : the most posterior fibres pass upwards and forwards to the lower margins of the cartilages of the last four ribs, where they are inserted in the same plane with the internal intercostal muscles ; those arising further forwards from the crest of the ilium pass, the upper more obliquely, and the rest more horizontally, forwards to end in an aponeurosis in front of the abdomen ; those from the front part of the crest extend horizontally inwards to the same aponeurosis ; while the fibres from Poupart's ligament, usually paler than the rest, arch downwards and inwards over the spermatic cord, or the round ligament of the uterus, and end in tendinous fibres common to them and the lower part of the transversalis muscle, and hence known as the conjoined tendon of these muscles ; through the medium of this tendon they are attached to the front of the pubes, and for some distance along the pectineal line, behind and to the outside of Gimbernat's ligament. The spermatic cord and round ligament pass under the arched lower border of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles through the internal or deep abdominal ring. The aponeurosis may be regarded as the expanded tendon of the muscle continued inwards in front; it extends from the margin of the thorax to the pubes, and is wider at the upper than at the lower end. At the outer border of the rectus muscle this structure divides into two layers, one passing before, the other behind, that muscle ; and the two reunite at its