THE CORONARY' ARTERIES. 339 anterior of the three sinuses of Valsalva, on a level with the margins of the semilunar valves. The right coronary artery, about the size of a crow's quill, runs obliquely towards the right side of the heart, lodged in the groove which separates the auricle from the ventricle. It continues its course in the same groove, along the posterior aspect of the organ, until it reaches the line of separation between the two ventricles, where it divides into two branches. The smaller Fig. 253.—View of the Heart and Coronary Arteries from before (from R. Quain). | The pulmonary artery has been cut short close to its origin in order to show the first part of the aorta. 1, anterior part of the right ventricle ; 2, left ventricle ; 3, root of the pulmonary artery ; 4, ascending part of the arch of the aorta ; 4', the posterior or descending part of the arch ; between these is seen the transverse or middle part from which the brachio-cephalic arteries take their origin ; 4", the descending thoracic aorta ; 5, the appendix and anterior part of the right auricle ; 6, those of the left auricle ; 7, the right, and 7', the left innominate or brachio-cephalic veins joining to form the vena cava superior ; 8, the inferior vena cava below the diaphragm ; 9, one of the large hepatic veins ; + , placed in the right auriculo-ventricular groove, points to the right or posterior coronary artery ; + + , placed in the anterior inter-ventricular groove, points to the left or anterior coronary artery. of these continues transversely in the groove between the left auricle and ventricle, approaching the termina- tion of the transverse branch of the left coronary artery ; while the other branch runs longitudinally downwards along the posterior wall of the septum between the ventricles, giving branches to each ventricle and to the septum between them. In its course the right coronary artery gives, besides the offsets already noticed, small branches to the right auricle and ventricle, and also to the first part of the pulmonary artery. Along the right border of the ventricle a rather large branch usually descends towards the apex of the heart, and gives offsets, in its progress, to the anterior and posterior surfaces of the ventricle. The left coronary artery is rather smaller than the preceding, and arises from the left anterior sinus of Valsalva.. It passes behind and then to the left side of the pulmonary artery, appearing between that vessel and the left auricular appendage. At first it descends obliquely towards the anterior interventricular sulcus, where it divides into two branches. Of these, one pursues a transverse direction, turning outwards and to the left side in the groove between the left ventricle and auricle, and approaching at the posterior aspect of the heart the transverse branch of the right coronary artery; the other branch, much the larger, descends on the anterior