RADIAL ARTERY. 398 Several unnamed muscular branches are given by the radial artery to the muscles on the fore part of the arm. b. The branches which arise from the radial artery behind the wrist are, the posterior carpal, the metacarpal, the dorsal arteries of the thumb, and the dorsal artery of the index finger. (a) The posterior radial carpal is a small but constant branch. It arises beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb, and running inwards on the back of the carpus anastomoses with the posterior ulnar carpal branch, completing the arch from which spring the dorsal interosseous arteries of the third and fourth spaces (p. 391). It anastomoses, also, with the terminal branch of the anterior interosseous of the fore arm. (b) The first dorsal interosseous or metacarpal branch arises beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb, frequently in common with the posterior carpal branch, passes to the interval between the second and third metacarpal bones, communicates with the corresponding perforating branch of the deep palmar arch, and descending on the second dorsal interosseous muscle anastomoses with the palmar digital branch at its division between the fiugers. Fig. 279.—Deep View op the . Arteries op the Wrist and Hand, prom before (from R. Quain). J The anterior annular ligament of the carpus has been divided and the lower part of the common flexors and flexor of the thumb has been re- moved ; portions of these tendons are represented as turned down upon the fingers with parts of the lumbricales muscles; the superficial palmar arch is removed, and the interossei muscles are exposed, a, ulnar nerve; b, tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle ; c, tendon of the flexor carpi radialis ; d, inserted tendon of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis ; 1, radial artery ; 1', its lower part before passing back within the extensor ten- dons of the thumb, giving the anterior carpal and superficial volar branches ; 2, ulnar artery ; 3, anterior interosseous artery before passing behind the pronator quadratus muscle ; 4, radial artery, appearing deeply in the palm between the first and second metacarpal bones and passing into the deep palmar arch ; 5, deep branch of the ulnar artery dipping between the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti to join the deep arch, and accom- panied by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve ; 6, a palmar digital artery rising from the first part of the superficial palmar arch ; 7, the princeps pol- licis, and 8, the radialis indicis arteries rising from the radial artery; 9, 9, 9, interosseous branches of the deep palmar arch proceeding down on the interosseous muscles to join the palmar digital arteries from the superficial arch. (c) The dorsal arteries of the thumb, two small branches, arising separately or together opposite the head of the meta- carpal bone, run upon the dorsal aspect of the bones of the thumb, one at the radial, the other at the ulnar border. (d) The dorsal artery of the index finger, a very small branch, arises Fig. 279.