ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. INTRODUCTION. Division of natural Bodies.—The material objects which exist in nature belong to two great divisions ; those which are living or which have lived, and those which neither are nor have ever been endowed with life. The first division comprehends animals and plants, the other mineral sub- stances. In a living animal or plant, changes take place, and processes are carried on, which are necessary for the maintenance of its living state, or for the fulfilment of the ends of its being ; these are termed its functions, and certain of these functions being common to all living beings serve among other characters to distinguish them from inert or mineral substances. Such are the function of nutrition, by which living beings take extraneous matter into their bodies, and convert it into their own substance, and the function of generation or reproduction, by which they give rise to new individuals of the same kind, and thus provide for the continuance of their species after their own limited existence shall have ceased. But in order that such processes may be carried on, the body of a living being is constructed with a view to their accomplishment, and its several parts are adapted to the performance of determinate offices. Such a consti- tution of body is termed organisation, and those natural objects which possess it are named organised bodies. Animals and plants, being so constituted, are organised bodies, while minerals, not possessing such a structure, are inorganic. Object of Anatomy.—The object of anatomy, in its most extended sense, is to ascertain and make known the structure of organised bodies. But the science is divided according to its subjects; the investigation of the structure of plants forms a distinct study under the name of Vegetable Anatomy, and the anatomy of the lower animals is distinguished from that of man or human anatomy under the name of Comparative Anatomy. Organs and Textures.—On examining the structure of an organised body, we find that it is made up of members or organs, through means of which its functions are executed, such as the root, stem, and leaves of a plant, and the heart, brain, stomach, and limbs of an animal ; and further, that these organs are themselves made up of certain constituent materials named tissues or textures, as the cellular, woody, and vascular tissues of the vegetable, or the osseous, muscular, connective, vascular, and various others, which form the animal organs. a