117 THE SKELETON ADAPTED TO THE ERECT POSTURE. one at the upper and the other at the lower end of the trunk, in the same way that the limbs of opposite sides are arranged symmetrically on either side of the mesial plane. Thus, in the skeleton of a quadruped, the scapula and humerus slope back- wards from the shoulder-joint, and the ilium and femur slope forwards from the hip- joint ; the prominence of the elbow looks backwards, and that of the knee looks forwards; and hence, according to Humphry, the coracoid and pubis and the clavicle and ischium respectively correspond. It will, however, suggest itself to the reader from the remarks already made, that there are serious difficulties in the way of attributing to those appearances, which are only the result of later development, more than a mere secondary importance. (Copious reference to the literature of this subject is made in the paper by Ch. Martins in the " Annales des Sciences Naturelles, Zoologie," vol. viii. 1857, p. 45. See also Humphry, "On the Limbs of Vertebrate Animals," &c. Cambridge, 1860.) RELATION OF THE LIMBS TO THE SEGMENTS OF THE TRUNK. The various anatomists who have written on this subject agree in considering that the bmbs, in their extent beyond the shoulder and hip, are radiations from or appen- dages of one or more segments of the trunk. Opinions, however, are much divided with regard to the nature of the pelvic and shoulder girdles, and, in particular, it has been warmly debated whether or not they are costal arches. Owen holds the opinion that they are costal, and further considers that the scapula and coracoid process form the costal arch of the occipital vertebra, with the free part of the limb as its appendage, while the clavicle is derived from another segment; and that in like manner the ilium and ischium form the costal arch of one segment supporting the lower limb, and that the pubic bone belongs to another. The circumstance which has specially led to the supposition that the upper limb and the occipital bone are con- nected is, that the shoulder girdle is attached to the skull in most osseous fishes; but it may be objected to this hypothesis that in the higher vertebrata the anterior extremities are developed from a portion of the embryo considerably removed from the skull ■ and Ooodsir fairly argues, from the nervous supply to the limbs, and from the limbs first appearing with the digits arranged in series in the plane of the lateral plates of the embryo, that a limb is not an appendage to a single segment of the trunk, but belongs to several segments. (Owen, " On the Nature of Limbs; " Goodsir, " On the Morphological Constitution of Limbs," Edinb. New. Phil. Journ., Jan., 1857.) THE SKELETON ADAPTED TO THE ERECT POSTURE. Throughout the whole of the human frame numerous peculiarities in the form and proportion of parts exist, connected with the assumption of the erect posture. The most striking of the structural peculiarities related to this circumstance are seen in the skeleton, and they are equally apparent in the head, trunk, and limbs. The body of man, unlike that of animals, is, for the purposes of station and progression, balanced on one or both pelvic limbs, which are extended to a straight line at the knee-joint. The lower limb is remarkable for its length and strength. The foot of man alone has an arched instep, and it likewise presents a great breadth of sole. The great toe is distin- guished by its large development, and especially from that of the quadrumana, by its want of opposability, being formed not for grasping but for supporting the wreight of the body and giving spring to the step. The femur is greatly elongated, its length exceeding considerably that of the tibia. This length of femur is not only requisite in order to give a sufficient extent of stride, but also to enable the body to be balanced in different degrees and varieties of stooping. Thus, for example, in a crouching attitude, with the feet placed side by side, it is necessary in order to balance the fore part of the body that the pelvis should be brought back behind the perpendicular rising from the balls of the toes on which the weight is rested : and in order to accomplish this, if there be a long tibia directed forwards from the ankle, there must be a femur of still greater length directed backwards from the knee. The breadth of the pelvis, in like manner, in lateral movements of the body, enables the balance to be more easily maintained by compensating inclinations of different parts to opposite sides of the base of support, and the long neck of the femur gives an advan- tageous insertion to the muscles by which the balance of the body on the thigh is prin- cipally preserved (viz., the adductor and gluteal muscles), placing them more nearly at