406 ABDOMINAL AORTA. Branches.—The abdominal aorta gives numerous branches, which may be divided into two sets, viz., those which supply the viscera, and those which are distributed to the walls of the abdomen. The former consists of the cceliac artery, the superior mesenteric, the inferior mesenteric, the cap- sular, the renal, and the spermatic arteries; whilst in the latter are included the phrenic, the lumbar, and the middle sacral arteries. The three first of the visceral branches are single arteries. Peculiarities.—Point of division.— In more than three-fourths of a considerable number of cases, the aorta divided either upon the fourth lumbar vertebra, or upon the intervertebral disc below it; in one case of nine it was below, and in about one of eleven above the spot thus indicated. In ten bodies out of every thirteen, the divi- sion of the great artery took place within half an inch above or below the level of the iliac crest; and it occurred more frequently below than above the fourth interver- tebral space. (R. Quain, op. cit. p. 415.) An instance of bifurcation immediately below the origin of the right renal artery is recorded by Haller (Disputat. Anatom. t. vi. p. 781). Unusual Branch.—A very remarkable case is recorded of the existence of a large pulmonary branch which arose from the abdominal aorta, close to the cceliac artery, and after passing upwards through the oesophageal opening in the diaphragm, divided into two branches, which were distributed to the lungs near their bases. (Referred to by R. Quain in his work " On the Arteries," p. 416.) A. —VISCERAL BRANCHES OF THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. I. (XELIAC ARTERY OR AXIS. The cceliac artery, a short and wide vessel, arises from the aorta close to the margin of the diaphragm. It is directed forwards nearly horizon- tally, and is not more than half an inch long. It is behind the small omentum, and lies close to the left side of the lobulus Spigelii of the liver, and above the pancreas, the two semilunar ganglia being contiguous to it, one on each side. This artery divides into three branches, viz., the coro- nary artery of the stomach, the hepatic and the splenic, which separate simultaneously from the end of the artery like radii from an axis. Peculiarities.—The cceliac axis is occasionally partly covered at its origin by the diaphragm. It may be longer than usual, in which case its branches are not given off together; or it may be entirely wanting, the coronary, hepatic, and splenic arteries arising separately from the aorta. In some cases the cceliac artery gives off only two branches at its division (the coronary and the splenic), the hepatic being supplied from another source. Rarely, it gives more than three branches to the viscera, the additional vessel being a second coronary, or a separate gastro-duodenal artery. One or both phrenic artei-ies are sometimes derived from this trunk. Cases have been met with in which a connection existed between the cceliac axis and the superior mesenteric artery close to their origin. Fig. 283.—The Arteries oe the Stomach, Liver, and Omentum (from Tiedemann). ^ The liver is turned up so as to show its lower surface with the transverse fissure or porta, and the vessels and ducts entering it. a, the right lobe of the liver ; b, the left lobe ; c, the gall bladder; c', the biliary or hepatic ducts ; e", the ductus communis choledochus ; d, the front of the antero-posterior fissure and the round ligament ; c, the cardiac orifice of the stomach ; /, on the great curvature of the stomach near its cardiac end, points to the spleen ; g, the pylorus ; h, the duodenum ; i, the great omentum ; h, some of the small intestines in the lower part of the abdomen ; 1, upon the trunk of the abdominal aorta, below the root of the inferior phrenic arteries, and above the cceliac axis; 2, placed on the meeting of the crura of the diaphragm, the coronary artery of the stomach ; 2', the same artery proceeding round the small curvature of the stomach and ending by anastomosis with the superior pyloric ; 3, the main hepatic artery, continued