COMPLEXUS AND SEMISPINALES MUSCLES. 287 transversalis cervicis continued up from the longissimus ; 7, ilio-costalis (sacro- lumbalis), drawn slightly inwards to show the slips of insertion into the lumbar fascia and the various ribs; inside the costal insertions are seen the origins of the accessorius ; 7', the ascendens cervicis continued upwards from the accessorius; 8, spinalis dorsi. On the right side 6 marks, in the lumbar region, the insertions of the longis- simus dorsi into the upper four transverse processes (the insertion into the accessory pro- cesses not being shown), in the dorsal region the narrower tendons of insertion into the lower part of the dorsal transverse processes (the six lower only are represented) ; 6', the series of insertions into nine ribs ; 7, the ilio-costalis drawn outwards ; 7', placed between the lowest costal insertion of the ilio-costalis and the lowest origin of the accessorius ; 7", extension of the ascendens cervicis from the fifth rib towards the neck ; 9, 9, semi- spinals colli; 10, 10, semispinalis dorsi; 11, 11, lower dorsal and lumbar parts of the multifidus spina?, which appears again above the semispinalis colli, above the upper 9 ; 12, placed upon the eighth rib, levatores costarum, long and short ; 13, in the upper part of the figure points by four lines to the rectus capitis posticus, rectus major, obUquus superior and obliquus inferior muscles. Complexus and teansverso-spinales.—The muscles of the complicated group comprising the complexus, semispinalis, and multifidus spinm, present the feature in common of ascending with an inward inclination, and are thus distinguished from those last described. The most superficial, the complexus, not usually included in this group, but obviously resembling the others, has the longest and most vertical fibres, but is the shortest as a whole, being limited to the upper dorsal and the cervical region ; the muscle beneath it, the semispinalis, occupies the greater part of both these regions ; while the multifidus spina?, extending from the sacrum to the axis, has the shortest and most oblique fibres. The complexus {complexus major) arises by tendinous points from the transverse processes of the seven highest dorsal and seventh cervical vertebras, and from the articular processes of three other cervical vertebras, together with the capsular ligament uniting them ; and it is inserted into the large internal impression between the two curved lines of the occipital bone. It is narrower above than below, and its inner margin in the neck is in contact with the ligamentum nucha). Above the middle the muscle is partly crossed by a tendinous intersection. One interrupting tendon in particular, on the inner side, is so constant that the fibres connected with it, viz., those ascend- ing from the three or four lowest points of origin, are often described sepa- rately, under the name of biventer cervicis: this portion of the muscle is also frequently connected by a tendinous slip with one or two of the spinous processes belonging to the last cervical or first dorsal vertebra. The complexus muscle is covered by the splenius, except at its lowest origins from the dorsal vertebra) and at the internal portion of its upper extremity; the trans- versalis cervicis and trachelo-mastoid rest upon its series of origins, and the semi- spinalis colli, the posterior recti, and the obliqui capitis, together with the deep cervical artery, are concealed by it, The semispinalis muscle consists of fibres extending from transverse processes to spines, each bundle crossing over about five vertebra). It arises from the internal tubercles of the transverse processes of numerous dorsal vertebras, usually the ten highest, and is inserted into spines from the axis to the fourth dorsal vertebra inclusive. It is described in two parts :— a. The semispinalis colli is the part under cover of the complexus. It arises from the upper five or six dorsal transverse processes, and is inserted into spines of cervical vertebras from the second to the fifth inclusive, being thickest at its insertion into the second vertebra.