INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 424 diately into an external and an internal branch, which are deeply placed behind the external obturator muscle. Branches.—(a) Within the pelvis, besides others of smaller size, the obturator artery often supplies a branch to the iliac fossa and muscle, and one which runs backwards upon the urinary bladder. (b) Anastomotic vessels, which may be called pubic, are given off by the obturator artery as it is about to escape from the pelvis: these vessels ramify on the back of the pubes, and communicate behind the bone and the attachments of the abdominal muscles, with small offsets from the epigastric artery. These anastomosing branches lie to the inner side of the crural ring. (c) The internal terminal branch curves inwards beneath the obturator externum, close to the inner margin of the thyroid foramen, and furnishes branches to the obtu- rator muscles, the gracilis, and the adductor muscles. (d) The external terminal branch has a similar arrangement near the outer margin of the thyroid foramen; it descends as far as the ischial tuberosity, and supplies the obturator muscles, and the upper ends of the long muscles which are attached to that tuberosity. This branch usually sends off a small artery, which enters the hip-joint through the cotyloid notch, and ramifies in the synovial fatty tissue, and along the round ligament as far as the head of the femur. Fig. 291. Fig. 291, A. and B.—Views of the Left Wall of the Pelvis, with the attached abdominal muscles from the inside, showing dif- ferent positions of the Aberrant Obturator Ar- teries (from R. Quain). ~ In A, a case is represented in which the aberrant artery passes to the outside of a femoral hernial protrusion ; in B, an instance is shown in which it surrounds the neck of the sac. a, posterior surface of the rectus muscle ; b, iliacus in- ternus muscle ; c, symphysis pubis ; d, obturator mem- ?brane; e, placed on the fascia transversalis, points to the vas deferens passing through the internal inguinal aperture ; /, the testicle ; +, the neck of a femoral hernial sac ; 1, the external iliac artery; 2, the external iliac vein ; below 2, the obturator nerve ; 3, the epigastric artery ; 4, aberrant obturator artery, arising from the epigastric. The two terminal branches of the obturator artery com- municate with each other near the lower margin of the ob- turator ligament, and anastomose with branches of the internal circumflex artery. The external branch also communicates with offsets from the sciatic artery near the tuber ischii. Peculiarities.—The obturator artery frequently has its origin transferijed to the