Ixxix CONNECTIVE TISSUE. 2. Retiform * connective tissue ; Reticular tissue, and Cytogenous tissue (Kolliker) ; Adenoid tissue (His). In this case the matrix disappears ; neither white nor elastic fibres are developed, but the ramified corpuscles unite together into a reticular or fine trabecular structure (fig. xxxviti.) ; either retaining their nuclei as at a, or losing them and then forming a fine network of simple fibres without nuclei, as at b. That in both forms the tissue is constructed of ramified corpuscles is shown by its withstanding boiling in water, whilst it readily dissolves in hot alkaline solutions. This form of connective tissue enters into the construction of cer- tain organs and textures, where it serves as a supporting framework to their peculiar elements and their nourishing blood-vessels, and thus becomes a "sustentacular" tissue (Stiitzgewebe, Germ.). In this way it forms a trabecular network within the lymphatic glands, containing the lymph or chyle cor- puscles in its meshes (as at c). So also it is found in the solitary and agmi- nafced follicular glands of the intestine, the tongue and tonsils ; in the thymus gland ; in the pulp and Malpighian bodies of the spleen, and in the tissue of the in- testinal mucous mem- brane at certain parts ; in all which situations the meshes contain cor- puscles of similar exter- nal character with those in the lymphatic glands. But although thus related to glands and thence named "adenoid"tissue, it exists also as a sus- taining structure in the brain and spinal cord, where, with finer branches and closer meshes, it forms an extremely delicate framework supporting the proper nervous substance, and has been called the reticulum (Kolliker). 3. Homogeneous connective tissue. More consistent than the mucous or jelly-like tissue, and differing also in chemical nature, inasmuch as it appears to be collagenous (i. e., yielding gelatin), and thus more nearly related in substance to the white fibrillar tissue. It contains no fibres or fibrils, and may be quite transparent and uniform in character, or faintly granular and striated. For the most part this substance occurs in the form of homogeneous membranes; examples of which are found in the external coat of fine vessels, the hyaloid membrane in the eye, the capsules of the Mal- pighian bodies in the kidney and spleen, the capsules of the solitary and agminated intestinal glands and the lingual and tonsillar follicular glands, in the Graafian follicles, and in certain gland-ducts. It must be noted, however, that some homogeneous membranes, as, for example, the posterior elastic lamina of the cornea, are of a different nature. * I use the terra "retiform," not because it signifies more or less than "reticular," but because the latter term is not unfrequently applied to areolar tissue. Fig. XXXVIII. Fig. XXXVIII.—Thin Section from the Cortical Part of a Lymphatic Gland, magnified. A network of fine trabeculse formed by retiform or adenoid tissue, from the meshes of which the lymph-cor- puscles have been washed out, except at c, where they are left (after His, slightly altered).