Ixii CILIATED EPITHELIUM. way by stimulation or sudden destruction of these centres. The time which it continues after death or separation differs in different kinds of auimals, and is also materially influenced by temperature and by the nature of the fluid in contact with the surface. In warm-blooded animals the period varies from two or three hours to two days, or even more ; being longer in summer than in the cold of winter. In frogs the motion may continue four or five days after the destruction of the brain ; and it has been seen in the gullet of the tortoise fifteen days after decapitation, continuing seven days after the muscles had ceased to be irritable. With the view of throwing further light on the nature of this remarkable kind of motion, experiments have been made to ascertain the effect produced on it by different physical chemical and medicinal agents ; but, so far as these experiments have gone, it would seem that, with the exception of moderate heat and cold, alkaline solutions, chloroform vapour, and perhaps some other narcotics, these agents affect the action of the cilia only in so far as they act destructively on their tissue. The effect of change of temperature is different in warm and cold-blooded animals. In the former the motion is stopped by a cold of 43° P., whereas in the frog and river mussel it goes on unimpaired at 32° P. E. H. Weber has made the interesting observation that in ciliated epithelium particles detached from the human nasal membrane, the motion which has become languid or quiescent from the cold, may be revived by warmth, such as that of the breath, and this several times in succession. A moderately elevated temperature, say 100° F., does not affect the motion in cold- blooded animals; but, of course, a heat considerably higher than this, and such as to alter the tissue, would put an end to it in all cases. Electric shocks, unless they cause abrasion of the ciliated surface (which is sometimes the case), produce no visible effect; and the same is true of galvanic currents. Fresh water, I find, arrests the motion in marine mollusca and in other salt-water animals in which I have tried its effect; but it evidently acts by destroying both the form and sub- stance of the cilia, which in these cases are adapted to a different medium. Most of the common acid and saline solutions, when concentrated, arrest the action of the cilia instantaneously in all animals ; but dilution delays this effect, and when carried farther, prevents it altogether; and hence it is, probably, due to a chemical altera- tion of the tissue. Virchow has observed that a solution of either potash or soda will revive the movement of cilia after it has ceased. Narcotic substances, such as hydrocyanic acid, salts of morphia and strychnia, opium and belladonna, are said by Purkinje and Valentin to have no effect, though the first-named agent has certainly appeared to me to arrest the motion in the river-mussel. In confirmation of an observation of Professor Lister,* I find that exposure for a few moments to the vapour of chloroform arrests ciliary action, and that the motion revives again if the application of the vapour is discontinued. Bile stops the action of the cilia, while blood prolongs it, in vertebrated animals ; but the blood or serum of the vertebrata has quite an opposite effect on the cilia of invertebrate animals, arresting their motion almost instantaneously. It must be confessed that the nature and source of the power by which the cilia act are as yet unknown ; but whatever doubt may hang over this question, it is plain that each ciliated cell is individually endowed with the faculty of producing motion, and that it possesses in itself whatever organic apparatus and whatever physical or vital property may be necessary for that end ; for single epithelium cells are seen to exhibit the phenomenon long after they have been completely insulated. Without professing to offer a satisfactory solution of a question beset with so much difficulty, it seems, nevertheless, not unreasonable to consider the ciliary motion as * Phil. Trans. 1858, p. 690, where will be tound other valuable observations on the effect of external agents on ciliary action.