192 MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. the upper extremity a few fibres are often found to blend with the thyro-hyoid muscle and the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. Fig. 166. Fig. 166.—View of the Submaxillary Muscles and the Depressors of the Hyoid Bone and Larynx, from before. £ The explanation of the references to the upper parts of the figure is given at p. 184. c, middle of the body of the hyoid bone ; d, mastoid process ; e, front of the thyroid cartilage ; f, upper part of the sternum ; g, lateral lobe of the thy- roid gland ; +, its isth- mus, above which is the cricoid cartilage covered by the crico-thyroid muscle ; 8, placed on the levator scapulae, points to the left middle constrictor of the pharynx; 9, placed on the middle scalenus, points to the left inferior constrictor; 10, right sterno-hyoid ; 11, placed on the left sterno- thyroid, points also to the lower part of the right muscle ; 12, placed on the right sterno-mastoid, points to the upper and lower bellies of the right omo-hyoid. The thyro-hyoid muscle is continued upwards from the preceding ; it arises from the oblique line on the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and is inserted into the lower border of the body and great cornu of the hyoid bone, near the place where these unite. This muscle is concealed by the sterno-hyoid and omo-hyoid, and rests on the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and on the thyro-hyoid membrane. Between that membrane and the muscle, the superior laryngeal nerve and artery are placed before entering the larynx. The omo-hyoid is a long ribbon-shaped muscle, consisting of two bellies united by an intervening tendon. It arises from the upper border of the scapula, near the suprascapular notch, and occasionally from the ligament which crosses the notch. Thence it extends forwards and only slightly upwards, across the root of the neck, till it enters beneath the sterno-mas- toid muscle, and then, curving rapidly, it ascends nearly vertically, to be inserted into the lower border of the body of the hyoid bone. The ten- don which divides the muscle is placed beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle, and varies much in length and form in different bodies. The tendon is enclosed within the deep cervical fascia, which after forming a sort of sheath for it, is prolonged downwards and becomes attached to the sternum and the cartilage of the first rib ; and by this means, as also by fascia investing the posterior belly and descending to the clavicle, the muscle is maintained in its curved position.