lxxviii SPECIAL VARIETIES OF ends are not pointed, but abruptly broken across. Their size is very- various ; the largest in man are nearly ^th of an inch in diameter, the smallest perhaps not more than ^i-^th. In some varieties of the tissue the larger sized fibres prevail ; this is the case with the ligamenta subflava, where their general diameter is about -y^L^th of an inch ; in other instances, as in the chordse vocales, they are exceedingly fine. In some animals elastic fibres are met with y—^th of an inch in thickness. Acetic acid produces no change on the elastic fibres, while it speedily alters the wavy areolar fibres that are usually intermixed with them in greater or less number. They also withstand boiling for a short time in solutions containing ten to fifteen per cent, of caustic potash or soda, by which the white fibres and the corpuscles of connective tissue are speedily destroyed. The elastic tissue, of course, contains water, and loses much of its weight by drying ; but the proportion is said not to be so great as in most other soft tissues. By very long boiling it yields a substance in some points resembling gelatin, while a portion, equal to rather more than the half, remains undissolved. The gelatin, no doubt, comes from the intermixed areolar tissue; but the dis- solved matter is not pure gelatin, for it is precipitated by acetic acid, and by some other reagents which do not disturb a solution of pure gelatin. The nature of the substance which remains undissolved has not been determined. Caustic potash and soda have little effect on elastic tissue in the cold, and in weak solutions even when hot, unless the application is long continued; boiling in concentrated solutions speedily dissolves it. It is soluble with the aid of heat in dilute hydrochloric acid. Little is known respecting the blood-vessels and nerves of this texture. The yellow ligaments which contain it in its purest form, are but scantily supplied with vessels ; and no nerves have been traced into them. I am not aware of any experiments or observations as to their sensibility, but there is no reason for supposing it to be greater than that of ordinary liga- ments ; nor has it been shown that structures containing this tissue possess vital contractility, unless they also contain contractile fibres of another kind. SPECIAL VARIETIES OF CONNECTIVE TISSUE. 1. Jelly-like connective tissue, or mucous tissue. In the early embryo the areolar tissue consists of a pellucid jelly and nucleated corpuscles. The soft, watery jelly contains the chemical principle of mucus, or mucin, and, in much less proportion, albumen, but no gelatin. In the general course of development of the tissue, fibres, both white and elastic, are formed in the soft matrix, and finally this substance entirely or in a great measure dis- appears. But in certain cases the course is different. The cells may dis- appear, only the jelly remaining, as in the vitreous humour of the eye ; or the corpuscles may branch out and. join together in form of a network in the jelly, with the persisting nuclei at the spots whence the threads diverge. Such a condition is seen in the enamel-organ of growing teeth. The areolar tissue surrounding and imbedding the vessels in the umbilical cord consists of fusiform and ramified corpuscles associated with white fibrillar bundles and elastic fibres, along with much of the soft matrix, which is persistent at the time of birth and constitutes the jelly of Wharton.