SKIK ccxviii Development of the sebaceous glands.—The rudiments of the sebaceous glands sprout like little buds from the sides of the hair follicles; they are at first, in fact, excrescences of the external or mucous layer of the root-sheath (fig. cxix., n, n), and are composed entirely of nucleated cells. Each little process soon assumes a flask shape and is at first solid; but in due time a group of cells containing fat particles appears in its centre, and gradually extends itself along the axis of the pedicle until it penetrates through the root-sheath, and the fat cells thus escape into the cavity of the hair follicle, and constitute the first secretion of the sebaceous gland. They are soon succeeded by others of the same kind, and the little gland is estab- lished in its office. Additional saccules and recesses, by which the originally simple cavity of the gland is complicated, are formed by budding-out of its epithelium, as the first "was produced from the epithelial root-sheath, and are excavated in a similar manner. It would thus appear that the rudiments of the hair follicles, sweat-glands and sebaceous glands, are all derived from the same source. They all originally appear as solid bud-like excrescences of the soft Malpighian or mucous layer of the epider- mis, for the outer stratum of the root-sheath must be regarded as such; these grow down into the corium, in which recesses are formed to receive them, and which, of course, yields the material required both for the production of new cells for their further growth and for the maintenance of their secreting function. Functions and vital properties of the shin.—The skin forms a general external tegument to the body, defining the surface, and coming into relation with foreign matters externally, as the mucous membrane, with which it is continuous and in many respects analogous, does internally. It is also a vast emunctory, by which a large amount of fluid is eliminated from the system, in this also resembling certain parts of the mucous membrane. Under certain conditions, moreover, it performs the office of an absorbing surface, but this function is greatly restricted by the epidermis. Throughout its whole extent the skin is endowed with tactile sensibility, but in very different degrees in different parts. On the skin of the palm and fingers, which is largely supplied with nerves and furnished with numerous prominent papillae, the sense attains a high degree of acuteness; and this endowment, together with other conformable arrangements and adaptations, invests the human hand with the cha- racter of a special organ of touch. A certain though low degree of vital contractility, depending doubtless on the muscular fibres in its tissue, also belongs to the skin. This shows itself in the general shrinking of the skin caused by naked exposure to cold and by certain mental emotions, and producing the state of the surface named " cutis anserina," in which the muscular bundles protrude the hair follicles with which they are connected, whilst they retract or depress the intermediate cutaneous tissue ; and this condition of the skin may be produced locally by the electric stimulus applied by means of the magneto-electric apparatus. The scrotum, as is well known, becomes shrunk and corrugated by the application of cold or mechanical irritation to its surface; but in this case the contraction takes place in the subcutaneous tissue, and the skin is puckered. Reproduction of shin.—When a considerable portion of the skin is lost, the breach is repaired partly by a drawing inwards of the adjoining skin, and partly by the formation of a dense tissue, less vascular than the natural corium, and in which, so far as I know, hairs and glands are not reproduced, so that some deny that the cuta- neous tissue is regenerated. Still the new part becomes covered with epidermis, and its substance sufficiently resembles that of the corium to warrant its being con- sidered as cutaneous tissue regenerated in a simple form. I may add, that in small breaches of continuity from cuts inflicted in early life, the uniting part sometimes acquires furrows similar to those of the adjoining surface. SECRETING GLANDS. The term gland has been applied to various objects, differing widely from hair follicles were infested by a worm, which he has described and delineated in Muller's Archiv. for 1842. Since then, further interesting details respecting this curious parasite, with observations on its development, have been contributed by Mr. E. Wilson. Phil. Trans. 1844.