xxxvi THE BLOOD. crystals are said readily to appear in both cases ; but I must confess that the second method has generally failed in my hands with human or bullock's blood. The addition of alcohol, ether, and especially chloroform, greatly promotes the operation. From human blood, and that of most mammals, the crystals are pris- matic in form (fig. xix.,1), but tetrahedral in the guineapig, rat, and mouse (2), hexagoual plates in the squirrel (3), and rhombohedrons in the hamster (4).# The crystallising matter is perhaps modi- fied in its properties under these different forms; at least, it has been found that all are not equally soluble in water. The red colouring principle (haematin) is not essen- tial to the crystals, for Lehmann has, by recrystallisation, obtained them free from colour, and apparently unchanged in other respects; neither does the undissolved envelope or tegumentary frame of the corpuscle take any share in the crystallisa- tion. The crystallising matter, therefore, must be the colourless protein-substance of the cruor, namely, globulin. It has been proposed to call this substance "blood- crystalline," on account of its property of crystallising, which does not belong to the globulin of the crystalline lens, so far as is yet known. The change of name, however, is confusing, and appears inexpedient, espe- cially as we know that all forms of globulin agree in the much more characteristic pro- perty of being fibrino-plastic. Fig. XIX.—Blood Crystals Magnified. The h£ematin itselfj or some chemical 1, from human blood; 2, from the modification of it, can also, it is supposed, be guineapig; 3, squirrel; 4, hamster. crystallised; and the rhombic prisms and acicular crystals (hcemin crystals), obtained by Teichmann by treating blood with concentrated acetic acid, are considered to be of this nature. Crystals, moreover, of a substance (also occurring amorphously) which has been named " hsematoidin," and is probably derived from modified heematin, are often found in old coagula and effusions of blood within the body. These occur in form of rhombic plates or prisms, of a yellow or red colour; they are insoluble in water, alcohol, ether, and acetic acid, and contain no iron. Proportion of red Corpuscles.—The red corpuscles form by far the largest part of the organic matter in the blood : their proportion may be ascer- tained by filtering defibrinated blood mixed with solution of Glauber's salt, as already mentioned ; or by weighing the dried clot, and making allow- ance for the fibrin it contains. The latter method, however, will serve only to give a rough estimate, as the very uncertain amount of serum remaining in the clot and affecting its weight cannot be determined. Prevost and Dumas made too large a deduction for the solid matter sup- posed to belong to the retained serum, and this reduced the estimate of * A late writer, Bojanowski, represents them as rectangular tables in man and hexagonal plates in the mouse. Zeitsch. f. Wissensch. Zool. 1862.