cxiii BONE. epiphyses is different in different bones ; in many it does not arrive until the body has reached its full stature. Meanwhile the bone increases in length by the ossification continuing to cartilage, which goes on growing at the same time ; and it appears that in the part of the shaft already ossified little or no elongation takes place by interstitial growth. This is shown by an experiment first made by Dr. Hales and afterwards by Duhamel and by John Hunter, in which two or more holes being bored in the growing bone of a young animal at a certain measured distance from each other, they are found after a time not to be farther asunder, although the bone has in the mean while considerably increased in length.* In like manner the shaft also increases in circumference by deposition of new bone on its external sur- face, while at the same time its medullary canal is enlarged by absorption from within. A ring of silver or platinum put round the wing-bone of a growing pigeon, becomes covered with new bone from without, and the original bone included within it gets thinner, or, according to Duhamel, who first made the experiment, is entirely removed, so that the ring comes to lie within the enlarged medullary canal. extend into the intervening Fig. LVIII. Madder given to an animal along with its food, tinges the earth of bone, which, acting as a sort of mordant, unites with and fixes the colour- ing matter. Now, that part of the bone which is most recently formed, and especially that part which is actually deposited during the admi- nistration of the madder, is tinged both more speedily and more deeply than the older part; and, as in this way the new osseous growth can be readily distinguished from the old, ad- vantage was taken of the fact by Duhamel, and afterwards by Hunter, in their inquiries as to the manner in which bones increase in size. By their experiments it was shown that when madder is given to a young pig for some weeks, the external part of its bones is deeply red- dened, proving that the new osseous matter is laid on at the surface of that previously formed. Again, it was found that when the madder was discontinued for some time before the animal was killed, an exterior white stratum (the last formed) appeared above the red one, whilst the internal white part, which was situated within the red, Fig. LYIII. — Subperiosteal Layer prom the Extremity op the Bony Shaft op the Ossifying: Tibia, as described in the text. The cartilage and more open bony tissue have been scraped off from the inside of the crust, ex- cept at a, where a dark shade indicates a few -vertical osseous areolae out of focus and indistinctly seen. The part a, b, of the crust is ossified, and of granular aspect; between b and c are the clear reticu- lated fibres into which the earthy deposit is advancing. * Magnified 150 diameters. * Hales Veget. Statics., 4th edit. p. 340 ; Duhamel Mem. de l'Acad. des Sc. 1743 et seq. Hunter (reported by Home) in Trans, of Soc. for Imp. of Med. and Chir. Know- ledge, vol. ii. ; also Catalogue of Hunterian Museum, vol. i. p. 249. Duhamel was led from some of his experiments to infer that an interstitial elongation took place near the ends ; but there is some doubt left as to the precise circumstances of the experiments in these cases. Both Hales and Duhamel, in experimenting on the growing tibia of a chicken, observed that the addition of new bone was much greater at the upper end. Dr. Humphry has found that in the femur the elongation is greater at the lower, and in the humerus at the upper end of the shaft (Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xliv.). h