THE AORTIC ARCH.-BEARCHES. 338 remain pervious : in a case of right aortic arch, the fourth arch of the right side, instead of that of the left, has remained pervious and has taken on permanent deve- lopment, while at the same time adjusting deviations from the usual process of development have occurred in parts of the other arches, which lead to a left in- nominate being the first great vessel rising from the arch, and to the right carotid and right subclavian arteries rising later in succession. Thus, too, transference of the right subclavian artery from its usual connection with the innominate of a natural left aortic arch to the fourth place of origin, and its remarkable passage behind the trachea and gullet, may probably proceed from the obstruction of the part of the fourth right arch which unites the aortic bulb with the aortic root, and is accompanied by persistence of the aortic root itself extending from the main aorta below upwards Fig. 252.—Diagrams to illustrate the relation op some abnormal disposi- tions op the aortto arch and its Branches to the Normal Condition. (I) The normal disposition as illus- trated by Fig. 245, p. 326; (II), an abnormal right aortic arch ; (III), a left aortic arch with the right subclavian artery displaced to the right aortic root ; (IV), an abnormal right aortic arch with the left subclavian displaced to the left aortic root. Upper A, ascending part of the aortic arch ; lower A, descending thoracic aorta; P, pulmonary trunk ; d, ductus arteriosus; a, right aortic root or its re- mains ; a', left aortic root ; c, common carotid arteries ; i, innominate artery ; s, right, and s', left subclavian arte- ries ; right, and v', left vertebral arteries. to the subclavian artery. The similar transference of a left subclavian artery, in combination with the anomaly of a right aortic arch, may be due to similar abnormal states of development occur- ring on a different side. So, also, many of the other less marked variations in the number and position of the perma- nent branches proceeding from the aortic arch probably owe their origin to cognate departures from the usual process of change in those parts of the original vascular arches with which their roots are connected. By reference to development we are likewise enabled to understand how the right aortic arch of the bird, and the double aortic arch of reptiles, arise by obliteration or permanence of different members of a series of branchial arches comparable with those of fishes. (Full reference to the history of cases of aortic varieties is given by Turner, " On Varieties of the Arch of the Aorta," Brit. & For. Med. Chir. Review, 1863; and an account of the origin of the varieties as explained by the observation of the develop, ment of the vessels is given in the same paper, and in that of A. Thomson, " Description of a Case of Right Aortic Arch," &c, Glasgow Med. Journ. 1862.) BRANCHES OF THE ARCH OF THE AORTA. THE CORONARY ARTERIES. The coronary or cardiac arteries are two small vessels, named right and left, which arise from the root of the aorta in the upper parts of the two Fig. 252.