xxix CORPUSCLES. animal: the goat was long supposed to have the smallest, viz., about FiL^th of an inch ; but Mr. Gulliver has found that they are much smaller in the Meminna and Napu musk deer, in which animals they are less than y-^l^^th of an inch. In birds they do not vary in size so much; from Mr. Gulliver's very elaborate tables of measurement it appears that they range in length from about TTL-Qth to -gVoo^k °^ an incni he states that their breadth is usually a little more than half the length, and their thickness about a third of the breadth or rather more. He found a remarkable exception in the cor- puscles of the snowy owl, which measure ys^th. of an inch in length ; and are only about a third of this in breadth. In scaly reptiles they are from -j-Jg-^th to yaVo^ °^ an i110*1 ^n length ; in the naked amphibia they are much larger : thus, in the frog they are y-^o g-th of an inch long, and j-jQ-^th. broad ; in the salamander they are larger still; but the largest yet known in any animal are those of the proteus, which are -j^oth of an inch in length, and y^yth in breadth ; the siren, which is so much allied to the proteus in other respects, agrees with it also in the very large size of its blood- corpuscles; they measure ^^th of an inch in length, and yg^th in breadth. In the skate and shark tribe the corpuscles resemble those of the frog, in other fishes they are smaller. From what has been stated, it will be seen that the size of the blood-cor- puscles in animals generally is not proportionate to the size of the body ; at the same time Mr. Gulliver remarks, that "if we compare the measure- ments made from a great number of different species of the same order, it will be found that there is a closer connection between the size of the animal and that of its blood-corpuscles than has been generally supposed ;" and he has pointed out at least one example of a very natural group of quadrupeds, the ruminants, in which there is a gradation of the size of the corpuscles in relation to that of the body. C. Schmidt, on account of the varying size which the corpuscles present, in dependence upon the density of the liquor sanguinis, has sub- jected them to repeated measurements when dried, in a very thin layer upon slips of glass. It has been thus found that from 95 to 98 per cent, present the same magnitude. Structure.—The large corpuscles of the frog and salamander, when drawn from the vessels and placed under the microscope, appear to consist of a thin, transparent, vesicular envelope, enclosing a solid oval nucleus in the centre, with a quantity of softer red-coloured matter disposed round the nucleus and filling up the space between it and the envelope. When exposed to the action of weak acetic acid, (fig. xvi.,3) the colouring matter is speedily extracted, and the nucleus becomes distinct, whilst the envelope is rendered so faint as to be scarcely visible ; but its outline may be still brought into view by adding solution of iodine, which gives it colour and opacity. Pure water extracts the colour and distends the corpuscle by imbibition, altering its shape from oval to round, and making the nucleus more conspicuous. Often in these circumstances the nucleus is displaced from its central position, and it may even be extruded altogether, as if by bursting of the corpuscle, which then appears flattened and colourless, and in this con- dition is generally supposed to represent only the ruptured and empty envelope ; but even with the help of iodine, no rent can be perceived in it. For this and also for other reasons some think that what remains behind after escape of the nucleus is really the soft and now colourless substance of the corpuscle, and that it has no distinct envelope. On the opposite view it is suggested that the absence of apparent laceration in the envelope is owing-