Fig. 323. 476 outer part of the foot and the back of the leg. VEINS OF THE LOWER LIMB AND PELVIS. Fig. 323.—Outline of the Posterior or Short Saphenous It is also usually joined near its termination by a posterior branch of considerable size, coming from the posterior and inner part of the thigh. The external or short saphenous vein proceeds from branches, which arise along the outer side of the dorsum of the foot. It passes behind the Vein. The vein, commencing on the dorsum and outside of the foot, is seen to pass up behind the outer ankle and to dip beneath the fascia in the popliteal space. outer ankle, and gradually inclines backwards to ascend along the border of the tendo Achillis and on the belly of the gastrocnemius muscle, accompanied by the external saphenous nerve; running upwards between the heads of the gastrocnemius, it unites with the popliteal vein. Opposite the ankle and along the leg it communicates with the deep veins : and it receives superficial accessory veins from the THE DEEP VEINS OF THE LOWER LIMB. The deep veins accompany the arteries and their branches, following exactly their distribution. Those below the knee, being for the most part disposed in pairs, and presenting the disposition described in the corresponding veins of the upper limb, are named the venue- comites of the vessels with which they are as- sociated. The venae comites of the arteries of the leg, namely, the anterior and posterior tibial veins (the latter having previously received the peroneal), unite near the lower border of the popliteus muscle, and form by their junction the popliteal vein. The valves of the deep veins of the leg are very numerous,—ten or twelve being sometimes found between the heel and the knee. The popliteal vein, thus formed, receives smaller branches correspond- ing with the articular and muscular arteries, and the larger branch named the external saphenous vein. In its course through the ham, the popliteal vein is placed at first internal to the popliteal artery, then behind, and lastly to the outer side of it, but always posteriorly and between it and the nerve. Thus situated, it passes up through the aperture in the adductor magnus, and becomes continuous with the femoral vein. Peculiarities.—The union of the veins which form the popliteal is often farther up than usual, and the lower part of the artery is accompanied by two veins. This arrangement in some rare cases extends to the entire length of the artery. The femoral vein extends, like the artery which it accompanies, through the upper two-thirds of the thigh, and terminates at Poupart's ligament in the external iliac vein. Placed at first outside the artery, it gradually inclines inwards behind it, and on reaching Poupart's ligament, lies on the inner side, on the same plane with the artery, and separated from it only by a slight partition of the membranous sheath, by which they are both invested.