THE SKIN. CCIV substance of the corium wherever hairs occur ; and their connection with the latter will be afterwards explained. Muscular bundles of the same kind are found in the subcutaneous tissue of the scrotum, penis, perineum, and areola of the nipple, as well as in the nipple itself. They join to form reticular superimposed layers, which are separated from the parts beneath by a stratum of simple lax areolar tissue, but towards the surface they are immediately applied to the corium. In the areola they are disposed circularly. In consequence of this gradual transition of the corium into the subjacent tissue, its thickness cannot be assigned with perfect precision. It is gene- rally said to measure from a quarter of a line or less to nearly a line and a half. As a general rule, it is thicker on the posterior aspect of the head, neck, and trunk, than in front ; and thicker on the outer than on the inner side of the limbs. The corium, as well as the cuticle, is remarkably thick on the soles of the feet and palms of the hands. The skin of the female is thinner than that of the male. For convenience of description it is not unusual to speak of the corium as consisting of two layers, the "reticular" and "papillary." The former, the more deeply-seated, takes no part in the construction of the papillae, but contains in its meshes hair-follicles, cutaneous glands, and fat. The latter is divided into papillae, and receives only the upper portion of the hair-follicles and glands, together with the terminal expansion of the vessels and nerves. The free surface of the corium is marked in various places with larger or smaller furrows, which also affect the superjacent cuticle. The larger of them are seen opposite the flexures of the joints, as those so well known in the palm of the hand and at the joints of the fingers. The finer furrows intersect each other at various angles, and may be seen almost all over the surface ; they are very conspicuous on the back of the hands. These fur- rows are not merely the consequence of the frequent folding of the skin by the action of muscles or the bending of joints, for they exist in the foetus. The wrinkles of old persons are of a different nature, and are caused by the wasting of the soft parts which the skin covers. Fine curvili- near ridges, with intervening furrows, mark the skin of the palm and sole ; these are caused by ranges of the papillae, to be immediately de- scribed. Papillce.—The free surface of the corium is beset with small eminences Fig. CIX. Fig. CX. Fig. CIX.—Papilla, as seen with a Microscope, on a portion of the True Skin, PROM WHICH THE CUTICLE HAS BEEN REMOVED (after Breschet). Fig. CX.—Compound Papilla from the Palm of the Hand, magnified 60 diameters. a, basis of a papilla ; b, b, divisions or branches of the same ; c, c, branches belong- ing to papillae of which the bases are hidden from view (after Kolliker).