THE SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. 45 directed backwards from the anterior to the posterior border, from the latter of which, however, in young bones the lamina remains disconnected. In front of this canal the mesial border of the bone rises to a considerably greater height than behind it, forming, with its neighbour, the nasal crest—a grooved elevation which supports the extremity of the vomer and the septal cartilage, and is pro- longed forwards into the nasal spine. Each incisor foramen widens out below into a larger hollow, which, when placed in apposition with its fellow, com- pletes a mesial aperture, the anterior palatine foramen. Viewed from below, this aperture may be seen to be divided into four smaller foramina, two of which placed laterally are the incisor foramina, called also foramina of Stenson, while the other two, placed in the middle line, one before the other, are distinguished as the foramina of Scarpa. The whole communication between the nose and the palate may be designated collectively as the anterior palatine canal. The terms incisor foramen and anterior palatine canal are often used convertibly and vaguely to express what has been above defined as the anterior palatine canal, or its inferior opening. According to the definitions here given, incisor foramen has the same meaning in human as in comparative anatomy, while anterior palatine canal is restricted to an appearance which presents itself only in man and a few animals. The lamina passing backwards from before each incisor foramen corresponds to the mesial palatine process of the intermaxillary bone in other animals, e. g., the carnivora : while the incisor foramina are those which are seen largely developed in those animals, and are the remains of a primitive communication between the nose and mouth. The foramina of Scarpa lie in the suture between the lamina? referred to. They transmit the naso palatine nerves; the nerve of the right side occupying, according to Scarpa, the posterior one, which is usually largest, and that of the left side the anterior : but they are very inconstant. (Scarpa, Annot. Anatom., lib. ii. cap. 5.) Fig. 39.—Front Part of the Palate and Alveolar Arch of an Adult, § Showing the lower opening of the anterior palatine or incisor foramen. 1, 2, are placed on the palate plates of the two superior maxillary bones ; 4, anterior pa- latine foramen, in which is seen a partial division into four openings—the two lateral, with lines pointing to them from 1 and 2, are the incisor foramina (foramina of Stenson) ; the anterior and posterior, indicated by 3 and 4, are the naso-palatine, or foramina of Scarpa. The external surface is divided into an anterior and a posterior part by the malar process, a prominence presenting a large triangular roughness for articulation with the malar bone, which abuts by its upper border against the edge of the orbital surface, and at its inferior angle projects outwards and downwards above the first molar tooth. The anterior portion is excavated in a smooth curved notch at its internal margin for the opening of the anterior nares. It is marked by a prominence corresponding to the position of the fang of the canine tooth ; and in- ternal to this is a slight depression, the incisor or myrtiform fossa ; while between it and the malar process is the much deeper canine fossa, in which arise the levator anguli oris and compressor nasi muscles. Above the canine fossa, immediately below the margin of the orbit, is the infra-orbital foramen, which transmits the superior maxillary nerve. The posterior portion looks partly into the zygomatic, partly into the pterygo-maxillary fossa. It exhibits a convexity, the tuberosity, which projects backwards, and is perforated by a number of foramina transmitting the superior dental nerves and arteries.