12 VERTEBRAL COLUMN. surface which articulates with the body of the last lumbar vertebra, and behind this, a triangular aperture, which leads into the sacral canal, and is bounded behind by the sharp depressed border of the laminae of the first sacral vertebra. On each side of the aperture is an articulating pro- cess with a vertical articular surface looking backwards and inwards like the superior articulating processes of the lumbar Vertebras. In front of this is a groove which forms part of the last lumbar intervertebral foramen. The external portion of the base presents posteriorly an eminence cor- responding to the lumbar transverse process, and in front of that a large smooth convex surface, inclined forwards and continuous with the iliac fossa of the pelvis. The apex, formed by the small inferior surface of the body of the fifth sacral vertebra, is transversely oval, and articulates with the coccyx. The sacral canal is three-sided, curved with the bone, and gradually nar- rowed as it descends. It opens below on the posterior surface of the bone, between the sacral cornua, where the laminae of the last sacral vertebra do not unite. From this canal there pass outwards in the substance of the bone four pairs of intervertebral foramina, or short canals, each of which divides externally into an anterior and posterior sacral foramen. Curvature.—The curve of the sacrum varies greatly in different skeletons : in some it is slight and confined to the lower end, while in others it is observable in the whole length, but especially about the middle. . Differences in the sexes.—The sacrum of the female body is broader in proportion to its length than that of the male, so as to approach the form of an equilateral triangle, and is seldom curved greatly, or in its whole extent. The sacrum of the female also usually inclines backwards from the direction of the lumbar vertebra? to a greater extent than that of the male. Varieties.—The sacrum is subject to numerous and considerable variations. It not unfrequently consists of six pieces, and it has been found, but much more rarely, reduced to four. (Scemmerring, " Lehre von den Knochen und Bandera, &c, herausgegeben von Rudolph Wagner," 1839, p. 128.) It is not fully determined whether these differences depend on increased development of the first coccygeal vertebra and on diminished development of the fifth sacral, or whether there may not be an interposition of a new vertebra in one instance, and the loss of one of the ordinary series in the other. Occasionally the bodies of the first and second sacral vertebrae are not joined, although complete union has taken place in every other part; and in like manner sometimes a space is left between their arches. The lower end of the sacral canal may be open to a greater extent than usual, in consequence of some of the vertebral laminse not having reached the middle line posteriorly: it has even been found open in its whole extent. (Thomson.) Instances occur in which the first sacral vertebra has on one side the usual sacral form, while on the other it has the appearance of a lumbar vertebra, and occasionally it presents cha- racters on both sides, intermediate between those of the sacrum and lumbar vertebrae. THE COCCYX. The coccyx consists most commonly of four rudimentary vertebrae; some- times of five, seldom of only three. The coccygeal vertebrae diminish gradually in size from above downwards, and are placed in a continuous line with the lower part of the sacrum. The first of the series is considerably broader than the others. It presents superiorly a small oval concave surface which articulates with the apex of the sacrum, two lateral projections corresponding with those of the last sacral vertebra, and two small processes, termed cornua^ corresponding to a certain extent with articulating processes, which project upwards from its posterior aspect and rest upon the sacral cornua. The lateral parts project