422 INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. Fig. 289. Fig. 289.—View of the Viscera of the Male Pelvis from the left side, showing the Vesical and Pudic Arteries (from 11. Q.uain). | a, the os pubis divided a little to the left of the symphysis; b, placed close to the upper part of the urinary bladder, upon which lies the vas deferens ; c, placed on the upper part of the rectum, near the left ureter ; c', at the junction of the middle and lower parts of the rectum points to the vesicula seminalis ; c", the anus ; d, the urethral bulb ; e, the crus penis divided ; /, the short sacro-sciatic ligament attached to the spine of the ischium ; 1, common iliac artery ; 2, internal iliac artery ; 3, gluteal artery cut short; 4, common trunk of the sciatic and pudic arteries ; 4', sciatic artery cut as it is passing out of the great sacro-sciatic foramen ; 5, placed on the divided surface of the ischium near the spine, points to the pudic artery as it is about to re-enter the pelvis by the lesser sacro-sciatic foramen ; 5', the superficial perineal branches of the pudic; 5", the pudic artery, proceeding to give the artery of the bulb, and passing on to give 6, the artery of the crus penis and the dorsal artery of the penis ; 7, placed on the middle part of the rectum, points to the descending branches of the superior hemorrhoidal artery ; 8, the superior and middle vesical arteries ; 9, the inferior vesical artery, of considerable size in this instance, giving branches to the bladder, the vesicula seminalis, the rectum (middle hoeraorrhoidal), and 9', to the prostate gland. sources. It anastomoses with the branches of the other hemorrhoidal arteries. II. UTERINE AND VAGINAL ARTERIES. The uterine artery is directed downwards from the anterior division of the internal iliac artery towards the neck of the uterus. Insinuating itself be- tween the layers of the broad ligament, it passes upwards on the side of the uterus, pursuing an exceedingly tortuous course, and sends off numerous branches, which enter the substance of that organ. This artery supplies small branches to the bladder and the ureter; and, near its termination, communicates with an offset directed inwards from the ovarian artery. Vaginal artery.—The vagina derives its arteries principally from a branch which corresponds with the inferior vesical in the male. The vaginal artery descends and ramifies upon the vagina, at the same time sending some