cxcviii MUCOUS MEMBRANES. simply arranged, presents an even surface, as in the tympanum and nasal sinuses, the basement membrane is absent, at least not demonstrated. In such situations it may possibly have originally existed as a constituent of the corium, and have been obliterated or rendered inconspicuous in conse- quence of subsequent modifications. The basement membrane, as already said, forms the peripheral boundary of the corium ; it is in immediate connection with the epithelium. By its under surface it more or less closely adjoins the fibro-vascular layer. The vessels of the latter advance close up to the basement membrane, but no- where penetrate it ; the delicate film of which it consists is indeed wholly extra-vascular. In structure the membrane in question seems perfectly homogeneous, but marks resembling the nuclei of epithelium cells are some- times seen disposed evenly over its surface, and some observers, considering these as forming an integrant part of the membrane, have looked on them as so many reproductive centres from which new epithelium particles are generated. Mr. Bowman, on the other hand, considers these objects as nuclei belonging to the undermost and as it were nascent epithelium cells, which have remained adherent to the really simple basement membrane. The fibro-vascular layer of the corium is composed of vessels both sangui- ferous and lymphatic, with fibres of connective tissue, and, in many parts, of non-striated muscular tissue, variously disposed. The nerves also which belong to the mucous membrane are distributed in this part of its structure. The vessels exist universally in mucous membranes, except in that which covers the anterior surface of the cornea ; there the epithelium and base- ment membrane are present, but, in the adult, no vessels except at the border. Elsewhere the branches of the arteries and veins, dividing in the submucous tissue, send smaller branches into the corium, which at length form a network of capillaries in the fibro-vascular layer. This capillary network lies immediately beneath the epithelium, or the basement mem- brane when this is present, advancing with that membrane into the villi and papillae to be presently described, and surrounding the tubes and other glandular recesses, into which it is hollowed. The lymphatics also form networks, which communicate with plexuses of larger vessels in the sub- mucous tissue ; their arrangement generally, as well as in the villi, has been already noticed. The fibres of connective tissue which enter into the formation of the corium are both the white and the elastic. The former are arranged in interlacing bundles, the elastic commonly in networks ; but the amount of both is very different in different parts. In some situations, as in the gullet, windpipe, bladder, and vagina, the connective tissue is abundant, and extends throughout the whole thickness of the fibro-vascular layer, forming a con- tinuous and tolerably compact web, and rendering the mucous membrane of those parts comparatively stout and tough. In the stomach and intestines, on the other hand, where the membrane is more complex, and at the same time weaker in structure, the elastic fibres are wanting and the white con- nective tissue is in small proportion ; its principal bundles follow and sup- port the blood-vessels, deserting, however, their finer and finest branches which lie next the basement membrane ; and accordingly there exists, for some depth below this membrane, a stratum of the corium in which very few if any filaments of the common areolar tissue are seen. In this stratum of the gastro-enteric mucous membrane, the tubular glands with their lining epithelium are set, and between and around them the numerous sanguiferous capillaries and lymphatic vessels are distributed ; but the sub-