SCALY EPITHELIUM. liv the serous membranes ; but in some situations, and especially in the arteries, the flattened cells, together with their nuclei, assume an oblong fusiform figure, and sometimes their outline becomes indistinct from blending of neighbouring cells. A scaly epithelium, in which the cells form several layers, (thence named stratified) covers the skin, where it constitutes the scarf-skin or epidermis, which, together with the hairs and nails, will be afterwards more fully described. In this form it exists, also, on the conjunctival covering of the eyeball; on the membrane of the nose for a short distance inwardly ; on the tongue and the inside of the mouth, throat and gullet ; on the vulva and vagina, extending some way into the cervix of the uterus ; also (in both sexes), on a very small extent of the membrane of the urethra, adjoining the external orifice. It is found, also, on the synovial membranes which line the joints. Its principal use, no doubt, is to afford a protective covering to these surfaces, which are almost all more or less exposed to friction. The cells in this sort of epithelium become converted into broad thin scales, from to ^-1^ of an inch in diameter, which are loosened and cast off at the free surface. Such scales, both single and connected in little patches, may be at all times seen with the microscope in mucus scraped from the inside of the mouth, as shown in fig. xxi. ; but to trace the progressive changes of the cells, they must be suc- cessively examined at different depths from the surface, and the epithelium must also be viewed in profile, or in a perpendicular section, as exhibited in fig. XXII. The deepest cells, or those next the subjacent tissue, are sometimes Fig. XXII. Fig. XXII.—Epithelium from the Conjunctiva of the Calf, folded so that the FREE SURFACE FORMS THE UPPER BORDER OF THE FIGURE, AND RENDERED TRANS- PARENT by Acetic Acid. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, progressive flattening of the cells as they rise to the surface. The outline figures represent single cells from different depths, viewed on their surface; and at 4' and 5', edgeways. Magnified 410 diameters (chiefly after Henle). Fig. XXL Fig. XXL—Epithelium Scales from THE INSIDE OF THE MOUTH ; MAGNI- FIED 260 diameters (Henle).