Ixvi ADIPOSE TISSUE. sited beneath the serous membranes, or is collected between their folds, as in the mesentery and omentum, at first generally gathering along the course of the blood-vessels, and at length accumulating very copiously. Collections of fat are also common round the joints, lying on the outer surface of the synovial membrane, and filling up inequalities ; in many cases, lodged, like the fat of the omentum, in folds of the membrane, which project into the articular cavity. Lastly, the fat exists in large quantity within the bones, where it forms the marrow. On the other hand there are some parts in which fat is never found in the healthy condition of the body. Thus it does not exist in the subcutaneous areolar tissue of the eyelids and penis, nor in the lungs, nor within the cavity of the cranium. When subjected to the Fig. XXXIV. microscope, the adipose tissue (fig. xxxiv.) is seen to consist of small vesicles, filled with an oily matter, and for the most part lodged in the meshes of the areolar tissue. The vesicles are most commonly collected into little lobular clus- ters, and these again into the little lumps of fat which we see with the naked eye, and Fig. XXXIV. —A SMALL CLUSTER OF FaT-CeLLS J MAG- wMch in SOme Parts are nified 150 diameters. aggregated into round or irregular masses of considerable magnitude. Sometimes the vesicles, though grouped together, have less of a clustered arrangement ; as when they collect alongside of the minute blood-vessels of thin membranous parts. In well-nourished bodies the vesicles or fat-cells are round or oval, unless where packed closely together, in which case they acquire an angular figure, and bear a striking resemblance to the cells of vegetable tissues. The greater number of them are from g-^th to g^^th of an inch in diameter, but many exceed or fall short of this measurement. Each one consists of a very delicate envelope, inclosing the oily matter, which, completely filling the envelope, appears as a single drop. The envelope is generally quite transparent, and apparently homogeneous in structure. * In ill-nourished bodies, and especially in those presenting serous infiltration of the tissues (as in dropsy), different forms of fat-cells are observed. (1.) Granular, yellowish-white vesicles, containing numerous small fat globules. (2.) Yellow, or yellowish-red cells, filled with serum and globules of brownish- yellow fat. The relative proportion of the serum and fat varies ; but in all cases of this description Kolliker states that he has discovered a nucleus and nucleolus. The nucleus may be seen without re-agents, but is rendered more apparent by acetic acid. The vesicular envelope is found in different conditions. Sometimes it is normal ; but it has been seen finer and also thicker than usual. When thickened it may present the appearance of either a single or a double contour. (3.) Fatless cells, with normal or thickened walls. (4.) Fat-cells containing crystals (probably of margaric acid), either yellow or white in colour. At first sight these cells appear filled