214 MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. brachial artery. Its inferior tendon is in contact with the supinator brevis, and the fibrous expansion is stretched across the brachial artery and median nerve. Occasionally a third head, arising from the humerus in more or less close connection with the brachialis anticus and the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, is added to the biceps muscle : this head lies generally on the outer side of the brachial artery, and has sometimes been found covering it. A muscular band has also been observed extending downwards from the biceps to the intermuscular septum over the inner condyle of the humerus, and passing over the brachial artery. (R. Quain, " The Anatomy of the Arteries," &c, p. 270, pi. 57.) The brachialis anticus muscle (brachiseus internus) arises from the lower half of the anterior surface of the humerus. At the upper part of its origin it embraces the insertion of the deltoid by two angular fleshy pro- cesses ; it extends downwards to the capsule of the elbow-joint, and inwards to the internal supracondyloid ridge and intermuscular septum in its whole extent ; on its outer side it is separated from the external ridge and septum in the greater part of its length by the supinator longus, and only arises from it for a short distance at its upper end. It is closely adherent to the ligament in front of the elbow-joint, and terminates below in a thick mass which is inserted into the rough triangular surface on the front of the coronoid process of the ulna. This muscle projects at each side of the biceps, and supports the brachial artery and median nerve. Fibres have been found to pass inwards from it, over the brachial artery, to the internal intermuscular septum. The triceps extensor cubiti, occupying the whole space behind the humerus and intermuscular septa, consists superiorly of three portions or heads which are united lower down in a common mass, the tendon of which is inserted into the posterior and upper part of the olecranon, a bursa intervening between that tendon and the most prominent part of this process. The middle or long head (musculus anconeus longus) arises from the lower part of the glenoid cavity and an adjoining rough portion of the inferior border of the scapula, by a tendon which spreads over the sides of the muscular structure proceeding from it. The muscular fibres from this source descend and form the middle and superficial part of the common mass, presenting a flat vertical tendon on their surface inferiorly. The external head (m. anconeus brevis) takes origin by tendinous and fleshy fibres from the humerus along a line extending from the insertion of the teres minor, downwards on the outer border of the humerus as low as the musculo-spiral groove ; from this line of origin its fibres, which are comparatively short, descend obliquely to be inserted into the tendon of the middle part. The lowest fibres of this head are bound down by a slight aponeurotic arch over the extremity of the musculo-spiral groove, and below their inferior margin other fibres are found arising from the external inter- muscular septum and the surface of the humerus behind ; but these last pass to be inserted more deeply than into the tendon of the middle part of the muscle, and are rather to be considered as belonging to the muscular mass which forms the internal head. The internal or deep head (m. an- coneus internus), the shortest of the three, commences in a narrow pointed part behind and below the tendon of insertion of the teres major, and arises from the whole posterior surface of the humerus below the musculo- spiral groove, from the internal intermuscular septum in all its length, and from the inferior portion of the external septum; some of its lower