243 TRIANGULARIS STERNI. DIAPHRAGM. The subcostal or infracostal muscles are small bundles lying on the inner aspect of the thoracic wall, close to the surface of the internal inter- costals, and chiefly in the neighbourhood of the angles of the ribs. They follow the same direction as the internal intercostal muscles, but their fibres extend over two or three intercostal spaces. They are most constant on the lower ribs (see fig. 195). The triangularis sterni, a thin stratum of muscular and tendinous fibres placed within the thorax, behind the costal cartilages, arises from the deep surface of the ensiform process of the lower part of the body of the sternum, and of the cartilages of one or two of the lower true ribs. Its fibres pass outwards and upwards in a diverging manner, the lowest being horizontal, the middle oblique, and the upper becoming more and more nearly vertical; and are inserted by separate slips into the cartilages of the true ribs from the sixth to the second inclusive, on the lower border and inner surface of each, at the junction with the bony part. At the lower margin the fibres are in the same plane with those of the transversalis abdominis, of which this muscle is a continuation upwards. The triangularis sterni is subject to much variation as to its extent and points of attachment in different bodies, and even on the opposite sides of the same body. The internal mammary artery and veins pass between its anterior surface and the costal cartilages. Occasional Muscle.—The rectus sternalis, or sternalis brutorum, is an elongated muscle, of nearly the same length as the sternum, frequently seen lying in front and parallel to the outer margin of that bone, and over the inner part of the pectoral muscle. It is fleshy in the middle and tendinous at both ends; it is attached superiorly to the sternum in connection with the tendon of the sterno-mastoid, and inferiorly it is connected -with the rectus abdominis muscle. It is rarely present on both sides. It represents a muscle which is constant in some animals. THE DIAPHKAGM. The diaphragm, phren, septum transversum, or midriff, forms a musculo- tendinous partition between the abdominal and thoracic cavities. It consists of muscular fibres which arch upwards as they converge from the circumference of the visceral cavity to a tendinous structure in the centre, and it is perforated by the various structures which pass from the thorax to the abdomen. The fibres arise from the bodies of several of the upper lumbar vertebra? by two thick crura ; from two arches on each side external to the bodies of the vertebrae, called ligamenta arcuata ; and from the ensiform cartilage and the cartilages of the six lower ribs. a. The crura arise by tendinous fibres more or less distinctly aggregated into two bundles which are attached over a varying extent of surface. On the right side they are connected with the first, second, and third lumbar vertebrae, and the interposed fibro-cartilages, or sometimes with the second, third, and fourth ; on the left side, the attachment is shorter by the breadth of one vertebra. The tendons of both crura curve forwards and upwards so as to enclose the aorta in an arch between them and the bodies of the vertebrae ; their inner margins are united behind, so that they form a nearly complete fibrous ring round that vessel. The muscular fibres of the crura, springing from those tendons in thick bundles, on each side of the aorta, diverge as they pass upwards to the central aponeurosis. The innermost fibres on each side decussate with those of the side opposite, those ii 2