235 ERECTOR SVWM MUSCLE. highest ribs, and inserted into the transverse processes of three cervical vertebrae, usually the fourth, fifth, and sixth. Its insertions are intimately connected with those of the transversalis cervicis. d. The longissimus dorsi, the main muscle of the inner column of the erector spinas, is both larger and longer than the ilio-costalis, its original fibres passing as high as the first dorsal vertebra. Internally it is closely connected on the surface with the spinalis dorsi, from the lower part of which it generally receives one or more tendinous slips. When those slips, and the tendons of origin from the lumbar spines are cut through, the inner surface of the muscle can be brought into view. The longissimus dorsi presents two series of insertions. The inner row of insertions is a series of rounded tendons attached to the inferior tubercles of all the transverse pro- cesses of the dorsal, and the accessory processes of the lumbar vertebrae. The outer insertions form in the dorsal region a series of thin processes attached to the nine or ten lowest ribs, sometimes more or fewer, and in the lumbar region are attached by fleshy slips to the whole length of the transverse processes, and beyond these to the lumbar fascia arising from them. e. The transversalis cervicis prolongs upwards the column of fibres of the longissimus dorsi. It arises from the internal tubercles of the transverse processes of the four or five highest dorsal vertebrae, and occasionally the last cervical, and is inserted into the transverse processes of five cervical vertebrae from the second to the sixth inclusive. It always receives a slip of the original fibres of the longissimus dorsi. /. The trachelo-mastoid muscle, which may be regarded as the con- tinuation of the longissimus dorsi to the head, arises in close connection with the transversalis cervicis from the upper dorsal transverse processes, and also from behind the articular processes of the three or four lowest cervical vertebrae, and forming a thin flat muscle, passes to be inserted into the pos- terior margin of the mastoid process, under cover of the splenius and sterno-mastoid muscles. It is the only muscle which lies between the splenius and complexus, and the only portion of the erector-spinae concealed by the former. g. The spinalis dorsi is a long narrow muscle placed at the inner side of the longissimus dorsi, and closely connected with it. It arises by numerous tendons from the spines of the first two lumbar, and the two lowest dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into from four to eight of the higher dorsal spines. It adheres closely to the semispinalis muscle upon which it lies. Actions.—The splenii and trachelo-masfcoid muscles of both sides acting together draw backwards the head and upper cervical vertebrae: when the muscles of one side only act the extension is accompanied by lateral flexion and rotation, especially of the head on the axis. The greater part of the erector muscles of the spine, when those of both sides are in action, bends backwards the vertebral column and trunk; and these muscles co- operate powerfully in almost every great muscular effort of the body or limbs. It is the power of these muscles to straighten the back from the bent condition, of which a measure is obtained by the muscular dynamometer; the amount of this varies in adults of medium strength from 300 lbs. to 400 lbs. By the action of the erector muscles of one side a certain amount of lateral flexion and of rotation, which is greatest in the chest, accompanies the extension. These muscles also, by their costal attachments, if the spine be fixed, depress the ribs, and thus assist in expiration; but it is likewise conceivable that the cervicalis ascendens and musculus accessorius, in acting from fixed points above, may have the effect of elevating the ribs.