401 THORACIC AORTA. radial or ulnar system of arteries, accompanied by a corresponding increase in the other ; and it may be observed that the defect is much more commonly on the part of the superficial, and the increase on the part of the deep set. (b) In a second and smaller class of variations a deficiency in one or other of the two systems is supplied, either by the enlargement of branches which descend in front of the limb, as the superficial volar (from the radial), or the median artery (from the anterior interosseous), or by the enlargement of a metacarpal branch (from the radial) on the back of the hand. In illustration of these general remarks, the following modes of arrangement of the vessels may be mentioned :— In the greater number of cases the superficial palmar arch is diminished, and gives off fewer digital branches than usual. Generally only one branch is wanting, viz., that which supplies the adjacent sides of the fore and middle fingers; but some- times two or three branches are absent, or even all four, as when the ulnar artery, after giving branches to the short muscles of the little finger, ends in the deep pal- mar arch. In the last-mentioned case, which is rare, it is obvious that the superficial arch is altogether wanting. These various deficiencies in the superficial palmar arch and its branches are usually compensated for by an enlargement of the deep arch, the palmar inter- osseous branches of which, being increased in size, divide at the clefts of the fingers, and form such collateral digital branches as are not derived from the usual source. But a defective superficial arch may, as before mentioned, be reinforced from other vessels, viz., from the superficial volar, from an enlarged median artery, or from a large metacarpal branch. It sometimes, but more rarely, happens, that the radial system of vessels is defi- cient ; in which case the superficial arch (which belongs to the ulnar system) may supply all the digital arteries to the thumb and fingers, or one of these may be derived from the superficial volar, the median, or the radial interosseous artery. DESCENDING AORTA. —THORACIC AORTA. From the point at which its arch is considered to terminate—the lower margin of the third dorsal vertebra, the aorta descends along the fore part of the spine to the fourth lumbar vertebra, where it divides into the common iliac arteries. The direction of this part of the vessel is not vertical, for as it follows the bend of the spine, upon which it rests, it is necessarily con- cave forwards in the dorsal region, and convex forwards in the lumbar. Again, as its commencement is at the left side of the bodies of the vertebrae, and its termination also inclined a little to the left, whilst about the last dorsal vertebra the vessel is nearly upon the median line, there is produced another slight curve, the convexity of which is to the right side. Within the thorax, where the offsets are small, the aorta diminishes only slightly in size ; in the abdomen the diminution is considerable, in consequence of large branches being furnished to the viscera of that cavity. That part of the descending aorta which is situated in the thorax, is called the thoracic aorta ; it extends from the lower border of the third dorsal vertebra on the left side, to the opening between the crura of the diaphragm in front of the last dorsal vertebra. It lies in the back part of the inter- pleural space or mediastinum, being placed before the spine and behind the root of the left lung and the pericardium ; on the left side it is in contact with the corresponding pleura and lung, and close on the right side are the azygos vein, the thoracic duct, and the oesophagus. The oesophagus, how- ever, towards the lower part of the thorax is in front of the artery, and near the diaphragm gets somewhat to the left side. The left or small azygos vein crosses behind the thoracic aorta. The branches derived from the thoracic aorta are numerous, but small.