THE BLOOD. xxxii in venous than arterial blood ; and it is much greater in the blood of the splenic and hepatic veins than in venous blood generally. They are destitute of colour, finely granulated on the surface, and specifically lighter than the red corpuscles. The large corpuscles are less distinctly granular than the small. Water has little effect on them ; acetic acid brings speedily into view a nucleus, which frequently presents a reddish tint (Virchow and Kolliker), consisting sometimes of one, but more commonly of two, three, or four, large clear 'granules (fig. xviii.,2> 3). The number of apparent nuclei is said by Mr. Wharton Jones to depend upon the strength of the acetic acid employed ; if the acid is much diluted, only one is seen ; if strong acid is used, the nucleus breaks up into three or four nuclear-looking particles. Under the action of the acid the circumferential part of the corpuscle becomes clear of granules and pellucid, and swells up by imbibition with a regular and well- defined outline, which has been taken for the indi- cation of a fine envelope, but conclusive evidence on this point is wanting. The clear substance is eventually dissolved, the nucleus remaining. The pale corpuscles frequently undergo curious changes of shape, sending out processes into which the granules enter, and retracting them again; in short, exhibiting phenomena which have been aptly compared to the movements of an amoeba. Albuminous granules and molecules of a fatty nature occur in the blood in varying numbers ; sometimes very scantily, or not at all, but the latter sometimes in vast numbers so as to give the serum a turbid, milky appearance. These are probably derived directly from the chyle (its "molecular base "), and they are especially seen in the blood of herbivora, in sucking animals, and in pregnant women. Occasional Elements.—Besides the foregoing, the blood occasionally presents the following constituents :—(1) bodies like cells, enclosing blood-corpuscles, noticed by Ecker and Kolliker in the blood of the spleen and hepatic vessels, and elsewhere. (2) Pigmentous granule-cells. (3) Pale, fine-granular, roundish aggregations, in the splenic blood. (4) Peculiar bodies, three or four times larger than the pale corpuscles, but in other respects resembling them. (5) Caudate, pale, or pigmentous cells. (6) Fibrinous coagula. Liquor Sanguinis, or Plasma.—This is the pale clear fluid in which the corpuscles are naturally immersed. Its great character is its strong ten- dency to coagulate when the blood is withdrawn from the circulating current, and on this account it is difficult to procure it free from the corpuscles. Nevertheless, by filtering the slowly coagulable blood of the frog, as was first practised by Muller, the large corpuscles are retained by the filter, while the liquor sanguinis comes through in perfectly clear and colourless drops, which, while yet clinging to the funnel, or after they have fallen into the recipient, separate into a pellucid glassy film of fibrin, and an equally transparent diffluent serum. When human blood is drawn in in- flammatory diseases, as well as in some other conditions of the system, the red particles separate from the liquor sanguinis before coagulation, and leave the upper part of the liquid clear. In this case, however, the plasma is still mixed with the pale corpuscles, which, being light, accumulate at the top. On coagulation taking place in these circumstances, the upper part of Fig. XVIII. ® $ Fig. XVIII. —Pale Corpuscles of Hu- man Blood ; magni- fied ABOUT 500 DIA- METERS. 1, natural aspect; 2 and 3, acted on by weak acetic acid, which brings into view the single or composite nucleus.