Ixiv PIGMENT. cuticle of the European. In different forms also they exist on certain parts of the investing membrane (pia mater) of the spinal cord, in the membranous labyrinth of the ear, and (with brownish yellow pigment) on the olfactory region of the nose. The pigment cells of the choroid membrane (fig. xxxu.) are for the most part polyhedral in figure, most generally six-sided, and connected together like the pieces of a mosaic pavement; others are spheroidal, and most of those on the back of the iris are of that shape. The cells contain the pig- ment, strictly so called, which consists of black or brown granules or mole- cules of a round or oblong shape, and almost too small for exact measure- ment. These molecules are densely packed together in some cells ; in others they are more scattered, and then it may be seen that there is a certain amount of colourless matter in- cluded along with them. When they escape from the ruptured cells, they exhibit very strikingly the molecular movement ; and in consequence of this movement the apparent figure of the particles is subject to change. It is worthy of remark, that when viewed singly with a very high magnifying power they look transparent and almost colourless, and it is only when they are heaped together that their black- ness distinctly appears. The cells have a colourless nucleus, which is very generally hidden from view by the black particles. It contains a central nucleolus. Examined chemically, the black matter is found to be insoluble in cold and hot water, alcohol, ether, fixed and volatile oils, acetic and diluted mineral acids. Its colour is discharged by chlorine. The pigment of the bullock's eye, when purified by boiling in alcohol and ether, was found by Scherer to consist of 58'672 carbon, 5*962 hydrogen, 13*768 nitrogen, and 21*598 oxygen ; its proportion of carbon is thus very large. Preceding chemists had obtained from its ashes oxide of iron, chloride of sodium, lime, and phosphate of lime. The dark colour of the Negro is known to have its seat in the cuticle, and chiefly in the deeper and softer part named the rete mucosum. It is caused by cells containing dark-brown colouring matter, either diffused through their substance or in form of granules—usually more densely aggregated round the nucleus. These cells are found along with ordinary, colourless cells, which in other respects they entirely resemble : and the depth of tint depends on the proportion of each. It is affirmed, on good authority, that the nuclei of these epidermic pigment-cells are coloured, but of this I have not been able to satisfy myself in examinations of the JSTegro skin. The dark parts of the European skin owe their colour and its dif- ferent shades to intermixture in the cuticle of similar cells in different pro- portions. Lastly, it cannot be doubted, that in both the coloured and white races, the colouring matter of the skin is the same in its essential nature as that of the choroid. In Albino individuals, both Negro and European, Fig. XXXII. Fig. XXXII. — Pigment-Cells from the Choroid ; magnified 370 diameters (Henle). A, cells still cohering, seen on their surface ; a, nucleus indistinctly seen. In the other cells the nucleus is con- cealed by the pigment granules. B, two cells seen in profile ; a, the outer or posterior part containing scarcely any pigment.