207 SERRATUS MAGNUS. ACTIONS. trapezoid parts of the coraco-clavicular ligament. It is covered in front by the costo-coracoid membrane or fascia. The serratus magnus muscle, placed upon the upper and lateral part of the thorax, between the ribs and the scapula, is attached anteriorly by nine fleshy angular slips to the first eight ribs, two of these being connected with the second rib ; it also derives some fibres from the aponeurosis covering the upper intercostal spaces. Posteriorly, the muscle, considerably narrowed, is attached to the line in front of the base of the scapula, and at the upper and lower angles of the bone into the flat surfaces which are excluded from the fossa of the subscapular muscle. The fibres are arranged in three sets, thus—a. Those from the first and second digita- tions form a thick bundle which terminates on the flat area in front of the upper angle of the scapula ; b. those of the third and fourth digitations, but especially the first of these, which is the inferior digitation of the second rib, spread out into a triangular layer, the thinnest part of the muscle, and are attached along the line in front of the base of the scapula, extending from the place of insertion of the preceding part nearly to the lower angle of the bone ; c. the remaining five or six digitations converge in the form of a fan, and terminate in a thick mass, which is attached posteriorly to the flat surface in front of the lower angle of the scapula. By its deep surface, the serratus magnus rests on the upper ribs, the intercostal muscles, and part of the serratus posticus superior. Its outer surface is in contact posteriorly with the subscapular muscle, and forms anteriorly the internal wall of the axilla, being subcutaneous in the lower part of its extent. Not unfrequently the number of digitations, and the number of the ribs with which the muscle is connected, are greater than above described. Occasionally the attachment to the first rib is wanting; and examples are recorded of the absence of the middle part of the muscle. Actions.—Considered with reference to the movements of the limb upon the trunk, the upper part of the trapezius, the levator scapulae, and the rhomboid muscles are elevators of the shoulder; the lower part of the trapezius, the pectoralis minor and the subclavius are depressors; the serratus magnus as a whole carries forward the base of the scapula, and the rhomboidei draw it back; the latissimus dorsi and pectoralis major depress the humerus and carry it towards the middle line, behind or in front, according as the one or other muscle is in action. More particularly, the superior fibres of the trapezius elevate the clavicle; the succeeding fibres acting on the acromion have also some elevating action, but tend rather to carry back the scapula towards the spine ; the inferior part of the muscle acting upon the spine of the scapula would of itself depress that bone while it carried it inwards towards the dorsal spines, but acting in concert with the upper two-thirds of the muscle, a rotation is produced in the scapula round a central point in such a manner that while the whole bone, and more especially the acromion, is raised and carried towards the dorsal spines, the upper angle of the scapula is somewhat depressed and carried inwards, while the lower angle is carried outwards and elevated. The levator scapula, in elevating the superior angle of the scapula, counteracts in some degree the rotating action of the trapezius, and this is further effected by the rhomboid muscles, more especially the greater, which, as its main attachment is near the inferior angle of the scapula, necessarily tends to raise that part and bring it nearer to the dorsal spines. In this manner when the trapezius, levator, and rhomboid muscles act together, the scapula is raised without rotation, and its base is carried at the same time inwards towards the dorsal spines. The subclavius, by depressing the clavicle, diminishes the space between that bone and the first rib, and may probably act principally as a support to the sterno-clavicular articulation. The pectoralis minor, in bringing the coracoid process downwards and forwards, tends to throw the lower angle of the scapula backwards.