* xxxiv THE BLOOD. state, is calculated at 1-088. They consist, as already stated, of an insoluble, colourless tegumentary substance (envelope) and an included red matter, which, is soluble and separable by water. The former doubtless belongs to the group of albuminoids or protein-bodies, and some have regarded it as a species of fibrin, but in truth it cannot be specifically characterised. In numerical statements of blood-analyses it is reckoned along with the globulin. The soluble coloured ingredient, for which it is convenient to retain the old name of cruor, is separable into two sub- stances,—one named globulin, of itself colourless, and very nearly allied to albumen in its nature ; the other a colouring principle, named hcematin or hcemaiosin, which imparts redness to the first; and hence the cruor is often also designated as hoemato-globulin. These maybe separated by the following process:— Blood deprived of fibrin by stirring is mixed with at least four times its bulk of saturated solution of sulphate of soda, and thrown upon a filter; a few of the corpuscles pass through with the liquid, but the greater part remain on the filter in form of a moist red mass. This is boiled with alcohol slightly acidulated with sulphuric acid ; the haematin is thereby dissolved, while the colourless globulin remains behind. Carbonate of ammonia is then added to the acid solution of haematin while it is yet hot, to remove sulphuric acid, and, after being cleared by filtration from sulphate of ammonia, and a little globulin which is precipitated, the liquor is evaporated to a twelfth of its bulk ; it then deposits the haematin in form of a dark brown or almost black powder, from which a minute proportion of fat may be extracted by means of ether. Hcematin thus obtained appears to be altered by the process of separa- tion, for it is no longer soluble in water. It is insoluble also in alcohol and ether ; but it readily dissolves in any of these liquids after being mixed with potash, soda, or ammonia, forming deep red solutions. It likewise dissolves in alcohol to which an acid has been added, but its acid combinations are insoluble in water. When burned, it yields nearly ten per cent, of peroxide of iron, representing nearly seven per cent, of iron. The quantity of iron is estimated by Schmidt as 1 to 230 parts of red cor- puscles. According to Mulder, haematin is composed of carbon 65-84, hydrogen 5'37, nitrogen 10'40, oxygen 11'75, andir on 6'64 ; or Cu, Hv2, N3, 06, Fe. That haematin is an altered product is further shown by an observation of Hoppe, confirmed by Stokes, both of whom have found that the solution of cruor (obtained by diffusing the red clot in water) is speedily decomposed by acids, and that the coloured product of decomposition, which has all the characters of haematin, agrees with haematin in its effects on the prismatic spectrum, but differs in this respect from the natural or unaltered colouring matter of the cruor, which Mr. Stokes distinguishes by the name of cruorin* There has been much question as to the condition in which the iron exists in haematin, and especially whether it be in the state of oxide and in special combination with some part of the constituent oxygen, or associated in an elementary form with the organic matter, as sulphur is in albumen. The latter view seems to be the more probable, for the whole of the iron may be removed from haematin, without abstracting oxygen or disturbing the relative proportions of the other elements. When thus * For an account of the examination of the colouring matter of the blood by the prism, and of the differences in its absorptive effect on light, according to its oxidated or deoxidated condition, the reader is referred to an important paper by Professor G. G. Stokes, in the Proceedings of the Royal Society for June 16, 1864, vol. xiii. p. 355.