DORSAL ARTERY OF THE FOOT. 450 tibialis anticus to the inner ankle, and communicates with branches of the posterior tibial artery. The external branch passes outwards under the tendon of the common extensor of the toes, and anastomoses with the anterior division of the peroneal artery, and also with some ascending or recurrent branches from the tarsal branch of the dorsal artery of the foot.— These malleolar arteries supply articular branches to the neighbouring joints. DORSAL ARTERY OF THE FOOT. The dorsal artery of the foot (dorsalis pedis), the continuation of the anterior tibial artery, extends from the termination of that vessel at the bend of the ankle, to the posterior end of the first metatarsal space. At this spot it divides into two branches, of which one proceeds forwards in the first interosseous space, whilst the other dips into the sole of the foot, and terminates by inosculating with the plantar arch. The dorsal artery of the foot lies in the interval between the tendon of the proper extensor of the great toe, and that of the long extensor of the other toes ; and is covered by a deep layer of fascia, which binds it to the parts beneath. Near its end it is crossed by the innermost tendon of the short extensor of the toes. Two veins accompany this artery ; the anterior tibial nerve lies on its outer side. Branches.—The principal branches of the dorsal artery of the foot are directed outwards and forwards upon the tarsus and metatarsus, and are named accordingly. Some small offsets also run obliquely inwards, and ramify upon the inner side of the foot. (a) The tarsal branch arises from the artery usually where it crosses the scaphoid bone, but its point of origin varies in different instances. It inclines forwards and outwards upon the tarsal bones covered by the short extensor muscle of the toes, then curving backwards towards the cuboid bone, divides into'branches which take different directions over the tarsus. The branches supply the extensor brevis digitorum muscle and the tarsal joints, and anastomose with the external plantar, the metatarsal, the external malleolar, and the peroneal arteries. (6) The metatarsal artery arises farther forwards than the preceding vessel, and is directed outwards like it, beneath the short extensor muscle. Sometimes there are two metatarsal arteries, the second being of smaller size ; and not unfrequently, when there is but a single vessel of this name, it arises in common with the tarsal artery. Its direction is necessarily in- fluenced by these circumstances ; being oblique when it arises far back, and almost transverse when its origin is situated farther forwards than usual. It anastomoses with the tarsal and external plantar arteries, and gives off interosseous branches. The three interosseous branches from the metatarsal artery are small straight vessels which pass forwards along the three outer interosseous spaces, resting upon the dorsal interosseous muscles. Somewhat behind the clefts between the toes each divides into two branches, which run forward along the contiguous borders of the corresponding toes, forming their dorsal collateral branches. Moreover, from the outermost of these interosseous arteries a small branch is given off, which gains the outer border of the little toe, and forms its external collateral branch. These arte- ries communicate with the plantar arch opposite the fore part of the interosseous spaces, by means of the anterior perforating branches, and at the back part of the interosseous spaces, by the posterior perforating branches.