DEVELOPMENT OF HAIRS. ccxiii Cells are deposited outside the limitary membrane, which eventually give rise to fibres, corpuscles, and other constituents of the dermic coat. While this is going on outside, the cells within the follicle undergo changes. Those in the middle lengthen out conformably with the axis of the follicle, and give rise to the appearance of a short conical miniature hair, faintly distinguishable by difference of shade from the surrounding mass of cells, which are also slightly elongated, but across the direction of the follicle. The papilla (figs, cxviii., &c, h) makes its appearance at the swollen root of the little hair; and the residuary cells contained within the rudimentary follicle form the root sheath, the inner layer of which, or inner root-sheath, lying- next to the hair (fig. cxix., d), is soon distinguished by its translucency from the more opaque outer part that fills up the rest of the cavity. The young hair continuing to grow, at last perforates the cuticle (fig. cxx., g), either directly, or after first slanting up for some way between the mucous and horny strata. The young hair is often bent like a whip, and then the double part protrudes. Fig. CXVIII. Fig. CXIX. Fig. CXX. Fig. CXVIII.—Rudiment of a Hair of the Eyebrow, magnified 50 diameters (after Kolliker). The cells form an internal cone indicating the position of the future hair, a, horny layer of cuticle ; 6, mucous layer; c, external layer of root sheath; i, limitary mem- brane ; ht papilla. Fig. CXIX.—Hair Rudiment measuring 0*22 of a line, from the Eyebrow, with the Young Hair not yet risen through the Cuticle (after Kolliker). a, b, c, h, i, as in fig. cxviii ; e, hair knob ; /, stem, and g, point of the hair ; d, internal layer of the root sheath, still inclosing the hair ; n, n, commencing sebaceous follicles. Fig. CXX.—Hair Follicle from the Eyebrow with the Hair just Erupted ; the Inner Layer of the Root-Sheath rises to the Mouth of the Hair Follicle (after Kolliker.) The letters denote the same parts as in Fig. CXIX. The first hairs produced constitute the lanugo; their eruption takes place about 1he fifth month of intra-uterine life, but part of them are shed before birth, and are found floating in the liquor amnii. Kolliker affirms that the infantile hairs are entirely shed and renewed within a few months after birth; those of the general sur- P