383 BRACHIAL ARTERY. —BRANCHES. greater part of its length with the biceps, the inner border of one or both muscles sometimes slightly overlapping it. Relation to Veins. —Venae comites are in close contact with the brachial artery, short transverse branches of communication passing from one to another, so as at many points to encircle it. Superficial to the aponeurosis, the basilic vein is placed over or to the inner side of the artery in the lower half or more, or in the whole length of its course, according to the level at which the vein dips down to join the venae comites ; and at the bend of the elbow the median basilic vein crosses over the artery, the aponeurotic inser- tion of the biceps lyiug between them. Relation to Nerves.—The median nerve descends in contact with the artery, lying on its outer side at the axilla, directly in front of it below the middle of the arm, and on the inner side at the elbow. Of the large branches of the brachial plexus which are closely connected with the axillary artery, none continue in the immediate neighbourhood of the brachial artery along the arm, except the median. The external cutaneous and circumflex separate at once from the vessel in the axilla, the musculo-spiral soon turns backwards in the musculo-spiral groove, and the internal cutaneous and ulnar nerves descend vertically on the inner side of the limb. Fig. 269. Fig. 269. — Superficial Dissection of ihe Blood-Vessels at the Bend of the Arm (from R. Quain). ^ a, two branches of the internal cutaneous nerve ; b, placed over the biceps near its insertion and close to the external cutaneous nerve ; a', a', the descending twigs of the same nerve ; b', an- terior twigs of the same nerve accompanying the median vein ; 1, placed on the fascia of the arm near the bend of the arm, above the place where it has been opened to show the lower part of the brachial artery with its vena? comites, of which one is entire, marked 2, and the other has been divided ; +, is placed between this and the median nerve ; 3, basilic vein; 3', 3', ulnar veins; 4, cephalic vein; 4', radial vein; 5, 5, median vein; 3', 5, median basilic vein ; 4', 5, median cephalic vein. Branches.—The brachial artery gives some unnamed branches, which are direc- ted outwards and backwards to the muscles in its immediate neighbour- hood, viz., to the coraco-brachialis, biceps, and brachialis anticus. The following branches, which incline inwards, have received names, and require descrip- tion :— (a) The superior profunda artery (collaterals magna) arises from the inner and back part of the brachial, just below the border of the teres major, and inclines backwards, to reach the interval between the second and third heads of the triceps muscle. Accompanied by the musculo-spiral nerve, it winds round the back of the humerus, in the spiral groove, under