FEMORAL ARTERY. 436 part of its course the femoral artery is covered only by the skin and fascia lata, and by the sheath which invests both the artery and vein, viz., the crural sheath (p. 293). In the lower part of its course it is deeply placed, being covered not only by the sartorius muscle, but by a dense stratum of fibrous structure, which stretches across from the tendons of the long and great adductors to the vastus internus muscle, and encloses the space- called Hunter's canal, in which the vessels lie. The artery rests successively upon the following parts. First, upon the psoas muscle, by which it is separated from the margin of the pelvis and the capsule of the hip-joint; next, it is placed in front of the pectineus muscle, the deep femoral artery and vein being interposed ; afterwards, it lies upon the long adductor muscle ; and lastly, upon the tendon of the great adductor, the femoral vein being placed between the tendon and the artery. At the lower part of its course, it has immediately on its outer side the vastus internus muscle, which intervenes between it and the inner side of the femur. At the groin the artery, after having passed over the margin of the pelvis, is placed slightly in front of or internal to the head of the femur ; and at its lower end, the vessel lies close to the inner side of the shaft of the bone ; but in the intervening space, in consequence of the projection of the neck and shaft of the femur outwards, while the artery holds a straight course, it is separated from the bone by a considerable interval. Fie. 299. Fig. 299.—View of the Femoral Ves- sels, WITH THEIR SMALLER SUPERFICIAL Branches in the Right Groin (from R, Quain). I a, the integument of the abdomen; b, the superficial abdominal fascia ; b', the part descending on the spermatic cord ; c, c, the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle ; c', the same near the external abdominal ring; c", the inner pillar of the ring ; d, the iliac part of the fascia lata ; d', the pubic part; e, e, the sheath of the femoral vessels laid open, the upper letter is immediately over the crural aperture ; e', placed on the sartorius muscle partially exposed, points to the margin of the saphenic opening ; 1, femoral artery, having the femoral vein 2, to its inner side, and the septum of the sheath shown between the two vessels; 3, the principal saphenous vein ; 3', its anterior branches ; 4, the superficial circumflex iliac vein and arterial branches to the glands of the groin ; 5, the superficial epigastric vein ; 6, the external pudic arteries and veins ; 7 to 8, some of the lower inguinal glands re- ceiving twigs frum the vessels; 9, internal, 10, middle, and 11, external cutaneous nerves. Relation to Veins.—The femoral vein is very close to the artery, both being enclosed in the same sheath, and separated from each other only by a thin partition of fibrous membrane. At the groin the vein lies in the same plane as the artery, and on the inner side ; but gradually inclining backwards, it is placed behind it, at the