445 PERONEAL ARTERY. scending beyond the outer malleolus, it terminates in branches on the outer surface and back of the os calcis. Fig. 304.—Deep posterior view of the Arteries of the Leg (from Tiedemann). | a, insertion of the adductor magnus muscle ; b, origin of the inner head of the gastrocnemius ; c, outer head and plantaris ; d, tendon of the semimembranosus muscle; e, popliteus; /, upper part of the soleus divided below its origin from the head of the fibula ; g, peroneus longus; h, flexor longus pollicis ; i, flexor communis digitorum ; 1, upper part of the popliteal artery ; 2, origin of the superior articular branches; 3, origin of the inferior articular branches ; the middle or azygos branch is seen between these numbers ; 4, division of the popliteal artery into anterior and posterior tibial arteries ; 5, 5', posterior tibial ; 6, peroneal artery; 6', its continuation as posterior peroneal; between 5', and 6', the communicating branch; 7, calcaneal branches ; 8, external branches of the metatarsal of the dorsalis pedis artery. Fig. 304. The peroneal artery gives off the following branches :— (a) Muscular branches from the upper part of the peroneal artery pass to the soleus, the tibialis posticus, the flexor longus pollicis, and the peronei muscles. (6) A nutrient artery enters the fibula. (c) The anterior peroneal artery arises about two inches above the outer malleolus, and immediately piercing the interosseous membrane, descends along the front of the fibula, covered by the peroneus tertius muscle, and dividing into branches, reaches the outer ankle, and anastomoses with the external malleolar branch of the anterior tibial artery. It supplies vessels to the ankle-joint, and ramifies on the front and outer side of the tarsus, inosculating more or less freely with the tarsal arteries. (d) The terminal branches anastomose with the external malleolar and with the tarsal arteries on the outer side of the foot; and behind the os calcis with ramifications of the posterior tibial artery. (e) The communicating branch, lying close behind the tibia, about two inches from its lower end, is a transverse branch situated close to the bones, which connects the peroneal with the posterior tibial artery. Peculiarities.—The posterior tibial artery, as well as the anterior tibial, is lengthened in those instances in which the popliteal artery divides higher up than usual. Not unfrequently the posterior tibial artery is ii^iPiKP^ diminished in size, and is subsequently reinforced either by a transverse branch from the peroneal in the lower part of the leg, or in rare instances, by two trans- verse vessels, one crossing close to the bone, and one over the deep muscles. In other instances the posterior tibial may exist only as a short muscular trunk in the upper part of the leg, while an enlarged peroneal artery takes its place from above the ankle downwards into the foot. The peroneal artery has been found to arise lower down than usual, about three