ELBOW JOINT. 141 The internal lateral ligament, composed of diverging and radiating fibres, is divisible into an anterior and a posterior part. The anterior part radiates from the front of the internal condyloid eminence of the humerus, and is inserted into the coronoid process, along the inner margin of the sigmoid cavity. The posterior part, of the same triangular form, passes from the under and back part of the condyloid eminence downwards to the inner border of the olecranon ; and some fibres are connected with a small trans- verse band over the notch between the olecranon and the coronoid process. The external lateral ligament, intimately connected with the tendinous attachment of the extensor muscles, is shorter and much narrower than the internal. It is attached superiorly to the external condyloid eminence of the humerus, and inferiorly becomes blended with the annular ligament of the radius ; some of its hinder fibres are prolonged to the external margin of the ulna. The anterior ligament consists of a thin sheet of fibres extending down- wards from above the coronoid pit of the humerus, and protecting the anterior part of the synovial membrane ; it is strongest in its middle part. The 'posterior ligament is comparatively thin and weak, and consists of loose and irregular fibres Fig- 131. passing transversely across the olecranon fossa of the humerus, and from the sides of that fossa to the olecranon process, thus completing the capsule of the joint behind. Fig. 131.—Vertical Antero-Posterior Section of the Elbow-Joint through the Greater Sigmoid Cavity op the Ulna and corresponding Trochlear surface of the Humerus. ^ 1, cut surface of the humerus ; 2, that of the ulna ; 3, posterior part, and 4, anterior part of the synovial cavity of the joint ; 5, orbicular ligament enclosing the head of the radius ; 6, tendon of the biceps muscle at its insertion into the tuberosity ; 7, is at the lower end of the round ligament. The synovial membrane extends upwards on the humerus so far as to line the fossa) for the coronoid and olecranon processes, and is loose and vascular in the latter positions. It is prolonged round the head and neck of the radius, which it separates from the smaller sigmoid cavity and annular ligament. Movements.—Flexion and extension are the only movements which can take place between the humerus and ulna, and these are limited by the locking of the coro- noid and olecranon processes in the respective fossae of the humerus which receive them. The path of motion is in a nearly vertical plane, with a direction slightly outwards. The inner lip of the trochlea being prominent below, forms an expansion which corresponds to an inward projection of the coronoid part of the ulnar surface, and is only brought into use in flexion ; and the outer lip of the trochlea being everted at the upper and back part, forms a surface which is only in use in complete extension, and which then corresponds to a surface on the outer aspect of the olecranon, which comes in contact with no other part of the humerus. In flexion and extension the radius moves by its cup-shaped head upon the capitulum, and on the groove between that process and the trochlea, by a ridge internal to the cup. It is most completely in contact with the humerus in the position of semi-flexion and semi-pronation. In full extension and supination, the anterior margin of the head of the radius is barely in contact with the inferior surface of the capitulum. In full flexion, the margin of the head of the radius rests against the pit above the capitulum.