VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 462 two sets, viz., those placed in the prominent folds of the dura mater, and those situated in the base of the skull. Fig. 313.—Sketch of the in- ternal veins op the Cranium and Nose. \ a, torcular Herophili; b, superior longitudinal sinus of the dura mater; c, inferior longitudinal sinus; d, straight sinus ; e, internal veins of the brain, or veins of Galen; g, occi- pital sinus ; h, superior petrosal sinus ; i, inferior petrosal sinus ; k, nasal veins on the septum; superiorly is shown the commencement from some of these of the superior longi- tudinal sinus, and lower down some of the nasal veins passing out by the spheno-palatine foramen. The form and size of the sinuses are various. All of them are lined by a con- tinuation of the internal mem- brane of the veins, the dura mater serving as a substitute for the other coats. The sinuses which are contained in the several processes or folds of the dura mater converge to a common point, which corresponds with the internal occipital protuberance, and is called the confluence of the sinuses, or torcular Herophili. The form of the torcular is very irregular. Five or six apertures open into it : viz., one from the longitudinal, and one from the straight sinus ; two from the right and left lateral sinuses ; and one or two from the posterior occipital sinuses. The superior longitudinal sinus (s. falciformis superior), commencing at the crista galli, extends from before backwards, in the upper border of the falx cerebri, gradually increasing in size as it proceeds. It is three-sided, and is crossed obliquely at the inferior angle by several bands, the chordae, Willisii. The veins from the cerebral surface open into this sinus chiefly towards the back part; and in such a way that the apertures of the greater number of them are directed from behind forwards, contrary to the direction of the current within it. The longitudinal sinus communicates with the veins on the outside of the occipital bone, by a branch (one of the " emissary veins," Santorini) which passes through a hole in the parietal bone. The inferior longitudinal sinus (s. falciformis inferior) is very small, and so much resembles a cylindrical vein, that it is sometimes named inferior longitudinal vein. Placed in the inferior concave border of the falx cerebri, it runs from before backwards, and opens into the straight sinus on reaching the anterior margin of the tentorium cerebelli. It receives branches from the surface of the falx cerebri, and sometimes from the flat surface of the hemispheres. The straight sinus (s. quartus ; s. tentorii) runs backwards in the base of the falx cerebri, gradually widening as it approaches the torcular Herophili, in which it terminates. Besides the inferior longitudinal siuus, the venae Galeni and the superior veins of the cerebellum open into it. The lateral sinuses (s. transversi) are of considerable size. Their direc- tion conforms to that of the groove marked along the inner surface of the occipital and other bones, and extending from opposite the internal occi- Fig. 313.