255 RECTUS MUSCLE. ABDOMINAL LINES. three distinct parts of unequal size. Some fibres also are generally found attached to the ensiform cartilage. The fibres of the rectus muscle are interrupted by three or more irregular tendinous intersections, named Unece transversa. The three which are most constant are placed, one opposite the umbilicus, another on a level with the ensiform cartilage, and the third intermediately between them: and these generally run across the whole muscle. When one or two additional trans- verse lines occur, they are usually incomplete ; one of them is very gene- rally placed below the umbilicus, the position of the other is variable. The intersections do not usually penetrate the whole thickness of the muscle, but are confined chiefly to its anterior fibres, and are firmly united to the anterior wall of the sheath of the muscle, while the posterior surface of the muscle has no attachment to the sheath. The linese transversa may be regarded as indications of the abdominal ribs of some of the lower animals; they sometimes extend outwards from the rectus, and penetrate partially into the internal oblique. The pyramidalis is a small muscle resting on the lower part of the rectus. It arises from the front of the pubes and the ligaments of the symphysis, and becoming narrow as it ascends over the lower third of the interval between the umbilicus and pubes, is inserted into the linea alba. The pyramidalis is covered in front by the aponeurosis of the other muscles, and rests posteriorly on the rectus, the size of the lower part of which is augmented when the pyramidalis is wanting. This muscle is often absent on one or both sides: in some instances it has been found to be double. It occasionally exceeds the length above stated. The linea alba is a white fibrous structure, extended perpendicularly downwards in the middle line from the ensiform cartilage to the pubes. This tendinous band is formed by the union of the aponeuroses of the two oblique and the transverse muscles, the tendinous fibres being continued in a decussating manner from one side to the other. Some longitudinal fibres are distinguishable towards its lower end. It is broader superiorly than inferiorly, and a little below the middle is widened out into a circular flat space, in the centre of which is situated the cicatrix of the umbilicus. The lineai semilunares are the two curved linear spaces on the surface of the abdomen, placed externally to the outer margins of the recti muscles. They are produced by the absence of muscular fibres behind that part of the aponeurotic tendons ; they correspond on their inner side to the outer margin of the sheath of the rectus, and on their outer side mainly to the line of termination of the fibres of the oblique muscles in their aponeuroses. The quadratus lumborum is an irregularly quadrilateral muscle, slightly broader below than above, placed between the last rib and the crest of the ilium, close to the vertebral column. It is divisible into two parts. One of these, arising by fleshy and tendinous fibres from the ilio-lumbar ligament, and from the iliac crest for several inches near the place where that ligament is attached, is inserted into the inferior border of the last rib for about half its length, and by four tendinous slips into the transverse processes of the four superior lumbar vertebrae. Another series of fibres, arising by two or three tendinous slips from as many of the inferior transverse processes at their upper margins, passes in front of those inserted into the same processes, and joins with the part of the muscle attached to the rib.