ccix STRUCTURE OF HAIRS. although this term is more properly applied to the superficial coatiug of scales above mentioned. The fibrous substance is translucent, with short longitudinal opaque streaks of darker colour intermixed. It may be broken up into straight, rigid, longitudinal fibres, which, when separated, are found to be flattened, broad in the middle, where they measure -j-jg-o- of an inch in breadth, and pointed at each end, with dark and rough edges. The fibres may be resolved into flattened cells of a fusiform outline ; these are mostly transparent, or marked with only a few dark specks. The colour of the fibrous substance is caused by oblong patches of pigment- granules, and generally diffused colouring matter of less intensity. Very slender elongated nuclei are also discovered by means of reagents, whilst specks or marks of another description in the fibrous substance are occasioned by minute irregularly-shaped cavities containing air. These air-lacunules are abundant in white hairs, and in very dark hairs may be altogether wanting ; they are best seen too in the former, in which there is no risk of deception from pigment-specks. Viewed by transmitted light they are dark, but brilliantly white by reflected light. When a white hair has been boiled in water, ether, or oil of turpentine, these cavities become filled with fluid, and are then quite pellucid ; but when a hair which has been thus treated is dried, the air quickly finds its way again into the lacunae, and they resume their original aspect. The medulla or pith, as already remarked, does not exist in all hairs. It is wanting in the fine hairs over the general surface of the body, and is not commonly met with in those of the head ; nor in the hairs of children under five years. When present it occupies the centre of the shaft and ceases towards the point. It is more opaque and deep-coloured than the fibrous part; in the white hairs of quadrupeds it is white, but opaque and dark when seen by transmitted light. It seems to be composed of little clusters of cells, differing in shape, but generally angular, and containing minute particles, some resembling pigment-granules, and others like very fine fat granules, but really for the most part air-particles, apparently included in some solidified tenaceous substance. The whole forms a con- tinuous dark mass along the middle of the stem, interrupted at parts for a greater or less extent. In the latter case, the axis of the stem at the inter- ruptions may be fibrous like the surrounding parts, or these intervals may be occupied by a clear, colourless matter ; and, according to Henle, some hairs present the appearance of a sort of canal running along the axis and filled in certain parts with opaque granular matter, and in others with fa homogeneous transparent substance. The root of the hair is lighter in colour and softer than the stem ; it swells out at its lower end into a bulbous enlargement or knob (fig. cxiv. c), and is received into a recess of the skin named the hair-follicle, which, when the hair is of considerable size, reaches down into the subcu- taneous fat. The follicle, which receives near its mouth the opening ducts of one or more sebaceous glands (fc, fc), is somewhat dilated at the bottom, to correspond with the bulging of the root ; it consists of an outer coat continuous with the corium (fig. cxiv. g, h ; cxv. d, d), aud an epidermic lining (fig. cxiv. c, /; cxv. 6, c), continuous with the cuticle. The outer or dermic coat is thin but firm, and consists of three layers. The most external is formed of connective tissue in longitudinal bundles, without any elastic fibres, but with numerous long fusiform corpuscles. It is highly vascular, and possesses nervous fibrils. It is intimately connected above with the corium, and determines the form of the follicle. The most