THE TEMPORAL BONE. 35 opening of the frontal sinus ; 15, placed near the inside of the x'oof of the orbit indicates the inner ends of the ethmoidal or internal orbital foramina. Cerebral Surface.—This surface forms a large concavity, but the roofs of the orbital plates, which form its floor, are convex from side to side. It is covered with digitate impressions, which, with the intervening ridges, are strongly marked over the orbits. A groove, the sulcus frontalis, which lodges the commencement of the longitudinal sinus, ascends in the middle of the upper part of the bone ; its margins approach inferiorly, and are elevated into a ridge, the crista frontalis. A small foramen, usually formed in part by the central plate of the ethmoid, is situated at its base ; it is known as the foramen cwcum, but transmits a minute vein from the nasal fossae. This surface is bounded posteriorly by a thin linear border, which articulates with the lesser wings of the sphenoid, and superiorly and laterally by a serrated border, which articulates with the parietals, and which, as has before been mentioned, slightly overlaps those bones above, and is overlapped by them at the sides. THE TEMPORAL BONE. The temporal bone (os temporis) takes part in the construction of the side and base of the skull, and contains in its interior the organ of hearing. It is usually described in three parts, viz., an expanded anterior and superior part the squamous portion, a much thicker posterior portion the mastoid, and below and between these the petrous portion, a three-sided pyramid exhibiting at its base externally the aperture of the ear and projecting forwards and inwards into the base of the skull. It articulates posteriorly and internally with the occipital bone, superiorly with the parietal, anteriorly with the sphenoid and, by the zygomatic pro- cess, with the malar. The squamous portion extends forwards and upwards from its connection with the other portions, and presents superiorly an arched border which describes about two-thirds of a circle. Fig. 32.—Right Tem- poral Bone from the outside. | 1, the external surface of the squamous part; 2, the zygoma ; 3, the mas- toid part; 3 x , the mas- toid process ; 4, the arti- cular part of the glenoid fossa ; 5, the articular eminence at the root of the zygoma, and above it the tubercle; 6, fissure of'Glaser; 7, the tympanic plate forming the posterior non-articular part of the glenoid fossa, terminating behind in the vaginal pro- cess ; 8, the meatus audi- torius externus; 9, the auditory process ; 10, the styloid process ; 13 x , the mastoid foramen. The inner surface is marked by cerebral impressions, and by meningeal grooves. At its upper border, the outer table is prolonged considerably d 2