295 ANNULAR LIGAMENTS OF THE ANKLE. layer of fascia is stretched from side to side across the limb known as the deep fascia of the leg. Where covered by the soleus and gastrocnemius, this fascia is weak, but it becomes stronger as it escapes from under cover of those muscles and approaches the malleoli. Below the ankle the fascia of the leg becomes continuous with that of the foot. In front, and on the sides of that joint, it is strengthened by broad bands of fibres, which are called annular ligaments. These bands being merely stronger portions of the ordinary fascia, it is often difficult in dissection to mark satisfactorily the exact line of their upper and lower margins. They serve as retinacula, confining the tendons in their natural positions. The anterior annular ligament includes two structures, one placed on the lower part of the leg, the other opposite the bend of the ankle. The upper band, ligamentum transversum cruris (Henle), of considerable breadth, stretches from the lower end of the fibula to the lower end of the tibia, and binds down the vertical portion of the extensor tendons as they turn forwards to the foot : the sheath for the tendon of the tibialis anticus is distinct from the others. The lower band, ligamentum cruciatum cruris (Henle), presents superficially the appearance of the letter Y placed upon its side, being single in its outer half, and usually divided into two branches internally. The outer portion consists of a strong loop of fibres arising from the fore part of the os calcis, completely surrounding the peroneus tertius and extensor longus digitorum muscles, and inserted into the fore part of the os calcis, deep in the hollow between that bone and the astragalus. Less regular is the arrangement of the bands which pass from the extremity of the loop to the inside of the foot: the strongest and most constant band passes super- ficial to the extensor pollicis and on the deep surface of the tibialis anticus muscle, only a few fibres passing superficial to the latter ; while another band, lower down, is inserted into the inner side of the foot, in front of the ankle, after crossing both those tendons. The loop formed by the outer part of this ligament derives additional interest from being present in the lower animals, as may be well seen in the dog or cat, and in the horse. The internal annular ligament crosses the space between the inner ankle and the heel, through which the tendons of the flexor muscles run. Its upper border, continuous with the fascia of the leg (more especially the deep layer), is very imperfectly defined ; and its lower border, giving origin to many fibres of the abductor pollicis, is but little more distinct. Its anterior extremity is attached to the inner malleolus, and its posterior termination is inserted into the inner margin of the calcaneum ; but between these two points it arches over several osseous grooves so as to form canals for the passage of tendons. The first canal (next the malleolus) contains the tendon of the tibialis posticus, and the second that of the flexor longus digitorum, each being provided with a synovial lining. Then follows a wider space for the passage of the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. Lastly, a fourth canal upon the astragalus, lined like the two first by a synovial bursa, transmits the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. The external annular ligament extends from the point of the outer mal- leolus to the outer surface of the calcaneum, and keeps in place the tendons of the long and short peronei muscles. The tendons are close together, and are surrounded by one synovial sac.