cxcvii STRUCTURE. signed to a series of oblique folds of a similar permanent kind, though on a smaller scale, which exist within the cystic duct. Physical properties.—In most situations the mucous membranes are nearly opaque or but slightly translucent. They possess no great degree of tenacity and but little elasticity, and hence are readily torn by a mo- derate force. As to colour, they cannot be said intrinsically to have any, and when perfectly deprived of blood they accordingly appear white or at most somewhat grey. The redness which they commonly exhibit during life, and retain in greater or less degree in various parts after death, is due to the blood contained in their vessels, although it is true that after decomposition has set in, the red matter of the blood, becoming dissolved, transudes through the coats of the vessels, and gives a general red tinge to the rest of the tissue. The degree of redness exhibited by the mucous mem- branes after death is greater in the foetus and infant than in the adult. It is greater too in certain situations ; thus, of the different parts of the alimentary canal, it is most marked in the stomach, pharynx, and rectum. Again, the intensity of the tiut, as well as its extent, is influenced by cir- cumstances accompanying or immediately preceding death. Thus the state of inflammation, or the local application of stimuli to the membrane, such as irritant poisons, or even food in the stomach, is apt to produce increased redness ; and all the mucous membranes are liable to be congested with blood and suffused with redness when death is immediately preceded by obstruction to the circulation, as in cases of asphyxia, and in many diseases of the heart. Structure.—A mucous membrane is composed of the corium and epithe- lium. The epithelium covers the surface, and has already been described (p. iii., et sqq.). The membrane which remains after removal of the epi- thelium is named the corium, as in the analogous instance of the true skin. The corium may be said to consist of a fibro-vascular layer, of vari- able thickness, bounded superficially or next the epithelium by an ex- tremely fine transparent lamella, named basement membrane by Bowman, and primary membrane, limitary membrane, and membrana propria by others who have described it. It must be explained, however, that these two constituents of the corium cannot in all situations be separated from each other, nor indeed can the presence of both be proved by actual demon- stration in all parts of the mucous membranes. The basement membrane is best seen in parts where the mucous membrane is raised into villous processes or where it forms secreting crypts or minute glandular recesses, such as those which abound in the stomach and intes- tinal canal. On teasing out a portion of the gastric or intestinal mucous membrane under the microscope, some of the tubular glands are here and there discovered which are tolerably well cleared from the surrounding tissue, and their parietes are seen to be formed of a thin pellucid film, which is detached from the adjoining fibro-vascular layer, the epithelium perhaps still remaining in the inside of the tube or having escaped, as the case may be. The fine film referred to is the basement membrane. It may by careful search be seen too on the part of the corium situated between the orifices of the glands, and on the villi, when the epithelium is detached, although it cannot be there separated from the vascular layer. In these parts it manifestly forms a superficial boundary to the corium, passing continuously over its eminences and into its recesses, defining its surface, and supporting the epithelium. In other parts where villi and tubular glands are wanting, and especially where the mucous membrane, more