6i BONES OF THE HEAD. 1 The Sinuses are hollows within certain cranial bones, which communicate with the nasal cavities by narrow orifices, and are named ethmoidal, frontal, sphenoidal, and maxillary. The maxillary sinus begins to be formed about the fourth month of fcetal life ; the frontal, ethmoidal, and sphenoidal first appear during childhood, but remain of small size up to the time of puberty, when they undergo a great enlargement. In advanced life they all increase in size by absorption of the cancellated tissue in their vicinity. The ethmoidal sinuses are numerous smaller spaces in the lateral masses of the ethmoid bone. The frontal sinuses, formed in the substance of the frontal bone, communicate with the middle meatus narium through the infundibula of the ethmoid bone. The s2)he7ioidal sinuses, hollowed out in the sphenoid bone, and limited below and in front by the sphenoidal spongy bones, open anteriorly opposite the posterior ethmoidal cells. The maxillary sinus is of an irregular pyramidal form ; its apex points to the malar tuberosity ; its sides are formed by the orbital and lateral plates of the superior maxillary bone ; its base, or internal wall, which separates it from the nasal cavity, is formed by the maxillary, palate, and inferior turbinated bones, and the uncinate process of the ethmoid ; an irregular gap or deficiency being left between the uncinate process and the inferior tur- binated bone, by which the sinus opens into the middle meatus. The alveolus of one of the molar teeth generally forms a marked projection in the floor of the sinus, at its outer part. DEVELOPMENT OF THE SKULL. Early Development op the Head.—When the head of the embryo has become so far developed as to rise completely out from the plane of the germinal mem- Fig. 55.—Magnified side view op the Head and Upper Part of the Body of an Embryo-Chick of the Fourth Day (adapted from Remak and Huxley). 1, chorda dorsalis; 2, three of the upper primitive cervical vertebrae; C1, first cerebral vesicle, with the nasal fossa below ; C-, second part of the first cerebral vesicle, or thalamus opticus, with tbe eye below it; C3, the middle cerebral vesicle; C4, the cerebellum, between which and the cervical vertebrae is the medulla oblongata, these two constituting the first and second parts of the third cerebral vesicle. At the upper part of the chorda dorsalis, where it afterwards reaches the post-sphenoid, is seen the rectangular bend of the middle of the cranium, which takes place at the sella turcica; and in front of this, towards the eye, the pointed infun- dibulum ; V, the rudiment of the trigeminus nerve ; VII, the facial ; VIII, the vagus ; IX, the hypoglossal; in front and below these numbers respectively, first the upper and lower jaw, or first branchial arch, with the first cleft, which becomes the meatus auditorius externus; and lower down the second, third, and fourth branchial arches and clefts in succession ; in front of these the aortic bulb attaches the heart; between VII and VIII, the auditory vesicle. brane, two curvatures forwards are observed, the posterior of which is at the junction of the head with the spinal column, while the anterior is opposite the second cerebral vesicle, and is so placed that the fore part of the skull is bent at right angles to the back part. Behind the anterior curvature, the ventral margins of the dorsal plates are thrown on each side into four processes, the branchial or visceral arches, behind each of which is a fissure or branchial cleft in which the epithelial layer of Fig. 55.