xii DEVELOPMENT OF THE TEXTURES. certain points, whilst they retire from each other elsewhere, so as to leave radiating branches connected with the points of similar rays from adjacent cells (fig. nr.). 3. The cells coalesce with adjoining cells, and open into them. In this way a series of elongated cells placed end to end may open into one another by absorption of their cohering membranes, and give rise to a tubular vessel. 4. Changes take place in the substance and in the contents of the cells. These changes may be chemical, as in the conversion of starch into gum, sugar, and jelly, and in the production of various coloured matters, essential oils, and the like. Or they may affect the form and arrangement of the contained substances ; thus, the contents of the cell very frequently assume the form of granules, or spherules, of various sizes ; at other times the con- tained matter, suffering at the same time a change in its chemical nature and in consistency, is deposited on the inner surface of the cell-wall, so as to thicken and strengthen it. Such '1 secondary deposits," as they are termed by botanists, usually occur in successive strata, and the deposition may go on till the cavity of the cell is nearly or completely filled up (fig. iv.). It is in this way that the woody fibre and other hard tissues of the plant are formed. It farther appears that the particles of each layer are disposed in lines, running spirally round the cell. In place of forming a continuous layer, these secondary deposits may leave little spots of the cell-wall un- covered, or less thickly covered, and thus give rise to what is named pitted tissue (fig. n.,6) ; or they may assume the form of a Fig. IV. slender fibre or band, single, double, or multiple, running in a spiral manner along the inside of the cavity, or forming a series of separate rings or hoops, as in spiral and annular vessels (fig. n.,7). New matter may be absorbed or imbibed into the cells ; or a portion of their altered and elaborated contents may escape as a Fig. IV. — Cross secretion, either by transudation through the cell-wall, Crlls°N °coNTAraiNa or by ruPture or absorption of the membrane. Lastly, Stratified Deposit, in certain circumstances, cells may be wholly or partially removed by absorption of their substance. 5. Cells may produce or generate new cells. The mode in which this takes place will be immediately considered, in speaking of the origin of animal cells. FORMATION OF THE ANIMAL TEXTURES. Passing now to the development of the animal tissues, it may first be remarked generally, that in some instances the process exhibits an obvious analogy with that which takes place in vegetables ; for certain of the animal tissues, in their earlier conditions, appear in form of a congeries of cells, almost entirely resembling the vegetable cells, and, in their subsequent transformations, pass through a series of changes in many respects parallel to some of those which occur in the progress of vegetable development. Cartilage affords a good example of this. Figures v. and vi., a, are magnified representations of cartilage in its early condition ; and whoever compares them with the appearance of vegetable cells, shown in figures I. and n., must at once be struck with the resemblance. Fig. vi., b and c, shows the subsequent changes on the primary cells of cartilage ; the parietes are seen to have become thickened by deposit of fresh material, and the mass