23 THE THORAX. STERNUM. arrangement named by Owen the " typical vertebra" is completed by the addition to the parts now mentioned of a pair of hcemapophyses and a hcemal spine, situated in front of the centrum, as the neurapophyses and neural spine are placed behind ; but in the thorax, according to his views, the haemapophyses are supposed to be transplanted to the extremities of the pleurapophyses, and form the costal cartilages, carrying with them the sternum or series of haemal spines. However interesting these views may be, and however expedient the adoption in Comparative Anatomy of some such words, expressive of anatomical relations, more especially when it shall appear that the doctrines suggesting the terminology are sufficiently established; yet, as these are still imperfect, and as the names by which most parts of the human body are commonly designated have been long in use, and are very generally understood, it seems premature for the present to attempt a theoretical reformation of the nomenclature of human descriptive anatomy. THE THORAX. The parts which enter into the construction of the thoracic part of the skeleton are the dorsal vertebrae already described, the sternum, the ribs, and the costal cartilages. THE STERNUM OR BREAST-BONE. The sternum (os pectoris, os xiphoides) is situated in the median line at the fore part of the thorax, in a sloping position, inclined downwards and forwards. It is connected with the rest of the trunk by the costal cartilages Fig. 21.—The Sternum op a middle-aged Man. ^ A, from before, 1, % 3, 4, 5, 6, & 7, the articular surfaces for the corresponding costal cartilages ; 8, manubrium or upper piece, still slightly separate from the body ; 9, middle of the body ; 10, ensiform portion, osseous, and united to the body; 11, inter- clavicular notch ; articular notch for the clavicle. B, the same sternum viewed from the right side, showing the general convexity of the bone forwards. The different facets of articulation of the clavicle and costal carti- lages will be distinguished by their position in comparing the figure B with A. of the seven highest pairs of ribs, and gives attachment to the clavicles. It consists originally of six segments. The first of these usually remains distinct up to middle life, and is called the manubrium ; the succeed- ing four are united into one in the adult, and form the body; the sixth generally remains cartilaginous up to the period of puberty, and some- times partially so even to advanced ensiform process, or cartilage. The sternum is flattened from befc vertical curve with the convexity in fi Fig. 21. age, and is called the xiphoid, or re backwards, and presents a slight □nt. It is of unequal width, being