461 INTRA-CEANIAL VEINS. into the veins of Galen. Those at the under surface ran transversely out- wards, and pour their contents into the occipital and the lateral sinuses. Fig. 312. Fig. 312.—Internal View op the base of the Skull, showing the Sinuses of the Dura Mater, &c. \ The sinuses of the dura mater have been opened, a small portion of the roof of the orbit has been removed posteriorly on the left side, and the dura mater has been dissected so as to bring into view the arteries at the base of the skull, the venous sinuses and the issue of the cerebral nerves. I., the olfactory bulb; II., the optic nerves, that on the left side cut short; III., placed on the pituitary body, indicates the third nerve ; IV., the trochlear nerve ; V., placed opposite to the middle of the three divisions of the fifth nerve as they pass out of the cranium; VI., the sixth nerve; VII., the facial and auditory nerves entering the meatus auditorius internus; VIII., placed opposite to the three portions of the eighth pair as they pass into their several foramina of the dura mater; IX., the hypoglossal nerve as it passes to the anterior condyloid foramen ; 1, the right internal carotid artery as it makes its turn in the cavernous sinus on the groove of the sphenoid bone; 2, its ophthal- mic branch proceeding into the orbit, below and to the outside of the optic nerve ; 3, division of the basilar artery into the two posterior cerebral arteries, one of which is repi'esented on the right side as giving off the communicating artery to the internal carotid ; 4, basilar artery ; 5, vertebral arteries giving the anterior spinal; x, great meningeal vessels spreading upwards from the foramen spinosutn ; 6, superior petrosal sinus ; 7, inferior petrosal running back into the lower part of the lateral sinus ; 8, termination of the lateral sinus in the internal jugular vein, and continuation of the lateral sinus; 8', commencement of the lateral sinus ; 9, occipital sinuses ; 10, torcular Herophili, and below that number in the figure, the superior longitudinal sinus. CRANIAL SINUSES. The venous sinuses within the cranial cavity admit of being divided into