HAIRS. CCV111 root and under surface. Each successive series of these cells being followed and pushed from their original place by others, become flattened into dry, hard, and inseparably coherent scales. By the addition of new cells at the posterior edge the nail is made to advance, and by the apposition of similar particles to its under surface it grows in thickness ; so that it is thicker at the free border than at the root. The nail being thus merely an exuberant part of the epidermis, the question at one time raised, whether that membrane is continued underneath it, loses its significance. When a nail is thrown off by suppuration, or pulled away by violence, a new one is produced in its place, provided the matrix remains. Development in the foetus.—In the third month of intra-uterine life the part of the embryonic corium which becomes the matrix of the nail is marked off by the commencing curvilinear groove, which limits it posteriorly and laterally. The epidermis on the matrix then begins to assume, in its under part, the characters of a nail, which might, therefore, be said to be at first covered over by the embryonic cuticle. After the end of the fifth month it becomes free at the anterior border, and in the seventh month decidedly begins and thenceforth continues to grow in length. At birth the free end is long and thin, being manifestly the earlier-formed part which has been pushed forward. This breaks or is pared off after birth, and, as the infantile nail continues to grow, its flattened cells, at first easily separable, become harder and more coherent, as in after life. Hairs.—A hair consists of the root, which is fixed in the skin, the shaft or stem, and the point. The stem is generally cylindrical, but often more or less flattened ; sometimes it is grooved along one side, and therefore reniform in a cross section : when the hair is entire it becomes gradually smaller towards the point. The length and thickness vary greatly in different individuals and races of mankind as well as in different regions of the body. Light-coloured hair is usually finer than black. Fig. CXIII.—A, Surface of a White Hair, magnified 160 diameters. The Waved Lines mark the upper or free Edges of the Cortical Scales. B, Separated Soales, magnified 350 diameters (after Kolliker). The stem is covered with a coating of finely-imbricated scales, the upwardly projecting serrated edges of which give rise to a series of fine waved transverse lines, which may be seen with the microscope on the surface of the hair (fig. cxiii. a). Within this scaly covering, by some called the hair-cuticle, is a fibrous substance which in all cases constitutes the chief part and often the whole of the stem ; but in many hairs the axis is occupied by a substance of a different nature, called the medulla or pith, for which reason the surrounding fibrous part is often named " cortical," Fig. CXIII.