EXTERIOR OF THE SKULL. 57 directed forwards and outwards, their inner walls being nearly parallel, and their outer walls diverging so much as to be at right angles one to the other. The roof of each orbit is formed by the orbital process of the frontal and the small wing of the sphenoid bone ; the floor consists of the orbital processes of the malar and superior maxillary bones, and of the small orbital surface of the palate bone at the back part; the inner wall consists of the ascending process of the superior maxillary, the lachrymal, the ethmoid, and the sphenoid bone; and the outer wall of the orbital surfaces of the malar bone and great wing of the sphenoid. The sphenoidal fissure (foramen lacerum orbitale), at its inner extremity, occupies the apex of the orbit, while its outer and narrower part lies between the roof and the external wall. The foramen opticum is internal and superior to the sphenoidal fissure. In the angle between the external wall and the floor is the spheno-maxillary fissure, bounded by the sphenoid, palate, superior maxillary, and malar bones, and leading into the spheno-maxillary fossa at its back part, and the zygomatic fossa at its fore part. Passing forwards from the margin of the spheno- maxillary fissure is the commencement of the infra-orbital canal, grooving the posterior part of the floor of the orbit. At the fore part of the inner wall is the lachrymal groove, formed by the superior maxillary and lachrymal bones, and leading into the nasal duct : further back, between the ethmoid and frontal bones are the anterior and posterior internal orbital foramina ; in the anterior margin of the roof is the supra-orbital foramen or notch ; and in the outer wall are the minute foramina which perforate the malar bone. The lateral regton of the skull presents in a horizontal line from behind forwards the mastoid process, the external auditory meatus, the glenoid fossa, with the condyle of the lower jaw, and the zygomatic or ma- lar arch, formed by the zygomatic process of the temporal bone and the posterior part of the malar. When the head of the lower jaw is in the glenoid cavity, the coronoid process lies internal to the malar arch. The upper part of the space bridged over by this arch is called • the temporal fossa, the lower part the zygomatic fossa, the line of division being the rough ridge which divides the external surface of the great wing of the sphenoid bone into an upper and lower portion. The temporal fossa is occupied by the temporal muscle ; it is bounded superiorly by the temporal ridge ; and the frontal, parietal, sphenoid and malar bones take part in its formation. The zygomatic fossa is occupied in part by the external pterygoid muscle ; its wall is formed internally by the external pterygoid plate, superiorly by the lower part of the great wing of the sphenoid bone, and anteriorly by the superior maxillary. Inferiorly the external pterygoid plate comes nearly into contact with the superior maxillary bone, but is usually separated from it, though not always, by a thin portion of the pyramidal process of the palate bone ; superiorly, it is divided from it by the pterygo-maxillary fissure, a vertical opening, which leads into the spheno- maxillary fossa, and which is continued above into the outer extremity of the horizontal spheno-maxillary fissure opening into the orbit. The spheno-maxillary fossa is the space which lies in the angle between the pterygo-maxillary fissure and the inner or posterior half of the spheno- maxillary fissure. It is bounded posteriorly by the external pterygoid process and inferior division of the anterior surface of the great wing of the sphenoid bone, anteriorly by the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone, and internally by the vertical plate of the palate bone. Into this narrow space five foramina open, viz., on the posterior wall, the foramen rotundum, the Vidian canal, and, between the sphenoidal process of the