419 COMMON ILIAC ARTERIES. vertebra, lies to the inner side of, and below the left artery. On the right side there are three veins in proximity to the artery ; the right iliac vein lying behind the lower part of the vessel, the left iliac vein crossing behind it, and the vena cava resulting from the union of the two others being on the right side of the artery at the upper end. Peculiarities.—The place of origin of the common iliac arteries coincides with that of the bifurcation of the aorta (p. 406). Fig. 288. Fig. 288.—Yiew of the right side of a Male Pelvis dis- sected TO SHOW THE EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL IlIAO AR- TERIES AND THEIR BRANCHES. ^ The viscera of the pelvis have been re- moved as well as the internal iliac veins: the larger nerves have been retained, a, body of the fifth lumbar ver- tebra ; b, anterior and superior spine of the right ilium ; c, left auricular surface of the sacrum; c', third piece of the sacrum ; d, first piece of the coccyx; e, short sacro- sciatic ligament; /, tuberosity of the is- chium covered inter- nally by the great sacro-sciatic ligament; </, obturator foramen ; ?', iliacus muscle; 1, lower part of the ab- dominal aorta ; 1', middle sacral artery; 2, 2, common iliac ar- teries ; 2', right exter- nal iliac; 3, lower part of the vena cava inferior ; 4, 4, common iliac veins ; the number on the right points by a line to the right internal iliac artery ; 4', right external iliac vein ; 5, placed on the ilio-lumbar nervous trunk, points to the posterior division of the internal iliac artery giving off the gluteal ; 5', ilio-lumbar artery ; 5", lateral sacral artery with branches passing into the anterior sacral foramina ; 6, placed on the anterior division of the first sacral nerve, points to the sciatic artery coming from the anterior division of the internal iliac ; 7, pudic artery ; 7', the same artery passing behind the spine of the ischium, and proceeding within the ischium and obturator internus muscle, accompanied by the pudic nerve towards the perinseum ; towards /, inferior baemorrhoidal branches are given off; 7", superficial perineal artery and nerve ; 8, hypogastric artery, with the obliterated remains of the umbilical artery cut short, and 8', superior vesical branches rising from it; 9, obturator artery with the corresponding nerve and vein ; 9', the pubic twigs which anastomose with descending twigs of the epigastric artery, and from which, by the enlargement of one of them, the aberrant obturator artery may proceed ; 10, inferior vesical ; 11, middle hsemorrhoidal vessels rising in this instance from the pudic ; 12, epigastric artery winding to the inside of +, +, the vas deferens and spermatic cord ; 13, ch'cumflex iliac artery ; 14, spermatic artery and vein divided superiorly; 15, twigs of the ilio-lumbar artery proceeding to anastomose with the circumflex iliac.