280 MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. it reaches the bend of the ankle, glides in a synovial sheath beneath the anterior annular ligament, and is inserted into the inner and lower part of the internal cuneiform and the contiguous extremity of the first metatarsal bone, dividing slightly into two slips as it descends. Fig. 213. Fig. 213.—Muscles op the Lower Leo and Foot FROM BEFORE. A 1, tendon of the rectus femoris; 1', ligamentum pa- tellse; 2, the lower part of the vastus internus; 3, lower part of the vastus externus; 4, lower part of the sartorius; 5, small portion of the fascia lata cut near the place of its insertion at the knee ; 6, inner head of the gastrocnemius; 7, inner part of the soleus; 8, tibialis anticus ; 8', its tendon near the insertion; 9, part of the extensor longus pollicis; 9', its tendon; 10, ex- tensor communis digitorum longus; 10', placed on the anterior annular ligament over the place of passage of the four tendons of the extensor communis; 11, pero- neus longus; 12, peroneus brevis; 13, peroneus tertius; 13', tendon of the peroneus tertius at its insertion; 14, origin of the extensor communis digitorum brevis, the first head of which is seen passing to the great toe near the line from 9'. The extensor proprius pollicis, placed be- tween the tibialis anticus and the extensor longus digitorum, arises from the middle three- fifths of the anterior narrow part of the inner surface of the fibula, and from the contiguous portion of the interosseous ligament for the same extent. The fleshy fibres run obliquely forwards into a tendon placed at the anterior border of the muscle ; and the tendon, after passing beneath the upper, and through the lower portion of the annular ligament in a dis- tinct compartment, and along the dorsum of the foot, is inserted into the base of the ter- minal phalanx of the great toe. A delicate expansion given off from the tendon on each side spreads over the joint between the meta- tarsal bone and the first phalanx. This muscle is partly concealed by those between which it is placed. It lies external to the anterior tibial artery in the leg, but crosses in front of that vessel at the bend of the ankle, and is internal to it on the foot. The extensor longus digitorum pedis, is situated in contact with the tibialis anticus above, and between the extensor proprius pollicis and peroneus tertius below ; it arises from the external tuberosity of the tibia; from the head and the anterior narrowed part of the inner surface of the fibula in front of the interosseous membrane, for about three-fourths of its length ; from a small part of the interosseous ligament at its upper part ; also from the aponeurotic septa intervening between it and the muscles on