cxcvi MUCOUS MEMBEANES. The mucous membranes of several different or even distant parts are con- tinuous, and, with certain unimportant reservations, to be afterwards ex- plained, they may all be reduced to two great divisions, namely, the gastro- pulmonary and genito-urinary. The former covers the inside of the alimen- tary and air passages as well as the less considerable cavities communicating with them. It may be described as commencing at the edges of the lips and nostrils where it is continuous with the skin, and proceeding through the nose and mouth to the throat, whence it is continued throughout the whole length of the alimentary canal to the termination of the intestine, there again meeting the skin, and also along the windpipe and its numerous divisions as far as the air cells of the lungs, to which it affords a lining. From the nose the membrane may be said to be prolonged into the lach- rymal passages, extending up the nasal duct into the lachrymal sac and along the lachrymal canals until, under the name of the conjunctival membrane, it spreads over the fore part of the eyeball and inside of the eyelids, on the edges of which it encounters the skin. Other offsets from the nasal part of the membrane line the frontal, ethmoidal, sphenoidal and maxillary sinuses, and from the upper part of the pharynx a prolongation extends on each side along the Eustachian tube to line that passage and the tympanum of the ear. Besides these there are offsets from the alimentary membranes to line the lachrymal, salivary, pancreatic, and biliary ducts, and the gall-bladder. The genito-urinary membrane invests the inside of the urinary bladder and the whole tract of the urine in both sexes, from the interior of the kidneys to the orifice of the urethra, also the seminal ducts and vesicles in the male, and the vagina, uterus, and Fallopian tubes in the female. The mucous membranes lining the ducts of the mammary glands, being unconnected with either of the above-mentioned great tracts, have sometimes been enumerated as a third division, and the number might of course be multiplied, were we separately to reckon the membranes pro- longed from the skin into the ducts of the numerous little glands which open on the surface of the body. The mucous membranes are attached by one surface to the parts which they line or cover by means of areolar tissue, named " submucous," which differs greatly in quantity as well as in consistency in different parts. The connection is in some cases close and firm, as in the cavity of the nose and its adjoining sinuses ; in other instances, especially in cavities sub- ject to frequent variation in capacity, like the gullet and stomach, it is lax and allows of some degree of shifting of the connected surfaces. In such cases as the last-mentioned the mucous membrane is accordingly thrown into folds when the cavity is narrowed by contraction of the exterior coats of the organ, and of course these folds, or ruga}, as they are named, are effaced by distension. But in certain parts the mucous mem- brane forms permanent folds, not capable of being thus effaced, which pro- ject conspicuously into the cavity which it lines. The best-marked example of these is presented by the valvule?, conniventes seen in the small intestine. These, as is moro fully described in the special anatomy of the intestines, are crescent-shaped duplicatures of the membrane, with connecting areolar tissue between their laminae, which are placed transversely and follow one another at very short intervals along a great part of the intestinal tract. The chief purpose of the valvulse conniventes is doubtless to increase the surface of the absorbing mucous membrane within the cavity, and it has also been supposed that they serve mechanically to delay the alimentary mass in its progress downwards. A mechanical office has also been as-