Ixxxvi FIBRO-CARTILAGE. structure and outward characters, that they have been included in a class apart, under the name of the " elastic," " yellow," or " spongy" cartilages. These are opaque and somewhat yellow, are more flexible and tough than the ordinary cartilages, and have little tendency to ossify. They are made up of cells and a matrix, but the latter is everywhere pervaded with fibres (fig. xlii.), except sometimes in a little area or narrow zone left round each of the cells. These fibres resist the action of acetic acid ; they are in most parts short, straight, and confusedly intersecting each other in all directions, like the filaments in a piece of felt ; in such parts the matrix has a rough in- distinctly granular look. Here and there the fibres are longer and more fascicu- Fig. XLII.—Section of the Epi- lated, but still interlace at short distances. glottis, magnified 380 diameters In thin sections the cells readily drop (Dr. Baly). out from the matrix, leaving empty the cavities which they occupied. In the foetus the matrix of elastic cartilage is at first homogeneous and hyaline, and the elastic fibres are then produced in it, quite independently of the cells, and in the same way as in the intercellular substance of growing elastic ligaments. FIBRO-CARTILAGE. This is a substance consisting of a mixture of the fibrous and cartilaginous tissues, and so far partaking of the qualities of both. Like hyaline car- tilage, it possesses firmness and elasticity, but these properties are united with a much greater degree of flexibility and toughness. It presents itself under various forms, which maybe enumerated under the following heads:— 1. Inter-articular fibro-cartilages. These are interposed between the moving surfaces of bones, or rather of articular cartilages, in several of the joints. They serve to maintain the apposition of the opposed surfaces in their various motions, to give ease to the gliding movement, and to moderate the effects of great pressure. In the joint of the lower jaw and in that of the clavicle they have the form of round or oval plates, growing thinner towards their centre ; in the knee-joint they are curved in form of a sickle, and thinned away towards their concave free edge. In all cases their surfaces are free, while they are fixed by synovial or fibrous membrane at their circumference or extremities. The synovial membrane of the joint, or at least its epithelial coat, is prolonged for a short distance upon these fibro-cartilages, from their attached margin. 2. The articular cavities of bones are sometimes deepened and extended by means of a rim or border of fibro-cartilage. A good example of one of these circumferential or marginal fibro-cartilages is seen in the hip-joint, attached round the lip of the cotyloid cavity. 3. Connecting fibro-cartilages are such as pass between the adjacent surfaces of bones in joints which do not admit of gliding motion, as at the symphysis of the pubes and between the bodies of the vertebrae. They have the general form of disks, and are composed of concentric rings of fibrous tissue with cartilage interposed ; the former predominating at the