cxxxvi NERVOUS SYSTEM. and it is when so altered that they are commonly subjected to examination, as represented in fig. lxxiv a. In particular instances, and in favourable cir- cumstances, it may be discovered that the fibre is composed of a fine mem- branous tube, inclosing a peculiar soft substance, and that this contained substance itself is distinguishable into a central part placed like a sort of axis in the middle of the tube, and a peripheral portion surrounding the axis, and occupying the space between it and the tubular inclosing mem- brane. In the annexed ideal plan (fig. lxxiv b), the membranous tube, or primitive sheath, is marked 1, 1 : the central part, marked 3, was named cylinder axis by Purkiuje, who considered it to be identical with the struc- ture previously described by Remak under the name of the primitive band (fibra primitiva) ; the matter surrounding it, marked 2, 2, is supposed to be the chief cause of the whiteness of the brain and nerves, and it was accord- ingly named the white substance by Schwann, and by others, though less appropriately, the medullary sheath. It is this last-mentioned substance which undergoes the most marked change on exposure ; it then seems to suffer a sort of coagulation or congelation, and when this has taken place, it very strongly refracts the light, and gives rise to the appearance of a dark border on each side of the nerve-tube (fig. lxxiv, a and c). This border, though darker than the rest of the tube, is nevertheless translucent, and is either colourless, or appears of a slightly yellowish or brownish tint; it is bounded by two nearly parallel lines, so that the nerve-fibre has then a double contour, and the inner line, less regular than the outer, gradually advances further inwards as the change in the white substance extends to a greater depth. The dark contours pursue a sinuous course, often with deep and irregular indentations ; while straight or curved lines of the same cha- racter, occasioned no doubt by wrinkles or creases occurring in the layer of white substance, are frequently seen crossing the tube. By continued ex- posure, round and irregular spots appear at various points, and at length the contents of the nerve-tube acquire a confusedly curdled or granulated aspect. The double contour appears only in fibres of a certain size; in very fine tubes, which become varicose or dilated at intervals, the double line is seen only in the enlargements, and not in the narrow parts between. It often happens that the soft contents of the tube are pressed out at the ruptured extremities, as in fig. lxxiv. c, 4, and then the round or irregular masses of the effused matter are still surrounded by the double line, which proves that this appearance is produced independently of the membranous tube. So long as this tube is accurately filled by the contained matter, its outline cannot be distinguished; but sometimes, when the white sub- stance separates at various points from the inside of the tube, the contour of the fibre becomes indented and irregular, and then the membrane of the tube may, in favour- able circumstances, be discerned as an extremely faint line, running outside the deeply-shaded border formed by the white substance, and taking no part in its irre- gular sinuosities (fig. lxxiv., c, 1,1). The membranous tube may also be distinguished at parts where the continuity of the contained matter is broken in consequence of traction, squeezing, or like injury of the fibre ; in such parts the double line produced by the white substance is wanting, and the faint outline of the membranous tube may be perceived passing over the interruption (2). The fine transparent membrane which forms this tube, named also the primitive sheath, appears to be quite simple and homogeneous in structure; so far as can be judged, it agrees in chemical nature with elastic tissue. Treatment with weak chromic acid, or iodine, or, still better, staining with carmine or aniline-red (magenta), brings into view nuclei attached along the sheath. They are found on the fibres of the nerves generally, but not in the optic and auditory nerves, nor in the brain and spinal cord; and, indeed, it is still a question whether the fibres of these last-named nerves and nervous centres are provided with a membranous sheath.