PECULIARITIES OF THE BRACHIAL ARTERY. 387 It is occasionally placed between the integuments and the fascia; and in a single instance was found beneath the muscles. In one instance recently occurring in the dissecting-room of the Glasgow University, the ulnar artery given off from the humeral at the middle of the arm was observed to descend superficially behind the inner condyle. The interosseous, after arising from the axillary or brachial artery, is commonly situated behind the main artery, and, on reaching the bend of the elbow, passes deeply between the muscles, to assume its usual position in the fore-arm. Lastly, when the radial has arisen high in the arm, the residuary portion of the brachial (ulnar-interosseous) has occasionally been observed descending, accompanied by the median nerve, along the intermuscular septum towards the inner condyle of the humerus, as far as the origin of the pronator teres (which in the cases recorded was found broader than usual), whence it turned outwards under cover of the muscle, to gain the usual position at the middle of the bend of the elbow. Fig. 272.—Aberrant Artery, separating from the BRACHIAL AT THE MIDDLE OF THE Arm, PASSING WITH the Median Nerve through the Internal Inter- muscular Septum, and joining farther down the regular Ulnar (from R. Quain). \ a, biceps muscle ; b, triceps ; c, c, divided pronator teres ; d, d, d', median nerve, diverted from its usual course, and passing with the aberrant artery through the internal intermuscular septum ; e, e, e, ulna nerve in its usual course ; 1, brachial artery, giving off an aberrant artery at the middle of the arm ; 2, the usual radial artery ; 3, aberrant artery, with the median nerve twining round it, passing at 3' through the internal intermuscular septum ; 3", the same farther down, and communicating at 4' with the first part of the normal ulnar artery, 4, given off from the brachial. The two arteries taking the place of the brachial are in some instances connected near the bend of the arm by an intervening trunk, which proceeds from the larger (or ulnar-interosseous) artery to the radial or the radial recurrent, and varies somewhat in its size, form, and course. More rarely the two unusual arteries are actually re-united. The aberrant arteries, " vasa aberrantia," alluded to in the preceding statement, are long slender ves- sels, which arise either from the brachial or the axillary artery, and end by joining one of the arteries of the fore-arm, or one of their branches. In eight cases out of nine, observed by Quain, this unusual vessel joined the radial; in the remaining case it joined the radial recurrent, which arose irregularly from the ulnar artery. Monro and Meckel have each seen one case in which the aberrant vessel joined the ulnar. This peculiarity may be regarded, perhaps, as an approach to that condition in which there is division of the brachial artery and subsequent connection of its two parts by an intervening branch. State of the arteries in both limbs.—In most cases of the high division of the brachial arteries the condition of the vessels is not the same in the right and left arms. In 61 bodies in which the high division existed, it occurred only on one side in 43 ; on both sides, in different positions, in 13; and on both sides, in the same position, in the remaining 5. Branches.—It has been already mentioned (p. 381) that the superior profunda