331 PULMONARY VESSELS. Fig. 248.—Semi-diagrammatic view of the Organs of Circulation in the Foetus from before, (modified from Luschka and from Nature). § a, front of the thyroid cartilage; 6, right side of the thyroid body ; c, trachea ; d, surface of the right lung turned outwards from the heart; e, diaphragm below the apex of the heart; /, right lobe of the liver, dissected to show ramifications of the portal and hepatic veins ; /', the middle part and left lobe of the liver in the same manner, showing branches of the umbilical veins and ductus venosus ; g, right, g', left kidney ; g", supra renal bodies ; h, right, h\ left ureter; i, portion of the small intestine turned towards the side, to show the veins from it going to the portal vein ; Tc, urinary bladder ; I, is placed below the umbilicus, which is turned towards the left of the foetus, and points by a line to the urachus ; m, rectum, divided and tied at its upper part. A, A, right auricle of the heart opened to show the foramen ovale : a probe, intro- duced through the large divided right hepatic vein and vena cava inferior, is seen passing through the fossa ovalis into the left auricle : at the lower part of the fossa ovalis is seen the Eustachian valve, to the right and inferiorly the auriculo-venfcricular orifice ; JB, the left auricular appendix; C, the surface of the right ventricle; D, placed on the inner surface of the left lung, points to the left ventricle. 1, ascending part of the arch of the aorta ; 1', back part beyond the ductus arteriosus ; 2, stem of the pulmonary artery ; 2', the place of division into right and left pulmonary arteries and root of the ductus arteriosus : the left pneumo-gastric nerve is seen descend- ing over the arch of the aorta ; 3, superior vena cava ; 3', right, 3", left innominate vein ; 4, stem of the inferior vena cava, between the junction of the hepatic vein and the right auricle ; 4', continuation of the vena cava inferior below ; 5, umbilical vein within the body of the foetus ; 5x, without the body, in the umbilical cord ; 5', 5', ductus venosus ; between 5 and 5', the direct branches of the umbilical vein to the liver ; 6, vena portse ; 6', its left branch joining the umbilical vein ; 6", its right branch ; 7, placed on the right iliac vein, points to the right common iliac artery ; 7', left common iliac artery ; 8, right, 8', left umbilical arteries coming from the internal iliac arteries ; 9, 9', external iliac arteries ; 10, placed below the right renal vessels; 11, inferior mesenteric artery, above the root of which are seen the two spermatic arteries. ment of an increased flow of blood through the lungs, which then perform their office as respiratory organs. The foramen ovale, the ductus arteriosus, the ductus venosus, and the umbilical vessels, all parts peculiar to the foetus, are gradually closed, and the right and left cavities of the heart thenceforth cease to communicate directly with each other. According to Bernt, the ductus arteriosus begins to contract imme- diately after several inspirations have taken place: in three or four days he some- times found it closed; on the eighth day it was obliterated in one half the cases examined, and on the tenth day in all. The foramen ovale appears to continue open a little longej, and it sometimes remains more or less so throughout life, as already stated. The umbilical arteries, the umbilical vein and the ductus venosus shrink and begin to be obliterated from the second to the fourth day after birth, and are gene- rally completely closed by the fourth or fifth day. PULMONARY VESSELS. PULMONARY ARTERY AND VEINS. The pulmonary artery is a short wide vessel, which carries the dark blood from the right side of the heart to the lungs. It arises from the infundi- bulum or conus arteriosus of the right ventricle, and passes for the space of nearly two inches upwards, and at the same time backwards and to the left side, to reach the concavity of the aortic arch, where it divides into its right and left branches. The mode of attachment of the pulmonary artery to the base of the ventricle has already been fully noticed. At each side of its commencement is the corresponding coronary artery springing from the aorta, and close to its sides are the two auricular appendages. It is at first in front of the aorta, and conceals the origin of that vessel ; but higher up, where it lies in front of the left auricle, it crosses to the left side of the ascending aorta, and is finally placed beneath the transverse part of the arch. The pulmonary artery and the aorta are united together z 2