.8 VERTEBRAL COLUMN. wards. Its superior surface is rendered transversely concave by the upward projection of its lateral margins, aud is sloped down anteriorly. The under surface, on the contrary, is rounded off" at the sides, while its anterior margin forms a marked projection downwards. The lamina are remarkable for their length and flatness. The superior notches are deeper than the inferior. The spinous process is short, projects horizontally backwards, or is only slightly depressed, and is bifid at its extremity. That of the seventh, however, terminates in a tubercle, and is so long as to be readily felt below the skin, while the others lie more deeply, and are covered with muscles ; hence the name vertebra prominens, applied to the seventh. The transverse processes are short, and bifid at the extremity. They pre- sent a deep groove superiorly, in which the spinal nerves lie ; and at the base are perforated vertically by a round foramen of considerable size. They have two roots or points of connection with the vertebra, one in front and one behind the foramen. The posterior root springs from the place of junction of the pedicle and lamina, and in so far corresponds with the dorsal transverse processes ; the anterior root is attached to the body of the vertebra and ranges in the same line with the ribs. The foramen corresponds with the space left between the root of a dorsal transverse process and the neck of the attached rib : it gives passage usually in the upper six ver- tebrae to the vertebral artery and vein, but in the seventh, though the foramen likewise exists, those vessels rarely pass through it. The trans- verse process of the seventh cervical vertebra Fig. 5. presents only a slight appearance of a groove on i its upper surface, and is widened rather than bifid at its extremity. Fig. 5.—Third Cervical Vertebra, § A, from above and slightly from behind ; B, from the side. 1, the body; 2 (omitted), the pedicle and inter-vertebral notch ; 3, lamina ; 4, vertebral ring, of a triangular form ; 5, bifid spinous process; 6, 6*, trans- verse process — 6, posterior, 6*, anterior tubercle; a, foramen in the root of the transverse process trans- mitting the vertebral artery ; 7, 7', articulating processes —7, the superior, 7', the inferior. The articulating processes are large and flat. Their articular surfaces are situated obliquely, the superior pair looking backwards, upwards, and in most of them slightly inwards ; the inferior pair forwards, downwards, and in most of them slightly outwards. The portion of bone between the superior and inferior articular surface on each side forms a short vertical pillar. The ring is of a triangular form, and larger than in either the dorsal or lumbar vertebrae. THE FIRST AND SECOND CERVICAL VERTEBRAE. The First Vertebra, or Atlas, so called from supporting the head, is remarkable for the smallness of the parts occupying the position of the body and spinous process. The ring, which is large from before backwards, is wider in the posterior than the anterior part of its extent. The wide posterior part corresponds to