THE ABSORBENTS. 496 them occupy the interval between the right and left bronchi at their diver- gence, whilst others of smaller size rest upon the first divisions of these tubes Fig. 336. Fig. 336.—Lymphatic Ves- sels op the Head and Neck and of the Upper Part of the Trunk (from Mascagni). J- The chest and pericar- dium have been opened on the left side, and the left mamma detached and thrown outwards over the left arm, so as to expose a great part of its deep surface. The principal lymphatic vesselsand glands are shown on the side of the head and face, and in the neck, axilla, and mediastinum. Between the left internal jugular vein and the common carotid artery, the upper ascending part of the thoracic duct marked 1, and above this, and descending to 2, the arch and last part of the duct. The termination of the upper lymphatics of the diaphragm in the me- diastinal glands, as well as the cardiac and the deep mammary lymphatics, are also shown. for a short distance within the lungs. In early infancy their co- lour is pale red ; towards puberty, we find them verging to grey, and studded with dark spots ; at a more advanced age they are frequently very dark or almost black. In chronic diseases of the lungs they sometimes become en- larged and indurated, so as to press on the air-tubes and cause much irrita- tion. They are frequently the seat of tuberculous deposits. The deep lymphatics of the thoracic walls are divisible into two sets, the sternal and the intercostal. The sternal lymphatics, commencing in the muscles of the abdomen, ascend between the fibres of the diaphragm at its attachment to the ensiform cartilage, and continue upwards behind the costal cartilages to terminate on the left side in the thoracic duct, and on the opposite side in the right lymphatic duct. They receive branches from the upper surface of the liver, and small branches from the anterior parts of the intercostal spaces. The intercostal lymphatics, passing backwards in each intercostal space, receive, as they approach the spine, branches coming forward through the intertransverse space, and enter the intercostal glands, through the efferent ducts of which their contents are poured on both sides of the body into the thoracic duct. The lymphatics of the lungs, like those of other organs, form two sets, one being superficial, the other deep-seated. Those at the surface run beneath the pleura, where they form a network by their anastomoses.