NERVOUS SYSTEM. clxiv be at first pale and grey, but afterwards to acquire medulla and become white. This change of aspect is apparent in the human embryo of the fourth or fifth month. Harting considers that the fibres represent at first only naked axis-cylinders, and suggests that the enclosing membranous tube and white substance are produced as an excretion from the axial fibre. According to Kollikers account of the growth of nerve-fibres at their peripheral ends, as observed in the tail of batrachian larvae, the existing fibres are prolonged by rows of fusiform cells which coalesce into pale fibres. These send out fine offshoots, which may join with neighbouring fibres, or with branched or stellate cells, which change into branched fibres, and in both of these ways the branching and conjunction of the nerves go on. The first fibres thus gene- rated (embryonal fibres, Koll.) virtually represent bundles of two, three, or more tubular dark-bordered fibres, into which they are speedily converted; the formation of the medullary sheath proceeding outwards along the branches. Dr. Beale has studied the formation of cells and fibres both in embryo and adult animals, and the following are the principal results of his observations. In both, cells are formed from nuclei imbedded in granular matter ; the new-formed cells are connected one to another, and two cells thus connected withdraw from each other, whilst the connecting isthmus lengthens out and becomes a fibre. The fibres accordingly do not sprout out from a previously insulated simple cell, but are spun out of the substance of the cell, or nucleus, with which they are connected from the beginning. Ganglion-cells also increase in number by division into two or more, and in this case the multiplied fibres belonging to the new cells form a bundle cor- responding to the nervous stem or peduncle of the original cell. A ganglion cell may also arise from (apparently) a nucleus placed in the course of a fibre, viz., a little oblong granular mass (of germinal matter, Beale) connected at each end with a fibre. This body first clears up at its circumference, then deviates from the straight line, so that the two portions of the fibre originally prolonged from its extremities, come to be connected with it at one side, and finally, by further change in its figure, at one end of it, as two fibres, whilst their continuations in the bundle from which they have been, as it were, looped out, run in opposite directions. The two fibres at first proceed straight from the cell, but afterwards one becomes twisted round the other, and the coils increase with the age of the cell, but the cell-body dwindles as it grows older. A nerve-fibre in a fasciculus may also be formed from two nuclei connected at their ends which withdraw from each other, the connecting thread then lengthening out into a fibre. For further details, Dr. Beale's original memoir may be consulted.* To the foregoing may be added the chief conclusions arrived at by von Hensen from recent observations on the growing nerves in the tadpole's tail. According to his account, fine nervous branches are seen running out, on the tail-fin, into almost imperceptibly fine filaments. The nerves are at first pale, smooth, without nuclei, and represent the naked axis-cylinders, though much finer. Then nuclei appear upon them, but these belong to very long-drawn fusiform cells which now really inclose these axis-cylinders, and form the primitive sheath of the nerve-fibres; but this ensheathment stops before reaching the finest branches, i.e., until they grow larger. Afterwards the medulla appears. According to von Hensen, nerves do not grow from cells—such as cells of a nervous centre—outwards in the direction of their branches. He thinks the mode is thus :—Two nerve-cells are connected by a fibre, or what may be the rudiment of many fibres ; of the cells, the one is central, the other eventually becomes a peripheral terminal organ; (as already stated, he believes the cutaneous nerve-fibres to be connected with epithelium cells); the latter, in the progress of growth and development, is withdrawn from the former, and the nerve thus lengthened. Moreover, both cells may divide, and the nerve or fibre splits in correspondence, so that a nerve comes to be connected with several central and several peripheral cells. The peripheral cell or cells may divide more extensively than the central, but as corresponding divisions take place in the nerve-fibres, every peripheral cell or terminal organ maintains its connection with the nervous centre. Yon Hensen remarks that the foun- dation of the nervous centres and of the nerves of special sense, as well as those of the skin, is laid in the corneous layer of the blastoderm, from which both the central and peripheral cells are derived originally. It will be seen that * Phil. Trans. 1863.