BONES OF THE HEAD. 52 muscle. The internal surface presents at its middle the inferior dental foramen, leading into the dental canal, which lodges the dental nerve and vessels. Passing down from the sharp inferior margin of this foramen is the mylo-hyoid groove (occasionally a canal for a short space), marking the passage of the mylo-hyoid nerve with an accompanying artery and vein. Behind this, inside the angle, is a marked roughness for the internal pterygoid muscle. Each ramus is surmounted by two processes, the condyle and the coro- noid, which are separated by a deep excavation, the sigmoid notch. The condyle is continued upwards from the posterior part of the ramus. It is supported by a constricted portion, the neck, which presents anteriorly a depression, from which the external pterygoid muscle arises. The condyle is a transversely elongated convex articular process, whose major axis is directed obliquely, so that if prolonged it would meet with that of its fellow near the anterior margin of the foramen magnum. The coronoid process is continued vertically upwards in front, from the anterior margin of the ramus. It is pointed, and gives attachment by its margin and inner aspect to the temporal muscle. At its base, in front, is a groove, to which the buccinator muscle is attached. The anterior margin of the ramus is placed at nearly a right angle to the alveolar border. The angle of the jaw, which is the meeting of the posterior border of the ramus with the base, is in the adult usually about 120°; in infancy it is as great as 140° or more; in strongly developed jaws it may be diminished to 110° or less ; and in old and toothless jaws it is increased. These changes are connected with a variety of circumstances, among which may be noticed,—the development of the temporary and permanent teeth, the absorption of the alveolar arch in advanced age, the elongation of the face and upper jaw towards adult life, and the varying state of development of the masseter muscles at different periods. THE HYOID BONE. The hyoid bone, or os lingual, is situated at the base of the tongue, and may be felt between the chin and the thyroid cartilage. It is suspended from the tips of the styloid processes of the temporal bones by a pair of slender bands, the stylo-hyoid ligaments, which are osseous in most animals. Hence, though not strictly a bone of the cranium or face, it properly falls to be considered in this place. It is shaped like the letter it, and consists of a body and two pairs of cornua. Fig. 47. Fig. 47.—The Hyoid Bone, from before. § 1, the prominent part of the body; 2, the great cornu : 3, the lesser cornu. The body, or central piece, is compressed from before backwards, and lies in a plane, directed downwards and forwards. Its anterior surface is convex, and marked in the middle by a vertical ridge, on each side of which are depressions for the attachment of muscles. Its posterior surface is concave, and is directed towards the epiglottis. The great cornua project backwards from the sides of the body, and end in rounded extremities. The small cornua, or cornicula, short and conical, project upwards and backwards from the place of junction of the body with the great cornua,