MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 282 Five tendons are ascribed to the extensor longus digitorum by Cowper (Myot. Reform., c. 36, p. Ill), the peroneus tertius having been considered by him as part of that muscle, a view which is in some degree warranted by the form which it usually presents. The extensor brevis digitorum pedis arises from the outer surface of the os calcis in front of the groove for the peroneus brevis muscle, and from the lower band of the anterior annular ligament. It divides into four tapering slips each of which terminates in a tendon ; the first or most internal of these, sometimes reckoned as a distinct muscle, is inserted separately into the dorsal surface of the first phalanx of the great toe near its tarsal extremity; and the other three become severally united to the outer border of the extensor tendons proceeding to the three next toes. EXTERNAL REGION. The peroneus longus arises from the head of the fibula, and from more than the two upper thirds of the external surface of that bone ; from the fascia of the leg; and from aponeuroses interposed between it and the contiguous muscles, viz., the extensor communis digitorum on one side, and the soleus and flexor longus pollicis on the other. It ends above the ankle in a tendon, which passes downwards behind that of the peroneus brevis in the hollow behind the external malleolus, and inclining forwards, turns over the outer margin of the foot, and enters the excavation on the lower surface of the cuboid bone, and changing its direction, proceeds inwards and forwards to be inserted into the lower part of the internal cuneiform and the tarsal end of the first metatarsal bone : an offset is continued from it to the base of the second metatarsal bone. In this course the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle, lying parallel with that of the peroneus brevis, is invested along with it by a synovial membrane, and bound down by a fibrous band extended from the end of the fibula to the calcaneum ; on the outer side of the foot it separates from the peroneus brevis, and in the sole of the foot the peroneus longus lies in a synovial sheath formed by fibres of the liga- mentum longum plantse. The peroneus brevis arises from the two lower thirds of the external surface of the fibula, internal to the peroneus longus, and from the inter- muscular septa which dip down in front between it and the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius, and behind between it and the flexor longus pollicis. The fibres are directed to a tendon on their outer surface, which becoming free at the level of the external malleolus, passes behind that process, sheathed in the same synovial membrane as the tendon of the peroneus longus, and inclining forwards is inserted into the projection at the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, having traversed a separate sheath on the calcaneum, above that for the tendon of the peroneus longus, but lined by an offset of the same synovial membrane. POSTERIOR REGION. The muscles at the back of the leg consist of a superficial group inserted into the extremity of the calcaneum, and a deeper group covered in by a deep fascia and descending to the sole. The superficial group consists of three muscles ; two of them, placed one on the surface of the other, are of large size, the gastrocnemius and soleus (extensor tarsi suralis vel extensor magnus,—Douglas; musculus sura),