THORACIC AORTA. 402 They are distributed to the walls of the thorax, and to the viscera con- tained within it—the latter being much the smaller and least numerous branches. a. The branches to the viscera are very irregular in their number and place of origin. They are as follows :— The pericardiac branches are some very small and irregular vessels which pass forwards and ramify on the pericardium. The Bronchial Arteries are the proper nutritious arteries of the sub- stance of the lung : they accompany the bronchial tubes in their ramifications through that organ, and they also supply the bronchial glands, and in part the oesophagus. These vessels vary frequently in number, and in their mode of origin. The bronchial artery of the right side arises from the first aortic intercostal artery, or by a common trunk with the left bronchial artery from the thoracic aorta ; on the left side there are generally two bronchial arteries, both of which arise from the thoracic aorta, one near the commencement of that trunk, and the other, named inferior bronchial, lower down. Each artery is usually directed to the back part of the corresponding bronchus, along which it runs, dividing and subdividing with the successive bronchial ramifications in the substance of the lung. Peculiarities of the bronchial arteries.—The place of origin is liable to much variation. The artery of the right side has been found to arise singly from the aorta, from the internal mammary, or from the inferior thyroid. The bronchial arteries of the two sides have been seen to arise by a common trunk from the subclavian. (Haller.) Two common trunks, each furnishing a branch to the right and left lungs, have been observed in a single case to descend into the thorax after arising, one from the in- ternal mammary, and the other from the superior intercostal artery. (R. Quain, pi. 26, f. 5.) Instances occur of two distinct bronchial arteries for each lung. The (Esophageal Arteries are variable in size and number. There are usually four or five, which arise from the fore part or right side of the aorta, and run obliquely downwards upon the oesophagus, supplying its coats. Their lower branches anastomose with the ascending offsets of the coronary artery of the stomach, while their upper branches communicate with those of the inferior thyroid artery. Posterior mediastinal branches of the aorta, small and irregular, supply the glands and loose tissue of the posterior mediastinum. b. The branches furnished by the aorta to the walls of the thorax are named intercostal from their distribution. The intercostal arteries arise from the posterior part of the aorta, and run outwards upon the bodies of the vertebrse, to reach the intercostal spaces. They are usually ten in number—the upper intercostal space, and occasionally also the second, being supplied by the superior intercostal branch of the subclavian artery. Owing to the position of the aorta to the left side of the spine, the right aortic intercostals cross over the front of the vertebrse, furnishing small branches to their interior, and are longer than the arteries of the left side. The vessels of both sides pass outwards behind the pleura, and are crossed by the sympathetic nerve : those of the right side also pass behind the oesophagus, the thoracic duct, and the azygos vein. In each intercostal space the artery, passing outwards more hori- zontally than the ribs, crosses the space obliquely, so as to gain the lower border of the upper rib near its angle. It lies upon the deep surface of the external intercostal muscle, and in the back of the space