THE HEART. 308 catures of the endocardium, and of enclosed fibrous structure, which varies in thickness at different parts. A tendinous band strengthens the free margin of the valve, and is attached at the middle of that margin to a slight fibro-cartilaginous thickening, the nodulus or corpus Arantii. Other ten- dinous fibres, spreading out from the attached border of the valve, run into the valve and towards the nodule, occupying its whole extent, except two narrow lunated portions, one on each side, adjoining the free margin of the valve. These parts, which are named lunula, are therefore thinner than the rest. There is also a strengthening fibrous cord surrounding the attached border of each valve. (For further information regarding the structure of the valves, consult Pettigrew, in Trans. Roy. Soc. Edin. 1864.) During the contraction of the ventricle the valves lie against the sides of the artery, and allow the blood to flow freely past them ; but during the ventricular diastole, when the column of fluid in the artery is partially thrown back by the elasticity of the coats of that vessel, the sigmoid valves are distended by the regurgitating blood, and completely close the arterial orifice. When the valves are thus closed, the whole free border and the thin lunated parts are closely applied to each other, and are held together as well as exempted from strain by the opposite and equal pressure of the blood on either side, so that the greater the pressure the more accurate must be the closure. The force of the reflux is sustained by the stouter and more tendinous part of the valve. (Retzius, in Mutter's Archiv., 1843, p. 14.) Opposite the pouches formed by the sigmoid valves, the commencing aorta and pulmonary artery present dilatations or recesses in their walls, called sinuses of Valsalva, which give to the transverse section of the vessel a trilobate form, and as one of these is placed behind each segment of the valve, it thus forms along with it a cup-shaped cavity. Special description.—The detailed anatomy of the four cavities of the heart may be conveniently considered in the order of the course of the blood in its double circulation through them from the venae cavae to the aorta. 1. The eight auricle forms the right anterior and lower part of the base of the heart, and is in contact below with the pericardium where it lies upon the diaphragm : it receives blood in two large streams, from the superior and the inferior vena cava, besides the smaller quantity from the coronary vein. At its fore part its auricular appendage projects for- wards and to the left, in front of the aorta, as far as the pulmonary artery. This part is triangular in form, compressed and slightly dentated at its border, and has more strongly muscular walls than the sinus venosus. The auricular appendage and anterior wall of the sinus venosus are closely ridged in a vertical direction with musculi pectinati ; the remaining parts of the walls are comparatively smooth. The superior vena cava is directed downwards and forwards into the upper part of the auricle, while the inferior vena cava terminates in the lower and back part by a consider- ably larger opening, which is directed upwards and inwards. In the floor of the auricle, in front of the inferior vena cava, is the auriculo-ven- tricular opening, leading into the right ventricle ; it is oval in form, and about an inch and a quarter in diameter, admitting three fingers easily. The other foramina opening into the right auricle are, the orifice of the large coronary vein of the heart, situated between the opening of the inferior vena cava and the auriculo-ventricular opening, and a number of small pits,