61 INTEKIOR OF THE SKULL. The upper part of the cranial cavity forms an unbroken arch ; the lower part is divisible into three parts or fossse having different levels. The anterior fossa, formed by the orbital plates of the frontal bone, the small wing of the sphenoid, and the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, sup- ports the anterior lobes of the brain. It is deepest opposite the ethmoid bone, and convex over the orbits. It is pierced by the foramina of the cribriform plate, and by the foramen ccecum in front of the crista galli of the ethmoid bone. The middle fossa presents a mesial and two lateral parts. The mesial part is small, being formed by the olivary process and sella turcica of the sphenoid bone, and limited behind by the dorsum selhe. The lateral part on each side, formed by the great wing of the sphenoid, the squamous part of the temporal, and the anterior surface of the petrous part, lodges the middle lobe of the brain. The foramina of the middle fossa are the fora- men opticum, the sphenoidal fissure, foramen rotundum, foramen ovale, foramen spinosum, foramen lacerum medium, and hiatus Fallopii. The posterior fossa, deeper and larger than the others, extends back to the occipital protuberance, and lodges the cerebellum and medulla oblongata. The occipital bone and the petrous and mastoid portions of the temporal bone take part in its formation. In the posterior surface of the pars pe- trosa, which limits this fossa anteriorly on each side, is the internal audi- tory meatus, below it is the foramen lacerum posterius, below and internal to that is the anterior condyloid foramen, and in the middle line is the foramen magnum. Grooves for Bloodvessels.—The groove of the middle meningeal artery commences at the foramen spinosum of the sphenoid bone, and ramifies principally on the squamous portion of the temporal bone and on the parietal. The groove of the internal carotid artery lies on the side of the body of the sphenoid bone, and terminates on the internal margin of the anterior clinoid process. The groove of the superior longitudinal sinus, commencing at the foramen ccecum in front of the crista galli of the ethmoid bone, enlarges as it passes backwards in the middle line of the roof of the skull, and terminates at the internal occipital protuberance. At that point commence the grooves of the lateral sinuses, which pass outwards on the occipital bone, cross the posterior inferior angles of the parietal bones, descend on the mastoid portions of the temporal bones, run inwards again on the occipital, and turn forwards to terminate at the jugular foramen. The groove of the inferior petrosal sinus lies between the petrous portion of the temporal bone and the basilar process ; that of the superior petrosal sinus extends along the superior angular edge of the petrous portion. The Nasal Cavities and Communicating Sinuses.—The nasal cavities are placed one at each side of the middle line, being separated by a vertical septum. They open in front and behind by the anterior and posterior nares already described, and communicate by foramina with the sinuses of the frontal, ethmoid, sphenoid, and superior maxillary bones. Their vertical extent, as well as that from before backwards, is considerable, but the transverse width of each is very limited, especially in the upper part. The internal wall, or septum narium, is formed principally by the central plate of the ethmoid bone and the vomer ; but the frontal spine, the rostrum of the sphenoid bone, and the crests of the maxillary and palate bones likewise enter into its composition. It presents a great angular deficiency in front, which in the recent state is filled up by the septal cartilage. In