HYALINE CARTILAGE. lxxxi these mechanical properties, it is rather extensively used in the construction of the body. Its specific gravity is 1*15. In the early embryo the skeleton is, in great part, cartilaginous ; but the cartilage forming its different pieces, which have the outward form of the future bones, in due time undergoes ossification or gives place to bone, in the greater part of its extent at least, and hence this variety of cartilage is named " temporary." Of the permanent cartilages a great many are in immediate connection with bone, and may be still said to form part of the skeleton. The chief of these are the articular and the costal cartilages ; the former cover the ends or surfaces of bones in the joints, and afford these harder parts a thick springy coating, which breaks the force of concussion and gives ease to their motions ; the costal or rib-cartilages form a considerable part of the solid framework of the thorax, and impart elasticity to its walls. Other perma- nent cartilages enter into the formation of the external ear, the nose, the eyelids, the Eustachian tube, the larynx, and the windpipe. They strengthen the substance of these parts without undue rigidity; maintaining their shape, keeping open the passages through them where such exist, and giving attachment to moving muscles and connecting ligaments. Cartilages, except those of the joints, are covered externally with a fibrous membrane named the perichondrium. When a very thin slice of cartilage is examined with the microscope, it is seen to consist of nucleated cells, also named cartilage corpuscles, dissemi- nated in a solid mass or matrix. (Figs, xxxix., xl., and xli.) The matrix is sometimes transparent, and to all appearance homogeneous; sometimes dim and very faintly granular, like ground glass : both these conditions occur in hyaline cartilage, which may be regarded as the most typical form of the tissue. Two varieties exist in which the matrix is per- vaded to a greater or less extent by fibres. In the one, named elastic or yellow cartilage, the fibres are similar to those of elastic tissue ; in the other, named jibro-cartilage, they are of the white kind as in ordinary ligament. HYALINE CARTILAGE. In hyaline cartilage the matrix, as just stated, is uniform and, in the normal state, free from fibres. The cells consist of a rounded, oval, or bluntly angular cell-body of translucent, but sometimes finely granular- looking substance, with a clear round nucleus and one or more nucleoli. The cell-body lies in a cavity of the matrix, which, in its natural condition, it entirely fills. This cavity is bounded and inclosed by a transparent capsule,, which is seldom obvious to the eye, for it coheres intimately with the surrounding matrix, with which it agrees in nature, and cannot usually be distinguished without the aid of re-agents. The capsule has been regarded as a secondary cell-wall and compared to the cellulose wall of vegetable cells ; while the body it contains is, on the same view, considered to be homologous with the primordial utricle and its contents. But the same doubt prevails here as in the case of vegetables, as to the existence of a proper membrane (the utricle) immediately investing the substance of the cell. (See page xiv, and figures viii. and ix.) In thin slices of young cartilage the capsules may be freed from the matrix by means of concentrated mineral acids, and can then be shown as distinct vesicles /