124 ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK AND HEAD. and the roots of the spines. Their outer margins are close to the articu- lating processes ; their inner margins lie in contact in the middle line, and in that situation the ligaments are thickest. Fig. 111. Fig. 111.—The Arches of three Dorsal Ver- tebra, SEEN PROM BEFORE, TO SHOW THE LlGA- MENTA SUBFLAVA. ^ The bodies of the vertebra have been removed by- sawing through the pedicles, showing the articular capsules and the ligamenta subflava. The ligamenta subflava do not exist be- tween the occiput and the atlas, nor between the latter and the axis; common fibrous membrane supplies their place in these two spaces, constituting posterior occipito-atlantal and atlanto-axial ligaments. The inter spinous ligaments, thin and rather membranous, have an attachment extending from the root to near the summit of each spinous process, and connect the inferior border of one with the superior border of that next below it. They are best seen in the lumbar region, and are least developed in the neck. The supraspinous ligaments consist of small compressed bundles of longitudinal fibres, which connect the summits of the Fig. 112.—Antero-Posterior Vertical Sec- tion of the upper part of the Vertebral Column, and part of the Occipital Bone, showing the Articulations (after Arnold). 1, 1, anterior common ligament of the bodies of the vertebra? ; 1', anterior atlanto-occipital ligament ; 2, from this figure upwards the posterior common ligament of the bodies ; 2', the continuation of the preceding and the appa- ratus ligamentosus lying on the basilar process of the occipital bone ; 3, 3, 3, these figures are placed on the inside of the arches of the 2nd and 7th cervical and 6th dorsal vertebra ; the ligamenta subflava are to be seen stretching between the lamina?; 4, 4, placed upon two of the interspinous ligaments ; 4', divided edge of the occipital bone behind the foramen magnum, and below it, the posterior occipito-atlantal ligament and ligaments of the arches ; 5, 5, supraspinous ligaments ; 6, ligamentum nuchse ; x , its upper extremity at the occipital tube- rosity ; x x , its lower extremity terminating in the supraspinous ligaments of the upper dorsal vertebrse. spinous processes, and form a continuous chain from the seventh cervical vertebra to the spine of the sacrum. The posterior fibres pass down from a given vertebra to the third or fourth