OBTURATORY ARTERY. 423 offsets to the lower part of the bladder over the neck, and others to the contiguous part of the rectum. Fig. 290. Fig. 290.—View op the distribution of the arteries to the Viscera op the Female Pelvis, as seen on the removal op the left Os Innominatum, &c. (from R. Quain). \ a, the left auricular surface of the sacrum ; b, the spine of the ischium with the short sacro-sciatic ligament; c, the os pubis cut a little to the left of the symphysis ; d, placed upon the sigmoid part of the colon, and d' on the lower part of the urinary bladder, point to the ureter ; e, ou the upper part of the body of the uterus, points by a line to the left ovary ; /, on the upper part of the bladder, points to the left Fallopian tube ; /', round ligament of the uterus ; 1, left external iliac artery cut short ; 2, left internal iliac artery ; 3, gluteal artery cut short; 4, 4, left pudic artery from which a part has been removed ; 4', the same artery after it his re-entered the pelvis proceeding towards the muscles of the perinseum, clitoris, &c. ; 5, placed on the sacral nerves, points to the sciatic artery ; 6, 6', inferior vesical and vaginal arteries ; 6", branches from these to the rectum ; 7, uterine artery much coiled ; 8, the superior vesical, and 8', the remains of the hypo- gastric artery; 9, 9, the left ovarian artery, descending from the aorta, and emerging; from below the peritoneum ; 10, the superior hemorrhoidal artery spreading over the left side of the rectum. III. OBTURATOR ARTERY. The obturator artery is in most instances derived from the internal iliac ; it usually arises from the anterior portion of that vessel, but not unfre- quently from its posterior division. The artery is directed forwards along the inside of the pelvis to reach the groove at the upper part of the thyroid foramen. By this aperture it passes out of the pelvis, and immediately divides into its terminal branches. In its course through the pelvis, the artery is placed between the pelvic fascia and the peritoneum, a little below the obturator nerve. Beneath the pubes it lies with its accompanying vein and nerve in an oblique canal, formed partly by a groove in the bone, and partly by fibrous tissue, after passing through which it divides imme-