THE HEART. 316 The apex of the heart is situated about three and a-half inches to the left of the middle line, and in the fifth intercostal space. The apex of the left auricular appen- dage is in the lower part of the second intercostal space or behind the third costal cartilage, about an inch and a quarter from the left of the sternum. FIBROUS AND MUSCULAR STRUCTURE OF THE HEART. The heart consists chiefly of muscular tissue ; but besides this and the thin membranes investing its surface and lining its cavities, there enter into the formation of its wall, numerous blood-vessels, absorbents, and nerves, together with more or less fat and some areolar tissue. The fibrous tissue belonging to the heart, besides what enters into the structure of the different valves and the chordae tendinese, is found princi- pally surrounding the auriculo-ventricular and great arterial orifices. When we view the base of the heart so placed that the two auriculo-ventricular orifices, which are separated only by the upper edge of the septum ventri- culorum are side by side, instead of the right being somewhat in front of the left, as is the case during life, the aortic opening is seen to occupy a position between and in front of them, and to have the opening of the pulmonary artery immediately in front of it. The wall of the aortic opening is firmly blended opposite one of the semilunar valves with the forepart of the right margin of the left auriculo-ventricular opening ; and opposite the angle between the other two valves it is in close contact with the margin of the right auriculo-ventricular opening. In the angle between the aortic and two auriculo-ventricular openings there is found a small fibro-cartilaginous mass, which in some large animals, as the ox and elephant, is replaced by a piece of bone. From this nodule a thick process extends backwards between the two auriculo-ventricular orifices beneath the septum auricu- larum, and others pass forwards forming bands, one on each side of the aortic opening. These processes form the bases of whab have been elabo- rately described by authors as the fibrous or tendinous rings of the auriculo- ventricular openings. These rings, and others which are described as bounding the arterial orifices, have had a great importance imputed to them as being the tendons of origin of the ventricular muscular fibres, a view which, however, from recent investigations to be presently noticed, appears to be incorrect. The rings around the auriculo-ventricular orifices consist of only a small quantity of loose, white, fibrous tissue, continuous with that which is found in the segments of the valves, strengthened on the sides next the septum by the processes from the fibro-cartilaginous nodule. The rings of the arterial orifices have been described by authors, and also in the previous editions of this work, as each formed by a fibrous band or zone, one edge of which is even, and gives attachment to the muscular fasciculi of the ventricle, whilst the other is scalloped into three deep semilunar notches, and is firmly fixed to the middle coat of the large artery. This scalloped margin is simply the line of junction of the endocardium with the festooned line of attachment of the semilunar valves and termination of the artery, strengthened however by areolar tissue. The fibres of the middle coat of the artery also, opposite the sinuses of Valsalva, are not arranged annularly as in other parts of the vessel, but diverge from between the sinuses, and spread upwards and laterally on the walls of the vessel; and the attachment of the artery to the ventricle is principally effected by fibrous tissue continuous with the middle coat of the artery and with the fibrous tissue in the valves, which spreads out between the small fasciculi of the muscular substance, and is firmly connected with it.