Magnified 260 diameters (from Kolliker, reduced). NERVOUS SYSTEM. cxl often finely branched, from their circumference (figs, lxxviii and lxxtx) ; and then they are often named, according to the number of processes they present, uni-, bi-, and multipolar ; terms obviously ill chosen, but rendered Fig. LXXIX.—Nerve-Cells feom the Cortical Grey Matter of the Cerebellum. current by use. They have each, as a rule, a large, well-defined, clear, round nucleus, and within this an equally distinct nucleolus, or sometimes more than one. The substance of the cell is soft and translucent, but finely granular or punctuated, and slightly tinged throughout with a brownish red colour ; and cells are often seen, especially those of the large ramified kind, with one, or sometimes two, much deeper coloured brown patches, caused by groups of pigment granules ; the colour is deeper in adult age than in infancy. The bodies in question, although they still are commonly called "cells," appear to be destitute of a proper cell-wall. In the ganglia, it is true, they are enclosed in a distinct capsule ; but this is probably adventitious, and pertaining to the connective structure in which they are lodged. The out- runners or branches are formed by prolongations of the same soft substance which forms the cell body ; they are, therefore, very readily broken, and the cells thereby mutilated, in the manipulation required for their insulation. Various recent observers describe a faint striation, or a very fine fibrillation, in the branched cells; the lines or fibrils are said to run along the outrunners, and also to pass continuously through the body of the cell from one branch to another; it is further alleged by one writer (Frommann), that bundles of filaments proceed from the nucleus and pass out of the cell at various points, in each of Which bundles there is one fibril connected with the nucleolus. Other nerve-cells (fig. lxxx, a) are found in the nervous substance, which are distinguished chiefly by the pellucid, colourless, and homogeneous aspect of the matter contained in them ; such cells possess a nucleus like the rest ; they are seldom large, and have usually a simple round or oval figure. They occur along with nerve-cells of the kind before described. Lastly, small bodies of the size of human blood-corpuscles and upwards, containing one or more bright specks like nucleoli, abound in the grey matter in certain situations (fig. lxxx, 6, c). These bodies, which are sometimes called "granules" (Korner in German), resemble "the nuclei of nerve-cells ; and it may be a question whether they are not the nuclei of cells in which the Fig. LXXIX.