MUCOUS MEMBRANES. cc inclose larger and smaller polygonal pits or recesses. This peculiar cha- racter of the surface of the membrane, which might be called t( alveolar," is seen very distinctly in the gall-bladder, and on a finer scale in the vesi- culse seminales ; still more minute alveolar recesses with intervening ridges may be discovered with a lens on the mucous membrane of the stomach Glands of mucous membranes.—Many, indeed most, of the glands of the body pour their secretions into the great passages lined by mucous membranes ; but there are certain small glands which may be said to belong to the membrane itself, inasmuch as they are found in numbers over large tracts of that mem- brane, and yield mucus, or special secretions known to be derived from particular portions of the membrane. Omitting local peculiarities the glands referred to may be described as of three kinds,~viz. :— 1. Tubular glands.—These are minute tubes formed by recesses or inversions of the base- ment membrane, and lined with epithelium. They are usually placed perpendicularly to the surface, and often very close together, and they constitute the chief substance of the mucous membrane in those parts where they abound, its apparent thickness depending on the length of the tubes, which differs considerably in different regions. The tubes open by one end on the surface ; the other end is closed, and is either simple or loculated, or even cleft into two or more branches. The tubular glands are abundant in the stomach, and in the small and large intestines, where they are comparatively short and known as the crypts of Lieber- kiihn. They exist also in considerable numbers in the mucous membrane of the uterus. 2. Small compound glands.—Under this head are here comprehended minute but still true compound glands of the racemose kind, with single branched ducts of various lengths, which open on different parts of the membrane. Numbers of these, yielding a mucous secretion, open into the mouth and windpipe. They have the appearance of small solid bodies, often of a flattened lenticular form, but varying much both in shape and size, and placed at different depths below the mucous membrane on which their ducts open. The glands of Brunner, which form a dense layer in the commencing part of the duodenum, are of this kind. 3. Solitary and agminated glands, conglobate glands (Henle), follicular glands (Kolliker).—Found in various parts of the alimentary mucous mem- brane, also in the palpebral conjunctiva. They may be single (solitary glands), or in patches (agminated glands). Their structure is well known, but, although they are called glands, their function is still enigmatical. They are small sacs reaching down into the submucous tissue, closed and covered above by the mucous membrane. Within is fine retiform tissue, supporting radiating blood-capillaries, with bodies like lymph-cor- puscles in the meshes, and communicating with a similar tissue (lymphoid tissue) diffused in the adjacent part of the membrane ; for, although they do not open on the surface, their reticular capsule rarely forms a perfect inclosure. Several of these saccules are sometimes placed round a recess of Fig. CVII. Fig. CVII.—Portion op Mu- cous Membrane of the Stomach, slightly mag- nified. The alveolar pits and small orifices of the tubular glands are seen (after Ecker).