lxxxvii BONE. circumference, the latter increasing towards the centre. The bony surfaces between which they pass are usually encrusted with true cartilage. The modifications which they present in particular instances are described in the special anatomy of the joints. 4. The bony grooves in which tendons of muscles glide are lined with a thin layer of fibro-cartilage. Small nodules of this tissue (sesamoid fibro- cartilages) may also be developed in the substance of tendons, of which there is an example in the tendon of the tibialis posticus, where it passes beneath the head of the astragalus. Lastly, fibro-cartilage is sometimes connected with muscular tissue, and gives attachment to muscular fibres, like that which is known to exist at the orifices of the heart. Fibro-cartilage appears under the microscope to be made up of bundles of fibres, like those of ordinary ligament, with cartilage-cells intermixed ; but the proportion of the two elements differs much in the different instances above enumerated. In general the fibrous tissue very greatly predominates, and in some cases, as in the inter-articular laminae of the knee-joint, it constitutes almost the entire structure. In the intervertebral disks the cartilage-corpuscles are abundant towards the centre of the mass where the cartilaginous tissue prevails, and the substance is softer. In chemical composition this texture agrees most with ligament, yielding gelatin when boiled. Its bloodvessels are very few, and, according to Mr. Toynbee,* are confined to the parts that are fibrous. Its vital changes are slow ; it is subject to absorption, but much less readily so than bone ; hence it is no uncommon thing to find the intervertebral disks entire when the adjacent bodies of the vertebrae have been destroyed by disease. It has not much tendency to ossify. Little is known concerning the mode of development of fibro-cartilage. Mr. Toynbee concludes from his researches that the cartilaginous element is relatively more abundant at early periods. BONE, OR OSSEOUS TISSUE. The bones are the principal organs of support, and the passive instruments of locomotion. Connected together in the skeleton, they form a framework of hard material, which affords attachment to the soft parts, maintains them in their due position, and shelters such as are of delicate structure, giving stability to the whole fabric, and preserving its shape ; and the different pieces of the skeleton, being jointed moveably together, serve also as levers for executing the movements of the body. While substantially consisting of hard matter, bones in the living body are covered with periosteum and filled with marrow ; they are also per- vaded by vessels for their nutrition. External configuration.—In their outward forms the bones present much diversity, but have been reduced by anatomists to the following classes :— 1. Long or cylindrical, such as the chief bones of the limbs. These consist of a body or shaft, cylindrical or more frequently angular in shape, and two ends or heads, as they are often called, which are usually much thicker than the shaft. The heads, or ends, have smooth surfaces for articulation with neighbouring bones. The shaft is hollow and filled with marrow, by which * Phil. Trans. 1841.