312 Fig. 234.—Cross Section op Fig. 234. THE HEART. on the pulmonary artery. It is more curved than that of the right auricle, and its margins are more deeply indented. The interior Of the appendix presents musculi pectinati somewhat similar to those in the right side of the heart, but the walls of the sinus venosus are altogether smooth, and are also thicker than those of the right auricle. Posteriorly are the openings of the pulmonary veins, usually two on each side, and entirely without valves. The two veins of either or both sides sometimes unite into one before entering the auricle, whilst in other cases there is found an additional opening, most frequently on the right side. In the lower and fore part of the auricle is situated the left auriculo-ventricular orifice. It is of an oval form, and is rather smaller than the corresponding opening between the right auricle and ventricle. On the septum between the auricles, a slight lunated mark or depression may be observed, which is the vestige of the foramen ovale, as it appears upon the left side. The depression is limited by a slight crescentic ridge, the concavity of which is turned upwards, and which is in fact the now adherent border of a mem- branous valve, which during foetal life is applied to the left side of the then open foramen ovale. 4. The left or posterior ventricle occupies the left border of the heart, but only about a third of its extent appears on the anterior surface of the organ, the rest being seen behind. It is longer and narrower than the right ventricle, forming by itself the apex of the heart, as the right ventricle does not reach into that part. The cross section of its cavity is oval, not crescentic, the septum on this side being concave. Its walls, which, excepting near the the Ventricular part op the Heart at two-thikds prom the Apex, looking in- to the Cavities. § 1, 1', cut surface of the wall of the right ventricle; 2, 2', the same of the left; 3, 3', the same of the septum ; 4, the principal columna carnea of the right ven- tricle on its right border ; 4', some of those on the septum near the front; 4", some of those on the posterior wall near the sep- tum ; 5, the principal anterior columna carnea of the left ven- tricle ; 6', the largest of those situated posteriorly in the left ventricle ; 6, the deepest part of the cavity of the right ventricle ; 7, that of the left ventricle at the apex of the heart. apex, are three times as thick as those of the right ventricle, are thickest at the part where the ventricle is widest, about one-fourth of its length from the base ; from this point they become thinner towards the auricular opening, but they are still thinner towards the apex which is the weakest part. The lining membrane, which is continuous with that of the left auricle and the aorta, is usually less transparent than that of the right ventricle, especially in later life. In the interior of the cavity are noticed columns carnese, musculi papillares with chordse tendinese, and two orifices guarded with valves. The columna camece are, on the whole, smaller than those of the right ventricle, but are more numerous and more densely reticulated.