THE SKIN. ccii improbable that this may serve to stimulate the subjacent true skin to a more active formation of epidermis; but the difference does not depend solely on external causes, for it is well marked, even in the fcetus. Structure.—The cuticle is made up of flattened cells agglutinated together in many irregular layers. They at first contain nuclei with soft and moist contents, and, by successive formations beneath them, are gradually pushed to the free surface, become flattened in their progress into thin irregular scales, for the most part lose their nuclei, and are at last thrown off by desquamation. The deepest cells are elongated in figure, and placed perpendicularly on the surface of the corium (fig. cvm. 6), like the particles of columnar epithelium ; they are denticulate at their lower ends, and fit into corresponding fine denticulations of the corium. These perpendicular cells generally form one, but in some places two or three strata; above them are cells of a more rounded shape, c. As the cells change their form, they undergo chemical and physical changes in the nature of their contents ; for those in the deeper layers contain a soft, opaque, granular matter, soluble, as well as their envelope, in acetic acid, whilst the superficial ones are transparent, dry, and firm, and are not affected by that acid. It would seem as if their contents were converted into a horny matter, and that a portion of this substance is employed to cement them together. These dry, hard scales may be made to reassume their cellular form, by exposure for a few minutes to a solution of caustic potash or soda, and then to water. Under this treat- ment they are softened by the alkali and distended by imbibition of water. The more firm and transparent superficial part of the epidermis, d, may be separated from the deeper, softer, more opaque, and recently-formed part, which constitutes what is called the Malpighian layer, or rete mucosum, c. Many of the cells of the cuticle contain pigment, aud often give the mem- brane more or less of a tawny colour, even in the white races of mankind ; the blackness of the skin in the negro depends entirely on the cuticle. The pigment is contained principally in the cells of the deep layer or rete mu co- sum, and appears to fade as they approach the surface, but even the superfi- cial part possesses a certain degree of colour. More special details respecting the pigment have been already given (page lxiii). The under or attached surface of the cuticle is moulded on the adjoining surface of the corium, and, when separated by maceration or putrefaction, presents impressions corresponding exactly with the papillary or other emi- nences, and the furrows or depressions of the true skin ; the more pro- minent inequalities of the latter are marked also on the outer surface of the cuticle, but less accurately. Fine tubular prolongations of the cuticle sink down into the ducts of the sweat glands, and are often partially drawn out Fig. CVIII. Fig. CVIII.—Skin of the Negro, in A VERTICAL SECTION, MAGNIFIED 250 DIAMETERS. a, a, cutaneous papillae; i, under- most and dark-coloured layer of oblong vertical epidermis-cells; c, mucous or Malpighian layer; d, horny layer.