cxxiii VESSELS OF MUSCLE. Mr. Ellis does not confirm Professor Kolliker's account of the oblique mode of attachment. He states that in such instances as the gastro- cnemius and soleus, every fibre is provided with its separate tendon and is continuous with it as above described, and that the increasing thickness of the main tendon from above downwards is due to successive additions, in form of strata, of the contributing tendons from the lower placed layers of muscular fibres ; and this explanation is supported by subsequent obser- vations of Tick, Margo, and Frey. In attaching themselves to the skin and mucous membranes, the muscular fibres, according to the careful descrip- tion of Dr. Salter, divide into pointed processes or fine filaments which are continuous with those of the connective tissue. Blood-vessels.—The blood-vessels of the muscular tissue are extremely abundant, so that, when they are successfully filled with coloured injection, the fleshy part of the muscle contrasts strongly with its tendons. The arteries, accompanied by their associate veins, enter the muscle at various points, and divide into branches; these pass among the fasciculi, crossing over them, and dividing more and more as they get between the finer divisions of the mus- cle ; at length, penetrating the smallest fasciculi, they end in capillary vessels which run be- tween the fibres. The vessels are supported in their progress by the subdivisions of the sheath of the muscle, to which also they supply capillaries. The capillaries destined for the proper tissue of the muscle are extremely small (fig. lxviil), they form among the fibres a fine network, with narrow oblong meshes, which are stretched out in the direction of the fibres : in other words, they consist of longitudinal and transverse vessels, the former running parallel with the muscular fibres, and lying in the angular intervals between them,—the latter, which are much shorter, crossing between the longitudinal ones, and passing over or under the intervening fibres. None of the capillary vessels enter the sarcolemma or proper sheath of the fibre, and the nutritious fluid which they convey must therefore reach the finer elements of the muscle by imbibition. Moreovei', as the capillaries do not penetrate the fibres, but lie between them, their number in a given space, or their degree of closeness, will in some measure be regulated by the number and consequently by the size of the fibres; and accordingly in the muscles of different animals it is found that when the fibres are small, the vessels are numerous and form a close network, and vice versa: in other words, the smaller the fibres, the greater is the quantity of blood supplied to the same bulk of muscle. In conformity with this, we see that in birds and mam- malia, in which the process of nutrition is active, and where the rapid change requires a copious supply of material, the muscular fibres are much smaller and the vessels more numerous than in cold-blooded animals, in which the opposite con- ditions prevail. Lymphatics.—Of lymphatic vessels in the muscular tissue nothing certain is known. From an examination of the lymphatics which appear to proceed, Fig. LXVIII. Fig. LXVIIL —Capillart Vessels op Muscle, from an Injection by Lieberkuhn, seen with a low magnifying power. The specimen was preserved in spirits ; when the muscle is dried, the vessels appear much closer.