MUSCULAR FIBRES. cxxi is easy to see that the muscular fibres are doubly refractive, and while the light and dark parts most probably differ in certain physical and chemical properties, it is not so clearly made out that the doubly refracting property is confined to the one of them. Nuclei, or muscle-corpuscles.—A number of pale, finely granular, ooal corpuscles, resembling cell-nuclei, are found in the fibres. In mammalian muscles they lie upon the inner surface of the sarcolemma, but in frogs they are distributed through the substance of the fibre (fig. lxv.). These have been supposed to be connected with the growth and nutrition of the muscle. They are obvious in the foetus some time before birth, but afterwards the addition of acetic acid is usually required in order to render them visible. They are probably nuclei per- taining to the elongated cells in which the sub&tance of the fibres is originally de- veloped ; and a small amount of granular matter which is not uncommonly collected around them has been regarded as a remnant of the formative protoplasm. Other cor- puscles, mostly fusiform, but varying in shape, and having the character of con- nective-tissue corpuscles, lie here and there outside the sarcolemma, and doubtless be- long to the interposed connective tissue. Interstitial granules. — Different obser- vers, and especially Kolliker, have described fine granules disposed in rows between the fibrils or smaller bundles of fibrils, as of frequent occurrence in the muscular fibres of man and animals (fig. lxvi.). They have been especially noted in the heart, and although they do not naturally show the characters of fat, it has been presumed that they may by conversion give rise to the fatty degeneration of muscular tissue. I must confess that I have not been able to perceive these granules in healthy human voluntary muscle. Length and ending of the fibres.—The fibres composing a muscle are of limited length, not exceeding one inch and a half; and accordingly in a long fasciculus a fibre does not reach from one tendinous attachment to the other, but ends with a tapering pointed extremity, invested with its sarcolemma, and cohering with neighbouring fibres. Unless when either is fixed to a tendon, both extremities of the fibre terminate in the way described, so that it has a long fusiform shape. Branched fibres.—Generally speaking, the fibres neither divide nor anas- tomose ; but this rule is not without exception. Branched and anastomosing fibres are common in the heart (fig. lxxit.) ; in the tongue of the frog the muscular fibres (fig. lxvii. ) as they approach the surface divide into numerous but not anastomosing branches, by which they are attached to the under surface of the mucous membrane. The same thing has also been seen in the tongue of man and many other animals ; and the fibres of the facial muscles of mammals have been shown by Busk and Huxley to divide in a similar manner where they fix themselves to the skin. Connection with tendons.—According to Professor Kolliker the mode of Fig. LXV. mm ■ if Fig. LXV.—A Frog's Muscular Fibre treated with Acetio Acid, magnified 350 diam. (from Kolliker). The nuclei are somewhat shrunk. Interstitial granules in longitudinal rows, here and there, hub these are mostly indistinct from compression, and appear as mere lines.