CEREBRAL ARTERIES. 363 II. ANTERIOR AND MIDDLE CEREBRAL ARTERIES. The terminal branches of the internal carotid artery supply the anterior and greater part of the pia mater and brain. The anterior cerebral, commencing at the subdivision of the internal carotid at the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius, turns forwards towards the middle line to reach the longitudinal fissure between the anterior lobes of the cerebral hemispheres, and is connected with the vessel of the opposite side by the anterior communicating artery, a branch not more than two lines in length. The two anterior cerebral arteries, lying close together, in the next place turn round the anterior border of the corpus callosum, run backwards on its upper surface, concealed by the cerebral hemispheres, and end by anastomosing with the posterior cerebral arteries. In their course they give numerous branches to the brain. The middle cerebral artery, larger than the anterior, inclines obliquely outwards, taking the course of the fissure of Sylvius ; within this it divides into several branches, which ramify in the pia mater investing the surfaces of the anterior and middle lobes of the brain, and join with the branches of both the anterior and posterior cerebral arteries. Numerous small branches, without ramifying in the pia mater, turn upwards at once, and enter the brain at the anterior perforated spot, through which they reach the corpus striatum. One or two choroid arteries, which sometimes arise directly from the internal carotid, passing backwards, enter the fissure between the middle lobe and the crus cerebri, to reach the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle, in which they are distributed to the choroid plexus. Peculiarities.—In rare instances, the anterior cerebral arteries have united into a single trunk, like the basilar artery behind, and have again divided into a right and ieft artery. The anterior communicating artery is frequently double. CIRCLE OF WILLIS. A remarkable anastomosis exists between the branches of the vertebral and internal carotid arteries within the cranium, by which the circulation in the brain may be equalised, and any irregularity which might arise from the obliteration of one, or even two of the vessels, may speedily be remedied by a corresponding enlargement of the others. This anastomosis^ known as the circle of Willis, results from a series of communications between the follow- ing branches. The anterior cerebral arteries are connected together, as already mentioned, in the longitudinal fissure by the anterior communicating artery. The right and left internal carotids, the trunks from which the anterior cerebral arteries arise, are united by the posterior communicating arteries to the posterior cerebral arteries, which arise behind from a single trunk—the basilar artery. "Within or opposite to the area of this vascular circle are the following parts of the encephalon, viz., the commissure of the optic nerves, lamina cinerea, infundibulum and tuber cinereum, corpora albicantia, posterior perforated spot with part of the crura cerebri, and the origin of the third pair of nerves. Frequently the posterior cerebral artery of one side arises by an enlarged posterior communicating artery from the internal carotid, and is connected only by a slender vessel with the basilar. 2