BONES OF THE HEAD. 38 emerge?? at the apex, close to the anterior margin. It transmits the internal carotid artery. The posterior surface looks backwards and inwards, and forms part of the posterior fossa in the base of the skull. It presents a large orifice leading into a short canal which is directed outwards, the meatus auditorius internus. This canal is terminated by a lamella of bone, the lamina cribrosa, presenting in the lower part small apertures through which the fibrils of the auditory nerve pass, while in its upper part is the commencement of the canal called aqueduct of Fallopius, which transmits the facial nerve. The facial canal takes a somewhat circuitous course through the petrous bone, passing outwards and backwards over the labyrinth of the ear, and then downwards to terminate at the stylo-mastoid foramen. The anterior or upper surface, looks upwards and forwards, and forms part of the middle fossa in the base of the skull. A depression over the apex marks the position of the Gasserian ganglion. A narrow groove runs obliquely backwards and outwards to a foramen named the hiatus Fallopii, which leads to the aqueduct of Fallopius ; and lodges the large superficial petrosal nerve. Farther back is a rounded eminence, indicating the situa- tion of the superior semicircular canal. The superior border is grooved for the superior petrosal sinus. The anterior border is very short, and forms at its junction with the squamous part an angle in which is situated the orifice of the Eustachian canal, the osseous portion of a tube of the same name, which leads from the pharynx to the tympanum ; and above this, partially separated from it by a thin lamella, the processus cochleariformis, a small passage which lodges the tensor tympani muscle. The posterior border articulates with the basilar process of the occipital bone, and bounds the foramen lacerum posterius. Small foramina.—The opening of the agueductus vestibuli is a narrow fissure covered by a depressed scale of bone, and situated on the posterior surface of the petrous bone, about three lines behind the internal auditory meatus; that of the aqueductus cochlear is a small foramen, beginning in a three-sided wider depression in the posterior margin, directly below the internal auditory meatus. In the plate between the jugular fossa and the carotid canal is the foramen by which the nerve of Jacobson passes to the tympanum. In the ascending part of the carotid canal is the minute foramen for the tympanic branch of the carotid plexus. In the jugular fossa are a groove and foramen for the auricular branch of *the vagus nerve; and parallel to the hiatus Fallopii, close to the canal for the tensor tympani muscle, are a groove and foramen for the small superficial petrosal nerve. THE SPHENOID BONE. The sphenoid, or wedge-shaped bone, is placed across the base of the skull, near its middle. It enters into the formation of the cavity of the cranium, the orbits, and the posterior nares. It is of very irregular shape, and consists of a central part or body, a pair of lateral expansions called the great wings, which form the largest part of the bone, a pair of much smaller horizontal processes in front, called the small wings, and a pair which project down- wards, the pterygoid processes. The sphenoid is articulated with all the seven other bones of the cranium and with five of those of the face, viz., posteriorly with the occipital and with the petrous portions of the temporals, anteriorly with the ethmoid frontal and malars, laterally with the squamous portion of the tempo- rals, the parietals and frontals, and inferiorly with the vomer and palate bones.