MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. 248 arising from the lowest ribs, being directed nearly vertically upwards from their costal attachments, must tend to pull those ribs upwards. The serratus posticus inferior and quadratus lumborum muscles, by opposing the diaphragm, and thus giving it a fixed point on which to descend, become assistant muscles of inspiration. The ante- rior fibres of the diaphragm being directed more horizontally towards the central tendon, oppose the forward motion of the sternum; hence the sternum becomes arched in patients long subject to. asthma. (Hutchison, Article " Thorax," in Todd's "Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology;" Meyer, "Physiologische Anatomic") In more forcible inspiration, and more especially in severe attacks of dyspnoea, there are called into play other powerful muscles, to secure the inspiratory action of which a fixed attachment must be provided by the support and elevation of the shoulder and arm; among these may be enumerated the serratus magnus and pec- toralis minor, acting from the shoulder, and the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi, acting from the raised arm, which together produce expansion and elevation of the ribs. Expiration.—In normal and quiet expiration the diminution of the capacity of the chest is mainly, if not wholly, due to the return of the walls of the chest to the condi- tion of rest, in consequence of their own elastic re-action, and of the elasticity and weight of the viscera and other parts displaced by inspiration; the lungs themselves, after distension by air, exert considerable elastic force, and no doubt the ribs and their cartilages re-act strongly by their elastic return from the elevated and bent condition into which they had been thrown by the inspiratory forces. In more forcible acts of expiration, in muscular efforts of the limbs and trunk, and in efforts of expulsion from the thoracic and abdominal cavities, all the muscles which tend to depress the ribs, and those which compress the abdominal cavity, concur in poAverful action to empty the lungs, to fix the trunk, and to expel the contents of the abdominal viscera. (See further " Action of the Abdominal Muscles.") MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. The muscular wall of the abdomen is formed, in great part of its extent on each side, of three layers of muscle, the fibres of which run in different directions ; those of the two most superficial layers lying obliquely, and those of the innermost layer being transverse. In front those three layers of muscle are absent, and are replaced by tendinous expansions, which meet in the middle line, and on either side of that line the fibres of the recti muscles extend in a vertical direction between the tendinous layers, sup- ported usually at the lower end by the pyramidales muscles. Posteriorly the wall is formed in part by aponeurosis, and in part by muscles of which the fibres are chiefly vertical, viz., the muscles of the back, and in front of them the quadratus lumborum. The superficial or external oblique muscle (descending or great oblique) arises from the outer surface of the eight inferior ribs, by slips arranged in a serrated series, five of them meeting with origins of the serratus magnus, and three with origins of the latissimus dorsi. The slips of these two sets of muscles alternate with each other, as the tips of the fingers of one hand may be made to fit in between those of the other, and hence they are said to interdigitate, and are termed digitations. The lower and the upper digi- tations of the external oblique are connected with the ribs near their car- tilages, the others are attached to the ribs at some distance from their extremities; the lowest digitation generally embraces the point of the twelfth rib. The fleshy fibres from the last ribs pass down in nearly a vertical direction to be inserted into the external margin of the crest of the ilium for about the anterior half of its length ; all the rest incline down- wards and forwards, and terminate in tendinous fibres, which form the broad aponeurosis by which the muscle is inserted.