168 MYOLOGY. The description of the involuntary and unstriped muscles connected with internal organs is excluded from the present section, as is also that of some small striped muscles situated in certain complicated organs, such as the larynx and ear, as it is more expedient that those muscles should be treated of under the several organs to which they belong. In the arrange- ment to be adopted in the anatomical description of the external and volun- tary muscles, it is almost impossible to follow a strictly systematic order founded exclusively, either upon their position in the several regions of the body, or upon their actions : in the following section, therefore, an arrange- ment is adopted which is based in part on both of these considerations, and which seems to be the most simple and advantageous to the student. Fascia.—The term Fascia includes all the membranous dispositions of reticulated or felted fibrous tissue. These structures have usually been distinguished as the superficial and the deep ; the former consisting of looser and finer substances, and passing by their slenderer kinds into the finer varieties of connective tissue ; while the latter, denser in character, fre- quently exhibit more or less regular arrangements of strong white fibres, giving them a shining appearance, and are often termed aponeuroses. The connective tissue of the body being that in which all others are em- bedded, may be considered as forming a continuous meshwork of fasciae of various degrees of firmness arranged so as to enclose shut spaces, within which the other parts are contained. Thus each fasciculus of muscle is surrounded by connective tissue ; the larger fasciculi are separated by stronger par- titions, and the whole muscle is invested with a layer of such distinctness, that it may appropriately be styled a fascia. So also the sheaths of vessels are formed of this substance ; and in certain parts stronger septa, having attachment to bone, and continuous with the periosteum, which likewise belongs to the series of white fibrous membranes, form partitions between dissimilar structures. Superficial Fascia.—Under this name, or as subcutaneous fascia, is described the layer of loose tissue of varying density, which is placed immediately below the skin, all over the body. It is the web which contains the sub- cutaneous fat, the panniculus adiposus, and in some regions superficial muscles, as the panniculus carnosus. From the subcutaneous tissue of the eyelids, however, as well as from that of the penis and scrotum, adipose matter is entirely absent. It is to be noticed also that between the muscles and the subcutaneous fat there is always a certain amount of fascia devoid of adipose matter, and that it is in this stratum that the trunks of the subcutaneous vessels and nerves are found. But when the fat becomes absorbed, the stroma in which it was deposited is still left, and its meshes approach one another, so that in lean subjects a more fibrous condition of the subcutaneous fascia is often found than in others. Deep Fascial and Aponeuroses.—Under the name of deep fascia is com- prehended that stronger layer of fibrous or connective tissue which, lying more close to the muscles, gives them a general investment or dips between them, and forms a nearly continuous covering of the body beneath the superficial fascia. It is chiefly to the stronger parts of this fascia that the name of aponeuroses has been given. Those covering the muscles have been named aponeuroses of investment (Bichat), to distinguish them from proper tendinous expansions, or aponeuroses of insertion, of muscles. This distinction, however, is far from being universally applicable : aponeuroses of insertion are often continued into aponeuroses of investment, as in the instance of the gluteus maximus, or into mere fascia, as at the lateral parts