DUCTLESS GLANDS. ccxxvii resembling those of the blood ; others are described as containing many- nuclei, and much granular matter. These being the general characters of the ductless glands, the varieties met with in the human body may be arranged as follows :— a. Hounded and closed capsules filled with nucleated cells, nuclei, and intercellular fluid, and traversed by blood-capillaries ; the capsules placed singly or in flat patches under a mucous membrane (solitary and agminated intestinal glands), or surrounding a simple or complex recess lined by and opening on the surface of a mucous membrane (certain lingual and pharyn- geal glands, and tonsils) ; it being uncertain whether the contents of the capsules are discharged by rupture or transudation, or taken up by absorption. b. A lobulated organ inclosing a sinuous internal cavity, with no outlet, filled with a liquid secretion containing corpuscles ; the cavity branching into the lobules, and ending in the smallest of them, according to one opinion, by groups of saccular dilatations of its membrana propria, covered outwardly by capillary blood-vessels, as in the racemose secreting glands. According to another view the walls of the cavity in an ultimate lobule are not set round with saccules, but with small solid pellets, formed of aggre- gated corpuscles similar to those of the fluid, and bounded towards the outer surface of the lobule by a membrana propria, within which is a group of blood-vessels pervading the corpuscular matter, as in a, (thymus). c. A glandular body containing different-sized locular spaces formed by a stroma of fibrous or more or less homogeneous connective tissue : the loculi containing granules, nuclei, and nucleated cells of various sizes, with inter- cellular fluid (anterior lobe of the pituitary body and supra-renal capsules), or lined by a membrana propria and epithelium, and filled with clear tenacious fluid (thyroid body). d. An organ containing a peculiar pulp lodged in the interstices of a trabecular and highly vascular structure ; also capsules with contents as in a, attached to the vessels, and surrounded by the pulp, which, while con- taining collections of red blood-corpuscles in various conditions, resembles generally in nature the matter within the capsules, and is likewise traversed by fine blood-vessels (spleen), e. Rounded or oval bodies having in their interior intercommunicating loculi and intertrabecular spaces, further subdivided by retiform tissue, and partially occupied by a corpuscular gland-pulp traversed by blood-capillaries; everywhere round the pulp a space left for the passage of lymph, communi- cating with the afferent and efferent lymphatics (lymphatic glands). The purposes fulfilled by most of the organs referred to are still involved in great obscurity, and very different opinions are held on the subject by eminent authorities in Physiology.