EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. the original absence of the neck in the foetus, and the comparatively late period at which, when the neck is formed, the carotid artery becomes elongated with it. Peculiarities.—Origin.—The right carotid artery occasionally arises directly from the aorta, or in conjunction with the left carotid. When it arises from the aorta, it is usually the first vessel from the arch, the subclavian being displaced; but it has been found to occupy the second place,—the right subclavian, or, very rarely, the left carotid being the first. The place at which the right carotid artery commences, varies with the point of bifurcation of the innominate artery. A change from the usual position on a level with the upper border of the clavicle was found by R. Quain in the proportion of about one case in eight and a half of those observed by him; and it was found to occur more frequently above than below that point. The left carotid artery varies in its origin much more frequently than the right. In the greater number of its deviations from the ordinary place of origin, this artery arises from, or in conjunction with the innominate artery; and in those cases in which the right subclavian is a separate branch of the aorta, the two carotids most frequently arise by a common trunk. In cases of transposition, or of right aortic arch without other abnormality, the left common carotid springs from a left innominate artery, which is the first vessel to rise from the arch, and the right carotid is the second vessel. Place of division.—This often deviates somewhat from its usual position; it does so more frequently in an upward than in a downward direction. It is often as high as the os hyoides, and occasionally much higher. It is found from time to time oppo- site the middle of the larynx, and, in rare instances, opposite the lower margin of the cricoid cartilage, or even lower. One case was observed by Morgagni, in which the carotid artery, measuring one inch and a half in length, divided at the root of the neck. (" De Sedibus et Causis Morborum," &c. Epist. 29, Art. 20.) The common carotid artery has been found, as a very rare occurrence, to ascend in the neck loithout dividing into its two usual terminal branches ; the internal carotid artery being altogether wanting. In two recorded cases the common carotid artery was absent; the external and internal carotids arising directly from the arch of the aorta. Occasional branches.—The common carotid artery sometimes gives origin at its upper part to the superior thyroid artery, and, in some rare cases, to a laryngeal or an inferior thyroid branch; also, in a few instances, to the vertebral artery. EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. The external carotid artery, distributed mainly to the face and to the walls of the cranium, is smaller than the internal carotid in young per- sons ; but the two are nearly of equal size in adults. It reaches from the point of division of the common carotid, opposite the upper margin of the thyroid cartilage, to the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw-bone, or a little lower, and there divides into its two terminal branches, the temporal and the internal maxillary. It diminishes rapidly as it ascends, owing to the number and size of the branches which spring from it. At first the external carotid lies nearer to the middle line of the body than the internal carotid ; but it soon becomes superficial to that artery, at the same time curving slightly forwards as it ascends to its place of division. At its origin this artery is concealed by the sterno-mastoid muscle, emerging from beneath which, it is covered only by the platysma myoides and the fascia, and traverses the upper part of a triangular intermuscular space bounded by the sterno-mastoid, omo-hyoid and digastric muscles; it then becomes deeply placed, passing beneath the stylo-hyoid and digastric muscles, and finally becoming imbedded in the substance of the parotid gland. In the lower part of its course it is in contact with the pharynx A A