MUSCULAR STRUCT QUE—AURICLES. 817 The muscular fibres of the heart in their mode of action belong to the involuntary class, but are of a deep red colour, and possess the transversely striated structure. They are smaller than the ordinary voluntary muscular fibres : their striation is frequently as distinct in a longitudinal as in a transverse direction : and not only is there an exceedingly intricate inter- lacement of both fasciculi and fibres, but the latter appear to divide and unite frequently with each other so as to produce a finely reticulated structure. Fig. 236. Fig. 236.—Heart op a Young Subject dissected after boiling to show the super- FICIAL Muscular Fibres, SEEN ANTERIORLY. | This figure is planned after one of Luschka's, but its details have been chiefly taken from an original preparation. The aorta and pul- monary arteries have been cut short close to the semilunar valves, so as to show the anterior fibres of the auricles, a, superficial layer of the fibres of the right ventricle ; b, that of the left; c, c, anterior interventricular groove from which the coronary vessels have been removed, show- ing at the upper and lower part most of the fibres passing across from the right to the left ven- tricle, while in the middle part some dip into the septum ; a', pulmonary artery; V, aorta ; d, right auricle ; d', its appendix, both showing chiefly perpen- dicular fibres ; e, upper part of the left auricle; between e, and V, the transverse fibres which behind the aorta pass across both auricles ; e', appendix of the left auricle ; /, superior vena cava, round which, near the auricle, circular fibres are seen ; gf </', right and left pul- monary veins with circular bands of fibres surrounding them. The fibres of the auricles are not continuous with those of the ventricles, the two sets being connected together only by the intervention of the thin fibrous rings round the auriculo-ventricular orifices ; so that when these rings are destroyed by boiling a heart for some hours, the auricles may be easily separated from the ventricles. Fibres of the auricles.—These consist of a superficial set, common to both cavities, and of deeper fibres proper to each. 1. The superficial common or transverse fibres run transversely over both sinuses, near the base, and are most numerous on the anterior surface : some of them pass into the inter-auricular septum. The deeper fibres, which are proper to each auricle, consist of two sets, viz. the looped and the annular fibres. 2. The looped fibres pass over the auricle and seem to be attached by both extremities to the corresponding auriculo-ventricular rings. 3. The annular fibres encircle the auricular appendages from end to end, some longitudinal fibres running within them. These annular fibres also surround the entrances of the vense cavre on the right, and of the coronary vein and the pulmonary veins on the left side of the heart,—the muscular fibres extending for some distance