44 BONES OF THE HEAD. THE SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. This, the upper jaw, is one of the principal bones of the face; it supports all the teeth of the upper range, and takes part in the formation of the hard palate, the floor of the orbit, and the floor and lateral wall of the nasal cavity. It presents inferiorly a thick ridge, the alveolar process perforated with the sockets for the roots of the teeth, and a horizontal palate plate ; exter- nally, a convex surface corresponding with the anterior and lateral parts of the face ; superiorly, an ascending or nasal process and an orbital plate ; and internally, a nasal surface, opening from which is a large cavity or sinus, hollowed out beneath the orbital plate in the body of the bone. The superior maxillary bone articulates with its fellow, with the nasal, frontal, lachrymal, ethmoid, palate, malar, vomer, and inferior turbinated bones, and Fig. 38.—Superior Maxillary Bone op the Right Side. ^ A, from the outside ; B, from the inside. 1 to 2, alveolar process or arch—1 at the middle incisor tooth, 2 marks the tuberosity, and above it, in A, the posterior dental foramina; 3, the nasal or ascending process; 4, malar tuberosity or process ; 5, orbital plate or process ; 6, placed in the nasal notch marks the nasal crest terminating in the nasal spine; 7, the incisor or myrtiform fossa; 8, is in front of the canine fossa ; 9, the infra-orbital foramen, and below 5, the infra-orbital groove and canal; 10, groove of the nasal or lachrymal duct; 11, antrum maxillare, or maxillary sinus ; 12, on the inner surface of the nasal process, marks the oblique ridge for the attachment of the inferior turbinated bone ; 13, is placed above the palate-plate ; from 13 to 6, the vomeric and septal crest; from 13 to 14, the incisor foramen ; 15, placed on the surface of articulation of the body with the palate-bone, points to the posterior palatine or palato-maxillary canal. These figures also exhibit a full set of the upper teeth of one side as they occur in middle life, little worn by use. The alveolar border or process, thick and arched, is hollowed out into sockets- or alveoli, corresponding in number, form, and depth to the roots of the teeth, which are fixed in them. The palate plate, along with that of the opposite side, forms about three- fourths of the hard palate. Its superior surface is smooth and concave from side to side ; its inferior surface is vaulted and rough, and is marked laterally with grooves for nerves and vessels, which reach the palate through the posterior palatine canal. Its posterior extremity falls short of that of the alveolar arch and body of the bone, and articulates with the horizontal process of the palate bone, which completes the hard palate. The mesial border rises into a serrated vertical ridge, upon which the vomer rests. This border, or ridge, is interrupted at its anterior part by a canal, the incisor foramen, which is completed on its mesial side by a slender lamina with the nasal cartilages. Fig. 38.