VESICAL ARTERIES. 421 contact with, one another and with the umbilical vein, and coiling spirally round that vein in the umbilical cord, they proceed to the placenta. To that part of the artery which is placed within the abdomen, the term hypo- gastric is applied ; the remaining portion, passing onwards through the umbilicus to the placenta, being the proper umbilical artery. After the cessation of the placental circulation at birth, the two hypogastric arteries become impervious from the side of the bladder upwards to the umbilicus, and are converted into fibrous cords. These two cords, which extend from the sides of the bladder to behind the umbilicus, being shorter than the part of the peritoneum on which they rest, cause a fold of the serous membrane to project inwards; and thus are formed two fossae (fossae of the peritoneum) on each side of the abdomen, in one or other of which the pro- jection of a direct inguinal hernia takes place. The part of the artery intervening between the origin of the vessel and the side of the bladder remains pervious, although proportionally much reduced in size, and forms the trunk of the superior vesical artery. BRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. I. VESICAL ARTERIES. The urinary bladder receives several arteries, amongst which, however, may be specially recognised two principal branches, a superior and an inferior vesical artery. The superior vesical artery is, at its commencement, that part of the hypogastric artery in the foetus which remains pervious after the changes that take place subsequently to birth. It extends from the anterior division of the internal iliac to the side of the bladder. Branches.—(a) It distributes numerous branches to the upper part and sides of the bladder. (b) The artery of the vas deferens, or the deferent artery, arising from one of the lowest of these, is a slender artery which reaches the vas deferens, and accompanies that duct in its course through the spermatic cord to the back of the testicle, where it anastomoses with the spermatic artery. (c) Other small branches ramify on the lower end of the ureter. The inferior vesical artery (vesico-prostatic), derived usually from the anterior division of the internal iliac, is directed downwards to the lower part of the bladder, where it ends in branches which are distributed to the base of the bladder, to the side of the prostate, and to the vesiculse semi- nales. One offset, to be presently described, descends upon the rectum. The branches upon the prostate communicate more or less freely upon that body with the corresponding vessels of the opposite side, and, according to Haller, with the perineal arteries likewise. Small twigs of this vessel also run towards the subpubic arch, and in instances of deficient pudic arteries replace one or more of their branches, as will be more fully noticed under those arteries. Besides the superior and inferior vesical arteries, other smaller branches will be found to reach the bladder, and usually one slender vessel which is distributed parti- cularly to the under surface of the vesiculse seminales. Middle hemorrhoidal artery.—This branch is usually supplied to the rectum by the inferior vesical artery, but sometimes proceeds from other