VEINS OF THE LOWER LIMB. 475 the lower cava, nor in the right auricle, but In the right ventricle of the heart, its orifice being guarded by valves. (Act. Acad. Joseph. Med. Chir. Vindobonensis, t. i. p. 233, tab. 5. Vindobonse, 1788.) VEINS OF THE LOWER LIMB AND PELVIS. The veins of the lower limb are divisible into two sets, those of one being deeply seated, those of the other running in the superficial fascia. All the veins of the lower limb, pig- 322. as high as the femoral venous trunk, are provided with valves, and these are more numerous than in the veins of the upper limb. The deep veins have more valves than the subcutaneous set. Fig. 322.—Outline op the Superficial Veins of the Lower Limb. 1, the saphenous aperture of the fascia lata ; a, super- ficial epigastric vein ; b, external pudic ; c, superficial cir- cumflex iliac ; d, external or short saphenous beginning on the dorsum of the foot (see Fig. 326). SUPERFICIAL VEINS OP THE LOWER LIMB. Immediately beneath the integument, on the dorsum of the foot, there exists a network of veins forming an arch, from which issue two principal trunks, which are named the internal or long and the external or short saphenous veins. The internal or long saphenous vein extends from the ankle to within an inch and a half of Poupart's ligament. Taking rise from the plexus of veins on the dorsum of the foot, it passes up- wards in front of the inner ankle, and along the inner border of the tibia, accompanied by the internal saphenous nerve. It inclines a little back- wards as it passes the inner condyle of the femur, and ascending along the inner and fore part of the thigh, it terminates in the femoral vein, at the saphenous opening in the fascia lata, through which it passes. In the leg it communicates with the deep veins accompanying the anterior and posterior tibial \ \ arteries, and in the thigh one or more branches pass between it and the femoral vein. This long vein has a variable number of valves. Sometimes six have been counted ; in other cases only four, or even two. It contains more in its course through the thigh than in the leg. Tributaries.—The long saphenous vein is joined in its course by numerous cutaneous vessels. Close to its termi- nation it receives, besides a considerable anterior branch, the superficial epigastric, external pudic, and superficial circumflex iliac veins, corresponding severally to arterial branches of the same name.. 1 1 2