LYMPHATICS OF THE LOWER LIMB. 488 aorta ; it then ascends on the right side of that vessel, in contact with the right crus of the diaphragm, to the thorax, where it is placed at first upon the front of the dorsal vertebrae, between the aorta and the azygos vein. The duct ascends, gradually inclining to the left, and at the same time dimi- nishing slightly in size, until it reaches the third dorsal vertebra, where, passing behind the arch of the aorta, it comes into contact with the oeso- phagus, lying between the left side of that tube and the pleura. Con- tinuing its course into the neck to the level of the upper border of the seventh cervical vertebra, it changes its direction and turns forwards, at the same time arching downwards and outwards so as to describe a curve over the apex of the pleura, and then terminates on the outer side of the internal jugular vein, in the angle formed by the union of that vein with the sub- clavian. The diminution in the size of the duct as it ascends is such that at the fifth dorsal vertebra it is often only two lines in diameter, but above this point it again enlarges. The duct is generally waving and tortuous in its course, and is constricted at intervals so as to give it a varicose ap- pearance. The thoracic duct is not always a single trunk throughout its whole extent; it frequently divides opposite the seventh or eighth dorsal vertebra into two trunks, which soon join again ; sometimes it separates for a short distance into three divisions, which afterwards unite, and enclose between them spaces or islets. Cruikshank in one case found the duct double in its entire length; "in another triple, or nearly so." In the neck, the thoracic duct often divides into two or three branches, which in some instances terminate separately in the great veins, but in other cases unite first into a common trunk. In a case of right aortic arch the thoracic duct has been observed to end in the veins of the right side (A. Thomson). The thoracic duct has numerous double valves at intervals throughout its whole course, which are placed opposite to the nodulated parts of the vessel. They are more numerous in the upper part of the duct. At the termination of the duct in the veins there is a valve of two segments, so placed as to allow the contents of the duct freely to pass into the veins, but which would effectually prevent the reflux of either chyle or blood into the duct. THE RIGHT LYMPHATIC DUCT. The right lymphatic duct is a short vessel, about a line or a little more in diameter, and about a quarter or half an inch in'length, which receives the lymph from the absorbents of the right upper limb, the right side of the head and neck, the right side of the chest, the right lung, and the right half of the heart, and from part of the upper surface of the liver. It enters obliquely into the receding angle formed by the union of the right subclavian and internal jugular veins, where its orifice is guarded by a double valve. LYMPHATICS OF THE LOWER LIMB AND SURFACE OF THE LOWER HALF OF THE TRUNK. The lymphatics of the lower limb are arranged in a superficial and a deep series. Those of the superficial series, together with the superficial lym- phatics of the lower half of the trunk, converge to the superficial inguinal glands ; with the exception of a few which dip into the popliteal space. Those of the deep series converge to the deep inguinal glands.