442 Fig. 302. POPLITEAL ARTERY. Fig. 302—View of the Popliteal Artery and its it is separated by an interval from the flat or somewhat hollowed triangular surface at the lower end of the bone ; it then rests on the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, and afterwards on the popliteus muscle. Relation to Veins.—The popliteal vein lies close to the artery, behind and somewhat to the outer side till near its termination, where it crosses the artery and is placed somewhat on the inner side. The vein is frequently double along the lower part of the artery, and, more rarely, also at the upper part. The short saphenous vein, ascending into the popliteal space over the gastrocnemius muscle, approaches the artery as it is about to ter- minate in the popliteal vein. Relation to the Nerve.—The internal popliteal nerve lies at first to the outer side of the artery, but much nearer to the surface than the vessel : the nerve afterwards crosses over the artery, and is placed behind and to the inner side below the joint. Branches.—The branches of the popliteal artery may be arranged in two sets, viz., the muscular and the articular. 1. The muscular branches are divided into a superior and an inferior group. (a) The superior branches, three or four in number, are distributed to the lowei ends of the hamstring muscles, and also to the vasti muscles, and anastomose with the perforating and articular arteries. Branches in the Right Leg (from Tiedemaun). \ a, biceps muscle; 5, semi-membranosus ; c, semi- tendinosus; 1, the popliteal artery; 2, 3, the superficial sural branches ; 4, the outer, 5, the inner superior articular branch ; 6, the superior muscular; 7, the inferior muscular or deep sural branches. (b) The inferior muscular branches, or sural arteries, usually two in number, and of considerable size, arise from the back of the popliteal artery, opposite the knee-joint, and enter, one the outer and the other the inner head of the gastrocnemius muscle, which they supply, as well as the fleshy part of the plantaris muscle. Over the surface of the gastrocnemius will be found at each side, and in the middle of the limb, slender branches, which descend a considerable distance along the calf of the leg, and end in the integument. These small vessels (superficial sural) arise separately from the popliteal artery, or from some of its branches. 2. The articular arteries. Two of these pass off nearly at right angles from the popliteal artery, one to each side, above the flexure of the joint, whilst two have a similar arrange- ment below it, and a fifth passes from behind into the centre of the joint. (a) The upper internal articular artery winds round the femur just above the inner condyle ; and, passing under the tendon of the great adductor and the vastus internus, divides into two branches : one of these, comparatively superficial, enters the substance of the vastus, and inosculates with the anas- tomotic branch of the femoral, and with the lower internal articular artery.