THE FOETAL HEART. 327 pulmonary division of the bulb, and to send ramifications into the lungs, so as to form the right and left branches of the pulmonary artery respectively : the farther or distal portion of the right arch being obliterated, while the corresponding part of the left side continued open, as the ductus arteriosus, until birth. According to this view, the third arch on each side is persistent as the subclavian artery, and the external trunk above this remains as the vertebral artery, and the internal as the carotid ; while the internal trunk between the third and fourth arches of the right side becomes the innominate artery. In so far as it applies to birds and some reptiles this view may be correct. But a different view of the metamorphosis, as it occurs in mammalia and man, has more recently been presented by Rathke, which has been adopted by Kolliker and others, and probably is more consistent with truth. According to Rathke, in man and mammalia one arch only, viz., the left fifth, is concerned in the formation of the pulmonary arteries; and the fifth arch of the right side is entirely obliterated. From the fifth left arch a branch is given off, which, together with the proximal part of the arch, forms the pulmonary artery, and which divides into the primary branches for the right and left lung, the distal part of the arch being converted, as according to Baer's theory, into the ductus arteriosus. The fourth arch of the right side, according to Rathke, forms the commencement of the right subclavian artery; a branch is given off opposite the external extremity of the fourth arch on both sides, which forms on the right side the remainder of the right subclavian, and on the left the whole of that artery; the vertebral arteries are derived from the subclavians external to the system of arterial arches; the internal trunks in their extent between the third and fourth arches remain as the common carotids, and in the remainder of their extent form the external carotids, while the third arches and the external trunks above them are converted into the internal carotid arteries. (Baer, Entwicklungsgeschichte,1839; Rathke, Untersuchungen iiber die Aortenwurzeln, &c. Yienna, 1857, and Miiller's Archiv. 1843, p. 276; A. Thomson, Edin. New Philos. Journal, 1830-31, and Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ., ~No. 140 ; Ecker, Icones Physiologicae; Bischoff's works; Kolliker, Entwicklungsgeschichte. 1861). Peculiarities of the Fcetal Heart and Great Vessels.—Fcetal Circulation. Position.—The foetal heart, even after all its parts are formed, continues to be placed vertically in the thorax until about the fourth month, when the apex begins Fig. 246. Fig. 246.—View op the Front and Right Side of the Foital Heart, at pour months, the right auricle being laid open (from Kilian). a, the right auriculo-ventricular opening ; b, a probe passed up the vena cava inferior and through the foramen ovale into the left auricle ; c, vena cava inferior ; e, Eustachian valve ; v, valve of the foramen ovale ; s, s', vena cava superior. to turn towards the left side, so as to give it an oblique position. Size.—As compared with the body, the heart is very much larger in the early foetus than at later periods or subsequently to birth. At one time, indeed, it occupies nearly the whole thoracic cavity. At the second month the proportion of its weight to that of the body is said by Meckel to be 1 to 50; but the ratio becomes gradually re- duced to that of 1 to 120 at birth. In the adult the average is about 1 to 160. For a long period the auricular portion is larger than the ventricular, and the right auricle is more capacious than the left; but towards birth these peculiarities disappear,