cxviii MUSCULAR TISSUE. of the fibre, but it is by no means confined to such parts. This cross- striped appearance, which is most beautiful and characteristic, is found in all the voluntary muscles ; but it is not altogether confined to them, for it is seen in the fibres of the heart, which is a strictly involuntary organ : striped fibres are also found in the pharynx and upper part of the gullet, in the muscles of the internal ear, and those of the urethra, parts which are not under the direct control of the will. Structure of the fibres.—A muscular fibre may be said to consist of a large number of extremely fine filaments or fibrils inclosed in a tubular sheath. This, the proper sheath of the fibre, is named sarcolemma or myolemma. It consists of transparent and apparently homogeneous membrane agreeing in chemical characters Fig. LXI. with elastic tissue, and, being comparatively tough, will sometimes remain entire when the included fibrils are ruptured by stretching the fibre, as represented in fig. xxii. Jn this way its existence may be demonstrated ; and it is especially well seen in fish and other animals which have large fibres, for in these it is thicker and stronger. It may also be well shown in fresh muscular fibres from the frog, by exposing ~~- J V gpf 3 them to water under '^B^>^li^^^^^^^^--:, i-imZ&i fir - the microscope. The fluid is imbibed and then collects between the substance of the fibre and its sheath so as to separate the mem- brane and make it apparent. At the same time, as regards mam- malian muscles, it must be admitted that it is not always easy to bring the sarcolemma distinctly into view. Fibrils.—Lines and fissures are sometimes seen running lengthwise in the substance of the fibres, and indicating their fibrillar structure, as in some of those represented in fig. lx. ; and when these longitudinal lines are well marked, the transverse striae are comparatively indistinct. In a thin trans- verse section the ends of the fibrils may be seen, when highly magnified, as small dots or points, which occupy the whole sectional area of the fibre, showing plainly that the latter is not hollow, as has sometimes been main- tained, but possesses the same fibrillar structure throughout its whole thick - The fibrils are closely connected together in the fibre by an inter- Fig. LXI. A. Portion op a medium-sized Human Mus- cular Fibre, magnified nearly 800 diameters. B, Separated bundles of Fibrils, equally magnified, a, a, larger, and b, b, smaller collections ; c, still smaller ; d, d, the smallest which could he detached, possibly representing a single series of sarcous elements.