455 FACIAL VEIN. these finally uniting into a single trunk, each vein terminates in the brachio- cephalic of its own side. (c) The superior intercostal veins. — The right superior intercostal vein receives the blood from the first or the first two or three spaces, communicating with the vessel in the space next below, and opens into the innominate trunk oft he same side, or into the vena cava. Frequently the veins at the right side, corresponding with the superior intercostal artery, pass downwards separately, to open into the azygos vein, as that vessel arches forwards to join the upper vena cava : the separate vein thus formed is inferior in size to that on the left side. The left superior intercostal vein varies in length in different persons, being small when the azygos minor is large, and vice versa. Usually it receives the veins from the three or four upper spaces, and is then directed forwards over the left side of the spinal column and the aorta to open into the left innominate vein. It receives in its course the left bronchial vein. The left vein is sometimes directed downwards to join an azygos vein on its own side. VEINS OF THE FACE, NECK, AND HEAD. The blood returning from the head and neck flows on each side into two principal veins, the external and internal jugular. The veins of the head and neck have generally no valves. The external jugular vein is provided with a valve at its entrance into the subclavian vein, and in most cases with another about the middle of its course : and the internal jugular is also furnished with valves near its junction with the subclavian. These valves, however, are not efficient in stopping the regurgitation of the blood, or the passage of injections from below upwards. The veins on the exterior of the cranium and face converge and unite, so as to form two trunks, the facial and the temporal veins. THE FACIAL VEIN". The facial vein lies obliquely along the side of the face, extending from the inner margin of the orbit downwards and outwards to the anterior border of the masseter muscle. Resting on the same plane as the facial artery, but farther back, and less tortuous, it has very nearly the same relations to contiguous parts. It commences at the side of the root of the nose by a vein formed by the junction of branches from the forehead, eye- brow and nose, and increases by receiving others during its course. Below the jaw it inclines outwards and backwards, covered by the cervical fascia and the platysma muscle ; and soon unites with a large branch of commu- nication derived from the temporal vein, to form the temporo-maxillary or common facial vein, a short vessel of considerable size, which joins obliquely the trunk of the internal jugular. Tributaries.—(a) The frontal vein commences on the roof of the skull by- branches, which descend obliquely inwards upon the forehead, maintaining communi- cations in their course with the anterior branches of the temporal vein. It descends vertically, parallel with the corresponding vessel of the opposite side, with which it is connected by transverse branches, and ends in the angular vein. In some instances the veins of the two sides unite and form a short trunk, which again divides into two branches at the root of the nose. As it descends from the forehead, the frontal vein receives a branch from the eyebrow, and some, of smaller size, from the nose and upper eyelid.