CARTILAGE. lxxx DEVELOPMENT OF CONNECTIVE TISSUE. In those parts of the embryo where connective tissue is to be developed, there is at first a deposit of nucleated corpuscles, having the characters common to the cells of which the early embryo-body throughout consists. Between the cells is a small amount of soft amorphous intercellular substance, which increases in quantity. This is at first of a muco-albuminous nature, but is in great part changed into a gela- tinous substance, which assumes a fibrillar character, and becomes converted into the bundles of white wavy filaments that constitute the chief part of the areolar and fibrous tissues. These bundles, after their first appearance, increase in size, and con- tinue to grow larger after birth. Amongst these white fasciculi, elastic fibres, in varying proportion, appear at a somewhat later period. These are also produced from the intercellular substance, which in this case undergoes a different chemical change. They appear from the first in form of networks pervading the intercellular mass throughout, and not as single shorter fibres gradually lengthening out and joining together; nor do they appear to be formed by the linear coalescence of granules, but by immediate differentiation in the intercellular substance. The elastic fibres are at first exceedingly fine, but acquire greater thickness as development advances, and in some situations what was originally a network may become an elastic membrane. The cells in part remain as the connective-tissue corpuscles already described; irre- gularly ramified in open areolar tissue, but fusiform within the bundles and in the interstices of dense fibrous tissue; part of them become filled with fat, and form the adipose tissue. The intercellular substance is usually reduced to an inconspicuous amount, but in some situations remains in notable quantity. Such is the most general course of development; but, as will be understood from what has preceded, it is different in particular cases. Thus, the intercellular sub- stance may accumulate in large proportion, and the cells finally disappear, as in the vitreous humour; or the cells may be developed into retiform or cytogenous tissue, without the formation of fibres, either white or elastic, in which case the jelly-like substance may remain, as in the enamel-organ; or the reticular interstices may become filled with the elements of another tissue, as in the lymphatic glands and nervous centres. In the development of the pure elastic ligaments the cells shrink as the elastic fibres grow larger, and at length disappear altogether. The intercellular substance may be excreted by the cells, but there is no clear proof of this; it may be an independent deposit between them; and the disappear- ance of the cells from pure elastic ligament would seem to show that, whatever be the influence they exert in the original formation, they are not needed for carrying on the nutrition, or even for the further growth of the tissue. The foregoing account of the formation of connective tissue is derived from Kolli- ker's latest observations; * but Max Schultze considers that the intercellular sub- stance, or matrix, is neither excreted by the cells, nor deposited ab extra, but is in reality formed by conversion of part of the protoplasm which forms the bodies of the cells (nucleated protoplasm masses): the matrix thus increases and becomes fibrillated at the expense of the cells, which, now reduced to the nuclei surrounded with a small portion of protoplasm, remain as the connective-tissue corpuscles. CARTILAGE. This is the well-known substance commonly called " gristle." The follow- ing are its more obvious characters. When in mass, it is opaque and of a pearly or bluish white colour, in some varieties yellow ; but in thin slices it is translucent. Although it can be easily cut with a sharp knife, it is nevertheless of very firm consistence, but at the same time highly elastic, so that it readily yields to pressure or torsion, and immediately recovers its original shape when the constraining force is withdrawn. By reason of * Neue Untersuchungen liber die Entwickelung des Bindegewebes. Wiirzb. naturwiss. Zeitschr., vol. ii. Also Handbuch der Gewebelehre, 4th edit. 1863.