HAIRS. ccx internal layer (hyaline coat, Kolliker) is a transparent homogeneous mem- brane, marked transversely on its inner surface with some raised lines, and not reaching so high as the mouth of the follicle ; it corresponds with the Fig. CXIV. Fig. CXV. Fig. CXIV.—Medium-sized Hair in its Follicle, magnified 50 diameters (from Kolliker). a, stem cut short; 6, root ; c, knob ; d, hair cuticle; e, internal, and /, external root-sheath ; g, h, dermic coat of follicle ; *, ~ papilla ; k k, ducts of sebaceous glands ; I, corium ; m, mucous layer, and w, horny layer of epidermis ; o, upper limit of internal root-sheath (from Kolliker). Fig. CXV.—Magnified View of the Root of a Hair (after Kohlrausch). a, stem or shaft of hair cut across ; b, inner, and c, outer layer of the epidermic lining of the hair-follicle, called also the inner and outer root- sheath ; d, dermic or external coat of the hair- follicle, shown in part ; e, imbricated scales about to form a cortical layer on the surface of the hair. The adjacent cuticle of the root-sheath is not repre- sented, and the papilla is hidden in the lower part of the knob where that is represented lighter. membrana propria or basement membrane of analogous structures. Between the two is a layer extending from the bottom of the follicle as high as the entrance of the sebaceous glands, composed of an indis- tinctly fibrous matrix, tearing transversely, and of transversely disposed fusiform connective tissue corpuscles, with oblong nuclei. This layer, which seems to be a form of connective tissue, receives capillary blood-vessels, but without as yet recognised nerves. The ex>idermic lining adheres closely to the root of the hair, and commonly separates, in great part, from the follicle and abides by the hair when the latter is pulled out ; hence it is sometimes named the " root-sheath." It consists of an outer, softer, and more opaque stratum (fig. cxv., c, c) next the dermic coat of the follicle, and an internal more transparent layer (6, b) next the hair. The former, named also the outer root-sheath, and by much the thicker of the two, corresponds with the