lii EPITHELIUM. According to one view (adopted by Paget, Kolliker, Funke, and others), the pale corpuscles gradually become flattened, acquire coloured contents, lose their nuclei, and shrink somewhat in size, and thus acquire the characters of the red disks. But Mr. Wharton Jones has, from an extended series of observations, arrived at the conclusion that, whilst in birds, reptiles, and fishes, the pale or lymph corpuscle„suffering merely some alteration of form and contents, becomes the red disk, its nucleus alone is developed into the red disk of mammalian blood. According to this view (supported by Busk, Huxley, and Gulliver), while the red corpuscle of oviparous vertebrata is the transformed pale corpuscle—its development not proceeding beyond this stage—the non-nucleated red disk of man and mammalia is, on the other hand, considered to be, not the homologue of the oval nucleated red disk of the oviparous vertebrata, but that of its nucleus. It is not within the scope of this work to enter upon a discussion of the relative merits of these opinions, and the reader is referred to physiological works for a consideration of these and other views adopted by various authors upon the point at issue. EPIDERMIC, EPITHELIAL, OR CUTICULAR TISSUE. General nature and situation.—It is well known, that when the skin is blistered, a thin, and nearly transparent membrane, named the cuticle or epidermis, is raised from its surface. In like manner, a transparent film may be raised from the lining membrane of the mouth, similar in nature to the epidermis, although it has in this situation received the name of " epithelium ; " and under the latter appellation, a coating of the same kind exists on nearly all free surfaces of the body. It is true that in many situations the epithelium cannot "be actually raised from the subjacent surface as a coherent membrane, still its existence as a continuous coating can be demonstrated ; and, although in different parts it presents important differences, it has in all cases the same fundamental structure, and its several varieties are connected by certain common characters. The existence of a cuticular covering in one form or other, has been demonstrated in the following situations : viz. 1. On the surface of the skin. 2. On mucous membranes ; a class of membranes to be afterwards described, which line those internal cavities and passages of the body that open exteriorly, viz., the alimentary canal, the lachrymal, nasal, tympanic, respiratory, urinary, and genital passages ; as well as the various glandular recesses and ducts of glands, which open into these passages or upon the surface of the skin. 3. On the inner or free surface of serous membranes, which line the walls of closed cavities in the head, chest, abdomen, and other parts. 4. On the membranes termed synovial within the joints. 5. On the inner surface of the blood-vessels and lymphatics. Structure in general.—This tissue has no vessels, and, except in certain parts of the organs of the senses, is devoid of nerves, and of sensibility ; it, nevertheless, possesses a decidedly organised structure. Wherever it may exist, it is formed essentially of nucleated cells united together by cohesive matter, often in too small quantity to be apparent. The cells, in whatever way they may be produced, make their appearance first in the deepest part of the structure, where they receive material for growth from the blood-vessels of the subjacent tissue ; then, usually undergoing con- siderable changes in size, figure, and consistency, they gradually rise to the surface, where, as shown at least in various important examples, they are thrown off and succeeded by others from beneath. In many situations the cells form several layers, in which they may be seen in different stages of progress, from their first appearance to their final desquamation. The layer or layers thus formed, take the shape of the surface to which they are