FASCIA OF THE LOWER LIMB. 294 Hunter's canal, which contains the femoral artery and vein, together with the internal saphenous nerve. The aponeurosis of the leg is particularly dense in the upper and fore part, and is strengthened by fibres from the tendons of the biceps externally, and the sartorius, gracilis, and semimembranosus internally. Behind, over the popliteal space, it consists of strong transverse fibres, which bind together the muscles of the outer and inner sides, and is perforated at the lower part of the space by the external saphenous vein; lower down it becomes much thinner over the gastrocnemius muscle. This fascia is adherent to the periosteum covering the head, the spine and the posterior margin of the tibia, the head of the fibula, and the outer and inner malleoli; and it invests the leg completely except at the inner surface of the tibia. From its deep surface intermuscular septa are prolonged inwards. The situation of these septa is marked on the surface of the fascia by several white lines in front and on the outer side of the leg. One, parallel to the spine of the tibia, runs between the tibialis anticus and the extensor longus digitorum, and is attached deeply to the interosseous membrane ; and another extending Fig. 223. Fig- 223.—Superficial Muscles and Tendons on the Dorsum of the Foot and Lower Part of the Leg anteriorly (after Bourgery). | a, lower part of the tibia ; b, lower part of the fibula above the malleolus externus ; c, inner side of the scaphoid bone; d, internal cuneiform bone; 1, lower part of the tibialis anticus muscle ; 1/, its tendon descending in the groove of the internal cunei- form bone ; 2, extensor longus pollicis ; 2', its expan- sion on the dorsum of the great toe ; 3, extensor communis digitorum dividing into its four tendons for the toes; 3', the expansion, and 3", the final inser- tion of the same upon the second toe; 4, peroneus tertius ; 4', its expanded insertion on the base of the fifth metatarsal bone ; 5, small part of the fibres of the soleus on the inner side of the tibia ; 6, small part of the peroneus brevis ; 7, extensor brevis digi- torum, seen below the tendons of the extensor longus and peroneus tertius ; 1', 7", on a band of aponeu- rosis crossing the toes, the first and fourth tendons of the extensor brevis muscle passing to join those of the long extensor ; 8, 9, anterior annular ligament, chiefly in its lower part or ligamentum cruciatum; between 8 and c, the inner and lower band enclosing the extensor longus pollicis and tibialis anticus ; below 9, the outer part of the same enclosing the tendons of the extensor communis and peroneus tertius ; 10, 11, dorsal transverse band of the aponeu- rosis of the foot, uniting the heads of the metatarsal bones. between the long extensor and peroneus tertius in front, and the peroneus longus and brevis behind, is inserted along the anterior margin of the shaft of the fibula. These septa, as well as the upper and anterior portion of the fascia itself, afford attachment to the muscular fibres, and thus increase greatly the extent of the surfaces from which the muscles derive their origin. Between the superficial and the deep muscles on the back of the leg, a