ccxyi SWEAT GLANDS. The sudoriferous glands or sweat-glands (tigs, cxxii'i. and cxxiv.).—These are seated on the under surface of the corium, and at variable depths in the • subcutaneous adipose tissue. They have the appearance of small round reddish bodies, each of which, when examined with the microscope, is found to consist of a fine tube, coiled up into a ball (though sometimes forming an irregular or flattened figure), from which the tube is continued, as the duct of the gland, upwards through the true skin and cuticle, and opens on the surface by a slightly widened orifice. The duct, as it passes through the epidermis, is twisted like a corkscrew, that is, in parts where the epi- dermis is sufficiently thick to give room for this ; lower down it is but slightly curved. Sometimes the duct is formed of two coiled-up branches, which join at a short distance from the gland, as happens to be the case in the specimen represented in figure cxxrv. The tube, both in the gland and where it forms the excretory duct, consists of an outer coat, continuous with the corium, and reaching no higher than the surface of the true skin, a thin homogeneous membrana propria, and an epithelial lining, consisting of one or more strata of cells (often containing brownish pigment), and con- tinuous with the epidermis, which alone forms the twisted part of the duct. The outer, dermic or fibrous, coat is formed of homogeneous or finely fibrous connective tissue with corpuscles. The larger gland-ducts in the axilla, at the root of the penis, on the labia majora, and in the neighbour- hood of the anus, contain between their coats a layer of non-striated mus- cular fibres, arranged longitudinally. In the larger glands, moreover, the duct is rarely simple, being more usually parted by repeated dichotomous division into several branches, which before ending give off short csecal processes ; in rare cases the branches anastomose. On carefully detaching the cuticle from the true skin, after its connection has been loosened by putrefaction, it usually happens that the cuticular linings of the sweat-ducts get separated from their interior to a certain depth, and are drawn out in form of short threads attached to the under surface of the epidermis. The coils of the duct are loosely held together by connective tissue, which may form a sort of capsule round the body of the gland. Each little sweat-gland is supplied with a dense cluster of capillary blood-vessels. The contents of the smaller sweat-glands are fluid, without any formed elements; but in the larger sweat-glands of the axilla the contents are semi-fluid, and abound in fine pale granules and nuclei; or their secretion is extremely viscid, with a varying quan- tity of large, opaque, colourless, or yellow granules, with nuclei and cells, similar to epithelium cells; and in both cases it may also contain fat. Kolliker states that from the nature of their contents these larger glands might be separated into a distinct group from the ordinary sweat-glands, were it not for the presence of transitional forms. Distribution.—Sweat-glands exist in all regions of the skin, and attempts have been made to determine their relative amount in different parts, for they are not equally abundant everywhere; but while it is easy to count their numbers in a given space on the palm and sole, the numerical proportion assigned to them in most other regions must be taken with considerable allowance. According to Krause, nearly 2,800 open on a square inch of the palm of the hand, and somewhat fewer on an equal extent of the sole of the foot. He assigns rather more than half this number to a square inch on the back of the hand, and not quite so many to an equal portion of surface on the forehead, and the front and sides of the neck; then come the breast, abdomen, and fore arm, where he reckons about 1100 to the inch, and lastly, the lower limbs and the back part of the neck and trunk, on which the number in the same space is not more than from 400 to 600. The size of the sweat-glands also varies. According to the observer last named, the average diameter of the round-shaped ones is about one-sixth of a line; but in some parts they are larger than this—as, for example, in the groin, but especially in