270 MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. of the femur to be inserted into the trochanteric fossa below the obturator internus and gemelli. POSTERIOR FEMORAL REGION. (The Hamstring Muscles). Y^, 208. ^ ^e back of the thigh are three long flexor muscles of the knee-joint, viz., the biceps, semitendinosus, and semimembranosus. The biceps flexor cruris consists of two parts, arising one from the hip-bone, the other from the femur, and uniting inferiorly to terminate on the fibula. The long head arises by a tendon com- mon to it and the semitendinosus from the most prominent part of the ischial tuberosity, and the muscular fibres ter- minate below the middle of the thigh in an aponeurosis which is continued down into the tendon of insertion. The short head arises from the rough surface of the linea aspera in its whole extent, from a part of the line leading from thence to Fig. 208.—Deep Muscles op the Right Hip and Thigh, from behind. £ a, anterior, a', posterior superior spine of the ilium ; V, posterior inferior spine ; c, c, great and small trochanter; d, symphysis pubis; e, tuberosity of the ischium ; /, flat or popli- teal surface of the femur; g, head of the fibula ; 1, gluteus minimus ; 2, obturator in- ternus passing out of the pelvis by the lesser sciatic notch to the digital fossa of the tro- chanter : the gemelli muscles have been re- moved ; 3, obturator externus; 4, small part of the back of the pectineus and adductor brevis ; 5, origin of the adductor magnus from the lower part of the ischial tuberosity ; 5', 5', line of insertion of this muscle on the linea aspera, in which are seen three arched tendinous intervals for the passage of the per- forating vessels; 5", tendon of insertion into the inner tuberosity of the femur; between the lower 5' and 5", the interval through which the femoral vessels pass into the popliteal space; the upper 5' is placed upon the cut end of quadratus femoris ; 6, vastus externus; 7, vastus internus ; 8, femoral head of the biceps femoris : the lower part is represented as pass- ing too far inwards ; 8', its ischial head, cut short; 9, plantaris muscle ; at its upper end the outer head of the gastrocnemius ; the figure 5" is upon the cut inner head ; 10, pop- liteus, cut short below ; 11, tendon of the semi- membranosus; 12, upper part of the soleus. the outer condyle, and from a part of the adjacent flat surface of the femur