cvi BONE. and forms the lacuna, the canaliculi and their communications maybe merely channels left as vacuities in the osseous deposit, into which the processes of the now stellate corpuscle pass but a short way. As the bone extends in circumference, it also increases in thickness ; the vacuities between the bony spicula become narrowed or disappear, and at a more advanced period the tabular bones of the cranium are tolerably compact towards the centre, although their edges are still formed of slender radiating processes. At this time also numerous furrows are grooved on the surface of the bone in a similar radiating manner, and towards the centre these are continued into complete tubes or canals in the older and denser part, which run in the same direction. The canals, as well as the grooves, which become converted into canals, contain blood-vessels supported by processes of the investing membrane, and are lined with granular cells, which deposit con- centric layers of bone inside these channels ; and when thus surrounded with concentric laminse, these tubular cavities are in fact the Haversian canals. Fig. LI. I may here observe that in earlier stages, such as that shown in fig. xlix., vessels may be seen in the soft tissue, some twice or three times the size of a blood-capillary, others con- siderably more, but all with only a homogeneous coat with cells upon it here and there, and without a muscular layer. Ossification in cartilage.—It has already been stated that in by far the greater number of bones, the primitive soft cellular matter of which they originally consist is very quickly succeeded by cartilage, in which the ossification begins. One of the long bones taken from a very small embryo, just before ossification has com- menced in it, is observed to be distinctly cartilaginous. In the tibia of a sheep, for example, at a time when the whole embryo is not more than an inch and a quarter in length, we can plainly see that the substance consists of cartilage-cells imbedded in a pellucid matrix. These cells, which can scarcely be said to be collected into groups, are much larger in the middle part of the shaft where ossification afterwards commences, and there also they are mostly placed with their long diameter across the direction of the bone : towards the ends they are much smaller and closer together, and the cartilage there is less transparent. As it enlarges the cartilage acquires firmer consistence ; it represents in figure the future bone, though of course much smaller in size, and it is surrounded with a fibrous membrane or perichondrium, the future periosteum. Vessels ramify in this membrane, but none are seen in the cartilage until ossification begins. In a long bone the ossification commences in the middle and proceeds towards the ends, which remain long cartilaginous, as represented in fig. 11. At length separate points of ossification appear in them, and form epiphyses, which at last are joined to the body of the bone. The new-formed osseous tissue is red and obviously vascular, and blood- vessels extend a little way beyond it into the adjoining part of the cartilage. Fig. LI.—Humerus OF A FffiTUS, NATU- RAL SIZE. The upper half is divided longitudinally. a, cartilage, b, bone, which terminates to- wards the cartilage by a slightly convex sur- face.