HYALINE CARTILAGE. lxxxiv the cartilages of the larynx and windpipe, except the epiglottis and corni- cula laryngis, and to the cartilages of the nose. With the exception of the last, these resemble the rib-cartilages also in their tendency to ossify. The characters of the temporary cartilages, which are hyaline, will be given in the account of the formation of bone. No nerves have been traced into any of the cartilages, and they are known to be destitute of sensibility. In the healthy state, no bloodvessels penetrate the articular cartilages. Whatever nutrient fluid they require seems to be derived from the vessels of adjoining textures, especially the bone, and to be conveyed through the tissue by imbibition. In the embryo, a layer of vessels is prolonged some way over the surface, underneath the synovial membrane ; but, as deve- lopment proceeds, these sub-synovial vessels retire towards the circumference of the cartilage, and eventually form a narrow vascular border round it, which has been, named the circulus articuli vasculosus. When the tissue exists in thicker masses, as in the cartilages of the ribs, canals are here and there excavated in its substance, along which vessels are cond acted to supply nourishment to the part too distant to receive it from the vessels of the perichondrium. But these canals are few and wide apart, and the vessels do not pass beyond them to ramify in the intermediate mass, which is accordingly quite extra-vascular. It must be further remembered respecting these vascular canals, that many of them lead to spots where the cartilage is undergoing ossification, and convey vessels to supply the bony deposits. Ordinary permanent hyaline cartilage contains about three-fifths of its weight of water, and becomes transparent by drying. By boiling it in water for fifteen or twenty hours it is resolved into chondrin. This is a substance said to gelatinise on cooling, although it may be doubted whether the congelation is not in reality owing to an admixture of gelatin derived from fibrous tissue not duly separated from the cartilage. Like gelatine, chondrin is thrown down from its solutions by tannic acid, alcohol, ether, creosote, and corrosive sublimate, and not by prussiate of potash. It differs from gelatin in being precipitated by the mineral and other acids, the acetic not excepted ; also by alum, sulphate of alumina, persulphate of iron, and acetate of lead ; the precipitates being soluble in an excess of the respective precipitants. The temporary cartilages are resolved into a matter which has the chemical reactions of chondrin, but does not gelatinise. Cartilage affords by incineration a certain amount of mineral ingredients ; 3'4 per cent, of ashes were obtained from costal cartilages by Frommherz and Gugert, and 100 parts of these ashes were found to consist of Carbonate of soda 35"07 Sulphate of soda „ 24*24 Chloride of sodium . 8"23 Phosphate of soda ......... 0*92 Sulphate of potash 1*20 Carbonate of lime . 18'37 Phosphate of lime 4"06 Phosphate of magnesia . . 6*91 Oxide of iron, and loss . 1-00 Von Bibra found the amount of carbonates very small, and that of the other salts very variable. Soda-salts greatly preponderate over those of potash, which may even be absent altogether.