319 MUSCULAR STRUCTURE—VENTRICLES. researches, is that of the continuity of the fibres of certain external layers with those of corresponding internal layers. This continuity takes place at the base of the heart round the auriculo-ventricular orifices and upon the septum, and at the apex of the left ventricle in that peculiar spiral concentration of the fibres known to previous observers as the vortex or whorl. Thus the fibres of the first or external layer are continuous with those of the deepest or innermost, in part by folding over the margin of the auriculo-ventricular orifice, and in part by penetration through the apex. In the same manner the fibres of a second or deeper external layer are continuous with those of a layer named the sixth by Pettigrew, and the fibres of the third external layer with those of the fifth; while the fibres of the middle or fourth layer of Petti- grew may be considered to return upon others of the same set. In this manner the first and seventh layers enclose all the others, the second and sixth enclose those within them, and the third and fifth enclose the fourth. The fibres of the ventricles, therefore, do not take their origin, as was in general previously held, from the fibrous rings surrounding the auriculo-ventricular orifices Fig. 238.—View of a Partial Dissec- tion op the Layers op Fibres op Fig. 238. the Ventricles in a Sheep's Heart e in Front (after the manner of Pet- tigrew). § At the base and apex the pericardium and connective tissue and fat alone have been removed, and the superficial layer of fibres is displayed on these parts of both ventricles. In the intervening space, layer after layer of the fibres has been removed fr om above downwards, reaching to a greater depth on the left than on the right side. a\ a\ the superficial layer of the right ven- tricle ; h\ b\ the same of the left ventricle; 2, the second layer of both ventricles ; 3, the third ; 4, the fourth or central, with fibres nearly transverse ; 5 and 6, two of the deeper layers coming next; and 7, a small part of the fibres of the deepest layer on the front of the left ventricle, passing into one of the larger papillary muscles, and derived from the posterior superficial fibres, which have entered the whorl of the apex ante- riorly ; the different degree of obliquity and other changes of direction of the fibres is shown in these several layers ; c, c, between these letters and numbers is the anterior coronary or interventricular groove, in which superiorly the greater part of the fibres of the superficial layer is seen to cross from right to left; in the remaining part of the groove, which is dissected, part of the fibres from both ventricles is seen to turn backwards towards the septum ; d} the pulmonary artery cut short; e, the first prat of the aorta. and the roots of the great arteries. The only fibres which come in contact with those structures are the fibres of the superficial layer, where they dip in to be con- tinuous with those of the deepest layer ; and even these for the most part exhibit, on careful dissection, no breach of continuity of muscular fibres, but are merely bound down by white tissue penetrating between the fasciculi; a small portion, however, of the muscular fibres which surround the auriculo-ventricular orifices become continuous with the segments of the valves and with chordae tendineae, and through them with the musculi papillares, the fibres of which belong chiefly to the innermost layer. Some fibres, especially those belonging to the superficial layers, and more especially upon the posterior surface of the heart, pass round and enclose both ventricles; others, especially in front, may be considered to belong to one ventricle only. Thus, the anterior superficial fibres of the right ventricle in descending from the right to the