182 MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. backwards and outwards, and is inserted into the angle and the inner surface of the ramus of the jaw as high as the dental foramen. Between the external surface of the muscle and the ramus of the maxilla are the internal lateral ligament and the internal maxillary vessels, with the dental artery and nerve; and at its upper part the muscle is crossed by the external pterygoid muscle. Its inner surface, whilst in the pterygoid groove, is in contact with the tensor palati muscle; and lower down it corresponds with the superior constrictor of the pharynx. Fig. 158. B Fig. 158.—Yiews of the Pterygoid Muscles—A, from the outer side ; B, from THE INNER SIDE. % 1, external pterygoid, placed on the upper head in A, on the lower head in B ; 2, internal pterygoid—the outer surface in A, the inner surface in B. Fig. 159. Fig. 159.—View of a Dissection of the LOWER PART OF THE SKULL AND FACE, FROM BEHIND, DESIGNED TO SHOW THE ATTACHMENTS OF THE PTERYGOID AND some other Muscles (modified from Bourgery). ^ a, placed above the transverse section of the basilar part of the occipital bone, below which are seen the posterior nares and palate ; b, transverse section through the temporal bone ; c, roof of the mouth ; d, back of the head and neck of the lower jaw, above which are seen the synovial cavities of the joint divided by the inter articular fibro-cartilage ; e, placed below the symphysis menti ; 1, on the left side the internal pterygoid muscle entire ; 1', on the right side the lower part of the same muscle, of which the middle portion has been removed to show the external pterygoid ; 2, the lower thick portion of the external pterygoid ; 2', on the right side, points to the upper smaller portion of the muscle, attached in part to the interarticular plate; 3, is placed at the side of small portions of the genio-hyoid and genio-hyo- glossus muscles cut short at their attachment to the lower and upper genial tubercles ; 4, the attachment of the mylo-hyoid muscle cut short; 5, indicates the attachment at the side of the symphysis of the anterior belly of the digastric muscle ; 6', the masseter muscle descending to the angle of the jaw. The external pterygoid muscle, occupying the zygomatic fossa, arises by two fleshy heads placed close together, the superior of which is attached to