clxxxi DEVELOPMENT OF BLOOD-VESSELS. pointed processes which shoot out from the sides of neighbouring capillary vessels, and in this manner the new vessels are adopted into the existing system. The junctions of the cells with each other Fig. XCIX. or with capillary vessels are, at first, of great tenuity, and contrast strongly with the central and wider parts of the cells; they appear then to be solid, but they afterwards become pervious and gradually widen, blood begins to pass through them, and the capillary network acquires a tolerably uniform calibre. The original vascular network may become closer by the formation of new vessels in its interstices, and this is effected by similarly metamorphosed cells, arising in the areolee and joining at various points with the surrounding vessels, and also simply by pointed offshoots from the existing capillaries stretching across the intervals and meeting from opposite sides, so as when enlarged to form new connecting arches. From observations made on the foetal membranes of sheep, Mr. Paget has found that the mode of formation of capillaries described by Kolliker in batrachians, holds good also in mam- miferous animals.* The simple homo- geneous coat of the capillaries is thus formed out of the walls of the coa- lescing cells; the lining epithelium must be a subsequent formation. Whilst the finest capillaries retain this simple structure, those that are larger acquire the additional coats already described ; and arteries and veins, as already stated, especially the smaller ones, appear to be formed in the same manner; indeed, it would seem not unreasonable to presume, that the several gradations of structure seen as permanent conditions in vessels of successively larger calibre, may represent the successive steps by which a vessel, having originally the small size and the simple membrane of a fine capillary, increases in width and acquires the complex tunics of a vein or artery. Further observations, however, are required on this point. Kolliker states, that many vessels which eventu- ally attain a medium size, are originally derived from round cells, which unite in single or double rows and form the primitive simple membranous tube of such vessels, by coalescence of their cavities and walls. The blood-vessels may be said to increase in size and capacity in proportion to the demands made on their service. Thus, as the uterus enlarges in pregnancy, its vessels become enlarged, and when the main artery of a limb is tied, or otherwise permanently obstructed, collateral branches, originally small and insignificant, Fig. XCIX.—Capillary Blood Vessels op the Tail of a very Young Frog Larva. Magnified 350 diameters (after Kol- liker). a, capillaries permeable to blood; 5, granules, attached to the walls of the vessels and concealing nuclei ; c, hollow prolongation of a capillary, ending in a point: d, a branched cell, containing a nucleus and granules, and communicating by three branches with prolongations of capillaries already formed ; e, blood corpuscles. Supplement to Muller's Physiology, by Baly and Kirkes, 1848, p. 104.