ABDOMINAL AORTA. 410 (d) The left gastroepiploic artery runs from left to right along the great curvature of the stomach, supplying branches to both surfaces of the stomach and to the omentum on the left side, and inosculates with the right gastro-epiploic branch from the hepatic artery. II. SUPERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY. The superior mesenteric, an artery of large size, supplies the whole of the small intestine beyond the duodenum, and half of the great intestine. It arises from the fore part of the aorta, a little below the coeliac artery. For a short space this artery is covered by the pancreas ; on emerging from below that gland it descends in front of the duodenum near the end, and is thence continued between the layers of the mesentery. The splenic vein crosses over its root. In the mesentery the artery at first passes downwards and to the left side, but afterwards turns towards the right iliac fossa, opposite to which it inosculates with its own ileo-colic branch. Branches.—(a) The inferior pancreatico-duodenal, given off under cover of the pancreas, runs along the concave border of the duodenum, and joins with the pancreatico-duodenal artery. (6) The rami intestini tenuis, or intestinal branches, supplying the jejunum and ileum, spring from the convex or left side of the vessel. They are usually twelve or more in number, and are all included between the layers of the mesentery. They run parallel to one another for some distance, and then divide into two branches, each of which forms an arch with the neighbouring branch. From the first set of arches other branches issue, which divide and communicate in the same way, until finally, after forming four or five such tiers of arches, each smaller than the other, the ultimate divisions of the vessels proceed directly to the intestine, spreading upon both sides, and ramifying in its coats. (c) The colic branches arise from the right or concave side of the artery, and are three in number. 1. The ileo-colic artery, the first in order from below upwards, inclines downwards and to the right side, towards the ileo-colic valve, near which it divides into two branches : one of these descends to inosculate with the termination of the mesenteric artery itself, and to form an arch, from the convexity of which branches proceed to supply the junction of the small with the large intestine, and the csecum and its appendix ; the other divi- sion ascends and inosculates with the next mentioned branch. The ileo- colic artery is not always distinct from the termination of the superior mesenteric. 2. The right colic artery passes transversely towards the right side, beneath the peritoneum, to the middle of the ascending colon, opposite to which it divides into two branches, of which one descends to communicate with the ileo-colic artery, whilst the other ascends to join in an arch with the middle colic. This artery and the ileo-colic often arise by a common trunk. 3. The middle colic artery passes upwards between the layers of the meso-colon towards the transverse colon, and divides in a manner exactly similar to that of the vessels just noticed. One of its branches inclines to the right, where it inosculates with the preceding vessel; the other descends to the left side, and maintains a similar communication with the left colic branch, derived from the inferior mesenteric artery. From the arches of inosculation thus formed, small branches pass to the colon for the supply of its coats.