xxiii FORMATION OF TISSUES. determined by the same circumstances. Thus, uric acid, known to be present in minute quantity in the blood, is gathered up by the cells of the kidneys, and other chemical compounds existing in the circulating fluid may be segregated in like manner by cells, to be discharged by excretion. Also in the converse operation of absorption of aliment, the cells of the intestinal epithelium become charged with particles of fat. But, while an alteration in the contents of a cell may be thus brought about by the imbibition of one kind of matter in preference to another, the contained substance may be also changed in its qualities by a process of conversion taking place within the cell. 4. Cells ultimately present differences in their relations to each other. a. They may remain isolated, as in the instance of the corpuscles of blood, chyle, and lymph, and those formed in certain secretions. b. They may be united into a continuous tissue, by means of a cementing intercellular substance ; the epithelium and cuticle, the nails and hairs, afford instances of this. In cartilage, where this occurs, the capsules of the cells may become more or less blended with the intercellular substance. c. The parietes of neighbouring cells meet at particular points, and, absorption taking place, their cavities become united. It is supposed that ramified cells may thus open into one another ; and Schwaun conceives that the networks of capillary vessels originate in this way. Intercellular Substance.—Of the matter which lies between cells—the intercellular substance—and its relation to them, it may be observed that sometimes it is in very small quantity, and seems merely to cement the cells together, as in epidermis and epithelium ; at other times it is more abundant, and forms a sort of matrix in which the cells are imbedded, as in cartilage. It is homogeneous, translucent, and firm in most cartilages, and pervaded by fibres in yellow cartilage. In connective tissue it consists of fibres, with soft interstitial matter, which is scanty in the denser varieties, but abundant in the lax tissue of the umbilical cord ; in bone the inter- cellular substance is calcified and mostly fibrous. As to the production of the intercellular substance, there can be little doubt that in cartilage it is derived from the cells. Formed as capsules round the cells by excretion from their surface, or by conversion of their proper substance, and being blended into a uniform mass, it accumulates while the cells multiply, and while fresh material is supplied to them from the blood, which they convert into chondrinous substance. Kolliker supposes that, in like manner, simple membrane, such as the membranoz propria* of gland-ducts, may be produced by excretion from a series of cells ; in which case such membranes would come under the same description as intercellular substance. The source of the intercellular substance is in other cases not so apparent, but it may be presumed that the cells have some influence in its nutrition and maintenance. From what has been said it will be obvious that cells and nuclei play an important part in the growth of textures, and probably in nutrition. The former process is usually accompanied by a great multiplication of cells or nuclei, the peculiar consti- tuent of which—the protoplasm—seems to be specially endowed with the faculty of propagation by division, and of increase by appropriating and converting new matter. It is conceivable that in this way it may serve for the extension of growing tissue and the development of structural elements from the crude materials of growth. Again, in the nutrition of a mass of tissue the crude material may undergo preparation by the cells or nuclei that lie in the interstices of the structure. The existence of this protoplasmic germinative substance is very general, perhaps indeed universal, in the animal and vegetable kingdoms. But whilst in the great