cxxxiv NERVOUS SYSTEM. is contained in the proper nervous substance, a portion—forming the central part ot the nerve fibres (axis cylinder)—appears in microscopic observations to be solid; whilst in the surrounding part (medullary sheath) the albuminoid is liquid and in- corporated with fatty matter, also liquid, being probably combined as a colloid with the fat, in the way pointed out by Mr. Graham (see ante, page vii). The fats are—■ 1. The cerebric acid of Fremy, called cerebrin by Gobley, because he considers it a neutral body, acid only from contamination with phosphoric acid, but containing phosphorus, which also is regarded as an impurity by W. Miiller. 2. Oleo-phosphoric acid of Fremy, a very unstable compound, held by Gobley to be a mixture of oleic acid and his glycero-phosphoric acid, which, it may be remarked, he has found also in the yelk of the egg. 3. Olein, margarin, and palmitin, with their acids. 4. Cholesterin—although this is no longer considered a true fat, and may, moreover, be a product of tissue change. The extractive matters probably belong chiefly to the interstitial fluid; but, how- ever this may be, they may be held to represent the products of decomposition of the nervous substance. The following have been recognised:— > 1. Lactic, formic, acetic, and (traces of) uric acid. 2. Inosit. 3. Kreatin. 4. Hypoxanthin (or sarkin). 5. Leucin (in the ox). In regard to free acid, Funke has found the same law to prevail in nerve as in muscle—namely, that the substance of nerves in the living but quiescent state is neutral, but becomes acid after death or prolonged excitement. The saline or inor- ganic matters found by incineration axe—phosphoric acid, phosphates of alkalies, which, as in muscle, largely predominate over other salts, potash, as a base largely exceeding soda ; earthy phosphates, in smaller proportion, magnesia prevailing over lime ; phosphate of iron ; chloride of sodium, sidphate of potash, and a trace of silica. From fresh brain-substance Breed obtained 0 027 per cent, of ashes, which per 100 parts yielded 55*24 phosphate of potash, 22-93 phosphate of soda, 1*23 phos- phate of iron, 162 phosphate of lime, 3'4 phosphate of magnesia, 4-74 chloride of sodium, 1#64 sulphate of potash (the sulphuric acid doubtless from combustion of principles containing sulphur), 9'15 free phosphoric acid (from combustion of phos- phorus), and 0*42 silicic acid. The white substance contains nearly 75 per cent, of water; the grey about 85; the proportion of water is less in the spinal cord, and still less in the nerves. The fat amounts in the grey matter to nearly 5 and in the white to nearly 15 per cent.; in the nerves the proportion fluctuates largely. It is worthy of note that the brain during embryo and infantile life contains much less fat and more water; moreover, the grey and the white matter do not present the same differences as in after life in the proportions of water and fat which they respectively contain. The brain of embryos of from ten to twenty-two weeks has been found to yield only from 0'99 to 1*5 per cent, of fat; that of the full grown foetus from 3 to 4 per cent. The water in the foetal brain at birth is about 85 per cent., both in the white and the grey sub- stance. STRUCTURAL ELEMENTS. When subjected to the microscope, the nervous substance is seen to con- sist of two different structural elementa, viz., fibres and cells. The fibres are found universally in the nervous cords, and they also constitute the greater part of the nervous centres : the cells on the other hand are con- fined in a great measure to the cerebro-spinal centre and the ganglia, and do not exist generally in the nerves properly so called, although they have been found at the terminations of some of the nerves of special sense, and also interposed here and there among the fibres of particular nerves ; they are contained in the grey portion of the brain, spinal cord, and ganglia, which grey substance is in fact made up of these cells intermixed in many parts with fibres, and with a variable quantity of supporting connective substance.