SCAPULAR MUSCLES. 211 the latissimus dorsi at its lower angle, and in the intermediate portion it remains superficial. The teres minor muscle, is placed along the outer border of the infraspinatus, and is intimately connected with that muscle. It arises by a series of fibres from a narrow obliquely grooved surface on the dorsum of the scapula close to the axillary border, and from aponeurotic septa between it and the infraspinatus and teres major muscles, and is inserted by tendon into the greater tuberosity of the humerus, immediately below the infraspinatus, and by fleshy fibres into the bone for a short distance lower down. Fig. 177. Fig. 177.—Muscles of the Right Shoulder and Arm, seen from BEHIND. \ The acromion process and a part of the spine of the scapula, with the deltoid muscle, have been re- moved, a, coracoid process ; b, triangular surface at the commence- ment of the spine; c, is close to the cut portion of the spine ; d, greater tuberosity ; e, olecranon of the ulna ; /, is close to the external condyloid eminence and head of the radius; 1, supraspinatus muscle; 2, infraspinatus; 3, teres minor, placed over the triangular interval ; 4, teres major ; 5, part of latissi- mus dorsi; +, slip from the in- ferior angle of the scapula ; f, on the edge of the humerus, points to the tendon of the latissimus dorsi and the quadrangular interval ; 6, scapular head of the triceps, passing above between the teres major and minor ; 6', outer head ; 6", lower part of the same, below the spiral groove, continued from the inner head ; 6"', part of the inner head ; 7, anconeus. The teres major muscle arises from the flat oval sur- face on the dorsum of the scapula near its inferior angle, slightly from the axillary bor- der of the bone, and from the septa interposed between it and the teres minor and infra- spinatus. It is inserted by a flat tendon about two inches wide, into the inner or posterior border of the bicipital groove of the humerus, behind and in contact with the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, to which it is adherent for a short space. Close to the insertion, however, the tendons of these muscles are separated by a small bursa. The fibres of the muscle are longitudinal. p 2