353 POSTERIOR AURICULAR.—TEMPORAL. subclavian artery outside the scalenus anticus muscle ; 3, first part of the axillary artery giving rise to the acromio-thoracic, short thoracic, &c.; 4, third part of the axillary artery, giving rise to the subscapular, circumflex, &c.; 5, commencement of the brachial artery ; 6, superficial transverse cervical artery ; 6', placed on the scalenus anticus muscle marks the superficial ascending cervical branch ; 7, posterior scapular artery, arising from the subclavian artery behind the scalenus anticus muscle, and separate from the thyroid axis ; 8, acromial branches of the acromio-thoracic; 9, pectoral branches of the same ; 10, long thoracic artery outside the pectoralis minor muscle; +, posterior circumflex branch of the axillary artery, the anterior circumflex is seen rising from the opposite side of the same part of the axillary trunk; 11, subscapular artery, passing between the subscapularis and teres minor muscles to proceed to the lower angle and dorsum of the scapula ; 12, thoracic descending branch of the subscapular artery. Carotid Artery and its Branches. — 13, lower part, and 14, upper part of the right common carotid artery ; 15, trunk of the external carotid artery, brought fully into view by the removal of the digastric muscle ; 16, trunk of the internal carotid artery; 17, 17, inside the thyroid axis of the subclavian artery, and on the inferior thyroid artery where it is distributed in the gland ; 18, superior thyroid artery, anastomosing in the gland with the inferior thyroid ; 19, lingual artery, brought into view by the removal of the lower part of the hyo-glossus muscle ; 20, facial artery, giving off the palatine, tonsillitic and submental; 21, inferior labial; 22, coronary artery ; 23, occipital artery; 24, posterior auricular artery ; 25, superficial temporal artery; 26, internal maxillary artery; 27, transverse facial, given off in this instance directly by the external carotid artery. position. The artery has, in a few instances, been seen to turn backwards below the transverse process of the atlas. Branches.—The posterior auricular and the pharyngeal arteries sometimes take origin from the occipital. V. POSTERIOR AURICULAR ARTERY. The posterior auricular artery, a small vessel, arises from the external carotid a little higher up than the occipital. It ascends, under cover of the parotid gland, and resting on the styloid process of the temporal bone, reaches the angle formed by the cartilage of the ear with the mastoid pro- cess. It is crossed by the portio dura of the seventh nerve. Somewhat above the mastoid portion of the temporal bone it divides into two sets of branches, of which one set inclines forwards to anastomose with the posterior branch of the temporal artery, and the other backwards towards the occiput, on which it communicates with the occipital artery. Branches.—The following are the branches given off by the posterior auricular artery:— (a) Small branches to the parotid gland and the digastric muscle. (b) The stylo-mastoid branch. This twig enters the foramen of the same name in the temporal bone; on reaching the tympanum, it divides into delicate vessels, which pass, some to the mastoid cells, others to the labyrinth. One branch is con- stantly found in young bodies to form, with the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary artery which enters the fissure of Glasser, a vascular circle around the auditory meatus, from which delicate offsets ramify upon the membrana tympani. This small tympanic branch sometimes arises from the occipital artery. (c) Auricular branches.—As it passes the back of the ear, the auricular artery gives one or two branches which supply the posterior surface of the concha, and turn over the margin, or perforate the substance of the auricle to gain the anterior surface. Peculiarities.—The posterior auricular artery is frequently very small, and has been seen to end in the stylo-mastoid branch. It is often a branch of the occipital. VI. TEMPORAL ARTERY. The temporal artery, one of the two branches into which the external carotid artery finally divides a little below the condyle of the lower jaw,