lxxxviii BONE. sufficient magnitude and strength are attained without undue increase of weight. 2. Tabular or flat bones, like the scapula, the ilium, the ribs, the lower jaw, and the bones forming the roof and sides of the skull. Many of these contribute to form the walls of cavities. 3. Short bones, often also called round bones, though most of them rather are angular ; the wrist and tarsus afford examples of these. 4. Irregular or mixed bones, which would, perhaps, be better named " complex :" such as cannot be entirely referred to any of the foregoing classes. These are mostly situated in the median plane, and have a complex but symmetrical figure ; the vertebrae may be taken as instances of them. The surfaces of bones present various eminences, depressions, and other marks ; and, to designate these in descriptive osteology, certain general terms are employed, of which the following are those most commonly in use. 1. Eminences. To any prominent elevation jutting out from the surface of a bone the term " process " or " apophysis " is applied. It often happens that such a process is originally ossified separately from the rest of the bone, and remains long unconnected with the main body (by osseous union at least); in this condition it is named an "epiphysis." In many bones, considerable portions at the extremities or most prominent parts are originally ossified separately as epiphyses. This is the case with the ends of the long bones, and in this instance the shaft is named the " diaphysis." Processes or apophyses are further designated according to their different forms. A slender, sharp, or pointed eminence is named a "spine" or " spinous process ;" a tubercle, on the other hand, is a blunt prominence ; a "tuberosity" (tuber) is broader in proportion to its elevation, and has a rough uneven surface. The term "crest" is usually applied to the prominent border of a bone, or to an elevation running some way along its surface ; but the latter is more commonly denominated a " line" or "ridge." A "head" (caput, capitulum, or capitellum) is a rounded process, supported on a narrower part named its neck (cervix). A "con- dyle " has been defined to be an eminence bearing a flattened articular surface ; but this term has been very variously applied by anatomists both ancient and modern. 2. Cavities and depressions of bones. An aperture or perforation in the substance of a bone is named a " foramen." A passage or perforation often runs for some way in the bone, and then it is termed a " canal" or "meatus." On the other hand, it may assume the form of a "fissure," and is named accordingly. A "fossa" is an open excavation or depression on the surface of a bone, or of a part of the skeleton formed by several bones. A fossa may form part of a joint, and be adapted to receive the prominent part of a neighbouring bone ; it is then said to be " glenoid," when shallow ; but a deep excavation, of which the socket for the head of the thigh-bone is an example, is named a "cotyloid" cavity. The meaning of the terms "notch " (incisura), and "groove," or " furrow" (sulcus), is sufficiently plain. 4* Sinus " and " antrum " are names applied to certain large cavities situated within the bones of the head and opening into the nose. Physical properties of bone.—Bone has a white colour, with a pink and slightly bluish tint in the living body. Its hardness is well known, but it also possesses a certain degree of toughness and elasticity ; the last pro- perty is peculiarly well marked in the ribs. Its specific gravity is from 1-87 to 1 or.