GANGLIA. cxli LXXX. 1% @ • ( 3 cell-matter or protoplasm is very scanty, and accidentally detached in exami nation. These nucleus-like bodies are very abun- dant in the superficial grey matter of the cere- bellum. In the grey matter of the cerebro-spinal centre, the nerve-cells appear as if imbedded in a sort of matrix of granular substance, interposed be- tween them in greater or less quantity, and very generally traversed by nerve-fibres. But it is very probable that the appearance of gra- nular or molecular matter results from a con- fused interlacement of very fine fibrils, and especially of the fine ramifications of nerve- cells ; or from the crushing and breaking down of such fibres in the process of examination. In the ganglia properly so called, the cells are packed up among nerve-fibres, but each cell is also immediately surrounded by an inclosing capsule (fig. lxxxii. and Lxxxnr.). The proper nervous substance of the brain and spinal cord is described by Kolliker as being traversed in all directions and supported by a framework of connective tissue — the " reti- form" connective tissue described at page Ixxix. union of ramified connective-tissue corpuscles, or of a network of fine fibres alone, originally pro- ceeding from such corpuscles. Kolliker names this supporting structure the reticulum of the nervous centres (fig. lxxxi ). Virchow proposes the term neuroglia. It is not merely an open mesh-work, but consists also of fine laminae formed of a close interlacement of the finest fibrils, disposed as mem- branous partitions and tubular compartments for separating and inclosing the nervous bundles. Such being the structural elements of the ner- vous substance, we have next to consider the arrange- ment of these cells and fibres in the ganglia and nerves which they contribute to form; the intimate structure of the encephalon and spinal cord being treated of in the part of this work which is devoted to special or descriptive anatomy. ' 7 r Fig. LXXX.—Small Nerve- Cells. a, from the (cortical) grey matter of the brain, b and c are from the cortical substance of the cerebellum ; b resemble detached cell-nuclei. c are smaller bodies, also like cell - nuclei, densely aggregated (from Hannover, magnified 340 diameters). This is formed of an inter- or Fig. LXXXI. Fi LXXXI.—Part of the Reticulum from the Spinal Cord. Open meshes are seen ge- nerally, but at two places the close lamelliform in- terlacements are shown. Magnified 350 diameters (from Kolliker). OF THE GANGLIA. The bodies so named are found in the following situations—viz. : 1. On the posterior root of each of the spinal nerves, on one, and probably the corresponding root of the fifth nerve of the encephalon, and on the seventh pair, glosso-pharyngeal and pneurnogastric nerves, involving a greater or less amount of their fibres ; also on the branches of certain cerebro-spinal nerves. 2. Belonging to the sympathetic nerve, (a)—In a series along each side of the vertebral column, connected by nervous cords, and con- stituting what was once considered as the trunk of the sympathetic. (b)—On branches of the sympathetic ; occurring numerously iu the abdomen, thorax, neck, and head ; generally in the midst of plexuses, or at the point