ARTICULATIONS OF THE RIBS AND STERNUM. 131 Fig. 120.—Articulations op the Sternum, Clavicle and Ribs, as seen from before (after Arnold). ^ On the right of the middle line the anterior ligaments are shown ; on the left side, the front parts of the clavicle, sternum and costal cartilages have been removed so as to display the articular cavities. 1 to 10, the anterior extremities of the ribs from the first to the tenth inclusive, on the right side ; 1' to 10', the costal cartilages of the left side from the first to the tenth in- clusive ; at 1', the direct union of the first costal cartilage with the sternum is shown ; at the sternal ends of the cartilages marked 2' to 6', the small double synovial cavi- ties are shown opened; between the costal cartilages on the right side, ligamentous bands are shown stretching over the intercostal spaces ; and on the left side, by a section, small synovial cavities are shown between the adjacent edges of the intercostal cartilages from the 5th to the 9th ; on the front of the right half of the sternum the radiating anterior costo-sternal ligaments are shown ; 11, the ensi- form process ; 12, 12', the inter- clavicular ligament; and below 12, the anterior sterno-clavicular liga- ment ; below 12', the sterno-clavi- cular articulation is opened, showing the interarticular fibro-cartilage and double synovial cavity; 13, the costo- clavicular or rhomboid ligament. Ligaments of the sternum.—The manubrium, body and xiphoid process of the sternum, so long as they are not united by bone, are connected by intervening cartilage, and by anterior and posterior ligaments ; and the whole sternum is much strengthened by thick periosteum and by the crossing and longitudinal bands of the costo-sternal ligaments already mentioned. Movements of the Ribs.—Each rib is capable of a certain amount of elevation and depression at its vertebral articulation, and of rotation on an axis passing between its vertebral and sternal ends. The heads of the ribs are, however, bound down by the inter-articular ligaments so tightly as to prevent any gliding motion at the attachments of those ligaments, which may therefore be regarded as the fixed points round which the ribs are moved. When the vertebral column is bent forwards, the ribs are depressed; and in the same manner, when the column is rotated, the ribs of that side towards which the upper part of the trunk is turned are raised, and those of the other side correspondingly depressed. The movement of the tubercle of the rib on the transverse process is of a gliding description, in the circumference of a circle of which the head of the rib is the centre; and as the plane in which the opposed surfaces of the costo-transverse articulation in most instances lies looks upwards and backwards, the ribs are moved backwards as well as upwards in inspiration, and forwards and downwards in expiration. The combined movements of the thoracic walls in respiration will be described along with the actions of the intercostal k 2