clxix STRUCTURE OF ARTERIES. be stripped off in large pieces. It is very commonly corrugated with very fine and close longitudinal wrinkles, caused most probably by a contracted state of the artery after death. Such is the appearance presented by the internal coat to the naked eye, but by the aid of the microscope it is found to consist of two different structures, namely : 1. An epithelium, forming the innermost part or lining. This is a simple layer of thin elliptical or irregularly polygonal scales, which are often elongated into a lanceolate shape. These epithelial elements have round or oval nuclei, which, how- ever, may disappear ; indeed, the whole structure sometimes becomes indis- tinct, especially in the larger arteries. 2. Mastic layers. These form the chief substance of the inner coat. The elastic tissue appears for the most part in form of the "perforated" or "fenestrated" membrane of Henle. This consists of a thin and brittle transparent film, and may exist in one or several layers ; and in that case it may be stripped off in small shreds, which have a remarkable tendency to curl in at their upper and lower borders, and roll themselves up as represented in the figure (fig. XCL). The films of membrane are marked by very fine pale streaks, following prin- cipally a longitudinal direction, and joining each other obliquely in a sort of network. Henle considers these lines to be reticulating fibres formed upon the membranous layer. This mem- brane is further remarkable by being perforated with numerous round, oval, or irregularly-shaped apertures of dif- ferent sizes. In some parts of the arte- ries the perforated membrane is very thin, and therefore difficult to strip off ; in other situations it is of considerable thickness, consisting of several layers; but it often happens that the deeper layers of the elastic structure, i. e., those farther from the inner surface, lose their membranous character, and pass into a mere network of longitudinal anasto- mosing fibres of elastic tissue. These longitudinal reticulating fibres are, however, sometimes spoken of as consti- tuting a distinct coat. The inner coat may thus be said to be formed of epithelium and elastic layers ; the latter consisting of elastic tissue under two principal forms, namely, the fenestrated membrane and the longitudinal elastic networks : and these two forms may coexist in equal amount, or one may predominate, the other diminishing or even disappearing altogether. It is further to be observed, that in the inner coat of the aorta and the larger arteries, in addition to the elements described, lamellae are found of a clear, homoge- neous, often striated or sometimes even fibrillated substance, mostly of the nature of connective tissue, and pervaded by longitudinal elastic networks of varying fine- ness. Immediately beneath the epithelium these transparent layers, the striated layers (KSlliker), may contain imbedded nuclei, which have been found by Langhans to belong to branched or irregularly stellate cells; or they may be more uniform and destitute of nuclei, in which case they more resemble elastic mem- branes. Fig. XCI. Fig. XCI.—Portion of Fenestrated Membrane from the Crural Ar- tery, magnified 200 DIAMETERS (from Henle). a, b, c, perforations.