SHORT POSTERIOR CRANIO-VERTEBRAL MUSCLES. 239 and representing the extensor of the caudal vertebrae of other animals. (Gunther and Milde, " Chirurgische Muskellehre " quoted in Theile, "Sommerring von Baue," &c.) Short Posterior Cranio-Vertebral Muscles.—The rectus capitis posticus major arises by a narrow tendon from the spinous process of the axis, and expanding as it passes upwards and outwards, is inserted into and beneath the outer part of the inferior curved line of the occipital bone, Its insertion is inside and below that of the superior oblique muscle, Fig. 192. Fig. 192. — View of the Deep Pos- terior Muscles of the Upper Part of the Vertebral Column. £ a, posterior occipital protuberance; b, surface between the superior and in- ferior curved lines on which the com- plexus is inserted ; c, spinous process of the axis vertebra; cl, transverse pro- cess" of the atlas ; e, transverse process of the first dorsal vertebra ; /, lamina of the sixth dorsal vertebra; 1, rectus capitis posticus minor muscle ; 2, rectus posticus major; 3, obliquus superior ; 4, obliquus inferior ; 5, rectus capitis lateralis ; 6, trachelo-mastoid, the mus- cle of the right side turned inwards and its slips of attachment to the dorsal and cervical transverse processes separated from each other; 7, transversalis cer- vicis, the figures are placed near the extreme ends of the muscle on the right side; T, on the left side, upper part of the longissimus dorsi continued into the transversalis cervicis ; 8, ascendens cervicis, the muscle of the right side is spread out; 8', on the left side, the seven upper tendinous insertions of the ilio-costalis and accessorius muscles ; 9, upper part of the semispinalis colli of the left side; 10, placed on the seventh rib of the right side, close to the insertion of its levator costse muscle ; 11, 11, three rotatores vertebrarum between the third and seventh dorsal vertebrse. The rectus capitis posticus minor arises from the posterior arch of the atlas by the side of the tubercle, and expands as it passes to be inserted into the inferior curved line of the occipital bone, and the rough surface between that and the foramen magnum. The obliquus capitis inferior, the strongest of the muscles now under consideration, arises from the spinous process of the axis, between the origin of the rectus posticus major and the insertion of the semispinalis colli, and is inserted into the extremity of the transverse process of the atlas. The obliquus capitis superior, smaller than the preceding muscle, arises from the upper surface of the transverse process of the atlas, inclines from