cxlii NERVOUS SYSTEM. of union of two or more branches. Those which are found in several of the fossae of the cranium and face are for the most part placed at the junction of fine branches of the sympathetic with branches, usually larger, of the cerebro- spinal nerves ; but they are generally reckoned as belonging to the sympa- thetic system. The ganglia differ widely from each other in figure and size : those which have been longest known to anatomists are most of them large and con- spicuous objects ; but, by the researches of Remak and others, it has been shown that there are numerous small, or what might be almost termed microscopic ganglia, disposed along the branches of nerves distributed to the tongue, the heart, the lungs, and some other viscera ; also connected with fine plexuses of nerves between the coats of the intestines. Ganglions are invested externally with a thin but firm and closely adherent envelope, continuous with the fibrous sheath of the nerves, and composed of connective tissue ; this outward covering sends processes inwards through the interior mass, dividing it, as it were, into lobules, and supporting the numerous fine vessels which pervade it. A section carried through a ganglion, in the direction of the nervous cords connected with it, discloses to the naked eye merely a collection of reddish-grey matter traversed by the white fibres of the nerves. The nervous cords on entering lay aside their investing sheath and spread out into smaller bundles, between which the grey gang- lionic substance is interposed ; and their fibres are gathered up again into cords, furnished with sheaths, on issuing from the ganglion. The micro- scope shows that this grey substance consists of nerve-cells and fibres with supporting connective tissue. The nerve-cells, or ganglion globules, have mostly a round, oval, or pyriform figure (figs, lxxvii., lxxxii. and lxxxiil). They are inclosed in capsules formed of a transparent membrane with attached or imbedded nuclei. Of the relation between the nerve fibres in a ganglion and the ganglion cells, it may be stated that many fibres pass through without being connected with the cells, but that every nerve-cell is connected with a fibre or with fibres. According to Dr. Beale, each cell is connected with, at least, two fibres, which, on reaching the nervous bundle in which they are distributed, run in opposite directions (fig. lxxxii). One of the fibres is straight, usually of tolerable size, and connected with the cell at one spot like a stalk—in pyri- form cells at the small end. The other, usually smaller, begins or is attached at some distance from the insertion of the first, and makes several turns on the surface of the cell, but within its capsule, which are continued as spiral coils round the straight fibre, and then the two part company and, apparently, run in opposite directions in the nervous bundle in which they mingle. The spiral fibre bears large oblong nuclei along its course. These are seen on its spiral turns upon the surface of the cell, and some, at the commencement of the fibre, seem to be beneath the surface. It may be single from the first, or begin by two or more filaments which join at some distance from the cell. Both fibres in- crease in size as they proceed. They have at first the character of pale fibres (or axis cylinders), then one of them—generally the straight one, but it may be the other— at a short distance from the cell acquires a medullary sheath and becomes a dark bordered fibre. At the same time it cannot be positively said that both fibres may not become dark bordered, or both continue as pale fibres. The spiral fibre may make more or fewer coils, and Dr. Beale thinks they are more nu- merous in older cells—for in some cases the smaller fibre (answering to the spiral one elsewhere) is not coiled; and the cells in such cases he considers to be young or recently formed.