cxciii SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. cavity by cognizable apertures, as already stated. Fine nervous fibres, with nerve-cells in some places, have been described by several anatomists, in or immediately beneath the serous membranes of various regions ; never- theless it would seem, that when in a healthy condition these membranes possess little or no sensibility; they are altogether devoid of vital contractility. Fluid.—The internal surface of serous cavities is moistened and lubricated with a transparent and nearly colourless fluid, which in health exists only in a very small quantity. This fluid, which is doubtless derived from the blood-vessels of the mem- brane, has been commonly represented as similar in constitution to the serum of the blood. But it was long since remarked by Hewson (and a similar opinion seems to have been held by Haller and Monro), that the fluid obtained from the serous cavities of recently-killed animals coagulates spontaneously, and thus resembles the lymph of the lymphatic vessels, and, we may add, the liquor sanguinis or plasma of the blood, the coagulation being, of course, due to the presence of fibrin, or of its two con- stituents fibrinogen and globulin. Hewson, who regarded the fluid as lymph, found that the coagulability diminished as the quantity increased. In confirmation of Hewson's statement, I may mention that I have always found the fluid obtained from the peritoneal cavity of rabbits to coagulate spontaneously in a greater or less degree. Hewson made his observations on the fluid of the peritonteum, pleura, and pericardium, in various animals, viz., bullocks, dogs, geese, and rabbits.* When the fluid gathers in unusual quantity as in dropsies, it rarely coagulates spon- taneously on being let out; but will often yield a coagulum on the addition of globulin as already stated (page xxxviii.). From this it may be inferred that fibrinogen is present, but not the globulin (fibrino-plastin) requisite to generate fibrin. The identity in character of the fluid of serous cavities and the lymph plasma is, it need scarcely be remarked, in keeping with the notion of their being great lymph- spaces in open connection with lymphatic vessels. But this view is quite reconcilable with the mechanical purpose commonly ascribed to these membranes, of lubricating and facilitating the movement of mutually opposed surfaces. When a serous membrane is inflamed, it has a great tendency to throw out coagu- lable lymph (or fibrin) and serum, the two constituents of the blood-plasma, the former chiefly adhering to the inner surface of the membrane, whilst the latter gathers in its cavity. The coagulable lymph spread over the surface, in form of a " false membrane," as it is called, or agglutinating the opposed surfaces of the serous sac and causing adhesion, becomes pervaded by blood-vessels, and in process of time converted into areolar tissue. Breaches of continuity in these membranes are readily repaired, and the new-formed portion acquires all the characters of the original tissue. SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. Resembling serous membranes in general form and structure, the synovial membranes are distinguished by the nature of the secretion which lubricates their surface, for this is a viscid glairy fluid resembling the white of an egg, and thence named synovia. These membranes line the cavities of joints, and are interposed between moving parts in certain other situations ; being in all cases intended to lessen friction, and thereby facilitate motion. They are composed of a scaly epithelium, which may consist of several strata, and a layer of dense areolar tissue pervaded by vessels and attached by tissue of the same kind to the parts beneath. The different synovial membranes of the body are referred to three classes, viz., articular, vesicular, and vaginal. 1. Articular synovial membranes, or Synovial capsules of joints. These * See Hewson's Works, published by the Sydenham Society, p. 157, with some important remarks in notes xviii. and lxviii., by the editor, Mr. Gulliver.