BONE. cix Fig. LIV. cation of the matrix and partial calcification of the capsules of the cartilage- cells. But this condition, which differs from that of perfect bone, is only transi- tory, and at a short distance below the ossifying surface we see a change taking place in the newly-formed tissue ; the structure becomes more open, the original cartilage cells disappear from its interstices, and the medullary spaces, with their lamellated parietes, as in the permanent cancel- lated tissue, begin to be formed. This, which is the next step of the process, takes place in the following manner :—The primary areolm of the bone above described open into one another both laterally and longitudinally by absorp- tion of their intermediate walls, and by their confluence give rise to the larger or secondary cavities, the medullary spaces of H. Muller, which succeed them lower down. This is shown in a longitudinal section in fig. lv. , and in transverse section in fig. lvi. , A, which represents a thin section made almost immediately below the surface of ossification, and in which the primary cavi- ties are seen to have coalesced into larger ones. A transverse section somewhat lower down, (fig. lvi., b,) shows that they go on enlarging by further absorption and coales- cence, and that their sides are thickened by layers of new bone ; this soon begins to be deposited, (fig. lv., b, 6, in longitudinal, and lvi., a, in cross section) and goes on increasing, (fig. lvi., b). In the meantime the cartilage cells have disappeared, and the bony cavities are filled with soft matter, in which there are a few fibres and numerous granular corpuscles resembling those seen in the intramembranous ossification (d, fig. lv.) ; there are also many blood-vessels. In the end, some of the enlarged cavities and open structure remain to form the cancellated tissue, but much of this struc- ture is afterwards removed by absorption, to give place to the medullary canal of the shaft. In many of these cavities the walls of the coalesced primary areolae may long be distinguished, like littlev arches, forming by their union a sort of festooned outline, within which the new bony laminae are situated. Fig. LTV—Small Portion op a Section similar to that in Fig. LIL, more highly magnified (about 140 diameters). a, b, two of the new-formed osse- ous tubes or areolae, with a few car- tilage cells and granular corpuscles lying in them ; c, c, cartilage cells near the ossifying surface, exhibiting the appearances described in the text. The primary "osseous matter forming the original thin walls of the areolae, and produced by calcification of the cartilaginous matrix, is decidedly granular, and has a dark appearance; the subsequent or secondary deposit on the other hand is quite transparent, and of an uniform, homogeneous aspect. This secondary deposit begins to cover the granular bone a very short distance (about ith of an inch) below the surface of ossification, and, as already stated, increases in thickness further down. The lacunae first appear in this deposit; there are none in the primary granular bone. The cartilage cells do not become calcified. According to H. Muller the capsules