ix DEVELOPMENT OF THE TEXTURES. and the parts or textures, impressions on which are felt, are said to be sensible, or to possess the vital property of " sensibility." This property manifests itself in very different degrees in different parts ; from the hairs and nails, which indeed are absolutely insensible, to the skin of the points of the fingers, the exquisite sensibility of which is well known. But sensibility is a property which really depends on the brain and nerves, and the different tissues owe what sensibility they possess to the sentient nerves which are distributed to them. Hence it is lost in parts severed from the body, and it may be immediately extinguished in a part, by dividing or tying the nerves so as to cut off its connection with the brain. It thus appears that the nerves serve to conduct impressions to the brain, which give rise to sensation, and also to convey stimuli to the muscles, which excite motion; and it is not improbable that, in both these cases, the conductive property exercised by the nervous cords may be the same, the difference of effect depending on this, that in the one case the impression is carried upwards to the sensorial part of the brain, and in the other downwards to an irritable tissue, which it causes to contract; the stimulus in the latter case either having originated in the brain, as in the instance of voluntary motion, or having been first conducted upwards, by an afferent nerve, to the part of the cerebro-spinal centre devoted to excitation, and then transferred to an efferent or muscular nerve, along which it travels to the muscle. If this view be correct, the power by which the nerves conduct sensorial impressions and the before-mentioned "vis nervosa" are one and the same vital property; the difference of the effects resulting from its exercise, and, consequently, the difference in function of sensorial and motorial nerves, being due partly to the different nature of the stimuli applied, but especially to a difference in the susceptibility and mode of reaction of the organs to which the stimuli are conveyed. DEVELOPMENT OF THE TEXTURES. The tissues of organised bodies, however diversified they may ultimately become, show a wonderful uniformity in their primordial condition. From researches which have been made with the microscope, especially during the last few years, it has been ascertained that the different organised structures found in plants, and to a certain extent, also those of animals, originate by means of minute corpuscles, which, having for the most part a vesicular structure, have been named cells. These so-called cells, remaining as sepa- rate corpuscles in the fluids, and grouped together in the solids, persisting in some cases with but little change, in others undergoing a partial or thorough transformation, produce the varieties of form and structure met with in the animal and vegetable textures. . Nay, the germ from which an animal originally springs, so far at least as it has been recognised under a distinct form, appears as a cell; and the embryo, in its earliest stages, is but a cluster of cells produced apparently from that primordial one ; no distinction of texture being seen till the process of transformation of the cells has begun. No branch of knowledge can be said to be complete ; but, even now that a quarter of a century has elapsed since the promulgation of the cell- doctrine, there is, perhaps, none which can be more justly regarded as in a state of progress than that which relates to the origin and development of the textures, and much of the current opinion on the subject is uncertain, and must be received with caution. In these circumstances, in order both to facilitate the exposition, and to explain to the reader more fully the groundwork of the doctrines in question, we shall begin with a short