CONNECTIVE TISSUE. Ixix It has been a question whether, when the fat undergoes absorption, the vesicles are themselves consumed along with their contents. Dr. W. Hunter believed that they still remained after being emptied; he was led to this opinion by observing the con- dition of the areolar tissue in dropsical bodies from which the fat had disappeared, there being in such cases a marked difference in aspect between the parts of that tissue which had originally contained fat and those which had not, which difference he attributed to the persistence of the empty fat vesicles. Gurlt states that the fat- cells in emaciated animals are filled with serum, and this statement is fully confirmed by the observations of Kolliker, Todd and Bowman, myself, and others. CONNECTIVE TISSUE. This substance consists of fibres of two kinds, more or less amorphous matter, and peculiar corpuscles. By means of its fibres it serves in the animal body as a bond of connection of different parts ; also as a covering or investment to different organs, not only protecting them outwardly, but, in many cases entering into their structure and connecting and supporting their component parts. The corpuscles, on the other hand, are destined for other than mechanical purposes ; they appear to be essentially concerned in the nutrition and reparation of tissues. Three principal modifications or varieties of connective tissue have long been recognized, consisting of the same structural elements but in widely different proportions, and thereby exhibiting a difference in their grosser or more obvious characters and physical properties. They are known as the areolar, the fibrous, and the elastic tissues, and will be now severally treated of. Without disregarding the alliance of cartilage and bone to the connec- tive tissues, we shall not, in imitation of some respected authorities, include them in the same group ; but there remain certain forms of tissue, occurring locally, or met with as constituents of other textures, which properly belong to this head, and will be briefly considered in a separate section as sub- ordinate varieties of connective tissue. Cartilage and bone are included in the group of connective tissues or connective substances by several eminent German histologists, and present undoubted points of relationship with these tissues, both in their nature and the general purpose which they serve in the animal frame. Thus, yellow cartilage shows an unmistakable transition to elastic connective tissue, as fibro-cartilage does, even more decidedly, to white fibrous tissue. Moreover, the animal basis of bone agrees entirely in chemical composition, and in many points of structure, with the last named tissue. Still, when it is considered that cartilage, in its typical form, consists of a quite different chemical substance, chondrin, and that bone is characterized by an impregnation of earthy salts, it seems more consistent with the purpose of histological description to recognise cartilage and bone as independent tissues. As to their community of origin, little stress need be laid on it as a basis of classification, seeing that the origin of blood-vessels, nerves and muscles, may be traced up to protoplasm-cells, to all appearance similar to those that give rise to the connective tissues, and belonging to the same embryonic layer. THE AREOLAR TISSUE. If we make a cut through the skin and proceed to raise it from the sub- jacent parts, we observe that it is loosely connected to them by a soft filamentous substance, of considerable tenacity and elasticity, and having, when free from fat, a white fleecy aspect ; this is the substance known by the names of "cellular," "areolar," "filamentous," "connective," and