SECRETING GLANDS. ccxx fluid in the animal body is effected without the necessary aid of any more complicated apparatus. Thus, the exhalation of carbonic acid and watery vapour from the interior of the lungs and air passages, is probably produced in this simple manner, although the structure of the exhaling membrane is, for other reasons, complex ; and the discharge of fluid into cavities lined be serous membranes, which is known to be preternaturally increased by artificial or morbid obstruction in the veins, may be a case of the same kind. But another element is almost always introduced into the secreting struc- ture, and plays an important part in the secretory process; this is the nucleated cell. A series of these cells, which are usually of a spheroidal or polyhedral figure, is spread over the secreting surface, in form of an epithelium, which rests on a simple membrane, named the basement membrane, or mem- brana propria. This membrane, itself extravascular, limits and defines the vascular secreting surface ; it supports and connects the cells by one of its surfaces, whilst the other is in contact with the blood-vessels, and it may very possibly, also, minister, in a certain degree, to the process of secretion, by allowing some constituents of the blood to pass through it more readily than others. But the cells are the great agents in selecting and preparing the special ingredients of the secretions. They attract and imbibe into their interior those substances which, already existing in the blood, require merely to be segregated from the common store and concentrated in the secretion, and they, in certain cases, convert the matters which they have selected into new chemical compounds, or lead them to assume organic structure. A cell thus charged with its selected or converted contents yields them up to be poured out with the rest of the secretion, the contained substance escaping from it either by exudation or, as is probably more common, by dehiscence of the cell- wall, which, of course, involves the destruction of the cell itself. Cells filled with secreted matter may also be detached, and carried out entire with the fluid part of the secretion ; and, in all cases, new cells speedily take the place of those which have served their office. The fluid effused from the blood-vessels, no doubt, supplies matter for the nutrition of the secreting structure, besides affording the materials of the secretion, the residue, when there is any, being absorbed. Examples, illustrative of the secreting agency of cells, are afforded both by plants and animals. Thus, cells, are found in the liver of various animals, and especially of crustaceans and mollusks, some of which con- tain a substance resembling coloured biliary matter, and others particles of fat. Also, in the urinary organ of mollusks, cells are seen which inclose little opaque masses of uric acid. The secretion of the sebace- ous follicles in man often contains detached cells filled with fat ; and, according to Mr. Goodsir's observation, the ink-bag of the cuttle-fish is lined with an epithelium, the constituent cells of which are charged with pigment, similar to that which impart9 the dark colour to the inky secre- tion. This last instance, as well as the production of spermatozoa, is an example of the formation of new products within secreting cells, a pro- cess further illustrated in plants, which afford abundant and decided evidence of the production of young cells, spermatic filaments, starch- granules, oil, various colouring matters, and other new compounds, in the interior of cells. Both in animals and plants, the individual cells which are associated together on the same secreting surface may differ from each other in the nature of their contents. Thus, in the liver of mollusca some cells con-