MUSCLES OF THE PERINEUM. 262 The superficial or external sphincter is a thin layer of fibres placed immediately beneath, the skin surrounding the margin of the anus. It is elliptical in form, about half an inch in breadth on each side of the anus, and is attached posteriorly by slight tendon to the tip and back of the coccyx ; passing forwards on each side of the anus, it becomes blended anteriorly with the transverse and the bulbo-cavernosus muscles at the central point of the perinozum, a name given to the depressed spot situated in the male between the anus and the bulb of the urethra, and in the female between the anus and vulva. Fig. 202. Fig. 202.—Superficial view op the Muscles op the Perinjsctm y/" in the Male (modified from Bourgery). \ a, crest of the pubis ; the penis cut short at this place ; b, coccyx ; c, placed on the tuberosity of the ischium, points by the line to the greater sacro-sciatic ligament ; x , placed within the anus ; 1, placed on the spongy body of the urethra, in front of the bulbo-cavernosus muscles ; 2, placed on the central point or tendon of the perinaeum, marks the posterior extremity of the same muscles ; 3, ischio-cavernosus ; 4, transversus perinsei ; 5, levator ani ; from 2 to b, elliptical sphincter of the anus; surrounding x, the circular sphincter is indicated; 6, coccygeus muscle ; 7, adductor lon- gus ; 8, gracilis ; 9, adductor mag- nus ; 10, semitendinosus and biceps ; 11, on the left side, the gluteus maxi- mus entire ; 11', the same cut on the right side, so as to expose a part of the coccygeus muscle. The levator es ani and coccygei are two expanded muscles continuous one with the other, which together form a floor of support for the pelvic viscera, and close in a great measure the lower orifice of the pelvis. The levator ani arises in front from the posterior surface of the pubes, near the symphysis and midway between its upper and lower borders ; behind from the spine of the ischium, and between those points from the pelvic fascia along the line of attachment of the obturator fascia. Some of its fibres are also traceable upwards in the substance of the pelvic fascia above the level of the obturator. From this extensive origin the fibres of the levator proceed downwards and inwards towards the middle line of the floor of the pelvis. Its posterior fasciculi are inserted upon the side of the lower end of the coccyx ; the bundles immediately in front of the coccyx unite in a median raphe with those of the opposite sides as far forward as the margin of the anus ; the middle and larger portion of the muscle is prolonged upon the lower part of the rectum, where it is connected with the fibres of the external sphincter, and slightly with those of the internal ; and lastly, the anterior muscular bundles pass between the rectum and the genito-urinary passages, and descending upon the side of the prostate, unite beneath the neck of the