SPLENIC ARTERY. 409 the upper border of the pancreas, and divides near the spleen into several branches. The largest of these enter the fissure in that organ, and are dis- tributed to its substance ; three or four are reflected towards the bulging end of the stomach, upon which they ramify. Fig. 284. Fig. 284. — The Arteries of the Stomach, Duodenum, Pancreas, and Spleen (from Tiedemann). £ The stomach and liver are turned upwards so as to show their lower surface. The jejunum is divided at its commencement, a, lower surface of the right lobe of the liver; b, left lobe; c, cardiac orifice of the stomach ; d, pylorus; e, first part, /, second or descending part, and g, third or lower part of the duodenum ; k, commencement of the jejunum emerging from behind the superior mesenteric artery ; i, the head, and k, the body of the pancreas ; I, the spleen; 1, 1, right and left inferior phrenic arteries passing from the aorta upon the crura of the diaphragm ; 2, placed on the aorta close to the coeliac axis ; 3, 3', the coronary artery; 4, common hc-patic ; 4', proper hepatic artery ; 4", cystic branch ; 5, gastro-duodenal giving the inferior pyloric ; 5, on the great curva- ture of the stomach, the right gastro-epiploic ; 6, pancreatico-duodenal ; 7, common splenic ; 7', proper splenic ; 7", one of the vasa brevia to the stomach ; 8, 8, left gastro- epiploic artery uniting with the right on the great curvature of the stomach ; 9, trunk of the superior mesenteric artery, giving a small branch to join the pancreatico-duodenal; 10, inferior mesenteric. Branches.—(a) Pancreatic branches, variable in size and number, are given off whilst the artery is passing along the pancreas, the middle and left part of which they supply with vessels. One of larger size not unfre- quently runs from left to right in the direction of the pancreatic duct, and is called pancreatica magna. (b) The splenic branches are the proper terminal branches of the artery ; they are five or six, or even more, in number, and vary in length and size ; they enter the spleen by the hilus or fissure in its concave surface, and ramify within that organ. (c) The short gastric branches (vasa brevia) vary from five to seven in num- ber ; they are directed from left to right, some issuing from the trunk of the splenic artery, others from its terminal branches : they reach the left ex- tremity of the stomach, where they divide and spread out between the coats, communicating with the coronary and left gastro-epiploic arteries. E E