clxv BLOOD -VESSELS. the principle of formation of nerve-fibres advanced by von Hensen is substantially the same as that previously published by Dr. Beale. Re-union and regeneration of nerves..—The divided ends of a nerve that has been cut across readily reunite, and in process of time true nerve fibres are formed in the cicatrix, and restore the continuity of the nervous structure. The conducting pro- perty of the nerve, as regards both motion and sensation, is eventually re-established through the re-united part. But immediately after the section, a process of degene- ration begins in the peripheral or severed portion of the nerve. The medulla of the white fibres degenerates into a granular mass consisting, apparently, of fatty mole- cules, and is then totally removed, while the axial fibre, with the primitive sheath and nuclei, remains; but, according to some authorities, the latter also suffer more or less. After reunion takes place, and usually not till then, the medulla is gradually restored, the restoration proceeding from the point of reunion outwards along the nerve, which is then restored to its primitive integrity both in structure and function. From experiments of Philipeaux and Vulpian, it would seem that in very young animals restoration of the severed portion may take place without previous reunion. The degeneration above referred to does not affect the part of the nerve remaining in connection with the nervous centre, which seems to exert an influence in maintain- ing the nutrition of the nerve. The ganglia, as well as the brain and spinal cord, have been shown by Dr. Waller to be centres of this influence. He found that in the central and undegenerated portion of a divided spinal nerve, while the fibres belong- ing to the anterior root owe their integrity to their connection with the spinal cord, those of the posterior root are similarly dependent on the ganglion ; and that if the posterior root be cut between the ganglion and the spinal cord, not only will the fibres which belong to it in the trunk of the nerve beyond the ganglion remain unchanged, but also those above the ganglion, in the portion of the root left in connection with it; whereas the segment of the same root which [remains connected with the cord but severed from the ganglion degenerates. Section of the sympathetic nerve in the neck is followed by degeneration of the cephalic segment as high as the superior cervical ganglion, but no farther. BLOOD-VESSELS. The blood, from which the solid, textures immediately derive material for their nourishment, is conveyed through the body by branched tubes named blood-vessels. It is driven along these channels by the action of the hearfc, which is a hollow muscular organ placed in the centre of the sanguiferous system. One set of vessels, named arteries, conduct the blood out from the heart and distribute it to the different regions of the body, whilst other vessels named veins bring it back to the heart again. From the extreme branches of the arteries the blood gets into the commencing branches of the veins or revehent vessels, by passing through a set of very fine tubes which connect the two, and which, though not abruptly or very definitely marked off from either, are generally spoken of as an intermediate set of vessels, and by reason of their smallness are called the capillary {i.e., hair-like) vessels, or, simply, the capillaries. The conical hollow muscular heart is divided internally into four cavities, two placed at its base, and named auricles, and two occupying the body and apex, named ventricles. The auricles are destined to receive the returning blood from the great veins, which accordingly open into them, and to pass it on into the ventricles ; whilst it is the office of the latter to propel the blood through the body. The ventricles have therefore much thicker and stronger sides than the auricles, and the great arterial trunks lead off from them. Each auricle opens into the ventricle of the same side, but the right auricle and ventricle are entirely shut off from those of the left side by an imper- vious partition placed length wise in the heart. The blood is sent out by the left ventricle into the main artery of the body, named the aorta, and passes through the numerous subordinate m