MOTIONS OF THE PROTOPLASM. XX coloured grains (of chlorophyll) and other small masses and corpuscles con- tained in the cavity, are seen to be moved along the inside of the cell-wall in a constant and determinate direction. This phenomenon appears to be of very general occurrence in the vegetable kingdom, although the movement does not always go on with the same regularity as in the instances cited. It is obviously due to a layer of protoplasm on the inner surface of the cell-wall, which enters into a peculiar flowing or undulating motion and trails the passive corpuscles along with it ; but how the motion of the protoplasm itself is produced is not at all understood. Motions are also observed in animal protoplasm ; cells in form of nucleated protoplasm-masses of irregularly stellate or jagged outline, which lie in the areolar tissue and are called connective tissue-corpuscles, and similar bodies in the substance of the cornea, have been noticed slowly to change figure whilst under observation (in the tissues of the recently killed frog), shrinking in at one part of their uneven contour and extending their soft substance at another. The effect seems to be due to a contractile property of the protoplasm comparable to the contractility of muscular substance ; for Kuhne* has found that the substance of these protoplasm bodies con- tracts under the electric stimulus, and contractions may be excited in the corneal cells through the medium of fine nerves which are distributed to them, and this both by mechanical and electrical stimulation. Now the soft transparent matter named "sarcode" which constitutes the bodies of the amoeba and actinophrys, and the animal part of the foraminifera and other allied organisms of simple nature exhibits similar retractile and extensile movements, and may also be made to contract by electrical excite- ment ; and accordingly it is reckoned as an example of protoplasm by some recent observers of authority and designated by that name. It is further to be noted, however, that the varied movements of these amcebine animals are very generally accompanied by a flowing of fine particles to and fro in their pellucid substance, as if there were a thinner and more diffluent por- tion confined within the more firm exterior part. The movement of the fluid matter, and consequent flow of the particles carried by it, have been ascribed by some observers to an impulse caused by the contractions of the firmer portion, but there are cases in which this explanation is hardly sufficient, and the point remains in doubt. To the same class of phenomena are probably to be referred the remark- able movements observed in the pigment-cells of the frog's skin, which have been so lucidly investigated by Professor Lister, f In these ramified cells the dark particles of pigment are at one time dispersed through the whole cell and its branches, but at another time they gather into a heap in the central part, leaving the rest of the branched cell vacant, but without alteration of its figure. In the former case the skin is of a dusky hue; in the latter, pale. The phenomenon is probably due to some kind of motion of the protoplasm, although it must be admitted that Mr. Lister has adduced arguments of considerable weight to prove that there is some impulse operating directly on the particles, and that they move indepen- dently of the surrounding matter, which he considers to be fluid. Like the movements of the protoplasm, the aggregation of the pigment molecules can be excited through the nerves, both mechanically and electrically. Lastly, the pale blood-corpuscles and other similarly constituted cells of * Untersuchungen iiber das Protoplasma und die Contractilitat. 1864. t Phil. Trans. 1858.