310 EXTERNAL CAEOTID ARTERY. and hyoid bone ; further up it is separated by a portion of the parotid gland from the back of the ramus of the lower jaw, and rests upon the styloid process and the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, which, with the glosso- pharyngeal nerve, are interposed between it and the internal carotid artery. Eelation to Veins.—This artery has usually no companion vein, though it may be crossed superficially by small branches of the contiguous veins ; but when the internal maxillary vein joins the deep instead of the superficial jugular, it accompanies the external carotid. Relation to Nerves.—Close to the digastric muscle the external carotid artery is crossed by the hypoglossal nerve, and at a short distance from its upper end, in the substance of the parotid gland, by the facial nerve. The glossopharyngeal nerve lies between it and the internal carotid ; and the superior laryngeal nerve is under both vessels. Branches.—The branches of the external carotid artery are eight in number, viz. three directed forwards, the superior thyroid, the lingual, and the facial ; two directed backwards, the occipital, and posterior auricular ; and three extending upwards, the ascending pharyngeal branch, together with the temporal and internal maxillary, the two terminal branches into which the artery divides. In addition to the principal branches here enumerated, the external carotid gives off small offsets to the parotid gland. Peculiarities.—The peculiarities in the origin of tins vessel have been noticed along with those of the common carotid artery. The branches are not unfrequently crowded together on the main stem, near the commencement, or at a higher point. Occasionally they take origin at regular dis- tances in the whole length of the vessel. The usual number of branches may be diminished by the association with another artery of one of the ordinary branches, or by the union into a single trunk of two or three branches which are usually derived separately from the main artery : so also the number may be augmented by the transfer to this vessel of some branch not ordi- narily derived from it, or by the addition of some unusual branch. There is frequently present a small distinct branch for the sterno-mastoid muscle, which bends outwards over the hypoglossal nerve. BRANCHES OF THE EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. I. SUPERIOR THYROID ARTERY. The superior thyroid artery, the first of the anterior set of branches, is given off close to the commencement of the external carotid, immediately below the great cornu of the hyoid bone. From this point the artery curves forwards and downwards to the upper margin of the thyroid cartilage ; it then descends a short distance beneath the omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, furnishing offsets to those muscles ; and, reaching the anterior surface of the thyroid body, distributes branches to its substance, and communicates freely with the branches of the inferior thyroid artery. Branches.— Besides the branches furnished to the muscles which cover it, and to the thyroid body, together with some to the lowest constrictor of the pharynx, the superior thyroid furnishes the following offsets, which have received distinctive names :— (a) The hyoid, a small branch, running transversely inwards immediately below