469 SUBCLAVIAN VEIN.—AZYGOS. artery, viz., the two circumflex and the subscapular veins from the shoulder, the alar vein from the axilla, and the inferior, superior, and acromial thoracic veins from the side of the chest. SUBCLAVIAN VEIN. The subclavian vein is the continuation of the axillary, but is not like it constantly provided with valves, although a pair may often be found near its termination (Struthers, loc. cit.). It extends from the outer margin of the first rib to the inner end of the clavicle, behind which it terminates by joining with the internal jugular vein to form the innominate or brachio- cephalic vein. The subclavian vein crosses over the first rib and behind the clavicle, not reaching so high up in the neck as the subclavian artery ; it is covered by the clavicle, and by the subclavius and sterno-mastoid muscles, and lies on a plane anterior to the artery, from which, while resting on the rib? it is separated by the scalenus anticus muscle and the phrenic nerve. Tributaries.—(a). The external and anterior jugular veins (p. 459) open into the subclavian vein on the outer side of the scalenus anticus muscle. (6). The vertebral vein, commencing in branches which proceed from the pericranium and the deep muscles lying behind the foramen magnum of the occipital bone, passes outwards and downwards to reach the intertransverse foramen of the atlas. Through this foramen, and through the canal formed by the corresponding foramina of the other cervical vertebrae, the vein descends with the vertebral artery. Emerging at the foramen in the sixth vertebra, it runs forwards and downwards to join the subclavian vein close to the termination : a small branch sometimes descends through the foramen in the seventh vertebra, and opens separately into the subclavian. The vertebral vein is joined in its course by several branches from the neigh- bouring muscles ; also, immediately before its termination, by a branch corresponding with the deep cervical artery ; and in the same situation by another branch of considerable size, which descends in front of the bodies and transverse processes of the vertebrae of the neck, and may be termed the external vertebral vein. It communicates frequently with the spinal veins in the neck, both those on the outer side, and those in the interior of the spinal canal. AZYGOS VEINS. The azygos veins are longitudinal vessels formed by the union of the veins corresponding to the arteries of the intercostal spaces, and are placed on the sides of the spine. In the lower part of the thorax the two veins of opposite sides are disposed symmetrically, but higher up the blood gathered from some of the veins of the left side is poured into the trunk on the right, which becomes enlarged and unsymmetrical, and has on that account received the name of azygos, while the united lower veins from the corre- sponding parts on the left side constitute the small or left azygos. The azygos, or right azygos vein (vena sine pari), commences sometimes by a small branch derived from the inferior cava, where that vessel turns forwards to reach its opening in the diaphragm ; but much more frequently it begins below from the lumbar veins (ascending lumbar) of the right side, and sometimes from the renal vein. Passing from the abdomen into the thorax through the aortic opening in the diaphragm, or to the outer side of