VERTEBRAL COLUMN". 18 membranous stage in the development of the vertebral column. It may be proper to remark that there is no similar original division in the cephalic portion of the primordial skeleton, but the chorda dorsalis is prolonged for a short distance into the middle of the basilar part. The process of breaking up of the primordial vertebral masses above referred to is followed by a reconstruction, as it were, of the vertebrae, which consists in this—that in the cylinder investing the chorda dorsalis the lines of separation of the primordial vertebral masses fade away, while midway between them new lines appear, marking the limits of the permanent vertebra; and thus each permanent vertebra is formed from parts of two of the primordial masses; the arch, the transverse processes and part of the ribs, together with half the body, being derived from one primitive vertebra, and the remaining half of the body together with the corresponding pair of nerves proceeding from a part of the next primordial mass in succession. In the human embryo, the vertebral column begins to become cartilaginous in the sixth or seventh week. The cartilage spreads rapidly over the bodies, but much more slowly into the arches, in which the union of the cartilages of opposite sides is not completed till during the fourth month (Kolliker). At the period of the first appear- ance of the cartilaginous bodies, the chorda dorsalis consists of a solid column of large thin-walled cells, surrounded by a transpa- rent sheath; but it becomes constricted, and gradually dwindles within each vertebral body, while it remains more fully developed in the intervertebral spaces, and enters into the formation of the intervertebral discs. Fig. 16, A & B (from Kolliker, figs. 80 & 81). —Sections of the Vertebral Column of a Human Foetus of eight weeks. A, transverse longitudinal section of several vertebras. 1, 1, chorda dorsalis, its remains thicker opposite the intervertebral discs ; 2 is placed on one of the bodies of the permanent vertebrae ; 3, on one of the intervertebral discs. B, transverse horizontal section through a part of one dorsal vertebra. 1, remains of the chorda dorsalis in the middle of the body ; 2, arch of the vertebra ; 3, head of a rib. Ossification.—The ossification of each typical vertebra proceeds from three principal nuclei. One of these, which is occasionally double at first, appears in the middle of the cartilage, and is afterwards converted into the main part of the body; the other two, placed one on each side, appear opposite the roots of the transverse processes, usually a little earlier than the nucleus of the body; and form the arch and processes, together with an angular part on each side of the body, namely, that part which in the dorsal region supports the heads of the ribs. At different periods subsequent to the age of puberty, five epiphyses, or supplementary centres of ossifica- tion, are added. Three of these are small portions of bone, placed on the tips of the spinous and transverse processes : the other two are thin circular plates, one on the upper, the other on the lower surface of the body, chiefly at its circumference. In the lumbar vertebrae two other epiphyses surmount the mammillary processes. The transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra is sometimes observed to be developed altogether from a separate centre. Most of the anterior divisions of the cervical trans- verse processes are ossified by the extension into them of osseous substance from the neighbouring posterior part of the process and from the arch; but that of the seventh usually presents a separate osseous nucleus, and small nuclei have also been observed by Meckel in those of the second, fifth, and sixth vertebrae.