TERMINATION OF NERVES. many cases, the fibre, before terminating, divides into two branches, as represented in figure b : a division into three has been observed, but this is very rare. In case of division of the fibre, the cavity is generally, but not invariably, divided in a corre- sponding measure, and the inner set of capsules present a figure in keeping with it. It is worthy of remark, that the nerve-fibre in its course along the cavity runs almost exactly in the axis of the channel, and it maintains this position even when passing through the abrupt flexures of an irregularly-shaped cavity. It sometimes happens that a fibre passes quite through one corpuscle and terminates in a second, resuming its original size and dark outline while passing from the one to the other. Pappenheim states that he has seen a nerve-fibre going through two Pacinian bodies without ter- minating in either, but i*eturning again to the parent nerve in form of a loop. Other varieties occur, for an account of which the reader is referred to the several authorities already mentioned. A little artery enters the Pacinian bodies along with the nerve, and soon divides into capillary branches, which pierce the parietes of the passage and run up between the capsules. Mr. Bowman finds that they then form loops, and return by a similar route into a vein corresponding to the artery : he states also that a single capillary usually accompanies the nerve as far as the central capsule, and passes some way on its wall, sometimes in a spiral direction. There is considerable difference of opinion as to the condition of the nerve-fibre in the Pacinian body. Kolliker thinks that it retains its primitive sheath, and is not wholly deprived of its medulla; and that the surrounding core is composed of a nearly homogeneous connective tissue, in which he has seen faintly-marked nuclei and faint longitudinal striation. Engelmann, on the other hand, considers the core to be an expansion of the medullary sheath of the nerve, and ascribes the appearances noticed by Kolliker to changes occurring in the originally homogeneous medulla, as in the case of a white nerve-fibre. The pale fibre within he considers to be simply the axis-cylinder. The core and pale fibre of the end-bulbs he regards in precisely the same way, and thinks it not improbable that the touch-corpuscles will be found to conform. He looks upon the simple capsule of the end bulb as a development of the primitive nerve-sheath, to which, in the Pacinian bodies, is superadded a series of concentric coats of connective tissue. Engelmann, besides adducing other arguments, refers especially to the structure of the Pacinian bodies of birds, as affording material evidence in support of his view. Nothing positive is known concerning the special purpose in the animal economy which these curious appendages of the nerves are destined to fulfil. In an anatomical sense a Pacinian body might be viewed as a more complex development of an end- bulb, from which it differs chiefly in the multiplied layers of the capsule. W. Krause endeavours to show that the series of concentric capsules with interposed fluid is an arrangement for converting the effect of mechanical traction into fluid pressure upon the nerve, so that tension and traction of the tissue in which the corpuscle is placed, may be felt and appreciated as ordinary pressure. Their presence in the mesentery of the cat seems, at first sight, against their importance as sentient organs, but it turns out upon trial, that the part in question is remarkably sensitive. C. Other terminations of sensory nerves. a. In hair-follicles. By far the majority of the nerves of the skin end in hair- follicles. Up to their entrance, at least, they retain their dark borders, but their arrangement within and actual mode of termination are unknown. b. In the teeth. Dark bordered nerve-fibres, in fine bundles, enter the teeth and pass into the tooth-pulp ; but their mode of termination has not been clearly made out. c. In organs of special sense. For the peripheral distribution of the optic and acoustic nerves, and the elaborate apparatus in the eye and ear with which they are connected, the reader is referred to the details given in the special anatomy of these organs. Respecting the more simple termination of the olfactory nerve, it has been shown by Max Schultze, that on the olfactory membrane, alongside columnar epithelium cells, there are special nucleated cells of a fusiform shape, and probably of a nervous nature {olfactory cells), from which proceed a superficial and a deep process, often presenting a beaded appearance like varicose nerve-fibres. The superficial processes end abruptly at the surface of the epithelium between the columnar cells; the deep and more slender processes pass vertically inwards. They are probably continued from terminal fibres of the olfactory nerve, but the continuity has not been actually traced.