PECTORALIS MAJOR, 203 downwards and outwards, and is inserted into the base of the scapula opposite the triangular surface at the commencement of the spine. The rhomboideus major, three or four times broader than the pre- ceding muscle, arises from the spinous processes of the four or five upper dorsal vertebrae, and their interspinous ligaments, and is inserted into that part of the base of the scapula which is included between the spine and inferior angle. Some of the fibres, instead of being fixed to the bone, end in a tendon which is connected to the scapula above the lower angle; and, in consequence of this arrangement, the muscle may, in part, be separated from the bone without division of its muscular or tendinous fibres. The greater part of the rhomboidei muscles is covered by the trapezius, a small angular portion of the rhomboideus major only lying superficially in the interval between the trapezius and latissimus dorsi; the extent of this portion varies with the position of the scapula, being increased when the arm and shoulder are raised from the side. The rhomboidei cover the greater part of the serratus posticus superior, and the posterior scapular artery descends on their deep surface. The levator anguli scapidoe, arises by slightly tendinous slips from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the first three or four cervical vertebrse, between the splenius and scaleni muscles, and forms an elongated fleshy mass which is inserted into the portion of the base of the scapula intervening between the spine and superior angle. The number of vertebral attachments of the levator anguli scapulas is subject to some variation. A slip has been observed to extend to it from the mastoid process of the temporal bone (Theile), and from the second rib (Meckel). It often appears as a divided muscle, the parts connected with the several vertebrse remaining separate, even to the place of insertion. In quadrupeds it is united with the serratus magnus, so as to form a single muscle. MUSCLES ATTACHING THE UPPER LIMB TO THE TRUNK ANTERIORLY. The pectoralis major muscle arises from the sternal half, or a little more, of the clavicle ; from the anterior surface of the sternum, extending as far down as the insertion of the cartilage of the sixth rib ; from the cartilages of the first six ribs, and also the bony part of the sixth rib ; and from the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. Springing from this extensive origin its fibres form a thick mass, and, converging to some extent, are inserted by a tendon of considerable breadth into the ridge which forms the outer margin of the bicipital groove of the humerus, and thence downwards as far as the deltoid impression. The muscular fasciculi converge towards the axilla, and the muscle with its tendon is folded at the axillary border, so that the clavicular part remains in front, while the pectoral part passes behind. The arrangement is such that at last the folded tendon of the muscle is inserted into the humerus in two nearly parallel lines which are connected below. The fibres of the clavicular part, in the order of their origin from without inwards, are prolonged into the anterior or outer line of insertion in order from above downwards. The pectoral part of the muscle is inserted into the inner or posterior line ; the fibres which have the highest origin being the lowest at their insertion, and those which arise lower in succession from the chest passing higher and higher to their insertion on the humerus. Further