AREOLAR TISSUE. Ixx "reticular" tissue; it used formerly to be commonly called "cellular membrane." In like manner the areolar tissue is found underneath the serous and mucous membranes which are spread over various internal sur- faces, and serves to attach those membranes to the parts which they line or invest ; and as under the skin it is named "subcutaneous," so in the last- mentioned situations it is called "subserous" and "submucous" areolar tissue. But on proceeding further we find this substance lying between the muscles, the blood-vessels, and other deep-seated parts, occupying, in short, the intervals between the different organs of the body where they are not otherwise insulated, and thence named "intermediate;" very generally, also, it becomes more consistent and membranous immediately around these organs, and, under the name of the "investing" areolar tissue, affords each of them a special sheath. It thus forms inclosing sheaths for the muscles, the nerves, the blood-vessels, and other parts. Whilst the areolar tissue might thus be said in some sense both to connect and to insulate entire organs, it also performs the same office in regard to the finer parts of which these organs are made up ; for this end it enters between the fibres of the muscles, imiting them into bundles ; it connects the several membranous layers of the hollow viscera, and binds together the lobes and lobules of many compound glands; it also accompanies the vessels and nerves within these organs, following their branches nearly to their finest divisions, and affording them support and protection. This portion of the areolar tissue has been named the " penetrating," " constituent," or "parenchymal." It thus appears that the areolar is one of the most general and most extensively distributed of the tissues. It is, moreover, continuous through- out the body, and from one region it may be traced without interruption into any other, however distant ; a fact not without interest in practical medicine, seeing that in this way dropsical waters, air, blood, and urine, effused into the areolar tissue, and even the matter of suppuration, when not confined in an abscess, may spread far from the spot where they were first introduced or deposited. On stretching out a portion of areolar tissue by drawing gently asunder the parts between which it lies, it presents an appearance to the naked eye of a multitude of fine soft elastic threads, quite transparent and colourless, like spun glass ; these are intermixed with fine transparent films, or delicate membranous laminae, and both threads and laminae cross one another irregularly and in all imaginable directions, leaving open interstices or areolae between them. These meshes are, of course, more apparent when the tissue is thus stretched out ; it is plain also that they are not closed cells, as the term "cellular tissue" might seem to imply, but merely inter- spaces which open freely into one another : many of them are occupied by the fat, which, however, as already explained, does not lie loose in the areolar spaces, but is enclosed in its own vesicles. A. small quantity of colourless transparent fluid is also present in the areolar tissue, but, in health, not more than is sufficient to moisten it. This fluid is generally said to be of the nature of serum ; but it is not improbable that, unless when unduly increased in quantity or altered in nature by disease, it may resemble more the liquor sanguinis, as is the case with the fluid of most of the serous membranes. On comparing the areolar tissue of different parts, it is observed in some to be more loose and open in texture, in others more dense and close, according as free movement or firm connection between parts is to be pro- vided for. In some situations, too, the laminae are more numerous; in