BRANCHES OF THE INTEROSSEOUS ARTERY. 391 The anterior interosseous artery gives off the following branches :— (a) The artery of the median nerve, or the median artery, a long slender branch, which accompanies the median nerve and sends offsets into its substance. This artery is sometimes much enlarged, and in that case it presents several peculiarities to be hereafter noticed. (6) Muscular branches to the flexor profundus, flexor longus pollicis; and pronator quadratus muscles. (c) The nutrient arteries of the shafts of the radius and ulna, which diverging from one another, enter the oblique foramina in those bones to be distributed to the medullary membrane in their interior. (d) An anterior inosculating branch, given off before the artery pierces the inter- osseous membrane, and descending beneath the pronator quadratus muscle to anas- tomose with the anterior carpal arteries. (e) Terminal twigs inosculating with the posterior carpal arteries. The posterior interosseous artery passes backwards through the interval left besween the oblique ligament and the upper border of the interosseous ligament, and continuing its course downwards along the fore-arm, covered by the superficial layer of extensor muscles, gives branches to them and the deep-seated muscles, and reaches the carpus considerably diminished in size. In addition to muscular branches, it gives off the following :— (a) The posterior interosseous recurrent, which passes directly upwards, covered by the anconeus, to reach the interval between the olecranon and external condyle ; at which place it divides into several offsets which anastomose with the superior profunda and the posterior ulnar l'ecurrent. (b) Terminal branches, which anastomose with the posterior or terminal branch of the anterior interosseous artery, and with the carpal branches of the radial and ulnar arteries. Muscular Branches of the ulnar artery are distributed to the muscles in the course of the vessel along the fore-arm : some of these perforate the interosseous ligament to reach the extensor muscles. Carpal Branches. — The posterior ulnar carpal branch, of variable size, arises a little above the pisiform bone, and winding back under the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, reaches the dorsal surface of the carpus beneath the extensor tendons. Its branches are the following :—■ (a) A branch anastomoses with the posterior carpal artery derived from the radial, so as to form the posterior carpal arch, and from this arch are derived the second and third dorsal interosseous arteries, which descend on the spaces between the third and fourth and the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones, and are reinforced at the upper ends of those spaces by anastomoses with the posterior perforating branches of the deep palmar arch. {b) A branch runs along the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Sometimes this metacarpal branch arises as a separate vessel, the posterior carpal being then very small. The anterior ulnar carpal branch is a very small artery, which runs on the anterior surface of the carpus beneath the flexor profundus, anastomoses with a similar offset from the radial artery, and supplies the carpal bones and articulations. Peculiarities.—Origin.—In the whole number of cases observed by Richard Quain, the ulnar artery was found to deviate from its usual mode of origin, nearly in the proportion of one in thirteen. The brachial artery was, more frequently than the axillary, the source from which it sprang; indeed, the examples of its origin from the main trunk at different parts appeared to decrease in number in proportion as the