THE BLOOD. xxviii mass, named the clot or crassamentum of the blood, from which the serum gradually separates. The relation between the above-mentioned constituents of the blood in the liquid and the coagulated states may be represented by the subjoined scheme :— Liquid blood ::} Clot Coagulated blood. " Corpuscles . 'Fibrin _ Liquor sanguinis 1^ Serum Bed Corpuscles.—These are not spherical, as the name " globules," by which they have been so generally designated, would seem to imply, but flattened or disk-shaped. Those of the human blood Fig. XV. Fig. XV.—Red Cor- puscles of Human Blood ; magnified about 500 diameters (Wagner). 1, shows depression on the surface; 2, a cor- puscle seen edgeways; 3, red corpuscles altered by exposure. (fig. xv., 1* 3) have a nearly circular outline, like a piece of coin, and most of them also present a shallow cup-like depression or dimple on both surfaces ; their usual figure is, therefore, that of biconcave disks. Their magnitude differs somewhat even in the same drop of blood, and it has been variously assigned by authors ; but the prevalent size may be stated at from W^th to W^th of an inch in diameter, and _J__th to ^J^th of an inch about one-fourth of that in thickness In mammiferous animals generally, the red cor- puscles are shaped as in man, except in the camel tribe, in which they have an elliptical outline. In birds, reptiles, and most fishes, they are oval disks with a central elevation on both surfaces (fig. xvi., from the frog), the height and extent of which, as well as the proportionate length and breadth of the oval, vary in different instances, so that in some osseous fishes the elliptical form is almost shortened into a circle. The blood corpuscles of invertebrata, although they (except in some of Fi». XVI. ^ne red-blooded annelides) want the red colour, are also, for the most part, flattened or disk-shaped ; being in some cases circular, in others oblong, as in the larvae of aquatic insects. Sometimes they ap- pear granulated on the surface like a raspberry, but this is probably due to some alteration occurring in them. The size of the corpuscles differs greatly in different kinds of ani- mals ; it is greater in birds than in mammalia, and largest of all in the naked amphibia. They are for the most part smaller in quadrupeds than in man; in the elephant, however, they are larger, being 2Yooth °f an incn> which is the largest size yet observed in the blood-corpuscles of any mammiferous Fig. XVI.—Blood Corpuscles of the Frog ; MAGNIFIED ABOUT 500 DIAMETERS. 1, shows their broad surface ; 2, one seen edgeways ; 3, shows the effect of weak acetic acid ; the nucleus has become distinct; 4, a colourless or lymph corpuscle (from Wagner).