129 ARTICULATIONS OF THE RIBS. the head of the rib to the intervertebral substance, and divides the articu- lation into two parts, each lined by a separate synovial membrane. The Fig. 117. Fig. 117.—View op a part op the Vertebral Column, including the 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, and 9th Dorsal Vertebrae, with a part of the 6th, 7tej, and 8th Ribs, from the right side and front. I The 5th and 9th ribs have been removed so as to show the articular surfaces of the vertebrae corresponding to them ; 1 to 2, the anterior common ligament of the bodies of the vertebra; at x x , a portion of the ligament is removed, so as to expose the inter- vertebral plate between the 8th and 9th veitebrae, in which the diagonal fibres of the outermost ligamentous plates are represented ; 3 and 4, the heads of the 6th and 7th ribs, from which the stellate or anterior costo- central ligaments are seen spreading over the two adjacent vertebral bodies and intervertebral substance ; 5, the head of the 8lh rib, from which the stellate ligament has been removed, so as to expose the upper and lower synovial cavities, and between them the intervertebral or deep costo-central ligament; 6, lower, and 6', upper facet of the costo-central articulation ; 7, posterior costotransverse ligament ; 7', the costotransverse synovial cavity ; 5th vertebra ; 8, the anterior or superior costo-transverse ligament process of the 5th vertebra ; 9', inferior of the 9th. the costotransverse articular facet of the 9, superior articular ligament does not exist in the articulations of the first, eleventh, or twelfth ribs, in consequence of those ribs being each attached to only one vertebral body by a single synovial joint. Fig. 118.—Five Dorsal Vertebrae, with portions of the corresponding Ribs. | 1 and 2 are placed on the laminae of the vertebrae, close to the interspinous ligaments ; 3, one of the liga- menta subflava, which are only in part seen, being covered to some extent by the laminae of the vertebrae ; 4, anterior costo-transverse ligament ; 5, posterior costo-transverse ligament. The COSTO-TRANSVERSE ARTICULATION" Ullifc S the tubercle and neck of the rib to the cor- responding transverse process by a synovial joint and ligaments, and by a longer ligament to the transverse process above. The posterior costo-transverse ligament is a distinct band extending out- wards from the posterior part of the summit of the transverse process to the rough external part of the tubercle of the rib. K