THE HEART. 326 disappear before the last are developed. This arrangement of blood-vessels, together with the originally single condition of the heart, corresponds to a certain extent with the permanent condition of the heart and branchial arteries in fishes; with this difference as regards the vascular arches in the human foetus and that of mammals, birds and scaly reptiles, that they never present any farther branchial subdivision. ~ As the interventricular septum is approaching the base of the heart, that is, about the seventh or eighth week, the arterial bulb becomes also divided by an internal partition, meeting from opposite sides, into two vessels, which are slightly twisted on each other, and are so adjusted as to become connected, the anterior with the right and the posterior with the left ventricle : these vessels afterwards constitute the com- mencement of the pulmonary artery and of the aorta. A furrow subsequently, begin- ning on the outside, completes the separation into two vessels. Whilst the arterial bulb is thus converted into the commencement of the pulmonary artery and aorta, the five vascular arches arising from it undergo a metamorphosis, by which the permanent aorta with the brachio-cephalic vessels and the pulmonary arteries are formed. The general results of this change have been observed by several embryologists, but it has not yet been made out with certainty in all its details. It is generally admitted, however, that the fourth arch on the left side (counting from above), which receives blood from the aortic division of the bulb, is persistent, and, continuing to enlarge, eventually becomes the arch of the aorta. The fourth arch on the right side, as well as the first, second, and third arches on both sides, are obliterated to a greater or less extent, while certain portions of them, remaining pervious and connected with the aortic arch, appear to form the commencement of the great vessels rising from it. Both the arches of the fifth pair were held by Baer to be connected with the Fig. 245. Fig. 245.—Diagram of the Aortic or ., Branchial Vascular Arches of the Mammal, with their transformations giving rise to the permanent arterial Vessels (according to Rathke). A, P, primitive arterial stem or aortic bulb, now divided into A the ascending part of the aortic arch, and P the pul- monary ; a, the right; a', the left aortic root; A', the descending aorta. On the right side 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, indicate the five branchial primitive arterial arches; on the left side, I, II, III, IV, the four branchial clefts, which, for the sake of clearness, have been omitted on the right side. It will be observed, that while the fourth and fifth pairs of arches rise from the part of the aortic bulb or stem, which is at first un- divided, the first, second, and third pairs are branches above c, of a secondary stem on each side. The permanent systemic vessels are represented in deep shade, the pulmonary arteries lighter; the parts of the primitive arches, which have only a temporary existence, are drawn in outline only, c, placed between the permanent common carotid arteries ; ce, the external carotid arteries ; ci, ci\ the right and left internal carotid arteries ; s, the right sub- clavian rising from the right aortic root beyond the fifth arch ; v, the right vertebral from the same opposite the fourth arch ; v', s', the left vertebral and subclavian arteries rising together from the left or permanent aortic root opposite the fourth arch; P, the pulmonary arteries rising together from the left fifth arch ; d, the outer or back part of the left fifth arch, forming the ductus arteriosus ; pn, pn', the right and left pneumo- gastric nerves, descending in front of the aortic arches, with their recurrent branches represented diagrammatically as passing behind, with a view to illustrate the relations of these nerves respectively to the right subclavian artery and the arch of the aorta and ductus arteriosus.