lix CILIATED EPITHELIUM. generally columnar, bear at their free extremities little hair-like pro- cesses, which are agitated incessantly duriDg life, and for some time after death, with a lashing or vibrating motion. These minute and delicate moving organs are named cilia. They have now been discovered to exist very extensively throughout the animal kingdom ; and the move- ments they produce are subservient to very varied purposes in the animal economy. In the human body the ciliated epithelium occurs in the following parts, viz. :—1. On the mucous membrane of the air passages and its pro- longations. It commences at a little distance within the nostrils, covers the membrane of the nose and of the adjoining bony sinuses, extends up into the nasal duct and lachrymal sac. From the nose it spreads back- wards a certain way on the upper surface of the soft palate, and over the upper or nasal region of the pharynx ; thence along the Eustachian tube and lining membrane of the tympanum, of which it covers the greater part. The lower part of the pharynx is covered by scaly epithelium as already mentioned ; but the ciliated epithelium begins again in the larynx a little above the glottis, and continues throughout the trachea and the bronchial tubes in the lungs to their smallest ramifications. 2. On the mucous lining of the uterus, commencing at the middle of the cervix and extending along the Fallopian tubes, even to the peritoneal surface of the latter at their fimbriated extremities. 3. Lining the vasa eferentia, coni vasculosis and first part of the excretory duct of the testicle. 4. To a large extent on the parietes of the ventricles of the brain, and throughout the central canal of the spinal cord. In other mammiferous animals, as far as examined, cilia have been found in nearly the same parts. To see them in motion a portion of ciliated mucous membrane may be taken from the body of a recently killed quad- ruped. The piece of membrane is to be folded with its free or ciliated surface outwards, placed on a slip of glass, with a little weak salt' water or serum of blood, and covered with a bit of thin glass or mica. When it is now viewed with a magnifying power of 200 diameters, or upwards, a very obvious agitation will be perceived on the edge of the fold, and this appearance is caused by the moving cilia with which the surface of the membrane is covered. Being set close together, and moving simultaneously or in quick succession, the cilia, when in brisk action, give rise to the appearance of a bright transparent fringe along the fold of the membrane, agitated by such a rapid and incessant motion, that the single threads which compose it cannot be perceived. The motion here meant, is that of the cilia themselves ; but they also set in motion the adjoining fluid, driving it along the ciliated surface, as is indicated by the agitation of any little particles that may accidentally float in it. The fact of the conveyance of fluids and other matters along the ciliated surface, as well as the direction in which they are impelled, may also be made manifest by immersing the membrane in fluid, and dropping on it some finely pulverised substance (such as charcoal in fine powder), which will be slowly but steadily carried along in a constant and determinate direction ; and this may be seen with the naked eye, or with the aid of a lens of low power. The ciliary motion of the human mucous membrane is beautifully seen on the surface of recently extracted nasal polypi; and single ciliated parti- cles, with their cilia still in motion, are sometimes separated accidentally from mucous surfaces in the living body, and may be discovered in the dis- charged mucus; or they may even be purposely detached by gentle abrasion.