NERVOUS SYSTEM. cxxxii external stimulus, and do not manifest themselves in outward acts. To this class also belong sensation and volition. In the exercise of sensation the mind becomes conscious, through the medium of the brain, of impressions conducted or propagated to that organ along the nerves from distant parts ; and in voluntary motion a stimulus to action arises in the brain, and is carried outwards by the nerves from the central organ to the voluntary muscles. Lastly, emotion, which gives rise to gestures and movements varying with the different mental affections which they express, is an in- voluntary state of the mind, connected with some part of the brain, and influencing the muscles through the medium of the nerves. The remaining functions of the nervous system do not imply necessary participation of the mind. In the production of those movements, termed reflex, excited, or excito-motory, a stimulus is carried along afferent nerve- fibres to the brain or spinal cord, and is then transferred to efferent or motor-nerve-fibres, through which the muscles are excited to action ; and this takes place quite independently of the will, and may occur without consciousness. The motions of the heart, and of other internal organs, the contraction of the coats of the blood-vessels, as well as the invisible changes which occur in secretion and nutrition, are in a certain degree subject to the influence of the nervous system, and are undoubtedly capable of being modified through its agency, though, with regard to some of these phenomena, it is doubtful how far the direct intervention of the nervous system is neces- sary for their production. These actions, which are all strictly involuntary, are, no doubt, readily influenced by mental emotions ; but they may also be affected through the nerves in circumstances which entirely preclude the participation of the mind. The nervous system consists of a central part, or rather a series of con- nected central organs, named the cerebrospinal axis, or cerebrospinal centre ; and of the nerves, which have the form of cords connected by one extremity with the cerebro-spinal centre, and extending from thence through the body to the muscles, sensible parts, and other organs placed under their control. The nerves form the medium of communication between these distant parts and the centre. One class of nervous fibres, termed afferent or centripetal, conduct impressions towards the centre,—another, the efferent or centrifugal, carry motorial stimuli from the centre to the moving organs. The nerves are, therefore, said to be internuncial in their office, whilst the central organ receives the impressions conducted to it by the one class of nerves, and im- parts stimuli to the other,—rendering certain of these impressions cognisable to the mind, and combining in due association, and towards a definite end, movements, whether voluntary or involuntary, of different and often of distant parts. Besides the cerebro-spinal centre and the nervous cords, the nervous system comprehends also certain bodies named ganglia, which are connected with the nerves in various situations. These bodies, though of much smaller size and less complex nature than the brain, agree, nevertheless, with that organ in their elementary structure, and to a certain extent also in their relation to the nervous fibres with which they are connected ; and this cor- respondence becomes even more apparent in the nervous system of the lower members of the animal series. For these reasons, as well as from evidence derived from experiment, but which is of a less cogent character, the ganglia are regarded by many as nervous centres, to which impressions may be referred, and from which motorial stimuli may be reflected or emitted ; but of local and limited influence as compared with the cerebro-spinal centre, and