EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 432 Relation to Veins, Sc.—The external iliac vein lies at first behind the artery with an inclination to the inner side ; but as both vessels approach Poupart's ligament at the fore part of the pelvis, the vein is on the same plane with the artery and quite to the inner side, \being borne forwards by the bone. At a short distance from its lower end the artery is crossed by the circumflex iliac vein. Fig. 296. Fig. 296.—View of the Distribution and Anastomosis op the Epigastric and Internal Mammary Arteries (from Tiedemann). \ For the detailed description of this figure, see Fig. 265, p. 375. 7, placed on the transversalis muscle above the internal inguinal aperture, points to the last part of the external iliac artery at the place where it gives origin to 8, the epigastric and 9, the circumflex iliac ar- tery; 10, anastomosis of the epigastric artery and the abdominal branch of the in- ternal mammary in and behind the rectus muscle ; 11, the spermatic cord receiving the external spermatic branch from the epigastric artery; 12, femoral artery ; 13, femoral vein; 14, a lymphatic gland closing the femoral ring. Large lymphatic glands are found resting upon the front and inner side of the vessel; and the spermatic vessels descend upon it near its ter- mination. A branch of the genito- crural nerve crosses it just above Poupart's ligament. Branches. — The external iliac artery supplies some small branches to the psoas muscle and the neigh- bouring lymphatic glands, and, close to its termination, two other branches of considerable size, named the epi- gastric and the circumflex iliac, which are distributed to the walls of the abdomen. 1. The epigastric artery (in- ferior epigastric) arises from the fore- part of the external iliac artery, usually a few lines above Poupart's ligament. It first inclines down- wards, so as to get on a level with the ligament, and then passes ob- liquely upwards and inwards between the fascia transversalis and the peritoneum, to reach the rectus muscle of the abdomen. It ascends almost vertically behind the rectus,