TARSO-METATARSAL ARTICULATIONS. 165 form ; and the last two with, the cuboid bone. The articulations are furnished with synovial membranes, and the bones are held in contact by dorsal, plantar, and interosseous ligaments. The dorsal tarso-metatarsal ligaments are flat, thin bands of parallel fibres, which pass from behind forwards, connecting the contiguous extremities of the bones before mentioned. Thus the first metatarsal bone receives a broad thin band from the corresponding cuneiform bone ; the second receives three, which converge to its upper surface, one passing from each cuneiform bone ; the third has one from the external cuneiform bone ; and, finally, the last two are bound by a fasciculus to each from the cuboid bone, and by fibres from the external cuneiform to the fourth metatarsal bone. The plantar ligaments are less regular ; the bands of the first and second toes are more strongly marked than the corresponding ligaments on the dorsal sur- face ; and those of the fourth and fifth toes, which are merely a few scattered fibres passing to the cuboid, receive support from the sheath of the peroneus kmgus muscle. Ligamentous bands stretch in an oblique or trans- verse direction from the internal cuneiform to the second and third meta- tarsal bones, and from the external cuneiform to the fifth metatarsal. The interosseous ligaments are longitudinal in direction, and have especial interest, because of the resistance which they oppose to the surgeon in separating the metatarsus from the tarsus, in consequence of their deep position between the bones, a. The internal and largest of these lies to the outer side of the first cuneiform bone, and extends from this bone to the neighbouring side of the second metatarsal, close to the articular sur- face, b. The external interosseous ligament separates the articulation of the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones from the rest. It connects the outer side of the external cuneiform bone to the same side of the third, and very strongly to the inner side of the fourth metatarsal, c. Occasionally some fibres, of less strength and importance than the preceding, are observable on the outer side of the second metatarsal bone, connecting it to the middle cuneiform. The interosseous ligaments are found to vary somewhat in their connections from those here stated, being sometimes attached at once to the contiguous sides of two tarsal and two metatarsal bones. Attention was first particularly directed to these ligaments by M. Lisfranc, in connection with the amputation of the foot through the tarso-metatarsal articulation. See " Manuel des Operations Chirurgi- cales, &c. Par J. Coster." 3rd edit. Paris, 1829. Synovial membranes.—There are three synovial membranes in this irregular series of articulations, a. One belongs to the internal cuneiform and the first metatarsal bone : the joint formed between these two bones is altogether separate and out of the range of the rest. b. A second synovial membrane is placed between the cuboid and the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones ; this is isolated on the inner side by the external interosseous liga- ment, c. The third or middle one is placed between the middle and external cuneiform and the second and third metatarsal bones, and is prolonged between the two last-named bones, as well as sometimes between the third and fourth metatarsal bones. The disposition of this last synovial mem- brane is subject to variation. Connection of the Metatarsal Bones with one another.—The meta- tarsal bones are bound together at their tarsal and digital ends ; very firmly in the former, and loosely in the latter situation. The tarsal ends or bases of the four outer bones articulate with each other, having lateral cartilaginous surfaces provided with synovial membrane, and