ARTICULATIONS OF THE LOWER LIMB. 152 bone. The articulating surface of the acetabulum is formed by a broad riband-shaped cartilage occupying the upper and outer part, and folded round a depression which, extending from the notch, is hollowed out in the bottom of the cavity, and is occupied by delicate adipose tissue covered with synovial membrane, the so-called synovial or Haversian gland. The articulating surface of the femur presents a little beneath its centre a pit in which the round ligament is attached. The cotyloid ligament forms a thick ring round the margin of the aceta- bulum, increasing the depth of its cavity, and bridging over the deficiency in its border. Its external surface is in contact with the capsular ligament, the internal closely embraces the head of the femur, and both are covered by the synovial membrane. Its fibres do not run parallel to the circumference of the cotyloid cavity, but pass obliquely from without inwards over its margin, one extremity being attached to the outer, the other to the inner surface. At the cotyloid notch the fibres of the ligament are continued from side to side, so as to render the circumference complete, and deeper transverse fibres are superadded, from which circumstance, as well as from being stretched across from one margin of the notch to the other, this part is called the transverse ligament. Subjacent to it an interval is left for the admission of the articular vessels. The inter articular or round ligament (ligamentum teres) is a strong fasci- culus surrounded by synovial membrane, implanted by one extremity, which is round, into the fossa in the head of the femur; by the other, which is broad, flat, and bifid, into the margins of the cotyloid notch, where its fibres become blended with those of the transverse ligament. It rests on the fat in the depression of the acetabulum. The capsidar ligament, surrounding the joint, is attached superiorly in the greater part of its extent to the acetabulum, within two or three lines from the cotyloid ligament, except at the notch, where it is connected with the transverse ligament. At its femoral border it extends in front as far as the anterior intertrochanteric line, but behind it falls short considerably of the posterior intertrochanteric ridge. Its strongest part is in front, and there its fibres extend vertically from the upper part of the acetabulum to the lower part of the intertrochanteric line, and are strengthened by a firm fasciculus, descending from the anterior inferior spine of the ilium, called the accessory or ilio-femoral ligament. On its superior border the capsule is strengthened by fibres connected with the insertion of the gluteus minimus muscle. The fibres which arise in front of the notch of the acetabulum pass down in front of the small trochanter ; those which arise behind the notch pass towards the trochanteric fossa ; and between those two fasciculi, the capsule is extremely weak, and its fibres pass in a circular direction, so that oppo- site the posterior intertrochanteric ridge no fibres are inserted into the neck of the femur, and the reflection of the synovial membrane from the bone to the capsule can be laid bare behind the neck without cutting any part of the capsule. The synovial membrane lining the joint and ligament is reflected from the neck of the femur to the inner surface of the capsule ; passing over the inner surface of the capsule to the margin of the acetabulum, it is reflected from that and from the synovial fat as a tubular investment of the round ligament to the head of the femur. Movements.—In the hip-joint movement is allowed in every direction. Extension is limited by the capsular ligament, the anterior fibres of which become tense in that