clxvi BLOOD-YESSELS. arteries, which, are branches of that great trunk, to the different parts of the system, then, traversing the capillaries, it enters the veins, and is returned by two great venous trunks, named the superior and inferior venae cavse, to the right auricle. In passing from the arteries to the veins the blood changes in colour from red to dark and is otherwise altered in quality ; in this condition it is unfit to be again immediately circulated through the body. On returning, therefore, to the right side of the heart, the blood, now dark and venous, must re-acquire the florid hue and other though less obvious qualities of arterial blood before it is permitted to resume its course. For this purpose, being discharged by the right auricle into the right ven- tricle, it is driven, by the contraction of that ventricle, along the pulmonary artery and its branches to the lungs, where, passing through the capillary vessels of these organs, it is exposed to the influence of the air, aud under- goes the requisite change, and having now become florid again, it enters the commencing branches of the pulmonary veins, which, ending by four trunks in the left auricle convey it into that cavity, whence it is immediately dis- charged into the left ventricle to be sent again along the aorta and through the system as before. The blood may thus be considered as setting out from any given point of the sanguiferous system and returning to the same place again after per- forming a circuit, and this motion is what is properly termed the circulation of the blood. Its course from the left ventricle along the aorta, throughout the body, and back by the vense cavee to the right ventricle, is named the greater or systemic circulation) and its passage through the lungs by the pulmonary artery and pulmonary veins from the right to the left side of the heart, is termed the lesser or pulmonary circulation ; but the blood must go through both the greater and the lesser circulation in order to perform a complete circuit, or to return to the point from which it started. As the vessels employed in the circulation through the lungs have been named pul- monary, so the aorta which conveys the blood to the system at large is named the systemic artery, and the vense cavee the systemic veins, whilst the two sets of capillaries interposed between the arteries and veins, the one in the lungs, the other in the body generally, are respectively termed the pulmonary and the systemic capillaries. The blood flows in the arteries from trunk to branches, and from larger to smaller but more numerous tubes ; it is the reverse in the veins, except in the case of the vena portce, a vein which carries blood into the liver. This advehent vein, though constituted like other veins in the first part of its course, divides on entering the liver into numereus branches, after the manner of an artery, sending its blood through these branches and through the capillary vessels of the liver into the efferent hepatic veins to be by them conducted into the inferior vena cava and the heart. The different parts of the sanguiferous system above enumerated may be contemplated in another point of view, namely, according to the kind of blood which they contain or convey. Thus the left cavities of the heart, the pulmonary veins, and the aorta or systemic artery, contain red or florid blood fit to circulate through the body ; on the other hand, the right cavities of the heart with the vense cavse, or systemic veins, and pulmo- nary artery, contain dark blood requiring to be transmitted through the lungs for renovation. The former or red-blooded division of the sangui- ferous system, commencing by the capillaries of the lungs, ends in the capillaries of the body at large ; the latter or dark-blooded part commences in the systemic capillaries and terminates in those of the lungs. The heart