VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 464 the basilar process of the occipital bone. It opens into the lateral sinus near the termination, or into the internal jugular vein. The anterior occipital or transverse sinus (sinus basilaris) is placed at the fore part of the basilar process of the occipital bone, so as to establish a transverse communication between the opposite inferior petrosal and the cavernous sinuses. OPHTHALMIC VEIN. The ophthalmic vein opens into the cavernous sinus. Its branches are distributed in the different structures contained within the orbit, in com- pany with the branches of the ophthalmic artery : some small ramifications arise from the eyelids, whilst others communicate with the angular branch of the facial vein ; and those which accompany the supraorbital artery have similar connections with the veins upon the forehead. All these branches, together with others arising from the lachrymal gland, from the different muscles, from the ethmoidal cells, and from the globe of the eye, severally Fig. 315. Fig. 315.—Sketch op the Ophthalmic Vein, and oe its Distribution and Com- munication with other Veins (altered from Hirschfeld and Leveille'). The orbit is opened from the outer side and the dissection is similar to that for display- ing the ophthalmic artery (represented in Figure 260, at p. 361) ; a, the optic nerve before it enters the optic foramen ; b, the superior oblique muscle divided before it passes through its pulley ; c, the lachrymal gland lying upon the eyeball; d, the insertion of the inferior oblique muscle ; e, foramen rotundum ; /, sinus maxillaris, opened externally ; I, the ophthalmic vein joining the cavernous sinus ; 1, supraorbital branch ; 2, muscular and lachrymal branches; 3, ciliary ; 4, anterior and posterior nasal or ethmoid, ; 5, frontal; 6, infraorbital ; II, facial vein ; 7, communication with the internal maxillary ; 8, external nasal; 9, angular, communicating at 10, with the frontal and supraorbital; III, external jugular vein commencing at the junction of IV, the temporal and V, the internal maxillary veins ; 11, meningeal branch ; 12, inferior dental ; 13, muscular; 14, communication between the facial, malar and infraorbital; 15, placed in the spheno- maxillary fossa above branches connected with the pterygoid plexus.