31 OCCIPITAL BONE. an upper and a lower surface by the inferior curved line or ridge, which, after extending some distance outwards, is met by a ridge and groove passing from before backwards. These surfaces mark the attachments of the rectus capitis major and minor, and of the obliquus capitis superior muscles. The deep surface of the bone is marked by two crucial smooth ridges, one extending from the upper angle to the great foramen, and the other trans- versely from one lateral angle to the other, and at the point of intersection of these ridges is the internal occipital protuberance. Separated by these ridges are four hollows, the superior and inferior occipital fossw, which lodge respectively the posterior cerebral and the cerebellar lobes. The superior and transverse ridges are grooved in the course of the longitudinal and lateral venous sinuses respectively. The space where those grooves meet at the in- ternal occipital protuberance receives the torcular Herophili. The inferior ridge is single, and is named the internal occipital crest or spine. The margins of the tabular portion are deeply serrated above the lateral angles for articulation with {he parietal bones, and, below that level, with the mastoid portions of the temporal bones. The condyloid portions bear the articulating condyles on their inferior surface, close to the margin of the foramen magnum. The condyles are so placed, that a line touching their posterior extremities would cross the middle of the foramen magnum. They are elliptical and placed obliquely so as to converge in front ; their surfaces are convex from behind forwards and from side to side, and slightly everted. Their inner borders are rough, and receive the insertion of the odontoid ligaments of the axis. In front and to the inside of the condyles are the anterior condyloid foramina, which pass forwards and outwards from the interior of the cranium, and transmit the hypoglossal nerves. Behind the condyles are two pits, containing usually the posterior condyloid foramina ; each of these gives passage to a vein ; but they are often absent on one or both sides. Externally to the condyle, on each side, is a portion of bone, which is placed over the transverse process of the atlas, continuous pos- teriorly with the tabular part, and anteriorly having a free excavated margin, the jugular notch, which contributes with a fossa in the temporal bone to form the foramen lacerum jugulare; its external extremity pro- jects into the angle between the mastoid and petrous portions of the temporal bone, and is called the jugular eminence. This process presents inferiorly a rough elevation, which gives attachment to the rectus capitis lateralis muscle ; and superiorly a deep groove for the lateral sinus before it terminates in the jugular notch. The basilar process projects forwards and upwards into the middle of the base of the skull. It increases in thickness and diminishes in breadth towards its extremity. Inferiorly it gives attachment to the rectus capitis anticus major and minor muscles and the fibrous band of the pharynx. Its superior surface presents a smooth depression, the basilar groove, which supports the medulla oblongata, and close to each lateral margin a slight grooved mark, which indicates the place of the inferior petrosal sinus. Varieties.—The upper and lateral angles vary greatly in the degree of their acute- ness. The upper borders are subject to considerable variation, from the presence of ossa triquetra. The condyles vary greatly in size, prominence, and convexity, and are often somewhat unsymmetrical. In some old subjects there is a mark at the back of the foramen magnum, where the occiput rests on the posterior arch of the atlas. Occasionally there is a projection downwards from the jugular process, resembling the descending lateral process found in most mammals.