xcv BONE, fluid supplied from the blood and to further its distribution through the lacunar and canalicular system of the bony tissue. Virchow considers that the corpuscles of bone are homologous with those of connective tissue. To return to the lamellae. With a little pains thin films may be peeled off in a longitudinal direction from a piece of bone that has been softened in acid. These for the most part consist of several laminae, as may be seen at the edge, where the different layers are usually torn unequally, and some extend farther than others. Examined in this way, under the micro- scope, the lamellae are seen to be perforated with fine apertures placed at very short distances apart. These apertures were described by Deutsch,* but they have not much attracted the notice of succeeding observers ; they appear to me to be the transverse sections of the canaliculi already de- scribed, and their relative distance and position accord sufficiently with this explanation. According to this view, therefore, the canaliculi might (in a certain sense) be conceived to result from the apposition of a series of perforated plates, the apertures of each plate corresponding to those of the plates contiguous with it ; in short, they might be compared to holes bored to some depth in a straight or crooked direction through the leaves of a book, in which case it is plain that the perforations of the adjoining leaves would correspond ; it being always understood, however, that the passages thus formed are bounded by proper parietes. The apertures now referred to must be distinguished from larger holes seen in some lamellae which give passage to the perforating fibres to be mentioned further on. But the lamellae have a further structure. To see this the thinnest part of a detached shred or film must be examined, as shown in figs. xlv. and xlvii. ; it will then appear plainly that they are made up of transparent fibres, decussating each other in form of an exceedingly fine network. The fibres intersect obliquely, and they seem to coalesce at the points of intersection, for they cannot be teased out from one another ; but at the torn edge of the lamella they may often be seen separate for a little way, standing out like the threads of a fringe. Most generally they are straight, as represented in the figure ; but they are not always so, for in some parts they assume a curvilinear direction. Acetic or hydro- chloric acid causes these fibres to swell up and become indistinct, like the white fibres of con- nective tissue ; care must therefore be taken in their examination that the remains of the decalcifying acid be removed from the tissue, by maceration in water or in solution of an alkaline carbonate. Moreover, the fibro-reticular struc- ture is not equally distinct in all parts where its presence is recognisable ; for in some places it is less decidedly marked, as if the fibrillation were incompletely developed—resembling in this respect the areolar and fibrous tissues. In many instances the lamellae are perforated by fibres, or rather bundles * De Penitiori Ossium Structura. Wratisl. 1834, p. 17, Fig. 6. Fig. XLV. Fig. XLV.—Thin Layer PEELED OFF FROM A SOFT- ENED Bone, as it appears UNDER A MAGNIFYING POWER OF 400. This figure, -which is in- tended to represent the reti- cular structure of a lamella, gives a better idea of the object when held rather farther off than usual from the eye.