99 INCLINATION OF THE PELVIS. Fig. 92. The axis of the pelvis is the name given to a line drawn in the middle at right angles to the planes of the brim, cavity and outlet. The posterior wall, formed by the sacrum and coccyx, being about five inches long and Fig. 91.—Vertical antero F'g- 91 • posterior Section of a Female Pelvis, made through the symphysis Pubis and middle of the Sacrum and Coccyx, showing the left lateral half (reduced from Na- gele's figure). § 1, symphysis pubis ; 2, base of tbe sacrum and pro- montory ; 3, coccygeal bones ; 4, anterior superior spine of ilium ; 5, tuberosity of ischium ; 6, spine of ischium (the obturator foramen is net represented so pointed below as it generally is in females). The vertical and horizontal lines in the lower part of the figure serve as standards of comparison for the degree of inclination of the pelvis, as illustrated by the next figure. Fig. 92.—Sketch of part of the Preceding Figure, showing the Inclination of the brim of the Pelvis and its Axis in the Erect Posture. ^ a, b, line of inclination of the brim of the true pelvis from above the symphysis pubis to the pro- montory of the sacrum : e, f, a line inclining backwards and up- wards, touching the lower edge of the symphysis pubis and point of the coccyx ; c, d, axis of the brim at right angles to the plane of the brim ; from d to the dotted line at right angles to e f, curved axis of the cavity continued into that of the outlet of the osseous pelvis ; h, g> axis of the outlet of the pelvis when the soft parts are combined. concave, while the anterior wall at the symphysis pubis is only one and a half or two inches long ; the axis is curved : it is directed at the inlet upwards and forwards towards the um- bilicus, and at the outlet downwards and a little forwards. The curvature of the axis of the pelvis is specially important as indicating the course in which the child's head is propelled in the process of parturition ; and it may be mentioned that in the female pelvis with the soft parts entire, the axis of the outlet is curved much more forwards than in the skeleton, the H 2