232 DORSAL MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. and little finger respectively. The central portion is one of the strongest fasciae of the body. Occupying the interval between the thenar and hypothenar eminences and expanding towards the fingers, it has a somewhat triangular or fan-like form. The narrow end of the fascia, thicker than any other part, and composed of close parallel fibres, is connected by its deep surface with the anterior annular ligament, and is continuous superiorly with the tendon of the palmaris longus, when that muscle is present ; the broader portion, becoming thinner and flatter as it advances towards the fingers, has a much more irregular and interlaced texture, and adheres more closely to the skin of the palm. Near the lower part of the palm it separates into four processes, each of which again subdivides into two slips next the root of a corresponding finger ; and the bundles of fibres thus separated, dipping one on each side of the flexor tendons belonging to the finger, are attached to the margins of the metacarpal bone and to the trans- verse ligament which binds the metacarpal bones to each other. From the centre of each process longitudinal fibres are continued to the skin as far forward as the root of the finger. These digital processes of the palmar fascia are held together by irregular transverse fibres, which lie immediately under the skin, and serve to give great additional strength at the points of divergence. MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. The muscles passing between the trunk and the upper limb having been already described, those which belong exclusively to the trunk itself will now be treated of under the three divisions of, 1. Dorsal muscles, extending throughout the whole length ; 2. Thoracic muscles, including the diaphragm ; and 3. Abdominal and Perineal muscles. Dorsal Muscles of the Trunk (Muscles of the Back). The muscles to be described under the above head, taken as a whole, occupy more or less deeply the hollow between the entire middle line of the vertebral spines and the prominences formed towards the sides by the mastoid processes, the transverse cervical processes, the most projecting parts of the ribs, and the crest of the ilium, and they extend from the superior curved line of the occipital bone to the lower part of the sacrum. Some consist of comparatively limited portions of muscular substance, and occupy only certain parts of the extensive region now referred to ; others extend either continuously or by the serial repetition of similar fasciculi, through- out the greater part of it. These muscles, together with those in the same region which belong more properly to the upper limb, have been frequently described as constituting six successive layers ; but the limits of several of these layers do not present very marked natural planes of separation, and it will be sufficient for the purpose of description to arrange those which fall properly within the present section, according to the main characteristics of their form and position, into the following groups : viz., a, the posterior serrati muscles ; 6, the splenius and long erectors of the spine ; c, the complexus and transverso-spinales; d, the interspinals and intertrans- versales ; e, the short cranio-vertebral muscles. Of these muscles those included in the first two groups may be considered as having their fibres passing outwards from the middle ; those in the third group as having their fibres passing inwards ; those of the fourth group as having their fibres passing in a nearly vertical direction ; and those of the fifth group confined