cxii BONE, compactness and solidity. The increase in girth is brought about by deposition of bone at the surface underneath the periosteum. It has been sometimes supposed that a formation of cartilage precedes the bone also in this situation ; but such is not the case, for the vascular soft tissue in immediate contact with the surface of the growing bone is not cartilage, but a blastema con- taining fibres and granular corpuscles; in fact, the increase takes place by intra- membranous ossification, and accordingly the Haversian canals of the shaft are formed in the same way as those of the tabular bones of the skull,—that is, the osssous matter is not only laid on in strata parallel to the surface of the bone, but is deposited around processes of the vascular membranous tissue which extend from the surface obliquely into the substance of the shaft, (fig. lvii., a, a, in transverse section) ; and the canals in which these vascular processes lie, becoming nar- rowed by the deposition of concentric osseous laminae, eventually remain as the Haversian canals (c, c). That the ossification at the periosteal surface of the bone does not take place in cartilage, may be made apparent in the following manner. Strip off the periosteum from a growing bone at the end of the shaft, and from the adjoining cartilage also, taking care not to pull the latter away from the bone. A thin membranous layer will still remain, passing from the bone over the cartilage; now, take a thin slice from the surface, including this membrane with a very thin portion of the subjacent bone and cartilage, and examine it with the microscope, scraping off the cartilage from the inside if it be too thick. It will then be seen that the superficial part or shell of the bone, if it may be so called, is prolonged a little way over the surface of the cartilage by means of pel- lucid, coarsely reticulated fibres of soft tissue (fig. lviii. b, c) into which the earthy deposit is advancing. These osteogenic fibres are intermixed with granular corpuscles or cells, but form no part of the cartilage, and they are no doubt of the same nature as those seen in the intramembranous ossification of the skull. Their re ticulations are in most cases directed transversely, and sometimes they are little, if at all, in advance of the limit between the bone and cartilage. I have observed the structure here described in several bones of the (well advanced) foetal sheep, also in the human scapula, humerus, femur, tibia and fibula, metacarpus and meta- tarsus, and, as was to be anticipated, it has since been found in all the long bones. Ossification having thus proceeded for some time in the shaft, at length begins in the extremities of the bone from one or more independent centres, and extends through the cartilage, leaving, however, a thick superficial layer of it unossified, which permanently covers the articular end of the bone. The epiphyses thus formed continue long separated from the shaft or diaphysis by an intervening portion of cartilage, which is at last ossified, and the bone is then consolidated. The time of final junction of the Fig. LVII. Fig. LVII.—Transverse Section op Superficial Part of Grow- ing Metatarsal Bone op a Calp, magnified 45 diameters (from Kolliker). A, periosteum; B, vascular soft tissue (sub-periosteal blastema of some writers); C, new bony growth with wide spaces, a, a, a, some being open grooves, others tu- bular, seen in cross section ; D, more advanced and now compact tissue of the shaft, with the tubular spaces now nearly filled with con- centric lamella? leaving Haversian canals, c, c, in the centre. "With a higher magnifying power, in the tissue B would be found fibres and granular cells, and layers of these cells everywhere covering the osteogenic deposit on the surface of the growing bone, and lining the grooves and tubular spaces.