BONES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 84 ligament is stretched across the carpus between these prominences, so as to form a canal for the transmission of the flexor tendons. The superior surfaces of the scaphoid, semilunar and cuneiform bones form, when in apposition, a continuous convexity which corresponds with the concavity presented by the radius and the interarticular cartilage, while the pisiform bone is attached in front of the cuneiform, with which alone it articulates. The line of articulation between the superior and inferior ranges is concavo-convex from side to side, the trapezium, trapezoid and os magnum bounding a cavity which lodges the external part of the scaphoid, and the os magnum and unciform rising up in a convexity, which is received into a hollow formed by the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones. THE SCAPHOID BONE, The scaphoid, or navicular bone, the largest and most external of the first row of carpal bones, is of a curved form, and lies with its longest axis directed outwards and downwards. Its superior surface, convex and smooth for articulation with the radius, is inclined backwards, so that the posterior surface of the bone is not so deep as the anterior. The internal surface, narrow from above downwards, articulates with the semilunar bone. The outer extremity, rough superiorly for the attachment of ligaments, presents inferiorly an articular convexity, which occupies the hollow formed by the upper surfaces of the trapezium and trapezoid bones, and is continuous with a large concave surface extending over the rest of the inferior aspect of the bone, and articulating with the os magnum. The fore part of the outer extremity of the scaphoid bone projects forwards, forming one of the tubercles to which the anterior annular ligament is attached. The scaphoid articulates with five bones, viz., the radius, the semilunar, trapezium, trapezoid, and os magnum. THE SEMILUNAR BONE. The semilunar, or lunate bone, irregularly cubic, is named from the crescentic concavity from before backwards of its inferior surface, which rests on the head of the os magnum, and frequently also by a bevelled edge slightly on the unciform bone. Its external surface is vertical, and articu- lates with the scaphoid bone ; its internal surface looks downwards and inwards, is much deeper and narrower than the external, and articulates with the cuneiform. The convex superior surface, which articulates with the radius, is inclined, like that of the scaphoid, more backwards than forwards, and hence the anterior surface is deeper than the posterior. The semilunar articulates with five bones, viz., the radius, scaphoid, cuneiform, os magnum, and unciform. THE CUNEIFORM BONE. The cuneiform or pyramidal bone, is somewhat wedge-shaped, its internal extremity, rough for ligaments, forming the blunt narrow end of the wedge. Superiorly it presents an articular surface, which glides upon the triangular cartilage interposed between it and the ulna ; externally it articulates with the semilunar bone, and inferiorly with the unciform, by means of a surface which is concavo-convex from without inwards. Its anterior surface is dis- tinguished from the posterior by a smooth circular facet on its outer half, which articulates with the pisiform bone. The cuneiform articulates with three bones, viz., the semilunar, pisiform, and unciform.