VEINS OF THE TRUNK. 472 and intercostal arteries, and open into the veins which accompany those vessels. b. -—The veins belonging to the bodies of the vertebrce (venae basis verte- brarum,—Dupuytren) are comparatively large vessels contained in the canals within the bodies of the vertebrae ; the arteries which accompany them being very small. They anastomose on the front of the bones with some of the superficial veins ; and the trunk of each, having reached the spinal canal through the foramen in the posterior surface of the body of the vertebra, divides into two branches, which diverge and terminate in the large spinal veins behind the bodies of the vertebrae. c. —The anterior longitudinal spinal veins.—The blood collected by the different vessels here described is poured into two large veins, or rather tortuous venous canals, which extend, one on each side, along the whole length of the spinal canal behind the bodies of the vertebrae. These vessels (the great spinal veins of Breschet) are alternately constricted and enlarged, the constricted points corresponding with the intervertebral foramina, where they are drawn forwards, and bound down by the branches of communication which pass outwards. In some parts the veins are double, or even triple, so as to form a plexus, and occasionally they are altogether interrupted. In the thoracic region their communicating branches open into the intercostal veins, in the loins into the lumbar veins, in the neck for the most part into the vertebral. Fig. 321, A and B.—Horizontal and Vertical Sections op the Lower Doksal Vertebra, showing the external and internal veins of the Spine (after Breschet). § a, spinous process ; b, transverse process ; c, body ; d, spinal canal ; 1, anterior external veins of the body; 2, posterior external veins of the vertebra] column communicating with the internal and forming a plexus over the laminse and pro- cesses ; 3, the posterior, and 4, the anterior in- ternal plexus of veins of the vertebral canal ; 5, the internal veins of the body joining the internal spinal veins ; 6, the lateral veins, which are joined by the internal and external spinal veins, and themselves unite with the intercostal. d. The posterior longitudinal spinal veins are a complex interlacement Of tortuous veins along the inner or anterior surface of the arches of the vertebrae. In the lower part of the canal this interlacement of veins is not so close as in the upper portion, where it usually conceals (if the injection has been successful) the whole surface of the dura mater. These veins converge to the intervertebral foramina, and join by rather small vessels with the intercostal veins. e.—The veins of the spinal cord (Breschet) ramify upon the cord and its nerves, enclosed within the sheath formed by the dura mater. Though they communicate with the other spinal veins, they are not injected with them, even when the injecting process is most successful. Very small, Fig. 321.