ccxxii SECRETING GLANDS. adopted in the construction of secreting glands. The first degree is repre- sented by a simple recess (fig. cxxviii., g, h), and such a recess, formed of Fig. CXXVII. Fig. CXXYIT.—Plan to Show Augmentation op Surface by Formation of Processes. a, b, c, as in preceding figure ; d, simple, and ef, "branched or subdivided processes. secreting membrane, constitutes a simple gland. The shape of the cavity may be tubular (g) or saccular (h), and, in either case, it is called indifferently a crypt, follicle, or lacuna, for these names have not been strictly distinguished in their application. Examples of these simple glands are found in the mucous membrane of the stomach, intestines, and uterus. The secreting surface may be increased, in a simple tubular gland, by mere lengthening of the tube, in which case, however, when it acquires considerable length, the tube is coiled up into a ball (6g. cxxviii., i), so as to take up less room, and adapt itself to receive compactly ramified blood-vessels. The sweat-glands, already described, and the ceruminous glands of the ear are instances of simple glands formed of a long convoluted tube. But the great means adopted for further increasing the secreting surface is by the subdivision, as well as extension, of the cavity, and when this occurs the gland is said to be com- pound. There is, however, a condition which might be looked on as a step between the simple and compound glands, in which the sides or extremity of a simple tube or sac become pouched or loculated (fig. cxxviii., Jc, V). This form might be named the multilocular crypt. In the compound glands, the divisions of the secreting cavity may assume a tubular or a saccular form, and this leads to the distinction of these glands into the " tubular," and the " saccular," or " racemose." The racemose compound glands (fig. cxxviii. c) contain a multitude of saccules, opening in clusters, into the extremities of a branched tube, named the excretory duct. The saccules are rounded, pyriform or thimble shaped, and then often named "caecal." They are, as usual, formed, by a proper or basement membrane, and lined, or often rather filled, with secreting cells ; they are arranged in groups, round the commencing branches of the duct, into which they open both terminally and laterally (fig. cxxviii. c, n) ; or it might with equal truth be said that the branches of the duct are distended into clusters of saccular dilatations. The ulti- mate branches of the duct open into larger branches (o), these into larger again, till they eventually terminate in one or more principal excretory ducts (m), by which the secretion is poured out of the gland. It is from the clustered arrangement of their ultimate vesicular recesses that these glands are named "racemose" (in German " traubenformige Driisen") ; and they, for the most part, have a distinctly lobular structure. The lobules are held together by the branches of the duct to which they are appended, and by interlobular connective tissue which also supports the blood- vessels in their ramifications. The larger lobules are made up of smaller ones, these of still smaller, and so on, for several successions. The