CADAVERIC RIGIDITY. cxxxi irritability even later than this, if it is struck a smart blow with a blunt edge, such as the back of a knife, across the direction of the fibres. The contraction then produced is quite local, and confined to the part struck. Funke states that he and the brothers Weber obtained this result in the body of a decapitated criminal twenty-four hours after death. The time of duration is affected by the mode of death. Thus the irritability is said to be almost wholly and immediately extinguished by a fatal stroke of lightning, and to disappear very speedily in the bodies of persons stifled by noxious vapours, such as carbonic acid, and especially sulphuretted hydrogen. In like manner certain causes acting locally on muscles accelerate the extinction of their irritability. Rigor mortis.—The " cadaveric rigidity," or stiffness of the body, which ensues shortly after death, is a phenomenon depending on the muscles, which become fixed or set in a rigid state, so as to resist flexion of the joints. The rigidity almost in- variably begins in the muscles of the lower jaw and neck, then invades those of the trunk, and afterwards those of the limbs,—the arms usually before the legs. After persisting for a time, it goes off in the same order. It usually comes on within a few hours after death, rarely later than seven hours. In some cases it has been ob- served to begin within ten minutes (Sommer), and in others not till sixteen or eighteen hours; and the later its access, the longer is its endurance. The rigidity comes on latest, attains its greatest intensity, and lasts longest in the bodies of ro- bust persons, cut off by a rapidly fatal disease, or suddenly perishing by a violent death ; in such cases it may last six or seven days. On the other hand, it sets in speedily, is comparatively feeble, and soon goes off in cases where the body has been much weakened and emaciated by lingering or exhausting diseases; also in new- born infants, and in the muscles of animals that have been hunted to death. It seems thus to be affected by the previous state of nutrition of the muscles. Destruction of the nervous centres does not prevent the occurrence of rigidity, nor are the muscles of paralysed limbs exempted from it, provided their nutrition has not been too deeply affected. The fibres of stiffened muscles are less translucent than before, but no other change is discovered by the microscope. They no longer show the muscular electric current. The immediate cause of the muscular rigidity is doubtful: some conceive it to be an effect of vital contraction,—the last effort of life as it were ; others, with more probability, ascribe it to a solidification of the tissue caused by chemical changes occurring after death. Kiihne adduces various arguments, some of them, it must be admitted, of a cogent character, to show that the stiffening is due to post-mortem r coagulation of the myosine. He thinks that the substance of the fibre is liquid dur- ing life; but it is difficult to reconcile this notion of actual fluidity of substance with some of the most obvious properties of a living muscle. At the same time, it is con- ceivable that liquid myosin may be present in the interstices of more consistent elements of the living fibre, and may give rise to rigidity by coagulating after death. Free lactic acid is developed in the substance of rigid muscle, and some regard it as the cause of the coagulation of the myosin, but although an acid condition very gene- rally accompanies rigidity, the concurrence is not invariable or essential. Dr. Brown-Sequard, in opposition to the chemical theory, maintained that he could remove rigidity by injecting blood into the vessels of the muscle; but Kiihne holds this to be impossible after rigor has decidedly set in. The general accession of rigidity is an unequivocal sign of death.* NERVOUS SYSTEM. Of the functions performed through, the agency of the nervous system, some are entirely corporeal, whilst others involve phenomena of a mental or psychical nature. In the latter and higher class of such functions are first to be reckoned those purely intellectual operations, carried on through the instrumentality of the brain, which do not immediately arise from an * The subject of muscular contraction and other questions relating to the functional activity of muscle, treated of in former editions of this work, have outgrown the space that could be allotted to their consideration here, and as, moreover, they properly belong to a treatise on physiology, they have now been omitted.