49 MALAR AND NASAL BONES. of the crest, while from its lower end a point projects downwards between the incisor foramina. The inferior border articulates with the ridge or crest which rises from the palate plates of the maxillary and palate bones. The posterior border, thin, smooth, and unattached, separates the posterior nares. THE MALAR BONE. The malar bone forms the most prominent part of the cheek, and, by a deep plate, divides the orbit from the temporal fossa. It articulates by a broad serrated surface near its anterior inferior angle with the malar process of the superior maxillary bone, by a slenderer posterior process with the zygoma, by a superior process with the frontal, and, continuously with that, by the margin of its deep plate with the great wing of the sphenoid bone. Between its sphenoidal and maxillary articulations a small portion of free margin generally intervenes, which closes the anterior extremity of the spheno-maxillary fissure. The facial surface is convex, and pierced by one or more malar foramina, which pass through from the orbital surface and transmit a small nerve and vessels. The orbital surface is concave from above downwards, and enters into the formation of the outer wall and floor of the orbit. The Fig. 42. posterior surface is concave from side to side, and looks into the temporal and zygomatic fossae ; it is also pierced by a small foramen. Fig. 42.—Right Malar Bone. § A, from the outside ; B, from the inside. 1, superior or frontal angle and serrated edge ; 2, posterior or external angle and serrated surface for the zygoma ; 3, anterior or internal angle; 4, inferior angle ; from 1 to 2, the temporal border ; from 1 to 3, the orbital border ; from 1 to 8, edge of articulation with the frontal and sphenoid bones; at 8, the notch termi- nating generally the spheno-maxillary fissure ; from 2 to 4, the masseteric rough border ; between 8, 3, and 4, the triangular serrated surface for articulation of the superior maxillary bone ; 5, the external surface; 6, the deep or posterior surface; 5 and 6, near the foramina for the temporo-malar nerves; 7, the orbital surface, with the orbito-malar foramen. THE NASAL BONE. The nasal bones form the bridge of the nose. They are thick and Fig. 43. Fig. 43.—Right Nasal Bone. § A, from the front; B, from behind. 1, upper or frontal serrated border ; 2, internal border for adjacent articulation ; 3, external or superior maxillary border ; 4, lower free border; in B, 4 is placed at the lower end of the groove for the nasal nerve. narrow above, but gradually become wider and thinner below. The superior border of each is serrated, and articulates with the frontal bone ; the inferior unites with the nasal cartilage; the external edge articulates with the ascend- ing process of the superior maxillary bone; and the internal with its fellow • e