ccxii HAIES. the fibrous part of the hair, and certain of them, previously getting filled with pigment, give rise to the coloured streaks and patches in that tissue ; their nuclei, at first, also lengthen in the same manner, but, at last, partly- become indistinct. The cells next the circumference expand into the scales •which form the imbricated cuticular layer (fig. cxv., e, e). The medulla, where it exists, is formed by the cells nearest the centre ; these retain their primitive figure longer than the rest ; they become coherent, and their cavities may coalesce together by destruction of their mutually adherent parietes, whilst collections of pigment granules make their appearance in them and around their nuclei, forming an opaque mass, which occupies the axis of the hair. Fig. CXVI. Fig. CXVII. Fig. CXVI. —Section of the Skin of the Head, with two Hair Follicles, slightly magnified (from Kolliker). a, epidermis ; 6, corium ; c, muscles of the hair-follicles. Fig. CXVII. — Hair Rudiment from an Embryo of Six Weeks, magnified 350 diameters (after Kolliker). a, horny, and b, mucous or Malpighian layer of cuticle ; i, limitary membrane; m, cells, some of which are assuming an oblong figure, which chiefly form the future hair. The substance of the hair, of epidermic nature, is, like the epidermis itself, quite extravascular, but, like that structure also, it is organised and subject to internal organic changes. Thus, in the progress of its growth, the cells change their figure, and acquire greater consistency. In conse- quence of their elongation, the hair, bulbous at the commencement, becomes reduced in diameter and cylindrical above. But it cannot be said to what precise distance from the root organic changes may extend. Some have imagined that the hairs are slowly permeated by a fluid, from the root to the point, but this has not been proved. The sudden change of the colour of the hair from dark to grey, which sometimes happens, has never been satisfactorily explained. Development of the hair in the foetus.—The rudiments of the hairs may be dis- cerned at the end of the third or beginning of the fourth month of intra-uterine life, as little black specks beneath the cuticle. They at first appear as little pits in the corium (fig. cxvu.), filled with cells of precisely the same nature as those of the Malpighian or mucous layer of the cuticle, with which they are continuous; so it might correctly be said that the hair rudiments are formed of down growths of the mucous layer, which sink into the corium. A homogeneous limiting membrane next appears {i), inclosing the collection of cells, and continuous above with a similar simple film which at this time lies between the cuticle and the corium ; it becomes the innermost or hyaline layer of the dermic coat of the follicle. The hair rudiments next lengthen and swell out at the bottom, so as to assume a flask-shape (fig. cxvm).