LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. clxxxiv leads to the conclusion that the injected material does not find its way from the ducts into the lymphatics by any naturally-existing communication, but by accidental rupture of contiguous branches of the two classes of vessels. It seems probable, also, that the communications often held to exist between the commencing lympha- tics, both superficial and deep, and capillary blood vessels, have no better foundation, and that the passage of injection, here also relied on as evidence, is to be accounted for in the same way. A fact mentioned by Kolliker throws light on these alleged communications with sanguiferous capillaries. In investigating the lymphatics of the tadpole's tail with the microscope, that observer not unfrequently noticed that blood corpuscles got into the lymphatics from the small blood-vessels, and he was able to recognise in the living animal the communications by which they passed. At first he looked on these communications as natural, but after repeated and careful investigations, he satisfied himself that they were produced accidentally by contusion or some other injury inflicted on the parts. Structure,—In structure the lymphatic vessels much resemble the veins, only their coats are thinner, so thin and transparent indeed that the con- tained fluid can be readily seen through them. When lymphatics have passed out from the commencing plexuses and lacunse they are found to have three coats. The internal coat is covered with a lining of epithelium, con- sisting of a single layer of flattened nucleated cells, which in the larger lymphatics have mostly an oblong figure, but in small or commencing vessels are more rounded, with an indented, bluntly serrated, or wavy border, by which the adjacent cells fit to each other, like the epidermic cells of grasses and some other plants (fig. ci.). Beneath the epithelium the inner coat is formed of a layer or layers of longitudinal elastic fibres. The middle coat consists of plain muscular tissue disposed circularly, mixed with finely reticulating elastic fibres taking the same direction. The external coat is composed mainly of white connective tissue with a sparing intermixture of longitudinal elastic fibres, and some longi- tudinal and oblique bundles of plain muscular tissue. In the thoracic duct there are striated white layers (as in the aorta) beneath the epithelium, between it and the elastic layers of the inner coat; and in the middle coat there is a longi- tudinal layer of white connective tissue with elastic fibres, immediately within the muscular layer. The commencing lymphatics, whether in plexuses or single (as in the villi), for the most part look like mere channels excavated in the surround- ing tissue, without independent coats, and they were regarded as such by various eminent authorities. It has now, however, been ascertained that they invariably have a lining of epithelium formed of the characteristic indented scales (fig. 01.), as in other small lymphatics. This is made appa- rent by injection of solution of nitrate of silver, which blackens and brings into view the serrated lines of juncture of the flattened cells, whilst the nuclei may be made to appear by means of acetic acid or carmine. But it is not clearly determined whether there is any other coat outside the epi- thelium, even in cases where the vessels are separable from the adjoining tissue. By the same method of preparation an epithelial lining of similarly Fig. CI. Fig. CI.—Portion op a Lymfhatio Vessel showing its peculiar Epi- thelium. Treated with nitrate op silver. From the Inter- muscular Layer op the Intes- tine op the Guinea Pig (after Auerbach). Magnified 240 dia- meters.