cxvi MUSCULAR TISSUE. Fig. LIX.—A, Small Poktion op Muscle, natural size; B, the same magnified 5 diameters, consisting op larger and smaller Fasciculi, seen in a Transverse Section. Fig. LX.—A few Muscular Fibres, being part op a small Fasciculus, highly MAGNIFIED, SHOWING THE TRANSVERSE STRI^}. a, end view of b, b, fibres ; c, a fibre split into its fibrils. The muscular fibres are collected into packets or bundles, of greater or less thickness, named fasciculi or lacerti (fig. lix.), and the fibres themselves consist of much finer threads, visible by the aid of the microscope, which are termed muscular filaments, fibrillse or fibrils (fig. lx., c). The fibrils run parallel with each other in the fibres, and the fibres are parallel in the fasciculi and the fasciculi extend continuously from one terminal tendon to the other, unless in those instances, like the rectus muscle of the abdomen and the digastric of the inferior maxilla, in which the fleshy part is inter- rupted by interposed tendinous tissue. The fasciculi also very generally run parallel, and although in many instances they converge towards their tendinous attachment with various degrees of inclination, yet in the volun- tary muscles they do not interlace with one another. Sheath.—An outward investment or sheath of areolar tissue (sometimes named perimysium) surrounds the entire muscle, and sends partitions in- wards between the fasciculi ; furnishing to each of them a special sheath. The areolar tissue extends also between the fibres, but does not afford to each a continuous investment, and therefore cannot be said to form sheaths for them. Every fibre, it is true, has a tubular sheath ; but this, as will be afterwards explained, is not derived from the areolar tissue. The tissue of the sheath is composed of elastic (yellow) as well as of white fibres ; but the elastic element is found principally in its investing (as distinguished from its penetrating) portion. The chief uses of the areolar tissue are to connect the fibres and fasciculi together, and to conduct and support the bloodvessels and nerves in their ramifications between these parts. The relation of these different subdivisions of a muscle to each other, as well as the shape of the fasciculi and fibres, is well shown by a transverse section (figs. lix. and lx.).