PLANTAR ARTERIES. 446 inches below the popliteus muscle; and, on the contrary, it sometimes commences higher up from the posterior tibial, or even from the popliteal artery itself. In some cases of high division of the popliteal artery, the peroneal artery is trans- ferred to the anterior tibial. It more frequently exceeds than falls short of the ordinary dimensions, being enlarged to reinforce the posterior tibial. In those rare instances in which it is lost before reaching the lower part of the leg, a branch of the posterior tibial takes its place. The anterior peroneal branch is sometimes enlarged to compensate for the small size of the anterior tibial artery in the lower part of the leg, or to supply the place of that artery on the dorsum of the foot; or it may be absent and be replaced by the anterior tibial. In a singular case, recorded by Otto, the peroneal artery was wholly wanting. PLANTAR ARTERIES. The external and internal plantar arteries are the branches into which the posterior tibial divides in the hollow of the calcaneum, where it is covered by the origin of the abductor pollicis. Fig 305. Fig. 305—Superficial view of the Arteries in the Sole of the Right Foot (from Tiedemann). ^ a, tuberosity of the calcaneum close to the origin of the flexor brevis digitorurn (cut short) and the ab- ductor pollicis, of which a part is removed to show the long flexor tendons and plantar arteries ; b, ab- ductor pollicis ; c, abductor minimi digiti; d, tendon of the flexor pollicis longus ; e, tendon of the flexor communis longus ; e', its four slips, close to the lum- bricales muscles, passing on to perforate the tendons of the flexor brevis ; /, flexor accessorius ; g, flexor brevis minimi digiti : 1, posterior tibial dividing into the plantar arteries ; 2, 2', external plantar ; 3, in- ternal plantar ; 3', the same passing forward to com- municate with 4, the internal plantar digital branch for the great toe ; 5, first digital or external plantar branch to the fifth toe ; 6, placed in the angle of division of the second plantar digital artery, between the fourth and fifth toes ; 7, the third plantar digital artery dividing similarly between the third and fourth toes; 8, the fourth plantar digital artery dividing similarly between the second and third toes; 9, the plantar digital artery dividing similarly between the first and second toes; 10, internal plantar artery of the great toe ; 11, calcaneal branches of the plantar arteries, anastomosing with 12, the calcaneal branches of the posterior peroneal artery. The internal plantar artery, much smaller than the external, is directed forwards, along the inner side of the foot. Placed at first under cover of the abductor pollicis, it passes forwards in the groove between that muscle and the short flexor of the toes, near the line separating the middle from the inner portion of the plantar fascia, and on reaching the extremity of the first metatarsal bone, considerably diminished in size, it terminates by running along the inner border of the great toe, anastomosing with the digital branches. Branches.—The internal plantar artery gives off numerous small twigs, which may be distinguished in sets as follows:—(a) muscular branches to the abductor