313 THE LEFT VENTRICLE. Their intersections are very numerous near the apex of the cavity, and also along its posterior wall, but the upper part of the anterior wall and septum is comparatively smooth. The musculi papillares are collected into two bundles, which are larger than those of the right ventricle, and are formed one from the anterior, the other from the posterior surface of the ventricle. The two orifices of this ventricle are situated very close together, with one of the segments of the auriculo-ventricular valve between ; the auriculo- ventricular opening being placed at the left and posterior part of the base of the ventricle, behind and to the left of that which leads into the aorta. The bicuspid or mitral valve, which guards the auriculo-ventricular open- ing, resembles in structure the tricuspid valve of the right ventricle, but it is much thicker and stronger in all its parts, and consists of only two pointed divisions or segments, continuous at their attached bases. The larger of the two segments is suspended obliquely to the right and in front of the other, between the auricular and the aortic orifices : the smaller is situated to the left and posteriorly, and close to the wall of the ventricle. There is usually a smaller lobe at each angle of junction of the two principal segments, more apparent than those of the tricuspid valve. One portion of the chordoe tendineae from each musculus papillaris is distributed to half of one segment, and the other portion to the neighbour- ing side of the other segment, so that when the musculi papillares contract, and make the segments tense, they also cause their margins to approach each other. The chorda? tendinese are stronger and less numerous than in the right ventricle. The arterial or aortic orifice, circular in form, and smaller than the auriculo-ventricular, is placed in front and to the right of that opening, and very close to it, being separated from it only by the attachment of the anterior segment of the mitral valve. The semilunar valves which guard it are thicker and stronger than those of the right side of the heart, the lunulas are more strongly marked off, and the central nodules, or corpora Araiitii, are larger. The sinuses of Valsalva are more strongly marked at the mouth of the aorta than at the commencement of the pulmonary artery, and from the two anterior of them arise the right and left coronary arteries for the supply of blood to the substance of the heart. Position of the Parts of the Heart with Relation to the Wall of the Thorax. The exact position of the various parts of the heart is important in reference to auscultation. This subject has of late been carefully investigated by several anatomists ; but there is still some discordance in their state- ments on some points, caused probably by the difficulty of marking with precision the situation of non-symmetrical viscera in artificially opened bodies, and in part perhaps by differences naturally existing among indi- viduals. The following statement derived from Luschka is in general accor- dance with the results of others, with the exception, as remarked by Walshe, that most of the positions are fixed a little too high. Nearly two-thirds of the bulk of the heart lie to the left of the middle line. The upper edge of the auricles corresponds with a line extending across the sternum from the second right into the first left intercostal space. The auriculo-ventricular sulcus corresponds with a line which unites the sternal end of the fifth right costal cartilage with the second left intercostal space beneath the middle of the second costal cartilage. The rounded margin formed by the wall of the