xcii BONE. freely open into one another, their oblique communications connecting them both longitudinally and laterally. Those also which are next the circum- ference of the bone, open by minute pores on its external surface, and the innermost ones open widely into the medullary cavity ; so that these short channels collectively form a sort of irregular network of tubes running through the compact tissue, in which the vessels of that tissue are lodged, and through the medium of which these vessels communicate together, not only along the length of the bone, but from its surface to the interior, through the thickness of the shaft. The canals of the compact tissue in the other classes of bones have the same general characters, and for the most part run parallel to the surface. On viewing a thin transverse section of a long bone with a microscope of moderate power, especially after the earthy part has been removed by acid (fig. xliii. b), the opening of each Haversian canal appears to be sur- rounded by a series of concentric rings. This appearance is occasioned by the transverse sections of concentric lamellae which surround the canals. The rings are not all complete, for here and there one may be seen ending between two others. In some of the sets the rings are nearly circular, in others oval,—differences which seem mostly to depend on the direction in which the canal happens to be cut : the aperture, too, may be in the centre, or more or less to one side, and in the latter case the rings are usually narrower and closer together on the side towards which the aperture deviates. Again, some of the apertures are much lengthened or angular in shape, and the lamellae surrounding them have a corresponding disposition. Besides the lamellae surrounding the Haversian canals, there are others disposed conformably with the circumference of the bone (fig. xliii. b, a), and which may therefore be said to be concentric with the medullary canal ; some of these are near the surface of the bone, others run between the Haversian sets, by which they are interrupted in many places. Lastly, iu various parts of the section, lines are seen which indicate lamellae, differing in direction from both of the above-mentioned orders. As to the circum- ferential laminae, Messrs. Tomes and De Morgan state that they are by no means so common as is generally supposed ; further, that they are most conspicuous in bones of full growth, in which, consequently, nutritive changes proceed slowly ; and that their presence may be made the means of determining, within certain limits, the age at which a bone has arrived. These authors observe, that in young and rapidly-growing bones the laminae are frequently seen to have an undulating direction, which they consider as a sign that the tissue is undergoing rapid nutritive changes. The appearance in a longitudinal section of the bone is in harmony with the account above given : the sections of the lamellae are seen as straight and parallel lines, running in the longitudinal direction of the bone, except when the section happens to have passed directly or slantingly across a canal; for wherever this occurs there is seen, as in a transverse section, a series of rings, generally oval and much lengthened on account of the obli- quity of the section. The cancellated texture has essentially the same lamellar structure. The slender bony walls of its little cavities or areolae are made up of super- imposed lamellae, like those of the Haversian canals (fig. xliii. b, 6), only they have fewer lamellae in proportion to the width of the cavities which they surround ; and, indeed, the relative amount of solid matter and open space constitutes, as already said, the only difference between the two forms of bony tissue ; the intimate structure of the solid substance and the