BONES OF THE HEAD. 70 front of this fissure—namely, that which bears the incisor teeth—forms in all mammals except man a separate bone, the intermaxillary or premaxillary; and anatomists have therefore sought with great care for proofs of its original independence in the human subject, but it does not appear that even in the earliest stages of develop- ment it has been seen by any one entirely unattached to the rest of the bone, or that its line of suture has been traced upon the facial surface. On the other hand, in cases of completely cleft palate, the bones supporting the incisor teeth are placed on a projecting portion of bone, which is articulated to the fore part of the vomer, and is entirely detached from the superior maxillary bones. The palate bone is formed from a single centre, which is deposited at the angle between its horizontal and ascending parts. Fig. 64. Fig. 64.—The Fcetal Vomer near the time of birth. 1 & 2 show the two plates of which the bone consists, and which are united behind and below. The vomer begins to ossify posteriorly near the upper part. It consists at first of two laminae united posteriorly and inferiorly. The inferior border afterwards exhibits a flat surface marked by a mesial line, which articulates with the maxillary and palate bones and ends abruptly behind the crista nasalis. The margins of this surface become gradually absorbed. The appearance of a mesial plate does not take place for a little time after birth. The malar, nasal, lachrymal, and inferior turbinated bones are each ossified from a single centre. pig 65, Fig. 65. — The Inferior Maxilla op a Child at birth. a & b indicate the two portions separate at the symphysis. The inferior maxilla begins to ossify be- fore any other bone except the clavicle. It consists of two equal lateral parts, which are still separate at the time of birth. The ossific matter is at first deposited in fibrous tissue, and later in cartilage. Some ob- servers admit only a single ossific centre for each side (Nesbitt and Meckel); while, according to others, in addition to the main piece there are separate nuclei for the coronoid process, the condyle, the angle, and the inner side of the alveolus (Spix), or only for some of these parts (Kerckringius, B£clard, Cruveilhier). The dental canal is at first a simple open groove. As in the superior maxilla the alveoli are gradually developed from the groove by its division into compartments by partitions of subsequent growth. The hyoid bone has five points of ossification—one for the body, and one for each of its great and small cornua. The ossification begins in the great cornua, and soon follows in the body in the last month of foetal life. PERIODS OF OSSIFICATION OF THE BONES OF THE SKULL. In the occipital bone— Ossification of the tabular part appears in the 7th week (foetal life). Ossification of the basilar part appears in the 7th or 8th week. Ossification of the condyloid part appears in the 7th or 8th week. The condyloid and tabular parts unite in the 4th year. The basilar and condyloid parts unite in the 5th or 6th year. In the parietal bone ossification appears in the 7th or 8th week. In the frontal bone ossification appears in the 7th week. The parts of the frontal bone unite in the course of the 2nd year.