41 THE SPHENOID BONE. backwards, making a smooth rounded knob, the anterior clinoid process, which inclines towards the posterior process of the same name, and is grooved on its inner margin for the internal carotid artery. The pterygoid processes project downwards and slightly forwards, between the body and the great wings. Each consists of two plates united in front and diverging behind, so as to enclose between them the pterygoid fossa. The external pterygoid plate lies in a plane extending backwards and outwards ; its outer surface bounds the zygomatic fossa, and gives attach- ment to the external pterygoid muscle. The internal pterygoid plate is longer and narrower than the external, and is prolonged into a slender process turned outwards and named the hook-like or hamular process, round which in a groove plays the tendon of the tensor palati muscle. At its base, the internal plate turns inwards beneath the body, from which its extremity remains distinct as a slightly raised edge, which articulates with the margin of the vomer ; and external to this it is marked by a small groove, which contributes with the palate bone to form the pterygo-palatine canal. The walls of the pterygoid fossa are incomplete at the lower part in the dis- articulated sphenoid bone, an angular interstice existing between the plates, which, in the articulated skull, is occupied by the pyramidal process of the palate bone. In this fossa arises the internal pterygoid muscle, and at its base is a slight depression, distinguished as the navicular fossa, which gives attachment to the tensor palati muscle. Fig. 36. Fig. 36.—The Sphenoid Bone from before. § The indications where marked are the same as in the preceding figure. 17, marks the anterior opening of the Vidian foramen or canal; 18, the external or temporal surface of the great wing ; 19, its orbital surface ; 20, the sphenoidal turbinated or spougy bone ; above 20, the opening into the sphenoidal sinus ; 21, the sphenoidal spine ; 22, the rostrum, and above 22, the inverted laminae, which fit with the edges of the vomer. Fissures and foramina.—Each lateral half of the bone presents a fissure, four foramina, and a canal. The sphenoidal fissure is the obliquely placed elongated interval between the great and small wing ; it is closed ex- ternally by the frontal bone, so as to form the foramen lacerum orbitale ; it opens into the orbit, and transmits the third, fourth and sixth nerves, the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve, and the ophthalmic vein. Above and to the inside of it is the optic foramen, which is inclined outwards and forwards from the side of the olivary process, pierces the base of the small