444 POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. branches, especially from the upper and external branch. There are sometimes several small middle articular branches. POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. The posterior tibial artery is situated along the back part of the leg, between the superficial and deep layers of muscles, and is firmly bound down to the deep muscles by the fascia which covers them. It extends from the lower border of the popliteus muscle, where it is continuous with the popliteal artery, down to the inner side of the calcaneum, where it terminates beneath the origin of the abductor pollicis muscle by dividing into the external and internal plantar arteries. Placed at its origin opposite the interval between the tibia and fibula, it approaches the inner side of the leg as it descends, and lies behind the tibia ; at its lower end it is placed midway between the inner malleolus and the prominence of the heel. Yery deeply seated at the upper part, where it is covered by the fleshy portion of the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles, it becomes comparatively superficial towards the lower part, being there covered only by the integument and two layers of fascia, and by the annular ligament behind the inner malleolus. It lies successively upon the tibialis posticus, the flexor longus digitorum, and, at its lower end, directly on the tibia and the ankle-joint. Behind the ankle, the tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum lie between the artery and the internal malleolus ; whilst the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis is to the outer side of the artery. Relation to the, Veins and Nerve.—The posterior tibial artery, like the other arteries below the knee, is accompanied by two venae comites. The posterior tibial nerve is at first on the inner side of the artery, but in the greater part of its course the nerve is close to the outer side of the vessel. Branches. —The posterior tibial artery furnishes numerous small branches, and one large branch—the peroneal artery. Small Branches.—(a) Several muscular branches arise from the posterior tibial artery, and are distributed principally to the deep-seated muscles in its neighbour- hood, besides one or two of considerable size to the inner part of the soleus muscle. (b) The nutrient artery of the tibia, which is the largest of its kind in the body, arises from the posterior tibial artery near the commencement, and, after giving small branches to the muscles, enters the nutrient foramen in the bone, and ramifies on the medullary membrane. This vessel not unfrequently arises from the anterior tibial artery. (c) A communicating branch from the peroneal artery, passing transversely, joins the posterior tibial about two inches above the ankle-joint. The Peroneal Artery lies deeply along the back part of the leg, close to the fibula. Arising from the posterior tibial artery about an inch below the lower border of the popliteus muscle, it inclines at first obliquely towards the fibula, and then descends nearly perpendicularly along that bone and behind the outer ankle, to reach the side of the os calcis. In the upper part of its course, this artery is covered by the soleus muscle and the deep fascia, and afterwards by the flexor longus pollicis, which is placed over it as far as the outer malleolus ; below this point, the vessel is covered only by the common integument and the fascia. The peroneal artery rests at first against the upper part of the tibialis posticus muscle, and afterwards in the greater part of its course, it is surrounded by fibres of the flexor longus pollicis, lying close inside the projecting posterior ridge of the fibula. De-