PUBIC ARTICULATION. 149 those of the great ligament ; and, by its apex, to the spine of the ischium. Its form is triangular, and the direction of its fibres is forwards and outwards. Fig. 137. Fig. 137.—Ligaments of the Pelvis and Hip-Joint, as seen from behind in the ERECT ATTITUDE OF THE BODY, FROM A FEMALE SUBJECT. \ 1, ilio-lumbar ligament: above it the last lumbar intertransverse ligament; 2, posterior sacro-iliac ligaments, the short and the oblique; 3, great sacro-sciatic ligament; 4, attach- ment of the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament to the spinous process ; 5, obturator membrane or ligament; 6, posterior ligament of symphysis pubis ; 7, 7, continuation of supraspinous ligaments from the lower lumbar vertebra? over the sacral spines; 8, transverse process of last lumbar vertebra, to which from above is seen descending the last intertransverse ligament, and from below ascending the sacro-vertebral ligament; 9, posterior surface of the capsular ligament of the hip-joint. The posterior ligaments passing between the sacrum and coccyx are also partially shown. Foramina. Between the upper border of the great sacro-sciatic liga- ment and the innominate bone is a large space subdivided by the small sacro-sciatic ligament. The part which lies above this ligament is a large oval opening, named the great sacro-sciatic foramen. It transmits the pyri- form muscle, the great sciatic nerve, and the gluteal and ischiatic vessels and nerves. The part between the greater and lesser sacro-sciatic liga- ments, much, smaller in size, and bounded in front by the smooth surface between the spine and tuberosity of the ischium, is the small sacro-sciatic foramen, through which pass the obturator internus muscle and the internal pudic vessels and nerve. The pubic articulation, or symphysis pubis, is the connection of the pubic bones in front, and is effected by fibro-cartilaginous plates and ligaments. The adjacent surfaces of bone are each coated with cartilage, and to this is attached the fibro-cartilage which unites them. The fibro-cartilage is thicker and stronger in front than behind, and generally contains a synovial cavity towards the back part of the joint. The ligaments are named anterior, posterior, superior, and inferior. The anterior pubic ligament consists of irregular fibres passing obliquely across from bone to bone in front of the symphysis. The superior and posterior ligaments consist of only a few fibres