POSTERIOR SERRATI MUSCLES. 233 to the upper part of the vertebral column and to the head, may be looked upon as combining some examples of the others. Serrati Muscles.—The serratus posticus superior is a thin flat muscle, which arises from the lower part of the ligamentum nuchas and from the spines of the last cervical and two or three upper dorsal vertebrae by a flat tendon inclining downwards and outwards, and forming about a third of the length of the muscle ; it is inserted by four fleshy digitations into the second, third, fourth, and fifth ribs, a little beyond their angles. It is directed obliquely downwards and outwards, resting on the deep muscles and the angles of the ribs. The muscle is covered, excepting at its superior border, by the rhomboid and levator anguli scapulae muscles. The serratus posticus inferior, broader and stronger than the preceding muscle, passes outwards and upwards to the four lowest ribs ; it arises, by a thin aponeurotic membrane, which forms part of the posterior layer of the lumbar aponeurosis, from the spinous processes and interspinous liga- ments of the two last dorsal and two or three upper lumbar vertebrae. The outer part of the muscle forms a fleshy lamella inserted by four digita- tions into the lower border of the last four ribs. The uppermost of those digitations is very broad, and covers in part the second ; the last, varying in size with the length of the twelfth rib, is entirely concealed by the rest of the muscle. The serratus inferior is covered by the latissimus dorsi, and its aponeurotic part is firmly united for some distance with the tendon of that muscle. Fig. 190. Fig. 190.—Dorsal Mus- cles op the Upper Part op the Trunk. \ I, first; VI, sixth dor- sal vertebra; 1, tipper part of the complexus major muscle; 2, splenius capi- tis ; 3, 3', splenius colli; 4, serratus posticus supe- rior ; 5, upper part of the longissimus dorsi ; 5', the same continued up on the left side into the transver- sals cervicis; 5", 5", on the right side the transversa- lis cervicis spread out from its attachments ; 6, upper insertions of the sacro-lumbalis and acces- sorius ; 6' the same con- tinued up on the left side into the ascendens cer- vicis ; 5", upper, 6", lower end of the ascendens cer- vicis of the right side spread out from its attach- ments; 7, small part of the spinalis dorsi ; 8, right levator anguli sca- pulae, dissected out from its attachments ; 8', on the left side, the upper part of the levator sea- pulse, shown in its relation to the splenius colli; 9, three of the levatores costaruni shown on the right side.