FEMORAL ARTERY. 438 commencement, it inclines outwards in front of the iliacus muscle, to such an extent as to be visible for a short distance external to the femoral artery ; it then runs downwards and backwards behind that vessel, and passing behind the long adductor muscle, between it and the great adductor, near their femoral attachments, divides into terminal branches, which pierce the great adductor, and ramify in the muscles at the back and outer part of the thigh. FiS- 30°- Fig. 300.—Deep View of the Femo- kal Artery and its Branches on the Left Side (from R. Quain). ~ The sartorius muscle has been re- moved in part, so as to expose the artery in the middle third of the thigh, a, the anterior superior iliac spine ; b, the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle near the outer abdominal ring, from which the spermatic cord is seen descending towards the scrotum ; c, the upper part of the rectus femoris muscle ; d, adductor longus ; e, fibrous sheath of Hunter's canal covering the artery; 1, femoral artery; 1', femoral vein divided and tied close below Pou- part's ligament; 2, profunda femoris artery; 3, anterior crural nerves; 4, internal circumflex branch ; 5, super- ficial pudic branches ; 6, external cir- cumflex branch, with its ascending transverse and descending branches separating from it ; 6', twigs to the rectus muscle ; 7, branches to the vastus internus muscle ; 8, and 9, some of the muscular branches of the femoral. This artery lies successively in front of the iliacus, pectineus, adductor brevis and adductor magnus muscles. The femoral and profunda veins and the long adductor muscle are interposed between it and the femoral trunk. The named branches of the deep femoral artery are the ex- ternal and the internal circumflex, and the perforating arteries. 1. The external circumflex ar- tery, a branch of considerable size, arises from the outer side of the profunda near its origin, and passing outwards for a short dis- tance beneath the sartorins and rectus muscles, and through the divisions of the anterior crural nerve, divides into three sets of branches. (a) Transverse branches pass outwards over the crureus muscle, pierce the vastus externus, so as to get between it and the femur, just below the great trochanter, and