STRUCTURE OF LYMPHATICS. clxxxv marked character has been shown to exist on the walls of the interstitial lymph spaces or lacuna) of origin. The lymphatics receive vasa vasorum, which ramify in their outer and middle coats : nerves distributed to them have not yet been discovered, although their probable existence has been inferred on physiological grounds. Vital properties.—That the lymphatics are endowed with vital contractility is shown by the effect of mechanical irritation applied to the thoracic duct, as well as by the general shrinking and emptying of the lacteal and lymphatic vessels on their exposure to the contact of cold air, in the bodies of animals opened immediately after death. Valves.—The lymphatic and lacteal vessels are furnished with valves serving the same office as those of tho veins, and for the most part con- structed after the same fashion. They generally consist of two semi-lunar folds arranged in the same way as in the valves of veins already described, but deviations from the usual structure here and there occur. Thus Mr. Lane has observed some valves in which the planes of the semi-lunar flaps were directed not obliquely but transversely across the vessel, an arrange- ment calculated to impede the flow of fluid in both directions, but not com- pletely to intercept it in either. In others, described by the same authority, the two folds, placed transversely as before, were coalesced at one end, so as to represent a transverse septum with an incomplete transverse slit. In a third variety, he found the valve formed of a circular fold corresponding with a constriction outside, and probably containing circular contractile fibres capable of completely closing the tube. Valves are not present in all lymphatics, but where they exist they follow one another at much shorter intervals than those of the veins, and give to the lymphatics, when much distended, a beaded or jointed appear- ance. Valves are placed at the entrance of the lymphatic trunks into the great veins of the neck. They are wanting in the reticularly-arranged vessels which compose the plexuses of origin already spoken of; so that mercury injected into one of these vessels runs in all directions so as to fill a greater or less extent of the plexus, and passes along the separate vessels which issue from it. The lymphatics of fish and naked amphibia are, generally speaking, desti- tute of valves, and may therefore be injected from the trunks ; in the turtle a few valves are seen on the larger lacteals which pass along the mesentery, but none on those upon the coats of the intestine ; and valves are much less numerous in the lymphatics and lacteals of birds than in those of mammiferous animals. Orifices.—It was at one time a prevalent opinion among anatomists that the lymphatic and lacteal vessels begin on various surfaces by open mouths, through which extraneous matters are absorbed. This was especially insisted on as regards the commencing lacteals in the intestinal villi. That opinion has been since given up; but quite recently von Recklinghausen has obtained what he considers satis- factory evidence of openings in the lymphatics on the surface of the peritoneum. He stretched the tendinous centre of the diaphragm, excised from a rabbit, over a ring of cork, covered it with a film of milk, and then, watching it with the microscope, saw the milk globules at various points drawn down as if in a vortex, and disappearing. He then found they had passed into the lymphatics of the peritoneal covering of the diaphragm, by small openings, not more than twice the diameter of a blood-corpuscle, over which the peritoneal epithelium was similarly perforated. Observations in con- firmation of these have since been made in the Physiological Institute of Leipsic, under the direction of Professor Ludwig, by Dr. Dybkowski, who has found epithe-