105 TIBIA. FIBULA. farther downwards than the anterior ; internally the cartilaginous surface is continued down in a vertical direction upon the internal malleolus, cloth- ing its outer surface somewhat more deeply in front than behind. The Fig. 97.—Eight Tibia from behind. | 6, and 9, as in the preceding figure ; 2', groove behind the internal tuberosity for the tendon of the seini-mem- branosus muscle ; 10, inclined articular facet below and behind the outer tuberosity for the head of the fibula ; 11, oblique line of tibia, above which is the triangular popliteal surface ; 12, foramen directed downwards for the nutritious or medullary vessels; 13, triangular rough surface for the lower interosseous ligament and small cartilaginous surface below it for articulation with the fibula ; 14, below a slight groove marking the place of the flexor longus pollicis muscle; 15, below the ' groove of the tendons of the flexor communis digitorum and tibialis posticus muscles, behind the malleolus internus. external surface, slightly concave, is rough superiorly for ligament, and smooth below for articulation with the fibula. The posterior sur- face is marked by a double groove on the in- ternal malleolus for the tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum, and more externally by a slight depression where the flexor longus pollicis lies ; the inner surface of the internal malleolus is subcutaneous. The tibia is slightly twisted, so that when the internal malleolus is directed inwards, the in- ternal tuberosity is inclined backwards—a con- formation which deserves attention in the diagnosis and adjustment of fractures. 12 THE FIBULA. The fibula, or peroneal bone, is situated at the external side of the leg : it is nearly equal to the tibia in length, but is much more slender. Its inferior extremity is placed a little in advance of the upper ; and its shaft is slightly curved, so as to have the convexity directed backwards, and, in the lower half, slightly inwards towards the tibia. The superior extremity, or head, somewhat %!mgt-13 expanded, presents a small oval cartilaginous surface looking upwards and inwards, which articulates with the external tuberosity of the ^15 i4 tibia, and externally to this a rough prominence directed upwards, to which the tendon of the biceps muscle is attached : its external surface is subcutaneous ; the rest is rough for ligaments. The inferior extremity, or external malleolus, is larger than the head of the bone, and longer and more prominent than the internal malleolus ; internally it forms the outer limit of the ankle-joint, and presents a triangular smooth surface for articulation with the astragalus, bounded posteriorly by a rough depression where the transverse ligament is attached : its anterior