ROOTS OF NERVES. cxlvii of nerves still requires further investigation. For some interesting observations on the subject the reader is referred to a paper by Dr. Beale.* Origins or Boots of the Nerves.—The cerebro- spinal nerves, as already- said, are connected by one extremity to the brain or to the spinal cord, and this central extremity of a nerve is, in the language of anatomy, named its origin or root. In some cases the root is single, that is, the funiculi or fibres by which the nerve arises are all attached at one spot or along one line or tract ; in other nerves, on the contrary, they form two or more separate collections, which arise apart from each other and are connected with different parts of the nervous centre, and such nerves are accordingly said to have two or more origins or roots. In the latter case, moreover, the different roots of a nerve may differ not only in their anatomical characters and connections, but also in function, as is well exemplified in the spinal nerves, each of which arises by two roots, an anterior and a posterior—the former containing the motory fibres of the nerve, the latter the sensory. The fibres of a nerve, or at least a considerable share of them, may be traced to some depth in the substance of the brain or spinal cord, and hence the term " apparent or superficial origiu " has been employed to denote the place where the root of a nerve is attached to the surface, in order to dis- tinguish it from the "real or deep origin" which is beneath the surface and concealed from view. To trace the different nerves back to their real origin, and to determine the points where, and the modes in which their fibres are connected with the nervous centre, is a matter of great difficulty and uncertainty ; and, accordingly, the statements of anatomists respecting the origin of particular nerves are in many cases conflicting and unsatisfactory. Confining our- selves here to what applies to the nerves generally, it may be stated, that their roots, or part of their roots, can usually be followed for some way be- neath the surface, in form of white tracts or bands distinguishable from the surrounding substance ; and very generally these tracts of origin may be traced towards deposits of grey nervous matter situated in the neighbour- hood ; such, for instance, as the central grey matter of the spinal cord, the grey centres of the pneumo-gastric and glosso-pharyngeal nerves, the corpora geniculata and other larger grey masses connected with the origin of the optic nerve. It would further seem probable that certain fibres of the nerve roots take their origin in these local deposits of grey matter, whilst others become continuous with the white fibres of the spinal cord or encephalon, which are themselves connected with the larger and more general collections of grey matter situated in the interior or on the surface of the cerebro- spinal centre. There is still much uncertainty as to the precise mode in which the nerve- fibres originating or terminating in the grey matter are related to its ele- ments, and for the most part, indeed, individual fibres on being traced into the grey matter, become so hidden in the mass as to elude further scrutiny. Nevertheless, as a continuity between the nerve-fibres and nerve-cells in the grey matter has now been traced in individual examples by many different observers, and as such connections may be held to be general in the ganglions, it is not unfair to infer that, but for the obstacles to successful investigation, the cells in the grey matter of the cerebro-spinal centre would by this time also have been shown to be generally connected with the nerve-fibres. * On the Branching of Nerve Trunks, &c, Archives of Medicine, vol. iv. p. 127.