EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY, continues upwards in the direction of the parent vessel, whilst the other branch (the internal maxillary) curves forwards under cover of the jaw. The temporal artery is at first imbedded in the substance of the parotid gland, in the interval between the meatus of the ear and the condyle of the lower jaw. Thence it ascends over the root of the zygoma, against which it may readily be compressed. From this point onwards, it lies close beneath the skin, supported by the temporal muscle and fascia ; and, about two inches above the zygoma, divides into two branches, which again sub- divide and ramify beneath the integument on the side and upper part of the head. Branches.-—Besides several small offsets to the parotid gland, some branches to the articulation of the lower jaw, and one or two to the masseter muscle, the temporal artery gives off the following branches : (a) The transverse artery of the face. This branch arises whilst the temporal artery is deeply seated in the parotid gland, through the substance of which it runs nearly horizontally forwards; getting between the parotid duct and the zygoma, it rests on the masseter muscle, and is accompanied by one or two transverse branches of the facial nerve. It gives small vessels to the parotid gland, the masseter muscle, and the neighbouring integument; and divides into three or four branches, which are distributed to the side of the face, anastomosing with the infra-orbital and facial arteries. (6) The middle temporal branch. This arises close above the zygoma, and imme- diately perforating the temporal fascia, sends branches to the temporal muscle, which communicate with the deep temporal branches of the internal maxillary artery. An offset from this artery runs to the outer angle of the orbit, where it gives branches to the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle. (c) The anterior auricular branches, two or more in number, superior and infe- rior. These branches arise above the middle temporal. They are distributed to the fore-part of the pinna, the lobe of the ear, and a part of the external meatus, anasto- mosing with the ramifications of the posterior auricular artery. (d) The anterior temporal branch, one of the two terminal branches of the temporal artery. This vessel inclines forwards as it ascends over the temporal fascia, and ramifies extensively upon the forehead, supplying the orbicular and occipito- frontal muscles, the pericranium, and the skin, and communicating with the supra- orbital and frontal branches of the ophthalmic artery. On the upper part of the cranium the branches of this artery are directed from before backwards. When it is desired to take blood from the temporal artery, the anterior temporal branch is selected for the operation. (e) The posterior temporal branch. This is usually larger than the anterior, passes back on the side of the head, above the ear, and over the temporal fascia; its branches ramify freely in the coverings of the cranium, both upAvards to the vertex, where they communicate with the corresponding vessel of the opposite side, and backwards to join with the occipital and posterior auricular arteries. Peculiarities.—The temporal artery is frequently tortuous, especially in aged persons. Occasionally a large unusual branch runs forward above the zygoma to the upper part of the orbit. The temporal artery sometimes joins with the ophthal- mic and furnishes large frontal arteries. The anterior temporal branch is sometimes larger than the posterior, and passing backwards over the vertex of the head, communicates with the occipital. The transverse artery of the face varies in size; occasionally it is much larger than usual, and takes the place of a defective facial artery. In some instances the trans- verse artery arises directly from the external carotid. VII. INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. The internal maxillary or deep facial artery, the larger of the two terminal branches of the external carotid, is concealed by the parotid gland at its origin below the condyle of the jaw; it curves horizontally forwards