SEBACEOUS GLANDS. ccxvii Fig. CXXV. the axilla. In this last situation, Krause found the greater number to measure from one-third of a line to a line, and some nearly two lines in diameter. The development of the sweat-glands has been carefully studied by Kblliker. He states that their rudiments, when first discoverable in the embryo, have much the same appearance as those of the hairs, and, in like manner, consist of processes of the mucous layer of the epidermis, which pass down and are received into corresponding recesses of the corium. They are formed throughout of cells collected into a solid mass of an elongated-pyriform, or rather club shape, continuous by its small end with the soft layer of the cuticle, and elsewhere surrounded by a homogeneous limiting mem- brane, which is prolonged above between the corium and cuticle. The subsequent changes consist in the elongation of the rudimentary gland, the formation of a cavity along its axis—at first without an outlet— the prolongation of its canal through the epidermis to open on the surface, and, in the mean time, the coiling up of the gradually lengthening gland-tube into a compact ball, and the twisting of the excretory duct as it proceeds to the orifice. The original homogeneous membrane of the duct becomes thickened and is continuous with the surface of the corium, whilst an epithelium appears within, consisting of several layers of polygonal or rounded cells. The ceruminous glands in the auditory passage are known to consist of a tube coiled into a rounded or oval ball, like the sweat-glands; and the investigations of Professor Kolliker show such a further correspondence between the two, in structure and mode of development, as to lead him to regard the ceruminous glands as a mere local variety of the sudoriferous, which, as above noticed, present specialities both of structure and secretion in particular regions of the body. The sebaceous glands (fig. cxxv.), pour out their secretion at the roots of the hairs, for, with very few exceptions, they open into the hair follicles, aud are found wherever there are hairs. Each has a small duct, which opens at a short distance within the mouth of the hair follicle, and, by its other end, leads to a cluster of small rounded secreting saccules, which, as well as the duct, are lined by epithelium, and usually charged with the fatty secretion, mixed with detached epi- thelium particles. The number of saccular recesses connected with the duct usually varies from four or five to twenty ; it may be reduced to two or three, in very small glands, or even to one, but this is rare. These glands are lodged in the substance of the corium. Several may open into the same hair follicle, surrounding it on all sides, and their size is not regulated by the magnitude of the hair. Thus, some of the largest are connected with the fine downy hairs on the alse of the nose and other parts of the face, and there they often become unduly charged with pent-up secre- tion." * A few years ago it was discovered by Dr. Gustavus Simon, that the sebaceous and Fig. CXXV*.—Sebaceous Gland from the Face with branched duct, opening into a hair- Follicle, MAGNIFIED 50 DIA- METERS (from Kolliker). a, epithelium continuous with b, the mucous layer of epidermis; c, contents of gland ; d, d, the groups of saccules on the branches of the duct; e, hair-follicle ; /, hair.