STRUCTURE OF VEINS. clxxiii immediately beneath the skin, and thence named subcutaneous, the latter commonly accompanying the arteries, and named vence comites vel satellites arteriarum. The large arteries have usually one accompanying vein, and the medium-sized and smaller arteries two ; but there are exceptions to this rule ; thus, the veins within the skull and spinal canal, the hepatic veins, and the most considerable of those belonging to the bones, run apart from the arteries. The communications or anastomoses between veins of considerable size, are more frequent than those of arteries of equal magnitude. Structure.—The veins have much thinner coats than the arteries, and collapse when cut across or emptied ; whereas, a cut artery presents a patent orifice. Notwithstanding their comparative thinness, however, the veins possess considerable strength, more even, according to some authorities, than arteries of the same calibre. The number of their coats has been differently reckoned, and the tissues composing them differently described by different writers, and this discrepancy of statement is perhaps partly due to the circumstance that all veins are not perfectly alike in structure. In most veins of tolerable size, three coats may be distinguished, which, as in the arteries, have been named external, middle, and internal. The internal coat is less brittle than that of the arteries, and therefore admits of being more readily peeled off without tearing; but, in other respects, the two are much alike. It consists of an epithelium, a striated lamella containing nuclei, and the usual elastic layers ; these occur as dense lamelliform networks of longitudinal elastic fibres, and but seldom as fene- strated membranes. The middle coat is much thinner than that of the arteries, and its muscu- lar tissue has a much larger admixture of white connective tissue. Its fibres are both longitudinal and circular, the one set alternating with the other in layers. The former are well-developed elastic fibres, longitudinally reticulating; the circular layers consist of bundles of muscular fibre-cells and white connective tissue, mixed with a smaller proportion of fine elastic fibres. In medium-sized veins the middle coat contains several suc- cessions of the circular and longitudinal layers, but the latter are all more or less connected together by elastic fibres passing through the intervening circular layers. In the larger veins the middle coat is less developed, especially as regards its muscular fibres, but in such cases the deficiency may be supplied by muscularity of the outer coat. Kolliker states that the middle coat is wanting altogether in most of the hepatic part of the vena cava, and in the great hepatic veins; and even where its thickness is con- siderable, it is less regularly or not at all disposed in layers, and its muscular fibres are more scanty. The muscularity of the middle coat is best marked in the splenic and portal vein3 ; it is apparently wanting in certain parts of the abdominal cava and in the subclavian veins. The external coat is usually thicker than the middle coat; it consists of connective tissue and longitudinal elastic fibres. In certain large veins, as pointed out by Remak, this coat contains a considerable amount of plain or non-striated muscular tissue. The muscular elements are well marked in the whole extent of the abdominal cava, in which they form a longitudinal network, occupying the inner part of the external coat ; and they may be traced into the renal, azygos, and external iliac veins. The muscular tissue of the external Coat is also well developed in the trunks of the hepatic veins and in that of the vena portse, whence it extends into the splenic and superior mesenteric.