THE HEART. 300 between the two layers of pleura which bound it, and in this are contained the vestiges of the thymus gland ; behind the second piece of the sternum the pleurae of opposite sides come into contact, and the anterior mediastinum is reduced to a thin septum; while lower down it is inclined to the left, and widened out into an angular space of some breadth, by the margin of the left pleura receding from the sternum : opposite the lower part of this space the apex of the heart is situated, and in front of it is placed the triangularis sterni muscle. THE PERICARDIUM. This membranous bag, in which the heart is contained, is of a somewhat conical shape, its base being attached below to the upper surface of the diaphragm, whilst the apex, or narrower part, surrounds the great vessels which spring from the cavities of the heart, as far as their first subdivisions. It consists of two layers, one external and fibrous, the other internal and serous. The fibrous layer is a dense, thick and unyielding membrane, consisting of fibres which interlace in every direction. At the base of the pericardium these fibres are firmly attached to those of the central aponeurosis of the diaphragm ; and above, where the pericardium embraces the large blood- vessels, the fibrous layer is continued on their surface in the form of tubular prolongations, which become gradually lost upon their external coats. The superior vena cava, the four pulmonary veins, the aorta, and the right and left divisions of the pulmonary artery, in all eight vessels, receive pro- longations of this kind. The serous layer not only lines the fibrous layer of the pericardium and the part of the diaphragm to which that layer is attached, but like other serous membranes, is reflected on the surface of the viscus which it invests. It has, therefore, a visceral and a parietal portion. The parietal portion adheres firmly by its outer surface to the fibrous membrane, and becomes continuous with the visceral portion upon the arch of the aorta and other great vessels, about two or two and a half inches from the base of the heart. In passing round the aorta and pulmonary artery, it encloses both those vessels in a single short tubular sheath. It is reflected also upon the superior vena cava and on the four pulmonary veins, and forms a deep recess or prolonged cavity between the entrance of the right and left veins into the left auricle. The inferior vena cava receives only a very scanty covering of this membrane, inasmuch as that vessel enters the right auricle almost immediately after passing through the diaphragm, and is only partially surrounded by a reflection of the pericardium in the narrow interval between these parts. None of the vessels, indeed, joining the heart, with the exception of the aorta and pulmonary artery where they are united together, receive a complete covering from the pericardium, or can be said to pass entirely through the sac: portions only of the membrane are inflected round them more or less fully. On separating the left pulmonary artery and subjacent pulmonary vein, a fold of the pericardium will be seen between them, which has been termed by Marshall the "vestigial fold of the pericardium." It is formed by a duplicature of the serous membrane, including areolar and fatty tissue, together with some fibrous bands, blood-vessels, and nerves. It is from half to three-quarters of an inch in length, and from a half to one inch deep. Above the pulmonary artery it blends with the peri- cardium, and passes onwards to the left superior intercostal vein. Below, it is lost, on the side of the left auricle, in a narrow streak which crosses round the lower left