cxlviii NERVOUS SYSTEM. Three modes of connection of cells with fibres are described. 1. From a cell, which may have several branched outrunners, one stout unbranched process is con- tinued into a nerve-fibre, at first naked, and probably representing only the axis cylinder, then acquiring a medullary sheath and dark borders, and finally a mem- branous tube or primitive sheath. 2. Prom one or more finely divided branches of a cell, or of more than one cell, equally fine fibrils are prolonged, which coalesce into a pale fibre, having the characters of an axis cylinder, which then, as in the former case, may in its progress become a dark-bordered medullated fibre. 3. The extreme ramifications of a cell or cells become connected, as in the last case, with fibrils, which join into a nerve-fibre; but the connection takes place by the inter- vention of small bipolar cells, which are by one pole continuous with the branches of the larger cell or cells, and by the other with fine fibrils which join into a pale fibre, or into an axis cylinder of a dark bordered fibre. Gerlach, and after him Waldeyer and others, have described this last mode of connection, as seen by them in the cerebellum. In the cortical grey matter of the cerebellum there are well known large cells generally with one undivided process directed centrally, and two or three finely divided branches towards the surface (fig. lxxix.). Scattered in the neigh- bourhood of these large cells, and also collected in a layer named the stratum ferru- gineum, or rust-coloured layer, are numerous small cells, often called granules (fig. lxxx. c); and it is alleged by the above named authorities that fine ramifi- cations of the large cells join neighbouring small cells or pass inwards to join those of the stratum ferrugineum, and that the small or intermediate cells are, on the other hand, connected with filaments which coalesce into nerve-fibres as above de- scribed. This statement derives support from the important observations of Mr. Lockhart Clarke, on the structure of the olfactory bulb. Along with this indirect connection through small intervening cells, Gerlach supposes that a process or pro- cesses of the large cells pass directly into nerve-fibres ; and should such direct con- nection take place by the prolongation of an unbranched cell-process into a nerve- fibre, the arrangement would be analogous to that in the ganglia ; the simple origin, representing that of the straight fibre from the ganglion-cell, whilst the ramified origin, with the intervening small cells, might be compared to that of the super- ficial or spiral fibre, with its interposed nuclei. The fibres of origin of a nerve, whether deeply implanted or not, on quitting the surface of the brain or spinal cord to form the apparent origin or free part of the root, are in most cases collected into funiculi, which are each invested with a sheath of neurilemma. This investment is generally regarded as a prolongation of the pia mater, and in fact its continuity with that membrane may be seen very plainly at the roots of several of the nerves, especially those of the cervical and dorsal nerves within the verte- bral canal, for in that situation the neurilemma, like the pia mater itself, is much stronger than in the cranium. The funiculi, approaching each other if originally scattered, advance towards the foramen of the skull or spine which gives issue to the nerve, and pass through the dura mater, either in one bundle and by a single aperture, or in two or more fasciculi, for which there are two or more openings in the membrane. The nerve roots in their course run beneath the arachnoid membrane, and do not perforate it on issuing from the cranio-vertebral cavity ; for the loose or visceral layer of the arachnoid is prolonged on the nerve and loosely surrounds it as far as the aperture of egress in the dura mater, where, quitting the nerve, it is reflected upon the inner surface of the latter membrane, and becomes con- tinuous with the parietal or adherent layer of the arachnoid. The nerve, on escaping from the skull or spine, acquires its external, stout, fibrous sheath, which connects all its funiculi into a firm cord, and then, too, the nerve appears much thicker than before its exit. The dura mater accom- panies the nerves through the bony foramina, and becomes continuous with their external sheath and (at the cranial foramina) with the pericranium ;