THE LYMPH AND CHYLE. xlix exposure to air, is doubtless generally due to the presence of blood-cor- puscles, and may be explained in the same way as the occasional red colour of lymph* Like blood and lymph, both of which fluids it greatly resembles in con- stitution, the chyle consists of a liquid holding small particles in suspension. These particles are, 1. Chyle corpuscles, or chyle globules, precisely like the lymph globules and pale blood corpuscles already described. 2. Molecules, of almost immeasurably minute but remarkably uniform size. These abound in the fluid, and form an opaque white molecular matter diffused in it, which Mr. Gulliver has named the molecular base of the chyle. The addition of ether instantly dissolves this matter, and renders the chyle nearly, but not quite, transparent ; whence it may be inferred that the molecules are minute particles of fatty matter, and no doubt the chief cause of the opacity and whiteness of the chyle. According to the late Prof. H. Miiller, they are each coated with a fine film of albuminoid matter. They exhibit the usual tremulous movements common to the molecules of many other substances. 3. Oil globules ; these are of various sizes, but much larger than the mole- cules above described, and are often found in the chyle in considerable numbers. 4. Minute spherules (Gulliver), from -^^q q to -g^Vo °^ an ^nc^ in diameter ; probably of an albuminous nature, and distinguished from the fatty molecules by their varying magnitude and their insolubility in ether. The Free nuclei described in the chyle by Kolliker he now considers to be derived from corpuscles accidentally ruptured in the examination. The plasma, or liquid part of the chyle, contains fibrin, so that chyle coagulates on being drawn from the vessels, and nearly all the chyle cor- puscles, with part of the molecular base, are involved in the clot. The serum which remains, resembles in composition the serum of lymph ; the most notable difference between them being the larger proportion of fatty matter contained in the chyle-serum. The following analyses of lymph and chyle exhibit the proportions of the different ingredients; but it must be explained that the amount of the corpuscles cannot be separately given, the greater part of them being included in the clot and reckoned as fibrin. No. 1 js the mean of two analyses, by Gubler and Quevenne, of human lymph taken during life from the lymphatics of the thigh ; No. 2, the mean of three analyses by Gmelin of lymph from the thoracic duct of horses after privation of food ; No. 3, by Dr. 0. Rees, of chyle from the lacteals of an ass, after passing the mesenteric glands. T. II. III. Water . 937-32 93970 902-37 Fibrin 0-595 1060 3-70 Albumen . 42-775 38-83 35-16 Fat ... 6-51 a little 36 01 Extractive matter Salts . 5-05 ) 7-75 ] 10-87 22*76 1000. 1000. 1000. The extractive matters of the chyle and lymph probably vary with the nature of the food : they generally contain sugar and urea in appreciable quantities. The chyle, when taken from the lacteal vessels before it has reached the glands, is generally found to coagulate less firmly than in a more advanced stage of its progress. In like manner the lymph, before passing the lymphatic glands, occasion- ally exhibits the same weak coagulation; but Mr. Lane justly remarks, that the lymph does not differ in coagulability in the different stages of its progress so