336 THE AORTIC ARCH. to the left, and thus the aorta comes into view. It approaches very near to the sternum, from which it is separated only "by the pericardium, by some connective tissue, and by the remains of the thymus gland lodged in the mediastinal space : higher up, the descending vena cava lies on the right side, and the pulmonary artery passes backwards on the left; while behind are placed the right branches of the pulmonary vessels. The second or transverse part of the arch is covered on the left side by the left pleura and lung, and is placed immediately in front and to the left of the trachea, before its bifurcation into the bronchi: it touches like- wise the oesophagus posteriorly. The upper border of the transverse part of the arch has in contact with it the left innominate vein ; and from it are given off the large arteries (innominate, left carotid, and left sub- clavian), which are furnished to the head and the upper limbs. The lower or concave border overhangs the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery, and is connected with the left branch of that artery by the remains of the ductus arteriosus. At or near its end this part of the arch is crossed in front by the left vagus and phrenic nerves, with some offsets of the sympa- thetic ; and the recurrent laryngeal branch of the vagus turns upwards beneath and behind it. The descending portion of the arch rests against the left side of the body of the third dorsal vertebra, and is covered by the left pleura. To the right side of this part of the arch is the oesophagus with the thoracic duct. Branches. —The branches given off from the arch of the aorta are five in number. Two of these, named the coronary or cardiac arteries, com- paratively small, arise from two of the sinuses of Valsalva, and are distri- buted to the walls of the heart. The other three are large primitive trunks, which supply the head and neck, the upper limbs, and, in part, the thorax, and usually arise from the middle or highest part of the arch, in the follow- ing order :—first, the innominate or brachio-cephalic artery, which soon sub- divides into the right subclavian and the right carotid arteries ; second, the left carotid ; and, third, the left subclavian artery. The origin of the left carotid artery is usually somewhat nearer to the innominate artery than it is to the subclavian artery of its own side. Peculiarities.—(For more extended information on the peculiarities of the aorta and of the blood-vessels in general, the student is referred to " The Anatomy of the Arteries/' by Richard Quain, Loudon, X844.) I. Peculiarities of the Arch itself. Variations in height.—The arch sometimes reaches very nearly as high as the top of the sternum. Occasionally it has been found an inch and a half below that level, and in rare instances as much as three inches below it. Double arch.—This very rare variety has been known to occur in two forms. In both of these the trachea and oesophagus passed through the circle formed by the two divisions of the arch, which united behind them. In one form the arch retained its inclination to the left side; the pulmonary artery, placed in its proper position, was united to the left division of the aorta by the obliterated ductus arteriosus; and from each division of the arch two branches arose, the carotid and subclavian. In the other form a symmetrical ring was completed by the two divisions, each giving rise to three vessels—subclavian, and external and internal carotid; while the pul- monary artery dipped into the circle from above, and sent out its branches beneath it. Bight arch.—Arching of the aorta to the right side has been observed to occur in three different forms. 1st. Accompanying total transposition of the heart and viscera. 2nd. Occurring without transposition of other parts, and with the left in- nominate artery, right carotid, and right subclavian given off in succession. 3rd. Occurring, in like manner, without transposition of other parts, its first branch being