24.6 MUSCLES OF THE THOEAX. . Foramina.—There are in the diaphragm three large perforations for the passage respectively of the aorta, the oesophagus, and the vena cava, besides some smaller holes or fissures which are- less regular.—a. The foramen for the aorta (hiatus aorticus), placed in front of the vertebrae, is bounded by tendinous fibres of the crura as already described. Besides the aorta, this opening transmits the thoracic duct, and generally also the vena azygos.—b. The foramen for the oesophagus, higher and farther forward than the preceding, as well as a little to its left, is separated from that opening by the decussating fibres of the crura. It is oval in form, and is generally entirely surrounded by muscular fibres ; in some rare cases, however, a small part, the anterior margin, is found to be tendinous, being formed by the margin of the central tendon.—c. The opening for the vena cava (foramen quadratum) is placed in the highest part of the diaphragm, in the tendinous centre at the junction of the right and middle alse, posteriorly. Its form is somewhat quadrangular ; and it is bounded by fasciculi of tendinous fibres running parallel with its sides. Besides the foregoing large foramina, there are small perforations through the crura for the sympathetic and splanchnic nerves on both sides, and for the vena azygos minor on the left side. Moreover, the larger azygos vein often takes its course through the right crus. The upper or thoracic surface of the diaphragm is highly arched. Its posterior and lateral fibres, ascending from their connection with the lower margin of the thorax, are for a considerable extent placed close to the ribs, the lungs not descending so far as their attachments. The vault of the diaphragm rises higher on the right than on the left side. On the right side in the dead body it rises to the level of the fifth rib at the sternum, and on the left side only as high as the sixth. This difference has relation to the great size and firmness of the liver on the right side. It is covered superiorly by the pleura and the pericardium; the fibrous layer of the latter mem- brane blending with the tendinous centre, as well as with the fascia covering its muscular substance. The loAver surface, of a deeply concave form, is lined by the peritoneum, and has in apposition with it the liver, the stomach, the pancreas and spleen, and the kidneys. Actions.—Movements of Respiration.—The mechanical act of respiration consists of two sets of movements, viz., those of inspiration and of expiration, in which air is successively drawn into the lungs and expelled from them by the alternate increase and diminution of the thoracic cavity. The changes in the capacity of the thorax are effected by the expansion and contraction of its lateral walls, called costal respiration, and by the depression and elevation of the floor of the cavity, through contraction and relaxation of the diaphragm, called abdominal respiration. These two methods of respiration are normally combined, but in different circumstances one method is resorted to more than another. Thus, abdominal respiration is most employed in the male, costal respiration most in the female. Inspiration.—The study of the movements of the thoracic walls in respiration presents the difficulty that those movements cannot be perfectly imitated on the pre- pared skeleton, because the force cannot on it be applied between one rib and another as during life, and because the resistance to expansion is no longer of the same description. On the prepared skeleton, by raising and depressing the sternum the' ribs may be moved upwards and downwards, parallel to one another; the first rib moving as freely as the others. But during life several causes combine to make the first rib more fixed than those which follow : as for example, the weight of the upper extremity, and the strain of the intercostal muscles and ribs beneath. The move- ments of the thoracic walls in respiration are these :—1st. The anteroposterior dia- meter is increased by a forward movement of the sternum; the lower end of that bone is raised and advanced, while the upper end, which in easy respiration is at rest, or nearly so, is only raised in full inspiration. 2nd. The lateral diameter of the thorax is increased, both by the elevation and the rotation of the ribs; the first of these movements bringing larger costal arches to a level occupied in expiration by