LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. clxxxvi lial apertures (answering very nearly to those described by von Recklinghausen) on the dog's pleura, by which the superficial lymphatics open on the surface of the mem- brane ; he also found that fine particles of colouring matter could, under certain con- ditions, be made to pass from the cavity of the pleura into the lymphaf ics, and apparently by the openings in question.* Eespecting these observations, however, it must be remarked, that the apertures described do not open upon a surface in contact with extraneous matters, as that ot the skin or a mucous membrane, but into a serous cavity • and perhaps they may be explained on the supposition that the peritoneum, pleura, and other serous sacs, are really large lymph-lacunae, from which lymphatic vessels lead out as emissaries, as in the case of the subcutaneous lymph-spaces of the frog, and the testicular and other lymph-lacunae constructed on a smaller scale. Absorbent or lymphatic glands, named also conglobate glands, and by modern French writers lymphatic ganglions, are small solid bodies placed in the course of the lymphatics and lacteals, through which the contents of these vessels have to pass in their progress towards the thoracic or the right lymphatic duct. These bodies are collected in numbers along the course of the great vessels of the neck, also in the thorax and abdomen, especially in the mesentery and alongside the aorta, vena cava inferior, and iliac vessels. A few, usually of small size, are found on the external parts of the head, and considerable groups are situated in the axilla and groin. Some three or four lie on the popliteal vessels, and usually one is placed a little below the knee, but none farther down. In the arm they are found as low as the elbow joint. Lymphatic vessels may pass through two, three, or even more lymphatic glands in their course, whilst, on the other hand, there are lymphatics which reach the thoracic duct without encountering any gland in their way. The size of these bodies is very various, some being not much bigger than a hempseed, and others as large or larger than an almond or a kidney- bean. In shape, too, they present differences, but most of them are round or oval. The lymphatics or lacteals which enter a gland are named inferent or afferent vessels (vasa inferentia seu afferentia), and those which issue from it efferent vessels (vasa efferentia). The afferent vessels, on approaching a gland, divide into many small branches, which enter the gland ; the efferent vessels commonly leave the gland in form of small branches, and at a little distance beyond it, or sometimes even before issuing from it, unite into one or more trunks, usually larger in size but fewer in number than those of the afferent vessels. The internal structure of lymphatic glands has been long a subject of inquiry. Hewson considered that a lymphatic gland essentially consists of a network of finely-divided lymphatic vessels on and between which capil- lary blood-vessels are ramified; the whole being gathered up and compacted into a comparatively dense mass by connective tissue, which at the surface of the gland forms for it an inclosing capsule. The afferent and efferent vessels are, according to Hewson, continuous with each other within the gland, and the cellular cavities described as intervening between them and serving as the medium of their communication, were held by him to be nothing more than partial dilatations of some branches of the common con- necting plexus. Hewson's view of the constitution of the lymphatic glands was, till * Berichte der K. Sachs: Gesellsch : der Wissensch: July, 1866, p. 191. In the same publication, p. 247, is an account, by F. Schweigger-Seidel and J. Dogiel, of open communications between the frog's peritoneum and the great lymph-sac (cisterna magna) behind it; also founded on observations made in the Physiological Institute of Leipsic.