THE ARTERIES.—AORTA. 332 by connective tissue and by the serous layer of the pericardium, which for the space of about two inches forms a single tube around both vessels. Rather to the left of its point of bifurcation it is connected to the under side of the aortic arch by means of a short fibrous cord, which passes obliquely upwards, backwards, and to the left. This is the remains of the ductus arteriosus, a large vessel peculiar to the foetus, which has been already described. The two branches of the pulmonary artery.—The right branch, longer and somewhat larger than the left, runs almost transversely outwards behind the ascending aorta and the superior vena cava into the root of the right lung, where it immediately begins to divide in the usual manner of arteries. The left branch, shorter than the right, passes horizontally in front of the descending aorta and left bronchus into the root of the left lung, to undergo its ramification. The right and left pulmonary arteries, at the root of the lung, both lie in front of the bronchus and behind the veins. On the right side the bronchus is highest and the veins lowest, while on the left side the bronchus sinks to a level between the artery and veins. Pulmonary Veins.—The pulmonary veins, which convey the red blood back from the lungs to the left side of the heart, ultimately converge into four short venous trunks, which are found, two on each side, in the root of the corresponding lung. The two veins of the right side, which are longer than those of the left, pass below the right pulmonary artery, and behind the superior vena cava, the right auricle, and the aorta, to enter the left auricle. Not unfrequently a third smaller vein exists on the right side. The two left pulmonary veins run a shorter course to reach the auricle, passing in front of the descending aorta. SYSTEMIC VESSELS. ARTERIES. THE AORTA. The aorta, the large main trunk of the systemic arteries, is situated partly within the thorax and partly in the abdomen. Jt commences at the left ventricle of the heart, and after arching over the root of the left lung, descends in front of the vertebral column, and passing through the diaphragm into the abdominal cavity, ends opposite the fourth lumbar vertebra, by dividing into the right and left common iliac arteries. In this course the aorta forms a continuous undivided trunk, which gradually diminishes in size from its commencement to its termination, and gives off larger or smaller branches at various points. Different parts of the vessel have received particular names, derived from their position or direction :—the following are generally recognized, viz., the arch of the aorta,, the thoracic aorta, and the abdominal aorta. The short curved part, which reaches from the ventricle of the heart to the side of the third dorsal vertebra, is named the arch; the straight part, which extends from that vertebra to the diaphragm, is called the thoracic aorta ; and the remainder of the vessel, down to its bifurcation, is designated the abdominal aorta. Arch of the Aorta. The arch of the aorta commences at the upper part or base of the left ventricle of the heart, behind the pulmonary artery. At first it passes upwards and to the right side, somewhat in the direction of the heart