373 SUPRA-SCAPULAR: TRANSVERSE CERVICAL. downwards with the suprascapular nerve towards the suprascapular notch. At this point the nerve usually passes beneath the ligament stretched across the notch, while the artery more frequently turns over it to enter the supra- spinous fossa, where, lying close to the bone, it gives off branches which ramify in the fossa beneath the supraspinatus muscle, and sends a small communicating branch into the subscapular fossa, and is itself continued down into the infraspinous fossa. Branches.—(a) Muscular branches are given by the suprascapular artery to the sterno-mastoid and other neighbouring muscles. (b) The supra-acromial branch passes obliquely forwards through the attachment of the trapezius to reach the cutaneous surface of the acromion, on which it ramifies, anastomosing with offsets from the acromial thoracic artery. (c) A small subscapular branch, given off as the artery passes over the notch, anastomoses with the posterior scapular and subscapular arteries in the subscapular fossa and substance of the subscapulars muscle. (d) An infraspinous branch is continued from the suprascapular artery, and descending close upon the neck of the scapula, between the glenoid cavity and the spine of that bone, joins with the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery. (e) Branches enter the bone and shoulder joint. Peculiarities.—The suprascapular artery has in some cases been observed to spring directly from the subclavian, or to arise from that vessel by a common trunk with the transverse cervical, or more rarely with the internal mammary. It has also been found to proceed from the axillary artery, and from the subscapular branch of that vessel. 3. The Transverse Cervical Artery, the third branch of the thyroid axis, passes outwards a short distance above the clavicle, and therefore higher than the suprascapular artery. It crosses over the scaleni muscles and the brachial plexus, sometimes passing between the nerves of the latter, and is crossed by the omo-hyoid muscle. Beneath the anterior margin of the trapezius, and near the outer edge of the levator anguli scapulae, it divides into two branches, the superficial cervical and the posterior scapular. The superficial cervical artery ascends beneath the anterior border of the trapezius, and distributes branches to that muscle, the levator anguli scapulae, and sterno-mastoid muscles, as well as to the cervical glands and the integuments in the intervals between those muscles. When the posterior scapular arises separately from the subclavian, the name superficial cervical may be given to the whole remaining part of the transverse cervical artery. The posterior scapular artery, whether arising from the transverse cervical artery or directly from the subclavian, passes backwards to the Upper angle of the scapula, under cover of the levator anguli scapulae, and then changing its direction, runs downwards beneath the rhomboidei muscles, as far as the inferior angle of that bone. It anastomoses freely on both surfaces of the scapula with the divisions of the suprascapular and subscapular arteries ; and supplies branches to the rhomboidei, serratus magnus, and latissimus dorsi muscles, communicating at the same time with the posterior muscular branches of some of the intercostal arteries. Peculiarities.—Not only does the transverse cervical branch of the thyroid axis present the variation of being nearly as often the superficial cervical alone as of com- prising also the posterior scapular artery, but it occasionally happens that the vessel derived from the thyroid axis is very small, and represents only in part the superficial cervical artery; whilst a large vessel arising from the third part of the subclavian divides near the levator anguli scapulae into two branches, of which one ascends and