ARTICULATIONS OF THE UPPER LIMB. 136 Movements.—The movements allowed at the clavicular articulations are limited, not so much by the forms of the articular surfaces, as by the costoclavicular and coraco- clavicular ligaments and the position of the thoracic wall. When the clavicle is forcibly depressed, as in lifting a heavy weight, it presses upon the first rib, the upper border of its inner end rises above the sternum, and the interarticular cartilage and inter-clavicular ligament are put upon the stretch. When the shoulders are drawn backwards and downwards, the angle between the clavicle and the upper border of the scapula is increased, by the descent of the scapular arch on the conical wall of the thorax. In raising and depressing the arm to its full extent, there is not only vertical motion at the shoulder joint, but also motion at the sterno-clavi- cular and acromioclavicular articulations. Ligaments of the Scapula.—There are two ligaments which stretch from one part of the scapula to another. 1. The coracoid or supra-scapular ligament (ligamentum proprium posterius), is a thin flat band of fibres, attached by its extremities to the opposite margins of the notch at the root of the coracoid process, which it thus converts into a foramen for the transmission of the supra-scapular nerve, the corresponding artery most commonly passing above it. 2. The coraco-acromial ligament (ligamentum proprium anterius), broad, firm, and triangular, is attached by its broader extremity to the outer edge of the coracoid process, and by the narrower to the tip of the acromion. Its inferior surface looks downwards upon the shoulder-joint, the superior is covered by the deltoid muscle. THE SHOULDER JOINT. In this articulation the large and hemispherical head of the humerus is opposed to the much smaller surface of the glenoid cavity of the scapula. The bones are retained in position, not by the direct tension of strong liga- ments, which would have restricted too much the movements of the joint, but by surrounding muscles and atmospheric pressure. The capsular ligament is attached to the scapula round the margin of the glenoid cavity, and to the humerus at the place where the neck springs from the tuberosities and shaft. It extends furthest down the humerus on the internal or inferior aspect, and is strongest on the superior aspect. The laxity of the capsule is such that the humerus drops away from the glenoid cavity Fig. 125.—View op the Glenoid Cavity and Liga- ments BETWEEN THE SCAPULA AND CLAVICLE OF THE EIGHT SIDE. | 1, glenoid fossa, its cartilaginous surface ; 2, the glenoid ligament or fibrous border ; 3, the tendon of the biceps muscle seen in connection with the upper part of the glenoid fossa and ligament; 4, is placed on the upper surface of the coracoid process ; 5 and 6, on the adjacent part of the clavicle ; 4 to 5, the conoid ; 4 to 6, the trapezoid portion of the coraco- clavicular ligament ; 7, is p^ced on the apex of the acromion process ; 4 to 7, the coraco-acromial liga- ment ; 8, is above the acromioclavicular articulation, which is represented as open anteriorly, showing a wedge-shaped inter-articular cartilage attached above to the superior acromio-clavicular ligament; x , the inferior acromio-clavicular ligament. as soon as its muscular connections are detached. Superiorly and posteriorly the capsule is strengthened by the tendons of the supra spinatus, infra-spinatus, Fig. 125.