19 OSSIFICATION OF THE VERTEBRAE. In the atlas, the lateral masses and posterior arches are ossified from a pair of centres corresponding to those in the arches of the succeeding vertebrae. In the anterior arch one or two separate nuclei appear soon after birth; and even three have been observed. There is frequently a small epiphysis on the posterior tubercle. Fig. 17. — Illustrates the Ossifi- cation of the Vertebra. A, foetal vertebra, showing the three primary centres of ossification; 1, 2, for the pedicles, laminae, and processes ; 3, for the body. B, dorsal vertebra from a child of two years, as seen from above; 1 & 2 are seen to have encroached upon the body at *, and into the articular and transverse processes, and to have united behind in the spinous process, leaving cartilaginous ends. C, dorsal vertebra at about sixteen or seventeen years, showing the epiphyses on the transverse processes, 4 & 5, and spinous process, 6, and the upper epi- physial plate of the body, 7. b & E, parts of a lumbar vertebra of about the same age, showing, in addi- tion to the foregoing, 8, the lower epi- physal plate of the body ; 9 & 10, the epiphyses of the superior articular pro- cesses (mammillary tubercles). Fig. 17, A B s In the axis there appear, about the same time as in the other vertebrae, a pair of osseous centres in the arch, one or two in the body (Cruveilhier), and shortly after- wards a pair in the odontoid process which very soon unite together. At birth, the odontoid process is of larger size than the body, from which it is still distinct; and its general appearance confirms the evidence of comparative anatomy, that it is to be regarded as the displaced body of the atlas. Fig. 18.—Ossification of the Atlas AS SEEN FROM ABOVE. A, the atlas before birth ; 1 & 2 ossi- fied deposits in the posterior parts of the arch ; the anterior part is cartilaginous. B, the atlas of a child in the first year ; 1 & 2, as before ; 3, the point of ossifica- tion in the anterior arch. Fie. 18. Fig. 18.*—Ossification of the Axis as SEEN FROM THE FRONT. A, the axis of the foetus of seven months, showing at 3 the centre for the body, and at 4 & 5 two centres for the base of the odontoid process. B, the axis shortly after birth, showing at 1 & 2 the centres for the arch ; 3, the centre for the body ; 6, the two centres of the odontoid process united into one. Fig. 18. The sacral vertebrae present the three ordinary great centres of ossification, viz., one in the body, and a pair in the arch ; but in each of the first three or sometimes four sacral vertebrae the anterior part of the lateral masses on each side is formed o 2