xxxviii THE BLOOD. cannot be separated from the blood by the processes employed, for he believes that a portion remains suspended in the liquid in form of minute microscopic scales or films. Denis pointed out, that fibrin obtained from the coagulum of venous blood, if quite recent, and not previously much exposed to the air, is capable of being slowly dis- solved in a slightly-heated solution of nitre. Scherer and Nasse have confirmed this statement, and the latter finds that fibrin got by stirring may also be dissolved in the same way, provided it is quite fresh. On the other hand, nitre does not dissolve fibrin of arterial blood, nor fibrin that has been some time exposed to the air, from whatever source it may be derived; nor, according to Scherer, the fibrin of the buffy coat. Origin of Fibrin. —It is now ascertained that the fibrin is not present, as such, in a liquid form, in the plasma, but is produced at the moment of consolidation by the co-operation or combination of two previously distinct substances. About twenty years ago, Professor Andrew Buchanan* disco- vered that the fluid of hydrocele, which might in an unmixed state be kept for an indefinite time without coagulating, very speedily congealed and separated into clot and serum when mixed with a little blood. Ordi- nary blood-serum, blood-clot, especially washed clot, and buffy coat, even after being dried and long kept, when added in small proportion to the hydrocele-fluid, produced the same effect. From these facts Dr. Buchanan concluded that fibrin exists as a liquid both in hydrocele-fluid and in the liquor sanguinis, that liquid fibrin does not coagulate spontaneously, but requires for that end the influence of some " suitable re-agents," that such a re-agent is naturally present in the blood, and brings about the solidifica- tion of its fibrin in the natural process of coagulation, and that it is absent from the hydrocele fluid, but when supplied by the addition of blood, causes the fluid fibrin to solidify. On further reasoning on the facts he had observed, Dr. Buchanan was led to believe that "coagulant power" was mainly seated in the pale corpuscles, which abound in the washed clot and the buffy coat, and are present in the serum; and that their efficacy depended on their organisation as elementary cells. In harmony with this latter view, he found on trial that the organised tissues, such as muscle, skin, and spinal marrow, possessed the same power, though in a less degree than the pale corpuscles, in which, as primary cells, the meta- bolic power is more energetic. The remarkable phenomenon described by Dr. Buchanan did not obtain the consideration it deserved, and the coagulation of hydrocele-fluid under the conditions stated, was commonly ascribed to some catalytic action of the substance added, which induced liquid fibrin present in the fluid to solidify. In 1861, however, Dr. A. Schmidt, of Dorpat, appa- rently unaware of Dr. Buchanan's observations, fell upon facts of the same kind, and pursuing the investigation by an elaborate series of experiments not only with hydrocele-fluid, but with pericardial, peritoneal, and other serous fluids and effusions, which give a like result, has satisfactorily shown that fibrin has no existence in a liquid state, but that when it appears as a coagulum in a fluid, it is actually produced then and there by the union of two constituents present in solution, and forthwith shed out as a solid matter. One of these constituents which contributes in largest * Proceedings of the Glasgow Philosophical Society, Feb. 19, 1S45.