493 THE ABSORBENTS. in the right lymphatic duct. Sometimes they unite tinto a single trunk, which opens sepa- rately into the subclavian vein near its termination. The superficial lymphatics of the upper limb are usually de- scribed as forming two divisions corresponding with the super- ficial veins on the outer and inner borders. On the front of the limb they arise from an arch formed in the palm of the hand by the union of two lymphatic vessels proceeding from each finger: becoming more numerous in the forearm, they are found thickly set over its surface, whence they pass upwards in the arm ; the inner vessels in Fig. 337.—Superficial Lymphatics op the Breast, Shoulder, and Upper Limb, from before (after Mascagni). -J The lymphatics are represented as lying upon the deep fascia. a, placed on the clavicle, points to the external jugular vein; b, the cephalic vein; c, the basilic vein ; d, radial; , median ; /, ulnar vein ; g, great pectoral muscle cut and turned outwards ; 1, superficial lymphatic vessels and glands above the clavicle ; 2, those below the clavicle partly joining the foregoing and dipping into the triangular space between the deltoid and pectoral muscles ; 3, lymphatic vessels and glands placed along the border of the axilla and great pectoral muscle ; 4, upper brachial and axillary glands and vessels; 5, two small glands placed near the bend of the arm ; 6, radial lymphatic vessels; 7, ulnar lymphatic vessels ; 8, 8, palmar arch of lymphatics ; 9, 9', outer and inner sets of vessels. a straight direction, and those placed further outwards inclining gradually inwards over the biceps muscle to reach the axillary glands. On the back of the hand also two lymphatics pro- ceed from each finger ; and from the copious network on the back of the forearm vessels pass over the radial margin, and in greater number round the ulnar side to join those in front. The lymphatic vessels in the front of the upper arm are also joined by others which pass round each side of the limb, and by some which descend from the shoulder. The deep lymphatics of the upper limb corre- spond with the deep blood-vessels. In the fore- arm they consist, therefore, of three sets, as- sociated respectively with the radial, ulnar, and interosseous arteries and veins. In