PECULIARITIES OF THE AORTIC ARCH. 337 the left common carotid, the second the right common carotid, the third the right subclavian, and the fourth the left subclavian, passing behind the oesophagus to reach its destination. II. Peculiarities affecting the Primary Branches. The situation of the branches.—Instead of springing from the highest part of the arch, the branches are frequently moved altogether to the right, and take origin from the commencement of the transverse portion, or even from the end of the ascending portion of the arch. In the ordinary arrangement the origin of the left carotid is nearer to the innominate than to the left subclavian; but the branches sometimes arise at equal distances from each other, or are unusually widely apart. A very frequent change consists in the approximation of the left carotid towards the in- nominate artery. The number and arrangement of the branches.—These are extremely various. The most frequent change met with is their reduction to hvo, from the left carotid being united in a common trunk with the innominate artery. In cases of rare occurrence, the carotid and subclavian arteries of the left side, as well as those of the right, are conjoined in an innominate artery. On the other hand, the number of the primary branches has been found to be augmented to four, by the separation, as it Were, of the innominate artery into the right carotid and subclavian arteries, both arising directly from the aorta. In those cases, the right subclavian artery is most frequently the last branch given off, pro- ceeding from the back part of the arch, and passing behind the oesophagus to reach its destination; but sometimes it is given off in its proper order, as the first branch, and in rare instances, it has been the second or third branch given off, in which case it has passed behind those which preceded it, to reach the limb. In those instances in which the right subclavian is the last vessel given off, and in some other abnormal arrangements, a small pouch-like dilatation is sometimes found on the arch, which is a vestige of the right aortie root, and is accounted for by the changes in development which have led to the unusual disposition of the branches. A remarkable variety is on record, in which the aorta divided at once into two vessels, as is the usual arrangement in some quadrupeds, all the arteries for the head, neck, and upper limbs, taking origin by a single trunk. In those eases the single trunk referred to passed vertically upwards and divided into three branches, in the form of a cross. An abnormal arrangement of three branches springing from a normally-arranged arch has been observed, in which the two carotids have arisen by a common trunk, and the two subclavians separately—the right subclavian, in most instances, being transferred beyond the other branches to the left end of the arch. III. Peculiarities in which one or more Secondary Branches, usually given from the Subclavian, are derived directly from the A orta. In nearly all instances belonging to this section, there is only one secondary branch taking origin from the aorta; and the occurrence may either accompany the ordinary arrangement of the primary branches, or co-exist with a diminution, or with an increase in their number. The additional branch, when it is a normal artery trans- posed, is almost invariably the left vertebral, which in nearly all those cases arises between the left carotid and left subclavian arteries; but it has also been observed to proceed from the aorta beyond the last-named trunk. Very rarely the additional branch is the right vertebral. The thyroidea ima, a small supernumerary artery occasionally found ascending to the thyroid body, sometimes arises from the arch of the aorta. Development of variations in the aortic arch and its branches.—Many of the most frequent variations in the arrangement of the arch of the aorta and its branches may be explained on referring to the development of those vessels, by supposing that one of the usual branches has become obstructed in early foetal life, and that the circula- tion has been carried on by the persistence of one of the original vessels which otherwise would have been obliterated. Thus in the case of double aortic arch, both the fourth branchial vascular arches