493 ABSORBENTS OF THE ABDOMINAL VISCERA. turn upwards and open by a separate trunk into the lower end of the thoracic duct. The absorbents of the stomach, like those of the intestines, are placed, some beneath the peritoneal coat, and others between the muscular and mucous coats. Following the direction of the blood-vessels, they become arranged into three sets. Those of one set accompany the coronary vessels, and receiving, as they run from left to right, branches from both surfaces of the organ, turn backwards near the pylorus, to join some of the larger trunks. Another series, from the left end of the stomach, follow the vasa brevia, and unite with the lymphatics of the spleen : whilst those of the third set, guided by the right gastro-epiploic vessels, incline from left to right along the great curvature of the stomach, from which they pass backwards, and at the root of the mesentery terminate in one of the principal efferent lacteal vessels. The absorbents of the rectum, likewise in two strata, are frequently of considerable size : immediately after leaving the intestine, some of them pass through small glands which lie contiguous to it ; finally, they enter the lymphatic glands situated in the hollow of the sacrum, or those higher up in the loins. At the anus their capillary network is continuous with that of the cutaneous absorbents. The lymphatics of the spleen are placed, some immediately under its peritoneal covering, others in the substance of the organ. Both sets converge to the inner side of the spleen, come in contact with the blood- vessels, and, accompanying these, pass through a series of small glands, and terminate in the larger lymphatics of the digestive organs. Lymphatics emerge from the pancreas at different points, and join those derived from the spleen. The lymphatics of the liver are divisible into three principal sets, according as they are placed upon its upper or its under surface, or are spread through its substance with the blood-vessels. The lymphatic vessels on the upper surface of the liver incline towards particular points, and so become distinguishable into groups, of which four are usually enumerated. 1. From the middle of this surface five or six branches run towards the falciform ligament, and being directed forwards on this membrane, they unite to form a large trunk, which passes upwards between two slips of the attachment of the diaphragm, behind the ensiform cartilage. Having reached the interpleural space behind the sternum, they ascend through a chain of lymphatic glands found upon the internal mam- mary blood-vessels. 2. The second group consists of vessels which incline outwards towards the right lateral ligament, opposite to which they unite into one or two larger lymphatics ; these pierce the diaphragm, and run forwards upon its upper surface to join the preceding set of vessels behind the sternum. In some cases, however, instead of passing into the thorax, they turn inwards on reaching the back part of the liver, and, running upon the crus of the diaphragm, open into the thoracic duct close to its commencement. 3. Another set of lymphatics is found upon the left lobe of the liver ; the vessels of which it is composed, after reaching the left lateral ligament pierce the diaphragm, and, turning forwards, end in the anterior glands of the mediastinum. 4. Finally, along the fore part of the liver some vessels will be observed to turn downwards and join those placed upon the under surface. The under surface of the liver is covered by an open network of lymphatic vessels. On the right lobe they are directed over and under the gall- bladder to the transverse fissure, where some join the deep lymphatics ;