BONES OF THE THORAX. 24 broad at the upper part of the manubrium, considerably narrower at the lower end of that portion and in the following segment, somewhat wider near the lower than at the upper end of the body, and finally compressed and narrowed where the body joins the ensiform cartilage. It consists of light cancellated texture, with a thin covering of compact bone, so as to be liable to crushing from violence. The manubrium is the thickest part of the sternum. Its superior border is divided into three deep notches ; the middle one is named the incisura, furcula, or interclavicular notch; the lateral ones form two depressed articular surfaces directed upwards and outwards, for articulation with the clavicles. Each lateral border presents superiorly a rough depression close to the clavicular surface, but looking directly outwards, which receives the cartilage of the first rib ; and, at its inferior angle, a small surface which, with a similar one on the second segment, forms a notch for the cartilage of the second rib. The inferior margin is straight, and united by intervening cartilage to the upper margin of the second segment. The body is marked on its anterior surface by three slight transverse elevations, which mark the lines of junction of its four component parts. Its posterior or thoracic surface, together Avith that of the manubrium, is of more uniform smoothness. The lateral margins present each five notches for the reception of costal cartilages, and a small surface superiorly, which, with the similar depression on the manubrium, forms the notch for the second costal cartilage. The notches for the third, fourth, and fifth costal cartilages are opposite the lines of junction of the four segments of the body of the sternum ; those of the sixth and seventh are placed close together on the sides of the inferior segment, that for the seventh being frequently completed by the ensiform cartilage. The lower segment of the bone, often called ensiform cartilage, varies considerably in different individuals. In its simplest form it is a thin spatula-like process projecting downwards between the cartilages of the seventh ribs. It is, however, subject to very frequent varieties of form ; being sometimes bent forwards, sometimes backwards, often forked, and sometimes perforated. It projects into the aponeurosis of the abdominal muscles. The sternum is subject to many varieties. Tt is sometimes divided vertically in the whole or a part of its length. It is not unfrequently much shorter than usual, and indented at its lower part, as occurs especially from the pressure of the cobbler's last. Two episternal nodules have been found in some rare cases surmounting the incisura of the manubrium. (Breschet, " Annates des Sciences Naturelles," 2d series, v. 10, Zoologie, p. 191 ; and Luschka, "Die Halsrippen und die Ossa supra-sternalia," Vienna, 1859.) Their position is indicated by the asterisks (**) in figure 24, E. They derive an additional interest from the occurrence of suprasternal bones in reptiles and monotremata. THE BIBS. The ribs (costai) are twelve in number on each side. They form a series of arched and highly elastic bones, which extend outwards and forwards from the vertebral column, and form the lateral walls of the thorax. Their anterior extremities give attachment to cartilaginous prolongations—the costal cartilages, the first seven pairs of which pass forward to the sternum. On this account the first seven pairs of ribs are called sternal, or true ribs, while the remaining five pairs are called asternal, or false ribs.