BONE. cx are opened by absorption, and the Fig. LV. Fig. LV.—Thin Longitudinal Section op the Growing End op the Shaft op the Metatarsal Bone op a Slink Calf, magnified. The upper part of the figure shows four groups of cartilage cells, with calcified matrix between them forming the walls of four primary areolae filled as yet by the original cartilage cells, except at the lower part where these are replaced by granular corpuscles. Lower down are two oblong spaces (secondary or medullary cavities) ; one, indicated by d, is nearly filled by granular corpuscles and vessels, the other is vacant. The walls of these spaces are beginning to be lined with secondary osseous deposit, shown in the figure as a lighter layer, 6, b, and b ; c, c, and c, are corpuscles about to be imbedded in the ossifying substance and inclosed in laminae ; g, a cartilage cell of which the body has shrunk from the inside of the capsule. After H. Miiller and Kolliker. * Studier och Undersokningar ofver lar bodies contained within them (i. e. the proper cell-bodies) produce by fissi- parous multiplication the granular osteo- blastic cells which succeed them. On the other hand, Lovgn* has suggested, and, as I think, with more probability, that the osteoblastic corpuscles properly belong to the vascular processes of the subperiosteal tissue, which, as already stated, penetrate the new-formed bone and spread throughout its cavernulated structure. The excavation and removal of the cartilage, as well as the partial absorption of the walls of the bony cavi- ties, is no doubt effected by this tissue, and the abundant osteoblastic cells which appear in it are most probably derived by descent from similar cells equally abundant beneath the periosteum. The cells or corpuscles in question, in what- ever way produced, are disposed in a layer or layers upon the walls of the secondary or medullary spaces, in immediate con- tact with the new osteogenic deposit, which here, as in the intra-membranous ossification, they probably secrete. Here too the osteogenic substance is finely reticular, and retains that character when calcified ; for the secondary bony deposit is formed in layers made up of finely reticulating fibres, like the lamelke of perfect bone shown in fig. xlv. On a careful inspection, and with a certain adjustment of the light, fine striae may be seen in many parts indicating the obliquely decussating fibres of the new- formed laminae. The structure in some measure reminds us of the secondary deposit inside the oblong cells of the wood of coniferous trees, in which the ligneous matter is arranged in fibres, or rather in fine lines, running obliquely round the wall of the cell and crossing one another in alternate layers. The lacunae are formed, as described in the intra-membranous ossification, by some of the granular corpuscles becom- ing imbedded in the osteogenic sub- stance, and inclosed in a cavity formed round them by its further deposit. La- cunae formed from cartilage cells exist but very scantily. Examples occur in articular cartilage, and in that of the pubic symphysis, when, as commonly happens in mature life, the part of these tissues adjoining the bone is encroached on by a species of ossification, as no- ticed at page xcix. The ossifying pro- cess in this case is mere calcification of the cartilage, and stellate lacunae, not Benvafnaden. Stockholm. 1863.