THE KNEE-JOINT. 155 is frequently divided into two by this ligament, and between the ligament and the tendon there is a synovial bursa. Further back is another band, the short external lateral ligament, the arrangement of which is more variable, often connected with the tendon of the poplifceus muscle, and occasionally terminating in the capsular membrane. The posterior ligament is a flat fasciculus of fibres passing from behind the inner tuberosity of the tibia upwards and outwards to the external condyle of the femur, and is in part continuous at its inner end with the tendon of the semi-membranosus muscle. The ligamentum patellce is a strong fiat band, of a tendinous nature, attached superiorly to the lower extremity of the patella, and the depression beneath its articular surface, and inferiorly to the anterior tubercle of the tibia. Between the tibia and the ligament, near its insertion, is placed a synovial bursa. If the patella be considered a sesamoid bone, this ligament may be regarded as part of the tendon of the rectus femoris muscle. The crucial ligaments, placed in the centre of the joint, pass from the sides of the intercondyloid fossa to the spaces in front of and behind the spine of the tibia. They decussate somewhat like the lines of the letter X. The anterior or external ligament is fixed by its lower extremity to the inner part of the pit before the spine of the tibia, and by its upper extremity it is inserted into the inner and hinder part of the external condyle of the femur; hence its direction is upwards, backwards, and outwards. The posterior or internal ligament is attached inferiorly to the back of the pit behind the tibial spine, and superiorly to the fore part of the intercondyloid hollow, as well as slightly to the side of the inner condyle of the femur ; its fibres are directed upwards and a little forwards. The semilunar cartilages are two crescent-shaped inter-articular fibro- cartilages, placed on the articulating surfaces of the head of the tibia, and interposed between these and the condyles of the femur. They have each a synovial surface above and below, and a convex border, which is thick, while the concave border is thinned to a fine edge, and the part of the articular surface of the tibia within the concave border of each cartilage is left uncovered. At their extremities they are fibrous, and are firmly fixed to the head of the tibia, whilst by the circumference they are connected with the fibrous capsule of the joint. Fig. 142.—View of the Interarticular Fibro- Cartilages op the right Knee-joint, from above, as they lie on the upper surface of the Tibia, with the Crucial Ligaments divided, and the llgamenxum patellib turned for- WARDS. I 1, ligamentum patellae ; 2, the inner, or semicircular fibro-cartilage ; 3, the outer, or nearly circular one ; 4, is placed above the anterior tuberosity of the tibia in front of the transverse ligament ; 5, the cut end of the anterior crucial ligament directed obliquely to- wards the outer side and backwards ; 6, the cut end of the posterior crucial ligament, from which fibres are seen descending to the outer fibro-cartilage; 6', tibial attachment of the posterior crucial ligament ; 7, fbe head of the fibula ; 8, the synovial surface of the tibia, which extends for some way downwards towards the tibio-fibular synovial sac, with which it is sometimes continuous. The internal semilunar cartilage, elongated from before backwards, is nearly of a semicircular form : its anterior cornu is small and pointed, and is inserted into an impression at the fore and outer part of the internal articular surface of the tibia ; its posterior end is attached to the inner