x DEVELOPMENT OF THE TEXTURES. account of the development of the tissues of vegetables ; for it was in conse- quence of the discoveries made in the vegetable kingdom that the happy- idea arose of applying the principle of cell-development to explain the formation of animal structures, and they still afford important aid in the study of that, as yet, more obscure process. OUTLINE OF THE FORMATION- OF VEGETABLE STRUCTURE. When a thin slice from the succulent part of a plant is viewed under the microscope, it is seen to consist chiefly or entirely of a multitude of vesicles adhering together, of a rounded or angular form, and containing various coloured or colourless matters in their Fig. I. interior; these are the elementary cells (fig. 1.; fig. ii.,12). These cells are so constructed that their walls are in close apposition, or are separated only by an intercellular substance, which, according to Hugo von Mohl,* has so great a similarity to the sub- stance of the cell-walls that it is often im- possible, even with the aid of chemical re-agents, to discover a line of demar- cation between them. That eminent Fig. I.—Nucleated Cells from a phytologist supposes that within what Bulbous Root ; magnified 290 dia- is commonly called the cell-wall there meters (Schwann). exists an extremely delicate mem- brane, constituting an interior vesicle, which he names the "Primordial utricle." This is in most cases so closely ajjplied to the exterior wall as to be undistinguishable ; but in young cells, and in those of strictly cellular plants, such as the Algse, &c, during the whole of their existence it may, according to Mohl, be separated by treating the tissue with alcohol, or hydrochloric or nitric acid, and then the interior vesicle appears shrivelled up and separated from the wall of the cavity. But the reality of the alleged primordial utricle has been called in question, and the supposed internal membrane is held to be merely the limiting sur- face of the cell-contents shrunk away from the inside of the containing cavity, and perhaps somewhat consolidated and defined by the re-agents employed. Still, whether the cell-contents have a vesicular limiting mem- brane or not, they originally present a marked contrast in chemical nature to the containing cell-wall and inter-cellular substance, and would appear to fulfil a different purpose in the process of tissue development.f Besides such cells, pheenogamous or flowering plants contain tubes, vessels, and other forms of tissue (fig. n. ,4 6) ; but a great many plants of the class cryptogamia are composed entirely of cells, variously modified, it is true, to suit their several destinations, but fundamentally the same throughout ; nay, there are certain very simple modes of vegetable existence, in which a single cell may constitute an entire plant, as in the well-known green powdery crust which coats over the trunks of trees, damp walls, and * Die vegetabilische Zelle ; or English translation by Henfrey. f See an interesting discussion of this subject by Mr. Huxley in the British and Foreign Medical Review for 1853.