CCXXL SECRETING GLANDS. tain biliary matter, and others contain fat; and in the recent soft part of the epidermis and its appendages, it is quite common to see cells filled with pigment mixed with others which are colourless. A secreting apparatus, effectual for the purpose which it is essentially destined to fulfil, may thus be said substantially to consist of a simple membrane, named the membrana propria or basement membrane (marked a in the plan, fig. cxxvi.), supporting a layer of secreting cells on one of its surfaces (indicated by the dotted line b, in the figure), whilst finely-ramified blood-vessels are spread over the other (c). But whilst the structure may remain essentially the same, the configuration of the secreting surface, or (what amounts to the same thing) of the supporting basement membrane, presents various modifications in different secreting organs. In some cases, the secreting surface is plain, or, at least, expanded, as in various parts of tile serous, synovial, and mucous membranes, which may be looked on as Fig. CXXVI.—Plan of a Secreting Membrane. a, membrana propria or basement membrane ; b, epitlielium, composed of secreting nucleated cells ; c, layer of capillary blood-vessels. examples of comparatively simple forms of secreting apparatus ; but, in other instances, and particularly in the special secretory organs named glands, the surface of the secreting membrane is variously involved and complicated. An obvious, and no doubt a principal, purpose of this com- plication is to increase the extent of the secreting surface in a secreting organ, and thus augment the quantity of secretion yielded by it. No connection has been clearly shown to exist between the quality of the secretion and the particular configuration, either internal or external, of the organ ; on the other hand, we know that the same kind of secretion that is derived from a complex organ in one animal, may be produced by an apparatus of most simple form in another. The more immediate purpose of the complication of the secreting mem- brane being to augment its surface within a comparatively circumscribed space, two principal modes are found by which the membrane is so in- creased in extent, namely, by rising or protruding, in form of a prominent fold or some otherwise shaped projection (fig. cxxvu., d, e), or by retiring, in form of a recess (fig. cxxvm., g, h). The first-mentioned mode of increase, or that by protrusion, is not what is most generally followed in nature, still it is not without example, and, as in- stances, we may cite the Haversian fringes of the synovial membranes, the urinary organ of the snail, which is formed of membranous lamella}, and perhaps, also, the choroid plexuses in the brain, and the ciliary processes in the eye-ball, although secretion may not be the primary office of the last- mentioned structures. In most of these cases, the membrane assumes the form of projecting folds, which, for the sake of further increase of sur- face, may be again plaited and complicated, or cleft and fringed, at their borders (fig. cxxvil, e, /). The plan of augmenting the secreting surface by recession or inversion of the membrane, in form of a cavity, is, with few exceptions, that generally Fig. CXXVI.