Ixxiii AREOLAR TISSUE. sheath (Kolliker) ; and it will be afterwards noticed as constituting a special form or variety of connective tissue occurring elsewhere. The elastic fibres lie, for the most part, without order, among the bundles of white filaments; but here and there we see an elastic fibre winding round one of these bundles, and encircling it with several spiral turns. When acetic acid is applied, the fasciculus swells out between the constricting turns of the winding fibre, and presents a highly characteristic appearance (c). This remarkable disposition of the elastic fibres, which was pointed out by Henle, is not uncommon in certain parts of the areolar tissue; it may be always seen in that which accompanies the arteries at the base of the brain. It must be observed, however, that the encircling fibre sometimes forms not a continuous spiral, but several separate rings; moreover, the whole appearance is explained by some histologists on the supposition that the bundles in question are naturally invested with a delicate sheath, which, like the elastic tissue, resists acetic acid, but, on the swelling up of the bundle under the operation of that agent, is rent into shreds or segments, mostly annular or spiral, which cause the con- strictions. Kolliker, who admits that some fasciculi have a sheath, yet supposes that in these, as well as in naked bundles, the encircling fibres are produced by prolonga- tions from the corpuscles (to be immediately noticed), uniting in form of a thread, or of a network wrapped round the bundle. Bodies, mostly with nuclei, and of the nature of cells, although not shown to possess a distinct cell-wall, are found in the areolar tissue. These are the connective-tissue corpuscles. Some lie iu the meshes of the tissue, others are included within the fasciculi. The former are of no very regular shape, rounded or oval (as in fig. xxxrv.), or, as described in the frog by Kiihne, having a stellate or jagged outline with processes or offsets of unequal size and length, here and there connected with processes from neighbouring corpuscles :—in short, misshapen little masses of protoplasm, but containing usually a well-formed oval nucleus and conspicuous nucleolus. Those within the fasciculi are fusiform, with pointed ends, and lie length- wise in the direction of the fasciculus (as shown, though imperfectly, in fig. xxxvi. a). These bodies were imagined to be hollow, and by the intercommunication of their supposed tubular offsets, it was conceived that they formed a system of reticulating canals destined to distribute nutritive fluid to the connective tissue and other parts into which that tissue enters. But, though soft, they are evidently solid objects, and though they probably effect some chemical change, or exert some other influence on the interstitial nutritive plasma, or in some other way minister to nutrition, it is clearly not as a system of channels for the conveyance of fluid. In the frog they exhibit slow but distinct movements and changes of shape, like the pale blood-cor- puscles ; and they may be regarded as cells retaining their primitive protoplasmic condition, and subservient not only to the nutrition, but to the extension and repair of tissues. There can be little doubt, moreover, that they are largely concerned in pathological and degenerative, as well as in reparative processes. The areolar tissue contains a considerable quantity of water, and conse- quently loses much of its weight by drying. It is almost wholly resolved into gelatine by boiling in water. Acetic acid causes it, that is, the bundles of white fibrils, to swell up into a soft, transparent, jelly-like mass. Numerous blood-vessels are seen in the areolar tissue after a minute injection. These for the most part only pass through it on their way to other more vascular textures, but a few seem to end in capillaries destined for the tissue itself, and dense clusters of vessels are distributed to the fat lobules. Large lymphatic vessels proceeding to distant parts also pass along this texture, and abundant lymphatic networks may be discovered in many parts of the subcutaneous, subserous, and submucous areolar tissue, haviug