CHANGES OF CELLS IN THE xxii growing cells meet one another, they generally become angular or poly- hedral ; and this change may be combined with elongation into the pris- matic or flattening into the tabular form, as exemplified in the columnar and scaly varieties of epithelium. A more remarkable change of figure occurs in those instances where a cell sends out branches at various points of its circumference, as happens with certain varieties of pigment-cells (fig. xiv.), connective tissue-corpuscles, and nerve-cells. Of course when the changes of figure are accom- panied by an absolute increase in size, there must be assumption of new matter by the cell. The nucleus seems to be less subject to alteration in size and shape. It may grow somewhat larger as the cell increases, especially at first ; thus it enlarges and flattens in epithelium cells. In the cells of non-striated muscle it becomes oblong or rod-shaped. Sometimes it disappears, as in the flattened cells of the cuticle. 2. Whilst the above-described changes of figure are going on, the cell wall may acquire increased density and strength; and in a flattened cell, when much extended, the opposite sides may co- here so as to convert it into a scale. The thicken- ing of the cell-membrane may take place by deposition of new matter on its inner surface, as in vegetable cells, or on the outside, as is pro- bably the case in the partial thickening of the cell-wall in certain forms of intestinal epithelium; but there are cases in which it is difficult to determine in what way the change is affected. The substance of a cell thus condensed may have changed more or less in chemical nature, as in the cuticle, where the cells, while deep-seated and recently formed, are soluble in acetic acid, but as they rise to the surface lose this property and acquire a horny character. 3. Changes may take place in the cell-contents. Granular matter in cells may be dissolved and consumed, as is well seen in the formation of blood-corpuscles from granular cells in the oviparous vertebrata. On the other hand, new matters may appear, as fat and pigment within the adipose and pigmentous cells, and the peculiar constituents of certain secretions in the cells of secreting organs, in which last case the cells may burst and dis- charge their contents. Lastly, the process may take on more of a plastic and organising character, as in the generation of young cells, already ' described, and the formation of the spontaneously moving bodies named spermatozoa, which are produced from the nuclei of cells. These plastic changes are equally unexplained with the other alterations of form and structure which accompany the production and metamorphoses of cells. As regards the changes in the quantity and chemical nature of the contained matter, it may be remarked, that the introduction of new matter into a cell is so far a phe- nomenon of imbibition, and, as such, must be to a certain extent dependent on the endosmotic effect produced by the substance already within the cell, and on the comparative facility with which the matter to be introduced is imbibed and transmitted by the permeable cell-wall. Some substances, moreover, being more readily imbibed than others, the quality as well as the quantity of the imbibed material will be so far Fig. XIV. Fig. XIV.—Ramified and Fusiform Cells, from the tissue of the choroid Coat of the Eye ; magni- fied 350 diameters (after Kolliker). a, cells with pigment ; b, colourless fusiform cells.