4 VERTEBRAL COLUMN. and arranged. Superiorly, it supports the skull; laterally, the ribs are attached to it, through which it receives the weight of the upper limbs; and near its inferior extremity it rests upon the pelvic bones, which communicate the weight of the body to the lower limbs. Besides being a pillar of support to the rest of the skeleton, it furnishes protection to the spinal cord by enclosing it in an osseous canal. It is composed of a series of bones, called vertebrae, the most of which are united together by joints and elastic sub- stance, and a few by bony connection, in such a manner that, although the amount of motion allowed between each pair is slight, the aggregate of that in the whole is sufficient to give the column very considerable flexibility. The twenty-four upper vertebrae remain separate in the adult, and retain their mobility: they increase in size from above downwards. They are suc- ceeded by five others, which rapidly diminish in size from above downwards, and which are united into one mass, called the sacrum; beyond the sacrum are four dwindled terminal members of the series, which as age advances become likewise united, and form the coccyx. Thus the column may be said to consist of two irregular pyramids, the common base of which is at the superior extremity of the sacrum. THE MOVEABLE VERTEBRAE. GENERAL CHARACTERS. The general characters of the vertebrae are best exhibited in those which are placed near the middle of the column. Those at the extremities present a greater number of distinctive peculiarities. The following description is applicable to the great majority of moveable vertebrae. Each vertebra has more or less the form of a ring, and presents for con- sideration a body, arch, and processes. The body, the large mass in the anterior part of the vertebra, is a short cylinder, which, when united by elastic intervertebral plates with the others of the series, contributes to form a firm but flexible pillar of support. Anteriorly, it is rounded forwards, and slightly hollowed from above down- wards. Posteriorly, it forms part of the ring, and is slightly hollowed from side to side. Its superior and inferior surfaces are nearly flat, excepting in the cervical region, and give attachment to the intervertebral plates. The vertical surfaces are pierced by numerous foramina for blood-vessels, princi- pally veins : one or more of these, situated near the middle of the posterior surface exceeds the other greatly in size. The arch consists of two symmetrical halves which spring from the body, towards its back part, and meet in the middle line behind. The anterior part of each lateral half, rounded and narrow, is called the pedicle; the posterior part is broad and flat, and is called the lamina or plate. The spinous process or spine projects backwards from the arch in the middle line. The appearance presented by the linear series of spinous pro- cesses has led to the application of the name spine to the whole column. The transverse processes, placed one at each side, project outwards from the arch. The articulating processes, two superior and two inferior, project upwards and downwards from the laminae. They are furnished with articular surfaces, coated with cartilage, which in the superior processes look back- wards, and in the inferior look forwards, so that the former face the latter in adjoining vertebrae. The concavities on the upper and lower borders of the pedicles are named notches, and constitute by the apposition of those of contiguous vertebrae the