451 BRANCHES OF THE DORSAL ARTERY. (c) The first interosseous branch, or dorsal artery of the great toe, is con- Fig. 308.—Anterior view of the Arteriks op the Leg and Dorsum of the Foot (from Tiedemann). \ The tibialis anticus muscle is drawn towards the inner side so as to bring the anterior tibial artery into view, the extensor proprius pollicis, the long common extensor of the toes, and the peroneous tertius muscles in their lower part, ani the whole of the extensor communis brevis, have been removed. 1, external superior articular branch of the popliteal artery, ramifying on the parts surrounding the knee ; and anastomosing with the other articular branches and with 2, the recurrent branch of the anterior tibial artery; 3, 3, anterior tibial, giving off muscular branches on each side ; 4, dorsal artery of the foot; 5, external anterior malleolar artery coming off from the anterior tibial and anastomosing with the anterior peroneal artery which is seen descending upon the lower part of the fibula : the internal malleolar is represented proceeding from the other side of the anterior tibial artery ; 6, the tarsal branch of the dorsal artery, represented in this instance as larger than usual and furnishing some of the branches of the next artery ; 7, the metatarsal branch, giving off the dorsal inter- osseous arteries ; (in the first interosseous space the dorsal artery of the foot is seen to give off the anasto- mosing branch which unites with the deep plantar arch ;) between 8 and 8, the collateral branches of the dorsal digital arteries. Fig. 308. tiiraed forwards from the dorsal artery of the foot at the point where it dips down to the sole. This branch runs along the outer surface of the first metatarsal bone, aud furnishes the small dorsal digital vessels of the great toe and adjacent side of the second toe. (d) The plantar digital branch of the, innermost space, given off from the dorsal artery between the heads of the first interosseous muscle, near the inosculation with the plantar arch, passing forwards divides into two smaller branches which proceed along the contiguous sides of the first and second toe. (e) The plantar digital branch for the inner side of the great toe crosses beneath the first metatarsal bone, and runs along the inner side of the great toe on its plantar surface. Peculiarities of the anterior tibial artery. Origin. —In cases of early division of the popliteal artery, the place of origin of the anterior tibial is necessarily higher up than usual, being sometimes found as high as the bend of the knee-joint. In some of these cases (the posterior tibial artery being small or wanting), the anterior tibial is conjoined with the peroneal artery. When the anterior tibial arises higher than usual, the additional upper part of the vessel has been seen resting on the posterior surface of the popliteus muscle, and it has been likewise found between that muscle and the bone.