cxv MUSCULAR TISSUE. skeleton are for the most part formed by the junction of two, but more generally of three or more nuclei round the aperture or included space. The vertebral rings, the acetabulum, the occipital foramen, and the cranium itself, are illustrations of this. It is easy to conceive that in this way the ready and equable enlargement of such cavities and apertures is provided for. 3. Bones of a complex figure, like the ver- tebrae, have usually many nuclei; but the converse is not always true. 4. We can frequently connect the number of nuclei with the principle of uniformity of type on which the skeleton of vertebrated animals is constructed. Thus the typical form of the sternum seems to be that of a series of distinct bones, one placed between each pair of ribs in front, as the vertebras are behind, and this is its permanent condition in many quadrupeds. In man it conforms to the archetype in its mode of formation, in so far as it is ossified from several centres, and for some time consists of several pieces; but, to suit the fabric of the human thorax, these at last coalesce one with another, and are reduced in number to three. In the reunion of fractured bones, osseous matter is formed between and around the broken ends, connecting them firmly together ; and when a portion of bone dies, as happens in necrosis, a growth of new bone very generally takes place to a greater or less extent, and the dead part is thrown off. The several steps of the process of restoration in these instances are so fully described in works on Surgical Pathology, that it is unnecessary to add to the length of this chapter by introducing an account of them here. MUSCULAR TISSUE. The muscular tissue is that by means of -which the active movements of the body are produced. It consists of fine fibres, which are for the most part collected into distinct organs called muscles, and in this form it is familiarly known as the flesh of animals. These fibres are also disposed round the sides of cavities and between the coats of hollow viscera, forming strata of greater or less thickness. The muscular fibres are endowed with contractility, a remarkable and characteristic property, by virtue of which they shrink or contract more or less rapidly under the influence of certain causes which are capable of exciting or calling into play the property in question, and which are therefore named stimuli. A large class of muscles, comprehending those of locomotion, respiration, expression, and some others, are excited by the stimulus of the will, or volition, acting on them through the nerves ; these are therefore named " voluntary muscles/' although some of them habitually, and all occasionally, act also in obe- dience to other stimuli. There are other muscles or muscular fibres which are entirely withdrawn from the control of the will, such as those of the heart and intestinal canal, and these are accordingly named " involuntary." These two classes of muscles differ not only in the mode in which they are excited to act, but also to a certain extent in their anatomical charac- ters ; and on this account we shall consider the structure of each class separately. Of the structure of voluntary muscles.—The voluntary muscular fibres are for the most part gathered into distinct masses or muscles of various sizes and shapes, but most generally of an oblong form, and furnished with tendons at either extremity, by which they are fixed to the bones. The two attached extremities of a muscle are named, in anatomical de- scriptions, its origin and insertion,—the former term being usually applied to the attachment which is considered to be most fixed, although the rule cannot be always applied strictly. The fleshy part is named the belly, which in some cases is interrupted in the middle or divided into two by a tendon, and then the muscle is said to be biveutral or digastric ; on