SUPERFICIAL INGUINAL BRANCHES. 437 lower end of Scarpa's space, and afterwards gets somewhat to the outer side. The deep femoral vein, near its termination, crosses behind the femoral artery ; and the long saphenous vein, as it ascends on the fore part of the limb, lies to the inner side ; but it not unfrequently happens that a superficial vein of considerable size ascends for some space directly over the artery. Relation to Nerves.—At the groin the anterior crural nerve lies a little to the outer side of the femoral artery (about a quarter of an inch), separated from the vessel by some fibres of the psoas muscle and by the sheath and fascia. Lower down in the thigh, the long saphenous nerve accompanies the artery until this vessel perforates the adductor magnus. There are likewise small cutaneous nerves which cross the artery. Branches.—The femoral artery gives off the following branches :—some small and superficial, which are distributed to the integument and glands of the groin and ramify on the lower part of the abdomen, viz., the ex- ternal pudic (superior and inferior), the superficial epigastric, and the super- ficial circumflex iliac ; the great nutrient artery of the muscles of the thigh, named the deep femoral ; several muscular branches ; and lastly, the anasto- motic artery, which descends on the inner side of the knee-joint. The portion of the femoral artery extending from its commencement to the origin of the deep femoral, a part varying from an inch to tvyo inches in length, is some- times distinguished by surgical writers as the common femoral, and described as dividing into the superficial and deep femoral arteries. I. Superficial inguinal branches.—The external pudic arteries arise either separately or by a common trunk from the inner side of the femoral artery. The superior, the more superficial branch, courses upwards and in- wards to the pubic spine, crosses the external abdominal ring, passing in the male over the spermatic cord, and is distributed to the integuments on the lower part of the abdomen, and on the external organs of generation. The inferior branch, more deeply seated, extends inwards, resting on the pec- tineus muscle, and covered by the fascia lata, which it pierces on reaching the inner border of the thigh, and is distributed to the scrotum in the male, or to the labium in the female, its branches inosculating with those of the superficial perineal artery. The superficial epigastric artery, arising from the femoral vessel, about half an inch below Poupart's ligament, passes forwards through the fascia lata, and runs upwards on the abdomen in the superficial fascia covering the external oblique muscle. Its branches, ascending nearly as high as the umbilicus, anastomose with superficial branches of the epigastric and internal mammary arteries. The superficial circumflex iliac artery runs outwards in the direction of Poupart's ligament towards the iliac spine, across the psoas and iliacus muscles : to both of these it gives small branches, as also some others which pierce the fascia lata ; it is distributed to the integument. All the preceding arteries give small branches to the lymphatic glands in the groin. II. The deep femoral artery—(profunda femoris) the principal nutri- tious vessel of the thigh, is an artery of considerable calibre, being nearly equal in size to the continuation of the femoral after the origin of this great branch. It usually arises from the outer and back part of the femoral artery, between an inch and two inches below Poupart's ligament. At its