cxxx MUSCULAR TISSUE. been adopted by many succeeding authorities, especially by writers on pathology. Haller, in his use of the term irritability, restricted it to the peculiar property of muscle. Stimuli.—In order to cause contraction, the muscle must be excited by a stimulus. The stimulus may be applied immediately to the muscular tissue, as when the fibres are irritated with a sharp point; or it may be applied to the nerve or nerves which belong to the muscle: in the former case, the stimulus is said to be "immediate," in the latter, " remote." The nerve does not contract, but it has the property, when stimulated, of exciting contractions in the muscular fibres to which it is distributed, and this property, named the " vis nervosa," is distinguished from contractility, which is confined to the muscle. Again, a stimulus may be either directly applied to the nerve of the muscle, as when that nerve is itself mechanically irritated or galva- nised ; or it may be first made to act on certain other nerves, by which its influence is, so to speak, conducted in the first instance to the brain or spinal cord, and then transferred or reflected to the muscular nerve. The stimuli to which muscles are obedient are of various kinds; those best ascer- tained are the following, viz.: 1. Mechanical irritation of almost any sort, under which head is to be included sudden extension of the muscular fibres. 2. Chemical stimuli, as by the application of salt or acrid substances. 3. Electrical; usually by means of a galvanic current made to pass through the muscular fibres or along the nerve. 4. Sudden heat or cold; these four may be classed together as physical stimuli. Next, mental stimuli, viz.: 1. The operation of the will, or volition. 2. Emotions, and some other involuntary states of the mind. Lastly, there still remain exciting causes of muscular motions in the economy, which, although they may pro- bably turn out to be physical, are as yet of doubtful nature, and these until better known may perhaps without impropriety be called organic stimuli; to this head may be also referred, at least provisionally, some of the stimuli which excite convul- sions and other involuntary motions which occur in disease. Duration of irritability after death.—It is known that if the supply of nutrient material be cut off from a muscle by arresting the flow of blood into it, its contrac- tility will be impaired, and soon extinguished altogether, but will, after a time, be recovered again if the supply of blood be restored. The influence of the blood sup- plied to muscles in maintaining their contractility has been strikingly shown by Dr. Brown-Sequard, who has succeeded in restoring muscular contractility in the bodies both of man and animals some time after death, and after it had become to all ap- pearance extinct, by injecting into the vessels arterial blood deprived of its fibrin, or defibrinated venous blood previously reddened by exposure to the air. In warm- blooded animals in which the nutritive process is more active, and the expenditure of force more rapid, the maintenance of irritability is more closely dependent on the supply of blood and the influence of oxygen, so that it sooner fails after these are cut off. In accordance with this statement it is known that while the muscles of man and quadrupeds cease to be irritable within a few hours after death, and those of birds still sooner, the muscular irritability will remain in many reptiles and fish, even for days after the extinction of sensation and volition, and the final cessation of the respiration and circulation,—that is, after systemic death. A difference of the same kind is observed among warm-blooded animals in different conditions; thus irritability endures longer in new-born animals than in those which have enjoyed respiration for some time and are more dependent on that function; and in like manner, it is very lasting in hybernating animals killed during their winter sleep. But the duration of this property differs also in different muscles of the same animal. From numerous careful observations Nysten concluded that in the human body its extinction takes place in the following order, viz. : 1, the left ventricle of the heart; 2, the intestines and stomach; 3, the urinary bladder; 4, the right ventricle; in these generally within an hour; 5, the gullet; 6, the iris; 7, the voluntary muscles, a, of the trunk, b, of the lower, and c, the upper extremities j 8, the left auricle, and, 9, the right auricle of the heart, which last was on this account styled by Galen the " ultimum moriens." In one case Nysten observed the right auricle to continue irritable for sixteen hours and a half after death. But it has been recently found that a voluntary muscle will give signs of a certain degree of