liii SCALY EPITHELIUM. Pi* XX. applied, following accurately all its eminences, depressions and inequalities. Epithelium when destroyed or cast off, is, for the most part, very readily regenerated. In accordance with the varied purposes which the epithelium is destined to fulfil, the cells of which it is composed come to differ in different situa- tions, in figure and size, in their position in respect of each other, their degree of mutual cohesion, and in the nature of the matter they contain, as well as in the vital endowments which they manifest ; and founded on these modifications of its constituent cells, or, at any rate, those forming the superficial layer, four principal varieties of epithelium have been recognised, namely, the scaly, the columnar, the spheroidal, and the ciliated, each of which will now be described in particular. It may first be remarked, however, that amidst these changes the nucleus of the cell undergoes little alteration, and its characters are accordingly remarkably uniform throughout. It is round or oval, and more or less flattened ; its diameter measures from ^Lgtli to ^Q^th of an inch, or more. Its substance is insoluble in acetic acid, and colourless, or but slightly tinted. It usually contains one or two nucleoli, distinguished by their strong dark outline ; and a variable number of more faintly-marked granules irregularly scattered. For the most part, the nucleus is persistent, but in some cases it disappears from the cell. Scaly Epithelium. — The scaly, lamellar, tabular, or flattened epithelium (comprehend- ing, in part, the pavement or tesselated epithelium of the German anatomists). In this variety the epithelium particles have the form of small angular plates, or thin scales ; in some situations forming a single thin layer, in others accumulating in many super-imposed strata, so as to afford to the parts they cover a defensive coating of considerable strength and thickness. As a simple layer, it is found on the serous, and some synovial membranes, the inner surface of the heart, blood-vessels and absorbents ; also partly lining the cerebral ventricles and covering the choroid plexuses ; on certain parts within the eye and ear, and in some gland ducts. If the surface of the peritoneum, pleura, pericardium, or other serous membrane be gently scraped with the edge of a knife, a small quantity of soft matter will be brought away, which, when examined with the microscope, will be found to contain little shred-like fragments of epithelium, in which a few of its constituent particles still hold together, like the pieces composing a mosaic work (fig. xx.). These particles, which are flat- tened cells, have for the most part a polygonal figure, and are united to each other by their edges. Each has a nucleus, apparently in or near the centre. The addition of weak acetic acid renders the angular outline of the cells as well as the nucleus more distinct. The cells differ somewhat in size on dif- ferent parts of the serous membrane ; and those which cover the plexus choroides send downwards short, pointed, transparent processes towards the subjacent tissue. The epithelium of the vascular system resembles in many parts that of Fig. XX.—Fragment of Epi- thelium prom a Serous Membrane (Peritoneum) ; magnified 410 diameters. a, cell; b, nucleus ; c, nu- cleoli (Henle).