222 MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. forming a fibrous expansion, which covers the back of the first and second digital phalanges, and terminates upon the third phalanx. It is attached to the second and third phalanges in the following manner :—Opposite the first bone the tendon divides into three fasciculi; the central one is much thinner than the others, and is inserted into the base of the second phalanx ; the two lateral parts, continuing onwards, are joined together towards the middle or fore part of the second phalanx, Fig. 183. and having passed beyond this, are inserted into the last phalanx. On the index and little fingers the tendons are joined before their division, by the special extensor tendons of those digits. Fig. 183.—Deep Posterior Muscles of the Forearm. £ a, posterior surface of the humerus above the olecranon fossa; h, upper and back part of the olecranon ; c, outer and back part of the middle of the radius ; d, lower part of the ulna, grooved for the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris ; e, base of the second metacarpal bone ; 1, anconeus muscle; 2, surface of the flexor digitorum profundus, exposed by the removal of the aponeurotic tendon of the flexor; 3, carpi ulnaris ; 4, extensor carpi radialis brevior, and 5, the cut tendon of the extensor carpi radialis longior, both descending to their insertion at e, into the second and third metacarpal bones ; 6, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis ; 6', its insertion into the first metacarpal bone ; 7, extensor primi internodii pollicis ; 7', its insertion into the base of the first phalanx; 8, extensor secundi internodii pollicis ; 8', its insertion into the base of the last phalanx ; 9, extensor indicis; 9', its junction with the tendon of the common extensor, which is cut short : in the metatarsal spaces the four dorsal interossei muscles are represented, the tendons of the common extensor having been removed ; and at 10, the insertion of the second and third dorsal interossei, by a triangular expansion, into the tendon of the extensor communis, as well as the mode of insertion of that tendon into the middle and last phalanges, are shown. On the back of the hand the tendon of the ring-finger gives off two processes, one on each side, which pass obliquely downwards to join the tendons of the middle and little fingers : in consequence of this arrange- ment it follows that if those two fingers be flexed, the tendon to the ring-finger is held downwards, and it becomes impossible to extend that finger by the action of the muscle. The tendon of the index finger is only united to that of the middle finger by a loose, transverse, semitransparent band of fibres, and is free in its action. A synovial membrane invests the tendons of this muscle as they pass under the annular ligament. The extensor minimi digiti is a slender muscle which is placed between the extensor communis digitorum and the extensor carpi ulnaris, and arises by