cxxvii DEVELOPMENT AND GEOWTH. Fig. LXXIII. generally divides into two, and by further division these are multiplied ; a fine membrane, at first absent or invisible, is soon discovered, bounding the cell and inclosing its contents. In the mean time the substance becomes striated longitudinally at one part, and more transparent, the granules dis- appearing. The striation, which is the first indication of the proper muscular substance, extends throughout the length of the elongated cell, but at first affects only a small part of its breadth, and the remaining space is occupied by unchanged granular matter and the nucleus or nuclei which lie on one side. In due time, however, this conversion into the proper muscular substance, further shown by the appearance of cross strise, proceeds through the whole thickness of the cell, or fibre as it may now be called ; the inclosing cell-membrane becomes the sarcolemma, and the nuclei, with a small residue of the granular protoplasm still adhering to them, remain. Growth of muscles.—The muscular fibres of the growing foetus, after having acquired their characteristic form and structure, continue to increase in size till the time of birth, and thenceforward up to adult age. In a full grown foetus most of them measure twice, and some of them three or four times their size at the middle of foetal life ; and in the adult they are about five times as large as at birth. This increase in bulk of the individual fibres would, of course, so far account for the con- comitant enlargement of the entire muscles. But there would seem to be also a multiplication of the fibres ; and Budge believes he has proved this as regards the muscles of frogs. Two modes of production of new fibres have been described—viz. first, from connective tissue corpuscles lying between the existing fibres, by a process analogous to the original development of the muscle (von Wittich) ; secondly, by the splitting up of a fibre through its whole length into two or more smaller ones ; preceded by multiplication of its included nuclei. This second process has been observed by Weismann and by Kolliker in frogs, in the winter season, and appears to serve for the replacement of fibres destroyed by fatty degeneration, which is said to be not uncommon in these creatures. Dr. Beale, however, denies that the new and slender fibres are derived from an old and larger one by splitting of its substance; he believes that they are produced from cells, as in the first mode, and that the old fibre is removed. The great increase in the muscular tissue of the uterus during gestation takes place both by elongation and thickening of the pre-existing fibre-cells of which that non-striated tissue consists, and by the development of new muscular fibre-cells from small, nucleated, granular cells lying in the tissue. In the shrinking of the uterus after parturition the fibre-cells also shrink to their previous size ; many of them become filled with fat granules (fig. lxxiii.), and many are doubtless removed by absorption. Fig. LXXIII.— Muscular Fibre- Cells from THE Uterus, three Weeks after De- livery. The up- per FOUR TREATED with Acetic Acid, magnified 350 diameters (from (Kolliker). a, nuclei; y, fat granules.