386 BRACHIAL ARTERY. Fig. 271. In all cases of the high origin of one or other of the arteries of the fore-arm the extent in which the two vessels thus formed run separately must vary according to the height at which the main artery divides. The point of division in the entire number of cases, without reference to the particular branch given off, is most frequently in the upper, less so in the lower, and least so in the middle third of the arm. But the early division of the main artery of the upper limb may, as mentioned in connection with the varieties of the axillary artery, take place within the axilla, in which case it follows that the brachial portion of the vessel is replaced, throughout its whole extent, by two separate trunks. In 94 cases out of 481 observed by R. Quain, or about one in five and one-ninth, there were two arteries instead of one in some part or in the whole of the arm. The position of the two arteries, in these cases, is of much surgical interest. We shall here con- sider only their position in the arm, and subse- quently trace them in their irregular course in the fore-arm. Usually they are close together, and occupy the ordinary position of the brachial artery ; but there are some peculiarities in their position which require to be particularly noticed. The radial artery, when thus given off in the arm, often arises from the inner side of the brachial, then runs parallel with the larger vessel (the bra- chial or ulnar-interosseous), and crosses over it, sometimes suddenly, opposite the bend of the elbow, still covered by the fascia. It has been found, but in a very few instances only, to perforate the fascia, and run immediately under the skin, near the bend of the elbow. Fig. 271.—Dissection of the Right Arm, showing an example op high separation of the radial Artery from the Brachial, and an enlarged Median Artery in the Fore-arm (from Tiede- matin). \ 1, on the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, points to the upper part of the brachial artery ; 2, the brachial artery after giving off the radial; 3, the radial rising in the upper third of the arm and descending in its usual situation in the fore-arm; 3', its superficial volar branch ; 4, the ulnar artery in its usual course, forming at 5, the superficial palmar arch, from which three of the palmar digital arteries and the princeps pollicis take origin ; the radial supplying the brandies to the index finger and one side of the middle finger ; 6, the superior profunda branch of the brachial artery ; 7, muscular branches ; 8, ulnar anastomotic; 9, re- current radial ; 10, anterior interosseous giving an unusually large median branch which descends over the wrist to unite with the superficial palmar arch. When the ulnar is the branch given off high from the brachial, it often inclines from the posi- tion of the brachial, at the lower part of the arm, towards the inner condyle of the humerus. This vessel generally lies beneath the fascia as it descends, and superficially to the flexor muscles.