304 THE HEART. the left border, whilst the posterior furrow approaches nearer to the right border of the heart, the right ventricle forming more of the anterior, and the left more of the posterior surface of the organ. Within the transverse and longitudinal furrows are placed the proper nutrient vessels of the heart, the coronary or cardiac arteries and veins, with the lymphatic vessels and nerves imbedded in fatty and connective tissue. INTERIOR OF THE HEART. General description.—Considered in respect of function, the heart is a double organ, composed of a right and a left part, each consisting of an auricle and a ventricle. The right portion receives into its auricle from the two vense cavse and coronary veins the dark venous blood returning from the various parts of the body and from the heart itself, and, by means of its ventricle, propels that blood through the pulmonary artery into the lungs. The red blood returning from the lungs by the pulmonary veins, reaches the left auricle of the heart, and is forced onwards by the left ventricle, through the aorta and its branches into every part of the body. The right and left divisions of the heart present in various respects a similar anatomical structure, and the features which are common to both may here be shortly referred to before passing to those which are peculiar to one auricle or ventricle. Endocardium.—The interior of the whole heart is invested with a lining membrane, similar in general appearance to the visceral layer of peri- cardium which covers the exterior, but belonging to the class of vascular lining membranes, and continuous with that of the blood-vessels. This internal lining, or endocardium, is a thin transparent membrane, differ- ing slightly on the two sides of the heart. On the left side of the heart it is continuous with the lining membrane of the pulmonary veins and aorta, and is usually found more opaque than on the right side, whence it is prolonged into the veins of the body and into the pulmonary artery. According to Theile, the endocardium is very thin on the musculi pectinati of the auricles and on the columnee carnese of the ventricles. It is thicker, however, on the smooth walls of the auricular and ventricular cavities, and on the musculi papillares, especially near their tips. It is, on the whole, thicker in the auricles than in the ventricles, and attains its greatest strength in the left auricle. In both auricles the endocardium consists of three layers. On the free surface is an epithelial stratum of polygonal cells. Beneath the epithelium is a network of elastic fibres, often con- taining portions of fenestrated membrane; and connecting the latter to the muscular substance of the heart, is a layer of areolar tissue. Purkinje and Raeuschel (De Arteriarum et Venarum Structura. Breslau, 1836.) found elastic fibres beneath the endocardium in both auricles, and in the corpora Arantii, but not in the ventricles. The auricles are both of them divisible into a large cavity, called the atrium, or sinus venosus, and a much smaller part in front, the auricular appendage, auricula, or auricle proper. The interior of the atrium pre- sents smooth walls in the greater part of its extent, but the walls of the auricular appendages are thrown into closely-set reticulated bands, which in the right extend also into the sinus, and are named musculi pectinati. The auricle, both on the right and the left side, receives the blood from the veins, and transmits it into the corresponding ventricle by the auriculo- ventricular opening.