xciii BONE. manner of its disposition round the cavities being essentially the same in both. Besides the openings of Haversian canals as above described, a trans- verse section of the compact bone now and then presents vacuities or spaces formed by absorption of the tissue. These are named "Haversian spaces" by Tomes and De Morgan, who first showed that they occur not only in growing bone but at all periods of life. In their primitive condition these cavities are characterised by an irregular or jagged outline, and their forma- tion by absorption is further indicated by their encroaching on the adjacent groups of concentric lamellae, which have been, as it were, eaten away to a greater or less extent to give place to the new cavity. In another stage the spaces in question are lined by new formed lamellae, which may as yet be confined to the peripheral part of the vacuity, or may fill it up in a concentric series, leaving a Haversian aperture in the middle, and in fact constituting a system of concentric Haversian lamellae, interpolated or intruded among those previously existing. The concentric lamellae, which thus come to occupy a greater or less extent of the area of the cavity, are of course bounded exteriorly by segments of adjoining Haversian lamellae, which have been more or less cut in upon in the excavation of the space. It has been further observed by Tomes and De Morgan, that vacuities may sometimes be seen which are being filled up at one part by the deposition of lamellae, whilst they are extending themselves by absorption at another. The Haversian spaces are most numerous in young and growing bones ; but, as already stated, they occur also after growth is completed. Their origin and changes will be better understood after the reader has perused the Fig. XLTV. Fig. XLTV.—Transverse Section op Compact Tissue (of humerus) magnified about 150 DIAMETERS. Three of the Haversian canals are seen, with their concentric rings ; also the corpuscles or lacunae, with the canaliculi extending from them across the direction of the lamellae. The Haversian apertures had got filled with debris in grinding down the section, and therefore appear black in the figure, which represents the object as viewed with trans- mitted light.