478 VEINS OF THE LOWER LIMB AND PELVIS. Tributaries.—The tributaries of the internal iliac vein correspond in general to the various branches of the internal iliac artery, with the exception that the internal pudic vein does not receive the main supply of blood from the dorsal vein of the penis. The visceral veins are remark- able for their size and frequent anastomoses, and have been described as forming a series of plexuses, severally named the vesical, prostatic, hcemorr- hoidal, uterine, and vaginal. Fig. 325. Fig. 325.—Internal View of the Male Pelvis from the left side, to show the Principal Veins. £ The greater part of the os innomina- tum and pelvic wall of the left side, and the upper parts of the rectum and urinary bladder, have been removed: the left common iliac and the right internal iliac arteries, and the left external and in- ternal iliac veins, have been cut sbort. a, the right psoas mag- nus muscle; b, the anterior superior iliac spine ; c, Pou part's ligament; d, the cavernous and spongy- bodies of the penis divided near the root; + , the spongy body of the bulb, above which the mem- branous part of the urethra, the prostate, &c. ; e, the left os pubis close to the symphysis ; /, the anus ; g, the spine of the ischium with the short sacro-sciatic ligament ; h, auricular sacro-iliac surface; i, interior of the urinary bladder; Jc, exterior of the rectum ; I, transverse process of the fourth lumbar vertebra; 1, lower part of the vena cava inferior ; 1', abdominal aorta ; 2, common iliac veins; 2', right common iliac artery ; 3, external iliac veins ; 3', external iliac artery ; 4, internal iliac veins, that of the right side entire, that of the left divided and in great part removed ; 5, middle and other veins of the sacral plexus ; 6, ilio-lumbar and lumbar veins ; 7, right gluteal and upper lateral sacral veins; 8, 8', obturator vein and artery of the right side ; 9, pelvic plexus of veins of the right side ; 9', that of the left side connected with the lower vesical plexus ; 10, placed on the right side on the short sacro-sciatic ligament immediately below the division of the internal iliac vein into the pudic and sciatic veins : on the left side, below 4, the sciatic vein is cut short; 10, lower down, the pudic vein ; 10', the perineal veins ; 11, placed on the prostate among the lower vesical veins, into one of which the left dorsal vein of the penis, 11, is seen to pass ; 12, placed on the lower part of the rectum, may indicate the plexus of hemorrhoidal veins. The vesical plexus presents vessels over the whole of the bladder external