clxx BLOOD-VESSELS. Fig. XCII. Middle coat. This consists of plain muscular tissue, in fine bundles, disposed circularly round the vessel, and consequently tearing off in a circular direction, although the individual bundles do not form complete rings. The consider- able thickness of the walls of the larger arteries is due chiefly to this coat ; and in the smaller ones, it is said to be thicker in comparison with the calibre of the vessel. In the largest vessels it is made up of many layers ; and shreds of elastic membrane, homogeneous, finely reticular, or quite similar to the fenestrated membrane of the inner coat, are often found between the layers. The middle coat is of a tawny or reddish-yellow colour, not unlike that of the elastic tissue, but when quite fresh, it has a softer and more translucent aspect. Its more internal part is often described as redder than the rest, but the deeper tint is probably due to staining by the blood after death. This coat is highly elastic, and was at one time regarded by many, especially among the French anatomists, as being identical in nature with the yellow elastic tissue : but it consists in reality of two constituents, namely, 1st, muscular fibre-cells, seldom more than from to ¥— of an inch long, collected in bundles, as already stated. 2ndly, fine elastic fibres mixed with the muscular bundles and traversing the muscular layers in form of elastic net- works, which, in the larger arteries, pass into the elastic laminae already mentioned, The elastic fibres are accompanied by white fibres of areolar tissue in small quan- tity, the proportion of which increases with the size of the artery. It is important further to note that the muscular tissue of the middle coat is more pure in the smaller arteries, and that the admixture of other tissues increases in the larger sized vessels ; in these, moreover, the muscular cells are smaller. Accordingly, the vital contractility of the arteries, which depends on their middle coat, is very little marked in those of large size, but becomes much more conspicuous in the smaller branches. External coat. This consists of two layers of different texture, viz., 1st, an internal stratum of genuine elastic tissue, most obvious in arte- ries of medium calibre, and becoming thinner, and at length disappear- ing in those of small size ; 2ndly, an outer layer, consisting of fine, and closely felted bundles of white connective tissue, mixed with elastic fibres. The bundles and fibres in large and middle-sized arteries chiefly run diagonally or obliquely round the vessel, and their interlacement becomes much more open and lax towards the surface of the artery, where they connect the vessel with its sheath, or with other surrounding parts. This white fibrous layer is usually of great proportionate thickness in the smaller arteries. Some arteries have much thinner coats than the rest, in proportion to their calibre. This is strikingly the case with those contained within the Fig. XCII.—Muscular Fibre-cells prom Human Arteries. Magni- fied 350 DIAMETERS. 1. From the popliteal artery; a, natural; b, treated with acetic acid. 2. From a small branch of the poste- rior tibial (from Kolliker).