cliii PACINIAN BODIES. Fig. LXXXIX. papers by W. Krause * and Engelmann,f the reader is referred for details that cannot be conveniently introduced here. The little bodies in question (fig. lxxxix) are, as already said, attached in great numbers to the branches of the nerves of the hand and foot, and here and there one or two are found on other cutaneous nerves. They have been discovered also within the abdomen on the nerves of the solar plexus, and they are nowhere more distinctly seen or more conveniently obtained for examination, than in the mesentery and omentum of the cat, between the layers of which they exist abundantly. They have been found on the pudic nerves on the glans penis and bulb of the urethra, on the intercostal nerves, sacral plexus, cutaneous nerves of the upper arm and neck, and on the infraorbital nerve. Lately they have been recognised on the periosteal nerves, and, in considerable numbers, on the nerves of the joints. They are found in the foetus, and in individuals of all ages. The figure of these corpuscles is oval, somewhat like that of a grain of wheat,—regularly oval in the cat, but mostly curved or reniform in man, and sometimes a good deal dis- torted. Their mean size in the adult is from i to ±Q of an inch long, and from Jg to ^ of an inch broad. They have a whitish, opaline aspect: in the cat's mesen- tery they are usually more transparent, and then a white line may be distinguished in the centre. A slender stalk or peduncle attaches the corpuscle to the branch of nerve with which it is connected. The peduncle contains a single tubular nerve-fibre ensheathed in filamentous con- nective tissue, with one or more fine blood-vessels ; and it joins the corpuscle at or near one end, and conducts the nerve-fibre into it. The little body itself, examined under the microscope, is found to have a beautiful lamellar struc- ture (fig. xc, a). It consists, in fact, of numerous concen- tric membranous capsules incasing each other like the coats of an onion, with a small quantity of pellucid fluid included between them. Surrounded by these capsules, and occupying a cylindrical cavity in the middle of the corpuscle, is the core, formed of transparent and homogeneous soft substance, in the midst of which the prolonga- tion of the nerve-fibre is contained. The number of capsules is various; from forty to sixty may be counted in large corpuscles. The series immediately following the central or median cavity, and comprehending about half of the entire number, are closer together than the more exterior ones, seeming to form a system by themselves, which gives rise to a white streak often distinguishable by the eye along the middle of the corpuscles when seen on a dark ground. Outside of all, the corpuscle has a coating of ordinary connective tissue. The capsules, at least the more superficial ones, consist each of an internal layer of longitudinal and an external of circular fibres, which resemble the white fibres of areolar and fibrous tissue, with cell-nuclei attached here and there on the inner layer, and a few branched fibres of the yellow or elastic kind running on the outer. The nerve-fibre, conducted along the centre of the stalk, enters the corpuscle, and passes straight into the central cavity, at the further end of which it terminates. The fibrous neurilemma surrounding the nerve-fibre in the peduncle accom- panies it also in its passage through the series of capsules, gradually decreasing in thickness as it proceeds, and ceasing altogether when the nerve has reached the central cavity. According to Pacini, with whom Reichert agrees in this particular, the neurilemma forms a series of concentric cylindrical layers, which successively become continuous with, or rather expand into the capsules, the innermost, of course, advancing farthest. Others suppose that the capsules are all successively perforated by a conical channel which gives passage to the nerve with its neuri- * Anat. Untersuchungen ; Hanover, 1861, and Zeits. f. rat. Med. xvii. 1865. t Zeits. f. Wiss. Zool. xiii. 1863. Fig. LXXXIX A Nerve of the Middle Finger, with Pacinian Bodies attached. Na- tural size (after Henle and Kolliker).