ccvii NAILS. Posteriorly the matrix forms a crescentic groove or fold, deep in the middle but getting shallower at the sides, which lodges the root of the nail ; the rest of the matrix, before the groove, is usually named the bed of the nail. The small lighter-coloured part of the matrix next the groove and correspondiug with the lunula of the nail, is covered with papillae having no regular arrangement, but the whole remaining surface of the matrix situated in front of this, and supporting the body of the nail, is marked with longitudinal and very slightly diverging ridges cleft at their summits into rows of papillae. These ridges, or lamince, as they are some- times, and perhaps more suitably, named, fit into corresponding furrows on the under surface of the nail. The cuticle, advancing from the back of the finger, becomes attached to the upper surface of the nail near its posterior edge, that is, all round the margin of the groove in which the nail is lodged ; in front the cuticle of the point of the finger becomes continuous with the under surface of the nail a little way behind its free edge. The nail, like the cuticle, is made up of scales derived from flattened cells. The oldest and most superficial of these are the broadest and hardest, but at the same time very thin and irregular, and so intimately and confusedly connected together that their respective limits are scarcely discernible. They form the exterior, horny part of the Fig. CXII. nail, and cohere together in irregular layers, so as to give this part a lamellar structure. On the other hand, the youngest cells, which are those situated at the root and under surface, are softer and of a rounded or polygonal shape. The I ff deepest layer differs some- what from the others, in having its cells elongated, aud arranged perpendicular- ly, as in the case of the epidermis. Thus the under part of the nail (fig. cxn. b) corresponds in nature with the Malpighian or mucous layer of the epidermis, and the upper part (c) with the horny layer. As in the case of the epidermis, the hardened scales may be made to reassume their cellular character by treatment with caustic alkali, and after- wards with water ; and then it is seen that they still retain their nuclei. In chemical composition the nails resemble epider- mis ; but, according to Mulder, they contain a somewhat larger proportion of carbon and sulphur. Tho growth of the nail is effected by a constant generation of cells at the a. Fig. CXII.—Vertical Transverse Section through A SMALL PORTION OF THE NAIL AND MATRIX, largely magnified (after Kolliker). A, corium of the nail-bed, raised into ridges or laminae, a, fitting in between corresponding laminae, b, of the nail; B, Malpighian, and C, horny layer ; d, deepest and vertical cells ; e, upper flattened cells of Malpighian layer.