188 MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. The inferior constrictor arises from the side of the cricoid cartilage, and from the oblique lateral ridge and upper and lower borders of the thyroid cartilage, and curves backwards, expanding as it proceeds, and unites with its fellow in the middle line behind the pharynx. The direction of the inferior fibres is horizontal, concealing and overlapping the commencement of the oesophagus ; the rest ascend with increasing degrees of obliquity, and cover the lower part of the middle constrictor. The outer surface of the muscle is in contact at the side of the larynx with the thyroid body, the carotid artery, and the sterno-thyroid muscle; and from this last, where the two muscles meet on the thyroid cartilage, some fibres are continued into the constrictor. The two laryngeal nerves pass inwards to the larynx, close respectively to the upper and lower margins of this constrictor—one being interposed between it and the middle constrictor, the other between it and the oesophagus. The inferior constrictor was described by the older anatomists as two muscles which received various names, the most appropriate of these being thyro-pharyngeus and crico-pharyngeus. In some animals they are found quite distinct from one another. Fig. 164. Fig. 164.—View of the Muscles op the Pharynx, &c. from behind (after Bourgery). | The back part of the skull, the ver- tebral column and back parts of the ribs are removed, a, cut surface of the basilar process; 6, the clavicle; c, the first rib ; d, the ramus of the lower jaw ; e, posterior ex- tremity of the great cornu of the hyoid bone ; /, posterior surface of the manu- brium of the ster- num ; 1, superior constrictor muscle of the pharynx ; above it the fibrous mem- brane which closes the pharynx; 2, mid- dle constrictor; 2', a dotted line, indi- cating the direction of the lower part of the muscle ; 3, the inferior constrictor ; 4, oesophagus ; 5, in- ternal pterygoid ; 6, stylo-glossus; 7, pos- terior belly of the bnc; 8, a portion of the stylo-hyoid surrounding the tendon of the digastric ; 9, sterno-mastoid ; 10, upper belly of the omo-hyoid ; 11, sterno-thyroid. The middle constrictor, smaller than the preceding, arises from the upper part of the great cornu of the os hyoides, from the smaller cornu, and from the stylo-hyoid ligament: its fibres diverging greatly pass back to the middle