MUSCLES OF THE UPPEK LIMB. 220 of the metacarpal phalanx of the finger. The two inner lumbricales muscles take origin likewise from the ulnar margins of the second and third tendons. The number of these muscles is not unfrequently diminished to three, and in rare instances is increased to five or six. The destination of one or two of them is often changed, and one finger (most frequently the third or fourth) has sometimes two inserted into it. Lastly, one muscle may be inserted into two fingers. The flexor longus pollicis, placed side by side with the flexor profundus, arises from the grooved surface, on the fore part of the radius from the oblique line to the edge of the pronator quadratus ; it arises also from the adjacent part of the interosseous ligament, and by a rounded fleshy and tendinous slip distinct from the rest of the muscle, from the inner part of the coronoid process. The muscle ends in a tendon which passes behind the annular ligament of the wrist close to the trapezium, turns outwards between the two. heads of the flexor brevis and between the sesamoid bones, and entering a canal similar to those of the other flexor tendons, is finally inserted into the base of the second phalanx of the thumb. Inferiorly, a part of this muscle is placed superficially between the flexor carpi radialis and the supinator longus, where it supports the radial vessels. The pronator quadratus, placed close to the bones behind the last two muscles, arises from the anterior and inner surfaces of the ulna for about two inches above its carpal extremity ; its fibres cross the lower part of the forearm, some transversely and others obliquely, and they are inserted for an equal distance into the fore part of the radius. b. Posterior and Outer Begions {Extensors and Supinators). The muscles of this group are, like those of the front of the forearm, divided into a superficial and a deep layer. The superficial muscles are six in number, viz., the supinator longus, the extensores carpi radiales longior and brevior, the extensor communis digitorum, extensor minimi digiti, and extensor carpi ulnaris. The supinator radii longus arises from the upper two-thirds of the external condyloid ridge of the humerus, and is interposed between the brachialis anfcicus and the external intermuscular septum, to which its fibres are attached. The thin fleshy mass proceeding from this elongated origin descends upon the anterior and outer border of the forearm, and ends about the middle in a flat tendon, which is inserted into the external border of the radius, near the base of the styloid process. This muscle is covered only by skin and fascia, except at its insertion, where two of the extensor tendons of the thumb lie superficial to it. The extensor carpi radialis longior, partly covered by the supinator longus, arises from the lower part of the external condyloid ridge of the humerus, and from the intermuscular septum. Its muscular belly ends at the meeting of the upper and middle thirds of the forearm in a flat tendon, which passes conjointly with that of the following muscle over the lower end of the radius in the outermost of the two broad grooves on the posterior surface of that bone, and is inserted into the base of the second metacarpal bone. A small bursa lies beneath the tendon at its insertion.