lxviii ADIPOSE TISSUE. Accordingly it has been observed that, "unless when such traversing nervous twigs happen to be encountered, a puncturing instrument may be carried through the adipose tissue without occasioning pain. As to the uses of the fatty tissue, it may be observed, in the first place, that it serves the merely mechanical purpose of a light, soft, and elastic packing material to fill vacuities in the body. Being thus deposited between and around different organs, it affords them support, facilitates motion, and protects them from the inju- rious effects of pressure. In this way, too, it gives to the exterior of the body its smooth, rounded contour. Further, being a bad conductor of heat, the subcutaneous fat must so far serve as a means of retaining the warmth of the body, especially in warm-blooded creatures exposed to great external cold, as the whale and other cetaceous animals, in which it forms a very thick stratum, and must prove a much more effectual protection than a covering of fur in a watery element. But the most important use of the fat is in the process of nutrition. Composed chiefly of carbon and hydrogen, it is absorbed into the blood and consumed in respira- tion, combining with oxygen to form carbonic acid and water, and thus contributing with other hydrocarbonous matters to maintain the heat of the body; and it is sup- posed that when the digestive process introduces into the system more carbon and hydrogen than is required for immediate consumption, the excess of those elements is stored up in the form of fat, to become available for use when the expenditm*e exeeeds the immediate supply. According to this view, active muscular exercise, which increases the respiration, tends to prevent the accumulation of fat by increasing the consumption of the hydrocarbonous matter introduced into the body. Again, when the direct supply of calorific matter for respiration is diminished or cut off by withholding food, or by interruption of . the digestive process, nature has recourse to that which has been reserved in the form of fat; and in the wasting of the body caused by starvation, the fat is the part first consumed. The use of the fat in nutrition is well illustrated by what occurs in the hedgehog and some other hybernating animals. In these the function of alimentation is sus- pended during their winter sleep, and though their respiration is reduced to the lowest amount compatible with life, and their temperature falls, there is yet a con- siderable amount of hydrocarbonous material provided in the shape of fat before their hybernation commences, to be slowly consumed during that period, or per- haps to afford an immediate supply on their respiration becoming again active in spring. It has been estimated that the mean quantity of fat in the human subject is about one-twentieth of the weight of the body, but from what has been said, it is plain that the amount must be subject to great fluctuation. The proportion is usually largest about the middle period of life, and greatly diminishes in old age. High feeding, repose of mind and body, and much sleep, favour the production of fat. To these causes must be added individual and perhaps hereditary predisposi- tion. There is a greater tendency to fatness in females than males ; also, it is said, in eunuchs. The effect of castration in promoting the fattening of domestic ani- mals is well known. In infancy and childhood the fat is confined chiefly to the subcutaneous tissue. In after-life it is more equally distributed through the body, and in proportionately greater quantity about the viscera. In Hottentot females fat accumulates over the gluteal muscles, forming a considerable prominence ; and, in a less degree, over the deltoid. A tendency to local accumulations of the subcutaneous fat is known to exist also in particular races of quadrupeds. Development.—According to Valentin, the fat first appears in the human embryo about the fourteenth week of intra-uterine life. At this period fat is deposited in cells already formed in the tissues. The cells first seen are for the most part insulated, but by the end of the fifth month they are col- lected into small groups. They are also at first of comparatively small size. As already stated, the foetal fat-cells contain a nucleus in their early con- dition which is afterwards hidden from view.