c BONE. beneath ; for, when the earthy matter is extracted by means of an acid, the tissue which remains has all the characters of cartilage. As to the mode in which the earthy matter is connected with the animal substance, we know that the combination is very intimate, but the manner in which it is effected is not fully understood ; probably there is a chemical union between the collagenous matter and the earthy salts. The periosteum, as already stated, is a fibrous membrane which covers the bones externally. It adheres to them very firmly, and invests every part of their surface, except where they are covered with cartilage or con- nected to other bones by fibro-cartilage. According to Kolliker it is com- posed of two different layers ; the outer, consisting of white fibres, and containing occasional fat-cells, is the means of supporting numerous blood- vessels destined for the bone, which ramify in the membrane, and at length send their minute branches into the Haversian canals of the compact sub- stance, accompanied by processes of filamentous tissue derived from, or at least continuous with, the periosteum. The inner layer is made up of elastic fibres ; and frequently presents the appearance of several distinct strata of " elastic membrane." Fine nervous filaments spread out in the periosteum ; they are chiefly associated with the arteries, and for the most part destined for the subjacent bone ; but some are for the membrane itself. The chief use of this membrane is evidently to support the vessels going to the bone, and afford them a bed in which they may subdivide into fine branches, and so enter the dense tissue at numerous points. Hence, when the periosteum is stripped off at any part, there is great risk that the denuded portion of the bone will die and exfoliate. The periosteum also contributes to give firmer hold to the tendons and ligaments where they are fixed to bones; indeed, these fibrous structures become con- tinuous and incorporated with it at their attachment. The marrow (medulla ossium) is lodged in the interior of the bones ; it fills up the hollow shaft of long bones and occupies the cavities of the cancellated structure ; it extends also into the Haversian canals—at least into the larger ones—along with the vessels. Like ordinary adipose tissue, it consists of vesicles containing fat, with blood-vessels distributed to them. A fine layer of a highly vascular areolar tissue lines the medullary canal, as well as the smaller cavities which contain marrow ; this has been named the medullary membrane, internal periosteum, or endosteum ; but it cannot be detached as a continuous membrane. Its vessels partly supply the con- tiguous osseous substance, and partly proceed to the clusters of adipose vesicles, among which there is but very little connective tissue, in conse- quence perhaps of their being contained and supported by bone. The marrow differs considerably in different situations. Within the shaft of the long bones it is of a yellow colour, and contains, in 100 parts, 96 of fat, 1 of con- nective tissue, and 3 of water. In short bones, and in the cancellated ends of long bones, but especially in the cranial diploe, the bodies of the vertebrae, the sternum, and the ribs, it is red or reddish in colour, of more fluid consistence, and with very few fat cells. That from the diploe consists of 75 parts of water and 25 of solid matters, which are chiefly albumen, fibrin, extractive and salts, with mere traces of fat. While, however, the fat cells are scanty in the red-coloured marrow, it contains minute, roundish nucleated cells—the proper marrow-cells of Kolliker. These, which include no fat, correspond in character with the cells found in the articular ends of long bones affected with hyperaemia; they occur normally in the cranial bones, ver-