219 DEEP FLEXOR OF THE FINGERS. The flexor profundus digitorwm, or flexor perforans, a large and thick muscle, arises from the hollow at the inner side of the olecranon ; from the inner and anterior surfaces of the ulna for three-fourths of its length ; from the ulnar half of the interosseous liga- ment for the same distance ; and from the Fig- 181. aponeurosis attaching the flexor carpi ulnaris to the ulna. It divides inferiorly into four tendons, only one of which, that for the index finger, is distinct from the others above the wrist—the rest being connected together as far as the palm. In the palm the tendons, as they diverge, give origin to the lumbricales muscles. Opposite the first phalanx, the tendon of each finger passes through the opening formed for its transmission in the tendon of the flexor sublimis, and is inserted into the base of the last phalanx. Fig. 181.—Deep Anterior Muscles of the Forearm. £ The humeral muscles and the superficial muscles of the forearm and hand, together with the lumbri- cales, have been removed, and the place of the anterior annular ligament of the carpus is marked by two dotted lines, a, surface of the humerus above the coronoid fossa; b, rough surface of the ulna, into which the brachialis anticus is inserted; c, head of the radius covered by the orbicular liga- ment, and between this and a, the anterior ligament of the elbow-joint; +, the internal lateral ligament; d, the lower end of the radius ; e, that of the ulna ; /, the scaphoid and trapezium bones ; g, the pisiform bone ; 1, supinator radii brevis ; 2, flexor longus pollicis ; 3, flexor digitorum profundus; 3', its four tendons, where they are about to pass into the hand under the annular ligament; 4, pronator quadratus on the lower part of the radius; 5, deep head of flexor brevis pollicis ; 6, adductor pollicis; 7, first dorsal interosseous muscle; 8, in the second space, is placed between the first palmar and the second dorsal interosseous muscles ; in the third space, between the third dorsal and the second palmar ; in the fourth space, between the fourth dorsal and the third palmar. (For the lumbricales muscles, see Figs. 180 and 186.) The upper extremity of this muscle embraces the insertion of the brachialis anticus. On its surface lie the median nerve and the ulnar artery and nerve. The external border is parallel with the flexor longus pollicis, from which it is separated, on the interosseous membrane, by the anterior interosseous vessels and nerve. The tendons are covered by the synovial sacs, which have been mentioned in connection with the flexor sublimis. The lumhricales are four tapering fleshy fasciculi, passing from the tendons of the flexor profundus to the first digital phalanges. They arise by fleshy fibres from the outer or radial borders of the deep flexor tendons, and proceed forwards to the radial sides of the fingers, where each is inserted into an expansion of the extensor tendon on the dorsal aspect