STRUCTURE OF CAPILLARIES. clxvii retina, and in such cases it is easy to display their independent membra- nous parietes. The number as well as the structure of the coats of the capillaries differs according to the size of the vessels. Capillaries of a diame- ter less than -g-^o of an inch, were until lately believed to have but a single coat, formed of simple homogeneous trans- parent membrane, with nucleiform cor- puscles attached to it or inclosed in its sub- stance ; but from re- cent researches (by Auerbach, Eberth, and Chrzonszczewsky,) it has been ascertained that they are fur- nished with an epi- thelium, to which the nuclei of the capillary coat really belong. The cells of the epithelium are, as in the larger vessels, flattened into scales and form but a single layer, in which the outline of the scales, or their lines of junction one with another, may be made apparent by nitrate of silver injection; after which the nuclei may bo brought into view by acetic acid or carmine (fig. xcvu.). The epithelium scales, which are polygonal in the small arteries and veins (a, v), gradually become oblong or spindle-shaped as they pass into the capillaries, and throughout these vessels the epithelium presents the same characters, only the flattened cells or scales become longer and narrower in the smaller capillaries, and fewer in number in the circumference of the tube. In the brain usually only two cells are to be seen in the cross section of a capillary, but in the large capillaries of the kidney and bladder the number may rise to four or five, and in this case the scales are shorter and broader. At the points of junction of the capillaries the cells are much broader and not spindle-shaped but radiate, with three or four pointed branches fitting in between the cells of the three or four adjoining vessels which meet at the spot (fig. xcvu., c c'). Auerbach describes the capillary wall as formed entirely of flattened epithelium cells fitted together at their edges into a continuous and coherent membrane, without any further supporting structure ; but Chrzonszczewsky discovered portions of the capillaries in which the epithelium cells had been displaced, and where spaces of some extent were left entirely devoid of nuclei and of the outline markings of the cells ; and in these parts the out- line of the capillary wall was still entire and continuous, and its substance quite structureless. He concludes, therefore, that there is a homogeneous coat and within this an epithelium, to which the nuclei belong. Fig. XGV. Fig. XCYI. Fig. XCV.—Injected Capillary Vessels of Muscle, SEEN WITH A LOW MAGNIFYING POWER. Fig. XCYI. — Net-wore: op Capillary Vessels op the Air Cells op the Horse's Lung, magnified. a, a, capillaries proceeding from b, &, terminal branches of the pulmonary artery (after Frey).