CHEMICAL, PHYSICAL AND VITAL PROPERTIES. cxxix especially to the striped variety, but, so far as is known, it is essentially the same in the non-striated tissue. The juice expressed from a muscle after death, and especially after rigidity has set in, is acid, from the presence of lactic acid; so that the cut surface of a dead muscle reddens litmus-paper. On the other hand, a perfectly fresh section of muscle in the living body, or while it retains its irritability, is alkaline or neutral. But while this is true of a living muscle in its usual state, it gives a decided acid reaction after it has been strongly exerted, as, for instance, after tetanic spasm excited by electricity or by strychnia poisoning. The acid is probably generated by a change in the saccharine matter of the muscle. Ultimately the tissue in all cases becomes alkaline from putrefaction and the evolution of ammonia. Physical properties of muscle.—A dead muscle has little strength, and may be torn asunder by a force of no great amount. A living muscle readily yields to exten- sion, and shrinks exactly to its original length when the extending force ceases. Its elasticity is therefore said to be small in degree, but very perfect or complete in opera- tion. A dead muscle, especially after cadaveric rigidity has come on, resists exten- sion more powerfully, but does not afterwards return to its original leugth; hence its elasticity is said to be greater than that of the living muscle, but less perfect. The red colour of muscle is weU known, but it differs greatly in degree in different cases. It is usually paler in the involuntary muscles ; but here the heart again is a striking exception. In most fish the chief muscles of the body are nearly colourless, and in the breast of wild fowl we see a difference in the depth of colour in different strata of the same muscles. The redness is no doubt partly due to blood contained in the vessels, but not entirely so, for a red colouring matter, apparently of the same nature as that of the blood, is obviously incorporated with the fibres. Under this head must also be mentioned the manifestation of electricity by a quiescent but living muscle. When a muscle taken from a living or recently killed animal (a frog is commonly used) is brought into connection with the ends of a very delicate galvanometer, so that one extremity of the latter touches the outer surface of the muscle, rand the other a cross section made through its fibres, the needle will deviate so as to indicate an electric current passing along the wire from the surface of the muscle to its cross section. If both ends of the galvanometer touch points in the length of the muscle equidistant from its middle, no effect ensues, but if one point of contact be farther than the other from the middle, a current will pass along the wire from the nearer to the more distant point. The same results are obtained with a small shred or fasciculus of the muscle. The phenomenon described is called " the muscular current," and is supposed to indicate a state of electric polarity in the particles of the muscle, probably caused by chemical changes going on in its substance. Vital properties of muscle.—The muscular tissue possesses a considerable degree oi sensibility, but its characteristic vital endowment, as already said, is irritability or contractility, by which it serves as a moving agent in the animal body. Sensibility.—This property is manifested by the pain which is felt when a muscle is cut, lacerated, or otherwise violently injured, or when it is seized with spasm. Here, as in other instances, the sensibility belongs, properly speaking, to the nerves which are distributed through the tissue, and accordingly when the nerves going to a muscle are cut, it forthwith becomes insensible. It is by means of this property, which is sometimes called the " muscular sense," that we become conscious of the existing state of the muscles which are subject to the will, or rather of the position and direction of the limbs and other parts which are moved through means of the volun- tary muscles, and we are thereby guided in directing our voluntary movements towards the end in view. Accordingly, when this muscular sense is lost, while the power of motion remains,—a case which, though rare, yet sometimes occurs,—the person cannot direct the movements of the affected limbs without the guidance of the eye. Irritability or Contractility.—The merit of distinguishing this property of the animal body from sensibility on the one hand, and from mere mechanical phenomena on the other, is due to Dr. Francis Glisson, a celebrated English physician of the seventeenth century ; but irritability, according to the view which he took of it, was supposed to give rise to various other phenomena in the animal economy besides the visible contraction of muscle, and his comprehensive acceptation of the term has