Fig. 227. Fig. 227. — View of the Heart and THE HEAKT. 302 EXTERNAL FORM OF THE HEART. The heart is a hollow muscular organ, divided by a longitudinal septum into a right and left half, each of which is again subdivided by a transverse constriction into two compartments, communicating with each other, and named auricle and ventricle. Its general form is that of a blunt cone, flattened on its under surface. The broader end or base, by which it is attached, is directed upwards, backwards, and to the right, and extends from the level of the fourth to that of the eighth dorsal vertebra. The apex is turned downwards, forwards, and to the left, and corresponds in the dead body with the cartilage of the sixth rib. In the living subject its stroke against the walls of the chest is felt in the space between the cartilages of the fifth and sixth ribs, a little below and within the left mammilla. The heart, there- fore, has an oblique position in the chest, and besides this is nonsymmetrically placed, as it projects farther into the left than into the right half of the thoracic cavity, passing on an average about an inch or an inch and a half beyond the middle line in the one direction, and upwards of three inches in the other. Its position is affected more or less by that of the body ; thus it comes more extensively into contact with the anterior walls of the Great Vessels from before (from R. Quain). £ The pulmonary artery lias been cut short close to its origin in order to show the first part of the aorta. 1, anterior part of the right ventricle; 2, left ventricle; 3, root of the pulmonary artery ; 4, ascending part of the arch of the aorta; 4', the posterior or descending part of the arch ; between these is seen the transverse or middle part from which the brachio-cephalic arteries take their origin; 4", the descending thoracic aorta ; 5, the appendix and anterior part of the right auricle ; 6, those of the left auricle ; 7, the right, and 7', left innominate or brachio-cephalic veins joining to form the vena cava superior ; 8, the inferior vena cava below the diaphragm ; 9, one of the large hepatic veins ; +, placed in the right auriculo-ventricular groove, points to the right or posterior coronary artery ; + +, placed in the anterior inter-ventricular groove, points to the left or anterior coronary artery. chest when the body is in the prone posture or lying on the left side. In inspiration, on the other hand, when the diaphragm sinks and the lungs expand, its apex is withdrawn from the thoracic parietes. At its base the heart is directly attached to the great blood-vessels, and it is also connected with them by the serous layer of the pericardium, which passes from the one to the other. In the remainder of its extent the heart is entirely free, and movable within the sac of the pericardium. The