BONE. cii central cavity and the adjoining Haversian canals. Its ramifications anas- tomose with the arteries of the compact and cancellated structure ; indeed, there is a free communication between the finest branches of all the vessels which proceed to the bone, and there is no strictly defined limit between the parts supplied by each. In the thigh-bone there are two medullary arteries entering at different points. The veins of the cancellated texture are peculiar and deserve special notice. They are large and numerous, and run separately from the arteries. Their arrangement is best known in the bones of the skull, where, being lodged in the diploe or spongy texture between the outer and inner compact tables, they have received the name of the diploic veins. They run in canals formed in the cancellated structure, the sides of which are con- structed of a thin lamella of bone, perforated here and there for the admis- sion of branches from among the adjoining cancelli. The veins, being thus inclosed and supported by the hard structure, have exceedingly thin coats. They issue from the bone by special apertures of large size. A similar arrangement is seen in the bodies of the vertebrae, from whence the veins come out by large openings on the posterior surface. The lymphatics of the bones are but little known ; still, there is evidence of their existence, for, independently of the authority of Mascagni (which is of less value in this particular instance, inasmuch as he does not state expressly that he injected the vessels which he took for the lymphatics of bone), we have the testimony of Cruikshank, who injected lymphatics coming out of the body of one of the dorsal vertebrae, in the substance of which he also saw them ramifying.* Fine nerves have been seen passing into the medullary canal of some of the long bones along with the artery, and following its ramifications, but their ultimate distribution is doubtful ; and Kolliker describes fine nervous filaments as entering with the other arteries of the bone to the spongy and compact tissue. As far, however, as can be judged from observations on man and experiments on the lower animals, the bones, as well as their investing periosteum, are scarcely if at all sensible in the healthy condition, although they are painfully so when inflamed. Some hold that the same is true of the marrow, or rather the medullary membrane ; others, among whom are Duverney and Bichat, affirm, on the contrary, that the medullary tissue is sensible. They state that, on sawing through the bone of a living animal, and irritating the medullary membrane by passing a probe up the cavity, or by injecting an acrid fluid, very unequivocal signs of pain will be manifested. Beclard, who affirms the same fact, points out a circumstance which may so far account for the result occasionally turning out differently,—namely, that when the bone happens to be sawn through above the entrance of the medullary artery, the nerves going along with that vessel are divided, and the marrow consequently ren- dered insensible, as happens with any other sensible part when its nerves are cut. Formation and growth of bone.—The foundation of the skeleton is laid at a very early period, for among the parts that appear soonest in the embryo, we distinguish the rudiments of the vertebrae and base of the skull, which afterwards form the great median column to which the other parts of the bony fabric are appended. But it is by their outward form and situation only, that the parts representing the future bones are then to be recognised; for at that early period they do not differ materially in substance from the other structures of the embryo, being, like these, made up of granular * Anatomy of the Absorbing Vessels, 1790, p. 198.