MUSCULAR TISSUE. cxxviii As far as can be concluded from the observations and experiments that have hitherto been made on the subject, the striated muscular tissue is not regenerated in warm-blooded animals. It is true, that when a muscle is cut across, or a portion removed, the breach will heal, but the loss of substance is not repaired by new-formed muscular tissue. Striated muscular fibres have been found in certain tumours of the ovary and testicle, but these cases are altogether peculiar and abnormal. Chemical composition of muscle.—Muscular tissue contains nearly 80 per cent, of water, so that in being dried it loses about four-fifths of its weight. The chief and characteristic constituent of the fibre is an albuminoid body. This was at one time regarded as fibrin ; but, as it was afterwards shown to be not identical with that substance, it was distinguished by the name of syntonin ; the grounds of distinction being, that syntonin is soluble in very dilute hydrochloric acid, and can be extracted from muscle by that solvent; also, that its solution is precipitated by neutral salts. More recently, the subject has been investigated by Kuhne, who maintains that the albuminoid matter of muscle exists in the fibres in a liquid form during life, but coagulates after death, and thereby gives rise to the cadaveric rigidity which then invades the muscles. When extracted from fresh and still irritable frogs' muscles at a temperature of freezing, this substance, which Kuhne names myosin, is liquid ; but if it be then exposed to the ordinary heat of the atmosphere it partially coagulates, and the portion then remaining liquid (the muscle serum) when heated to 112° F., or less if it be strongly acid, yields a further coagulum, which Kuhne considers peculiar to muscle ; and finally, at 167°, ordinary coagulated albumen. The primary coagulation is hastened by the presence of blood, and possibly it may be due to the mutual reaction of two albuminoids analogous in their operation to the fibrinogen and fibrmoplastin (or globulin) of the blood (antea, p. xxxviii.). The coagulum of myosin is soluble in strong solutions of neutral salts, and accordingly it may thereby be dissolved out of dead and rigid muscles; but it loses this property if previously dissolved in dilute hydrochloric acid. It then, in fact, agrees with the so-called syntonin, which Kuhne regards, not as an original albuminoid of muscle, but as myosin altered by the process of extraction. It has been suggested that the ready solution of muscular fibre in dilute hydrochloric acid may be owing to the presence of pepsine in minute quantity. Other organic compounds also exist in muscle, but in very small proportion in comparison with the albuminoid matter. Most of them probably result from the process of wear of the original muscular substance. Among the most notable are,—1. Kreatin and Kreatinine, both of them nitro- genized and crystalline, the former neutral, the latter (derived from it), alkaline ; both are also found in the urine. 2. Sarkin (or Hypoxanthin). 3. Non-nitrogenized substances, viz. : grape sugar ; inosit—an unferment- able sugar from the tissue of the heart; glycogen, at least in embryos and young animals. 4. Various organic acids, viz., lactic, inosinic, butyric, acetic, formic and uric. 5. Salts, in which potash predominates over soda, magnesia over lime, and phosphoric acid over chlorine,—muscle, in this respect, resembling blood-corpuscles as contrasted with serum. Lastly, a variable amount of fat may be extracted from muscle, and also gelatin ; the latter no doubt from connective tissue ; for it must be remembered that a piece of muscle subjected to analysis comprehends, along with the proper muscular fibres, more or less of connective tissue, blood-vessels and nerves. The account here given of the chemical constitution of muscle applies