lxxvi ELASTIC TISSUE. hard, and brittle, when dried, but readily imbibes water again and regains its original properties. It is resolved into gelatin by boiliug. The fibrous tissue receives blood-vessels, but in general they are inconsi- derable both in number and size compared with the mass of tissue to which they belong. In tendons and ligaments with longitudinal fasciculi, the chief branches of the vessels run parallel with and between the larger fasci- culi, and, sending communicating branches across them, eventually form a very open network with large oblong meshes. Some fibrous membranes, as the periosteum and dura mater, are much more vascular ; but the vessels seen in these membranes do not strictly belong to them, being destined for the bones which they cover. The lymphatics of fibrous tissue, are not sufficiently known to be spoken of with certainty. As to nerves, their general existence in this texture has not been satis- factorily demonstrated by anatomical investigation. Recent inquiries into this subject have shown that the smaller tendons contain no nerves, and the larger only such nervous filaments as accompany and belong to the vessels ; and the same is true of the ligaments. The fascise and the sheaths of ten- dons are also destitute of nerves. On the other hand, fine nerves have been traced in the interosseous membrane of the leg, and nervous filaments are even abundant in the periosteum, but the majority of them do not belong to the membrane itself, but are destined for the subjacent bone. Nerves have also been traced in the dura mater ; some accompany the vessels, others appear destined for the membrane itself, and others again for the bones. It has been proved by numerous observations and experiments, that the tendons, ligaments, and other structures composed of fibrous tissue, are, in the healthy state, quite insensible ; but then it is known, on the other hand, that they occasion severe pain when inflamed, which cannot well be accounted for on the supposition that they are entirely destitute of nerves. Bichat, while he admitted their insensibility to cutting, burning, and most other kinds of stimuli which cause pain in sensible textures, ascribed to them a peculiar sensibility to twisting or to violent extension, and this opinion has been supported by other authorities of weight, but the proofs of it are not clear. It readily heals and unites when divided, as is seen in cases of broken tendo Achillis. Fibrous tissue is very generally produced as a uniting medium of broken bones when osseous union fails to take place ; it is com- mon as a diseased production in various kinds of tumours. YELLOW OK, ELASTIC TISSUE. Whilst the fibrous tissue is remarkable for its want of extensibility, and owes its usefulness as a constituent of the frame in a great measure to that character, the substance we have now to consider possesses this property in a very high degree, and is employed wherever an extensible and highly elastic material is required in the animal structure. Examples of this texture on a large scale are seen in the horse, ox, elephant, and other large quadrupeds, in which it forms the great elastic ligament, called ligamentum nuchce, that extends from the spines of the vertebrae to the occiput, and aids in sustaining the head ; in the same animals it also forms an elastic subcutaneous fascia, which is spread over the muscles of the abdomen and assists in supporting the contents of that cavity. In the human body it is met with chiefly in the following situa- tions, viz. :—