150 Fig. 138. ARTICULATIONS OF THE PELVIS. from the inside of the head of the Fig. 138.—Right half of a Female on the upper and back part of the articulation. The inferior or sub-pubic liga- ment, thick and triangular, is attached to the rami of the pubic bones, gives Pelvis, seen from the inner side. An opening has been made into the Acetabulum to show the tightened condition of the Round Ligament with the Femur par- tially flexed and adducted. f 1, supraspinous ligaments descend- ing to the sacrum from 2, 2, the lumbar spinous processes; 3, 4, the lumbar and sacral spinal canal, with its periosteal lining ; 5, placed on the ilium above the anterior sacro- iliac ligament; 6, placed in the great sacro-sciatic foramen, points to the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament; 7, greater sacro-sciatic ligament, with 7', its continuation over the inner border of the tuberosity of the ischium ; 8, a portion of the wall of the cotyloid cavity, removed so as to give a view femur, 9, with the round ligament put upon the stretch, the femur being partially flexed and adducted; 10, the inner part of the capsular liga- ment relaxed; 11, the shaft of the femur. smoothness and roundness to the upper part of the sub-pubic arch, and forms part of the outlet of the pelvis. The obturator membrane or ligament is a fibrous septum attached to the border of the thyroid foramen, which it closes in its entire extent, except at the upper and outer part of its circumference, where a small oval canal is left for the obturator vessels and nerve. The membrane is fixed accurately to the bony margin at the upper and outer sides of the foramen, and to the ■-posterior surface at the inner side. The obturator muscles are attached to its surfaces. Movements.—In ordinary circumstances there is very little movement allowed between the bones of the pelvis. In the erect posture the sacrum is thrown so much backwards that none of the advantage of the key-stone of an arch is ob- tained by the tapering of its form from base to apex. It is only by the sinuosities of its auricular surfaces that it directly presses on the hip-bones; and as the width of the bone rather diminishes at the upper or ligamentous part, the principal strain is borne by the posterior sacro-iliac ligaments,, from which the sacrum is in great measure suspended (see fig. 139) as is well illustrated by the giving way and bending inwards and downwards of their iliac points of attachment in rickety deformities of the pelvis. Thus the structure of the sacro-iliac articulation gives elasticity. The small amount of movement which is allowed between the bones of the pelvis in the ordinary state is increased during parturition in this way, that the lower part of the sacrum being pressed backwards, the wider part of the edge formed by this bone is forced farther between the ossa innominata, so as to separate them to a greater degree, and thus to increase the capacity of the pelvis. In some subjects it would appear that in pregnant women a slight amount of separation may occasionally occur at the symphysis from the extreme looseness of the connecting parts; but in general it is more probable that the only motion at the symphysis is the hinge-like movement of the ossa innominata just described, and that the cavity, of the pelvis owes the principal increase of its dimensions in parturition to the same cause. (See