INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 420 Tlie place of division of these arteries is subject to great variety. In two thirds of a large number of cases, it ranged, between the middle of the last lumbar vertebra and the upper margin of the sacrum; in one case out of eight it was above, and in one case out of six it was below that space. Most frequently the left artery was found to divide lower down than the right. (R. Quain.) The length varies in most instances between an inch and a half and three inches, but it has been seen in some rare cases less than half an inch, and as long as four inches and a half. In one instance, recorded by Cruveilhier, (" Anat. descript." v. iii. p. 186,) the right common iliac artery was wanting, and the internal and external vessels of that side arose as distinct branches from the aorta. Branches.—The common iliac artery often gives off a small unnamed branch to the lymphatic glands, the ureter or the psoas muscle, and sometimes even a larger branch —a renal artery, a lumbar, or the ilio-lumbar. INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. The internal iliac artery (hypogastrica, pelvica) extends from the bifurca- tion of the common iliac artery towards the sacro-sciatic foramen, near which it divides into branches. It is usually about an inch and a half in length, and is smaller than the external iliac in the adult, but the reverse in the foetus. At its origin, the artery lies near the inner border of the psoas muscle ; lower down, it rests against part of the pyriform muscle. Behind it are situated the internal iliac vein, and the communicating branch which passes from the lumbar to the sacral plexus of nerves : in front it is crossed by the ureter, which separates it from the peritoneum. Branches.—The branches of the internal iliac artery, though constant, and regular in their general distribution, vary much in their origin. They arise, in most instances, from two principal divisions of the parent trunk, of which one is anterior to the other. From the anterior division arise the superior vesical (connected with the pervious portion of the foetal hypo- gastric artery), the inferior vesical, middle hsemorrhoidal, obturator, internal pudic, and sciatic arteries, and also, in the female, the uterine and the vaginal arteries. The posterior division gives off the gluteal, the ilio-lumbar, and the lateral sacral arteries. Peculiarities.—Length.— The internal iliac artery has been found as short as half an inch, and sometimes as long as three inches, but it is not often less than an inch in length. An instance has been observed in which this vessel was absent, and its branches were derived from a bend of the external iliac artery down into the pelvis (Preparation in Univ. Coll. Mus., London). The lengths of the common iliac and internal iliac arteries bear an inverse proportion to each other—the internal iliac being long when the common iliac is short, and vice versa. Moreover, when the common iliac is short, the internal iliac (arising higher than usual) is placed for some distance above the brim of the pelvis, and descends by the side of the external iliac to reach that cavity. The place of division of the internal iliac into its branches varies between the upper margin of the sacrum and the upper border of the sacro-sciatic foramen. Branches.—Sometimes all the branches of the internal iliac artery arise without the previous separation of that vessel into two portions. In more than a fourth of R. Quain's cases a branch, corresponding usually to the ilio-lumbar artery, arose before the subdivision of the main trunk. Hypogastric Artery.—In the foetus, the internal iliac artery, retaining almost the full size of the common iliac, curves forwards from that artery to the side of the urinary bladder, and ascends on the anterior wall of the abdomen to the umbilicus. There the vessels of opposite sides come in