ANGEIOLOGY.—THE HEART. 297 Section IV.—ANGEIOLOGY. Under the name of Angeiology is included the descriptive anatomy of the vascular system, consisting of the heart, blood-vessels and absorbents. The heart is the central organ of the circulation, and although presenting a com- plex structure and mechanism, may be regarded, when viewed with reference to its development, as a curved and greatly altered blood-vessel. The blood-vessels are of three kinds—viz., the arteries, or ramifying vessels which distribute the blood from the heart ; the capillaries, or network of simple walled microscopic vessels, in which the blood is diffused through the tissues ; and the veins, or vessels by which the blood is returned to the heart. The absorbents are the small and delicate vessels which convey into the circulation fluid material capable of being converted into blood, whether derived directly from the food digested in the alimentary canal, or returned from the tissues in which it has already played some part in the nutritive processes. The double circulation.—In the systemic circulation the blood is conveyed from the left ventricle of the heart by the arteries to every part of the body, and having parted in the capillaries with a portion of its ingredients, and undergone changes which render its purification necessary, it is returned by the veins to the right side of the heart, which is distinct from that from which it set out. The dark-coloured blood thus brought back to the right side of the heart is conducted through the pulmonary circulation, being propelled through the pulmonary artery by the right ventricle, undergoing in the lungs a process of purification, in which it receives oxygen from the air and parts with carbonic acid, and returning thence to the heart by the pulmonary veins, again to enter the systemic circulation. THE HEART, RELATION TO SURROUNDING PARTS. The heart is situated in the thorax, between the two lungs, and, together with the adjacent parts of the great vessels which convey blood to and from it, is enclosed by a membranous covering, the pericardium. It is placed behind the sternum and the costal cartilages, occupying a region of about four inches in width, extending from the second intercostal space on the right side to the fifth space on the left, and reaching considerably farther on the left than on the right of the middle line. THE MEDIASTINUM. The greater part of the thorax is occupied by the lungs, each of which is invested with a serous membrane, the pleura, which presents a parietal and a visceral portion, and is continued from the one portion to the other by passing on the surface of the pericardium from the anterior and posterior parts of the walls of the chest to the root of the lung. Thus the heart, enclosed in the pericardium, is situated between the right and left pleural sacs, and between the layers of an antero-posterior septum formed by the united portions of the right and left pleurae, and known as the mediastinum* x