367 BRANCHES OF THE SUBCLAVIAN. VERTEBRAL. Another branch, in the great majority of instances, arises from the third part of the artery. This is most frequently the posterior scapular artery, a branch which otherwise is derived from the transverse cervical, one of the divisions of the thyroid axis. This circumstance is of surgical interest, as the third part of the subclavian artery is the portion of the vessel usually tied for axillary aneurism. As the right subclavian artery is likewise accessible to the surgeon in its first part, it is proper to mention that the distance between the origin of the vessel and its first branch is usually between half an inch and an inch, and that it very rarely is less than half an inch or more than an inch and a half. Peculiarities.—The variations in origin of the subclavian arteries have been con- sidered along with the peculiarities of the arch of the aorta. Course.—The height to which these vessels reach in the neck is liable to some variation. Most commonly the artery crosses the neck a little higher than the clavicle, but it is sometimes placed as high as an inch or even an inch and a half above the level of that bone. The greater extent of elevation above the clavicle, how- ever, is especially seen in the artery of the right side. Occasionally the subclavian artery perforates the anterior scalenus muscle, and in a few rare cases it has been seen altogether in front of the muscle, and close to the subclavian vein. That vein has been also seen to pass with the artery behind the scalenus muscle. Branches,—Besides the variation in amount of the branches already referred to, it may be noticed that, in a few cases, one or more of the three first branches have been found moved inwards from their usual position, or outwards to another division of the subclavian. Sometimes two, and much more rarely three branches arise from the third part of the vessel. BRANCHES OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. I. VERTEBRAL ARTERY. The vertebral artery, which is usually the first and largest branch of the subclavian, arising from the upper and back part of that vessel, passes upwards and a little backwards, and enters the transverse foramen of the sixth cervical vertebra—not ^infrequently that of some higher vertebra. The vessel then ascends in a vertical direction through the series of foramina of the transverse processes, as far as to the upper border of the axis ; there it inclines outwards to reach the corresponding foramen of the atlas, and after passing through that aperture winds backwards and inwards in the groove on the neural arch of that vertebra, and, piercing the dura mater, enters the skull through the foramen magnum. Finally, it proceeds upwards and forwards, and turning round from the side to the front of the medulla oblongata on the basilar process of the occipital bone, unites with the vessel of the opposite side, at the lower border of the pons Varolii, to form the basilar artery. At its commencement, the vertebral artery lies behind the internal jugular vein, and on approaching the vertebrae passes between the longus colli and the scalenus anticus muscle. On the left side, the thoracic duct in ascending crosses in front of the vessel from within outwards. While within the foramina of the cervical vertebrae, the artery is accom- panied by a plexus of the sympathetic nerves and by the vertebral vein, which, as the vessels issue from the foramen of the sixth vertebra, is in front of the artery : the cervical nerves as they emerge from the inter- vertebral foramina lie behind it. The sub-occipital nerve passes out beneath