DEVELOPMENT OF THE HEART. 323 fractions of lines) are the average dimensions of these orifices in adult males and females, between the ages of 20 and 60 years :— Males. Females. Inches and Lines. (Right 4 6 4 0 I Left 3 7 3 10 (Right (Pulmonary)..- 34 33 Arterial orifices . . . ,\ ^ (2ortic) 3 0 2 10 Auriculo-ventricular orifices DEVELOPMENT OE THE HEART AND GREAT BLOOD-VESSELS. The Heart.—The heart first appears as an elongated sac or dilated tube lying at the fore part of the embryo, having two veins connected with it behind, and a large arterial trunk proceeding from it in front. This tube exhibits rhythmic con- tractions of its walls from a very early period. Its form is at first symmetrical, but soon it becomes curved or bent upon itself like a horse-shoe, and projects on the ventral aspect of the body towards the right side. Fig. 241.—Views of the anterior or cephalic half of the embryo-chick from the Abdominal Surface, show- ing the Heart in the earliest stages of its formation (after Re- mak). Magnified about twenty times. A, embryo after about twenty-eight or thirty hours of incubation ; B, after about thirty-six hours of incuba- tion ; a, placed on the anterior cerebral vesicle ; b, the primitive cervical ver- tebne ; c, c, the cephalic fold of the ger- minal membrane; 1, 1, primitive veins entering the auricle; 2, 3, in A, the primitive and simple sac or short tube of the heart ; in B, 2, the auricular part ; 3, the ventricular part beginning to bulge or be bent to the side and dilate ; 4, the anterior part of the tube which be- comes the aortic bulb. Fig. 241. A B As this bending increases the venous end approaches the arterial, and at the same time the tube, which progressively increases in size and in the thickness of its walls, becomes divided by two slight constrictions into three compartments, opening suc- cessively into each other. The first, next to the veins, is the auricular portion, the middle one is the ventricular, and the last, which is the primitive arterial trunk, is named the bulbus arteriosus. The auricular portion becomes placed behind the ventricular compartment, and relatively to that cavity considerably enlarged. Moreover, two little pouches appear upon it, one at each side, which form the future auricular appendages. The walls of the ventricular portion are already thicker than the rest. The next series of changes consists in the gradual subdivision of the single auricle, ventricle, and arterial bulb, each into two compartments, to form the right and left auricles, the right and left ventricles, and the pulmonary artery and aorta : and these changes are accompanied by an alteration in the position of the parts with relation to the body, the ventricular portion now lying transversely, so as to bring that portion which is afterwards to form the apex towards the left side. This subdivision commences first in the single ventricular portion of the heart. A small notch appears externally to the right of the apex, which goes on increasing in depth for some weeks, and then is again gradually obliterated. In the meantime, about the fourth or fifth week, a septum begins to rise up internally from the right side of the heart, at a little distance from the apex and from the anterior wall of the cavity, and proceeds in the direction of the base, towards the arterial bulb, and about the eighth week is complete. Traces of the subdivision of the auricular portion com-