LYMPHATICS OF THE VISCERA. 353 glands, whence they proceed to the root of the neck, and terminate in the thoracic duct. The Pericardiac and thymic lymphatic vessels proceed to join the ante- rior mediastinal and bronchial glands. The Lymphatic vessels of the liver are divisible into the deep and su- perficial. The former take their course through the portal canals, and through the right border of the lesser omentum, to the lymphatic glands situated in the course of the hepatic artery and along the lesser curve of the stomach. The superficial lymphatics are situated in the areolar struc ture of the proper capsule, over the whole surface of the liver. Those of the convex surface are divided into two sets;—1. Those which pass from before backwards; 2. Those which advance from behind forwards. The former unite to form trunks, which enter between the folds of the lateral ligaments at the right and left extremities of the organ, and of the coronary ligament in the middle. Some of these pierce the diaphragm and join the posterior mediastinal glands; others converge to the lymphatic glands situated around the inferior cava. Those which pass from behind for- wards consist of two groups: one ascends between the folds of the broad ligament, and perforates the diaphragm, to terminate in the anterior medi- astinal glands; the other curves around the anterior margin of the liver to its concave surface, and from thence to the glands in the right border of the lesser omentum. The lymphatic vessels of the concave surface are variously distributed, according to their position ; those from the right lobe terminate in the lumbar glands; those from the gall-bladder, which are large and form a remarkable plexus, enter the glands in the right bor- der of the lesser omentum ; and those from the left lobe converge to the lymphatic glands situated along the lesser curve of the stomach. The Lymphatic glands of the spleen are situated around its hilus, and those of the pancreas in the course of the splenic vein. The lymphatic vessels of these organs pass through their respective glands, and join the aortic glands, previously to terminating in the thoracic duct. The Lymphatic glands of the stomach are of small size, and are situated along the lesser and greater curves of that organ. The lymphatic vessels, as in other viscera, are superficial and deep, the former originating in the subserous and the latter in the submucous tissue; they pass from the sto- mach in four different directions: some ascend to the glands, situated along the lesser curve, others descend to those occupying the greater curve, a third set pass outwards to the splenic glands, and a fourth to the glands situated near the pylorus and to the aortic glands. The Lymphatic glands of the small intestine are situated between the layers of the mesentery, in the meshes formed by the superior mesenteric artery, and are thence named mesenteric glands. These glands are most numerous and largest, superiorly, near the duodenum; and, inferiorly, near the termination of the ileum. The Lymphatic vessels of the small intestines are of two kinds: those of the structure of the intestines, which run upon its surface pre- viously to entering the mesenteric glands ; and those which commence in the villi, in the substance of the mucous membrane, and are named lacteals. The Lacteals, according to Henle, commence in the centre of each vil- lus as a caecal tubulus, which opens into a fine network, situated in the