MUSCLES OF THE PERINEUM. 219 trachea, and nasal passages, during coughing and sneezing. To produce these efforts they all act together. Their violent and continued action produces hernia; and, acting spasmodically, they may occasion rupture of the viscera. The quadratus lumborum draws the last rib downwards, and is an expiratory muscle ; it also serves to bend the vertebral column to one or the other side. The psoas parvus is a tensor of the iliac fascia, and, taking its fixed origin from below, it may assist in flexing the verte- bral column forwards. The diaphragm is an inspiratory muscle, and the sole agent in tranquil inspiration. W hen in action, the muscle is drawn downwards, its plane being rendered oblique from the level of the ensi- form cartilage, to that of the upper lumbar vertebra. During relaxation it is convex, and encroaches considerably on the cavity of the chest, par- ticularly at the sides, where it corresponds with the lungs. It assists the abdominal muscles powerfully in expulsion, every act of that kind being preceded or accompanied by a deep inspiration. Spasmodic action of the diaphragm produces hiccough and sobbing, and its rapid alternation of contraction and relaxation, combined with laryngeal and facial movements, laughing and crying. MUSCLES OF THE PERINEUM. The muscles of the perineum are situated in the outlet of the pelvis, and consist of two groups, one of which belongs especially to the organs of generation and urethra, the other to the termination of the alimentary canal. To these may be added the only pair of muscles which is proper to the pelvis, the coccygeus. The muscles of the perineal region in the male, are the Accelerator urinae, Erector penis, Compressor urethrae, Transversus perinei, Dissection.—To dissect the perineum, the subject should be fixed in the position for lithotomy, that is, the hands should be bound to the soles of the feet, and the knees kept apart. An easier plan is the drawing of the feet upwards by means of a cord passed through a hook in the ceiling. Both of these plans of preparation have for their object the full exposure of the perineum. And as this is a dissection which demands some degiee of delicacy and nice manipulation, a strong light should be thrown upon the part. Having fixed the subject, and drawn the scrotum upwards by means of a string or hook, carry an incision from the base of the scrotum along the ramus of the pubes and ischium and tuberosity of the ischium, to a point parallel with the apex of the coccyx; then describe a curve over the coccyx to the same point on the opposite side, and continue the incision onwards along the opposite tuberosity, and along the ramus of the ischium and of the pubes, to the opposite side of the scrotum, where the two extremities maybe connected by a transverse incision. This incision will completely surround the perineum, following very nearly the outline of its boundaries. Now let the student dissect off the integument care-- fully from the whole of the included space, and he will expose the fatty cellular structure of the common superficial fascia, which exactly resembles the superficial fascia in every other situation. The common superficial Sphincter ani, Levator ani, Coccygeus.