brse; the epiphyses, commencing with the great toe Fig. 62* scaphoid bone. G. Its tuberosity, 7. The internal cuneiform bone ; its broad extremity 123 PIIAI A A CES. and proceeding to the fifth, appear towards the close of the second year, consolidation being effected at eighteen. Articulations.—With the tarsal bones by one ex- tremity, and with the first row of phalanges by the other. The number of tarsal bones with which each metatarsal articulates from within outwards, is the same as between the metacarpus and carpus, one for the first, three for the second, one for the third, two for the fourth, and one for the fifth, forming the Cipher 13121. Attachment of Muscles.—To fourteen; to the first, the peroneus longus and first dorsal interosseous muscle; to the second, two dorsal interossei and transversus pedis; to the third, two dorsal and one plantar interosseous, adductor pollicis and transversus pedis; to the fourth, two dorsal and one plantar interosseous, adductor pollicis and transversus pedis : to the fifth, one dorsal and one plantar interosseous, peroneus brevis, peroneus tertius, abductor minimi digiti, flexor brevis minimi digiti, and transversus pedis. Phalanges.—There are two phalanges in the great toe, and three in the other toes, as in the hand. They are long bones, divisible into a central portion and extremities. The phalanges of the first row are convex above, concave upon the under surface, and compressed from side to side. The posterior extre- mity has a single concave articular surface, for the head of the metatarsal bone; and the anterior extremity, a pulley-like surface for the second phalanx. The second phalanges are short and diminutive, but somewhat broader than those of the first row. The third, or ungual phalanges, including the second phalanx of the great toe, are flattened from above downwards, spread out laterally at the base, to articulate with the second row, and at the opposite extremity, to support the nail and the rounded extremity of the toe. Development.—By two centres ; one for the body and one for the meta- carpal extremity. Ossification commences in these bones after that in the metatarsus, appearing first in the last phalanges, then in the first, and last of all in the middle row. The bones are completed at eighteen. Articulations.—The first row with the metatarsal bones and second phalanges; the second, of the great toe with the first phalanx, and of the * The sole of the left foot. 1. The inner tuberosity of the os calcis. 2. The outer tuberosity. 3. The groove for the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum ; this figure indicates also the sustentaculum tali. 4. The rounded head of the astragalus. 5. The S. The middle cuneiform bone. 9. The external cuneiform bone. 10, 11. Ihe cuboid bone. 11. Refers to the groove for the tendon of the peroneus longus: the prominence b< itwe^n this groove and figure 10 is the tuberosity. 12, 12. The metatarsal bones. 13, 13. The first phalanges. 14, 14. The second phalanges of the four lesser toes. 15, 15. The third, or ungual phalanges of the four lesser toes. 16. The last phalanx of the great toe.