POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. 330 Branches.—The branches of this artery are the— Tarsea, Metatarsea,—interossese, Dorsalis hallucis,—collateral digital, Communicating. Fig. 160.1 The Tarsea arches transversely across the tarsus, beneath the extensor brevis digitorum muscle, and supplies the articulations of the tarsal bones and the outer side of the foot; it anastomoses with the external malleolar, the peroneal arteries, and the external plantar. The Metatarsea forms an arch across the base of the metatarsal bones, and supplies the outer side of the foot; anastomosing with the tarsea and with the exter- nal plantar artery. The metatarsea gives off three branches, the interossece, which pass forward upon the dorsal interossei muscles, and divide into two collateral branches for adjoining toes. At their commencement these interosseous branches receive the posterior per- forating arteries from the plantar arch, and opposite the heads of the metatarsal bones they are joined by the anterior perforating branches from the digital arteries. The Dorsalis hallucis runs forward upon the first dor- sal interosseous muscle, and at the base of the first phalanx divides into two branches, one of which passes inwards beneath the tendon of the extensor proprius pollicis, and is distributed to the inner border of the great toe, while the other bifurcates for the supply of the adjacent sides of the great and second toe. The Communicating artery passes into the sole of the foot between the two heads of the first dorsal interos- seous muscle, and inosculates with the termination of the external plantar artery. Besides the preceding, numerous branches are dis- tributed to the bones and articulations of the foot, par- ticularly along the inner border of the latter. h Am POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. The posterior tibial artery passes obliquely down- wards along the tibial side of the leg from the lower * A posterior view of the leg, showing the popliteal and posterior tibial artery, i. The tendons forming the inner hamstring. 2. The tendon of the biceps forming the outer hamstring. 3. The popliteus muscle. 4. The flexor longus digitorum. 5. The tbialis posticus. 6. The fibula; immediately below the figure is the origin of the flexor longus pollicis; the muscle has been removed in order to expose the peroneal artery. 7 The peronei muscles, longus and brevis. 8. The lower part of the flexor longus \ .llicis muscle with it» tendon. 9. The popliteal artery giving oft' its articular and muscular branches; the two superior articular are seen in the upper part of the popli- teal space passing above the two heads of the gastrocnemius muscle, which are cut through near their origin. The two inferior are in relation with the popliteus muscle, j 0. The anterior tibial artery passing through the angular interspace between the two beads of the tibialis posticus muscle. 11. The posterior tibial artery. 12. The relative position of the tendons and artejy at the inner ankle from within outwards, previously to their passing beneath the internal annular ligament. 13. Ihe peroneal artery, dividing, a little below the number, into two branches; the anterior peroneal is seen piercing the interosseous membrane. 14. The posterior peroneal