m STRUCTURE OF TEETH. The canine teeth (cuspidati) follow the incisors in order from before backwards; two are situated in the upper jaw, one on each side, and two in the lower. The crown is larger than that of the incisors, convex be- fore and concave behind, and tapering to a blunted point. The root is longer than that of all the other teeth, compressed at each side, and marked by a slight groove. The bicuspid teeth (bicuspidati, small molars), two on each side in each jaw, follow the canine, and are intermediate in size between them and the molars. The crown is compressed from before backwards, and sur- mounted by two tubercles, one internal, the other external; the neck is oval: the root compressed, marked on each side by a deep groove, and bifid near its apex. The teeth of the upper jaw have a greater tendency to the division of their roots than those of the lower, and the posterior than the anterior pair. The molar teeth (multicuspidati, grinders), three on each side in each jaw, are the largest of the permanent set. The crown is quadrilateral, and surmounted by four tubercles, the neck large and round, and the root divided into several fangs. In the upper jaw the first and second molar teeth have three roots, sometimes four, which are more or less widely separated from each other, twTo of the roots being external, the other in- ternal. In the lower there are but two roots, which are anterior and pos- terior ; they are flattened from behind forwards, and grooved so as to mark a tendency to division. The third molars, or dentes sapientise, are smaller than the other two ; they present three tubercles on the surface of the crown; and uie root is single and grooved, appearing to be made up of four or five fangs compressed together, or partially divided. In the lower jaw the fangs are frequently separated to some distance from each other, and much curved, so as to offer considerable resistance in the ope- ration of extraction.! ( Structure.—The base of the crown of each tooth is hollowed in its in- terior into a small cavity which is continuous with a canal passing through the middle of each fang. The cavity and canal, or canals, constitute the cavitas pulp®, and contain a soft cellulo-vascular organ, the pulp, which receives its supply of vessels and nerves through the small opening at the apex of each root. Mr. Nasmyth, to whose investigations science is so * Temporary teeth, a. Central incisor, b. Lateral incisor, c. Canine, d. First mo lar. e. Second molar. t ^ee an excellent practical work, “ On the Structure, Economy, and Pathology of the Teeth,” by Mr. Lintott.