SAPHENOUS NERVES. 425 to the vastus extemus is found on the outer side of the lower third of the thigh. The Muscular brandies are several large twigs which are distributed to 'die muscles of the anterior aspect of the thigh. One ol these is sent to the rectus; one to the vastus externus, which gives oil a cutaneous twig to the outer aspect of the thigh; one to the cruraeus, and one large and long branch to the vastus internus. From the two latter, filaments are distributed to the periosteum and knee joint. The sartorius receives its supply of nerves from the cutaneous nerves by which it is perforated. The Branch to the femoral sheath is a small nerve which passes inwards to the sheath of the femoral vessels at the upper part of the thigh, and di- vides into several filaments which surround the femoral and profunda ves- sels. Two of these filaments, one from the front, and the other from the posterior part of the sheath, unite to form a small nerve which escapes from the saphenous opening and passes downwards with the saphenous vein. Other filaments are distributed to the adductor muscles, and com- municate with the long saphenous nervo. The Short saphenous nerve (n. cutaneus internus) inclines inwards to the sheath of the femoral vessels, and divides into a superficial and a deep branch. 'The superficial branch passes downwards along the inner border of the sartorius muscle to the lower third of the thigh ; it then pierces the fascia lata, joins the internal saphenous vein, and accompanies that vessel to the knee joint, where it terminates by communicating with the long saphenous nerve. The deep branch descends on the outer side of the sheath of the femoral vessels, and crosses the sheath at its lower part to a point opposite the termination of the femoral artery, where it divides into several filaments which constitute a plexus by their communication with other nerves. One of these filaments communicates with the descending branch of the obturator nerve, another with the long saphenous nerve, and two or three are distributed to the integument upon the internal and pos- terior aspect of the thigh. The Long saphenous nerve (n. cutaneus internus longus) inclines in- wards to the sheath of the femoral vessels, and entering the sheath accom- panies the femoral artery to the aponeurotic canal formed by the adductor longus and vastus internus muscles. It then quits the artery, and, pass- ing between the tendons of the sartorius and gracilis, descends along the inner side of the leg with the internal saphenous vein, crosses in front of the inner ankle, and is distributed to the integument on the inner side of the foot as far as the great toe. The internal saphenous nerve receives from the obturator nerve two branches of communication, one near its upper part, which passes through the angle of division of the femoral artery, and the other at the internal condyle. The branches which it gives off in its course are, a femoral cutaneous branch, at about the middle of the thigh, distributed to the in- tegument of the inner and posterior aspect of the limb, and communicat- ing with other cutaneous filaments from the saphenous below the knee ; a tibial cutaneous branch proceeding from the nerve a little above the internal condyle, passing between the sartorius and gracilis and descending the inner aspect of the leg to the ankle ; an articular branch of small size, pro • ceeding from the nerve while in the aponeurotic canal of the femoral artery, and passing directly to the knee joint to supply the synovial mem- brane ; an anterior cutaneous branch proceeding from the saphenous at the 36 *