LYMPHATICS OF THE VISCERA. 357 The Intercostal lymphatic vessels follow the course of the arteries of the same name; and reaching the vertebral column curve downwards, to ter- minate in the thoracic duct. 'The Internal mammary lymphatics commence in the parieties ot the abdomen, communicating with the epigastric lymphatics. I hey ascend by the side of the internal mammary vessels, being joined in their course by the anterior intercostals, and terminate at the root of the neck, on the right side in the tributaries of the ductus lymphaticus dexter, and on the left in the thoracic duct. The diaphragmatic lymphatics pursue the direc- tion of their corresponding veins, and terminate some in front in the in- ternal mammary vessels, and some behind, in the posterior mediastinal lymphatics. The jDeep lymphatic glands of the abdomen are the lumbar glands ; they are very numerous, and are seated around the common iliac vessels, the aorta and vena cava. The deep lymphatic glands of the pelvis are the external iliac, internal iliac and sacral. The External iliac are placed around the external iliac vessels, being in continuation by one extremity with the femoral lymphatics, and by the other with the lumbar glands. The Internal iliac glands are situated in the course of the internal iliac vessels, and the sacral glands are supported by the concave surface of the sacrum. The Deep lymphatic vessels are continued upwards from the thigh, be- neath Poupart’s ligament, and along the external iliac vessels to the lum- bar glands, receiving in their course the epigastric, circumflexa ilii, and ilio- lumbar lymphatic vessels. Those from the parietes of the pelvis, and from the gluteal, ischiatic, and obturator vessels, follow the course of the internal iliac arteries, and unite with the lumbar lymphatics. And the lumbar lymphatic vessels, after receiving all the lymphatics from the lower extremities, pelvis, and loins, terminate by several large trunks in the receptaculum chyli. LYMPHATICS OF THE VISCERA. The Lymphatic vessels of the lungs are of large size, and are distributed over every part of the surface, and through the texture of these organs ; they converge to the numerous glands situated around the bifurcation of the trachea and roots of the lungs, the bronchial glands. Some of these glands of small size, may be traced in connexion with the bronchial tubes for some distance into the lungs. The efferent vessels from the bronchial glands unite with the tracheal and oesophageal glands, and terminate prin- cipally in the thoracic duct at the root of the neck, and partly in the duc- tus lymphaticus dexter. The bronchial glands, in the adult, present a variable tint of brown, and in old age a deep black colour. In infancy they have none of this pigment, and are not to be distinguished from lym- phatic glands in other situations. The Lymphatic vessels of the heart originate in the subserous areolar tissue of the surface, and in the deeper tissues of the organ, and follow the course of the vessels, principally, along the right border of the heart to the glands situated around the arch of the aorta and to the bronchial