262 MUSCLES OF TIIE SOLE OF THE FOOT. fourth metatarsal bones. It is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. Relations. — By its superficial surface, with the tendons of the flexor longus and flexor brevis digitorum, the musculus accessorius, and lumbri- cales. By its deep surface, with the tarsal bones and ligaments, the exter- nal plantar artery and veins, the interossei muscles, tendon of the peroneus longus, and metatarsal bone of the great toe. By its inner border, with the flexor brevis pollicis; with which its fibres are blended. The Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti arises from the base of the metatar- sal bone of the little toe, and from the sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus. It is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the tendons of the flexor longus and flexor brevis digitorum, the fourth lumbricalis, abductor minimi digiti, and plantar fascia. By its deep surface, with the plantar interosseous muscle of the fourth metatarsal space, and the metatarsal bone. The Transversus Pedis arises, by fleshy slips, from the heads of the metatarsal bones of the four lesser toes. Its tendon is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, being blended with that of the adductor pollicis. Relations. — By its superficial surface, with the tendons of the flexor longus and flexor brevis digitorum, and the lumbricales. By its deep surface, with the interossei, and heads of the metatarsal bones. Fourth Layer. Interossei plantares. The Plantar Interossei muscles are three in number, and are placed upon, rather than between, the metatarsal bones. They arise from the base of the metatarsal bones of the three outer toes, and are inserted into the inner side of the extensor tendon and base of the first phalanx of the same toes. Relations. — By their superficial surface, with the dorsal interossei and the metatarsal bones. By their deep surface, with the external plantar artery and veins, the adductor pollicis, transversus pedis, and flexor mi- nimi digiti. Actions.—All the preceding muscles act upon the toes; and the move- ments which they are capable of executing may be referred to four heads, viz., flexion, extension, adduction, and abduction. In these actions they are grouped in the following manner:— Flexion. Extension. Flexor longus digitorum, Flexor brevis digitorum, Flexor accessorius, Flexor minimi digiti. Adduction. Extensor longus digitorum, Extensor brevis digitorum. Abduction. Interossei, ( one dorsal, \ three plantar. Interossei, three dorsal, Abductor minimi digiti.