151 LIGAMENTS OF THE SCAPULA. ‘2. Scapuloclavicular Articulation.—The ligaments of the scapular end of the clavicle are, the Superior acromio-clavicular, Inferior acromio-clavicular, Coraco-clavicular (trapezoid and conoid), Interarticular fibro-cartilage, Two synovial membranes. The superior acromio-clavicular ligament is a moderately thick plane of superimposed fibres passing between the extremity of the clavicle and the acromion, upon the upper surface of the joint. The inferior acromio-clavicular ligament is a thin plane situated upon the under surface. These two ligaments are continuous with each other in front and behind, and form a complete capsule around the joint. The coraco-clavicular ligament (trapezoid, conoid) is a thick lasciculus of ligamentous fibres, passing obliquely between the base of the coracoid process and the under surface of the clavicle, and holding the end of the clavicle in firm connexion with the scapula. When seen from before, it has a quadrilateral form : hence it is named trapezoid ; and examined from behind, it has a triangular form, the base being upwards ; hence another name, conoid. The interarticular fibro-cartilage is often indistinct, from having partial connexions with the fibro-cartilaginous surfaces of the two bones between which it is placed, and not unfrequently absent. When partial, it occu- pies the upper part of the articulation. The synovial membranes are very delicate. There is, of course, but one, when the fibro-cartilage is incom- plete. Actions.—The acromio-clavicular articulation admits of two movements, the gliding of the surfaces upon each other ; and the rotation of the sca- pula upon the extremity of the clavicle. 3. The Proper ligaments of the Scapula are the ^lg- 86-* Coraco-acromial, Transverse. The coraco-acromial ligament is a broad and thick triangular band, which forms a pro- tecting arch over the shoulder joint. It is attached by its apex to the point of the acro- mion process, and by its base to the external border of the coracoid process its whole length. This ligament is in relation above with the under surface of the deltoid muscle ; and below with the tendon of the supra-spi- natus muscle, a bursa mucosa being usually interposed. The transverse or coracoid ligament is a narrow but strong fasciculus which crosses * The ligaments of the scapula and shoulder joint. 1. The superior acromio-clavicu- lar ligament. 2. The coraco-clavicular ligament; this aspect of the ligament named trapezoid. 3. The coraco-acromial ligament. 4. The transverse ligament. 0. The capsular ligament. 6. The coraco-humeral ligament. 7. The long tendon of die bicep* issuing from the capsular ligament, and enter ng the bicipital groove.