253 ANTERIOR TIBIAL REGION. leg upon the thigh ; and by taking their origin from below, they balance the pelvis on the lower extremities. The biceps, from the obliquity of its direction, everts the leg when partially flexed, and the semi-tendinosus turns the leg inwards when in the same state of flexion. Anterior Tibial Region. Fig- 132.* Tibialis anticus, Extensor longus digitorum, Peroneus tertius, Extensor proprius pollicis. Dissection.—The dissection of the anterior tibial region is to be commenced by carrying an incision along the middle of the leg, midway between the tibia and the fibula, from the knee to the ankle, and bounding it inferiorly by a transverse incision extending from one malleolus to the other. And to expose the tendons on the dorsum of the foot, the longitudinal incision maybe carried onwards to the outer side of the base of the great toe, and be terminated by another incision directed across the heads of the metatarsal bones. The Tibialis Anticus muscle (flexor tarsi tibialis) arises from the upper two-thirds of the tibia, from the interosseous membrane, and from the deep fascia; its tendon passes through a distinct sheath in the annular ligament, and is inserted into the inner side of the internal cuneiform bone, and base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. Relations. — By its anterior surface with the deep fascia, from which many of its superior fibres arise, and with the anterior annular ligament. By its posterior surface with the interosseous membrane, tibia, ankle joint, and bones of the tarsus with their articulations. By its internal surface with the tibia. By the external surface with the extensoi longus digitorum, extensor proprius pollicis, and the anterior tibial vessels and nerve. The Extensor Longus Digitorum arises from the head of the tibia, from the upper three-fourths of the fibula, from the interosseous mem- brane, and from the deep fascia. Below, it divides into four tendons, which pass beneath the annular ligament, to be inserted into the second and third phalanges of the four lesser toes. The mode of insertion of the extensor tendons, both in the hand and in the foot, is remarkable: each tendon spreads into a broad aponeurosis over the first phalanx; this aponeurosis divides into three slips; the middle one is inserted into the * The muscles of the anterior tibial region. 1. The extensor muscles inserted into the patella. 2. The subcutaneous surface of the tibia. 3. The tibialis anticus. 4. The extensor longus digitorum. 5. The extensor proprius pollicis. 6. The peroneus tertius. 7. 1 he peroneus longus. 8. The peroneus brevis. 9, 9. The borders of the soleus muscle. 10. A part of the inner belly of the gastrocnemius. 11. The extensor brevis digitorum; the tendon in front of this number is that of the peroneus tertius; ai.J that behind it, the tendon of the peroneus brevis. 22