BLANCHARD & LEA’S MEDICAL 16 GRIFFITH (ROBERT E.), M. D., &c. A UNIVERSAL FORMULARY, containing the methods of Preparing and Ad- ministering Officinal and other Medicines. The whole adapted to Physicians and Pharmaceu- tists. Second Edition, thoroughly revised, with numerous additions, by Robert P. Thomas, M. D., Professor of Materia Medica in the Philadelphia College of Pharmacy. In one large and handsome octavo volume, of over six hundred pages, double columns. (Just Issued.) It is one of the most usef.d books a country practi- tioner can possibly have in his possession.—Medical Chronicle. It was a work requiring much perseverance, and when published was looked upon as by far the best work ot its kind that bad issued from the American press, being free of much of the trashy, and embrac- ing most of the non-officinal formulae used or known in American, English, or French practice, arranged under the heads of the several constituentdrugs, plac- ing the receipt under its more important constituent. Prof Thomas has certainly “improved,” as well as added o this Formulary, and has rendered it addition- ally deserving of the confidence of pharmaceutists and physicians.—American Journal of Pharmacy. We are happy to announce a new and improved edition of this, one of the most valuable and useful works that have emanated from an American pen. It would do credit to any country, and will be found of daily usefulness to practitioners of medicine; it is better adapted to their purposes than the dispensato- ries.— Southern Med. and Surg Journal. A new edition of this well-known work, edited by R. P. Thomas, M D., affords occasion for renewing our commendation of so useful a handbook, which ought to be universally studied by medical men of every class, and made use of by way of reference by office pupils, as a standard authority. It has been much enlarged, and now condenses a vast amount of needful and necessary knowledge in small com- pass. The more of such books the better for the pro- fession and the public.— N. Y. Med. Gazette. The amount of useful, every-day matter, for a prac- ticing physician, is really immense.—Boston Med. and Surg. Journal. This is a work of six hundred and fifty one pages, embracing all on the subject of preparing and admi- nistering medicines that can he desired by the physi- cian and pharmaceutist.— Western Lancet. In short, it is a full and complete work of the kind, and should be in the hands of every physician and apothecary.— O. Med. and Surg. Journal We predict a great sale for this work, and we espe- ciallv recommend it to all medical teachers.—Rich- mond Stethoscope. This edition of Dr. Griffith’s work has been greatly improved by the revision and ample additions of Dr. Thomas, and is now, we believe, one of the most complete works of its kind in any language. The additions amount to about seventy pages, and no effort has been spared to include in them all the re- cent improvements which have been published in medical journals, and systematic treatises. A work of this kind appears to us indispensable to the physi- cian. and there is none we can more cordially recom- mend.— N. Y. Journal of Medicine. BY THE SAME AUTHOR. MEDICAL BOTANY; or, a Description of all the more important Plants used in Medicine, and of their Properties, Uses, and Modes of Administration. In one large octavo volume, of 704 pages, handsomely printed, with nearly 350 illustrations on wood. GLUGE (GOTTLIEB), M. D., Professor of Physiology and Pathological Anatomy in the University of Brussels, &c. AN ATLAS OF PATHOLOGICAL HISTOLOGY. Translated, with Notes and Additions, by Joseph Leidy, M. D., Professor of Anatomy in the University of Pennsylva- nia. In one volume, very large imperial quarto, with three hundred and twenty figures, plain and colored, on twelve copperplates. This being, as far as we know, the only work in which pathological histology is separately treated of in a comprehensive manner, it will, we think, for this reason, be of infinite service to those who desire to investigate the subject systematically, and who have felt the difficulty of arranging in their mind the unconnected observations of a great number of authors. The development of the morbid tissues, and the formation of abnormal products, may now be followed and studied with the same ease and satisfaction as the best arranged system of phy- siology.—American Med. Journal. GREGORY (WILLIAM), F. R. S. E., Professor of Chemistry in the University of Edinburgh, &c. LETTERS TO A CANDID INQUIRER ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM. In one neat volume, royal 12mo., extra cloth. GARDNER (D. PEREIRA), M. D. MEDICAL CHEMISTRY, for the use of Students and the Profession: being a Manual of the Science, with its Applications to Toxicology, Physiology, Therapeutics, Hygiene, &c. In one handsome royal 12mo. volume, with illustrations. HASSE (C. E.), M. D. AN ANATOMICAL DESCRIPTION OF THE DISEASES OF RESPIRA- TION AND CIRCULATION. Translated and Edited by Swaine. In one volume, octavo. HARRISON (JOHN), M. D. AN ESSAY TOWARDS A CORRECT THEORY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. In one octavo volume, 292 pages. HUNTER (JOHN). TREATISE ON THE VENEREiYL DISEASE. With copious Additions, by Dr. Pii. Ricord, Surgeon to the Venereal Hospital of Paris. Edited, with additional Notes, by F. J. Bumstead, M. D. In one octavo volume, with plates. (Nora Ready.) Edr See Ricord. Also, HUNTER’S COMPLETE WORKS, with Memoir, Notes, &c. &c. In four neat octavo volumes, with plates.