548 VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE UTERUS. and appears to be composed of whitish fibres inextricably interlaced and mingled with blood-vessels. In the impregnated uterus the fibres are of large size, and distinct, and are disposed in two layers, superficial and deep. The superficial layer consists of fibres which pursue a vertical direction, some being longitudinal, and others oblique. The longitudinal fibres are found principally on the middle line, forming a thin plane upon the anterior and posterior face of the organ and upon its fundus. Th oblique fibres occupy chiefly the sides and the fundus. At the angles of the uterus the fibres of the superficial layer are continued outwards upon the Fallopian tubes, and into the round ligaments and ligaments of the ovaries. The deep layer consists of two Hollow cones of circular fibres having their apex at the openings of the Fallopian tubes, and intermin- gling with each other by their bases on the body of the organ. These fibres are continuous with the deep muscular layer of the Fallopian tubes, and indicate the primitive formation of the uterus by the blending of these two canals. Around the cervix uteri the muscular fibres assume a circular form interlacing with and crossing each other at acute angles. The mucous membrane is provided with a columnar ciliated epithelium, which extends from the middle of the cervix uteri to the extremities of the Fallo- pian tubes. Vessels and JVerves.—The Arteries of the uterus are the uterine from the internal iliac, and the spermatic from the aorta. The Veins are large and remarkable; in the impregnated uterus they are called sinuses, and consist of canals channeled through the substance of the organ, being merely lined by the internal membrane of the veins. They terminate on each side of the uterus in the uterine plexuses. The lymphatics terminate in the lumbar glands. The JVerves of the uterus are derived from the hypogastric and sper- matic plexuses, and from the sacral plexus. They have been made the subject of special investigation by Dr. Robert Lee, who has successfully repaired the omission made by Dr. William Hunter, in this part of the anatomy of the organ. In his numerous dissections of the uterus, both in the unimpregnated and gravid state, Dr. Lee has made the discovery of several large nervous ganglia and plexuses. The principal of these, situ- ated on each side of the cervix uteri, immediately behind the ureter, he terms the hypogastric ganglion; it receives the greater number of the nerves from the hypogastric and sacral plexus, and distributes branches to the uterus, vagina, bladder, and rectum. Of the branches to the uterus, a large fasciculus proceeds upwards by the side of the organ towards its angle, where they communicate with branches of the spermatic plexus, and form another large ganglion, which he designates the spermatic gan- glion, and which supplies the fundus uteri. Besides these, Dr. Lee de- scribes vesical and vaginal ganglia, and anterior and posterior subperitoneal ganglia and plexuses, which communicate with the preceding, and consti- tute an extensive nervous network over the entire uterus. Dr. Lee con- cludes his observations by remarking:—“These dissections prove that the human uterus possesses a great system of nerves, which enlarges with the coats, blood-vessels, and absorbents, during pregnancy, and which returns after parturition to its original condition before conception takes place. It is chiefly by the influence of these nerves that the uterus performs the varied functions of menstruation, conception, and parturition, and it is solelj by their means that the whole fabric of the nervous system sympa-