456 ORGAN OF HEARING. muscle, which arises from the same ridge, and in its action upon the lachrymal canals may serve to compress the lachrymal sac. The Nasal duct is a short canal about three-quarters of an inch in length, directed downwards, backwards, and a little outwards to the infe- rior meatus of the nose, where it terminates by an expanded orifice. It is lined by mucous membrane, which is continuous with the conjunctiva above, and with the pituitary membrane of the nose below. Obstruction, from inflammation and suppuration of this duct, constitutes the disease called fistula lachrymalis. Vessels and Nerves. — The lachrymal gland is supplied with blood by the lachrymal branch of the ophthalmic artery, and with nerves by the lachrymal branch of the ophthalmic and orbital branch of the superior maxillary. THE ORGAN OF HEARING. The apparatus of hearing is composed of three parts; the external ear, middle ear or tympanum, and internal ear or labyrinth. The External ear consists of two portions, the pinna and meatus; the former representing a kind of funnel which collects the vibrations of the atmosphere, producing sounds, and the latter a tube which conveys the vibrations to the tympanum. The Pinna presents a number of holes and hollows upon its surface, which have different names assigned to them. Thus, the external folded margin is called the helix (eXifj, a fold). The elevation parallel to and in front of the helix is called antihelix (dvr/, opposite). The pointed process, projecting like a valve over the opening of the ear from the face, is called the tragus (rgayoc;, a goat), probably from being sometimes covered with bristly hair like that of a goat; and a tubercle opposite to this is the anti- tragus. The lower dependent and fleshy portion of the pinna is the lobulus. The space between the helix and antihelix is named the fossa innominata. Another depression is observed at the upper extremity of the antihelix, which bifurcates and leaves a triangular space between its branches, called the scaphoid fossa ; and the large central space, to which all the channels converge, is the concha, which opens directly into the meatus. The pinna is composed of integument, fibro-cartilage, ligaments, and muscles. The Integument is thin, contains an abundance of sebiparous glands, and is closely connected with the fibro-cartilage. The Fibro-cartilage gives form to the pinna, and is folded so as to pro- duce the various convexities and grooves which have been described upon its surface. The helix commences in the concha, and partially divides that cavity into two parts; on its anterior border is a tubercle for the attachment of the attrahens aurem muscle, and a little above this a small vertical fissure, the fissure of the helix. The termination of the helix and antihelix forms a lengthened process, the processus caudatus, which is separated from the concha by an extensive fissure. Upon the anterior surface of the tragus is another fissure, the fissure of the tragus, and in the lobulus the fibro-cartilage is wholly deficient. The fibro-cartilage of ihe meatus, at the upper and anterior part of the cylinder, is divided from