GALL-BLADDER. “ active congestion” of the liver, and very commonly attends disease of the heart and lungs. These are instances of partial congestion, but there is sometimes general congestion of the organ. “ In general congestion the whole liver is of a red colour, but the central portions of the lobules are usually of a deeper hue than the marginal portions.” • GALL-BLADDER. The Gall-bladder (fig. 166) is the reservoir of the bile ; it is a pyriform sac, situated in a fossa on the under surface of the right lobe of the liver, and extending from the right extremity of the transverse fissure to the free margin. It is divided into a body, fundus, and neck: the fundus or broad extremity in the natural position of the liver is placed downwards, and frequently projects beyond the free margin of the liver, while the neck, small and constricted, is directed upwards. This sac is composed of three coats, serous, fibrous, and mucous. The serous coat is partial, is derived from the peritoneum, and covers that side only which is unattached to the liver. The middle or fibrous coat is a thin but strong fibrous layer, con- nected on one side to the liver, and on the other to the peritoneum. The internal or mucous coat is but loosely attached to the fibrous layer; it is everywhere raised into minute rugae, which give it a beautifully reticulated appearance, and forms, at the neck of the sac, a spiral valve. It is con- tinuous through the hepatic duct with the mucous membrane lining all the ducts of the liver, and through the ductus communis choledochus, with the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal. The Biliary duds are, the ductus communis choledochus, the cystic, and the hepatic duct. The Ductus communis choledochus (x^h bilis, Ssxoyou recipio) is the common excretory duct of the liver and gall-bladder; it is about three inches in length, and commences at the papilla situated on the inner side of the cylinder of the perpendicular portion of the duodenum. Passing obliquely between the mucous and muscular coat, it ascends behind the duodenum, and through the right border of the lesser omentum ; and divides into two branches, the cystic duct and the hepatic duct. It is constricted at its commencement in the duodenum, and becomes dilated in its progress upwards. The Cystic duct, about an inch in length, passes outwards from the preceding to the neck of the gall-bladder, with which it is continuous. The Hepatic duct continues onwards to the transverse fissure of the liver, and divides into two branches, which ramify through the portal canals to every part of the liver. The coats of the hepatic ducts are an external or fibrous, and an internal or mucous coat. The external coat is composed of a contractile fibrous tissue, which is probably muscular; but its muscularity has not yet been demonstrated in the human subject. The mucous coat is continuous on the one hand with the lining membrane of the hepatic ducts and gall bladder, and on the other with that of the duodenum. Vessels and JVerves. —The gall-bladder is supplied with blood by the cystic artery, a branch of the hepatic. Its veins return their blood into the portal vein. The nerves are derived from the hepatic plexus.