19 AND SCIENTIFIC PUBLICATIONS. LAWRENCE (W.), F. R. S., &c. A TREATISE ON DISEASES OF THE EYE. A new edition, edited, with numerous additions, and 243 illustrations, by Isaac Hays, M. D., Surgeon to Wills Hospi- tal, Arc. In one very large and handsome octavo volume, of 930 pages, strongly bound in leather with raised bands. (Now Ready.) This work is thoroughly revised and brought up to 1854. This work is so universally recognized as the standard authority on the subject, that the pub- hshers in presenting this new edition have only to remark that in its preparation the editor has carefully revised every portion, introducing additions and illustrations wherever the advance of science has rendered them necessary or desirable. In this manner it will be found to con- tain over one hundred pages more than the last edition, while the list of wood-engravings has been increased by sixty-seven figures, besides numerous improved illustrations substituted for such as were deemed imperfect or unsatisfactory. The various important contributions to ophthalmological science, recently made by Dalrymple, Jacob, Walton, Wilde, Cooper, &c., both in the form of separate treatises and contributions to periodicals, have been carefully examined by the editor, and, combined with the results of his own experience, have been freely introduced throughout the volume, rendering it a complete and thorough exponent of the most advanced state of the subject. In a future number we shall notice more at length this admirable treatise —the safest guide and most comprehensive work of reference, which is within the reach of all classes of the profession.—Stetho- scope, March, 1854. This standard text-book on the department of which it treats, has not been superseded, by any or all of the numerous publications on the subject heretofore issued. Nor with the multiplied improve- ments of Dr. Hays, the American editor, is it at all likely that this great work will cease to merit the confidence and preference of students or practition- ers. Its ample extent—nearly one thousand large | octavo pages—has enabled both author and editor to do justice to all the details of this subject, and con- dense in this single volume the present state of our knowledge of the whole science in this department, whereby its practical value cannot be excelled. We heartily commend it, especially as a book of refe- rence, indispensable in every medical library. The additions of the American editor very greatly en- hance the value of the work, exhibiting the learning and^experience of Dr. Hays, in the light in which he ought to be held, as a standard authority on all sub- jects appertaining to this specialty, to which he has rendered so many valuable contributions.—N. Y. Medical Gazette. BY THE SAME AUTHOR. A TREATISE ON RUPTURES; from the fifth London edition. In one octavo volume, sheep, 4S0 pages. LUDLOW (J. L.), M. D., Lecturer on Clinical Medicine at the Philadelphia Almshouse, &c. A MANUAL OF EXAMINATIONS upon Anatomy and Physiology, Surgery, Practice of Medicine, Chemistry, Obstetrics, Materia Medica, Pharmacy, and Therapeutics. Designed for Students of Medicine throughout the United States. A new edition, revised and extensively improved. In one large royal 12mo. volume, with several hundred illustrations. (Preparing.) LISTON (ROBERT), F. R. S., &c. LECTURES OX THE OPERATIONS OP SURGERY, and on Diseases and Accidents requiring Operations. Edited, with numerous Additions and Alterations, by T. D. Mutter, M. D. In one large and handsome octavo volume, of 566 pages, with 210 wood-cuts. LALLEMAND (M.). THE CAUSES, SYMPTOMS, AND TREATMENT OF SPERMATOR- RHOEA. Translated and edited by Henry J. McDougal. In one volume, octavo, 320 pa^es. Second American edition. (Just Issued.) e LARDNER (DIONYSIUS), D.C. L., Sic. HANDBOOKS OF NATURAL PHILOSOPHY AND ASTRONOMY. Revised, with numerous Additions, by the American editor. First Course, containing Mecha- nics, Hydrostatics, Hydraulics, Pneumatics, Sound, and Optics. In one large royal ]2mo. volume, of 750 pages, with 424 wood-cuts. Second Course, containing Heat, Electricity, Mag- netism, and Galvanism, one volume, large royal 12mo., of 450 pages, with 250 illustrations. Third Course ( now ready), containing Meteorology and Astronomy, in one large volume, royai 12mo. of nearly eight hundred pages, with thirty-seven plates and two hundred wood-cuts. The whole complete in three volumes, of about two thousand large pages, with over one thousand figures on steel and wood. The various sciences treated in this work will be found brought thoroughly up to the latest period The work furnishes a very clear and satisfactory account of our knowledge in the important depart- ment of science of which it treats. Although the medical schools of this country do not include the study of physics in their course of instruction, yet no student or practitioner should be ignorant of its laws. Besides being of constant application in prac- tice, such knowledge is of inestimable utility in fa- cilitating the study of other branches of science. To students, then, and to those who, having already en- tered upon the active pursuits of business, are desir- ous to sustain and improve their knowledge of the general truths of natural philosophy, we can recom- mend this work as supplying in a clear and satis- factory. manner the information they desire.—The Virginia Med. and Surg. Journal. The present treatise is a most complete digest of all that has been developed in relation to the great forces of nature, Heat, Magnetism, and Electricity. Their laws are elucidated in a manner both pleasing and familiar, and at the same time perfectly intelli- gible to the student. The illustrations are suffi- ciently numerous and appropriate, and altogether we can cordially recommend the work as well-de- serving the notice both of the practising physician and the student of medicine.—The Med. Examiner.