413 POSTERIOR CERVICAL PLEXUS. The Phrenic nerve (internal respiratory of Bell) is formed by filaments from the third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves, receiving also a branch from the sympathetic. It descends to the root of the neck, resting upon the scalenus anticus muscle, then crosses the first portion ot the subclavian artery, and enters the chest between it and the subclavian vein. Within the chest it passes through the middle mediastinum, between the pleura and pericardium, and in front of the root of the lung to the diaphragm to which it is distributed, some of its filaments reaching the abdomen through the openings for the oesophagus and vena cava, and communicating with the phrenic and solar plexus, and on the right side with the hepatic plexus. The left phrenic nerve is rather longer than the right, from the inclination of the heart to the left side. Posterior Cervical Nerves.—The posterior division of the first cer- vical nerve (sub-occipital), larger than the anterior, escapes from the ver- tebral canal through the opening for the vertebral artery, lying posteriorly to that vessel, and emerges into the triangular space formed by the rectus posticus major, obliquus superior, and obliquus inferior. It is distributed to the recti and obliqui muscles, and sends one or two filaments down- wards to communicate with the second cervical nerve. The posterior branch of the second cervical nerve is three or four times greater than the anterior branch, and is larger than the other posterior cervical nerves. The posterior branch of the third cervical nerve is smaller than the preced- ing, but larger than the fourth ; and the other posterior cervical nerves go on progressively decreasing to the seventh. The posterior branches of the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth nerves pass inwards between the muscles of the back in the cervical and upper part of the dorsal region, and reaching the surface near the middle line, are reflected outwards, to be distributed to the integument. The fourth and fifth are nearly trans- verse in their course, and lie between the semispinalis colli and complexus. The sixth, seventh, and eighth are directed nearly vertically downwards; they pierce the aponeurosis of origin of the splenius and trapezius. Posterior Cervical Plexus.—This plexus is constituted by the suc- cession of anastomosing loops and communications which pass between the posterior branches of the first, second, and third cervical nerves. It is situated between the complexus and semispinalis colli, and its branches are the— Museulo-cutaneous, Occipitalis major. The Musculo-cutaneous branches pass inwards between the complexus and semispinalis colli to the ligamentum nuchae, distributing muscular filaments in their course. They then pierce the aponeurosis of the trape- zius and become subcutaneous, sending branches outwards to supply the integument of the posterior aspect of the neck, and upwards to the poste- rior region of the scalp. The Occipitalis major is the direct continuation of the second cervical nerve; it ascends obliquely inwards, between the obliquus inferior and complexus, pierces the complexus and trapezius after passing for a short distance between them, and ascends upon the posterior aspect of the head between the integument and occipito-frontalis, in company with the ocri-