104 SCAPULA. base of the coracoid process, is the supra-scapular notch, for the trans mission of the supra-scapular nerve. The inferior or axillary border is thick, and marked by several grooves and depressions; it terminates superiorly at the glenoid cavity, and inte- riorly at the inferior angle. Immediately below the glenoid cavity is a rough ridge, which gives origin to the long head of the triceps muscle Upon the posterior surface of the border is a depression for the teres mi- nor ; and upon its anterior surface a deeper groove for the teres major; near the inferior angle is a projecting lip, which increases the surface of origin of the latter muscle. The posterior border, or base, the longest of the three, is turned towards the vertebral column. It is intermediate in thickness between the supe- rior and inferior, and convex, being considerably inflected outwards towards the superior angle. The anterior angle is the thickest part of the bone, and forms the head of the scapula; it is immediately surrounded by a constricted portion, the neck. The head presents a shallow pyriform Fig. 50. articular surface, the glenoid cavity, having the pointed extremity upwards; and at its apex is a rough depression, which gives at- tachment to the long tendon of the biceps. The inferior angle is thick, and smooth upon the external surface for the origin of the teres major and for a large bursa over which the upper border of the latissimus dorsi muscle plays. The spine of the scapula, triangular in form, crosses the upper part of its dorsum; it commences at the posterior border by a smooth triangular surface over which the trapezius glides upon a bursa, and terminates at the point of the shoulder in the acromion process. The upper border of the spine is rough and subcutaneous, and gives attach- ment by two projecting lips to the trapezius and deltoid muscles; the sur- faces of the spine enter into the formation of the supra and infra-spinous fossae. The nutritious foramina of the scapula are situated in the base of the spine. The acromion is somewhat triangular and flattened from above down- wards ; it overhangs the glenoid cavity, the upper surface being rough and subcutaneous, the lower smooth and corresponding with the shouldei- joint. Near its extremity, upon the anterior border, is an oval articular surface, for the end of the clavicle. The coracoid process is a thick, round, and curved process of bone, arising from the upper part of the neck of the scapula, and over arching * A posterior view of the scapula. 1. The supra-spinous fossa. 2. The infra-spinous fossa. 3. The superior border. 4. The supra-scapular notch. 5. The anterior or axil- lary border. 6. The head of the scapula and glenoid cavity. 7. The inferior angle. 8. The neck of the scapula, the ridge opposite the number gives origin to the long head of the triceps. 9. The posterior border or base of the scapula. 10. The spine. 11. The triangular smooth surface, over which the tendon of the trapezius glides. 12. The aero union process. 13. One of the nutritious foramina. 14. The caracoid process. The superior angle is thin and pointed.