MEDIAN NERVE. 417 on its inner side to the bend of the elbow. It then passes between the two heads of the pronator radii teres and flexor sublimis digitorum muscles, and runs down the fore-arm, between the flexor sublimis and profundus, and beneath the annular ligament, into the palm of the hand. The Branches of the median nerve are,— Muscular, Anterior interosseous, Superficial palmar, Digital. The Muscular branches are given off by the nerve at the bend of the elbow ; they are distri- buted to all the muscles on the anterior aspect of the fore-arm, with the exception of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and to the periosteum. The branch to the pronator radii teres sends off reflected branches to the elbow joint. The Anterior interosseous is a large branch ac- companying the anterior interosseous artery, and supplying the deep layer of muscles in the fore- arm. It passes beneath the pronator quadratus muscle, and pierces the interosseous membrane near the wrist. On reaching the posterior aspect of the wrist it joins a large and remarkable ganglion which gives off a number of branches for the supply of the joint. The Superficial palmar branch arises from the median nerve at about the lower fourth of the fore-arm : it crosses the annular ligament, and is distributed to the integument over the ball of the thumb and in the palm of the hand. The median nerve at its termination in the palm of the hand is spread out and flattened, and divides into six branches, one muscular and five digital. The muscular branch is distributed to the muscles of the ball of the thumb. The digital branches send twigs to the lumbricales muscles and are thus arranged: two pass outwards to the thumb to supply its borders; one to the radial side of the index finger; one subdivides for the supply of the adjoining sides of the index and middle fingers; and the remaining one, for the supply of the adjoining sides of the middle and ring fingers. The digital nerves in their course along the fingers are situated to the inner side of the digital arteries. Opposite the base of the first phalanx each nerve gives off a dorsal branch which runs along the border of the dorsum of the finger. Near the extremity of the finger the digital nerve divides into a palmar and a dorsal branch; the former sup- plying the sentient extremity of the finger, and the latter the structures around and beneath the nail. The digital nerve maintains no communica- tion with its fellow of the opposite side. * Nerves of front of fore-arm. 1. Median nerve. 2. Anterior branch of muscuio spiral or radial nerve. 3. Ulnar nerve. 4. Division of median nerve in the palm to the thumb, 1st, 2d, and radial side of 3d finger. 5. Division of ulnar nerve to ulnar side of 3d and both sides of 4th finger. 2 B