99 OS IIYOIDES. ciduous teeth. “ These cords and foramina are not obliterated in the to become or, much child,” says Mr. Goodsir, “ either because the cords are useful as ‘ gubernacuW and the canals as ‘itinera dentium more probably, in virtue of a law, which appears to be a general one in the development of animal bodies, viz. that parts, or organs, which have once acted an important part, however atrophied they may afterwards become, yet never altogether disappear, so long as they do not interfere with other parts or functions” Succession.—The periods of appearance of the teeth are extremely irre- gular ; it is necessary, therefore, to have recourse to an average, which, for the temporary teeth, may be stated as follows, the teeth of the lower jaw preceding those of the upper by a short interval:— 7th month, two middle incisors. 18th month, canine. 9th month, two lateral incisors. 24th month, two last molares. 12th month, first molares. The periods for the permanent teeth are, 6J year, first molares. * 10th year, second bicuspides. * 7th year, two middle incisors. 11th to 12th year, canine. 8th year, two lateral incisors. 12th to 13th year, second molares. 9th year, first bicuspides. 17th to 21st year, last molares. os HYOIDES. The os hyoides forms the second arch developed from the cranium, and gives support to the tongue, and attachment to numerous muscles in the neck. It is named from its resemblance to the Greek letter u, and consists of a central portion or body, of two larger cornua, wThich project backwards from the body; and two lesser cornua, which ascend from the angles of union between the body and the greater cornua. The body is somewhat quadrilateral, rough and convex on its antero-superior surface, by which it gives attachment to muscles; concave and smooth on the postero-inferior surface, by which it lies in contact with the thyro-hyoidean membrane. The greater cornua are flattened from above downwards, and terminated posteri- orly by a tubercle; and the lesser cornua, conical in form, give attachment to the stylo-hyoid liga- ments. In early age and in the adult, the cornua are connected with the body by cartilaginous surfaces and ligamentous fibres; but in old age they become united by bone. Development.—By five centres, one for the body, and one for each cornu. Ossification commences in the greater cornua during the last month of foetal life, and in the lesser cornua and body soon after birth. Attachment of Muscles.—To eleven pairs; sterno-hyoid, thyro-hyoid, omo-hyoid, puiley of the digastricus, stylo-hyoid, mylo-hyoid, genio hyoid, genio-hyo-glossus, hyo-glossus, lingualis, and middle constrictor of the pharynx. It also gives attachment to the stylo-hyoid, thyro-hyoid, and hyo-epiglottic ligaments, and to the thyro-hyoidean membrane. * The os hyoides seen from before. 1. The antero-superior, or convex side of the body. 2. The great cornu of the left side. 3. The lesser cornu of the same side. The cornua were ossified to the body of the bone in the specimen from which this figure waj drawn. Fig. 4S*