TEMPORAL BONE. 65 the posterior branch of the arteria meningea media. The superior, or squamous border, is very thin, and bevelled at the expense of the inner surface, so as to overlap the lower and arched border of the parietal bone. The inferior border is thick, and dentated to articulate with the spinous process of the sphenoid bone. The Mastoid portion forms the posterior part of the bone ; it is thick, and hollowed between its tables into a loose and cellular diploe. Upon its external surface it is rough for the attachment of muscles, and contrasts strongly with the smooth and polished-like surface of the squamous por- ^ tion: every part of this surface is pierced by small foramina, which give passage to minute arteries and veins; one of these openings, oblique in its direction, of large size, and situated near the posterior border of the bone, the mastoid foramen, transmits a vein to the lateral sinus. T his foramen is not unfrequently situated in the occipital bone. The inferior part of this portion is round and expanded, the mastoid process, and ex- cavated in its interior into numerous cells, which form a part of the organ of hearing. In front of the mastoid process, and between the superior and middle roots of the zygoma, is the large oval opening of the meatus auditorius externus, surrounded by a rough lip, the processus auditorius. Directly to the inner side of, and partly concealed by the mastoid process, is a deep groove, the digastric fossa; and a little more internally the oc- cipital groove, which lodges the occipital artery. Upon its internal sur- face the mastoid portion presents a broad and shallow groove (fossa sig- moidea) for the lateral sinus, and terminating in this groove the internal opening of the mastoid foramen. The superior border of the mastoid por- tion is dentated ; and its posterior border, thick and less serrated, articu- lates with the inferior border of the occipital bone. The meatus auditorius externus is a slightly curved canal, somewhat more than half an inch in length, longer along its lower than its upper wall, and directed obliquely inwards and forwards. The canal is narrower at the middle than at each extremity, is broadest in its horizontal diameter, and terminates upon the outer wall of the tympanum by an abrupt oval border. Within the margin of this border is a groove for the insertion of the membrana tympani. The Petrous portion of the temporal bone is named from its extreme hardness and density. It is a three-sided pyramid, projecting horizontally forwards into the base of the skull, the base being applied against the in- ternal surface of the squamous and mastoid portions, and the apex being received into the triangular interval between the spinous process of the sphenoid and the basilar process of the occipital bone. For convenience of description it is divisible into three surfaces—anterior, posterior, and basilar ; and three borders—superior, anterior, and posterior. Surfaces'.—The anterior surface, forming the posterior boundary of the middle fossa of the interior of the base of the skull, presents for exami- nation from base to apex, first, an eminence caused by the projection of the perpendicular semicircular canal; next, a groove leading to an irregular oblique opening, the hiatus Fallopii, for the transmission of the petrosal branch of the Vidian nerve; thirdly, another and smaller oblique foramen, immediately beneath the preceding, for the passage of the nervus petrosu.s superficialis minor, a branch of Jacobson’s nerve ; and, lastly, a large foramen near the apex of the bone, the termination of the carotid canal. 6* E