BRONCHIAL TUBES—PLEURAE. 495 the bronchial tubes. The air-cells composing a lobule also communicate freely with each other. The bronchial tubes, after the cessation of the hbro-cartilaginous plates, are composed of fibrous membrane (constructed ot longitudinal and cir- cular fibres) and mucous membrane, the latter being invested by a ciliated columnar epithelium. At the termination of these tubes the mucous mem- brane and epithelium cease abruptly, and the fibrous membrane, very thin and transparent, is continued onwards through the intercellular passages and air-cells. The same change takes place in the structure of the parie- tes, where the air-cells open directly into the bronchial tubes. The capillaries of the lungs form plexuses which occupy the walls and septa of the air-cells and the walls of the intercellular passages, but are not continued into the bronchial tubes. The septa between the cells con- sist of a single layer of the capillary plexus enclosed in a fold of the fibrous lining membrane. The cells of the central parts of the lung are most vascular, and at the same time smallest, while those of the periphery are less vascular and larger. The pigmentary matter of the lungs is contained in the air-cells, as well as in the areolo-fibrous tissue of the inter-lobular spaces and of the blood- vessels. The Pulmonary artery, conveying the dark and impure venous blood ^o the lungs, terminates in capillary vessels, which form a minute network in the parieties of the intercellular passages and air-cells, and then con- verge to form the pulmonary veins, by which the arterial blood, purified in its passage through the capillaries, is returned to the left auricle of the heart. The Bronchial arteries, branches of the thoracic aorta, ramify on the parieties of the bronchial tubes, while the venous blood is returned by the bronchial veins to the vena azygos. The Lymphatics, commencing on the surface and in the substance of the lungs, terminate in the bronchial glands. These glands, very numerous and often of large size, are placed at the roots of the lungs, around the bronchi, and at the bifurcation of the trachea. In early life they resemble lymphatic glands in other situations; but in old age, and often in the adult, are quite black, and filled with carbonaceous matter, and occasion- ally with calcareous deposits. The JVerves are derived from the pneumogastric and sympathetic. They form two plexuses: anterior pulmonary plexus, situated upon the front of the root of the lungs, and composed chiefly of filaments from the great cardiac plexus; and posterior pulmonary plexus, on the posterior aspect of the root of the lungs, composed principally of branches from the pneu mogastric. The branches from these plexuses follow the course of the bronchial tubes, and are distributed to the intercellular passages and air cells. PLEURAE. Each lung is enclosed, and its structure maintained, by a serous mem brane, the pleura, which invests it as far as the root, and is then refl ^cied upon the parietes of the chest. That portion of the membrane which is in relation with the lung is called pleura pulmonalis, and that in contact with the parietes, pleura cost alls. The reflected portion, besides forming the internal lining to the ribs and intercostal muscles, also covers the dia- phragm and the thoracic surface of the vessels at the root of the neck