DEVELOPMENT OF BONE. 48 stroy the parent membrane and attain a greater size (T5^^ of an inch) than the parent cell, each cell being, as in the previous case, separated to a slight extent from its neighbour by intercellular substance. By one other repetition of the same process, each cell producing four, or five, or six young cells, a cluster is formed, containing from thirty to fifty cells. These clusters lie in immediate relation with the punctum ossificationis; they are oval in figure (about ^bo m length by -5^ in breadth), and placed in the direction of the longitudinal axis of the bone. The cells composing the cluster lie transversely with regard to its axis. In the first instance they are closely compressed, but by degrees are parted by a thin layer of inter- cellular substance, and each cluster is separated from neighbouring clus- ters by a broader layer of an inch) of intercellular substance. Such are the changes which occur in cartilage preparatory to the formation of bone. Ossification is accomplished by the formation of very fine and delicate fibres within the intercellular substance: this process commences at the punctum ossificationis, and extends from that point through every part of the bone, in a longitudinal direction in long, and in a radiated manner in flat bones. Starting from the punctum ossificationis, the fibres embrace each cluster of cells, and then send branches between the individual cells of each group. In this manner the network, characteristic of bone, is formed, while the cells by their conjunction constitute the permanent areolse and Haversian canals. With a high magnifying power, the deli- cate ossific fibres here alluded to are seen themselves to be composed of minute cells having an elliptical form and central nuclei. These cells attract into their interior the calcareous salts of the blood, and their nuclei become developed, as I believe, into the future corpuscles of Purkinje. It is possible also that some of the cartilage cells become corpuscles of Purkinje in the fully developed bone. During the progress of the phenomena above described, the contents of the ceils undergo certain changes. At first, their contents are transpa- rent, then they become granular, and still later opaque, from the presence of amorphous matter mingled with nuclei, nucleoli, and the remains of secondary cells. In the latter state they also contain an abundance of minute oil-globules. These latter increase in size as the ossific changes advance, and in the newly formed osseous areolae they are very numerous and have attained the ordinary size of adipose cells. Cartilaginification is complete in the human embryo at about the sixth week; and the first point of ossification is observed in the clavicle at about the seventh week. Ossification commences at the centre, and thence proceeds towards the surface; in flat bones the osseous tissue ra- diates between two membranes from a central point towards the periphery, in short bones from a centre towards the circumference, and in long bones from a central portion, diaphysis, towards a secondary centre, epiphysis, situated at each extremity. Large processes, as the trochanters, are pro- vided with a distinct centre of development, which is named apophysis. breadth. To the right of the figure osseous fibres are seen occupying the iritercellulai spaces, at first bounding the clusters laterally, then splitting them longitudinally, and encircling each separate cell. The greater opacity of the right-hand border is due to a threefold cause, the increase of osseous fibres, the opacity of the contents of the cells and the multiplication of oil-globules. In the lower part of the figu.'1? some attemp has been made to show the texture of the cells.