266 ABDOMINAL FASCIA. ascending layer is attached to the trachea, and becomes continuous with the sheath of the carotid vessels, and with the deep cervical fascia; the descending layer descends upon the trachea to its bifurcation, surrounds the large vessels arising from the arch of the aorta, and the upper part of the arch itself, and is continuous with the fibrous layer of the pericardium. It is connected also with the vense innominatm and superior cava, and is attached to the cellular capsule of the thymus gland. “ The thoracic fascia,” writes Sir Astley Cooper, “ performs three im- portant offices:— u 1st. It forms the upper boundary of the chest, as the diaphragm does the lower. u 2d. It steadily preserves the relative situation of the parts which enter and quit the thoracic opening. “ 3d. It attaches and supports the heart in its situation, through the medium of its connexion with the aorta and large vessels which are placed at its curvature.” ABDOMINAL FASCIiE. The lower part of the parietes of the abdomen, and the cavity of the pelvis, are strengthened by a layer of fascia which lines their internal sur- face, and at the bottom of the latter cavity is reflected inwards to the sides of the bladder. This fascia is continuous throughout the whole of the above-mentioned surface; but for convenience of description is considered under the several names of transversalis fascia, iliac fascia, and pelvic fascia; the two former meet at the crest of the ilium and Poupart’s liga- ment, and the latter is confined to the cavity of the true pelvis. The fascia transversalis (Fascia Cooperi)* is a cellulo-fibrous lamella, which lines the inner surface of the transversalis muscle. It is thick and dense below, near the lower part of the abdomen ; but becomes thinner as it ascends, and is gradually lost in the subserous cellular tissue. It is attached inferiorly to the reflected margin of Poupart’s ligament and to the crest of the ilium; internally, to the border of the rectus muscle ; and, at the inner third of the femoral arch, is continued beneath Poupart’s liga- ment, and forms the anterior segment of the crural canal, or sheath of the femoral vessels. The internal abdominal ring is situated in this fascia, at about midway between the spine of the os pubis and the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and half an inch above Poupart’s ligament; it is bounded upon its inner side by a well-marked falciform border, but is ill defined around its outer margin. From the circumference of this ring is given off an infundi- buliform process, which surrounds the testicle and spermatic cord, consti- tuting the fascia propria of the latter, and forms the first investment to the sac of oblique inguinal hernia. It is the strength of this fascia, in the in- terval between the tendon of the rectus and the internal abdominal ring, that defends this portion of the parietes from the frequent occurrence of direct inguinal hernia. INGUINAL HERNIA. Inguinal hernia is of two kinds, oblique and direct. In Oblique Inguinal Hernia the intestine escapes from the cavity of * Sir Astley Cooper first described this fascia in its important relation to inguinal hernia