OOQ MUSCLES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The Constrictor vagina is analogous to the accelerators urinae; it is continuous, posteriorly, with the sphincter ani, interlacing with its fibres, and is inserted, anteriorly, into the sides of the corpora cavernosa, and fascia of the clitoris. The Transversus perinei is inserted into the side of the constrictor \ agi- uae, and the levator ani into the side of the vagina. The other muscles are precisely similar in their attachments to those in Jhe male. Actions.—The acceleratores urinae being continuous at the middle line, and attached on each side to the bone, by means of their posterior fibres, will support the bulbous portion of the urethra, and acting suddenly, will propel the semen, or the last drops of urine, from the canal. rlhe poste- rior and middle fibres, according to Krause,* contribute towards the erec- tion of the corpus spongiosum, by producing compression upon the venous structure of the bulb ; and the anterior fibres, according to Tyrrell,! assist in the erection of the entire organ by compressing the vena dorsalis, by means of their insertion into the fascia penis. The erector penis becomes entitled to its name from spreading out upon the dorsum of the organ, into a membranous expansion, (fascia penis,) which, according to Krause, compresses the dorsal vein during the action of the muscle, and especially after the erection of the organ has commenced. The transverse muscles serve to steady the tendinous centre, that the muscles attached to it may obtain a firm point of support. According to Cruveilhier, they draw the anus backwards during the expulsion of the faeces, and antagonize the levatores ani, which carry the anus forwards. The compressor urethrae, taking its fixed point from the ramus of the ischium at each side, can, says Mr. Guthrie, “ compress the urethra so as to close it; I conceive completely, after the manner of a sphincter.” The transverse portion will also have a tendency to draw the urethra dowrnwards, whilst the perpen- dicular portion will draw it upwards towards the os pubis. The inferior fasciculus of the transverse muscle, enclosing Cowper’s glands, will assist those bodies in evacuating their secretion. The external sphincter, being a cutaneous muscle, contracts the integument around the anus, and by its attachment to the tendinous centre, and to the point of the coccyx, assists the levator ani in giving support to the opening during expulsive efforts. The internal sphincter contracts the extremity of the cylinder of the intes- tine. The use of the levator ani is expressed in its name. It is the an- tagonist of the diaphragm and the rest of the expulsory muscles, and series to support the rectum and vagina during their expulsive efforts. The levator ani acts in unison with the diaphragm, and rises and falls like that muscle in forcible respiration. Yielding to the propulsive action of the abdominal muscles, it enables the outlet of the pelvis to bear a greatei force than a resisting structure, and on the remission of such action it re- stores the perineum to its original form. The coccygei muscles restore the coccyx to its natural position, after it has been pressed backwards during defaecation or during parturition. MUSCLES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The muscles of the upper extremity may be arranged into groups cor responding with the different regions of the limb, thus : * Muller, Archiv. ftir Anatornie, Physiologie, &c. 1837 t Lectures in the College of Surgeons. 1839.