SPINAL CORD. 391 and corresponds with the attachment of the nerves which are intended for the supply of the lower limb. In form, the spinal cord is a flattened cylinder, and presents on its an- terior surface a fissure, which extends into the cord to the depth of one- third of its diameter. This is the Jissura longitudinalis anterior. If the sides of the fissure be gently separated, they will be seen to be connected at the bottom by a layer of medullary substance, the anterior commissure. On the posterior surface another fissure exists, which is so narrow be- tween the second cervical and second lumbar nerve, as to be hardly per- ceptible. This is the Jissura longitudinalis posterior. It extends more deeply into the cord than the anterior fissure, and terminates in the grey substance of the interior. These two fissures divide the medulla spinalis into tw'o lateral cords, which are connected to each other by the white commissure wThich forms the bottom of the anterior longitudinal fissure, and by a commissure of grey matter situated behind the former. On either side of the fissura longitudinalis posterior is a slight line w'hich bounds on each side the posterior median columns. These columns are most appa- rent at the upper part of the cord, near the fourth ventricle, wdiere they are separated by the point of the calamus scriptorius, and wdiere they form the bulbous enlargement at each side, called processus clavatus. Two other lines are observed on the medulla, the anterior Fig. 174* and posterior lateral sulci, cor- responding with the attach- ment of the anterior and poste- rior roots of the spinal nerves. The anterior lateral sulcus is a mere trace, marked only by the attachment of the filaments of the anterior roots. The pos- terior lateral sulcus is more evident, and is a narrow grey- ish line derived from the grey substance of the interior. Although these fissures and sulci indicate a division of the spinal cord into three pairs of columns, namely, anterior, lateral, and posterior, the posterior median columns being regarded as a part of the posterior co- lumns, it is customary to consider each half of the spinal cord as consist- ing of two columns only, the antero-lateral and the posterior. The antero- lateral columns are the columns of motion, and comprehend all that part of the cord situated between the fissura longitudinalis anterior and the posterior lateral sulcus, the grey line of origin of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. The posterior columns are the columns of sensation. If a transverse section of the spinal cord be made, its internal structure may be seen and examined. It will then appear to be composed of two hollow7 cylinders of white matter, placed side by side, and connected by a narrow^ white commissure. Each cylinder is filled wdth grey substance, * Sections of the spinal marrow in different portions of its length. 1. Opposite the 11th dorsal vertebra. 2. Opposite the 10th dorsal. 3. Opposite the 8th dorsal. 4. Op- pos.te the 5th dorsal. 5. Opposite the 7th cervical. 6. Opposite the 4th cervical. 7. pp k ite tie cervical. 8. Section of medulla oblongata tb-ough the corpora oli