MO CUNEIFORME—PISIFORME—TRAPEZIUM. attachment of ligaments; the other palmar, which is convex, rounded, and of larger size. To determine to which hand it belongs, let the bone be held perpendi- cularly, so that the dorsal or Hat extremity look upwards, and the convex side backwards (towards the holder). The circular lateral surface will point to the side corresponding with the hand to wrhich the bone belongs. Articulations. — With jive bones, but occasionally with only four: by its convex surface, with the radius; by its concave surface, with the os magnum ; by its crescentic lateral facet, with the scaphoid ; and by the circular surface, with the cuneiform bone and with the point of the unci- form. This surface is divided into two parts by a ridge when it articu- lates with the unciform as well as with the cuneiform bone. The Cuneiform bone, although somewdiat wedge-shaped in form, may be best distinguished by a circular and isolated facet, which articulates with the pisiform bone. It presents for examination three surfaces, a base, and an apex. One surface is very rough and irregular ; the opposite forms a concave articular surface, while the third is partly rough and partly smooth, and presents that circular facet which is characteristic of the bone. The base is an articular surface, and the apex is round and pointed. To distinguish its appropriate hand, let the base be directed backwards and the pisiform facet upwards; the concave articular surface will point to the hand to which the bone belongs. Articulations.—With three bones, and with the triangular fibro-cartilage. By the base, with the semilunare; by the concave surface, with the unci- forme ; by the circular facet, with the pisiforme; and by the superior angle of the rough surface, with the fibro-cartilage. The Pisiform bone may be recognised by its small size, and by possess- ing a singular articular facet. If it be examined carefully it will be ob- served to present four sides and two extremities; one side is articular, the smooth facet approaching nearer to the superior than the inferior ex- tremity. The side opposite to this is rounded, and the remaining sides are, one slightly concave, the other slightly convex. If the bone be held so that the articular facet shall look downwards and the extremity which overhangs the articular facet forwards, the concave side will point to the hand to which it belongs. Articulations.—With the cuneiform bone only. Attachments. — To two muscles, the flexor carpi ulnaris, and abductor minimi digiti; and to the anterior annular ligament. The Trapezium (os multangulum majus) is too irregular in form to be compared to any known object; it may be distinguished by a deep groove, for the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis muscle. It is somewhat compressed, and may be divided into two surfaces which are smooth and articular, and three rough borders. One of the articular surfaces is oval, concave in one direction, and convex in the other (saddle-seat shaped) ; the other is marked into three facets. One of the borders presents the groove for the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, which is surmounted by a prominent tubercle for the attachment of the annular ligament; the other two borders are rough and form the outer side of the carpus. The grooved border is narrow at one extremity and broad at the other, where it pre- sents the groove and tubercle. If the bone be held so that the grooved border look upwards while the apex of this border be directed forwards, and the base with the tubercle