DORSALIS PEDIS ARTERY. Branches.—The branches of the Anterior Tibial Artery are the— Recurrent, Muscular, External malleolar, Internal malleolar. The Recurrent branch passes upwards beneath the origin of the tibialis anticus muscle to the front of the knee joint, upon which it is distributed, anastomosing with the articular arteries. The Muscular branches are very numerous, they supply the muscles of the anterior tibial region. The Malleolar arteries are distributed to the ankle joint; the external passing beneath the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum and pero- neus tertius, inosculates with the anterior peroneal artery and with the branches of the dorsalis pedis; the internal, beneath the tendons of the extensor proprius pollicis and tibialis anticus, inosculates with branches of the posterior tibial and internal plantar artery. They supply branches to the ankle joint. The Dorsalis pedis artery is continued forward along the tibial side of the dorsum of the foot, from the ankle to the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe, where it divides into two branches, the dorsalis hallucis and communicating. Relations.—The dorsalis pedis is situated along the outer border of the tendon of the extensor proprius pollicis; on its hbular side is the inner- most tendon of the extensor longus digitorum, and near its termination it is crossed by the inner tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum. It is ac companied by venae comites, and has the continuation of the anterior tibial nerve to its outer side. Plan of the Relations of the Dorsalis Pedis Artery. In Front. Integument, Deep fascia, Inner tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum. Inner Side. Tendon of the ex- tensor proprius pollicis. Dorsalis Pedis Artery. Outer Side. Tendon of the extensor longus digitorum, Border of the extensor brevis digitorum muscle. Behind. Bones of the tarsus, with their ligaments the soleus. 8. The annular ligament beneath which the extensor tendons and the an terior tibial artery pass into the dorsum of the foot. 9. The anterior tibial artery. 10 Its recurrent branch inosculating with (2) the inferior articular, and (1) the superior articular arteries, branches of the popliteal. 11. The internal malleolar artery. 17. 1 lie external malleolar inosculating with the anterior peroneal artery 12. 13. The dot- sal is pedis artery. 14. The tarsea and metatarsea arteries^ the tarsea is nearest the ankle, the metatarsea is seen giving oir the interosseal. 15. The dorsalis hallucis artery. 10. 1 he communicating branch. 28*