BLANCHARD & LEA’S MEDICAL 8 CONDI E (D. F.), M. D., &c. A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN. Fourth edition, revised and augmented. In one large volume, 8vo., of nearly 750 pages. {Just Issued.) From the Author’s Preface. The demand for another edition has afforded the author an opportunity of again subjecting the entire treatise to a careful revision, and of incorporating in it every important observation recorded since the appearance of the last edition, in reference to the pathology and therapeutics of the several diseases of which it treats. In the preparation of the present edition, as in those which have preceded, while the author has appropriated to his use every important fact that he has found recorded in the works of others, having a direct bearing upon either of the subjects of which he treats, and the numerous valuable observations—pathological as well as practical—dispersed throughout the pages of the medical journals of Europe and America, he has, nevertheless, relied chiefly upon his own observations and experience, acquired during a long and somewhat extensive practice, and under circumstances pe- culiarly well adapted for the clinical study of the diseases of early life. Every species of hypothetical reasoning has, as much as possible, been avoided. The author has endeavored throughout the work to confine himself to a simple statement of well-ascertained patho- logical facts, and plain therapeutical directions—his chief desire being to render it what its title imports it to be, a practical treatise on the diseases of children. Dr. Condie’s scholarship, acumen, industry, and practical sense are manifested in this, as in all his numerous contributions to science.—Dr. Holmeses Report to the American Medical Association. Taken as a whole, in our judgment, Dr. Condie's Treatise is the one from the perusal of which the practitioner in this country will rise with the great- est satisfaction —Western Journal of Medicine and Surgery. One of the best works upon the Diseases of Chil- dren in the English language.—Western Lancet. Perhaps the most full and complete work now be- fore the profession of the United States; indeed, we may say in the English language. It is vastly supe- rior to most of its predecessors.—Transylvania Med. Journal. We feel assured from actual experience that no physician’s library can be complete without a copy of this work.—N. Y. Journal of Medicine. A veritable paediatric encyclopaedia, and an honor to American medical literature.—Ohio Medical and Surgical Journal. We feel persuaded that the American medical pro- fession will soon regard it not only as a very good, but as the very best “ Practical Treatise on the Diseases of Children.”—American Medical Journal. We pronounced the first edition to be the best work on the diseases of children in the English language, and, notwithstanding all that has been published, we still regard it in that light.—Medical Examiner. COOPER (BRANSBY B.), F. R. S., Senior Surgeon to Guy’s Hospital, &c. LECTURES ON THE PRINCIPLES In one very large octavo volume, of 750 pages. For twenty-five years Mr. Bransby Cooper has been surgeon to Guy’s Hospital; and the volume before us may be said to consist of an account of the results of his surgical experience during that long period. We cordially recommend Mr. Bransby AND PRACTICE OF SURGERY. {Lately Issued.) Cooper’s Lectures as a most valuable addition to our surgical literature, and one which cannot fail to be of service both to students and to those who are actively engaged in the practice of their profes- sion.—The Lancet. COOPER (SIR ASTLEY P.), F. R. S., &c. A TREATISE ON DISLOCATIONS AND FRACTURES OF THE JOINTS, Edited by Bransby B. Cooper, F. R. S., &c. With additional Observations by Prof. J. C. Warren. A new American edition. In one handsome octavo volume, with numerous illustra- tions on wood. BY THE SAME AUTHOR.- ON THE ANATOMY AND TREATMENT OF ABDOMINAL HERNIA. One large volume, imperial 8vo., with over 130 lithographic figures. BY THE SAME AUTHOR. ON THE STRUCTURE AND DISEASES OF THE TESTIS, AND ON THE THYMUS GLAND. One vol. imperial 8vo., with 177 figures, on 29 plates. BY THE SAME AUTHOR. ON THE ANATOMY AND DISEASES OF THE BREAST, with twenty- five Miscellaneous and Surgical Papers. One large volume, imperial 8vo., with 252 figures, on 36 plates. These last three volumes complete the surgical writings of Sir Astley Cooper. They are very handsomely printed, with a large number ol lithographic plates, executed in the best style, and are presented at exceedingly low prices.