lage, just above the attachment of the chorda vocalis; and passing for- The three muscles of the epiglottis are the— Fig. 216.* MUSCLES OF TIIE LARYNX. to the side of the epiglottis. 489 upper fibres of the thyro-arytenoideus muscle: they boundary of the entrance into the larynx, from the apex of the arytenoid Bishopf concludes, that the crico-arytenoidei postici open the glottis, The Arytenoideus muscle occupies the posterior con- cave surface of the arytenoid cartilages, between which * is stretched. It consists ot three planes of trans- verse and oblique fibres; hence it was formerly consi- dered as several muscles, under the names of transversi and obliqui. Thyro-epiglottideus, Aryteno-epiglottideus superior, Aryteno-epiglottideus inferior. The Thyro-epiglottideus appears to be formed by the spread out upon the external surface of the sacculus laryngis and in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane, in which they are lost; a few of the anterior fibres being continued onwards The Aryteno-epiglottideus superior consists of a few scattered fibres, which pass forwards in the fold of mucous membrane forming the lateral cartilage to the side of the epiglottis. The Aryteno-epiglottideus inferior. — This muscle, described by Mr. Hilton, and closely connected with the sacculus laryngis, may be found by raising the mucous membrane immediately above the ventricle of the larynx. It arises by a narrow and fibrous origin from the arytenoid carti- wards, and a little upwards, expands over the upper half, or two-thirds of the sacculus laryngis, and is inserted by a broad attachment into the side of the epiglottis. Actions.—From a careful examination of the muscles of the larynx, Mr. while all the rest close it. The arytenoideus approximates the arytenoid cartilages posteriorly, and the crico-arytenoidei laterales and thyro-aryte- noidei anteriorly; the latter, moreover, close the glottis mesially. The crieo-thyroidei are tensors of the chordae vocales, and these muscles, together with the thyro-arytenoidei, regulate the tension, position, and vibrating length of the vocal cords. The crico-thyroid muscles effect the tension of the chordae vocales by rotating the cricoid on the inferior cornua of the thyroid ; by this action the anterior portion is drawn upwards and made to approximate the infe- rior border of the thyroid, while the posterior and superior border of the cricoid, together with the arytenoid cartilages, is carried backwards. The crico-arytenoidei postici separate the chordae vocales by drawing the ary- tenoid cartilages outwards and downwards. The crico-arytenoidei late- rales, by drawing the outer angles of the arytenoid cartilages forwards, approximate the anterior angles to which the chordae vocales are attached. The thyro-arytenoidei draw the arytenoid cartilages forwards, and, by their * A side view of the larynx, one ala of the thyroid cartilage has been removed. 1. The remaining ala of the thyroid cartilage. 2. One of the arytenoid cartilages. 3. One of the cornicula laryngis. 4. The cricoid cartilage. 5. The crico-arytenoidens posticus muscle. G. The crico-arytenoideus lateralis. 7. The thyro-arytenoideus. 8. The crico- thyroidean membrane. 9. One half of the epiglottfs. 10. The upper part of the trachea t Cyclopadia of Anatomy and Physiology, art. Larynx