435 SPHENOPALATINE GANGLION. receives also a filament of communication (middle root) from the spheno- palatine ganglion; and it sometimes sends a twig to the abducens nerve. The Spheno-palatine Ganglion (Meckel’s) the largest of the cranial ganglia of the sympathetic, is very variable in its dimensions. It is situated in the spheno-maxillary fossa. Its branches are divisible into four groups; ascending, descending, in- ternal, and posterior. The branches of distribution are the internal and the descending. The internal branches are the nasal and the naso-palatine. The nasal or spheno-palatine nerves, four or five in number, enter the nasal fossa through the spheno-palatine foramen, and are distributed to the mucous membrane of the superior meatus, and superior and middle spongy bones. Besides these, several branches issue through small openings in the palate and sphenoid bone, and supply the mucous membrane of the upper part of the pharynx and the Eustachian tube. The naso-palatine nerve (Scarpa) enters the nasal fossa with the nasal nerves, and crosses the roof of the nares to reach the septum, to which it gives several filaments. It then curves downwards and forwards to the naso-palatine canal, and enters the anterior palatine canal, wdiere it joins with its fellow of the opposite side, and receives filaments from the ante- rior dental and palatine nerves. By this junction an enlargement is formed, the naso-palatine ganglion (Cloquet’s), which distributes filaments to the mucous membrane of the palate, immediately behind the incisor teeth. The descending branches are the three palatine nerves, anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior palatine nerve, the largest of the three, descends from the ganglion through the posterior palatine canal, and emerges at the posterior palatine foramen. It then passes forwards in the substance of the hard palate to which it is distributed, and communicates with the naso-palatine ganglion and with its branches. While in the posterior palatine canal this nerve gives off several branches, which enter the nose through openings in the palate bone, and are distributed to the middle and inferior meatus, the inferior spongy bone, and the antrum. The middle palatine nerve descends through the same canal to the pos- terior palatine foramen, and distributes branches to the tonsil, soft palate, and uvula. The posterior palatine nerve, the smallest of the three, quits the other nerves to enter a distinct canal, from which it emerges by a separate open- ing behind the posterior palatine foramen. It is distributed to the hard palate and gums near the point of its emergence, and to the tonsil and soft palate. The branches of communication are the ascending and the posterior The ascending branches are, one or two to join the superior maxillary nerve; one to the abducens nerve; one to the ciliary ganglion constituting its middle root; and occasionally two filaments to the optic nerve within the orbit. The posterior branch is the Vidian or pieiygoid nerve. The Vidian* nerve passes directly backwards from the spheno-palatine * Guido Guidi, latinized into Vidus Vidius, was professor of anatomy and medicine in the College of France in 1542. His work is posthumous, and was published m 1611.