STRUCTURAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. 51 y ( Hepatic artery, Hepatic ducts, Portal vein, Lymphatics. Hepatic veins, The Hepatic artery, portal vein, and hepatic duct enter the liver at the transverse fissure, and ramify through portal canals to every part of the organ; so that their general direction is from below upwards, and from the centre towards the circumference. The Hepatic veins commence at the circumference, and proceed from before backwards, to open into the vena cava, on the posterior border of the liver. Hence the branches of the two veins cross each other in their course. The portal vein, hepatic artery, and hepatic duct are moreover enve- loped in a loose areolar tissue, the capsule of Glisson, which permits them to contract upon themselves when emptied of their contents ; the hepatic veins, on the contrary, are closely adherent by their parietes to the surface of the canals in which they run, and are unable to contract. By these characters the anatomist is enabled, in any section of the liver, to distin- guish at once the most minute branch of the portal vein from an hepatic vein: the former will be found more or less collapsed, and always accom- panied by an artery and duct, and the latter widely open and solitary. The Lymphatics of the liver are described in the Chapter dedicated to those vessels. The Nerves of the liver are derived from the systems both of animal and organic life ; the former proceed from the right phrenic and pneumo- gastric nerves, and the latter from the hepatic plexus. Structure and Minute Anatomy of the Liver. The Liver is composed of lobules, of a connecting medium called Glis- son? s capsule, of the ramifications of the portal vein, hepatic duct, hepatic artery, hepatic veins, lymphatics, and nerves, and is enclosed and retained in its situation by the peritoneum. The Lobules are small granular bodies, of about the size of a millet seed, of an irregular form, and presenting a number of rounded promi- Fig. 228 * Fig. 229.f * The lobules of the liver. The lobules as they are seen upon the surface of the liver, or when divided transversely. 1. The intralobular vein in the centre of each lobule. 2. The interlobular fissure. 3. The interlobular space. t A longitudinal section of two lobules. 1. A superficial lobule, terminating abruptly, and resembling a section at its extremity. 2. A deep lobule, showing the foliated aj> pearance of its section. 3. 4 he interlobular vein, with its converging venules; the vein terminates in a sublobular vein. 4. 4 he external, or capsular surface of the lobule.