SPINAL CORD. 389 the fibres from the posterior lobes are assembled. The fibres which curve backwards into the posterior lobes from the splenium of the corpus callo- sum have been termed forceps, those which pass directly outwards into the middle lobes from the same point, tapetum, and those which curve forwards and inwards from the genu to the anterior lobes, forceps anterior. The Fornix is an antero-posterior commissure, and serves to connect a number of parts. Below, it is associated with the thalami optici; on each side, by means of the corpora fimbriata, with the middle lobes of the brain ; and, above, with the corpus callosum, and consequently with the hemispheres. The Septum lucidum is a perpendicular commissure between the fornix and corpus callosum. The Anterior commissure traverses the corpus striatum, and connects the anterior and middle lobes of opposite hemispheres. The Middle commissure is a layer of grey substance, uniting the thalami optici. The Posterior commissure is a white rounded cord, connecting the thalami optici. The Peduncles of the pineal gland must also be regarded as commis- sures, assisted in their function by the grey substance of the gland. The Pons Varolii is the commissure to the two hemispheres of the cere- bellum. It consists of transverse fibres, which are split into two layers by the passage of the fasciculi of the corpora pyramidalia and corpora olivaria. These two layers, the superior and inferior, are collected together on each side, in the formation of the crura cerebelli. SPINAL CORD. The dissection of the spinal cord requires that the spinal column should be opened through its entire length by sawing through the laminae of the vertebrae, close to the roots of the transverse processes, and raising the arches with a chisel; the muscles of the back having been removed as a preliminary step. The Spinal column contains the spinal cord, or medulla spinalis; the roots of the spinal nerves; and the membranes of the cord, viz. the dura mater, arachnoid, pia mater, and membrana dentata. The Dura mater spinalis {theca vertebralis) is a cylindrical sheath of fibrous membrane, identical in structure with the dura mater of the skull, and continuous with that membrane. At the margin of the occipital fora- men it is closely adherent to the bone; by its anterior surface it is attached o the posterior common ligament, and below, by means of its pointed extremity, to the coccyx. In the rest of its extent it is comparatively free, being connected, by a very loose areolar tissue only, to the walls of the spinal canal. In this areolar tissue there exists a quantity of reddish, oily, adipose substance, somewhat analogous to the marrow of long bones. On either side and below, the dura mater forms a sheath for each of the spinal nerves, to which it is closely adherent. Upon its inner surface it is smooth, being lined by the arachnoid; and on its sides may be seen double openings for the two roots of each of the spinal nerves. The Arachnoid is a continuation of the serous membrane of the brain.