454 MEIBOMIAN GLaNDS. rymalis, and are attached to the margin of the orbit by the tenao oculi. At their outer extremity they terminate at a short distance from the angle of the eanthus, and are retained in their position by means of a decussa- tion of the fibrous structure of the broad tarsal ligament, called the exterruil palpebral ligament. The Fibrous membrane of the lids is firmly attached to the periosteum, around the margin of the orbit, by its circumference, and to the tarsal cartilages by its central margin. It is thick and dense on the outer half of the orbit, but becomes thin to its inner side. Its use is to retain the tarsal cartilages in their place, and give support to the lids; hence it has been named the broad tarsal ligament. The Meibomian glands* are embedded in the internal surface of the cartilages, and are very distinctly seen on examining the inner aspect of the lids. They have the appearance of parallel strings of pearls, about thirty in number in the upper cartilage, and somewhat fewer in the lower; and open by minute foramina on the edges of the lids. They correspond in length with the breadth of the cartilage, and are consequently longer in the upper than in the lower lid. Each gland consists of a single lengthened follicle or tube, into which a number of small clustered follicles open; the latter are so numerous as almost to conceal the tube by which the secretion is poured out upon the margin of the lids. Occasionally an arch is formed between two of them, and produces a very graceful appearance. The edges of the eyelids are furnished with a triple row of long thick hairs, which curve upwards from the upper lid, and downwards from the lower, so that they may not interlace with each other in the closure of the eyelids, and prove an impediment to the opening of the eyes. These are the eyelashes (cilia), important organs of defence to the sensitive surface of so delicate an organ as the eye. The Conjunctiva is the mucous membrane of the eye. It covers the whole of its anterior surface, and is then reflected upon the lids so as to form their internal layer. The duplicatures formed between the globe of the eye and the lids are called the superior and inferior palpebral sinuses, of which the former is much deeper than the inferior. Where it covers the cornea the conjunctiva is very thin and closely adherent, and no ves- sels can be traced into it. Upon the sclerotica it is thicker and less ad- herent, but upon the inner surface of the lids is very closely connected, and exceedingly vascular. It is continuous with the general gastro-pul- monary mucous membrane and sympathises in its affections, as may be observed in various diseases. From the surface of the eye it may be traced through the lachrymal ducts into the lachrymal gland ; along the edges of the lids it is continuous with the mucous lining of the Meibomian glands, and at the inner angle of the eye may be followed through the lachrymal canals into the lachrymal sac, and thence downwards through the nasal duct into the inferior meatus of the nose. The Caruncula lachrymalis is the small reddish body which occupies the lacus lachrymalis at the inner eanthus of the eye. In health it presents a bright pink tint; in sickness it loses its colour and becomes pale. It consists of an assemblage of follicles similar to the Meibomian glands, embedded in a fibro-cartilaginous tissue, and is the source of the whitish secretion which so constantly forms at the inner angle of the eye. It is * Henry Meibomius, u de Vasis Palpebrarum Novis,” 1G6G.