46 DEVELOPMENT OF BONE. In the fresh state, bones are invested by a dense fibrous membrane, the periosteum, which covers every part of their surface, with the excep- tion of the articular extremities, the latter being coated by a thin layer of cartilage. The periosteum of the bones of the skull is termed peri- cranium ; and the analogous membrane of external cartilages, perichon- drium. Lining the interior of the medullary canal of long bones, the Haversian canals, the cells of the cancelli, and the cells of short, flat, and irregular bones, is the medullary membrane, which acts as an internal periosteum. It is through the medium of the vessels ramifying in these membranes that the changes required by nutrition occur in bones, and the secretion of medulla into their interior is effected. The medullary canal, Haversian canals, and cells of long bones, and the cells of other bones, are filled with a yellowish oily substance, the medulla, which is contained in a loose areolar tissue formed by the medullary membrane. Development of Bone.—To explain the development of bone it is ne- cessary to inform the student, that all organized bodies, whether belong- ing to the vegetable or the animal kingdom, are developed primordially from minute vesicles. These vesicles, or, as they are commonly termed, cells, are composed of a thin membrane containing a fluid or granular matter, and a small rounded mass, the nucleus, around which the cell was originally formed. Moreover, the nucleus generally contains one or more small round granules, the nucleolus or nucleoli. From cells having this structure all the tissues of the body are elaborated; the ovum itself originally presented this simple form, and the embryo at an early period is wholly composed of such nucleated cells. In their relation to each other, cells may be isolated and independent, as is exemplified in the corpuscles of the blood, chyle, and lymph; secondly, they may cohere by their surfaces and borders, as in the epiderma and epithelium; thirdly, they may be connected by an intermediate substance, which is then termed intercellular, as in cartilage and bone; and fourthly, they may unite with each other in rows, and upon the removal, by liquefaction, of the adherent surfaces, be converted into hollow tubuli. In the latter mode capillary vessels are formed, as also are the tubuli of nerve and muscular fibre. One of the properties of cells may also be adverted to in this place ; it is that of reproducing similar cells in their interior. In this case the nucleoli become the nuclei of the secondary cells, and as the latter increase in size, the membrane of the primary or parent cell is lost. Bone, in its earliest stage, is composed of an assemblage of these mi- nute cells, which are soft and transparent, and are disposed within the embryo in the site of the future skeleton. From the resemblance which the soft tissue bears to jelly, this has been termed the gelatinous stage of osteo-genesis. As development advances, the cells, heretofore loosely collected together, become separated by the interposition of a transparent intercellular substance, which is at first fluid, but gradually becomes hard and condensed. The cartilaginous stage of osteo-genesis is now esta- blished , and cartilage is shown to consist of a transparent matrix, having minute cells disseminated at pretty equal distances, and without order, through its structure. Coincident with the formation of cartilage is the development of vascular canals in its substance, the canals being formed by the union of the cells in rows, and the subsequent liquefaction of the adhering surfaces. The change which next ensues in the concentration of the vascular canals towards some one point; for example, the centre