LIGAMENTS OF THE LIVER. 51G Ligaments.—The liver is retained in its place by five ligaments; fom of which are duplicatures of the peritoneum, and are situated on the con- vex surface of the organ; the fifth is a fibrous cord which passes through a fissure in its under surface, from the umbilicus to the inferior vena cava. They are the— Longitudinal, Coronary, Two lateral, Round. The Longitudinal ligament (broad, ligamentum suspensorium hepatis is an antero-posterior fold of peritoneum, extending from the notch on th anterior margin ol the liver to its posterior border. Between its two layers in the anterior and free margin, is the round ligament. 'I he Lateral ligaments are formed by the two layers of peritoneum, which pass from the under surface of the diaphragm to the posterior border of the liver; they correspond with its lateral lobes. Fig. 226.* The Coronary ligament is formed by the separation of the two layers forming the lateral ligaments near their point of convergence. The poste- rior layer is continued unbroken from one lateral ligament into the other; but the anterior quits the posterior at each side, and is continuous with the corresponding layer of the longitudinal ligament. In this way a large oval surface on the posterior border of the liver is left uncovered by peritoneum, and is connected to the diaphragm by areolo-fibrous tissue. This space is formed principally by the right lateral ligament, and is pierced near its left extremity by the inferior vena cava, previously to the passage of that vessel through the tendinous opening in the diaphragm. The Round ligament is a fibrous cord resulting from the obliteration of the umbilical vein, and situated between the two layers of peritoneum in the anterior border of the longitudinal ligament. It may be traced from the umbilicus, along the longitudinal fissure of the under surface of the liver to the inferioi vena cava, to which it is connected. Fissures.—The under surface of the liver is marked by five fissures, * The upper surface of the liver. 1. The right lobe. 2. The left lobe. 3. The ante- rior or free border. 4. The posterior or rounded border. 5. The broad ligament. 6. The round ligament. 7, 7. The two lateral ligaments. 8. The space left uncovered by the peritoneum, and surrounded by the coronary ligament. 9. The inferior vena cava. 10. The point of the lobus Spigelii. 3. The fundus of the gall-bladder seen projecUng Deyond the anterior border of the right lobe.