119 FEMUR. extends from the symphysis pubis to the middle of the promontory ot the sacrum, and measures four inches. The transverse extends from tin* middle of the brim on one side to the same point on the opposite, and measures five inches. The oblique extends from the sacro-iliacsymphysi> on one side, to the margin of the brim corresponding with the acetabulum on the opposite, and also measures five inches. The diameters of the outlet are two, antero-posterior, and transverse. The antero-posterior diameter extends from the lower part of the symphy- sis pubis to the apex of the coccyx; and the transverse, from the posterior part of one tuberosity to the same point on the opposite side ; they both measure four inches. The cavity of the pelvis measures in depth four inches and a half, posteriorly; three inches and a half in the middle; and one and a half at the symphysis pubis. Femur.—The femur, the longest bone of the skeleton, is situated ob- liquely in the upper part of the lower limb, articulating by means of its head with the acetabulum, and inclining inwards as it descends, until it almost meets its fellow of the opposite side at the knee. In the female this obliquity is greater than in the male, in consequence of the greater Fig. 57* breadth of the pelvis. The femur is divisible into a shaft, a superior and an inferior extremity. At the superior extremity is a rounded head, directed upwards and inwards, and marked just below its centre by an oval depression for the ligamentum teres. The head is supported by a neck, which varies in length and obliquity according to sex and at various periods of life, being long and oblique in the adult male, shorter and more horizontal in the female and in old age. Externally to the neck is a large process, the trochanter major, which presents upon its anterior surface an oval facet, for the attachment of the tendon of the gluteus minimus muscle; and above, a double facet, for the insertion of the gluteus medius., On its posterior side is a vertical ridge, the linea quadrati, for the attachment of the quadratus femoris muscle. Upon the inner side of the trochanter major is a deep pit, the trochanteric or digital fossa, in which are inserted the tendons of the pyriformis, gemellus superior and inferior, and obturator externus and internus muscles. Passing downwards from the trochanter major in front of the bone is an oblique ridge, which forms the inferior boundary of the neck, the anterior intertrochanteric line; and, behind another oblique ridge, the posterior intertrochanteric line, which terminates in a rounded tubercle upon the posterior and inner side of the bone, the trochanter mi- nor. The shaft of the femur is convex and rounded in 111 * I he right femur, seen upon the anterior aspect. 1. The shaft. 2. The head. 3 The neck. 4. The great trochanter. 5. The anterior intertrochanteric line. 6 The lesser trochanter. 7. The external condyle. 8. The internal condyle. 9. The tubero sity for the attachment of the external lateral ligament. 10. The fossa for the tendon ot origin of the popliteus muscle. 11. The tuberosity for the attachment of the interna', lateral ligament.