289 INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARIERY. the two heads of the external pterygoid, l lg* and enters tlie pterygo-maxillary fossa. Occasionally it passes between the two pterygoid muscles, without appearing on the outer surface of the external ptery- goid. In consideration of its course, this artery may be divided into three portions: maxillary, pterygoid, and spheno-maxillary. Relations.—The maxillary portion is situated between the ramus of the jaw and the internal lateral ligament, lying parallel with the auricular nerve; the pterygoid portion between the external pterygoid muscle, and the masseter and temporal muscle. The pterygo-maxillary portion lies between the two heads of the external pterygoid muscle, and, in the spheno-maxillary fossa, is in relation with Meckel’s ganglion. Branches. Maxillary Portion. Tympanic, Inferior dental, Arteria meningea media, Arteria meningea parva. Pterygoid Portion. Deep temporal branches, External pterygoid, Internal pterygoid, Masseteric, Buccal. Ptery go-maxillary Portion. Superior dental, Infra-orbital, Pterygo-palatine, Spheno-palatine, Posterior palatine, Vidian. The Tympanic branch is small, and not likely to be seen in an ordinary dissection; it is distributed to the temporo-maxillary articulation and meatus, and passes into the tympanum through the fissura Glaseri. The Inferior dental descends to the dental foramen, and enters the canal of the lower jaw in company with the dental nerve. Opposite the bicuspid teeth it divides into two branches, one of which is continued on- wards within the bone as far as the symphisis, to supply the incisor teeth, * 1. The external carotid artery. 2. The trunk of the transverse facial artery. 3, 4. The two terminal branches of the external carotid. 3. The temporal artery; and 4. The internal maxillary, the first or maxillary portion of its course ; the limit of this por- tion is marked by an arrow. 5. The second, or pterygoid portion, of the artery ; tna limits are bounded by the arrows. 6. The third or ptery go-maxillary portion. The branches of the maxillary portion are, 7. A tympanic branch. 8. The arteria meningea magna. 9. The arteria meningea parva. 10. The inferior dental artery. The branches of the second portion are wholly muscular, the ascending ones being distributed to tti» temporal, and the descending to the four other muscles of the inter-maxillary region viz. the two pterygoids, the masseter and buccinator. The branches of the pterygo maxillary portion of the artery are, 11. The superior dental artery. 12. The infra-m-- bital artery. 13. The posterior palatine. 14. The spheno-palatine or nasal. 15. The pterygo-palatine. 10. The Vidian. * The remarkable bend which the third portion of the artery makes as it turns inwards to enter the pterygo-maxillary fossa.