BASE OF TIIE SKULL. 87 of the temporal bones. In the centre ol this fossa is the sella turcica, which lodges the pituitary gland, bounded in front by the anterior and middle, and behind by the posterior clinoid processes. On each side of the sella turcica is the carotid groove for the internal carotid artery, the cavernous plexus of nerves, the cavernous sinus, and the orbital nerves; and a little farther outwards the following foramina, from before back- wards :—sphenoidal fissure (foramen lacerum anterius), for the transmission of the third, fourth, three branches of the ophthalmic division of the fifth, and the sixth nerve, and ophthalmic vein ; foramen rotundum, for the superior maxillary nerve; foramen ovale, for the inferior maxillary nerve, arteria meningea parva, and nervus petrosus superficialis minor ; foramen spinosum, for the arteria meningea media; foramen lacerum basis crank, which gives passage to the internal carotid artery, carotid plexus, and petrosal branch of the Vidian nerve. On the anterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone is a groove, leading to a fissured opening, the hiatus Fallopii, for the petrosal branch of the Vidian nerve ; and, immediately beneath this, a smaller foramen, for the nervus petrosus superficialis minor. Towards the apex of the petrous portion is the notch for the fifth nerve, and below it a slight depression for the Casserian gan- glion. Farther outwards is the eminence which marks the position of die perpendicular semicircular canal. Proceeding from the foramen spinosum, are two grooves which indicate the course of the trunks of the arteria meningea media. The whole fossa lodges the middle lobes of the cerebrum. The posterior fossa, larger than the other two, is formed by the occipital bone, by the petrous and mastoid portion of the temporals, and by a small part of the sphenoid and parietals. It is bounded in front by the upper border of the petrous portion and dorsum ephip- pii, and along its posterior circumference by the groove for the lateral sinuses ; it gives support to the pons Varolii, medulla oblongata, and cerebellum. In the centre of this fossa is the foramen magnum, bounded on each side by a rough tuber- cle, which gives attachment to the odon- toid ligament, and by the anterior condy- loid foramen. In front of the foramen magnum is the concave surface (clivus Blumenba-chii) which supports the me- dulla oblongata and pons Varolii, and on each side the following foramina, from oefore backwards :—the internal auditory foramen, for the auditory and facial nerve and auditory artery ; behind, and exter- nally to this, is a small foramen leading * The external or basilar surface of the base of the skull. 1, 1. The hard palate The figures are placed upon the palate processes of the superior maxillary bones 2. The incisive, or anterior palatine foramen. 3. The palate process of the palate bone The large opening near the figure is the posterior palatine foramen. 4. The palate spine; the curved line upon which the number rests is the transverse ridge. 5. The vomer, dividing the openings of the posterior nares. 6. The internal pterygoid plate