THYMUS GLAND. 557 Fig. 246.* Fig. 247.f beneath it. The ligamentous bands proceed in various directions, and encircle the open mouths [pores) of the secretory cells and pouches. This ligamentous layer serves to keep the lobules together, and pre- vent the injurious distension of the cavity. When either gland is carefully unravelled by re- moving the areolar capsule and vessels, and dissecting away the reticulated areolar tissue which retains the lobules in contact, the reservoir, from being folded in a serpentine manner upon itself, admits of being drawn out into a lengthened tubular cord,\ around which the lobules are clustered in a spiral manner, and resemble knots upon a cord, or a string of beads. The reservoir, pouches, and cells, contain a white fluid ££ like chyle,” or ££ like cream, but with a small admixture of red globules.” In an examination of the thymic fluid which I lately (1840) made, with a Powell microscope magnifying 600 times linear measure, I observed that the corpuscles were very numerous, smaller than the blood particles, globular and oval in form, irregular in outline, variable in size, and pro- vided with « small central nucleus. In the human foetus this fluid has been found by Sir Astley Cooper in too small proportion to be submitted to chemical analysis. But the thy- mic fluid of the foetal calf, which exists in great abundance, gave the fol- * A section of the thymus gland at the eighth month, showing its anatomy. This figure, and the succeeding, were drawn from two of Sir Astley Cooper's beautiful pre- parations, with the kind permission of their possessor. The references were made by Sir Astley's own hand. 1. The cervical portions of the gland ; the independence of the two lateral glands is well marked. 2. Secretory cells seen on the cut surface of the section ; these are observed in all parts of the section. 3, 3. The pores or openings of the secretory cells and pouches; they are seen dispersed upon the whole internal sur- face of the great central cavity or reservoir. The continuity of the reservoir in the lower or thoracic portion of the gland, with the cervical portion, is seen in the figure. f The course and termination of the “ absorbent ducts” of the thymus of the calf; from one of Sir Astley Cooper's preparations. 1. The two internal jugular veins. 2. The superior vena cava. 3. The thoracic duct, dividing into two branches, which re- unite previously to their termination in the root of the left jugular vein. 4. The two thymic ducts; that on the left side opens into the thoracic duct, and that on the right into the root of the right jugular vein. 4 See the beautiful plates in Sir Astley Cooper’s work. 47 *