12G CUNEIFORM AND CUBOID BONES. presents for examination a convex and a concave surface, a long and a short articular border, and a small and a large extremity. Place the bone so that the small extremity may look upwaids and the long articular border forwards, the concave surface will point to the side corresponding with the foot to which it belongs. The convex surface is internal and free, and assists in forming the inner border of the foot; the concave is external, and in apposition with the middle cuneiform and second metatarsal bone; the long border articulates with the metatarsal bone of the great toe, and the short border with the scaphoid bone. The small extremity (edge) is sharp, and the larger ex- tremity (base) rounded into a broad tuberosity. Articulations. — With four bones; scaphoid, middle cuneiform, and first two metatarsal bones. Attachment of Muscles.—To the tibialis anticus, and posticus. The Middle Cuneiform is the smallest of the three; it is wedge- shaped, the broad extremity being placed upwards, and the sharp end downwards in the foot. It presents for examination four articular sur- faces and two extremities. The anterior and posterior surfaces have nothing worthy of remark. One of the lateral surfaces has a long arti- cular facet, extending its whole length, for the internal cuneiform; the other has only a partial articular facet for the external cuneiform bone. If the bone be held so that the square extremity look upwards, the broadest side of the square being towards the holder, the small and partial articular surface will point to the side to which the bone belongs. Articulations. — With four bones; scaphoid, internal and external cuneiform, and second metatarsal bone. Attachment of Muscles.—To the flexor brevis pollicis. The External Cuneiform is intermediate in size between the two preceding, and placed, like the middle, with the broad end upwards and the sharp extremity downwards. It presents for examination five surfaces, and a superior and inferior extremity. The upper extremity is flat, of an oblong square form, and bevelled posteriorly, at the expense of the outer surface, into a sharp edge. If the bone be held so that the square extremity look upwards and the sharp border backwards, the bevelled surface will point to the side corre- sponding with the foot to which the bone belongs. Articulations. — With six bones ; scaphoid, middle cuneiform, cuboid, and second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. Attachment of Muscles.—To the flexor brevis pollicis. The Cuboid Bone is irregularly cuboid in form, and marked upon its under surface by a deep groove, for the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle. It presents for examination six surfaces, three articular and three non-articular. The non-articular surfaces are the superior, which is slightly convex, and assists in forming the dorsum of the loot; the inferior, marked by a prominent ridge, the tuberosity, and a deep groove for the tendon of the peroneus longus; and an external, the smallest ol the wln..e, and deeply notched by the commencement of the peroneal groove. 1 lie articular surfaces are, the posterior, which is of large size, and concavo- convex, to articulate with the os calcis; anterior, of smaller size, divided