537 ERECTILE TISSUE—URETHRA. 0 tney are ranged vertically, side by side, somewhat like the teeth of a comb, and constitute the imperfect partition of the corpus cavernosum, called septum pectiniforme. This septum is more complete at its posterior than towards its anterior part. The tunic of the corpus cavernosum consists of strong longitudinal fibrous fasciculi, closely interwoven with each other. Its internal structure is composed of erectile tissue. 'file Corpus spongiosum is situated along the undersurface of the corpus cavernosum, in its inferior groove. It commences by its posterior extre- mity between and beneath the crura penis, where it forms a considerable enlargement, the bulb, and terminates anteriorly by another expansion, the glans penis. Its middle portion, or body, is nearly cylindrical, and tapers gradually from its posterior towards its anterior extremity. The bulb is adherent to the deep perineal fascia by means of the tubular prolongation of the anterior layer, which surrounds the membranous portion of the urethra; in the rest of its extent the corpus spongiosum is attached to the corpus cavernosum by areolar tissue, and by veins which wind around that body to reach the dorsal vein. It is composed of erectile tissue, en- closed by a dense fibrous layer, much thinner than that of the corpus cavernosum, and contains in its interior the spongy portion of the urethra, which lies nearer its upper than its lower wall. Erectile tissue is a peculiar cellulo-vascular structure, entering in con- siderable proportion into the composition of the organs of generation. It consists essentially of a plexus of veins so closely convoluted and inter- woven with each other, as to give rise to a cellular appearance when ex- amined by means of a section. The veins forming this plexus are smaller in the glans penis, corpus spongiosum, and circumference of the corpus cavernosum, than in the central part of the latter, where they are large and dilated. They have no other coat than the internal lining prolonged from the neighbouring veins ; and the interstices of the plexus are occupied by a peculiar reddish fibrous tissue. They receive their blood from the ca- pillaries of the arteries in the same manner with veins generally, and not by means of vessels having a peculiar form and distribution, as described by Muller. The helicine arteries of that physiologist have no existence. Vessels and JVerves.—The arteries of the penis are derived from the in- ternal pudic; they are, the arteries of the bulb, arteries of the corpus cavernosum, and dorsales penis. Its veins are superficial and deep. The deep veins run by the side of the deep arteries, and terminate in the in- ternal pudic veins. The superficial veins escape in considerable number from the base of the glans, and converge on the dorsum penis, to form a large dorsal vein, which receives other veins from the corpus cavernosum and spongiosum in its course, and passes backwards between two lavers of the ligamentum suspensorium, and through the deep fascia beneath the arch of the os pubis, to terminate in the prostatic and vesical plexuses. The Lymphatics terminate in the inguinal glands. The JVerves are de- rived from the internal pudic nerve, from the sacral plexus, and, as shown by Professor Muller, in his beautiful monograph, from the hypogastric plexus. URETHRA. The urethra is the membranous canal extending from the neck of the bladder to the meatus urinarius. It is curved in its course, and is com-