202 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. serrations into the upper border of the second, third, fourth, and fifth ribs. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the trapezius, rhomboideus major and minor, and serratus magnus. By its deep surface with the splenius, the upper part of the erector spinae, the intercostal muscles and ribs. The Serratus Posticus Inferior arises from the processes and inter- spinous ligaments of the two last dorsal and three upper lumbar vertebrae, and passing obliquely upwards is inserted by four serrations into the lower border of the four lower ribs. Both muscles are constituted by a thin aponeurosis for about half their extent. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the latissimus dorsi, its tendi- nous origin being inseparably connected with the aponeurosis of that muscle. By its deep surface with the aponeurosis of the obliquus internus, with which it is also closely adherent; with the erector spinae, the intercostal muscles and lower ribs. The upper border is continuous with a thin ten- dinous layer, the vertebral aponeurosis. The Vertebral aponeurosis is a thin membranous expansion composed of longitudinal and transverse fibres, and extending the whole length of the thoracic region. It is at- tached mesially to the spinous piocesses of the dorsal vertebrae, and exter- nally to the angles of the ribs; superiorly it is continued upwards beneath the serratus posticus superior, with the lower border of which it is some- times connected. It serves to bind down the erector spinae, and separate it from the superficial muscles. The serratus posticus superior must be removed from its origin and turned outwards, to bring into viewT the whole extent of the splenius muscle. The Splenius Muscle is single at its origin, but divides soon after into two portions, which are destined to distinct insertions. It arises by the lower half of the ligamentum nuchae, from the spinous processes of the five last cervical, and from the spinous processes and interspinous liga- ments of the six upper dorsal vertebrae; it divides as it ascends the neck into the splenius capitis and colli. The splenius capitis is inserted into the rough surface of the occipital bone between the two curved lines, and into the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. The splenius colli is inserted into the posterior tubercles of the trans- verse processes of the three or four upper cervical vertebrae. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the trapezius, sterno-inastoid, levator anguli scapulae, rhomboideus minor and major, and serratus pos- ticus superior. By its deep surface with the spinalis dorsi, longissimus dorsi, semi-spinalis colli, complexus, trachelo-mastoid, and transversalis colli. The tendons of insertion of the splenius colli are interposed between the insertions of the levator anguli scapulae in front, and the transversalis colli behind. The splenii of opposite sides of the neck leave between them a trian- gular interval, in which the complexus is seen. Fourth Layer. Dissection.—The two serrati and two splenii muscles must be removed by cutting them away from their origins and insertions, to bring the fourth layer into view. * Three of these muscles, viz. sacro-lumbalis, longissimus dorsi, and