508 COLON—RECTUM. Fig. 222 * appendix varies in length from one to five or six inches; it is about equal in diameter to a goose- quill, and is connected with the posterior and left aspect of the caecum near the extremity of the ileum. It is usually more or less coiled upon itself, and retained in that coil by a falciform duplicature of peritoneum. Its canal is extremely small, and the orifice by which it opens into the caecum not unfrequently provided with an in- complete valve. Occasionally the peritoneum in- vests the caecum so completely as to constitute a meso-caec.um, which permits of an unusual degree of movement in this portion of the intestine, and serves to explain the occurrence of hernia of the caecum upon the right side. The caecum is the most dilated portion of the large intestine. The Colon is divided into ascending, trans- verse, and descending. The ascending colon passes upwards from the right iliac fossa, through the ,right lumbar region, to the under surface of the liver. It then bends inwards and crosses the upper part of the umbilical region under the name of transverse colon, and, on the left side, descends (descending colon) through the left lumbar region to the left iliac fossa, where it makes a remarkable curve upon itself, which is called the sigmoid flexure. The ascending colon, the most dilated portion of the large intestine, next to the caecum, is retained in its position in the abdomen either by the peritoneum passing simply in front of it or by a narrow meso-colon. It is in relation in front with the small intestine and abdominal parietes ; behind with the quadratus lumborum muscle and right kidney ; internally with the small intestine and the perpendicular portion of the duodenum ; and by its upper extremity with the under surface of the liver and gall-bladder. The transverse colon, the longest portion of the large intestine, forms a curve across the cavity of the abdomen, the convexity of which looks forwards and sometimes downwards. It is in relation, by its upper surface, with the liver, gall-bladder, stomach, and lower extremity of the spleen; by its lower surface, with the small intestine; by its anterior surface, with the anterior layers of the great omentum and the abdominal parietes; and, by its posterior surface, with the transverse meso-colon. The descending colon is smaller in calibre, and is situated more deeply than the ascending colon. Its relations are precisely similar. The sigmoid flexure is the narrowest part of the colon ; it curves in the first place upwards and then downwards, and to one or the other side, and is retained in its place by a meso-colon. It is in relation, in front, with the small intestine and abdominal parietes; behind, with the iliac fossa, and, on either side, with the small intestine. The Rectum is the termination of the large intestine. It has received its name, not so much from the direction of its course, as from the straight- ness of its form in comparison with the colon. It descends, from opposite * The caecum, showing its appendix, the entrance of the ileum, and the ileo-caecal valve, t. The caecum. 2. The commencement of the colon. 3. The ileum. 4. The aperture of entrance of the ileum into the caecum. 5, 5. The ileo-caecal valve. 6. The aperture of the appendix vermiformis caeci. 7. The appendix vermiformis. 8, 8. Sac- cult of the colon, separated by valvular septa. 9. The falciform fraenum of the appendix vermiformis.