MUSCLES OF THE TYMPANUM. 459 and widely separated from, the other. It consists of two processes, which unite nearly at right angles, and at their junction form a flattened body, which articulates with the head of the malleus. I he short process is at tached to the margin of the opening of the mastoid cells by means ol a ligament; the long process descends nearly parallel with the handle of the malleus, and curves inwards, near its termination. At its extremity is a small globular projection the os orbiculare, which in the foetus is a distinct bone, but becomes anchylosed to the long process of the incus in the adult; this process articulates with the head of the stapes. The Stapes is shaped like a stirrup, to which it bears a close resemblance. Its head articulates with the os orbiculare, and the two branches are con- nected by their extremities with a flat, oval-shaped plate, representing the foot of the stirrup. The foot of the stirrup is received into the fenestra ovalis, to the margin of which it is connected by means of a circular liga- ment ; it is in contact, by its surface, with the membrana vestibuli, and is covered in by the mucous lining of the tympanum. The neck of the stapes gives attachment to the stapedius muscle. The ossicula auditus are retained in their position and moved upon themselves by means of ligaments and muscles. The Ligaments are three in number; the ligament of the head of the malleus, which is attached to the upper wall of the tympanum ; the liga- ment of the incus, a short and thick band, which serves to attach the ex- tremity of the short process of that bone to the margin of the opening of the mastoid cells ; and the circular ligament which connects the margin of the foot of the stapes with the circumference of the fenestra ovalis. These ligaments have been described as muscles, by Mr. Tod, under the names cf superior capitis mallei, obliquus incudis externus posterior, and mus- culus vel structura stapedii inferior. The Muscles of the tympanum are four in number, the— Tensor tympani, Laxator tympani, Laxator tympani minor, Stapedius. The Tensor tympani (musculus internus mallei) arises from the spinous process of the sphenoid, from the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and from the Eustachian tube, and passes forwards in a distinct canal, separated from the tube by the processus cochleariformis, to be inserted into the handle of the malleus, immediately below the commencement of the,processus gracilis. The Laxator tympani (musculus externus mallei) arises from the spinous process of the sphenoid bone, and passes through an opening in the fissura Glaseri, to be inserted into the long process of the malleus. This is re- garded as a ligament by some anatomists. The Laxator tympani minor arises from the upper margin of the meatus, and is inserted into the handle of the malleus, near the processus brevis. This is regarded as a ligament by some anatomists. The Stapedius arises from the interior of the pyramid, and escapes from its summit to be inserted into the neck of the stapes.