290 INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. while the other escapes with the nerve at the mental foramen, and anasto- moses with the inferior labial and submental branch of the facial. It sup- plies the teeth of the lower jaw, sending small branches along the canals in their roots. The Arteria meningea media ascends behind the temporo-maxillary ar- ticulation to the foramen spinosum in the spinous process of the sphenoid bone, and entering the cranium, divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. The anterior branch crosses the great ala of the sphenoid to the groove or canal in the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, and di- vides into branches, which ramify upon the external surface of the dura mater, and anastomose with corresponding branches from the opposite side. The posterior branch crosses the squamous portion of the temporal oone, to the posterior part of the dura mater and cranium. The branches of the arteria meningea media are distributed chiefly to the bones of the skull; in the middle fossa this artery sends a small branch through the hiatus Fallopii to the facial nerve. The Meningea parva is a small branch which ascends to the foramen ovale, and passes into the skull to be distributed to the Casserian ganglion and dura mater. It gives off a twig to the nasal fossae and soft palate. The Muscular branches are distributed, as their names imply, to the five muscles of the maxillary region; the temporal branches (temporales pro- fun dae) are two in number. The Superior dental artery is given off from the internal maxillary, just as that vessel is about to make its turn inwards to reach the spheno-max- illary fossa. It descends upon the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone, and sends its branches through several small foramina to supply the posterior teeth of the upper jaw, and the antrum. The terminal branches are continued forwards upon the alveolar process, to be distributed to the gums and to the sockets of the teeth. The Infra-orbital would appear, from its size, to be the proper con- tinuation of the artery. It runs along the infra-orbital canal with the superior maxillary nerve, sending branches into the orbit and downwards, through canals in the bone, to supply the mucous lining of the antrum and the teeth of the upper jaw, and it emerges on the face at the infra- orbital foramen. The branch which supplies the incisor teeth is the ante- rior dental artery; on the face the infra-orbital inosculates with the facial and transverse facial arteries. The Pterygo-palatine is a small branch which passes through the pterygo-palatine canal, and supplies the upper part of the pharynx and Eustachian tube. The Spheno-palatine, or nasal, enters the superior meatus of the nose through the spheno-palatine foramen, in company with the nasal branches of Meckel’s ganglion, and divides into two branches; one of which is distributed in the mucous membrane of the septum, while the other sup- plies the mucous membrane of the lateral wall of the nares, together with the sphenoid and ethmoid cells. The Posterior palatine artery descends along the posterior palatine canal, in company witn the posterior palatine branches of Meckel’s gan- glion, to the posterior palatine foramen ; it then curves forward, lying in a groove upon the bone, and is distributed to the palate. While in the posterior palatine canal it sends a branch backwards, through the small posterior palatine foramen, to supply the soft palate, and anteriorly it dis-