448 CILIARY LIGAMENT—IRIS. Fig. 200.* the surface of the membrane pro- duced by these veins resembles so many centres to which a number of curved lines converge. It is this layer which is connected with the ciliary ligament. The middle or ar- terial layer (tunica Ruyschiana]) is 5 formed principally by the ramifica- tions of minute arteries. It is re- flected inwards at its junction with the ciliary ligament, so as to form the ciliary processes. The internal layer is a delicate membrane (mcm- brana pigment!) composed of seve- ral laminse of nucleated hexagonal cells, which contain the granules of pigmentum nigrum, and are arranged so as to resemble a tesselated pavement. In animals, the pigmentum nigrum, on the posterior wall of the eyeball, is replaced by a layer of considerable extent, and of metallic brilliancy, called the tapetum. The Ciliary ligament, or circle, is the bond of union between the ex- ternal and middle tunics of the eyeball, and serves to connect the cornea and sclerotic, at their line of junction, with the iris and external layer of the choroid. It is also the point to which the ciliary nerves and vessels proceed previously to their distribution, and it receives the anterior ciliary arteries through the anterior margin of the sclerotic. A minute vascular canal is situated within the ciliary ligament, called the ciliary canal, or the canal of Fontana,f from its discoverer. The Iris (iris, a rainbow,) is so named from its variety of colour in dif- ferent individuals: it forms a septum between the anterior and posterior chambers of the eye, and is pierced somewhat to the nasal side of its centre by a circular opening, which is called the pupil. By its periphery it is connected with the ciliary ligament, and by its inner circumference forms the margin of the pupil; its anterior surface looks towards the cornea, and the posterior towards the ciliary processes and lens. The iris is composed of two layers, an anterior or muscular, consisting of radiating fibres which converge from the circumference towards the centre, and have the power of dilating the pupil; and circular, which sur- round the pupil like a sphincter, and by their action produce contraction * A dissection of the eyeball, showing its second tunic, and the mode of distribution of the venae vorticosse of the choroid. After Arnold. 1. Part of the sclerotic coat. 2. The optic nerve. 3, 3. The choroid coat. .4. The ciliary ligament. 5. The iris. 6, 6. The venae vorticosae. 7, 7. The trunks of the venae vorticosae at the point where they have pierced the sclerotica. 8, 8. The posterior ciliary veins, which enter the eyeball n company with the posterior ciliary arteries, by piercing the sclerotic at 9. 10. One of the long ciliary nerves, accompanied by a long ciliary vein. | Ruysch was born at the Hague in 1638, and was appointed professor of Anatomy at Amsterdam in 1665. His whole life was employed in making injected preparations, for which he is justly celebrated, and he died at the advanced age of ninety-three years. He came to the conclusion that the body was entirely made up of vessels. t Felix Fontana, an anatomist of Tuscany. His “Description of a New Canal in the Eye " vras published in 1778, in a Letter to the Professor of Anatomy in Upsal.