STRUCTURE OF BONE. 44 of vessels and nerves. They articulate with long bones by means of smooth surfaces plated with cartilage, and with each other either by fibrous tissue, as at the symphysis pubis ; or by suture, as in the bones of the skull. The two condensed layers of the bones of the skull are named tables; and the intermediate cellular structure, diploe. The flat bones are the occipital, parietal, frontal, nasal, lachrymal, vomer, sternum, scapulae, and ossa innominata. The Irregular bones include all that remain after the long and the flat bones have been selected. They are essentially irregular in their form, in some parts flat, in others short and thick. In preceding editions of this work the short and thick bones were made a separate class, under the name of short bones. This subdivision has been found to be disadvan- tageous, besides being arbitrary, and is, therefore, now omitted. Irregular bones are constructed on the same general principles with other bones; they have an exterior dense, and an interior more or less cellular. The bones of this class are, the temporal, sphenoid, ethmoid, superior maxil- lary, inferior maxillary, palate, inferior turbinated, hyoid, vertebrae, sacrum, coccyx, carpal and tarsal bones, and sesamoid bones, including the patellae. Structure of Bone.—Bone is a dense, compact, and homogeneous sub- stance (basis substance) filled with minute cells (corpuscles of Purkinje), which are scattered numerously through its structure. The basis substance of bone is subfibrous and obscurely lamellated, the lamellae being concentric in long and parallel in flat bones; it is traversed in all directions, but es- pecially in the longitudinal axis, by branching and inosculating canals (Haversian canals), which give passage to vessels and nerves, and in certain situations the la- mellae separate from each other, and leave between them areolar spaces (cancelli) of various mag- nitude. The lamellae have an average diameter of of an inch, and, besides constituting the general structure of the basis sub- stance, are collected concentrically around the Haversian canals, and form boundaries to those canals of about 25o of an inch in thickness. The number of lamellae surround- ing each Haversian canal is com- monly ten or fifteen, and the di- ameters of the canals have a me- dia n average of gfoj of an inch. The cancelli of bone, like its compact substaace, have walls which are composed of lamellae; and, such is the Fig. 11* *M:nute structure of bone, drawn with the microscope from nature, by Bagg. Mag- nified 300 diameters. 1. One of the Haversian canals surrounded by its concentric lamellae. The corpuscles are seen between the lamellae; but the calcigerous tubuli are omitted. 2. An Haversian canal with its concentric lamella?, Purkinjean corpuscles, and tubuli. 3. The area of one of the canals. 4, 4. Direction of the lamellae of the great medullary canal. Between the lamella? at the upper part of the figure, several very long corpuscles with their tubuli are seen. In the lower part of the figure, the out- lines of three other canals are given, in order to show their form and mode of arrange- ment in the entire lone.