DURA MATER. 3C9 The Glandule Pacchioni* are small, round, whitish granulations, oc- curring singly or in clusters, and forming small groups of various size along ihe margin of the longitudinal fissure of the cerebrum, and more particu- larly near the summit of the latter. These bodies would seem to be of morbid origin; they are absent in infancy, increase in numbers in adult life, and are abundant in the aged. They are generally associated with opacity of the arachnoid around their bases, but in some instances are wanting even in the adult. They have their point of attachment in the pia mater, from which they seem to spring, carrying with them the arachnoid membrane, and then, in proportion to their size, producing various effects upon contiguous parts. For example, when small, they remain free or constitute a bond of adhesion between the visceral and parietal layer of the arachnoid ; when of larger size they produce absorption of the dura mater, and as the degree of absorption is greater or less, they protrude through that membrane, and form depressions on the inner surface of the cranium, or simply render the dura mater thin and cribriform. Sometimes they cause absorption of the wall of the longitudinal sinus, and projecting into its cavity, give rise to the granulations described in connexion with that channel. If the student cut through one side of the dura mater, in the direction of his incision through the skull, and turn it upwards towards the middle line, he will observe the smooth internal surface of this membrane. He will perceive also the large veins of the hemispheres filled with dark blood, and passing from behind forwards to open into the superior longitudinal sinus; and the firm connexion, by means of these veins and the Pacchi- onian bodies, between the opposed surfaces of the arachnoid membrane. If he separate these adhesions with his scalpel, he will see a vertical layer of dura mater descending between the hemispheres; and if he draw one side of the brain a little outwards, he will be enabled to perceive the ex- tent of the process of membrane, which is called the falx cerebri. The processes of dura mater which are sent inwards towards the interior of the skull, are the falx cerebri, tentorium cerebelli, and falx cerebelli. The Falx cerebri (falx, a sickle), so named from its sickle-like appear- ance, narrow in front, broad behind, and forming a sharp curved edge below, is attached in front to the crista galli process of the ethmoid bone, and behind to the tentorium cerebelli. The Tentorium cerebelli (tentorium, a tent) is a roof of dura mater, thrown across the cerebellum and attached at each side to the margin of the petrous portion of the temporal bone; behind, to the transverse ridge of the occipital bone, which lodges the lateral sinuses ; and to the clinoid processes in front. It supports the posterior lobes of the cerebrum and prevents their pressuref on the cerebellum, leaving only a small opening anteriorly, for the transmission of the crura cerebri. The Falx cerebelli is a small process, generally double, attached to the vertical ridge of the occipital bone beneath the lateral sinus, and to the tentorium. It is received into the indentation between the two hemi- spheres of the cerebellum. The layers of the dura mater separate in several situations, so as to form Ihese bodies are incorrectly described as conglobate glands by Pacchioni, in ari epistolatory dissertation, “ De Glandulis conglobatis Durae Meningis indecpie ortis Lyin' pbaticis ad Piam Matrem productis,” published at Rome, in 1705. t In leaping animals, as tl e feline and canine genera, the tentorium forms a bony tent Y