362 NERVOUS SYSTEM—DEVELOPMENT. lengthened axis, presents itself in the form of a double cord. A step higher in the animal scale, and knots or ganglia are developed on one ex- tremity of this cord; such is the most rudimentary condition of the brain in the lowest forms of vertebrata. In the lowest fishes the anterior ex- tremity of the double cord displays a succession of five pairs of ganglia. The higher fishes and amphibia appear to have a different disposition of these primitive ganglia. The first two have become fused into a single ganglion, arid then follow only three pairs of symmetrical ganglia. But if the larger pair be unfolded, after being hardened in alcohol, it will then be seen that the whole number of ganglia exist, but that four have become concealed by a thin covering that has spread across them. This condition of the brain carries us upwards in the animal scale even to Mammalia, e. g., in the dog or cat we find, first, a single ganglion, the cerebellum; then three pairs following each other in succession; and if we unfold the middle pair, we shall be at once convinced that it is composed of two pairs of primitive ganglia concealed by an additional development. Again, it will be observed, that the primitive ganglia of opposite sides, at first separate and disjoined, become connected by means of transverse fibres of communication {commissures; commissura, a joining). The office of these commissures is the association in function of the two symmetrical portions. Hence we arrive at the general and important conclusion, that the br^in, among the lower animals, consists of primitive cords, primitive ganglia upon those cords, and commissures which connect the substance of adjoin- ing ganglia, and associate their functions. In the development of the cerebro-spinal axis in man, the earliest indi- cation of the spinal cord is presented under the form of a pair of minute longitudinal filaments placed side by side. Upon these, towards the an- terior extremity, five pairs of minute swellings are observed, not disposed in a straight line as in fishes, but curved upon each other so as to corres- pond with the direction of the future cranium. The posterior pair soon become cemented on the middle line, forming a single ganglion; the se- cond pair also unite with each other; the third and fourth pairs, at first distinct, are speedily veiled by a lateral development, which arches back- wards and conceals them ; the anterior pair, at first very small, decrease in side, and become almost lost in the increased development of the pre- ceding pairs. We see here a chain of resemblances corresponding with the progressive development observed in the lower animals; the human brain is passing through the phases of improving development, which distinguish the lowest from the lower creatures: and we are naturally led to the same conclusion with regard to the architecture of the human brain that we were led to establish as the principle of development in the inferior creatures, namely, that it is composed of primitive cords, primitive ganglia upon those cords, commissures to connect those ganglia, and developments from those ganglia. In the adult, the primitive longitudinal cords have become cemented together, to form the spinal cord. But, at the upper extremity, they se- parate from each other under the name of crura cerebri. The first pair of ganglia, developed from the primitive cords, have grown into the cere- bellum ; the second pair (the optic lobes of animals) have become the \orpora quadrigemina of man. The third pair, the optic thalami, and the fourth, the corpora striata, are the basis of the hemispheres, which, the