452 ARTERIA CENTRALIS RETIN/E. 7exity on the one border fitting accurately the concave scallop upon the other. Immediately around the circumference of the lens is a triangular canaJ, the canal of Petit * about a line and a half in breadth. It is bounded, in front, by the flutings of the zonula ciliaris; behind, by the hyaloid mem- brane ; and, within, by the border of the Jens. The Vessels of the globe of the eye are the long and short, and anterior ciliary arteries, and the artesia centralis retinse. The long ciliary arteries, two in number, pierce the posterior part of the sclerotic, and pass forward on each side, between that membrane and the choroid, to the ciliary liga- ment, where they divide into two branches, which are distributed to the iris. The short ciliary arteries pierce the posterior part of the sclerotic coat, and are distributed to the middle layer of the choroid membrane. The anterior ciliary are branches of the muscular arteries. They enter the eye through the anterior part of the sclerotic, and are distributed to the iris. It is the increased number of these latter arteries, in iritis, that gives rise to the peculiar red zone around the circumference of the cornea which accompanies that disease. The arteria centralis retinae enters the optic nerve at about half an inch from the globe of the eye, and passing through the porus opticus is distri- buted upon the inner surface of the retina, forming its vascular layer; one branch pierces the centre of the vitreous humour, and supplies the capsule of the lens. The JVerves of the eyeball are, the optic, two ciliary nerves from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, and the ciliary nerves from the ciliary ganglion. Observations. — The sclerotic is a tunic of protection, and the cornea a medium for the transmission of light. The choroid supports the vessels destined for the nutrition of the eye, and by its pigmentum nigrum absorbs all loose and scattered rays that might confuse the image impressed upon the retina. The iris, by means of its powers of expansion and contraction, regulates the quantity of light admitted through the pupil. If the iris be thin, and the rays of light pass through its substance, they are immediately absorbed by the uvea ; and if that layer be insufficient, they are taken up by the black pigment of the ciliary processes. In Albinoes, where there is an absence of pigmentum nigrum, the rays of light traverse the iris, and even the sclerotic, and so overwhelm the eye with light, that sight is de- stroyed, except in the dimness of evening or at night. In the manufacture of optical instruments care is taken to colour their interior black with the same object, the absorption of scattered rays. The transparent lamellated cornea and the humours of the eye have for I heir office the refraction of the rays in such proportion as to direct the image in the most favourable manner upon the retina. Where the refract- ing medium is too great, as in over convexity of the cornea and lens, the image falls short of the retina (myopia, near-sightedness); and where it is too little, the image is thrown beyond the nervous membrane (presbyopia, far-sightedness). These conditions are rectified by the use of spectacles, which provide a differently refracting medium externally to the eye, and thereby correct the transmission of light. * John Louis Petit, a celebrated French surgeon: he published several surgical and anatomical Essays, in the early part of the 18th century. Ho died in 1750.