POPLITEAL NERVE. 429 with the superficial perineal nerve, and divides into an internal and an external branch. The internal branch passes down upon the inner side of the testis to the scrotum; the external branch to its outer side, and both terminate in the integument of the under border of the penis. The Middle posterior cutaneous nerve crosses the tuberosity of the is- chium and pierces the deep fascia at the lower border of the gluteus max- imus. It then passes downwards along the middle of the posterior aspect of the thigh and of the popliteal region, and is distributed to the integu- ment as far as the middle of the calf of the leg. In its course the nerve gives off several cutaneous branches to the integument of the inner and outer side of the thigh, and in the popliteal region a communicating branch which pierces the fascia of the leg and unites with the external saphenous nerve. -The Great Ischiatic Nerve is the largest nervous cord in the body; it is formed by the sacral plexus, or rather is a prolongation of the plexus, and at its exit from the great sacro-ischiatic foramen beneath the pyriformis muscle measures three quarters of an inch in breadth. It descends through the middle of the space between the trochanter major and tuberosity of the ischium, and along the posterior part of the thigh to about its lower third, where it divides into two large terminal branches, popliteal and peroneal. This division sometimes takes place at the plexus, and the two nerves descend together side by side; occasionally they are separated at their commencement by a part or the whole of the pyriformis muscle. The nerve in its course down the thigh rests upon the gemellus superior, ten- don of the obturator internus, gemellus inferior, quadratus femoris, and adductor magnus muscle, and is covered in by the gluteus maximus, biceps, semi-tendinosus, and semi-membranosus. The Branches of the great ischiatic nerve, previously to its division, are muscular and articular. The muscular branches are given off from the upper part of the nerve, and supply both heads of the biceps, the semi- tendinosus, semi-membranosus, and adductor magnus. The articular branch descends to the upper part of the external condyle of the femur, and divides into filaments which are distributed to the fibrous capsule and to the synovial membrane of the knee joint. The Popliteal Nerve passes through the middle of the popliteal space, from the division of the great ischiatic nerve to the lower border of the popliteus muscle, accompanies the artery beneath the arch of the soleus, and becomes the posterior tibial nerve. It is superficial in the whole of its course, and lies externally to the vein and artery. The Branches of the popliteal nerve are muscular or sural, and articular, and a cutaneous branch, the communicans poplitei. The Muscular branches, of considerable size, and four or five in num- ber, are distributed to the two heads of the gastrocnemius, to the soleus, plantaris, and popliteus. The Articular nerve pierces the ligamentum posticum Winslowii, and supplies the interior of the knee joint. It usually sends a twig to the popliteus muscle. The Communicans poplitei (communicans tibialis) is a large nerve which arises from the popliteal at about the middle of its course, and de scends between the two heads of the gastrocnemius, and along the groove