LYMPHATICS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 354 buccal, upon the buccinator muscle ; and submaxillary, beneath the mar- gin of the lower jaw. There are no deep lymphatic glands within the cranium. The Superficial cervical lymphatic glands are few in number and small; they are situated in the course of the external jugular vein, between the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles, at the root of the neck, and about the larynx. The Deep cervical glands (glandulae concatenatee) are numerous and of large size ; they are situated around the internal jugular vein and sheath of the carotid arteries, by the side of the pharynx, oesophagus, and trachea, and extend from the base of the skull to the root of the neck, where they are in communication with the lymphatic vessels and glands of the thorax. The Superficial lymphatic vessels of the head and face are disposed in three groups; occipital, which take the course of the occipital vein to the occipital and deep cervical glands ; temporal, which follow the branches of the temporal vein to the parotid and deep cervical glands; and facial, which accompany the facial vein to the submaxillary lymphatic glands. The Deep lymphatic vessels of the head are the meningeal and cerebral, the former are situated in connexion with the meningeal veins, and escape through foramina at the base of the skull, to join the deep cervical glands. The cerebral lymphatics, according to Fohmann, are situated on the sur- face of the pia mater, none having as yet been discovered in the substance of the brain. They pass most probably through the foramina at the base of the skull, to terminate in the deep cervical glands. The Deep lymphatic vessels of the face proceed from the nasal fossae, mouth, and pharynx, and terminate in the submaxillary and deep cervic al glands. The Superficial and deep cervical lymphatic vessels accompany the jugular veins, passing from gland to gland, and at the root of the neck communicate with the thoracic lymphatic vessels, and terminate, on the right side, in the ductus lymphaticus dexter, and, on the left, in the tho- racic duct, near its termination. LYMPHATICS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The uperficial lymphatic glands of the arm are not more than four or five in number, and of very small size. One or two are situated near the median basilic and cephalic veins, at the bend of the elbow; and one or two near the basilic vein, on the inner side of the upper arm, immediately above the elbow. The Deep glands in the fore-arm are excessively small and infrequent; two or three may generally be found in the course of the radial and ulnar vessels. In the upper arm there is a chain of small glands, accompanying the brachial artery. The Axillary glands are numerous and of large size. Some are closely adherent to the vessels, others are dispersed in the loose areolar tissue ot the axilla, and a small chain may be observed extending along the lower border of the pectoralis major to the mammary gland. Two or three sub- clavian glands are situated beneath the clavicle, and serve as the medium of communication between the axillary and deep cervical lymphatic glands. The Superficial lymphatic vessels of the upper extremity commence upon the fingers and take their course along the fore-arm to the bend of the