The Heart is placed obliquely in Fig. 211* of the right ventricle. 11. The tricuspid valve, attached by the chordae tendineae to the 476 THE HEART. fibrous layer is attached, above, to the great vessels at the root of the heart, where it is continuous with the thoracic fascia; and below', to the tendinous portion of the diaphragm. The serous membrane invests the heart with the commencement of its great vessels, and is then reflected upon the internal surface of the fibrous layer. the chest, the base being directed up- wards and backwards towards the right shoulder ; the apex fonvards and to the left, pointing to the space be- tween the fifth and sixth ribs, at about twTo or three inches from the sternum. Its under side is flattened, and rests upon the tendinous portion of the dia- phragm ; its upper side is rounded and convex, and formed principally by the right ventricle, and partly by the left. Surmounting the ventricles are the corresponding auricles, whose auricu- lar appendages are directed forwards, and slightly overlap the root of the pulmonary artery. The pulmonary artery is the large anterior vessel at the root of the heart; it crosses ob- liquely the commencement of the aorta. The heart consists of two auri- cles and two ventricles, which are respectively named, from their position, right and left. The right is the venous side of the heart; it receives into its auricle the venous blood from every part of the body, by the superior and inferior cava and coronary vein. From the auricle the blood passes into the ventricle, and from the ventricle through the pulmonary artery, to the capillaries of the lungs. From these it is returned as arterial blood to the left auricle ; from the left auricle it passes into the left ventricle; and * The anatomy of the heart. 1. The right auricle. 2. The entrance of the superior vena cava. 3. The entrance of the inferior cava. 4. The opening of the coronary vein, half closed by the coronary valve. 5. The Eustachian valve. 6. The fossa ovalis, suwounded by the annulus ovalis. 7. The tubcrculum Loweri. 8. The musculi pecti- nati in the appendix auriculae. 9. The auriculo-ventricuiar opening. 10. The cavity carneae columnae (12). 13. The pulmonary artery, guarded at its commencement by three semilunar valves. 14. The right pulmonary artery, passing beneath the arch and behind the ascending aorta. 15. The left pulmonary artery, crossing in front of the de scending aorta. * The remains of the ductus arteriosus, acting as a ligament between the pulmonary artery and arch of the aorta. The arrows mark the course of the venous blood through the right side of the heart. Entering the auricle by the superior and in ferior cavse, it passes through the auriculo-ventricuiar opening into the ventricle, and thence through the pulmonary artery to the lungs. 16. The left auricle. 17. The open ings of the fourth pulmonary veins. 18. The auriculo-ventricuiar opening. 19. The left ventricle. 20. The mitral valve, attached by its chordae tendineae to two large co- •uinnae carneae, which project from the walls of the ventricle. 21. The commencement and course of the ascending aorta behind the pulmonary artery, marked by an arrow. The entrance of the vessel is guarded by three semilunar valves. 22. The arch of the aorta. The comparative thickness of the two ventricles is shown in the diagram. The course of the pure blood through the left side of the heart is marked by arrows. The blood is brought from the lungs by the four pulmonary veins into the left auricle, anti passes through the auriculo-ventricuiar opening into the left ventricle, whence it is con veyed by the aorta to every part of the body.