FASCIAE OF THE TRUNK. 2C5 also forms sheaths for the other muscles of the neck over which it passes If the superficial layer of the sheath of the sterno-mastoid be traced up- wards, it will be found to pass over the parotid gland and masseter muscle, and to be inserted into the zygomatic arch ; and if it be traced downwards, it will be seen to pass in front of the clavi- cle, and become lost upon the pectoralis major muscle. If the deep layer of the sheath be examined superiorly, it will be found attached to the styloid process, from which it is reflected to the angle of the lower jaw, forming the stylo-maxil- lary ligament; and if it be followed downwards, it will be found connected with the tendon of the omo-hyoid mus- cle, and may thence be traced behind the clavicle, where it encloses the sub- clavius muscle, and, being extended from the cartilage of the first rib to the coracoid process, constitutes the costo- coracoid membrane. In front of the sterno-mastoid muscle, the deep fascia is attached to the border of the lower jaw and os hyoides, and forms a distinct sheath for the submaxillary gland. Interiorly it divides into two layers, one of which passes in front of the sternum, while the other is at- tached to its superior border. F A S C I JE OF THE TRUNK. The thoracic fascia] is a dense layer of cellulo-fibrous membrane, stretched horizontally across the superior opening of the thorax. It is firmly attached to the concave margin of the first rib, and to the inner surface of the sternum. In front it leaves an opening for the connexion of the cervical with the thoracic portion of the thymus gland, and behind it forms an arch across the vertebral column, to give passage to the oesophagus. At the point where the great vessels and trachea pass through the tho- racic fascia, it divides into an ascending and descending layer. The * A transverse section of the neck, showing the deep cervical fascia and its numerous prolongations, forming sheaths for the different muscles. As the figure is symmetrical, the figures of reference are placed only on one side. 1. The platysma myoides. 2. The trapezius. 3. The ligamentum nuchae, from which the fascia may be traced or- wards beneath the trapezius, enclosing the other muscles of the neck. 4. The point at which the fascia divides, to form a sheath for the sterno-mastoid muscle (5). 6. The point of reunion of the two layers of the sterno-mastoid sheath. 7. The point of union of the deep cervical fascia of opposite sides of the neck. 8. Section of the sterno-hyoid. 9. Omo-hyoid. 10. Sterno-thyroid. 11. The lateral lobe of the thyroid gland. 12. The trachea. 13. The oesophagus. 14. The sheath containing the common carotid artery, internal jugular vein, and pneumogastric. nerve. 15. The longus colli. The nerve in front of the sheath of this muscle is the sympathetic. 16. The rectus anticus major. 17. Scalenus anticus. 18. Scalenus posticus. 19. The splenius capitis. 20. Splenius colli. 21. Levator anguli scapulae. 22. Complexus. 23. Trachelo-mastoid. 24. Trans- versalis colli. 25. Cervicalis ascendens. 26. The semi-spinalis colli. 27. The multi- fid us spinae. 28. A cervical vertebra. The transverse processes are seen to be traversed by the vertebral artery and vein. t For an excellent description of this fascia, see Sir Astley Cooper’s work, n i # “Anatomy of the Thymus Gland.” 23