OBTURATOR INTERNUS. 245 This muscle should now be removed from its origin and turned down, so as to expose the next, which is situated beneath it. The Gluteus Minimus is a radiated muscle, arising from the surface of the dorsum ilii, between the superior and inferior curved lines; its fibres converge to the anterior border of the trochanter major, into which it is inserted by means of a rounded tendon. There is no distinct line of Reparation between the gluteus medius and minimus anteriorly. Relations. — By its superficial surface with the gluteus medius, and gluteal vessels. By its deep surface with the surface of the ilium, the long tendon of the rectus femoris, and the capsule of the hip joint. A bursa is interposed between the tendon of the muscle and the trochanter. The Pyriformis muscle (pyrum, a pear, i. e. pear-shaped) arises from the anterior surface of the sacrum, by little slips that are interposed be- tween the first and fourth anterior sacral foramina, and from the adjoining surface of the ilium. It passes out of the pelvis, through the great sacro- ischiatic foramen, and is inserted by a rounded tendon into the trochanteric fossa of the femur. Relations. — By its superficial or external surface with the sacrum and gluteus maximus. By its deep or pelvic surface with the rectum, the sacral plexus of nerves, the branches of the internal iliac artery, the great sacro-ischiatic notch, and the capsule of the hip joint. By its upper border with the gluteus medius and gluteal vessels and nerves. By its lower border with the gemellus superior, ischiatic vessels and nerves, and internal pudic vessels and nerve. The Gemellus Superior (gemellus, double, twin) is a small slip of muscle, situated immediately below the pyriformis; it arises from the spine of the ischium, and is inserted into the upper border of the tendon of the obturator internus, and into the trochanteric fossa of the femur. The gemellus superior is not unfrequently wanting. Relations. — By its superficial surface with the gluteus maximus, the ischiatic vessels and nerves, and internal pudic vessels and nerve. By its deep surface with the pelvis, and capsule of the hip joint. The Obturator Internus arises from the inner surface of the anterior wall of the pelvis, being attached to the margin of bone around the obtu- rator foramen, and to the obturator membrane. It passes out of the pelvis through the lesser sacro-ischiatic foramen, and is inserted by a flattened tendon into the trochanteric fossa of the femur. The lesser sacro-ischiatic notch, over which this muscle plays as through a pulley, is faced with > cartilage, and provided with a synovial bursa to facilitate its movements. The tendon of the obturator is supported on each side by the two gemelli muscles (hence their names), which are inserted into the sides of the ten- don, and appear to be auxiliaries or superadded portions of the obturator internus. Relations.—By its superficial or posterior surface with the internal pudic vessels and nerve, the obturator fascia, which separates it from the levator ani and viscera of the pelvis, the sacro-ischiatic ligaments, gluteus maxi- mus, and ischiatic vessels and nerves By its deep or anterior surface with the obturator membrane and the margin of bone surrounding it, the cartilaginous pulley of the lesser ischiatic foramen, the external surface of the pelvis, and the capsular ligament of the hip joint. By its upper border, within the pelvis, with the obturator vessels and nerve ; externally to the 21 *