24 BLANCHARD & LEA’S MEDICAL (Now Complete.) PEREIRA (JONATHAN), M. D., F. R. S., AND L. S. THE ELEMENTS OF MATERIA MEDICA AND THERAPEUTICS. Third American edition, enlarged and improved by the author; including Notices of most of the Medicinal Substances in use in the civilized world, and forming an Encyclopaedia of Materia Medica. Edited, with Additions, by Joseph Carson, M. D., Professor of Materia Medica and Pharmacy in the University of Pennsylvania. In two very large octavo volumes of 2100 pages, on small type, with over four hundred and fifty illustrations. Volume I.—Lately issued, containing the Inorganic Materia Medica, over 800 pages, with 145 illustrations. Volume II.—Now ready, embraces the Organic Materia Medica, and forms a very large octavo volume of 1250 pages, with two plates and three hundred handsome wood-cuts. The present edition of this valuable and standard work will enhance in every respect its well- deserved reputation. The care bestowed upon its revision by the author may be estimated by the fact that its size has been increased by about five hundred pages. These additions have extended to every portion of the work, and embrace not only the materials afforded by the recent editions of the pharmacopoeias, but also all the important information accessible to the care and industry of the author in treatises, essays, memoirs, monographs, and from correspondents in various parts of the globe. In this manner the work comprises the most recent and reliable information respecting all the articles of the Materia Medica, their natural and commercial history, chemical and thera- peutical properties, preparation, uses, doses, and modes of administration, brought up to the present time, with a completeness not to be met with elsewhere. A considerable portion of the work which preceded the remainder in London, has also enjoyed the advantage of a further revision by the author expressly for this country, and in addition to this the editor, Professor Carson, has made whatever additions appeared desirable to adapt it thoroughly to the U. S. Pharmacopoeia, and to the wants of the American profession. An equal improvement will likewise be observable in every department of its mechanical execution. It is printed from new type, on good white paper, with a greatly extended and improved series of illustrations. Gentlemen who have the first volume are recommended to complete their copies without delay. The first volume will no longer be sold separate. When we remember that Philology, Natural His- tory, Botany, Chemistry, Physics, and the Micro- scope, are all brought forward to elucidate the sub- ject, one cannot fail to see that the reader has here a work worthy of the name of an encyclopedia of Materia Medica. Our own opinion of its merits is that of its editors, and also that of the whole profes- sion, both of this and foreign countries—namely, “ that in copiousness of details, in extent, variety, and accuracy of information, and in lucid explana- tion of difficult and recondite subjects, it surpasses all other works on Materia Medica hitherto pub- lished.” We cannot close this notice without allud- ing to the special additions of the American editor, which pertain to the prominent vegetable produc- tions of this country, and to the directions of the United States Pharmacopoeia, in connection with all the articles contained in the volume which are re- ferred toby it. The illustrations have been increased, and this edition by Dr. Carson cannot well be re- garded in any other light than that of a treasure which should be found in the library of every physi- cian.—Neiv York Journal of Medical and Collateral Science, March, 1854. The third edition of his “Elements of Materia Medica, although completed under the supervision of others, is by far the most elaborate treatise in the English language, and will, while medical literature is cherished, continue a monument alike honorable to his genius, as to his learning and industry.— American Journal of Pharmacy, March, 1854. The work, in its present shape, and so far as can be judged from the portion before the public, forms the most comprehensive and complete treatise on materia medica extant in the English language.— Dr. Pereira has been at great pains to introduce into his work, not only all the information on the natural, chemical, and commercial history of medi- cines, which might be serviceable to the physician and surgeon, but whatever might enable his read- ers to understand thoroughly the mode of prepar- ing and manufacturing various articles employed either for preparing medicines, or for certain pur- poses in the arts connected with materia medica and the practice of medicine. The accounts of tire physiological and therapeutic effects of remedies are given with great clearness and Accuracy, and in a manner calculated to interest as well as instruct the reader.—The Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal. PEASELEE (E. R.), M. D., Professor of Anatomy and Physiology in Dartmouth College, &c. HUMAN HISTOLOGY, in its applications to Physiology and General Pathology; designed as a Text-Book for Medical Students. With numerous illustrations. In one handsome royal 12mch volume. (Preparing.) The subject of this work is one, the growing importance of which, as the basis of Anatomy and Phy siology, demands for it a separate volume. The book will therefore supply an acknowledged deficiency in medical text-books, while the name of the author, and his experience as a teacher for tiie last thirteen years, is a guarantee that it will be thoroughly adapted to the use ot the student. PIRRIE (WILLIAM), F. R. S. E., Professor of Surgery in the University-of Aberdeen. THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF SURGERY. Edited by John Neill, M. D., Demonstrator of Anatomy in the University of Pennsylvania, Surgeon to the Pennsylvania Hospital, &c. In one very handsome octavo volume, of 780 pages, with 316 illus- trations. (Just Issued.) We know of no other surgical work of a reason- able size, wherein there is so much theory and prac- tice, or where subjects are more soundly or clearly taught.—The Stethoscope. There is scarcely a disease of the bone or soft parts, fracture, or dislocation, that is not illustrated by accurate wood-engravings. Then, again, every instrument employed by the surgeon is thus repre- sented. These engravings are not only correct, but really beautiful, showing the astonishing degree of perfection to which the art of wood-engraving has arrived. Prof. Pirrie, in the work before us, has elaborately discussed the principles of surgery, and a safe and effectual practice predicated upon them. Perhaps no work upon this subject heretofore issued is so full upon the science of the art of surgery.— Nashville Journal of Medicine and Surgery. One of the best treatises on surgery in the English language.—Canada Med. Journal. Our impression is, that, as a manual for students, Pirrie’s is the best work extant.—Western Med, and Surg. Journal.