RADIAL ARTERY. 305 passes between the two heads of the first dorsal in. erosseous muscle, into the palm of the hand. It then crosses the metacarpal bones to the ulnar side of the hand, forming the deep palmar arch, and terminates by inoscu lating with the superficial palmar arch. In the upper half of its course, the radial artery is situated between the supinator longus muscle, by which it is overlapped superiorly, and the pronator radii teres; in the lower half, between the tendons of the supina- tor longus and flexor carpi radialis. It rests in its course downwards, upon the supinator brevis, pronator radii teres, radial origin of the flexor sublimis, flexor longus pollicis, and pronator quadratus; and is covered in by the integument and fasciae. At the wrist it is situated in contact with the dorsal carpal ligaments and beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb ; and, in the palm of the hand, beneath the flexor tendons. It is accompanied by venae comites throughout its course, and by its middle third is in close relation with the radial nerve. Plan of the Relations of the Radial Artery in the Fore-arm. Inner Side. Pronator radii teres, Flexor carpi radialis. In Front. Deep fascia, Supinator longus. Outer side. Supinator longus, Radial nerve (middle third of its course). Radial artery. Behmd. Supinator brevis, Pronator radii teres, Flexor sublimis digitorum, Flexor longus pollicis. Pronator quadratus, Wrist joint. The Branches of the radial artery may be arranged into three groups, corresponding with the three regions, the fore-arm, the wrist, and the hand ; they are— Fore-arm, ( Recurrent radial, ( Muscular. Wrist, Hand, ” Superficialis volae, Carpalis anterior, - Carpalis posterior, Metacarpalis, Dorsales pollicis. ” Princeps pollicis, Radialis indicis, Interossese, Perforantes. The Recurrent branch is given off immediately below the elbow; it as- cends in the space between the supinator longus and brachialis ant’icus to supply the joint, and inosculates with the terminal branches of the superior profunda. This vessel gives off numerous muscular branches. The Muscular branches are distributed to the muscles on the radial side of the fore-arm.