rm MALE ORGANS OF GENERATION—PENIS. lory duct is about three quarters of an inch in length, and running for wards, first between the base of the prostate and the isthmus, and then through the tissue of the veru montanum, opens upon the mucous mem brane of the urethra, near its fellow of the opposite side, at the anterior extremity of that process. MALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. The organs of generation in the male are, the penis and the testes, with their appendages. PENIS. The Penis is divisible into a body, root, and extremity. The body is surrounded by a thin integument, which is remarkable for the looseness of its areolar connexion with the deeper parts of the organ, and for con- taining no adipose tissue. The root is broad, and firmly adherent to the rami of the ossa pubis and ischia by means of two strong processes, the crura, and is connected to the symphysis pubis by a fibrous membrane, the ligamentum suspensorium. The extremity, or glans penis, resembles an obtuse cone, somewhat compressed from above downwards, and of a deeper red colour than the surrounding skin. At its apex is a small ver- tical slit, the meatus urinarius, which is bounded by two, more or less protuberant, labia; and, extending backwards from the meatus, is a de- pressed raphe, to which is attached a loose fold of mucous membrane, the irsenum praeputii. The base of the glans is marked by a projecting collar, the corona glandis, upon which are seen a number of small papillary ele- vations, the glandulse Tysoni (odoriferse). Behind the corona is a deep fossa, bounded by a circular fold of integument, the prceputium, which, in the quiescent state of the organ, may be drawn over the glans, but, in its distended state, is obliterated, and serves to facilitate its enlargement. The internal surface of the prepuce is lined by mucous membrane, covered by a thin epithelium ; this membrane, on reaching the base of the glans, is reflected over the glans penis, and, at the meatus urinarius, is continuous with the mucous lining of the urethra. The penis is composed of the corpus cavernosum and corpus spongio- sum, and contains in its interior the longest portion of the urethra. The Corpus cavernosum is distinguished into two lateral portions (cor- pora cavernosa) by an imperfect septum and by a superior and inferior groove, and is divided posteriorly into two crura. It is firmly adherent, by means of its crura, to the rami of the ossa pubis and ischia. It forms, anteriorly, a single rounded extremity, which is received into a fossa in the base of the glans penis; the superior groove lodges the dorsal vessels of the organ, and the inferior receives the corpus spongiosum. Its fibrous tunic is thick, elastic, and extremely firm, and sends a number of fibrous bands and cords (trabeculse) inwards from its inferior groove, which cross its interior in a radiating direction, and are inserted into the inner walls of the tunic. These trabeculse are most abundant on the middle line, where the secretion is poured out. In the description of the vas deferens, with its connexion with the duct of the vesicula seminalis, I have adopted this plan, that I might not too far depart from established habit. But as it is more correct and consistent with the present state of science to consider the gland as a development of the duct, I have pur- sued the latter principle in the description of most of the other glandular organs of the body