BASE OF THE SKULL. 8G Irontal bone and by the malar bone, and below by the zygoma. It i* formed by part of the frontal, great wing of the sphenoid, parietal, squa- mous portion of the temporal, malar bone, and zygoma, and lodges the temporal muscle with the deep temporal arteries and nerves. The mastoid portion is rough, for the attachment of muscles. Upon its posterior part is the mastoid foramen, and below, the mastoid process. In front of the mastoid process is the external auditory foramen, surrounded by the external auditory process; and in front of this foramen the glenoid cavity, bounded above by the middle root of the zygoma and in front by its tubercle. The zygomatic portion or fossa is the irregular cavity below the zygoma, bounded in front by the superior maxillary bone, internally by the exter- nal pterygoid plate, above by part of the great wing of the sphenoid and squamous portion of the temporal bone, and by the temporal fossa, and externally by the zygomatic arch and ramus of the lower jaw. It con- tains the external pterygoid, with part of the temporal and internal ptery- goid muscle, and the internal maxillary artery and inferior maxillary nerve, with their branches. On the inner and upper side of the zygomatic fossa are two fissures, the spheno-maxillary and the pterygo-maxillary. The spheno-maxillary fissure is horizontal in direction, opens into the orbit, and is situated between the great ala of the sphenoid and the superior maxillary bone. It is completed externally by the malar bone. The pterygo-maxillary fissure is vertical, and descends at right angles from the extremity of the preceding. It is situated between the pterygoid process and the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone, and transmits the inter- nal maxillary artery. At the angle of junction of these two fissures is a small space, the spheno-maxillary fossa, bounded by the sphenoid, palate, and superior maxillary bone. In this space are seen the openings of five foramina,—the foramen rotundum, spheno-palatine, pterygo-palatine, pos- terior palatine, and Vidian. The spheno-maxillary fossa lodges Meckel’s ganglion and the termination of the internal maxillary artery. The base of the skull presents an internal or cerebral, and an exter- nal or basilar surface. The cerebral surface is divisible into three parts, which are named the anterior, middle, and posterior fossa of the base of the cranium. The anterior fossa is somewhat convex on each side, where it corresponds with the roofs of the orbits; and concave in the middle, in the situation of the ethmoid bone and the anterior part of the body of the sphenoid. The latter and the lesser wings constitute its posterior boundary. It supports the anterior lobes of the cerebrum. In the middle line of this fossa, at its anterior part, is the crista galli; immediately in front of this process, the foramen c cecum; and on each side the cribriform plate, with its foramina, for the transmission of the filaments of the olfactory and nasal branch of the opthalmic nerve. Farther back in the middle line is the processus olivaris, and on the sides of this process the optic foramina, anterior and middle clinoid processes, and vertical grooves for the internal carotid arteries. The middle fossa of the base, deeper than the preceding, is bounded in front by the lesser wing of the sphenoid ; behind, by the petrous portion of the temporal bone; and is divided into two lateral parts by the sella turcica. It is formed by the posterior part of the body, great ala, and spinous process of the sphenoid, and by the petrous and squamous portion