343 AXILLARY AND SUBCLAVIAN VEINS. The Radial vein commences in the large vein of the thumb, on the puter and posterior aspect of the hand, and ascends along the outer bor- der of the fore-arm to the bend of the elbow, where it becomes the cepha- lic vein. The Cephalic vein (xscpaXr,, the head) ascends along the outer side of the arm to its upper third; it then enters the groove between the pectora- lis major and deltoid muscle, where it is in relation with the descending branch of the thoracico-acromialis artery, and terminates beneath the cla- vicle in the subclavian vein. A large communicating branch sometimes crosses the clavicle between the external jugular and this vein, which gives it the appearance of being derived directly from the head—hence its appellation. The Median vein is intermediate in position between the anterior ulnar and radial vein; it collects the blood from the anterior aspect of the fore- arm, communicating with the two preceding. At the bend of the elbow it receives a branch from the deep veins, and divides into two branches, the median cephalic and median basilic. The Median cephalic vein, generally the smaller of the two, passes obliquely outwards, in the groove between the biceps and supinator longus, to join the cephalic vein. The branches of the external cutaneous nerve pass behind it. The Median basilic vein passes obliquely inwards, in the groove be- tween the biceps and pronator radii teres, and terminates in the basilic vein. This vein is crossed by one or two filaments of the internal cuta- neous nerve, and is separated from the brachial artery by the aponeurotic slip given off by the tendon of the biceps. AXILLARY VEIN. The axillary vein is formed by the union of the venee comites of the brachial artery with the basilic vein. It lies in front of the artery, receives numerous branches from the collateral veins of the branches of the axillarv artery; and at the lower border of the first rib becomes the subclavian vein. SUBCLAVIAN VEIN. The subclavian vein crosses over the first rib and beneath the clavicle, and unites with the internal jugular vein to form the vena innominata. It lies at first in front of the subclavian artery, and then in front of the sca- lenus anticus, which separates it from that vessel. The phrenic and pneumogastric nerves pass between the artery and vein. The veins open- ing into the subclavian are the cephalic below the clavicle, and the external and anterior jugulars above; occasionally some small veins from the neighbouring parts also terminate in it. rrmnicating branch between the deep veins of the fore-arm and the upper part of tne median vein. 10. The median cephalic vein. 11. The median basilic. 12. A slight convexity of the deep fascia, formed by the brachial artery. 13. The process of fascia, derived from the tendon of the biceps, which separates the median basilic vein from the brachial artery. 14. The external cutaneous nerve, piercing the deep fascia, ana dividing into two branches, which pass behind the median cephalic vein. 15. The in ternal cutaneous nerve, dividing into branches, which pass in front of the median basi- lic vein. 16. The intercosto-humeral cutaneous nerve. 17. The spiral cutaneous nerve, a branch of the musculo-spirai.