348 VERTEBRAL AND SPINAL VEINS. AZYGOS VEINS. The azygos veins (fig. 165) form a system of communication between the superior and inferior vena cava, and serve to return the blood from that part of the trunk of the body in which those vessels are deficient, on account of their connexion with the heart. This system consists of three vessels, the Vena azygos major, Vena azygos minor, Superior intercostal vein. The Vena azygos major commences in the lumbar region by a commu- nication with the lumbar veins ; sometimes it is joined by a branch directly from the inferior vena cava, or by one from the renal vein. It passes through the aortic opening in the diaphragm, and ascends along the right side of the vertebral column to the third dorsal vertebra, where it arches forwards over the right bronchus, and terminates in the superior cava. It receives all the intercostal veins of the right side, the vena azygos minor, and the bronchial veins. The Vena azygos minor commences in the lumbar region, on the left side, by a communication with the lumbar or renal veins. It passes be- neath the border of the diaphragm, and, ascending along the left side of the vertebral column, crosses the fifth or sixth dorsal vertebra to open into the vena azygos major. It receives the six or seven lower intercostal veins of the left side. The azygos veins have no valves. The Superior intercostal vein is the trunk formed by the union of the five or six upper intercostal veins of the left side. It communicates below with die vena azygos minor, and ascends to terminate in the left vena innominata. VERTEBRAL AND SPINAL VEINS. The numerous venous plexuses of the vertebral column and spinal cord may be arranged into three groups:— Dorsi-spinal, Meningo-rachidian, Medulli-spinal, The Dorsi-spinal veins form a plexus around the spinous, transverse and articular processes, and arches of the vertebrae. They receive the return- ing blood from the dorsal muscles and surrounding structures, and trans- mit it, in part to the meningo-rachidian, and in part to the vertebral, in- tercostal, lumbar, and sacral veins. The Meningo-rachidian veins are situated between the theca vertebralis and the vertebrae. They communicate freely with each other by means of a complicated plexus. In front they form two longitudinal trunks, (longitudinal spinal sinuses,) which extend the whole length of the column on each side of the posterior common ligament, and are joined on the body of each vertebra by transverse trunks, which pass beneath the liga- ment, and receive the large basi-vertebral veins from the interior of each vertebra. The meningo-rachidian veins communicate superiorly through the anterior condyloid foramina with the internal jugulars; in the neck they pour their blood into die vertebral veins; in the thorax, into the in-