97 GROWTH OF TEETH. increased growth of the jaw, follows the course of the first and second molars into the dental range. From a consideration ot the foregoing phenomena, Mr. Goodsir has divided the process of dentition into three natural stages: 1. follicular; 2. saccular; 3. eruptive. The first, or follicular stage, he makes to include all the changes which take place from the first appearance of the dental groove and papilke to the closure of their follicles; occupying a period which extends from the sixth week to the fourth or fifth month oi intra-uterine existence. The second, or saccular stage, comprises the period when the follicles are shut sacs, and the included papillae pulps: it commences at the fourth and fifth months of intra-uterine existence, and terminates for the median incisors, at the seventh or eighth month of infantile life, and for the wisdom teeth at about the twenty-first year. The third, or eruptive stage, includes the completion of the teeth, the eruption and shedding of the temporary set, the eruption of the perma- nent, and the necessary changes in the alveolar processes. It extends from the seventh month till the twenty-first year. u The antenor permanent molar f says Mr. Goodsir, <£ is the most remarkable tooth in man, as it forms a transition between the milk and the permanent set.” If considered anatomically, i. e. in its development from the primitive dental groove, by a papilla and follicle, “ it is decidedly a milk tooth if physiologically, “ as the most efficient grinder in the adult mouth, we must consider it a permanent tooth.” u It is a curious circumstance, and one which will readily suggest itself to the surgeon, that laying out of view the wisdom teeth, which sometimes decay at an early period from other causes, the anterior molars are the permanent teeth which most frequently give way first, and in the most symmetrical manner and at the same time, and frequently before the milk set.” Growth of Teeth. — Immediately that the dental follicles have been closed by their opercula, the pulps become moulded into the form of the future teeth: and the bases of the molars divided into two or three por- tions representing the future fangs. The dental sac is composed of two layers, an internal or vascular layer, which was originally a part of the mucous surface of the mouth, and a cellulo-fibrous layer, analogous to the corium of the mucous membrane. Upon the formation of this sac by the closure of the follicle, the mucous membrane resembles a serous mem- brane in being a shut sac, and may be considered as consisting of a tunica propria, which invests the pulp; and a tunica reflexa, which is adherent by its outer surface with the structures in the jaw, and by the inner surface is free, being separated from the pulp by an intervening cavity. As soon as the moulding of the pulp has commenced, this cavity increases and becomes filled with a gelatinous granular substance, the enamel organ, which is ad- Fig. 46 * herent to the whole internal surface of the h tunica reflexa, but not to the tunica propria a and pulp. At the same period, viz., dur- f\ ing the fourth or fifth month, a thin lamina fef of ivory is formed by the pulp, and occu- \jflf pies its most prominent point; if the tooth * a. Capsule of a temporary incisor with the rudiment of the corresponding perma- nent tooth attached, b. Capsule of a molar in the same state. A part of the gum is seen above it and in contact.