CRANIAL GROUP. 174 1. Cranial group.—Occipito-frontalis. Dissection. — The occipito-frontalis is to be dissected by making a Ion gitudinal incision along the vertex of the head, from the tubercle on the occipital bone to the root of the nose; and a second incision along the forehead and around the side of the head, to join the two extremities of the preceding. Dis- sect the integument and superficial fascia carefully outwards, beginning at the an- terior angle of the flap, where the mus- cular fibres are thickest, and remove it' altogether. This dissection requires care; for the muscle is very thin, and, without attention, would be raised with the in- tegument. There is no deep fascia on the face and head, nor is it required ; for here the muscles are closely applied against the bones upon which they de- pend for support, whilst in the extremities the support is derived from the dense layer of fascia by which they are invested, and which forms for each a distinct sheath. The Occipito-frontalis is a bread musculo-aponeurotic layer, which covers the whole of the side of the vertex of the skull, from the occiput to the eyebrow. It arises by tendinous fibres from the outer two-thirds of the superior curved line of the occipital, and from the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. Its insertion takes place by means of the blending of the fibres of its anterior portion with those of the orbicularis palpebrarum, corrugator supercilii, levator labii superioris alceque nasi, and pyramidafts nasi. The muscle is fleshy in front over the frontal bone and behind over the occipital, the twTo portions being connected by a broad aponeurosis. The twTo muscles, together with their aponeurosis, cover the whole of the vertex of the skull, hence their designation galea capitis; they are loosely adherent to the pericranium, but very closely to the integument, 'particu- - larly over the forehead. Relations. — This muscle is in relation by its external surface from be- fore backwards, with the frontal and supra-orbital vessels, the supra-orbital and facial nerve, the temporal vessels and nerve, the occipital vessels and * The muscles of the head and face. 1. The frontal portion of the occipito-frontalis. 2. Its occipital portion. 3. Its aponeurosis. 4. The orbicularis palpebrarum, which conceals the corrugator supercilii and tensor tarsi. 5. The pyramidalis nasi. 6. The compressor nasi. 7. The orbicularis oris. 8. The levator labii superioris alaeque nasi, the adjoining fasciculus between numbers 8 and 9 is the labial portion of the muscle 9. The levator labii superioris proprius; the lower partof the levator anguli oris is seen between the muscles 10 and 11. 10. The zygomaticus minor. 11. The zygomaticus major. 12. The depressor labii inferioris. 13. The depressor anguli oris. 14. The levator labii inferioris. 15. The superficial portion of the masseter. 16. Its deep por- tion. 17. The attrahens aurem. IS. The buccinator. 19. The attollens aurem. 20. The temporal fascia which covers in the temporal muscle. 21. The retrahens aurem 22. The anterior belly of the digastricus muscle ; the tendon is seen passing through its aponeurotic pulley. 23. The stylo-hyoid muscle, pierced by the posterior belly of the digastricus. 24. The mylo-hyoideus muscle. 25. The upper part of the sterno-mastoid, Ut:. The upper part of the trapezius. The muscle between 25 and 26 is the splenius.