272 FASCIAE OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. fascia is strengthened at its point of division into slips, by strong fasciculi of transverse fibres, and the arched interval left between the slips gives passage to the tendons of the flexor muscles. The arches between the lingers transmit the digital vessels and nerve, and lumbricales muscles. FASCIiE OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. The superficial fascia contains between its two layers the superficial vessels and nerves of the lower extremity. At the groin these two layers are separated from each other by the superficial lymphatic glands, and the deep layer is attached to Poupart’s ligament, while the superficial layer is continuous with the superficial fascia of the abdomen. The deep fascia of the thigh is named, from its great extent, the fascia lata; it is thick and strong upon the outer side of the limb, and thinner upon its posterior side. That portion of fascia which invests the gluteus maximus is very thin, but that which covers in the gluteus medius is ex- cessively thick, and gives origin by its inner surface, to the superficial fibres of that muscle. The fascia lata is attached superiorly to Poupart’s ligament, the crest of the ilium, sacrum, coccyx, tuberosity of the ischium, ramus of the ischium, and pubes; in the thigh it is inserted into the linea aspera, and around the knee is connected with the prominent points of that joint. It possesses also two muscular attachments, by means of the tensor vaginae femoris, which is inserted between its two layers on the outer side, and the gluteus maximus, which is attached to it behind. In addition to the smaller openings in the fascia lata which transmit the small cutaneous vessels and nerves, there exists at the upper and inner extremity of the thigh, an oblique foramen, which gives passage to the superficial lymphatic vessels, and the large subcutaneous vein of the lower extremity, the internal saphenous vein, and is thence named the saphenous opening. The existence of this opening has given rise to the division of the upper part of the fascia lata into two portions, an iliac portion and a pubic portion. The iliac portion is situated upon the iliac side of the opening. It is attached to the crest of the ilium, and along Poupart’s ligament to the spine of the os pubis, whence it is reflected downwards and outwards, in an arched direction, and forms a falciform border, which constitutes the outer boundary of the saphenous opening. The edge of this border im- mediately overlies, and is reflected upon the sheath of the femoral vessels, and the iower extremity of the curve is continuous with the pubic portion. The pubic portion, occupying the pubic side of the saphenous opening, is attached to the spine of the os pubis and pectineal line; and, passing outwards behind the sheath of the femoral vessels, divides into two layers; the anterior layer is continuous with that portion of the iliac fascia which forms the sheath of the iliacus and psoas muscles, and the posterior layer is lost upon the capsule of the hip joint. The interval between the falciform border of the iliac portion and the opposite surface of the pubic portion is closed by a fibrous layer, which is pierced by numerous openings for the passage of lymphatic vessels, and is thence named cribriform fascia. The cribriform fascia is connected with the sheath of the femoral vessels, and forms one of the coverings of femoral hernia. When the iliac portion of the fascia lata is removed from its at- tachment to Poupart’s ligament and is turned aside, the sheath of the femoral vessels (the femoral or crural canal) is brought into view; and if