386 DIVERGING FIBRES. somewhat larger above than below. The corpus olivare is situated imme- diately external to the corpus pyramidale, from which, and from the corpus restiforme, it is separated by a well-marked groove. In this groove some longitudinal fibres are seen which enclose the base of the corpus olivare, and have been named funiculi siliquce, those which lie to its inner side being the funiculus internus, and those to its outer side the funiculus ex- ternus. Besides these there are other fibres which cross the corpus olivare obliquely, these are the fibrce arciformes. When examined by section (Fig. 175), the corpus olivare is found to be a ganglion deeply embedded in the medulla oblongata, and meeting its fellow at the middle line behind the corpus pyramidale. The ganglion of the corpus olivare (corpus den- tatum, nucleus olivae), like that of the cerebellum, is a yellowish-grey den- tated capsule, open behind, and containing medullary substance from which a fasciculus of fibres proceeds upwards to the corpora quadrigemina and thalami optici. The nervous filaments which spring from the groove on the anterior border of the corpus olivare, are those of the hypoglossal nerve; and those on its posterior border are the glosso-pharyngeal and pneumogastric. The Corpora restiformia (restis, a rope), comprehend the whole of the posterior half of each lateral column of the medulla oblongata. They are separated from the corpora olivaria by the grooves already spoken of; posteriorly they are divided from each other by the fissura longitudinalis posterior and by the fourth ventricle, and superiorly they diverge and curve backwards to enter the cerebellum, and constitute its inferior peduncles. Along the posterior border of each corpus restiforme, and marked off from that body by a groove, is a narrow white cord, separated from its fellow by the fissura longitudinalis posterior. This pair of narrow cords are termed the posterior median columns or fasciculi (funiculi graciles). Each fasciculus forms an enlargement (processus clavatus) at its upper end, and is then lost in the corresponding corpus restiforme. The processus clavati are the lateral boundaries of the nib of the calamus scriptorius. The cor- pus restiforme is crossed near its entrance into the cerebellum, by the au- ditory nerve, the choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle, and the pneumo- gastric lobule. The remaining portion of the medulla oblongata visible from the exte- rior, are the two slightly convex columns which enter into the formation of the floor of the fourth ventricle. These columns are the funiculi teretes or posterior pyramids. Diverging fibres.—The fibres composing the columns of the medulla oblongata have a special arrangement on reaching the upper part of that body, those of the corpora pyramidalia and olivaria enter the pons Varolii, and are thence prolonged through the crura cerebri, thalami optici, and corpora striata to the cerebral hemispheres; but those of the corpora resti- formia are reflected backwards into the cerebellum and form its inferior peduncles. From pursuing this course, and spreading out as they advance, these fibres have been termed by Gall the diverging fibres. While situated within the pons, the fibres of the corpus pyramidale and olivare separate and spread out, and have gr£y substance interposed between them ; and they quit the pons much increased in number and bulk, so as to form the cnis cerebri. The fibres of the crus cerebri again are separated in the thalamus ooticus, and are intermingled with grey matter, and they also