325 PROFUNDA ARTERY. liquely outwards towards the crest of the ilium. It supplies the integument of the groin, the superficial fascia, and inguinal glands. The Superficial epigastric arises from the femoral, immediately below Poupart’s ligament, pierces the fascia lata, and ascends obliquely towards the umbilicus between the two layers of superficial fascia. It distributes branches to the inguinal glands and integument, and inosculates with branches of the deep epigastric and internal mammary artery. The Superficial external pudic arises near the superficial epigastric artery; it pierces the fascia lata, at the saphenous opening, and passes transversely inwards, crossing the spermatic cord, to be distributed to the integument of the penis and scrotum in the male, and to the labia in the female. * The Deep external pudic arises from the femoral, a little lower down than the preceding: it crosses the femoral vein immediately below the termination of the internal saphenous vein, and piercing the pubic portion of the fascia lata, passes beneath that fascia to the inner border of the thigh, where it again pierces the fascia; having become superficial, it is distributed to the integument of the scrotum and perineum. X The Profunda femoris arises from the femoral artery at two inches below Poupart’s ligament: it passes downwards and backwards and a little outwards, behind the adductor longus muscle, pierces the adductor magnus, and is distributed to the flexor muscles on the posterior part of the thigh. Relations.—In its course downwards it rests successively upon the pecti- neus, the conjoined tendon of the psoas and iliacus, adductor brevis, and adductor magnus muscles. To its outer side the tendinous insertion of the vastus internus muscle intervenes between it and the femur; on its inner side it is in relation with the pectineus, adductor brevis, and adduc- tor magnus ; and in front it is separated from the femoral artery, above by the profunda vein and femoral vein, and below by the adductor longus muscle. Plan of the Relations of the Profunda Artery. In Front. Profunda vein, Adductor longus. Inner Side. Pectineus, Adductor brevis, Adductor magnus. Profunda artery. Behind. Outer Side. Psoas and iliacus, Vastus internus, Femur. Pectineus, Tendon of psoas and iliacus, Adductor brevis, Adductor magnus. « Branches.—The branches of the profunda artery are, the external cir- cumflex, internal circumflex, and three perforating arteries. The External circumflex artery passes obliquely outwards between liie 28