LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIS. l4li The posterior costo-sternal ligament is much smaller than the anterior, and consists only of a thin fasciculus of fibres situated on the posterior surface of the articulation. The superior and inferior costo-sternal ligaments are narrow fasciculi corresponding with the breadth of the cartilage, and connecting its supe- rior and inferior border with the side of the sternum. The synovial membrane is absent in the articulation of the first rib, its cartilage being usually continuous with the sternum; that of the second rib has an interarticular ligament, with two synovial membranes. The sixth and seventh ribs have several fasciculi of strong ligamentous fibres, passing from the extremity of their cartilages to the anterior surface of the ensiform cartilage, which latter they are intended to support. They are named the costo-xiphoid ligaments. The six, seventh, and eighth, and sometimes the fifth and the ninth costal cartilages, have articulations with each other, and a perfect synovial membrane. They are connected by ligamentous fibres which pass from one cartilage to the other, external and internal ligaments. The ninth and tenth are connected at their extremities by ligamentous fibres, but have no synovial membranes. Actions. — The movements of the costo-sternal articulations are very trifling; they are limited to a slight sliding motion. The first rib is the least, and the second the most movable. 8. Articulation of the Sternum. — The pieces of the sternum are con- nected by means of a thin plate of interosseous cartilage placed between each, and by an anterior and posterior ligament. The fibres of the ante- rior sternal ligament are longitudinal in direction, but so blended with the anterior costo-sternal ligaments, and the tendinous fibres of origin of the pectoral muscles, as scarcely to be distinguished as a distinct ligament. The posterior sternal ligament is a broad smooth plane of longitudinal fibres, placed upon the posterior surface of the bone, and extending from the manubrium to the ensiform cartilage. These ligaments contribute very materially to the strength of the sternum and to the elasticity of the front of the chest. 9. Articulation of the Vertebral Column with the Pelvis. — The last lumbar vertebra is connected with the sacrum by the same ligaments with which the various vertebrse are connected to each other; viz. the anterior and posterior common ligaments, intervertebral substance, ligamenta sub- flava, capsular ligaments, and inter and supra-spinous ligaments. There are, however, two proper ligaments connecting the vertebral column with the pelvis; these are, the Lumbo-sacral, Lumbo-iliac. T he lumbosacral ligament is a thick triangular fasciculus of ligamentous fibres, connected above with the transverse process of the last lumbar ver- tebra ; and below with the posterior part of the upper border of the sacrum. The lumbo-iliac ligament passes from the apex of the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra to that part of the crest of the ilium which sur- mounts the saero-iliac articulation. It is triangular in form. 10. The Articulations of the Pelvis.— The ligaments belonging to the articulations of the pelvis are divisible into four groups. 1. Those connect-