POSTERIOR HUMERAL REGION. 230 short head rests upon the subscapularis, from which it is separated by a bursa. In the rest of its extent the muscle is in relation with the humerus, the teres major, latissimus dorsi, and brachialis anticus; from the latter it is separated by the external cutaneous nerve. By its inner border with the coraco-brachialis, brachial artery and veins, and median nerve ; the brachial vessels crossing its tendon at the bend of the elbow. By its outer border with the deltoid and supinator longus. The Brachialis Anticus* is a broad muscle covering the whole of the anterior surface of the lower part of the humerus; it arises by two fleshy serrations from the depressions on either side of the insertion of the del- toid, from the anterior surface of the humerus, and from the intermuscular septa attached to the condyloid ridges. Its fibres converge to be inserted into the coronoid process of the ulna. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the biceps, external cutaneous nerve, brachial artery and veins, and median nerve. By its posterior sur- face with the humerus, anterior ligament of the elbow joint, and inter- muscular aponeurosis. The latter separates it from the triceps. By its external border with the supinator longus, extensor carpi radialis longior, musculo-spiral nerve, and recurrent radial artery. By its internal border with the intermuscular aponeurosis, which separates it from the triceps and ulnar nerve, and with the pronator radii teres. Actions.—The coraco-brachialis draws the humerus inwards, and assists in flexing it upon the scapula. The biceps and brachialis anticus are flexors of the fore-arm, and the former a supinator. The brachialis anticus is a powerful protection to the elbow joint. Fig. 121 * Posterior Humeral Region. Triceps extensor cubiti. Dissection.—Remove the integument and fascia from the posterior aspect of the upper arm. The Triceps (rpsTg xscpaXai, three heads) arises by three heads. Considered in relation to their length, these heads have been named long, short, and middle; and in reference to their position, internal, external, and middle; the term middle, in the former case, referring to the external head, and in the latter case to the long head. This has given rise to much confusion and misunderstand- ing. I shall, therefore, confine myself to the de- signations derived from their relations. The ex- ternal head arises from the humerus, commencing immediately below the insertion of the teres minor, and from the intermuscular septum attached to the external condyloid ridge. The internal head (short) arises from the humerus, commencing im- mediately below the insertion of the teres major, and from the intermuscular septum attached to the internal condyloid ridge. The scapular head (long) lies between the two others, and arises from the upper third of the inferior border of the * A posterior view of the upper arm, showing the triceps muscle. 1. Its external head. 2. Its long, or scapular head. 3. Its internal, or short head. 4. The olecranon process of the ulna. 5. The radiva. 6 The capsular ligament of the shoulder join:.