282 COMMON CAROTID ARTERIES. mogastric nerve and cardiac nerves; externally, with the right vena inno- rninata and pleura ; and internally, with the origin of the left carotid. Plan of the Relations of the Arteria Innominata. In Front. Left vena innominata, Thymus gland, Sterno-thyroid, Sterno-hyoid. Right Side. Right vena innominata, Pleura. Behind. Trachea, Pneumogastric nerve, Cardiac nerves. The arteria innominata occasionally gives off a small branch, which ascends along the middle of the trachea to the thyroid gland. This branch was described by Neubauer, and Dr. Harrison names it the middle thyroid artery. A knowledge of its existence is important in performing the ope- ration of tracheotomy. COMMON CAROTID ARTERIES. The common carotid arteries (xa^a, the head,) arise, the right from the bifurcation of the arteria innominata opposite the right sterno-clavicular articulation, the left from the arch of the aorta. It follows, therefore, that the right carotid is shorter than the left; it is also more anterior; and, in consequence of proceeding from a branch instead of from the main trunk, it is larger than its fellow. The Right common carotid artery (fig. 145, No. 5) ascends the neck perpendicularly, from the right sterno-clavicular articulation to a level with the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, where it divides into the external and internal carotid. The Left common carotid (fig. 145, No. 11) passes somewhat obliquely outwards from the arch of the aorta to the side of the neck, and thence upwards to a level with the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, where it divides like the right common carotid into the external and internal carotid. Relations.—The right common carotid rests, first, upon the longus colli muscle, then upon the rectus anticus major, the sympathetic nerve being interposed. The inferior thyroid artery and recurrent laryngeal nerve pass behind it at its lower part. To its inner side is the trachea, recurrent laryngeal nerve, and larynx; to its outer side, and enclosed in the same sheath, the jugular vein and pneumogastric nerve; and in front, the sterno- thyroid, sterno-hyoid, sterno-mastoid, omo-hyoid, and platysma muscles, and the descendens noni nerve. The left common carotid, in addition to the relations just enumerated, which are common to both, is crossed neai its commencement by the left vena innominata ; it lies upon the trachea ; then gets to its side, and is in relation with the oesophagus and thoracic duct: to facilitate the study of these relations, I have arranged them in a tabular form. Left Side. Left carotid.