472 APPENDAGES OF THE SKIN. of the papilla}. The Lymphatic vessels probably form, in the superficiai strata of the derma, a plexus, the meshes of which are interwoven with those of the capillary and nervous plexus. No lymphatics have as yet been discovered in the papillae. The Nerves of the derma, after entering the areolae of the deeper part of the corium, divide into minute fasciculi, which form a terminal plexus in the upper strata of the corium. From this plexus the primitive fibres pass off to their distribution, as loops, in the papillae. In the less sensitive parts of the skin the loops are simple and more or less acute in their bend, in conformity with the figure of the papilla. In the sensitive parts, how- ever, and especially in the tactile papillse of the pulps of the fingers, the loop is convoluted to a greater or less extent, and acts as a multiplier of sensation. APPENDAGES OF THE SKIN. The appendages of the skin are the nails, hairs, sebiparous glands, and perspiratory glands and ducts. The Nails are horny appendages of the skin, identical in formation with the epiderma, of which they are a part. A nail is convex on its ex- ternal surface, concave within, and implanted by means of a thin margin or root in a fold of the derma (matrix), which is nearly two lines in depth, and acts the part of a follicle to the nail. At the bottom of the groove of the follicle are a number of filiform papillse, which produce the margin of the root, and, by the successive formation of new cells, push the nail on- wards in its growth. The concave surface of the nail is in contact with the derma, and the latter is covered by papillse, which perform the double office of retaining the nail in its place, and giving it increased thickness by the addition of newly-formed cells to its under surface. It is this constant change occurring in the under surface of the nail, co-operating with the continual reproduction taking place along the margin of the root, which ensures the growth of the nail in the proper direction. The nail derives a peculiarity of appearance from the disposition and form of the papillse on the ungual surface of the derma. Thus, beneath the root, and for a short distance onwards towards its middle, the derma is covered by papillse which are more minute, and consequently less vascular than the papillae somewhat farther on. This patch of papillse is bounded by a semilunar line, and that part of the nail covering it being lighter in colour than the rest, has been termed lunula. Beyond the lunula the papillse are raised into longitudinal plaits, which are exceedingly vascular, and give a deeper tint of redness to the nail. These plait-like papillse of the derma are well calculated by their form to offer an extensive surface both for the adhesion and formation of the nail. The granules and cells are developed on every part of their surface, both in the grooves between the plaits and on their sides, and a horny lamina is formed between each pair of plaits. When the under surface of a nail is examined, these longitudinal laminae, corre- sponding with the longitudinal papillse of the ungual portion of the derma, are distintly apparent, and if the nail be forcibly detached, the laminae may be seen in the act of parting from the grooves of the papillse. It is this structure that gives rise to the ribbed appearance of the nail. The papil- lary surface of the derma which pro dm es the nail is continuous around the circumference of the attached part of that organ with the derma of the sur-