513 MUSCULAR COAT. l»v a zone or wreath of simple follicles. When opened, they are seen to consist of a small flattened saccular cavity, containing a mucous secretion, hut having no excretory duct. They are chiefly found in the lower part of the ileum. The solitary glands of the large intestine are most abundant in the caecum and appendix cseci; they are small circular prominences, flattened upon the surface, and perforated in the centre by a minute ex- cretory opening. The Aggregate, or Peyer’s* glands, are situated near the lower end of the ileum, and occupy that portion of the intestine which is opposite the attachment of the mesentery. To the naked eye they present the ap- pearance of oval disks, covered with small irregular fissures; but with the aid of the microscope they are seen to be composed of numerous small circular patches, surrounded by sim- ple follicles, like the solitary glands of the small intestine. Each patch corresponds with a flattened and closed sac, situated beneath the membrane, but having no excretory opening, and the interspace between the patches is occupied by flattened villi. The Simple follicles, or follicles of Lieberkiihn, are small pouches of the mucous layer, dispersed in immense numbers over every part of the mucous membrane. Muscular Coat.—The muscular coat of the pharynx consists of five pairs of muscles, which have been already described. The muscular coat of the rest of the alimentary canal is composed of two planes of fibres, an external longitudinal, and an internal circular. The (Esophagus is very muscular ; its longitudinal fibres are continuous above with the pharynx, and are attached in front to the vertical ridge on the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage ; the uppermost circular fibres are also attached to the cricoid cartilage. Below, both sets of fibres are continued upon the stomach. Besides the fibres possessed by the oesophagus in common with the rest of the alimentary canal, two special muscles have been described by Hyrtl under the names of Broncho-oesophageal and Pleuro-cesophageal. The Broncho-cesophageal muscle arises as a broad fasciculus from the posterior surface of the left bronchus, and is lost, after a course of two or three inches in length, among the longitudinal fibres of the left side of the oeso- phagus. The Pleuro-cesophageal muscle arises from the left wall of the posterior mediastinum behind the commencement of the descending aorta, and curves around that vessel to mingle its fibres with the longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus. * John Conrad Peyer, an anatomist of Schaffhausen, in Switzerland. His essay, “Do G’andulis Intestinorurn,” was published in 1G77. ■j- Portion of magnified. T one of the patches of Peyers glands from the end of the ileum : high he villi are also shown.— (Boehm.) 2 H b