256 FLEXOR LONGUS DIGITORUM. Deep Layer. Popliteus, Flexor longus pollicis, Flexor longus digitorum, Tibialis posticus. Dissection.—After the removal of the soleus, the deep layer will be found bound down by an intermuscular fascia which is to be dissected away ; the muscles may then be examined. The Popliteus muscle (poples, the ham of the leg) forms the floor of the popliteal region at its lower part, and is bound tightly down by a strong fascia derived from the middle slip of the tendon of the semi-membranosus muscle. It arises by a rounded tendon from a deep groove on the outer side of the external condyle of the femur, beneath the ex- ternal lateral ligament; and spreading obliquely over the head of the tibia, is inserted into the surface of bone above its oblique line. This line is called, from being the limit of insertion of the popliteal muscle, the popliteal line. Relations.—By its superficial surface with a thick fascia which separates it from the two heads of the gastrocne- mius, the plantaris, and the popliteal vessels and nerve. By its deep surface with the synovial membrane of the knee joint and with the upper part of the tibia. The Flexor Longus Pollicis is the most superficial of the next three muscles. It arises from the lower two- thirds of the fibula, and passes through a groove in the astragalus and os calcis, which is converted by tendinous fibres into a distinct sheath lined by a synovial mem- brane, into the sole of the foot; it is inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the great toe. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the intermus- cular fascia, which separates it from the soleus and tendo Achillis. By its deep surface with the tibialis posticus, fibula, fibular vessels, interosseous membrane, and ankle joint. By its outer border with the peroneus longus and brevis. By its inner border with the flexor longus digitorum. In the foot, the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis is connected with that of the flexor longus digitorum by a short tendinous slip. The Flexor Longus Digitorum (perforans) arises of the tibia, immediately below the popliteal line. Its tendon riasses through a sheath common to it and the tibialis posticus be- hind the inner malleolus; it then passes through a second sheath which is * The deep layer of muscles of the posterior tibial region. 1. The lower extremity of the femur. 2. The ligamentum postieum Winslowii. 3. The tendon of the semi- membranosus muscle dividing into its three slips. 4. The internal lateral ligament of die knee joint. 5. The external lateral ligament. 6. The popliteus muscle. 7. The flexor longus digitorum. 8. The tibialis posticus. 9. The flexor longus pollicis. 10. The peroneus longus muscle. 11. The peroneus brevis. 12. The tendo Achillis divided near its insertion into the os calcis. 13. The tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum muscles, just as they are about to pass beneath the internal annular ligament of the ankle; the interval between the latter tendon and the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis is occupied by the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. Fig. 134.* from the surface