203 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. spinalis dorsi, are associated under the name of erector spinse. dhey occupy the lumbar and dorsal portion ot the back. rlhe remaining four are situated in the cervical region. The Sacro-lumbalis and Longissimus Dorsi arise by a common origin from the posterior third of the crest of the ilium, from the posterior surface of the sacrum, and from the lumbar vertebrse; opposite the last rib a line of separation begins to be perceptible between the two muscles. I he sacro-lumbalis is inserted by separate tendons into the angles of the six lower ribs. On turning the muscle a little out- wards, a number of tendinous slips will be seen taking their origin from the ribs, and terminating in a muscular fasciculus, by which the sacro- lumbalis is prolonged to the upper part of the thorax. This is the musculus accessorius ad sacro-lumbalem: it arises from the angles of the six lower ribs, and is inserted by separate ten- dons into the angles of the six upper ribs. The longissimus dorsi is inserted into all the ribs, between their tubercles and angles. The Spinalis Dorsi arises from the spinous processes of the two upper lumbar and three lower dorsal vertebrse, and is inserted into the spinous processes of all the upper dorsal verte- brse ; the two muscles form an ellipse, which appears to enclose the spinous processes of all the dorsal vertebrae. Relations. — The erector spinse muscle is in relation by its superficial surface (in the lumbar region) with the conjoined aponeurosis of the transversalis and internal oblique muscle, which separates it from the aponeurosis of the serratus posticus inferior, and longissimus dorsi; (in the dorsal region) with the vertebral aponeurosis, which separates it from the latissimus dorsi, trapezius, and serratus posticus superior, and with the splenius. By its deep surface (in the lumbar region) with the multifidus spinse, trans- verse processes of the lumbar vertebrse, and with the middle layer of the aponeurosis of the transversalis abdominis, which separates it from the quadratus lumborum; (in the dorsal region) with the multifidus spinse, semi-spinalis dorsi, levatores costarum, intercostal muscles, and ribs as far as their angles. Internally or mesially with the multifidus spinse, and semi-spinalis dorsi, which separate it from the spinous processes and arches of the vertebrse. The two layers of aponeurosis of the transversalis abdominis, together * The fourth and fifth, and part of the sixth layer of the muscles of the back. 1. The common origin of the erector spinse muscle. 2. The sacro-lumbalis. 3. The longissi- mus dorsi. 4. The spinalis dorsi. 5. The cervicalis ascendens. 6. The transversalis colli. 7. The trachelo-mastoideus. 8. The complexns. 9. The transversalis colli, showing its origin. 10. The semi-spinalis dorsi. 11. The semi-spinalis colli. 12. The rectus posticus minor. 13. The rectus posticus major. 14. The obliquus suoerioi 15. The obliquus inferior. 16. The multifidus spinse. 17. The levatores costarum IS. Intertransversales. 19. The quadratus lumborum.