CERVICAL GANGLIA. 437 situated upon the submaxillary gland, in close relation with the gustatory nerve and near the posterior border of the mylo-hyoideus muscle. Its branches of distribution, six or eight in number, divide into many filaments, which supply the substance of the submaxillary gland and Wharton’s duct. Its branches of communication are, two or three from and to the gusta- tory nerve ; one from the chorda tympani; and one or two filaments which pass to the facial artery and communicate with the nervi molles from the cervical portion of the sympathetic. Carotid Plexus.—The ascending branch of the superior cervical gan- glion enters the carotid canal with the internal carotid artery, and divides into two branches, wThich form several loops of communication with each other around the artery. These branches, together with those derived from the petrosal branch of the Vidian, constitute the carotid plexus. They also form frequently a small gangliform swelling upon the under part of the artery, which is called the carotid ganglion. The latter, however, is not constant. The continuation of the carotid plexus onwards with the artery by the side of the sella turcica, is called the cavernous plexus. The carotid plexus is the centre of communication between all the cra- nial ganglia; and being derived from the superior cervical ganglion, be- tween the cranial ganglia and those of the trunk, it also communicates with the greater part of the cerebral nerves, and distributes filaments with each of the branches of the internal carotid, which accompany those branches in all their ramifications. Thus, the Ganglion of Ribes is formed by the union of the filaments which accompany the anterior cerebral arteries, and which meet on the anterior communicating artery. The ciliary ganglion communicates with the plexus by means of the long branch which is sent back to join it in the cavernous sinus. The spheno-palatine, and with it the naso-palatine ganglion, joins the plexus by means of the carotid branch of the Vidian. The submaxillary ganglion is brought into connexion with it by means of the otic ganglion, and the otic ganglion by means of the tympanic nerve and the Vidian. It communicates with the third nerve in the cavernous sinus, and through the ciliary ganglion; frequently wTith the fourth in the formation of the nerve of the tentorium ; with the Casserian ganglion ; with the ophthalmic division of the fifth in the cavernous sinus, and by means of the ciliary ganglion; with the superior maxillary, through the spheno-palatine gan- glion ; and with the inferior maxillary, through the otic ganglion. It sends two branches directly to the sixth nerve, which unite* with it as it crosses the cavernous sinus; it communicates writh the facial and auditory nerves, through the medium of the petrosal branch of the Vidian; and with the glosso-pharyngeal by means of two filaments to the tympanic nerve. CERVICAL GANGLIA. The Superior cervical ganglion is long and fusiform, of a greyish colour, smooth, and of considerable thickness, extending from within an inch of * Panizza, in his “Experimental Researches on the Nerves,” denies this communica- tion, and states very vaguely that “ they are merely lost and entwined around it”-- Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal. January 183G. 31*