550 EXTERNAL ORGANS OF GENERATION. la the cells of the stroma of the ovary the small vesicles or ovisacs of the future ova, the Graafian vesicles, as they have been termed, are developed. There are usually about fifteen fully formed Graafian vesicles in each ovary; and Dr. Martin Barry has shown that countless numbers of micro- scopic ovisacs exist in the parenchyma of the organ, and that very few out of these are perfected so as to produce ova. After conception, a yellow spot, the corpus luteum, is found in one or both ovaries. The corpus luteum is a globular mass of yellow, spongy tissue, traversed by white areolar bands, and containing in its centre a small cavity, more or less obliterated, which was originally occupied by the ovum. The interior of the cavity is lined by a puckered membrane, the remains of the ovisac. In recent corpora lutea, the opening by which the ovum escaped from the ovisac through the capsule of the ovary is dis- tinctly visible; when closed, a small cicatrix may be seen on the surface of the ovary in the situation of the opening. A similar appearance to the preceding, but of smaller size, and without a central cavity, is sometimes met with in the ovaries of the virgin'; this is a false corpus luteum. Vessels and JVerves.—The Arteries of the ovaries are the spermatic; their nerves are derived from the spermatic plexus. The Round ligaments are two muscular and fibrous cords situated be- tween the layers of the broad ligaments, and extending from the upper angles of the uterus, and along the spermatic canals to the labia majora, in which they are lost. They are accompanied by a small artery, by several filaments of the spermatic plexus of nerves, and by a plexus of veins. The latter occasionally become varicose, and form a small tumour at the external abdominal ring, which has been mistaken for inguinal hernia. The round ligaments serve to retain the uterus in its proper po- sition in the pelvis, and, during utero-gestation, to draw the anterior sur- face of the organ against the abdominal parietes. EXTERNAL ORGANS OF GENERATION. The female organs of generation are divisible into the internal and ex- ternal : the internal are contained within the pelvis, and'have been already described ; they are the vagina, uterus, ovaries, and Fallopian tubes. The external organs are the mons Veneris, labia majora, labia minora, clitoris, meatus urinarius, and the opening of the vagina. The Mons Veneris is the eminence of integument, situated upon the front of the ossa pubis. Its are- olar tissue is loaded with adipose substance, and the surface covered with hairs. The Labia majora are two large longitudinal folds of integument, consisting of fat and loose areolar tissue. They enclose an elliptical fissure, the com- mon urino-sexual opening or vulva. The vulva receives the inferior opening of the urethra and va- gina, and is bounded anteriorly by the commissura superior, and posteriorly by the commissura inferior. Stretching across the posterior commissure is a small transverse fold, the frcenulum labiorum or fourchette, which is ruptured during parturition ; and immedi ately within this fold is a small cavity, the fossa Fig. 244.