NEPVE CELLS—NERVE GRANULES. 364 from those of Lie ganglia on the posterior roots of the cerebro-spinal nerves, and from the nerve-cells of the ganglia of the sympathetic system. 3. The Nerve-cells are spherical or oval, or polyhedral in shape, of a reddish grey colour, and between -3Jo an(l 125$ °f an inch in diameter. Each cell is composed of a capsular sheath, and contains in its interior a reddish-grey granular substance, and one or more nuclei and nucleoli, the nucleus being attached to the internal surface of the sheath. The sheath of the nerve-cell is constructed of three layers, the outermost con- sisting of fine granular corpuscles, the middle of nucleated cells of an oblong figure, and the internal of concentric lamellae of delicate cylindrical filaments. Dispersed through the substance of the cell are a greater or less number of pigment-granules, some being in the interior, and some in the sheath. Nerve-cells are found in the grey substance of the brain and spinal cord, in the ganglia of the cerebro-spinal nerves, and in the sympathetic ganglia and nerves. The nerve-cells of the grey substance of the brain are often very irregular in shape, and they are also remarkable for their oftness and for the thinness of their sheath. It is the pigment-granules, contained in the nefve-cells and nerve-granules, that give the peculiar tint of colour to the grey and dark substance of the cerebro-spinal axis. In the grey substance of the brain the nerve-cells may be seen in various stages of progressive development; thus, near the periphery, they are minute, spherical or oval, nucleated cells dispersed through a matrix of granular substance; more deeply, the granular substance is collected around the cells, and forms an exterior coat; while, at a greater depth, the cells have attained the size and the laminated sheaths of the fully formed nerve-cells. Nerve-cells offer many peculiarities in respect of number and arrangement in different parts of the nervous system. From the periphery of the nerve-cells one or more delicate thread-like processes, between anc^ Toioo °f an inch in diameter, are given off These are the origins of the grey nerve-fibres. 4. Nerve granules present the three forms of, minute homogeneous particles, aggregated particles, and nucleated corpuscles, varying in size between ^oo and Tbov °f an inch m diameter. They serve as the bond of connexion between the fibres and cells of the brain and spinal cord, particularly in the grey substance; and enter also into the composition of the various ganglia. Like nerve-cells, nerve-granules contain, and have intermingled with them, a variable number of pigment-granules. In the construction of a nerve the nerve-fibres are collected into small fasciculi, each fasciculus being invested by a distinct neurilemma. These fasciculi, again, are collected into bundles, forming larger fasciculi, which have also a separate neurilemma ; and a bundle of the larger fasciculi, enclosed in a sheath or neurilemma of white fibrous tissue, constitutes a nerve The neurilemma of the smaller fasciculi is smooth and semitrans- parent, and remarkable for its satiny polish,—an appearance which is due to the longitudinal arrangement of the undulating fasciculi of fibrous tissue of which it is composed. Another character which the smaller nervous fasciculi possess, is that of being crossed by oblique or transverse lines, which are produced, in all probability, by the wrinkling of the neurilemma. m the fasciculi of grey fibres the tendency to wrinkle exists in the lon- gitudinal direction, and the neurilemma is composed of an inner layer of circular filaments as well as an outer layer of the longitudinal filaments of fibrous tissue