MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 201 another between its tendon and that of the teres major. The muscle fre- quently receives a small fasciculus from the scapula as it crosses its inferior angle. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the integument and superficial fascia; the latter is very dense and fibrous in the lumbar region; and with the trapezius. By its deep surface from below upwards, with the erector spinae, serratus posticus inferior, intercostal muscles and ribs, rhomboideus major, inferior angle of the scapula and teres major. The latissimus dorsi, with the teres major, forms the posterior border of the axilla. V Second Layer. Dissection.—This layer is brought into view by dividing the two pre- ceding muscles near their insertion, and turning them to the opposite side. The Levator Anguli Scapula: arises by distinct slips, from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the four upper cervical vertebrae, and is inserted into the upper angle and posterior border of the scapula, as far as the triangular smooth surface at the root of its spine. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the trapezius, sterno-mastoid and integument. By its deep surface with the splenius colli, transversalis colli, cervicalis ascendens, scalenus posticus, and serratus posticus supe- rior. The tendons of origin are interposed between the attachments of the scalenus posticus in front, and the splenius colli behind. The Rhomboideus Minor (rhombus, a parallelogram with four equal sides) is a narrow slip of muscle, detached from the rhomboideus major by a slight cellular interspace. It arises from the spinous process of the two last cervical vertebrse and ligamentum nuchse, and is inserted into the edge of the triangular surface, on the posterior border of the scapula. The Rhomboideus Major arises from the spinous processes of the last cervical and four upper dorsal vertebrse and from the inter-spinous liga- ments ; it is inserted into the posterior border of the scapula as far as its inferior angle. The upper and middle portion of the insertion is effected by means of a tendinous band which is attached in a longitudinal direction to the posterior border of the scapula. Relations.—By their superficial surface the two rhomboid muscles are in relation with the trapezius, and the rhomboideus major with the latis- simus dorsi and integument. By their deep surface they cover in the ser- ratus posticus superior, part of the erector spinse, the intercostal muscles and ribs. Third Layer. Dissection.—The third layer consists of muscles which arise from the spinous processes of the vertebral column, and pass outwards. It is brought into view by dividing the levator anguli scapulae near its insertion, and reflecting the two rhomboid muscles upwards from their insertion into the scapula. The latter muscles should now be removed. The Serratus Posticus Superior is situated at the upper part of the thorax; it arises by the ligamentum nuchse, from the spinous processes of the three last cervical and those of the two upper dorsal vertebrse. The muscle passes obliquely downwards, and outwards, and is inserted by four