MUSCLES OF THE NECK. 185 The Attrahens Aurem (anterior aims), also triangular, arises from the edge of the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis, and is inserted into the anterior part of the helix, covering in the anterior and posterior tem- poral arteries. It is in relation by its external surface with the integument; and by the internal with the temporal aponeurosis and with the temporal artery and veins. The Retraiiens Aurem (posterior auris), arises by three or four mus- cular slips from the mastoid process. They are inserted into the posterior surface of the concha. It is in relation by its external surface with the integument, and by its internal surface with the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. Actions.—The muscles of the auricular region possess but little action in man; they are the analogues of important muscles in brutes. I heir use is sufficiently explained in their names. The muscles of the neck may be arranged into eight groups correspond ing with the natural divisions of the region ; they are the— 1. Superficial group. 2. Depressors of the os hyoides and larynx. 3. Elevators of the os hyoides and larynx. 4. Lingual group. 5. Pharyngeal group. 6. Soft palate group. 7. Prsevertebral group. 8. Proper muscles of the larynx. And each of these groups consist of the following musclesviz. MUSCLES OF THE NECK. 1. Superficial Group. Platysma-myoides, Sterno-cleido-mastoideus. Stylo-glossus, Palato-glossus. 5. Muscles of the Pharynx. Sterno-hyoideus, Sterno-thyroideus, Thyro-hyoideus, Omo-hyoideus. 2. Depressors of the os hyoides and larynx. Constrictor inferior, Constrictor medius, Constrictor superior, Stylo-pharyngeus, Palato-pharyngeus. 3. Elevators of the os hyoides Levator palati, Tensor palati, Azygos uvulse, Palato-glossus, 6. Muscles of the soft Palate. and larynx. Digastricus, Stylo-hyoideus, Mylo-hyoideus, (renio-hyoideus, Gemo-hyo-glossus. Palato-pharyngeus. 7. Prcevertebral Group. Rectus anticus major, Rectus anticus minor, Scalenus anticus, Scalenus posticus, Longus colli. 4. Muscles of the Tongue. Cenio-hyo-glossus, Hyo-glossus, Lingual is, 16*