114 OS INNOMIN.A TUM—ILIUM. row of phalanges; the second row, with the first and third; and the third, with the second row. Attachment of Muscles.—To the base of the first phalanx of the thumb four muscles, abductor pollicis, flexor brevis pollicis, adductor pollicis, and extensor primi internodii; and to the second phalanx, two, the flexor longus pollicis, and extensor secundi internodii. To theirs/ phalanx of the second, third, and fourth fingers, one dorsal and one palmar interos- seous, and to the first phalanx of the little finger, the abductor minimi digiti, flexor brevis minimi digiti, and one palmar interosseous. To the second phalanges, the flexor sublimis and extensor communis digitorum ; and to the last phalanges, the flexor profundus and extensor communis digitorum. PELVIS AND LOWER EXTREMITY. The bones of the pelvis are the two ossa innominata, the sacrum, and the coccyx ; and of the lower extremity, the femur, patella, tibia and fibula, tarsus, metatarsus, and phalanges. Os Innominatum.—The os inno- minatum (os coxae) is an irregular flat bone, consisting in the young subject of three parts, which meet at the acetabulum. Hence it is usually described in the adult as divisible into three portions, ilium, ischium, and pubes. The ilium is the supe- rior, broad, and expanded portion which forms the prominence of the hip, and articulates with the sacrum. The ischium is the inferior and strong O part of the bone on which we sit. The os pubis is that portion which forms the front of the pelvis, and gives support to the external organs of generation. The Ilium may be described as divisible into an internal and external surface, a crest, and an anterior and posterior border. The internal surface is bounded above by the crest, below by a promi- nent line, the linea ilio-pectinea, and before and behind by the anterior and posterior borders ; it is concave and smooth for the anterior two-thirds of its extent, and lodges the iliacus muscle. The posterior third is rough, for articulation with the sacrum, and is divided by a deep groove into two parts; an anterior or auricular portion, which is shaped like the pinna, *The os innominatum of the right side. 1. The ilium; its external surface. 2. The ischium. 3. The os pubis. 4. The crest of the ilium. 5. The superior curved line. 0. The inferior curved line. 7. The surface for the gluteus maximus. 8. The anterior superior spinous process. 9. The anterior inferior spinous process. 10. The posterior superior spinous process. 11. The posterior inferior spinous process. 12. The spine jf the ischium. 13. The great sacro-ischiatic notch. 14. The lesser sacro-ischiatie notch. 15. The tuberosity of the ischium, showing its three facets. 16. The ramus of 'lie ischium. 17. The body of the os pubis. 18. The ramus of the pubis. 19. The aocta’mlum. 20. The foramen thyroideum. Fig. 55*