556 THYMUS GLAND. and ossicula auditus are ossified at an early period, and the latter are completely formed before birth. The only parts remaining incomplete are the mastoid cells, and the meatus auditorius. The membrana tyrn- pani in the foetal head is very oblique, occupying almost the basilar surface of the skull; hence probably arises a deficient acuteness in the perception of sound. It is also extremely vascular. JVose.—The sense of smell is imperfect in the infant, as may be inferred from the small capacity of the nasal fossse, and the non-development of the ethmoid, sphenoid, frontal, and maxillary sinuses. THYROID GLAND. The Thyroid gland is of large size in the foetus, and is developed by two lateral halves, which approach and become connected at the middle line so as to constitute a single gland. It is doubtful whether it performs any special function in foetal life. THYMUS GLAND. The Thymus gland* consists “ of a thoracic and a cervical portion on each side. The former is situated in the anterior mediastinum, and the latter is placed in the neck just above the first bone of the sternum, and behind the sterno-hyoidei and sterno-thyroidei muscles.” It extends up- wards from the fourth rib as high as the thyroid gland, resting against the pericardium, and separated from the arch of the aorta and great vessels by the thoracic fascia in the chest, and lying on each side of the trachea in the neck. Although described usually as a single gland, it consists actually of two lateral, almost symmetrical glands, connected with each other by are- olar tissue only, and having no structural communication : they may there- fore be “ properly called, a right and left thymus gland.” Between the second and third months of embryonic existence, the thy- mus is so small as to be only “ just perceptible ;” and continues gradually increasing with the growth of the foetus until the seventh. At the eighth month it is large ; but, during the ninth, it undergoes a sudden change, assumes a greatly increased size, and at birth weighs 240 grains. After birth it continues to enlarge until the expiration of the first year, when it ceases to grow, and gradually diminishes, until at puberty it has almost disappeared. The thymus is a conglomerate gland, being composed of lobules dis- posed in a spiral form around a central cavity. The lobules are held together by a firm areolar tissue (“ reticulated”), and the entire gland is enclosed in a coarse areolo-fibrous capsule. The Lobules are very numerous, and vary in size from that of the head of a pin to a moderate-sized pea. Each lobule contains in its interior a small cavity, or u secretory cell,” and several of these cells open into a small CL pouch” which is situated at their base, and leads to the central cavity, the ** reservoir of the thymus.” The Reservoir is lined in its interior by a vascular mucous membrane, which is raised into ridges by a layer of iigamentous bands situated be- * In trie description of this gland I have adhered closely to the history of it given by Sir Astley Cooper, in his beautiful monograph “ On the Anatomy of the Ihymus Gland, ’ 1S32.