523 THE KIDNEYS. perform some office connected with embryonic life. The anatomy of these organs in the foetus will be found in the succeeding chapter. In structure they are composed of two substances, cortical and medul- lary. The cortical substance is of a yellowish colour, and consists of straight parallel columns placed perpendicularly side by side. The me- dullary substance is generally of a dark brown colour, double the quantity of the yellow substance, soft and spongy in texture, and contains within its centre the trunk of a large vein, the vena supra-renalis. It is the large size of this vein that gives to the fresh supra-renal capsule the appearance of a central cavity: the dark-coloured pulpy or fluid contents of the cap- sule, at a certain period after death, are produced by softening of the me- dullary substance. Dr. Nagel* has shown, by his injections and micro- scopic examinations, that the appearance of columns in the cortical substance is caused by the direction of a plexus of capillary vessels. Of the numer- ous minute arteries, supplying the supra-renal capsule, he says, the greater number enter the cortical substance at every point of its surface, and, after proceeding for scarcely half a line, divide into a plexus of straight capil- lary vessels. Some few of the small arteries traverse the cortical layer, and give off, in the medullary substance, several branches which proceed in different directions, and re-enter the cortical layer to divide into a ca- pillary plexus in a similar manner with the first described. From the capillary plexus, composing the cortical layer, the blood is received hy numerous small veins which form a venous plexus in the medullary sub- stance, and terminate at acute angles in the large central vein. According to the more recent researches of Oesterlen and Mr. Simon, the appearance of columns is due to groups of small corpuscles or cyto- blasts associated with elementary granules and fat-cells collected together in the form of parallel cylinders or cones, each group being enclosed in a tube of delicate membrane (limitary membrane). The medullary sub- stance and intercolumnar spaces contain cyto-blasts uniformly scattered and interspersed with granules and fat-cells. Oesterlen found also, occa- sionally, in the medullary substance elongated spaces, without lining membrane, containing a thick greyish-white fluid. Vessels and Nerves.—The supra-renal arteries are derived from the aorta, from the renal, and from the phrenic arteries; they are remarkable for the innumerable minute twigs into which they divide previously to entering the capsule. The supra-renal vein collecting the blood from the medullary venous plexus, and receiving several branches which pierce the cortical layer, opens directly into the vena cava on the right side, and into the renal vein on the left. The Lymphatics are large and very numerous; they terminate in the lumbar glands. The nerves are derived from the renal and from the phrenic plexus. THE KIDNEYS. Tb* kidneys, the secreting organs of the urine, are situated in the lum- bar regions, behind the peritoneum, and on each side of the vertebral ecnumn, which latter they approach by their upper extremities. Each kidney is between four and five inches in length, about two inches and a half in breadth, somewhat more than one inch in thickness, and weighs between three and five ounces. The kidneys are usually enclosed in a * Miiller’s Archiv. 1830.