COSTAL CARTILAGES. 102 rough elevation, the tubercle; and immediately at the base and under side of the tubercle a smooth surface for articulation with the extremity of the transverse process of the corresponding vertebra. The vertebral end of the rib is somewhat expanded, and is termed the head, and that portion between the head and the tubercle is the neck. On the extremity of the head is an oval smooth surface, divided by a transverse ridge into two facets, for articulation with two contiguous vertebra?. The posterior surface of the neck is rough, for the attachment of the middle costo-trans- verse ligament; and upon its upper border is a crest, which gives attach- ment to the anterior costo-transverse ligament. The sternal extremity is llattened, and presents an oval depression, into which the costal cartilage is received. The ribs that demand especial consideration are the first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth. The first is the shortest rib ; it is broad and flat, and placed horizon- tally at the upper part of the thorax, the surfaces looking upwards and downwards, in place of forwards and backwards as in the other ribs. At about the anterior third of the upper surface of the bone, and near its in- ternal border, is a tubercle which gives attachment to the scalenus anticus muscle, and immediately before and behind this tubercle, a shallow ob- lique groove, the former for the subclavian vein, and the latter for the subclavian artery. Near the posterior extremity of the bone is a thick and prominent tubercle, with a smooth articular surface for the transverse pro- cess of the first dorsal vertebra. There is no angle. Beyond the tuber- osity is a narrow constricted neck; and at the extremity, a head, present- ing a single articular surface. The second rib approaches in some of its characters to the first. The tenth rib has a single articular surface on its head. The eleventh and twelfth have each a single articular surface on the head, no neck or tubercle, and are pointed at the free extremity. The eleventh has a slight ridge, representing the angle, and a shallow groove on the lower border; the twelfth has neither. Costal Cartilages.—The costal cartilages serve to prolong the ribs forwards to the anterior part of the chest, and contribute mainly to the elasticity of the thorax. They are broad at their attachment to the ribs, and taper slightly towards the opposite extremity; they diminish gradually in breadth from the first to the last; in length they increase from the first to the seventh, and then decrease to the last. The cartilages of the first two ribs are horizontal in direction, the rest incline more and more up- wards. In advanced age the costal cartilages are more or less converted into bone, this change taking place earlier in the male than in the female. The first seven cartilages articulate with the sternum; the three next with the lower border of the cartilage immediately preceding, while the last two lie free between the abdominal muscles. All the cartilages of the false ribs terminate by pointed extremities. Development.—The ribs are developed by three centres ; one for the central part, one for the head, and one for the tubercle. The last two have no centre for the tubercle. Ossification commences in the body somewhat before its appearance in the vertebrae; the epiphysal centres for the head and tubercle appear between sixteen and twenty, and are conso- lidated with the rest of the bone at twenty-five.