AND SCIENTIFIC rUBLICATIONS. 7 CARPENTER (WILLIAM B.), M. D., F. R. S., Examiner in Physiology and Comparative Anatomy in the University of London. ELEMENTS (OR MANUAL) OF PHYSIOLOGY, INCLUDING PIIYSIO- LOGICAL ANATOMY. Second American, from a new and revised London edition. With one hundred and ninety illustrations. In one very handsome octavo volume. In publishing the first edition of this work, its title "was altered from that of the London volume, by the substitution of the word “Elements” for that of “ Manual,” and with the author’s sanction the title of “Elements” is still retained as being more expressive of the scope of the treatise. A comparison of the present edition with the former one will show a material improvement, the author having revised it thoroughly, with a view of rendering it completely on a level with the most advanced state of the science. By condensing the less important portions, these numerous additions have been introduced without materially increasing the bulk of the volume, and while numerous illustrations have been added, and the general execution of the work improved, it has been kept at its former very moderate price. To say that it is the best manual of Physiology now before,the public, would not do sufficient justice to the author.—Buffalo Medical Journal. In his former works it would seem that he had exhausted the subjectof Physiology. In the present, he gives the essence, as it were, of the whole.—N. Y. Journal of Medicine. Those who have occasion for an elementary trea- tise on Physiology, cannot do better than to possess themselves of the manual of Dr. Carpenter.—Medical Examiner. The best and most complete exposd of modern Physiology, in one volume, extant in the English language.—St. Louis Medical Journal. With such an aid in his hand, there is no excuse for the ignorance often displayed respecting the sub- jects of which it treats. From its unpretending di- mensions, it may not be so esteemed by those anxious to make a parade of their erudition; but whoever masters its contents will have reason to be proud of his physiological acquirements. The illustrations are well selected and finely executed.—Dublin Med. Press. BY THE SAME AUTHOR. A PRIZE ESSAY ON THE USE OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS IN HEALTH AND DISEASE. New edition, with a Preface by D. F. Condie, M. D., and explanations of scientific words. In one neat 12mo. yolume. (Notv Ready.) This new edition has been prepared with a view to an extended circulation of this important little work, which is universally recognized as the best exponent of the laws of physiology and pathology applied to the subject of intoxicating liquors, in a form suited both for the profession and the public. To secure a wider dissemination of its doctrines the publishers have done up copies in flexible cloth, suitable for mailing, which will be forwarded through the post-office, free, on receipt of fifty cents. Societies and others supplied in quantities for distribution at a liberal deduction. CHELIUS (J. M.), M. D., Professor of Surgery in the University of Heidelberg, &c. A SYSTEM OF SURGERY. Translated from the German, and accompanied with additional Notes and References, by John F. South. Complete in three very large octavo volumes, of nearly 2200 pages, strongly bound, with raised bands and double titles. We do not hesitate to pronounce it the best and most comprehensive system of modern surgery with which we are acquainted.—Medico-Chirurgical Re- view. The fullest and ablest digest extant of all that re- lates to the present advanced state of surgical pa- thology.—American Medical Journal. As complete as any system of Surgery can well be.—Southern Medical and Surgical Journal. The most learned and complete systematic treatise now extant.—Edinburgh Medical Journal. A complete encyclopaedia of surgical science—a very complete surgical library—by far the most complete and scientific system of surgery in the English language.—N. Y. Journal of Medicine. The most extensive and comprehensive account of the art and science of Surgery in our language.— Lancet. CHRISTISON (ROBERT), M. D., V. P. R. S. E., &c. A DISPENSATORY; or. Commentary on the Pharmacopoeias of Great Britain and the United States; comprising the Natural History, Description, Chemistry, Pharmacy, Ac- tions, Uses, and Doses of the Articles of the Materia Medica. Second edition, revised and im- proved, with a Supplement containing the most important New Remedies. With copious Addi- tions, and two hundred and thirteen large wood-engravings. By R. Eglesfeld Griffith, M. D. In one very large and handsome octavo volume, of over 1000 pages. It is not needful that we should compare it with the other pharmacopoeias extant, which enjoy and merit the confidence of the profession : it is enough to say that it appears to us as perfect as a Dispensa- tory, in the present state of pharmaceutical science, could be made. If it omits any details pertaining to this branch of knowledge which the student has a right to expect in such a work, we confess the omis- sion has escaped our scrutiny. We cordially recom- mend this work to such of our readers as are in need of a Dispensatory. They cannot make choice of a better.— Western Journ. of Medicine and Surgery. There is not in any language a more complete and perfect Treatise.—N. Y. Annalist. In conclusion, we need scarcely say that we strongly recommend this work to all classes of our readers. Asa Dispensatory and commentary on the Pharmacopoeias, it is unrivalled in the English or any other language.— The Dublin Quarterly Journal. We earnestly recommend Dr. Christison’s Dis- pensatory to all our readers, as an indispensable companion, not in the Study only, but in the Surgery also.—British and Foreign Medical Review.