231 ANTERIOR BRACHIAL REGION. scapula. The three heads unite to form a broad muscle, which is inserted bv an aponeurotic tendon into the olecranon process ot the ulna , a small bursa is situated between its tendon and the upper part ot the olecianon. The scapular head of the triceps passes between the teies minoi and major, and divides the triangular space between those two muscles into two smaller spaces, one ot which is triangular, the other quadiangulai. The triangular space is bounded by the teres minor, teres major, and scapular head of the triceps; it gives passage to the dorsalis scapulae ai- tery and veins. The quadrangular space is bounded on three sides b\ the three preceding muscles, and on the fourth by the humerus. Through this space pass the posterior circumflex artery and veins, and circumflex nerve. A few of the deep fibres of the triceps, attached above to the humerus and below to the capsule of the elbow joint, have been named sub-anco- neus ; they are analogous to the sub-crureus. Relations.—By its posterior surface with the deep and superficial fascia and integument. By its antenor surface with the superior profunda artery, musculo-spiral nerve, humerus, intermuscular aponeuroses which separate it from the brachialis anticus, and with the elbow joint. The scapular head is in relation posteriorly with the deltoid and teres minor; anteriorly with the subscapularis, teres major, and latissimus dorsi; and externally with the posterior circumflex vessels and nerve. Actions. — The triceps is an extensor of the fore- arm. Anterior Brachial Region. Superficial Layer. Pronator radii teres, Flexor carpi radialis, Palmaris longus, Flexor sublimis digitorum, Flexor carpi ulnaris. Dissection. — These muscles are brought into view by making an incision through the integument along the middle line of the fore-arm, crossing each extre- mity by a transverse incision, and turning aside the flaps. The superficial and deep fascia are then to be removed. The Pronator Radii Teres arises by two heads; one from the inner condyle of the humerus, fascia of the fore-arm, and intermuscular aponeurosis; the other from the coronoid process of the ulna; the me- dian nerve passing between them. Its tendon is flat and inserted into the middle third of the oblique ridge of the radius. The two heads of this muscle are best examined by cutting through that which arises from the inner condyle, and turning it aside. The second head will then be seen with the median nerve lying across it. Superficial layer of the muscles of the fore-arm. 1. The lower part of the biceps, with its tendon. 2. A part of the brachialis anticus, seen beneath the biceps. 3. A part of the triceps 4. The pronator radii teres. 0. The flexor carpi radialis. G. The pal