TEETH—CLASSIFICATION. <J2 mg of the frontal sinuses, of the anterior ethmoid cells, and of the antrum, ihe largest of the three passages is the inferior meatus, which is the space between the inferior turbinated bone and the floor of the fossa ; in it there are two foramina, the termination of the nasal duct, and one opening of the anterior palatine canal. The nasal fossae commence upon the face by a large irregular opening, the anterior nares, and terminate posteriorly in the two posterior nares. TEETH. Man is provided with two successions of teeth; the first are the teeth of childhood, they are called temporary, deciduous, or milk teeth; the second continue until old age, and are named permanent. Fig. 43 * a b e d e f g h abode / g h The permanent teeth are thirty-two in number, sixteen in each jawT; they are divisible into four classes,—incisors, of which there are four in each jaw, two central and two lateral; canine, two above and two below; bicuspid, four above and four below; and molars, six above and six belowT. The temporary teeth are twenty in number (fig. 44); eight incisors, four canine, and eight molars. The temporary molars have four tubercles, and are succeeded by the permanent bicuspides, which have only two tubercles. Each tooth is divisible into a crown, which is the part apparent above the gum; a constricted portion around the base of the crown, the neck, and a root or fang, which is contained within the alveolus. The root is invested by periosteum, which lines the alveolus, and is then reflected upon the root of the tooth as far as its neck. The incisor teeth (cutting teeth) are named from presenting a sharp and cutting edge, formed at the expense of the posterior surface. The crown is flattened from before backwards, being somewhat convex in front and concave behind ; the neck is considerably constricted, and the root com- pressed from side to side ; at its apex is a small opening for the passage of the nerve and artery of the tooth. * Permanent teeth, a. Central incisor, b. Lateral incisor, c. Cuspid or canine d. First bicuspid, e. Second bicuspid, f. First molar, g. Second molar, h third molar or dens sapidities.