461 INTERNAL EAR—LABYRINTH. first turn of the cochlea. It is channelled upon its surface by three small grooves, which lodge the three tympanic branches ol Jacobson s nerve. The Foramina and processes of the tympanum may be arranged, accord- .ng to their situation, into four groups. • 1. In the External wall is the meatus auditorius, closed by the mem- brana tympani. 2. In the Inner wall, from above downwards, are the— Opening for the tensor tympani, Ridge of the aquoeductus Fallopii, Fenestra ovalis, Promontory, Grooves for Jacobson’s nerve, Fenestra rotunda. 3. In the Posterior wall are the— Opening of the mastoid cells, Pyramid, Opening for the stapedius, Opening for Jacobson’s nerve, Apertura chordae (entrance). 4 In the Anterior wall are the— Eustachian tube, Fissura Glaseri, Opening for the laxator tympani, Apertura chordae (exit). The tympanum is lined by a vascular mucous membrane, which invests the ossicula and chorda tympani, and forms the internal layer of the mem- brana tympani. From the tympanum it is reflected into the mastoid cells, which it lines throughout, and it passes through the Eustachian tube to become continuous with the mucous membrane of the pharynx. Vessels and JVerves. — The Arteries of the tympanum are derived from the internal maxillary, internal carotid, and posterior auricular. Its Nerves are,—1. Minute branches from the facial, which are distri- buted to the stapedius muscle. 2. The chorda tympani, which leaves the facial nerve near the stylo-mastoid foramen, and arches upwards to enter the tympanum at the root of the pyramid ; it then passes forwards between the handle of the malleus and long process of the incus, to its proper opening in the fissura Glaseri. 3. The tympanic branches of Jacobsoii’s nerve, which are distributed to the membranes of the fenestra ovalis and fenestra rotunda, and to the Eustachian tube, and form a plexus by com- municating with the carotid plexus, otic ganglion, and Vidian nerve. 4. A filament from the otic ganglion to the tensor tympani muscle. INTERNAL EAR. The Internal ear is called labyrinth, from the complexity of its commu- nications ; it consists of a membranous and an osseous portion. The 3A*