26 BLANCHARD & LEA’S MEDICAL RIGBY (EDWARD), M. D., Physician to the General Lying-in Hospital, &c. A SI STEM OF MIDWIFERY. With Notes and Additional Illustrations. Second American Edition. One volume octavo, 422 pages. ROYLE (J. FORBES), M. D. MATERIA MEDICA AND THERAPEUTICS; including the Preparations of the Pharmacopoeias of London, Edinburgh, Dublin, and of the United States. With many new medicines. Edited by Joseph Carson, M. D., Professor of Materia Medica and Pharmacy in the University of Pennsylvania. With ninety-eight illustrations. In one large octavo volume, of about seven hundred pages. This work is, indeed, a most valuable one, and will fill up an important vacancy that existed be- tween Dr. Pereira’s most learned and complete system of Materia Medica, and the class of pro- ductions on the other extreme, which are neces- sarily imperfect from their small extent.—British and Foreign Medical Review. SKEY (FREDERICK C.), F. R. $., &c. OPERATIVE SURGERY. In one very handsome octavo volume of over G50 pages, with about one hundred wood-cuts. Its literary execution is superior to most surgical treatises. It abounds in excellent moral hints, and is replete with original surgical expedients and sug- gestions.—Buffalo Med. and Surg. Journal. With high talents, extensive practice, and a long experience, Mr. Sltey is perhaps competent to the task of writing a complete work on operative sur- gery.—Charleston Med. Journal. We cannot withhold from this work our high com- mendation. Students and practitioners will find it an invaluable teacher and guide upon every topic con- nected with this department.—N. Y. Medical Ga- zette. A work of the very highest importance—a work by itself.—London Med. Gazette. SHARPEY (WILLIAM), M. D., JONES QUAIN, M. D., AND RICHARD QUAIN, F. R. S., &c. HUMAN ANATOMY. Revised, with Notes and Additions, Joseph Leidy, M. D. Complete in two large octavo volumes, of about thirteen hundred pages. Beautifully illustrated with over five hundred ensravinars on wood. It is indeed a work calculated to make an era in anatomical study, by placing before the student every department of his science, with a view to the relative importance of each ; and so skilfully have the different parts been interwoven, that no one who makes this work the basis of his studies, will hereafter have any excuse for neglecting or undervaluing any important particulars connected with the structure of the human frame; and whether the bias of his mind lead him in a more especial manner to surgery, physic, or physiology, he will find here a work at once so comprehensive and practical as to defend him from exclusiveness on the one hand, and pedantry on the other.— Monthly Journal and Retrospect of the Medical Sciences. We have no hesitation in recommending this trea- tise on anatomy as the most complete on that sub- ject in the English language; and the only one, perhaps, in any language, which brings the state of knowledge forward to the most recent disco- veries.—The Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journal. Admirably caleulated to fulfil the object for whieh it is intended.—Provincial Medical Journal. The most complete Treatise on Anatomy in the English language.—Edinburgh Medical Journal. There is no work in the English language to be preferred to Dr. Quain’s Elements of Anatomy.— London Journal of Medicine. SMITH (HENRY H.), M. D., AND HORNER (WILLIAM E.), M. D. AN ANATOMICAL ATLAS, illustrative of the Structure of the Human Body. In one volume, large imperial octavo, with about six hundred and fifty beautiful figures. late the student upon the completion of this Atlas, as it is the most convenient work of the kind that has yet appeared ; and we must add, the very beau- tiful manner in whieh it is “ got up” is so creditable to the country as to be flattering to our national pride.—American Medical Journal. These figures are well selected, and present a complete and accurate representation of that won- derful fabric, the human body. The plan of this Atlas, which renders it so peculiarly convenient for the student, and its superb artistical execution, have been already pointed out. We must congratu- SARGENT (F. W.), M. D. ON BANDAGING AND OTHER POINTS OF MINOR SURGERY. In one handsome royal 12mo. volume of nearly 400 pages, with 128 wood-cuts. The very best manual of Minor Surgery we have seen ; an American volume, with nearly four hundred pages of good practical lessons, illustrated by about one hundred and thirty wood-cuts. In these days of u trial,” when a doctor’s reputation hangs upon a clove hitch, or the roll of a bandage, it would he well, perhaps, to carry such a volume as Mr. Sar- gent’s always in our coat-pocket, or, at all events, to listen attentively to his instructions at home.— Buffalo Med. Journal. We have carefully examined this work, and find it well executed and admirably adapted to the use of the student. Besides the subjects usually embraced in works on Minor Surgery, there is a short chapter on bathing, another on anaesthetic agents, and an appendix of formulae. The author has given an ex- cellent work on this subject, and his publishers have illustrated and printed it in most beautiful style.— The Charleston Medical Journal. STANLEY (EDWARD). A TREATISE ON DISEASES OF THE RONES. In one volume, octavo, extra cloth, 286 pages.