o2G • PANCREAS—SPLEEN. THE PANCREAS. The pancreas is a long, flattened, conglomerate gland, analogous to the salivary glands. It is about six inches in length, and between three md four ounces in weight; is situated transversely across the posterior wall of the abdomen, behind the stomach, and resting on the aorta, vena portae, inferior vena cava, the origin of the superior mesenteric artery, and the left kidney and supra-renal capsule ; opposite the first and second lumbar vertebrae. It is divided into a body, a greater and a smaller extremity: the great end or head is placed towards the right, and is surrounded by the curve of the duodenum; the lesser end extends to the left as far as the spleen. The anterior surface of the body of the pancreas is covered by the ascending posterior layer of peritoneum, and is in relation with the stomach, the first portion of the duodenum, and the commencement of the transverse arch of the colon. The posterior surface is grooved for the splenic vein, and tunnelled by a complete canal for the superior mesenteric and portal vein, and superior mesenteric artery. The upper border pre- sents a deep groove, sometimes a canal, for the splenic artery and vein, and is in relation with the oblique portion of the duodenum, the lobus Spigelii, and cceliac axis. And the lower border is separated from the transverse portion of the duodenum by the superior mesenteric artery and vein. Upon the posterior part of the head of the pancreas is a lobular fold of the gland which completes the canal of the superior mesenteric vessels, and is called the lesser pancreas. In structure, the pancreas is composed of reddish-yellow polyhedral lobules ; these consist of smaller lobules, and the latter are made up of the arborescent ramifications of minute ducts, terminating in csecal pouches. The pancreatic duct commences at the papilla on the inner and posterior surface of the perpendicular portion of the duodenum by a small dilatation which is common to it and the ductus communis choledochus, and, pass- ing obliquely between the mucous and muscular coats, runs from right to left through the middle of the gland, lying nearer its anterior than its pos- terior surface. At about the commencement of the apicial third of its course it divides into twTo parallel terminal branches. The duct gives off numerous small branches, which are distributed through the lobules, and constitute, with the latter, the substance of the gland. The duct which receives the secretion from the lesser pancreas is called the ductus pancre- aticus minor; it opens in the principal duct neai the duodenum, and some- times passes separately into that intestine. As a variety, two pancreatic ducts are occasionally met with. Vessels and JVerves.—lire arteries of the pancreas are branches of the splenic, hepatic, and superior mesenteric; the veins open into the splenic vein ; the lymphatics terminate in the lumbar glands. The newes are fila- ments of the splenic plexus. THE SPLEEN. Ine spleen is an oblong flattened organ, of a dark bluish-red colour, situated in the left hypochondriac region. It is variable in size and weight, spongy and vascular in texture, and exceedingly friable. The external surface is convex, the internal slightly concave, indented along the middle line, and pierced by several large and irregular openings for the entrance