488 MUSCLES OF TIIE LARYNX. arytenoid ligaments, or chordae vocales, are thicker than the superior, and like them composed of elastic tissue. Each ligament is attached in front to the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage, and behind to the anterior angle of the base of the arytenoid. The interior border of the chorda vo- calis is continuous with the lateral expansion of the crico-thyroid ligament. The superior border forms the lower boundary of the ventricle of the la- rynx. The space between the two chordae vocales is the glottis or riina glottidis. 4. The ligaments of the epiglottis are five in number, namely, three glosso-epiglottic, hyo-epiglottic, and thyro-epiglottic. The glosso-epiglottic ligaments (from a epiglottidis) are three folds of mucous membrane, which connect the anterior surface of the epiglottis with the root of the tongue. The middle of these contains elastic tis- sue. The hyo-epiglottic ligament is a band of elastic tissue passing between the anterior aspect of the epi- glottis near its apex, and the upper margin of the body of the os hyoides. The thyro-epiglottic ligament is a long and slender fasciculus of elastic tissue, which embraces the apex of the epiglottis, and is inserted into the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage imme- diately below the anterior fissure and above the attach- ment of the chordae vocales. Muscles.—The muscles of the larynx are eight in number: the five larger are the muscles of the chordae vocales and rima glottidis; the three smaller are muscles of the epiglottis. The five muscles of the chordae vocales and rima glottidis are the— Crico-thyroid, Crico-arytenoideus posticus, Crico-arytenoideus lateralis, Thyro-arytenoideus, Arytenoideus. The Crico-thyroid muscle arises from the anterior surface of the cricoid cartilage, and passes obliquely outwards and backwards to be inserted into the lower and inner border of the ala of the thyroid as far back as its inferior cornu. The Crico-arytenoideus posticus arises from the depression on the pos- terior surface of the cricoid cartilage, and passes upwards and outwards to be inserted into the outer angle of the base of the arytenoid. The Crico-arytenoideus lateralis arises from the upper border of the side of the cricoid, and passes upwards and backwards to be inserted into the outer angle of the base of the arytenoid cartilage. The Thyro-arytenoideus arises from the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage, close to the outer side of the chorda vocalis, and passes back- wards parallel with the cord, to be inserted into the base and outer surface of the arytenoid cartilage. * A posterior view of the larynx. 1. The thyroid cartilage, its right ala. 2. One of us ascending cornua. 3. One of the descending cornua. 4, 7. The cricoid cartilage. 5. 5. The arytenoid cartilages. 0. The arytenoideus muscle, consisting ot oblique and ♦ransverse fasciculi. 7. The crico-arytenoidei postici muscles. 8. The epiglottis Fig. 215 *