335 STRUCTURE OF VEINS. olood, which they transmit from the capillaries of the lungs to the left auricle. The veins commence by minute radicles in the capillaries which are everywhere distributed through the textures of the body, and converge to constitute larger and larger branches, till they terminate in the main trunks which convey the venous blood directly to the heart. In diameter they are larger than the arteries, and, like those vessels, their combined arem would constitute an imaginary cone, whereof the apex is placed at the heart, and the base at the surface of the body. It follows from this ar- rangement, that the blood in returning to the heart is passing from a larger into a smaller channel, and therefore that it increases in rapidity during its course. Veins admit of a threefold division into, superficial, deep, and sinuses. The Superficial veins return the blood from the integument and super- ficial structures, and take their course between the layers of the superficial fascia; they then pierce the deep fascia in the most convenient and pro- tected situations, and terminate in the deep veins. They are unaccompa- nied by arteries, and are the vessels usually selected for venesection. The Deep veins are situated among the deeper structures of the body, and generally in relation with the arteries ; in the limbs they are enclosed in the same sheath with those vessels, and they return the venous blood from the capillaries of the deep tissues. In company with all the smaller, and also with the secondary arteries, as the brachial, radial, and ulnar in the upper, and the tibial and peroneal in the lower extremity, there are two veins, placed one on each side of the artery, and named vence comites. The larger arteries, as the axillary, subclavian, carotid, popliteal, femoral, &c., are accompanied by a single venous trunk. Sinuses differ from veins in their structure; and also in their mode of distribution, being confined to especial organs and situated within their substance. The principal venous sinuses are those of the dura mater, the diploe, the cancellous structure of bones, and the uterus. The communications between veins are even more frequent than those of arteries, and they take place between the larger as well as among the smaller vessels; the venae comites communicate with each other very fre- quently in their course, by means of short transverse branches which pass across from one to the other. These communications are strikingly ex- hibited in the frequent inosculations of the spinal veins, and in the various venous plexuses, as the spermatic plexus, vesical plexus, &,c. The office of these inosculations is very apparent, as tending to obviate the obstruc- tions to which the veins are particularly liable from the thinness of their coats, and from their inability to overcome much impediment by the force of their current. Veins, like arteries, are composed of three coats, external or areolo- fibrous, middle or fibrous, and internal or serous. The external coat is firm and strong, and resembles that of arteries. The middle coat consists of two layers, an outer layer of contractile fibrous tissue disposed in a cir- cular direction around the vessel, and an inner layer of organic muscular fibres arranged longitudinally. This latter resembles the inner layer of the middle coat of arteries, but is somewhat thicker ; it is not unfrequently hypertrophied. The internal coat, as in arteries, consists of a striated or fenestrated layer, and a layer of epithelium; it is continuous wuh the in- ternal coat of arteries through the medium of the lining membrane of