MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 204 with the spinal column in the lumbar region, and the vertebral aponeu- rosis with the ribs and spinal column in the dorsal region, form a com- plete osseo-aponeurotic sheath for the erector spina?. The Cervicalis Ascendens is the continuation of the sacro-lumbalis upwards into the neck. It arises from the angles of the four upper ribs, and is inserted by slender tendons into the posterior tubercles of the trans- verse processes of the four lower cervical vertebrae. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the levator anguli scapulae; by its deep surface with the upper intercostal muscles and ribs, and with the intertransverse mu cles; externally with the scalenus posticus; and internally with the transversalis colli. The tendons of insertion are inter- posed between the attachments of the scalenus posticus and transversalis colli. The Transversalis Colli would appear to be the continuation up- wards into the neck of the longissimus dorsi; it arises from the transverse processes of the five upper dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into the pos- terior tubercles of the transverse processes of the five middle cervical vertebrae. Relations. — By its superficial surface with the levator anguli scapulae, splenius and longissimus dorsi. By its deep surface with the complexus, trachelo-mastoideus and vertebrae ; externally with the musculus accesso- rius ad sacro-lumbalem, and cervicalis ascendens; internally with the trachelo-mastoideus and complexus. The tendons of insertion of this muscle are interposed between the tendons of insertion of the cervicalis ascendens on the outer side, and of origin of the trachelo-mastoid on the inner side. The Trachelo-mastoid is likewise a continuation upwards from the longissimus dorsi. It is a very slender and delicate muscle, arising from the transverse processes of the four upper dorsal and four lower cervical vertebrae, and inserted into the mastoid process to the inner side of the digastric fossa. Relations.—The same as those of the preceding muscle, excepting that it is interposed between the transversalis colli and the complexus. Its tendons of attachment are the most posterior of those which are connected with the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the cervical ver- tebra. The Complexus is a large muscle, and with the splenius forms the • great bulk of the back of the neck. It crosses the direction of the splenius, arising from the transverse processes of the four upper dorsal, and from the transverse and articular processes of the four lower cervical vertebrae, and is inserted into the rough surface on the occipital bone between the two curved lines, near the occipital spine. A large fasciculus of the com- plexus is so distinct from the principal mass of the muscle as to have led to its description as a separate muscle under the name of biventer cervicis. This appellation is not inappropriate, for the muscle consists of a central tendon, with two fleshy bellies. The complexus is crossed in the upper part of the neck by a tendinous intersection. Relations. — By its superficial surface with the trapezius, splenius, tra- chelo-mastoid, transversalis colli, and longissimus dorsi. By its deep sur- face with the semi-spinalis dorsi and colli, the recti and obliqui. It is separated from its fellow of the opposite side by the ligamentum nucha?, and from the semi-spinalis colli by the profunda cervicis artery and prin-