338 SINUSES OF THE DURA MATER. veins into the osseous canals in which they are lodged. At the middle period of life these sinuses are confined to the particular bones ; but in old age, after the ossification of the sutures, they may be traced from one bone to the next. They receive their blood from the capillaries supplying the cellular structure of the diploe, and terminate externally in the veins of the pericranium, and internally in the veins and sinuses of the dura mater. These veins are separated from the bony walls of the canals by a thin layer of medulla. CEREBRAL AND CEREBELLAR VEINS. The cerebral veins are remarkable for the absence of valves, and for the extreme tenuity of their coats. They may be arranged into the superficial, and deep or ventricular veins. The Superficial cerebral veins are situated on the surface of the hemi- spheres, lying in the grooves formed by the convexities of the convolutions. They are named from the position which they may chance to occupy upon the surface of this organ, either superior or inferior, internal or external, anterior or posterior. The Superior cerebral veins, seven or eight in number on each side, pass obliquely forwards, and terminate in the superior longitudinal sinus, in the opposite direction to the course of the stream of blood in the sinus. The Beep or Ventricular veins commence within the lateral ventricles by the veins of the corpora striata and those of the choroid plexus, which unite to form the two venae Galeni. The Vence Galeni pass backwards in the structure of the velum interpo- situm; and escaping through the fissure of Bichat, terminate in the straight sinus. The Cerebellar veins are disposed, like those of the cerebrum, on the surface of the lobes of the cerebellum ; they are situated some upon the superior, and some upon the inferior surface, while others occupy the borders of the organ. They terminate in the lateral and petrosal sinuses. SINUSES OF THE DURA MATER. The sinuses of the dura mater are irregular channels, formed by the splitting of the layers of that membrane, and lined upon their inner surface by a continuation of the internal coat of the veins. They may be divided into two groups:—1. Those situated at the upper and back part of the skull. 2. The sinuses at the base of the skull. The former are, the Superior longitudinal sinus, Inferior longitudinal sinus, Straight sinus, Occipital sinuses, Lateral sinuses. The Supenor longitudinal sinus is situated in the attached margin of the falx cerebri, and extends along the middle line of the arch of the skull, from the foramen caecum in the frontal, to the inner tuberosity of the occi- pital bone, where it divides into the two lateral sinuses. It is triangular in form, is small in front, and increases gradually in size as it passes backwards; it receives the superior cerebral veins, which open into it obliquely, numerous small veins from the diploe, and near the posterior