Fig. 204. 458 TYMPANUM. MIDDLE EAR OR TYMPANUM. The tympanum is an irregular bony cavity, compressed from without inwards, and situated within the petrous bone. It is bounded, externally, by the meatus and membrana tympani; internally, by the base of the pe- trous bone ; behind, by the mastoid cells ; and, throughout the rest of its circumference, by the thin osseous layer which connects the petrous with the squamous portion of the temporal bone. The Membrana tympani is a thin and semi-transparent membrane of an oval shape, its long diameter be- ing vertical. It is inserted into a groove situated around the circum- ference of the meatus, near its termi- nation, and is placed obliquely across the area of that tube, the direction of the obliquity being downwards and inwards. It is concave towards the meatus, and convex towards the tympanum, and is composed of three layers, an external, epidermal; mid- dle, fibrous and muscular; and, in- ternal, mucous, derived from the mucous lining of the tympanum. The tympanum contains three small bones, ossicula auditus, viz., the malleus, incus, and stapes. The Malleus (hammer) consists of a head, neck, handle (manubrium), and two processes, long (processus gracilis), and short (processus brevis). The manubrium is connected with the membrana tympani by its whole length, extending below the central point of that membrane. It lies be- neath the mucous layer of the membrane, and serves as a point of attach- ment to which the radiating fibres of the fibrous layer converge. The long process descends to a groove near the fissura Glaseri, and gives attachment to the laxator tympani muscle. Into the short process is inserted the ten- don of the tensor tympani, and the head of the bone articulates with the incus. The Incus (anvil) is named from an imagined resemblance to an anvil. It has also been likened to a bicuspid tooth, having one root longer than, • A diagram of the ear. p. The pinna, t. The tympanum. 1. The labyrinth. 1. The upper part of the helix. 2. The antihelix. 3. The tragus. 4. The antitragus. 5. The lobulus. 6. The concha. 7. The upper part of the fossa innominata. 8. The meatus. 9. The membrana tympani, divided by the section. 10. The three little bones, crossing the area of the tympanum, malleus, incus, and stapes; the foot of the stapes blocks up the fenestra ovalis upon the inner wall of the tympanum. 11. The promon- tory. 12. The fenestra rotunda; the dark opening above the ossicula leads into the mastoid cells. 13. The Eustachian tube; the little canal upon this tube contains the tensor tympani muscle in its passage to the tympanum. 14. The vestibule. 15. The three semi-circular canals, horizontal, perpendicular, and oblique. 16. The ampullae upon the perpendicular and horizontal canals. 17. The cochlea. 1 8. A depression be- tween the convexities of the two tubuli which communicate with the tympanum *nd vestibule: the one is the scala tympani, terminating at 12; the other is the scfla vestibuli.