20 BLANCHARD & LEA’S MEDICAL MEIGS (CHARLES D.), M.D., Professor of Obstetrics, &c. in the Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia. ON THE NATURE, SIGNS, AND TREATMENT OF CHILDBED FEVER. In a Series of Letters addressed to the Students of his Class. In one handsome octavo volume, of three hundred and sixty-five pages. (Now Ready.) The instructive and interesting author of this work, whose previous labors in the department < f medicine which he so sedulously cultivates, have placed his countrymen under deep and abiding obli- gations, again challenges their admiration in the fresh and vigorous, attractive and racy pages before us. It is a delectable book. * # * This treatise upon child-bed fevers will have an extensive sale, being destined, as it deserves, to find a place in the library of every practitioner who scorns to lag in the rear of his brethren.—Nashville Journal of Medi- cine and Surgery. This book will add more to his fame than either of those which bear his name. Indeed we doubt whether any material improvement will be made on the teachings of this volume for a century to come, since it is so eminently practical, and based on pro- found knowledge of the science and consummate skill in the art of healing, and ratified by an ample arid extensive experience, such as few men have the industry or good fortune to acquire.—N. Y. Med. Gazette. BY THE SAME AUTHOR. WOMAN: HER DISEASES AND THEIR REMEDIES. A Series of Lec- tures to his Class. Third and Improved edition. In one large and beautifully printed octavo volume. (Just Issued. Revised and enlarged to 1854.) The gratifying appreciation of his labors, as evinced by the exhaustion of two large impressions of this work within a few years, has not been lost upon the author, who has endeavored in every way to render it worthy of the favor with which it has been received. The opportunity thus afforded for a second revision has been improved, and the work is now presented as in every way superior to its predecessors, additions and alterations having been made whenever the advance of science has rendered them desirable. The typographical execution of the work will also be found to have undergone a similar improvement and the work is now confidently presented as in every way worthy the position it has acquired as the standard American text-book on the Diseases of t emales. It contains a vast amount of practical knowledge, by one who has accurately observed and retained the experience of many years, and who tells the re- sult in a free, familiar, and pleasant manner.—Dub- lin Quarterly Journal. There is an off-hand fervor, a glow, and a warm- heartedness infecting the effort of Dr. Meigs, which is entirely captivating, and which absolutely hur- ries the reader through from beginning to end. Be- sides, the book teems with solid instruction, and it shows the very highest evidence of ability, viz., the clearness with which the information is pre- sented. We know of no better test of one’s under- standing a subject than the evidence of the power of lucidly explaining it. The most elementary, as well as the obscurest subjects, under the pencil of Prof. Meigs, are isolated and made to stand out in such bold relief, as to produce distinct impressions upon the mind and memory of the reader. — The Charleston Med. Journal. Professor Meigs has enlarged and amended this great work, for such it unquestionably is, having passed the ordeal of criticism at home and abroad, but been improved thereby ; for in this new edition the author has introduced real improvements, and increased the value and utility of the book im- measurably. It presents so many novel, bright, and sparkling thoughts; such an exuberance of new ideas on almost every page, that we confess our- selves to have become enamored with the book and its author ; and cannot withhold our congratu- lations from our Philadelphia confreres, that such a teacher is in their service.—N. Y. Med. Gazette. BY THE SAME AUTHOR. OBSTETRICS: THE SCIENCE AND THE ART. Second edition, revised and improved. With one hundred and thirty-one illustrations. In one beautifully printed octavo volume, of seven hundred and fifty-two large pages. (lately Published.) The rapid demand for a second edition of this work is a sufficient evidence that it has supplied a desideratum of the profession, notwithstanding the numerous treatises on the same subject which have appeared within the last lew years. Adopting a system of his own, the author has combined the leading principles of his interesting and difficult subject, with a thorough exposition of its rules of practice, presenting the results of long and extensive experience and of familiar acquaintance with all the modern writers on this department of medicine. As an American Treatise on Mid- wifery, which has at once assumed the position of a classic, it possesses peculiar claims to the at- tention and study of the practitioner and student, while the numerous alterations and revisions which it has undergone in the present edition are shown by the great enlargement of the work, which is not only increased as to the size of the page, but also in the number. BY THE SAME AUTHOR. (Now Ready.) A TREATISE OX ACUTE AND CHRONIC DISEASES OF THE NECK OF THE UTERUS. With numerous plates, drawn and colored from nature in the highest style of art. In one handsome octavo volume, extra cloth. The object of the author in this work has been to present in a small compass the practical results of his long experience in this important and distressing class of diseases. The great changes intro- duced into practice, and the accessions to our knowledge on the subject, within the last few years, resulting from the use of the metroscope, brings within the ordinary practice of every physician numerous cases which were formerly regarded as incurable, and renders of great value a work like the present combining practical directions for diagnosis and treatment with an ample scries ol illus- trations, copied accurately from colored drawings made by the author, after nature. BY THE SAME AUTHOR. OBSERVATIONS ON CERTAIN OF THE DISEASES OF YOUNG CHILDREN. In one handsome octavo volume, of 214 pages.