LATERAL SINUSES. 330 Fig. 162 • extremity of the sagittal suture the parietal veins, from the peri- cranium and. scalp. Examined in its interior, it presents numer- ous transverse fibrous bands (tra- beculae), the chordae Willisii, which are stretched across its inferior angle; and some small ,, white granular masses, the glan- dulce Pacchioni; the oblique openings of the cerebral veins, with their valve-like margin, are also seen on the walls of the sinus. The termination of the supe- rior longitudinal sinus in the two lateral sinuses forms a considera- ble dilatation, into which the straight sinus opens from the front, and the occipital sinuses from below. This dilatation is named the torcular Herophili,f and is the point of communication of six sinuses, the superior longitudinal, two lateral, two occipital, and the straight. The Inferior longitudinal sinus is situated in the free margin of the falx cerebri; it is cylindrical in form, and extends from near the crista galli to the anterior border of the tentorium, where it terminates in the straight sinus. It receives in its course several veins from the falx. The Straight or fourth sinus is the sinus of the tentorium ; it is situated at the line of union of the falx with the tentorium; is prismoid in form, and extends across the tentorium, from the termination of the inferior lon- gitudinal sinus to the torcular Herophili. It receives the venae Galeni, the cerebral veins from the inferior part of the posterior lobes, and the superior cerebellar veins. The Occipital sinuses are two canals of small size, situated in the at- tached border of the falx cerebelli; they commence by several small veins around the foramen magnum, and terminate by separate openings in the torcular Herophili. They not unfrequently communicate with the termi- nation of the lateral sinuses. The Lateral sinuses, commencing at the torcular Herophili, pass hori zontally outwards, in the attached margin of the tentorium, and then curve downwards and inwTards along the base of the petrous portion of the tern poral bone, at each side, to the foramina lacera posteriora, where they ter ruinate in the internal jugular veins. Each sinus rests in its course on the transverse groove of the occipital bone, posterior inferior angle of the parietal, mastoid portion of the temporal, and again on the occipital bone. They receive the cerebral veins from the inferior surface of the posterior * The sinuses of the upper and back part of the skull. 1. The superior longitudinal sinus. 2, 2. The cerebral veins opening into the sinus from behind forwards. 3. The falx cerebri. 4 The inferior longitudinal sinus. 5. The straight or fourth sinus. 6. 1 he venae Galeni. 7. 1 lie torcular Herophili. 8. The two lateral sinuses, with the occipital sinuses between them. 9. The termination of the inferior petrosal sinus •of me side. 10. The dilatations corresponding with the jugular fossae. 11. The internal yugular veins. t T°rcular (a press), from a supposition entertained by the older anatomists that the columns of blood, coming in diflerent directions, compressed each other at this point