336 VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. heart on the one hand, and through the capillary vessels on the other. The differences in structure, therefore, between arteries and veins, relate to the difference of thickness of their component layers, and to the absence of the elastic coat in the latter. Moreover, another difference occurs in the presence of valves. The valves of veins are composed of a thin layer of fibrous membrane, lined upon its two surfaces by epithelium. The segments or flaps of the valves of veins are semilunar in form and arranged in pairs, one upon either side of the vessel; in some instances there is but a single flap, which has a spiral direction, and occasionally there are three. The free border of the valvular flaps is concave, and directed forwards, so that while the current of blood is permitted to flow freely towards the heart, the valves are distended and the current intercepted if the stream become retrograde in its course. Upon the cardiac side of each valve the vein is expanded into two pouches (sinuses), corresponding with the flaps of the valves, which give to the distended or injected vein a knotted ap- pearance. The valves are most numerous in the veins of the extremities, particularly in the deeper veins, and they are generally absent in the very small veins, and in the veins of the viscera, as in the portal and cerebral veins: they are also absent in the large trunks, as in the venae cavae, venas azygos, innominatae, and iliac veins. Sinuses are venous channels, excavated in the structure of an organ, and lined by the internal coat of the veins; of this structure are the sinuses of the dura mater, whose external covering is the fibrous tissue of the membrane, and the internal, the serous layer of the veins. The external investment of the sinuses of the uterus is the tissue of that organ; and that of the bones, the lining membrane of the cells and canals. Veins, like arteries, are supplied with nutritious vessels, the vasa vaso- rum; and it is to be presumed that nervous filaments are distributed in their coats. I shall describe the veins according to the primary division of the body , taking first, those of the head and neck; next, those of the upper extre- mity ; then, those of the lower extremity; and lastly, the veins of the trunk. VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. The veins of the head and neck may be arranged into three groups, viz. 1. Veins of the exterior of the head. 2. Veins of the diploe and interior of the cranium. 3. Veins of the neck. The veins of the exterior of the head are the— Facial, Internal maxillary, Temporal, Temporo-maxillary, Posterior auricular, Occipital. The Facial vein commences on the anterior part of the skull in a venous plexus, formed by the communications of the branches of the temporal, and descends along the middle line of the forehead, under the name of frontal vein, to the root of the nose, where it is connected with its fellow of the opposite side by a communicating trunk which constitutes the nasal arch. There are usually two frontal veins, which communicate by a trans-