BLANCHARD & LEA’S MEDICAL 30 WEST (CHARLES), M. D., Physician to the Hospital for Sick Children, &c. LECTURES ON THE DISEASES OP INFANCY AND CHILDHOOD. Second American, from the Second and Enlarged London edition. In one volume, octavo, of nearly five hundred pages. (Now Ready.) From the Preface to the Second Edition. In the preparation of the second edition of these Lectures, the whole work has been carefully revised. A few formulae have been introduced and a minute alphabetical index has been appended while additions amounting altogether to fifty pages, have been made, wherever I felt that more extended observation, or more careful reflection had enabled me to supply some of those deficiencies which I am well aware, are still far too numerous. The work now contains the result of 640 observations, and 199 post-mortem examinations, chiefly made among 16,276 children who came under my notice during the ten years of my connection with the Children’s Infirmary in Lambeth. We take leave of Dr. West with great respect for his attainments, a due appreciation of his acute powers of observation, arid a deep sense of obliga- tion for this valuable contribution to our profes- sional literature. His book is undoubtedly in many respects the best we possess on diseases of children. The extracts we have given will, we hope, satisfy our readers of its value; and yet in all candor we must say that they are even inferior to some other parts, the length of which prohibited our entering upon them. That the book will shortly be in the hands of most of our readers we do not doubt, and it will give us much pleasure if our strong recommend- ation of it may contribute towards the result.—The Dublin Quarterly Journal of Medical Science. Dr. West has placed the profession under deep ob- ligation by this able, thorough, and finished work upon a subject which almost daily taxes to the ut- most the skill of the general practitioner. He has with singular felicity threaded his way through all the tortuous labyrinths of the difficult subjecthe has undertaken to elucidate, and has in many of the darkest corners left a light, for the benefit of suc- ceeding travellers, which will never be extinguished. Not the least captivating feature in this admirable performance is its easy, conversational style, which acquires force from its very simplicity, and leaves an impression upon the memory, of the truths it conveys, as clear and refreshing as its own purity. The author’s position secured him extraordinary fa- cilities for the investigation of children’s diseases, and his powers of observation and discrimination have enabled him to make the most of these great advantages.—Nashville Medical Journal. BY the same author. {Now Ready.) AN ENQUIRY INTO THE PATHOLOGICAL IMPORTANCE OF ULCER- ATION OF THE OS UTERI. Being the Croonian Lectures for the year 1854. In one neat octavo volume, extra cloth. WILLIAMS (C. J. B.), M. D., F. R. S., Professor of Clinical Medicine in University College, London, &c. PRINCIPLES OF MEDICINE; comprising General Pathology and Therapeu- tics, and a brief general view of Etiology, Nosology, Semeiology, Diagnosis, Prognosis, and Hygienics. Edited, with Additions, by Meredith Clymer, M. 1). Fourth American, from the last and enlarged London edition. In one octavo volume, of 476 pages. (Now Ready.) This new edition has been materially enlarged and brought up by the editor. It possesses the strongest claims to the attention of the medical student and practitioner, from the admirable manner in which the various inquiries in the different branches of pathology are investigated, combined, and generalized by an experienced practical physician, and directly applied to the investigation and treatment of disease.—Editor’s Preface. The best exposition in our language, or, we be- lieve, in any language, of rational medicine, in its present improved and rapidly improving state.— British and Foreign Medico-Chirurg. Review. Few books have proved more useful, or met with a more ready sale than this, and no practitioner should regard his library as complete without it. —Ohio Med. and Surg. Journal. BY THE SAME AUTHOR. A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON DISEASES OF THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS; including Diseases of the Larynx, Trachea, Lungs, and Pleurae. With numerous Additions and Notes, by M. ClYxMER, M. D. With wood-cuts. In one octavo volume, pp. 50S. YOUATT (WILLIAM), V. S. THE HOUSE. A new edition, with numerous illustrations; together with a general history of the Horse; a Dissertation on the American Trotting Horse; how Trained and Jockeyed; an Account of his Remarkable Performances; and an Es'say on the Ass and the Mule. By J. S. Skinner, formerly Assistant Postmaster-General, and Editor of the Turf Register. One large octavo volume. BY THE SAME AUTHOR. THE DOG. Edited by E. J. Lewis, M. D. With numerous and beautiful illustrations. In one very handsome volume, crown 8vo., crimson cloth, gilt.