220 MUSCLES OF THE PERINEUM. fascia is then to be removed to the same extent, exposing the superficial perineal fascia. This layer is also to be turned aside, when the muscle? of the genital region of the perineum will be brought into view. The Acceleratores Urin^e (bulbo-cavernosus) arise from a tendinous point in the centre of the perineum and from the fibrous raphe of the two muscles. From these origins the fibres diverge, like the plumes of a pen the posterior fibres to be inserted into the ramus of the pubes and ischium the middle to encircle the corpus spongiosum, and meet upon its upper side; and the anterior to spread out upon the corpus cavernosum on each side, and be inserted, partly into its fibrous structure, and partly into the fascia of the penis. The posterior and middle insertions of these muscles are best seen, by carefully raising one muscle from the corpus spongiosum and tracing its fibres. Relations.—By their superficial surface with the superficial perinea) fascia, the dartos, the superficial vessels and nerves of the perineum, and on each side wfith the erector penis. By their deep surface with the corpus spongiosum and bulb of the urethra. The Erector Penis (ischio-cavernosus) arises from the ramus and tu- berosity of the ischium, and curves around the root of the penis, to be in- serted into the upper surface of the corpus cavernosum, where it is con- tinuous with a strong fascia which covers the dorsum of the organ, the fascia penis. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the superficial perineal fascia, the dartos, and the superficial perineal vessels and nerve. By its deep surface with the corpus cavernosum penis. The Compressor Ureteue (Wilson’s and Guthrie’s muscles), consists of two portions; one of which is transverse in its direction, and passes in- wards, to embrace the membranous urethra;-the other is perpendicular, and descends from the pubes. The transverse portion, particularly de- scribed by Mr. Guthrie, arises by a narrow tendinous point, from the upper part of the ramus of the ischium, on each side, and divides into two fasci- culi, which pass inwards and slightly upwards, and embrace the membra- nous portion of the urethra and Cowper’s glands. As they pass towards Ihe urethra, they spread out and become fan-shaped, and are inserted into a tendinous raphe upon the upper and lower surfaces of the urethra, ex- tending from the apex of the prostate gland, to which they are attached posteriorly, to the bulbous portion of the urethra, with which they are con- nected in front. When seen from above, these portions resemble two fans, connected by their expanded border along the middle line of the mem- branous urethra, from the prostate to the bulbous portion of the urethra. The same appearance is obtained by viewing them from below. The perpendicular portion* described by Mr. Wilson, arises by two ten- dinous points from the inner surface of the arch of the pubes, on each side of, and close to, the symphysis. The tendinous origins soon become muscular, and descend perpendicularly, to be inserted into the upper fas- ciculus of the transverse portion of the muscle; so that it is not a distinct muscle surrounding the membranous portion of the urethra, and support- * Mr. Tyrrell, who made many careful dissections of the muscles of the perineum, did not observe this portion of the muscle ; he considers Wilson’s muscle (with some other anatomists) to be the anterior fibres of the levator ani, not uniting beneath the urethra, as described by Mr. Wilson ; but inserted into a portion of the pelvic fascia situated between the prostate gland and rectum, the recto-vesical fascia.