467 TONGUE—PAPILLAE. According to Treviranus and Gottsche, the ultimate terminations of the filaments assume the form of papillae. The Arteries of the labyrinth are derived principally from the auditory branch of the superior cerebellar artery. ORGAN OF TASTE. The Tongue is composed of muscular fibres, which are distributed in layers arranged in various directions: thus, some are disposed longitudi- nally; others transversely ; others, again, obliquely and vertically. Between the muscular fibres is a considerable quantity of adipose substance. The tongue is connected, posteriorly, with the os hyoidss by muscular attachment; and to the epiglottis by mucous membrane, which forms the three folds called fraena epiglottidis. On either side it is held in connex- ion with the lower jaw by mucous membrane, and in front a fold of that membrane, which is named frcenum linguae, is formed beneath its under surface. The surface of the tongue is covered by a dense layer analogous to the corium of the skin, which gives support to papillae. A rapkt marks the middle line of the organ, and divides it into symmetrical halves. The Papilla of the tongue are the— Papillae circumvallatae, Papillae conicae, Papillae filiformes, Papillae fungiformes. The Papillae circumvallatae (p. lenticulares) are Fig. 207 * of large size, and from fifteen to twenty in number. They are situated on the dorsum of the tongue, near its root, and form a row on each side, which meets its fellow at the middle line, like the two branches of the letter A. Each papilla resembles a cone, attached by its apex to the bottom of a cup-shaped depression : hence they are also named papillae calyciformes. This cup-shaped cavity forms a kind of fossa around the papilla, whence their name circumvallatae. At the meeting of the two rows of these papillae upon the middle of the root of the tongue, is a deep mucous follicle called for- amen caecum. The Papillae conicae and filiformes cover the whole surface of the tongue in front of the circum- vallatae, but are most abundant towards its anterior part. They are conical and filiform in shape, and many of them are pierced at the extremity by a minute aperture. Hence, they may be regarded as * The tongue with its papillae. 1. The raphe, which in some tongues bifurcates on the dorsum of the organ, as in the figure. 2, 2. The lobes of the tongue. The rounded eminences on this part of the organ, and near its tip are the papillae fungiformes. The smaller pap i I he, among which the former are dispersed, are the papillae conicae and filiformes. 3. I he tip of the tongue. 4. 4. Its sides, on which are seen the lamellated and fringed papilla). 5, 5. The A-shaped row of papillae circumvallatae. 6. The fora men caecum. 7. The mucous glands of the rooj: of the tongue. 8. The epiglottis. 9, 9 I he fraena epiglottidis. 10, 10. The greater cornua of the os hyoides.