TEMPORAL BONE. Cl through life. The frontal sinuses make their appearance during the firs>t )ear, and increase in size until old age. Articulations.—With twelve bones : the two parietal, the sphenoid, ethmoid, two nasal, two superior maxillary, two lachrymal, and two malar. Attachment of Muscles.—To two pairs: corrugator supercilii, and tem- poral. Fig. 28. Temporal Bone.—The temporal bone is situated at the side and base of the skull, and is divisible into a squamous, mastoid, and petrous portion. The Squamous portion, forming the anterior part of the bone, is thin, translucent, and contains no diploe. Upon its external surface it is smooth, to give attachment to the fleshy fibres of the temporal muscle, and has projecting from it an arched and lengthened process, the zygoma. Near the commencement of the zygo- ma, upon its lower border, is a projec- tion called the tubercle, to which is at- tached the external lateral ligament of the lower jaw, and continued horizon- tally inwards from the tubercle, a rounded eminence, the eminentia arti- cularis. The process of bone which is continued from the tubercle of the zygoma into the eminentia articularis is the inferior root of the zygoma. The superior root is continued upwards from the upper border of the zygoma, and forms the posterior part of the temporal ridge, serving by its projec- tion to mark the division of the squamous from the mastoid portion of the bone ; and the middle root is continued directly backwards, and termi- nates abruptly at a narrow fissure, the fissura Glaseri. -f-The internal sur- face of the squamous portion is marked by several shallow fossee, which correspond with the convolutions of the cerebrum, and by a furrow for or coronal border of the bone ; the figure is situated near that part which is bevelled at the expense of the internal table. 4. The inferior border of the bone. 5. The orbital plate of the left side. 6. The cellular border of the ethmoidal fissure. The foramen csecum (2) is seen through the ethmoidal fissure. 7. The anterior and posterior eth- moidal foramina; the anterior is seen leading into its canal. 8. The nasal spine. 9. The depression within th*e external angular process (12) for the lachrymal gland. 10. The depression for the pulley of the superior oblique muscle of the eye; immediately to the left of this number is the supra-orbital notch, and to its right the internal angular process. 11. The opening leading into the frontal sinuses: the leading line crosses the internal angular process. 12. The external angular process. The corresponding parts are seen on the other side of the figure. * The external surface of the temporal bone of the left side. 1. The squamous por- tion. 2. The mastoid portion. 3. The extremity of the petrous portion. 4. The zy- goma. 5. Indicates the tubercle of the zygoma, and at the same time its anterior root turning inwards to form the eminentia articularis. 6. The superior root of the zygoma, forming the posterior part of the temporal ridge. 7. The middle root of the zygoma, Terminating abruptly at the glenoid fissure. 8. The mastoid foramen. 9. 1 he meatus auditorius externus, surrounded by the processus auditorius. 10. The digastric fossa, situated immediately to the inner side of (2) the mastoid process. 11. The styloid process. 12. The vaginal process. 13. The glenoid or Glaserian fissure; the leading line from this number crosses the rough posterior portion of the glenoid fossa. 14. I he ooening and part of the groove for the Eustachian tube.