162 KNEE JOINT. and the cartilage being somewhat broader than the internal, nearly covers the articular surface of the tibia. The external semilunar fibro-cartilage besides giving off a fasciculus from its anterior border to constitute the transverse ligament, is continuous by some of its fibres with the extremity of the anterior crucial ligament; posteriorly it divides into three slips; one, a strong cord, ascends obliquely forwards and is inserted into the anterior part of the inner condyle in front of the posterior crucial ligament; another is the fasciculus of insertion into the fossa of the spinous process; and the third, of small size, is continuous with the posterior part of the anterior crucial ligament. The ligamentum mucosum is a slender conical process of synovial membrane enclosing a few ligamentous fibres which proceed from the transverse ligament. It is connected, by its apex, with the anterior part of the condyloid notch, and by its base is lost in the mass of fat which projects into the joint beneath the patella. The alar ligaments are two fringed folds of sy- novial membrane, extending from the ligamentum mucosum, along the edges of the mass of fat to the sides of the patella. The synovial membrane of the knee joint is by far the most extensive in the skeleton. It invests the cartilaginous surfaces of the condyles of the femur, of the head of the tibia, and of the inner surface of the patella; it covers both surfaces of the semilunar fibro-cartilages, and is reflected upon the crucial ligaments, and upon the innei surface of the ligaments which form the circumfe- rence of the joint. On each side of the patella, it lines the tendinous aponeuroses of the vastus inter- ims and vastus externus muscles, and forms a pouch of considerable size between the extensor tendon and the front of the femur. It also forms merits. 1. The cartilaginous surface of the lower extremity of the femur with its two condyles; the figure 5 rests upon the external; the figure 3 upon the internal condyle. 2. The anterior crucial ligament. 3. The posterior crucial ligament. 4. The transverse ligament. 5. The attachment of the ligamentum mucosum ; the rest has been removed. 6. The internal semilunar fibro-cartilage. 7. The external fibro-cartilage. 8. A part of the ligamentum patellae turned down. 9. The bursa, situated between the ligamentum patellae and the head of the tibia; it has been laid open. 10. The anterior superior tibio-fibular ligament. 11. The upper part of the interosseous membrane; the opening above this membrane is for the passage of the anterior tibial artery. •j- A longitudinal section of the left knee joint, showing the reflection of its synovial membrane. 1. The cancellous structure of the lower part of the femur. 2. The tendon of the extensor muscles of the leg. 3. The patella. 4. The ligamentum patellae. 5. The cancellous structure of the head of the tibia. 6. A bursa situated between the ligamentum patellae and the head of the tibia. 7. The mass of'fat projecting into the cavity of the joint below the patella. ** The synovial membrane. 8. The pouch of synovial membrane which ascends between tire tendon of the extensor muscles of the leg, and the front of the lower extremity of the femur. 9. One of the alar liga- ments,; the other has been removed with the opposite section. 10. The ligamentum mucosum left entire; the section being made to its inner side. 11. The anterior or external crucial ligament. 12. The posterior ligament. The scheme of the synovial membrane, which is here presented to the student, is divested of all unnecessary com- plications. It may be traced from the sacculus (at 8), along the inner surface of the patella ; then over the adipose mass (7), from which it throws off the mucous liga ment (10) ; then over the head of the tibia, forming a sheath to the crucial ligamen.s; men upwards along the posterior ligament and condyles of the femur to the saceuius, wnenee its examination commenced.