511 STRUCTURE OF MUCCUS MEMBRANE. with the sharp edges of the sacculi; and, in the rectum, it forms three valvular folds,* one of which is situated near the commencement of the intestine; the second, extending from the side of the tube, is placed op- posite the middle of the sacrum; and the third, which is the largest and most constant, projects from the anterior wall of the intestine opposite the base of the bladder. Besides these folds, the membrane in the empty state of the intestine is thrown into longitudinal plaits, somewhat similar to those of the cesophagus; these have been named the columns of the rectum. The mucous membrane of the rectum is connected to the mus- cular coat by a very loose areolar tissue, as in the cesophagus. f Structure of Mucous Membrane.—Mucous membrane is analogous to the cutaneous covering of the exterior of the body, and resembles that tis- sue very closely in its structure. It is composed of three layers, an epithe- lium, a proper mucous, and a fibrous layer. The Epithelium is the epiderma of the mucous membrane. Throughout the pharynx and cesophagus it resembles the epiderma, both in appear- ance and character. It is continuous with the epiderma of the skin at the margin of the lips, and terminates by an irregular border at the cardiac orifice of the stomach. At the opposite extremity of the canal it terminates by a scalloped border just within the verge of the anus. In the mouth it is composed of laminae of cytoblasts, cells, and polyhedral scales (fig. 209). Each cell and each scale possesses a central nucleus, and within the nu- cleus are one or more nucleus-corpuscles. According to Mr. Nasmyth, J the deepest lamina of the epithelium appears to consist of nuclei (cytoblasts) only; in the next the investing vesicle or cell is developed; the cells by degrees enlarge and become flattened, and in the superficial laminae are converted into thin scales. The nuclei, the cells, and the scales are con- nected together by a glutinous fluid of the consistence of jelly, which con- tains an abundance of minute opaque granules. The scales of the super- ficial layer overlap each other by their margins. During the natural functions of the mucous membrane the superficial scales exfoliate continu- ally and give place to the deeper layers. In the stomach and intestines these bodies are pyriform in shape, and have a columnar arrangement, the apices being applied to the papillary surface of the membrane, and the bases forming, by their approximation, the free intestinal surface. Each column is provided with a central nucleus and nucleus-corpuscle, which gives its middle a swollen appearance; and, from the transparency of its structure, the nucleus may be seen through the base of the column, when examined from the surface. Around the circular villi, the columns, from beino- placed perpendicularly to the surface, have a radiated arrangement. The columnar epithelium is produced, in the same manner with the laminated epithelium, in cytoblasts, cells, and columns, and the latter are continually hrown off to give place to successive layers. * Mr. Houston, “ On the Mucous Membrane of the Rectum.” Dublin Hospital Re- ports, vol. v. t The spaces between the columns of the rectum become closed at the anus so as to form a series of pouches represented in the accompanying cut. These pouches are sometimes dilated and produce a disease first described by Dr. Physick. (See Gibson's Surgery.) The mucous membrane of the rectum is connected to the muscuiar coat by a very loose cellular tissue, as in the cesophagus.—G. * Investigations into the structure of the Epithelium, presented to the medical section of the British Medical Association, in 1839, published in a work entitled - Three Me moirs on the Development of the teeth and epithelium,” 1841.