BRACHIAL ARTERY. 303 deep fascia of the fore-arm, and may be seen and felt pulsating beneath the integument. The high division of the radial from the axillary is rare. In one instance, I saw the axillary artery divide into three branches of nearly equal size which passed together down the arm, and at the bend of the elbow resolved themselves into radial, ulnar, and interosseous. But die most interesting variety, both in a physiological and surgical sense, is that described by Dr. Jones Quain, in his “ Elements of Anatomy.” “ I found in the dissecting-room, a few years ago, a variety not hitherto no- ticed ; it was at first taken for the ordinary high division of the ulnar artery. The two vessels descended from the point of division at the bor- der of the axilla, and lay parallel with one another in their course through the arm ; but instead of diverging, as is usual, at the bend of the elbow, they converged, and united so as to form a short trunk which soon divided again into the radial and ulnar arteries in the regular way.” In a subject, dissected by myself, this variety existed in both arms; and I have seen several instances of a similar kind. BRACHIAL ARTERY. The Brachial artery passes down the inner side of the arm, from the lower border of the latissimus dorsi to the bend of the elbow, where it di- vides into the radial and ulnar arteries. Relations.—In its course downwards, it rests upon the coraco-brachialis muscle, internal head of the triceps, brachialis anticus, and the tendon of the biceps. To its inner side is the ulnar nerve; to the outer side, the coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles; in front it has the basilic vein, and is crossed by the median nerve. Its relations, within its sheath, are the venae comites. Plan of the Relations of the Brachial Artery. In Front. Basilic vein, Deep fascia, Median nerve. Inner Side. Ulnar nerve. Brachial artery. Behind. Outer Side. Coraco-brachialis, Biceps. Short head of triceps, Coraco-brachialis, Brachialis anticus, Tendon of biceps. The branches of the brachial artery are, the—• Superior profunda, Inferior profunda, Anastomotica magna, Muscular. Jhe Superior profunda arises opposite the lower border of the latissimus dorsi, and winds around the humerus, between the triceps and the bone, io the space between the brachialis anticus and supinator longus, where it