VARIETIES IN THE ARTERIES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 333 The Muscular branches are distributed to the muscles in the sole of the foot. The Articular branches supply the ligaments of the articulations of the tarsus, and their synovial membranes. The Digital branches are four in number: the first is distributed to the outer side of the little toe ; the three others pass forwards to the cleft be- tween the toes, and divide into collateral branches, which supply the adjacent sides of the three external toes, and the outer side of the second. At the bifurcation of the toes, a small branch is sent upwards from each digital artery, to inosculate with the interosseous branches of the metatar- sea ; these are the anterior perforating arteries. The Posterior perforating are three small branches which pass upwards between the heads of the three external dorsal interossei muscles to inos- culate with the arch formed by the metatarsea artery. Varieties in the Arteries of the Lower Extremity.—The femoral artery occasionally divides at Poupart’s ligament into two branches, and some- times into three; the former is an instance of the high division of the pro- funda artery; and in a case of the latter kind which occurred during my dissections, the branches were the profunda, the superficial femoral, and the internal circumflex artery. Dr. Quain, in his u Elements of Anatomy,” records an instance of a high division of the femoral artery, in which the two vessels became again united in the popliteal region. The point of origin of the profunda artery varies considerably in different subjects, being sometimes nearer to and sometimes farther from Poupart’s ligament, but more frequently the former. The branches of the popliteal artery are very liable to variety in size; and in all these cases the compensating principle, so constant in the vascular system, is strikingly manifested. When the anterior tibial is of small size, the peroneal is large; and, in place of dividing into two terminal branches at the lower third of the leg, descends to the lower part of the interosseous membrane, and emerges upon the front of the ankle, to supply the dorsum of the foot: or the pos- terior tibial and plantar arteries are large, and the external plantar is con- tinued between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle, to be distributed to the dorsal surface of the foot. Sometimes the posterior tibial artery is small and thread-like; and the peroneal, after descending to the ankle, curves inwards to the inner malleolus, and divides into the two plantar arteries. If, in this case, the posterior tibial be sufficiently large to reach the ankle, it inosculates with the peroneal previously to its division. The internal plantar artery sometimes takes the distribution of the external plantar, which is short and diminutive, and the latter not un- frequently replaces a deficient dorsalis pedis. The varieties of arteries are interesting in the practical application of a knowledge of their principal forms to surgical operations; in their tran- scendental anatomy, as illustrating the normal type of distribution in ani- mals; or, in many cases, as diverticula permitted by Nature, to teach her observers two important principlesfirst, in respect to herself, that, how- ever in her means she may indulge in change, the end is never overlooked, and a limb is as surely supplied by a leash of arteries, various in their 3. 1 he long flexor tendons. 4. The tendon of the peroneus longus. 5. The termination of the posterior tibial artery. 6. The internal plantar. 7. The external plantar artery 8. The plantar arch giving off four digital branches, which pass forwards on the in*^r ossei muscles. Three of these arteries are seen dividing, near the heads of the meta tarsal bones, into collateral branches for adjoining toes.