410 CERVICAL NERVES. sulcus, on the antero-lateral column of the spinal cord, and gradually ap- proach towards the anterior longitudinal fissure as they descend. Fig. 185* The posterior roots, more regular than the anterior, proceed from the posterior lateral sulcus, a narrow grey stria, formed by the in- ternal grey substance of the cord. They are larger, and the filaments of origin more nu- merous than those of the anterior roots. In the intervertebral foramina there is a ganglion on each of the posterior roots. The first cer- vical nerve forms an exception to these cha- t is smaller than the in whole or in part ~r —__ry nerve and some- times with the hypoglossal: there is frequently no ganglion upon it, and when the ganglion exists it is often situated within the dura mater, the latter being the usual position of the ganglia of the last two pairs of spinal nerves. After the formation of a ganglion, the two roots unite and constitute a spinal nerve, which escapes through the intervertebral foramen and divides into an anterior branch for the supply of the front aspect of the body, and a posterior branch for the posterior aspect. In the first cervical and two last sacral nerves this division takes place within the dura mater and in the upper four sacral nerves externally to that cavity, but within the sacral canal. The anterior branches, with the exception of the first two cervical nerves, are larger than the posterior; an arrangement which is propor- tioned to the larger extent of surface they are required to supply. The Spinal nerves are divided into— Cervical Dorsal Lumbar Sacral 8 pairs. 12 5 6 The cervical nerves pass off transversely from the spinal cord; the dor- sal are oblique in their direction ; and the lumbar and sacral vertical; the latter form the large assemblage of nerves at the termination of the cord called cauda equina. CERVICAL NERVES. The cervical nerves increase in size from above downwards; the first (sub-occipital) passes out of the spinal canal between the occipital bone and the atlas ; and the last, between the last cervical and first dorsal ver- * Part of the cervical portion of the spinal cord, viewed on its posterior aspect; and Knowing its membranes and the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. 1, 1. The fissura longitudinalis posterior. 2, 2. The posterior roots of the cervical nerves ; on the oppo- site side the corresponding roots are cut through near their origin. 3, 3. The membrana dentata. 4. The nervus accessorius, ascending between the posterior roots and the membrana dentata; on the opposite side this nerve has been removed. 5, 5. The dura mater or theca vertebralis. 6, 6. Openings in the dura mater for the passage of the roots of the nerves. 7, 7. The ganglia on the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. 8. The anterior roots of the spinal nerves. The posterior roots have been cut away in order to show each anterior root, proceeding to join the nerve beyond the ganglion.