41 HISTOLOGY. body with the remains of the cell which gave it birth. Each of these little bodies may be compared to a laboratory, which receives from the surrounding matter the elements which it requires, and combines them so as to produce a desired result. The various modifications and aggregations of these cells constitute the varied forms of animal and vegetable tissues. DEVELOPMENT OF CELLS. A cell originates in a mass of soft or liquid matter, which is organizable or capable of being organized. In other words, a liquid formed of a com- bination of elements fitted to produce an organized structure. This sub- stance is called “blastema” As an example, we may take the liquor sanguinis or the blood, excluding its globules, which in a fully formed animal is a universally diffused blastema. A minute point (see Fig. 2) arises in this blastema, which increases in size; a transparent wall is seen to spring up like a watch-glass from one side of the granule, which swells up Fig. 2.* ® D 0 more and more until the granule is seen to exist in, and adhere to the side of the cell wall. When thus formed, we have the cell wall with its fluid contents, and the granule or nucleus, which may by this time have developed several new granules or nucleoli in its interior. MULTIPLICATION OF CELLS. Cells are multiplied in several modes: 1st. By repetition, i. e., of the development from a blastema, as ex- plained. 2d. By the development of new nuclei and cells within the parent cell wall (see fig. 3). F^g. 3.f Fig. 44 3d. By the development of new cells from the parietes of pre-existing ones. This is shown in fig. 4. TRANSFORMATION OF CELLS. 1st. Cells may lose their fluid contents, and their walls collapsing until they come in contact and adhere, they form simple, membranous, and transparent discs. • Development of cell from blastema. On the left is seen the corpuscle which be comes the nucleus; on the right the complete nucleated cell. t Development of new cells within the parent cell. $ Development ef new cells from the outer wall of pre-existing cells. 4 *