464 COCHLEA MODIOLUS. longed to the opposite wall by means of a membranous layer, so as to constitute a complete partition, the lamina spiralis, The osseous lamina spiralis consists of two thin lamellae of bone, between which, and through the perforations on their surfaces, the filaments of the cochlear nerve reach the membrane of the cochlea. At the apex of the cochlea the lamina spiralis terminates by a pointed, hook-shaped process, the hamulus laminae spiralis. The two scalae of the cochlea, which are completely sepa- rated throughout their length in the living ear, communicate superiorly, over the hamulus laminae spiralis, by means of an opening common to both, which has been termed by Breschet helico- trema (g'Xiff, SXiVo'w volvere—rfipa). Inferiorly, one of the two scalae, the scala vestibuli, termi- nates by means of an oval aperture in the ante- rior ventricle of the vestibule; while the other, the scala tympani, becomes somewhat expand- ed, and opens into the tympanum through the fenestra rotunda (fenestra cochleae). Near the termination of the scala tympani is the small opening of the aquaeductus cochleae. The internal surface of the osseous labyrinth is lined by a jibro-serous membrane, which is analogous to the dura mater in performing the office of a periosteum by its exterior, whilst it fulfils the purpose of a serous membrane by its internal layer, secreting a limpid fluid, the aqua * The cochlea divided parallel with its axis, through the centre of the modiolus After Breschet. 1. The modiolus. 2. The infundibulum in which the modiolus termi- nates. 3, 3. The cochlear nerve, sending its filaments through the centre of the modio- lus. 4, 4. The scala tympani of the first turn of the cochlea. 5, 5. The scala vestibuli of the first turn ; the septum between 4 and 5 is the lamina spiralis; a filament of the cochlear nerve is seen passing between the layers of the lamina to be distributed upon the membrane which invests the lamina. 8. Loops formed by the filaments of the cochlear nerve on the lamina spiralis. 9, 9. Scala tympani of the second turn of the cochlea. 10, 10. Scala vestibuli of the second turn; the septum between the two is the lamina spiralis. 11. The remaining half turn of the scala vestibuli; the dome placed over this half turn is the cupola ; a line leads from the numeral to the remaining half turn of the scala tympani. The-lamina of bone which forms the floor of the scala ves- tibuli curves spirally round to constitute the infundibulum (2). 14. The helieotrema through which a bristle is passed ; its lower extremity issues from the scala tympani of the middle turn of the cochlea. The hamulus laminae spiralis is seen in front of the bristle. -f- The labyrinth of the left ear, laid open, in order to show its cavities and the mem- branous labyrinth. After Breschet. 1. The cavity of the vestibule, opened from its anterior aspect in order to show the three-cornered form of its interior, and the mem- branous labyrinth which it contains. The figure rests upon the common saccule of the membranous labyrinth,— the sacculus comnujnis. 2. 4 he ampulla of the superior or perpendicular semicircular can&l, receiving a nervous fasciculus from the superior branch of the vestibular nerve, 3. 4. The superior or perpendicular canal with its contained membranous canal. 5. The ampulla of the inferior or horizontal semicircular canal, receiving a nervous fasciculus from the superior branch of the vestibular nerve, fi. The termination of the membranous canal of the horizontal semicircular canal in the sacculus communis. 7. The ampulla of the middle o;* ob'ique semicircular canal, Fig. 206/j-