145 LIGAMENTS OF THE RIBS. hi the first, eleventh, and twelfth ribs, the three fasciculi are attached to the body of the corresponding vertebra. The capsular ligament is a thin layer of ligamentous fibres, surrounding the joint in the interval left by the anterior ligament; it is thickest above and below the articulation, and protects the synovial membranes. The inter articular ligament is a thin band which passes between the sharp crest on the head of the rib and the intervertebral substance. It divides the joint into two cavities, which are each furnished with a sepa- rate synovial membrane. The first, eleventh, and twelfth ribs have no interarticular ligament, and consequently but one synovial membrane. The anterior costo-transverse ligament is a broad band composed of several fasciculi, which ascends from the crest-like ridge on the neck of the rib, to the transverse process immediately above. This liga- ment separates the anterior from the posterior branch of the intercostal nerves. The middle costo-transverse ligament is a very strong interosseous liga- ment, passing directly between the posterior surface of the neck of the rib, and the transverse process against which it rests. The posterior costo-transverse ligament is a small but strong fasciculus, passing obliquely from the tubercle of the rib, to the apex of the trans- verse process. The articulation between the tubercle of the rib and the transverse process is provided with a small synovial membrane. There is no anterior costo-transverse ligament to the first rib ; and only rudimentary posterior costo-transverse ligaments to the eleventh and twelfth ribs. Actions. — The movements permitted by the articulations of the ribs, are upwards and downwards, and slightly for- wards and backwards; the movement increas- ing in extent from the head to the extremity of the rib. The forward and backward move- ment is very trifling in the seven superior, but greater in the inferior ribs; the eleventh and twelfth are very movable. 7. Articulation of the Ribs with the Sternum,, and with each other. — The ligaments of the costo-sternal articulations are,— Anterior costo-sternal, Posterior costo-sternal, Superior costo-sternal, Inferior costo-sternal, Synovial membranes. The anterior costo-sternal ligament is a thin band of ligamentous fibres that passes in a radiated direction from the extremity of the costal carti- lage to the anterior surface of the sternum, and intermingles its fibres with those of the ligament of the opposite side and with the tendinous fibres of origin of the pectoralis major muscle. * A posterior view of a part of the thoracic portion of the vertebral column, showing the ligaments connecting the vertebrae with each other, and the ribs with the vertebrae. 1. i. The supra-spinous ligament. 2, 2. The ligamenta subflava, connecting the laminae 3. The anterior costo-transverse ligament. 4. The posterior costo-transversa ligaments. 13 Fig. 82.* K