INTERNAL MAMMARY ARTERY. 299 muscles on the dorsum of the scapula, and inosculates with the posterior scapular, and beneath the acromion process with the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery. At the supra-scapular notch it sends a large branch to the trapezius muscle. The supra-scapular artery is not unfrequently a branch of the subclavian. The Posterior scapular artery (transversalis colli) passes trans- versely across the subclavian triangle at the root of the neck, to the supe- rior angle of the scapula. It then descends along the posterior border of that bone to its inferior angle, where it inosculates with the subscapuiar artery, a branch of the axillary. In its course across the neck it passes in front of the scalenus anticus, and across the brachial plexus; in the rest of its course it is covered in by the trapezius, levator anguli scapulae, rhomboideus minor, and rhomboideus major muscles. Sometimes it passes behind the scalenus anticus, and between the nerves, which constitute the brachial plexus. This artery, which is very irregular in its origin, pro- ceeds more frequently from the third portion of the subclavian artery than from the first. The posterior scapular gives branches to the neck, and opposite the angle of the scapula inosculates with the profunda cervicis. It supplies the muscles along the posterior border of the scapula, and establishes an important anastomotic communication between the branches of the exter- nal carotid, subclavian, and axillary arteries. The Superficialis cervicis artery (cervicalis anterior) is a small vessel, which ascends upon the anterior tubercles of the transverse pro- cesses of the cervical vertebrae, lying in the groove between the scalenus anticus and rectus anticus major. It is distributed to the deep muscles and glands of the neck, and sends branches through the intervertebral foramina to supply the spinal cord and its membranes. The Profunda cervicis (cervicalis posterior) passes backwards between the transverse processes of the seventh cervical and first dorsal vertebrae, and then ascends the back part of the neck, between the complexus and semi-spinalis colli muscles. It inosculates above with the princeps cervicis of the occipital artery, and below, by a descending branch, with the pos- terior scapular. The Superior intercostal artery descends behind the pleura upon the necks of the first two ribs, and inosculates with the first aortic inter- costal. It gives off two branches which supply the first two intercostal spaces. The Internal mammary artery descends by the side of the sternum, resting against the costal cartilages, to the diaphragm; it then pierces the anterior fibres of the diaphragm, and enters the sheath of the rectus, where it inosculates with the epigastric artery, a branch of the external iliac. In the upper part of its course it is crossed by the phrenic nerve, and lower down lies between the triangularis sterni and the internal intercostal muscles. The Branches of the internal mammary are,— Anterior intercostal, Mediastinal, Mammary, Pericardiac, Comes neivi phrenici, Musculo-phrenic.