BLANCHARD & LEA’S MEDICAL 28 Med. Journal. TOMES (JOHN), F. R. S. A MANUAL OF DENTAL PRACTICE. Illustrated by numerous engravings on wood. In one handsome volume. (Preparing.) TODD (R. B.), M. D., AND BOWMAN (WILLIAM), F. R. S. PHYSIOLOGICAL ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. With numerous handsome wood-cuts. Parts I, II, and III, in one octavo volume, 552 pages. Part IV will complete the work. The distinguishing peculiarity of this work is, that the authors investigate for themselves every fact asserted ; and it is the immense labor consequent upon the vast number of observations re- quisite to carry out this plan, which has so long delayed the appearance of its completion. The hrst portion of Part IV, with numerous original illustrations, was published in the Medical News and Library for 1853, and the completion will be issued immediately on its appearance in London. Those who have subscribed since the appearance of the preceding portion of the work can have the three parts by mail, on remittance of $2 50 to the publishers. WATSON (THOMAS), M.D., &c. LECTUBES ON THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF PHYSIC. Third American, from the last London edition. Revised, with Additions, by D. Francis Condie, M. D., author of a “Treatise on the Diseases of Children,” &c. In one octavo volume, of nearly eleven hundred large pages, strongly bound with raised bands. To say that it is the very best work on the sub- 1 Confessedly one of the very best works on the ject now extant, is but to echo the sentiment of the principles and practice of physic in the English or medical press throughout the country. — N. O. any other language.—Med. Examiner. As a text-book it has no equal; as a compendium of pathology and practice no superior.—New York Annalist. We know of no work better calculated for being placed in the hands of the student, and for a text- book ; on every important point the author seems to have posted up his knowledge to the day.— Amer. Med. Journal. One of the most practically useful books that ever was presented to the student. — A. Y. Med. Journal. Medical Journal. Of the text-books recently republished Watson is very justly the principal favorite.—Holmes’s Rep. to Nat. Med. Assoc. By universal consent the work ranks among the very best text-books in our language.—Illinois and Indiana Med. Journal. Regarded on all hands as one of the very best, if not t?i e very best, systematic treatise on practical medicine extant.—St. Louis Med. Journal. their WALSH E (W. H.), M. D., Professor of the Principles and Practice of Medicine in University College, London. DISEASES OF THE HEART, LUNGS, AND APPENDAGES; Symptoms and Treatment. In one handsome volume, large royal 12mo., 512 pages. We consider this as the ablest work in the En- | the author being the first stethoscopisf of the day.— glish language, on the subject of which it treats; | Charleston Medical Journal. WHAT TO OBSERVE AT THE BEDSIDE AND AFTER DEATH, IN MEDICAL CASES. Published under the authority of the London Society for Medical Observation. A new American, from the second and revised London edition. In one very handsome volume, royal 12mo., extra cloth. (Now Ready.) The demand which has so rapidly exhausted the first edition of this little work, shows that the advantages it offers to the profession have been duly appreciated, and has stimulated the authors to render if more worthy of its reputation. It has therefore been thoroughly revised, and such im- provements (among which is a section on Treatment) have been made as further experience in its use has shown to be desirable. We hail the appearance of this book as the grand given to the world, through a small but useful desideratum —Charleston Medical Journal. medical organization, a cheap but invaluable book. u ' We do advise every reader of this notice to buy it This is truly a very capital book. The whole unj uge jt< Unless he is so vain as to imagine him- medical world will reap advantages from its publi- seif superior to the ordinary human capacity, he will cation. The medical journals will soon show its jn g;x m0nf influence on the character of the “ Reports of Cases’’ Stethoscope. which they publish. Drs. Ballard and Walslie have __ months see its inestimable advantages. WILDE (W. R.), Surgeon to St. Mark’s Ophthalmic and Aural Hospital, Dublin. AURAL SURGERY, AND THE NATURE AND TREATMENT OF PIS- EASES OF THE EAR. In one handsome octavo volume, with illustrations. {Now Ready.) So little is generally known in this country concerning the causes, symptoms, and treatment ol aural affections, that a practical and scientific work on that subject, from a practitioner ol Mr. Wilde’s ^reat experience, cannot fail to be productive of much benefit, by attracting atiention to this obscure class of diseases, which too frequently escape attention until past relief. 1 he im- mense number of cases which have come under Mr. Wilde’s observation lor many years, have afforded him opportunities rarely enjoyed for investigating this branch of inedicai science, and his work may therefore be regarded as of the highest authority. This work certainly contains more information on j laws, and amenable to the same general methods of the subject to which it is devoted than any oilier with which we are acquainted. We feel grateful o the author for his manful effort to rescue this depart ment of surgery from the hands of the empirics who nearly monopolize it. We think he has successlully shown that aural diseases are not beyond the re sources of art; that they are governed by the same tieatment as other morbid processes. The work is not written to supply the cravings of popular patro- nage, but it is wholly addressed to die profession, and bear.s on every page the imp re.-- oi die reflections of a sagacious and practical surgeon.— Va. Surg. and