INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. 399 iii the malar bone and enters the temporal fossa; it then pierces the tem- poral muscle and fascia and is distributed to the integument of the temple and side of the forehead, communicating with the facial and anterior auricular nerve. In the temporal fossa it communicates with the deep temporal nerves. The malar, or inferior branch, takes its course along the lower angle of the outer wall of the orbit, and emerges upon the cheek through an opening in the malar bone, passing between the fibres of the otbicularis palpebrarum muscle. It communicates with branches of the infra-orbital and facial nerves. The Two branches from Meckel’s ganglion ascend from that body to join the nerve, as it crosses the spheno-maxillary fossa. The Posterior dental branches pass through small foramina, in the posterior surface of the superior maxillary bone, and running forwards in the base of the alveolus, supply the posterior teeth and gums. The Middle and anterior dental branches descend to the corresponding teeth and gums; the former beneath the lining membrane of the antrum, the latter through distinct canals in the walls of the bone. Previously to their distribution, the dental nerves form a plexus (superior maxillary plexus) in the outer wall of the superior maxillary bone immediately above the alveolus. From this plexus the filaments are given off which supply the pulps of the teeth, the gums, the mucous membrane of the floor of the nares, and the palate. Some gangliform masses have been described in connexion with this plexus, one being placed over the canine, and another over the second molar tooth. The Muscular and cutaneous branches are the terminating filaments of the nerve ; they supply the muscles, integument, and mucous membrane of the cheek, nose, and lip, and form an intricate plexus with branches of the facial nerve. The Inferior Maxillary Nerve proceeds from the inferior angle of the Casserian ganglion; it is the largest of the three divisions of the fifth nerve, and is augmented in size by the anterior or motor root, which passes behind the ganglion, and unites with the inferior maxillary as it escapes through the foramen ovale. Emerging at the foramen ovale the nerve divides into two trunks, external and internal, which are separated from each other by the external pterygoid muscle. The External trunk, into which may be traced nearly the whole of the motor root, immediately divides into five branches which are distributed to the muscles of the temporo-maxillary region ; they are— The Masseteric, which crosses the sigmoid notch with the masseteric artery to the masseter muscle. It sends a small branch to the temporal muscle, and a filament to the temporo-maxillary articulation. Temporal; two branches passing between the upper border of the ex- ternal pterygoid muscle and the temporal bone to the temporal muscle. Two or three filaments from these nerves pierce the temporal fascia, and communicate with the lachrymal, subcutaneous malse, auricular and facial nerve. Buccal; a large branch which pierces the fibres of the external ptery- goid, to reach the buccinator muscle. This nerve sends filaments to the temporal and external pterygoid muscle, to the mucous membrane and integument of the cheek, and communicates with the facial nerve.