91 NASAL FOSSAE Nasal bones. Ethmoid. Sphenoid. ® "H, -3 o 33 33 = d c3 _: z: C3 X cs §“ 2 -S ■£ . Jr « S 3 S cd 23 ~ J3 m q.0* »- O O H ° sr *2 2 £ ^ 3 ® 02 S 6 cS a, a o Nasal fossa. <v Nasal fossa. 33 a KS U* <D r-» c o > X -~ t. r C3 H — _: c3 x 5 .- 33 0) j3 'a* 33 « C -3 ’? 3 c — . o ® bD *3 x cs — _ . _ rr ® >H 23 _3 03 *-> c c «-i +-1 cu x C3 o £J ^ ?-t , •«-» ’ ' —* 4)H ci a, cH s C/2 ^ « Palate processes of superior maxillary. Palate processes of palate bone. Fig. 42;' Iwh nasal fossa is divided into three irregular longitudinal passages, or meatuses, by three processes of bone, which project from its outer wall, the superior, middle, and inferior turbi- nated bones; the superior and middle turbinated bones being processes of the ethmoid, and the inferior a distinct bone of the face. The superior meatus occu- pies the superior and posterior part of each fossa; it is situated between the superior and middle turbinated bones, and has opening into it three foramina, viz. the opening of the posterior ethmoid cells, the opening of the sphenoid cells, and the spheno-palatine foramen. The middle meatus is the space between the middle and inferior turbinated bones; it also presents three foramina, the open- * A longitudinal section of the nasal fosste made immediately to the right of the middle line, and the bony septum removed in order to show the external wall of the left fossa. 1. The frontal bone. 2. The nasal bone. 3. The crista gal 1 i process of the ethmoid. The groove between 1 and 3 is the lateral boundary of the foramen caecum. 4. The cribriform plate of the ethmoid. 0. Part of the sphenoida I cells. 6. The basilar portion of the sphenoid bone. Bones 2, 4, and 5, form the superior boundary of the nasal fossa. 7, 7. The articulating surface of the palatine process of the superior maxil- lary bone. The groove between 7, 7, is the lateral half of the incisive canal, and the dark aperture in the groove the inferior termination of the left naso-palatine canal 8. The nasal spine. 9. The palatine process of the palate bone. a. The superior tur- binated bone, marked by grooves and apertures for filaments of the olfactory nerve. b. The superior meatus, c. A probe passed into the posterior ethmoidal cells, d. The opening of the sphenoidal cells into the superior meatus, e. The spheno-palatine fora- men. /. The middle turbinated bone, g, g. The middle meatus, h. A probe passed into the infundibular canal, leading from the frontal sinuses and anterior ethmoid cells ; the triangular aperture immediately above the letter is the opening of the maxillarv sinus t. The inferior turbinated bone. Ic, k. The inferior meatus. Z, l. A probe passed up the nasal duct, showing the direction of that canal. The anterior letters g, At, are placed on the superior maxillary bone, the posterior on the palate bone. m. The in- ternal pterygoid plate, n. Its hamular process, o. The external pterygoid plate, p. The situation of the opening of the Eustachian tube. q. The posterior palatine foramina, r. The roof of the left orbit, s. The optic foramen, t. The groove for the last turn or* the internal carotid artery cor verted into a foramen by the development of an osseous communication between the anterior and middle clinoid processes, v. The sella turcica. t. The ulterior clinoid process.