258 FOOT—DORSAL REGION. Dissection. — These muscles are exposed by continuing the dissection of the anterior tibial region outwards beyond the fibula, to the border of the posterior tibial region. The Peroneus Longus (ve^ovt), fibula, extensor tarsi fibularis longioi) muscle arises from the head and upper third of the outer side of the fibula, and terminates in a long tendon, which passes behind the external mal- leolus, and obliquely across the sole of the foot, through the groove in the cuboid bone, to be inserted into the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. Its tendon is thickened where it glides behind the external malleolus, and a sesamoid bone is developed in that part which plays upon the cuboid bone. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the fascia of the leg and foot. By its deep surface with the fibula, peroneus brevis, os calcis, and cuboid bone, and near the head of the fibula with the fibular nerve. By its ante- rior border it is separated from the extensor longus digitorum by the attachment of the fascia of the leg to the fibula; and by the posterior border by the same medium from the soleus and flexor longus pollicis. The peroneus longus is furnished with three tendinous sheaths and as many synovial membranes; the first is situated behind the external mal- leolus, and is common to this muscle and the peroneous brevis, the second on the outer side of the os calcis, and the third on the cuboid bone. The Peroneus Brevis (extensor tarsi fibularis brevior) lies beneath the peroneus longus; it arises from the lower half of the fibula, and terminates m a tendon which passes behind the external malleolus and through a groove in the os calcis, to be inserted into the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. Relations. — By its superficial surface with the peroneus longus and fascia of the leg and foot. By its deep surface with the fibula, the os calcis, and cuboid bone. The lateral relations are the same as those of the peroneus longus. The tendon of the peroneus brevis has but two tendinous sheaths and two synovial membranes, one behind the external malleolus and common to both peronei, the other upon the side of the os calcis. Actions. — The peronei muscles are extensors of the foot, conjointly with the tibialis posticus. They antagonize the tibialis anticus and pero- neus tertius, which are flexors of the foot. The whole of these muscles acting together, tend to maintain the flatness of the foot, so necessary to security in walking. FOOT. Dorsal Region. Extensor brevis digitorum, Interossei dorsales. The Extensor Brevis Digitorum muscle arises from the outer side of the os calcis, crosses the foot obliquely, and terminates in four tendons, the innermost of which is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, and the other three into the sides of the long extensor tendons of the second, third, and fourth toes. Relations.—By its upper surface with the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum, peroneus brevis, and with the deep fascia of the foot. By its under surface with the tarsal and metatarsal bones. Its inner border is in relation with the dorsalis pedis artery, and the innermost tendon of the muscle crosses that artery just before its division.