246 ANTERIOR FEMORAL REGION. pelvis, with the gemellus superior. By its lower border wita the gemellus inferior. The Gemellus Inferior arises from the posterior point of the tuberosity of the ischium, and is inserted into the lower border of the tendon of the obturator internus, and into the trochanteric fossa of the femur. Relations. — By its superficial surface with the gluteus maximus, and ischiatic vessels and nerves. By its deep surface with the external surface of the pelvis, and capsule of the hip joint. By its upper border with the tendon of the obturator internus. By its lower border with the tendon of the obturator externus and quadratus femoris. In this region the tendon only of the obturator externus can be seen, situated deeply between the gemellus inferior and the upper border of the quadratus femoris. To expose this muscle fully, it is necessary to dissect it from the anterior part of the thigh, after the removal of the pectineus, adductor longus and adductor brevis muscles. The Obturator Externus muscle (obturare, to stop up) arises from the obturator membrane, and from the surface of bone immediately sur- rounding it anteriorly, viz. from the ramus of the os pubis and ischium: its tendon passes behind the neck of the femur, to be inserted with the external rotator muscles, into the trochanteric fossa of the femur. Relations.—By its superficial or anterior surface with the tendon of the psoas and iliacus, pectineus, adductor brevis and magnus, the obturator vessels and nerve. By its deep or posterior surface with the obturatoi membrane and the margin of bone which surrounds it, the lower part ol the capsule of the hip joint and the quadratus femoris. The Quadratus Femoris (square-shaped) arises from the external bor der of the tuberosity of the ischium, and is inserted into a rough line on the posterior border of the trochanter major, which is thence named linea quadrati. Relations.—By its posterior surface with the gluteus maximus, and is- chiatic vessels and nerves. By its anterior surface with the tendon of the obturator externus, and trochanter minor, a synovial bursa often separating it from the latter. By its upper border with the gemellus inferior; and by the lower border with the adductor magnus. Actions.—The glutei muscles are abductors of the thigh, when they take their fixed point from the pelvis. Taking their fixed point from the thigh, they steady the pelvis on the head of the femur; this action is pe- culiarly obvious in standing on one leg; they assist also in carrying the leg forward, in progression. The gluteus minimus being attached to the anterior border of the trochanter major, rotates the limb slightly inwards. The gluteus medius and maximus, from their insertion into the posterior aspect of the bone, rotate the limb outwards; the latter is, moreover, a tensor of the fascia of the thigh. The other muscles rotate the limb out- wards, everting the knee and foot; hence they are named external rotators. Anterior Femoral Region. Tensor vaginse femoris, Vastus internus, Sartorius, Vastus externus, Rectus, Crureus. Dissection.—Make an incision along the line of Poupart’s ligament, from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to the spine of the