X STRUCTURE OF MUSCLE. 169 longitudinal, and terminate at each extremity in tendon, the entire muscle being fusiform in its shape; in other situations they are disposed like the rays of a fan, converging to a tendinous point, as the temporal, pectoral, glutei, &c., and constitute a radiate muscle. Again, they are penniform, converging like the plumes of a pen to one side ol a tendon, which runs the whole length of the muscle as in the peronei; or bipenniform, con- verging to both sides of the tendon. In other muscles the fibres pass obliquely from the surface of a tendinous expansion spread out on one side, to that of another extended on the opposite side, as in the semi- membranosus ; or, they are composed of penniform or bipenniform fasci- culi as in the deltoid, and constitute a compound muscle. The nomenclature of the muscles is defective and confused, and is generally derived from some prominent character which each muscle pre- sents ; thus, some are named from their situation, as the tibialis, peroneus; others from their uses, as the flexors, extensors, adductors, abductors, le- vators, tensors, &c. Some again from their form, as the trapezius, trian- gularis, deltoid, &c.; and others from their direction, as the rectus, obliquus, transversalis, &c. Certain muscles have received names ex- pressive of their attachments, as the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, &c.; and others, of their divisions, as the biceps, triceps, digastricus, complexus, &c. In the description of a muscle we express its attachment by the words <c origin” and u insertionthe term origin is generally applied to the more .fixed or central attachment, or to the point towards which the motion is directed, while insertion is assigned to the more movable point, or to that most distant from the centre ; but there are many exceptions to this principle, and as many muscles pull equally by both extremities, the use of such terms must be regarded as purely arbitrary. In structure, muscle is composed of bundles of fibres of variable size called fasciculi, which are enclosed in a cellular membranous investment or sheath, and the latter is continuous with the cellular framework of the fibres. Each fasciculus is composed of a number of smaller bundles, and these of single fibres, which, from their minute size and independent ap- pearance, have been distinguished by the name of ultimate fibres. The ultimate fibre is found by microscopic investigation to be itself a fasciculus (ultimate fasciculus), made up of a number of ultimate fibrils enclosed in a delicate sheath or myolemma.* Two kinds of ultimate muscular fibre exist in the animal economy; viz., that of voluntary or animal life, and that of involuntary or organic life. The ultimate fibre of animal life is known by its size, by its uniformity of calibre, and especially by the very beautiful transverse markings which occur at short and regular distances throughout its whole extent. It also presents other markings or strise, having a longitudinal direction, which indicate the existence of fibrillse within its myolemma. The myolemma, or investing sheath of the ultimate fibre, is thin, structureless and trans- parent. * In the summer of 1836, while engaged with Dr. Jones Quain in the examination of the animal tissues with a simple dissecting microscope, constructed by Powell, I first saw that the ultimate fibre of muscle was invested by a proper sheath, for which I pro- posed the term “Myolemma;” a term which was adopted by Dr. Quain in the fourth edition of his “Elements of Anatomy.” We at that time believed that the transverse folding of that sheath gave rise to the appearance of transverse striae, an opinion whicv subsequent examinations proved to be incorrect. Mr. Bowman employs the term “ !Sar- colemma," as synonymous with Myolemma. 15