139 lGAMENTS OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. interposed between each of the vertebrae from the axis to the sacrum, and retaining them firmly in connexion with each other. It diffeis in thick ness m different parts of the column, and varies in depth at different points of its extent; thus, it is thickest m the lumbar region, deepest in fiont in the cervical and lumbar regions, and behind in the dorsal region ; and contributes, in a great measure, to the formation of the natural curves of the vertebral column. When the intervertebral substance is bisected either horizontally or vertically, it is seen to be composed of a series of layers of dense fibrous tissue, separated by interstices filled with the softer kind. I he central part of each intervertebral disc is wholly made up of this softer fibrous cartilage, which has the appearance of a pulp, and is so elastic as to rise above the level of the section as soon as its division is completed. When examined from the front, the layers are found to consist of fibres passing obliquely between the two vertebrae, in one layer passing from left to right, in the next from right to left, alternating in each successive layer. Arches. — The ligamenta subflava are two thin planes, of yellow fibrous tissue, situated be- tween the arches of each pair of vertebrae, from the axis to the sacrum. From the imbricated position of the laminae they are attached to the posterior surface of the vertebra below, and to the anterior surface of the arch of the vertebra above, and are separated from each other at the middle line by a slight interspace. They coun- teract by their elasticity, the efforts of the flexor muscles of the trunk; and by preserving the upright position of the spine, limit the expendi- ture of muscular force. They are longer in the cervical than in the other regions of the spine, and are thickest in the lumbar region. The ligamenta subflava are in relation by both surfaces with the meningo-rachidian veins, and internally they are separated from the dura mater of the spinal cord by those ^ eins and some loose areolar and adipose tissue. Articular Processes.—The ligaments of the articular processes of the vertebrse are loose synovial capsules which surround the articulating sur- faces. They are protected on their external side by a thin layer of liga- mentous fibres. Spinous Processes. —The inter-spinous ligaments are thin and mem- branous, and are extended between the spinous processes in the dorsal and lumbar regions. They are thickest in the latter region; and are in relation with the multifidus spinse muscle at each side. The Supra-sjnnous ligament (fig. 82) is a strong and inelastic fibrous cord, which extends from the apex of the spinous process of the last cer- vical vertebra to the sacrum, being attached to each spinous process in its course ; it is thickest in the lumbar region. The continuation of this liga- ment upwards to the tuberosity of the occipital bone, constitutes the rudi- mentary ligamentum nucha of man. The latter is strengthened, as in An internal view of the arches of three vertebrae. To obtain this view the lamina* have been divided through their pedi< les. 1. One of the ligamenta subflava. 2 The capsular ligament of one side.