161 KNEE JOINT. Fig. 93 * is covered in by the tendon of the biceps, and has passing beneath it the tendon of origin of the popliteus muscle, and the inferior external articulai artery. The true ligaments within the joint are the crucial, transverse, and coronary. The anterior, or external crucial ligament, arises from the depression upon the head of the tibia in front of the spinous process, and passes upwards and back- wards to be inserted into the inner surface of the outer condyle of the femur, as far as its posterior border. It is smaller than the posterior. The posterior, or internal crucial ligament, arises from the depression upon the head of the tibia, behind the spinous process, and passes upwards and forwards to be inserted into the inner condyle of the femur. This ligament is less oblique and larger than the an- terior. The transverse ligament is a small slip of fibres which extends transversely from the external semilunar fibro-cartilage, near its anterior extremity, to the anterior convexity of the internal cartilage. The coronary ligaments are the short fibres by which the convex bor- ders of the semilunar cartilages are connected to the head of the tibia, and to the ligaments surrounding the joint. The semilunar fibro-cartilages are two falciform plates of fibro-cartilage, situated around the margin of the head of the tibia, and serving to deepen the surface of articulation for the condyles of the femur. They are thick along their convex border, and thin and sharp along the concave edge. The internal semilunar fibro-cartilage forms an oval cup for the reception of the internal condyle ; it is connected by its convex border to the head of the tibia, and to the internal and posterior ligaments, by means of its coronary ligament; and by its two ex- tremities is firmly implanted into the depressions in front and behind the spinous process. The external semilunar fibro-cartilage bounds a circular fossg. for the external condyle: it is connected by its convex border with the head of the tibia, and to the external and posterior ligaments, by means of its coronary ligament; by its two extremities it is inserted into the depression between the two projections which constitute the spinous process of the tibia. The two extremities of the external cartilage being inserted into the same fossa form almost a complete circle, Fig. 94.j* * A posterior view of the ligaments of the knee joint. 1. The fasciculus of the liga- menturn posticum Winslowii, which is derived from, 2. the tendon of the semi-mem- branosus muscle; the latter is cut short. 3. The process of the tendon which spreads out in the fascia of the popliteus muscle. 4. The process which is sent inwards be- neath the internal lateral ligament. 5. The posterior part of the internal lateral liga- ment. 6. The long external lateral ligament. 7. The short external lateral ligament. S. I he tendon of the popliteus muscle cut short. 9. The posterior superior tibio-fibular igament. p The right knee joint 14* laid open from the L front, in order to show the internal ligu