MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE. 419 distributed, one to the ulnar side of the little finger, one to the adjoining borders of the little and ring fingers, and a communicating branch to join the median nerve. The Deep palmar branch passes between the abductor and flexor minimi digiti, to the deep palmar arch, supplying the muscles ot the little finger, and the interossei and other deep structures in the palm of the hand. The Musculo-spiral Nerve, the largest branch of the brachial plexus, arises from the posterior part of the plexus by a common trunk with the circumflex nerve. It passes downwards from its origin in front ot the tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major muscle, and winds around the humerus in the spiral groove, accompanied by the superior profunda artery, to the space between the brachialis anticus and supinator longus, and thence onwards to the bend of the elbow, where it divides into two branches, the posterior interosseous and radial nerve. The Branches of the musculo-spiral nerve are— Muscular, Spiral cutaneous, Radial, Posterior interosseous. The Muscular branches are distributed to the triceps, to the supinator longus, and to the extensor carpi radialis longior. The Spiral cutaneous nerve pierces the deep fascia immediately below the insertion of the deltoid muscle, and passes down the outer side of the fore-arm as far as the wrist. It is distributed to the integument. The Radial nerve runs along the radial side of the fore-arm to the com- mencement of its lower third; it then passes beneath the tendon of the supinator longus, and at about two inches above the wrist joint pierces the deep fascia, and divides into an external and an internal branch. The external branch, the smaller of the two, is distributed to the outer border of the hand and thumb, and communicates with the posterior branch of the external cutaneous nerve. The internal branch crosses the direction of the extensor tendons of the thumb, and divides into several filaments for the supply of the ulnar border of the thumb, the radial border of the index finger, and the adjoining borders of the index and middle fingers. It communicates on the back of the hand with the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. In the upper third of the fore-arm the radial nerve lies beneath the border of the supinator longus muscle. In the middle third it is in rela- tion with the radial artery lying to its outer side. It then quits the artery, and passes beneath the tendon of the supinator longus, to reach the back of the hand. The Posterior interosseous nerve, somewhat larger than the radial, sepa- rates from the latter at the bend of the elbow, pierces the supinator brevis muscle, and emerges from its lower border on the posterior aspect of the fore-arm, where it divides into branches which supply the whole of the muscles on the posterior aspect of the fore-arm. One branch, longer than the rest, descends to the posterior part of the wrist, and forms a large ganghform swelling (the common character of nerves which supply joints) from which numerous branches are distributed to the wrist joint