170 STRUCTURE OF MUSCLE. According to Mr. Bowman* the ultimate fibres are polygonal in shape [%. 100] from mutual pressure. They are also variable in their size, not merely in different classes and genera of animals and different sexes, but even in the same muscle. For example, the average diameter of the ulti- mate fibre in the human female is while that of the male is -3|2, the average of both being 7 Jg. The largest fibres are met with in fishes, in which animals they average 0 22 > the next largest are found in man, while in other classes they range in the following order:—insects ?|9 ; reptiles 4g4 ; mammalia -5gr; birds The ultimate fibrils of animal life, according to Mr. Bowman, are beaded filaments consisting of a regular succession of segments and constrictions, the latter being narrower than the former, and the component substance probably less dense. Fig. lOO.f Fig. 101.+ An ultimate fibre consists of a bundle of these fibrils, which are so dis- posed that all the segments and all the constrictions correspond, and in this manner give rise to the alternate light and dark lines of the transverse strice. The librils are connected together with very different degrees of closeness in different animals ; in man they are but slightly adherent, and distinct longitudinal lines of junction may be observed between them; they also separate very easily when macerated for some time. Besides the more usual separation of the ultimate fibre into fibrils, it breaks when stretched, into transverse sections [fig. 101,] corresponding with the dark line of the stride, ami consequently with the constrictions of the fibrillse. When this division occurs \yith the greatest facility, the longitudinal lines are indistinct, or scarcely perceptible. “ I11 fact,” says Mr. Bowman, “ the primitive fasciculus seems to consist of primitive component segments or particles, arranged so as to form, in one sense, fibrillae, and in another sense, discs; and which of these two may happen to present itself to the observer, will depend on the amount of adhesion, endways or sideways, existing between the segments. Generally, in a recent fas. iculus, there are transverse striae, showing divisions into discs, and longitudinal striae, marking its composition by fibrillae.” Mr. Bowman has observed that in the substance of the ultimate fibre there exist minute u oval or circular discs, frequently concave on one or * On the Minute Structure and Movements of Voluntary Muscle. By Wm. Bowman, Esq. From the Philosophical Transactions for 1840. j- Transverse section of ultimate fibres of the biceps, copied from the illustrations to Mr. Bowman’s paper. In this figure the polygonal form of the fibres is seen, and their composition of ultimate fibrils. f An ultimate fibre, in which the transverse splitting into discs, in the direction of the constrictions of the ultimate fibrils is seen. From Mr. Bowman's paper.