PALATE BONES. 79 posterior palatine nerve and artery, and the latter the middle palatine nerve. The posterior border is concave, and presents at its inner extre- mity a sharp point, which, with a corresponding point in the opposite bone, constitutes the palate spine for the attachment ot the azygos uvulae muscle. The perpendicular plate is also quadrilateral; and presents two surfaces, one internal or nasal, forming a part of the wall of the nares; the other external, bounding the spheno-maxillary fossa and antrum. The internal surface is marked near its middle by a horizontal ridge (crista turbinalis inferior), to which is united the interior turbinated bone ; and, at about half an inch above this is another ridge (crista turbinalis superior) for the attachment of the middle turbinated bone. The concave surface below the inferior ridge is the lateral boundary of the inferior meatus of the nose ; that between the two ridges corresponds with the middle meatus, and the surface above the superior ridge with the superior meatus. The external surface, extremely irregular, is rough on each side for articulation with neighbouring bones, and smooth in the middle to constitute the inner boundary of the spheno-maxillary fossa. This smooth surface terminates interiorly in a deep groove, which being completed by the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone and pterygoid process of the sphenoid, forms the posterior palatine canal. Near the upper part of the perpendicular plate is a large oval notch completed by the sphenoid, the spheno-palatine foramen, which transmits the spheno-palatine nerves and artery, and serves to divide the upper ex- tremity of the bone into two portions, an anterior or orbital, and a poste- rior or sphenoidal portion. The orbital portion is hollow within, and pre- sents five surfaces externally, three articular, and two free ; the three articular are the anterior, which looks forward and articulates with the superior maxillary bone, the internal with the eth- moid, and the posterior with the sphenoid. The free surfaces are the superior or orbital, which forms the posterior part of the floor of the orbit, and the external, which looks into the spheno-maxillary fossa. The sphenoidal portion, much smaller than the orbital, has three surfaces, two lateral and one supe- rior. The external lateral surface enters into the formation of the spheno-maxillary fossa; the internal lateral forms part of the lateral boundary of the nares ; and the superior surface articulates with the under part of the body of the sphenoid bone, and assists the sphenoidal spongy bones in closing the sphenoidal sinuses. This portion takes part in the formation of the pterygo-palatine canal. The pterygoid process or tuberosity of the palate bone is the thick and rough process which stands backwards from the angle of union of the Fig. 37 * * The perpendicular plate of the palate bone seen upon its external or spheno-max- illary surface. 1. The rough surface of this plate, which articulates with the superior maxillary bone and bounds the antrum. 2. The posterior palatine canal, completed by the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone and pterygoid process. The roug„ surface to the left of the canal (2) articulates with the internal pterygoid plate. 3 The spheno-palatine notch. 4, 5, 6. The orbital portion of the perpendicular plate. I The spheno-maxillary facet of this portion; 5 ,ts orbital facet; 6, its maxillary facet, to articulate with the superior maxillary bone 7. The sphenoidal portion of p-*; pendicular plate. S. The pterygoid process or tuberosity of the bone.