374 THALAMUS OPTICUS. ii from the opposite ventricle; and below (floor) by the following parts, taken in their order of position from before backwards :— Corpus striatum, Tenia semicircularis, Thalamus opticus, Choroid plexus, Coqrns fimbriatum, Fornix. The Corpus striatum is named fiom the striated lines of white and grey matter which are seen upon cutting into its substance. It is grey on the exte- rior, and of a pyriform shape. The broad end, directed forwards, rests against the corpus striatum of the op- posite side: the small end, backwards, is separated from its fellow by the in- terposition of the thalami optici. The corpora striata are the superior ganglia of the cerebrum. The Tenia semicircularis (tenia, a fillet) is a narrow band of medullary substance, extending along the poste- rior border of the corpus striatum, and serving as a bond of connexion between that body and the thalamus opticus. The tenia is partly concealed by a large vein (vena corporis stiiati), which ter- minates in the vena Galeni of its own side. The vein is formed by small vessels from the corpus striatum and thalamus opticus, and is overlaid by a yellowish band, a thickening of the lining membrane of the ventricle. This was first noticed and described by Tarinus, under the name of the horny hand. We may therefore term it tenia Tar mi. f The Thalamus opticus (thalamus, a bed) is an oblong body, having a * The lateral ventricles of the cerebrum. 1, 1. The two hemispheres cut down to a level with the corpus callosum so as to constitute the centrum ovale majus. The sur face is seen to be studded with the small vascular points—puncta vasculosa; and sur- rounded by a narrow margin which represents the grey substance. 2. A small portion of the anterior extremity (genu) of the corpus callosum. 3. Its posterior boundary (splenium) ; the intermediate portion forming the roof of the lateral ventricles has been removed so as to expose completely those cavities. 4. A part of the septum lucidum. showing an interspace between its layers—the fifth ventricle. 5. The anterior cornu of one side. 6. The commencement of the middle cornu. 7. The posterior cornu. 8. The corpus striatum of one ventricle. 9. The tenia semicircularis covered by the vena corporis striati and tenia Tarini. 10. A small part of the thalamus opticus. 11. The d*ark fringe-like body to the left of the numeral is the choroid plexus. This plexus communicates with that of the opposite ventricle through the foramen of Monro, or fo- ramen commune anterius; a bristle is passed through this opening (under figure 4), and its extremities are seen resting on the corpus striatum at each side. The figure 11 rests upon the edge of the fornix, on that part of it which is called the corpus fimbria turn. 12. The fornix. 13. The commencement of the hippocampus major descending into the middle cornu. The rounded oblong body in the posterior cornu of the lateral ventricle, directly behind the figure 13, is the hippocampus minor. ■f Peter Tarin, a French anatomist; his work, entitled “ Adversaria Anatomica,” was pubiisiied in 1750.