FACIAL NERVE. 401 buted in company with the branches of the temporal artery. In its course it sends filaments to the temporo-maxillary articulation, to the pinna and meatus of the ear, and to the integument in the temporal region. It com- municates on the temple with branches of the facial, supra-orbital, lachry- mal, and subcutaneus malae nerve. The descending branch enters the parotid gland, to which it sends numerous branches; it communicates with the inferior dental and auricularis magnus nerve, and supplies the external ear, the meatus auditorius, and the temporo-maxillary articulation, and sends one or two filaments into the tympanum. Sixth Pair. Abducentes.—The abducens nerve, about half the size of the motor oculi, arises by several filaments from the upper constricted part of the corpus pyramidale close to the pons Varolii. Proceeding for- wards from this origin it lies parallel with the basilar artery, and, piercing the dura mater upon the clivus Blumenbachii of the sphenoid bone, ascends beneath that membrane to the cavernous sinus. It then runs forwards along the inner wall of the sinus below the other nerves, and, resting against the internal carotid artery, passes between the two heads of the external rectus, and is distributed to that muscle. As it enters the orbit, it lies upon the ophthalmic vein, from wThich it is separated by a lamina of dura mater. In the cavernous sinus it is joined by several filaments from the carotid plexus, by one from Meckel’s ganglion, and one from the ophthalmic nerve. Mr. Mayo traced the origin of this nerve between the fasciculi of the corpora pyramidalia to the posterior part of the medulla oblongata; and Mr. Grainger pointed out its connexion with the grey substance of the spinal cord. Seventh Pair.—The seventh pair consists of two nerves which lie side by side on the posterior border of the crus cerebelli. The smaller and most internal of these, and, at the same time, the most dense in tex- ture, is the facial nerve or portio dura. The external nerve, which is soft and pulpy, and often grooved by contact with the preceding, is the auditory nerve or portio mollis of the seventh pair. Soemmering makes the auditory nerve the eighth pair; but, retaining the classifica- tion of Willis, we regard it as a part of the seventh wfith the facial. Facial Nerve (portio dura). — The facial nerve arises from the upper part of the groove between the corpus olivare and corpus restiforme, close to the pons Varolii, from wThich point its fibres may be traced deeply into the corpus restiforme. The nerve then passes forwards, resting upon the * A view of the origin and distribution of the portio mollis of the 7th pair or auditory n^rve. 1. The medulla oblongata. 2. The pons Varolii. 3 and 4. The crura cerebelli of the right side. 5* 8th pair. 6. 9th pair. 7. The auditory nerve distributed to the cochlea and labyrinth. 8. The 6th pair. 9. The portio dura of the 7th pair. 10. The 4*h pair. 11. The 3d pair. 34* 2a Fig. 181.* 1