POPLITEAL ARTERY. :J2G divisions of the crural nerve, then between the rectus and ciureus muscle, and divides into three branches; ascending, which inosculates with the terminal branches of the gluteal artery ; descending, which inosculates with the superior external articular artery; and middle, which continues the original course of the artery around the thigh, and anastomoses with branches of the ischiatic, internal circumflex, and superior perforating artery. It supplies the muscles on the anterior and outer side of the thigh. The Internal circumflex artery is larger than the external; it wands around the inner side of the neck of the femur, passing between the pecti- neus and psoas, and along the border of the external obturator muscle, to the space between the quadratus femoris and upper border of the adductor magnus, wThere it anastomoses wTith the ischiatic, external circumflex, and superior perforating artery. It supplies the muscles of the upper and inner side of the thigh, anastomosing with the obturator artery, and sends a small branch through the notch in the acetabulum into the hip joint. The Superior perforating artery passes backwards between the pectineus and adductor brevis, pierces the adductor magnus near the femur, and is distributed to the posterior muscles of the thigh; inosculating freely with the circumflex and ischiatic arteries, and with the branches of the middle perforating artery. The Middle perforating artery pierces the tendons of the adductor brevis and magnus, and is distributed like the superior; inosculating wflth the superior and inferior perforantes. This branch frequently gives off the nutritious artery of the femur. The Inferior perforating artery is given off below the adductor brevis, and pierces the tendon of the adductor magnus, supplying it and the flexor muscles, and inosculating wflth the middle perforating artery above, and with the articular branches of the popliteal below. It is through the me- dium of these branches that the collateral circulation is maintained in the limb after ligature of the femoral artery. The Muscular branches are given off by the femoral artery throughout thewThole of its course. They supply the muscles in immediate proximity with the artery, particularly those of the anterior aspect of the thigh. One of these branches, larger than the rest, arises from the femoral immediately below the origin of the profunda, and passing outwTards between the rectus and sartorius divides into branches which are distributed to all the muscles of the anterior aspect of the thigh. This may be named the superior mus- cular artery. The Anastomotica magna arises from the femoral wrhile in the tendinous canal formed by the adductors and vastus internus. It runs along the ten- don of the adductor magnus to the inner condyle, and inosculates with the superior internal articular artery; some of its branches are distributed to the vastus internus muscle and to the crureus, and terminate by anasto- mosing with the branches of the external circumflex and superior external articular artery. POPLITEAL ARTERY. The popliteal artery (Fig. 160) commences from the termination of the femoral at the opening in the adductor magnus muscle, and passes obliquely outwrards through the middle of the popliteal space to the lowrer border ot the popliteus muscle, where it divides into the anterior and posterior tibial artery.