AND SCIENTIFIC PUBLICATIONS. 11 DRUITT (ROBERT), M.R. C.S., &c. HIE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF MODERN SURGERY. A new American, from the improved London edition. Edited by F. W. Sargent, M. D., author of “Minor Surgerv,” &c. Illustrated with one hundred and ninety-three wood-engravings. In one very handsomely printed octavo volume, ol 576 large pages. Dr. Druitt’s researches into the literature of his subject have been not only extensive, but well di- rected ; the most discordant authors are fairly and impartially quoted, and, while due credit is given to each, their respective merits are weighed with an unprejudiced hand. The grain of wheat is pre- served, and the chaff is unmercifully stripped off. The arrangement is simple and philosophical, and the style, though clear and interesting, is so precise, that the book contains more information condensed into a few words than any other surgical work with which we are acquainted.—London Medical Times atul Gazette, February 18, 1854. No work, in our opinion, equals it in presenting so much valuable surgical matter in so small a compass.—St. Louis Med. and Surgical Journal. Druitt’s Surgery is too well known to the Ameri- can medical profession to require its announcement anywhere. Probably no work of the kind has ever been more cordially received and extensively circu- lated than this. The fact that it comprehends in a comparatively small compass, all the essential ele- ments of theoretical and practical Surgery—that it is found to contain reliable and authentic informa- tion on the nature and treatment of nearly all surgi- cal affections—is a sufficient reason for the liberal patronage it has obtained. The editor, Dr. F. W. Sargent, has contributed much to enhance the value of the work, by such American improvements as are calculated more perfectly to adapt it to our own views and practice in this country. It abounds everywhere with spirited and life-like illustrations, which to the young surgeon, especially, are of no minor consideration. Every medical man frequently needs just such a work as this, for immediate refe- rence in moments of sudden emergency, when he has not time to consult more elaborate treatises.—The Ohio Medical and Surgical Journal. The author has evidently ransacked every stand- ard treatise of ancient and modern times, and all that is really practically useful at the bedside will be found in a form at once clear, distinct, and interest- ing.—Edinburgh Monthly Medical Journal. Druitt’s work, condensed, systematic, lucid, and practical as it is, beyond most works on Surgery accessible to the American student, has had much currency in this country, and under its present au- spices promises to rise to yet higher favor.—The Western Journal of Medicine and Surgery. The most accurate and ample resume of the pre- sent state of Surgery that we are acquainted with.— Dublin Medical Journal. A better book on the principles and practice of Surgery as now understood in England and America, has not been given to the profession.—Boston Medi- cal and Surgical Journal. An unsurpassable compendium, not only of Sur- gical, but of Medical Practice.—London Medical Gazette. This work merits our warmest commendations, and we strongly recommend it to young surgeons as aruadanirable digest of the principles and practice of modern Surgery.—Medical Gazette. It maybe said with truth that the work of Mr. Druitt affords a complete, though brief and con- densed view, of the entire field of modern surgery. We know of no work on the same subject having the appearance of a manual, which includes so many topics of interest to the surgeon ; and the terse man- ner in which each has been treated evinces a most enviable quality of mind on the part of the author, who seems to have an innate power of searching out and grasping the leading facts and features of the most elaborate productions of the pen. It is a useful handbook for the practitioner, and we should deem a teacher of surgery unpardonable who did not recommend it to his pupils. In our own opinion, it is admirably adapted to the wants of the student.— Provincial Medical and Surgical Journal. DUNGLISON, FORBES, TWEEDIE, AND CONOLLY. ' THE CYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL MEDICINE: comprising Treatises on the Nature and Treatment of Diseases, Materia Medina, and Therapeutics, Diseases of Women and Children, Medical Jurisprudence, &c. &c. In four large super royal octavo volumes, of 3254 double-columned pages, strongly and handsomely bound. *** This work contains no less than four hundred and eighteen distinct treatises, contributed by sixHy-eight distinguished physicians. The most complete work on Practical Medicine extant; or, at ieast, in our language.— Buffalo Medical and, Surgical Journal. For reference, it is above all price to every prac- titioner.— Western Lancet. One of the most valuable medical publications of the day—as a work of reference it is invaluable.— Western Journal of Medicine and Surgery. It has been to us, both as learner and teacher, a work for ready and frequent reference, one in which modern English medicine is exhibited in the most advantageous light.—Medical Examiner. We rejoice that this work is to be placed within the reach of the profession in this country, it being unquestionably one of very great value to the prac- titioner. This estimate of it has not been formed from a hasty examination, but after an intimate ac- quaintance derived from frequent consultation of it during the past nine or ten years. The editors are practitioners of established reputation, and the list of contributors embraces many of the most eminent professors and teachers of London, Edinburgh, Dub- lin, and Glasgow. It is, indeed, the great merit of this work that the principal articles have been fur- nished by practitioners who have not only devoted especial attention to the diseases about which they have written, but have also enjoyed opportunities for an extensive practical acquaintance with them, and whose reputation carries the assurance of their competency justly to appreciate the opinions of others, while it stamps their own doctrines with high and just authority.—American Medical Journ. DUNGLISON (ROBLEY), M.D., Professor of the Institutes of Medicine in the Jefferson Medical C ollege, Philadelphia. HUMAN HEALTHj or, the Influence of Atmosphere and Locality, Change of /vir and Climate, Seasons, Food, Clothing, Bathing, Exercise, Sleep, &c. &c., on Healthy Man ; constituting Elements of Hygiene, Second edition, with many modifications and additions. In one octavo volume, of 464 pages.