137 LIGAMENTS OF TIIE TRUNK. synovial membranes entering into the composi- tion of joints, there are numerous smaller sacs of a similar kind interposed between surfaces \vhich move upon each other so as to cause friction ; they are often associated with the arti- culations. These are the bursa mucosa; they are shut sacs, analogous in structure to synovial membranes, and secreting a similar synovial fluid. The epithelium of synovial membranes is of the kind termed tessellated ; it is developed in the same manner with the epithelium of other free surfaces, and is continually reproduced from beneath, while the superficial layers are being rubbed ofF and lost. Fig. 71.* ARTICULATIONS. The joints may be arranged, according to a natural division, into those of the trunk, those of the upper extremity, and those of the lower extremity. Ligaments of the Trunk.—The articulations of the trunk are divisible into ten groups, viz.— 1. Of the vertebral column. 2. Of the atlas, with the occipital bone. 3. Of the axis, with the occipital bone. 4. Of the atlas, with the axis. 5. Of the lower jaw. 6. Of the ribs, with the vertebrae. 7. Of the ribs, with the sternum, and with each other. 8. Of the sternum. 9. Of the vertebral column, with the pelvis. 10. Of the pelvis. 1. Articulation of the Vertebral Column.—The ligaments connecting together the different pieces of the vertebral column, admit of the same arrangement with that of the vertebrae themselves. Thus the ligaments Of the bodies are the— Anterior common ligament, Posterior common ligament, Intervertebral substance. Of the arches,— Ligamenta subflava. Of the articular processes,— Capsular ligaments, Synovial membranes. Of the spinous processes,— Inter-spinous, Supra-spinous. Of the transverse processes,— Inter-transverse. * Epithelium of serous membrane,:—At a, an accidental fold is represented, the two lark edges of which exhibit the thickness of the particles, and of their nuclei, b. One of the oval nuclei, c. Line of junction between two particles. Magnified 300 dia- meters. 12*