CRANIAL GANGLIA. 433 SYMPATHETIC NERVES. The Sympathetic system consists of a series of ganglia, extending along each side of the vertebral column from the head to the coccyx, communi- cating with all the other nerves of the body, and distributing branches to all the internal organs and viscera. It communicates with the other nerves immediately at their exit from the cranium and vertebral canal. The fourth and sixth nerves, howTever, form an exception to this rule ; for with these it unites in the cavernous sinus; and with the olfactory, optic, and auditory, at their ultimate ex- pansions. The branches of distribution accompany the arteries which supply the different organs, and form communications around them, which are called plexuses, and take the name of the artery with which they are associated : thus we have the mesenteric plexus, hepatic plexus, splenic plexus, &c. All the internal organs of the head, neck, and trunk are supplied with branches from the sympathetic, and some of them exclusively; hence it is considered a nerve of organic life. It is called the ganglionic nerve from the circumstance of being formed by a number of ganglia; and from the constant disposition which it evinces in its distribution, to communicate and form small knots or ganglia. There are five sympathetic ganglia in the head; viz. the ganglion of Ribes; the ciliary or lenticular; the spheno-palatine, or Meckel’s; the otic, or Arnold’s; and the submaxillary: three in the neck; superior, middle, and inferior: twelve in the dorsal region; four in the lumbar re- gion ; and four or five in the sacral region. Each ganglion may be considered as a distinct centre giving off branches in four different directions, viz., superior or ascending, to communicate with the ganglion above ; inferior or descending, to communicate with the ganglion below; external, to communicate with the spinal nerves; and internal, to communicate with the sympathetic filaments of the opposite side, and to be distributed to the viscera. CRANIAL GANGLIA. Ganglion of Ribes, Ciliary, or lenticular ganglion, Spheno-palatine, or Meckel’s ganglion, Otic, or Arnold’s ganglion, Submaxillary ganglion. The Ganglion of Ribes is a small ganglion situated upon the anterior communicating artery, and formed by the union of the sympathetic fila- ments which accompany the ramifications of the two anterior cerebral arteries. These filaments are derived from the carotid plexus at each side ; and through their intervention, the ganglion of Ribes is brought into connexion with the carotid plexus, and with the other ganglia of the sym- pathetic. This ganglion, though of very small size, is interesting, as being the superior point of union between the sympathetic chains of opposite sides of the body. ^ie ^LTARY ^ANGLI0N (lenticular) is a small quadrangular and flattened