6 BLANCHARD & LEA’S MEDICAL CARPENTER (WILLIAM B.), M. D., F. R. S., &c., Examiner in Physiology and Comparative Anatomy in the University of London. PRINCIPLES OF HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY; with their chief applications to Psychology, Pathology, Therapeutics, Hygiene, and Forensic Medicine. Fifth American, from the fourth and enlarged London edition. With three hundred and fourteen illustrations. Edited, with additions, by Francis Gurney Smith, M.D., Professor of the Institutes of Medicine in the Pennsylvania Medical College, &c. In one very large and beautiful octavo volume, of about 1100 large pages, handsomely printed and strongly bound in leather, with raised bands. New edition. (Lately Issued.) The most complete work on the science in our language.—Am. Med. Journal. The most complete exposition of physiology which any language cun at present give.—Brit, and For. Med.-Chirurg. Review. We have thus adverted to some of the leading “additions and alterations,” which have been in- troduced by the author into this edition of his phy- siology. These will be found, however, very far to exceed the ordinary limits of a new edition, “ the old materials having been incorporated with the new, rather than the new with the old.” It now certainly presents the most complete treatise on the subject within the reach of the American reader; and while, for availability as a text-book, we may perhaps regret its growth in bulk, we are sure that the student of physiology will feel the impossibility of presenting a thorough digest of the facts of the science within a more limited compass.—Medical Examiner. The greatest, the most reliable, and the best book on the subject which we know of in the English language.—Stethoscope. The most complete work now extant in our lan- guage.—N. O. Med. Register. The changes are too numerous to admit of an ex- tended notice in this place. At every point where the recent diligent labors of organic chemists and micrographers have furnished interesting and valu- able facts, they have been appropriated, and no pains have been spared, in so incorporating and arranging them that the work may constitute one harmonious system.—Southern Med. and Surg. Journal. The best text-book in the language on this ex- tensive subject.—London Med. Times. A complete cyclopaedia of this branch of science. —N. Y. Med. Times. The standard of authority on physiological sub- jects. * * * In the present edition, to particularize the alterations and additions which have been made, would require a review of the whole work, since scarcely a subject has not been revised and altered, added to, or entirely remodelled to adapt it to the present state of the science.—Charleston Med. Journ. Any reader who desires a treatise on physiology may feel himself entirely safe in ordering this.— Western Med. and Surg. Journal. From this hasty and imperfect allusion it will be seen by our readers that the alterations and addi- tions to this edition render it almost a new work— and we can assure our readers that it is one of the best summaries of the existing facts of physiological science within the reach of the English student and physician.—N. Y. Journal of Medicine. The profession of this country, and perhaps also of Europe, have anxiously and for some time awaited the announcement of this new edition of Carpenter’s Hitman Physiology. His former editions have for many years been almost the only text-book on Phy- siology in all our medical schools, and its circula- tion among the profession has been unsurpassed by any work in any department of medical science. It is quite unnecessary for us to speak of this work as its merits would justify. The mere an- nouncement of its appearance will afford the highest pleasure to every student of Physiology, while its perusal will be of infinite service in advancing physiological science.—Ohio Med. and Surg. Journ. by the same author. (Now Heady.) PRINCIPLES OF COMPARATIVE PHYSIOLOGY. New American, from Ihe Fourth and Revised London edition. In one large and handsome octavo volume, with over three hundred beautiful illustrations. The delay which has existed in the appearance of this work has been caused by the very thorough revision and remodelling which it has undergone at the hands of the author, and the large number of new illustrations which have been prepared for it. It will, therefore, be found almost a new work, and fully up to the day in every department of the subject, rendering it a reliable text-book for all students engaged in this branch of science. Every effort has been made to render its typo- graphical finish and mechanical execution worthy of its exalted reputation, and creditable to the mechanical arts of this country. A few notices of the last edition are appended. Without pretending to it, it is an Encyclopedia of the subject, accurate and complete in all respects— a truthful reflection of the advanced state at which the science has now arrived.—Dublin Quarterly Journal of Medical Science. A truly magnificent work—in itself a perfect phy- siological study.—Ranking''s Abstract. This work stands without its fellow. It is one few men in Europe could have undertaken ; it is one no man, we believe, could have brought to so suc- cessful an issue as Dr. Carpenter, it required for its production a physiologist at once deeply read in the labors of others, capable of taking a general, critical, and unprejudiced view of those labors, and of combining the varied, heterogeneous materials at his disposal, so as to form an harmonious whole. We feel that this abstract can give the reader a very imperfect idea of the fulness of this work, and no idea of its unity, of the admirable manner in which material has been brought, from the most various sources, to conduce to its completeness, of the lucid- ity of the reasoning it contains, or of the clearness of language in which the whole is clothed. Not the profession only, but the scientific world at large, must feel deeply indebted to Dr. Carpenter for this great work. It must, indeed, add largely even to iiis high reputation.—Medical Times. BY the same author. (Preparing.) THE MICROSCOPE AND ITS REVELATIONS. In one handsome volume, beautifully illustrated with plates and wood-cuts. by the same author. (Preparing.) GENERAL PHYSIOLOGY. In one large and very handsome octavo volume, with several hundred illustrations. The subject of general physiology having been omitted in the last edition of the author’s “ Com- parative Physiology,” he has undertaken to prepare a volume which shall present it more tho- roughly and fully than has yet been attempted, and which may be regarded as an introduction to his other works.