BLANCHARD & LEA’S MEDICAL 18 Kl RKES (WILLIAM SENHOUSE), M.D., Demonstrator of Morbid Anatomy at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, &c.; and JAMES PAGET, F. R. S., Lecturer on General Anatomy and Physiology in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital. A MANUAL OF PHYSIOLOGY. Second American, from the second and improved London edition. With one hundred and sixty-five illustrations. In one large and handsome royal 12mo. volume, pp. 550. (Just Issued.) In the present edition, the Manual of Physiology has been brought up to the actual condition of the science, and fully sustains the reputation which it has already so deservedly attained. We consider the work of MM. Kirkes and Paget to constitute one of the very best handbooks of Physiology we possess —presenting just such an outline of the science, com- prising an account of its leading facts and generally admitted principles, as the student requires during his attendance upon a course of lectures, or for re- ference whilst preparing for examination. The text is fully and ably illustrated by a series of very supe- rior wood-engravings, by which a comprehension of some of the more intricate of the subjects treated of is greatly facilitated.—Am. Medical Journal. We need only say, that, without entering into dis- cussions of unsettled questions, it contains all the recent improvements in this department of medical science. For the student beginning this study, and the practitioner who has but leisure to refresh his memory, this book is invaluable, as it contains all that it is important to know, without special details, which are read with interest only by those who would make a specialty, or desire to possess a criti- cal knowledge of the subject.—Charleston Medical Journal. One of the best treatises that can be put into the hands of the student.—London Medical Gazette. The general favor with which the first edition of this work was received, and its adoption as a favor- ite text-book by many of our colleges, will insure a large circulation to this improved edition. It will fully meet the wants of the student. — Southern Med. and Surg. Journal. Particularly adapted to those who desire to pos- sess a concise digest of the facts of Human Physi- ology.—British and Foreign Med.-Chirurg. Review. We conscientiously recommend it as an admira- ble “Handbook of Physiology.”—London Journal of Medicine. KNAPP (F.), PH. D., &c. TECHNOLOGY; or, Chemistry applied to the Arts and to Manufactures. Edited, with numerous Notes and Additions, by Dr. Edmund Ronalds and Dr. Thomas Richardson. First American edition, with Notes and Additions, by Prof. Walter R. Johnson. In two hand- some octavo volumes, printed and illustrated in the highest style of art, with about five hundred wood-engravings. LEHMANN. PHYSIOLOGICAL CHEMISTRY. Translated by George E. Day, M. D. (.Preparing.) LEE (ROBERT), M. D., F. R. S., &c. CLINICAL MIDWIFEPvY; comprising the Histories of Five Hundred and Forty-five Cases of Difficult, Preternatural, and Complicated Labor, with Commentaries. From the second London edition. In one royal 12mo. volume, extra cloth, of 238 pages. LA ROCHE (R.), M. D., 8ic. PNEUMONIA; its Supposed Connection, Pathological and Etiological, with Au- tumnal Fevers, including an Inquiry into the Existence and Morbid Agency of Malaria. In one handsome octavo volume, extra cloth, of 500 pages. A more simple, clear, and forcible exposition of the groundless nature and dangerous tendency of certain pathological and etiological heresies, has seldom been presented to our notice.—N. Y. Journal of Medicine and Collateral Science, March, 1854. This work should be carefully studied by Southern physicians, embodying as it does the reflections of an original thinker and close observer on a subject peculiarly their own.— Virginia Med. and Surgical Journal. The author had prepared us to expect a treatise from him, by his brief papers on kindred topics in the periodical press, and yet in the work before us he has exhibited an amount of industry and learning, research and ability, beyond what we are accustomed to discover in modern medical writers; while his own extensive opportunities for observation and experience have been improved by the most laudable diligence, and display a familiarity with the whole subject in every aspect, which commands both our respect and confidence. As a corrective of prevalent and mischievous error, sought to be propagated by novices and innovators, we could wish that Dr. La Roche’s book could be widely read.—N. Y. Medical Gazette. by the same author. (In Press.) YELLOW FEVER, considered in its Historical, Pathological, and Etiological Relations. In one very large and handsome octavo volume. LONGET (F. A.) TREATISE ON PHYSIOLOGY. With numerous Illustrations. Translated from the French by F. G. Smith, M. D., Professor of Institutes of Medicine in the Pennsylvania Medical College. (Preparing.)