SCALENUS POSTICUS—LONGUS COLLI. 197 Fig. 113.f with the phrenic nerve, and with the subclavian vein, by which it is se- parated from the subclavius muscle and clavicle. By its posterior surface with the nerves which go to form the brachial plexus, and below with the subclavian artery. By its inner side it is separated from the longus colli by the vertebral artery. Its relations with the subclavian artery and vein are very important, the vein being before and the artery behind the muscle.’"' The Scalenus Posticus arises from the posterior tubercles of all the cervical ver- tebrae excepting the first. It is inserted by two fleshy fasciculi into the first and second ribs. The anterior (scalenus medius) of the two fasciculi is large, and occupies all the surface of the first rib between the groove for the subclavian artery and the tuberosity. The posterior (scalenus posticus) is small, and is attached to the second rib. Albinus and Soemmering make five scaleni. Relations. — By its anterior surface with the brachial plexus and subclavian artery; posteriorly with the levator anguli scapulas, cervicalis ascendens, transversalis colli, and sacro-lumbalis; internally with the first in- tercostal muscle, the first rib, the inter- transverse muscles, and cervical vertebrae ; and externally with the sterno-mastoid, omo- hyoid, supra-scapular and posterior scapu- lar arteries. The Longus Colli is a long and flat muscle, consisting of two portions. The upper arises from the anterior tubercle of the atlas, and is inserted into the transverse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical verte- brae. The lower portion arises from the bodies of the second and third, and transverse processes of the fourth and fifth, and passes down the neck, to be inserted into the bodies of the three lower cervical and three upper dorsal vertebrae. We should thus arrange these attachments in a tabular form:— Upper portion. Origin. Insertion. | Atlas - - - | | 3d, 4th, and 5th transverse processes. Lower portion. ) 2d and 3d bodies ( > 4th and 5th trans- < 1 3 lower cervical vertebrae, bodies. ) verse processes. ( [ 3 upper dorsal, bodies. In general terms, the muscle is attached to the bodies and transverse * In a subject dissected in the school of the Middlesex hospital during the winter of 1841 by Mr. Joseph Rogers, the subclavian artery of the left side was placed with the vein in front of the scalenus anticus muscle. t The praevertebral group of muscles of the neck. 1. The rectus anticus major mus- cle. 2. The scalenus anticus. 3. The lower part of the longus colli of the right side: it is concealed superiorly by the rectus anticus major. 4. The rectus anticus minor 3. The upper portion of the longus colli muscle. 0. Its lower portion; the figure -csts upon the seventh cervical vertebra. 7. The scalenus posticus. 8. The rectus lateralis of the left side. 9. One of the intertransversales muscles. 17*