UOm BASE OF THE BRAIN. 3QO vermiformis superior, and that which is lodged within the vallecula being the processus vermiformis inferior. The superior vermiform process is a prominent longitudinal ridge, extending from the incisura anterior to the incisura posterior cerebelli. In imitation of the hemispheres, it is divided into lobes, of which three have received names, namely, the lobulus cen- tralis, which is a small lobe situated in the incisura anterior; the tnonti- culus cerebelli, a longer lobe, having its peak and declivity; and a small lobe near the incisura posterior, the commissura simplex. The lobes of the inferior vermiform process are four in number, namely,—the commis- sura brevis, situated in the incisura posterior, below the horizontal fissure ; the pyramid, a small, obtusely-pointed eminence; a larger prominence, the uvula, situated between the tonsils, and connected with them by means of a commissure ; and in front of the uvula, the nodulus. In front of the nodulus is a thin lamina of medullary substance, consisting of a central and two lateral portions, the velum medullare posterius (valvula Tarini), and between this velum in front, and the nodulus and uvula behind, is a deep fossa which is known as the swallow's nest (nidus hirundinis). The velum medullare anterius is the valve of Vieussens, described with the fourth ventricle ; both these vela proceed from the same point in the roof of that ventricle, and separate from each other at an angle, the one passing obliquely forwards, the other obliquely backwards. When a vertical incision is made into the cerebellum, that appearance is seen which has been denominated arbor vitce cerebelli ; the white sub- stance in the centre of such a section resembles the trunk of a tree, from which branches are given off, and from the branches branchlets and leaves, the two latter being coated by a moderately thick and uniform layer of grey substance. If the incision be made somewhat nearer the commissure than to the lateral border of the organ, a yellowish grey dentated line, en- closing medullary substance traversed by the openings of numerous vessels, will be seen in the centre of the white substance. This is the ganglion of the cerebellum, the corpus rhomboideum or dentatum, from which the peduncles of the cerebellum proceed. The grey line is dense and horny in structure, and is the cut edge of a thin capsule, open towards the medulla oblongata. The cerebellum is associated with the rest of the encephalon by means of three pairs of rounded cords or peduncles, superior, middle, and infe- rior. The superior peduncles, or processus e cerebello ad testes, proceed from the cerebellum forwards and upwards to the testes, in which they are lost. They form the anterior part of the lateral boundaries of the fourth ventricle, and give attachment by their inner borders to the valve of Vieussens, which is stretched between them. At their junction with the testes they are crossed by the fourth pair of nerves. The middle pedun- cles, or crura cerebelli ad pontem, the largest of the three, issue from the cerebellum through the anterior extremity of the sulcus horizontalis, and are lost in the pons Varolii. The inferior peduncles, or crura ad medul- la rn oblongatam, are the corpora restiformia which descend to the poste- rior part of the medulla oblongata, and form the inferior portion of the lateral boundaries of the fourth ventricle. BASE OF THE BRAIN. The student should now prepare to study the base of the brain : for this ourpose the organ should be turned upon its incised surface; and if the