350 VENA PORTAE. constitute by their junction a large trunk, which ascends by the side of the corresponding artery, crosses the transverse duodenum, and unites behind the pancreas with the splenic in the formation of the portal vein. The Splenic vein commences in the structure of the spleen, and quits that organ by several large veins: it is larger than the splenic artery, and Fig. 166.* perfectly straight in its course. It passes horizontally inwards behind the pancreas, and terminates near its greater end by uniting with the superior mesenteric, and forming the portal vein. It receives in its course the gastric and pancreatic veins, and near its termination the inferior mesen- teric vein. The Gast?ic veins correspond with the gastric, gastroepiploic, and vasa brevia arteries, and terminate in the splenic vein. The Vena portal, formed by the union of the splenic and superior mesenteric vein behind the pancreas, ascends through the right border of the lesser omentum to the transverse fissure of the liver, where it divides into two branches, one for each lateral lobe. In the right border of the lesser omentum it is situated behind and between the hepatic artery and ductus communis choledochus, and is surrounded by the hepatic plexus of nerves and lymphatics. At the transverse fissure each primary branch divides into numerous secondary branches, which ramify through the * The portal vein. 1. The inferior mesenteric vein ; it is traced by means of dotted .ines behind the pancreas (2) to terminate in the splenic vein (3). 4. The spleen. 3. ciastrie veins, opening into the splenic vein. 6. The superior mesenteric vein. 7. The descending portion of the duodenum. 8. Its transverse portion, which is crossed by the. superior mesenteric vein and by a part of the trunk of the superior mesenteric artery. 9 The portal vein. 10. The hepatic artery. 11. The ductus communis choledochus 12. The division of the duct and vessels at the transverse fissure of the liver. 13. The cystic duct leading to the gall bladder.