frontalis FRONTAL BONE. Fig. 25* glides over its upper sur- 0. The internal termination of the parietal foramen. 7. The anterior inferior angle of G2 inferior angle is thick, and presents a broad and shallow groove for the lateral sinus. Development.—By a single centre. Ossification commences at the parie- tal eminence at the same time with the bodies of the vertebra. Articulations. — With five bones ; with the opposite parietal bone, the occipital, frontal, temporal, and noid. Attachment of Muscles. — To one only,—the temporal. The occipito- face. Frontal Bone.—The frontal bone bears some resemblance in form to the under valve of a scallop shell. It is situated at the anterior part of the cranium, forming the forehead, and assists in the construction of the roof of the orbits and nose. Hence it is divisible into a superior or frontal portion, and an inferior or orbito-nasal portion. Each of these portions presents for examination an external and internal surface, borders, and processes. External surface.—At about the middle of each lateral half of the fron- tal portion is a projection, the frontal eminence. Below these points are the superciliary ridges, large towards their inner termination, and becoming gradually smaller as they arch outwards : they support the eyebrows. Beneath the superciliary ridges are the sharp and prominent arches which form the upper margin of the orbits, the supra-orhital ridges. Externally the supra-orbital ridge terminates in the external angular process, and internally in the internal angular process; at the inner third of this ridge is a notch, sometimes converted into a foramen, the supra-orhital notch, which gives passage to the supra-orbital artery, veins, and nerve. Be- tween the twTo superciliary ridges is a rough projection, the nasal tuberosi- ty ; this portion of the bone denotes by its prominence the situation of the frontal sinuses. Extending upwards and backwards from the external angular process is a sharp ridge, the commencement of the temporal ridge, and beneath this a depressed surface that forms part of the temporal fossa. The orbito-nasal portion of the bone consists of twro thin processes, the orbital plates, which form the roof of the orbits, and of an intervening notch which lodges the ethmoid bone, and is called the ethmoidal fissure. The edges of the ethmoidal fissure are hollowed into cavities, which, b^ their union with the ethmoid bone, complete the ethmoidal cells: and, crossing these edges transversely, are two small grooves, sometimes canals, which open into the orbit by the anterior and posterior ethmoidal foramina. At the anterior termination of these edges are the irregular openings which '* The internal surface of the left parietal bone. 1. The superior or sagittal border. 2 The inferior, or squamous border. 3. The anterior, or coronal border. 4. The poste- rior, or lambdoidal border. 5. Part of the groove for the superior longitudinal sinus. the bone, on which is seen the groove for the trunk of the arteria meningea media. 8 The posterior inferior angle, upon which is seen a portion of the groove for the latera. «irus.