349 PORTAL SYSTEM. tercostals; and in the loins and pelvis into the lumbar and sacral veins, the communications being established through the intervertebral foramina. The Medulli-spinal veins are situated between the pia mater and arach- noid ; they communicate freely with each other to form plexuses, and they send branches through the intervertebral foramina with each of the spinal nerves, to join the veins of the trunk. CARDIAC VEINS. The veins returning the blood from the substance of the heart, are the— Great cardiac vein, Posterior cardiac veins, Anterior cardiac veins, Venae Thebesii. The Great cardiac vein (coronary) commences at the apex of the heart, and ascends along the anterior ventricular groove to the base of the ven- tricles ; it then curves around the left auriculo-ventricular groove to the posterior part of the heart, where it terminates in the right auricle. It re- ceives in its course the left cardiac veins from the left auricle and ventricle, and the posterior cardiac veins from the posterior ventricular groove. The Posterior cardiac vein, frequently two in number, commences also at the apex of the heart, and ascends along the posterior ventricular groove, to terminate in the great cardiac vein. It receives the veins from the pos- terior aspect of the two ventricles. The Anterior cardiac veins collect the blood from the anterior surface of the right ventricle ; one larger than the rest runs along the right border of the heart and joins the trunk formed by these veins, which curves around the right auriculo-ventricular groove, to terminate in the great cardiac vein near its entrance into the right auricle. The Venai Thebesii are numerous minute venules which convey the venous blood directly from the substance of the heart into its four cavities. Their existence is denied by some anatomists. PORTAL SYSTEM. The portal system is composed of four large veins which return the blood from the chylopoietic viscera; they are the— Inferior mesenteric vein, Superior mesenteric vein, Splenic vein, Gastric veins. The Inferior mesenteric vein receives its blood from the rectum by means of the haemorrhoidal veins, and from the sigmoid flexure and de scending colon, and ascends behind the transverse duodenum and pan creas, to terminate in the splenic vein. Its hsemorrhoidal branches inos culate with branches of the internal iliac vein, and thus establish a com munication between the portal and general venous system. The Superior mesenteric vein is formed by branches which collect the venous blood from the capillaries of the superior mesenteric artery; they