POSTERIOR BRACHIAL REGION. 234 Fig. 123.* In the hand: after passing beneath the annular ligament, it is lodged in the interspace between the two portions of the flexor brevis pollicis, and ' erwards in the tendinous theca of the phalanges. [f the tendons of the last two muscles be drawn aside or divided, the rd muscle of this group will be brought into view, lying across the '/er part of the two bones. The Pronator Quadratus arises from the ulna, and is inserted into the :er fourth of the oblique line, on the outer side of the radius. This muscle occupies about the lower fourth of the two bones, is broad at its origin, and narrower at its insertion. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the ten- dons of the supinator longus, flexor carpi radialis, flexor longus pollicis, flexor profundus digitorum, and flexor carpi ulnaris, radial artery and veins, and ulnar artery, veins, and nerve. By its posterior sur- face with the radius, ulna, and interosseous mem- brane. Actions.—The pronator radii teres and pronator quadratus muscles rotate the radius upon the ulna, and render the hand prone. The remaining muscles are flexors: two flexors of the wrist, flexor carpi ra- dialis and ulnaris; two of the fingers, flexor sublimis and profundus, the former flexing the second pha- langes, the latter the last; one flexor of the last pha- lanx of the thumb, flexor longus pollicis. The palmaris longus is primarily a tensor of the palmar fascia, and secondarily a flexor of the wrist and fore- arm. Posterior Brachial Region. Superficial layer. Supinator longus, Extensor carpi radialis longior, Extensor carpi radialis brevior, Extensor communis digitorum, Extensor minimi digiti, Extensor carpi ulnaris, Anconeus. Dissection.—The integument is to be divided and turned aside, and the fasciae removed in the same manner as for the anterior brachial region. The Supinator Longus muscle is placed along the radial border of the fore-arm. It arises from the external condyloid ridge of the humerus, nearly as high as the insertion of the deltoid, and is inserted into the base of the styloid process of the radius. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, extensor primi internodii pollicis, and fascia of the fore-arm. By * The deep layer of muscles of the fore-arm. 1. The internal lateral ligament of the elbow joint. 2. The anterior ligament. 3. The orbicular ligament of the head^f the radius. 4. The flexor profundus digitorum muscle. 5. The flexor longus pollicis. C. The pronator quadratus. 7. The adductor pollicis muscle. 8. The dorsal interosseous muscle of the middle finger, and palmar interosseous of the ring finger. 9. The dorsal interosseous muscle of the ring finger, and palmar interosseous of the little finger.