539 URETHRA. terence or floor is a longitudinal fold of mucous Fig. 237.* membrane, the veru montanum, or caput gallina- oinis, and on each side ot the veru, a depressed fossa, the prostatic sinus, in which are seen the numerous openings ot the prostatic ducts. At the anterior extremity of the veru montanum are the openings of the two ejaculatory ducts, and between them a third opening, which leads backwards into a small caecal sac, the sinus pocularis. The pros- tatic portion of the urethra, when distended, is the most dilated part of the canal; but, excepting dur- ing the passage of urine, is completely closed by means of a ring of muscular tissue which encircles the urethra as far as the anterior extremity of the veru montanum. In the contracted state of the urethra, the veru montanum acts as a valve, being pressed upwards against the upper wall of the canal; but, during the action of the detrusor mus- cle of the bladder, the whole ring is expanded by the longitudinal muscular fibres which are inserted into it; and the veru is especially drawn down by two delicate tendons, which have been traced by Mr. Tyrrell from the posterior fibres of the detrusor into the tissue of this process. The Membranous portion, the narrowest part of the canal, is somewhat less than an inch in length. It is situated between the two layers of the deep perineal fascia, and is surrounded by the fan-like expansions of the upper and lower segments of the compressor urethrae muscle, which meet at the raphe along its upper and lower surface. It is continuous posteriorly with the prostatic urethra, and anteriorly with the spongy portion of the canal. Its coverings are, the mucous membrane, elastic fibrous layer, compressor urethrae muscle, and a partial sheath from the deep perineal fascia. The Spongy portion forms the rest of the extent of the canal, and is lodged in the corpus spongiosum from its commencement at the deep perineal fascia to the meatus urinarius. It is narrowest in the body, and becomes dilated at either extremity, posteriorly in the bulb, wTere it is named the bulbous portion, and anteriorly in the glans penis, where it forms the fossa navicularis. The meatus urinarius is the most constricted part of the canal; so that a catheter, which will enter that opening, may be passed freely through the whole extent of a normal urethra. Opening into the bulbous portion are two small excretory ducts about three-quar- ters of an inch in length, which may be traced backwards, between the coats of the urethra and the bulb, to the interval between the two layers * The bulbous, membranous, and prostatic urethra, with part of the bladder. 1. Part of the urinary bladder; its internal surface. 2. The trigonum vesicse. 3. The openings of the ureters. 4. The uvula vesicae. 5. The veru montanum. 6. The opening of the sinus pocularis. 7, 7. The apertures of the ejaculatory ducts. 8, 8. The openings of the prostatic ducts. The numbers 7, 7, and 8, 8, are placed on the cut surface of the supra-urethral portion of the prostate gland. 9, 9. The lateral lobes of the prostate gland. a. The membranous portion of the urethra, b, b. Cowper’s glands, c, c. The apertures of the excretory ducts of Cowper’s glands, d. The commencement of the bulbous por- tion of the urethra, e, e. The upper surface of the bulb of the corpus spongiosum, f f Ihe crura penis, g, g. The corpus cavernosum. h. The spongy portion of the urethra.