I GO KNEE JOINT. Fig. 92.* to the articulation ; the remaining three are mere folds of synovial mem- brane, and have no title to the name of ligaments. In addition to the ligaments, there are two fibro-cartilages, which are sometimes very erro- neously considered among the ligaments ; and a synovial membrane, which is still more improperly named the capsular ligament. The anterior ligament, or ligamentum patella, is the prolongation of the tendon of the extensor muscles of the thigh downwards to the tubercle of the tibia. It is, therefore, no ligament; and, as we have before stated, that the patella is simply a sesamoid bone, developed in the tendon of the extensor muscles for the defence of the front of the knee joint, the ligamentum patellae has no title to con- sideration, either as a ligament of the knee joint or as a ligament of the patella. A small bursa mucosa is situated between the liga- mentum patellae, near its insertion and the front of the tibia, and another of larger size is placed between the anterior surface of the patella and the fascia lata. The posterior ligament, ligamentum posticum Wins- lowii, is a broad expansion of ligamentous fibres which covers the whole of the posterior part of the joint. It is divisible into two lateral portions which invest the condyles of the femur, and a central portion which is depressed, and formed by the interlacement of fasciculi passing in different directions. The strongest of these fasciculi is that which is derived from the tendon of the semi-membranosus, and passes obliquely upwards and outwards, from the posterior part of the inner tuberosity of the tibia to the external condyle. Other accessory fasciculi are given off by the tendon of the popliteus and by the heads of the gastrocnemius. The middle portion of the ligament supports the popliteal artery and vein, and is perforated by several openings for the passage of branches of the azygos articular artery, and for the nerves of the joint. The internal lateral ligament is a broad and trapezoid layer of liga- mentous fibres, attached above to the tubercle on the internal condyle of the femur, and below to the side of the inner tuberosity of the tibia. It is crossed at its lower part by the tendons of the inner hamstring, from which it is separated by a synovial bursa, and it covers in the anterior slip of the semi-membranosus tendon and the inferior internal articular artery. External lateral ligaments.—The long external lateral ligament is a strong rounded cord, which descends from the posterior part of the tubercle upon the external condyle of the femur to the outer part of the head of the fibula. The short external lateral ligament is an irregular fasciculus situated behind the preceding, arising from the external condyle near the origin of the head of the gastrocnemius muscle, and inserted into the posterior part of the head of the fibula. It is firmly connected with the external semilunar fibro-cartilage, and appears principally intended to connect that cartilage with the fibula. The long external lateral ligament * An anterior view of the ligaments of the knee joint. 1. The tendon of the quadri- ceps extensor muscle ot the leg. 2. The patella. 3. The anterior ligament, or liga- mentum patciltc, near its insertion. 4, 4. The synovial membrane. 5. The internal »ateral ligament. 6. The long external lateral ligament. 7. The anterior superioi tibio- fibular ligament.