SACRUM. 11. The notch which is converted mto a foramen by the coccyx. 57 nor transverse processes of the true vertebrae \ beyond these is a shallow groove in which the four posterior sacral foramina open, and farther out- wards, a range of five tubercles corresponding with the anterior or costal transverse processes of the lumbar vertebra. Ihe lowest pair of the pos- terior transverse tubercles bound on eacb side the termination of the sacral canal, and send each a process downwards to articulate with the coccyx. The two descending processes are the sacral cornua. The posterior sacral foramina are smaller than the anterior, and transmit the posterior sacral nerves. Of the anterior transverse tubercles the first corresponds with the angle of the superior border ot the bone ; the second is small, and enters into the formation of the sacro-iliac articulation ; the third is large, and gives attachment to the oblique sacro-iliac ligament; the fourth and fifth are smaller, and serve for the attachment of the Fig. 21.* sacro-ischiatic ligaments. The lateral border of the sacrum presents superiorly a broad and ear-shaped (auricular) surface to articulate with the ilium ; and inferiorly a sharp edge, to which the greater and lesser sacro-ischiatic ligaments are attached. On the superior border, in the middle line, is an oval articular surface, which corresponds with the under part of the body of the last lumbar vertebra; and on each side a broad triangular surface, which supports the lumbo-sacral nerve and psoas magnus muscle. Immediately behind the vertebral articular sur- face is the triangular entrance of the sacral canal; and on each side of this opening an articular process, which looks backwards and inwards, like the superior articular processes of the lumbar vertebrae. In front of each articular process is an intervertebral notch. The inferior extremity of the bone presents a small oval surface which articulates with the coccyx; and on each side a notch, which, with a corresponding notch in the upper border of the coccyx, forms the foramen for the transmission of the fifth sacral nerve. The sacrum presents some variety in respect of curvature, and of the number of pieces which enter into its structure. The curve is often very slight, and is situated only near the lower part of the bone; while in other subjects it is considerable, and occurs at the middle of the sacrum. The sexual differences in the sacrum relate to its greater breadth, and the Greater an<de which it forms with the rest of the vertebral column in the OO female, rather than to any peculiarity in shape. It is sometimes composed of six pieces, more rarely of four, and, occasionally, the first and second pieces remain permanently separate. Development.—By twenty-one points of ossification ; five for each of the three first pieces, viz. one for the body, one for each lateral portion, and one for each lamina; and three for each of the two last, namely, one for * The sacrum seen upon its anterior surface. 1, 1. The transverse lines marking the original constitution of the bone of four pieces. 2, 2. The anterior sacral foramina. 3. 1 he promontory of the sacrum. 4. The ear-shaped surface which articulates with the ilium. 5. The sharp edge to which the sacro-ischiatic ligaments are attached 6. 1 he vertebral articular surface. 7. The broad triangular surface which supports the psoas muscle and lumbo-sacral nerve. 8. The articular process of the right side 9. 'ihe inferior extremity, or apex of the sacrum. 10. One of the sacral cornua