175 ORBITAL GROUP. nerves, and with the integument, to which it is very closely adherent. Its under surface is attached to the pericranium by a loose areolar tissue which admits of considerable movement. Actions. — To raise the eyebrows, thereby throwing the integument of the forehead into transverse wrinkles. Some persons have the power oi moving the entire scalp upon the pericranium by means of these muscles. 2. Orbital group.—Orbicularis palpebrarum, Corrugator supercilii, Tensor tarsi. Dissection. — The dissection of the face is to be effected by continuing the longitudinal incision of the vertex of the previous dissection onwards to the tip of the nose, and thence downwards to the margin of the upper lip ; then carry an incision along the margin of the lip to the angle of the mouth, and transversely across the face to the angle of the lower jaw\ Lastly, divide the integument in front of the external ear upw-ards to the transverse incision which was made for exposing the occipito-frontalis. Dissect the integument and superficial fascia carefully from the whole of the region included by these incisions, and the present with the two fol- lowing groups of muscles will be brought into view. The Orbicularis Palpebrarum is a sphincter muscle, surrounding the orbit and eyelids. It arises from the internal angular process of the frontal bone, from the nasal process of the superior maxillary, and from a short tendon (tendo oculi) which extends between the nasal process of the supe- rior maxillary bone, and the inner extremities of the tarsal cartilages of the eyelids. The fibres encircle the orbit and eyelids, forming a broad and thin muscular plane, which is inserted into the low^er border of the tendo oculi, and into the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone. Upon the eyelids the fibres are thin and pale, and possess an involuntary action. The tendo oculi, in addition to its insertion into the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, sends a process inwrards which expands over the .aehrymal sac, and is attached to the ridge of the lachrymal bone: this is the reflected aponeurosis of the tendo oculi. Relations.—By its superficial surface it is closely adherent to the integu- ment from which it is separated over the eyelids by a loose areolar tissue. By its deep surface it lies in contact above with the upper border of the orbit, wTith the corrugator supercilii muscle, and with the frontal and supra-orbital vessels and supra-orbital nerve; below, w ith the lachrymal sac, writh the origins of the levator labii superioris alaeque nasi, levator labii superioris proprius, zygomaticus major and minor muscles, and malar bone ; and externally with the temporal fascia. Upon the eyelids it is in relation with the broad tarsal ligament and tarsal cartilages, and by its upper border gives attachment to the occipito-frontalis muscle. The Corrugator Supercilii is a small narrow and pointed muscle, situated immediately above the orbit and beneath the upper segment of the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle. It arises from the inner extremity of the superciliary ridge, and is inserted into the under surface of the orbi- cularis palpebrarum at a point corresponding with the middle of the super- ciliary arch. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the pyramidalis nasi, occipito frontalis and orbicularis palpebrarum muscle; and by its deep surface.\ with the supra-orbital vessels and nerve.