HISTOLOGY. XCj sides forming a constituent of milk, casein is found in blood, saliva, uile, and the lens of the eye. 4th. Pepsin. This substance was discovered by Schwann, and analysed by Vogel, who found it to be composed of N8 O]0. It is so much like albumen that it is difficult to discover a distinction between them. It is found in the gastric glands. 5th. Globulin (Pr^-h S) exists in the blood corpuscles; very like albu men. 6th. Spermatin is found in semen; probably fibrin, altered and filled with living forms. 7th. Mucus consists of globules floating in a clear fluid, the constitution of each being different. 8th. Keratin (Pr S2). The product of the analysis of hair, cuticle, &c. 9th. Salivin. Found only in the saliva. Besides the protein compounds thus enumerated, we have the extractive matter, obtained by either water or alcohol from muscular flesh. The watery extract is called osmazome, is highly volatile, gives the taste and odour to soups and roast meats, and is no doubt a product of the treatment of the meat, or a new combination of the animal elements occurring during the effort to procure it. Gelatine is another substance obtained from portions of the animal body, and differs according to the tissue which furnishes it. Thus ten- dons, ligaments and bone furnish colla, or glue, which consists of C52 H40 N8 O-20; whilst the cartilages and the cornea furnish chondrin, the composition of which is N32 H26 N4 014. Hematin is found in C44 N3 06 united with a little iron, which is not essential to its composition or existence. A number of principles have been described as existing in the hepatic secretion or bile, but much research is yet necessary to clear up the con- fusion which exist in writings with regard to them. They may be enu- merated :—Bilin, fellinic acid, cholinic acid, taurin, dy sly sin, cholepyrrhin, biliphcdn, biliverdin, bilifulvin, cholesterin, oleate, mangarate, and stearate of soda, chloride of sodium, sulphate, phosphate, and lactate of soda, and phosphate of lime. Urea and uric acid, found in the urine, should not be considered as constituent parts of an animal, but as elements combined in a particular way for the purpose of being excreted. II. The non-nitrogenized compounds, found in the bodies or secretions of animals, are not numerous. When milk is dried, two-fifths of its solid contents consist of a peculiar sugar, called saccharum laclis, and composed of C5 H4 04 +HO. It crystallizes in four-sided prisms, and has a sp. gr of 1.543. It also contains an acid called lactic (C6 H5 05), common in all the fluids and secretions of the body, and united in them with either potash soda, ammonia, lime, or magnesia. Fat consists of cells held together by areolar tissue and vessels, and is found by the chemists to contain glycerin, stearic acid, margaric acid, and elaic acid, all of which are destitute of nitrogen. The solidity of the fat of an animal depends upon the proportion of the above ingredients; thus, when stearic acid preponderates, the fat is solid, and when elaic, fluid.