LIGAMENTS OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. J40 animals, by a thin slip from the spinous process of each of the cervical vertebrse. Transverse Processes. — The inter-transverse ligaments are thin and membranous ; they are found only between the transverse processes of the lower dorsal vertebrse. 2. Articulation of the Atlas with the Occipital bone. — The ligaments of this articulation are seven in number,— Two anterior occipito-atloid, Posterior occipito-atloid, Lateral occipito-atloid, Two capsular. Of the two anterior ligaments, one is a rounded cord, situated in the middle line, and superficially to the other. It is attached above, to the basilar process of the occipital bone; and below, to the anterior tubercle of the atlas. The deeper ligament is a broad membranous layer, attached above, to the margin of the occipital foramen; and below, to the whole length of the anterior arch of the atlas. It is in relation in front with the recti antici minores, and behind with the odontoid ligaments. Fig. 75.* Fig. 76.f The posterior ligament is thin and membranous; it is attached above, to the margin of the occipital foramen; and below, to the posterior arch of the atlas. It is closely adherent to the dura mater, by its inner surface; and forms a ligamentous arch at each side, for the passage of the vertebral arteries and first cervical nerves. It is in relation posteriorly with the recti postici minores and obliqui superiores. The lateral ligaments are strong fasciculi of ligamentous fibres, attached below, to the base of the transverse process of the atlas at each side, and above, to the transverse process of the occipital bone. With a ligamentous expansion derived from the vaginal process of the temporal bone, these * An anterior view of the ligaments connecting the atlas, the axis, and the occipital bone. A transverse section has been carried through the base of the skull, dividing the basilar process of the occipital bone and the petrous portions of the temporal bones. ]. The anterior round occipito-atloid ligament. 2. The anterior broad occipito-atloid ligament. 3. The commencement of the anterior common ligament. 4. The anterior atlo-axoid ligament, which is continuous inferiorly with the commencement of the ante- rior common ligament. 5. One of the atlo-axoid capsular ligaments ; the one on the opposite side has been removed, to show the approximated surfaces of the articular processes (6). 7. One of the occipito-atloid capsular ligaments. The most external of these fibres constitute the lateral occipito-atloid ligament. j- The posterior ligaments of the occipito-atloid, and atlo-axoid articulations. 1. The atlas. 2. The axis. 3. The posterior ligament of the occipito-atloid articulation. 4, 4. The capsular and lateral ligaments of this articulation. 5. The posterior ligament of the atlo-axoid articulation. 6, 6. Its capsular ligaments. 7. The first of the ligamentum gubflava passing between the axis and the third cervical vertebra 8, 8. The capsular .igaments of Tose vertebras.