BASE OF THE BRAIN. dissection have hitherto been conducted with care, he will find the base perfectly uninjured. The arachnoid membrane, some parts of the pia mater, and the circle of Willis, must be carefully cleared away, in order ,o expose all the parts to be examined. TJiese he will find arranged in following order from before backwards:— O Longitudinal fissure, Olfactory nerves, Fissure of Sylvius, Substantia perforata, Commencement of the trans- verse fissure, Optic commissure, Tuber cinereum, Infundibulum, Corpora albicantia, Locus perforatus, Crura cerebri, Pons Varolii, Crura cerebelli, Medulla oblongata. The Longitudinal fissure is the space separating the two hemispheres: it is continued downwards to the base of the brain, and divides the two anterior lobes. In this fissure the anterior cerebral arteries ascend toward^ the corpus callosum; and, if the two lobes be slightly drawn asunder, the anterior border (genu) of the corpus callosum will be seen descending to the base of the brain. Arrived at the base of the brain, the corpus callo- sum terminates by a concave border, which is prolonged to the commis- sure of the optic nerves by a thin layer of grey substance, the lamina cinerea. The lamina cinerea is the anterior part of the inferior boundary of the third ventricle. On each side of the lamina cinerea the corpus i.al • losum is continued into the substantia perforata and crura cerebri, and upon the latter forms a narrow medullary band lying externally to, and slightly overlapping the optic tract, the medulla innominata. Upon the under surface of each anterior lobe, on either side of the lon- gitudinal fissure, is the olfactory nerve, with its bulb. The Fissure of Sylvius bounds the anterior lobe posteriorly, and sepa- rates it from the middle lobe; it lodges the middle cerebral artery. If this fissure be followed outwards, a small isolated cluster of five or six convolutions will be observed ; these constitute the island of Reil. The island of Reil, together with the substantia perforata, form the base of the corpus striatum. The Substantia perforata is a triangular plane of white substance, situ- ated at the inner extremity of the fissure of Sylvius. It is named perfo- rata from being pierced by a number of openings for small arteries, which enter the brain in this situation to supply the grey substance of the corpus striatum. Passing backwards on each side beneath the edge of the middle lobe, is the commencement of the great transverse fissure, which extends beneath the hemisphere of one side to the same point on the opposite side. A probe passed into this fissure between the crus cerebri and middle lobe would enter the middle cornu of the lateral ventricle. The Optic commissure is situated on the middle line; it is the point of communication between the two optic nerves. 'The Tuber cinereum is an eminence of grey substance situated immedi- ately behind the optic commissure, and in front of the corpora mammu- laria. From its centre there projects a small conical body of grey sub- stance, apparently a prolongation of the tuber cinereum, the infundibulum. The infundibulum is hollow in its interior, enclosing a short csecal canal