VEINS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. P.AO vertebrae, and terminates at the root of the neck in the commencement of the vena innominata. In the lower part of the vertebral canal it frequently divides into two branches, one of which advances forwards, while the other passes through the foramen in the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, before opening into the vena innominata. The Branches which it receives in its course are the posterior condyloid vein, muscular branches, the cervical meningo-rachidian veins, and near its termination, the superficial and deep cervical veins. The Inferior thyroid veins, two, and frequently more in number, are situated one on each side of the trachea, and receive the venous blood from the thyroid gland. They communicate with each other, and with the superior thyroid veins, and form a plexus upon the front of the trachea. The right vein terminates in the right vena innominata, just at its union with the superior cava, and the left in the left vena innominata. VEINS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The veins of the upper extremity are the deep and superficial. The deep veins accompany the branches and trunks of the arteries, and consti- tute their vence comites. The venae comites of the radial and ulnar arte- ries are enclosed in the same sheath with those vessels, and terminate at the bend of the elbow in the brachial veins. The brachial venae coinites are situated one on each side of the artery, and open into the axillary vein ; the axillary becomes the subclavian, and the subclavian unites with the internal jugular to form the vena innominata. The Superficial veins of the fore-arm are the—■ Anterior ulnar vein, Posterior ulnar vein, Basilic vein, Radial vein, Cephalic vein, Median vein, Median basilic, Median cephalic. The Anterior ulnar vein collects the venous blood from the inner border of the hand, and from the vein of the little finger, vena salvatella, and ascends the inner side of the fore-arm to the bend of the elbow, where it becomes the basilic vein. The Posterior ulnar vein, irregular in size, and frequently absent, commences upon the inner bor- der and posterior aspect of the hand, and ascend- ing the fore-arm, terminates in front of the inner condyle, in the anterior ulnar vein. The Basilic vein (ficuu\iy.%, royal, or principal) ascends from the common ulnar vein formed by the two preceding, along the inner side of the upper arm, and near its middle pierces the fascia ; it then axilla, and becomes the axillary vein. * The veins of the fore-arm and bend of the elbow. 1. The radial vein. 2 The cephalic vein. 3. The anterior ulnar vein. 4. The posterior ulnar vein. 5. The trunk formed by theii union. C. The basilic vein, piercing the deep fascia at 7. 9. A com Fig. 164.* passes upwards to the