THE SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. KJ* l and exit of vessels ; this is the hilus lienis. The upper extremity is some- what larger than the lower, and rounded ; the inferior is flattened ; the posterior border is obtuse, the anterior is sharp, and marked by several notches. The spleen is in relation by it's external or convex surface with the diaphragm, which separates it from the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs; by its concave surface, with the great end of the stomach, the extremity of the pancreas, the gastro-splenic omentum and its vessels, the left kidney and supra-renal capsule, and the left crus of the diaphragm ; by its upper end with the diaphragm, and sometimes with the extremity of the left lobe of the liver ; and, by its lower end, with the left extremity of the transverse arch of the colon. It is connected to the stomach by the gastro-splenic omentum, and by the vessels contained in that duplicature. A second spleen (lien succenturiatus) is sometimes found appended to one of the branches of the splenic artery, near the great end of the stomach ; when it exists, it is round and of small size, rarely larger than a hazel-nut. I have seen two, and even three, of these bodies. The spleen is invested by the peritoneum and by a tunica propria of yellow elastic tissue, which enables it to yield to the greater or less distension of its vessels. The elastic tunic forms sheaths for the vessels in their ramifications through the organ, and from these sheaths small fibrous bands are given off in all di- rections, which become attached to the internal surface of the elastic tunic, and constitute the areolar framework of the spleen. The substance occu- pying the interspaces of this tissue is soft, granular, and of a bright red colour; and frequently interspersed with small, white, soft corpuscles (Malpighian bodies). These corpuscles, according to the researches of Oesterlen and Mr. Simon, are aggregations of cyto-blasts enclosed in a kind of capsule of capillary vessels. There are, besides, separate cyto- blasts scattered through the red substance. Vessels and Kerves.—The Splenic artery is of very large size in propor- tion to the bulk of the spleen ; it is a division of the cceliac axis. The branches which enter the spleen are distributed to distinct sections of the organ, and anastomose very sparingly with each other. The vebis by their numerous dilatations constitute the principal part of the bulk of the spleen; they pour their blood into the splenic vein, which is one of the two great formative trunks of the portal vein. The lymphatics are remarkable for their number and large size ; they terminate in the lumbar glands. The nerves are, the splenic plexus, derived from the solar plexus. THE SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. The supra-renal capsules are two small yellowish and flattened bodies surmounting the kidneys, and inclining inwards towards the vertebral column. The right is somewhat three-cornered in shape, the left semi- lunar ; they are connected to the kidneys by the common investing areolar tissue, and each capsule is marked on its anterior surface by a fissure which appears to divide it into two lobes. The right supra-renal capsule is closely adherent to the posterior and under surface of the liver, and the left lies in contact with the pancreas. Both capsules rest against the crura ol the diaphragm on a level with the tenth dorsal vertebra, and, by their inner border, are in relation with the great splanchnic nerve and semilunar ganglion. They are larger in the fcetus than in the adult, and appear to