INFERIOR VENA CAVA. 347 bar vertebra. It ascends along the front of the vertebral column, on the right side of the abdominal aorta, and passing through the fissure in the posterior border of the liver and the quadrilateral opening in the tendinous »*entre of the diaphragm, terminates in the inferior and posterior part of the right auricle. There are no valves in this vein. It is in relation from below upwards, in front with the mesentery, trans- verse duodenum, portal vein, pancreas, and liver, which latter nearly and sometimes completely surrounds-it; behind it rests on the vertebral column and right crus of the diaphragm, from which it is separated by the right renal and right lumbar arteries; to the right it has the peritoneum and svmpathetic nerve ; and to the left the aorta. The Branches which the inferior cava receives in its course, are the— Lu mbar, Right spermatic, Renal, Supra-renal, Phrenic, Hepatic. i The Lumbar veins, three or four in number on each side, collect the venous blood from the muscles and integument of the loins, and from the spinal veins: the left are longer than the right on account of the position of the vena cava. The Right spermatic vein is formed by the two veins which return the blood from the venous plexus situated in the spermatic cord. These veins follow the course of the spermatic artery, and unite to form the single trunk which opens into the inferior vena cava. The left spermatic vein terminates m the left renal vein. The Ovarian veins represent the spermatic veins of the male, and collect the venous blood from the ovaries, round ligaments, and Fallopian tubes, and communicate with the uterine sinuses. They terminate as in the male. The Renal or emulgent veins return the blood from the kidneys; their branches are situated in front of the divisions of the renal arteries, and the left opens into the vena cava somewhat higher than the right. The left is longer than the right in consequence of the position of the vena cava, and crosses the aorta immediately below the origin of the superior mesen- teric artery. It receives the left spermatic vein, which terminates in it at right angles: hence the more frequent occurrence of varicocele on the left than on the right side. The Supra-renal veins terminate partly in the renal veins, and partly in the inferior vena cava. The Phrenic veins return the blood from the ramifications of the phrenic arteries ; they open into the inferior cava. The Hepatic veins form two principal trunks and numerous smaller veins which open into the inferior cava, while that vessel is situated in the pos- terior border of the liver. The hepatic veins commence in the liver by minute venules, the intralobular veins, in the centre of each lobule ; these pour their blood into larger vessels, the sublobular veins ; and the sublo- bular veins constitute, by their convergence and union, the hepatic trunks, which terminate in the inferior vena cava.