203 niE FASCI/E. The great toe, like the thumb in the hand, enjoys an independent action, and is provided with distinct mus- cles to perform its movements. These movements are precisely the same as those of the other toes, viz.: Flexion. Flexor longus pollicis, Flexor brevis pollicis. Extension. Extensor proprius pollicis, Extensor brevis digitorum. Adduction. Adductor pollicis. Abduction. Abductor pollicis. The only muscles excluded from this table are the lumbricales, four small muscles, which, from their at- tachments to the tendons of the long flexor, appear to be assistants to its action; and the transversus pedis, a small placed transversely in the foot across the heads of the metatarsal which has for its office the drawing together of the toes. muscle bones, CHAPTER V. ON THE FASCIiE. Fascia (fascia, a bandage) is the name assigned to laminae of various extent and thickness, which are distributed through the different regions of the body, for the purpose of investing or protecting the softer and more delicate organs. From a consideration of their structure, these fasciae may be arranged into twro groups: cellulo-fibrous fasciae, and aponeurotic fasciae. The cellulo-fibrous fascia is best illustrated in the common subcutaneous investment of the entire body, the superficial fascia. This structure is si- tuated immediately beneath the integument over every part of the frame, and is the medium of connexion betwreen that layer and the deeper parts. It is composed of cellulo-fibrous tissue containing in its areolae an abun dance of adipose cells. The fat being a bad conductor of caloric, serves to retain the warmth of the body; while it forms at the same time a yield- ing tissue, through which the minute vessels and nerves pass to the papil- lary layer of the skin, without incurring the risk of obstruction from injury or pressure upon the surface. By dissection, the superficial fascia may be separated into two layers, between which are found the superficial or cu* * Plantar interossei. 1. Abductor tertii. 2. Abductor quarti. 3. Interosseous minimi dun ti.