RIGHT VENTRICLE. by T. W. King. Guy s Hospital Reports, vol. ii. 479 tion, which was supposed by Lower to direct the blood from the superior cava into the auriculo-ventricular opening. The Musculi pectinati are small muscular columns situated in the ap pendix auricula*. They are numerous, and are arranged parallel with each other ; hence their cognomen, “pectinatilike the teeth of a comb. The Right ventricle is triangular and prismoid in form. Its anterior side is convex, and forms the larger proportion of the front of the heart. The posterior side, which is also inferior, is flat, and rests upon the dia- phragm ; the inner side corresponds with the partition between the two ventricles, septum ventriculorum. The right ventricle is to be laid open by making an incision parallel with, and a little to the right of, the middle line, from the pulmonary artery in front, to the apex of the heart, and thence by the side of the middle line behind to the auriculo-ventricular opening. It contains, to be examined, two openings, the auriculo-ventricular and that of the pulmonary artery; two apparatus of valves, the tricuspid and semilunar; and a muscular and tendinous apparatus belonging to the tri- cuspid valves. They may be thus arranged :— Auriculo-ventricular opening, Opening of the pulmonary artery. Tricuspid valves, Semilunar valves. Chordae tendineae, Carneae columnae. The Auriculo-ventricular opening is surrounded by a fibrous ring, co- vered by the lining membrane of the heart. It is the opening of commu- nication between the right auricle and ventricle. The Opening of the pulmonary artery is situated close to the septum ventriculorum, on the left side of the right ventricle, and upon the anterior aspect of the heart. The Tricuspid valves are three triangular folds of the lining membrane, strengthened by a thin layer of fibrous tissue. They are connected by their base around the auriculo-ventricular opening; and by their sides and apices, which are thickened, they give attachment to a number of slender tendinous cords, called chordae tendineae. The chordae tendineae are the tendons of the thick muscular columns (columnae carneae) which stand out from the walls of the ventricle, and serve as muscles to the valves. A number of these tendinous cords converge to a single muscular attach- ment. The tricuspid valves prevent the regurgitation of blood into the auricle during the contraction of the ventricle, and they are prevented from being themselves driven back by the chordae tendineae and their muscular attachments. This connexion of the muscular columns of the heart to the valves has caused their division into active and passive. The active valves are the tricuspid and mitral; the passive, the semilunar and coronary. The valves consist, according to Mr. King,* of curtains, cords, and * “Essnv on the Safety Valve Function in the Right Ventricle of the Human Heart,”