227 POSTERIOR SCAPULAR REGION. a broad and thick tendon, which is inserted into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus. The substance of the muscle is traversed by several intersecting membranous layers from which muscular fibres arise, the intersections being attached to the ridges on the surface of the scapula. Its tendon forms part of the capsule of the joint, glides over a large bursa which separates it from the base of the coracoid process, and is lined by a pro- longation of the synovial membrane of the articulation. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the serratus magnus, coraco- brachialis, and axillary vessels and nerves. By its posterior surface with the scapula, the subscapular vessels and nerves, and the shoulder joint. Action.—It rotates the head of the humerus inwards, and is a powerful defence to the joint. When the arm is raised, it draws the humerus downwards. Posterior Scapular Region. Supra-spinatus, Teres minor, Infra-spinatus, Teres major. The Supra-spinatus muscle (supra, above; spina, the spine) arises from the whole of the supra-spinous fossa, and is inserted into the upper- most depression on the great tuberosity of the humerus. The tendon of this muscle cannot be well seen until the acromion process is removed. Relations.—By its upper surface, with the trapezius, the clavicle, acro- mion, and coraco-acromion ligament. From the trapezius it is separated by a strong fascia. By its lower surface, with the supra-spinous fossa, the supia-scapular vessels and nerve, and the upper part of the shoulder joint, forming part of the capsular ligament. The Infra-spinatus (infra, beneath; spina, the spine) is covered in by a layer of tendinous fascia, which must be removed before the fibres of the muscle can be seen, the deltoid muscle having been previously turned down from its scapular origin. It arises from the whole of the infra-spinous fossa, and from the fascia above-mentioned, and is inserted into the middle depression upon the greater tuberosity of the humerus. Relations.—By its posterior surface, with the deltoid, latissimus dorsi and integument. By its anterior surface, with the infra-spinous fossa, su- perior and dorsal scapular vessels, and shoulder joint; its tendon being lined by a prolongation from the synovial membrane. By its upper border, it is in relation with the spine of the scapula, and by the lower, with the teres minor, with which it is closely united. The Teres Minor muscle (teres, round) arises from the middle third of the inferior border of the scapula, and is inserted into the lower depres- sion on the great tuberosity of the humerus. The tendons of these three muscles, with that of the subscapularis, are in immediate contact with the shoulder joint, and form part of its ligamentous capsule, thereby preserving the solidity of the articulation. They are therefore the structures most frequently ruptured in dislocation of the head of the humerus. Relations. — By its posterior surface, with the deltoid, latissimus dorsi and integument. By its anterior surface, with the inferior border, and part of the dorsum of the scapula, the dorsalis scapulae vessels, scapular head of the triceps, and shoulder joint. By its upper border, with the infra-spinatus; and by the lower, with the latissimus dorsi, teres major, and long head of the triceps.