URETHRA. 538 posed of two layers, a mucous coat and an elastic fibrous coat. The mu eous coat is thin and smooth; it is continuous, internally, with the mucous membrane of the bladder ; externally, with the investing membrane of the glans ; and at certain points of its extent, with the lining membrane of the numerous ducts which open into the urethra, namely, those of Cowper’s Fig. 236 * 2 glands, the prostate gland, vasa deferentia, and vesiculae seminales. The elastic fibrous coat varies in thickness in the different parts of the course of the urethra: it is thick in the prostate gland, forms a firm investment for the membranous portion of the canal, and is thin in the spongy portion, where it serves as a bond of connexion between the mucous membrane and the corpus spongiosum. The urethra is about nine inches in length, and is divided into a prostatic, membranous, and spongy portion. The Prostatic portion, a little more than an inch in length, is situated in the prostate gland, about one-third nearer its upper than its lower surface, and extending from its base to its apex. Upon its lower circum- * A longitudinal section of the bladder, prostate gland, and penis, showing the urethra, t. The urachus attached to the upper part of the fundus of the bladder. 2. The recto- vesical fold of peritoneum, at its point of reflexion from the base of the bladder, upon the anterior surface of the rectum. 3. The opening of the right ureter. 4. A slight ridge, formed by the muscle of the ureter, and extending from the termination of the ureter to the commencement of the urethra. This ridge forms the lateral boundary of the trigonum vesicse. 5. The commencement of the urethra; the elevation of mucous membrane immediately below the number is the uvula vesicae. The constriction of the bladder at this point is the neck of the bladder. 6. The prostatic portion of the urethra. 7. The prostate gland; the difference of thickness of the gland, above and below the urethra, is shown. 8. The isthmus, or third lobe of the prostate; immediately beneath which the ejaculatory duct is seen passing. 9. The right vesicula seminalis; the vas deferens is seen to be cut short off, close to its junction with the ejaculatory duct. 10. The membranous portion of the urethra. 11. Cowper’s gland of the right side, with its duct. 12. The bulbous portion of the urethra; throughout the whole length of the ure- thra of the corpus spongiosum, numerous lacuna? are seen. 13. The fossa navicularis. 14. The corpus cavernosum, cut somewhat obliquely to the right side, near its lower part. The character of the venous cellular texture is well shown. 15. The right crus penis. 16. Near the upper part of the corpus cavernosum, the section has fallen a little to the left of the middle line ; a portion of the septum pectiniforme is consequently seen. This figure also indicates the thickness of the fibrous investment of the corpus cavernosum, and its abrupt termination at the base of (17) the glans penis. 8. The lower segment of the glans. 19. The meatus urinarius. 20. The corpus spongiosum. Vi. The bulb of the corpus spongiosum.