29 AND SCIENTIFIC PUBLICATIONS WILSON (ERASMUS), M.D., F. R. S., Lecturer on Anatomy, London. A SYSTEM OF HUMAN ANATOMY, General and Special. Fourth Ameri- can, from ihe last English edition. Edited by Paul B. Goddard, A. M., M. D. With two hun- dred and titty illustrations. Beautifully printed, in one large octavo volume, of nearly six hun- dred pages. In many, if not all the Colleges of the Union, it has become a standard text-book. This, of itself, is sufficiently expressive of its value. A work very desirable to the student; one, the possession of which will greatly facilitate his progress in the study of Practical Anatomy.—New York Journal of Medicine. Its author ranks with the highest on Anatomy.— Southern Medical and Surgical Journal. It offers to the student all the assistance that can be expected from such a work.—Medical Examiner. The most complete and convenient manual for the student we possess.—American Journal of Medical Science. In every respect, this work as an anatomical guide for the student and practitioner, merits our warmest and most decided praise.—London Medical Gazette. BY THE SAME AUTHOR. THE DISSECTOR; or, Practical and Surgical Anatomy. Modified and Re- arranged, by Paul Beck Goddard, Al. D. A new edition, with Revisions and Additions. In one large and handsome volume, royal 12mo., with one hundred and fifteen illustrations. In passing this work again through the press, the editor has made such additions and improve- ments as the advance of anatomical knowledge has rendered necessary to maintain the work in the high reputation which it has acquired in the schools of the United States, as a complete and faithful guide to the student of practical anatomy. A number of new illustrations have been added, espe- cially in the portion relating to the complicated anatomy of Hernia. In mechanical execution the work will be found superior to former editions. BY THE SAME AUTHOR. ON DISEASES OF THE SKIN. Third American, from the third London edition. In one neat octavo volume, of about five hundred pages, extra cloth. (Just Issued.) Also, to be had done up with fifteen beautiful steel plates, of which eight are exquisitely colored ; representing the Normal and Pathological Anatomy of the Skin, together with accurately colored delineations of more than sixty varieties of disease, most of them the size of nature. The Plates are also for sale separate, done up in boards. The increased size of this edition is sufficient evidence that the author has not been content with a mere republication, but has endeavored to maintain the high character of his work as the standard text-book on this interesting and difficult class of diseases. He has thus introduced such new matter as the experience of the last three or four years has suggested, and has made such alterations as the progress of scientific investigation has rendered expedient. The illustrations have also been materially augmented, the number of plates being increased from eight to sixteen. The ‘‘Diseases of the Skin,” by Mr. Erasmus* Wilson, may now be regarded as the standard work in that department of medical literature. The plates by which this edition is accompanied leave nothing to be desired, so far as excellence of delinea- tion and perfect accuracy of illustration are con- cerned.—Medico-Chirurgical Review. Of these plates it is impossible to speak too highly. The representations of the various forms of cuta- neous disease are singularly accurate, and the color- ing exceeds almost anything we have met with in point of delicacy and finish.—British and Foreign Medical Review. BY THE SAME AUTHOR. ON CONSTITUTIONAL AND HEREDITARY SYPHILIS, AND ON SYPHILITIC ERUPTIONS. In one small octavo volume, beautifully printed, with four exqui- site colored plates, presenting more than thirty varieties of syphilitic eruptions. Dr. Wilson’s views on the general subject of Syphilis appear to us in the main sound and judi- cious, and we commend the book as an excellent monograph on the subject. Dr. Wilson has pre- sented us a very faithful and lucid description of Syphilis and has cleared up many obscure points in connection with its transmissibility, pathology and sequel®. His facts and references will, we are satis- fied, be received as decisive, in regard to many questxones vexatoe. They appear to us entitled to notice at some length.—Medical Examiner. by the same author. (Now Ready.) HEALTHY SKIN; A Popular Treatise on the Skin and Hair, their Preserva- tion and Management. Second American, from the fourth London edition. One neat volume, royal 12mo., with numerous illustrations. Copies can be had done up in paper covers for mailing, price 75 cents. WHITEHEAD (JAMES), F. R. C. S., &c. THE CAUSES AND TREATMENT OF ABORTION AND STERILITY; being the Pursuit of an Expended Practical Inquiry into the Physiological and Morbid Conditions of the Uterus. Second American Edition. In one volume, octavo, 368 pages. (Now Ready.) The simple title of this work gives a very imper- fect idea of its contents. The subject of sterility occupies a mere fraction of space, and upwards of one-half of the whole volume is taken up with an elaborate account of menstruation as a physiological process, and of the disorders which its deviations j from health are apt to produce.—Medical Chirurg. Review. Such are the advances made from year to year in this department of our profession, that the practi- tioner who does not consult the recent works on the complaints of females, will soon find himself in the rear of his more studious brethren. This is one of the works which must be studied by those who would know what the present state of our knowledge is respecting the causes and treatment of abortion and sterility.—The Western Journal of Medicine and Surgery.