MUSCLES OF TI1E BACK. 205 reps cervicis branch of the occipital, and by the posterior cervical plexus of nerves. Fifth Layer. Dissection.—The muscles of the preceding layer are to be removed by dividing them transversely through the middle, and turning one extremity upwards, the other downwards. In this way the whole ot the muscles ol the fourth layer may be got rid of, and the remaining muscles of the spine brought into a state to be examined. The Semi-spinales Muscles are connected with the transverse and spinous processes of the vertebrae, spanning one hall of the vertebral column ; hence their name semi-spinales. The Semi-spinalis Dorsi arises from the transverse processes of the six lower dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into the spinous processes of the four upper dorsal, and two lower cervical vertebrae. The Semi-spinalis Colli arises from the transverse processes of the four upper dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into the spinous processes oi the four upper cervical vertebrae, commencing with the axis. Relations.—By their superficial surface the semi-spinales are in relation from below upwards with the spinalis dorsi, longissimus dorsi, complexus, splenius, with the profunda cervicis and princeps cervicis artery, and pos- terior cervical plexus of nerves. By their deep surface wTith the multifidus spinae muscle. Occipital Group.—This group of small muscles is intended for the varied movements of the cranium on the atlas, and the atlas on the axis. They are extremely pretty in appearance. The Rectus Posticus Major arises from the spinous process of the axis, and is inserted into the inferior curved line of the occipital bone. The Rectus Posticus Minor arises from the spinous tubercle of the atlas, and is inserted into the rough surface on the occipital bone, beneath the inferior curved line. The Rectus Lateralis is extended between the transverse process of the atlas and the occipital bone ; it arises from the transverse process of the atlas, and is inserted into the rough surface of the occipital bone, ex- ternal to the condyle. The Obliquus Inferior arises from the spinous process of the axis, and passes obliquely outwards to be inserted into the extremity of the trans- verse process of the atlas. The Obliquus Superior arises from the extremity of the transverse pro- cess of the atlas, and passes obliquely inwTards to be inserted into the rough surface of the occipital bone, between the curved lines. Relations.—By their superficial surface the recti and obliqui are in rela- tion with a strong aponeurosis vdiich separates them from the complexus. By their deep surface with the atlas and axis, and their articulations. The rectus posticus major partly covers in the rectus minor. The rectus lateralis is in relation by its anterior surface wdth the internal jugular vein, and by its posterior surface with the vertebral artery. Sixth Layer. Dissection.—The semi-spinales muscles must both be removed to obtain a good view of the multifidus spinse which lies beneath them, and fills up the concavity between the spinous and transverse processes, the whole length of Ihe vertebral column. 18