153 RADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATION. * ter being extended from within outwards to the orbicular ligament, into which they are attached interiorly. This ligament is covered in by the brachialis anticus muscle. The posterior ligament is a broad and loose layer passing between the posterior surface of the humerus and the anterior surface of the base of the olecranon, and connected at each side with the lateral ligaments. It is covered in by the ten- don of the triceps. The internal lateral ligament is a thick triangular layer, attached above, by its apex, to the internal condyle of the hu- merus ; and below, by its expanded bor- der, to the margin of the greater sigmoid cavity of the ulna, extending from the coronoid process to the olecranon. At its insertion it is intermingled with some transverse fibres. The internal lateral ligament is in relation posteriorly with the ulnar nerve. The external lateral ligament is a strong and narrow band, which descends from the external condyle of the humerus, to be inserted into the orbicular ligament, and into the ridge on the ulna, with which the posterior part of the latter ligament is connected. This ligament is closely united with the tendon of origin of the supinator brevis muscle. The synovial membrane is extensive, and is reflected from the cartila- ginous surfaces of the bones upon the inner surface of the ligaments. It surrounds inferiorly the head of the radius, and forms an articulating sac between it and the lesser sigmoid notch. The muscles immediately surrounding, and in contact with, the elbow joint, are in front, the brachialis anticus; to the inner side, the pronator radii teres, flexor sublimis digitorum, and flexor carpi ulnaris; externally, the extensor carpi radialis brevior, extensor communis digitorum, entensor carpi ulnaris, anconeus, and supinatcr brevis; and behind, the triceps. Actions.—The movements of the elbow joint are flexion and extension, which are performed with remarkable precision. The extent to which these movements are capable of being effected, is limited in front by the coronoid process, and behind by the olecranon. 6. The Radio-ulnar Articulation.—The radius and ulnar are firmly held together by ligaments which are connected with both extremities of the bones, and with the shaft; they are, the Orbicular, Anterior inferior, Oblique, Posterior inferior, Interosseous, Interarticular fibro-cartilage. * An internal view of the ligaments of the elbow joint. 1. The anterior ligament. 2. The internal lateral ligament. 3. The orbicular ligament. 4. The oblique ligament. 5. The interosseous ligament. 6. The internal condyle of the humerus, which conceal* the posterior ligament. t An exterral view of the elbow joint. 1. The humerus. 2. The ulna. 3. The ra