363 GREY NERVE FIBRES. merest lamina in the fish, have become the largest portion of the brain in man. And the fifth pair (olfactory lobes), so large in the lowest forms, have dwindled into the olfactory bulbs of man. The microscopic elements of the nervous system, are, white nerve- fibres, grey nerve-fibres, nerve-cells, and nerve-granules. 1. White nerve fibres are the chief con- stituent of the brain, the spinal cord, and the cerebro-spinal nerves, and they also enter into the composition of the sympathetic nerve. They present some variety of size in different parts of the nervous system, measuring in the brain between and T7Joo °f an inch diameter, and in the cerebro-spinal nerves be- tween 5oW an(4 soW °f an inch- As a general rule, the white nerve-fibres are largest in the nerves, smaller where they enter the cerebro- spinal mass, and smallest at their termination, centrally, in the grey substance of the surface of the brain, and, periphe- rally, in the tissues of the body. In structure, each white nerve-fibre is composed of a transparent and structureless cylindrical tubule or sheath (vagina medullaris), and of an axis-cylinder filled with an opalescent, colourless, oil-like fluid (neurine), which coagulates after death, and then resembles a white, opaque, and curd-like matter. The vagina medullaris possesses somewhat less than one-third the thickness of the entire fibre, and gives to the latter, when examined with the microscope, the aspect of a double cylinder,—an appearance which is characteristic of the white nerve-fibre. It is thickest in the fibres of the spinal nerves, and thinnest in those of the spinal cord, brain, and nerves of special sense. Hence in these latter, the sheath, when pressed or stretched, is apt to assume a varicose appearance, and the contained substance to accumulate in small separate masses. White nerve-fibres terminate, both at the surface of the body, in the various internal organs, and in the substance of the cerebro- spinal axis, by forming loops. 2. Grey Nerve fibres (fine nerve-fibres, gelatinous fibres, sympathetic fibres) are about one-half or one-third less in diameter (3^^ to of an inch, Henle) than the white fibres. They are less transparent, have no appearance of being composed of a double cylinder, and their sheath is less easily distinguishable from its contents. In structure, they consist of a thin and finely granulated sheath, filled with granular substance, and, when collected into a fasciculus, have a yellowish grey tint. The grey nerve-fibres are abundant in, and are indeed the chief constituent of, the sympathetic system. They are also present in the cerebro-spinal nerves, and, most numerously, in the nerves of sensation. They take their origin from the nerve-cells of the grey substance of the brain and spinal cord, * Minute structure of nerve. 1. The mode of termination of white nerve-fibres in loops; three of these loops are simple, the fourth is convoluted. The latter is found in situations where an exalted degree of sensation exists. 2. A white nerve-fibre froir. the brain, showing the varicose appearance produced by traction or pressure. 3. A white nerve-fibre enlarged to show its structure,—namely, a tubular envelope, and a contained substance, neurine. 4. A nerve-cell, showing its composition of a granular looking capsule and granular contents. 5. Its nucleus containing a nucleolus. 6. A nerve-cell from which several processes are given oil It contains, like he preceding, a nucleolated nucleus. 7. Nerve-granules.