SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONES. Fig. 34.* orbital canal, leading to the infra-orbital foramen. 6. The inferior border of the orbit. 74 Articulations.—With thirteen bones: two of the cranium,—the frontal and sphenoid; the rest of the face, viz. the nasal, superior maxillary, la chrvmal, palate, the inferior turbinated, and the vomer. No muscles are attached to this bone. BONES OF THE FACE. The face is composed of fourteen bones ; viz. the Two nasal, Two palate, Two superior maxillary, Two inferior turbinated, Two lachrymal, Vomer, Two malar, Inferior maxillary. Nasal Bones.—The nasal (fig. 39) are two small quadrangular bones, forming by their union the bridge and base of the nose. Upon the upper surface they are convex, and pierced by a foramen for a small artery ; on the under surface they are somewhat concave, and marked by a groove, which lodges the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve. The superior border is narrow and thick, the inferior broad, thin, and irregular. Development.—By a single centre for each bone, the first ossific depo- sition making its appearance at the same time as in the vertebrse. Articulations.—With four bones : frontal, ethmoidal, nasal, and supe- rior maxillary. Attachment of Muscles.—It has in relation with it the pyramidalis nasi, and compressor nasi; but neither of these muscles is inserted into it. Superior Mamillary Bones.—The superior maxillary are the largest bones of the face, with the exception of the lower jaw ; they form, by their union, the whole of the upper jaw, and assist in the construction of the nose, the orbit, the cheek, and the palate. Each bone is divisible into a body and four processes. The body is triangular in form, and hollowed in its interior into a large cavity, the antrum maxillare (antrum of Highmore). It presents for examina- tion four surfaces, external or facial, internal or nasal, posterior or zygomatic, and superior or orbital. The external, or facial surface, forms the anterior part of the bone ; it is irregularly concave, and j t '—r Immediately above this fossa is the infra-orbital foramen, the termination of the infra-orbital canal, transmitting the superior maxillary nerve and infra- orbital artery; and above the infra-orbital foramen, * The superior maxillary bone of the right side, as seen from the lateral aspect. 1. The external or facial surface ; the depression in which the figure is placed is the canine fossa. 2. The posterior, or zygomatic surface. 3. The superior or orbital surface. 4. The infra-orbital foramen; it is situated immediately below the number. 5. The infra- 7. The malar process. 8. The nasal process. 9. The concavity forming the lateral boundary of the anterior nares. 10. The nasal spine. 11. The incisive, or myrtiform <bssa. 12. The alveolar process. 13. The internal border of the orbital surface, which articulates with the ethmoid and palate bone. 14. The concavity which articulates with presents a deep depression towards its centre, canine fossa, which gives attachment to two mus- cles, the compressor nasi and levator anguli oris.