FIBRES OF THE BRAIN. 387 quit that body greatly increased in number and bulk. Precisely the same change takes place in the corpus striatum, and the fibres are now so extra- ordinarily multiplied as to be ca- pable of forming a large proportion of the hemispheres. Observing this remarkable in- crease in the white fibres, appa- rently from the admixture of grey substance, Gall and Spurzheim considered the latter as the mate- rial of increase or formative sub- stance to the white fibres, and they are borne out in this conclusion by several collateral facts, among the most prominent of which is the great vascularity of the grey sub- stance; and the larger proportion of the nutrient fluid circulating through it is fully capable of effect- ing the increased growth and nu- trition of the structures by which it is surrounded. For a like rea- son, the bodies in which this grey substance occurs, are called by the same physiologists u ganglia of increaseand by other authors simply ganglia. Thus the thalami optici and corpora striata are the ganglia of the cerebrum; or, in other words, the formative ganglia of the hemispheres. The fibres of the corpora pyramidalia are not all of them destined to the course above described; several fasciculi curve outwards to reach the cor- pora restiformia, some passing in front and some behind the corpus olivare on each side. These are the arciform fibres, and they are distinguished by Mr. Solly into the superficial and deep cerebellar fibres. In the pons Varolii the continued or cerebral fibres (Solly) of the corpus pyramidale are placed between the superficial and deep layers of transverse fibres, and escaping from the pons, constitute the inferior and inner segment of the crus cerebri. From the crus cerebri they pass for the most part be- neath the thalami optici into the corpora striata. * The base of the brain, upon which several sections have been made, showing the distribution of the diverging fibres. 1. The medulla oblongata. 2. One half of the pons Varolii. 3. The crus cerebri crossed by the optic nerve (4) and spreading out into the hemisphere to form the corona radiata. 5. The optic nerve near its origin;, the nerves about the crus cerebri and cerebelli are the same as in the preceding figure. 6. The olfactory nerve. 7. The corpora albicantia. On the right side a portion of the brain has been removed to show the distribution of the diverging fibres. 8. The fibres of the corpus pyramidale passing through the substance of the pons Varolii. 9. The fibres passing through the thalamus opticus. 10. The fibres passing through the corpus striatum. 11. Their distribution to the hemisphere. 12. The fifth nerve: its two roots may be traced, the one forwards to the fibres of the corpus pyramidale, the other back- wards to the fasciculi teretes. 13. The fibres of the corpus pyramidale which pass out- wards with the corpus restiforme into the substance of the cerebellum; these are the arciform fibres of Solly. The fibres referred to are those below the numeral, the nu- meral itself rests upon the corpus olivare. 14. A section through one of the homi spheres of the cerebellum, showing the corpus rhomboideum in the centre of its white substance; the arbor vita; is also seen. 15. The opposite hemisphere of the cero- Dellutn