269 PERINEAL FASCIA. of the bladder and the upper surface of the rectum, and was named b) Mr. Tyrrell the redo-vesical fascia; and an inferior layer passes behind the rectum, and, with'the layer of the opposite side, completely investa that intestine Fig. 141 * The obturator fascia passes directly downwards from the splitting of the layers of the pelvic fascia, and covers in the obturator intern us muscle and the internal pudic vessels and nerve ; it is attached to the ramus of the os pubis and ischium in front, and below to the falciform margin of the great sacro-ischiatic ligament. Lying between these two layers of fascia is the levator ani muscle, which arises from their angle of separa tion. The levator ani is covered in inferiorly by a third layer of fascia, / which is given off by the obturator fascia, and is continued downwards upon the inferior surface of the muscle to the extremity of the rectum, where it is lost. This layer may be named, from its position and inferior attachment, the anal fascia. Perineal Fasciae.—In the perineum there are two fascise of much im- portance, the superficial and deep perineal fascia. The superficial perineal fascia is a thin aponeurotic layer, which covers in the muscles of the genital portion of the perineum and the root of the penis. It is firmly attached at each side to the ramus of the os pubis and ischium; posteriorly it is reflected backwards beneath the transversi perinei muscles, to become connected with the deep perineal fascia; while ante- riorly it is continuous with the dartos of the scrotum. The deep perineal fascia (Camper’s ligament, triangular ligament) is situated behind the root of the penis, and is firmly stretched across be- tween the ramus of the os pubis and ischium of each side, so as to con- stitute a strong septum of defence to the outlet of the pelvis. At its infe- * A transverse section of the pelvis, showing the distribution of the pelvic fascia, t. The bladder. 2. The vesicula seminalis of one side, divided across. 3. The rectum. 4. The iliac fascia, covering in the iliacus and psoas muscles (5) ; and forming a sheath for the external iliac vessels (G). 7. The anterior crural nerve, excluded from the sheath. 8. The pelvic fascia. 9. Its ascending layer, forming the lateral ligament of the bladder of one side, and a sheath to the vesical plexus of veins. 10. The recto vesical fascia of JVIr. TLyrrell, formed by the middle layer. 11. The inferior layer sur- rounding the rectum and meeting at the middle line with the fascia of the opposite side. 12. The levator ani muscle. 13. The obturator interims muscle, covered in by the ol. turator fascia, which also forms a sheath for the internal pudic vessels and nerve (14;. lo. 1 he layer of fascia which invests the under surface of the levator ani muscle, ill* anal fascia. 23 *