182 MAXILLARY GROUP. lower jaw, and inserted by its apex into the angle of the mouth, where it is continuous with the levator anguli oris and zygomaticus major. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the integument; and by its deep surface with the depressor labii inferioris, the buccinator, and tne branches of the mental nerve and artery. The Levator Labii Inferioris (levator menti) is a small conical slip of muscle arising from the incisive fossa of the lower jaw, and inserted into the integument of the chin. It is in relation with the mucous mem- brane of the mouth, with its fellow, and with the depressor labii inferioris. Actions. — The depressor labii inferioris draws the lower lip directly downwards, and at the same time a little outwards. The depressor an- guli oris, from the radiate direction of its fibres, will pull the angle of the mouth either downwards and inwards, or downwards and outwards, and be expressive of grief; or acting with the levator anguli oris and zygo- maticus major, it will draw the angle of the mouth directly backwards. The levator labii inferioris raises and protrudes the integument of the chin. 7. Maxillary group.—Masseter, Temporalis, Buccinator, Pterygoideus externus, Pterygoideus internus. Dissection.—The masseter has been already exposed by the preceding dissection. The Masseter (/Aatftfaofjuxi, to chew,) is a short, thick, and sometimes quadrilateral muscle, composed of two planes of fibres, superficial and deep. The superficial layer arises by a strong aponeurosis from the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone, the lower border of the malar bone and zygoma, and passes backwards to be inserted into the ramus and angle of the inferior maxilla. The deep layer arises from the poste- rior part of the zygoma, and passes forwards, to be inserted into the upper half of the ramus. This muscle is tendinous and muscular in iis structure. Relations. — By its external surface with the zygomaticus major and risorius Santorini muscle, the parotid gland and Stenon’s duct, the trans- verse facial artery, the pes anserinus and the integument. By its internal surface with the temporal muscle, the buccinator, from which it is separated by a mass of fat, and with the ramus of the lower jaw. By its posterior border with the parotid gland ; and by the anterior border with the facial artery and vein. Dissection. — Make an incision along the upper border of the zygoma, for the purpose of separating the temporal fascia from its attachment. Then saw through the zygomatic process of the malar bone, and through the root of the zygoma, near to the meatus auditorius. Draw down the zygoma, and with it the origin of the masseter, and dissect the latter muscle away from the ramus and angle of the inferior maxilla. Now re- move the temporal fascia from the rest of its attachment, and the whole of the temporal muscle will be exposed. The Temporal is a broad and radiating muscle occupying a considera- ble extent of the side of the head and filling the temporal fossa. It is covered in by a very dense fascia (temporal fascia) which is attached along