340 SUPERIOR PETROSAL SINUSES. lobes, the inferior cerebellar veins, the superior petrosal sinuses, the mas- toid, and posterior condyloid veins, and at their termination, the inferior petrosal sinuses. These sinuses are often unequal in size, the right being larger than the left. The sinuses of the base of the skull are the— Cavernous, Inferior petrosal, Circular, Superior petrosal, Transverse. The Cavernous sinuses are named from presenting a structure similar to that of the corpus cavernosum penis. They are situated on each side of the sella turcica, receiving, anteriorly, the ophthalmic veins through the sphenoidal fissures, and terminating posteriorly in the inferior petrosal sinuses. In the internal wall of each cavernous sinus is the inteinal carotid artery, accompanied by several filaments of the carotid plexus, and crossed by the sixth nerve ; and, in its external wall, the third, fourth, and oph- thalmic nerves. These structures are separated from the blood flowing through the sinus, by the tubular lining membrane. The cerebral veins from the under surface of the anterior lobes open into the cavernous sinuses. They communicate by means of the ophthalmic with the facial veins, by the circular sinus with each other, and by the superior petrosal with the lateral sinuses. The Inferior petrosal sinuses are the con- tinuations of the cavernous sinuses back- wards along the lower border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone at each side of the base of the skull, to the foramina lacera posteriora, where they terminate with the lateral sinuses in the commencement of the internal jugular veins. The Circular sinus (sinus of Ridley) is situated in the sella turcica, surrounding the pituitary gland, and communicating on each side with the cavernous sinus. The poste- rior segment is larger than the anterior. The Superior petrosal sinuses pass ob- liquely backwards along the attached border of the tentorium, on the upper margin of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and establish a communication between the ca- vernous and lateral sinus at each side. They receive one or two cerebral veins from the inferior part of the middle lobes, and a cerebellar vein from the anterior border of the cerebellum. Near the extremity of the petrous bone these sinuses cross the oval aperture which transmits the fifth nerve. * The sinuses of the base of the skull. 1. The ophthalmic veins. 2. The cavernous sinus of one side. 3. The circular sinus ; the figure occupies the position of the pituitary gland in the sella turcica. 4. The inferior petrosal sinus. 5. The transverse or ante- rior occipital sinus. 6. The superior petrosal sinus. 7. The internal jugular vein. 8. The foramen magnum. 9. The occipital sinuses. 10. The torcular Herophili. 11. 1 . The lateral sinuses.