50 VERTEBRAL COLUMN. The hyoid arch. 4. The thoracic arch and upper extremities. 5. The pelvic arch and lower extremities. VERTEBRAL COLUMN. The vertebral column is the first and only rudiment of internal skeleton in the lower Vertebrata, and constitutes the type of that great division of the animal kingdom. It is also the first developed portion of the skeleton in man, and the centre around which all the other parts are produced. In its earliest formation it is a simple cartilaginous cylinder, surrounding and protecting the primitive trace of the nervous system; but, as it advances in growth and organisation, it becomes divided into distinct pieces, which constitute vertebrae. The vertebra are divided into true and false. The true vertebra are twenty-four in number, and are classified, according to the three regions of the trunk which they occupy, into cervical, dorsal, and lumbar. The false vertebra consist of nine pieces united into two bones, the sacrum and coccyx The arrangement of the vertebra may be better comprehended by means of the accompanying table:— True vertebra 24 False vertebra 9 7 Cervical, 12 Dorsal, 5 Lumbar. 5 Sacrum, 4 Coccyx. Characters of a Vertebra.—A vertebra consists of a body, two lamina, a spinous process, two transverse processes, and four articular processes. The body is the solid part of the vertebra; and, by its articulation with adjoining vertebra, gives strength and support to the trunk. It is flattened above and below, convex in front, and slightly concave behind. Its an- terior surface is constricted around the middle, and pierced by a number of small openings which give passage to nutritious vessels. Upon its pos- terior surface is a single irregular opening, or several, for the exit of the vena basis vertebra. The laminae commence upon the sides of the posterior part of the body of the vertebra by two pedicles; they then expand; and, arching back- wards, enclose a foramen which serves for the protection of the spinal cord. The upper and lower borders of the lamina are rough for the at- tachment of the ligamenta subfiava. The concavities above and below the pedicles are the intervertebral notches. The spinous process stands back- wards from the angle of union of the lamina of the vertebra. It is the succession of these projecting processes along the middle line of the back, that has giv^u rise to the common designation of the vertebral column, the spine. The use of the spinous process is for the attachment of muscles. The transverse processes project one at each side from the lamina of the certebra ; they are intended for the attachment of the muscles. The arti- cular processes, four in number, stand upwards and downwards from the lamina of the vertebra, to articulate with the vertebra above and below. Cervical Vertebrae.—In a cervical vertebra the body is smaller than in the other regions; it is thicker before than behind, broad from side !o side, concave on the upper surface, and convex below; so that, when articulated, the vertebra lock the one into the other. The laminae are