FACIAL ARTERY. 286 over the buccinator muscle, to accommodate itself to the movements of the jaws. Relations.— Below the jaw it passes beneath the digastricus and stylo- hyoid muscles; on the body of the lower jaw it is covered by the platysma myoides, and at the angle of the mouth by the depressor anguli oris and zygomatic muscles. It rests upon the submaxillary gland, the lower jaw, buccinator, orbicularis oris, levator anguli oris, levator labii superioris proprius, and levator labii superioris alseque nasi. Its branches are divided into those which are given off below the jaw and those on the face: they may be thus arranged:— Below the Jaw.—Inferior palatine, Submaxillary, Submental, Pterygoid. On the Face.—Masseteric, Inferior labial, Inferior coronary, Superior coronary, Lateralis nasi. The Inferior palatine branch ascends between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, to be distributed to the tonsil and soft palate, and anastomoses with the posterior palatine branch of the internal maxil- lary artery. The Submaxillary are four or five branches which supply the submaxil- md. Submental branch runs forwards upon the mylo-hyoid muscle, under cover of the body of the lower jaw, and anastomoses with branches of the sublingual and inferior dental artery. The Pterygoid branch is distributed to the internal pterygoid muscle. The Masseteric branches are distributed to the masseter and buccinator muscles. The Inferior labial branch is distributed to the muscles and integument of the lower lip. The Inferior coronary runs along the edge of the lower lip, between the mucous membrane and the orbicularis oris; it inosculates with the cor- responding artery of the opposite side. The Superior coronary follows the same course along the upper lip, in- osculating with the opposite superior coronary artery, and at the middle of the lip it sends a branch upwards, to supply the septum of the nose and the mucous membrane. The Lateralis nasi is distributed to the ala and septum of the nose. The Inosculations of the facial artery are very numerous: thus, it anas- tomoses with the sublingual branch of the lingual, with the ascending pharyngeal and posterior palatine arteries, with the inferior dental as it es- capes from the mental foramen, infra-orbital at the infra-orbital foramen, transverse facial on the side of the face, and at the angle of the eye with the nasal and frontal branches of the ophthalmic artery. The facial artery is subject to considerable variety in its extent: it not unfrequently terminates at the angle of the nose or mouth, and is rarely symmetrical on both sides of the face.