236 ANCONEUS. the interossei, forms a broad aponeurosis, which covers the whole of the posterior aspect of the finger. At the first phalangeal joint, the aponeu- osis divides into three slips. The, middle slip is inserted into the base t)f the second phalanx, and the two lateral portions are continued onwards on each side of the joint, to be inserted into the last. Little oblique ten- dinous slips connect the tendons of the middle, ring, and little finger, as they cross the back of the hand. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the fascia of the fore-arm and back of the hand, and with the posterior annular ligament. By its deep surface, with the supinator brevis, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, extensor primi internodii, extensor secundi internodii, extensor indicis, posterior interosseous artery and nerve, wrist joint, metacarpal bones and interossei muscles, and phalanges. By its radial border, with the extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior. By the ulnar border, with the extensor minimi digiti, and extensor carpi ulnaris. The Extensor Minimi Digiti (auricularis) is an offset from the extensor communis, with which it is connected by means of a tendinous slip. Passing down to the inferior extremity of the ulna, it traverses a distinct fibrous sheath, and at the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation unites with the tendon derived from the common extensor. The common tendon then spreads out into a broad expansion, which divides into three slips, to be inserted, as in the other fingers, into the last two phalanges. It is to this muscle that the little finger owTes its powTer of separate extension ; and from being called into action when the point of the finger is intro- duced into the meatus of the ear, for the purpose of removing unpleasant sensations or producing titillation, the muscle was called by the old writers “auricularis.” The Extensor Carpi Ulnaris arises from the external condyle and from the upper two-thirds of the border of the ulna. Its tendon passes through the posterior groove, in the lower extremity of the ulna, to be inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Relations. — By its superficial surface, with the fascia of the fore-arm, and posterior annular ligament. By its deep surface, with the supinator brevis, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, extensor secundi internodii, ex- tensor indicis, ulna, and wrist joint. By its radial border, it is in relation with the extensor communis digitorum, and extensor minimi digiti: and by the ulnar border, with the anconeus. The Anconeus is a small triangular muscle, having the appearance of being a continuation of the triceps; it arises from the outer condyle, and is inserted into the olecranon and triangular surface on the upper extremity of the ulna. Relations.—By its superficial surface with a strong tendinous aponeu- rosis derived from the triceps. By its deep surface with the elbow joint, orbicular ligament, and slightly with the supinator brevis. Deep Layer. Supinator brevis, Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, Extensor primi internodii pollicis, Extensor secundi internodii pollicis, Extensor indicis.