504 PHARYNX. maxillary triangle of the neck. It rests upon the hyo-glossus and mylo- hyoideus muscles, and is covered in by the body of the lower jaw and by the deep cervical fascia. It is separated from the parotid giand by the stylo-maxillary ligament, and from the sublingual by the mylo-hyoideus muscle. Embedded among its lobules are the facial artery and submax- illary ganglion. The excretory duct (Wharton’s) of the submaxillary gland commences upon the papilla, by the side of the frsenum linguae, and passes backwards beneath the mylo-hyoideus and resting upon the hyo-glossus muscle, to the middle of the gland, where it divides into numerous branches, which ramify through the structure of the gland, and terminate by caecal extremi- ties. It lies in its course against the mucous membrane forming the floor of the mouth, and causes a prominence of that membrane. The Sublingual is an elongated and flattened gland, situated beneath the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth, on each side of the frse- num linguae. It is in relation, above, with the mucous membrane; in front, with the depression by the side of the symphysis of the lower jaw; externally, with the mylo-hyoideus muscle ; and, internally, with the hy- poglossal nerve and genio-hyo-glossus muscle. It pours its secretion into the mouth by seven or eight small ducts, which open by small apertures on each side of the frsenum linguae. Structure.—The salivary are conglomerate glands, consisting of lobes, which are made up of polyhedral lobules, and these of smaller lobules. The smallest lobule is apparently composed of granules, which are mi- nute csecal pouches, formed by the dilatation of the extreme ramifications of the ducts. These minute ducts unite to form lobular ducts, and the lobular ducts constitute by their union a single excretory duct. The csecal pouches are connected by areolo-fibrous tissue, so as to form a minute lobule ; the lobules are held together by a more condensed areolar layer; and the larger lobes are enveloped by a dense areolo-fibrous capsule, which is firmly attached to the deep cervical fascia. Vessels and Nerves.—The parotid gland is abundantly supplied wdth arteries by the external carotid ; the submaxillary by the facial; and the sublingual by the sublingual branch of the lingual artery. The JVerves of the parotid gland are derived from the auricular branch of the inferior maxillary, from the auricularis magnus, and from the nervi molles accompanying the external carotid artery. The submaxillary gland is supplied by the branches of the submaxillary ganglion, and by filaments from the mylo-hyoidean nerve; and the sublingual by filaments from the submaxillary ganglion and gustatory nerve. PHARYNX. Tne pharynx ((papuyg, the throat) is a musculo-membranous sac, situated upon the cervical portion of the vertebral column, and extending from the base of the skull to a point corresponding with the cricoid cartilage in front, and the fifth cervical vertebra behind. It is composed of mucous membrane, muscles, vessels, and nerves, and is invested by a strong fascia, situated between the mucous membrane and muscles, which serves to connect it with the basilar process of the occipital bone and with the pe Irous portions of the temporal bones. Upon its anterior part it is incom plete, and has opening into it seven foramina, viz.—