337 veins of the diploe. verse inosculation ; but sometimes the vein is single and bifurcates at the root of the nose, into the two angular veins. From the nasal arch, the frontal is continued downwards by the side of the root of the nose, under tlie name of the angular vein; it then passes beneath the zygomatic mus- cles and becomes the facial vein, and descends along the anterior border of the masseter muscle, crossing the body of the lower jaw, by the side of the facial artery, to the submaxillary gland, and from thence to the inter- nal jugular vein in which it terminates. The branches which the facial vein receives in its course are, the supra- orbital, which joins the frontal vein; the dorsal veins of the nose which terminate in the nasal arch ; the ophthalmic, which communicates with the angular vein; the palpebral and nasal, which open into the angular vein ; a considerable trunk, the alveolar, which returns the blood from the spheno-maxillary fossa, from the infra-orbital, palatine, vidian, and spheno- palatine veins, and joins the facial beneath the zygomatic process of the superior maxillary bone, and the veins corresponding with the branches of the facial artery. The Internal maxillary vein receives the branches from the zygomatic and pterygoid fossae ; these are so numerous and communicate so freely as to constitute a pterygoid plexus. Passing backwards behind the neck of the lower jaw, the internal maxillary joins with the temporal vein, and the common trunk resulting from this union constitutes the temporo-maxillary vein. The Temporal vein commences on the vertex of the head by a plexiform network which is continuous with the frontal, the temporal, auricular, and occipital veins. The ramifications of this plexus form an anterior and a pos- terior branch which unite immediately above the zygoma ; the trunk is here joined by another large vein, the middle temporal, which collects the blood from the temporal muscle, and around the outer segment of the orbit, and pierces the temporal fascia near the root of the zygoma. The temporal vein then descends between the meatus auditorius externus and the con- dyle of the lower jaw, and unites with the internal maxillary vein, to form the temporo-maxillary. The Temporo-maxillary vein formed by the union of the temporal and internal maxillary, passes downwards in the substance of the parotid gland to its lower border, where it becomes the external jugular vein. It receives in its course the anterior auricular, masseteric, transverse facial, and paro- tid veins, and near its termination is joined by the posterior auricular vein. The Posterior auricular vein communicates with the plexus upon the vertex of the head, and descends behind the ear to the temporo-maxillary vein, immediately before that vessel merges in the external jugular. It receives in its course the veins from the external ear and the stylo-mastoid vein. The Occipital vein commencing posteriorly in the plexus of the vertex of the head, follows the direction of the occipital artery, and passing deeply beneath the muscles of the back part of the neck, terminates in the internal jugular vein. This vein communicates with the lateral sinus by means of a large branch which passes through the mastoid foramen, the mastoid vein. VEINS OF THE DIPLOE. The diploS of the bones of the head is furnished in the adult with irregu- lar sinuses, which are formed by a continuation of the internal coat of the