Fig. 45 * STRUCTURE OF TEETH. 94 much indebted for our present knowledge of the intimate structure and development of the teeth, has observed with regard to the pulp, that it is composed of two different tissues, vascular and reticular; the former being an intricate web of minute vessels terminating in simple capillary loops, the latter a network of nucleated cells in which calcareous salts are gradually deposited, and which by a systematic continuance of that pro- cess are gradually converted into ivory. This process naturally takes place at the surface of the pulp, and as the pulp is thus robbed of its ceils, new cells are produced by the capillary plexus to supply their place, and be in their turn similarly transformed. A tooth is composed of three distinct structures, ivory or tooth-bone enamel, and a cortical substance or cementum. The ivory consists of very minute, tapering, and branching fibres embedded in a dense homogene- ous, interfibrous substance. The fibres commence by their larger ends at the walls of the cavitas pulpae and pursue a radiating and serpentine course towards the periphery of the tooth, where they ter- minate in ramifications of extreme minuteness. These fibres, heretofore considered to be hollow tubuli, have been shown by Mr. Nasmyth to be rows of minute opaque bodies, arranged in a linear series (baccated fibres, Nasmyth), to be, in fact, the nuclei of the ivory cells, the interfibrous sub- stance being the rest of the cell filled with calca- reous matter. In the natural state of the tooth all trace of the parietes or mode of connexion of the cells is lost, but after steeping in weak acid the cellular network is perfectly distinct. The enamel forms a crust over the whole exposed surface of the crown of the tooth to the commencement of its root; it is thickest over the upper part of the crown, and becomes gradually thinner as it approaches the neck. It is composed of minute hexagonal crystalline fibres, resting by one extremity against the surface of the ivory, and constituting by the other the free surface of the crown. The fibres examined on the face of a longitudinal section have a waving arrangement, and consist, like those of ivory, of cells connected by their surfaces and ends and filled with cal- careous substance. When the latter is removed by weak acid, the ena- mel presents a delicate cellular net-work of animal matter. The cortical substance, or cementum, (substantia ostoidea,) forms a thin coating over the root of the tooth, from the termination of the enamel to the opening in the apex of the fang. In structure it is analogous to bone, and is characterized by the presence of numerous calcigerous cells and tubuli. The cementum increases in thickness with the advance of age, and gives rise to those exostosed appearances occasionally seen in the teeth of very old persons, or in those who have taken much mercury. In aid age the cavitas pulpae is often found filled up and obliterated by * Microscopic section of a molar tooth. 1. Enamel with its columns and laminated structure. 2. Cortical substance or cementum on the outside ol the fang. 3. Ivory, showing tubuli. 4. Foramen entering the dental cavity from the end of the fang. 1 n.s lang ha« a bulbous enlargement in consequence of a hypertrophy of the cementum. * Deutai cavity. 6. A few osseous corpuscles in the ivory just under the enamel.