509 STRUCTURE OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL. ihe left sacroiliac symphysis, in front of the sacrum, forming a gentle curve to the right side, and then returning to the middle line ; near the extremity of the coccyx it curves backwards to terminate at the anus at about an inch in front of the apex of that bone. The rectum, therefore, forms a double flexure in its course, the one being directed from side to side, the other from before backwards. It is smaller in calibre at its upper part than the sigmoid flexure, but becomes gradually larger as it descends, and its lower extremity, previously to its termination at the anus, forms a dilata- tion of considerable but variable magnitude. With reference to its relations, the rectum is divided into three por- tions ; the first, including half its length, extends to about the middle of the sacrum, is completely surrounded by peritoneum, and connected to the sacrum by means of the meso-rectum. It is in relation, above, with the left sacro-iliac symphysis; and, below, with the branches of the inter- nal iliac artery, and with the sacral plexus of nerves; one or two convo- lutions of the small intestine are interposed between the front of the rectum and the bladder, in the male; and between the rectum and the uterus with its appendages, in the female. The second portion, about three inches in length, is closely attached to the surface of the sacrum, and covered by peritoneum only in front; it is in relation by its lower part with the base of the bladder, vesiculae seminales, and prostate gland, and in the female with the vagina. The third portion curves backwards from opposite the prostate gland to terminate at the anus ; it is embraced by the levatores ani, and is about one inch and a half in length. It is separated from the membranous portion of the urethra by a triangular space; in the female this space intervenes between the vagina and the rectum, and constitutes by its base the perineum. The Anus is situated at a little more than an inch in front of the ex- tremity of the coccyx. The integument around it is covered with hairs, and is thrown into numerous radiated plaits which are obliterated during the passage of faces. The margin of the anus is provided with an abun- dance of sebiparous glands, and the epiderma may be seen terminating by a fringed and scalloped border, at a few lines above the extremity of the opening. STRUCTURE OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL. The pharynx has three coats; a mucous coat, a fibrous coat derived from the pharyngeal fascia, and a muscular layer. The oesophagus has but two coats, the mucous and muscular. The stomach and intestines have three, mucous and muscular, and an external serous investment, de- rived from the peritoneum. Mucous Coat.—The mucous membrane of the mouth invests the whole internal surface of that cavity, and is reflected along the parotid, submax- illary, and sublingual ducts, into the corresponding glands. It terminates anteriorly upon the outer margin of the red border of the lips, and poste- riorly is continuous with the mucous lining of the pharynx. The mucous membrane of the pharynx is continuous with the mucous lining of the Eustachian tubes, the nares, the mouth, and the larynx. In the Esopha- gus it is thick, very loosely connected with the muscular coat, and disposed in longitudinal phcce. In the stomach the mucous membrane is thin and 43*