<‘*78 THALAMI OPTICI—THIRD VENTRICLE. <*eive the blood from the corpora striata and choroid plexuses, and termb nate posteriorly, after uniting into a single trunk, in the straight sinus. Upon the under surface of the velum interpositum are two fringe-lik; bodies, which project into the third ventricle. These are the choroil plexuses of the third ventricle; posteriorly these fringes enclose the pineal gland. If the velum interpositum be raised and turned back, an operation which must be conducted with care, particularly at its posterior part, where it invests the pineal gland, the thalami optici and the cavity of the third ventricle will be brought into view. Thalami optici. — The thalami optici are two oblong, square-shaped bodies, of a white colour superficially, inserted between the two diverging portions of the corpora striata. In the middle line a fissure exists between them, which is called the third ventricle. Posteriorly and inferiorly, they form the superior wall of the descending cornu, and present two rounded elevations called corpus geniculatum externum and internum. The corpus geniculatum externum is the larger of the two, and of a greyish colour; it is the principal origin of the optic nerve. Anteriorly, the thalami are con- nected with the corpora albicantia by means of two white bands, which appear to originate in the white substance uniting the thalami to the cor- pora striata. Externally they are in relation with the corpora striata and hemispheres. In their interior the thalami are compiled of white fibres mixed with grey substance. They are essentially the inferior ganglia of the cerebrum. Third ventricle. — The third ventricle is the fissure between the two thalami optici. It is bounded above by the under surface of the velum interpositum, from which are suspended the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle. Its floor is formed by the grey substance of the anterior termi- nation of the corpus callosum, called lamina cinerea, the tuber cinereum, corpora albicantia, and locus perforatus. Laterally it is bounded by the thalami optici; anteriorly by the anterior commissure and crura of the fornix; and posteriorly by the posterior commissure and the iter a tertio a a quartum ventriculum. The third ventricle is crossed by three com- missures, anterior, middle, and posterior; and between these are two spaces, called foramen commune anterius and foramen commune posterius. The Anterior commissure is a small rounded white cord, which enters the corpus striatum at either side, and spreads out in the substance of the hemispheres; the middle, or soft commissure consists of grey matter, which is continuous with the grey lining of the ventricle, it connects the adjacent sides of the thalami optici; the posterior commissure, smaller than the anterior, is a rounded white cord, connecting the two thalami optici posteriorly. The space between the anterior and middle commissure is called the foramen commune anterius, and is that to which Monro has given his name (foramen of Monro). It is the medium of communication between foramen commune posterius. 13. The corpora quadrigemina, upon which is seen rest- ing the pineal gland, 14. 15. The iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum, or aqueduct of Sylvius. 16. The fourth ventricle. 17. The pons Varolii, through which are seen pass- ing the diverging fibres of the corpora pyramidalia. 18. The crus cerebri of the left side, with the third nerve arising from it. 19. The tuber cinereum, from which pro- jects the infundibulum, having the pituitary gland appended to its extremity. 20. One of the optic nerves. 21. The left olfactory nerve terminating anteriorly in a rounded julb.