242 MUSCLES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. surface with the muscles and tendons in the palm of the hand. By one side with the metacarpal bone ; by the other with the corresponding palmar interosseous. The abductor indicis is in relation by its palmar surface with the adductor pollicis, the arteria magna pollicis being interposed. The radial artery passes into the palm of the hand between the two heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle and the perforating branches of the deep palmar arch, between the heads of the other dorsal interossei. Actions.—The actions of the muscles of the hand are expressed in their names. Those of the radial region belong to the thumb, and provide for three of its movements, abduction, adduction, and flexion. The ulnar group, in like manner, are subservient to the same motions of the little lin£rer, and the interossei are abductors and adductors of the several fin- gers. The lumbricales are accessory in their actions to the deep flexors: they were called by the earlier anatomists, fidicinii, i. e. fiddlers’ muscles, from an idea that they might effect the fractional movements by which tin* performer is enabled to produce the various notes on that instrument. In relation to the axis of the hand, the four dorsal interossei are abduc- tors, and the three palmar, adductors. It will therefore be seen that each finger is provided with its proper adductor and abductor, two flexors, and (with the exception of the middle and ring fingers) two extensors. The thumb has moreover a flexor and extensor of the metacarpal bone; and the little finger a flexor of the metacarpal bone without an extensor. MUSCLES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. The muscles of the lower extremity may be arranged into groups cor- responding with the regions of the hip, thigh, leg, and foot, as in the fol- lowing table:— HIP. Gluteus maximus, Gluteus minimus, Gemellus superior, Gemellus inferior, Quadratus femoris. Gluteal Region. Gluteus medius, Pyriformis, Obturator internus, Obturator externus. THIGH. Anterior Femoral Region. Tensor vaginae femoris, Sartorius, Rectus, Vastus internus, Vastus externus. Orureus. Internal Femoral Region. Iliacus internus, Psoas magnus, Pectineus, Adductor longus. Adductor brevis, Adductor magnus, Gracilis. Posterior Femoral Region. Biceps, Semitendinosus, Semimembranosus.