418 ULNAR NERVE. The Ulnar Nerve is somewhat smaller than the median, behind wmcn it lies, gradually diverging from it in its course. It arises from the bra- chial plexus in common with the internal head of the median and the in- ternal cutaneous nerve, and runs down the inner side of the arm, to the groove between the internal condyle and olecranon, resting upon the internal head of the triceps, and accompanied by the inferior profunda artery. At the elbow it is superficial, and supported by the inner con- dyle, against which it is easily compressed, giving rise to the thrilling sensation along the inner side of the fore-arm and little finger, ascribed to striking the “ funny bone.” It then passes between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris and descends along the inner side of the fore-arm, crosses the annular ligament, and divides into two branches, superficial and deep palmar. At the commencement of the middle third of the fore- arm, it becomes applied against the artery, and lies to its ulnar side, as The Branches of the ulnar nerve are— Muscular in the upper arm, Articular, Muscular in the fore-arm, Anastomotic, Dorsal branch, Superficial palmar, Deep palmar. The Muscular branches in the upper arm are a few filaments distributed to the triceps. The Articular branches are several filaments to the elbow joint, which are given off from the nerve as it lies in the groove between the inner condyle and the olecranon. The Muscular branches in the fore-arm are dis- tributed to the flexor carpi ulnaris and flexor pro- fundus digitorum muscle. The Anastomotic branch (n. cutaneus palmans ulnaris) is a small nerve which arises from the ulnar at about the middle of the fore-arm, and divides into a deep and a superficial bianch ; the former ac- companies the ulnar artery, the latter pierces the deep fascia, and is distributed to the integument, communicating with the posterior branch of the in- ternal cutaneous nerve. The Dorsal branch passes backwards beneath the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, at the lower third of the fore-arm, and divides into branches, which supply the integument and two fingers and a half on the posterior aspect of the hand, communicating with the internal cutaneous and radial nerve. Tne Superficial palmar branch divides into three filaments, which are * A view of the nerves on the dorsal aspect of the fore-arm and hand. 1, 1. T. he ulnar nerve. 2, 2. The posterior interosseous nerve. 3. Termination of the nervus cutaneus humeri. 4. The dorsalis carpi, a branch of the radial nerve. 5, 5. A back view ot the digital nerves. 6. Dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. far as the hand. Fig. 188.*