TEMPORAL BONE. 66 Fig. 29.* The posterior surface forms the front boundary of the posterior fossa of the base of the skull; near its middle is the oblique entrance of the meatus auditorius internus. Above the meatus auditorius internus is a small oblique fis- sure, and a minute foramen ; the former lodges a process of the dura mater, and the foramen gives passage to a small vein. Further outwards, towards the mastoid portion of the bone, is a small slit, almost hidden by a thin plate of bone; this is the aquceductus vestibulij and transmits a small artery and vein of the vestibule and a process of dura mater. Below the meatus, and partly concealed by the margin of the posterior border of the bone, is the aquceductus cochlecE, through which passes a vein from the cochlea to the internal jugular vein, and a process of dura mater. The meatus auditorius internus is about one-third of an inch in depth, and pursues a slightly oblique course in relation to the petrous portion of the temporal bone, but a course directly out- wards in relation to the cranium. At the bot- tom of the meatus, and upon its anterior as- pect, is a reniform fossa, the concave border of which is directed towards the entrance of the meatus. The reniform fossa is divided into an upper and lower compartment by a sharp ridge, which is prolonged for some dis- tance upon the anterior wall of the meatus, and sometimes as far as its aperture; in either case it marks the situation of the two nerves, facial and auditory, which constitute the se- venth pair, and enter the meatus. Along the convexity of the reniform fossa, and arranged in a curved line from above downwards, are four or Fig. 30.f * The left temporal bone, seen from within. 1. The squamous portion. 2. The mastoid. por«k>n. The number is placed immediately above the inner opening of the mastoid foramen. 3. The petrous portion. 4. The groove for the posterior branch of the arterm meningea media. 5. The bevelled edge of the squamous border of the bone. 6. The zygoma. 7. The digastric fossa immediately internal to the mastoid process. 8. The occipital groove. 9. The groove for the lateral sinus. 10. The elevation upon the anterior surface of the petrous bone marking the situation of the perpendicular semi- circular canal. 11. The opening of termination of the carotid canal. 12. The meatus auditorius internus. 13. A dotted line leads upwards from this number to the narrow fissure which lodges a process of the dura mater. Another line leads downwards to the sharp edge which conceals the opening of the aquceductus cochleae, while the num- ber itself is situated on the bony lamina which overlies the opening of the aquaeductus vestibuli. 14. The styloid process. 15. The stylo-mastoid foramen. 16. The carotid foramen. 17. The jugular process. The deep excavation to the left of this process forms part of the jugular fossa, and that to the right is the groove for the eighth pair of nerves. 18. The notch for the fifth nerve upon the upper border of the petrous bone, near its apex. 19. The extremity of the petrous bone which gives origin to the levator nalati and tensor tympani muscles. f a. The reniform fossa of the meatus auditorius internus; right temporal bone. \ The ridge dividing the reniform fossa into two compartments. 2. The opening of the aquaeductus Fallopii. The openings following that of the aquceductus Fallopii in n curved direction require no reference. 3. The cluster of three or four oblique