370 ARACHNOID MEMBRANE. irregular channels which receive the venous blood. These are the sinuses of the dura mater, which have been described at page 338. The student cannot see the tentorium and falx cerebelli until the brain is removed; but he should consider the attachments of the former on the dried skull, for he will have to incise it in the removal of the brain. He should now proceed to that operation, for which purpose the dura mater is to be incised all round, on a level with the section through the skull, and the scissors are to be carried deeply between the hemispheres of the brain in front, to cut through the anterior part of the falx ; then draw the dura mater backwards, and leave it hanging by its attachment to the ten- torium. Raise the anterior lobes of the brain carefully with the hand, and lift the olfactory bulbs from the cribriform fossse with the handle of the scalpel. Then cut across the two optic nerves and internal carotid arte- ries. Next divide the infundibulum and third nerves, and carry the knife along the margin of the petrous bone at each side, so as to divide the ten- torium near its attachment. Cut across the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth nerves in succession with a sharp knife, and pass the scalpel as far down as possible into the vertebral canal, to sever the spinal cord, cut- ting first to one side and then to the other, in order to divide the vertebral arteries and first cervical nerves. Then let him press the cerebellum gently upwards with the fingers of the right hand, the hemispheres being supported with the left, and the brain will roll into his hand. The Arteries of the dura mater are the anterior meningeal from the ethmoidal, ophthalmic, and internal carotid. The middle meningeal and meningea parva from the internal maxillary. The inferior meningeal from the ascending pharyngeal and occipital arteries; and the posterior menin- geal from the vertebral. Its JVerves are derived from the nervi molles and vertebral plexus of the sympathetic, from the Casserian ganglion, the ophthalmic nerve, and sometimes from the fourth. The branches from the two latter are given off while those nerves are situated by the side of the sella turcica; they are recurrent, and pass backwards between the layers of the tentorium, to the lining membrane of the lateral sinus. Purkinje describes a sympa- thetic plexus of considerable size, as being situated around the vena Galeni at its entrance into the fourth sinus. The filaments from this plexus are distributed to the tentorium. Arachnoid Membrane. The Arachnoid hke a spider’s web), so named from its extreme tenuity, is the serous membrane of the cerebro-spinal centre; and, like other serous membranes, a shut sac. It envelopes the brain and spinal cord (visceral layer) and is reflected upon the inner surface of the dura mater (parietal layer), giving to that membrane its serous investment. On the upper surface of the hemispheres the arachnoid is transparent, but may be demonstrated as it passes across the sulci from one convolu- tion to another by injecting, with a blow-pipe, a stream of air beneath it. At the base of the brain the membrane is opalescent and thicker than in other situations, and more easily demonstrable from the circumstance of stretching across the interval between the middle lobes of the hemispheres. The space which is included between this layer of membrane and those parts of the base of the brain which are bounded by the optic commissure