72 ETHMOID BONE. pterygoid plates is the pterygoid fossa; and the two plates are separated inferiorly by an angular notch (palatine), which receives the tuberosity, or pterygoid process, of the palate bone. The anterior surface of the ptery- goid process is broad near its base, and supports Meckel’s ganglion. The base of the process is pierced by the Vidian canal. Development.—By twelve centres: four for the body, viz. two for its anterior (spheno-orbital), and two for its posterior part (spheno-temporal); four for the four wings; two for the internal pterygoid plates, and two for the sphenoidal spongy bones. Ossification commences in the various pieces of the sphenoid in the following order:—greater alee, at about the same time with the other bones of the cranium ; lesser alse and posterior body, at the end of the second month; anterior body at the end of the third ; internal pterygoid plate and spongy bones, between the period of birth and the second year. Osseous union occurs first between the centres for the posterior body, and at about the same time between each centre of the anterior body and its corresponding (lesser) ala; the third union takes place between the internal pterygoid plate and the greater ala; the fourth between the two centres of the anterior body, and at the same time be- tween the anterior and posterior body. This is the state of union at birth, the bone consisting of five centres, one being the body and lesser aim ; one, on each side, the great ala and internal pterygoid plate; and the remaining two the sphenoidal spongy bones. The greater alae unite with the body during the first year; the spongy bones after puberty; and the uody of the sphenoid with the basilar process of the occipital bone be- tween eighteen and twenty-five. Articulations. —With twelve bones; that is, with all the bones of the head, and five of the face, viz. the two malar, two palate, and the vomer. Attachment of Muscles.—To twelve pairs : temporal, external ptery- goid, internal pterygoid, superior constrictor, tensor palati, laxator tym- pani, levator palpebrae, obliquus superior, superior rectus, internal rectus, inferior rectus, and external rectus. Ethmoid Bone.—The ethmoid (r.&yk, a sieve) is a square-shaped cel- lular bone, situated between the two orbits, at the root of the nose, and perforated upon its upper surface by a number of small openings, from which peculiarity it has received its name. It consists of a perpendicular lamella and two lateral masses. The perpendicular lamella is a thin central plate, which articulates with the vomer and cartilage of the septum, and assists in forming the septum of the nose. It is surmounted superiorly by a thick and strong process, the crista galli, which projects into the cavity of the skull, and gives attachment to the falx cerebri. From the base of the anterior border of this process there project forward two small plates, alar processes, which are received into corresponding depressions in the trontal bone, and often complete posteriorly the foramen caecum. On each side of the crista galli, upon the upper surface of the bone, is a thin and grooved plate perforated by a number of small openings, the cribriform lamella,which supports the bulb of the olfactory nerve, and gives passage to its filaments, and to the nasal branch of the ophthalmia nerve. In the middle of the groove ot this lamella the foramina pierce the bone completely, but at either side they are the apertures of canals, which run for some distance in the substance of the central lamella, inner wall of the lateral mass, and spongy