NASAL GROUP. 170 a rotatory movement upon the eyeball; and in animals provided with a retractor muscle, they also act as antagonists to its action. Actions.—The levator palpebrae raises the upper eyelid. Ihe four recti, acting singly, pull the eyeball in the lour directions ; upwards, downwards, inwards, and outwards. Acting by pairs, they carry the eyeball in the diagonal of these directions, viz. upwards and inwards, upwards and out- wards, downwards and inwards, or downwards and outwards. Acting all together, they directly retract the globe within the orbit. The superior oblique muscle, acting alone, rolls the globe inwards and forwards, and carries the pupil outwards and downwards to the lower and outer angle of the orbit. The inferior oblique, acting alone, rolls the globe outwards and backwards, and carries the pupil outwards and upwards to the upper and outer angle of the eye. Both muscles acting together, draw the eye- ball forwards, and give the pupil that slight degree of eversion which en- ables it to admit the largest field of vision. 4. Nasal Group.—Pyramidalis nasi, Compressor nasi, Dilatator naris. The Pyramidalis Nasi is a small pyramidal slip of muscular fibres sent downwards upon the bridge of the nose by the occipito-frontalis. It is inserted into the tendinous expansion of the compressores nasi. Relations.—By its upper surface with the integument; by its under sur- face with the periosteum of the frontal and nasal bone. Its outer border corresponds with the edge of the orbicularis palpebrarum, and its inner border with its fellow, from which it is separated by a slight interval. The Compressor Nasi is a thin and triangular muscle ; it arises by its apex from the canine fossa of the superior maxillary bone, and spreads out upon the side of the nose into a thin tendinous expansion, which is con- tinuous across its ridge with the muscle of the opposite side. Relations. — By its superficial surface with the levator labii superioris proprius, the levator labii superioris alaeque nasi, and the integument; by its deep surface with the superior maxillary and nasal bone, and with the alar and lateral cartilages of the nose. The Dilatator Naris is a thin and indistinct muscular apparatus ex- panded upon the ala of the nostril, and consisting of an anterior and a posterior slip. The anterior slip (levator proprius aim nasi anterior) ex- tends between the lateral and alar cartilage at about midway between the tip and the attached margin of the nose. The posterior slip (levator pro- prius alae nasi posterior) is attached above to the margin of the nasal pro- cess of the superior maxillary bone, and below to the small cartilages of the ala nasi. These muscles are difficult of dissection from the close adherence of the integument to the nasal cartilages. Actions. — The pyramidalis nasi, as a point of attachment of the occi- pito-frontalis, assists that muscle in its action: it also draws down the inner angle of the eyebrow, and by its insertion fixes the aponeurosis of the compressores nasi. The compressores nasi appear to act in expanding rather than in compressing the nares; hence probably the compressed state of the nares from paralysis of these muscles in the last moments of life, or in compression of the brain. The use of the dilatator naris is ex pressed in its name.