17 AND SCIENTIFIC PUBLICATIONS. HUGHES (H. M.), M. D., Assistant Physician to Guy’s Hospital, &c. A CLINICAL INTRODUCTION TO THE PRACTICE OF AU3CULTA- TION, and other Modes of Physical Diagnosis, in Diseases of the Lungs and Heart. Second American from the Second and Improved London Edition. In one royal 12rno. vol. (Now Ready.) It has been carefully revised throughout. Some small portions have been erased; much has been, I trust, amended; and a great deal of new matter has been added; so that, though funda- mentally it i< the same book, it is in many respects a new work.—Preface. HORNER (WILLIAM E.), M. D., Professor of Anatomy in the University of Pennsylvania. SPECIAL ANATOMY AND HISTOLOGY. Eighth edition. Extensively revised and modified. In two large octavo volumes, of more than one thousand pages, hand- somely printed, with over three hundred illustrations. This work has enjoyed a thorough and laborious revision on the part of the author, with the view of bringing it fully up to the existing state of knowledge on the subject of general and special anatomy. To adapt it more perfectly to the wants of the student, he has introduced a large number of additional wood-engravings, illustrative of the objects described, while the publishers have en- deavored to render the mechanical execution of the work worthy of the extended reputation which it has acquired. The demand which has carried it to an EIGHTH EDITION is a sulficient evi- dence of the value of the work, and of its adaptation to the wants of the student and professional reader. HOBLYN (RICHARD D.), A. M. A DICTIONARY OF THE TERMS USED IN MEDICINE AND THE COLLATERAL SCIENCES. Second and Improved American Edition. Revised, with nu- merous Additions, from the second London edition, by Isaac Hays, M. D., &c. In one large royal 12mo. volume, of over four hundred pages, double columns. (Nearly Ready.) In passing this work a second time through the press, the editor has subjected it to a very tho- rough revision, making such additions as the progress of science has rendered desirable, and sup- plying any omissions that may have previously existed. As a concise and convenient Dictionary of Medical Terms, at an exceedingly low price, it will therefore be found of great value to the stu- dent and practitioner. HOPE (J.), M. D., F. R. S., &c. A TREATISE ON THE DISEASES OF THE HEART AND GREAT VESSELS. Edited by Pennock. In one volume, octavo, with plates, 572 pages. JONES (C. HANDFIELD), F. R. S., & EDWARD H. SI EV EKING, M.D., Assistant Physicians and Lecturers in St. Mary’s Hospital, London. A MANUAL OF PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. First American Edition, Revised. With ihree hundred and ninety-seven handsome wood engravings. In one large and beautiful octavo volume of nearly seven hundred and fifty pages. In a work like the present, intended as a text-book for the student of pathology, accurate engrav- ings of the various results of morbid action are of the greatest assistance. The American pub- lishers have, therefore, considered that the value of the work might be enhanced by increasing the number of illustrations, and, with this object, many wood-cuts, from the best authorities, have been introduced, increasing the number from one hundred and sixty-seven, in the London Edition, to three hundred and ninety-seven in this. The selection of these wood-cuts has been made by a competent member of the profession, who has supervised the progress of the work through the press, with the view of securing an accurate reprint, and of correcting such errors as had escaped the attention of the authors. With these improvements, the volume is therefore presented in the hope of supplying the ac- knowledged want of a work which, within a moderate compass, should embody a condensed and accurate digest of the present state of pathological science, as extended by recent microscopical, chemical, and physiological researches. A comprehensive English work on pathological anatomy has long been a desideratum in medical literature. The progress of pathological science has been so rapid, and the contributions of pathologists have been so numerous, that the learner has been compelled to resort to various books in different lan- guages, and to monographs on special subjects, in order to become acquainted with the morbid affec- tions of the human body. The pres ent work fills up in a great measure the deficiency which has hither- to existed, and Drs. Jones and Sieveking deserve great credit for the manner in which they have per- formed their task. They have availed themselves of the best existing sources of information, and they have confirmed or contested the conclusions of pre- ceding authors by observations made by themselves. The book is also abundantly illustrated by well- executed wood-engravings, many of which are drawn from specimens examined by the authors.— j Med. Times and Gazette. JONES (T. WHARTON), F. R. S., Sic. the PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. Edited by Isaac Hays, M. D., &c. In one very neat volume, large royal 12mo., of 529 pages, with four plates, plain or colored, and ninety-eight wood-cuts. The work amply sustains, in every point the al- ready high reputation of the author as an ophthalmic surgeon as well as a physiologist and pathologist. The book is evidently the result of much labor and research, and lias been written with the greatest care and attention. We entertain little doubt that tliis book will become what its author hoped it might become, a manual for daily reference and consultation by the student and the general practi- tioner. The work is marked by that correctness, clearness, and precision of style which distinguish all the productions of the learned author.—British and Foreign Medical Review.