152 SHOULDER JOINT—ELBOW JOINT. the notch in the upper border of the scapula, from the base of the cora coid process, and converts it into a foramen. The supra-scapular nerve passes through this foramen. 4. Shoulder Joint.—The scapulo-humeral articulation is an enarthrosis, or ball-and-socket joint—its ligaments are, the Capsular, Coraco-humeral, Glenoid. The capsular ligament completely encircles the articulating head of the scapula and the head of the humerus, and is attached to the neck of each bone. It is thick above, where resistance is most required, and is strengthened by the tendons of the supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, teres minor, and subscapularis muscles : below it is thin and loose. The cap- sule is incomplete at the point of contact with the tendons, so that they obtain upon their inner surface a covering of synovial membrane. The coraco-humeral ligament is a broad band which descends obliquely outwards from the border of the coracoid process to the greater tuberosity of the humerus, and serves to strengthen the superior and anterior part of the capsular ligament. The glenoid ligament is the prismoid band of fibro-cartilage, which is attached around the margin of the glenoid cavity for the purposes of pro- tecting its edges, and deepening its cavity. It divides superiorly into two slips which are continuous with the long tendon of the biceps ; hence the ligament is frequently described as being formed by the splitting of that tendon. The cavity of the articulation is traversed by the long tendon of the biceps, which is enclosed in a sheath of synovial membrane in its passage through the joint. The synovial membrane of the shoulder joint is very extensive ; it com- municates anteriorly through an opening in the capsular ligament with a large bursal sac, which lines the under surface of the tendon of the sub- scapularis muscle. Superiorly, it frequently communicates through another opening in the capsular ligament with a bursal sac belonging to the infra- spinatus muscle; and it moreover forms a sheath around that portion of the tendon of the biceps, which is included within the joint. The muscles immediately surrounding the shoulder joint are the sub- scapularis, supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, teres minor, long head of the triceps and deltoid; the long tendon of the biceps is within the capsular ligament. Actions.—The shoulder joint is capable of every variety of motion, viz. of movement forwards and backwards, of abduction and adduction, of circumduction and rotation. 5. Elbow Joint.—The elbow is a ginglymoid articulation; its ligaments are four in number,— Anterior, Internal lateral, Posterior, External lateral. The anterior ligament is a broad and thin membranous layer, descend- ing from the anterior surface of the humerus, immediately above the joint, 10 the coronoid process of the ulna and orbicular ligament. On each side it is connected with the lateral ligaments. It is composed of fibres which pass in three different directions, vertical, transverse, and oblique, the lat-