AXILLARY ARTERY. 300 The Anterior intercostals supply the intercostal muscles of the front of the chest, and inosculate with the aortic intercostal arteries. Each of .the first three anterior intercostals gives off a large branch to the mammary gland, which anastomoses freely with the thoracic branches of the axillary artery; the corresponding branches from the remaining intercostals supply the integument and pectoralis major muscle. There are usually two an- terior intercostal arteries in each space. The Comes nervi phrenici is a long and slender branch which accom- panies the phrenic nerve. The mediastinal and pericardiac branches are small vessels distributed to the anterior mediastinum, the thymus gland, and pericardium. The Musculo-phrenic artery winds along the attachment of the diaphragm to the ribs, supplying that muscle, and sending branches to the inferior intercostal spaces. “ The mammary arteries,” says Dr. Harrison, “ are remarkable for the number of their inosculations, and for the distant parts of the arterial system which they serve to connect. They anastomose with each other, and their inosculations, with the thoracic aorta, encircle the thorax. On the parietes of this cavity their branches connect the axillary and subclavian arteries; on the diaphragm they form a link in the chain of inosculations between the subclavian artery and abdominal aorta, and in the parietes of the abdomen they form an anastomosis most remarkable for the distance between those vessels which it serves to connect; namely, the arteries of the superior and inferior extremities.” Varieties of the subclavian Arteries.—Varieties in these arteries are rare; that which most frequently occurs is the origin of the right subclavian, from the left extremity of the arch of the aorta, below the left subclavian artery. The vessel, in this case, curves behind the oesophagus and right carotid artery, and sometimes between the oesophagus and trachea, to the upper border of the first rib on the right side of the chest, where it assumes its ordinary course. In a case* of subclavian aneurism on the right side, above the clavicle, which happened during the summer of 1839, Mr. Lis- ten proceeded to perform the operation of tying the carotid and subclavian arteries at their point of division from the innominata. Upon reaching the spot where the bifurcation should have existed, he found that there was no subclavian artery. With the admirable self-possession which dis- tinguishes this eminent surgeon in all cases of emergency, he continued his dissection more deeply, towards the vertebral column, and succeeded in securing the artery. It was ascertained after death, that the arteria innominata was extremely short, and that the subclavian was given off within the chest from the posterior aspect of its trunk, and pursued a deep course to the upper margin of the first rib. In a preparation which was shown to me in Heidelberg some years since by Professor Tiedemann, the right subclavian artery arose from the thoracic aorta, as low down as the fourth dorsal vertebra, and ascended from that point to the border of the first rib. Varieties in the branches of the subclavian are not unfre- quenc; the most interesting is the origin of the left vertebral from the arch of the aorta, of which I possess several preparations. AXILLARY ARTERY. The axillary artery forms a gentle curve through the middle of the * This case is recorded in the Lancet, vol. i. 1S39-40, pp. 37 and 419.