173 MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. organs of generation. At the commencement of the alimentary canal in the oesophagus, and near its termination in the rectum, the muscular coat is formed by a blending of the fibres of both classes. The heart is deve- loped from die middle, or vascular layer of the germinal membrane; and although involuntary in its action, is composed of ultimate fibres, having the transverse striae of the muscle of animal life. The muscles may be arranged in conformity with the general division of the body into, — 1. Those of the head and neck. 2. Those of the trunk. 3. Those of the upper extremity. 4. Those of the lower ex- tremity. MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. The muscles of the head and neck admit of a subdivision into those of the head and face, and those of the neck. Muscles of the Head and Face. — These muscles may be divided into groups, corresponding with the natural regions of the head and face; the groups are eight in number, viz.— 1. Cranial group. 2. Orbital group. 3. Ocular group. 4. Nasal group. 5. Superior labial group. 6. Inferior labial group. 7. Maxillary group. 8. Auricular group. The muscles of each of these groups may be thus arranged— 1. Cranial group. Occipito-frontalis. 2. Orbital group. Orbicularis palpebrarum, Corrugator supercilii, Tensor tarsi. 3. Ocular group. Levator palpebrse, Rectus superior, Rectus inferior, Rectus internus, Rectus externus, Obliquus superior, Obliquus inferior. 4. J\rasal group. Pyramidalis nasi, Compressor nasi, Dilatator naris. 5. Supenor labial group. (Orbicularis oris), Levator labii superiors alseque nasi, Levator labii superioris proprius, Levator anguli oris, Zygomaticus major, Zygomaticus minor, Depressor labii superioris alseque nasi. 6. Inferior labial group. (Orbicularis oris),* Depressor labii inferioris, Depressor anguli oris, Levator labii inferioris. 7. Maxillary group. Masseter, Temporalis, Buccinator, Pterygoideus externus, Pterygoideus internus. 8. Auricular group. Attollens aurem, Attrahens aurem, Retrahens aurem. * The orbicularis oris, from encircling the mouth, belongs necessarily to both the supenor and inferior labial regions; it is therefore enclosed within parentheses in both. r ]5*