393 OLFACTORY NERVE. C Glosso-pharyngeal, 8th. } Pneumogastric (vagus, par vagum). ( Spinal accessory. 9th. Hypoglossal (lingual). Functionally or physiologically the cranial nerves admit of division into three groups, namely, nerves of special sense, nerves of motion, and com- pound nerves, that is, nerves which contain fibres both of sensation and motion. The nerves belonging to these groups are the following: ' 1st. Olfactory. Special sense Motion i Compound 1 2d. Optic. 7th. Auditory. 3d. Motores oculorum. 4th. Pathetici. 6th. Abducentes. 7th. Facial. 9th. Hypoglossal. 5th. Trifacial. 8th. Glosso-pharyngeal. Pneumogastric. Spinal accessory. The fourth, facial, and eighth nerves were considered by Sir Charles Bell to form a system apart from the rest, and to be allied in the functions of expression and respiration. In consonance with this view he termed them respiratory nerves, and he gave to that part of the medulla oblongata from which they arise the name of respiratory tract. First pair. Olfactory. —The olfactory nerve arises by three roots ; an inner root from the substantia perforata, a middle root from a papil- la of grey matter (caruncu- la mammillaris), embedded in the anterior lobe, and an external root, which may be traced as a white streak along the fissure of Sylvius into the corpus striatum, where it is continuous with some of the fibres of the anterior com- missure. The nervous cord formed by the union of these three roots is soft in texture, prismoid in shape, and embedded in a sulcus between two convolutions on the under surface of each anterior lobe of the brain, lying between the pia mater and the arach- noid. As it passes forwards it increases in breadth and swells at its extremity, * A view of the 1st pair or olfactory, with the nasal branches of the 5th. 1. Frontal sinus. 2. Sphenoidal sinus. 3. Hard palate. 4. Bulb of the olfactory nerve. 5, Branches of the olfactory on the superior and middle turbinated bones. 6. Spheno-pala- tine nerves from the 2d of the 5th. 7. Internal nasal nerve from the 1st of the 5tl' . 8. Branches of 7, to Schneiderian membrane. 9. Ganglion of Cloquet in the foramen inci ttvum. 10. Anastomosis on the inferior turbinated bone of the branches of the 5th pan