545 FEMALE PELVIS—VAGINA. Fig. 241* and its speedy return to its original diameter. The meatus is encircled by a ring of fibrous tissue, which prevents it from distending with the same facility as the rest of the canal; hence it is sometimes advantageous in performing this operation to divide the margin of the meatus slightly with the knife. VAGINA. The Vagina is a membranous canal, leading from the vulva to the uterus, and corresponding in direction with the axis of the outlet of the pelvis. It is constricted at its commencement, but near the uterus becomes dilated; and is closed by the contact of the anterior with the posterior wall. Its length is variable; but it is always longer upon the posterior than upon the anterior wall, the former being usually about five or six inches in length, and the latter four or five. It is attached to the cervix of the uterus, which latter projects into the upper extremity of the canal. In Stmdure the vagina is composed of a mucous lining, a layer of erectile tissue, and an external tunic of contractile fibrous tissue, resembling the dartos of the scrotum. The upper fourth of the posterior wall of the * A side view of the viscera of the female pelvis. 1. The symphysis pubis; to the upper part of which the tendon of the rectus muscle is attached. 2. The abdominal parietes. 3. The collection of fat, forming the prominence of the mons Veneris. 4. The urinary bladder. 5. The entrance of the left ureter. 6. The canal of the urethra, con- verted into a mere fissure by the contraction of its walls. 7. The meatus urinarius. 8. The clitoris, with its prseputium, divided through the middle. 9. The left nympha. 10. The left labium majus. 11. The meatus of the vagina, narrowed by the contraction of its sphincter. 12. 22. The canal of the vagina, upon which the transverse rugae are apparent. 13. The thick wall of separation between the base of the bladder and the vagina. 14. The wall of separation between the vagina and rectum. 15. The perineurn 1 6. The os uteri. 17. Its cervix. 18. The fundus uteri. The cavitas uteri is seen along the centre of the organ. 19. The rectum, showing the disposition of its mucous mem- brane. 20. The anus. 21. The upper part of the rectum, invested by the peritoneum 23. The utero-vesical fold of peritoneum. The recto-uterine fold is seen between the rectum and the posterior wall of the vagina. 24. The reflexion of the peritoneum, from the apex of the bladder upon the urachus to the internal surface of the abdominx na- ncies. 25. The last lumbar vertebra. 20. The sacrum. 27. The coccyx. 4G * 2 K