368 MEMBRANES OE T1IE ENCEPHALON. T-hese are invested and protected by the membranes of the brain, and the. whole together constitute the encephalon (sv within the head). MEMBRANES OF THE ENCEPHALON. Dissection.—To examine the encephalon with its membranes, the upper part of the skull must be removed, by sawing through the external table and breaking the internal table with the chisel and hammer. After the calvarium has been loosened all round, it will require a considerable de- gree of force to tear the bone away from the dura mater. This adhesion is particularly firm at the sutures, where the dura mater is continuous with a membranous layer interposed between the edges of the bones; in other situations, the connexion results from numerous vessels which permeate the inner table of the skull. The adhesion subsisting between the dura mater and bone is greater in the young subject and in old persons than in the adult. On being torn away, the internal table will present numerous deeply grooved and ramified channels, corresponding with the branches of the arteria meningea media. Along the middle line will be seen a groove corresponding with the superior longitudinal sinus, and on either side may be frequently observed some small fossae, corresponding with the Pacchi- onian bodies. The membranes of the encephalon are the dura mater, arachnoid mem- hrane, and pia mater. “The Dura mater* is the firm, whitish or greyish layer which is brought into view when the calvarium is removed. It is a strong fibrous membrane, somewhat laminated in texture, and composed of white fibrous tissue. Lining the interior of the cranium, it serves as the internal periosteum of that cavity; it is prolonged also into the spinal column, under the name of theca vertebralis, but is not adherent to the bones in that canal as in the cranium. From the internal surface of the dura mater, processes are di- rected inwards for the support and protection of parts of the brain ; while from its exterior, other processes are prolonged outwards to form sheaths for the nerves as they quit the skull and spinal column. Its external sur- face is rough and fibrous, and corresponds with the internal table of the skull. The internal surface is smooth, and lined by the thin varnish-like lamella of the arachnoid membrane. The latter is a serous membrane. Hence the dura mater becomes a fibro-serous membrane, being composed of its own proper fibrous structure, and the serous layer derived from the arachnoid. There are two other instances of fibro-serous membrane in the body, formed in the same way, namely, the pericardium and tunica albu- ginea of the testicle. On the external surface of the dura mater the branches of the middle meningeal artery may be seen ramifying; and in the middle line is a de- pressed groove, formed by the subsidence of the upper wall of the superior longitudinal sinus. If the sinus be opened along its course, it will be found to be a triangular channel, crossed at its lower angle by numerous white bands, called chordae Willisii ;f granular bodies are also occasion- ally seen in its interior, these are glandulae Pacchioni. * So named from a supposition that it was the source of all the fibrous membranes oi the body. t Willis lived in the seventeenth century; he was a great defender of the opinions of Harvey.