465 MEMBRANOUS LABYRINTH. mbyrinthi (liquor Cotunnii), and sending a reflection inwards upon the nerves distributed to the membranous labyrinth. In the cochlea the mem- brane of the labyrinth invests the two surfaces of the bony lamina spiralis, and being continued from its border across the diameter of the canal to its outer wall, forms the membranous lamina spiralis, and completes the se- paration between the scala tympani and scala vestibuli. lne fenestia ovalis and fenestra rotunda are closed by an extension of this membrane across them, assisted by the membrane of the tympanum and a proper in- termediate layer. Besides lining the interior of the osseous cavity, the membrane of the labyrinth sends two delicate processes along the aque- ducts of the vestibule and cochlea to the internal surface of the dura mater, with which they are continuous. These processes are the remains of a communication originally subsisting between the dura mater and the cavity of the labyrinth.* The Membranous labyrinth is smaller in size, but a perfect counter- part with respect to form, of the vestibule and semicircular canals. . It consists of a small elongated sac, sacculus communis (utriculus communis) ; of three semicircular membranous canals, which correspond with the os- seous canals, and communicate with the sacculus communis; and of a small round sac (sacculus proprius), which occupies the anterior ventricle of the vestibule, and lies in close contact with the external surface of the sacculus communis. The membranous semicircular canals are two-thirds smaller in diameter than the osseous canals. The membranous labyrinth is retained in its position by means of the numerous nervous filaments which are distributed to it from the openings in the inner wall of the vestibule, and is separated from the lining mem- brane of the labyrinth by the aqua labyrinthi. In structure it is composed receiving a nervous fasciculus from the inferior branch of the vestibular nerve. 8. The oblique semicircular canal with its membranous canal. 9. The common canal, resulting from the union of the perpendicular with the oblique seinicircular canal. 10. The mem- branous common canal terminating in the sacculus communis. 11. The otoconite of the sacculus communis seen through the membranous parietes of that sac. A nervous fasci- culus from the inferior branch of the vestibular nerve is seen to be distributed to the sacculus communis near the otoconite. The extremity of the sacculus above the otoconite is lodged in the superior ventricle of the vestibule, and that below it in the inferior ven- tricle. 12. The sacculus proprius situated in the anterior ventricle; its otoconite is seen through its membranous parietes, and a nervous fasciculus derived from the middle branch of the vestibular nerve is distributed to it. The spaces around the membranous labyrinth are occupied by the aqua labyrinthi. 13. The first turn of the cochlea; the figure points to the scala tympani. 14. The extremity of the scala tympani correspond- ing with the fenestra rotunda. 15. The lamina spiralis; the figure is situated in the scala vestibuli. 16. The opening of the scala vestibuli into the vestibule. 17. The second turn of the cochlea; the figure is placed upon the lamina spiralis, and therefore in the scala vestibuli, the scala tympani being beneath the lamina. 18. The remaining half turn of the cochlea; the figure is placed in the scala tympani. 19. The lamina spiralis terminating in its falciform extremity. The dark space included within the falciform curve of the extremity of the lamina spiralis is the helicotrema. 20. The in fundibulum. * Cotunnius regarded these processes as tubular canals, through which the superabun- dant aqua labyrinthi might be expelled into the cavity of the cranium. Mr. Wharton Jones, in the article « Organ of Hearing,” in the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology, also describes them as tubular canals which terminate beneath the dura mater of the petrous bone in a small dilated pouch. In the ear of a man, deaf and dumb from birth, he found the termination of the aqueduct of the vestibule of unusually large size in con sequence of irregular development. 2 E