214 MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. should be left entire, as it gives attachment to the next muscles. The muscle may then be turned forwards towards the linea alba, or removed altogether. The Internal Oblique Muscle (obliquus internus abdominis ascendens) is the middle Hat muscle of the abdomen. It arises from the outer half of Poupart’s ligament, from the middle of the crest of the ilium for two- thirds of its length, and by a thin aponeurosis from the spinous processes of the lumbar vertebrae. Its fibres diverge from their origin, so that those from Poupart’s ligament curve downwards, those from the anterior part of the crest of the ilium pass transversely, and the rest ascend obliquely. The muscle is inserted into the pectineal line and crest of the os pubis, linea alba, and lower borders of the five inferior ribs. Along the upper three-fourths of the linea semilunaris, the aponeurosis of the internal oblique separates into two lamellae, which pass one in front and the other behind the rectus muscle to the linea alba, where they are inserted ; along the lower fourth, the aponeurosis passes altogether in front of the rectus without separation. The two layers, which thus enclose the rectus, form for it a partial sheath. The lowest fibres of the internal oblique are inserted into the pectineal li ie of the os pubis in common with those of the transversalis muscle, lienee the tendon of this insertion is called the conjoined tendon of the in- ternal oblique and transversalis. This structure corresponds with the external abdominal ring, and forms a protection to what would otherwise be a weak point in the abdomen. Sometimes the tendon is insufficient to resist the pressure from within, and becomes forced through the external ring ; it then forms the distinctive covering of direct inguinal hernia. The spermatic cord passes beneath the arched border of the internal oblique muscle, between it and Poupart’s ligament. During its passage some fibres are given off from the lower border of the muscle, which ac- company the cord downwards to the testicle, and form loops around it: this is the cremaster muscle. In the descent of oblique inguinal hernia, which travels the same course with the spermatic cord, the cremaster muscle forms one of its coverings. The Cremaster, considered as a distinct muscle, arises from the mid- dle of Poupart’s ligament, and forms a series of loops upon the spermatic cord. A few of its fibres are inserted into the tunica vaginalis, the rest ascend along the inner side of the cord, to be inserted, with the conjoined tendon, into the pectineal line of the os pubis. Relations.—The internal oblique is in relation, by its external surface, with the external oblique, latissimus dorsi, spermatic cord, and externa) abdominal ring. By its internal surface, with the transversalis muscle, the fascia transversalis, the internal abdominal ring, and spermatic cord. By its lower and arched border, with the spermatic cord, forming the upper boundary of the spermatic canal. The cremaster is in relation, by its external surface, with the aponeuro- sis of the external oblique and intercolumnar fascia; and by its internal surface, with the fascia propria of the spermatic cord. The internal oblique muscle is to be removed by separating it from its attachments to the ribs above, and to the crest of the ilium and Poupart’s ligament below. It should be divided behind by a vertical incision, ex- tending from the last rib to the crest of the ilium, as its lumbar attachment cannot at present be examined. The muscle is then to be turned for-