515 tiie liver. The Stomach is completely surrounded by peritoneum, excepting along the line of junction of the great and lesser omentum. Ih q first or oblique portion of the duodenum is also completely included by the serous mem- brane, with the exception of the points of attachment of the omenta, lhe descending portion has merely a partial covering on its anterior surface. The transverse portion is also behind the peritoneum, being situated be- tween the two layers of the transverse meso-colon, and has but a partial covering. The rest of the small intestine is completely invested by ity excepting along the concave border to which the mesentery is attached. The caecum is more or less invested by the peritoneum, the more frequent disposition being that in which the intestine is surrounded for three-fourths only of its circumference. The ascending and the descending colon are covered by the serous membrane only in front. The transverse colon is. invested completely, with the exception of the lines of attachment of the greater omentum and transverse meso-colon. And the sigmoid flexure is entirely surrounded, with the exception of the part corresponding with the junction of the left meso-colon. The upper third of the rectum is com- pletely enclosed by the peritoneum; the middle third has an anterior covering only, and the inferior third none whatsoever. Vessels and JVerves.—The Arteries of the alimentary canal, as they supply the tube from above downwards, are the pterygo-palatine, ascend- ing pharyngeal, superior thyroid, and inferior thyroid, in the neck; oeso- phageal, in the thorax; gastric, hepatic, splenic, superior and inferior mesenteric, in the abdomen; and inferior mesenteric, iliac, and internal pudic, in the pelvis. The veins from the abdominal alimentery canal unite to form the vena portrn. The lymphatics and lacteals open into the thoracic duct. The Nerves of the pharynx and oesophagus are derived from the glosso- pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and sympathetic. The nerves of the stomach are the pneumogastric, and sympathetic branches from the solar plexus; and those of the intestinal canal are the superior and inferior mesenteric and hypogastric plexuses. The extremity of the rectum is supplied by the inferior sacral nerves from the spinal cord. # THE LIVER. The liver is a conglomerate gland of large size, appended to the ali- mentary canal, and performing the double office of separating impurities from the venous blood of the chylo-poietic viscera previously to its return into the general venous circulation, and of secreting a fluid necessary to chylification, the bile. It is the largest organ in the body, weighing about four pounds, and measuring through its longest diameter about twelve inches. It is situated in the right hypochondriac region, and extends across the epigastrium into the left hypochondriac, frequently reaching, by its left extremity, the upper end of the spleen. It is placed obliquely in the abdomen; its convex surface looking upwards and forwards, and the concave downwards and backwards. The anterior border is sharp and free, and marked by a deep notch, and the posterior rounded and broad. It is in relation, superiorly and posteriorly, with the diaphragm ; and infe- riorly, with the stomach, ascending portion of the duodenum, transverse colon, right supra-renal capsule, and right kidney; and corresponds, by its free border, with the lower margin of the ribs.