232 FLEXOR CARPI RADIALIS Relations. — By its anterior surface with the fascia of the fore-arm, the supinator longus, extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior, radial artery and veins, and radial nerve. By its posterior surface with the brachialis anticus, flexor sublimis digitorum, the ulnar artery and veins, and the me- dian nerve after it has passed between the two heads of the muscle. By its upper border it forms the inner boundary of the triangular space, in which the termination of the brachial artery is situated. By its lower border it is in relation with the flexor carpi radialis. The Flexor Carpi Radialis arises from the inner condyle and from the intermuscular fascia. Its tendon passes through a groove formed by the scaphoid bone and trapezium, to be inserted into the base of the meta- carpal bone of the index finger. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the fascia of the fore-arm, and at the wrist with the tendinous canal through which its tendon passes. By its posterior surface with the flexor sublimis digitorum, flexor longus pollicis, wrist-joint, and groove in the scaphoid and trapezium bones. By its outer border with the pronator radii teres, and radial artery and veins. By its inner border with the palmaris longus. The tendon is surrounded by a synovial membrane where it plays through the tendinous canal of the wrist. The Palmaris Longus is a small muscle which ai'ises from the inner condyle, and from the intermuscular fascia. It is inserted into the annular ligament and palmar fascia. Occasionally this muscle is wanting. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the fascia of the fore-arm. By the posterior surface with the flexor sublimis digitorum: to the external side by the flexor carpi radialis; and to the internal side by the flexor carpi ulnaris. Cut the flexor carpi radialis and palmaris longus from their origins, in order to obtain a good view of the whole extent of origin of the flexor sublimis digitorum. The Flexor Sublimis Digitorum (perforatus) arises from the inner condyle, internal lateral ligament, coronoid process of the ulna, and ob- lique line of the radius. The median nerve and ulnar artery pass between its origins. It divides into four tendons, which pass beneath the annular ligament into the palm of the hand, and are inserted into the base of the second phalanges of the fingers, splitting at their terminations to give passage to the tendons of the deep flexors; thence its designation, per- forates. In the thecse of the fingers several small tendinous fasciculi are generally found, which pass between the phalanges and the edges of the tendons ; these have been termed the vincula accessoria. Relations.—In the fore-arm. By its anterior surface with the pronator radii teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, flexor carpi ulnaris, and the deep fascia. By its posterior surface with the flexor profundus digi- torum, flexor longus pollicis, ulnar artery, veins and nerve, and median nerve. This muscle frequently sends a fasciculus to the flexor longus pollicis or flexor profundus. In the hand : its tendons, after passing be- maris longus. 7 One of the fasciculi of the flexor sublimis digitorum ; the rest of the muscle is seen beneath the tendons of the palmaris longus and flexor carpi radialis. 8. The flexor carpi ulnaris. 9. The palmar fascia. 10. The palmaris brevis muscle. 11. 'Ihe abductor pollicis muscle. 12. One portion of the flexor brevis pollicis; the leading line crosses a part of the adductor pollicis. 13. The supinator longus muscle. 14. The extensor ossis metacarpi, and extensor primi internodii pollicis, curving around the ower border of the fore-arm.