281 ARTERIA INNOMINATA. Branches.—The branches of the aorta, arranged into a tabular form, are,— Ascending aorta Arch of the aorta Thoracic aorta Abdominal aorta Coronary. C Arteria innominata, j < Left carotid, ^ ( Left subclavian. ' Pericardiac, Bronchial, (Esophageal, Intercostal. ' Phrenic, f Gastric, Ccelic axis, < Hepatic, ( Splenic. Supra-renal, Renal, Superior mesenteric, Spermatic, Inferior mesenteric, Lumbar, Sacramedia, Common iliacs. Right carotid, Right subclavian. The Coronary arteries arise from the aortic sinuses at the commence- ment of the ascending aorta, immediately above the free margin oi the semilunar valves. The left or anterior coronary, passes forwards, be- tween the pulmonary artery and left appendix auriculae, and divides into two branches; one of which winds around the base of the left ventricle in the auriculo-ventricular groove, and inosculates with the right coronary, forming an arterial circle around the base of the heart; while the other passes along the line of union of the two ventricles, upon the anterior as- pect of the heart, to its apex, where it anastomoses with the descending branch of the right coronary. It supplies the left auricle and the anterior surface of both ventricles. The right, or posterior coronary, passes forwards, between the root of the pulmonary artery and the right auricle, and winds along the auriculo- ventricular groove, to the posterior median furrow, where it descends upon the posterior aspect of the heart to its apex, and inosculates with the left coronary. It is distributed to the right auricle, and to the posterior surface of both ventricles, and sends a large branch along the sharp margin of the right ventricle to the apex of the heart. ARTERIA INNOMINATA. The Arteria innominata (fig. 145, No. 4) is the first artery given off by the arch of the aorta. It is an inch and a half in length, and ascends obliquely towards the right sterno-clavicular articulation, where it divides into the right carotid and right subclavian artery. Relations.—It is in relation, in front, with the left vena innominata, the thymus gland, and the origins of the sterno-thyroid and sterno-hyoid mus- cles, which separate it from the sternum. Behind, with the trachea, pneu- 24*