90 ORBITS NASAL FOSS/E. ORBITS. The orbits are two quadrilateral hollow cones, situated in the uppei part of the face, and intended for the reception of the eye-balls, with their muscles, vessels, and nerves, and the lachrymal glands. The central axis of each orbit is directed outwards, so that the axis of the two, continued into the skull through the optic foramina, would intersect over the middle of the sella turcica. The superior boundary of the orbit is formed by the orbital plate of the frontal bone, and by part of the lesser wing of the sphenoid; the inferior, by part of the malar bone and by the orbital pro- cesses of the superior maxillary and palate bone; the internal, by the lachrymal bone, the os planum of the ethmoid, and part of the body of the sphenoid ; and the external, by the orbital process of the malar bone and the great ala of the sphenoid. These may be expressed more clearly in a tabular form:— Frontal. Sphenoid (lesser wing). Outer wall. Malar. Sphenoid (greater wing). Malar. Superior Maxillary. Palate. Inner wall. Lachrymal. Ethmoid (os planum). Sphenoid (body). There are nine openings communicating with the orbit: the optic, for the admission of the optic nerve and ophthalmic artery; the sphenoidal fissure, for the transmission of the third, fourth, the three branches of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve, the sixth nerve, and the ophthalmic vein ; the spheno-maxillary fissure, for the passage of the superior maxil- lary nerve and artery to the opening of entrance of the infra-orbital canal; temporo-malar foramina— two or three small openings in the orbital pro- cess of the malar bone, for the passage of filaments of the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve ; anterior and posterior ethmoidal foramina in the suture between the os planum and frontal bone, the former trans- mitting the nasal nerve and anterior ethmoidal artery, the latter the poste- rior ethmoidal artery and vein ; the opening of the nasal duct; and the supra-orbital notch or foramen, for the supra-orbital nerve and artery. NASAL FOSSiE. The nasal fossae are two irregular cavities, situated in the middle of the face, and extending from before backwards. They are bounded above by the nasal bones, ethmoid, and sphenoid : below by the palate processes of the superior maxillary and palate bones ; externally by the superior maxil- lary, lachrymal, inferior turbinated, superior and middle turbinated bones of the ethmoid, palate, and internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid ; and the two fossm are separated by the vomer and the perpendicular lamella of the ethmoid. These may be more clearly expressed in a tabular form:—