324 FEMORAL ARTERY. and by the superficial and deep fasciae. The lower two-thirds are covered by the sartorius muscle. To its outer side the artery is first in relation with the psoas and iliacus, and then with the vastus internus. Behind it rests upon the inner border of the psoas muscle ; it is next separated from the pectineus by the femoral vein, profunda vein and artery, and then lies on the adductor longus to its termination: near the lower border of the adductor longus, it is placed in an aponeurotic canal, formed by an arch of tendinous fibres, thrown from the border of the adductor longus and the border of the opening in the adductor magnus, to the side of the vastus internus. To its inner side it is in relation at its upper part with the femoral vein, and lower down with the pectineus, adductor longus, and sartorius. The immediate relations of the artery are the femoral vein, and two saphenous nerves. The vein at Poupart’s ligament lies to the inner side of the artery; but lower down gets altogether behind it, and inclines to its outer side. The short saphenous nerve lies to the outer side, and some- what upon the sheath for the lower two-thirds of its extent; and the long saphenous nerve is situated within the sheath, and in front of the artery for the same extent. Plan of the Relations of the Femoral Artery. Front. Fascia lata, Saphenous nerves, Sartorius, Arch of the tendinous canal. Inner Side. Femoral vein, Pectineus, Adductor longus, Sartorius. Outer Side. Psoas, Iliacus, Vastus internus. Behind. Psoas muscle, Femoral vein, Adductor longus. Femoral artery. Branches.—The branches of the Femoral Artery are the— Superficial circumflexa ilii, Superficial epigastric, Superficial external pudic, Deep external pudic, f External circumflex, Profunda < Internal circumflex, ( Three perforating, Muscular, Anastomotica magna. The Superficial circumflexa ilii artery arises from the femoral, imme- diately below Poupart’s ligament, pierces the fascia lata, and passes ob-