54f VAGINA—UTERUS. vagina is covered, on its pelvic surface, by the peritoneum; while in front the peritoneum is reflected from the upper part of the cervix of the uterus to the posterior surface of the'bladder. On each side it gives attachment, superiorly, to the broad ligaments of the uterus; and, inferiorly, to the pelvic fascia and levatores ani. The Mucous membrane presents a number of transverse papilla or ruga upon the upper and lower surfaces of the canal, the rugae extending out- wards on each side from a middle raphe. The transverse papillae and raphe are more apparent upon the upper than upon the lower surface, and the two raphe are called the columns of the vagina. The mucous mem- brane is covered by a thin cuticular epithelium, which is continued from the labia, and terminates by a fringed border at about the middle of the cervix uteri. The Middle or erectile layer consists of erectile tissue enclosed between two layers of fibrous membrane ; this layer is thickest near the commence- ment of the vagina, and becomes gradually thinner as it approaches the uterus. The External, or dartoid layer of the vagina, serves to connect it to the surrounding viscera. Thus, it is very closely adherent to the under sur- face of the bladder, and drags that organ down with it in prolapsus uteri. To the rectum it is less closely connected, and that intestine is therefore less frequently affected in prolapsus. UTERUS. The TJterus is a flattened organ of a pyriform shape, having the base directed upwards and forwards, and the apex downwards and backwards in the line of the axis of the inlet of the pelvis, and forming a considerable angle with the course of the vagina. It is convex on its posterior surface, and somewhat flattened upon its anterior aspect. In the unimpregnated state it is about three inches in length, two in breadth across its broadest Fig. 242* * The uterus with its appendages viewed on their anterior aspect. 1. The body of tne uterus. 2. Its fundus. 3. Its cervix. 4. The os uteri. 5. The vagina; the num- ber i£ placed on the posterior raphe or columna, from which the transverse rugae are seen passing off at each side. 6. 6. The broad ligament of the uterus. 7. A convexity of the broad ligament formed by the ovary. 8, 8. The round ligaments of the uterus. 9, 9. The Fallopian tubes. 10, 10. The fimbriated extremities of the Fallopian tubes; on the left side the mouth of the tube is turned forwards in order to show its ostium abdominale. 11. The ovary. 12. The utero-ovarian ligament. 13. The Fallopio-ova- rian ligament, upon which some smail fimbris are continued for a short distance. 14. The peritoneum of the anterior surface of the uterus. This membrane is removed on the left side, but on the right is continuous with the anterior layer of the broad ligament.