440 THORACIC GANGLIA. laryngeal, At the root of the neck it divides into several branches, whiek pass some before and some behind the subclavian artery; it communicates with the superior and inferior cardiac, and with the pneumogastrie and recurrent nerves, and descends to the bifurcation of the trachea, to the great cardiac plexus. The Inferior cardiac nerve (nervus cardiacus minor) arises from the in- ferior cervical ganglion, communicates freely with the recurrent laryngeal and middle cardiac nerves, and descends to the front of the bifurcation of the trachea, to join the great cardiac plexus. The Cardiac ganglion is a ganglionic enlargement of variable size, situ- ated beneath the arch of the aorta, to the right side of the ligament of the ductus arteriosus. It receives the superior cardiac nerves of opposite sides of the neck and a branch from the pneumogastrie, and gives off nu- merous branches to the cardiac plexuses. The Great cardiac plexus is situated upon the bifurcation of the trachea, above the right pulmonary artery, and behind the arch of the aorta. It is formed by the convergence of the middle and inferior cardiac nerves, and by branches from the pneumogastrie and descendens noni nerve, and first thoracic ganglion. The Anterior cardiac plexus is situated in front of the ascending aorta, near its origin. It is formed by the communications of filaments that pro- ceed from three different sources, namely, from the superior cardiac nerves, crossing the arch of the aorta ; from the cardiac ganglion beneath the arch ; and from the great cardiac plexus, passing between the ascending aorta and the right auricle. The anterior cardiac plexus supplies the an- terior aspect of the heart, distributing numerous filaments with the left coronary artery, which form the anterior coronary plexus. The Posterior cardiac plexus is formed by numerous branches from the great cardiac plexus, and is situated upon the posterior part of the ascend- ing aorta, near its origin. It divides into twTo sets of branches: one set accompanying the right coronary artery in the auriculo-ventricular sulcus; the other set joining the artery on the posterior aspect of the heart. They both together constitute the posterior coronary plexus. The great cardiac plexus likewise gives branches to the auricles of the heart, and others to assist in forming the anterior and posterior pulmonary plexuses. THORACIC GANGLIA. The Thoracic ganglia are twelve in number on each side. They are flattened and triangular, or irregular in form, and present the peculiar grey colour and pearly lustre of the other sympathetic ganglia; they rest upon the heads of the ribs, and are covered in by the pleura costalis. The two first ganglia and the last are usually the largest. Their branches are superior, inferior, external, and internal. The superior and inferior are prolongations of the substance of the gan- glia rather than branches ; the former to communicate with the ganglion above, the latter with that belowT. vocal ganglion. 11. The inferior cervical ganglion. 12. The roots of the great splanch- nic nerve, arising from the dorsal ganglia. 13. The lesser splanchnic nerve. 14. The lenal plexus. 15. The solar plexus. 16. The mesenteric plexus. 17. The lumbar ganglia. 18. The sacral ganglia. 19. The vesical plexus. 20. The rectal plexus. 21. Tbe lumbar plexus, (cerebro-spinal.)