SUPERIOR AND INFERIOR VENyE CAViE. 345 branches. 3. The azygos veins. 4. The vertebral and spinal veins. 5. The cardiac veins. 6. The portal vein. 7. The pulmonary veins. SUPERIOR VENA CAVA, WITH ITS FORMATIVE BRANCHES. Vence Innominatce. The Vence Innominatce are two large trunks, formed by the union of the internal jugular and subclavian vein, at each side of the root of the neck. The Right vena innominata, about an inch and a quarter in length, lies superficially and externally to the arteria innominata, and descends almost vertically to unite with its fellow of the opposite side in the formation of the superior cava. At the junction of the jugular and subclavian veins it receives from behind the ductus lymphaticus dexter, and lower down it has opening into it the right vertebral, right internal mammary, and right inferior thyroid vein. The Left vena innominata, considerably longer than the right, extends almost horizontally across the roots of the three great arteries arising from the arch of the aorta, to the right side of the mediastinum, where it unites with the right vena innominata, to constitute the superior cava. It is in relation in front with the left sterno-clavicular articulation and the first piece of the sternum. At its commencement it receives the tho- racic duct which opens into it from behind, and in its course is joined by the left vertebral, left infenor thyroid, left mammary, and by the superior intercostal vein. It also receives some small veins from the mediastinum and thymus gland. There are no valves in the venae innominatae. SUPERIOR VENA CAVA. The superior cava is a short trunk about three inches in length, formed by the junction of the two venae innominatae. It descends perpendicularly on the right side of the mediastinum, and entering the pericardium termi- nates in the upper part of the right auricle. It is in relation in front with the thoracic fascia, which separates it from the thymus gland, and with the pericardium ; behind with the right pulmo- nary artery, and right superior pulmonary vein ; internally with the ascend- ing aorta; externally with the right phrenic nerve, and right lung. Im- mediately before entering the pericardium it receives the vena azygos major. INFERIOR VENA CAVA, WITH ITS FORMATIVE BRANCHES. Iliac Veins. The External iliac vein lies to the inner side of the corresponding artery at the os pubis; but gradually gets behind it as it passes upwards along the brim of the pelvis, and it terminates opposite the sacro-iliac symphysis by uniting with the internal iliac, to form the common iliac vein. Imme- diately above Poupart’s ligament it receives the epigastric and circumflexa ilii veins ; it has no valves.