468 ORGAN OF TOUCH. follicles rather than sentient organs; the true sentient papillse being ex tremely minute and occupying their surface, as they do that of the other papillse of the tongue. The Papilla fungiformes (p. capitatse) are irregularly dispersed over the dorsum of the tongue, and are easily recognised among the other papillse by their rounded heads and larger size. A number of these papillse will generally be observed at the tip of the tongue. Behind the papillse circumvallatse, at the root of the tongue, are a num- ber of mucous glands, which open upon the surface. They have been im- properly described as papillae by some authors. Vessels and JVerves.—The tongue is abundantly supplied with blood by the lingual arteries. The JVerves are three in number, and of large size: The gustatory branch of the fifth, which is distributed to the papillse, and is the nerve of common sensation and taste. The glosso-pharyngeal, which is distributed to the mucous membrane, follicles, and glands of the tongue, is a nerve of sensation and motion ; it also serves to associate the tongue with the pharynx and larynx. The hypoglossal is the motor nerve of the tongue, and is distributed to the muscles. To these may be added the chorda tympani, which conveys a motor influence from the facial nerve to the lingualis muscle. The Mucous membrane which invests the tongue, is continuous with the derma along the margin of the lips. On either side of the frsenum linguae it may be traced through the sublingual ducts into the sublingual glands, and along Wharton’s* ducts into the submaxillary glands : from the sides of the cheeks it passes through the openings of Stenon’sf ducts to the parotid glands: in the fauces, it forms the assemblage of follicles called tonsils, and may thence be traced downwards into the larynx and pharynx, where it is continuous with the general gastro-pulmonary mucous membrane. Beneath the mucous membrane of the mouth are a number of small glandular granules, which pour their secretion upon the surface. A con- siderable number of them are situated within the lips, in the palate, and in the floor of the mouth. They are named from the position which they may chance to occupy, labial, palatal glands, &c. ORGAN OF TOUCH. The Skin is the exterior investment of the body, which it serves to cover and protect. It is continuous at the apertures of the internal cavities with the lining membrane of those cavities, the internal skin or mucous membrane, and is composed essentially of two layers, derma and epiderma. The Derma or cutis is chiefly composed of areolo-fibrous tissue, besides which it has entering into its structure elastic and contractile fibrous tissue, together with blood-vessels, lymphatic vessels and nerves. The areolo- fibrous tissue exists in greatest abundance in the deeper stratum of the derma, which is consequently dense, white, and coarse ; the superficial * Thomas Wharton, an English physician, devoted considerable attention to the ana- tomy of the various glands ; his work, entitled “ Adenographia,” &.C., was published in 3 656. f Nicholas Stenon, a Danish anatomist: he was made professor in Copenhagen in 1672.