50G SMALL INTESTINES. point of entrance of the oesophagus, and is embraced by the concave sur lace of the spleen. The pylorus is the small and contracted extremity of the organ; near its extremity is a small dilatation which was called by Willis the antrum of the pylorus. The two curvatures give attachment to the peritoneum; the upper curve to the lesser omentum, and the lower to the greater omentum. The anterior surface looks upwards and forwards, and is in relation with the diaphragm, (which separates it from the viscera of the thorax and from the six lower ribs,) with the left lobe of the liver, and in the epigastric region with the abdominal parietes. The posterior surface looks downwards and backwards, and is in relation with the dia- phragm, the pancreas, the third portion of the duodenum, the transverse meso-colon, the left kidney, and left supra-renal capsule; this surface forms the anterior boundary of that cul-de-sac of the peritoneum which is situated behind the lesser omentum and extends into the greater omentum. SMALL INTESTINE . The small intestine is about twenty-five feet in length, and is divisible into three portions, duodenum, jejunum, and ileum. The Duodenum (called ^sxa^axruXov by Herophilus) is somewhat larger than the rest of the small intestines, and has received its name from being Fig. 221.* about equal in length to the breadth of twelve fingers. Commencing at the pylorus, it ascends obliquely backwards to the under surface of the liver; it next descends perpendicularly in front of the right kidney, and * A vertical and longitudinal section of the stomach and duodenum, made in such a direction as to include the two orifices of the stomach. 1. The oesophagus; vpon its internal surface the plicated arrangement of the cuticular epithelium is shown. 2. dhe cardiac orifice of the stomach, around which the fringed border of the cuticular epithe- lium is seen. 3. The great end of the stomach. 4. Its lesser or pyloric end. 5. Ihe lesser curve. G. The greater curve. 7. The dilatation at the lesser end of the stomach, which has received from Willis the name of antrum of the pylorus. This may be re- garded as the rudiment of a second stomach. 8. The rugae of the stomach, formed by •he r iucous membrane: their longitudinal direction is shown. 9. Ihe pylorus. 10. The oblique portion of the duodenum. 11. The descending portion. 12. d he pancreatic duct and the ductus communis cboledochus close to their termination. 13. Ihe papilla upon which the ducts open. 14. The transverse portion of the duodenum. 15. Ihe commencement of the jejunum. In the interior of the duodenum and jejunum the vfcb vulae conniventes are seen