244 MUSCLES OF THE GLUTEAL REGION. The Gluteus Maximus (yXou-roc;, nates! is the thick, fleshy mass of muscle, of a quadrangular shape, which forms the con- vexity of the nates. In structure, it is ex- tremely coarse, being made up of large fibres, which are collected into fasciculi, and these again into distinct muscular masses, separated by deep cellular fur- rows. It arises from the posterior fifth of the crest of the ilium, from the posterior surface of the sacrum and coccyx, and from the great sacro-ischiatic ligament. It aspera, and is continuous by means of its tendon with the fascia lata covering the outer side of the thigh. A large bursa is situated between the broad tendon of this muscle and the femur. Relations. — By its superficial surface with a thin aponeurotic fascia, which separates it from the superficial fascia and integument, and with the vastus externus, a bursa being interposed. By its deep surface with the gluteus medius, pyriformis, gemelli, obturator internus, quadratus femoris, sacro-ischiatic foramina, great sacro-ischiatic ligament, tuberosity of the ischium, semimembranosus, semitendinosus, biceps, and adductor magnus; the gluteal vessels and nerves, ischiatic vessels and nerves, and internal pudic vessels and nerve. By its upper border it overlaps the gluteus medius; and by the lower border forms the lower margin of the nates. The gluteus maximus must be turned down from its origin, in order to bring the next muscle into view. The Gluteus Medius is placed in front of, rather than beneath the gluteus maximus; and is covered in by a process of the deep fascia, which is very thick and dense. It arises from the outer lip of the crest of the ilium for four-fifths of its length, from the surface of bone between that border and the superior curved line on the dorsum ilii, and from the dense fascia above-mentioned. Its fibres converge to the outer part of the trochanter major, into which its tendon is inserted. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the tensor vaginse femoris, gluteus maximus, and its fascia. By its deep surface with the gluteus minimus, and gluteal vessels and nerves. By its lower border with the pyriformis muscle. A bursa is interposed between its tendon and the upper part of the trochanter major. * The deep muscles of the gluteal region. 1. The external surface of the ilium. 2. The posterior surface of the sacrum. 3. The posterior sacro-iliac ligaments. 4. The tuberosity of the ischium. 5. The great or posterior sacro-ischiatic ligament. 6. The lesser or anterior sacro-ischiatic ligament. 7. The trochanter major. 8. The gluteus minimus. 9. The pyriformis. 10. The gemellus superior. 11. The obturator internus muscle, passing out of the lesser sacro-ischiatic foramen. 12. The gemellus inferior. 13. The quadratus femoris. 14, The upper part of the adductor magnus. 15. The vastus externus. 16. The biceps. 17. The gracilis. 18. The semitendinosus. passes obliquely outwards and downwards, to be inserted into the rough fine leading from the trochanter major to the linea