424 CRURAL NERVE. of the internal oblique and transversalis, is distributed to the integument of the groin. The crural branch (lumbo-inguinalis), the most external of the two, descends along the outer border of the external iliac artery, and, crossing the origin of the circumflex ilii artery, enters the sheath of the femoral vessels in front of the femoral artery. It pierces the sheath below Poupart’s ligament, and is distributed to the integument of the anterior aspect of the thigh as far as its middle. This nerve is often very small, and sometimes communicates with one of the cutaneous branches of the crural nerve. The Crural, or Femoral Nerve, is the largest of the divisions of the lumbar plexus ; it is formed by the union of branches from the second, third, and fourth lumbar nerves, and, emerging from beneath the psoas muscle, passes downwards in the groove between it and the iliacus, and beneath Poupart’s ligament into the thigh, where it spreads out and divides into numerous branches. At Poupart’s ligament it is separated from the femo- ral artery by the breadth of the psoas muscle, which at this point is scarcely more than half an inch in diameter, and by the iliac fascia, beneath which it lies. Branches.—While situated within the pelvis the crural nerve gives off several muscular branches to the iliacus, and one to the psoas. On emerg- ing from beneath Poupart’s ligament the nerve becomes flattened and divides into numerous branches, which may be arranged into,— Cutaneous, Muscular, Branch to the femoral sheath, Short saphenous nerve, Long saphenous nerve. The Cutaneous nerves (middle cutaneous) two in number, proceed from the anterior part of the crural, and after perforating the sartorius muscle to which they give filaments, pierce the fascia lata and are distributed to the integument of the mid- dle and lower part of the thigh and of the knee. The most external of these nerves perforates the upper part of the sartorius, communicates with the crural branch of the genito-crural, divides into two branches at about the middle of the thigh, and gives off numerous filaments to the anterior and outer aspect of the limb as far as the patella. The internal nerve perfo- rates the muscle at about its middle, pierces the fascia lata at the lower third of the thigh, descends to the inner condyle, and curves forward to the front of the knee, supplying the integument by many filaments. Be- sides these another cutaneous branch derived from the muscular branch * A view of the anterior crural nerve and branches. 1. Place of emergence of the yterve under Poupart’s ligament. 2. Division of the nerve into branches. 3. Femoral artery 4. Femoral vein. 0. Branches of obturator nerve. 6. Nervus saphenus