A SYSTEM OE HUMAN ANATOMY. CHAPTER I. INTRODUCTORY. B T THE EDITOR. Anatomy (derived from avars^vsjv, to dissect) is the science which teaches the structure and relation of the different parts of an organized body. Organized bodies are divided into animal and vegetable ; hence we have animal and vegetable anatomy, the latter being closely allied to botany. An organized body consists of an assemblage of parts called organs, which have a mutual relation to, and dependence upon each other ; each doing its part to sustain the organism which they compose. The descrip- tion of the form, colour and position of these organs is the province of special anatomy; whilst their relations to each other, and the knowledge of the number and arrangement of organs in particular parts, constitutes regional or topographical anatomy, which, when taught with reference to surgical operations, is usually designated by the title of surgical anatomy. When these organs are carefully examined, they are found to consist of a number of different structures which serve to build up and constitute them. These are called tissues, and are either general, existing in all the organs, or special and peculiar, and found only in certain of them, giving them their appropriate characters. The knowledge of tissues, their form, colours, constituents, origin and uses, constitutes histology ; which, com- mencing with Bichat in 1790, has now attained such an extent and im- portance as to constitute almost a new science, and to correct and bring nearer to perfection the hypotheses of its sister science, physiology. An animal body or organism consists of solids, which differ in density and hardness, in consequence of being more or less mingled with and di- luted by the fluids which permeate them. By the agency of chemistry we may separate both solids and fluids into proximate and ultimate elements, and hope by this means to obtain a more intimate acquaintance with their structure and use ; but if this is done with the masses as is usual in chemical analyses, and not upon the tissues separated from each other by the aid of the microscope, it will confer upon us about as much real and useful information, as the analysis which a scientific but witty English chemist once made of a whole mouse. The principal ultimate elements of an animal body obtained by the pro- cesses of chemical analysis are— Oxygen, hydrogen, carbon, and nitrogen, which form almost the whole oulk of the fluids and soft solids ; but to these must be added a number C (33>