439 CARDIAC NERVES. one which accompanies the verte- bral artery along the vertebral ca- nal, forming the vertebral plexus. This plexus sends filaments to all the branches given off by the ar- tery, and communicates in the cranium with the filaments of the carotid plexus accompanying the branches of the internal carotid artery. The internal branch is the infe- rior cardiac nerve, nervus cardiacus minor. Cardiac Nerves.*—The supe- rior cardiac nerve (nervus superfi- cialis cordis) arises from the lower part of the superior cervical gan- glion ; it then descends the neck behind the common carotid artery and parallel with the trachea, crosses the inferior thyroid artery, and running by the side of the re- current laryngeal nerve for a short distance, passes behind the arteria innominata to the concavity of the arch of the aorta, where it joins the cardiac ganglion. In its course it receives branches from the pneumogastric nerve, and sends filaments to the thyroid gland and trachea. The Middle cardiac nerve (ner- vus cardiacus magnus) proceeds from the middle cardiac ganglion, or, in its absence, from the cord of communication between the superior and inferior. It is the largest of the three nerves, and lies nearly parallel with the recurrent Fig. 197.fi * There is no constancy with regard to the origin and course of these nerves; there- fore the student must not be disappointed in finding the description in discord with ms dissection. fi A view of the great sympathetic nerve. 36. The cavity of the cranium. 34. The globe of the eye. 33. The septum of the nose. 32. The incisor teeth. 31. The sub maxillary gland. 30. The larynx. 29. The heart. 28. The left lung. * The coeliac axis. 27. The ascending vena cava. 26. The kidney. 25. The crista of the ilium 23. The bladder. 22. The rectum. 24. The pubes. 1. Plexus on the carotid artery in the carotid foramen. 2. Sixth nerve, (motor externus.) 3. 1st of the fifth or ophthal mic nerve. 4. Branch on the septum narium, connecting Meckel’s ganglion with Clo quet's in the incisive foramen. 5. Immediately above the figure is the recurrent branch or Vidian nerve, dividing into the carotid and petrosal branches. 6. Posterior palatine brandies. 7. Lingual nerve joined by the chorda tympani. 8. The portio dura of th«» seventh pair or facial nerve. 9. The superior cervical ganglion. 10. The middle ce*