45 DEVELOPMENT OF BONE. wmilarity in structure of the parts of a bone, that tire entire bone may be compared to an Haversian canal of which the medullary cavity is the mag- nified channel; and the Haversian canals may be likened to elongated and ramified cancelli. The Haversian canals are smallest near the surface of a bone, and largest near its centre, where they gradually merge into cancelli; by the frequent communications of their branches they form a coarse network in the basis substance. Fig. 12 * The cells of bone, or corpuscles of Purkinje, are thickly disseminated through the basis substance; they are irregular in size and form, give otT numerous minute branching tubuli, which radiate from all parts ot their circumference, and in the dried state of the bone contain merely the remains of membranous cells and some calcareous salts.f In the living bone, the cells and their tubuli are probably filled with a nutritive fluid holding calcareous salts in solution. The form of the cells is oval or round, and more or less flattened, their long diameter corresponds with the long axis of the bone, and their tubuli cross the direction of the lamellae, and constitute a very delicate network in the basis substance?, by communicating with each other, and with the tubuli of neighbouring cells. The tubuli of the cells nearest the Haversian canals terminate upon the internal surface of those cavities. The size of the cells varies in extreme measurement from 30*00 1° guv °f an inch in their long diame- ter, an ordinary average being y^oo 5 the breadth of the oval cells is about one-half or one-third their length, and their thickness one-half their breadth. They are situated between the lamellae, to which circum- stance they owe their compressed form. * The above cut, which I have introduced to supply the manifest deficiency of Mr. Wilson’s representation, is from a section of a human femur, about its middle, and ex- hibits the erratic course of the Haversian canals, and their relations to each other, and ar t,ie same time the general laminated condition of a long bone. This laminated con- i' ’ion is well shown by polarized light, which causes the corpuscles to disappear, and the laminae to come out boldly—G. ■(■.Muller and Ilenle conceived that the bone cells and tubuli were the principal se:r c< the calcareous matter. Hence they have been named calcigerous cells and tubuli.