460 FORAMINA OF THE TYMPANUM. Foramina. —The openings in the tympanum are ten in number, five large and Jive small; they are— Large Openings. Small Openings. Meatus auditorius, Fenestra ovalis, Fenestra rotunda, Mastoid cells, Eustachian tube. Entrance of the chorda tympani, Exit of the chorda tympani, For the laxator tympani, For the tensor tympani, For the stapedius. The opening of the meatus auditorius has been already described. The Fenestra ovalis (fenestra vestibuli), is a reniform opening, situated at the bottom of a small oval fossa (the pelvis ovalis), in the upper part of the inner wall of the tympanum, directly opposite the meatus. The long diameter of the fenestra is directed horizontally, and its convex borders upwards. It is the opening of communication between the tym- panum and vestibule, and is closed by the foot of the stapes and by the lining membranes of both cavities. The Fenestra rotunda (fenestra cochleae) is somewhat triangular in its form, and situated in the inner wall of the tympanum, below and rather poste- riorly to the fenestra ovalis, from which it is separated by a bony elevation, called the promontory. It serves to establish a communication between the tympanum and the cochlea. In the fresh subject it is closed by a proper membrane (m. tympani secundaria,) as well as by the lining of both cavities. The Mastoid cells are numerous, and occupy the whole of the interior of the mastoid process and part of the petrous bone. They communicate by a large irregular opening with the upper and posterior circumference of the tympanum. The Eustachian tube is a canal of communication extending obliquely between the pharynx and the anterior circumference of the tympanum. In structure it is partly fibro-cartilaginous and partly osseous, is broad and expanded at its pharyngeal extremity, and narrow and compressed at the tympanum. The smaller openings serve for the transmission of the chorda tympani nerve, and three of the muscles of the tympanum. The opening by which the chorda tympani enters the tympanum, is at about the middle of its posterior wall, and near the root of the pyramid . The opening of exit for the chorda tympani is at the fissura Glaseri in the anterior wall of the tympanum. The opening for the laxator tympani muscle is also situated in the fissura Glaseri, in the anterior wall of the tympanum. The opening for the tensor tympani muscle is in the inner wall, imme- diately above the opening of the Eustachian tube. The opening for the stapedius muscle is at the apex of a conical bony eminence, called the pyramid, which is situated on the posterior wall of the tympanum, immediately behind the fenestra ovalis. Directly above the fenestra ovalis is a rounded ridge formed by the pro- jection of the aquceductus Fallopii. Beneath the fenestra ovalis and separating it from the fenestra rotunda is the promontory, a rounded prominence foimed by the projection of the