543 STRUCTURE OF THE EPIDIDYMIS. Fig. 239 * of an inch, Lauth) throughout. The tubuli seminiferi are of a bright yellow colour; they become less convoluted in the apices of the lobules, and terminate by forming be- tween twenty and thirty small straight ducts of about twice the diameter of the tubuli seminiferi, the vasa recta. The vasa recta enter the substance of the mediastinum, and terminate in from seven to thirteen ducts, smaller in diameter than the vasa recta. These ducts pursue a waving course from below upwards through the fibrous tissue of the mediastinum ; they communicate freely with each other, and constitute the rete testis. At the upper extremity of the medi- astinum, the ducts of the rete testis terminate in from nine to thirty small ducts, the vasa efferentia,f which form by their convolutions a series of conical masses, the coni vasculosi; from the bases of these cones tubes of larger size proceed, which constitute, by their complex convolutions, the body of the epi- didymis. The tubes become gradually larger towards the lower end of the epididymis, and terminate in a single large and convoluted duct, the vas deferens. The Epididymis is formed by the convolutions of the excretory seminal ducts, externally to the testis, and previously to their termination in the vas deferens. The more numerous convolutions and the aggregation of the coni vasculosi at the upper end of the organ constitute the globus major; the continuation of the convolutions downwards is the body; and the smaller number of convolutions of the single tube at the lower extre- mity, the globus minor. The tubuli are connected together by a very delicate areolar tissue, and are enclosed by the tunica vaginalis. A small convoluted duct, of variable length, is generally connected with the duct of the epididymis immediately before the commencement of the vas deferens. This is the vasculum aberrans of Haller ; it is attached to the epididymis by the areolar tissue in which that body is enveloped. Sometimes it becomes dilated towards its extremity, but more frequently retains the same diameter throughout. The Vas deferens may be traced upwards in the course of the seminal fluid, from the globus minor of the epididymis along the posterior part of the spermatic cord, and along the spermatic canal to the internal abdomi- nal ring. From the ring it is reflected inwards to the side of the fundus of the bladder, and descends along its posterior surface, crossing the direc- tion of the^ureter, to the inner border of the vesicula seminalis. In this situation it becomes somewhat larger in size and convoluted, and termi- nates at the base of the prostate gland, by uniting with the duct of the vesicula seminalis and constituting the ejaculatory duct. The ejaculatory 0 * Anatomy of the testis. 1, 1. The tunica albuginea. 2, 2. The mediastinum testis. 3, 3. The lobuli testis. 4, 4. The vasa recta. 5. The rete testis. 6. The vasa effe- rentia, of which six only are represented in this diagram. 7. The coni vasculosi constituting the globus major of the epididymis. 8. The body of the epididymis 9. The globus minor of the epididymis. 10. The vas deferens. 11. The vasculum aberrans. t Each vas efferens with its cone measures, according to Lauth, about 8 inches. The entire length of the tubes composing the epididymis, according to the same authority, i* a’bottt 21 feet.