MUSCLES OF THE SOLE OF THE FOOT. 2G0 the great and little toes. This incision should divide the integument and superficial fascia, and both together should be dissected from the deep fascia, as far forward as the base of the phalanges, where they may be re- moved from the foot altogether. The deep fascia should then be removed, and the first layer of muscles will be brought into view. The Abductor Pollicis lies along the inner border of the foot; it arises by two heads, between which the tendons of the long flexors, arteries, veins, and nerves enter the sole of the foot. One head arises from the inner tuberosity of the os calcis, the other from the internal annular liga- ment and plantar fascia. Insertion, into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, and into the internal sesamoid bone. Relations. — By its superficial surface with the internal portion of the plantar fascia. By its deep surface with the flexor brevis pollicis, musculus accessorius, tendons of the flexor longus digitorum and flexor longus pol- licis, tendons of the tibialis anticus and posticus, the plantar vessels and nerves, and the tarsal bones. On its outer border with the flexor brevis digitorum, from which it is separated by a vertical septum of the plantar fascia. The Abductor Minimi Digiti lies along the outei border of the sole of the foot. It arises from the outer tuberosity of the os calcis, and from the plantar fascia, as far forward as the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. Relations. — By its superficial surface with the ex- ternal portion of the plantar fascia. By its deep sur- face with the musculus accessorius, flexor brevis minimi digiti, with the tarsal bones, and with the metatarsal bone of the little toe. By its inner side with the flexor brevis digitorum, from which it is se- parated by the vertical septum of the plantar fascia. The Flexor Brevis Digitorum (perforatus) is placed between the two preceding muscles. It arises from the under surface of the os calcis, from the plantar fascia and intermuscular septa, and is inserted by four tendons into the base of the second phalanx of the four lesser toes. Each tendon divides, pre- viously to its insertion, to give passage to the tendon of the long flexor; hence its cognomen perforatus. Relations. — By its superficial surface with the plantar fascia. By its deep surface with a thin layer of fascia which separates it from the muscu- lus accessorius, tendons of the flexor longus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis, and plantar vessels and nerves. By its borders with the vertical septa of the plantar fascia, which separate the muscle, on the one side from the abductor pollicis, and on the other from the abductor minimi digiti. * The third and a part, of the second layer of muscles of the sole of the foot. 1. The divided edge of the plantar fascia. 2. The musculus accessorius. 3. The tendon of the flexor longus digitorurr 4. The tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. 5. The flexoi brevis pollicis. f. The adductor pollicis. 7. The flexor brevis minimi digiti. 8. The transversus pedis. 9. Interossei muscles, plantar and dorsal. 10. Convex ridge formed by the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle in its oblique course across the foot.