132 STRUCTURE OF CARTILACE. 4. Rotation is the movement of a bone upon its own axis, and is llli ?- trated in the hip and shoulder, or better in the rotation of the cup of the radius against the eminentia capitata of the humerus. Rotation is also observed in the movements of the atlas upon the axis, in which the odon- toid process serves as a pivot around which the atlas turns. The structures entering into the composition of a joint are Done, carti lage, fibrous tissue, adipose tissue, and synovial membrane. Cartilag forms a thin coating to the articular extremities of bones, sometimes pre senting a smooth surface which moves on a corresponding smooth surface of the articulating bone; sometimes forming a plate smooth on both sur- faces and interposed between the cartilaginous ends of two bones, inter- articular ; and sometimes acting as the connecting medium between bones without any free surface, interosseous. Fibrous tissue enters into the con- struction of joints under the form of ligament, in one situation constituting bands of various breadth and thickness, in another a layer which extends completely around the joint, and is then called a capsular ligament. All the ligaments of joints are composed of that variety of fibrous tissue term- ed white fibrous tissue, but in some situations ligaments are found which consist of yellow fibrous tissue, for example, the ligamenta subflava of the arches of the vertebral column. Adipose tissue exists in variable quantity in relation with joints, where it performs, among other offices, that of a valve or spring, which occupies any vacant space that may be formed during the movements of the joint, and effectually prevents the occurrence of a vacuum in those cavities. This purpose of adipose tissue is exempli- fied in the cushion of fat at the bottom of the acetabulum, and in the similar cushion behind the ligamentum patehse. Synovial membrane constitutes the beautiful smooth and polished lining of a joint, and con- tains the fluid termed synovia, by means of which the adapted surfaces are enabled to move upon each other with the perfect ease and freedom which are known to exist. Cartilage.—In the structure of joints, cartilage serves the double pur- pose of a connecting and separating medium. In the former capacity possessing great strength, and in the latter smoothness and elasticity. In Fig. 63.* Fig. 64.f A portion of articular cartilage from the head of the fibula, showing the appearance and arrangement of the cells near to the bone. The section is made vertically to the surface, and magnified 155 diameters. The irregular line to the right is the bo^dary of the bone t A view of the same section, at about midway between the bone and the free sur face.