PERONEAL NERVE. 431 die posterior tibial artery; it then becomes placed superficially to that vessel, and at the ankle is again situated to its outer side; in the lower third of the leg it lies parallel with the inner border nf the tendo Achillis. The Branches of the posterior tibial nerve are three or four muscular twigs to the deep muscles of the posterior aspect of the leg, the branch to the flexor longus pollicis accompanies the fibular artery ; one or two hla raents which entwine around the artery and then terminate in the integu- ment ;* and two or three plantar cutaneous branches which pass down- wards upon the inner side of the os calcis, and are distributed to the integument of the heel. The Internal Plantar Nerve, larger than the external, crosses the posterior tibial vessels to enter the sole of the foot, where it lies in the interspace between the abductor pollicis and flexor brevis digitorum; it then enters the sheath of the Flg- 194-t latter muscle, and divides opposite the bases of the metatarsal bones into three digital branches; one to supply the adjoining sides of the great and second toe; the second the adjoining sides of the second is precisely similar to that of the digital branches of the median nerve. In its course the internal plantar nerve gives off cutaneous branches to the integument of the inner side and sole of the foot; muscular branches to the muscles forming the inner and middle group of the sole; a digital branch to the inner border of the great toe ; and articular branches to the articula- tions of the tarsal and metatarsal bones. The External Plantar Nerve, the smaller of the two, follows the course of the external plantar artery to the outer border of the musculus accesso- rius, beneath which it sends several large muscular branches to supply the adductor pollicis and the articulations of the tarsal and metatarsal bones. It then gives branches to the integument of the outer border and sole of the foot, and sends forward two digital branches to supply the little toe and one half the next. and third toe ; and the third the corresponding sides of the third and fourth toes. This distribution The Peroneal Nerve is one-half smaller than the popliteal; it passes downwards by the side of the tendon of the biceps, crossing the inner head of the gastrocnemius and the origin of the soleus, to the neck of the * It is extremely interesting, in a physiological point of view, to observe the mode of distribution of these filaments. I have traced them in relation with several, and I have no doubt that they exist in connexion with all the superficial arteries. They seem to ba the direct monitors to the artery of the presence or approach of danger. f A view of the termination of the posterior tibial nerve in the sole of the foot. 1 In- side of the foot. 2. Outer side. 3. Heel. 4. Internal plantar nerve. 5. External plantar nerve. 6. Branch to flexor brevis. 7. Branch to outside of little toe. 8. Branch to <pa>“j between 4th and 5th toes. 9, 9, 9. Digital branches to remaining spaces. 10. Brand: to internal side of great toe.