INFERIOR TURBINATED BONES—VOMER. 80 horizontal with the perpendicular portion of the bone. It is received into the angular fissure, which exists between the two plates of the pterygoid process at their inferior extremity, and presents three surfaces: one con- cave and smooth, which forms part of the pterygoid fossa; and one at each side to articulate with the pterygoid plates. The anterior face of this process is rough, and articulates with the superior maxillary bone. Development.—By a single centre, which appears in the angle of union between the horizontal and perpendicular portion, at the same time with ossification in the vertebrae. Articulations.—With six bones: two of the cranium, the sphenoid and ethmoid ; and four of the face, the superior maxillary, inferior turbinated bone, vomer, and the palate bone of the opposite side. Attachment of ?nuscles.—To four : the tensor palati, azygos uvula?, internal and external pterygoid. Inferior turbinated Bones.—The inferior turbinated or spongy bone, is a thin layer of light and porous bone, attached to the crista turbinalis inferior of the inner wall of the nares, and projecting inwards towards the septum narium. The inferior turbinated bone is broad in front, nar- row and tapering behind, and slightly curled upon itself, so as to bear some resemblance to one valve of a bivalve shell, hence its designation concha inferior. The bone presents for examination a convex and a con- cave surface, and a superior and an inferior border. The convex surface looks inwards and upwards, and forms the inferior boundary of the middle meatus naris; it is marked by several longitudinal grooves for branches of the spheno-palatine nerve and artery. The concave surface looks down- wards and outwards, and constitutes the roof of the inferior meatus. The superior border is irregular; it is attached to the crista turbinalis inferioi of the superior maxillary bone in front, to the same crest on the palate bone behind, and between those attachments gives off two, and sometimes three, thin and laminated processes. The most anterior of these processes, processus lachrymalis, articulates with the lachrymal bone, and assists in completing the nasal duct. The middle process, processus maxillarisj descends and assists in closing the antrum maxillare; while the posterior, processus ethmoidalis, which is often wanting, ascends towards the eth- moid bone, and also takes part in the closure of the antrum maxillare. The inferior border is rounded, and thicker than the rest of the bone. Development.—By a single centre, which appears at about the middle of the first year. It affords no attachment to muscles. Articulations.—With four bones: the ethmoid, superior maxillary, la- chrymal, and palate. Vomer.—The vomer is a thin, quadrilateral, plate of bone, forming the posterior and inferior part of the septum of the nares. The superior border is broad and expanded, to articulate, in the middle, with the under surface of the body of the sphenoid, and on each side with the processus vaginalis of the pterygoid process. The anterior part of this border is hollowed into a sheath for the reception of the rostrum of the sphenoid. The inferior border /’$ thin and irregular, and is received into tlie grooved summit of the crista nasalis. The posterior border is sharp and free, and forms the posterior division of the two nares. The ante nor