143 LIGAMENTS OF THE LCWER JAW. The external lateral ligament is a. short and thick band of fibres, pass mrr obliquely backwards from the tubercle of the zygoma, to the external surface of the neck of the lower jaw. It is in relation, externally with the integument of the face, and internally with the two synovial membranes of the articulation and the interarticular cartilage. I he external lateral ligament acts conjointly with its fellow of the opposite side of the head in the movements of the jaw. The internal lateral ligament has no connexion with the articulation of the lower jaw, and is incorrectly named in relation to the joint', it is a thin aponeurotic expansion extending from the extremity of the spinous pro- cess of the sphenoid bone to the margin of the dental foramen. It is pierced at its insertion, by the mylo-hyoidean nerve. A triangular space is left between the internal lateral ligament and the neck of the jaw, in which are situated the internal maxillary artery and auricular nerve, the inferior dental artery and nerve, and a part of the ex- ternal pterygoid muscle; internally it is in relation with the internal ptery- goid muscle. The capsular ligament consists of a few irregular ligamentous fibres, which pass from the edge of the glenoid cavity to the neck of the lower jaw, upon the inner and posterior side of the articulation. These fibres scarcely deserve consideration as a distinct ligament. The interarticular fibrous cartilage is a thin oval plate, thicker at the edges than in the centre, and placed horizontally between the head of the condyle of the lower jaw and the glenoid cavity. It is connected by its outer border with the external lateral ligament, and in front receives some fibres of the external pterygoid muscle. Occasionally it is incomplete in the centre. It divides the joint into two distinct cavities, the one being above and the other below the cartilage. The synovial membranes are situated the one above, the other below, the fibrous cartilage, the former being the larger of the two. When the fibrous cartilage is perforate, the synovial membranes communicate. * An external view of the articulation of the lower jaw. 1. The zygomatic arch 2. The tubercle of the zygoma. 3. The ramus of the lower jaw. 4. The mastoid por tion of the temporal bone. 5. The external lateral ligament. 6. The stylo-maxillary igament. t internal view of the articulation of the lower jaw. 1. A section through the pe- trous portion of the temporal bone and spinous process of the sphenoid. 2. An internal view of the ramus, and part of the body of the lower jaw. 3. The internal portion of the capsular ligament. 4. The internal lateral ligament. 5. A small interval at it* ir. sertion. through which the mylo-hyoidean nerve passes. 6. The stylo-maxillary iiga inent, a process of the deep cervical fascia.