LIGAMENTS OF TIIE UPPER EXTREMITY. 150 Anterior sterno-clavicular, Posterior sterno-clavicular, Inter-clavicular, Costo-clavicular (rhomboid), Interarticular fibro-cartilage, Two synovial membranes. The anterior sterno-clavicular ligament is a broad ligamentous layer, extending obliquely downwards and forwards, and covering the anterior aspect of the articulation. This ligament is in relation by its anterior sur face with the integument and with the sternal origin of the sterno-mastoid muscle ; and behind with the interarticular fibro-cartilage and synovial membranes. The posterior sterno-clavicular ligament is a broad fasciculus, covering the posterior surface of the articulation. It is in relation by its anterior surface with the interarticular fibro-cartilage and synovial membranes, and behind with the sterno-hyoid muscle. The two ligaments are continuous at the upper and lower part of the articulation, so as to form a complete capsule around the joint. The inter clavicular ligament is a cord-like band which crosses from the extremity of one clavicle to the other, and is closely connected with the upper border of the sternum. It is separated by areolar tissue from the sterno-thyroid muscles. The costo-clavicular ligament (rhomboid) is a thick fasciculus of fibres, connecting the sternal extremity of the clavicle with the cartilage of the first rib. It is situated obliquely between the rib and the under surface of the clavicle. It is in relation in front with the tendon of origin of the subclavius muscle, and behind with the subclavian vein. Actions. — The movements of the sterno-clavicular articulation, are a gliding movement of the fibro-cartilage with the clavicle upon the articular surface of the sternum in the directions forwards, backwards, upwards, and downwards; and circumduction. This articulation is the centre of the movements of the shoulder. It is the rupture of the rhomboid ligament in dislocation of the sternal end of the clavicle that gives rise to the deformity peculiar to this acci- 1 ' The interarticular fibro-cartilage is nearly circular in form, and thicker at the edges than in the centre. It is at- tached above to the clavicle; below to the cartilage of the first rib ; and through- out the rest of its circumference to the anterior and posterior sterno-clavicular ligaments; it divides the joint into two cavities, which are lined by distinct sy- novial membranes. This cartilage is sometimes pierced through its centre, and not unfrequently deficient, to a greater or less extent, in its lower part. * The ligaments of the sterno-clavicular and costo-sternal articulations. 1. The ante- not sterno-clavicular ligament. 2. The inter-clavicular ligament. 3. Ihe costo-clavi (,.ilar or rhomboid ligament, seen on both sides. 4. The interarticular fibro-cartilage, brought into view by the removal of the anterior and posterior ligaments. 5. The an tcrior costo-sternal ligaments of the first and second ribs. dent. Fig. 85.*