396 TRIFACIAL. Flg’ 179* fifth nerve, and passes along the outer wall of the cavernous sinus to the sphenoidal fissure. In its course through the sinus it is situated at first below the motor oculi, but afterwards ascends and becomes the highest of the nerves which enter the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure. Upon entering the orbit the nerve crosses the levator palpebrae muscle near its origin, and is distributed upon the orbital surface of the superior oblique or trochlearis muscle; hence its syno- nyn trochlearis. Branches.—While in the cavernous sinus the fourth nerve gives off a re- current branch, some filaments of communication to the ophthalmic nerve, and a branch to assist in forming the lachrymal nerve; the recurrent branch, which consists of sympathetic filaments derived from the carotid plexus, passes backwards between the layers of the tentorium, and divides into two or three filaments, which are distributed to the lining membrane of the lateral sinus. This nerve is sometimes a branch of the ophthalmic, and occasionally proceeds directly from the carotid plexus. Fifth Pair. Trifacial (trigeminus).—The fifth nerve, the great sen- sitive nerve of the head and face, and the largest cranial nerve, is analogous to the spinal nerves in its origin by tw7o roots, from the anterior and pos- terior columns of the spinal cord, and in the existence of a ganglion on the posterior columns of the spinal cord, and in the existence of a ganglion on the posterior root. It arisesf from a tract of yellowish-'white matter r mated in front of the floor of the fourth ventricle and the origin of the auditory nerve, and behind the crus cerebelli. This tract divides inferiorly into two fasciculi which may be traced dowmwards into the spinal cord, one being continuous with the fibres of the anterior column, the other wuth the posterior column. Proceeding from this origin the two roots of the nerve pass forward, and issue from the brain upon the anterior part of the crus cerebelli, where they are separated by a slight interval. The anterior is much smaller than the posterior, and the twTo together constitute the fifth nerve, which in this situation consists of seventy to a hundred filaments held together by pia mater. The nerve then passes through an oval opening in the border of the tentorium, near the extremity of the petrous bone, and spreads out into a large semilunar ganglion, the Casserian. If the ganglion be turned over, it will be seen that the anterior root lies against its under * A view of the 3d, 4th, and 6th pairs of nerves. 1. Ball of the eye, the rectus exter* nus muscle being cut and hanging down from its origin. 2. The superior maxilla. 3. The third pair or motor oculi distributed to all the muscles of the eye except the supe- tior oblique and external rectus. 4. The 4th pair or patheticus going to the superior oblique muscle. 5. One of the branches of the 5th. 6. The 6th pair or motor externus distributed to the external rectus muscle. 7. Spheno-palatine ganglion and branches. 8. Ciliary nerves from the lenticular ganglion, the short root of which is seen to connect it with the 3d pair. j- f have adopted the origin of this nerve, given by Dr. Alcock, of Dublin, as the result of Ins directions, in the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology. Mr. Mayo also traces the an' erlor root of the nerve to a similar origin.