the liver to the lesser curve of the stomach. 5. The two layers meeting at the greater 4;>8 PERITONEUM. The simplest idea that can be given of a serous membrane, which may apply equally to all, is, that it invests the viscus or viscera, and is then re- flected upon the parietes of the con- taining cavity. If the cavity contain only a single viscus, the consideration of the serous membrane is extremely simple. But in the abdomen, where there are a number of viscera, the se- rous membrane passes from one to the other until it has invested the whole, before it is reflected on the parietes. Hence its reflexions are a little more complicated. In tracing the reflexions of the pe- ritoneum in the middle line, we com- mence with the diaphragm, which is lined by two layers, one from the parietes in front, anterior, and one from the parietes behind, postenor. These tw7o layers of the same mem- brane, at the posterior part of the diaphragm, descend to the upper sur- face of the liver, forming the coronary and lateral ligaments of the liver. They then surround the liver, one going in front, the other behind that viscus, and, meeting at its under surface, pass to the stomach, forming the lesser omentum. They then, in the same manner, surround the stomach, and, meeting at its ltnver border, descend for some distance in front of the intestines, and return to the transverse colon, forming the great omen- turnt; they then surround the transverse colon, and pass directly back- wards to the vertebral column, forming the transverse meso-colon. Here the twro layers separate ; the posterior ascends in front of the pancreas and aorta, and returns to the posterior part of the diaphragm, w7here it becomes the posterior layer with which wre commenced. The anterior descends, invests all the small intestines, and returning to the vertebral column, forms the mesentery. It then descends into the pelvis in front of the * The reflexions of the peritoneum. D. The diaphragm. S. The stomach. C. The transverse colon. D. The transverse duodenum. P. The pancreas. I. The small in- testirles. R. The rectum. B. The urinary bladder. 1. The anterior layer of the peri- toneum, lining the under surface of the diaphragm. 2. The posterior layer. 3. The coronary ligament, formed by the passage of these two layers to the posterior border of the liver. 4. The lesser omentum ; the two layers passing from the under surface of curve, then passing downwards and returning upon themselves, forming (C) the greater omentum. 7. The transverse meso-colon. 8. The posterior layer traced upwards in front of D, the transverse duodenum, and P, the pancreas, to become continuous with the posterior layer (2). 9. The foramen of Winslow; the dotted line bounding this foramen inferiorly marks the course of the hepatic artery forwards, to enter-between ‘he layers of the lesser omentum. 10. The mesentery encircling the small intestine. . I. The recto-vesical fold, formed by the descending anterior layer. 12. The anterior layer traced upwards upon the internal surface of the abdominal parietes to the layei (l) with which the examination commenced. Fig. 219.*