LUMBAR GANGLIA. 441 The external branches, two or three in number, communicate with both roots of each of the spinal nerves. The internal branches of the five upper ganglia are pulmonary to join the pulmonary plexuses; oesophageal to the oesophageal plexus and aortic to the thoracic aorta and its branches; the first thoracic ganglion more- over sends branches to the cardiac plexuses. The branches ot the lower ganglia are aortic, and several large cords which unite to form the two splanchnic nerves. The Great splanchnic nerve arises from the sixth dorsal ganglion, and receives branches from the seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth, which aug- ment it to a nerve of considerable size. It descends in front of the verte- bral column, within the posterior mediastinum, pierces the diaphragm immediately to the outer side of each crus, and terminates in the semilunar ganglion. The Lesser splanchnic nerve {renal) is formed by filaments from the tenth, eleventh, and sometimes from the twelfth dorsal ganglion. It pierces the diaphragm, and descends to join the renal plexus. The Semilunar ganglion is a large, irregular, gangliform body, pierced by numerous openings, and appearing like the aggregation of a number of smaller ganglia, having spaces between them. It is situated by the side of the ccelic axis, and communicates with the ganglion of the oppo- site side, both above and below that trunk, so as to form a gangliform circle, from which branches pass off in all directions, like rays from a centre. Hence the entire circle has been named the solar plexus. The Solar plexus receives the great splanchnic nerves ; part of the lesser splanchnic nerves ; the termination of the right pneumogastric nerve ; some branches from the right phrenic nerve; and sometimes one or two fila- ments from the left. It sends numerous filaments, which accompany, under the name of plexuses, all the branches given off by the abdominal aorta. Thus, we have derived from the solar plexus the— Phrenic plexuses, Renal plexuses, Gastric plexus, Superior mesenteric plexus, Hepatic plexus, Spermatic plexuses, Splenic plexus, Inferior mesenteric plexus. Supra-renal plexuses, The Renal plexus is formed chiefly by the lesser splanchnic nerve, but receives many filaments from the solar plexus. The Spermatic plexus is formed principally by the renal plexus. The Inferior mesenteric plexus receives filaments from the aortic plexus. LUMBAR GANGLIA. The Lumbar ganglia are four in number on each side, of the peculiar pearly grey colour, fusiform, and situated upon the anterior part of the bodies of the lumbar vertebrse. The superior and inferior branches of the lumbar ganglia are branches of communication with the ganglion above and below, as in the dorsal region. The external branches, two or three in number, communicate with the lumbar nerves. '['he internal branches consist of two sets ; of which the upper pass in wards in front of the abdominal aorta, and form around that trunk a plex