superior REGION OF THE SKULL. 84- triquetra, or ossa Wormiana. In the lambdoid suture there is generally one or more of these bones; and in a beautiful adult hydrocephalic skele- ton, in the possession of Mr. Liston, there are upwards of one hundred. The coronal suture (fig. 39) extends transversely across the vertex of the skull, from the upper part of the greater wing of the sphenoid of one side to the same point on the opposite side ; it connects the frontal with the parietal bones. In the formation of this suture the edges of the articu lating bonCs are bevelled, so that the parietal rest upon the frontal at each side, and in the middle the frontal rests upon the parietal bones; they thus afford each other mutual support in the consolidation of the skull. The sagittal suture (fig. 39) extends longitudinally backwards along the vertex of the skull, from the middle of the coronal to the apex of the lambdoid suture. It is very much serrated, and serves to unite the two parietal bones. In the young subject, and sometimes in the adult, this suture is continued through the middle of the frontal bone to the root of the nose, under the name of the frontal suture. Ossa triquetra are some- times found in the sagittal suture. The lambdoid suture is named from some resemblance to the Greek letter A, consisting of two branches, which diverge at an acute angle from the extremity of the sagittal suture. This suture connects the occipital with the parietal bones. At the posterior and inferior angle of the parietal bones, the lambdoid suture is continued onwards in a curved direction into the base of the skull, and serves to unite the occipital bone with the mas- toid portion of the temporal, under the name of additamentum suturce lambdoidalis. It is in the lambdoid suture that ossa triquetra occur most frequently. The squamous suture (fig. 39) unites the squamous portion of the tem- poral bone with the greater ala of the sphenoid, and with the parietal, overlapping the lower border of the latter. The portion of the suture which is continued backwards from the squamous portion of the bone to the lambdoid suture, and connects the mastoid portion with the posterior inferior angle of the parietal, is the additamentum, suturce squamosce. The additamentum suturse lambdoidalis, and additamentum suturre squamosse, constitute together the mastoid suture. Across the upper part of the face is an irregular suture, the transverse, which connects the frontal bone with the nasal, superior maxillary, lachry- mal, ethmoid, sphenoid, and malar bones. The remaining sutures are too unimportant to deserve particular names or description. REGIONS OF THE SKULL. The skull, considered as a whole, is divisible into four regions: a supe- rior region, or vertex; a lateral region; an inferior region, or base; and an anterior region, the face. The superior region, or vertex of the skull, is bounded anteriorly by the frontal eminences; on each side by the temporal ridges and parietal eminences; and behind by the superior curved line of the occipital bone and occipital protuberance. It is crossed transversely by the coronal .suture, and marked from before backwards by the sagittal, which termi- nates posteriorly in the lambdoid suture. Near the posterior extremity or the region, and on each side of the sagittal suture, is the parietal loramen.