522 STRUCTURAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. spaces and divide into branches, which cover with their ramifications every part of the surface of the lobules, with the exception of their bases and those extremities of the superficial lobules which appear upon the surfaces of the liver. The interlobular veins communicate freely with each other, and with the corresponding veins of adjoining fissures, and establish a general portal anastomosis throughout the entire liver. The lobular branches are derived from the interlobular veins; they form a plexus with- in each lobule, and converge from the circumference towards the centre, where they terminate in the minute radicles of the intralobular vein. “ This plexus, interposed between the interlobular portal veins and the intralobular hepatic vein, constitutes the venous part of the lobule, and may be called the lobular venous plexusThe irregular islets of the sub- stance of the lobules, seen between the meshes of this plexus by means of the microscope, are the acini of Malpighi, and are portions of the lobular biliary plexus. The portal vein returns the venous blood from the chylopoietic viscera, to be circulated through the lobules; it also receives the venous blood which results from the distribution of the hepatic artery. The Hepatic duct, entering the liver at the transverse fissure, divides into branches, which ramify through the portal canals, with the portal vein and hepatic artery, to terminate in the substance of the lobules. Its branches, like those of the portal vein, are vaginal, interlobular, and lobular. The Vaginal branches ramify through the capsule of Glisson, and form a vaginal biliary plexus, which, like the vaginal portal plexus, surrounds the vessels in the large canals, but is deficient on that side of the smaller canals near which the duct is placed. The branches given off by the vaginal biliary plexus are interlobular and lobular. The interlobular branches proceed from the vaginal biliary plexus where it exists, and directly from the hepatic duct on that side of the smaller canals against which the duct is placed. They enter the interlobular spaces, and ramify upon the capsular surface of the lobules in the interlobular fissures, where they communicate freely with each other. The lobular ducts are derived chiefly from the interlobular; but to those lobules forming the walls of the portal canals, they pass directly from the vaginal plexus. They enter the lobule, and form a plexus in its interior, the lobular biliary plexus, which constitutes the principal part of the substance of the lobule. The ducts terminate either in loops or in csecal extremities. The coats of the ducts are very vascular, and are supplied with a num- ber of mucous follicles, which are distributed irregularly in the larger, but are arranged in two parallel longitudinal rows in the smaller ducts. The Hepatic artery enters the liver with the portal vein and hepatic duct, and ramifies with those vessels through the portal canals. Its branches are the vaginal, interlobular, and lobular. The vaginal branches, like those of the portal vein and hepatic uuct, form a vaginal plexus, which exists throughout the whole extent of the portal canals, with the exception of that side of the smaller canals which corresponds with the artery. The interlobular branches, arising from the vaginal plexus and from the parietal side of the artery (in the smaller canals), ramify through the interlobular fissures, and are principally distributed to the coats of the interlobular ducts. “ From the superficial interlobular fissures small arteries emerge, and