177 RECTUS EXTERNUS. sphenoid. The superciliary portion of the orbit may now be driven for- wards by a smart blow, and the external angular process and external wall of the orbit outwards in the same manner; the broken fragments of the roof of the orbit should then be removed. By this means the perios- teum will be exposed unbroken and undisturbed. Remove the periosteum from the whole of the upper surface of the exposed orbit, and examine the parts beneath. The Levator Palpebr^: is a long, thin, and triangular muscle ; situated in the upper part of the orbit on the middle line; it arises from the upper margin of the optic foramen, and from the fibrous sheath of the optic nerve, and is inserted into the upper border of the superior tarsal cartilage. Relations.—By its upper surface with the fourth nerve, the supra-orbital nerve and artery, the periosteum of the orbit, and in front with the inner surface of the broad tarsal ligament. By its under surface it rests upon the superior rectus muscle, and the globe of the eye; it receives its nerve and artery by this aspect, and in front is covered* for a short distance by the conjunctiva. The Rectus Superior (attollens) arises from the upper margin of the optic foramen, and from the fibrous sheath of the optic nerve, and is in- serted into the upper surface of the globe of the eye at a point somewhat more than three lines from the margin of the cornea. Relations.—By its upper surface with the levator palpebrae muscle; by the under surface with the optic nerve, the ophthalmic artery and nasal nerve, from which it is separated by a layer of fascia and by the adipose tissue of the orbit, and in front with the globe of the eye, the tendon of the superior oblique muscle being interposed. The Rectus Inferior (depressor) arises from the inferior margin of the optic foramen by a tendon (ligament of Zinn) which is common to it, the internal and the external rectus, and from the fibrous sheath of the optic nerve; it is wserted into the inferior surface of the globe of the eye at a little more than two lines from the margin of the cornea. Relations,.—By its upper surface with the optic nerve, the inferior oblique branch of the third nerve, the adipose tissue of the orbit, and the under surface of the globe of the eye. By its under surface with the periosteum of the floor of the orbit, and with the inferior oblique muscle. The Rectus Internus (adductor), the thickest and shortest of the straight muscles, arises from the common tendon, and from the fibrous sheath of the optic nerve; and is inserted into the inner surface of the globe of the eye at two lines from the margin of the cornea. Relations.—By its internal surface with the optic nerve, the adipose tissue of the orbit and the eyeball. By its outer surface with the perios- teum of the orbit; and by its upper border with the anterior and posterior ethmoidal vessels, the nasal and supra-trochlear nerve. The Rectus Externus (abductor), the longest of the straight muscles, arises by two distinct heads, one from the common tendon, the other with muscle. 5. The superior oblique muscle. 6. Its cartilaginous pulley. 7. Its reflected tendon. 8. The inferior oblique muscle ; the small square knob at its commencement is a piece of its bony origin broken off. 9. The superior rectus. 10. The internal rectus almost concealed by the optic nerve. 11. Part of the external rectus, showing its two heads of origin. 12. The extremity of the external rectus at its insertion; the inter mediate portion of the muscle having been removed. 13. The inferior rectus. ! 4 The tunica albuginea, formed by the expansion of the tendons of the four recti. M