520 STRUCTURAL ANATOMY OF TIIE LIVER. nences on their surface. When divided longitudinally, they have a foli- ated appearance, and transversely, a polygonal outline, with sharp or rounded angles, according to the smaller or greater quantity of Glisson’s capsule contained in the liver. Each lobule is divided upon its exterior into a base and a capsular surface. The base corresponds with one ex- tremity of the lobule, is flattened, and rests upon an hepatic vein, which is thence named sublobular. The capsular surface includes the rest of the periphery of the lobule, and has received its designation from being en- closed in an areolar capsule derived from the capsule of Glisson. In the centre of each lobule is a small vein, the intralobular, which is formed by the convergence of six or eight minute venules from the rounded promi- nences of the periphery. The intralobular vein thus constituted takes its course through the centre of the longitudinal axis of the lobule, pierces the middle of its base, and opens into the sublobular vein. The periphery of the lobule, with the exception of its base, which is always closely at- tached to a sublobular vein, is connected by means of its areolar capsule with the capsular surfaces of surrounding lobules. The interval between the lobules is the interlobular fissure, and the angular interstices formed by the apposition of several lobules are the interlobular spaces. The lobules of the centre of the liver are angular, and somewhat smaller than those of the surface, from the greater compression to which they are submitted. The superficial lobules are incomplete, and give to the sur- face of the organ the appearance and all the advantages resulting from an examination of a transverse section. “ Each lobule is composed of a plexus of biliary ducts, of a venous plexus, formed by branches of the portal vein, of a branch (intralobular), of an hepatic vein, and of minute arteries ; nerves and absorbents, it is to be pre- sumed, also enter into their formation, but cannot be traced into them.” “ Examined with the microscope, a lobule is apparently composed of nume- rous minute bodies of a yellowdsh colour and of various forms, connected with each other by vessels. These minute bodies are the acini of Malpighi.” “ If an uninjected lobule be exa- mined and contrasted with an injected lobule, it will be found that the acini of Malpighi in the former are identic cal wTith the injected lobular biliary plexus in the latter, and the blood- vessels in both will be easily distin- guished from the ducts.”f Glisson’s capsule is the areolo- fibrous tissue which envelopes the he- patic artery, portal vein, and hepatic duct, during their passage through the right border of the lesser omentum, and which continues to surround them to their ultimate distribution in the substance of the lobules. It forms for * Horizontal secth-n of three superficial lobules, showing the two principal systems vt blood-vessels.—(Kiernan.) f The Anatomy and Physiology of the Liver, by Mr. Kiernan, Phil. Trans. 1S33, ]rom which this and die other paragraphs within inverted commas, on the structure of the liver, are quoted