521 STRUCTURAL ANATOMY OF TIIE LIVER. each lobule a distinct capsule, which invests it on all sides with the ex- ception of its base, connects all the lobules together, and constitutes the proper capsule of the entire organ. But Glisson’s capsule is not mere areolar tissue; u it is to the liver what the pia mater is to the brain ; it is a cellulo-vascular membrane, in which the vessels divide and subdivide to an extreme degree of minuteness; which lines the portal canals, forming slieaths for the larger vessels contained in them, and a web in which the smaller vessels ramify; which enters the interlobular fissures, and with the vessels forms the capsules of the lobules; and which finally enters the lobules, and with the blood-vessels expands itself over the secreting biliary ducts.” Hence arises a natural division of the capsule into three portions, a v ginal, an interlobular, and a lobular portion. The vaginal portion is that which invests the hepatic artery, hepatic duct, and portal vein, in the portal canals; in the larger canals it com- pletely surrounds these vessels, but in the smaller is situated only on that side which is occupied by the artery and duct. The interlobular portion occupies the interlobular fissures and spaces, and the lobular portion forms the supporting tissue to the substance of the lobules. The Portal vein, entering the liver at the transverse fissure, ramifies through its structure in canals, which resemble, by their surfaces, the ex- ternal superficies of the liver, and are formed by the capsular surfaces of the lobules. These are the portal canals, and contain, besides the portal vein with its ramifications, the artery and duct with their branches. In the larger canals, the vessels are separated from the parietes by a web of Glisson’s capsule ; but, in the smaller, the portal vein is in contact with the surface of the canal for about two-thirds of its cylinder, the oppo- site third being in relation with the artery and duct and their investing capsule. If, therefore, the portal vein were laid open by a longitudinal incision in one of these smaller canals, the coats being transparent, the outline of the lobules, bounded by their interlobular fissures, would be as distinctly seen as upon the external surface of the liver, and the smaller venous branches would be observed entering the interlobular spaces. The branches of the portal vein are, the vaginal, interlobular, and Fig. 231.* lobular. The vaginal branches are those which, being given off in the portal canals, have to pass through the sheath (vagina) of Glisson’s capsule, previously to entering the interlobular spaces. In this course they form an intri- cate plexus, the vaginal plexus, which, depending for its exist- ence on the capsule of Glisson, necessarily surrounds the vessels, as does that capsule in the larger canals, and occupies the capsular side only in the smaller canals. The interlobular branches are given off from the vaginal portal plexus where it exists, and directly from the portal veins, in that part of the smaller canals where the coats of the vein are in contact with the walls of the canal. JThey then enter the interlobular * Horizontal section of two superficial lobules, showing interlobular plexus of biliary ducts.—(Kieman.) 44*