53 DORSAL VERTEBRAE—LUMBAR VERTEBRA. each a small foramen for the transmission of the vertebral vein, and pre- sent only a rudimentary bifurcation at their extremity. Sometimes the anterior tubercle represents a small but distinct rib. Dorsal Vertebra.—The body of a dorsal vertebra is as long from before backwards as from side to side, particularly in the middle of the dorsai region; it is thicker behind than before, and marked on each side by two half-articulating surfaces for the heads of two ribs. Ihe pedicles are strong, and the lamina broad and thick; the spinal foramen small and round, and the inferior intervertebral notch of large size, the superior can scarcely be said to exist. The spinous process is long, prismoid, directed very obliquely downwards, and terminated by a tubercle. The transverse processes are large and strong, and directed obliquely back- wards. Upon the anterior and superior as- pect of their summits is a small facet for the articulation of the tubercle of a rib. The ar- ticular processes are vertical, the superior facing directly backwards, and the inferior directly forwards. The peculiar vertebrae in the dorsal region are the first, ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth. The first dorsal vertebra approaches very closely in character to the last cervical. The body is broad from side to side, and concave above. The superior articular processes are oblique, and the spinous process horizontal. It has an entire articular surface for the first rib, and a half surface for the second. The ninth dorsal vertebra has only one half articular surface at each side. The tenth has a single entire articular surface at each side. The eleventh and twelfth have each a single entire articular surface at each side; they approach in character to the lumbar vertebrae ; their transverse processes are very short, trifid at their summits, and have no articulation with the corresponding ribs. The transverse processes of the twelfth dorsal vertebra are quite rudimentary, and its inferior articular processes look outwards. Lumbar Vertebra.—These are the largest pieces of the vertebral column. The body 20-t is broad and large, and thicker before than behind. The pedicles very strong; the la- mina short, thick, and broad ; the inferior intervertebral notches very large, and the spinal foramen large and oval. The spin- ous process is thick and broad. The trans- verse processes (costiform processes) are slender, pointed, and directed only slightly * A lateral view of a dorsal vertebra. 1. The body. 2, 2. Articular facets for tho heads of ribs. 3. The pedicle. 4. The superior intervertebral notch. 5. The inferior intervertebral notch. 6. The spinous process. 7. The extremity of the transverse pro- cess, marked by an articular surface for the tubercle of a rib. 8. The two superior articular processes looking backwards. 9. The two inferior articular processes looking forwards. t A lateral view of a lumbar vertebra. 1. The body. 2. The pedicle. 3. The su- perior intervertebral notch. 4. Ihe inferior intervertebral notch. 5. The spinous pro- cess. G. The transverse process. 7. The superior articular processes. 8. The inferioi articular processes. 9. The posterior transverse process. 5*