Ill TRAPEZ01DES—OS MAGNUM. nackwards, the concavo-convex surface will point to the hand to which the bone belongs. Articulations.—With four bones ; by the concavo-convex surface, with tbe metacarpal bone of the thumb; and by the three facets ot the other articular surface, with the scaphoid, trapezoid, and second metacarpal bone. Attachments.—To two muscles, abductor pollicis and flexor ossis meta- carpi ; and by the tubercle, to the annular ligament. idle Trapkzoides (os multangulum minus) is a small, oblong, and quadrilateral bone, bent near its middle upon itself (bean-shaped). It presents four articular surfaces and two extremities. One of the surfaces is concavo-convex, i. e. concave in one direction, and convex in the other; another, contiguous to the preceding, is concave, so as to be almost angu- lar in the middle, and is often marked by a small rough depression, for an interosseous ligament; the two remaining sides are flat, and present nothing remarkable. One of the two extremities is broad and of large size, the dorsal; the other, or palmar, is small and rough. If the bone be held perpendicularly, so that the broad extremity be up- wards, and the concavo-convex surface forwards, the angular concave surface will point to the hand to which the bone belongs. Articulations.—With four bones; by the concavo-convex surface, with the second metacarpal bone; by the angular concave surface, with the os magnum ; and by the other two surfaces, with the trapezium and scaphoid. Attachments.—To the flexor brevis pollicis muscle. The Os Magnum (capitatum) is the largest bone of the carpus, and is divisible into a body and head. The head is round for the greater part of its extent, but is flattened on one side. The body is irregularly quadrilateral, and presents four sides and a smooth extremity. Two of the sides are rough, the one being square and flat, the dorsal; the other rounded and prominent, the palmar; the other two sides are articular, the one being concave, the other convex. The ex- tremity is a triangular articular surface, divided into three facets. If the bone be held perpendicularly, so that ,, the articular extremity look upwards and the broad dorsal surface backwards (towards the holder), the concave articular surface will point to the hand to which the bone belongs. Articulations. — With seven bones; bv the ' V rounded head, with the cup formed by the sca- phoid and semilunar bone ; by the side of the convex surface, with the trapezoides ; by the concave surface, with the unciforme ; and by the extremity, with the second, third, and fourth metacarpal bones. * The hand viewed upon its anterior or palmar aspect. 1. The scaphoid bone. 2. 1 lie semilunare. 3. The cuneiforme. 4. The pisiforme. 5. The trapezium. 6. Tin* groove in the trapezium that lodges the tendon of the flexor carpi radiaiis. 7. The trapezoides. 8. The os magnum. 9. The unciforme. 10, 10. The five metacarpa' hones. 11, 11. The first row of phalanges. 12, 12. The second row. 13, 13. Thu third row, or ungual phalanges. 14. The first phalanx cf the thumb. 15. The second and la-t phalanx of tiie thumb.