135 YELLOW FIBROUS TISSUE. The nuclear filaments are sometimes wound spirally around the fasciculi or interlace with their separate fibres, at other times they are variously twisted and run parallel with the fasciculi. The fasciculi are connected and held together in the formation of membranes and cords by loose fibres which are interwoven between them, or by mutual interlacement. Examples of white fibrous tissue are met with in three principal forms, namely, membrane, ligament, and tendon. The membranous form of white fibrous tissue is seen in the common connecting medium of the body, namely, fibro-cellular or areolar tissue, in which the membrane is extremely thin and disposed in laminae, bands, or threads, leaving interstices of various size between them. It is seen also in the condensed covering of various organs, as the periosteum, peri- chondrium, capsulae propriae of glands, membranes of the brain, sclerotic coat of the eyeball, pericardium, fasciae; sheaths of muscles, tendons, vessels, nerves, and ducts; sheaths of the erectile organs, and the corium of the dermic and mucous membrane. Ligament is the name given to those bands of various breadth and thick- ness which retain the articular ends of bones in contact in the construction of joints. They are glistening and inelastic, and composed of fasciculi of fibrous tissue ranged in a parallel direction side by side, or in some situations interwoven with each other. The fasciculi are held together by separate fibres, or by areolar tissue. Tendon is the collection of parallel fasciculi of fibrous tissue, by means of which muscles are attached to bones. They are constructed on the same principle with ligaments, are usually rounded in their figure, but in some instances are spread out so as to assume a membranous form. In the latter state they are called aponeuroses. Yellow fibrous tissue is knowm also by the appellation F]s- G9* elastic tissue, from one of its more prominent physical pro- perties, a property which permits of its fibres being drawn out to double their length, and again returning to their original dimensions. The fibres of elastic tissue are trans- parent, brittle, flat or polyhedral in shape, colourless when single, but yellowish in an aggregated form, and considera- bly thicker (50W °f an inch in diameter) than the fibres of white fibrous tissue. In the construction of their pecu- liar tissue they communicate with each other by means of short oblicpie fibres, which unite with adjoining fibres at acute or obtuse angles, without any enlargement of the fibre with which they are joined. This circumstance has given rise to the idea of these fibres giving off branches, an expression derived from the division of blood-vessels, and another term borrowed from the same source has been applied to their communication with each other, namely, inosculation; but both these expressions in their literal meaning are incor- rect. When yellow fibrous tissue is cut or torn, the fibres in consequence of their elasticity become clubbed and curved at the extremity, a striking character of this tissue. * Yellow fibrous tissue, shewing the curly and branched disposition of its fibrilhe their definite outline, and abrupt mode of fracture. At 1, the structure :'is not disturbed, as in the rest of the specimen. Magnified 320 diameters.