423 EXTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE. The Branches of the lumbar plexus are the— Musculo-cutaneous, Crural, External-cutaneous, Obturator, Genito-crural, Lumbo-sacral. The Musculo-cutaneous Nerves, two in number, superior and infe- rior, proceed from the first lumbar nerve. The superior musculo-cutaneous nerve (ilio-scrotal, ilio-hypogastricus), passes outwards between the poste- rior fibres of the psoas magnus, and crossing obliquely the quadratus lumborum to the middle of the crest of the ilium, pierces the transversalis muscle, and gives off a cutaneous branch. It then winds along the crest of the ilium between the transversalis and internal oblique, and divides info two branches, abdominal and scrotal. The abdominal branch is con- tinued forwards parallel with the last intercostal nerve to near the rectus muscle, to which it sends branches and perforates the aponeuroses of the internal and external oblique to be distributed to the integument of the mons pubis and groin. The scrotal branch, opposite the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, communicates with the inferior musculo- cutaneous nerve, and passes forward to the external abdominal ring. It then pierces the cremaster muscle and accompanies the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female, to be distributed to the integument of the scrotum or external labium. The inferior musculo-cuta- neous nerve (ilio-inguinal) also arises from the first lumbar nerve. It is much smaller than the preceding, crosses the quadratus lumborum below it, and curves along the crest of the ilium to the anterior superior spinous process, resting in its course upon the iliac fascia. It there pierces the transversalis fascia and muscle, communicates with the scrotal branch of the ilio-scrotal nerve, and passes along the spermatic canal with the sper- matic cord to be similarly distributed. The External Cutaneous Nerve (inguino-cutaneous) proceeds from the second lumbar nerve. It pierces the posterior fibres of the psoas muscle; and crossing the iliacus obliquely, lying upon the iliac fascia, to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, passes into the thigh beneath Poupart’s ligament. It then pierces the fascia lata at about two inches below the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and divides into two branches, anterior and posterior. The posterior branch crosses the tensor vaginae femoris muscle to the outer and posterior side of the thigh, and supplies the integument in that region. The anterior nerve divides into two branches which are distributed to the integument upon the outer bor- der of the thigh, and to the articulation of the knee. The Genito-crural proceeds also from the second lumbar nerve. It traverses the psoas magnus from behind forwards, and runs down on the anterior surface of that muscle and beneath its fascia to near Poupart’s ligament, where it divides into a genital and a crural branch. The genital branch (n. spermaticus seu pudendus externus) crosses the external iliac artery to the internal abdominal ring and descends along the spermatic canal, lying behind the cord to the scrotum, where it divides into branches which supply the spermatic cord and cremaster in the male, and the round ligament and external labium in the female. At the internal abdominal ring this nerve sends off a branch which after supplying the lower border