J98 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. processes of the five superior cervical vertebrae above, and to the boaies of the last three cervical and first three dorsal below. Relations. — By its anterior surface, with the pharynx, oesophagus, the sheath of the common carotid, internal jugular vein and pneumogastric nerve, the sympathetic nerve, inferior laryngeal nerve, and inferior thyroid artery. By its posterior surface it rests upon the cervical and upper dor- sal vertebrae. Actions.—The rectus anticus major and minor preserve the equilibrium of the head upon the atlas; and, acting conjointly with the longus colli, flex and rotate the head and the cervical portion of the vertebral column. The scaleni muscles, taking their fixed point from below, are flexors of the vertebral column ; and, from above, elevators of the ribs, and there- fore inspiratory muscles. Eighth Group.—Muscles of the Larynx. These muscles are described with the anatomy of the larynx, in Chap- ter XI. MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. The muscles of the trunk may be subdivided into four natural groups; viz. 1. Muscles of the back. 3. Muscles of the abdomen. 2. Muscles of the thorax. 4. Muscles of the perineum. 1. Muscles of the Back.—The region of the hack, in consequence of its extent, is common to the neck, the upper extremities, and the abdomen. The muscles of which it is composed are numerous, and may be arranged into six layers. First Layer. Trapezius, Latissimus dorsi. Second Layer. Levator anguli scapulae, Rhomboideus minor, Rhomboideus major. Third Layer. Serratus posticus superior, Serratus posticus inferior, Splenius capitis, Splenius colli. Fourth Layer. (Dorsal Group.) Sacro-lumbalis, Longissimus dorsi, Spinalis dorsi. (Cervical Group.) Cervicalis ascendens, Transversalis colli, Trachelo-mastoideus, Complexus. Fifth Layer. (Dorsal Group.) Semi-spinalis dorsi, Semi-spinalis colli. (Cervical Group.) Rectus posticus major, Rectus posticus minor, Rectus lateralis, Obliquus inferior, Obliquus superior. Sixth Layer. Multifidus spinae, Levatores costarum, Supra-spinales, Inter-spinales, Inter-transversales.