238 MUSCLES OF TIIE HAND. Relations.—By its external surface with the same relations as the exten sor ossis metacarpi. By its deep surface with the ulna, interosseous mem. brane, radius, wrist joint, radial artery, and metacarpal bone of the thumb The muscle is placed between the extensor primi internodii and extensoi indicis. The Extensor Indicis arises from the ulna, as high up as the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and from the interosseous membrane. Its tendon passes through a distinct groove in the radius, and is inserted into the aponeurosis formed by the common extensor tendon of the index finger. Relations.—The same as those of the preceding muscle, with the ex- ception of the hand, where the tendon rests upon the metacarpal bone of the fore finger and second interosseous muscle, and has no relation with the radial artery. The tendons of the extensors, as of the flexor muscles of the fore-arm, are provided with synovial bursse as they pass beneath the annular liga- ments : those of the back of the wrist have distinct sheaths, formed by the posterior annular ligament. Actions.—The anconeus is associated in its action with the triceps ex- tensor cubiti: it assists in extending the fore-arm upon the arm. The supinator longus and brevis effect the supination of the fore-arm, and an- tagonize the two pronators. The extensor carpi radialis longior and bre- vior, and ulnaris, extend the wrist in opposition to the two flexors of the carpus. The extensor communis digitorum restores the fingers to the straight position, after being flexed by the two flexors, sublimis and pro- fundus. The extensor ossis metacarpi, primi internodii, and secundi in- ternodii pollicis, are the especial extensors of the thumb, and serve to balance the actions of the flexor ossis metacarpi, flexor brevis, and flexor longus pollicis. The extensor indicis gives the character of extension to the index finger, and is hence named “ indicator,” and the extensor minimi digiti supplies that finger with the power of exercising a distinct extension. MUSCLES OF THE HAND. Radial or Thenar Region. Abductor pollicis, Flexor brevis pollicis, Flexor ossis metacarpi (opponens), Adductor pollicis. Dissection.—The hand is best dissected by making an incision along the middle of the palm, from the wrist to the base of the fingers, and crossing it at each extremity by a transverse incision, then turning aside the flaps of integument. For exposing the muscles of the radial region, the removal of the integument and fascia on the radial side will be suffi- cient. The Abductor Pollicis is a small, thin muscle, which arises from the scaphoid bone and annular ligament. It is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the external portion of the palmar fascia. By its deep surface, with the flexor ossis metacarpi. On its inner side it is separated by a narrow cellular interspace from the flexor brevis pollicis. This muscle must be divided from its origin and turned upwards, in order to see the next.