MEDIAN NERVE. 416 The External Cutaneous Nerve (musculo-cutaneous, perforans Cas- serii) arises from the brachial plexus in common with the external head gf the median ; it pierces the coraco-brachialis muscle and passes between the biceps and brachialis anticus, to the outer side of the bend of the el bow, where it perforates the fascia, and divides into an external and in- ternal branch. The branches pass behind the median cephalic vein, the external, the larger of the two, taking the course of the radial vein and communicating with the branches of the radial nerve on the back of the band; the internal and smaller following the direction of the supinator longus, communicating with the internal cutaneous, and at the lower third of the fore-arm sending off a twig, which accompanies the radial artery to the wrist, and distributes filaments to the synovial membranes of the joint. The external cutaneous nerve supplies the coraco-brachialis, biceps and brachialis anticus in the upper arm, and the integument of the outer side of the fore-arm as far as the wrist and hand. The Internal Cutaneous Nerve is one of the internal and smaller of the branches of the axillary plexus; it arises from the plexus in common with the ulnar and internal head of the median, and passes down the inner side of the arm in company with the basilic vein, giving off several cuta- neous filaments in its course. At about the middle of the upper arm it pierces the deep fascia by the side of the basilic vein and divides into two branches, anterior and posterior. The anterior branch, the larger of the two, divides into several branches which pass in front of, and sometimes behind, the median basilic vein at the bend of the elbow, and descends in the course of the palmaris longus muscle to the wrist, distributing filaments to the integument in their course and communicating with the anterior branch of the external cutaneous on the outer side, and its own posterior branch on the inner side of the fore-arm. The posterior branch sends off several twigs to the integument over the inner condyle and olecranon, and then descends the fore-arm in the course of the ulnar vein as far as the wrist, supplying the integument on the inner side of the fore-arm and communicating with the anterior branch of the same nerve in front, and the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve on the wrist. The Lesser Internal Cutaneous Nerve, or nerve of Wrisberg, the smallest of the branches of the brachial plexus, is very irregular in point of origin. It is a long and slender nerve, and usually arises from the common trunk of the last cervical and first dorsal nerve. Passing down- wards into the axillary space it communicates with the external branch of the first intercosto-humeral nerve, and descends on the inner side of the internal cutaneous nerve, to the middle of the posterior aspect of the upper arm, where it pierces the fascia and is distributed to the integument of the elbow, communicating with filaments of the posterior branch of the mternal cutaneous and with the spiral cutaneous. In its course it gives off two or three cutaneous filaments to the integument of the inner and anterior aspect of the upper arm. The Median Nerve has received its name from taking a course along me middle of the fore-arm to the palm of the hand ; it is, therefore, inter- mediate in position between the radial and ulnar nerves. It commences by two heads, which embrace the axillary artery; lies at first to the outer side of the brachial artery, which it crosses at its middle; and descend