332 PLANTAR ARTERIES. Branches. — The branches of the peroneal artery are, muscular to the neighbouring muscles, particularly to the soleus, and the two terminal branches anterior and posterior peroneal. The Anterior peroneal pierces the interosseous membrane at the lowei third of the leg, and is distributed on the front of the outer malleolus, anastomosing with the external malleolar and tarsal artery. This branch is very variable in size. The Posterior peroneal continues onwards along the posterior aspect of the outer malleolus to the side of the os calcis, to which and to the mus- cles arising from it, it distributes external calcanean branches. It anasto- moses with the anterior peroneal, tarsal, external plantar, and posterior tibial artery. The Nutritious artery of the tibia arises from the trunk of the tibial, frequently above the origin of the peroneal, and proceeds to the nutritious canal, which it traverses obliquely from below upwards. The Muscular branches of the posterior tibial artery are distributed to the soleus and to the deep muscles on the posterior aspect of the leg. One of these branches is deserving of notice, a recurrent branch, which arises from the posterior tibial above the origin of the peroneal artery, pierces the soleus, and is distributed upon the inner side of the head of the tibia, anastomosing with the inferior internal articular. The Internal calcanxan branches, three or four in number, proceed from the posterior tibial artery immediately before its division ; they are distri- buted to the inner side of the os calcis, to the integument, and to the muscles which arise from its inner tuberosity, and they anastomose with the external calcanean branches, and with all the neighbouring arteries. Fig. 161* PLANTAR ARTERIES. The Internal plantar artery proceeds from the bifur- cation of the posterior tibial at the inner malleolus, and passes along the inner border of the foot between the abductor pollicis and flexor brevis digitorum mus- cles, supplying the inner border of the foot and great toe. The External plantar artery, much larger than the internal, passes obliquely outwards between the first and second layers of the plantar muscles, to the fifth metatarsal space. It then turns horizontally inwards between the second and third layers, to the first meta- tarsal space, where it inosculates with the communi- cating branch from the dorsalis pedis. The horizontal portion of the artery describes a slight curve, having the convexity forwards ; this is the plantar arch. Branches. — The branches of the external plantar artery are the— Muscular, Articular, Digital,—anterior perforating, Posterior perforating. * The arteries of the sole of the foot; the first and a part of the second layer of mus- cles having been removed. 1. The under and posterior part of the os calcis; to which the origins of the first layei of muscles remain attached. 2. The musculus accessorius