STRUCTURE OF CARTILAGE. 133 reference to its intimate structure it admits of classification into three kinds,—true cartilage, reticular cartilage, and fibrous cartilage. True Cartilage is composed of a semi-transparent homo- geneous substance (hyaline or vitreous substance) contain- ing a number of minute cells (cartilage corpuscles) dispersed , at short intervals through its structure. The cells are oval, 1 oblong, or polyhedral in shape, and more or less flattened; ij their membranous envelope is blended with the intercellular !| substance, and they contain in their interior secondary cells, |j nuclei, nucleoli, oil-globules, and more or less of granular l matter. Cartilage cells have an average measurement of | T5*0 <y °f an inch in their long diameter; they are sometimes j isolated, sometimes grouped in pairs, and sometimes dis- ' posed in a linear group of three or four. They are larger 1 near the bone than at the surface, and in the latter situation I are long and slender in form, and arranged in rows having their long axis parallel with the plane of the surface. True cartilage is pearl-white or bluish and opaline in colour, and its intercellular substance is semitrans- parent and structureless. These characters, however, are changed when it exhibits a tendency to ossify. In the latter case the intercellular sub- stance becomes fibrous and more or less opaque, its colour is yellowish, and the cells are found to contain a greater number of oil-globules than in its natural state. The true cartilages are, the articular, costal, ensiform, thyroid, cricoid, arytenoid, tracheal and bronchial, nasal, meatus auris, the pulley of the trochlearis muscle, and temporary cartilage or the cartilage of bone pre- viously to ossification.f Reticular cartilage is composed of cells (7-500 of an inch in diameter), separated from each other by an opaque, subfibrous, intercellular network, the breadth of the cells being considerably greater than that of the inter- cellular structure. The cells are parent cells, containing others of second- ary formation, together with nuclei, nucleoli, granular matter, and oil- globules in greater number than those of true cartilage. The fibres are short, imperfect, loose in texture, and yellowish. The instances of reti- cular cartilage are, the pinna, epiglottis, and Eustachian tube. Fig. 664 Fig. 67.■§ * A portion of articular cartilage near the synovial surface of an articulation: the line to the left is that of the synovial boundary, t Page 47. . * ^ Portion of reticular cartilage. The section is taken from the pinna, and maun, ned 155 diameters. § A portion of fibrous cartilage. The section is taken from the symphysis pubis, a:i4 magnified 155 diameters. 12