LYMPHATICS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 355 plbow. The greater part reach their destination by passing along the dorsa* surface of the fingers, wrist, and fore-arm, and then curving around the borders of the latter; but some few are met with in the palm of the hand, which take the direction of the median vein. At the bend of the elbow the lymphatics arrange themselves into two groups; an internal and larger group, which communicates with a gland situated just above the inner condyle, and then accompanies the basilic vein upwards to the axilla to enter the axillary glands; and a small group which follows the course of the cephalic vein. Several of the vessels of this group cross the biceps muscle at its upper part to enter the axillary glands, while the remainder, two or three in number, ascend with the cephalic vein in the interspace of the deltoid and pectoralis major; these latter usually join a small gland in this space, and then cross the pectoralis minor muscle to become continu- ous with the subclavian lymphatics. Besides the lymphatic vessels of the arm, the axillary glands receive those from the integument of the chest, its anterior, posterior, and lateral aspect, and the lymphatics of the mammary gland. The Deep lymphatics accompany the vessels of the upper extremity, and communicate occasionally with the superficial lymphatics. They enter the axillary and subclavian glands, and, at the root of the neck terminate on the left side in the thoracic duct, and on the right side in the ductus lym- phaticus dexter. LYMPHATICS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. The Superficial lymphatic glands of the lower extremity are those of the groin, the inguinal; and one or two situated in the superficial fascia of the posterior aspect of the thigh, just above the popliteal region. The Inguinal glands are divisible into two groups; a superior group of small size, situated along the course of Poupart’s ligament, and receiving the lymphatic vessels from the parietes of the abdomen, gluteal region, peri- neum, and genital organs ; and an inferior group of larger glands clustered around the internal saphenous vein near its termination, and receiving the superficial lymphatic vessels from the lower extremity. The Deep lymphatic glands are the anterior tibial, popliteal, deep ingui- nal, gluteal, and ischiatic. The Anterior tibial is generally a single gland, placed on the interosse- ous membrane, by the side of the anterior tibial artery in the upper part of its course. The Popliteal glands, four or five in number and small, are embedded in the loose areolar tissue and fat of the popliteal space. The Deep inguinal glands, less numerous and smaller than the superficial, are situated near the femoral vessels in the groin, beneath the fascia lata. The Gluteal and ischiatic glands are placed near the vessels of that name, above and below the pyriformis muscle at the great ischiatic foramen. The Superficial lymphatic vessels are divisible into two groups, internal and external; the internal and principal group, commencing on the dorsum arid inner side of the foot, ascend the leg by the side of the internal sa- phenous vein, and passing behind the inner condyle of the femur, follow the direction of that vein to the groin, where they join the saphenous group of superficial inguinal glands. The greater part of the efferent vessels from