158 HIP JOINT. The expansion of the extensor tendon over the back of the fingers take** the place of a posterior ligament. Actions.—This articulation admits of movement in four different direc- tions, viz. of flexion, extension, adduction, and abduction, the two latter being limited to a small extent. It is also capable of circumduction. 11. Articulation of the Phalanges.—These articulations are ginglymoid joints. they are formed by three ligaments. Anterior, Two lateral. The anterior ligament is firm and fibro-cartilaginous, and forms part of the articular surface for the head of the phalanges. Externally it is grooved for the reception of the flexor tendons. The lateral ligaments are very strong; they are the principal bond of connexion between the bones. The extensor tendon takes the place and performs the office of a poste- rior ligament. Actions.—The movements of the phalangeal joints are flexion and exten- sion, these movements being more extensive between the first and second phalanges than between the second and third. In connexion with the phalanges, it may be proper to examine certain fibrous bands termed tliecce or vaginal ligaments, which serve to retain the tendons of the flexor muscles in their position upon the flat surface of their bones. These fibrous bands are attached at each side to the lateral mar- gins of the phalanges; they are thick in the interspaces of the joints, thin where the tendons lie upon the joints, and they are lined upon their inner surface by synovial membrane. LIGAMENTS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. The ligaments of the lower extremity, like those of the upper, may be arranged in the order of the joints to which they belong; these are, the 1. Hip joint. 2. Knee joint. 3. Articulation between the tibia and fibula. 4. Ankle joint. 5. Articulation of the tarsal bones. 6. Tarso-metatarsal articulation. 7. Metatarso-phalangeal articulation. 8. Articulation of the phalanges. 1. Hip Joint—The articulation of the head of the femur with the ace- tabulum constitutes an enarthrosis, or ball-and-socket joint. The articulai surfaces are the cup-shaped cavity of the acetabulum and the rounded head of the femur; the ligaments are five in number, viz. Capsular, Cotyloid, Ilio-femoral, Transverse. Teres, The capsular ligament (fig. 83, 8) is a strong ligamentous capsule, em- bracing the acetabulum superiorly, and inferiorly the neck of the femur, and connecting the two bones firmly together. It is much thicker upon the upoer part of the joint, where more resistance is required, than upon