294 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. to the olfactory and optic nerves, to the undersurface of the anterior lobes, the third ventricle, the corpus callosum, and the inner surface of the hemispheres. The two anterior cerebral arteries are connected soon after their origin by a short anastomosing trunk, the anterior communicating artery. The Middle cerebral artery, larger than the preceding, passes outwards along the fissure of Sylvius, and divides into three principal branches, which supply the anterior and middle lobes of the brain, and the island of Reil. Near its origin it gives off the numerous small branches which enter the substantia perforata, to be distributed to the corpus striatum. The Posterior Communicating artery, very variable in size, sometimes double, and sometimes altogether absent, passes backwards and inoscu- lates with the posterior cerebral, a branch of the basilar artery. Occa- sionally it is so large as to take the place of the posterior cerebral artery. The Choroidean is a small branch which is given off from the internal carotid, near the origin of the posterior communicating artery, and passes beneath the edge of the middle lobe of the brain to enter the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. It is distributed to the choroid plexus, and to the walls of the middle cornu. SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. The Subclavian artery, on the right side, arises from the arteria inno- minata, opposite the sterno-clavicular articulation, and on the left, from the arch of the aorta. The right is consequently shorter than the left, and is situated nearer the anterior wall of the chest; it is also somewhat greater in diameter, from being a branch of a branch, in place of a division from the main trunk. The course of the subclavian artery is divisible, for the sake of precision and surgical observation, into three portions. The first portion of the right and left arteries differs in its course and relations in correspondence with the dissimilarity of origin of the respective arteries. The other two portions are precisely alike on both sides. The first portion, on the right side, ascends obliquely outwards to the inner border of the scalenus anticus. On the left side it ascends perpen- dicularly to the inner border of that muscle. The second portion curves outwards behind the scalenus anticus ; and the third portion passes down- wards and outwards beneath the clavicle, to the lower border of the first rib, where it becomes the axillary artery. Relations.—The first portion, on the right side, is in relation, in front. with the internal jugular and subclavian vein at their point of junction, and is crossed by the pneumogastric nerve, cardiac nerves, and phrenic nerve. Behind and beneath it is invested by the pleura, is crossed by the right recurrent laryngeal nerve and vertebral vein, and is in relation with the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. The first portion on the left side is in relation in front with the pleura, the vena innomi- nata, the pneumogastric and phrenic nerves (which lie parallel to it), and the left carotid artery. To its inner side is the oesophagus; to its outer side the pleura; and behind, the thoracic duct, longus colli, and vertebral column