SACRAL NERVES. 42G inner condyle, perforating the sartorius, and dividing into a number of filaments which supply the integument over the patella and around the joint, and the integument of the front and outer aspect of the leg as far as the ankle ; lastly, cutaneous filaments below the knee to supply the inner side and front of the leg and foot, and articular branches to the ankle joint. The Obturator Nerve is formed by a branch from the third, and an- other from the' fourth lumbar nerve. It passes downwards among the fibres of the psoas muscle, through the angle of bifurcation of the common iliac vessels, and along the inner border of the brim of the pelvis, to the obturator foramen, where it joins the obturator artery. Having escaped from the pelvis it gives off two small twigs to the obturator externus muscle and divides into four branches, three anterior, which pass in front of the adductor brevis, supplying that muscle, the pectineus, the adductor longus, and the gracilis; and a posterior branch which passes downwards behind the adductor brevis, and ramifies in the adductor magnus. From the branch which supplies the adductor brevis, a communicating filament passes outwards through the angle of bifurcation of the femora] vessels to unite with the long saphenous nerve. From the branch to the adductor longus a long cutaneous nerve proceeds, which issues from be- neath the inferior border of that muscle, sends filaments of communication to the plexus of the short saphenous nerve, and descends to the inner side of the knee, where it pierces the fascia and communicates with the long saphenous nerve. It is distributed to the integument upon the inner side of the leg. From the posterior branch an articular branch is given off which pierces the adductor magnus muscle, accompanies the popliteal artery, and is distributed to the synovial membrane of the knee joint on its posterior aspeet. The Lumbo-sacral Nerve.—The anterior division of the fifth lumbar nerve, conjoined wfith a branch from the fourth, constitutes the lumbo- sacral nerve, which descends over the base of the sacrum into the pelvis, and assists in forming the sacral plexus. sacral nerves. There are six pairs of sacral nerves; the first escape from the vertebral canal through the first sacral foramina, and the two last between the sacrum and coccyx. The posterior sacral nerves are very small, and diminish in size from above downwards; they communicate with each other immedi- ately after their escape from the posterior sacral foramina, and divide into external and internal branches. The external branches pierce the gluteus maximus, to which they give filaments, and are distributed to the integu- ment of the posterior part of the gluteal region (n. cutanei clunium poste- riores). The internal supply the integument over the sacrum and coccyx. The anterior sacral nerves diminish in size from above downwards ; the first is large and unites with the lumbo-sacral nerve ; the second, of equal size, unites with the preceding; the third, which is scarcely one-fourth so large as the second, also joins with the preceding nerves in the formation of the sacral plexus. The fourth anterior sacral nerve is about one-third the size of the preceding sacral nerve; it divides into several branches, cne of which is sent to the sacral plexus, a second to join the fifth sacral