9 and scientific publications. CHURCHILL (FLEETWOOD), M. D., M. R. I. A. ON THE THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MIDWIFERY. A new American, from the last and improved English edition. Edited, with Notes and Additions, by D. Francis Condie, M. D., author of a “Practical Treatise on the Diseases of Children,” &c. With 139 illustrations. In one very handsome octavo volume, pp. 510. (Lately Issued.) To bestow praise on a book that lias received such marked approbation would be superfluous. We need only say, therefore, that if the first edition was thought worthy of a favorable reception by the medical public, we can confidently affirm that this will be found much more so. The lecturer, the practitioner, and the student, may all have recourse to its pages, and derive from their perusal much in- terest and instruction in everything relating to theo- retical and practical midwifery.—Dublin Quarterly Journal of Medical Science. A work of very great merit, and such as we can confidently recommend to the study of every obste- tric practitioner.—London Medical Gazette. This is certainly the most perfect system extant. It is the best adapted for the purposes of a text- book, and that which lie whose necessities confine him to one book, should select in preference to all others.—Southern Medical and Surgical Journal. The most popular work on midwifery ever issued from the American press.—Charleston Med. Journal. Were we reduced to the necessity of having but one work on midwifery, and permitted to choose, we would unhesitatingly take Churchill.— Western Med. and Surg. Journal. It is impossible to conceive a more useful and elegant manual than Dr. Churchill’s Practice of Midwifery.—Provincial Medical Journal. Certainly, in our opinion, the very best work on the subject which exists.—N. Y. Annalist. No work holds a higher position, or is more de- serving of being placed in the hands of the tyro, the advanced student, or the practitioner.—Medical Examiner. Previous editions, under the editorial supervision of Prof II. M. Huston, have been received with marked favor, and they deserved it; but this, re- printed from a very late Dublin edition, carefully revised and brought up by the author to the present time, does present an unusually accurate and able exposition of every important particular embraced in the department of midwifery. * # The clearness, directness, and precision of its teachings, together with the great amount of statistical research which its text exhibits, have served to place it already in the foremost rank of works in this department of re- medial science.—N. O. Med. and Surg. Journal. In our opinion, it forms one of the best if not the very best text-book and epitome of obstetric science which we at present possess in the English lan- guage.— Monthly Journal of Medical Science. The clearness and precision of style in which it is written, and the great amount of statistical research which it contains, have served to place it in the first rank of works in this departmentof medical science. — N. Y. Journal of Medicine. Few treatises will be found better adapted as a text-book for the student, or as a manual for the frequent consultation of the young practitioner.— | American Medical Journal. BY THE SAME AUTHOR. ON THE DISEASES OP INFANTS AND CHILDREN. In one large and handsome volume of over 600 pages. We regard this volume as possessing more claims to completeness than any other of the kind with which we are acquainted. Most cordially and earn- estly, therefore, do we commend it to our profession- al brethren, and we feel assured that the stamp of their approbation will indue time be impressed upon it. After an attentive perusal of its contents, we hesitate not to say, that it is one of the most com- prehensive ever written upon the diseases of chil- dren, and that, for copiousness of reference, extent of research, and perspicuity of detail, it is scarcely to be equalled, and not to be excelled, in any lan- guage.—Dublin Quarterly Journal. After this meagre, and we know, very imperfect notice of Dr. Churchiirs work, we shall conclude by saying, that it is one that cannot fail from its co- piousness, extensive research, and general accuracy, to exalt still higher the reputation of the author in this country. The American reader will be particu- larly pleased to find that Dr. Churchill has done full justice throughout his work to the various American authors on this subject. The names of Dewees, Eberle, Condie, and Stewart, occur on nearly every page, and these authors are constantly referred to by the author in terms of the highest praise, and with the most liberal courtesy.— The Medical Examiner. The present volume will sustain the reputation acquired by the author from his previous works. The reader will find in it full and judicious direc- tions for the management of infants at birth, and a compendious, but clear account of the diseases to which children are liable, and the most successful mode of treating them. We must not close this no- tice without calling attention to the author’s style, which is perspicuous and polished to a degree, we regret to say, not generally characteristic of medical works. We recommend the work of Dr. Churchill most cordially, both to students and practitioners, as a valuable and reliable guide in the treatment of the diseases of children.—Am. Journ. of the Med. Sciences. We know of no work on this department of Prac- tical Medicine which presents so candid and unpre- judiced a statement or posting up of our actual knowledge as this.—N. Y. Journal of Medicine. Its claims to merit both as a scientific and practi- cal work, are of the highest order. Whilst we would not elevate it above every other treatise on the same subject, we certainly believe that very few are equal to it, and none superior.—Southern Med. and Surgical Journal. BY THE SAME AUTHOR. ESSAYS ON THE PUERPERAL FEVER, AND OTHER DISEASES PE- CULIAR TO WOMEN. Selected from the writings of British Authors previous to the close of the Eighteenth Century. In one neat octavo volume, of about four hundred and fifty pages. To these papers Dr. Churchill has appended notes, embodying whatever information has been laid be- fore the profession since their authors’time. He has also prefixed to the Essays on Puerperal Fever, which occupy the larger portion of the volume, an interesting historical sketch of the principal epi- demics of that disease. The whole forms a very valuable collection of papers, by professional writers of eminence, on some of the most important accidents to which the puerperal female is liable.—American Journal of Medical Sciences.