293 OPHTHALMIC ARTERY. The Supra-orbital artery follows the course of the frontal nerve, resting on the levator palpebree muscle; it passes through the supra-orbital fora- men, and divides into a superficial and deep branch, which are distributed to the muscles and integument of the forehead, and to the pericranium. At the supra-orbital foramen it sends a branch inwards to the diploe. The Ethmoidal arteries, posterior and anterior, pass through the eth- moidal foramina, and are distributed to the falx cerebri and to the ethmoidal cells and nasal fossae. The latter accompanies the nasal nerve. The Palpebral arteries, superior and inferior, are given off from the ophthalmic, near the inner angle of the orbit; they encircle the eyelids, forming a superior and an inferior arch near the borders of the lids, between the orbicularis palpebrarum and tarsal cartilage. At the outer angle of the eyelids the superior palpebral inosculates with the orbitar branch of the temporal artery. The inferior palpebral artery sends a branch to the nasal duct. The Frontal artery, one of the terminal branches of the ophthalmic, emerges from the orbit at its inner angle, and ascends along the middle of the forehead. It is distributed to the integument, muscles, and peri- cranium. The JYasal artery, the other terminal branch of the ophthalmic, passes out of the orbit above the tendo oculi, and divides into two branches ; one of which inosculates with the angular artery, while the other, the dorsalis nasi, runs along the ridge of the nose, and is distributed to the integument of that organ. The nasal artery sends a small branch to the lachrymal sac. The Muscular branches, usually two in number, superior and inferior, supply the muscles of the orbit; and upon the anterior aspect of the globe of the eye give off the anterior ciliary arteries, which pierce the sclerotic near its margin of connection with the cornea, and are distributed to the iris. It is the congestion of these vessels that gives rise to the vascular zone around the cornea in iritis. The Ciliary arteries are divisible into three groups, short, long, and anterior. The Short ciliary are very numerous ; they pierce the sclerotic around the entrance of the optic nerve, and supply the choroid coat and ciliary processes. The long ciliary, two in number, pierce the sclerotic on oppo- site sides of the globe of the eye, and pass forwards between it and the choroid to the iris. They form an arterial circle around the circumference of the iris by inosculating with each other, and from this circle branches are given off which ramify in the substance of the iris, and form a second circle around the pupil. The anterior ciliary are branches of the muscular arteries; they terminate in the great arterial circle of the iris. The Centralis retinae artery pierces the optic nerve obliquely, and passes forwards in the centre of its cylinder to the retina, where it divides into branches, which ramify in the inner layer of that membrane. It supplies the retina, hyaloid membrane, and zonula ciliaris; and, by means of a branch sent forwards through the centre of the vitreous humour in a tubular sheath of the hyaloid membrane, the capsule of the lens. The Anterior cerebral artery passes forwards in the great longitudina. fissure between the two hemispheres of the brain; then curves backwards along the corpus callosum to its posterior extremity. It gives branches 25 *