STRUCTURAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. 523 ramify in the proper capsule, on the convex and concave surface of the liver, and in the ligaments. These are the capsular arteries.” Where die capsule is well developed, “these vessels cover the surfaces of the liver with a beautiful plexus,” and “ anastomose with branches of the phrenic, internal mammary, and supra-renal arteries,” and with the epi- gastric. The Lobular branches, extremely minute and few in number, are the nutrient vessels of the lobules, and terminate in the lobular venous plexus. All the venous blood resulting from the distribution of the hepatic artery, even that from the vasa vasorum of the hepatic veins, is returned into the portal vein. The Hepatic veins commence in the substance of each lobule by minute venules, which receive the blood from the lobular venous plexus, and converge to form the intralobular vein. The intralobular vein passes through the central axis of the lobule, and through the middle of its base, to terminate in a sublobular vein ; and the union of the sublobular veins constitutes the hepatic trunks, which open into the inferior vena cava. The hepatic venous system consists, therefore, of three sets of vessels; intralobular veins, sublobular veins, and hepatic trunks. The Sublobular veins are contained in canals formed solely by the bases of the lobules, with which, from the absence of Glisson’s capsule, they are in immediate contact. Their coats are thin and transparent; and, if they be laid open by a longitudinal incision, the bases of the lobules will be distinctly seen, separated by interlobular fissures, and perforated through the centre by the opening of the intralobular vein. The Hepatic trunks are formed by the union of the sublobular veins; they are contained in canals (hepatic-venous) similar in structure to the portal canals, and lined by a prolongation of the proper capsule. They proceed from before backwards, and terminate, by two large openings (corresponding to the right and left lobe of the liver) and several smaller apertures, in the inferior vena cava. Summary.—The liver has been shown to be composed of lobules ; the lobules (excepting at their bases) are invested and connected together, the vessels supported, and the whole organ enclosed, by Glisson’s capsule, and they are so arranged, that the base of every lobule in the liver is in contact with an hepatic vein (sublobular). The Portal vein distributes its numberless branches through portal canals, which are channeled through every part of the organ; it brings the returning blood from the chylopoietic viscera; it collects also the venous blood from the ultimate ramifications of the hepatic artery in the liver itself. It gives off branches in the canals, which are called vaginal, and form a venous vaginal plexus; these give off interlobular branches, and the latter enter the lobules and form lobular venous plexuses, from the blood circulating in which the bile is secreted. The Bile in the lobule is received by a network of minute ducts, the lobular biliary plexus ; it is conveyed from the lobule into the interlobular ducts; it is thence poured into the biliary vaginal plexus of the portal canals, and thence into the excreting ducts, by which it is carried to the duodenum and gall-bladder, after being mingled in its course with the mucous secretion from the numberless muciparous follicles in the walls of the ducts. The Hepatic artery distributes branches through every portal canal;