BLANCHARD & LEA’S MEDICAL 2 QUARTERLY SUMMARY, being a very full and complete abstract, methodically arranged, of the IMPROVEMENTS AND DISCOVERIES IN THE MEDICAL SCIENCES. This department of the Journal, so important to the practising physician, is the object of especial care on the part of the editor. It is classified and arranged under different heads, thus facilitating the researches of the reader in pursuit of particular subjects, and will be found to present a very full and accurate digest of all observations, discoveries, and inventions recorded in every branch of medical science. The very extensive arrangements of the publishers are such as to afford to the editor complete materials for this purpose, as he not only regularly receives ALL THE AMERICAN MEDICAL AND SCIENTIFIC PERIODICALS, but also twenty or thirty of the more important Journals issued in Great Britain and on the Conti- nent, thus enabling him to present in a convenient compass a thorough and complete abstract of everything interesting or important to the physician occurring in any part of the civilized world. An evidence of the success which has attended these efforts may be found in the constant and -teady increase in the subscription list, which renders it advisable for gentlemen desiring the Journal, to make known their wishes at an early day, in order to secure a year’s set with certainty, the publishers having frequently been unable to supply copies wrhen ordered late in the year. To their old subscribers, many of wrhom have been on their list for twenty or thirty years, the publish- ers feel that no promises are necessary; but those who may desire for the first time to subscribe, can rest assured that no exertion will be spared to maintain the Journal in the high position which it has occupied for so long a period. By reference to the terms it will be seen that, in addition to this large amount of valuable and practical information on every branch of medical science, the subscriber, by paying in advance, becomes entitled, without further charge, to THE MEDICAL NEWS AND LIBRARY, a monthly periodical of thirty-two large octavo pages. Its “News Department” presents the current information of the day, while the “ Library Department” is devoted to presenting stand- ard works on various branches of medicine. Within a few years, subscribers have thus received, without expense, the following works which have passed through its columns:— WATSON’S LECTURES ON TIIE PRACTICE OF PHYSIC. BRODIE’S CLINICAL LECTURES ON SURGERY. TODD AND BOWMAN’S PHYSIOLOGICAL ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN. 724 pages, with numerous wood-cuts, being all that has yet appeared in England. WEST’S LECTURES ON THE DISEASES OF INFANCY AND CHILDHOOD. MALGAIGNE’S OPERATIVE SURGERY, with wood-cuts. SIMON’S LECTURES ON GENERAL PATHOLOGY. BENNETT ON PULMONARY TUBERCULOSIS, with wood-cuts, and WEST ON ULCERATION OF THE OS UTERI. While the year 1855, presents brown on the surgical diseases of females. HANDSOMELY ILLUSTRATED ON WOOD. The diseases treated in this volume have hitherto not received from writers of systematic works the attention to which their importance entitles them. In treatises on female diseases they have been but little noticed, as belonging more properly to the surgeon, while our surgical text-books have in like manner referred them to the writer on midwifery and female affections. In supplying this palpable vacancy in medical literature, Mr. Brown has brought to his subject the result of many years of observation and experience, and his labors will prove of much value to all practi- tioners. The publishers therefore flatter themselves that in securing this volume for the “ Library Department” of the “Medical News” they will meet the wishes of their numerous subscri- bers, who will thus receive this highly important work free of all expense. It will thus be seen that for the small sum of FIVE DOLLARS, paid in advance, the subscriber will obtain a Quarterly and a Monthly periodical, EMBRACING ABOUT FIFTEEN HUNDRED LARGE OCTAVO PAGES, mailed to any part of the United States, free of postage. These very favorable terms are now presented by the publishers with the view of removing all difficulties and objections to a full and extended circulation of the Medical Journal to the office of every member of the profession throughout the United States. The rapid extension of mail facili- ties, will now place the numbers before subscribers with a certainty and dispatch not heretofore attainable; while by the system now proposed, every subscriber throughout the Union is placed upon an equal footing, at the very reasonable price of Five Dollars for two periodicals, without further expense. Those subscribers who do not pay in advance will bear in mind that their subscription of Five Dollars will entitle them to the Journal only, without the News, and that they will be at the expense of their own postage on the receipt of each number. The advantage of a remittance when order- ing the Journal will thus be apparent. As the Medical News and Library is in no case sent without advance payment, its subscribers will always receive it free of postage. It should also be borne in mind that the publishers will now take the risk of remittances by mail, only requiring, in eases of loss, a certificate from the subscriber’s Postmaster, that the money was duly mailed and forwarded. Address, BLANCHARD & LEA, Philadelphia.