TENSOR VAGIN/E FEMORIS—SARTORIUS. 217 os pubis; and a second, from the middle of the preceding down the inner side of the thigh, and across the inner condyle of the femur, to the head of the tibia, where it may be bounded by a transverse incision lurn back the integument from the whole of this region, and examine the super- ficial fascia ; which is next to be removed in the same manner. After the deep fascia has been well considered, it is likewise to be removed, by dis- secting it off in the course of the fibres of the muscles. As it might not be convenient to the junior student to expose so large a surface at once as ordered in this dissection, the vertical incision may be crossed by one or two transverse incisions, as may be deemed most proper. The Tensor Vaginje Femoris (stretcher of the sheath of the thigh) is a short flat muscle, situated on the outer side of the hip. It arises from the crest of the ilium, near its anterior superior spinous process, and is inserted between two layers of the fascia lata at about one-fourth down the thigh. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the fascia lata and integument. By its deep surface with the in- ternal layer of the fascia lata, gluteus medius, rectus and vastus externus. By its inner border near its ori- gin with the sartorius. The Sartorius (tailor’s muscle) is a long riband- like muscle, ammgfrom the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and from the notch immediately below that process; it crosses obliquely the upper third of the thigh, descends behind the inner condyle of the femur, and is inserted by an aponeurotic expan- sion into the inner tuberosity of the tibia. This ex- pansion covers in the insertion of the tendons of the gracilis and semitendinosus muscles. The inner bor- der of the sartorius muscle is the guide to the opera- tion for tying the femoral artery in the middle of its course. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the fascia lata and some cutaneous nerves. By its deep surface with the psoas and iliacus, rectus, sheath of the femo- ral vessels and saphenous nerves, vastus internus, ad- ductor longus, adductor magnus, gracilis, long saphe- nous nerve, internal lateral ligament of the knee joint. By its expanded insertion with the tendons of the gra- cilis and semi-tendinosus, a synovial bursa being inter- posed. At the knee joint its posterior border is in relation with the internal saphenous vein. At the up- per third of the thigh the sartorius forms, with the lower border of the adductor longus, an isosceles triangle, whereof the base corresponds with Poupart’s ligament. A perpendicular line drawn from the middle of the base of the apex of this triangle, imme- diately overlies the femoral artery with its sheath. * The muscles of the anterior femoral region. 1. The crest of the ilium. 2. Its an terior superior spinous process. 3. The gluteus medius. 4. The tensor vaginm femoris. its insertion into the fascia lata is shown inferiorly. 5. The sartorius. 6. The rectus 7. The vastus externus. 8. The vastus internus. 9. The patella. 10. The iliacus m ternus. 11. I he psoas magnus. 12. The pectineus. 13. The adductor longus. 14 Tart of the adductor magnus. 15. The gracilis.