PRJEVERTEBRAL MUSCLES. 19G side ; and is inserted into the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage. This muscle is broad above where it forms the whole thickness of the lower half of the soft palate, narrow in the posterior pillar, and again broad and thin in the pharynx where it spreads out previously to its insertion. Relations.—In the soft palate it is in relation with the mucous membrane both by its anterior and posterior surface ; above, with the muscular layer formed by the levator palati, and below with the mucous glands situated along the margin of the arch of the palate. In the posterior pillar of the palate, it is surrounded for two-thirds of its extent by mucous membrane In the pharynx, it is in relation by its outer surface with the superior and middle constrictor muscles, and by its inner surface with the mucous membrane of the pharynx, the pharyngeal fascia being interposed. Actions.—The azygos uvulae shortens the uvula. The levator palati raises the soft palate, while the tensor spreads it out laterally so as to form a septum between the pharynx and posterior nares. Taking its fixed point from belowT, the tensor palati will dilate the Eustachian tube. The palato- glossus and pharyngeus constrict the opening of the fauces, and by draw- ing down the soft palate they serve to press the mass of food from the dorsum of the tongue into the pharynx. Seventh Group.—Prcevertebral Muscles. Rectus anticus major, Rectus anticus minor, Scalenus anticus, Scalenus posticus, Longus colli. Dissection.—These muscles have already been exposed by the removal of the face from the anterior aspect of the vertebral column; all that is further needed is the removal of the fascia by which they are invested. The Rectus Anticus Major, broad and thick above, and narrow and pointed below, arises from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae, and is inserted into the basilar process of the occipital bone. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the pharynx, the internal carotid artery, internal jugular vein, superior cervical ganglion, sympathetic nerve, pneumogastric, and spinal accessory nerve. By its posterior surface with the longus colli, rectus anticus minor, and superior cervical vertebrae. The Rectus Anticus Minor arises from the anterior border of the la- teral mass of the atlas, and is inserted into the basilar process; its fibres being directed obliquely upwards and inwards. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the rectus anticus major, and externally with the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. By its posterior surface with the articulation of the condyle of the occipital bone with the atlas, and with the anterior occipito-atloid ligament. The Scalenus Anticus is a triangular muscle, as its name implies, situated at the root of the neck and appearing like a continuation of the rectus anticus major; it arises from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae, and is in- serted into the tubercle upon the inner border of the first rib. Relations. — By its anterior surface with the sterno-mastoid and omo- hyoid muscle, with the cervicalis superficial^ and posterior scapular artery,