INFERIOR DENTAL NERVE. 400 Internal pterygoid; a long and slender branch, which passes inwards to the internal pterygoid muscle, and gives filaments in its course to the tensor palati and tensor tympani. This nerve is remarkable from its con- nexion with the otic ganglion, to which it is attached. The Internal trunk divides into three branches— Gustatory, Inferior dental, Anterior auricular. The Gustatory Nerve descends between the two pterygoid muscles to the side of the tongue, where it becomes flattened, and divides into numerous filaments, which are distributed to the papillse and mucous membrane. Relations. — It lies at first between the external pterygoid muscle and the pharynx, next between the two pterygoid muscles, then between the internal pterygoid and ramus of the jaw, and between the stylo-glossus muscle and the submaxillary gland ; lastly, it runs along the side of the tongue, resting upon the hyo-glossus muscle, and covered in by the mylo- hyoideus and mucous membrane. The gustatory nerve, while between the twTo pterygoid muscles, receives a branch from the inferior dental; lower down it is joined at an acute angle by the chorda tympani wThich passes downwards in the sheath of the gustatory to the submaxillary gland, where it unites wfith the submaxillary ganglion. On the hyo-glossus muscle some branches of communication are sent to the hypoglossal, and in the course of the nerve several small branches to the mucous membrane of the fauces, to the tonsils, submaxil- lary gland, Wharton’s duct, and sublingual gland. The Inferior Dental Nerve passes downwards with the inferior den- tal artery, at first between the two pterygoid muscles, and then between the internal lateral ligament and the ramus of the lower jaw, to the dental foramen. It then runs along the canal in the inferior maxillary bone, distributing branches (inferior maxillary plexus) to the teeth and gums, and divides into two terminal branches, incisive and mental. The incisive branch passes forwards, to supply the incisive teeth: the mental branch escapes through the mental foramen, to be distributed to the muscles and integument of the chin and lowrer lip, and to the mucous membrane of the latter, communicating with the facial nerve. The inferior dental nerve gives off but one branch, the mylo-hyoidean} which leaves the nerve just as it is about to enter the dental foramen. This branch pierces the insertion of the internal lateral ligament, and de scends along a groove in the bone to the inferior surface of the mylo- hyoid muscle, to which, and to the anterior belly of the digastricus, it is distributed. The Anterior Auricular Nerve originates by twro roots, between wdiich the arteria meningea media takes its course, and passes directly backwards behind the articulation of the lo wer jaw, against which it rests. In this situation it divides into two branches, wdiich reunite, and form a kind of plexus. From the plexus twro branches are given off— ascending and descending. The ascending or temporal branch sends one or twu considerable branches of communication to the facial nerve, and then ascend® in front of the ear to the temporal region, upon which it is distri