FOURTH VENTRICLE. 379 the lateral and third ventricles, and it transmits superiorly the choroid plexus and the venae corporum striatorum. The foramen commune ante- rius is also termed, iter ad infundibulum, from leading downwards to the funnel-shaped cavity of the infundibulum. The crura of the fornix are embedded in the lateral walls of the foramen commune, and are concealed from view in this situation by the layer of grey substance which lines the interior of the third ventricle. If the crura be slightly separated, the an- terior commissure will be seen immediately in front of them, crossing from one corpus striatum to the other. The space between the middle and posterior commissure is the foramen commune posterius ; it is much shal lower than the preceding, and is the origin of a canal, the aqueduct of Sylvius or iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum, which leads backwards beneath the posterior commissure and through the base of the corpora quadrigemina to the upper part of the fourth ventricle. Corpora quadrigemina.—The corpora quadrigemina, or optic lobes, are situated immediately behind the third ventricle and posterior commis- sure ; and beneath the posterior border of the corpus callosum. They form, indeed, at this point, the inferior boundary of the transverse fissure of the hemispheres, the fissure of Bichat. The anterior pair of these bodies are grey in colour, and are named nates : the posterior pair are white and much smaller than the anterior; they are termed testes. From the nates on each side may be traced a rounded process (brachium anterius) which passes obliquely outwards into the thalamus opticus; and from the testis a similar but smaller process (brachium posterius) which has the same destination. The corpus geniculatum internum lies in the interval of these two processes where they enter the thalamus, and behind the bra- chium posterius is a prominent band (laqueus) which marks the course of the superior division of the fasciculus olivaris. The corpora quadrigemina are perforated longitudinally through their base by the aqueduct of Syl- vius ; they are covered in partly by the pia mater and partly by the velum interpositum, and the nates form the base of support of the pineal gland. Pineal Gland.—The pineal gland is a small reddish grey body of a conical form (hence its synonym conarium\ situated on the anterior part of the nates and invested by a duplicature of pia mater derived from the under part of the velum interpositum. The pineal gland, when pressed between the fingers is found to contain a gritty matter (acervulus) com- posed chemically of phosphate and carbonate of lime, and is sometimes hollow in the interior. It is connected to the brain by means of two me- dullary cords called peduncles and a thin lamina derived from the posterior commissure ; the peduncles of the pineal gland are attached to the thalann optici, and may be traced along the upper and inner margin of those bodies to the crura of the fornix with which they become blended. From the close connexion subsisting between the pia mater and the pineal gland, and the softness of texture of the latter, the gland is liable to be tom away in the removal of the pia mater. Behind the corpora quadrigemina is the cerebellum, and beneath the cerebellum the fourth ventricle. The student must therefore divide the cerebellum down to the fourth ventricle, and turn its lobes aside to ex- amine that cavity. Fourth ventricle.—The fourth ventricle (sinus rhomboidalis) is the ventricle of the medulla oblongata, upon the posterior surface of which, and of the pons Varolii, it is placed. It is a lozenge-shaped cavit\,