AND SCIENTIFIC PUBLICATIONS. 3 ANALYTICAL COMPENDIUM OF MEDICAL SCIENCE, containing Anatomy, Physiology, Surgery, Midwifery, Chemistry, Materia Medica, Therapeutics, and Practice of Medicine. By John Neill, M. D., and F. G. Smith, M. I). Second and enlarged edition, one thick volume royal l2mo. of over 1000 pages, with 350 illustrations. 15V1 See Neill. ABEL (F. A.), F. C. S. Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Military Academy, Woolwich. AND C. L. BLOXAM, Formerly First Assistant at the Royal College of Chemistry. HANDBOOK OF CHEMISTRY, Theoretical, Practical, and Technical, with a Recommendatory Preface by Dr. Hofmann. illustrations. {Now Ready.) “ The present volume is a synopsis of their (the authors’) experience in laboratory teaching ; it gives the necessary instruction in chemical manipulation, a concise account of general chemistry as far as it is involved in the operations of the laboratory, and last- ly, qualitative and quantitative analysis. It must be understood that this is a work fitted for the earnest student, who resolves to pursue for himself a steady search into the chemical mysteries of creation. For such a student the ‘ Handbook’ will prove an excel- In one large octavo volume of 6G2 pages, with lent guide, since he will find in it, not merely the approved modes of analytical investigation, but most descriptions of the apparatus necessary, with such manipulatory details as rendered Faraday’s ‘ Che- mical Manipulations’ so valuable at the time of its publication. Beyond this, the importance of the work is increased by the. introduction of much of | the technical chemistry of the manufactory.”—Dr Hofmann's Preface. A3HWELL (SAMUEL), Obstetric Physician and Lecturer to Guv’s Hospital. London. A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE DISEASES PECULIAR TO WOMEN. Illustrated by Cases derived from Hospital and Private Practice. Third American, from the Third and revised London edition. In one octavo volume, of over 500 pages. {Now Ready.) The most able, and certainly the most standard and practical, work on female diseases that we have yet seen.—Medico-Chirurgical Review. We commend it to our readers as the best praeti- tieal treatise on the subject which has yet appeared —London Lancet. The young practitioner will find it invaluable, while those who have had most experience will yet find something to learn, and much to commend, in a book which shows so much patient observation, practical skill, and sound sense.—British and Fo- reign Med. Review. With no work are wc acquainted, in which the pleasant and the useful are more happily blended. It combines the greatest elegance of style with the most sound and valuable practical information. We feel justified in recommending it, in unqualified terms, to our readers, as a book from which they can scarcely fail to derive both pleasure and im- provement. It is truly a model for medical compo- sitions.—Southern Med. and Surg. Journal. ARNOTT (NEILL), M. D. ELEMENTS OF PHYSICS; or Natural Philosophy, General and Medical. Written for universal use, in plain or non-technical language. A new edition, by Isaac Hays M. D. Complete in one octavo volume, of 484 pages, with about two hundred illustrations. * BENNETT (HENRY), M. D. A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON INFLAMMATION OF THE UTERUS. ITS CERVIX AND APPENDAGES, and on its connection with Uterine Disease. Fourth American, from the third and revised London edition. In one neat octavo volume of 430 paoe^ with wood-cuts. Just Issued.) 5 F s This edition will be found materially improved over its predecessors, the author having carefully revised it, and made considerable additions, amounting to about seventy-five pages. This edition has been carefully revised and altered, , and various additions have been made, which render it more complete, and, if possible, more worthy of the high appreciation in which it is held by the medical profession throughout the world. A copy' should l»e in the possession of every physician.— ! Charleston Med. Journal and Review. We are firmly of opinion that in proportion as a knowledge of uterine diseases becomes more appre- ciated, this work will be proportionably established us a text-book in the profession.—The Lancet. \v uen, a lew years DacR, the first edition of the present vvork was published, the subject was oneal- most entirely unknown to the obstetrical celebrities tAeudfP ’,,and Uen 110w we have reason to know that the bulk of the profession are not fully alive to the importance and frequency of the disease of which it takes cognizance. The present edition is so much enlarged, altered, and improved, that it can scarcely be considered the same work.—Hr. Ranking’s Ab- stract. * BROWN (ISAAC BAKER)., Surgeon-Accoucheur to St. Mary’s Hospital &c ON SOME DISEASES OF WOMEN ADMITTING OF SURGICAL TREAT- MENT. \V ilh handsome illustrations. Onevol. 8vo. {At Press.) Publishing in the “ Medical News and Library” for 1855. See preceding page. Mr. Brown has earned for himself a high reputa- tion in the operative treatment of sundry diseases and injuries to which females are peculiarly subject. We cun truly say of his work that it is an important addition to obstetrical literature. The operative suggestions and contrivances which Mr. Brown de- scribes, exhibit much practical sagacity and skill, and merit the careful attention of every surgeon- accoucheur.—Association Journal. We have no hesitation in recommending this book to the careful attention ot all surgeons who make female complaints a part of their study and practice, —Dublin Quarterly Journal.