HISTOLOGY. 37 OF THE T I SSUES. The solids of an animal body have been divided into tissues, any one of which presents the same characteristics, no matter in what portion of the body it is found. The tissues may be further divided into simple and compound tissues ; meaning by compound those which consist ol two or more simple or elementary tissues mixed together in a definite and regular manner. As an instance of this we may mention fibro-cartilage, which consists of a net-work of white fibrous tissue, having its meshes or inter- stices filled up by a cartilaginous deposit. The simplest form of animal organism is Fig. l * the nucleated corpuscle or cell, which is a little vesicle or bag, containing a fluid in its early stage, and a granular body called a nucleus, attached to some portion of the cell wall. This nucleus occasionally presents one or two distinct corpuscles in its sub- stance, which when found are called nucle- oli, and which possibly are the germs of new cells. Every portion of the animal organism is formed by these cells, and as the body is undergoing constant repro- duction and decay, they are found in various stages of development at any time in the life of an animal. DIVISION OF THE TISSUES. The animal organism may be divided into simple, or non-metamor* phosed forms, and compound, or metamorphosed forms of animal matter. They are presented in the following tabular form: 1. Simple Forms:— 1 M i i ( 1. Formative, producing solids [durable). j. • in ucieaieci ecus, \ a #• j • n • i / 5 l 2. Secreting, producing fluids [evanescent). C 1. Of the blood, 2. Corpuscles, < 2. Of the lymph, ( 3. Of the chyle. 2. Compound Forms:— Tissues produced by the metamorphosis of cells, into simple and compound tissues. Simple Tissues: 1. Simple membrane, 2. Pigmentary membrane, 3. Tesselated 4. Cylindroid 5. Ciliated ep 6. Aggregated epithelium. 2. White fibrous tissue [inelastic). 3 Yellow fibrous tissue [elastic). epithelium, epithelium, ithelium, 1. Epithelial tissue, presenting several < varieties. They are divided • A group of vegetable cells. 1. Nucleus. 2. Nucleoli in nucleus. 4