184 AURICULAR GROUP. The external pterygoid muscle must now be removed, the ramus of the lower jaw sawn through its lower third, and the head of the bone dislo cated from its socket and withdrawn, for the purpose of seeing the ptery goideus internus. The Internal Pterygoid is a thick quadrangular muscle. It arises from the pterygoid fossa, and descends obliquely backwards, to be in- serted into the ramus and angle of the lower jaw: it resembles the masse- ter in appearance and direction, and was named by Winslow the internal masseter. Relations.—By its external surface, with the external pterygoid, the in- ferior maxillary nerve and its branches, the internal maxillary artery and branches, the internal lateral ligament, and the ramus of the lower jaw By its internal surface, with the tensor palati, superior constrictor ana fascia of the pharynx; and by its posterior border, with the parotid gland. Actions.—The maxillary muscles are the active agents in mastication, and form an ap- paratus beautifully fitted for that office. The buccinator circumscribes the cavity of the mouth, and with the aid of the tongue, keeps the food under the immediate pressure of the teeth. By means of its connexion with the superior constrictor, it shortens the cavity of the pharynx from before backwards, and be- comes an important auxiliary in deglutition. The temporal, the masseter, and the internal pterygoid, are the bruising muscles, drawing the lower jaw against the upper with great force. The two latter, by the obliquity of their direction, assist the ex- ternal pterygoid in grinding the food, by carrying the lower jaw forward upon the upper; the jaw being brought back again by the deep portion of the masseter and posterior fibres of the temporal. The whole of these muscles, acting in succession, produce a rotatory movement of the teeth upon each other, which, with the direct action of the lower jaw against the upper, effects the proper mastication of the food. S. Auricular Group.—Attollens aurem, Attrahens aurem, Retrahens aurem. Dissection.—The three small muscles of the ear may be exposed by removing a square of integument from around the auricula. This opera- tion must be performed with care, otherwise the muscles, which are ex tremely thin, will be raised with the superficial fascia. They are best dissected by commencing with their tendons, and thence proceeding in the course of their radiating fibres. The Attollens aurem (superior auris), the largest of the three, is a thin triangular plane of muscular fibres arising from the edge of the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis, and inserted into the upper part of the concha. It is in relation by its external surface with the integument, and by the internal with the temporal aponeurosis. * The two pterygoid muscles. The zygomatic arch and the greater part of the ramus of the lower jaw have been removed, in order to bring these muscles into view. i. The sphenoid origin of the external pterygoid muscle. 2. Its pterygoid origin. 3. Tha internal pterygoid musci’s. Fig. 108*