409 SPINAL NERVES. oy ten or fifteen filaments, which being collected into two bundles, escape from the cranium through the anterior condyloid foramen. I he nerve then passes forwards between the internal carotid artery and internal jugu- lar vein, and descends along the anterior and inner side of the vein to a point parallel with the angle of the lower jaw. It next curves inwards around the occipital artery, with which it forms a loop, and crossing the lower part of the hyo-glossus muscle to the genio-hyo-glossus, sends fila- ments onwards with the anterior fibres of that muscle as far as the tip of the tongue. It is distributed to the muscles of the tongue, and principally to the genio-hyo-glossus. While resting on the hyo-glossus muscle it is flattened, and beneath the mylo-hyoideus it communicates with the gusta- tory nerve. At its origin the hypoglossal nerve sometimes communicates with the posterior root of the first cervical nerve. The Branches of the hypoglossal nerve are: Communicating branches with the Pneumogastric, Spinal accessory, First and second cervical nerves, Sympathetic. Descendens noni, Thyro-hyoidean branch, Communicating filaments with the gustatory nerve. The Communications with the pneumogastric and spinal accessory take place through the medium of a plexiform interlacement of branches at the base of the skull, behind the internal jugular vein. The communications with the sympathetic nerve are derived from the superior cervical ganglion. The Descendens noni is a long and slender twig, which quits the hypo- glossal just as that nerve is about to form its arch around the occipital artery, and descends upon the sheath of the carotid vessels. Just below the middle of the neck it forms a loop with a long branch (communicans noni) from the second and third cervical nerves. From the convexity of this loop branches.are sent to the sterno-hyoideus, sterno-thyroideus, and both bellies of the omo-hyoideus ; sometimes also a twig is given off to the cardiac plexus, and occasionally one to the phrenic nerve. If the descendens noni be traced to its origin it will be found to be formed by a branch from the hypoglossal, and one from the first and second cervical nerves ; occasionally it receives also a filament from the pneumogastric. The Thyro-hyoidean nerve is a small branch, distributed to the thyro hyoideus muscle. It is given off from the trunk of the hypoglossal near the posterior border of the hyoglossus muscle, and descends obliquely over the great cornu of the os hyoides. The Communicating filaments, with the gustatory nerve, are several small twigs, which ascend upon the hyoglossus muscle near its anterior border, and form a kind of plexus with filaments sent down by the gusta- tory nerve. SPINAL NERVES. There are thirty-one pairs of spinal nerves, each arising by two roots, dn anterior or motor root, and a posterior or sensitive root. The anterior roots proceed from a narrow white line, ‘'interior lateral 35