176 OCULAR CROUP. The Tensor Tarsi (Horner’s* muscle) is a thin plane of musculai fibres, about three lines in breadth and six in length. It is best dissected by separating the eyelids from the eye, and turning them over the nose without disturbing the tendo oculi; then dissect away the small fold of mucous membrane called plica semilunaris, and some loose cellular tissue under which the muscle is concealed. It arises from the orbital sur- face of the lachrymal bone, and passing across the lachrymal sac divides into two slips, which are inserted into the lachry- mal canals as far as the puncta. dictions. — The palpebral portion of the orbicularis acts involuntarily in closing the lids, and from the greater curve of the upper lid, upon that principally. The entire muscle acts as a sphincter, drawing at the same time, by means of its osseous attachment, the integument and lids inwards towards the nose. The corrugatores superciliorum draw the eyebrows downwards and inwards, and produce the vertical wrinkles of the fore- head. The tensor tarsi, or lachrymal muscle, draws the extremities of the lachrymal canals inwards, so as to place the puncta in the best posi- tion for receiving the tears. It serves also to keep the lids in relation with the surface of the eye, and compresses the lachrymal sac. Dr. Hor- ner is acquainted with two persons who have the voluntary power of drawing the lids inwards by these muscles so as to bury the puncta in the angle of the eye. 3. Ocular group.—Levator palpebrae, Rectus superior, Rectus inferior, Rectus internus, Rectus externus, Obliquus superior, Obliquus inferior. Dissection.—To open the orbit (the calvarium and brain having been re- moved) the frontal bone must be sawrn through at the inner extremity of the orbital ridge, and, externally, at its outer extremity. The roof of the or- bit may then be comminuted by a few7 light blowTs with the hammer ; a pro- cess easily accomplished, on account of the thinness of the orbital plate of the frontal bone and lesser w7ing of the * W. E. Horner, M.D., Professor of Anatomy in the University of Pennsylvania. The notice of this muscle is contained in a work published in Philadelphia in 1827, entitled “ Lessons in Practical Anatomy.” j-A view of the tensor tarsi muscle. 1, 1. Bony margins of the orbit. 2. Opening between the eyelids. 3. Internal face of the orbit. 4. Origin of the tensor tarsi. 5, 5. Insertion into the neighbourhood of the puncta lachrymalis. i The muscles of the eyeball; the view is taken from the outer side of th-e right orbit. J. A small fragment of the sphenoid bone around the entrance of the optic nerve into tl'0 orbit. 2. The optic nerve. 3. The globe of the eye. 4. The levator palpebrte Fig. 1074