LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIS. 148 The posterior or greater sacro-ischiatic ligament, considerably larger, thicker, and more posterior than the preceding, is narrower in the middle than at each extremity. It is attached, by its smaller end, to the inner margin of the tuberosity and ramus of the ischium, where it forms a falci- form process, which protects the internal pudic artery, and is continuous with the obturator fascia. By its larger extremity it is inserted into the side of the coccyx, sacrum, and posterior inferior spine of the ilium. Fig. 83 * Fig. 84,-j- The posterior sacro-ischiatic ligament is in relation in front with the an- terior ligament, and behind with the gluteus maximus, to some of the fibres of which it gives origin. By its superior border it forms part of the lesser ischiatic foramen, and by its lower border, a part of the boundary of the perineum. It is pierced by the coccygeal branch of the ischiatic artery. The two ligaments convert the sacro-ischiatic notches into foramina. 3. Between the Sacrum and Coccyx.—The anterior sacro-coccygean liga- ment is a thin fasciculus passing from the anterior surface of the sacrum to the front of the coccyx. The posterior sacro-coccygean ligament is a thick ligamentous layer, which completes the lower part of the sacral canal, and connects the * The ligaments of the pelvis and hip joint. 1. The lower part of the anterior com- mon ligament of the vertebrae, extending downwards over the front of the sacrum. 2. Flie lumbo-sacral ligament. 3. The lumbo-iliac ligament. 4. The anterior sacro-iliac igaments. 5. The obturator membrane. 6. Poupart’s ligament. 7. Gimbernats liga- ment. 8. The capsular ligament of the hip-joint. 9. The ilio-femoral or accessory- ligament. j- Ligaments of the pelvis and hip joint The view is taken from the side. 1. The oblique sacro-iliac ligament. The other lasciculi of the posterior sacro-iliac ligaments are not seen in this view of the pelvis. 2. The posterior sacro-ischiatic ligament. 3. The anterior saqro-iscliiatic ligament. 4. The great sacro-ischiatic foramen. 5. The lesser sacro-ischiatic foramen. 6. The coty’oid ligament of the acetabulum. 7. The ligamentum teres. 8. The cut edge of the capsular ligament, showing its extent poste- riorly as compared with its anterior attachment. 9. The obturator membrane only partly se*m.