444 NASAL FOSSiE. behind, with the nasal processes of the superior maxillary bones ; and below with the alar fibro-cartilages. Alar fibro-cartilages.—Each of these cartilages is curved in such a man- ner as to correspond with the opening of the nostril, to which it forms a kind of rim. The inner portion is loosely connected with the same part of the opposite cartilage, so as to form the columna. It is expanded and thickened at the point of the nose to constitute the lobe; and on the side forms a curve corresponding with the form of the ala. This curve is pro- longed downwards and forwards in the direction of the posterior border of the ala by three or four small fibro-cartilaginous plates, which are ap- pendages of the alar fibro-cartilage. The whole of these fibro-cartilages are connected with each other and to the bones, by perichondrium, which, from its membranous structure, permits of the freedom of motion existing between them. 5. The Mucous membrane, lining the interior of the nose, is continuous with the skin externally, and with the pituitary membrane of the nasal fossae within. Around the entrance of the nostrils it is provided with numerous vibrissce. 6. Vessels and JVerves.—The Arteries of the nose are the lateralis nasi from the facial, and the nasalis septi from the superior coronary. Its JVerves are, the facial, infra-orbital, and nasal branch of the oph- thalmic. NASAL FOSSiE. To obtain a good view of the nasal fossce, the face must be divided through the nose by a vertical incision, a little to one side of the middle line. The JVasalfossce are two irregular compressed cavities, extending back- wards from the nose to the pharynx. They are bounded superiorly by the lateral cartilage of the nose, and by the nasal, sphenoid, and ethmoid bones; inferiorly by the hard palate; and, in the middle line, they are separated from each other by a bony and fibro-cartilaginous septum. A plan of the boundaries of the nasal fossse will be found at page 91. Upon the outer wall of each fossa, in the dried skull, are three project- ing processes, termed spongy bones. The two superior belong to the ethmoid, the inferior is a separate bone. In the fresh fossse these are covered with mucous membrane, and serve to increase the surface of that membrane by their prominence and convoluted form. The space inter- vening between the superior and middle spongy bone is the superior meatus; the space between the middle and inferior the middle meatus; and that between the inferior and the floor of the fossa the infenor meatus. These meatuses are passages which extend from before backwards, and it is in rushing through and amongst these that the atmosphere deposits its odorant particles upon the mucous membrane. There are several openings into the nasal fossae: thus, in the superior meatus are the openings of the sphenoidal and posterior ethmoidal cells; in the middle the anterior ethmoidal cells, the frontal sinuses, and the antrum maxillare; and, in the inferior meatus, the termination of the nasal duct. In the dried bone ‘here are two additional openings, the spheno-palatine and the anterior palatine foramen ; the former being situated in the superior, and the latter in the inferior meatus.