485 ORGANS OF RESPIRATION AND VOICE. of the septum. From the septum they are continued to the anterior sur- face of the left auricle, where they separate into three bands, superior, an- terior, and posterior. The superior band proceeds onwards to the appen- dix, and encircles the apex of the auricle. The anterior band passes to the left, beneath the appendix, and winds as a broad layer completely around the base of the auricle, and through the septum to the root of the aorta, to which it is partly attached, and from this point is continued on- wards to the appendix, where its fibres terminate by interlacing with the musculi pectinati. The posterior band crosses the left auricle obliquely to its posterior part, and winds from left to right around its base, encircling the openings of the pulmonary veins; some of its fibres are lost on the surface of the auricle, others are continued onwards to the base of the aorta; and a third set, forming a small band, are prolonged along the anterior.edge of the appendix to its apex, where they are continuous with the superior band. The septum auricularum has four sets of fibres enter- ing into its formation ; 1. The fibres arising from the auriculo-ventricular rings at each side ; 2. Fibres arising from the root of the aorta, which pass upwards to the transverse band, and to the root of the superior cava; 3. Those fibres of the anterior band that pass through the lower part of the septum in their course around the left auricle; and, 4. A slender fascicu- lus, which crosses through the septum from the posterior part of the right auriculo-ventricular ring to the left auricle. It will be remarked, from this description, that the left auricle is consi- derably thicker and more muscular than the right. Vessels and JVerves.—The Arteries supplying the heart are the anterior and posterior coronary. The Veins accompany the arteries, and empty themselves by the common coronary vein into the right auricle. The lymphatics terminate in the glands about the root of the heart. The nerves of the heart are derived from the cardiac plexuses, which are formed b* '•.ommunicating filaments from the sympathetic and pneumogastric. ORGANS OF RESPIRATION AND VOICE. The organs of respiration are the two lungs, with their air-tube, the trachea, to the upper part of which is adapted an apparatus *of cartilages, constituting the organ of voice, or larynx. THE LA R YNX. The Larynx is situated at the fore part of the neck, between the trachea and the base of the tongue. It is a short tube, having an hour-glass form, and is composed of cartilages, ligaments, muscles, vessels, nerves, and mucous membrane. The Cartilages are the— Thyroid, Two cuneiform, Cricoid, Epiglottis. Two arytenoid, The Thyroid (Au^sog—siSoc:, like a shield) is the largest cartilage of the larynx: it consists of two lateral portions, or alee, which meet at an angle in front, and form the projection which is known by the name of pomum Adami. In the male, after puberty, the angle of union of the two aloe is 41 *