34 HISTOLOGY. of others, which, although they exist in smaller proportions, still form im- portant constituents of peculiar tissues. Thus we find— Time, or its base, calcium, combined with the carbonic or phosphoric acids, in the bones and teeth. Magnesia, in the sebaceous matter of the skin. Alumina, in the enamel of the teeth ; And iron, in the black pigment in various parts. The additional elements thus brought into the organism may be enume- rated as follows: Metallic bases of earths.—Calcium, magnesium, silicium, aluminum. Metallic bases of alkalies.—Potassium, sodium. Phosphorus, sulphur, chlorine, and fluorine. Metals.—Iron, manganese, titanium, arsenic, and copper. Almost all of these elements exist compounded in either the binary or ternaiy form. The binary compounds are— Water, found universally consisting of HO. Carbonic acid, found in blood, urine, sweat. Carbonates, or sa/T o/* carbonic acid:— Carbonate of soda, in serum, bile, mucus, sweat, saliva, tears, carti- lage, &c. Carbonate of ammonia, in the amniotic liquor, probably derived from the urine of the foetus. Carbonate of lime, in cartilage, bone, and the teeth. Carbonate of magnesia, in the sebaceous matter of the skin. Salts of phosphoric acid:— Phosphate of soda, in serum, saliva, sweat, bones, muscles, &c. Phosphate of lime, in bones, teeth, cartilage, and the sandy concretions ot the pineal gland. Phosphate of soda and ammonia, in urine and blood; but probably only for the purpose of being excreted or thrown off as unfit to constitute a part of an animal body. Phosphate of iron, in blood, gastric juice, and urine. Chlorine and its compounds:— Hydrochloric acid, in gastric juice, and in the fluid of the caecum. Chloride of sodium, in blood, brain, muscle, bone, cartilage, dentine, and pigment. Chloride of potassium, in blood, gastric juice, milk, saliva. Chloride of ammonium, in sweat, gastric juice. Chloride of calcium, in gastric juice. Sulphuric acid and its compounds:— Sulphate of potassa, in urine, gastric juice, and cartilage. Sulphate of soda, in sweat, bile, and cartilage. Sulphate of lime, in bile, hair, and cuticle. Sulpho-cyanide of potassa, in the saliva. Fluoride of calcium, in the enamel. Silica and oxide of manganese, in the hair. Alumina, in the enamel.