LUMBAR PLEXUS. 400 LUMBAR NERVES. There are five pairs of lumbar nerves, of which the first makes its ap- pearance between the first and second lumbar vertebra}, and the last be- tween the fifth lumbar and the base of the sacrum. The anterior branches increase in size from above downwards. They communicate at their ori- gin with the lumbar ganglia of the sympathetic, and pass obliquely out- wards behind the psoas magnus or between its fasciculi, sending twigs to that muscle and to the quadratus lumborum. In this situation each nerve divides into two branches, a superior branch which ascends to form a loop of communication with the nerve above, and an inferior branch which descends to join in like manner the nerve below, the communications and anastomoses which are thus established constituting the lumbar plexus. The posterior branches diminish in size from above downwards; they pass backwards between the transverse processes of the corresponding vertebrae, and each nerve divides into an internal and an external branch. The internal branch, the smaller of the two, passes inwards to be distri- buted to the multifidus spinse and interspinales, and becoming cutaneous supplies the integument of the lumbar region on the middle line. The external branches communicate with each other by several loops, and after supplying the deeper muscles, Fisc. 189.* pierce the sacro-lumbalis to reach the integument to which they are distributed. The external branches of the three lower lumbar nerves (nervi clunium superiores postici) descend over the superior part of the crest of the ilium, and are dis- tributed to the integument of the gluteal region. LUMBAR PLEXUS. The Lumbar plexus is formed by the communications and anas- tomoses which take place between the anterior branches of the five lumbar nerves, and between the latter and the last dorsal. It is narrow above and increases in breadth inferiorly, and is situated between the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae and the quadratus lumborum behind, and the psoas magnus muscle in front. * A view of the lumbar and ischiatic plexus and the branches of the former. 14. The bodies of the lumbar vertebrse. 13. The psoas magnus muscle. 11. The iliacus jnternus muscle. 15. The quadratus lumborum muscle. 16. 1 he diaphragm. 12. ihe three broad muscles of the abdomen. 17. The sartorius. 1. The lumbar plexus. ~ The ischiatic plexus. 3. 3. Abdomino-crural nerves. 4. External cutaneous nerve finguino-cutaneous). 5, 6, 7. Cutaneous branches from (8) The anterior crural nerve 9. The genito-crural nerve or spermaticus externus. 10, 10. The lower termination oi the great sympathetic.