264 FASCIAE OF THE HEAD AND NECK. taneous vessels and nerves ; as the superficial epigastric artery, the saphe- nous veins, the radial and ulnar veins, the superficial lymphatic vessels, also the cutaneous muscles, as the platysma myoides, orbicularis palpe* brarum, sphincter ani, &c. In other situations, the cellulo-fibrous fascia is found condensed into a strong and inelastic membrane, as is exemplified in the deep fascia of the neck, the thoracic, transversalis, and perineal fasciae, and the sheaths of vessels. The aponeurotic fascia is the strongest kind of investing membrane ; it is composed of tendinous fibres, running parallel with each other, and connected by other fibres of the same kind passing in different directions. When freshly exposed, it is brilliant and nacreous, and is tough, inelastic, and unyielding. In the limbs it forms the deep fascia, enclosing and forming distinct sheaths to all the muscles and tendons. It is thick upon the outer and least protected side of the limb, and thinner upon its inner side. It is firmly connected to the bones, and to the prominent points of each region, as to the pelvis, knee, and ankle, in the lower, and to the clavicle, scapula, elbow, and wrist, in the upper extremity. It assists the muscles in their action, by keeping up a tonic pressure on their surface ; aids materially in the circulation of the fluids in opposition to the laws of gravity; and in the palm of the hand and sole of the foot is a powerful protection to the structures which enter into the composition of these re- gions. In some situations its tension is regulated by muscular action, as by the tensor vaginae femoris and gluteus maximus in the thigh, by the biceps in the leg, and by the biceps and palmaris longus in the arm ; in other situations it affords an extensive surface for the origin of the fibres of muscles. The fasciae may be arranged like the other textures of the body into, 1. Those of the head and neck. 2. Those of the trunk. 3. Those of the upper extremity. 4. Those of the lower extremity. FASCIiE OF THE HEAD AND NECK. The Temporal Fascia is a strong aponeurotic membrane which covers in the temporal muscle at each side of the head, and gives origin by its internal surface to some of its muscular fibres. It is attached to the whole extent of the temporal ridge above, and to the zygomatic arch below; in the latter situation it is thick and divided into two layers, the external being connected to the upper border of the arch, and the internal to its inner surface. A small quantity of fat is usually found between these two layers, together with the orbital branch of the temporal artery. Cervical Fascia.—The fasciae of the neck are the superficial and the deep. The superficial cervical fascia is a part of the common superficial fascia of the entire body, and is only interesting from containing between its layers the platysma myoides muscle. The deep cervical fascia is a strong cellulo-fibrous layer which invests the muscles of the neck, and retains and supports the vessels and nerves, it commences posteriorly at the ligamentum nuchae, and passes forwards at each side beneath the trapezius muscle to the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid ; here it divides into two layers, which embrace that muscle and unite upon its anterior border to be prolonged onwards to the middle line of the neck, where it becomes continuous with the fascia of the oppo- site side. Besides thus constituting a sheath for the sterno-mastoid, it