109 CARPUS SCAPHOID AND SEMILUNAR BONES. yeai, and the superior about the seventh. The bone is perfected at twenty. .Articulations.—With four bones ; humerus, ulna, scaphoid, and semi- lunar. . Attachment of Muscles.—To nine; by the tuberosity to the biceps ; by the oblique ridge to the supinator brevis, pronator radii teres, llexor sub- limis digitorum and pronator quadratus; by the anterior surface, to the tlexor longus pollicis and pronator quadratus; by the posterior surface, to the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and extensor primi internodii; and by the styloid process, to the supinator longus. Carpus.—The bones of the carpus are eight in number; they are ar- ranged in two rows. In the first row, commencing from the radial side, are the os scaphoides, semilunare, cuneiforme, pisiforme ; and in the se- cond row, in the same order, the os trapezium, trapezoides, os magnum, and unciforme. The (Scaphoid bone is named from bearing some resemblance to the shape of a boat, being broad at one end, and narrowed like a prow at the opposite, concave on one side, and convex upon the other. It is, how- ever, more similar in form to a cashew nut, flattened and concave upon one side. If carefully examined, it will be found to present a convex and a concave surface, a convex and a concave border, a broad end, and a nar- row and pointed extremity, the tuberosity. To ascertain to which hand the bone belongs, let the student hold it horizontally, so that the convex surface may look backwards (i. e. towards himself), and the convex border upwards: the broad extremity will indi- cate its appropriate hand ; if it be directed to the right, the bone belongs to the right; and if to the left, to the left carpus. Articulations.—With five bones ; by its con- vex surface with the radius; by its concave surface, with the os magnum and semilunare ; and by the extremity of its upper or dorsal border, with the trapezium and trapezoides. Attachments. — By its tuberosity to the ab- ductor pollicis, and anterior annular ligament. The Semilunar bone may be known by having a crescentic concavity, and a some- what crescentic outline. It presents for exami- nation four articular surfaces and two extremi- ties ; the articular surfaces are, one concave, one convex, and two latercd, one lateral surface being crescentic, the other nearly circular, and divided generally into two facets. The extre- mities are, one dorsal, which is quadrilateral, flat, and indented, for til Fig. 53 * * A diagram showing the dorsal surface of the bones of the carpus, with their articu lations.—The right hand. 2. The lower end of the radius. 1. The lower extremity of the ulna. 3. The inter-articular fibro-eartilage attached to the styloid process of the ulna, and to the margin of the articular surface of the radius. S. The scaphoid bone. L. The semilunare articulating with five bones. C. The cuneiforme, articulating with three bones. P. I he pisiforme, articulating with the cuneiforme only. T. The first bone of the second row,—the trapezium, articulating with four bones. T. The second bone,—the trapezoides, articulating also with four bones. M. The os magnum articu latirg with seven. U. The unciforme, articulating with five. 10