112 UNCIFORME—METACARPUS. •Attachments.—To the flexor brevis pollicis muscle. The Unciforme is a triangular-shaped bone, remarkable for a long and curved process, which projects from its palmar aspect. It presents five surfaces ;—three articular, and two free. One of the articular surfaces is divided by a slight ridge into two facets; the other two converge, and meet at a flattened angle.* One of the free surfaces, the dorsal, is rough and triangular; the other, palmar, also triangular, but somewhat smaller, gives origin to the unciform process. If the bone be held perpendicularly, so that the articular surface with two facets look upwards, and the unciform process backwards (towards die holder), the concavity of the unciform process will point to the hand to which the bone belongs. Articulations.—With jfo’e bones ; by the two facets on its base, with the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones; by the two lateral articulating surfaces, with the os magnum and cuneiforme; and by the flattened angle of its apex, with the semilunare. Attachments.—To boo muscles, abductor minimi digiti, and flexor brevis minimi digiti; and by the hook-shaped process to the annular liga- ment. Development.—The bones of the carpus are each developed by a single centre ; they are cartilaginous at birth. Ossification commences towards the end of the first year in the os magnum and unciforme; at the end of the third year in the cuneiforme; during the fifth year in the trapezium and semilunare; during the eighth, in the scaphoides; the ninth, in the trapezoides: and the twelfth in the pisiforme. The latter bone is the last in the skeleton to ossify; it is, in reality, a sesamoid bone of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris. The number of articulations which each bone of the carpus presents with surrounding bones, may be expressed in figures, which will materially facilitate their recollection; the number for the first row is 5531, and for the second 4475. Metacarpus.—The bones of the metacarpus are five in number. They are long bones, divisible into a head, shaft, and base. The head is rounded at the extremity, and flattened at eaih side, for the insertion of strong ligaments; the shaft is prismoid, and marked deeply on each side, for the attachment of the interossei muscles ; and the base is irregularly quadrilateral and rough, for the insertion ot tendons and ligaments. The base presents three articular surfaces, one at each side, for the adjoining metacarpal bones; and one at the extremity tor the carpus. The metacarpal bone of the thumb is one-third shorter than the rest, flattened and broad on its dorsal aspect, and convex on its palmar side; the articular surface of the head is not so round as that of the other meta- carpal bones ; and the base has a single concavo-convex surface, to arti- culate with the similar surface of the trapezium. The metacarpal bones of the different fingers may be distinguished by certain obvious characters. The base of the metacarpal bone ol the index finger is the largest of the four, and presents four articular surfaces. That of the middle finger may be distinguished by a rounded projecting process * When -he unciforme does not articulate with the semilunare, this angle is sharp