INFERIOR VENA CAVA. 340 Fig. 165.* The Internal iliac vein is formed by vessels which correspond with the branches of the in- ternal iliac artery; it receives the returning blood from the gluteal, ischiatic, internal pudic, and obturator veins, externally to the pelvis; and from the vesical and uterine plexuses within the pelvis. The vein lies to the inner side of the internal iliac artery, and terminates by uniting with the external iliac vein, to form the common iliac. The Vesical and prostatic plexus is an im- portant plexus of veins which surrounds the neck and base of the bladder and prostate gland, and receives its blood from the great dorsal vein of the penis, and from the veins of the external organs of generation. It is retain- ed in connection with the sides of the bladder by a reflexion of the pelvic fascia. The Uterine plexus is situated around the vagina, and upon the sides of the uterus, be- tween the two layers of the broad ligaments. The veins forming the vesical and uterine plexus are peculiarly subject to the production of phlebolites. The Common iliac veins are formed by the union of the external and internal iliac vein on each side of the pelvis. The right com- mon iliac, shorter than the left, ascends ob- liquely behind the corresponding artery; and upon the intervertebral substance between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae, unites with the vein of the opposite side, to form the inferior cava. The left common iliac, longer and more oblique than the right, ascends behind, and a little internally to the corresponding artery, and passes beneath the right com- mon iliac artery, near its origin, to unite with the right vein in the forma- tion of the inferior vena cava. The right common iliac vein has no branch opening into it; the left receives the vena sacra media. These veins have no valves. INFERIOR VENA CAVA. The inferior vena cava is formed by the union of the two common iliac veins, upon the intervertebral substance between the fourth and fifth lam- * The veins of the trunk and neck. 1. The superior vena cava. 2. The left vena innominata. 3. The right vena innominata. 4. The right subclavian vein. 5. The internal jugular vein. 6. The external jugular. 7. The anterior jugular. 8. The infe- rior vena cava. 9. The external iliac vein. 10. The internal iliac vein. 11. The com- mon iliac veins; the small vein between these is the vena sacra media. 12, 12. Lum- bar veins. 13. The right spermatic vein. 14. The left spermatic, opening into the left renal vein. 15. The right renal vein. 16. The trunk of the hepatic veins. 17. The greater vena azygos, commencing interiorly in the lumbar veins. 18. The lesser vena azygos, also commencing in the lumbar veins. 19. A branch of communication with the left renal vein. 20. The termination of the lesser in the greater vena azygos. 21. The superior intercostal vein ; communicating inferiorly with the lesser vena azygos, «.iid terminating superiorly in the left vena innominata.