*132 MUSCULOCUTANEOUS NERVE. fibula, where it pierces the origin of the peroneus longus muscle, ana divides into two branches, the anterior tibial and musculo-cutaneous. The Branches of the peroneal nerve previously to its division are, the communicans peronei, cutaneous, articular, and muscular. The commit- means peronei, much smaller than the communicans poplitei, crosses the external head of the gastrocnemius to the middle of the leg. It there sends a large branch to join the communicans poplitei and constitute the external saphenous nerve, and descends very much reduced in size with the external saphenous vein to the side of the external ankle, to which and to the integument of the heel it distributes filaments. The cutaneous branch passes down the outer side of the leg, supplying the integument. The articular is a small branch distributed to the knee joint. The muscular branches are twigs to the short head of the biceps, peroneus longus, and tibialis anticus. The Anterior Tibial Nerve commences at the Fig. 195.* bifurcation of the peroneal, upon the head of the fibula, and passes beneath the upper part of the extensor longus digitorum, to reach the outer side of the anterior tibial artery, just as that vessel has emerged through the open- ing in the interosseous membrane. It descends the an- its outer side, and then in front of it, and near the ankle becomes again placed to its outer side. Reaching the ankle, it passes beneath the annular ligament; accom- panies the dorsalis pedis artery, supplies the adjoining sides of the great and second toes, and communicates with the internal peroneal cutaneous nerve. The Branches given off by the anterior tibial nerve are, muscular to the muscles in its course, and on the foot a tarsal branch which passes beneath the extensor brevis digitorum, and distributes filaments to the inter- ossei muscles and to the articulations of the tarsus and metatarsus. The Musculo-cutaneous Nerve passes downwards in the direction of the fibula, in the substance of the peroneus longus ; it then passes forwards to get between the peroneus longus and brevis, and at the lower third of the leg pierces the deep fascia, and divides into two peroneal cutaneous branches. In its course it gives off several branches to the peronei muscles. The Peroneal cutaneous nerves pass in front of the ankle joint, and are distributed to the integument of the foot and toes; the external supplying three toes and a half, and the internal one and a half. They communicate with the saphenous and anterior tibial nerves. The external saphenous nerve frequently supplies the fifth toe and die adjoining side of the fourth. * A view of the anterior tibial nerve. 1. The peroneal nerve. 2, 3. The anterior tbial nerve accompanying the artery of the same name. terior aspect of the leg with the artery; lying at first to