480 SEMILUNAR VALVES. columns. The anterior valve or curtain is the largest, and is so placed as to prevent the filling of the pulmonary artery during the distension of the ventricle. The right valve or curtain is of smaller size, and is situated on the right side of the auriculo-ventricular opening. The third valve, or ufixed curtain,” is connected by its cords to the septum ventriculorum. The cords (chordae tendineae) of the anterior curtain are attached, princi- pally, to a long column (columna carnea), which is connected with the “ right or thin and yielding wall of the ventricle.” From the lower part of this column a transverse muscular band, the ulong moderator band,” is stretched to the septum ventriculorum, or u solid wall ” of the ventricle. The right curtain is connected, by means of its cords, partly with the long column, and partly with its own proper column, the second column, which is also attached to the u yielding wall” of the ventricle. A third and smaller column is generally connected with the right curtain. The ufixed curtain” is so named from its attachment to the u solid wall” of the ven- tricle, by means of cords only, without fleshy columns. From this arrangement of the valves it follows, that if the right ven- tricle be over distended, the thin or uyielding wall” will give way, and carry with it the columns of the anterior and right valves. The cords connected with these columns will draw down the edges of the correspond- ing valves, and produce an opening between the curtains, through which the superabundant blood may escape into the auricle, and the ventricle be relieved from over-pressure. This mechanism is therefore adapted to fulfil the “ function of a safety valve.” The Columnce carnece (fleshy columns) is a name expressive of the appearance of the internal walls of the ventricles, which seem formed of muscular columns interlacing in almost every direction. They are divided, according to the manner of their connexion, into three sets. 1. The greater number are attached by the whole of one side, and merely form convexities into the cavity of the ventricle. 2. Others are connected by both extremities, being free in the middle. 3. A few (column® papillares) are attached by one extremity to the walls of the heart, and by the other give insertion to the chordae tendineae. The Semilunar valves, three in number, are situated around the com- mencement of the pulmonary artery, being formed by a folding of its lining membrane, strengthened by a thin layer of fibrous tissue. They are attached by their convex borders, and free by the concave, which are directed upwards in the course of the vessel, so that, during the current of the blood along the artery, they are pressed against the sides of the cylinder; but if any attempt at regurgitation ensue, they are immediately expanded, and effectually close the entrance of the tube. The margins of the valves are thicker than the rest of their extent, and each valve pre- sents in the centre of this margin a small fibro-cartilaginous tubercle, called corpus Arantii* which locks in with the other two during the closure of the valves, and secures the triangular space that would other- wise be left by the approximation of three semilunar folds. Between the semilunar valves and the cylinder of the artery are three pouches, called the pulmonary sinuses (sinuses of Valsalva). Similar * Julius Caesar Arantius, Professor of Medicine in Bologna. Pie was a disciple of Vesalius, one of the founders of modern anatomy. His treatise “De Humano Fcetu'’ was published at Rome, in 1564.