BRANCHES OF THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. 309 thyroid arteries ; and the inferior with similar branches of the phrenic and gastric arteries. The Intercostal, or posterior intercostal arteries, arise from the poste rior part of the aorta; they are nine in number on each side, the two su- perior spaces being supplied by the superior intercostal artery, a branch of the subclavian. The right intercostals are longer than the left, on ac- count of the position of the aorta. They ascend somewhat obliquely from their origin, and cross the vertebral column behind the thoracic duct, vena azygos major, and sympathetic nerve, to the intercostal spaces, the left pacing beneath the superior intercostal vein, the vena azygos minor and sympathetic. In the intercostal spaces, or rather, upon the external inter- costal muscles, each artery gives off a dorsal branch, which passes back between the transverse processes of the vertebrae, lying internally to the middle costo-transverse ligament, and divides into a spinal branch, which supplies the spinal cord and vertebrae, and a muscular branch which is distributed to the muscles and integument of the back. The artery then comes into relation with its vein and nerve, the former being above and the latter below, and divides into two branches which run along the bor- ders of contiguous ribs between the two planes of intercostal muscles, and anastomose with the anterior intercostal arteries, branches of the internal mammary. The branch corresponding with the lower border of each rib is the larger of the two. They are protected from pressure during the action of the intercostal muscles, by little tendinous arches thrown across them and attached by each extremity to the bone. BRANCHES OF THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. Phrenic, C Gastric, Cceliac axis < Hepatic, ( Splenic. Superior mesenteric, Spermatic, Inferior mesenteric, Supra-renal, Renal, Lumbar, Sacra media. The Phrenic arteries are given off from the anterior part of the aorta as soon as that trunk has passed through the aortic opening. Passing obliquely outwards upon the under surface of the diaphragm, each artery divides into two branches, an internal branch, which runs forwards, and inosculates with its fellow of the opposite side in front of the oesophageal opening; and an external branch, which proceeds outwards towards the great circumference of the muscle, and sends branches to the supra-renal capsules. The phrenic arteries inosculate with branches of the internal mammary, inferior intercostal, epigastric, oesophageal, gastric, hepatic, and supra-renal arteries. They are not unfrequently derived from the cceliac axis, or fiom one of its divisions, and sometimes they give off the supra* renal arteries.