MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 206 The Multifidus Spina;* consists of a great number of fleshy fascicul. extending between the transverse and spinous processes of the vertebrae, from the sacrum to the axis. Each fasciculus arises from a transverse pro- cess, and is inserted into the spinous process of the first or second vertebra above. Some deep fasciculi of the multifidus spinse have recently been described by Professor Theile under the name of rotatores spince. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the longissimus dorsi, semi- spinalis dorsi, and semi-spinalis colli. By its deep surface with the arches and spinous processes of the vertebral column, and in the cervical region with the ligamentum nuchae. The Levatores Costarum, twelve in number on each side, arise from the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae, and pass obliquely out- wards and downwards to be inserted into the rough surface between the tubercle and angle of the rib below them. The first of these muscles arises from the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra, and the last from that of the eleventh dorsal. The levatores of the inferior ribs, besides the distribution here described, send a fasciculus downwards to the second rib below their origin, and consequently are inserted into two ribs. Relations.—By their superficial surface with the longissimus dorsi and sp.ero-lumbalis. By their deep surface with the intercostal muscles and ribs. The Supra-spinalis is a small and irregular muscle lying upon the spinous processes in the cervical region and composed of several fasciculi. The fasciculi arise from the inferior cervical and superior dorsal vertebrae, and are inserted into the spinous process of the axis. From its analogy to the spinalis dorsi this muscle has been named spinalis colli. It is sometimes wanting. The Interspin ales are small muscular slips arranged in pairs and situ- ated between the spinous processes of the vertebrae. In the cervical re- gion there are six pairs of these muscles, the first being placed between the axis and third vertebra, and the sixth between the last cervical and first dorsal. In the dorsal region, rudiments of these muscles are occa- sionally met with between the upper and lower vertebrae, but are absent in the rest. In the lumbar region there are six pairs of interspinales, the first pair occupying the interspinous space between the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebra, and the last the space between the fifth lumbar and sacrum. They are thin and imperfectly developed. Rudimentary inter- spinales are occasionally met with between the lower part of the sacrum and the coccyx ; these are the analogues of the caudal muscles of brutes; in man they have been named collectively the extensor coccygis. The IntertransversAles are small quadrilateral muscles situated be- tween the transverse processes of the vertebrae. In the cervical region they are arranged in pairs corresponding with the double conformation of the transverse processes, the vertebral artery and anterior division of the cervical nerves lying between them. The rectus anticus minor and rectus lateralis represent the intertransversales between the atlas and cranium. In the dorsal region the anterior intertransversales are represented by the intercostal muscles, while the posterior are mere tendinous bands, mus- cular only oetween the first and last vertebrae. In the lumbar region, the * Professor Tlmile of Berlin has examined this muscle very closely, and describes a portion of u under the name of Rotatores spixaj, which seems to be an unnecessary complication.—G.