514 SEROUS COAT. On the Stomach the longitudinal fibres are most apparent along the lesser curve, and the circular at the smaller end. At the pylorus the latter are aggregated into a thick circular ring, which, with the spiral fold of mucous membrane found in this situation, constitutes the pyloric valve. At the great end of the stomach a newr order of fibres is introduced, hav- ing for their object to strengthen and compress that extremity of the organ. They are directed more or less horizontally from the great end towards the lesser end, and are generally lost upon the sides of the stomach at about its middle; these are the oblique fibres. The Small intestine is provided with both layers of fibres, equally dis- tributed over the entire surface. At the termination of the ileum the cir- cular fibres are continued into the two folds of the ileo-C£ecai valve, while the longitudinal fibres pass onwards to the large intestine. In the large intestine the longitudinal fibres commence at the appendix vermiformis and are col- lected into three bands, an anterior, broad, and two posterior and narrower bands. These bands are nearly one- half shorter than the intestine, and serve to maintain the sacculated struc- ture which is characteristic of the csecum ar j colon the and form point the bands are continued down- wards upon the sigmoid flexure to the rectum, around which they spread out and form a thick and very muscular longitudinal layer. The circular fibres in the csecum and colon are exceed- ingly thin; in the rectum they are thicker, and at its lower extremity they are aggregated into the thick mus- cular ring which is known as the internal sphincter ani. Between the latter and the mucous membrane are several narrow fasciculi of longitudi- nal muscular fibres, somewhat more than an inch in length, which have been described by Horner of Philadelphia. id colon. In the descending posterior bands usually unite a single band. From this Fig. 225* Serous Coat.—The pharynx and oesophagus have no covering of serous membrane. The alimentary canal within the abdomen has a serous layer, derived from the peritoneum. * A vertical section of the parietes of the anus, passing through the middle line of one of the columns of the rectum, and the neighbouring parts. 1. The internal sphincter, with its arched fibres transversely divided. 2,2. The plane of arched fibres of the muscular coat, similarly divided. 3. The point of greatest contraction of the internal sphincter. 4. The external sphincter. 5. The point of greatest contraction of the same muscle. 6. The plane of longitudinal fibres of the muscular coat, longitudinally divided. 7 Some of these fibres terminating in the internal sphincter. 8. Others, terminating in the external sphincter. 9. The remaining longitudinal fibres, collected into a semiten- dinous fasciculus, passing over the lower margin of the internal sphincter, to be reverted ,pward within the duplicature of the column. 10. These reverted fibres again becom- ing muscular, and terminating in the mucous coat. 11. 1 he mucous coat. 12. A bast e >n one f f the sacs.—G.