250 ADDUCTOR BREVIS. In the thigh, the muscle is in relation with the fascia lata in front; the border of the pelvis and hip joint, from which it is separated by the syno- vial membrane, common to it and the preceding muscle, behind ; with the crural nerve and iliacus, to the outer side; and wdth the femoral artery, by which it is slightly overlaid, to the inner side. The Pectineus is a flat and quadrangular muscle; it arises from the pectineal line (pecten, a crest) of the os pubis, and from the surface of bone in front of that bone. It is inserted into the line leading from the anterior intertrochanteric line to the linea aspera of the femur. Relations.—By its anterior surface, with the pubic portion of the fascia lata, which separates it from the femoral artery and vein and internal sa- phenous vein, and lower down with the profunda artery. By its posterior surface, with the capsule of the hip joint, and with the obturator externus and adductor brevis, the obturator vessels being interposed. By its external border, with the psoas, the femoral artery resting upon the line of interval. By its internal border, with the outer edge of the adductor longus. Ob- turator hernia is situated directly behind this muscle, which forms one of its coverings. The Adductor Longus (adducere, to draw to), the most superficial of the three adductors, arises, by a round and thick tendon, from the front surface of the os pubis, immediately below the angle ; and assuming a flattened and expanded form as it descends, is inserted into the middle third of the linea aspera. Relations.—By its anterior surface, with the pubic portion of the fascia lata, and near its insertion with the femoral artery and vein. By its pos- terior surface, with the adductor brevis and magnus, the anterior branches of tlie obturator vessels and nerves, and near its insertion with the pro- funda artery and vein. By its outer border, with the pectineus; and by the inner border, with the gracilis. The pectineus must be divided near its origin and turned outwards, and the adductor longus through its middle, turning its ends to either side, to bring into view the adductor brevis. The Adductor Brevis, placed beneath the pectineus and adductor longus, is fleshy, and thicker than the adductor longus ; it arises from the body and ramus of the os pubis, and is inserted into the upper third of the linea aspera. Relations.—By its anterior surface, with the pectineus, adductor longus, and anterior branches of the obturator vessels and nerve. By its posterior surface, with the adductor magnus, and posterior branches of the obturator vessels and nerve/ By its outer border, with the obturator externus, and conjoined tendon of the psoas and iliacus. By its inner border, with the gracilis and adductor magnus. The adductor brevis is pierced near its insertion by the middle perforating artery. The adductor brevis may now be divided from its origin and turned outwards, or its inner two-thirds may be cut away entirely, when the ad- ductor magnus muscle will be exposed in its entire extent. The Adductor Magnus is a broad triangular muscle, forming a septum of division between the muscles situated on the anterior and those on the posterior aspect of the thigh. It arises, by fleshy fibres, from the ramus of the pubes and ischium, and from the side of the tuber ischii; and radi- ating in its passage outwards, is inserted into the whole length of the linea aspera, and inner condyle of the femur. The adductor magnus is pierced