POPLITEAL ARTERY. 327 Relations.—In its course downwards it rests first on the femur, then <m the posterior ligament of the knee joint, then on the lascia, covering the popliteus muscle. Superficially it is in relation with the semi-membranosus muscle, next with a quantity of fat which separates it from the deep lascia, and near its termination with the gastrocnemius plantaris, and sole us; superficial and external to it is the popliteal vein, and still more superficial and external, the popliteal nerve. By its inner side it is in relation with the semi-membranosus, internal condyle of the femur, and inner head of the gastrocnemius ; and by its outer side with the biceps, external condyle of the femur, the outer head of the gastrocnemius, the plantaris and the soleus. Plan of the Relations of the Popliteal Artery. Inner Side. Semi-membranosus, Internal condyle, Gastrocnemius. Superficially. Semi-membranosus, Popliteal nerve, Popliteal vein, Gastrocnemius, Plantaris, Soleus. Outer Side. Biceps, External condyle, Gastrocnemius, Plantaris, Soleus. Deeply. Femur, Ligamentum posticum Winslowii, Popliteal fascia. Popliteal Artery. Branches.—The branches of the popliteal artery are the Superior external articular, Superior internal articular, Azygos articular, Inferior external articular, Inferior internal articular, Sural. The Superior articular arteries, external and internal, wind around the femur, immediately above the condyles, to the front of the knee joint, anastomosing with each other, with the external circumflex, the anasto- motica magna, the inferior articular, and the recurrent of the anterior tibial. The external passes beneath the tendon of the biceps, and the internal through an arched opening beneath the tendon of the adductor inagnus. They supply the knee joint and the lower part of the femui. The Azygos articular artery pierces the posterior ligament of the joint, the ligamentum posticum Winslowii, and supplies the synovial membrano in its interior. There are, frequently, several posterior articular arteries. The Inferior articular arteries wind around the head of the tibia imme- diately below the joint, and anastomose with each other, the superior articular arteries, and the recurrent of the anterior tibial. The external passes beneath the two external lateral ligaments of the joint, and the m