453 EYEBROWS—EYELIDS. APPENDAGES OF THE EYE. The Appendages of the Eye (tutamina oculi) are, the eyebrows, eye lids, eyelashes, conjunctiva, caruncula lachrymalis, and the lachrymal ap- paratus. The Eyebrows [supercilia) are two projecting arches of integument covered with short thick hairs, which form the upper boundary of the orbits. They are connected beneath with the orbiculares, occipito-fron- tales, and corrugatores superciliorum muscles; their use is to shade the eyes from too vivid a light, or protect them from particles of dust and moisture floating over the forehead. The Eyelids (palpebrce) are two valvular Fig. 203 * layers placed in front of the eye, serving to defend it from injury by their closure. When drawn open, they leave between them an ellip- tical space, the angles of which are called 6 canthi. The outer canthus is formed by the meeting of the two lids at an acute angle. The inner canthus is prolonged for a snort distance inwards towards the nose, and a triangular space is left between the lids in this situation, which is called the lacus lachrymalis. At the commencement of the lacus lachrymalis upon each of the two lids is a small angular projection, the lachrymal papilla or tubercle; and at the apex of each papilla a small orifice (punctum lachrymale), the commencement of the lachrymal canal. The eyelids have, entering into their structure, integument, orbicularis muscle, tarsal cartilages, Meibomian glands, and conjunctiva. The tegumentary areolar tissue of the eyelids is remarkable for its loose- ness and for the absence of adipose substance; it is particularly liable to serous infiltration. The fibres of the orbicularis muscle covering the eye- lids, are extremely thin and pale. The Tarsal cartilages are two thin lamellae of fibro-cartilage about an inch in length, which give form and support to the eyelids. The superior is of a semilunar form, about one-third of an inch in breadth at its middle, and tapering to each extremity. Its lower border is broad and flat, its upper is thin, and gives attachment to the levator palpebrae and to the fibrous membrane of the lids. The Inferior fibro-cartilage is an elliptical band, narrower than the su- perior, and situated in the substance of the lower lid. Its upper border is flat, and corresponds with the flat edge of the upper cartilage. The lower is held in its place by the fibrous membrane. Near the inner can- thus the tarsal cartilages terminate, at the commencement of the lacus lach- * The appendages of the eye. 1. The superior tarsal cartilage. 2. The lower border of the cartilage on which are seen the openings of the Meibomian glands. 3. The infe rior tarsal cartilage ; along the upper border of this cartilage the openings of the Meibo- mian glands are likewise seen. 4. The lachrymal gland ; its superior or orbital portion. 5. Its inferior or palpebral portion. 6. The lachrymal ducts. 7. The plica semilunaris 8. 1 he caruncula lachrymalis. 9. The puncta lachrymalia of the lachrymal canals 10. The superior lachrymal canal. 11. The inferior lachrymal canal. 12. The lachry- mal sac. 14. The dilatation of the nasal duct, where it opens into the inferior meatm of the nose. 13. The nasal duct.