i / LACHRYMAL AND MALAR BONES. poilion lying externally to the infra-orbital groove and canal; and one for the palate process. The superior maxillary bone is one of the earliest to show signs of ossification, this process beginning in the alveolar pro- cess, and being associated with the early development of teeth. The early development of the alveolar process, and the consequent tusion at this point of the original pieces, explains the difficulties which have been felt bv anatomists in determining the precise number ot the ossifying cen- tres of this bone. Articulations. — With nine bones; viz. with two of the cranium, and with all the bones of the face, excepting the inferior maxillary. These are, the frontal and ethmoid; nasal, lachrymal, malar, inferior turbinated, palate, vomer, and its fellow of the opposite side. Attachm.ent of Muscles.—To nine; orbicularis palpebrarum, obliquus inferior oculi, levator labii superioris alseque nasi, levator labii superioris proprius, levator anguli oris, compressor nasi, depressor labii superioris alseque nasi, buccinator, masseter. Lachrymal Bones (os unguis, from an imagined resemblance to a finger-nail). — The lachrymal is a thin oval-shaped plate of bone, situated at the anterior and inner angle of the orbit. It may be divided into an external and internal surface and four bor- ders. The external surface is smooth and marked by a ver- tical ridge, the lachrymal crest, into two portions, one of which is flat and enters into the formation of the orbit, hence may be called the orbital portion ; the other is concave, and lodges the lachrymal sac, hence, the lachrymal portion. The crest is expanded inferiorly into a hook-shaped process (hamulus lachrymalis), which forms part of the outer boundary of the fossa lachrymalis. The internal surface is uneven, and completes the anterior ethmoid cells; it assists also in forming the wall of the nasal fossae and nasal duct. The four borders articulate with adjoining bones. Development. — By a single centre, appearing in the early part of the third month. Articulations. — With four bones: two of the cranium, frontal and ethmoid; and two of the face, superior maxillary and inferior turbinated bone. Attachment of Muscles. — To one muscle, the tensor tarsi, and to an expansion of the tendo oculi, the former*arising from the orbital surface, tire other being attached to the lachrymal crest. Malar Bones (mala, the cheek).—The malar (fig. 39) is the strong quad- rangular bone which forms the prominence of the cheek. It is divisible into an external and internal surface and four processes, the frontal, orbital, maxillary, and zygomatic. The external surface is smooth and convex, and pierced by several small openings which give passage to filaments of the temporo-malar nerve and minute arteries. The internal surface is * The lachrymal bone of the right side, viewed upon its external or orbital surface. 1. The orbital portion of the bone. 2. The lachrymal portion; the prominent ridge between these two portions is the crest. 3. The lower termination of the crest, the hamulus lachrymalis. 4. The superior border which articulates with the frontal Done f<. The posterior border, which articulates with the ethmoid bone. 6. The anterior border, which articulates with the superic; maxillary bone. 7. The border which aru culates with the inferioi turbinated bone. '