TEMPORAL BONE. fi8 large oval opening, the carotid foramen, the commencement of the caiotid canal, which lodges the internal carotid artery and the carotid plexus. And between the stylo-mastoid and carotid foramen, in the posterior border, is an irregular excavation forming part of the jugular fossa for the commencement of the internal jugular vein. The proportion of the jugular fossa formed by the petrous portion of the temporal bone is very differen ? in different bones; but in all, the fossa presents a vertical ridge on its inner side, which cuts off a small portion from the rest. The upper parr of this ridge forms a spinous projection, which is called the jugular process the groove to the inner side of the ridge lodges the eighth pair of nerves, and the lower part of the ridge is the septum of division between the jugu- lar fossa and the carotid foramen. Upon this portion of the ridge near the posterior margin of the carotid foramen is a small opening leading into a canal, which transmits the tympanic branch (Jacobson’s nerve) of the glossopharyngeal nerve. Between the jugular fossa and the stylo-mastoid foramen is another small opening leading into the canal for the passage of the auricular branch of the pneumogastric nerve. Borders. — The superior border is sharp, and gives attachment to the tentorium cerebelli. It is grooved for the superior petrosal sinus, and near its extremity is marked by a smooth notch upon which reclines the fifth nerve. The anterior border is grooved for the Eustachian tube, and forms the posterior boundary of the foramen lacerum basis cranii; by its sharp extremity it gives attachment to the tensor tympani and levator palati muscles. The posterior border is grooved for the inferior petrosal sinus, and excavated for the jugular fossa; it forms the anterior boundary of the foramen lacerum posterius. Development. — By five centres: one for the squamous portion, one for the mastoid process, one for the petrous portion, one for the auditory pro- cess, which in the foetus is a mere bony ring, incomplete superiorly, and serving for the attachment of the membrana tympani, annulus membrance tympani; and one for the styloid process. Ossification occurs in these pieces in the following order: in the squamous portion immediately after the vertebrae, then in the petrous, tympanic, mastoid, and styloid. The tympanic ring is united by its extremities to the squamous portion during the last month of intra-uterine life; the squamous, petrous, and mastoid portions are consolidated during the first year ; and the styloid some years after birth. It not unfrequently happens that the latter remains perma- nently separate, or is prolonged by a series of pieces to the os hyoides, and so completes the hyoid arch. The subsequent changes in the bone are the increase of size of the glenoid fossa, the growth of the meatus auditorius externus, the levelling of the surfaces of the petrous portion, and the development of mastoid cells. Traces of the union of the petrous with the squamous portion of the bone are usually perceptible in the adult. Articulations.—With five bones: occipital, parietal, sphenoid, inferior maxillary, and malar. Attachment of Muscles.—To fourteen: by the squamous portion, to the temporal; by the zygoma, to the masseter; by the mastoid portion, to the occipito-frontalis, splenius capitis, sterno-mastoid, trachelo-mastoid, digastric us and retrahens aurem; by the styloid process, to the stylo- pnaryngeus, stylo-hyoideus, stylo-glossus, and two ligaments, the stylo-