106 ULNA. depression on the head of the radius; the internal portion is a concave and pulley-like surface, trochlea, which arti- culates with the ulna. Projecting beyond the articular surface on each side are the external and internal condyles, the latter being considerably the longer ; and running up- wards from the condyles upon the borders of the bone are the condyloid ridges, of which the external is the most prominent. Immediately in front of the trochlea is a small depression for receiving the coronoid process of the ulna during flexion of the fore-arm ; and immediately be . hind it a large and deep fossa, for containing the olecra- non process in extension. Development.—By seven centres ; one for the shaft, one for the head, one for the tuberosities, one for the eminen- tia capitata, one for the trochlea, and one for each con- dyle, the internal preceding the external. Ossification commences in the diaphysis of the humerus soon after the clavicle ; in the head and tuberosities, during the second and third years of infantile life; in the eminentia capitata and trochlea during the third and sixth years ; and in the ...JM condyles during the twelfth and fifteenth. The entire bone is consolidated at twenty. /2W Articulations. — With the glenoid cavity of the sca- pula, and with the ulna and radius. Attachment of Muscles.—To twenty four; by the greater tuberosity to the supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, and teres minor; lesser tuberosity, sub- scapularis; anterior bicipital ridge, pectoralis major; posterior bicipital ridge and groove, teres major and latissimus dorsi; shaft, external and internal heads of the triceps, deltoid, coraco-brachialis, and brachialis anticus; external condyloid ridge and condyle (condylus extensorius), extensors and supinators of the fore-arm, viz. supinator longus, extensor carpi radialis longior, extensor carpi radialis brevior, extensor communis digitorum, extensor minimi digiti, extensor carpi ulnaris, anconeus, and supinator brevis ; internal condyle (condylus flexorius\ flexors and one pronator, viz. pronator radii teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, flexor sublimis digitorum, and flexor carpi ulnaris. Ulna.—The ulna is a long bone, divisible into a shaft and two extre- mities. The upper extremity is large, and forms principally" the articula- tion of the elbow; while the lower extremity is small, and excluded from the wrist-joint by an inter-articular fibro-cartilage. The superior extremity presents a semilunar concavity of large size, the greater sigmoid notch, for articulation with the humerus; and upon the outer side a lesser sigfnoid notchj which articulates with the head of the radius. Bounding the greater sigmoid notch posteriorly is the olecranon process ; and overhanging it in front, a pointed eminence with a rough * The humerus of the right side; its anterior surface. 1. The shaft of the bone. 2. The head. 3. The anatomical neck. 4. The greater tuberosity. 5. The lesser tube- rosity. 6. The bicipital groove. 7. The anterior bicipital ridge. 8. The posterior bicipital ridge. 9. The rough surface into which the deltoid is inserted. 10. The nu- tritious foramen. 11 The eminentia capitata. 12. The trochlea. 13. The external oondvle. 14. The internal condyle. 15. The external condyloid ridge. 16. The inter nal condyloid ridge. 17. The fossa for the coronoid process of the ulna.