471 STRUCTURE OF THE EPIDERMA. nished; the cell becomes subject to the influence of physical laws, and evaporation of its fluid slowly ensues. In consequence of this evapora- tion, the cell becomes collapsed and flattened, and assumes an elliptical form; the latter is by degrees converted into the flat cell with parallel and contiguous layers, and an included nucleolated nucleus; and lastly, the flattened cell desiccates into a thin membranous scale, in which the nucleus is no longer apparent. My own investigations* have shown that, after the original granules of the liquor sanguinis have become aggregated into a granular nucleus, other granules are formed in successive circles, around the circumference of the nucleus, until the entire breadth of the epidermal scale is attained ; that the cell never acquires a greater thickness than that of the original nucleus, and, that the formation of the scale results from the desiccation of the cell, as it is gradually pushed outwards from the derma towards the surface. Consequently, the cell never possesses any other than the flattened form ; all its phases of growth are perfected in the deepest layer of the epiderma ; and, in its internal structure, it is a parent cell containing secondary and tertiary cells and granules, its growth being the result of the growth of these secondary formations. The under surface of the epiderma is accurately modelled on the papil- lary layer of the derma, each papilla having its appropriate sheath in the newly-formed epiderma or rete mucosum, and each irregularity of surface of the former having its representative in the soft tissue of the latter. On the external surface, this character is lost; the minute elevations corre- sponding with the papillae, are, as it were, polished down, and the surface is rendered smooth and uniform. The palmar and plantar surfaces of the hands and feet are, however, an exception to this rule ; for here, in con- sequence of the large size of the papillae and their peculiar arrangement in rows, ridges corresponding with the papillae are strongly marked on the superficial surface of the epiderma. The epiderma is remarkable for its thickness in situations where the papillae are large, as in the palms and soles. In other situations, it assumes a character which is also due to the nature of the surface of the derma; namely, that of being marked by a network of linear furrows, which trace out the surface into small polygonal and lozenge-shaped areae. These lines correspond with the folds of the derma produced by its movements, and are most numerous where those movements are the greatest, as in the flexures and on the convexities of joints. The dark colour of the skin among the natives of the South is due to the coloration of the primitive granules of which the cell is composed, es- pecially the nucleus. As the cells desiccate, the colour of the granules is gradually lost; hence the deeper hue of the rete mucosum. The pores of the epiderma are the openings of the perspiratory ducts, hair follicles, and sebiparous glands. Vessels and JYerves.—The Jlrteries of the derma which enter its struc- ture through the areolae of the under surface of the corium, divide into in- numerable intermediate vessels, which form a rich capillary plexus in the superficial strata of the skin and in its papillary layer. In the papillae of some parts of the derma, as in the longitudinal plications beneath the nail, the capillary vessels form simple loops, but in other papillae they are con voluted to a greater or less degree in proportion to the size and importance * Diseases of the Skin, 2d edition, p. 5.