LUMBAR ARTERIES. 315 spermatic cord along the spermatic canal and through the scrotum to the testicle, to which it is distributed. The right spermatic artery lies in front ot the vena cava, and both vessels are accompanied by their corresponding veins and by the spermatic plexuses ot nerves. The spermatic, arteries in the female descend into the pelvis and pass between the two layers of the broad ligaments of the uterus, to be distri buted to the ovaries, Fallopian tubes, and round ligaments; along the latter they are continued to the inguinal canal and labium at each side. They inosculate with the uterine arteries. The Inferior mesenteric artery, smaller than the superior, arises from the abdominal aorta, about two inches below the origin of that ves- sel, and descends between the layers of the left mesocolon, to the left iliac fossa, where it divides into three branches: Colica sinistra, Sigmoidese, Superior haemorrhoidal. The Colica sinistra is distributed to the descending colon, and ascends to inosculate with the colica media. This is the largest arterial inoscula- tion in the body. The Sigmoidece are several large branches which are distributed to the sigmoid flexure of the descending colon. They form arches, and inoscu- late above with the colica sinistra, and below with the superior haemor- rhoidal artery. The Superior hcemorrhoidal artery is the continuation of the inferior mesenteric. It crosses the ureter and common iliac artery of the left side, and descends between the two layers of the meso-rectum as far as the middle of the rectum to which it is distributed, anastomosing with the middle and external haemorrhoidal arteries. The Supra-renal are two small vessels which arise from the aorta im- mediately above the renal arteries, and are distributed to the supra-renal capsules. They are sometimes branches of the phrenic or of the renal arteries. The Renal arteries (emulgent) are two large trunks given off from the sides of the aorta immediately below the superior mesenteric artery; the right is longer than the left on account of the position of the aorta, and passes behind the vena cava to the kidney of that side. The left is somewhat higher than the right. They divide into several large branches previously to entering the kidney, and ramify very minutely in its vascular portion. The renal arteries supply several small branches to the supra- renal .capsules. The Lumbar arteries correspond with the intercostals in the chest; they are four or five in number on each side, and curve around the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae beneath the psoas muscles, and divide into two branches ; one of which passes backwards between the transverse pro- cesses, and is distributed to the vertebrae and spinal cord and to the mus :les of the back, whilst the other takes its course behind the quadrat us lumborum muscle and supplies the abdominal muscles. The first lumbar