OOQ ANTERIOR HUMERAL REGION. line, and by means of its extensive origin can carry the arm forwards or backwards, so as to range with the hand a considerable segment of a large circle. The arm, raised by the deltoid, is a good 120 * illustration of a lever of the third power, so common in the animal machine, by which velocity is gained A the expense of power. In this lever, the weight (hand) is at one extremity, the fulcrum (the glenoid cavity) at the opposite end, and the power (the in- sertion of the muscle) between the two, but nearer to the fulcrum than to the weight. Anterior Humeral Region. Coraco-brachialis, Biceps, Brachialis anticus. Dissection. — These muscles are exposed, on the removal of the integument and fascia from the ante- rior half of the upper arm, and the clearing away of the cellular tissue. The Coraco-Brachialis, a name composed of its points of origin and insertion, arises from the cora- coid process in common with the short head of the biceps; and is inserted into a rough line on the inner side of the middle of the humerus. Relations. — By its anterior surface with the deltoid, and pectoral is major. By its 'posterior surface, with the shoulder-joint, the humerus, subscapularis, teres major, latissimus dorsi, short head of the triceps, and anterior circumflex vessels. By its internal border with the axillary and brachial vessels and nerves, particularly with the median and external cutaneous nerve, by the latter of which it is pierced. By the external border with the short head of the biceps and brachialis anticus. The Biceps (bis—xspaXa/, two heads) arises by two tendons, one the short head, from the coracoid process in common with the coraco-brachi- alis ; the other the long head, from the upper part of the glenoid cavity. The muscle is inserted by a rounded tendon, into the tubercle of the ra- dius. The long head, a long slender tendon, passes through the capsular ligament of the shoulder joint enclosed in a sheath of the synovial mem- brane ; after leaving the cavity of the joint, it is lodged in the deep groove that separates the two tuberosities of the humerus, the bicipital groove. A small synovial bursa is interposed between the tendon of insertion, and the tubercle of the radius. At the bend of the elbow, the tendon of the biceps gives off from its inner side a broad tendinous band, which protects the brachial artery, and is continuous with the fascia of the fore-arm. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the deltoid, pectoralis major, superficial and deep fascia and integument. By its posterior surface the * The muscles of the anterior aspect of the upper arm. 1. The coracoid process or the scapula. 2. The coraco-clavicular ligament (trapezoid), passing upwards to tlw scapular end of the clavicle. 3. The coraco-acromial ligament, passing outwards to the acromion. 4. The subscapularis muscle. 5. The teres major; the triangular space above this muscle is that through which the dorsalis scapulre vessels pass. 6. The coraco-brachialis. 7. The biceps. 8. The upper end of the radius. 9. The brachialis anticus; a portion of the muscle is seen on the outer side of the tendon of the biceps 10. 1 lie infernal head of the triceps. 20