INTERNAL PUD1C ARTERY. 319 nales, and the prostate gland ; and hemorrhoidal branches which supply the middle of the rectum, and frequently take the place ol the middle haemorrhoidal branch of the internal iliac. The branches given olF externally to the pelvis, are the External hcemorrhoidal, Superficial is perinei, Transversalis perinei, Arteria bulbosi, Arteria corporis cavernosi, Arteria dorsalis penis. The External hemorrhoidal arteries are three or four small branches, given off by the internal pudic while behind the tuberosity of the ischium. They are distributed to the anus, and to the muscles, the fascia, and the integument of the anal region of the perineum. The Superficial perineal artery is given off near the attachment of the crus penis; it pierces the connecting layer of the superficial and deep perineal fascia, and runs forward across the transversus perinei muscle, and along the groove between the accelerator urinse and erector penis to the septum scroti, upon which it ramifies under the name of arteria septi. It distributes branches to the scrotum, and to the perineum in its course forwards. One of the latter, larger than the rest, crosses the perineum, Fig. 157* • The arteries of the perineum; on the right side the superficial arteries are seen, and on the left the deep. 1. The penis, consisting of corpus spongiosum and corpus caver- nosum. The crus penis on the left side is cut through. 2. The acceleratores urime muscles, enclosing the bulbous portion of the corpus spongiosum. 3. The erector penis, spread out upon the crus penis of the right side. 4. The anus, surrounded by the sphincter ani muscle. 5. The ramus of the ischium and os pubis. 6. The tuberosiiy of the ischium. 7. The lesser sacro-ischiatic ligament, attached by its small extremity to the spine of the ischium. 8. The coccyx. 9. The internal pudic artery, crossing the spine of the ischium, and entering the perineum. 10. External haemorrhoidal branches. 11. I he superficialis perinei artery, giving off a small branch, transversalis perinei, upon the transversus perinei muscle. 12. The same artery on the left side cut oft'. 13. J he artery of the bulb. 14. The two terminal branches of tin? internal pudic artery one is seen entering the divided extremity of the crus penis, the artery of the cmpo* caver nosum ; the other, the dorsalis penis, ascends upon the dorsum of the organ