PORTAL CIRCULATION OF THE KIDNEYS. 531 Madder inferiorly, and with that of the tubuli uriniferi above. Vessels and JVerves.—The renal artery is derived from the aorta ; it divides into several large branches before entering the hilus, and within the organ ra- mifies in an arborescent manner, terminating in nutrient twigs, and in the small inferent vessels of the corpora Malpighiana. In the Malpighian bodies the inferent vessels divide into several pri- mary twigs, which subdivide into capillaries, and the capillaries, after forming loops, converge to the efferent vein, which is generally smaller than the corresponding artery. The efferent veins proceed to and form a capillary venous plexus, which surrounds the tortuous tubuli uriniferi, and from this venous plexus the blood is conveyed, by converg- ing branches, into the renal vein. “Thus,” remarks Mr. Bowman, “there are in the kidney two perfectly distinct systems of capillary vessels, through both of which the blood passes in its course from the arteries into the veins: the first, that” which forms the vascular tuft in the Malpighian bodies, and is “in immediate connexion with the arteries; the second, that enveloping the convolutions of the tubes and communicating directly with the veins. The efferent vessels of the Malpighian bodies, that carry the blood between these two systems, may collectively be termed the portal system of the kidney.” The inferences drawn by Mr. Bowman from his investigations are interest- ing; they are, that the capillary tufts of the Malpighian bodies are the part of the kidney specially acted on by diuretics ; that they are the medium by which water, certain salts, and other substances, pass out of the system ; that they are, moreover, the means of escape of certain morbid products, such as sugar, albumen, and the red particles of the blood. Respecting the capillary venous plexus, we have proof that the principal proximate constituents of urine, such as urea, lithic acid, &c., are, like the bile, de- rived from venous (portal) blood. The Veins of the kidney commence at the surface by minute converging venules, the stellated vessels, and proceed inwards, receiving in their course the veins of the cortical and tubular portions of the organ. On arriving at the pelvis, they unite to form the branches of the renal vein, which terminates in the vena cava by a single large trunk on each side ; the left renal vein receiving the left spermatic vein. Injections thrown into the renal artery, and returning by the tubuli uriniferi, make their way into those tubes by rupture. The lymphatic vessels terminate in the lum- bar glands. The JVerves are derived from the renal plexus, which is formed partly by the solar plexus, and partly by the lesser splanchnic nerve. The renal plexus gives branches to the spermatic plexus, and branches which accom- * Plan of the renal circulation; copied from Mr. Bowman’s paper, a. A branch of the renal artery giving off several Malpighian twigs. 1. An efferent twig to the capil- lary tuft contained in the Malpighian body, m; from the Malpighian body the urinife- rous tube is seen taking its tortuous course to t. 2, 2. Efferent veins; that which pro- ceeds from the Malpighian body is seen to be smaller than the corresponding artery. v, p. The capillary venous plexus, ramifying upon the uriniferous tube. This plexus receives its blood from the efferent veins, 2, 2, and transmits it to the branch of the renal vein, it. Fig. 233.