LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. 455 covered with minute hairs which are sometimes so long as to be distinctly visible to the naked eye. Immediately to the outer side of the caruncula is a slight duplicature of the conjunctiva, called plica semilunaris, which contains a minute plate of cartilage, and is the rudiment of the third lid of animals, the membrana nictitans of birds. Vessels and JVerves.—The palpebra? are supplied internally with arteries from the ophthalmic, and externally from the facial and transverse facial. Their nerves are branches of the fifth and of the facial. LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. The Lachrymal apparatus consists of the lachrymal gland with its ex- cretory ducts ; the puncta lachrymalia, and lachrymal canals ; the lachry- mal sac and nasal duct. The Lachrymal gland is situated at the upper and outer angle of the orbit, and consists of two portions, orbital and palpebral. The orbital portion, about three-quarters of an inch in length, is flattened and oval in shape, and occupies the lachrymal fossa in the orbital plate of the frontal bone. It is in contact superiorly with the periosteum, with which it is closely connected by its upper and convex surface; by its inferior or con- cave surface it is in relation with the globe of the eye, and the superior and external rectus ; and by its anterior border with the broad tarsal liga- ment. By its posterior border it receives its vessels and nerves. The palpebral portion, smaller than the preceding, is situated in the upper eyelid, extending downwards to the superior margin of the tarsal cartilage. It is continuous with the orbital portion above, and is enclosed in an in- vestment of dense fibrous membrane. The secretion of the lachrymal gland is conveyed away by from eight to twelve small ducts, which run for a short distance beneath the conjunctiva, and open upon its surface by a series of pores about one-twentieth of an inch apart, situated in a curved line a little above the upper border of the tarsal cartilage. Lachrymal Canals. — The lachrymal canals commence at the minute openings, puncta lachrymalia, seen upon the lachrymal papillae of the lids at the outer extremity of the lacus lachrymalis, and proceed inwards to the lachrymal sac, where they terminate beneath a valvular semilunar fold of the lining membrane of the sac. The superior duct at first ascends, and then turns suddenly inwards towards the sac, forming an abrupt angle. The inferior duct forms the same kind of angle, by descending at first, and then turning abruptly inwards. They are dense and elastic in structure, and remain constantly open, so that they act like capillary tubes in ab- sorbing the tears from the surface of the eye. The two fasciculi of the tensor tarsi muscle are inserted into these ducts, and serve to draw them inwards. The Lachrymal sac is the upper extremity of the nasal duct, and is scarcely more dilated than the rest of the canal. It is lodged in the groove of the lachrymal bone, and is often distinguished, internally, from the nasal duct, by a semilunar or circular valve. The sac consists of mucous membrane, but is covered in and retained in its place by a fibrous expansion, derived from the tendon of the ormeularis, which is inserted into the ridge on the lachrymal bone; it ^ also covered by the tensor tarsi