373 LATERAL VENTRICLES. The Corpus callosum (callosus, hard) is,a thick layer of medullary fibres passing transversely between the two hemispheres, and constituting their (rreat commissure. It is situated in the middle line of the centrum ovale ma- Fig. 169* jus, but nearer the anterior than the posterior part of the brain, and termi- nates anteriorly in a rounded border (genu), which may be traced down- wards to the base of the brain in front of the commissure of the optic nerves. Posteriorly it forms a thick rounded fold (splenium), which is continuous with the fornix. The length of the corpus callosum is about four inches. Beneath the posterior rounded bor- der of the corpus callosum is the trans- verse fissure of the cerebrum, which extends between the hemispheres and crura cerebri from near the fissure of Sylvius on one side, to the same point on the opposite side of the brain. It is through this fissure that the pia mater communicates with the velum interpositum. And it was here that Bichat conceived the arachnoid to enter the ventricles ; hence it is also named the fissure of Bichat. Along the middle line of the corpus callosum is the raphe, a linear de- pression between two slightly elevated longitudinal bands (chordae longi- tudinales, Lancisii); and, on either side of the raphe, may be seen the linece transversce, which mark the direction of the fibres of which the cor- pus callosum is composed. These fibres may be traced into the hemi- spheres on either side, and they will be seen to be crossed at about an inch from the raphe by the longitudinal fibres of the covered band of Reil. Anteriorly and posteriorly the fibres of the corpus callosum curve into their corresponding lobes. If, now, a superficial incision be made through the corpus callosum on either side of the raphe, two irregular cavities will be opened, which ex- tend from one extremity of the hemispheres to the other: these are the lateral ventricles. To expose them completely, their upper boundary should be removed with the scissors. In making this dissection the thin and diaphanous membrane of the ventricles may frequently be seen. Lateral ventricles.—Each lateral ventricle is divided into a central cavity, and three smaller cavities called cornua. The anterior cornu curves forwards and outwards in the anterior lobe; the middle cornu de- scends into the middle lobe ; and the posterior cornu passes backwards in the posterior lobe, converging towards its fellow of the opposite side. The central cavity is triangular in form, being bounded above {roof) by the corpus callosum ; internally by the septum lucidum, which separates * A section of the brain showing the centrum ovale majus and corpus callosum 1, 1. The anterior lobes of the brain. 2, 2. The posterior lobes. 3, 3. The longitudinal fi3~ure for the reception of the falx cerebri. 4, 4. The roof of the lateral ventricles h. f). The genu of the corpus callosum. 6. Its body, upon which the linece transverse are seen 7, 7. The splenium corporis callosi. 8. The raphe. 9, 9. The strice longi tudinales laterales, or covered bands of Reil. 32