323 FEMORAL ARTERY. escape the knife of the operator. In a preparation in my anatomical col- lection, the branch of communication between the epigastric and obturator arteries is very much enlarged, and takes this dangerous course. FEMORAL ARTERY. Emerging from beneath Poupart’s ligament, the external iliac artery enters the thigh and becomes the femoral. The femoral artery passes down the inner side of the thigh, from Poupart’s ligament, at a point midway between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the symphysis pubis, to the opening in the adductor magnus, at the junction of the middle with the inferior third of the thigh, where it becomes the popliteal artery. The femoral artery and vein are enclosed in a strong sheath, femoral or crural canal, which is formed for the greater part of its extent by aponeu- rotic and areolar tissue, and by a process of fascia sent inwards from the fascia lata. Near Poupart’s ligament this sheath is much larger than the vessels it contains, and is continuous with the fascia trans- versalis and iliac fascia. If the sheath be opened at this point, the artery will be seen to be situated in contact with the outer wall of the sheath. The vein lies next the artery, being separated from it by a fibrous septum, and between the vein and the inner wall of the sheath, and divided from the vein by another thin fibrous septum, is a triangular in- terval, into which the sac is protruded in femoral hernia. This space is occupied in the normal state of the parts by loose areolar tissue, and by lympha- tic vessels which pierce the inner wall of the sheath to make their way to a gland, situated in the femo- ral ring. Relations. — The upper third of the femoral ar- tery is superficial, being covered only by the integument, inguinal glands, * A view of the anterior and inner aspect of the thigh, showing the course and branches of the femoral artery. 1. The lower part of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle; its inferior margin is Poupart’s ligament. 2. The external abdominal ring. 3,3. The upper and lower part of the sartorius muscle; its middle portion having been removed. 4. The rectus. 5. The vastus internus. 6. The patella. 7. The iliaous and psoas; the latter being nearest the artery. 8. The pectineus. 9. The adductor longus. 10. The tendinous canal for the femoral artery formed by the adduc- tor magnus, and vastus internus muscle. 11. The adductor magnus. 12. The gracilis. 13. The tendon of the semi-tendinosus. 14. The femoral artery. 15. The superficial circumflexa ilii artery taking its course along the line of Poupart's ligament, to the crest of the ilium. 2. The superficial epigastric artery. 16. The two external pudic arteries, superficial and deep. 17. The profunda artery, giving off 18, its external circumflex branch; and lower down the three perforantes. A small bend of the internal circurn fl<*x artery (8) is seen behind the inner margin of the femoral, just below the deep ex ternal pudic artery. 19. The anastomotica magna, descending to the knee, upon which it ramifies (G).