FEMUR. 120 Fig. 58.1 ah front, and covered with muscles; and somewhat concave and raised into a rough prominent ridge behind, the linea aspera. The linea aspera near the upper extremity of the bone divides into three branches. The ante- rior branch is continued forwards in front of the lesser trochanter, and is continuous with the anterior intertrochanteric line; the middle is continued directly upwards into the linea quadrati; and the posterior, broad and strongly marked, ascends to the base of the trochanter major. Towards the lowrer extremity of the bone, the linea aspera divides into two ridges, which descend to the twro condyles, and enclose a triangular space upon which rests the popliteal artery. The internal condyloid ridge is less marked than the external, and presents a broad and shallow groove, for the passage of the femoral artery. The nutritious fora- men is situated in or near the linea aspera, at about one- third from its upper extremity, and is directed obliquely from below upwards. The lower extremity of the femur is broad and por- Ijf) ous, and divided by a smooth depression in front, and by a large fossa (fossa intercondyloidea) behind into two condyles. The external condyle is the broadest and most promi- nent, and the internal the narrowest and longest; the difference in length depending upon the obliquity of the femur, in consequence of the separation of the two bones at their upper extremities by the breadth of the pelvis. The external condyle is marked upon its outer side by a prominent tuberosity, wThich gives attachment to the external lateral ligament; and immediately be- neath this is the fossa, which lodges the tendon of origin of the popliteus. By the internal surface it gives at- tachment to the anterior crucial ligament of the knee- joint ; and by its upper and posterior part, to the exter- nal head of the gastrocnemius and to the plantaris. The internal condyle projects upon its inner side into a tu- berosity, to which is attached the internal lateral liga- ment ; above this tuberosity, at the extremity of the in- ternal condyloid ridge, is a tubercle, for the insertion of the tendon of the adductor magnus ; and beneath the tubercle, upon the upper surface of the condyle, a depression, from which the internal head of the gastrocnemius arises. The outer side of the internal condyle is rough and concave, for the at- tachment of the posterior crucial ligament. Development.—By jive centres; one for the shaft, one for each extre mity, and one for each trochanter. The femur is the first of the long bones to show signs of ossification. In it, ossific matter is found immediately after the maxillae before the termination of the second month of embryonic life. The secondary deposits take place in the following order, in the * A diagram of the posterior aspect of the right femur, showing the lines of attach ment of the muscles. The muscles attached to the inner lip are,—p, the pectineus ; a b. the adductor brevis; and a l, the adductor longus. The middle portion is occupied tor its whole extent by a m. the adductor magnus ; and is continuous superiorly with q f die linea quadrati, into which the quadratus femoris is inserted. The outer lip is occu pied by g m, the gluteus maximus; and 6, the short head of the biceps.