380 LINING MEMBRANE OF THE VENTRICLES. bounded on each side by a thick cord passing between the cerebellum and corpora quadrigemina, called the processus e cerebello ad testes, and by the corpus restiforme. It is covered in behind by the cerebellum, and by a thin lamella of medullary substance, stretched between the two processus e cerebello ad testes, termed the valve of Vieussens * That portion of the cerebellum which forms the posterior boundary of the fourth ventricle, presents four small prominences or lobules, and a thin layer of medullary substance, the velum medullare posterius. Of the lobules two are placed in the middle line, the nodulus and uvula, the for- mer being before the latter; the remaining two are named amygdala, or tonsils, and are situated one on either side of the uvula. They all project into the cavity of the fourth ventricle, and the velum medullare posterius is situated in front of them. The valve of Vieussens, or velum medullare anterius, is an extremely thin lamella of medullary substance, prolonged from the white matter of the cerebellum to the testes, and attached on each side to the processus e cerebello ad testes. This lamella is overlaid for a short distance by a thin, transversely-grooved lobule of grey sub- stance (linguetta laminosa) derived from the anterior border of the cere- bellum, and its junction with the testes is strengthened by a narrow slip given off by the commissure of those bodies, thefranulum veli medullans anterioris. The anterior wall, or floor of the fourth ventricle is formed by two slightly convex bodies, processus teretes or posterior pyramids, separated by a longitudinal groove which is continuous inferiorly with the fissura longitudinalis posterior of the spinal cord. The processus teretes are crossed transversely by several white and grey fasciculi (linea trams- versa) the origin of the auditory nerves. And upon the lower part of the floor of this ventricle is an impression resembling the point of a pen, and hence named calamus scriptorius ; the lateral boundaries of the calamus are the processus clavati of the posterior median columns of the spinal cord. Above, the fourth ventricle is bounded by the corpora quadrige- mina and aqueduct of Sylvius; and below by a layer of pia mater and arachnoid, called the valve of the arachnoid. It is by rupture of this lat- ter that a communication is established between the ventricles of the brain and the sub-arachnoidean space. Within the fourth ventricle and lying against the uvula and tonsils are two small vascular fringes formed by the pia mater, the choroid plexuses of the fourth ventricle. The fourth ven- tricle is lined by grey matter derived from the interior of the spinal cord, the grey matter being partly concealed by a thin expansion of white sub- stance. LINING MEMBRANE OF THE VENTRICLES. The lining membrane of the ventricles is a serous layer distinct from the arachnoid; it lines the wdiole of the interior of the lateral ventricles, and is connected above and below with the attached border of the choroid plexus, so as to exclude all communication between the ventricles and the exterior of the brain. From the lateral ventricles it is reflected through the foramen of Monro on each side, into the third ventricle, which it in- vests throughout. From the third it is conducted into the fourth vemricle, through the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum, and lines its interior, to- * Raymond Vieussens, a great discoverer in the anatomy of the brain and nervous system. His “ Neurog-aphia Universalis” was published at Lyons, in 1GS5.