248 VASTUS INTERNUS—CRUREUS. The Rectus (straight) muscle is fusiform in its shape and bipenniforra in the disposition of its fibres. It arises by two round tendons, one from the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium, the other from the upper lip of the acetabulum ; and is inserted by a broad and strong tendon, into the upper border of the patella. It is more correct to consider the patella as a sesamoid bone, developed within the tendon of the rectus; and the hgamentum patellae as the continuation of the tendon to its insertion into the tubercle of the tibia. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the gluteus medius, psoas and iliacus, sartorius; and, for the lower three-fourths of its extent, with the fascia lata. By its deep surface with the capsule of the hip joint, the externa] circumflex vessels, crureus, and vastus internus and externus. The rectus must now be divided through its middle, and the two ends turned aside, to bring clearly into view the next muscles. The three next muscles are generally considered collectively under the name of triceps extensor cruris. Adopting this view, the muscle surrounds the whole of the femur, excepting the rough line (linea aspera) upon its posterior aspect. Its division into three parts is not well defined; the fleshy mass upon each side being distinguished by the names of vastus internus and externus, the middle portion by that of crureus. The Vastus Externus, narrow below and broad above, arises from the outer border of the patella, and is inserted into the femur and outer side of the linea aspera, as high as the base of the trochanter major. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the fascia lata, rectus, biceps, semi-membranosus and gluteus maximus, a synovial bursa being inter- posed between it and the latter. By its deep surface with the crureus and femur. The Vastus Internus, broad below and narrow above, arises from the inner border of the patella, and is inserted into the femur and inner side of the linea aspera as high up as the anterior intertrochanteric line. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the psoas and iliacus, rectus, sartorius, femoral artery and vein and saphenous nerves, pectineus, ad- ductor longus, brevis, and magnus, and fascia lata. By its deep surface with the crureus and femur. The Crureus (crus, the leg) arises from the upper border of the patella, and is inserted into the front aspect of the femur, as high as the anterior intertrochanteric line. When the crureus is divided from its insertion, a small muscular fasciculus is often seen upon the lower part of the femur, which is inserted into the pouch of synovial membrane, that extends up- wards from the knee joint, behind the patella. This is named, from its situation, sub-cnireus, and would seem to be intended to support the synovial membrane. Relations. — By its superficial surface with the external circumflex vessels., the rectus, vastus internus and externus. By its deep surface with the femur, the sub-crureus, and synovial membrane of the knee joint. Actions. — The tensor vaginae femoris renders the fascia lata tense, and slightly inverts the limb. The sartorius flexes the leg upon the thigh, and, continuing to act, the thigh upon the pelvis, at the same time carrying the leg across that of the opposite side, into the position in which tailors sit; hence its name. Taking its fixed point from below, it assists the extensor muscles in steadying the leg, for the support of the trunk. The other four muscles have been collectively named quadriceps extensor, from their