VESICULiE SEMINALES. 535 and the convex side towards the rectum. It is retained firmly in its posi- tion by the two superior and two inferior tendons of the bladder, by the attachments of the pelvic fascia, and by a process of the internal layer of the deep perineal fascia, which forms a sheath around the membranous urethra, and is inserted into the apex of the gland. It consists of three lobes, two lateral and a middle lobe or isthmus; the lateral lobes are distinguished by an indentation upon the base of the gland, and by a slight furrow upon its upper and lower surface. The third lobe or isthmus is a small transverse band which passes between the two lateral lobes at the base of the organ. In structure the prostate gland is composed of ramified ducts, terminating in lobules of follicular pouches, which are so closely compressed as to give to a thin section of the gland a cellular appearance. It is pale in colour and hard in texture, splits easily in the course of its ducts, and is surrounded by a plexus of veins which are enclosed by the strong fibrous membrane with which it is invested. Its secretion is poured into the prostatic portion of the urethra by fifteen or twenty excretory ducts. The urethra in passing through the prostate lies one-third nearer its upper than its lower surface. VESICULjE SEMINALES. Fig. 235 .* On the under surface of the base of the bladder, and converging towards the base of the prostate gland, are two lobulated and somewhat pyriform bodies, about two inches in length, the vesiculae seminales. Their upper surface is in contact with the base of the bladder; the under side rests on the rectum, separated only by the recto-vesical fascia; the larger extremities are directed back- wards and outwards, and the smaller ends almost meet at the base of the prostate. They enclose between them a triangular space, which is bounded posteriorly by the recto-vesical fold of peritoneum, and which corresponds with the trigonum vesicse on the interior of the bladder. Each vesicula is formed by the convolutions of a single tube, which gives off several irregular caecal branches. It is enclosed in a dense fibrous membrane, derived from the pelvic fascia, and is constricted beneath the isthmus of the prostate gland into a small excretory duct. The vas deferens, somewhat enlarged and convoluted, lies along the inner border of each vesicula, and is included in its fibrous in- vestment. It communicates with the duct of the vesicula, beneath the isthmus of the prostate, and formsf the ejaculatory duct. The ejacula- * The posterior aspect of the male bladder ; the serous covering is removed in order to show the muscular coat. 1. The body of the bladder. 2. Its fundus. 3. Its inferior fundus or base. 4. The urachus. 5, 5. The ureters. 6, 6. The vasa deferentia. 7, 7 The vesiculae seminales. The triangular area, bounded by the vasa deferentia and vesiculae seminales on either side, a dotted line above and the numeral 3 below, is the space corresponding with the trigonum vesicae. It is this part of the bladder which is, pierced, in puncturing the bladder through the rectum. The dotted line, forming the l*Hse of this triangulat area, marks the extent of the recto-vesical fold of the peritoneum t It has been customary hitherto, in works on anatomy, to describe the course of ex- cretory ducts as proceeding from the gland, and passing thence to the point at which