GASTRIC AM) HEPATIC ARTERIES. 3J0 The Cceliac axis (xoiXia, ventriculus) is the first single trunk given off from the abdominal aorta. It arises opposite the upper border of the first lumbar vertebra, is about half an inch in length, and divides into three large branches, gastric, he- patic, and splenic. Relations. — The trunk of the cceliac axis has in relation with it, in front, the lesser omentum ; on the right side the right semilunar ganglion and lobus Spigelii of the liver; on the left side the left semilunar ganglion and cardiac portion of the stomach; and below, the upper border of the pancreas and lesser curve of the stomach. It is completely surrounded by the solar plexus. The Gastric artery (coronaria ventriculi), the smallest of the three branches of the cceliac axis, ascends between the two layers of the lesser omentum to the cardiac orifice of the stomach, then runs along the lesser curvature to the pylorus, and inosculates with the pyloric branch of the hepatic. It is dis- tributed to the lower extremity of the oesophagus and lesser curve of the stomach, and anastomoses with the oesophageal arteries and vasa brevia of the splenic artery. The Hepatic artery curves forwards, and ascends along the right border of the lesser omentum to the liver, where it divides into two branches (right and left), which enter the transverse fissure, and are dis tributed along the portal canals to the right and left lobes.f It is in rela- tion, in the right border of the lesser omentum, with the ductus communis choledochus and portal vein, and is surrounded by the hepatic plexus of nerves and numerous lymphatics. There are sometimes two hepatic arteries, in which case one is derived from the superior mesenteric artery. * The abdominal aorta with its branches. 1. The phrenic arteries. 2. The cceliac axis. 3. The gastric artery. 4. The hepatic artery, dividing into the right and left hepatic branches. 5. The splenic artery, passing outwards to the spleen. 6. The supra-renal artery of the right side. 7. The right renal artery, which is longer than the left, passing outwards to the right kidney. 8. The lumbar arteries. 9. The superior mesenteric artery. 10. The two spermatic arteries. 11. The inferior mesenteric artery 12. The sacra media. 13. The common iliacs. 14. The internal iliac of the right side. 15. The external iliac artery. 16. The epigastric artery. 17. The circumflexa ilii artery. 18. The femoral artery. j- For the mode of distribution of the hepatic artery within the liver, see the “Minute Anatomy” of that organ in the Chapter on the Viscera.