101 RIBS — TRUE AND FALSE. as being situated upon and somewhat behind each extiemity oi the uici- sura semilunaris of the upper border ot the manubrium. Ihese pre sternal or supra-sternal pieces, which are by no means constant, appear at about the thirty-fifth year. Beclard considers them to be the analogue of the fourchette of birds, and Breschet as the sternal ends of die cei- vical rib. Articulations.—With sixteen bones; viz. with the clavicle and the seven true ribs, at each side. . Attachment of Muscles.— To nine pairs and one single muscle , \iz. to the pectoral is major, sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, tri- angularis sterm, aponeurosis of the obhquus externus, interims, and trans- versal is muscles, rectus, and diaphragm. Fig. 49.* ribs.—The ribs are twelve in number at each side ; the first seven are connected with the sternum, and hence named sternal or true ribs; the remaining five are the asternal or false ribs; and the last two shorter than the rest, and free at their extremities, are the floating ribs. The ribs increase in length from the first to the eighth, whence they again diminish to the twelfth; in breadth they diminish gra- dually from the first to the last, and with the exception of the last two are broader at the anterior than at the posterior end. The first rib is hori- zontal in its direction; all the rest are oblique, so that the anterior extremity falls considerably below the posterior. Each rib presents an external and in- ternal surface, a superior and inferior border, and two extremities; it is curved to correspond with the arch of the thorax, and twisted upon itself, so that, when laid on its side, one end is tilted up, while the other rests upon the surface. The external surface is convex, and marked by the attachment of' muscles; the internal is flat, and corresponds with the pleura; the superior border is rounded ; and the inferior sharp, and grooved upon its inner side, for the attachment of the intercostal muscles.f Near its vertebral extremity, the rib is suddenly bent upon itself; and opposite the bend, upon the external surface, is a rough oblique ridge, which gives attach- ment to a tendon of the sacro-lumbalis muscle, and is called the angle. The distance between the vertebral extremity and the angle increases gradually, from the second to the eleventh rib. Beyond the angle is a * An anterior view of the thorax. 1. The superior piece of the sternum. 2. The middle piece. 3. The inferior piece, or ensiform cartilage. 4. The first dorsal vertebra, f). The last, dorsal vertebra. 6. The first rib. 7. Its head. 8. Its neck, resting against the transverse process of the first dorsal vertebra. 9. Its tubercle. 10. The seventh or last true rib. 11. The costal cartilages of the true ribs. 12. The last two false ribs or floating ribs. 13. The groove along the lower border of the rib. j This groove is commonly described as supporting the intercostal artery, vein, and nerve, but this is not the case. 9*