165 TARSAL ARTICULATIONS. The internal lateral or deltoid ligament is a triangular layer of fibres, attached superiorly by its apex to the internal malleolus, and interiorly by an expanded base to the astragalus, os caleis, and scaphoid bone. Be- neath the superficial layer of this ligament is a much stronger and thicker fasciculus, which connects the apex of the internal malleolus with die side of the astragalus. This internal lateral ligament is covered in and partly concealed by the tendon of the tibialis posticus, and at its posterior part is in relation with the tendon of the tlexor longus digitorum, and with that of the flexor longus pollicis. The external lateral ligament consists of three strong fasciculi, which proceed from the inner side of the external malleolus, and diverge in three different directions. The anterior fasciculus passes forwards, and is attached to the astragalus; the posterior, backwards, and is connected with the astragalus posteriorly; and the middle, longer than the other two, descends to be inserted into the outer side of the os calcis. “ It is the strong union of this bone,” says Sir Astley Cooper, u with the tarsal bones, by means of the external lateral ligaments, which leads to its being more frequently fractured than dislocated.” The transverse ligament of the tibia and fibula occupies the place of a posterior ligament. It is in relation, behind, with the posterior tibial ves- sels and nerve, and with the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle; and in front, with the extra-synovial adipose tissue, and synovial membrane. The Synovial membrane invests the cartilaginous surfaces of the tibia and fibula (sending a duplicate upwards between their lower ends), and the upper surface and two sides of the astragalus. It is then reflected upon the anterior and lateral ligaments, and upon the transverse ligament posteriorly. Actions. — The movements of the ankle joint are flexion and extension only, without lateral motion. 5. Articulations of the Tarsal Bones. — The ligaments which connect the seven bones of the tarsus to each other are of three kinds,— Dorsal, Plantar, Interosseous. The dorsal ligaments are small fasciculi of parallel fibres, which pass from each bone to all the neighbouring bones with which it articulates. The only dorsal ligaments deserving of particular mention are, the external and posterior calcaneo-astragaloid, which, with the interosseous ligament, complete the articulation of the astragalus with the os calcis; the superior and internal calcaneo-cuboid ligament. The internal calcaneo-cuboid and the superior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament, which are closely united pos- teriorly in the deep groove which intervenes between the astragalus and os calcis, separate anteriorly to reach their respective bones; they form the principal bond of connexion between the first and second range of the bones of the foot. It is the division of this portion of these ligaments that demands the especial attention of the surgeon in performing Chopart’s operation. The plantar ligaments have the same disposition on the plantar surface of the foot; three of them, however, are of a large size, and have especial names, viz. the Calcaneo-scaphoid Long calcaneo-cuboid, Short calcaneo-cuboid.