RIGHT AURICLE. x / A / / J 473 The Aunculo-ventricular opening is the large opening of connnunica tion between the auricle and ventricle. The Eustachian* valve is a part of the apparatus of fcetal circulation, and serves to direct the placental blood from the inferior cava, though the foramen ovale into the left auricle. In the adult it is a mere vestige and imperfect, though sometimes it remains of large size. It is formed by a fold of the lining membrane of the auricle, containing some muscular fibres, is situated between the opening of the inferior cava and the auriculo- ventricular opening, and is generally connected with the coronary valve. The Coronary valve is a semilunar fold of the lining membrane, stretch- ing across the mouth of the coronary vein, and preventing the reflux ol the blood in the vein during the contraction of the auricle. The Annulus ovalis is situated on the septum auricularum, opposite the termination of the inferior cava. It is the rounded margin of the septum, which occupies the place of the fora- men ovale of the foetus. The Fossa ovalis is an oval de- pression corresponding with the fora- men ovale in the foetus. This opening is closed at birth by a thin valvular layer, which is continuous with the left margin of the annulus, and is frequently imperfect at its upper part. The depression or fossa in the right auricle results from this arrangement. There is no fossa ovalis in the left auricle. The Tuberculum Loweri% is the portion of auricle intervening between the openings of the superior and inferior cava. Being thicker than the walls of the veins, it forms a projeo * Bartholomew Eustachius, born at San Severino, in Naples, was Professor of Medi- cine in Rome, where he died in 1570. He was one of the founders of modern anato my, and the first who illustrated his works with good engravings on copper. j- The anatomy of the heart; the organ is viewed upon the right side. 1. The cavity of the right auricle. 2. The appendix auriculae, in the cavity of which the musculi pectinati are seen. 3. The superior vena cava, opening into the upper part of the right auricle. 4. The inferior vena cava. 5. The fossa ovalis; the prominent ridge sur- rounding it is the annulus ovalis. 6. The Eustachian valve. 7. The opening of the coronary vein. 8. The coronary valve. 9. The entrance of the auriculo-ventricular opening. Between the numbers 1 and 9, two or three of the foramina Thebesii are seen. a. The right ventricle, b. c. The cavity of the right ventricle, on the walls of which the columnse carneae are seen; c is placed in the channel leading upwards to the pulmonary artery, d. e. f. The tricuspid valve; e is placed on the anterior curtain, and /i on the right curtain, g. The long columna carnea, to the apex of which the anterior and right curtains of the tricuspid valve are connected by the chordae tendineae. h. The “ long moderator band.’’ i. The two columnse carnese of the right curtain, k. The at tachment by chordae tendineae of the left limb of the anterior curtain. /, l. Chordae ten dintce of the “fixed curtain” of the valve, m. The valve of the pulmonary artery. The letter of reference is placed on the inferior semilunar segment, n. The apex of the right appendix auriculae, o. The left ventricle, p. The ascending aorta, q. Its arch, with the three arterial trunks which arise from the arch. r. The descending aorta. f Richard Lower, M. D. “Tractatus de Corde ; item de Motu et Colore Sanguinis,” 1669 HjS dissections were made upon quadrupeds, and his observations relate rather to animals than to man. J f i F /I /1 / ^ I /1/ Fig. 212.f