LINGUAL AND FACIAL ARTERIES. 285 The Ihjoid branch passes forwards beneath the thyro-hyoideus, and is distributed to the depressor muscles of the os hyoides near their insertion. The Superior laryngeal pierces the thyro-hyoidean membrane, in com- pany with the superior laryngeal nerve, and supplies the mucous mem- brane and muscles of the larynx, sending a branch upwards to the epiglottis. The Inferior laryngeal is a small branch which crosses the crico-thyroi- dean membrane along the lower border of the thyroid cartilage. It sends branches through the membrane, to supply the mucous lining ot the larynx, and inosculates with its fellow of the opposite side. The Muscular branches are distributed to the depressor muscles of the os hyoides and larynx. One of these branches crosses the sheath of the common carotid to the under surface of the sterno-mastoid muscle. 2. The Lingual artery ascends obliquely from its origin, it then passes forwards parallel with the great cornu of the os hyoides; thirdly, it ascends to the under surface of the tongue; and, fourthly, runs forward in a serpentine direction to its tip (under the name of the ranine artery), where it terminates by inosculating with its fellow of the opposite side. Relations.—The first part of its course rests upon the middle constrictor muscle of the pharynx, being covered in by the tendon of the digastricus and the stylo-hyoid muscle; the second is situated between the middle constrictor and hyo-glossus muscle, the latter separating it from the hypo- glossal nerve; in the third part of its course it lies between the hyo-glossus and genio-hyo-glossus; and in the fourth (ranine) rests upon the lingualis to the tip of the tongue. Branches.—Hyoid, Dorsalis linguse, Sublingual. The Hyoid branch runs along the upper border of the os hyoides, and is distributed to the elevator muscles of the os hyoides near their origin, inosculating with its fellow of the opposite side. The Dorsalis linguce ascends along the posterior border of the hyo- glossus muscle to the dorsum of the tongue, and is distributed to the tongue, the fauces, and epiglottis, anastomosing with its fellow of the op- posite side. The Sublingual branch, sometimes considered as a branch of bifurca- tion of the lingual, runs along the anterior border of the hyo-glossus, and is distributed to the sublingual gland and to the muscles of the tongue. It is situated between the mylo-hyoideus and genio-hyo-glossus, generally accompanies Wharton’s duct for a part of its course, and sends a branch to the fraenum linguse. It is the latter branch which affords the consider able hsemorrhage which sometimes follows the operation of snipping the fraenum in children. 3- Facial artery. — The Facial artery arises a little above the great cornu of the os hyoides, and descends obliquely to the submaxillary gland, in which it lies embedded. It then curves around the body of the lower jaw, close to the anterior inferior angle of the masseter muscle, ascends to the angle of the mouth, and thence to the angle of the eye, where it is named the angular artery. The facial artery is tortuous in its course