505 THE STOMACH. Posterior nares, two, Eustachian tubes, two, Mouth, Larynx, (Esophagus. The Posterior nares are the two large openings at the upper and front part of the pharynx. On each side of these openings, and slightly above the posterior termination of the inferior turbinated bone, is the irregular depression in the mucous membrane, marking the entrance of the Eusta- chian tube. Beneath the posterior nares is the large opening into the mouth, partly veiled by the soft palate ; and, beneath the root of the tongue, the cordiform opening of the larynx. The oesophageal opening is the lower constricted portion of the pharynx. (Esophagus.—The oesophagus (oTsiv, to bear, (pa^eiv, to eat) is a slightly flexuous canal, in- clining to the left in the neck, to the right in the upper part of the thorax,f and again to the left in its course through the posterior mediastinum ; it commences at the termination of the pharynx, opposite the lower border of the cricoid cartilage and fifth cervical vertebra, and descends the neck behind and rather to the left of the trachea. It then passes behind the arch of the aorta, and along the posterior mediastinum, lying in front of the thoracic aorta, to the oesophageal opening in the diaphragm, where it enters the abdomen, and terminates at the cardiac orifice of the sto- mach at a point about opposite the tenth dorsal vertebra. The oesophagus is flattened and nar- row in the cervical region, and cylindrical in the rest of its course ; its largest diameter is met with near the lower part of its course. THE STOMACH. The stomach is an expansion of the alimentary canal, situated in the left hypochondriac, and extending into the epigastric region. It is di- rected somewhat obliquely from above downwards, from left to right, and from before backwards; and in the female, where the injurious system of tight-lacing has been pursued, is longer than in the male. On account of the peculiarity of its form, it is divided into a greater or splenic, and a lesser or pyloric, end; a lesser curvature above, and a greater curvature below; an anterior and a posterior surface ; a cardiac orifice, and a pyloric orifice. The great end is not only of large size, but expands beyond the * The pharynx laid open from behind. 1. A section carried transversely through the base of the skull. 2, 2. The walls of the pharynx drawn to each side. 3, 3. The pos- terior nares, separated by the vomer. 4. The extremity of the Eustachian tube of one side. 5. The soft palate. 6. The posterior pillar of the soft palate. 7. Its anterior pillar; the tonsil is seen in the niche between the two pillars. 8. The root of the tongue, partly concealed by the uvula. 9. The epiglottis, overhanging (10) the cordi- form opening of the larynx. 11. The posterior part of the larynx. 12. The opening into the oesophagus. 13. The external surface of the oesophagus. 14. The trachea. f Cruveilhier remarks that this inflexion explains the obstruction which a Lougj* •ometimes meets with, in its passage along the oesophagus, opposite the first rib. 43