AND SCIENTIFIC PUBLICATIONS. 23 NEILL (JOHN), M. D., Surgeon to the Pennsylvania Hospital, Ac.; and FRANCIS GURNEY SMITH, M.D., Professor of Institutes of Medicine in the Pennsylvania Medical College. AN ANALYTICAL COMPENDIUM OF T1IE VARIOUS BRANCHES OF MEDICAL SCIENCE; for the Use and Examination of Students. Second edition, revised and improved. In one very large and handsomely printed royal 12mo. volume, of over one thousand pages, with three hundred and fifty illustrations on wood. Strongly bound in leather, with raised bands. The speedy sale of a large impression of this work has afforded to the authors gratifying evidence of the correctness of the views which actuated them in its preparation. In meeting the demand tor a second edition, they have therefore been desirous to render it more worthy of the favor with which it has been received. To accomplish this, they have spared neither time nor labor in embo- dying in it such discoveries and improvements as have been made since its first appearance, and such alterations as have been suggested by its practical use in the class and examination-room. Considerable modifications have thus been introduced throughout all the departments treated of in the volume, but more especially in the portion devoted to the “Practice of Medicine,” which has been entirely rearranged and rewritten. The authors therefore again submit their work to the profession, with the hope that their efforts may tend, however humbly, to advance the great cause of medical education. Notwithstanding the enlarged size and improved execution of this work, the price has not been increased, and it is confidently presented as one of the cheapest volumes now before the profession. In the rapid course of lectures, where work for the students is heavy, and review necessary for an examination, a compend is not only valuable, but it is almost a sine qua non. The one before us is, in most of the divisions, the most unexceptionable of all books of the kind that we know of. The newest and soundest doctrines and the latest im- provements and discoveries are explicitly, though concisely, laid before the student. Of course it is useless for us to recommend it to all last course students, bat there is a class to whom we very sincerely commend this cheap book as worth its weight in silver — that class is the graduates in medicine of more than ten years’ standing, who have not studied medicine since. They will perhaps find out from it that the science is not exactly now what it was when they left it off.—The Stethoscope Having made free use of this volume in our ex- aminations of pupils, we can speak from experi- ence in recommending it as an admirable compend for students, and as especially useful to preceptors who examine their pupils. It will save the teacher much labor by enabling him readily to recall all of the points upon which his pupils should be ex- amined. A work of this sort should be in the hands of every one who takes pupils into bis office with a view of examining them; and this is unquestionably the best of its class. Let every practitioner who has pupils provide himself with it, and he will find the labor of refreshing his knowledge so much facilitated that he will be able to do justice to his pupils at very little cost of time or trouble to himself.—Transyl- vania Med. Journal. NELIGAN (J. MOORE), M. D., M. R. I.A., &c. A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON DISEASES OF THE SKIN. In one neat royal 12mo. volume, of 334 pages. OWEN (PROF. R.), Anther of “ Lectures on Comparative Anatomy,” “ Archetype of the Skeleton,” Ac. ON THE DIFFERENT FORMS OF THE SKELETON, AND OF THE TEETH. One vol. royal 12mo., with numerous illustrations. (Now Heady.) The name of the distinguished author is a sufficient guarantee that this little volume will prove a satisfactory manual and guide to all students of Comparative Anatomy and Osteology. The im- portance of this subject in geological investigations will also render this work a most valuable assistant to those interested in that science. PHILLIPS (BENJAMIN), F. R. S., &c. SCROFULA; its Nature, its Prevalence, its Causes, and the Principles of its 1 reatment. In one volume, octavo, with a plate. PANCOAST (J.), M. D., Professor of Anatomy in the Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia, Ac. OPERATIVE SURGERY; or, A Description and Demonstration of the various Processes of the Art; including all the New Operations, and exhibiting the State of Surgical Science in its present advanced condition. Complete in one roval 4to. volume, of 380 pages of letter-press description and eighty large 4to. plates, comprising 486 illustrations. Second edition, improved. Blanchard <fe Lea having become the publishers of this offering it to the profession. important book, have much pleasure in This excellent work is constructed on the model of the French Surgical Works by Velpeau and Mal- gaigne; and, so far as the English language is con- cerned, we are proud as an American to say that, OF ITS KIND IT has no superior.—N. Y. Journal of Medicine. PARKER (LANGSTON), Surgeon to the Queen’s Hospital, Birmingham THE MODERN TREATMENT OF SYPHILITIC DISEASES, BOTH PRI- MARY AND SECONDARY; comprising the Treatment of Constitutional and Confirmed Syphi ' a sa e a, £nccessfu! method. With numerous Cases, Formulae, and Clinical Observa- hons. from the Ihird and entirely rewritten London edition. In one neat octavo volume. (Now Heady.)