275 ON THE ARTERIES. divides into two slips, which are inserted one on each side into the bases of the first phalanges of the toes, leaving an interval between them for the passage of the dexor tendons. The point of division of this fascia into fasciculi and slips, is strengthened by transverse bands, which preserve the solidity of the fascia at its broadest part. The intervals between the toes give passage to the digital arteries and nerves, and to the lumbricales muscles. The lateral 'portions are thin, and cover the sides of the sole of the foot; they are continuous behind with the internal and external annular liga- ments ; on the inner side with the middle portion, and externally with the dorsal fascia. Besides constituting a strong layer of investment and defence to the soft parts situated in the sole of the foot, these three portions of fascia send processes inwards, which form sheaths lor the different muscles. A strong septum is given off from each side of the middle portion of the plantar fascia, which is attached to the tarsal bones, and divides the muscles into three groups, a middle and two lateral; and transverse septa are stretched between these to separate the layers. The superficial layer of muscles derive a part of their origin from the plantar fascia. CHAPTER VI. ON THE ARTERIES. The arteries are the cylindrical tubes which convey the blood from the ventricles of the heart to every part of the body. They are dense in struc- ture, and preserve for the most part the cylindrical form when emptied of their blood, which is their condition after death: hence they were con- sidered by the ancients as the vessels for the transmission of the vital spirits,* and were therefore named arteries (a^ rqgsTvy to contain air). The artery proceeding from the left ventrical of the heart contains the pure or arterial blood, which is distributed throughout the entire system, and constitutes, with its returning veins, the greater or systemic circula- tion. That which emanates from the right ventricle, conveys the impure blood to the lungs; and, with its corresponding veins, establishes the lesser or pulmonary circulation. The whole of the arteries of the systemic circulation proceed from a single trunk, named the aorta, from which they are given off as branches, and divide and subdivide to their ultimate ramifications, constituting the great arterial tree which pervades, by its minute subdivisions, every part of the animal frame. The mode in which the division into branches takes place, is deserving of remark. From the aorta, the branches, for the most part, pass off at right angles, as if for the purpose of checking the impetus with which the blood would otherwise rush along their cylinders from the main trunk; but in the limbs a very different arrangement is adopted; Ihe branches are given off from the principal artery at an acute angle, so * To Galen is due the honour of having discovered that arteries contained ulood, and not air.