167 TARSOMETATARSAL ARTICULATION. .fictions. — The movements permitted by the articulation between the astragalus and os calcis, are a slight degree of gliding, in the directions forwards and backwards and laterally from side to side. The movements of the second range of tarsal bones is very trifling, being greater between the scaphoid and three cuneiform bones than in the other articulations. The movements occurring between the first and second range are the most considerable ; they are adduction and abduction, and, in a minor degree, flexion, which increases the arch of the foot, and extension, which flattens the arch. 6. Tarso-metatarsal Articulation.—The ligaments of this articulation are, Dorsal, Plantar, Interosseous. Fig. 99. The dorsal ligaments connect the metatarsal to the tarsal bones, and the metatarsal bones with each other. The precise arrangement of these ligaments is of little importance, but it may be remarked, that the base of the second metatarsal bone, articulating with the three cuneiform bones, receives a ligamentous slip from each, while the rest, articulating with a single tarsal bone, receive only a single tarsal slip. The plantar ligaments have the same disposition on the plantar surface. The interosseous ligaments are situated between the bases of the metatarsal bones of the four lesser toes; and also between the bases of the second and third metatarsal bones, and the internal and external cunei- form bones. The metatarsal bone of the second toe is implanted by its base between the internal and external cuneiform bones, and is the most strongly articulated of all the metatarsal bones. This disposition must be recollected in amputation at the tarso-metatarsal articulation. The synovial membranes of this articulation are three n, in number: one for the metatarsal bone of the great 6 toe ; one for the second and third metatarsal bones, which is continuous with the great tarsal synovial mem- brane ; and one for the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. Actions. — The movements of the metatarsal bones upon the tarsal, and upon each other, are very slight; they are such only as contribute to the strength of the foot by permitting of a certain degree of yielding to opposing forces. 7. Metatarsal-phalangeal Articulation.—The ligaments of this articuU tion, like those of the articulation between the first phalanges and meta- carpal bones of the hand, are, Anterior or plantar, Two lateral, Transverse. * The ligaments of the sole of the foot. 1. The os calcis. 2. The astragalus. 3. The tuberosity of the scaphoid bone. 4. The long calcaneo-cuboid ligament. 5. Part of the short calcaneo-cuboid ligament. 6. The calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. 7. The plantar tarsal ligaments. 8, 8. The tendon of the peroneus longus muscle. 9, 9. Plantar tarso- metatarsal ligaments. 10. Plantar ligament of the metatarso-phalangeal articulation of the great toe; the same ligament is seen upon the other toes. 11. Lateral ligaments of the metatarso-phalangeal articulation. 12. Transverse ligament. 13. The lateral liga ments of the phalanges of the great toe; the same ligaments are seen upon the other toes.