449 THIRD TUNIC. of its area. The posterior layer is of a deep purple tint, and is thence named uvea, from its resemblance in colour to a ripe grape. The Ciliary processes may be seen in two ways, either by removing the iris from its attachment to the ciliary ligament, when a front view of the processes will be obtained, or by making a transverse section through the globe of the eye, when they may be examined from behind, as in fig. 201. The ciliary processes consist of a number of triangular folds, formed apparently by the plaiting^ of the middle and internal layer of the choroid. According to Zinn, they are about sixty in number, and may be divided into large and small, the latter being situated in the spaces between the former. Their periphery is connected with the ciliary ligament, and is cciitinuous with the middle and internal layer of the choroid. The central border is free, and rests against the circumference of the lens. The ante- rior surface corresponds with the uvea; the posterior receives the folds of the zonula ciliaris between its processes, and thus establishes a connexion between the choroid and the third tunic of the eye. The ciliary processes are covered with a thick layer of pigmentum nigrum, which is more abundant upon them, and upon the anterior part of the choroid, than upon the posterior part. When the pigment is washed off”, the processes are of a whitish colour. Fig. 201 * 7 Fig. 202.f Third Tunic. — The third tunic of the eye is the retina, which is pro- longed forwards to the lens by the zonula ciliaris. Dissection. — If, after the preceding dissection, the choroid membrane be carefully raised and removed, the eye being kept under water, the redna may be seen very distinctly. * The anterior segment of a transverse section of the globe of the eye, seen from within. 1. The divided edge of the three tunics; sclerotic, choroid (the dark layer), and retina. 2. The pupil. 3. The iris, the surface presented to view in this section being the uvea. 4. The ciliary processes. 5. The scalloped anterior border of the retina. -f-lhe posterior segment of a transverse section of the globe of the eye, seen from within. 1. The divided edge of the three tunics. The membrane covering the whole internal surface is the retina. 2. The entrance of the optic nerve with the arteria cen- tialis retinte piercing its centre. 3, 3. The ramifications of the arteria centralis. 4. The fbrarnen of Soemmering, in th3 centre of the axis of the eye; the shade from the sides of the section obscures the limbus luteus which surrounds it. 5. A fold of the retina which generally obscures the foramen of Soemmering after the eye has been opened 38 * 2d