AND SCIENTIFIC PUBLICATIONS 25 RAMSBOTHAM (FRANCIS H.), M.D. the principles and practice of obstetric medicine and SURGERY, in reference to the Process of Parturition. A new and enlarged edition, thoroughly revised by the Author. With Additions by W. V. Keating, M. D. In one large and handsome imperial octavo volume, with sixty-four beautiful Plates, and numerous Wood-cuts in the text, containing in all nearly two hundred large and beautiful figures. (Now Heady.) In calling the attention of the profession to the new edition of this standard work, the publishers would remark that no efforts have been spared to secure for it a continuance and extension of the remarkable favor with which it has been received. The last London issue, which was considera- blv enlarged, has received a further revision from the author, especially for this country. Its pas- sage through the press here has been supervised by Dr. Keating, who has made numerous addi- tions with a view of presenting more fully whatever was necessary to adapt it thoroughly to American modes of practice. In its mechanical execution, a like superiority over former editions will be found. The plates have all been re-engraved in a new and beautiful style ; many additional illustrations have been introduced, and in every point of typographical finish it will be found one of the handsomest issues of the American press. In its present improved and enlarged form the pub- lishers therefore confidently ask for it a place in every medical library, as a text-book for the student, or a manual for daily reference by the practitioner. From Prof. Hodge, of the University of Pa. To the American public, it is most valuable, from its intrinsic undoubted excellence, and as being the best authorized exponent of British Midwifery. Its circulation will, I trust, be extensive throughout our country. We recommend the student who desires to mas- ter this difficult subject with the least possible trouble, to possess himself at once of a copy of this ■work.—American Journal of the Med. Sciences. It stands at the head of the long list of excellent obstetric works published in the last few years in Great Britain, Ireland, and the Continent of Eu- rope. We consider this book indispensable to the library of every physician engaged in the practice of midwifery.—Southern Med. and Surg. Journal. When the whole profession is thus unanimous in placing such a work in the very first rank as regards the extent and correctness of all the details of the theory and practice of so important a branch of learning, our commendation or condemnation would be of little consequence; but regarding it as the most useful of all works of the kind, we think it but an act of justice to urge its claims upon the profession.—N. O. Med. Journal. RICORD (P.), M. D., Surgeon to the Hopital du Midi, Paris, &c. ILLUSTRATIONS OF SYPHILITIC DISEASE. Translated from the French, by Thomas F. Betton, M. D. With the addition of a History of Syphilis, and a complete Bib- liography and Formulary of Remedies, collated and arranged, by Paul B. Goddard, M. D. With fifty large quarto plates, comprising one hundred and seventeen beautifully colored illustrations. In one large and handsome quarto volume. by the same author. [Now Heady.) A TREATISE ON THE VENEREAL DISEASE. By John Hunter, F. R. S. With copious Additions, by Ph. Ricord, M. D. Edited, with Notes, by Freeman J. Bumstead, M. D. In one handsome octavo volume, with plates. Every one will recognize the attractiveness and value which this work derives from thus presenting the opinions of these two masters side by side. But, it must be admitted, what has made the fortune of the book, is the fact that it contains the “most com- plete embodiment of the veritable doctrines of the Hopital du Midi,” which has ever been made public. The doctrinal ideas of M. Ricord, ideas which, if not universally adopted; are incontestably dominant, have heretofore only been interpreted by moreor tessskilful secretaries, sometimes accredited and sometimes not. In the notes to Hunter, the master substitutes him- self for his interpreters, and gives his original thoughts to the world, in a summary form it is true, but in a lucid and perfectly intelligible manner. In conclu- sion we can say that this is incontestably the best treatise on syphilis with which we are acquainted, and, as we do not often employ the phrase, we may be excused for expressing the hope that it may find a place in the library of every physician —Virginia Med. and Surg Journal. BY THE SAME AUTHOR. LETTERS ON SYPHILIS, addressed to the Chief Editor of the Union Medicale. With an Introduction, by Amedee Latour. Translated by W. P. Lattimore, M. D. In one neat octavo volume. Blanchard & Lea are now the publishers of this valuable work. From the Translator’s Preface. To those who have listened to the able and interesting lectures of our author at the Hopital du Midi, this volume will need no commendation; while to those who have not had the pleasure to which we allude, the book will commend itself by the truths it contains, told as they are in the same inimitable style in which M. Ricord delivers his clinical lectures. BY THE SAME AUTHOR. A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON VENEREAL DISEASES. With a Thera- peutical Summary and Special Formulary. Translated by Sidney Doane, M. D. Fourth edition. One volume, octavo, 340 pages.