116 OS PUBTS. ligament, and the outer margin by a prominent ridge, from which the quadratus femoris muscle arises. The superior border of the ischium is thin, and forms the lower circumference of the obturator foramen. The ramus of the ischium is continuous with the ramus of the pubis, and is slightly everted. The Os Pubis is divided into a horizontal portion or body (horizonta ramus of Albinus), and a descending portion or ramus; it presents fo examination an external and internal surface, a superior and inferior bor der, and symphysis. The external surface is rough, for the attachment of muscles; and pro- minent at its outer extremity, where it forms part of the acetabulum. The internal surface is smooth, and enters into the formation of the cavity of the pelvis. The superior border is marked by a rough ridge, the crest, the inner termination of the crest is the angle; and the outer end, the spine or tubercle. Running outwards from the spine is a sharp ridge, the pecti- neal line, or linea ilio-pectinea, which marks the brim of the true pelvis. In front of the pectineal line is a smooth depression, which supports the femoral artery and vein, and a little more externally an elevated promi- nence, the ilio-pectineal eminence, which divides the surface for the femoral vessels, from another depression which overhangs the acetabulum, and lodges the psoas and iliacus muscles. The ilio-pectineal eminence more- over marks the junction of the pubes with the ilium. The inferior bordei is broad and deeply grooved, for the passage of the obturator vessels and nerve ; and sharp upon the side of the ramus, to form part of the bound- ary of the obturator foramen. The symphysis is the inner extremity of the body of the bone ; it is oval and rough, for the attachment of a liga- mentous structure analogous to the intervertebral substance. The ramus of the pubes descends obliquely outwards, and is continuous with the ramus of the ischium. The inner border of the ramus forms with the corresponding bone the arch of the pubes, and at its inferior part is con- siderably everted, to afford attachment to the crus penis. The acetabulum (cavitas cotyloidea) is a deep cup-shaped cavity, situ- ated at the point of union between the ilium, ischium, and pubes; a little less than two-fifths being formed by the ilium, a little more than two-fifths by the ischium, and the remaining fifth by the pubes. It is bounded by a deep rim or lip, which is broad and strong above, where most resistance is required, and marked in front by a deep notch, which is arched over m the fresh subject by a strong ligament, and transmits the nutrient ves- sels into the joint. At the bottom of the cup and communicating with the notch, is a deep and circular pit (fundus acetabuli) which lodges a mass of fat, and gives attachment to the broad extremity of the ligamentum teres. The obturator or thyroid foramen is a large oval interval between the ischium and pubes, bounded by a narrow rough margin, to which a liga- mentous membrane is attached. The upper part of the foramen is increased in depth by the groove in the under surface of the os pubis which lodges the obturator vessels and nerve. Development.—By eight centres ; three principal, one for the ilium, one for the ischium, and one for the pubes; and five secondary, one, the Y-shaped piece for the interval between the primitive pieces in the aceta- bulum, one for the crest of the ilium, one (not constant) for the anterior and inferior spinous process of the ilium, one for the tuberosity of the >'.chium, and one (not constant) for the angle of the os pubis. Ossification