73 ETHMOID BONE. bones. The opening for the nasal nerve is a nar- row slit in the anterior part ot the cribriform la- mella, close to the crista galli. The cribriform lamella serves to connect the lateral masses with the perpendicular plate. The lateral masses (labyrinthi) are divisible into an internal and external surface, and four borders, superior, inferior, anterior, and posterior. The internal surface is rough and slightly convex, and forms the external boundary of the upper part of the nasal fossae. Towards the posterior border of this surface is a narrow horizontal fissure, the superior meatus of the nose, the upper margin of which is thin, and somewhat curled inwards ; hence it is named the superior turbinated bone (concha superior). Below the meatus is the convex surface of another thin plate, which is curled outwards, and forms the lower border of the mass, the middle turbinated bone (concha media). The external surface is quadrilateral and smooth, hence it is named os planum, and, from its thinness, lamina papyracea; it enters into the formation of the inner wall of the orbit. The superior border is irregular and cellular, the cells being completed by the edges of the ethmoidal fissure of the frontal bone. This border is crossed by two grooves, sometimes complete canals, opening into the orbit by the anterior and posterior ethmoidal foramina. The inferior bor- der is formed internally by the lower border of the middle turbinated bone, and externally by a concave irregular fossa, the upper boundary of the middle meatus. The anterior border, presents a number of incomplete cells, which are closed by the superior maxillary and lachrymal bone ; and the posterior border is regularly cellular, to articulate with the sphenoid and palate bones. The lateral masses are composed of cells, which are divided by a thin partition into anterior and posterior ethmoidal cells. The anterior, the most numerous, communicate with the frontal sinuses, and open by means of an irregular and incomplete tubular canal, the infundibulum., into the middle meatus. The posterior colls, fewer in number, open into the su- perior meatus. Development.—By three centres : one for each lateral mass, and one for the perpendicular lamella. Ossification commences in the lateral masses at about the beginning of the fifth month, appearing first in the os planum and then in the spongy bones. During the latter half of the first year after birth, the central lamella and lamina cribrosa begin to ossify, and are united to the lateral masses by the beginning of the second year. The cells of the ethmoid are developed in the course of the fourth and fifth year. * The ethmoid bone seen from above and behind. 1. The centra] lamella. 2,2. The lateral masses; the numbers are placed on the posterior border of the lateral mass at each side. 3. The crista galli process. 4. The cribriform plate of the left side, pierced by its foramina. 5. The hollow space immediately above and to the left of this num- ber is the superior meatus, fi. The superior turbinated bone. 7. The middle turbinated bone ; the numbers 5, 6. 7. are situated upon the internal surface of the left lateral mass, near its posterior part. The interval between these parts is the superior meatus. 8. The external surface of the lateral mass, or os planum. 9. The superior or frontal border of the lateral mass, grooved by the anterior and posterior ethmoidal canals. iO. Relers to the concavity of the middle turbinated bone, which is tho upoer boundary of tha middle meatus. 7