6 PARIETAL BONE. 61 Articulations.—With six bones; two parietal, two temporal, sphenoid and atlas. Attachment of Muscles.—To thirteen pairs: to the rough surface above the superior curved line, the occipito-frontalis; to the superior curved line, the trapezius and sterno-mastoid; to the rough space between the curved lines, coinplexus, and splenius capitis; to the space between the inferior curved line and the foramen magnum, the rectus posticus major and minor, and obliquus superior; to the transverse process, the rectus lateralis ; and to the basilar process, the rectus anticus major and minor, and superior and middle constrictor muscles. Parietal Bone. — Thte parietal Fig 24 * bone is situated at the side and ver- tex of the skull; it is quadrilateral in form, and divisible into an external and internal surface, four borders and four angles. The superior border is straight, to articulate with its fellow of the opposite side. The inferior border is arched and thin, to articu- late with the temporal bone. The anterior border is concave, and the posterior somewhat convex. External surface. — Crossing the bone in a longitudinal direction from the anterior to the posterior border, is an arched line, the temporal ridge, to which the temporal fascia is attached. In the middle of this line, and nearly in the centre of the bone, is the projection called the parietal emi- nence, which marks the centre of ossification. Above the temporal ridge the surface is rough, and covered by the aponeurosis of the occipito-fron- talis; below the ridge the bone is smooth (planum semicirculare), for the attachment of the fleshy fibres of the temporal muscle. Near the superior border of the bone, and at about one-third from its posterior extremity, is the parietal foramen, which transmits a vein to the superior longitudinal sinus. This foramen is often absent. Internal surface.—The internal table is smooth; it is marked by nu- merous furrows, which lodge *the ramifications of the arteria meningea media, and by digital fossse which correspond with the convolutions of the brain. Along the upper border is part of a shallow groove, completed by the opposite parietal bone, which serves to contain the superior longitu- dinal sinus. Some slight pits are also observable near this groove, which lodge the glandulse Pacchioni. The anterior inferior angle is thin and lengthened, and articulates with the greater wing of the sphenoid bone. Upon its inner surface it is deeply channelled by a groove for the trunk of the arteria meningea media. This groove is frequently converted into a canal. The posterior * The external surface of the left parietal bone. 1. The superior or sagittal border. 2. The inferior or squamous border. 3. The anterior or coronal border. 4. The poste- rior or lambdoidal border. 5. The temporal ridge; the figure is situated immediately m front of the parietal eminence. 0. The parietal foramen, unusually large in the bone from which this figure was drawn. 7. The anterior inferior angle. S. The posterior inferior angle.