558 FCETAL LLNG&. lowing analytical* results: one hundred parts of the fluid contained six teen parts of solid matter, which consisted of, Incipient fibrine, Albumen, Mucus, and muco-extractive matter, Muriate and phosphate of potass Phosphate of soda, Phosphoric acid, a trace. According to the researches of Mr. Simonf and Oesterlen the thymus is composed of polygonal and mutually flattened membranous cells, measur- ing from half a line to two lines in diameter and arranged in conical masses around a central cavity. Each cell is surrounded by a capillary plexus and connected to neighbouring cells by areolar tissue intermingled with elastic fibres. The corpuscles found in the fluid of the thymus are dotted nuclei measuring 3530 of an inch in diameter; and are subject to conver- sion into nucleated cells and fat-cells. The Arteries of the thymus gland are derived from the internal mam- mary, and from the superior and inferior thyroid. The Veins terminate in the left vena innominata, and some small branches in the thyroid veins. The J\'erves are very minute, and are derived chiefly, through the in- ternal mammary plexus, from the superior thoracic ganglion of the sympa- thetic. Sir Astley Cooper has also seen a branch from the junction of the pneumogastric and sympathetic pass to the side of the gland. The Lymphatics terminate in the general union of the lymphatic vessels at the junction of the internal jugular and subclavian veins. Sir Astley Cooper has injected them only once in the human foetus, but in the calf he finds two large lymphatic ducts, which commence in the upper extre- mities of the glands, and pass downwards, to terminate at the junction of the jugular and subclavian vein at each side. These vessels he considers to be the uabsorbent ducts of the glands; ‘thymic ductsthey are the carriers of the fluid from the thymus into the veins.” Sir Astley Cooper concludes his anatomical description of this gland with the following observations:— “ As the thymus secretes all the parts of the blood, viz. albumen, fibrine, and particles, is it not probable that the gland is designed to prepare a fluid well fitted for the foetal growth and nourishment from the blood of the mother, before the birth of the foetus, and, consequently, before chyle is formed from food ?—and this process continues for a short time alter birth, the quantity of fluid secreted from the thymus gradually declining as that of chylification becomes perfectly established.” FCETAL LUNGS. The Lungs, previously to the act of inspiration, are dense and solid in structure, and of a deep red colour. Their specific gravity is greater than water, in which they sink to the bottom ; whereas lung which has respired will float upon that fluid. The specific gravity is, however, no test of the * This analysis was conducted by Dr. Dewier of Richmond, j- “A Physiological Essay on the Thymus Gland,v 4to. 1843.