FRONTAL BONE. longitudinal sinus and attachment of the falx. 2. The foramen ccecum. 3. The superior G3 Fig. 26 * lead into the frontal sinuses; and between the two internal angular pro- cesses, is a rough excavation which receives the nasal bones, and a pro- jecting process, the nasal spine. Upon each orbital plate, immediately beneath the external angular process, is a shallow depression which lodges the lachrymal gland ; and beneath the internal angular process a small pit, sometimes a tubercle, to which the cartilaginous pulley of the superior oblique muscle is attached. Internal Surface.—Along the mid- die line of this surface is a grooved, ridge, the edges of the ridge giving attachment to the falx cerebri and the groove lodging the superior longitu- dinal sinus. At the commencement of the ridge is an opening, sometimes completed by the ethmoid bone, the foramen ccecum. This opening lodges a process of the dura mater, and oc- casionally gives passage to a small vein which communicates with the nasal veins. On each side of the vertical ridge are some slight depres- sions which lodge the glandulae Pacchioni, and on the orbital plates a number of irregular pits called digital fossce, which correspond with the convolutions of the anterior lobes of the cerebrum. The superior border is thick and strongly serrated, bevelled at the expense of the internal table in the middle, where it rests upon the junction of the two parietal, and at the expense of the external table on each side where it receives the lateral pres- sure of those bones. The inferior bor- Jj| der is thin, irregular, and squamous, and articulates with the sphenoid bone. Development.—By two centres, one for each lateral half. Ossification be- gins in the orbital arches, somewhat before the vertebrse. The two pieces are separate at birth, and unite by su- ture during the first year, the su- ture sometimes remaining permanent Fig. 27.j- * The external surface of the frontal bone. 1. The situation of the frontal eminence of the right side. 2. The superciliary ridge. 3. The supra-orbital ridge. 4. The ex ternal angular process. 5. The internal angular process. 6. The supra-orbital notcli for the transmission of the supra-orbital nerve and artery; in the figure it is almost converted into a foramen by a small spiculum of bone. 7. The nasal tuberosity; the swelling around this point denotes the situation of the frontal sinuses. 8. The temporal ridge, commencing from the external angular process (4). The depression in whicn the figure 8 is situated is a part of the temporal fossa. 9. The nasal spine. f The internal surface of the frontal bone; the bone is raised in such a manner as to show the orbito-nasal portion. 1. The grooved ridge for the lodgment of the superior