195 PALATOGLOSSUS—PALATO-PHARYNGEUS. This muscle must be turned down from its origin on one side, and removed, and the superior constrictor dissected away from its pterygoid origin, to bring the next muscle into view. The Tensor Palati (circumflexus) is a ^lender and flattened muscle ; it arises from he scaphoid fossa at the base of the inter- lal pterygoid plate and from the anterior aspect of the Eustachian tube. It descends o the hamular process, around which it turns and expands into a tendinous aponeu- rosis, which is inserted into the transverse ridge on the horizontal portion of the palate bone, and into the raphe. Relations.—By its external surface with the internal pterygoid muscle ; by its internal surface with the levator palati, internal pterygoid plate, and superior constrictor. In the soft palate, its tendinous expansion is placed in front of the other muscles and in contact with the mucous mem- brane. The Azygos Uvulas is not a single muscle, as might be inferred from its name, but a pair of small muscles placed side by side in the middle line of the soft palate. They arise from the spine of the palate bone, and are inserted into the uvula. By their anterior surface they are connected with the tendinous expansion of the levatores palati, and by the posterior with the mucous membrane. The two next muscles are brought into view throughout the whole of their extent, by raising the mucous membrane from off the pillars of the soft palate at each side. The Palato-glossus (constrictor isthmi faucium) is a small fasciculus of fibres that arises in the soft palate, and descends to be inserted into the side of the tongue. It is the projection of this small muscle, covered b\ mucous membrane, that forms the anterior pillar of the soft palate. It has been named constrictor isthmi faucium from a function it performs in common with the palato-pharyngeus, viz. of constricting the opening of the fauces. The Palato-pharyngeus forms the posterior pillar of the fauces; it arises by an expanded fasciculus from the lower part of the soft palate, where its fibres are continuous with those of the muscle of the opposite * The muscles of the soft palate* 1. A transverse section through the middle of the base of the skull, dividing the basilar process of the occipital bone in the middle line, and the petrous portion of the temporal bone at each side. 2. The vomer covered by mucous membrane and separating the two posterior nares. 3, 3. The Eustachian tubes. 4. The levator palati muscle of the left side; the right has been removed. 5. The ha mular process of the internal pterygoid plate of the left side, around which the aponeu- rosis of the tensor palati is seen turning. G. The pterygo-maxiIlary ligament. 7. The superior constrictor muscle of the left side, turned aside. 8. The azygos uvulce muscle. 0. The internal pterygoid plate. 10. The external pterygoid plate. 11. The tensor pa- lati muscle. 12. Its aponeurosis expanding in the structure of the soft palate. 13. The external pterygoid muscle. 14. The attachments of two pairs of muscles cut short; the superior pair belong to the genio-hyo-glossi muscles; the inferior pair to the genio- hyoidei. 15. The attachment of the mylo-hyoideus of one side and part of the opposite. 1G. The anterior attachments of the digastric muscles. 17. The depression on the lower jaw corresponding with the submaxillary gland. The depression above the mylo-hyoi df*us. on which the number 15 rests, corresponds with the situation of the sublingual gland. Fig. 112*