BRANCHES OF THE THORACIC AORTA. 308 The Anterior interosseous passes down the fore-arm upon the interosse- ous membrane, between the flexor profundus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis, and behind the pronator quadratus. In the latter position it pierces the interosseous membrane, and descends to the back of the wrist, where it inosculates with the posterior carpal branches of the radial and ulnar. It is retained in connexion with the interosseous membrane by means of a thin aponeurotic arch. The anterior interosseous artery sends a branch to the median nerve, which it accompanies into the hand. The median artery is sometimes of large size, and occasionally takes the place of the superficial palmar arch. The Posterior interosseous artery passes backwards through an opening oetween the upper part of the interosseous membrane and the oblique ligament, and is distributed to the muscles on the posterior aspect of the fore-arm. It gives off a recurrent branch, which returns upon the elbow between the anconeus, extensor carpi ulnaris and supinator brevis muscles, and anastomoses with the posterior terminal branches of the superior pro- funda. The Muscular branches supply the muscles situated along the ulnar border of the fore-arm. The Carpal branches, anterior and posterior, are distributed to the an- terior and posterior aspects of the wrist joint, where they inosculate with corresponding branches of the radial artery. The Digital branches are given off from the superficial palmar arch, and are four in number. The first and smallest is distributed to the ulnar side of the little finger. The other three are short trunks, which divide be- tween the heads of the metacarpal bones, and form the collateral branch of the radial side of the little finger, the collateral branches of the ring and middle fingers, and the collateral branch of the ulnar side of the index finger. The Superficial palmar arch receives the termination of the deep palmar arch from between the abductor minimi digiti and flexor brevis minimi digiti near their origins, and terminates by inosculating with the superfi- cialis volae upon the ball of the thumb. The communication between the superficial and deep arch is generally described as the communicating branch of the ulnar artery. The mode of distribution of the arteries to the hand is subject to fre- quent variety. I BRANCHES OF THE THORACIC AORTA. Bronchial, (Esophageal, Intercostal. The Bronchial arteries are four in number, and vary both in size and origin. They are distributed to the bronchial glands and tubes, and send branches to the oesophagus, pericardium, and left auricle of the heart. These are the nutritious vessels of the lungs. The (Esophageal arteries are numerous small branches; they arise from the anterior part of the aorta, are distributed to the oesophagus, and establish a chain of anastomoses along that tube: the superior inosculate with the bronchial arteries, and with oesophageal branches of the inferior