EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 321 anastomoses with the internal circumflex, and sends a branch through the notch in the acetabulum to the hip joint. Within the pelvis the obturator artery gives otT a branch to the iliacus muscle, and a small ramuscule which inosculates with the epigastric artery. The Lateral sacral arteries are generally two in number on each side ; superior and inferior. The superior passes inwards to the first sacral foramen, and is distributed to the contents ot the spinal canal, from which it escapes by the posterior sacral foramen, and supplies the integument on the dorsum of the sacrum. The inferior passes down by the side of the anterior sacral foramina to the coccyx; it first pierces and then rests upon the origin of the pyriformis, and sends branches into the sacral canal to supply the sacral nerves. Both arteries inosculate with each other and with the sacra media. The Gluteal artery is the continuation of the posterior trunk of the internal iliac : it passes backwards between the lumbo-sacral and first lum- bar nerve through the upper part of the great sacro-ischiatic foramen and above the pyriformis muscle, and divides into three branches, superficial, deep superior, and deep inferior. The Superficial branch is directed forwards, between the gluteus maxi- mus and medius, and divides into numerous branches, which are distri- buted to the upper part of the gluteus maximus and to the integument of the gluteal region. The Deep superior branch passes along the superior curved line of the ilium, between the gluteus medius and minimus to the anterior superior spinous process, where it inosculates with the superficial circumflexa ilii and external circumflex artery. There are frequently two arteries which follow this course. The Deep inferior branches are several large arteries which cross the gluteus minimus obliquely to the trochanter major, where they inosculate with the branches of the external circumflex artery, and send branches through the gluteus minimus to supply the capsule of the hip joint. Varieties in the Branches of the internal iliac.—The most important of the varieties occurring among these branches is the origin of the dorsal artery of the penis from the internal iliac or ischiatic. The artery in this case passes forwards by the side of the prostate gland, and through the upper part of the deep perineal fascia. It would be endangered in the operation of lithotomy. The dorsal artery of the penis is sometimes de- rived from the obturator, and sometimes from one of the external pudic arteries. The artery of the bulb, in its normal course, passes almost transversely inwards to the corpus spongiosum. Occasionally, however, it is so oblique in its direction as to render its division in lithotomy un- avoidable. The obturator artery may be very small or altogether want- ing, its place being supplied by a branch from the external iliac or epi- gastric. EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. The external iliac artery of each side passes obliquely downwards along the inner border of the psoas muscle, from opposite the sacro-iliac sym- physis to the femoral arch, where it becomes the femoral artery. Relations.—It is in relation in front with the spermatic vessels, the