22 BLANCHARD & LEA’S MEDICAL MACLISE (JOSEPH), SURGEON. SURGICAL ANATOMY. Forming one volume, very large imperial quarto. With sixty-eight large and splendid Plates, drawn in the best style and beautifully colored. Con- taining one hundred and ninety Figures, many of them the size of life. Together with copious and explanatory letter-press. Strongly and handsomely bound in extra cloth, being one of the cheapest and best executed Surgica works as yet issued in this country. Copies can be sent by mail, in five parts, done up in stout covers. This great work being now concluded, the publishers confidently present it to the attention of the profession as worthy in every respect of their approbation and patronage. No complete work of the kind has yet been published in the English language, and it therefore will supply a want long felt in this country of an accurate and comprehensive Atlas of Surgical Anatomy to which the student and practitioner can at all times refer, to ascertain the exact relative position of the various portions of the human frame towards each other and to the surface, as well as their abnormal de- viations. The importance of such a work to the student in the absence of anatomical material, and to the practitioner when about attempting an operation, is evident, while the price of the book, not- withstanding the large size, beauty, and finish of the very numerous illustrations, is so low as to place it within the reach of every member of the profession. The publishers therefore confidently anticipate a very extended circulation for this magnificent work. One of the greatest artistic triumphs of the age in Surgical Anatomy.—British American Medical Journal. Too much cannot be said in its praise; indeed, we have not language to do it justice.—Ohio Medi- cal and Surgical Journal. The most admirable surgical atlas we have seen. To the practitioner deprived of demonstrative dis- sections upon the human subject, it is an invaluable companion.—N. J. Medical Reporter. The most accurately engraved and beautifully colored plates we have ever seen in an American book—one of the best and cheapest surgical works ever published.—Buffalo Medical Journal. It is very'' rare that so elegantly printed, so well illustrated, and so useful a work, is offered at so moderate a price.—Charleston Medical Journal. Its plates can boast a superiority which places them almost beyond the reach of competition.—Medi- cal Examiner. Every practitioner, we think, should have a work of this kind within reach.—Southern Medical and Surgical Journal. No such lithographic illustrations of surgical re- gions have hitherto, we think, been given.—Boston Medical and Surgical Journal. As a surgical anatomist, Mr. Maclise has proba- bly no superior.—British and Foreign Medico-Chi- rurgical Review. Of great value to the student engaged in dissect- ing, and to the surgeon at a distance from the means of keeping up his anatomical knowledge.—Medical Times. The mechanical execution cannot be excelled.— Transylvania Medical Journal. A work which has no parallel in point of accu- racy and cheapness in the English language.—N. Y. Journal of Medicine. To all engaged in the study or practice of their profession, such a work is almost indispensable.— Dublin Quarterly Medical Journal. No practitioner whose means will admit should fail to possess it.—Ranking's Abstract. Country practitioners will find these plates of im- mense value.—N. Y. Medical Gazette. We are extremely gratified to announce to the profession the completion of this truly magnificent work, which, as a whole, certainly stands unri- valled, both for accuracy of drawing, beauty of coloring, and all the requisite explanations of the subject in hand.—The New Orleans Medical and Surgical Journal. This is by far the ablest work on Surgical Ana- tomy that has come under our observation. We know of no other work that would justify a stu- dent, in any degree, for neglect of actual dissec- tion. In those sudden emergencies that so often arise, and which require the instantaneous command of minute anatomical knowledge, a work of this kind keeps the details of the dissecting-room perpetually fresh in the memory.—The Western Journal of Medi- cine and Surgery. Jgfgp"0 The very low price at which this work is furnished, and the beauty of its execution, require an extended sale to compensate the publishers for the heavy expenses incurred. MULLER (PROFESSOR J.), M. D. PRINCIPLES OP PHYSICS AND METEOROLOGY. Edited, with Addi- tions, by R. Eglesfeld Griffith, M. D. In one large and handsome octavo volume, extra cloth, with 550 wood-cuts, and two colored plates. The Physics of Miiller is a work superb, complete, unique : the greatest want known to English Science could not have been better supplied. The work is of surpassing interest. The value of this contribu- tion to the scientific records of this country may be duly estimated by the fact that the cost of the origi- nal drawings and engravings alone has exceeded the sum of £2,U00.—Lancet. MAYNE (JOHN), M. D., M. R. C. S. A DISPENSATORY AND THERAPEUTICAL REMEMBRANCER. Com- prising the entire lists of Materia Medina, with every Practical Formula contained in the three British Pharmacopoeias. With relative Tables subjoined, illustrating, by upwards of six hundred and sixty examples, the Extemporaneous Forms and Combinations suitable for the different Medicines. Edited, with the addition of the Formulae of the United States Pharmacopoeia, by R. Eglesfeld Griffith, M. D. In one 12mo. volume, extra cloth, of over 300 large pages. MATTEUCCI (CARLO). LECTURES ON THE PHYSICAL PHENOMENA OF LIVING BEINGS. Edited by J. Pereira, M. D. In one neat royal 12mo. volume, extra cloth, with cuts, 3SS pages-