CEREBELLUM. 381 gether with a layer of pia mater which forms its inferior boundary. In this manner a perfect communication is established between all the ven- tricles, with the exception of the fifth, which has its own proper membrane. It is this membrane which gives them their polished surface, and transudes the secretion which moistens their interior. When the fluid accumulates to an unnatural degree, it may then break down this layer and the layer of pia mater at the bottom of*the fourth ventricle, and thus make its way into the sub-arachnoidean space; but in the normal condition it is doubt- ful whether a communication exists between the interior of the ventricles and the serous cavity of the sub-arachnoidean space. CEREBELLUM. The Cerebellum (figs. 171, 172, 173), seven times smaller than the cerebrum, is situated beneath the posterior lobes of the latter, being lodged in the posterior fossa of the base of the cranium, and protected from the superincumbent pressure of the cerebrum by the tentorium cerebelli. Like the cerebrum, it is composed of grey and white substance, the former occupying the surface, the latter the interior, and its surface is formed of parallel lamellae separated by sulci, and here and there by deeper sulci. In form, the cerebellum is oblong and flattened, its greater diameter being from side to side, its two surfaces looking upwTards and downwards, and its borders being anterior, posterior, and lateral. In consideration of its shape the cerebellum admits of a division into twTo hemispheres, into cer- tain prominences termed processes and lobules, and into certain divisions of its substance called lobes, formed upon the hemispheres by the deeper sulci above referred to. The two hemispheres are separated from each other on the upper surface of the cerebellum by a longitudinal ridge which is termed the superior vermiform process, and which forms a commissure between them. On the anterior border of the organ there is a semilunar notch, incisura cerebelli anterior, which encircles the corpora quadrigemina posteriorly. On the posterior border there is another notch, incisura cere- belli posterior, which receives the upper part of the falx cerebelli; and on the under surface of the cerebellum is a deep fissure corresponding with the medulla oblongata, and termed the vallecula (valley). Each hemisphere of the cerebellum is divided by means of a fissure (sulcus horizontalis) which runs along its free border, into an upper and a lower portion, and upon each of these portions’ certain lobes are marked out. Thus on the upper portion there are twTo such lobes separated by a sulcus, somewhat more strongly marked than the rest, and extending deeper into the substance of the cerebellum ; they are the lobus superior anterior and lobus superior posterior. Upon the under portion of the hemisphere there are three such lobes, namely, lobus inferior anterior, medius, and posterior, and two additional ones of peculiar form, the lobus inferior internus or tonsil, and the flocculus. The tonsil (amygdala) is situated on the side of the vallecula, and projects into the fourth ventricle, 'fhe flocculus or pneumogastric lobule, long and slender, extends from the side of the vallecula around the corpus restiforme to the crus cerebelli, lying behind the filaments of the eighth pair of nerves. 1 he commissure between the two hemispheres is termed the worm rvermis), that portion of the worm which occupies the upper surface of the cerebellum as far back as the horizontal fissure being the processus